Handbook of 
Sports Medicine 
and Science 
Strength Training 
for Sport 

IOC Medical Commission 
Sub-Commission on Publications in 
the Sport Sciences 
Howard G. Knuttgen PM (Co-ordinator) 
Francesco Conconi MD Boston, Massachusetts, USA 
Ferrara, Italy 
Harm Kuipers MD, PM 
Maastricht, The Netherlands 
Per A.F.H. Renstrom MD,P~D 
Stockholm, Sweden 

Handbook of 
Sports Medicine 
and Science 
Strength Tkaining - 
for Sport 
EDITED BY 
William J. Kraemer 
PhD 
The Human Performance Laboratory 
Department of Kinesiology 
Neag School of Education 
University of Connecticut 
Storrs, CT, USA 
Keijo Hakkinen 
PhD 
The Neuromuscular Research Center 
Department of Biology of Physical Activity 
University of Jyviiskyla 
Jyvaskyla, Finland 
b 
Blackwell 
Sclsnce 

0 2000 by 
Blackwell Science Ltd 
Editorial Offices: 
9600 Garsington Road, Oxford OX4 2DQ 
350 Main Street, Malden 
MA 02148 5020, USA 
54 University Street, Carlton 
Victoria 3053, Australia 
Other Editorial Offices: 
Blackwell Wissenschafts-Verlag GmbH 
Kurfiirstendamm 57 
10707 Berlin, Germany 
Blackwell Science KK 
MG Kodenmacho Building 
7-10 Kodenmacho Nhombashi 
Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104, Japan 
Iowa State University Press 
A Blackwell Science Company 
2121 S. State Avenue 
Ames, Iowa 50014-8300, USA 
First published 2002 
3 2006 
Set by Graphicraft Limited, Hong Kong 
Printed and bound in India by 
Replika Press Pvt. Ltd The right of the Authors to be 
identified as the Authors of this Work 
has been asserted in accordance 
with the Copyright, Designs and 
Patents Act 1988. 
All rights reserved. No part of 
this publication may be reproduced, 
stored in a retrieval system, or 
transmitted, in any form or by any 
means, electronic, mechanical, 
photocopying, recording or otherwise, 
except as permitted by the UK 
Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 
1988, without the prior permission 
of the copyright owner. 
A catalogue record for this title 
is available from the British Library 
ISBN. 978-0-63245568-5 
Library of Congress 
Cataloging-in-Publication Data 
Strength training for sport / edited by 
William J. Kraemer, Keijo HWen. 
p. ; cm.-(Handbook of sports 
medicine and science) 
Includes bibliographical references 
and index. 
ISBN 978-0-63245568-5 
1. Weight training. 2. Exercise. 
3. Physical Endurance. 
I. Kraemer, William J., 1953- 
II. Hakkinen, Keijo. 
IT[. Series. 
[DNLM 1. Muscles. 2. Sports. 
QT 255 S916 20011 
GV546 S78 2001 
613.7’136~21 2001025536 DISTRIBUTORS 
Marston Book Services Ltd 
PO Box 269 
Abingdon, Oxon OX14 4YN 
(Orders: Tel: 01235 465500 
Fax: 01235 465555) 
The Americas 
Blackwell Publishing 
c/oAIDC 
PO Box 20 
50 Winter Sport Lane 
Williston, VT 05495-0020 
Malden, MA 02148 5020 
(Orders: Tel: 800 206 2522 
Fax: 802 864 7626 ) 
Australia 
Blackwell Science Pty Ltd 
54 University Street 
Carlton, Victoria 3053 
(Orders: Tel: 3 9347 0300 
Fax: 3 9347 5001) 
For further information on 
Blackwell Publishing, visit ow website: 
www .blackwellpubLishing ishing.com 
The Blackwell Science logo is a 
trade mark of Blackwell Science Ltd, 
registered at the United Kingdom 
Trade Marks Registry 

2 Training-specific characteristics of neuromuscular Contents performance, 20 
Keijo Hakkinen 
3 Developing a strength training workout, 37 
William J. Kraemer 
4 Periodization of training, 55 
Steven J. Fleck 
List of contributors, vi 
Forewords by the IOC, vii 
Preface, ix 
Acknowledgements, x 5 Periodized training programmes for athletes, 69 
Hiroshi Hasegawa, Joseph Dziados, Robert U. 
Newton, Andrew C. Fry, William J, Kraemer and 
Keijo Hakkinen 
6 Special considerations in strength training, 135 
Andrew C. Fry, Keijo Hakkinen and 
William J. Kraemer 
1 A brief history of strength training and basic 7 Medical aspects and administrative concerns in 
principles and concepts, 1 
Andrew C. Fry and Robert U. Newton strength training, 163 
William J. Kraemer and Joseph Dziados 
Index, 177 
V 

List of contributors 
Joseph Dziados MD, MPH Department of Family 
Practice, Madigan Army Medical Center, Tacoma, 
WA 98431, USA 
Steven J. Fleck PhD ProfessorlChair, Department of 
Sport Sciences, Colomdo College, Colorado Springs, 
CO 80903, USA Keijo Hakkinen P~D Professor/Vice Head, The 
Neuromuscular Research Center, Department of 
Biology of Physical Activity, University of Jyvdskyla, 
FIN-40351 Jyvdskyld, Finland 
Hiroshi Hasegawa MS Associate Professor, ~pkoku 
University, 612-8677 Kyoto, Japan 
William J. Kraemer PhD Professor, Director of 
Research: Office of the Dean, Neag School of 
Education, The Human Performance Laboratory, 
Department of Kinesiology, University of Connecticut, 
Storrs, CT 06269, USA 
Robert U. Newton P~D Associate ProfessorlDirector, 
Biomechanics Laboratory, The Human Performance 
Laboratory, Ball State University, Muncie, IN 47306, 
USA (formerly of Southern Cross University, Lismore, 
Australia] 
Andrew C. Fry PhD Associate Professor, Human 
Performance Laboratories, The University of 
Memphis, Memphis, TN 381 52, USA 
vl 

Forewords by the IOC 
As recently as 50 years ago, strength training was not 
only considered ineffective for sports conditioning 
but potentially detrimental to the performance of 
athletes competing in particular sports. The various 
fears have been removed from consideration and an 
ever-growing body of knowledge has confirmed the 
efficacy of the proper application of strength training 
to improved performance in a wide variety of Olympic 
sports. 
doctors all the relevant information concerning this 
specific training. 
I would like to thank the authors for such an 
educational handbook and the IOC Medical 
Commission for its constant help to the athletes in 
their search for excellence. This handbook will give to athletes, coaches, Volume 111 in the Encyclopaedia series, Strength and 
Power in Sport (edited by Professor Paavo V. Komi) 
published in 1993, was devoted to a review of current 
scientific knowledge pertaining to the anatomical, 
biomechanical, and physiological factors involved in 
the expression of strength and maximal power during 
sports performance. 
This handbook, Strength Training for Sport, 
presents highly practical information on strength 
training programmes to enhance sport performance as 
based on the scientific information detailed in the 
Encyclopaedia. 
This volume applies information regarding a 
particularly important area of physical conditioning 
to the many sports in which strength and peak power 
are important factors of success. Strength Training for 
Sport constitutes yet another contribution of the IOC 
Medical Commission to the competitive success, 
health, and well-being of athletes participating at all 
levels of competition around the world. 
Prince Alexandre de Merode 
Chairman, IOC Medical Commission 
Juan Antonio Samaranch 
IOC President 
vii 

Preface 
This book represents the fundamental knowledge 
needed by sports medicine and coaching profes- 
sionals to understand and develop strength training 
programmes for athletes. The process of exercise 
prescription in strength training, while at times 
taking on more mythology than fact, should be based 
on a scientific approach to the needs of the athlete. 
Ultimately, individualized resistance training will 
best optimize the athlete’s physical abilities needed 
to successfully compete and prevent injuries. Never- 
theless, the development of a strength training 
programme must be approached by using the best 
available knowledge, determining the needs of 
the athlete and then developing a programme 
that represents the best starting point ultimately 
making changes over time with periodized training 
principles to meet the continuing changes in the 
needs of the athletes as their strength fitness 
improves. 
cine and coaching professionals a fundamental This text was developed to give the sports medi- background and understanding about this programme 
design process and the factors involved with strength 
training for athletes. Too often, many professionals 
in various aspects of sport lack a fundamental 
understanding of the process of strength training 
programme development and therefore fall victims to 
myths, fads, zealous philosophies, marketing science 
and ultimately are not able to carefully evaluate the 
massive quantity of misinformation being generated 
by a wide variety of sources on this topic. Strength 
training has always held a degree of mystery and 
imagination to people throughout the ages, as it deals 
with the fundamental human quality ‘strength’ which 
has been valued with a reverence and awe as a part 
of human performance. Yet understanding its devel- 
opment and application to athletic performance has 
taken years of scientific study to understand its many 
dimensions and sport-specific applications. The 
pursuit of knowledge and understanding in a field that 
still remains dynamic and vital in its present day form 
requires conscientious study and the desire to be a 
lifelong student in the field. While this handbook is 
obviously not meant to provide a comprehensive 
source of the large body of literature on this topic, 
suggested readings and some references are provided 
at the end of each chapter to give you some other 
sources for further study on the topic covered. 
Ultimately it is our goal to make you more aware of 
the fundamental knowledge, process and approach to 
exercise prescription in strength training for athletes. 
William J. Kraemer 
Keijo HWnen 
ix 

Acknowledgements 
We would first like to thank the International Olympic 
Committee, its Medical Commission, Prince 
Alexandre de Merode, and specifically the Sub- 
Commission on Publications in the Sport Sciences for 
this unique opportunity to develop such an important 
handbook on the topic of strength training. We feel 
that this book will play a very practical role in the 
understanding of strength training programmes for 
athletes. Strength training is one of the major 
cornerstones for any sports conditioning programme directed at improved performance and injury 
prevention. 
We would also like to acknowledge the dedicated 
efforts of Professor Howard G. Knuttgen for bringing 
such a handbook to reality and understanding the 
importance of the topic for all sports. We also thank 
Mr Nick Morgan for his efforts in the production of 
this handbook and for having patience with such a 
demanding process. 
As Editors, we feel this book will make a unique 
contribution to the application of strength training in 
sports conditioning programmes. The process of 
developing a strength training programme is now more 
than ever based on a combination of solid science and 
careful decisions in its prescription by the strength 
and conditioning professionals. We acknowledge the 
important and valuable contributions to the 
production of this handbook by each of our esteemed 
colleagues. This was truly an international team effort 
by a group of scholars who have worked tirelessly in 
this area of study for many years. 
X 

Chapter 1 
A brief history of strength 
training and basic principles 
and concepts 
Introduction 
The human ability to generate muscle force has 
fascinated humankind throughout most of recorded 
history. Not only have great levels of muscular 
strength intrigued people from an entertainment 
perspective but, more importantly, high levels of 
strength are critical for survival. Although modern 
technological developments may have modified the 
need to be able to generate high levels of strength for 
many daily activities, strength is still one of the 
fundamental physical traits necessary for human 
survival. While the use of resistance exercise of 
various types and forms has become very popular 
over the past 50 years, the origins of such activities 
can be traced back to ancient times. The pursuit of 
sporting achievement has resulted in the increased 
use of strength training by all athletes to enhance 
sporting performance. The key to its new popularity 
as we enter the 21st century is the concept of ‘sports- 
specific’ training for athletes. The mythology of 
strength training has slowly given way to a greater 
scientific understanding of its basic principles and 
applications. Nevertheless, the field of strength and 
conditioning still remains susceptible to fads, mis- 
conceptions and zealous philosophies which have 
little to do with sound scientific-based knowledge 
and careful exercise prescription for enhanced sport 
performance for the athlete. The history of strength 
training gives an important perspective on where we 
have been and where we may go with this important 
training technology in sporting development. The 
keys to optimal exercise prescription are knowledge 
and the clinical art of its use in the careful process and 
decision making involved in exercise prescription. 
A systematic approach is needed for the development 
of programmes. This requires continued study, evaluation, sport testing, and prudent judgements and 
decision making in this professional process of 
programme design for the athlete. 
basic principles will be introduced to gain a funda- 
mental understanding of exercise prescription in 
strength training. In this chapter a historical perspective and several 
Hlstorlcal perspective 
Strength in ancient times 
As long as 5000 years ago, feats of muscular strength 
were being noted and admired. Egyptian tombs from 
c. 2500 BC were discovered with artwork on the walls 
depicting strength contests of various types. Ancient 
inhabitants of Ireland were known to have competed 
in weight throwing contests over 3800 years ago. On 
the other side of the world, strength tests were being 
used for military purposes during the Chou dynasty 
in China (1122-255 BC). Thus it becomes readily 
apparent that long before the more recent civilizations 
of Greece and Rome, ancient cultures utilized tests of 
muscular strength for both entertainment as well as 
utilitarian purposes. What is not clear is what type of 
structured training programmes were used to prepare 
for such tests. 
greatly admired (Fig. 1.1). The Old Testament stories 
of the giant Philistine, Goliath, and the strength feats 
of Samson are well known. What is also apparent in 
these stories is that size and strength alone do not 
necessarily lead to success. In ancient Greek culture, 
the remarkable lifting exploits of Bybon and Emastus 
during the 6th century BC are well documented. Such 
tasks involved lifting heavy stones of varying weights, 
as uniform lifting implements were unheard of. 
Perhaps the best known Greek strongman is Milos of 
Crotona who has been credited with the first use of 
progressive resistance exercise. It is reported that 
Milos carried a young calf across his shoulders every 
day until the beast was fully grown. Eventually he 
carried a 4-year-old heifer the length of the stadium 
at Olympia, a distance of almost 200 m. Milos’s 
reign as the strongest of all men lasted many years, 
and resulted in his being wreathed 22 times at the 
Olympian, Pythian, Nemean and the Ithsmian Games. 
But even Milos finally met his match, when he was In early Biblical times, size and strength were 
1 

2 CHAPTER 1 
Fig. 1.1 Physical performance through sport competition has 
been important throughout history. Photo 0 IOClOlympic 
Museum Collections. 
eventually defeated in a stone lifting contest by the 
great Titormus. 
The ancient Greeks also used strength building 
exercises for military purposes. One of the earliest 
forms of a body building contest can be found in 
records from the Greek city of Sparta, well known for 
its military prowess. Spartan men would be paraded 
naked and judged on their physical development. 
Those found lacking were summarily punished. The 
famous Greek physician Galen (129-199 AD) may 
have been one of the first medical doctors to suggest 
the efficacy of strength training, and even promoted 
the use of hand-held weights called halteres. Galen 
worked extensively with gladiators who depended 
tremendously on their strength capabilities for survival. The use of strength building exercises for military 
purposes was continued by the armies of the Roman 
Empire. Heavily weighted packs were a commonly 
used training method that is still used by modern 
armies. Roman soldiers also utilized overweight 
swords to help develop their fighting skills. 
Contributions from the scientific community 
Perhaps the next important development in the 
progression of strength training came from the 
scientific community during the Renaissance. It was 
independently suggested by both Camerarius and 
Montaigne that training with weights could lead to 
improved health, enhanced strength and greater 
effectiveness on the battlefield. In addition to the 
appreciation of the benefits of such exercise, the 
study of medicine was allowing great advances in the 
understanding of the human body. When the Italian 
scientist Galvani discovered that skeletal muscle was 
excitable tissue and could be electrically stimulated, 
a fundamental understanding of the physiology of 
muscle force production began to evolve. For cen- 
turies, the medical community had been amazingly 
influenced by the teachings and writings of Galen. 
The medical discipline of human anatomy, however, 
would be forever changed by the Belgian physician 
Andreas Vesalius (1514-1564 AD). Vesalius reformed 
the field of anatomy in part by his revolutionary 
method of teaching his students. The net result was 
that he was more actively involved in the dissection 
and study of the human body, thus contributing 
to an understanding of it in greater detail. In 1543, 
Vesalius published the landmark text De Humani 
Corporis Fabrica Libri Septum (Seven Books on the 
Structure of the Human Body). The detail presented 
in his text far surpassed any literature on the topic up 
to that time. 
Additional advances in the field of anatomy were 
made by Bernard Siegfried Albinus (1697-1770 AD). 
Albinus was Professor of Anatomy and Surgery at 
the University of Leyden in the Netherlands for 50 
years, and was one of the world’s foremost experts 
on anatomy. During this time, his best known con- 
tribution to the appreciation of the musculoskeletal 
system was the publication of the classic works, 
Tabulae Sceleti et Musculorum Corporis Humani in 
1747, and Tabulae Ossium Humanorum in 1753. 


HISTORY AND PRINCIPLES 3 
Together with the talented artist Jan Wandelaar, 
Albinus directed the beautifully detailed artwork 
that was, and perhaps still is, unparalleled. 
were to take some of the mystery away from the 
body system responsible for human movement 
and exercise. A greater understanding of the body 
permitted the eventual development of both the 
basic scientific study and applied fields of muscular 
performance. Evidence of such an appreciation of 
muscular fitness can be found in the writings of the 
great US statesman Benjamin Franklin, who wrote 
in 1786 that he had been enjoying the benefits of 
exercising with dumb-bells for over 14 years. Contributions from the field of medical anatomy 
The era of the strongmen 
The role of strength training was to receive a large 
boost in popularity and awareness during the 19th 
and early 20th centuries. In both Europe and North 
America, various individuals promoted their 
muscular strength capabilities for both entertainment 
and commercial purposes. These early strongmen are 
responsible for bringing to light the amazing strength 
potential many humans possess. However, they were 
also responsible for many of the myths that surround 
resistance exercise even to this day. As early as 1859, 
George Baker Winship, a Harvard-trained medical 
doctor, began touring North America performing feats 
of strength. Winship was noted for his promotion of 
the ‘health lift’, essentially a partial range of motion 
deadlift. Also in 1859, William Buckingham Curtis 
began performing strength stunts before admiring 
audiences. Curtis eventually went on to help create 
the now famous New York Athletic Club and the 
Amateur Athletic Union (AAU). During this time 
various types of resistance exercise became popular 
at facilities such as the Young Men’s Christian 
Association (YMCA) in the USA. 
the first strongman in North America. Although it 
was not until 1870 that Pennel began his strength 
career, he performed for entertainment purposes, not 
necessarily in an effort to promote health or fitness. 
The famous Canadian Louis Cyr was known not only 
for his phenomenal demonstrations of strength, but 
also for his extremely large size. As Cyr weighed 
over 136 kg, members of the anti-weight training Richard Pennel is sometimes credited with being community noted how large and ponderous indi- 
viduals like Cyr were, claiming that training with 
weights would cause one to be excessively large, slow 
and ponderous. It was explained by some that the 
most athletic horses of the day were the nimble and 
explosive thoroughbreds, famous for their racing 
speed. On the other hand, large muscular draught- 
horses possessed tremendous pulling strength, but 
were much slower and less agile than their smaller 
counterparts. Such thinking had a great effect on 
the lay public in those days because everyone was 
familiar with the abilities of horses and the different 
characteristics of the various breeds. In 1879, William 
Blaikie criticized Winship’s ’health lift’ because it 
produced such undesirable effects as hypertrophy of 
the forearms, the vastus medialis and the trapezius 
muscles. Blaikie claimed that such growth would 
certainly make a person as slow as a draught-horse. 
Several strongmen attempted to dispel the myth that 
weightlifting would make a person slow. In 1903 
Albert Attila claimed that training with heavy weights 
did not necessarily do so. The famous Ringling 
Brothers’ Circus performer Arthur Saxon stated that if 
anything, training with weights only helped improve 
an individual’s speed. 
Eventually, several European strongmen were to 
make a marked statement against such claims. The 
renowned Eugene Sandow started his career in 
Europe, and was known for his tremendous strength 
as well as his muscular build. Promoted by Florenz 
Ziegfeld for his famous vaudeville show, Sandow 
toured throughout Europe and North America, 
demonstrating that an individual could be both strong 
and physically fit, while possessing an aesthetically 
pleasing physique. The famed Russian weightlifting 
champion and wrestler George Hackenschmidt, 
known as the ‘Russian lion’, also demonstrated that 
high levels of physical ability were possible while 
following a strength training regimen. In a manner 
somewhat similar to Sandow, Sigmund Klein became 
well known in the 1920s for his strength capabilities 
as well as his muscular physique. In addition, 
Milo Steinborn emigrated to the USA in the early 
1900s and gained fame not only because of his 
strength capabilities but also through his physical 
accomplishments in the wrestling ring. Despite the 
appearance of these individuals, it had become an 
uphill battle to counter the claims that strength 

4 CHAPTER 3 
training would result in undesirable bulkiness and 
slowness. 
Steinborn. Although not particularly noted at the 
time, perhaps one of Steinborn’s greatest contribu- 
tions to the strength world was the barbell he brought 
with him to the USA. Actually made in Europe, this 
bar was an early prototype of the modern Olympic- 
style barbell with the large revolving ends. It was 
ultimately obtained by Bob Hoffman, founder of the 
York Barbell Company, who modified it into the 
barbell widely used today. 
fit individuals were now touring as strongmen, the 
myth that weight training would cause one to become 
‘muscle-bound’ was promoted by a surprising group 
of entrepreneurs. A number of individuals known for 
their strength accomplishments wished to capitalize 
on their fame. Although they had attained their 
strength through traditional strength training methods 
(i.e. barbells, dumb-bells, weight machines), it was 
clear that it would be difficult to market such training 
methods via mail order. The weights and equipment 
used did not lend themselves to easy transport. To 
counter this problem, several people decided to 
market alternative methods of training, and dissuaded 
the public from traditional training methods by 
claiming such training would result in a ‘muscle- 
bound’ condition. For example, Thomas Inch, himself 
a British weightlifting record holder, claimed that the 
use of his chest expander spring device was much 
superior to the use of traditional free weights. 
Likewise, H.W. Titus made similar claims for his 
elastic cables, stating that training with weights would 
result in becoming ‘muscle-bound’. In 1911, Max Sick, 
later known simply as Maxick, promoted a training 
system consisting of isometric muscular contractions, 
saying that weight training would cause a person to 
become slow. One of Max Sick’s prot6g6s, Angelo 
Siciliano, went on to become one of the first body 
building champions, billing himself as Charles Atlas. 
Although Charles Atlas trained with standard 
weights, he marketed the methods of Max Sick, which 
he called ‘dynamic tension’. For many generations, 
readers of various magazines were familiar with the 
advertisements of Charles Atlas and the claims that 
his ‘dynamic tension’ training methods would give 
the results usually ascribed to weight training. Even There is an interesting footnote to the story of Milo 
Despite the fact that strong, muscular and physically though these individuals used fiee weights for their 
own training, their marketing of alternative training 
methods helped to perpetuate the myth that weight 
training would make one ‘muscle-bound’ and slow. 
Even the academic community fell victim to the 
claims of these entrepreneurs. The famous US 
physical educator R. Tait McKenzie stated in 1924 
that too much muscle was unhealthy. Bernarr 
MacFadden published Physical Culture, a popular 
fitness magazine during the early 20th century, where 
he claimed in 1912 that weight training would make 
a person slow. Such thinking perpetuated in the 
physical education, sports and fitness communities 
for many years, and can still be found to this day. 
Ironically, it is very difficult to define precisely the 
condition of being ‘muscle-bound’, or find evidence 
that supports the concept. At best a study in the 1950s 
showed that if both sides of a joint are not exercised 
(i.e. flexors and extensors), a reduction in flexibility 
may result because of an unbalanced strength pro- 
gramme conducted on only one side of the joint. 
Early strength training: popular publications 
Although the fitness industry has grown astronomic- 
ally over the past few decades, several individuals 
were probably most instrumental for the promotion 
of resistance exercise for sport and fitness purposes. 
We have already mentioned Bernarr MacFadden and 
his popular Physical Culture magazine of the early 
1900s. After World War 11, Bob Hoffman, owner of 
the York Barbell Company, also published strength 
fitness magazines, Strength b Health, and Muscular 
Development, that became the leading publications 
for those interested in resistance exercise. Along with 
Hoffman’s weight training equipment company and 
his sponsorship of the premier weightlifting team of 
the time, his contribution to resistance exercise was 
undoubtedly crucial during this time of increasing 
popularity. Two of Hoffman’s business rivals, and 
fellow supporters of the lifting sports, were Perry 
and Mabel Rader from the little town of Alliance, 
Nebraska. The Raders also marketed lifting equipment 
and were known for their enthusiastic support of 
competitive lifting, but are best known for publishing 
Ironman magazine, which provided an open-minded 
forum for all types of weight training methods. Mabel 
Rader was particularly passionate about competitive 

HISTORY AND PRINCIPLES 5 
lifting for women, and was instrumental in initiating 
some of the early women’s competitions in weight- 
lifting, power lifting and body building. 
industry are the Canadian-born Weider brothers, Ben 
and Joe, who have consistently promoted resistance 
exercise through their popular magazines. Although 
modern times have witnessed an increase in the 
number of speciality publications for every facet 
of strength and resistance exercise, these early 
publications laid much of the groundwork for the 
promotion of strength training worldwide. How- 
ever, the science of strength training was only in its 
infancy and so-called ‘gym science’ was promoted by 
such publications which remain the ’sound bite’ of 
today’s popular press in resistance training around 
the world. Currently, perhaps the best known publishers in the 
Organized competitive lifting sports 
As various types of weight training began to gain 
acceptance, the desire to develop organized com- 
petitive lifting sports was bound to follow. In Great 
Britain, the British Amateur Weight Lifters’ Associ- 
ation (BAWLA) was formed for such purposes, and 
recognized a large number of different lifting exer- 
cises. Many are familiar with the Scottish Highland 
Games which have been contested for many years. 
Most of the events require extreme levels of muscular 
strength and power. In general, however, the strength sports most noted worldwide are weightlifting, body 
building and power lifting. 
Weightlifting (Figs 1.2 and 1.3) 
Also known as Olympic-style weightlifting, this sport 
was first contested in the Olympic Games in 1896. At 
first, the lifts contested included both a one-hand and 
a two-hand overhead lift, with no weight classes. After 
a brief hiatus in 1900, weightlifting returned to the 
Olympic Games in 1904, and has been contested ever 
since. By 1920, three lifts were performed, the snatch, 
the clean and press, and the clean and jerk. Eventually, 
the clean and press was discontinued in 1972 because 
of difficulty in judging the lift. In the USA, weight- 
lifting received a.big boost when Bob Hoffman, owner 
of the York Barbell Company, formed the acclaimed 
York weightlifting team. For several decades, lifters 
from this club dominated both USA and world com- 
petitions. The reign of the USA in world competition 
was successfully challenged in the 1950s and 1960% 
most notably by the Soviet Union. By the 1970s and 
1980s, the transition was complete, with Eastern 
European countries completely dominating the sport. 
Contrary to sport science in the rest of the world, 
considerable scientific effort in the Eastern Bloc 
countries was devoted to weightlifting, undoubtedly 
contributing to their success. The weightlifting 
exploits and contributions of many great Soviet lifters, 
coaches and sport scientists, such as Alexey 
Fig. 1.2 Lifts used in the sport of 
weightlifting became representative 
of power development programmes in 
resistance training. Photo 0 Allsport/S. 
Botterill. 


6 CHAPTER 1 
Fig. 1.3 Many sport events require the power and velocity of 
movement developed with the basic exercises used in the 
sport of weightlifting. Photo 0 AllsportlA. Pretty. 
Medvedev, Vasily Alexeev and Yuri Verkhoshansky, 
helped to pave the way for the growth of weightlifting 
throughout the world. 
Currently, weightlifting is still one of the most 
popular Olympic sports in many countries. In 1987, 
the first women’s world championships was held, 
and women’s weightlifting became a medal sport in 
the 2000 Olympic Games in Sydney, Australia. Many 
athletes from other sports currently utilize training 
methods used by weightlifters. Because of the com- 
bination of extremely high barbell velocities and large 
loads used for the snatch, and the clean and jerk lifts, 
tremendous levels of power may be generated. As 
most sporting endeavours require such forces and 
velocities, the carry-over of weightlifting movements 
to other sporting activities is readily apparent. 
Body building 
Contrary to most lifting sports, where lifting maximal 
weights is the ultimate goal, body building’s attraction 
is the extreme muscular development attained by 
its participants. Ever since Eugene Sandow amazed 
the public with his hypertrophied appearance 
and astounding muscular control in the Ziegfeld 
vaudeville shows, this sport has attracted a growing 
and dedicated following. During the 19th century 
such muscular development was considered purely 
an interesting attraction at carnivals and on the 
vaudeville stage and it was not until 1903 that body building began to be organized into an actual 
competitive contest. Under the guidance of Bernarr 
MacFadden, publisher of the popular magazine 
Physical Culture, the first competition was held in 
Madison Square Garden in New York City in 1903. At 
this time, body building was quite different from the 
sport as we know it today. Contestants were expected 
to display physical ability in a variety of manners, and 
competitors came from many different sporting 
backgrounds. As there was no established set of rules 
for body building, the promoters could modify the 
rules in attempts to maximize the entertainment 
appeal. These early contests often included various 
demonstrations of physical ability in addition to the 
development of a muscular build. 
Perhaps the most famous early body builder was 
Charles Atlas who was awarded the title of the 
‘World’s Most Perfectly Developed Man’ in 1921. 
Charles Atlas would dominate such contests for a 
number of years. Through his extensive advertising 
campaign in many of the popular magazines of the 
next 50 years, many followers became familiar with 
his promotion of muscular development. Such 
promotions encouraged skinny young men to avoid 
getting ‘sand kicked in your face’ at the beach by 
becoming more muscular and manly. In this manner, 
the young lad would retain the admiration of the 
bikini-clad young lady nearby. This advertising was 
one of the first portrayals of the fitness industry’s use 
of sexual attraction and sexuality that is so rampant in 
today’s popular body building and fitness publica- 
tions, It was also through these advertisements that 
Charles Atlas misleadingly promoted the idea that his 
own muscularity had been attained by his ‘dynamic 
tension’ method of isometric training. 
In 1938, the Amateur Athletic Association of the 
USA sanctioned the first Mr America contest. The 
1940 Mr America competition was won by John 
Grimek, considered by many to be the first modern 
body building champion. Grimek first embodied the 
muscular hypertrophy, body symmetry and stage 
presence that has become so critical for success in this 
sport. Body building began a tremendous growth in 
popularity over the next half century. In 1950, the 
National Amateur British Bodybuilding Association 
(NABBA) sponsored the first Mr Universe contest, 
indicative of the sport’s growing worldwide appeal. 
In 1965, the International Federation of Body Builders 


HISTORY AND PRINCIPLES 7 
(IFBB) promoted the first Mr Olympia, the event that 
has become the premier competition for the entire 
sport, Additional high profile contests were sanc- 
tioned by the World Body Building Guild (WBBG). 
Participation by women has also grown, with the first 
Ms Universe contested in 1965, and Ms Olympia in 
1980. Today, as a result of extremely effective market- 
ing by the fitness industry, body building may be the 
competitive lifting sport most familiar to the average 
lay person. Numerous sports have incorporated body 
building training methods, especially when muscular 
growth is a desired trait. 
Power lifting 
Consisting of the competitive lifts-the barbell squat, 
the bench press and the dead lift-power lifting is 
most popular in North America. Its popularity may 
be partially attributed to the fact that extremely 
heavy loads may be lifted, and the need for the close 
supervision of a coach is less than for the sport of 
weightlifting. While proper lifting technique is un- 
doubtedly vital for success in this sport, the technique 
may be adequately mastered much faster than for the 
weightlifting movements. When first contested, the 
sport was referred to as the ’odd lifts’ because it did 
not include either the snatch, the clean and press, or 
the clean and jerk. Worldwide organization of the 
sport falls under the auspices of the International 
Powerlifting Federation (IPF). Initially organized in 
the USA by the AAU, the sport was later administered 
by the US Powerlifting Federation (USPF), and has 
since undergone several reorganizations. Through the 
years, the USA has dominated international power 
lifting. The first US championships were held in 1964, 
and the first world championships were held in 1971. 
As with the other lifting sports, women have become 
very competitive in power lifting, with the 6rst US 
women’s championships held in 1978, and the first 
women’s world championships contested in 1980. 
Contrary to its name, maximal efforts in the power 
lifting events do not develop high levels of power 
because of the slow movement speed with maximal 
lifts (power = force x velocity). Instead, the forces 
developed are extremely high, with world record 
loads exceeding 450 kg (approximately 1000 lb) for 
the squat, 320 kg (approximately 700 lb) for the bench 
press and 410 kg (approximately 900 lb) for the dead lift. Athletes from a wide variety of sports have in- 
corporated the training methods used for power lifting 
when high levels of muscular force development 
are required for their sports. 
Other sports 
Over the past half century, resistance exercise has 
gained popularity through its use for sports other than 
weightlifting, body building or power lifting. How- 
ever, there was often much resistance to strength 
training because of misconceptions regarding the 
results. Among the first sports to readily accept 
resistance exercise to enhance sporting performance 
were the throwers in track and field. As early as the 
1950s and 1960s, the benefits of strength training were 
readily apparent to these athletes. The four-time 
Olympic gold medal winner in the discus, A1 Oerter 
(Fig. 1.4), was a devoted strength trainer from an early 
age, and attributed part of his success to his lifting. 
Interestingly, one of A1 Oerter’s early US Olympic 
track and field coaches instructed him not to involve 
himself with any strength training for fear that it 
would hurt his throwing ability. Fortunately, he paid 
little attention to this, and the rest is part of Olympic 
history. 
In the late 1960s and early 1970% the sport of 
American football paved the way for the use of 
strength training for sporting purposes. Probably the 
dominant sport on many US college campuses, the use 
of resistance exercise spilled over to numerous other 
college sports. In the 1960s, professional American 
football hired the first full-time professional strength 
coaches, with the San Diego Chargers and the Chicago 
Bears leading the way. In Europe, the use of strength 
training for sporting purposes was at times more 
readily accepted than in North America, partly 
because of the input of sport scientists. It is also likely 
that the confusion created in North America from 
commercial misinformation had less of an effect on 
the other side of the Atlantic. 
Strength training research 
Interestingly, in the early days of strength training 
research few had extensive personal experience 
with the modality. One of the earliest researchers to 
focus on the physiology of muscular strength was 

8 CHAPTER 1 
Fig. 1.4 Strength training was promoted by its successful 
use in the days when it was relatively uncommon as a 
conditioning modality. Photo 0 Allsport. 
Dudley Allen Sargent (1849-1924), a Harvard-trained 
medical doctor. Working at Harvard, Dr Sargent 
developed several methods to assess strength and 
used these tests to help sport coaches select members 
of their teams. He developed the well-known Sargent 
vertical jump test which he called a ‘fair physical test 
of man’. It is still one of the simplest and most 
effective measures of lower body muscular power. 
But, as others had been before him, Sargent was 
hesitant to recommend the use of heavy weights, 
preferring instead to suggest only the use of light 
weights. For many years Sargent’s advice was taken 
to heart by many, as evidenced by training facilities 
that had devices that accommodated only light loads (e.g. wall pulley systems), with no heavy free weights 
available. 
The British physiologist Archibald V. Hill carried 
out much research on muscle performance. Although 
he spent much of his research efforts on the muscle 
of aerobically trained individuals, his work was 
instrumental to the understanding of skeletal muscle 
structure and function. In 1922, together with his 
colleague Otto Meyerhof, Hill was awarded the 
Nobel prize for his scientific accomplishments. The 
German physiologist Werner W. Siebert was the first 
to determine that gross muscle hypertrophy, such as 
observed with strength training, was caused by the 
increasing size of the muscle fibres, not to an 
increased number of fibres (i.e. hyperplasia). 
significant breakthrough in the scientific study of 
resistance exercise. Working with soldiers being 
rehabilitated horn injuries suffered during World War 
11, Watkins developed a structured long-term training 
programme that would counter the debilitating effects 
of muscle atrophy common in this population. 
Watkins determined that a 10 repetition maximum 
(10 RM) load was optimal for muscle growth. 
Originally, he stated that 70-100 repetitions per 
exercise were required for positive results, but later 
amended it to 20-30 repetitions per exercise. German 
physiologist Erich A. Miiller, with his colleague 
Theodor Hettinger, contributed to the field in 1953 
with his observations that isometric exercise could 
contribute to muscle strength gains. In 1961 the 
Russian scientist L.P. Matveyev greatly expanded on 
the concept of a structured training programme and 
his model of periodization provides the basis for much 
of the current resistance exercise training theory. 
The 1960s marked a significant increase in the 
applied study of resistance exercise. This research 
activity is perhaps best exemplified by the work of 
Richard A. Berger who performed a number of 
investigations over the next few decades, designed 
to study the efficacy of variations in the resistance 
exercise training stimulus. Using various com- 
binations of sets, repetitions and relative intensities, 
Berger helped clarify the importance of proper 
resistance exercise prescription. Ironically, however, 
even today there are those who propose training 
methods that are contrary to the research generated 
almost a half century ago. In 1948, T.L. DeLorme and A.S. Watkins made a 


HISTORY AND PRINCIPLES 9 
h recent years, the sport science community has 
placed a greater emphasis on the importance of 
resistance exercise. Numerous professional sport 
science organizations have helped support this 
increased emphasis, such as the American College 
of Sports Medicine, the European College of Sport 
Science and the International Federation of Sports 
Medicine. One of the leading organizations for the 
study and promotion of optimal performance through 
resistance exercise is the National Strength and Con- 
ditioning Association (NSCA). Founded in 1978, this 
organization has done much to legitimize the role of 
resistance exercise, not only for sporting populations 
but also for a myriad of other applications (e.g. fitness 
and health). With members around the world, it 
was the fist organization to have as its primary aim 
sporting enhancement through total strength and 
conditioning programmes. Its research journal The 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research, 
established in 1987, has grown into the only targeted 
journal focused on this aspect of scientific research. 
Its educational aim is to ‘bridge the gap’ between the 
scientists and field practitioners. 
Undoubtedly, resistance exercise will continue 
to evolve as new training methods and applications 
are developed. With the new ‘information age’ the 
amount of misinformation, poor science, corporate 
influences and emotional opinions will challenge the 
ability of professionals to evaluate information and 
determine its context and meaning to them as they 
develop strength training programmes. Through the 
combined efforts of athletes, coaches, the medical 
community and sport scientists, the effectiveness of 
such training will continue to improve and contribute 
to the sporting performances of the future. Ultimately 
it is the athlete who should benefit from the whole 
process. The responsibility of sport medicine prof- 
essionals is to give the athlete the best available 
advice based on sound science and professional 
judgements, thereby allowing them to optimize their 
physical development and help them to reach their 
potential and realize their dreams! 
Basic prlnciples of resistance training 
This section provides information on the basic 
principles of resistance training. This will serve as an 
introduction to the science of resistance training as well as prepare the reader for more specialized topics 
in the later chapters. 
Muscle actions 
Muscle tissue is quite unique in that it can develop 
force in response to an electrical stimulus carried by 
the nerves from the area of the brain that controls 
movement. When the muscle responds, the force 
(pulling effect) it develops is applied to the bones to 
which it is attached resulting in a turning effect or 
torque about the joint between the bones. The resulting 
action is dependent on how strongly the muscle is 
stimulated and the degree to which it will develop 
force. There are three possible outcomes (Fig. 1.5). 
1 Isometric action. Torque produced by the muscle 
will be opposed by an equal torque and no movement 
will occur. 
2 Concentric action. Torque produced by the muscle 
will be greater than the resistance to movement and 
the bones will move as the muscle shortens. 
3 Eccentric action. Torque produced by the muscle 
will be opposed by a greater torque opposing the 
muscle action and the bones will move as the muscle 
is lengthened by this resistance. 
Isometric actions are also termed ‘static’ as no 
movement occurs. However, in natural movements a 
concentric action is often preceded by an eccentric 
action. This is called a stretch-shortening cycle (SSC). 
Concentric and eccentric actions and SSC are termed 
dynamic because movement results. To produce the 
highly skilled movement of which the human body is 
capable, force production of the many hundreds of 
muscles in the body has to be precisely controlled. 
How is the force of the muscle action controlled? 
Neural control of muscle actions is quite complex, 
particularly when one considers the adaptations that 
occur with training. 
Motor unit recruitment 
The basic functional unit of the neuromuscular sys- 
tem is the motor unit. A motor unit is composed of a 
neurone running from the CNS to the muscle at which 
point its axons split and connect to the surface of the 
muscle fibres. The neurone and the fibres it innervates 

10 CHAPTER 1 
Resistance torque 
c Developed torque Muscle is activated-develops tension-applying 
force to bone-creates torque about joint 
Resistance torque 
> Developed torque Resistance torque 
ISOMETRIC or STATIC 
Action 
CONCENTRIC 
Action Resistance torque 
DYNAMIC 
Action 
ECCENTRIC 
Action 
Stretch-shortening 
cycle 
are termed a motor unit. Each motor unit may consist 
of tens or even hundreds of muscle fibres, and each 
muscle might include many hundreds of motor units. 
To produce a given muscle action, the brain ‘recruits’ 
or activates a certain percentage of the motor units 
contained in that muscle. Thus, one method of 
increasing or decreasing the force produced by the 
muscle is to recruit more or less of the total number 
of motor units. 
chance of being activated at a given level of force 
because most muscles of the body have a mixture of 
different types of motor units with specific capabil- 
ities. Some motor units are better suited to producing 
high forces at a fast rate and the muscle fibres in these 
motor units are called fast twitch. There are other 
motor units that are specialized for producing force 
repeatedly or over a long period of time. They have 
high endurance. The muscle fibres in these motor 
units are called slow twitch. This is a very versatile Not all of the motor units in a muscle have an equal Fig. 1.5 Possible outcomes of muscle 
activation. 
mechanism because by having a mixture 
of types of motor unit making up a muscle and its 
neural activator provides the muscle with both 
endurance and strength. The ‘Size Principle’ states 
that at low levels of muscle actions, only the slow 
motor units will be recruited; however, as we increase 
the force up to maximal development more of the fast 
motor units are recruited. In addition, under special 
circumstances selective recruitment of fast motor 
units (e.g. high threshold motor units) can be recruited 
first with the slow motor units inhibited to optimize 
the performance of fast muscle actions. It is thought 
that this may be an important training adaptation for 
speedlpower athletes. 
Firingfrequency 
Muscle fibres are activated by a train of electrical 
impulses transmitted down the neurone. Increasing 
the firing rate (frequency) with which these impulses 

HISTORY AND PRINCIPLES 11 
are sent down the neurone is a mechanism by which a 
single motor unit can increase the force it produces. It 
has been observed that during maximal voluntary 
actions the firing rate is well above that required 
to elicit maximum isometric force. The high rate 
will, however, result in an increased rate of force 
development with the highest motor unit firing rates 
being recorded during maximal ballistic actions. 
Modijication by muscle and tendon receptors 
The nervous system has many mechanisms for 
providing feedback in the form of information on 
the forces applied, joint position and muscle length 
changes. This is necessary so that movement can be 
monitored and controlled and also to prevent injury 
by limiting the contraction force of the muscles. The 
stretch reflex is mediated by receptors in the muscle 
and muscle spindle. Research has indicated that this 
reflex may be one reason why a muscle can produce 
more force after it has been suddenly stretched. This 
mechanism is important in what are termed SSC 
movements that predominate in most sports. The 
Golgi tendon organ may have a role in inhibiting the 
force production of muscle to prevent forces being 
produced which could tear muscle and tendon. 
However, the function of this reflex is still 
controversial. 
Coordination and skill 
The expression of strength is determined by the inter- 
action between agonists, antagonists and synergists 
involved in the joint movement. To produce high 
force the agonist muscle must be able to apply great 
force and there must be a complementary relaxation 
of the antagonists (ranging from 10 to 80%). This 
requires the development of coordination and, as 
such, strength is very much a learned skill. 
Characteristics of muscle tissue affecting strength 
Muscle cross-sectional area 
There is a clear relationship between the cross- 
sectional area of the muscle and the force that the 
muscle can produce. Thus, in general, the larger the muscle then the stronger it is. For this reason a 
primary goal of many strength programmes is to 
produce hypertrophy, an increase in muscle size, 
because, regardless of all the other factors discussed, 
strength will increase with muscle growth. 
Muscle jibre type 
Muscle is composed of two broad categories of fibre 
type and their classification is based on how fast they 
contract (twitch speed) vs. how much endurance they 
possess. Thus, slow twitch fibres (Type I fibres) and 
fast twitch fibres (Type II fibres) are the basic broad 
categories of muscle fibres that exist in the human 
body. Because of differences in the proteins that make 
up the contractile machinery, the structures which 
mediate force development and the enzymes that limit 
the speed of the chemical reactions resulting in force 
development, fast twitch fibres can produce more 
force per cross-sectional area than slow twitch fibres. 
Furthermore, fast twitch fibres can produce higher 
maximal power output. Thus, an athlete with a high 
proportion of fast twitch fibres in their muscles will 
be inherently stronger, faster and more powerful than 
a person who has predominantly slow twitch. At the 
extreme ends of the running spectrum, this would be 
demonstrated by athletes such as marathon runners, 
who have a high percentage of slow twitch muscle 
fibres and, at the other end, 100-m sprinters who 
have a high percentage of fast twitch fibres, which 
help mediate their performances. Many athletes 
need a variety of physiological capabilities and 
therefore have a combination of fibre types, tending 
to be around the 50% slow and 50% fast twitch fibre 
range f 10% depending on the differences in the 
demands of their sports (e.g. soccer players and 
tennis players). 
The percentage of muscle fibre types and the num- 
ber and size of muscle fibres found in the muscles of 
an athlete will in part dictate force, power, speed and 
endurance capabilities available upon recruitment of 
the motor units. With the use of the ‘Size Principle’, 
resistance training typically recruits both slow and fast 
twitch muscle fibres with increasing loads. Again, under 
certain circumstances with power training, inhibition 
of the slow twitch motor units occurs and selective 
use of the fast twitch motor units may be seen (Fig. 1.6). 

12 CHAPTER 3 
Fig. 1.6 Human skeletal muscle fibres. Histochemical 
staining at pH 4.6, black fibres Types I and IC (slow twitch); 
white fibres Types IIA and IIC and grey fibres Types IIAB and 
IIB (fast twitch). (Courtesy of Dr Robert S. Staron, Ohio 
University.) 
Strength training 
Adaptation 
If a lift in a building was required to carry its max- 
imum capacity from the ground floor to the roof top 
each day it would not increase in its performance and 
be able to carry more people. It is more likely to deteri- 
orate: its bearings will wear, the electric motor will 
become less efficient and overall performance will 
decline. The human body is a very different machine 
because it has the ability to respond to a stimulus, 
such as the work of running or the stress of lifting 
weights, by altering its very structure and function to 
be able to perform that activity better in the future. 
This is termed adaptation and it is the basis of phys- 
ical training. A number of features of adaptation must 
be considered. 
First, the body must have a biological mechanism 
enabling it to make the adaptation. For example, 
shortening the length of the bones of the upper arm 
and forearm would greatly increase the amount of 
weight that could be lifted in the bench press as a 
result of increased mechanical advantage, but is not a 
process the body is capable of undertaking. Increasing 
the size of the muscles that perform the bench press would also allow the body to lift more weight and 
this is certainly an adaptation that is within our 
physiological capabilities. Secondly, the adaptation 
is very specific to the stimuli, such that heavy strength 
training tends to produce an increase in muscle 
size, whereas swimming produces an increase in 
the heart’s ability to pump blood. The concept of 
specificity will be discussed in more detail later in 
this chapter. 
Progressive overload 
A training adaptation occurs in response to a prog- 
ressive ‘overload’; a situation in which the body 
is required to perform exercise beyond which it 
is accustomed or which is seen in normal daily 
activities. In terms of strength training, this overload 
is the requirement of the neuromuscular system to 
exert forces which are more than those required 
during the activities of daily living. In general, the 
extent of the training adaptation is related to the 
degree of overload such that, in general, greater 
overload results in more rapid and larger biological 
changes (Fig. 1.7). However, this process involves 
both neural and hypertrophic adaptations in muscle 
and long-term progression requires proper 
progression through periodized training programmes 
which will be discussed below. 
Minimum intensity 
When training for strength, there appears to be a 
load below which no training adaptation will result 
(Fig. 1.7). This may vary depending on training state, 
muscle group and between individuals; however, the 
lifting of very light loads without maximal effort 
seems to be ineffective for increasing strength and 
muscle power. 
Progressive resistance training 
In order to stimulate the neuromuscular system 
toward adaptations conducive to increase muscle 
strength and power, training must be performed 
which places the system under greater load than it is 
accustomed to. This is termed progressive overload 
and in terms of strength development translates into 
using the muscles of the body to exert forces at or near 


HISTORY AND PRINCIPLES 13 
- En 
&5 r, 200 
2 x 0 C 
100- 
7 Trains at an intensity 200 
of30%1RM + 
- Athlete A h En 
+5 
5 0 Trains at an intensity C 
of 60% 1 RM + $ loo 
z Athlete B LT 7 3 7 5 0 Trains at an intensity C 
of 60% 1 RM + $ loo 
S Athlete B 
Trains at an intensity 
of90%1RM + 
Athlete C Pretraining Post-t ra i n i n g 
Fig. 1.7 The overload principle dictates that the more a given task exceeds the level and type that the body is accustomed to 
then the greater the training adaptation. Furthermore, there may be a minimum intensity below which there is no stimulus for 
adaptation. In this example three theoretical athletes can each bench press 100 kg during a maximum lift before the training 
programme. Each commences 12 weeks ofbench press training with athlete A lifting 30% (30 kg) during each set, athlete B 
60% (60 kg) and athlete C 90% (90 kg). Athlete C is training with a greater overload and this results in greater increase in 
strength than athlete B. Athlete A may not increase in strength at all because such a low intensity is not sufficient overload to 
stimulate adaptation, 
their maximum potential. The neuromuscular system 
adapts to the training with increases in muscle size, 
improved coordination of agonists, better motor 
unit recruitment and, at higher firing frequencies, 
reductions in antagonist coactivation, and the result 
is an increase in strength. However, as strength 
increases, the initial overload becomes less and 
less relative to the increased strength capability 
and thus the stimulus to adapt declines if one con- 
tinues to train progressively with the same absolute 
loads. Progression of loads becomes paramount and 
the use of variation in training with multiple plans of 
periodization is important to adapting to the loading 
of muscle. 
This brings us to the very important concept of 
progressive resistance training. To continue to elicit 
gains in muscle strength and power, the loads must be 
progressively increased in a manner (i.e. periodization 
of training) so that the relative intensity remains high 
enough to provide an adequate overload during 
certain phases of the training cycle. By expressing 
intensity as percentage of 1 RM (% 1 RM) or specify- 
ing a load which can only be lifted a given number of 
times, the overload is progressive because as strength 
increases so do the training loads and thus relative 
intensity is maintained (Fig. 1.8). 3001 j 
f I 6s 
80 
80 
30 30 
0 10 20 
Training week 
Fig. 1.8 The absolute load must increase as strength 
increases to maintain the same relative overload. An athlete's 
pretraining 1-RM strength is 100 kg and he or she begins 
training at an intensity of 80% (80 kg). If after 10 weeks 1 RM 
has increased to 160 kg, the relative training intensity of 80 
kg is now only 50%. The resistance should be progressively 
increased to maintain the same relative load. 
Repetitions, sets, rest and sessions 
Many programme variables can be manipulated to 
provide various forms of overload and thus result 
in very specific training adaptations. This will be 
discussed in more detail in later chapters but it is 

14 CHAPTER 1 
important to define and understand these programme 
variables. The basic unit of a resistance training ses- 
sion is the repetition. For a given training movement, 
a repetition is the completion of a whole cycle from 
the starting position, through the end of the movement 
and back to the start. For isometric training, a repeti- 
tion refers to one muscle action at a specific joint 
angle. 
termed a set. During the set, the neuromuscular 
system will fatigue and performing the exercise 
will become more difficult. At the completion of the 
required number of repetitions or when the athlete 
is no longer able to carry out any more repetitions, 
the set is completed. He or she then waits until the 
neuromuscular system recovers and then completes 
further sets of exercise. The period between sets is 
called rest or recoveryand is another important 
programme variable which can be altered to achieve 
specific training goals (e.g. improved tolerance of 
high acidic conditions). During an exercise session a 
series of sets of different exercises will be completed. 
The term exercise session refers to the block of time 
devoted to the training. One can have more than 
one exercise session in a day if it is separated by a 
recovery interval. When a series of repetitions is completed this is 
Intensity, frequency and volume 
Intensityrefers to the relative load or resistance 
that the muscle is exercising against; looking at it 
another way, the percentage of the muscle’s maximum 
force that is to be exerted during the training 
movement. This is often expressed just in this man- 
ner as ‘% of 1 RM’, the load lifted as a percentage of 
the maximum that the individual can lift only once. 
Another common method for describing intensity is in 
terms of repetition maximum. That is, the intensity is 
described in terms of how many repetitions can be 
completed before muscular failure occurs and the load 
cannot be lifted again. Repetition maximum zones are 
also used where the athlete does not have to target a 
precise number but be within a three repetition zone 
(e.g. 6-8 RM). Thus, a 3-RM load is a higher intensity 
than a 10-Rh4 load and a 1-3 RM zone is a heavier 
training zone than a 5-6-RM zone. 
The number of training sessions completed each 
week is termed frequency. Volume gives an indication of the total amount of work that is completed while 
training. Volume of exercise in resistance training is 
typically calculated by taking repetitions x sets. Some 
people use ‘sets x repetitions x the resistance used’ 
to determine total work but this is not the classic 
definition of volume. 
Window of adaptation 
The degree of adaptation and thus increase in strength 
that can be realized from resistance training is deter- 
mined to a large extent by how well the particular 
strength quality is already developed in the indi- 
vidual. There are biological limits to how much the 
body can adapt and therefore how strong a person can 
become. This concept is discussed below. Based on 
this, the adaptive capacity can be thought of as a range 
from someone with no strength training experience 
to the elite strength athlete. For someone with no 
resistance training background the window of 
adaptation is quite large and starting a training pro- 
gramme will elicit large and rapid increases in muscle 
strength. However, as he or she becomes stronger and 
moves towards his or her genetic potential the 
window shrinks and gains will become harder to 
achieve. Several aspects need to be considered here. 
First, an athlete who has never really trained with 
weights will increase in strength and power with even 
the most basic resistance training programme. He or 
she will then plateau and gains will become harder 
to produce; here more innovative programming is 
required. Secondly, after several years of resistance 
training the athlete will adapt very quickly with 
limited performance gains to a given resistance 
training programme and so variation in programming 
becomes much more important. Ultimately, the 
closer the athlete is to his or her full potential 
physiologically the more sophisticated the 
programmes must be to maintain such a high level 
of adaptation. This is where the sports medicine 
professional is challenged and experience comes into 
play with the management of elite athletes. 
Limits to strength development 
Regardless of the amount and quality of training 
there are limits to the maximum force-or any other 
trainable variable-that can be achieved. These limits 

HISTORY AND PRINCIPLES 15 
are genetically determined and relate to the muscle 
and bone structure, number of muscle fibres in each 
muscle, muscle fibre type and endocrine status (e.g. 
level of testosterone secretion). However, it requires 
many years or even decades of dedicated training to 
reach such a limit and from an untrained state the 
athlete can increase strength several hundred per 
cent over their careers. In addition, the multitude 
of adaptations needed by many athletes leads to a 
continued sophistication in their body’s muscular 
development over time (e.g. from a young novice to 
a seasoned veteran competitor). 
Specificity 
Adaptations by the neuromuscular system and thus 
improvements in performance are specific to the exact 
type of resistance training performed. This specificity 
of training applies to all features of the exercise. 
1 Muscle groups involved in the exercise. Strength 
will only be increased in the muscle groups used in 
the training. There are some caveats on this relating 
to the principle of cross transfer discussed shortly. 
2 Movement pattern. Because a considerable part 
of strength adaptation during the initial adaptations 
involves changes to the neural activation of the 
muscles, the further one moves away from the 
specific movement the less the carry-over of strength 
increases. For example, it has been shown that per- 
forming the leg press exercise results in increased 
strength in that exercise but less strength gain when 
tested for squat strength which is a very similar but 
not identical exercise. This specificity relates to posture, 
timing of joint movement and ranges of joint movement. 
3 Joint ranges of movement. This will be discussed 
further because there are other considerations beyond 
movement pattern alone. The strength increases 
gained are specific to the joint angles at which one 
exercises. For example, if one trains using quarter 
squats where one only squats to a shallow knee angle, 
strength will be increased as a result of the training. 
However, if one were required to squat to greater 
depths, the increases in strength would diminish the 
deeper the squat. This joint angle specificity is even 
more evident for isometric training. Research has 
shown that performing isometric training at a par- 
ticular angle, for example 90° of elbow flexion, will 
result in increases in strength. However, if isometric elbow flexor strength is tested at angles other than 
goo less strength improvement will be exhibited 
the further one tests from the training angle. 
4 Velocity of contraction. Velocity specificity of 
resistance training is currently one of the most con- 
tentious issues in the field of muscle strength and 
power development. Studies using isokinetic testing 
and training methods have found that strength 
increases are specific to the velocity at which one 
trains. If one trains at a slow movement velocity one 
tends to increase strength at that velocity, and strength 
at higher velocities, which are more common in sport, 
is not effected. Based on this, it has been recom- 
mended that resistance training be performed at a 
high speed if the purpose of the training is to increase 
power output. 
5 Type of muscle action. Strength increases are 
specific to mode of the muscle action used during 
training. For example, isometric training produces 
increases in isometric strength but dynamic strength 
is not altered significantly, or concentric-only training 
does not produce as large strength gains during 
eccentric contractions as eccentric training. 
Cross transfer 
Despite previous comments with regard to the speci- 
ficity of resistance training it has been observed in a 
number of studies that the training of one limb is 
associated with increased voluntary strength in the 
contralateral untrained limb and the effects of skill 
training may also be transferred in a similar manner. 
It appears that the increase in voluntary strength in 
the untrained limb is attributable to neural adaptation. 
This is supported by the observation that there is no 
increase in muscle size, muscle fibre size, or evoked 
contraction strength in the untrained limb. Perhaps 
the most interesting example of this phenomenon 
is the finding that there also may be an increase in 
strength in a contralateral limb after training with 
imagined (not real) contractions. However, the 
meaning of such a finding is presently unclear but 
cross transfer has been used successfully in injury 
rehabilitation. 
Reversal 
Just as the body adapts to overload by increasing 

16 CHAPTER 1 
performance it also modifies capacity in response 
to a decrease in physical activity. When one stops 
regular resistance training, the strength level gradually 
returns to what it was prior to the commencement of 
the programme. Importantly, the higher the level of 
strength that was attained through training then the 
longer it takes to return to pretraining levels (Fig. 1.9). 
Furthermore, one can reduce the amount of resistance 
training performed each week and still maintain 
strength at or near the level that was attained through 
training. In other words, the volume of training 
required for maintenance of strength is much less 
than that required achieving a given strength level. 
Nevertheless, intensity used in such maintenance 
programmes must remain high. 
Interference 
Aerobic endurance exercise, such as jogging, 
swimming or cycling, when performed concurrently 
with a resistance training programme has the poten- 
tial to compromise strength and power increases if 
performed at a high enough intensity and volume. 
This will be discussed in more detail later in the book. 
The mechanism appears to be competition between 
biological adaptations towards increasing muscle 
strength and power vs. aerobic capacity. The result is 
that strength and power do not increase to the same 
degree as they would if only strength training were Fig. 1.9 Increases in strength and 
power diminish when training is 
reduced. The greater the improvement 
achieved while training, the longer it 
takes to return to pretraining levels. 
Athletes in Group A train for 10 weeks 
and then undergo various detraining. 
Group B train for 4 weeks. Training 
volume can be reduced for Group A 
and most of the strength gains already 
achieved will be retained. This is 
termed maintenance. 
performed. Often this is a necessity of the target 
sport or activity. For example, high levels of muscle 
strength and power are essential to the sport of 
basketball, but the athlete must also have excellent 
aerobic endurance to allow them to play at fast pace 
for the duration of the game. 
be accommodated by prioritization of training goals 
using periodization in the training programme. The 
general goal is to have periods when the focus is to 
increase muscle size and strength and during these 
phases the volume of cardiovascular and muscle 
endurance training is minimized. This permits the 
body to adapt optimally towards increased strength 
and power but be aware that aerobic capacity may fall. 
If the sport requires good aerobic endurance then the 
athlete needs to train towards this goal and so strength 
training volume can be reduced in favour of en- 
durance training. Similarly, maximal force and 
power will decrease during this training phase. The 
goal, however, is to continue sufficient resistance 
training to maintain strength and power and prevent 
injury as much as possible during the competitive 
season although a large volume of endurance training 
and game play may be interfering with strength and 
power expression. In basketball it has been shown that 
the demands of the playing season alone can result in 
reductions in vertical jump if not accompanied by an 
in-season heavy resistance training programme. For most sports the phenomenon of interference can 


HISTORY AND PRINCIPLES 17 
Variation in training 
If one were to designate two factors which should 
be kept at the forefront when designing resistance 
training programmes, the first would be the principle 
of specificity already discussed and the second would 
be variation in training. To provide an overload and 
thus continue to stimulate the body to adapt the 
training must be novel, it must change in character, 
and the more novel the task then the greater will be 
the changes in performance capacity towards the 
new task. 
Here is where the art and science of strength and 
conditioning come into play. It is relatively straight- 
forward to design a resistance training programme 
which involves performing, say, three sets of 6 RM 
with six different exercises. As strength increases then 
the 6-FW load lifted increases and thus the overload 
is maintained. However, such a programme involves 
no variation and will not prove as effective as a pro- 
gramme with greater variation in exercise selection, 
intensity and volume. Furthermore, going to muscular 
failure or RM at every workout may also create too 
much of an overtraining stress and compression on 
the joints, and variation is required in this aspect of 
training too. This topic will be covered in greater 
detail in the later sections on periodization but the 
principle of variation relates to changes in programme 
characteristics to match changing programme goals 
as well as to provide a changing target for the body 
to adapt towards. Planned rest periods are also 
important in the concept of variation in training. 
Anecdotal evidence suggests that athletes with an 
extensive resistance training background adapt to a 
change in programme characteristics much more 
quickly than a novice. Thus, it is prudent to design 
resistance training programmes for experienced 
lifters which vary as often as every 2-4 weeks. The 
importance of variation in training for maintaining 
motivation should not be underestimated. Making 
the programme novel and varying the programme 
parameters is important to avoid boredom, staleness 
and overtraining. 
achieve variation in the training. Intensity and volume 
are obvious choices and it is well accepted that within 
a week there should be heavy and light days and the 
volume should undulate over periods of 4-12 weeks All programme parameters can be modified to or longer. However, subtle changes to exercise for 
example may include: 
varying the depth of the squat or leg press exercise; 
performing explosive exercises; 
altering the exercises for the same muscle group; 
slowing the tempo down and using 'super slow' 
training: 
combinations of supersets, prefatigue, upper and 
lower body combinations; and 
heavy eccentric training. 
The key is to alter the nature of the overload to 
encourage the neuromuscular system to continue to 
adapt. 
Active insufficiency 
Many muscles of the body are multiarticulate: they 
cross more than one joint and therefore can produce 
movement at each of the joints they cross. However, 
a muscle can only shorten by a certain amount, typic- 
ally to 50% of its resting length. The result is that if 
the muscle is already shortened about one joint then it 
cannot contract very forcefully to produce movement 
over the other joint that it crosses. This is termed 
active insufficiency and has significance for resistance 
training. In selecting certain exercises one can change 
the emphasis on a given muscle group. For example, 
when training the calf muscles, ankle plantar flexion 
can be performed with the knee extended (standing 
calf raise) or flexed (seated calf raise) and switch the 
training emphasis from the gastrocnemius to the 
soleus. In standing calf raise the gastrocnemius is 
lengthened over the knee joint and so is the primary 
muscle producing the ankle plantar flexion. However, 
in a seated calf raise the gastrocnemius is already 
shortened about the knee joint and cannot contribute 
much force about the ankle. The soleus becomes the 
prime mover in this case. 
Passive insufficiency 
A muscle can only be stretched to a certain extent. 
Multiarticulate muscles are lengthened over all the 
joints they cross. If a given muscle is already in a 
lengthened state to allow movement to the end of 
range for one joint, then it may not be able to be 
lengthened further to permit full range of motion 
at the other joint it crosses. This is termedpassive 

18 CHAPTER 1 
insufficiency. For an application of this principle to 
exercise we will again use the gastrocnemius and 
soleus. To adequately stretch the muscles of the calf 
one has to perform two stretches: one with the knee 
extended, which tends to place the gastrocnemius on 
stretch, and the other with the knee bent to stretch the 
soleus. As soon as you bend the knee, the gastrocne- 
mius is no longer fully lengthened about the knee 
and so can allow more dorsiflexion of the ankle. The 
soleus then becomes the limiting muscle and so is 
effectively stretched. 
Task- and athlete-specific strength 
The principle of training specificity has already been 
discussed. Clearly, the neuromuscular system has 
both neural and muscular avenues for adaptation to 
training. Depending on the characteristics of the 
training programme, the capacity for strength and 
power will alter to fit the requirements while other 
features may decline. For example, performing very 
slow heavy resistance training to increase maximal 
force in, say, the squat exercise, may result in a 
reduction in ability to rapidly develop muscle force 
and contract the muscles at high velocity. The result 
is a reduction in explosive muscle performance. It is 
therefore essential to determine the specific neuro- 
muscular characteristics required by the target sport 
activity and then design the resistance training 
programme to develop strength and power needed 
which is specific to that task. Often this requires the 
use of both heavy slow resistance training created by 
heavy resistances together with the periodized use of 
lighter resistances (e.g. 30-45% of 1 RM) to develop 
explosive strength needed for the high power outputs 
needed in many sports. 
Task-specific strength necessitates the specific 
requirements of the target activity to be determined. 
A movement analysis must be completed to deter- 
mine the muscle groups, type of contraction, velocity 
of movement, requirement for SSC movements, loads 
lifted or moved, duration of activity, requirements 
for sustained high energy output, rest periods 
available and injury risks. From this analysis the 
aspects of neuromuscular performance that are 
required can be prioritized and a programme 
designed which will develop task-specific strength 
in the athlete. The less developed a particular component of 
performance, the greater the window for adaptation. 
Therefore, it is crucial that the abilities of the athlete 
are determined and the strength qualities in which 
they have high levels and those in which they are 
weak are highlighted. This has been termed strength 
diagnosis and can involve a range of tests of neuro- 
muscular performance to assess all aspects of strength 
and power performance. 
The task- and athlete-specific strength charac- 
teristics must then be combined to determine the 
optimal training programme design. This involves 
general exercises for strength and power development 
together with a sport-specific exercise component 
to any training programme. It is less beneficial to use 
only sport-specific exercises in a programme as there 
is a significant transfer gained from general strength 
power exercises (e.g. normative movements for each 
of the major muscle groups in the body) to almost 
every sport. Clearly, if a particular strength quality is 
found to be a high priority for the task (e.g. rate of 
force development) and the athlete is considered 
weak in this quality, training which enhances this 
ability will have the greatest impact on sport 
performance. 
In the next chapter, the factors involved in train- 
ing specific characteristics of muscle performance 
will be discussed. Resistance training is directed 
toward specific characteristics of muscle that can 
be enhanced to improve sport performance. These 
traits are the fundamental core of training-induced 
adaptations consequent to a resistance training 
programme. 
Recommended reading 
Dreschler, A. (1998) The Weightlifting Encyclopedia. A IS A 
Fleck, SJ. & Kraemer, W. J. (1997) DesigningResistance Communications, Flushing, NY. 
Training Programs, 2nd edn. Human Kinetics Publishers, 
Champaign, IL. 
Publications, New York. 
Nutrition in Sport (ed. R.J. Maughan), pp. 3-16. Blackwell 
Science, Oxford. 
Knuttgen, H.G. & Komi, P.V. (1992) Basic definitions for 
exercise. In: Strength and Powerin Sport: the 
Encyclopaedia of Sports Medicine (ed. P.V. Komi), pp. 
3-6. Blackwell Scientific Publications. Hale, R.B. & Coyle, T. (1988) Albinus on Anatomy. Dover 
Knuttgen, H.G. (2000) Basic exercise physiology. In: 

HISTORY AND PRINCIPLES 19 
Knuttgen, H.G. & Kraemer, W.J. (1987) Terminology and 
measurement in exercise performance. Journal of Applied 
Sport Science Research 1,1-10. 
musculoskeletal adaptations to resistance training. In: 
American College of Sports Medicine Resource Manual for 
Guidelines for Exercise, Testing and Prescription (ed. J.L. 
Roitman), 4th edn, pp. 176-183. Lippincott Williams & 
Wilkins, Philadelphia, PA. 
Recreational Activities (eds D. Mood, F.F. Musker & 
J.E. Rink), pp. 614-630. W.C.B. McGraw-Hill, New York. Kraemer, W.J., Volek, J.S. &Fleck, S.J. (2001) Chronic 
Robinson, D. (1999) Weight training. In: Sports and Silvester, L.J. (1992) Weight Trainingfor Strength and 
Stone, M.H. & O’Bryant, H. (1987) Weight Training: Fitness. Austin, Jones & Bartlett, Boston. 
a Scientific Approach. Bellwether Press, Minneapolis, 
MN. 
National Strength and Conditioning Association Journal Todd, T. (1985) The myth of the muscle-bound lifter. 
7 (3), 37-41. 
de Vries, H.A. (2000) History of exercise science. In: 
Introduction to Exercise Science (eds T.J. Housh & 
D.J. Housh), pp. 12-35. Allyn &Bacon, Needham 
Heights, MA. 

Chapter 2 
Training -specific characteristics 
of neuromuscular performance 
Neu romuscular adaptation 
Traininginduced adaptations in the 
neuromuscular system 
The production of maximal force and power, also 
called the 'explosive strength' of the human body, 
involves several structural and functional com- 
ponents. The nervous system is divided into three 
compartments that interact with each other and with 
the musculoskeletal system (Fig. 2.1). The production 
of force involves the generation of a command by a 
high-level controller (central command) which is then 
transformed by the low-level controller (the spinal 
cord or brainstem) into motor unit activation of the 
requisite muscles. The central nervous system has a 
major role in activating the muscle and in determining the final force (and power) output of a short dura- 
tion:The commands from the high- and low-level 
controllers may also be modified by feedback from 
peripheral sensory receptors or the high-level con- 
troller. Most people are unable to attain complete 
voluntary activation of the muscles partly as a result 
of a suboptimal corticospinal drive. The degree to 
which a person can voluntarily activate muscles- 
maximal voluntary neural drive to the muscle-can 
depend on the muscle(s) in question to be activated, 
the type and timehelocity of muscle activation, and 
the trainability status of the subject. In addition, the 
coactivation of the antagonist muscles plays a specific 
part in determining the final net strength production 
of the agonists in question. 
In Fig. 2.1 a schematic summary of the effects 
that strength and power training can have on the 
neuromuscular system is presented. Strength and 
power training leads to specific adaptations in all 
of the compartments of the nervous system as well as 
in the muscle tissue itself (Fig. 2.2). Several factors, 
such as the type, intensity of various exercises as 
well as the duration of resistance training period, 
determine the nature and magnitude of training- 
induced functional and structural adaptations in 
the neuromuscular system. The degree of training- 
induced muscle hypertrophy is also influenced by 
hormonal factors. 
Effects of strength and power training 
on the neuromuscular system 
1 
High-level 
Command .. 
Fig. 2.1 Schematic summary of 
strength and power training-induced 
adaptations in the neuromuscular 
system. (Modified from HWnen 
1994a.) 
20 

NEUROMUSCULAR PERFORMANCE 21 
Fig. 2.2 Sports-specific strength 
training leads to specific 
neuromuscular adaptations 
needed for optimal performance in 
sports. Photo 0 Allsport/G.M. Prior. 
Training-induced neural adaptations can be 
measured using invasive techniques, in which 
needle or fine-wire electrodes are inserted into 
muscle (allowing single motor unit recordings) or 
indirectly, by analysing changes taking place in 
electromyographic (EMG) activity of the trained 
muscles (using surface electrodes) recorded during 
voluntary isometric, concentric, eccentric or stretch- 
shortening cycle actions. The degree of training- 
induced muscle hypertrophy can be measured by 
analysing the size of individual muscle fibres (taking 
a muscle biopsy) or by analysing the cross-sectional 
area of the muscle by means of an ultrasonic 
apparatus, computed tomography or magnetic 
resonance imaging. The specific changes in various 
EMG variables and the degree of selective muscular 
hypertrophy during strength and/or power training 
are closely related to specific increases in maximal 
force and power of the trained muscles. 
Acute neuromuscular responses to heavy 
resistance exercise and recovery 
Heavy resistance ‘neural’ session 
One of the basic principles of strength training is that 
a typical heavy resistance training session leads to 
acute fatigue in the neuromuscular system observed as decreases both in the maximal voluntary neural 
activation and in maximal force of the exercised 
muscles. The magnitude of this acute fatigue-induced 
decrease in the neuromuscular performance is related 
to the overall volume, intensity and type of the 
session, the recovery between sets, and muscle fibre 
distribution as well as to the training background of 
the subject. Figure 2.3 shows how maximal force 
of the leg extensors decreased in both male and female 
strength athletes during the course of an extremely 
strenuous ‘neural’ type of training session (20 x 1 x 
100% 1 RM). ‘Neural’ loading refers to a maximal 
force training session in which very high loads (such 
as 80-90-100% of 1 RM) are used by performing only 
a low number of repetitions (such as 1-3) per set. The 
decreases in strength in both sexes took place 
gradually but after 8-10 sets became greater in men 
than those recorded in women. The maximum 
voluntary activation of the loaded muscles also 
decreased during the course of the session in both 
sexes and was slightly greater in men (Fig. 2.4a) than 
in women. These findings support the suggestion that 
a heavy resistance session leads to acute fatigue not 
only in the contractile characteristics of the exercised 
muscles but also in the nervous system. To which 
extent the decrease in the discharge rate of motor units 
may have been caused by the actual decrease in 
central neural drive and how much it was modified by 


22 CHAPTER 2 
100 
A s 
2 90 Y 
al 
0 + - 
? 
? 
F ‘2 80 
C .- 
70 
m r U 
60 FEMALES 
J-I 
MALES 
I 1 I I I I 1111 I 
0 3 6 9 12 15 18 21 (sets) 
f- Strength training session -t 
BEFORE (Loading: 20~1~100%) AFTER 
Fig. 2.3 Mean relative changes (It SD) in maximal isometric 
bilateral leg extension force during the heavy resistance 
loading session in male and female strength athletes. 
(From HWnen 1993.) 
proprioceptive feedback from the muscle is difficult to 
interpret. The results presented in Fig. 2.4(b) show 
how the training protocol led to considerable acute 
changes in the shape of the isometric force-time 
curve indicating a decrease in the explosive force 
production of the exercised muscles. This type of 
loading of the neuromuscular system is accompanied 
by a significant lengthening in the time of relaxation 
in both sexes. 
mentioned training session took place in women 
somewhat quicker than in men (Fig. 2.5). However, 
the observation that on the second day of rest the 
maximal force values in both sexes were still slightly 
lower than their initial pre-exercise values indicates 
the magnitude of the strain of the loading used. The 
recording of both neural activation and force prod- 
uction characteristics of the exercised muscles are 
useful tools in evaluating the loading characteristics 
during the course (and after) of various strength 
training sessions in attempts to tailor training sessions 
for an individual male or female athlete at a given 
time. The early recovery of maximal force after the above (a) 
- 0.6 
E - 0.5 
W 
D 0.4 
e F 0.3 s 
5 
al I.’ 
I.’ C .- 
5 0.2 
3 0.1 E .- x 
0 T MALES 
* ** 
I I I I I I Ill1 I 
0 3 6 9 12 15 18 21 (sets) 
f+ Strength training session +t 
BEFORE (Loading: 20.1.100%) AFTER 
(b) 
4000 r 4000 r 
f e ul 2000rr 20001 BY 
m g 1000 After loading 1000 After loading 
a (20.1 *loo%) (20.1 .loo%) M OLL ‘ 100 200 300 400 500 100200300400500 
Time (ms) 
Fig. 2.4 (a) Mean (3~ SD) maximum voluntary activation 
(integrated EMGs) of the vastus medialis (VM), vastus 
lateralis (VL) and rectus femoris (RF) muscles in the maximal 
isometric bilateral leg extension action during the heavy 
resistance loading session in male strength athletes. 
(b) Average force-time curves of the leg extensors in the 
rapidly produced maximal bilateral isometric leg extension 
action in male and female strength athletes before and 
immediately after the heavy resistance loading session. 
(From Hlikkinen 1993.) 
Heavy resistance ‘hypertrophic’ session 
A typical ‘hypertrophic’ (usually medium or high 
loads, such as 60-80% of 1 RM, by performing multiple 
repetitions, such as 6-12 in each set, until concentric 
action failure) type of heavy resistance training ses- 
sion with a high volume (such as 4-6 sets) leads to 
drastic acute fatigue in neuromuscular performance 

NEUROMUSCULAR PERFORMANCE 23 
I’ 
Training session 
(Loading: 20.1.100%) Recovery -- b 
I I I I #I I 11 
?fore After 1 h 2h ‘I 1 day 2days 
Fig. 2.5 Mean (* SD) relative changes in the maximal 
bilateral isometric leg extension force in male and female 
strength athletes immediately after the ‘neural’ type of heavy 
resistance loading session and during the recovery period of 
rest after the termination of the session. (From Hlikkinen 
1993.) 
with a great accumulation of blood lactate and a 
considerable acute hormonal response. Women usu- 
ally exhibit less fatigue than men. Acute fatigue is 
observable in the contractile characteristics of the 
loaded muscles as a marked decrease in maximal force 
as shown during a high-volume training session in 
Fig. 2.6 and also by acute worsening in explosive force 
production and relaxation of the exercised muscles. 
However, the acute decreases observed in the 
maximal voluntary activation of the loaded muscles 
indicate further that considerable fatigue may also 
take place in the nervous system, because each set was 
performed until concentric action failure. The 
magnitude of this acute fatigue-induced decrease in 
neuromuscular performance is related to the overall 
volume, intensity and specific type of the session, 
modified by the recovery between the sets, muscle 
fibre distribution and the training background of the 
subject. The recovery from fatigue can take quite a 
long time and the fact that on the first day of rest the 
force values in men were still lower than their pre- 
exercise values (Fig. 2.6) indicates possible sex 
differences in fatigue and recovery processes from it. 
Both sexes attained their basal strength levels on the 
second day of rest, indicating that the overall volume 
of the hypertrophic protocol used was very high. It is 
important to point out that despite the recovery in 120 
100 s 
k! 80 
.- E 60 
.- c 40 Y 
al 
0 r - 
X 
i! 
al 
IJ) C 
U 2 20 T 
Training session 
(Loading: 10.10 RM) Recovery - 
I I I I I, I II 
3efore After 1 h 2h “1 day 2days 
Fig. 2.6 Mean (* SD) relative changes in the maximal 
bilateral isometric leg extension force in male and female 
strength athletes immediately after the ‘hypertrophic’ 
type of heavy resistance loading session and during the 
recovery period of rest after the termination of the session. 
(From Hakkinen 1994a.) 
maximal force the basal serum testosterone 
concentrations remained lowered 2 days after the 
strenuous hypertrophic session described above. 
‘Explosive’ resistance loading 
A typical ‘explosive’ (low loads such as 30-60%of 1 RM 
but using high or maximal movement velocity in each 
repetition) or power-type training session also leads 
to acute fatigue in the neuromuscular performance in 
both men and women (Fig. 2.7). This is observable by 
acute decreases not only in maximal force but also in 
explosive strength as indicated by the changes in the 
shape of the force-time curve during the initial 
portions of the curve. The acute decreases observed 
during the initial portions (0-100 ms) of the integrated 
EMG-time curve of the loaded muscles, accompanied 
by low postloading blood lactate concentrations, sug- 
gest that explosive type of loading results primarily 
in acute central fatigue andlor impaired neuromus- 
cular propagation associated with fewer peripheral 
aspects of fatigue. The time needed for recovery after 
explosive types of protocols is related to the overall 
volume and type of the session, the recovery between 
the sets, muscle fibre distribution, sex and the training 
background of the subject (Fig. 2.8). 

24 CHAPTER 2 
Fig. 2.7 Combinations of explosive 
power and local muscular endurance 
are needed by many athletes for success 
in competition. Photo 0 Allsport/S. 
Botterill. 
Neuromuscular adaptations to prolonged 
strength training 
Previously untrained subjects 
A major part of the strength gains during the initial 
weeks or couple of months of strength training in 
previously untrained men and women is accounted 
for by adaptations in the facilatory andlor inhibitory 
neural pathways acting at various levels in the 
nervous system (see Fig. 2.1). This is also true of 
athletes who have not previously participated in a 
strength training programme. Although the actual 
forms of neural adaptations are difficult to reveal, 
strength training changes both the quantity and 
quality of activation so that: (i) activation of the 
agonists is increased: andlor (ii) there is a reduction 
in the antagonist coactivation; andlor (iii) there is 
improved coactivation of the synergists. 
An increase in the maximal activation of the 
agonists is undoubtedly a desirable phenomenon 
taking place during strength training in both male 
(Fig. 2.9) and female athletes (Fig. 2.10). However, 
the time course of neural adaptations may be slightly 
different between the sexes, because the increases in 
the maximum EMGs of trained muscles in women 
Fig. 2.8 (left] In some events, power produced in less than a 
tenth of a second can impact success in sports performance. 
Photo 0 Allsport/T. Duffy. 


NEUROMUSCULAR PERFORMANCE 25 
0.6 
A 0.5 
>” 
5 E 
W Y 
0.4 
B E 
B 
5 0.3 
E ul 
C .- 
.- X 5 
0.2 - 
- 
- 
- 
- 
;= I 1 I I I I 
0 4 8 12 16 (weeks) ’ 
Heavy resistance strength training 
Fig. 2.9 Mean (* SE) maximum voluntary activation 
(integrated EMGs) of the vastus medialis (VM), vastus 
lateralis (VL) and rectus femoris (RF) muscles in the 
isometric leg extension action in males during strength 
training. (From HWnen & Komi 1983.) A p 0.40 
E 
W 5 0.35 
U B $, 0.30 
E 0.25 Y 
aJ w 
C .- 
.- z 
5 0.20 X 
seemed to plateau slightly earlier than in men. This 
may have some practical relevance to the planning 
of the training process to optimize ‘neural’ strength 
training stimuli for the nervous system. Nevertheless, 
the increase in the quantity of EMG in both sexes 
suggests that the number of motor units recruited have 
increased and/or the motor units are firing at higher 
rates, or some combination of the two has taken place. 
Training can also lead to decreases in coactivation 
of the antagonists contributing to the net strength 
development of the agonist muscles. 
leads to muscular hypertrophy of trained muscles. 
The increase in the cross-sectional area of the muscle 
comes primarily from the increase in size of indi- 
vidual muscle fibres and to some degree from the 
increase in non-contractile connective tissue between 
the fibres, probably with no addition in fibre number. 
The relative enlargements in muscle cross-sectional 
area in women during strength training of a few weeks Prolonged strength training in both men and women - 
- 
- 
- 
- 0.451 
T 
VM 
RF 
4 Heavy resistance f - strength training 
I1 I I I 
0 3.5 7.0 10.5 I 
Weeks 
Fig. 2.10 Mean (* SE) maximum voluntary action (integrated 
EMGs) of the vastus lateralis (VM), vastus medialis (VM) and 
rectus femoris (RF) muscles in the isometric leg extension 
action in females during strength training. (From Hakkinen 
1994a.) 
or months are usually similar in magnitude compared 
to men. Because the magnitude of neural adaptations 
and the degree of hypertrophy are similar in women 
and men during short-term strength training of a few 
months, overall strength development over that time 
period remains about the same between the sexes. 
However, women may demonstrate larger interindi- 
vidual variation in strength development compared 
to men. As a result of hormonal differences between 
the sexes, especially in the basic concentration of 
blood testosterone, the ultimate degree of muscular 
hypertrophy and strength development caused by 
strength training will remain smaller in women than 
in men over prolonged training periods of several 
months and years. 
Explosive resistance training which utilizes lower 
loads but high movement velocities results in impro- 
vements in all force portions of the force-velocity 
curve, but the changes in the high force portions are 
smaller than during typical heavy resistance training. 
Accordingly, explosive resistance training-induced 
changes in the shape of the forcetime curve are 

26 CHAPTER 2 
greater in the early than the high force portions of the 
curve. The specific changes are because explosive 
resistance training results in great increases in the 
amount of neural input to the trained muscle during 
a short period of time, as indicated by a specific shift 
in the early portions of the EMG-time curve of rapid 
isometric action in both men and women (Fig. 2.11). 
Power-type strength training-induced adaptations 
in rapid voluntary and/or reflex-induced neural 
activation of the trained muscles can be observed 
during high velocity concentric exercises as well 
as in various high velocity stretch-shortening cycle 
exercises (such as drop jumps). Nevertheless, these 
neural adaptations are primarily responsible for 
h U - Before training - - After 12 weeks; explosive 
...... After 24 weeks; explosive strength training 
+ 50.2 1 
C .- 100 
' 40 several experimental findings of strength and/or 
power gains during explosive resistance training with 
only minor muscular hypertrophy. Although neural 
activation of agonists during various explosive 
exercises is very high, the time of this activation is so 
short that training-induced muscular hypertrophy 
takes place to a lesser degree than during typical 
heavy resistance training (Fig. 2.12). Explosive 
resistance training can also lead to a decrease in the 
antagonist coactivation. Various maximal force and explosive strength training regimens should be well 
spaced 
or even mixed and matched with the specific 
requirements of the sports event as well as of an 
individual athlete at a given time. 
a 
Ill 
40 I 20 
(0-103) (1W-200) (200-3W) (300-400) (400-500) (ms) 
Time periods Average force 
(A % during training) 
1.40 
5 1.30 
?! n ;F 1.20 
3 1.10 
LL resistance,, "2 
Power w I 
0 16 ' Y 
1.40 
5 1.30 
n += 1.20 
3 1.10 
- v) resistance, 
Power 
I I 
16 I 0 Fig. 2.11 Maximum average voluntary 
activation (integrated EMG)-time 
curve of the rapid maximal isometric 
leg extension action (left) and the 
relationship between the individual 
changes in the maximal averaged 
'early' (integrated) EMG and the 
individual changes in average 
explosive force of the trained muscles 
(right) in males during explosive 
strength training. (Modified from 
HIikkinen 1994a.) 
Fig. 2.12 Average fibre areas 
(diameters) of fast twitch (Type XI) and 
slow twitch (Type 1) muscle fibres 
before and after heavy resistance or 
power (explosive strength) training. 
Training period (weeks) iModified-from Komi eial. 1982.) - 

NEUROMUSCULAR PERFORMANCE 27 
0.5 
I w 0.4 
U 4 m L m 
Fig. 2.13 Mean (k SE) maximum g 0.3 1 
voluntary activation (integrated EMGs) ’E 
of the vastus lateralis IVLL vastus 2 . _. 
medialis (VM) and rectus femoris (RF) 
muscles in the maximal isometric leg 
extension action and individual 
changes in integrated EMG and 
maximal force in males during skengtb 
training using different intensities 
(percentage load ranges of 1 RM). 
(From Hikkinen et ol.1985a.) T T 
Muscle 
0 4 8 12 (weeks) 
Heavy resistance 
strength training 
Neuromuscular adaptations in strength athletes 
‘Neural‘ strength training 
It is reasonable to expect that the maximum EMG, 
after a large initial increase, would only increase at a 
diminished rate during the later months or years of 
training, In strength athletes, who already have a 
strength training background of several years, further 
increases in the maximum EMG and strength are 
limited in magnitude. When strength athletes trained 
for a few weeks with submaximal loads, and per- 
formed only submaximal number of repetitions per 
set, the maximumEMGs decreased (Fig. 2.13). In 
order to produce further increases in the maximal 
voluntary neural activation of the muscles, the 
training intensity in strength athletes should be kept 
very high or maximal (e.g. SO-90-100% 1 RM) and/or 
at progressively increasing levels. In addition, the 
intensity (and volume) of training should be optimally 
matched to meet individual needs. When only a few 
repetitions (such as 1-3) are performed in each set 
of the exercises with very high loads, muscular 
hypertrophy of trained muscles may remain relatively 
minor. This is advantageous for many sports, because 
this type of training may lead to some increase even in 
the maximal force per cross-sectional area of the muscle. 
strength athletes may be brought to the peak level not It is known that strength performance in elite -L- 
O 10 20 30 
Maximal isometric force 
(A % during training between 
the 4th and 12th week) 
necessarily during a ‘normal’ training period but 
more likely after some period of reduced training. 
A periodical decrease in the volume of training with 
no changes (or even some increase) in the training 
intensity has been shown to be advantageous for 
optimum peaking. Although the mechanisms leading 
to the optimum peak level are not well known, the 
short-term increase observed in the maximum EMGs 
of trained muscles during the reduced training period 
of 1 week suggests the important role of the nervous 
system in periodization of training for optimum peak- 
ing (Figs 2.14 and 2.15). In addition, the distribution 
of the volume of training into smaller units-such as 
two separate training sessions a day-may create 
more optimal conditions, especially for the nervous 
system, contributing to further strength development 
in both male and female strength athletes. Both the 
volume and loading intensity of strength training 
in both male and female strength athletes should 
be matched to meet individual needs at a given 
time. 
‘Hyperirophic’ strength training 
A requirement for training-induced hypertrophy is 
high tension of a muscle for a sufficient duration 
which somehow provides the signal for increased 
uptake of amino acids and enhanced synthesis of 
contractile proteins. The repeated process of damage 

28 CHAPTER 2 
-- 
0 5 10 15 20 (days) - 'Normal' ++Reduce% 
training training 
Fig. 2.14 Mean (* SE) maximum voluntary activation 
(integrated EMGs) of the muscles and maximal force of the 
isometric leg extension action in male strength athletes (SA) 
during 'normal' strength training (with high volume) 
followed by a period of reduced (lowered volume) training. 
(Modified from Hiikkinen et al. 1991.) 
and repair during and between training sessions 
may result in an overshoot of protein synthesis. The 
ultimate degree of hypertrophy may be obtained by 
using heavy but submaximal loads (such as 6040% of 
1 RM) and by performing multiple repetitions (such as 
6-12) in each set until concentric failure, with a short 
recovery period between the sets. Muscle hypertrophy 
can also be non-uniform along the belly of the muscle 
and between the individual components of the muscle 
group. The basic serum levels of endogenous anabolic 
and/or catabolic hormones usually remain within the 
normal physiological range during strength training 
of a few weeks or months. However, during more 
prolonged training periods with high volumes, the 
individual changes in hormone balance may indicate 
the trainability status of the athlete creating a greater Fig. 2.15 Periodization of training is vital for optimal 
peaking in strength and power sports. Photo 0 Allsport. 
hormonal differences between men and women, the 
ultimate degree of muscle hypertrophy and strength 
development will be less in women than in men 
during prolonged hypertrophic strength training 
of several months and/or years. 
Strength development 
need for tailored training programmes in order to 
optimize the training process. In addition, in women, 
interindividual differences in serum testosterone Effects of different training regimens on maximal 
force development 
levels are great and women having lower testosterone 
levels may not be able to gain the same degree of 
muscle hypertrophy and strength as women having 
higher serum testosterone levels. Because of basic Pretraining status 
It is well known both from scientific research and 
practical experience that large initial increases in 


NEUROMUSCULAR PERFORMANCE 29 
30 
6 20 
5 10 
2 W 0 C m 
W 0 
m w 
t! Fig. 2.16 Mean (* SE) maximal 
pretraining results in the squat lift and 0 Pretraining squat 
200 
150 1 
100 o Non-athletes 
the relative changes in the squat during - Strength training - 
strength training in non-athlete males ’ I I I I I I I 
0 4 8 12 16 20 24 I 
and male strength athletes. (Modified 
from Htikkinen et ol.1994a.) 
strength of initially untrained healthy subjects are 
rather easily obtained during progressive strength 
training. For example, increases as great as 10% can 
be obtained among these subjects after only 1 week 
of training provided that the training stimulus, especi- 
ally in terms of the loading intensity (Yo of 1 RM) is 
‘sufficient’. On the other hand, among strength 
athletes such as weightlifters, strength development 
may be restricted to as little as 2-5% over a 1-year 
training period. Figure 2.16 shows that individuals 
who had low initial levels of strength were able to 
increase their strength after 3 months of heavy 
resistance training to twice the degree of strength 
athletes who had 6 months of similar strength 
training. It is also well known that large interindi- 
vidual variations occur in strength development, 
especially during prolonged strength training. If 
subjects vary with respect to their pretraining status, 
it is no doubt difficult to compare the effects of 
different strength training regimens on maximal force 
development. 
Specificity of strength increase during isometric, 
concentric and eccentric strength training 
Isometric strength training 
Isometric strength training was very popular and 
extensively studied by scientists in the 1950s and 
1960s. Research concurred with the overload 
principle, that only an increase in the intensity of 
muscle activity beyond that previously demanded 
of a muscle can be used to increase strength during Weeks 
training. Maximal or near maximal contractions have 
been used in isometric strength training designed to 
increase muscular strength. The beneficial effect of 
isometric strength training is obtained when maximal 
contractions are used and when the product of 
contraction duration times the number of contractions 
per day is large. Most gains in isometric strength 
training are made within a few weeks of the start of 
training. Further increases in strength after that time 
require, for example, a change in the training regimen. 
It is reasonable to make adjustments to the duration 
of the training contractions as well as to the frequency 
of the repetitions and sessions to suit the needs of 
different muscles and athletes. Often isometrics can 
be specifically used to help develop certain angles 
in the range of movement which are limiting to the 
overall performance of the dynamic movement or 
are sports specific (e.g. wrestling grips) in nature 
(Fig. 2.17). They provide an additional ‘tool’ for 
sports-specific development of exercises. 
The specificity of effects of isometric strength 
training on the neuromuscular system deserves some 
attention. First, isometric training tends to produce 
strength gains specific to the joint angle trained. In 
order to effect strength gains throughout the range 
of motion, several joint angles need to be trained. 
Secondly, isometric strength training produces an 
increase in isometric strength and, to a lesser degree, 
in dynamic strength. Thirdly, in line with the 
principle of the specificity of the training, typical high 
tension isometric strength training has only minor 
effects on explosive force production of trained 
muscles. There are practical conditions when 

30 CHAPTER 2 
isometric strength training can be successfully 
utilized: for example, in various forms of rehabilit- 
ation as well as during immobilization. It can form 
a part of an overall strength training programme to 
bring additional training stimuli to strength devel- 
opment of various athletes (Fig. 2.18). Often it is used 
in the weight room as a form of ‘functional isometrics’ 
where isometric training is performed at the angle 
where there is a ‘sticking point’ in the range of 
motion for an exercise. Fig. 2.17 Isometric strength is a vital 
aspect of many sport performances 
such as wrestling where hand grips are 
important to many moves. Photo 0 
Allsport/D. Leah. 
Fig. 2.18 Isometric muscle actions are 
often used within the context of a 
dynamic event such as gymnastic 
routines. Photo 0 Allsport/M. Powell. 
Concentric strength training 
The basic principles of strength training (concentric 
strength training) of ‘heavy resistance and low 
repetition’ and/or ‘progressive resistance’ were intro- 
duced more than 50 years ago. It is difficult to make 
exact quantitative observations, but it appears that in 
line with the overload principle, muscle strength is 
increased most during concentric strength training 
by using heavy weights and few repetitions. The 


NEUROMUSCULAR PERFORMANCE 31 
ineffectiveness of light loads in increasing maximal 
force during concentric strength training cannot 
be avoided by increasing the amount of the total work. 
In the case of concentric ‘isokinetic’ strength training 
it is important to pay attention to the question of 
specificity of the training. Isokinetic strength training 
can be effective and useful, for example in rehabil- 
itation; however, it seems to produce an increase 
specific to isokinetic strength and to a lesser degree 
in the dynamic strength characteristics of trained 
muscles. This should be kept in mind, especially in 
strength training of athletes approaching and during 
the competition season. 
Eccentric strength training 
If the overload principle is strictly followed, it might 
imply that high-tension eccentric actions will result 
in the greatest increases in strength during training. 
Eccentric strength training has been investigated 
extensively since the end of the 1960s. The research 
findings indicate that training with heavy resistance 
eccentric exercises is no doubt effective in 
strengthening muscle but it might not be more 
effective than either isometric or concentric strength 
training. The role of training specificity is of 
importance in the case of eccentric training. Eccentric 
strength training may lead to increases specific to 
eccentric strength, while an increase in concentric 
strength takes place to a lesser degree. Although the 
most beneficial effects of eccentric strength training 
result from high loads (such as 120-130% of 1 RM), 
some caution must be exercised to avoid too simple 
generalizations of the overload principle (Fig. 2.19). 
High tension eccentric strength training is often 
associated with muscle soreness especially during 
the initial days and/or weeks of training. The initial 
training phases may therefore be linked with 
depressed strength. When the soreness is reduced 
and/or disappears, eccentric strength training leads 
to increased muscle strength. Severe muscle soreness 
can be reduced and/or avoided if the training loads 
in eccentric exercises are not are maximal during the 
initial phases of training but are increased gradually 
during the course of the training. Often, eccentric 
training can be used as a ‘change up’ or variation 
in a training stimulus to provide optimization of 
the programme. Fig. 2.19 Eccentric strength is important for many aspects 
of sports performance such as landing from a vault in 
gymnastics. Photo courtesy of Ball State University 
Photo Services. 
Comparisons between different contraction types 
used in strength training 
Finding the most beneficial strength training method 
is one of the targets of scientific research. However, 
research results on the effects of different strength 
training regimens on maximal force development 
have not been totally consistent and sometimes 
have even been contradictory. A part of this conflict 
results from the fact that it is easy to demonstrate 
improvements in muscular strength with various 
training methods in initially untrained subjects. 
Moreover, difficulty also exists in comparing results 
because of a lack of appropriate uniformity in 


32 CHAPTER 2 
experimental designs. The studies have differed with 
respect to length of training period, to loads used in 
each training regimen, to the number of muscle 
contractions used in the sets and/or in the sessions. 
Some conflicting results may be partly brought about 
by the specificity of strength training, because the type 
of muscle actions used in training and in testing may 
be interrelated. 
actions-isometric, concentric or eccentric-used in 
short-term strength training of a few weeks has been 
proven to be superior. This overall conclusion tends 
to apply also to other ‘subtypes’ of strength training, 
such as ‘isokinetic’ and/or variable resistance training. 
During the early weeks of a training period, increases 
in maximal force are not strictly related to the type of 
muscle contraction used, because strength is easily 
increased provided that the loading intensity exceeds 
normal requirements and the overall amount of 
training is ‘sufficient’. After a couple of months of 
strength training utilization, combinations of 
concentric and eccentric training actions may result in 
greater increases in strength than that of concentric 
exercise alone. It is reasonable to use mostly 
concentric training contractions and various 
combinations of concentric and eccentric (and/or 
isometric and/or isokinetic) contractions at a given 
time for additional training stimuli and to avoid a 
plateau in strength development. Because strength 
development appears to be very individual, there is 
also a need for tailored programmes and a proper 
periodization of strength training. This is true both 
for men and women. It can be concluded that no type of muscle 
Specificity of heavy resistance training on the 
forcevelocity and force-time curves 
Both scientific and practical attention should be 
paid to the specificity of strength training on force 
production characteristics of trained muscles. Typical 
heavy resistance training which utilizes high training 
loads with slow contraction velocities tends to lead to 
improvements primarily in maximal muscle force, i.e. 
in the high force portions of the force-velocity curve 
(Fig. 2.20). The influence of strength training becomes 
gradually less in the high velocity end of the 
force-velocity curve. However, improvements both in 
the force and velocity portions of the force-velocity 0 Before 
0 After 
Training load: 100% 
0 
0 10 20 30 40 
Force (kg) 
Fig. 2.20 The concentric force-velocity curve of the elbow 
flexors before and after strength training with high loads. 
(Modified from Ikai 1970.) 
curve take place simultaneously to some degree 
during strength training only in training conditions 
where high training loads are produced explosively 
with an exceptionally short duration. Because the 
effective time taken by muscles to contract in normal 
movements, and especially in sporting activities, is 
known to be very short, the phenomenon of the 
specificity of strength training should be paid 
considerable attention for planning proper strength 
training programmes for athletes of various sports 
events. 
The specificity of heavy resistance training on 
muscular performance is clearly demonstrable by 
specific shifts of the isometric force-time curves. The 
changes during strength training take place primarily 
in the high force portions of the curve, while the 
changes become gradually smaller in the very early 
parts of the force-time curve both in men (Fig. 2.21) 
and women. The small shifts during strength training 
in the early portions of the force-time curve tend to 
take place primarily during the initial few weeks of 
training. An observation which deserves further 
attention is that when strength training is continued 
intensively for several months, no improvements 
or even some periodic shifts backwards could be 
observed in the very early portions of the force-time 
curve. Reduction in explosive force production as 
early as after a couple of months of strength training 
may be great during eccentric strength training which 

NEUROMUSCULAR PERFORMANCE 33 
Heavy resistance 
5000 
l000,t J T Explosive 
strength training 
T T j5000 u 
5000 
0 After 12 weeks Time (rns) 2000 
1000 ::I!/ , c 
0 250 500 'I 
Time (ms) 3 
3000 d 
z v 
Fig. 2.21 Average force-time curves and maximal peak force of the isometric bilateral leg extension action in males before 
and after heavy resistance or explosive strength training periods. (Modified from Hakkinen et al. 1985a,b.) 
- Before training 
_____ After heavy resistance strength training --_ After explosive strength training 
T- 
.A- 
0 
E g~ Fig. 2.22 Vertical jumping heights in 
the drop jumps before and after heavy 
resistance or explosive strength 
training. CG, Centre of gravity. 
(Modified from Hakkinen 1994a.) 
utilizes high tension contractions of long duration. 
Although high tension eccentric strength training may 
be very beneficial for maximal force development, it 
should be utilized only periodically to avoid a 
possible reduction in explosive force production 
of trained muscles. These observations should be 
borne in mind when designing resistance training 
programmes for athletes. 
The specificity of heavy resistance strength training 
on neuromuscular performance can be demonstrated Dropping height (cm) 
most obviously in stretch-shortening cycle exercises, 
in which high contraction velocities are utilized. 
Neither short-term nor prolonged heavy resistance 
strength training result in marked changes in 
performance during drop jumps performed from 
dropping heights from 20 up to 100 cm (Fig. 2.22). 
This seems to be true with regard both to the tolerance 
and utilization of different stretch loads. This no 
doubt has practical relevance in strength training, 
especially among power athletes. 

34 CHAPTER 2 
T T 
b r 
Training load: 60% 
I t m 
Fig. 2.23 The concentric force-velocity 
curve of the elbow flexors before and 
after explosive strength training with a 
0 10 20 30 40 0 10 20 30 40 load of 30 or 60% of; RM. (Modified 
Force (kg) from Ikai 1970.) 
Power development then the training effect is primarily in velocity char- 
acteristics. This is true both for men and women. These 
observations have practical relevance for planning 
training programmes to match the need for maximal 
force and explosive force production among athletes. Specificity of power-type strength training on the 
force-velocity and force-time curves 
It has been shown that the effect of training on the 
shape of force-velocity curvgs is related to the training 
loads and velocities used. In power training, training 
loads are usually much lower (such as 30-60% of 1 RM) 
than in heavy resistance strength training but contrac- 
tion velocities are much higher. This type of strength 
training results in improvements in all portions of the 
force-velocity curve but changes in the high force por- 
tions of the curve are smaller than during heavy resist- 
ance strength training (Fig. 2.23). On the other hand, if 
the training is very close to the velocity end of curve, Power training also influences the force-time 
curve, so that the changes are relatively greater in the 
very early portion of the force-time curve than in the 
high force portion. Figure 2.21 demonstrates the con- 
cept of specificity on the shape of the force-time curve 
between heavy resistance and power training regimens. 
This specificity is similar in both sexes. Maximal 
force and explosive strength training regimens 
should be well spaced or even mixed and matched 
with the specific requirements of the sports event 
and with the individual athlete at a given time. 
Fig. 2.24 Ballistic, high-velocity lifting 
is needed to improve power 
development and transfer training 
effects to events such as sprinting 
where foot contact times are < 100 ms. 
Photo 0 Allsport/M. Hewitt. 


NEUROMUSCULAR PERFORMANCE 35 
Fig. 2.25 Proper training will assist in the development 
of sports-specific attributes needed for performance success. 
Photo 0 University Photo/Graphics, The Pennsylvania State 
University/D. Shelly. 
The role of muscle elasticity is important for 
explosive force production of muscles. It is a 
phenomenon characteristic of stretch-shortening 
cycle exercises. The influence of power training is 
pronounced during stretch-shortening cycle exercises 
in which very high contraction velocities are util- 
ized (Fig. 2.24). In drastic contrast to typical heavy 
resistance training, power training which includes 
various specific jumping exercises results in great 
increases in tolerance to and utilization of stretch 
loads both in men and women. This is true especially 
in previously untrained subjects who do not have this 
type of training background (Fig. 2.25). This type of 
power training is important for athletes of almost all sports events. However, careful attention should also 
be paid to the selection of proper stretch loads to 
optimize the benefits obtained from these type of 
stretches during training. 
The next chapter explores the basic concepts of 
designing a strength training workout. Understanding 
the programme variables is vital to making the 
training session sports specific. 
Recommended reading 
Gibala, M., MacDougall, J. & Sale, D. (1994) The effects of 
tapering on strength performance in trained athletes. 
International Journal of Sports Medicine 5,492-497. 
Htikkinen, K. (1993) Neuromuscular fatigue and recovery 
in male and female athletes during heavy resistance 
exercise. lnternational Journal of Sports Medicine 14, 
53-59. 
Hiikkinen, K. (1994a) Neuromuscular adaptation during 
strength training, ageing, detraining, and immobilization. 
Critical Reviews in Physical and Rehabilitation Medicine 
6,161-198. 
HWnen, K. (1994b) Neuromuscular fatigue in males 
and females during strenuous heavy resistance loading. 
Electromyography and Clinical Neurophysiology 34, 
205-214. 
HWnen, K. & Kallinen, M. (1994) Distribution of 
strength training volume into one or two daily sessions 
and neuromuscular adaptations in female athletes. 
Electromyography and Clinical Neurophysiology 34, 
11 7-124. 
Hakkinen, K. & Komi, P.V. (1983) Electromyographic 
changes during strength training and detraining. Medicine 
and Science in Sports and Exercise 15,455-460. 
isometric force and relaxation-time, electromyographic 
and muscle fibre characteristics of human skeletal muscle 
during strength training and detraining. Acta Physiologica 
Scandinavica 125,573-585. 
explosive type strength training on isometric force- and 
relaxation-time, electromyographic and muscle fibre 
characteristics of leg extensor muscles. Acta Physiologica 
Scandinavica 125,587-600. 
Hakkinen, K., Palcarinen, A., Alen, M., Kauhanen, H. & Komi, 
P.V. (1988) Neuromuscular and hormonal adaptations in 
elite athletes to strength training in two years. lournal of 
Applied Physiology 65,2406-2412. 
HWnen, K., Kallinen, M., Komi, P.V. & Kauhanen, H. 
(1991) Neuromuscular adaptations during short term 
‘normal’ and reduced training periods in strength athletes. 
Electromyography and Clinical Neurophysiology 31, 
35-42. HWnen, K., Alen, M. & Komi, P.V. (1985a) Changes in 
Hakkinen, K., Komi, P.V. & Alen, M. (1985b) Effect of 


36 CHAPTER 2 
Ikai, M. (1970) Training of muscle strength and power in 
athletes. Presentation at the FIMS Congress, Oxford. 
Komi, P.V. (1986) Training of muscle strength and power: 
interaction of neuromotoric, hypertrophic and mechanical 
factors. International Journal of Sports Medicine 7 
Komi, P.V., Suominen, H., Heikkinen, E., Karlsson, J. & (SUP$.), 10-15. 
Tesch, P. (1982) Effects of heavy resistance and explosive- 
type strength training methods on mechanical, functional, 
and metabolic aspects of performance. In: Exercise and 
SportBiology(eds P.V. Komi, R. Nelson & C. Morehouse), 
pp. 90-102. Human Kinetics, Champaign, IL. 
Kraemer, W.J.,Gordon, S.E., Fleck, S.J. et al. (1991) 
Endogenous anabolic hormonal and growth factor 
responses to heavy resistance exercise in males and 
females. International Journal of Sports Medicine 12, 
228-2 35. 
Kraemer, W.J., Fleck, S. &Evans, W.J. (1996) Strength 
and power training: physiological mechanisms of 
adaptation. In: Exercise and Sport Sciences Reviews, 
Vol. 24 (ed. J.O. Holloszy), pp. 363-397. Williams & 
Wilkins, Philadelphia, PA. 
Kraemer, WJ., Staron, R., Hagerman, F. et al. (1998) The 
effects of short-term resistance training on endocrine 
function in men and women. European Journal of Applied 
Physiolo~ 78,69-76. Kyrolainen, H., Komi, P.V., Hiikkinen, K. & Kim, D.H. 
(1988) Effects of power-training with stretch-shortening 
cycle (SSC) exercises of upper limbs in females. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research 12, 
248-252. 
Linnamo, V., Hiikkinen, K. & Komi, P.V. (1998) Neuromuscu- 
lar fatigue and recovery in maximal compared to explosive 
strength loading. European Journal of Applied Physiology 
77,176-181. 
MacDougall, J. (1991) Hypertrophy or hyperplasia. In: 
Strength and Power in Sport: the Encyclopaedia of Sports 
Medicine (ed. P.V. Komi), pp. 230-238. Blackwell 
Scientific Publications, Oxford. 
versus hypertrophy in the time course of muscle 
strength gain. American Journal of Physical Medicine 
Narici, M., Roi, G., Landoni, L., Minetti, A. & Ceretelli, P. 
(1989) Changes in force, cross-sectional area and neural 
activation during strength training and detraining of 
the human quadriceps. European Journal of Applied 
Physiology 59,3 10-31 9. 
Sale, D.G. (1991) Neural adaptation to strength training. 
In: Strength and Power in Sport: the Encyclopaedia of 
Sports Medicine (ed. P.V. Komi), pp, 249-265. Blackwell 
Scientific Publications, Oxford. Moritani, T. & deVries, H.A. (1979) Neural factors 
58,115-130. 

Chapter 3 
Developing a strength training 
workout 
Individualizing a strength training programme 
Sport conditioning programmes should optimally be 
individualized because the limits of performance are 
highly variable even for athletes within the same 
sport. This will promote optimal training adapta- 
tions. Individual differences in the magnitude of an 
adaptational response to a given exercise stimulus 
support the need for the use of individualized pro- 
grammes. For example, if a whole team performs 
the same weight programme for the sport the 
percentage gains in 1-RM strength, power andlor 
performance will differ among individual athletes 
as not all athletes will bring the same physiological 
training status or needs to the conditioning pro- 
gramme. Thus, general programmes written for 
a sport should be viewed only as a ‘starting point’ 
for an individual athlete. The example programmes 
given in this handbook are such starting points and 
try to reflect the various conceptual perspectives in 
designing a programme for a specific sport. It is then 
left up to the coachltrainer to individualize the 
programme to meet the specific needs of the athlete. 
Ultimately, the concepts of ‘specificity’, ‘progressive 
overload’ and ‘variation’ (periodization) in training 
become fundamental to the development of a 
successful team and/or individualized training 
programmes. 
The key to optimal programme design is the 
identification of specific variables which need to 
be controlled in order to better predict the training 
outcomes from the exercise stimulus that is created. 
The most challenging aspect of resistance training 
exercise prescription is making decisions related to 
the development and changes of an individual’s train- 
ing programme. The challenge is to make appropriate 
changes in the resistance training programme as sport fitness improves and the specific needs and 
requirements become more obvious. This requires a 
system of evaluation of each training goal. This means 
that sound coaching decisions must be made based 
upon factual understanding of resistance training, the 
needs of the sport, individual training responses and 
testing data. Therefore, planning and changing the 
exercise prescription is vital for the success of any 
resistance training programme. An understanding 
of resistance training exercise prescription allows 
for better quantification of the exercise stimulus. 
Planning ranges from the development of a single 
training session to the variation of the programme 
over time. The ability to better quantify the workout 
and evaluate the progress made toward a specific 
training goal are the basic hallmarks of solid pro- 
gramme design which lead to optimal physical 
development. Resistance training programmes have 
for many years been a source of mystery. Too often 
athletes just try to copy what the ‘champion’ does 
but this can be a formula for failure if the actual 
requirements of the athlete do not match the pro- 
gramme used. Training goals are related to the specific 
types of adaptations needed, which in turn drive the 
performance outcomes. Thus, the best programme is 
designed to meet the needs and goals of a specific 
athlete within the context of the sport (Fig. 3.1). 
The concept of a ‘window of adaptation’ means 
that at the start of training the potential for change in 
a specific variable (e.g. 1 RM in the bench press) can 
be great. The window of adaptation should be small 
at the end of an effective training programme. It may 
also be small at the start of the training programme 
if the athlete has already developed a high level of 
fitness in a particular variable from prior training. 
Here is where careful decisions have to be made 
with regard to the ‘prioritization’ of training. Do you 
maintain load intensity or put in the vast amount of 
work necessary to increase it to enhance an already 
high level training variable, or do you maintain 
the sport fitness level while prioritizing other 
performance variables? The answer is both difficult 
and complex as one does not have an endless amount 
of time to train and overtraining must be avoided. 
If the performance is directly related to the training 
variable (e.g. vertical jump for a high jumper) then 
focused attention must be paid to this variable at all 
times. The question often arises as to whether other 
37 

38 CHAPTER 3 
Fig. 3.1 Training programmes should reflect the needs of the 
sport but also the individual needs of the athlete in order to 
optimize performance. Photo 0 Allsport/S. Botterill. Fig. 3.2 The quality of training in today’s conditioning 
programmes is vital for sports performance success. 
Photo 0 Allsport. 
types of training can enhance or augment the 
resistance training programme (e.g. plyometrics plus 
resistance training for the high jumper) as this would 
reduce the amount of time spent on one particular 
exercise protocol (e.g. hang cleans for the high 
jumper). Thus, training priorities must be made for 
each athlete’s resistance training programme. 
In addition, training expectations must be kept 
in perspective. Gains will be made relative to an 
individual’s potential for adaptation and fitness level. 
In the case of an elite athlete, one-quarter of a pedal 
revolution, a small gain of a few tenths of a second, 
1 or 2 cm or 1 or 2 kg in performance may be the 
difference between 25th place and the gold medal. Thus, the level of fitness remains specific to the 
amount of ‘carry-over’ the training has to the sport 
performance. Some very small gains can take 
tremendous effort and large amounts of time to 
achieve in the weight room because of the high 
starting level of fitness already achieved. Such 
commitment of effort and time needs to translate 
to improved performance, or training time is not 
being used efficiently. 
In today’s training programmes it is becoming obvi- 
ous that the ‘quality of training’ is vital to the success 
of many strength and conditioning programmes 
(Fig. 3.2). Quality relates specifically to the exercise 
stimulus needed to make improvement in a particular 


DEVELOPING A STRENGTH TRAINING WORKOUT 39 
trainable feature of the neuromuscular system that is 
related to performance. 
In highly trained athletes the gains made may be 
quite small or difficult to measure over short training 
periods (e.g. 8-12 weeks). In a study examining 
previously strength trained athletes who had a choice 
between different frequencies of training per week 
over a 10-week off-season conditioning programme, 
the groups that chose 3 and 6 days a week made no 
gains in 1-RM bench press. It can be speculated that 
the 3 days a week programme was not a sufficient 
stimulus to elicit significant strength increases in 
already conditioned American football players who 
had participated in an intensive in-season heavy 
resistance training programme. The lack of changes 
in bench press 1-RM strength for players using a 
6 days a week programme may have been caused 
by an overtraining syndrome, while squat 1 RM 
improved for all groups except the 3 days a week 
group. Such data indicate that the length of the 
training programme, the fitness level of the athlete in 
a particular lift or performance task, and the frequency 
of training and the volume of the training session can 
all influence the training adaptations. The expectation 
of continual gains in strength in the same exercise (e.g. 
bench press) by some athletes, such as shot putters, 
may be unrealistic as long-term plateaux can result. 
Nevertheless, if the exercise has direct carry-over to the event or sport activity continual inclusion 
of the exercise in the programme may be vital for 
maintaining the high level edge in competition. In 
addition, supplementary exercises (e.g. plyometrics) 
or exercise movements may also have a vital role in 
augmenting the primary exercise’s effectiveness and 
progress (Fig. 3.3). 
Each programme must be designed to meet the 
individual athlete’s needs and training goals. It is 
especially important that the individual athlete’s 
fitness level be evaluated and understood by the 
athlete, trainer and/or coach. One of the most serious 
mistakes made in designing a workout is placing too 
much stress on the athlete before it can be tolerated. 
A coach or trainer must be sensitive to an individual’s 
starting fitness level and ability to tolerate the exercise 
stress. Successful recovery is a very important factor 
in optimal training for athletes. This implicates the 
many choices of acute programme variables in 
designing a resistance training programme that allows 
for adequate recovery. The major response to this 
challenge has been in the use of periodized training 
programmes which carefully prioritize the training 
goals over time (Fig. 3.4). 
When designing training programmes for a sports 
team, it is common to distribute a programme 
for all of the team members to perform (e.g. a soccer 
programme) but generalized programmes will not 
Fig. 3.3 Stretch-shortening cycle 
training (plyometrics) can be an 
supplementary conditioning modality 
to augment training results in many 
sports, such as downhill skiing. Photo 
0 Allsport/C. Brunskill. 


40 CHAPTER 3 
produce the same results in all individuals. Thus, 
a general programme written for a particular sport 
should be viewed as a ‘starting point’ for each indi- 
vidual. Changes and programme progression should 
be based upon the needs of each athlete. Additions or 
deletions to a general programme are often needed to 
address individual goals for an athlete’s development 
that are not addressed in the general programme. 
With the greater use of computer monitoring systems, 
the possibility of improved individual monitoring 
for large groups of athletes and programme feedback 
for achieving individualized resistance training 
programmes continues to improve and becomes 
easier to implement. 
Exercise prescription 
Resistance training exercise prescription has for a long 
time been more of a ‘coaching art’ than a pure science. 
However, the science of conditioning can have a vital 
role in the whole process. With increasing technology 
the feedback to the athlete, trainer and coach is greater 
than ever before. Use of training technologies in the 
weight room, which provide more and more feedback 
and information, will be the trend for the 21st century. 
Computer integration even with the barbell will make 
the process of evaluating and creating the exercise 
stimulus even more sophisticated and require coaches 
and trainers to view the profession of strength and Fig. 3.4 General programmes for team 
sports can only act as a starting point 
for training as individualization must 
be used to optimize the training 
outcomes for each athlete. 
Photo 0 Allsport/J. Jacobsohn. 
conditioning from a completely different perspect- 
ive. The trainer or coach must make programme 
decisions based upon sound scientific rationale, yet 
every decision requires good coaching judgements. 
Therefore the prescription of any exercise requires 
a solid understanding of the underlying scientific 
principles involved. It also depends upon the 
ability to distinguish clearly between approaches 
to conditioning based on sound factual principles 
and scientific investigation vs. unfounded anecdotal 
opinion or pseudoscientific information which 
plagues the information age (e.g. internet sites). 
Soundly based knowledge will assist in the devel- 
opment of better resistance training programmes 
and a logical development of successive training 
sessions. New training technologies will also 
influence the process by giving the coach more 
feedback on the important qualities of the workout 
(see Chapter 2) with new equipment that will be able 
to quantify the training stimulus better and provide 
computer feedback on training session performances 
(Fig. 3.5). 
The developmental process of programme design 
is discussed in this chapter. There is a need to address 
the basic questions involved in the manipulation 
of training variables. The specific combination of 
choices made for each training variable will determine 
the type of exercise stimulus presented to the body 
and the adaptations which mediate these changes. 


DEVELOPING A STRENGTH TRAINING WORKOUT 41 
Fig. 3.5 The Ballistic System is an example of the 
application of the latest technology to strength training. 
A codputer constantly monitors movement of the barbell 
using a linear transducer (A) providing feedback of force, 
velocity and power during the athlete’s performance. An 
electronic brake (B) can be used to limit the impact forces 
and eccentric load on the athlete or to modify the concentric 
resistance profile. 
The major resistance training programme design 
components are: 
needs analysis; 
acute programme variables; 
chronic programme manipulations: and 
administrative concerns. 
in the context of designing resistance training 
programmes. Each of these components will be discussed below Needs analysis 
Aneeds analysis consists of answering some initial 
questions which affect the other three programme 
design components. It is important that time be taken 
to examine these questions. The major questions in a 
needs analysis are the following. 
1 What muscle groups need to be trained? What 
exercises are used for these muscle groups? 
2 What are the basic energy sources (e.g. anaerobic, 
aerobic) which need to be trained? 
3 What type of muscle action (e.g. isometric, eccentric 
actions) should be used? 
4 What are the primary sites of injury for the particu- 
lar sport or prior injury history of the athlete? 
Biomechanical analyses to determine what 
muscles need to be trained 
The first question requires an examination of the 
muscles and the specific joint angles designated to 
be trained. For any activity, including sports, this 
involves a basic analysis of the movements performed 
and the most common sites of injury. With the proper 
equipment and a background in basic biomechanics, a 
more definitive approach to this question is possible. 
With the use of a slow-motion videotape, the coach 
can better evaluate specific aspects of movements and 
can conduct a qualitative analysis of the muscles, 
angles, velocities and forces involved. The decisions 
made at this stage help define one of the acute pro- 
gramme variables-choice of exercise. Although a 
complete analysis would be beyond the typical field 
situation, recording of electomyographic (EMG) 
activity to determine the muscles involved in a sport 
activity would be of help. This might be accomplished 
by carefully studying the biomechanical literature on 
various sports and conditioning activities. 
As has been pointed out in prior sections of this 
book, specificity is a major tenet in resistance training 
and is based on the concept that the exercises and 
resistances used result in training adaptations which 
will transfer to better performance in sport or daily 
activity. Resistance training is used as it is often dif- 
ficult if not impossible to overload sport movements 
without risk of injury or dramatically altering sport 
skill technique. Speciikity assumes that muscles must 
be trained similar to the sport or activity in terms of: 


42 CHAPTER 3 
the joint around which movement occurs; 
the joint range of motion; 
the pattern of resistance throughout the range of 
motion; 
the pattern of limb velocity throughout the range of 
motion: and 
types of limb movement (e.g. concentric, eccentric, 
isometric or stretch-shortening cycle). 
Resistance training for any sport or activity should 
include a full range of motion exercises around all the 
major body joints. However, training designed for 
specific sports or activity movements should also be 
included in the workout to maximize the contribution 
of strength training to performance. The best way to 
select such exercises is to analyse biomechanically, in 
quantitative terms, the sport or physical activity and 
match it to exercises according to the above variables. 
Few such analyses of sports or activities have been 
performed to date, yet biomechanical principles 
can be used in a qualitative manner by an interested 
athlete or coach to select exercises intelligently. EMG 
of the agonist and antagonist muscles to determine 
muscle activation in a sport skill would also provide 
additional information, if the laboratory capability 
is available. By viewing slow-motion video tapes 
one can also determine some basic biomechanical 
information about the sport activity. 
1 View a video tape of a sporting performance or 
activity. 
2 Select a movement which appears to involve high- 
intensity physical exertion critical to the performance 
(e.g. the drive portion of a sprint stride: the push- 
off in a high jump: the arm swing in a volleyball 
spike). 
3 Identify the body joints around which the most 
intense muscular actions occur. 
4 Determine whether the movement is concentric, 
isometric or eccentric. 
5 For each joint identified above, determine the range 
of angular motion. 
6 Try to determine the range of motion around each 
body joint of interest. 
7 Estimate the velocity of movement in the early, 
middle and late phases in the range of motion. 
8 Select exercises to match the limb ranges of motion 
and angular velocities, making sure that the exercises 
are appropriately concentric, isometric, eccentric or 
stretch-shortening cycle. 9 Make the exercise the most difficult at the point in 
the range of motion where intensity during the target 
activity is greatest. 
with appropriate resistance exercises in the weight 
room that train the specific muscles and joint angles 
involved. The resulting programme should have 
all of the elements of the sports biomechanics 
included. 
Each exercise and resistance used in a programme 
will have various amounts of transfer to another 
activity or sport. The concept of ‘transfer specificity’ 
is unclear to many coaches and trainers. Every 
training activity has a percentage of carry-over to 
other activities. Except for practising the specific 
task or sport itself, no conditioning activity has 100% 
carry-over. However, some activities have a higher 
percentage carry-over than others because of sim- 
ilarities in neuromuscular recruitment patterns, 
energy systems and biomechanical characteristics. Yet 
most of the time, one cannot use the sport or activity 
to gain the necessary ‘overload’ on the neuromuscular 
system, and this is why resistance training is used in 
the conditioning process. A misleading concept used 
by some coaches has been that one just needs to get 
stronger and only address the ‘strength’ aspect of 
muscular performance. This is false as one needs to 
train the characteristics of muscle which most impact 
on performance, and 1-RM strength is only one of 
several trainable variables (e.g. power, rate of force 
production, local muscular endurance) in muscular 
performance. Each of these variables is unique and 
interacts to produce different training effects over 
time. 
to address enhancement of sports performance. 
Prioritization involves carefully deciding which 
feature of neuromuscular performance will be focused 
upon during a training cycle. It has been shown that it 
is difficult to develop all features of muscle to the 
same extent at the same time. Therefore, periodized 
training programmes will prioritize specific features 
(e.g. power) and use specialized workouts to address 
specific variables. The optimal training programme 
maximizes carry-over to the sport or sport skill being 
trained for and therefore understanding what the 
critical factors are in sporting performance is vital to 
programme success. Ideally, this analysis should be followed up 
Prioritization of training programme goals is vital 

DEVELOPING A STRENGTH TRAINING WORKOUT 43 
Determining the energy sources used in 
the activity 
Every sport or activity uses a percentage of all three 
energy sources. This energy demand can be stable, at 
a steady state of muscle activation, but in most sports 
this energy demand is dynamic with the percentage 
contribution of each of the energy sources varying 
as the competition continues and the body tries to 
meet the neuromuscular demands of the motor unit 
recruitment. The energy sources to be trained have a 
major impact on the programme design (e.g. does the 
athlete need repetitive high intensity endurance or 
is it just one maximal effort?). Resistance training is 
usually more appropriate for anaerobic energy sources 
(adenosine triphosphate-phosphocreatine (ATP-PC) 
and lactic acid sources) than it is for aerobic metabol- 
ism. Typically, the length of the activity gives the first 
clue as to where the major energy contribution comes 
from. Activities that range from 1 to 10 s have a high 
contribution coming from the ATP-PC energy system. 
As the duration of the activity continues, energy 
sources are derived more and more from both 
glycolytic (lactic acid system) and aerobic energy 
sources. When high lactate concentrations are 
observed it is usually because there is enough 
recovery or contribution from the aerobic energy 
sources to allow the activity to continue and lactate 
to accumulate, as in freestyle wrestling where one 
match can result in lactate concentrations of over 
20 mmol.l-’. The contribution of the aerobic energy 
system with such interval-type high-intensity training 
or competition can be as great as 40 or 50%. The type 
of energy metabolism used in the sport will dictate 
in part what the resistance training programme will 
need to address. As in the case of freestyle wrestling, 
development of muscular endurance along with the 
necessary power under conditions of fatigue (high 
lactate concentrations with associated disruptions 
of the acid-base balance in the body) will implicate 
a programme design that is far from just a pure 
strength/power programme. 
Selecting a resistance modality 
Decisions regarding the use of isometric, dynamic 
concentric, dynamic eccentric, stretch-shortening 
cycle and isokinetic modalities of exercise are important in the preliminary stages of planning a 
resistance training programme for sports performance. 
The basic biomechanical analysis described above is 
used to decide what muscles to train and to identify 
the type of muscle action involved in the activity. 
Most resistance training programmes use several 
types of muscle actions. One factor that separates 
elite power lifters from less competitive power lifters 
is the rate at which the load is lowered in the squat 
and bench press. Elite power lifters lower the weight 
at a slower rate than less competitive lifters even 
though the former use greater resistances. In this 
case, some eccentric training may be advantageous for 
competitive power lifters. As another example, many 
holds in wrestling involve isometric muscle actions 
of various muscle groups. Therefore, inclusion of 
isometric training for some movements (e.g. hand 
locks) will help in the conditioning of wrestlers for 
improved performance (Fig. 3.6). 
Injury prevention exercises 
It is also important to determine the primary sites 
of injury in a sport and understand the prior injury 
profile of the individual. The prescription of resist- 
ance training exercises will be directed at enhancing 
the strength and function of tissue so that it resists in- 
jury better, recovers faster when injured and reduces 
the extent of damage related to an injury. The term 
‘prehabilitation’ (the opposite to rehabilitation) has 
become popular in many sports. This term refers to 
the prevention of initial injury by training the joints 
and muscles that are most susceptible to injury in a 
sport. The prevention of re-injury is also an important 
goal of a resistance training programme. Thus, under- 
standing the sport’s or activity’s typical injury profile 
(e.g. shoulders in diving, back and ankles in tennis) 
and the individual’s prior history of injury can help 
in properly designing a resistance training programme 
(Fig. 3.7). 
Programme design 
After the needs analysis has been completed a specific 
training programme is designed which addresses the 
exact needs of the athlete. Acute programme variables 
concern the designing of one specific training session. 
Chronic programme manipulations (periodization) 

44 CHAPTER 3 
Fig. 3.6 While often forgotten in 
many modern training programmes, 
isometric muscle actions need to be 
included in many sports-specific 
programmes, such as wrestling. 
Photo 0 Allsport/G.M. Prior. 
concern the changes made in the acute programme 
variables over time. Changes in the acute programme 
variables will help to prioritize and develop a strategy 
for the progression plan for an entire training period. 
Periods of training are planned over many months 
or several years and have made ‘periodization’ of 
training a vital feature in the manipulation of acute 
programme variables in chronic programme design 
(Fig. 3.8). 
Acute programme variables of a single 
training session 
The acute programme variables describe all possible 
single training sessions. By carefully examining each 
of the variables in detail and making decisions about 
them, a training session is designed. From a single 
training session developed for the athlete at one point 
in time, the training history starts. Training sessions 
are created which meet the progressive needs and 
goals of the athlete as he or she moves into the 
longitudinal progression of a periodized training 
programme. 
be created by manipulating the acute programme An almost infinite number of workout protocols can 
Fig. 3.7 (left) Resistance training is very important to prevent 
injuries in sports. Photo 0 Allsport/A. Bello. 


DEVELOPING A STRENGTH TRAINING WORKOUT 45 
Fig. 3.8 Proper technique and spotting 
are vital to optimal training effects and 
safety. 
variables. This is very positive as it gives the coach 
a very powerful set of training tools to work with in 
the development of the athlete. In the same way as a 
carpenter with a tool-box filled with different tools to 
perform very specific jobs when building or fixing a 
structure, so the strength and conditioning coach has 
a very powerful set of ‘tools’ available to build and 
develop the athlete. The training session is specific 
to the choices made regarding each variable. The 
following are the major programme variables which 
must be carefully examined and addressed in every 
resistance training session. If not directly accounted 
for, the impact of any of one or combination of these 
variables can result in a random or confounding 
effects on the desired exercise stimuli being created by 
the programme. Random effects of training variables 
not accounted for (e.g. exercise order) in programme 
design may reduce the predictability of the ultimate 
training adaptations desired. 
There are many different weight training systems 
that have been used over the years to develop strength 
(e.g. pyramid system, heavy light system, super 
pump system). Popular magazines also feature many 
different workouts for various purposes. What 
contributes to such a single workout design and 
how might it affect the acute physiological stimulus 
presented to the body? In other words, what factors 
describe each of these systems? This remained unclear 
until, in 1983, Kraemer analysed weight training systems and developed an analytical set of variable 
domains which comprise the major factors in each 
cluster of variables. They were called the acute pro- 
gramme variables and this allowed the systematic 
study of certain variables beyond the ‘resistance load’ 
of the exercise while expanding the view of the single 
workout and its potential for physiological influence 
on the body’s adaptations. The acute programme 
variables which describe a single workout session 
of are as follow. 
Choice of exercise 
This variable has within it a host of different decisions 
which must be made, from the type of weight training 
equipment to the type of muscle action used in the 
workout. With the movement of the human body 
being so diverse, the number of possible angles and 
exercises are almost as limitless as the body’s func- 
tional movements. A change in angle affects what 
muscle tissue is activated. Using magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI) or EMG recording technologies, it has 
been shown that changes in the type of resistance 
exercise used change the activation pattern of the 
muscle. Muscle tissue which is not activated (e.g. 
no tension development in the muscle fibre with no 
recruitment of the associated motor unit) will not 
directly benefit from the resistance exercise. Studies 
have demonstrated that musculature that is not 


46 CHAPTER 3 
trained will not exhibit any of the adaptation or 
performance benefits of trained muscles. Exercises 
should be selected which stress the muscles and joint 
angles designated by the needs analysis. Exercises 
can be arbitrarily designated as primary exercises 
and assistance exercises. Primary exercises are the 
exercises which train the agonists in a particular 
movement. They are typically major muscle group 
exercises (squat, bench press, hang pulls). Assistance 
exercises are exercises which train smaller muscle 
groups and help to support and stabilize the move- 
ment produced by the agonists (tricep press, lateral 
pull down, bicep curls). As discussed earlier, 
typically there is a reduction in the coactivation of the 
antagonists to allow more efficient movement by the 
agonist muscles. 
Exercises can also be classified as structural 
(multijoint) or body part (isolated joint). Structural 
exercises include those whole body lifts which 
require the coordinated action of many muscle 
groups and coordination of joint movements (e.g. 
close kinetic chain exercises). Power cleans, power 
snatches, deadlifts, lunges and squats are good 
examples of structural whole body exercises which 
require this type of intermusuclar communication 
and coordination of force production (Fig. 3.9). 
Exercises can also be classified as multiple joint 
exercises-exercises which use more than one joint 
to perform-or single joint exercises. For example, the 
bench press which involves movement of both the 
elbow and shoulder joints is a multijoint exercise, A 
bicep curl is a good example of a single joint exercise. 
Many primary or core exercises can also be structural 
exercises in nature. 
Exercises which try to isolate a particular muscle 
group are considered to be body part, isolated joint, 
or single joint exercises. Bicep curls, sit ups, knee 
extensions and knee curls are examples of isolated 
single joint or body part exercises. Most assistance 
exercises could also be classified as body part or 
single joint exercises. 
Structural or multijoint exercises require neural 
communication between muscles and promote coor- 
dinated use of multijoint movements. It is especially 
important to include structural and multiple joint 
exercises in a programme when whole body strength 
movements are required for a particular activity. 
Volleyball, basketball, wrestling, soccer, weightlifting Fig. 3.9 Lunges are one example of an important structural 
exercise needed for unilateral strength and power 
development. Photo 0 University Photo/Graphics, The 
Pennsylvania State University/D. Shelly. 
and track and field are such sports. In these sports 
whole body strengthlpower movements are the basis 
of success in spiking, tackling, kicking, jumping, per- 
forming takedowns and throwing. Often, structural 
exercises involve advanced lifting techniques (e.g. 
power cleans, power snatches) which require addi- 
tional coaching beyond simple movement patterns. 
Trainers and coaches should have the experience and 
ability to teach these lifts before including them in a 
training programme. The time economy achieved with 
structural and multiple joint exercises is an important 
consideration for an athlete or team with a limited 
amount of time per training session (e.g. in-season 
programmes). 


DEVELOPING A STRENGTH TRAINING WORKOUT 47 
Order of exercise 
For many years the order of exercise in resistance 
training programmes consisted of performing large 
muscle group exercises prior to exercising the smaller 
muscle groups. It has been shown that by exercising 
the larger muscle groups ht, a greater intensity or 
more effective training stimulus can be presented 
to all of the muscles involved in an exercise. This 
concept was realized by using the order of performing 
structural or multijoint exercises first in the workout 
followed by smaller single joint exercises (e.g. 
hamstring or bicep curls). In addition, one might 
also want to perform the more complex multijoint 
exercises (e.g. power cleans) first in order to enhance 
learning and technique mastery. The rationale to this 
order of exercise is that exercises performed in the 
beginning of the workout are the ones which require 
the greatest amount of muscle mass to perform or, in 
the case of complex exercises, take the longest time 
to learn. Thus, these order profiles focus on gaining 
a greater training effect for the large muscle groups 
and/or performing the exercises with greater precision 
and optimal technique. This can be achieved more 
effectively before fatigue sets in. 
possible and may have their own rationale and 
support for their use. When an athlete is faced with 
performing maximal whole body power moves under 
conditions of great fatigue (e.g. freestyle wrestling in 
the last minute), one may find support for placing 
power cleans at the end of a workout. This would 
help to enhance and evaluate power production under 
conditions of fatigue similar to the sport’s metabolic 
environment late in a match. Pre-exhaustion methods 
use this method and reverse the order of the exercises 
so that the small muscle groups are exercised prior to 
the larger muscle groups, thereby creating fatigue in 
many of the same muscles needed to perform the 
whole body exercise movement. This typically results 
in a lower amount of weight that can be used in the 
large muscle group exercise. An example is perform- 
ing knee extension and flexion exercises followed by 
squats. Another method of pre-exhaustion involves 
fatiguing synergistic or stabilizing muscles before 
performing the primary exercise movement. An 
example of this concept is performing lateral pull 
downs or military presses prior to performing the Different exercise orders to the above are obviously bench press exercise. Data do exist to indicate that 
fatigue may stimulate strength development as it has 
been shown that continuous repetition resulted in 
greater strength gains than when rest was taken 
between repetitions. Thus, accumulation or fatigue 
may be a physiological signal. How this is related to 
pre-exhaustion techniques remains unclear. The 
advantages and disadvantages of pre-exhaustion 
exercise orders in optimizing strength and power 
gains remains highly speculative but may be of great 
help in developing functional strength and power 
under conditions of high levels of fatigue similar 
to a sport (e.g. wrestling, 400-m sprint in swimming) 
(Fig. 3.10). 
Fig. 3.10 Many athletic events must develop the ability for 
powerful muscle actions under conditions of fatigue. Photo 
0 Allsport/G. Mortimore. 


48 CHAPTER 3 
The priority system has also been used extensively 
in resistance training. When using the priority system, 
the training session for the day will focus on one or 
two particular exercises. A training session can have 
each exercise in the workout listed in order. The 
priority system will help one to focus on the specific 
goals for each training session and eliminate excessive 
fatigue during the performance of a particular exercise 
if it is prioritized to be first in the training session. 
A corollary to the priority system is that power type 
exercises (e.g. power cleans, plyometrics) should be 
performed early in a session. This allows the athlete 
to develop and train maximal power prior to 
becoming fatigued. This would limit the development 
of maximal power. However, in some instances, 
power type exercises may be performed later in 
the session, as discussed above, to help develop 
the ability to produce high levels of force under 
conditions of fatigue. For example, in basketball it 
is important not only to have a high vertical jump, 
but also to be able to jump maximally during the 
final minutes of a game when an athlete may be very 
fatigued. Here again, one might see the rationale 
to have some training sessions where the power 
exercises are performed later in the session in order 
to evaluate and develop maximal power under 
conditions of sport fatigue (e.g. vertical jump ability 
in a fatigued state). Extreme care must be given to 
proper exercise techniques and spotting when such 
an order is used in a training session as fatigue 
typically leads to poor technique. 
ing exercises which are being taught or practiced- 
especially complex movements-in the beginning 
of the exercise order. For example, if an athlete was 
learning how to perform power cleans, this exercise 
would be placed in the beginning of the workout so 
motor skill performance and learning would not be 
inhibited by fatigue or loss of concentration. 
The ordering of exercises also involves the orders 
used in various types of circuit weight training 
protocols. The question of whether one follows a leg 
exercise with another leg exercise, or whether it is 
appropriate to proceed to another muscle group have 
to be addressed. The concept of pre-exhaustion can 
come into play here too. Arm-to-leg ordering allows 
for some recovery of the arm muscles while the leg 
muscles are exercised. This is the most common order Another consideration in the exercise order is plac- used in designing circuit weight training programmes. 
Athletes who are just starting to utilize a resistance 
training programme in some sports (e.g. tennis, base- 
ball, softball) are many times less tolerant of pre- 
exhaustion and arm-to-arm and leg-to-leg exercise 
orders or stacking exercises for a particular muscle 
group because of high blood lactate concentrations 
(10-14 mrnol.1-l) especially when rest periods 
between exercises are short (10-60 s). This is espe- 
cially true when the circuit training programme 
does not match the metabolic profile of the sport 
(e.g. baseball vs. low rest circuit). Stacking exercises 
is a common practice among athletes who require 
this type of muscular endurance under conditions 
of fatigue. 
One final consideration for exercise order is the 
fitness level of the individual. Training sessions 
should never be designed which are too stressful for 
the individual, especially an athlete just starting to 
use resistance training as a supplementary training 
programme for his or her sport. The exercise order 
can have a significant impact on the training stimulus 
stress level in a training session. 
Number of sets 
Not every exercise in a workout needs to have the 
same number of sets performed. The number of sets 
used in a workout is directly related to the training 
goals of the joint or musculature being trained. The 
number of sets are part of a volume calculation in 
strength training. Typically, 3-6 sets are used for an 
exercise to achieve the optimal adaptations, especially 
in athletes. It has been suggested that multiple set 
systems work best for development of strength, power, 
size and local muscular endurance, and the gains 
made will be at a faster rate than gains achieved 
through single set systems. To date no single set 
system has ever been shown to be superior to a 
multiple set programme. The importance of resist- 
ance exercise volume (sets x repetitions) for strength, 
local muscular endurance, and especially muscle 
size gains during the early phases of a programme, 
have been demonstrated over long-term training 
programmes (> 3 months). Thus, when time demands 
are of major concern to the trainer or coach, reducing 
the volume of exercise to one may not be the most 
effective strategy. Furthermore, when training some 

DEVELOPING A STRENGTH TRAINING WORKOUT 49 
characteristics of muscle performance such as power, 
low repetition sets (1-3) are needed for optimal qual- 
ity. Therefore this type of training needs a multiple 
set presentation to expose the body to an adequate 
volume of exercise in a training session. 
The use of a single set of an exercise is effective for 
individuals who are just starting a resistance training 
programme (e.g. just starting an exercise programme). 
One set programmes, more accurately called low- 
volume programmes, might also be used as a short- 
term maintenance programme or as a low-volume 
recovery phase in a periodized strength training 
programme. Again this can be viewed differently 
for each exercise over the entire training cycle. In 
more highly trained athletes, strength gains are not 
as great as when low-volume programmes are used in 
comparison with higher volume periodized training 
programmes. This may be because of the need to 
maintain high levels of activation of the musculature. 
Once an initial strength fitness level has been 
achieved, a multiple presentation of the stimulus 
(3-6 sets) should be used. The importance of variation 
in the exercise volume (sets x repetitions) is a vital 
concept in training progression. This is especially 
true for athletes who have already achieved a basic 
level of training or strength fitness. The interaction 
of the number of sets with the principle of variation 
in training or, more specifically, ‘periodized’ training, 
augments subsequent training adaptations. The time 
course of volume changes is also a very important 
factor in varying the exercise stimulus in periodized 
training programme. The use of any ‘constant volume’ 
training programme for athletes can lead to staleness 
and lack of effective changes in performance over the 
training cycle. 
Restperiods between sets and exercises 
One of the more overlooked variables in exercise 
prescription has been the length of the rest periods 
between sets and exercises. Recently, the influence 
of rest periods in dictating the stress of the workout 
and the amount of resistance that can be used has 
been realized. Rest periods between sets and exercises 
determine how much of the ATP-PC energy source is 
recovered and how high lactate concentrations are in 
the blood. Optimal recovery from a set of repetitions 
in a heavy resistance exercise session is also a Fig. 3.11 Lactate responses to the same eight-exercise 
workout using multiple sets with the only variable being a 
1- or 3-min rest period between sets and exercises. 
function of the recovery process in the nervous 
system. The nervous system must be capable of 
activating the necessary motor units to exert a force 
to match the loading of the next set of repetitions 
in strength and power training workout. The rest 
necessary, especially between sets but also between 
exercises, is related to both recovery and fitness of 
the bioenergetics and nervous systems. 
Many studies have shown the dramatic influence 
of rest periods on blood lactate and hormonal con- 
centrations, with metabolic responses to resistance 
exercise protocols demonstrated in both men and 
women. Figure 3.11 shows the response of blood 
lactate to long vs. short rest period lengths for an 
eight total body exercise protocol using a multiple 
set workout design for a single exercise session. Sets 
and exercises were separated by rest periods of either 
1 or 3 min. Changing rest periods between sets and 
exercises has dramatic effects on many different 
physiological variables but the impact is similar 
in both men and women; less rest results in higher 
blood lactate responses to the workout. 
From a practical standpoint it has been demon- 
strated that short rest programmes can even cause 
greater psychological anxiety and fatigue and this 
requires coaches and trainers to prepare the athlete 
for high intensity metabolic workouts in the weight 
room. This might be caused by the greater effort, 
fatigue and higher metabolic demands (e.g. high 


50 CHAPTER 3 
lactate production). The psychological ramifications 
of using short rest workouts must also be carefully 
considered when designing a training session. While 
the psychological demands are higher, the changes in 
mood states do not constitute abnormal psychological 
changes and may be a part of the arousal process 
before a demanding workout (e.g. increased anger 
about the workout demands). 
The frequent use of such low rest, high intensity 
workouts with short rest periods and heavy res- 
istances should be slowly introduced into a training 
programme as tolerance of increased muscle and 
blood acid levels (decreased pH) and the acid-base 
buffer mechanisms in the body adapt. However, if 
such adaptations are vital to a sport (e.g. wrestling 
or 400-/800-m track events) the periodization and use 
of such protocols progressing from long to short rest 
periods may be necessary in training for enhanced 
sport performance. Training acid-base aspects usually 
requires about 8 weeks to enhance the natural buffer 
mechanisms in the body (e.g. bicarbonate buffer 
system in the blood). Such a programme is usually 
performed within the context of a more classical 
strength/power training programme for a sport (e.g. 
two high lactate workouts and two strength/power 
workouts in a week cycle) or as a pre-season pro- 
gramme for 8-12 weeks prior to the start of the 
wrestling or track season. 
Rest periods of < 60 s are considered to be very 
short rest periods and usually associated with use of 
lighter weights. Rest periods of around 90-120 s are 
considered short rest periods and loads are usually 
in the range of about 10-12 RM. As loads get heavier, 
more and more rest is needed for optimal neural 
recruitment, with rest periods of 3 min or longer 
being considered long rest periods. The impact of 
rest period length on physiological variables has been reviewed in several studies by Kraemer and 
colleagues (see recommended reading). Short rest 
periods while increasing the physiological stress 
response (higher lactate, 
growth hormone, cortisol, 
adrenaline (epinephrine) concentrations) help to 
develop a type of local muscular endurance with the 
loads that can be handled. Rest periods of c 90 s need 
to be carefully progressed towards over a training 
period of about 6-8 weeks. Symptoms should be 
carefully monitored (e.g. nausea, dizziness, faint 
spells) and rest increased if such changes occur in the workout. Table 3.1 presents a qualitative overview of 
rest periods as they relate to physiological stress. 
Resistance used 
The amount of resistance used for a specific exercise 
is probably the most important variable in resistance 
training. It is the major stimulus related to changes 
observed in measures of strength, power and local 
muscular endurance. When designing a resistance 
training programme, a resistance for each exercise 
must be chosen. The basic test consists of determining 
the number of repetitions a person can perform to 
exhaustion in lifting a certain mass. The mass (kg or 
lb) is then described in terms of a ‘repetition 
maximum’ or RM. For example, a person lifts a mass 
of 72 kg 10 times before exhaustion: therefore, 72 kg is 
identified as the person’s 10 RM for the particular 
body movement and conditions of the test (e.g. free 
weight vs. exercise machine, free cadence vs. 
controlled cadence). If the largest mass this person can 
lift without repetition is 98 kg, this mass is identified 
as the 1 RM, the person’s strength score for the 
movement according to this procedure. 
can then be accomplished in terms of the mass of a 
specific RM or percentages of the mass of the 1 RM. 
Determination of a 1 RM in this manner for each body 
movement constitutes the most common approach 
internationally for assessing the strength of the 
particular muscle groups performing the movement. 
Sets can be prescribed on the basis of previous 
recordings of the RM vs. assigned weights: light 
(12-15 RM), medium (8-10 RM) and heavy (3-5 RM). 
As a person experiences increasing RMs for a 
particular mass lifted, the exercise prescription is 
modified upward in terms of the weight indicated for 
the light, medium and heavy ranges. 
Typically, one uses a training RM target (a single 
RM target, 10 RM) or RM target zone (a range such as 
3-5 RM). 
As the strength level of the athlete changes over 
time the resistance is adjusted so a true RM target or 
RM target zone resistance is used. Moving away from 
the 6 RM or less strength stimulus zone the gains 
in strength diminish until they are negligible. The 
strength gains achieved above 25-RM resistances are 
small or non-existent and perhaps related to enhanced Performance assessment and exercise prescription 

DEVELOPING A STRENGTH TRAINING WORKOUT 51 
n 
design. Ih Table 3.1 Rest period lengths between sets 
related to resistance training programme 
Rest period 
length (s) Comments 
0-30 Very, very short rest 
Results in almost no recovery from prior sets 
and force production is typically reduced 
with each subsequent set, loads are typically 
limited to very light loads (12 RM or higher). 
Such rest period lengths are typically not used 
if higher loads are to be lifted 
31-60 
61-90 Very short rest 
As the rest increases to 60 s, it allows heavier 
loads (e.g. 10 Rh4) to be tolerated with high 
glycolytic and physiological stress responses 
to workout protocols 
Short rest 
Allows heavier loads to be lifted. Typically, 
90 s is used as a starting point for programme 
progressions using shorter rest periods 
91-120 Moderate rest 
A typical rest period length for many strength 
training programmes using moderate loading 
patterns 
Typically used when loads start to become 
heavier in a training programme, e.g. 10 RM 
and lower intensities 121-180 Long rest 
> 180 Very long rest 
Used when very heavy loads are to be lifted or 
when high velocity or power output is desired 
with each repetition. Rest periods of up to 7 
min may be used to assure complete energetic 
and neurological recovery prior to another set 
attempt 
motor performance, mostly learning effects when they 
occur. A variety of individual responses as a result of 
genetic predisposition and pretraining status affect the 
training increases observed. However, after initial gains 
because of learning effects, heavier resistances will be 
necessary to optimize muscle strength and size gains. 
Another method of determining resistances for 
an exercise involves using a percentage of the 1 RM (e.g. 70 or 85% of 1 RM). If the trainee’s 1 RM for an 
exercise is 50 kg, an 80% resistance would be 40 kg. 
This method requires that the maximal force in 
various lifts used in the training programme be 
evaluated regularly. This method is highly valuable 
and important when performing power training, 
where the loads should be in the range of 30-60% of 
1 RM for optimization of the training load used in 
such high velocity or explosive strength training. 
This makes the percentage of 1 RM vital to success 
in power training. If 1-RM testing is not carried out 
regularly (e.g. once every 2 weeks), the percentage 
of 1 RM used in training decreases and therefore 
the training intensity is reduced. From a practical 
perspective, use of percentage of 1 RM determina- 
tion for many lifts may be more administratively 
challenging because of the amount of testing time 
required if maximal force stimulus is desired for 
all workouts in the 2-week cycle. Unless there is a 
training cycle of a few weeks when the athlete is 
peaking (e.g. weightlifter or shot putter) and the loads 
are maximal or near maximal then little testing is 
needed during such a training cycle to determine 
percentage of 1 RM. Use of an RM target or RM target 
zone allows the individual to change resistances in 
responses to stay at the RM target or within the RM 
target zone thus developing the characteristics 
associated with that portion of the RM continuum. 
While the target training zone should be achieved 
(load should only allow, for example, 3-5 repetitions 
in the 3-5-RM zone) with a given load, going to 
complete failure on every set may not optimize 
strength or power and may be detrimental to joints 
causing joint pain and overuse stress, especially in 
master athletes. Thus, athletes will often train at a 
percentage less (10-30% less than the 3-5-RM loads 
used in a prior workout) than a training zone for a 
prior workout in a given week. This allows for a load 
that does not require maximal effort and can act as a 
change up or recovery cycle or workout based on 
lower intensity. Nevertheless, prescription of exercise 
using percentages can be more challenging, especially 
if one is responsible for training large groups of 
athletes, as more frequent testing is needed, if not 
common to the sport (e.g. weightlifting). 
The use of percentage of 1 RM resistances is 
warranted for lifts related to the competitive Olympic 
lifts of the clean and jerk and the snatch. As these lifts 

52 CHAPTER 3 
require coordinated movements and optimal power 
development from many muscles to result in correct 
lifting technique, the movements cannot be performed 
at a true RM or to momentary failure. The reduction in 
velocity and power output experienced in the last 
repetition of an RM set are not conducive conditions 
for such structural lifts related to the Olympic 
competitive lifts (e.g. power cleans, snatches, power 
snatches, hang cleans). Therefore, percentage of 1 RM 
is warranted to calculate resistances for such lifts 
correctly. 
In a couple of classic studies the relationship 
between the percentage of 1 RM and the number 
of repetitions that can be performed was studied in 
both trained and untrained men and women. It was 
demonstrated that this relationship varies with the 
amount of muscle mass needed to perform the exer- 
cise (e.g. leg press requires more muscle mass than 
knee extensions). When using machine resistances 
with 80% of 1 RM, previously thought to be primarily 
a strength related prescription, the number of rep- 
etitions that could be performed was typically > 10, 
especially for large muscle group exercises such as the 
leg press. The larger muscle group exercises appear 
to need much higher percentages of the 1 RM to 
keep them in the strength RM zone of the repetition 
continuum. 
An example of how using the percentage of 1 RM 
can result in less than an optimal resistance to increase 
strength is the following: the strength coach puts a sign 
on a leg press machine that states ‘use 80% of 1 RM 
for all sets’. An athlete uses 80% of 1 RM and per- 
forms 22 repetitions. The question now arises, ‘Will 
performing 22 repetitions per set result in optimal 
strength increases?’ Based on the RM continuum, 
a 22 RM is primarily related to development of local 
muscular endurance not optimal development for 
strength or power. 
Charts are often used to predict the 1 RM from 
the number of repetitions performed with a submax- 
imal load or to help determine an RM (e.g. from 1 
to 10) from the 1-RM resistance that can be lifted. 
Unfortunately, most of these charts assume a linear 
relationship between these variables which is not 
the case. Thus, such charts and the resulting values 
should only be used as rough estimates of a particular 
resistance to use for an RM resistance or to predict an 
individual’s 1 RM. I Isometric I 
10 5 0 5 10 
Velocity (arbitrary units) 
Fig. 3.12 Theoretical force-velocity curves for eccentric, 
isometric and concentric muscle actions. 
Velocity of movement 
The velocity of movement is a quality typically 
associated with the type of resistance used, the type 
of exercise choice and the modality of the exercise. 
Terms such as ‘speed strength’ and ‘power’ relate to 
the rapid development of force and high speeds of 
movement. A continuum of velocities are used in 
conventional resistance training from the very slow 
concentric movements, such as the 1-RM lift, to the 
higher speed power movements at about 30% of 1 RM. 
Training at different movement velocities is vital for 
optimal periodization of resistance training. The 
force-velocity curve represented in Fig. 3.12 repres- 
ents the continuum of velocities from the concentric 
relationship of force and velocity to the eccentric 
relationship of force to velocity. Interestingly, as the 
velocity increases concentrically, force reduces and as 
the velocity increases eccentrically the force increases 
with isometric force at the centre of the force-velocity 
curve. 
The principle of specificity is very important as 
it relates to specificity of training with about f 20% 
carry-over above and below the training velocity used. 
In addition, all training adaptations are angle specific. 
Training slowly enhances slow speed development 
but has little carry-over to faster velocities and 
conversely high speed training has little carry-over 
to slower speed force development. This is a basic 

DEVELOPING A STRENGTH TRAINING WORKOUT 53 
concept as a function of training (see Chapter 2), 
Periodization utilizes different loads and intensities 
which are performed at different velocities of move- 
ment and therefore training adaptations span a much 
larger continuum. 
Summary of acute programme variables 
A single resistance training workout can be described 
by the acute programme variables: 
choice of exercise; 
order of exercise; 
number of sets; 
rest periods; 
load or resistance used; and . velocity of movement. 
The choice and the final configuration of these 
variables results in the exercise stimulus for a 
particular workout. Workouts must be altered to 
meet changing training goals and to provide training 
variation. With this paradigm for the description 
of resistance exercise workouts, careful control of 
various components can be gained in manipulating 
variables to create new and optimal training session 
workout programmes. Because so many different 
combinations of these variables are possible, an 
almost unlimited number of workouts can be 
developed. Understanding the influence and import- 
ance of each of the acute programme variables in 
achieving a specific training goal is vital to creating 
the optimal exercise stimulus for the athlete at that 
point in a training cycle. 
Recovery periods between training sessions 
Recovery is vital to any athlete; however, too much 
recovery can initiate a detraining process. Herein 
lies the careful balance between rest and recovery 
vs. detraining. The amount of rest required between 
training sessions depends on the recovery ability of 
the individual. Older athletes may need more time 
to recover than younger athletes who have a greater 
physiological potential. Traditionally, three workouts 
per week, with 1 day of rest between sessions, have 
been used in most sports. It has been found to allow 
adequate recovery, especially for the novice, and fits 
into many different sport training schedules which 
are demanding in their practice alone (e.g. tennis). If the resistance training is not excessive, only moderate 
amounts of delayed muscular soreness should be 
experienced on the day after the session. The greatest 
amount of delayed muscular soreness results from 
heavy eccentric muscle actions and various drop 
jump types of actions used in plyometric programmes 
for supplementary power training as opposed to con- 
centric isokinetic, dynamic concentric and isometric 
muscle actions. As the athlete advances in fitness 
levels and is better able to tolerate resistance exercise 
sessions, the frequency of training can be increased. 
One report in women volleyball players indicated 
that 4 days in succession per week may be superior to 
three alternate days in effecting increases in strength 
and performance. The onset of perceived discomfort 
may be masked during consecutive training sessions, 
and the 3-day recovery period may allow for a more 
complete recovery. This indicates that the interaction 
of stress and recovery may be more complex than 
previously thought. 
frequencies of 4-5 days in a row in order to see 
significant improvement over short periods of 
training. It has been observed that competitive lifters 
train 5-7 consecutive days in order to achieve strength 
and power gains needed for competitive success. 
Training frequency per week is a function of the 
individual’s need for the exercise stimulus to cause 
fitness gains. It is important that the individual can 
tolerate the physical stress so that overtraining does 
not develop. The development of periodized training 
cycles utilizes variations in training frequency to alter 
the exercise stimulus and provide for recovery and 
enhance the exercise stimulus. The individual’s 
experience and physical condition as well as the 
amount of work performed in one training session 
will dictate his or her tolerance of more frequent 
weekly training sessions. In addition, athletes will 
train twice a day to reduce the volume within a 
workout so that the quality (intensity) of the workout 
can be maintained at the highest level. This usually 
comprises a morning and an afternoon workout, 
allowing 4-6 h rest between the two sessions. 
Training frequencies greater than twice a week 
typically engage two different training programmes 
and do not simply repeat the same programme. A 
minimal frequency of at least two sessions a week 
for a given exercise is the core of every strengthlpower Elite athletes may be capable of and need training 

54 CHAPTER 3 
training programme. When training is carried out on 
consecutive days it often involves the use of a split 
routine (different body parts exercised each day) or 
a split programme (different exercises for the same 
body part performed each day). Some type of vari- 
ation (periodization) needs to be employed when 
consecutive training days are used. The concept of 
using a %day a week training programme for all sports 
is far from the optimal training frequency. It is the 
individual’s needs, sports schedule and, ultimately, 
the training goals of each period which will deter- 
mine the amount of exercise required to increase a 
particular physiological or performance variable. 
Progression in frequency is also a key component 
to resistance training. Frequency of training will 
vary depending upon phase of the training cycle, 
the fitness level of the athlete, goals of the programme, 
and training history. Careful choices need to be made 
regarding the rest between training days. These 
choices are based upon the planned progress 
toward specific training goals and the tolerance 
of the individual of the programme changes made. 
If excessive soreness is present the next morning, 
this may indicate that the exercise stress is too 
demanding. If this is the case, the workout loads, 
sets and/or rest periods between sets and training 
frequency need to be evaluated and adjusted. 
Periodization of training will be vital to address 
such diverse needs over time. 
Recommended reading 
Gotshalk, L.A., Loebel, C.C., Nindl, B.C. et al. (1997) 
Hormonal responses of multiset versus single-set heavy resistance exercise protocols. Canadian Journal of Applied 
Physiology 22,244-255. 
Kraemer, W.J. (1997) A series of studies: the physiological 
basis for strength training in American football-fact over 
philosophy. Journal of Strength and Conditioning 
Research 11,131-142. 
Kraemer, WJ. &Fleck, S.J. (1988) Resistance training: 
exercise prescription. The Physician and Sportsmedicine 
Kraemer, W.J., Noble, B.J., Culver, B.W. &Clark, M.J. (1987) 
Physiologic responses to heavy-resistance exercise with 
very short rest periods. International Journal of Sports 
Medicine 8,247-252. 
Kraemer, WJ., Fleck, S.J. & Deschenes, M. (1988) A review: 
factors in exercise prescription of resistance training. 
National Strength and Conditioning Association Journal 16 (6), 69-81. 
10,36-41. 
Kraemer, WJ., Marchitelli, L., McCurry, D. et al. (1990) 
Hormonal and growth factor responses to heavy resist- 
ance exercise. Journal of Applied Physiology 69, 
Kraemer, WJ., Gordon, S.E., Fleck, S.J. etal. (1991) 1442-1450. 
Endogenous anabolic hormonal and growth factor 
responses to heavy resistance exercise in males and 
females. International Journal of Sports Medicine 12 (2), 
Kraemer, W.J., Dziados, J.E., Marchitelli, L.J. et al. (1993a) 
Effects of different heavy-resistance exercise protocols on 
plasma P-endorphin concentrations. Journal of Applied 
Physiology 74,450-459. 
Kraemer, WJ., Fleck, S.J.,Dziados, J.E. etal. (1993b) Changes 
in hormonal concentrations following different heavy 
resistance exercise protocols in women. Journal of Applied 228-235. 
Physiology 75,594-604. 
Mulligan, S.E., Fleck, S.J., Gordon, S.E. et al. (1996) 
Influence of resistance exercise volume on serum 
growth hormone and cortisol concentrations in women. 
Journal of Strength Conditioning Research 10 (4, 
256-262. 

Chapter 4 
Periodization of training 
Introduction 
Anecdotal evidence demonstrates that coaches and 
athletes, for at least the last several decades, have 
varied their training programmes on a yearly basis 
in an attempt to bring about the best possible perform- 
ances during competition. Terms to describe this 
yearly variation in training include cycling, chronic 
programme manipulation, and periodization, with 
periodization being the most popular term. For a 
distance runner the variables that can be varied in 
a training programme include such things as: total 
kilometres run or the volume of training; running pace 
or intensity of training; terrain over which the running 
is performed; and the number of intervals performed 
at different distances (800 m, 1600 m, etc.). In a 
strength training programme the training variables 
that can be varied throughout a training year include 
all the acute programme variables discussed in Chap- 
ter 3. Thus, exercise order, exercise choice, number 
of sets, number of repetitions per set, rest periods 
between sets and exercises, exercise intensity and 
number of training sessions per day can all be 
manipulated and varied in a weight training 
programme. 
of the former Eastern Bloc countries are credited 
with developing and researching the concepts of 
periodization (Fig. 4.1). This type of training 
programme was developed to ensure adequate 
recovery between training sessions, optimal gains in 
strength and power in order to maximize strength and 
power performance at a certain time point (e.g. major 
competition). The goal was to peak for the best 
possible performance at a major competition, such 
as the Olympic Games or world championships. 
Anecdotally, part of the success of many of the former Typically, sport scientists, coaches and athletes Eastern Bloc athletes indicates that periodized 
training does result in gains in strength and power 
over long training periods of years or an entire sporting 
career. Thus, the concept of periodization allows for 
the development of an athlete in a sport over the 
course of many years. It provides the necessary 
variation in the physical and psychological stress of 
conditioning and is used in order to maximize 
strength and power at specific time points. This 
allows the athlete to enter a competition at a physical 
and metal 'peak' and optimize their performance. 
These former Eastern Bloc sport scientists and 
coaches carefully studied training volume and 
realized that the training intensity of their successful 
athletes followed a particular pattern over the course 
of a year. At the start of the training year, training 
volume was high and intensity was low compared to 
the end of the year. In addition, it was often observed 
that this volume dropped immediately prior to a 
major Competition. Thus, training intensity was at its 
highest point and training volume was at its lowest 
point immediately prior to a major competition. In 
order to allow for adequate physical and psycholo- 
gical recovery prior to a major competition, training 
intensity was also reduced immediately prior to major 
competitions (Fig. 4.2). Skill training is also a major 
component in every sport. It was noted that skill 
training for a particular event or sport followed a 
similar pattern to that of training intensity, except 
skill training reached its peak slightly closer to a major 
competition than did training intensity. From this 
a general pattern of periodization of training was 
developed and highly individualized for each 
athlete (Fig. 4.1). 
Anecdotal evidence from around the world 
indicates that if this training pattern of decreasing 
training volume and increasing training intensity was 
repeated three to four times per year, instead of only 
once per year, greater gains in fitness and sport 
performance were achieved. Repeating (e.g. three or 
four times per year) the training pattern of decreasing 
volume and increasing intensity also allowed for the 
possibility of several peak performances per year. This 
was especially important for sports with multiple 
major competitions. Thus, the sophistication of a 
periodized strength and power training programme 
became even more complex because of the needs of 
each sport and athlete. Nevertheless, the basic concept 
55 

56 CHAPTER 4 
Volume Fig. 4.1 Many attribute refining the 
concept of periodized training to the 
former Soviet Union and Eastern Bloc 
countries. Photo 0 IOC/Olympic 
Museum Collections. 
Major competitions 
Intensity 
Skill 
training 
I ' Second 
; transition European Preparation j First j Competition I 
terminology phase I transition I phase 
Traditional 
American Pre-season I In-season I Off-season 
terminology I 
American Strength/ 
power hypertrophy j Strength/power Peaking Active recovery Fig. 4.2 Periodization phase 
terminology terminology. I j (active recovery) 
I 
I 
I 1 
of training periodization involved both variation, 
sports specificity and individualization of the training 
programmes. The basis of a training technology had 
been formed and was now being further examined in 
all of its permutations in both laboratories and 
conditioning programmes around the world. Together with the concept of periodized training, 
a terminology was developed to describe various 
time periods within a periodized training plan. A 
macrocycle typically refers to 1 year of training and a 
mesocycle refers to 3-4 months of a macrocycle. An 
example of a mesocycle using classical periodization 


PERIODIZATION OF TRAINING 57 
terminology is the preparation phase. A microcycle 
refers to 1-4 weeks within a mesocycle. Each of these 
time periods within a periodized training plan has 
specific training goals, such as maximizing muscle 
hypertrophy, increasing strength or increasing power. 
US terminology of pre-season, in-season and off- 
season can also be used to describe various time 
periods within a periodized training plan. Using 
this terminology, the time period being described can 
vary in length depending upon the sport or activity. 
For example, a sport with a long in-season, such as 
American professional baseball, must have a cor- 
responding decrease in the off-season phase of 
training. A third type of terminology used to describe 
a typical periodized strength training programme is a 
variation of the classical European terminology and 
was developed by American strength/power athletes, 
such as Olympic weightlifters and shot putters. As 
with the previous tw9 types of terminology, each 
training phase has particular training goals. 
No matter which type of terminology is used to 
describe a periodized strength training programme, 
the two most important questions about the training 
programme should always be the same. Does the 
training programme achieve the target training 
goals specific to many strength training programmes 
(e.g. increased strength, power, local muscular 
endurance, total body weight and lean body mass, 
or decreased percentage of body fat, etc.)? Does the 
periodized programme result in greater changes 
in such variables than non-periodized training 
programmes? These are perhaps the most important 
questions when examining any periodized pro- 
gramme. The remainder of this chapter will examine 
some of the evidence concerning these questions. 
Different acute programme variables result In 
different physiologlcal responses 
As discussed in Chapter 3, different combinations 
of acute programme variables, such as number of 
repetitions per set, number of sets performed and 
rest periods between sets, result in different acute 
physiological responses. Virtually all strength train- 
ing programmes will result in some gain in strength, 
power and muscle hypertrophy. However, certain 
combinations of acute programme variables will 
emphasize these to a greater degree than other combinations. For example, three sets of 10 repeti- 
tions at 10 repetition maximum (RM) with 1-min 
rest periods between sets and exercises results in 
a significantly greater blood lactic acid and serum 
growth hormone response than three sets of five 
repetitions at 5 RM with 3-min rest periods between 
sets and exercises in both men (Kraemer et al. 1990) 
and women (Kraemer et al. 1993). Likewise, three sets 
of 10 repetitions at 10 RM with 1-min rest periods 
between sets and exercises results in a significantly 
greater blood lactic acid and serum growth hormone 
response than one set of 10 repetitions at 10 RM with 
a 1-min rest period between exercises in both men 
(Gotshalk et al. 1997) and women (Mulligan et al. 
1996). So, if the goal of a training phase is to increase 
the ability to develop and tolerate high concentrations 
of blood lactic acid and so enhance short-term high- 
intensity local muscular endurance (e.g. freestyle 
wrestling or an 800-m race), training sessions of three 
sets of 10 repetitions at 10 RM with 1-min rest periods 
between sets of exercises would be most appropriate. 
Likewise, training sessions that result in a greater 
serum growth hormone response than other training 
programmes should be chosen when the goal of a 
training phase is to increase muscle hypertrophy, 
because the magnitude of the serum growth hor- 
mone response resulting from a training session is 
significantly correlated to both Type I (slow twitch) 
and Type 11 (fast twitch) muscle fibre hypertrophy 
(McCall et al. 1999). Thus, an understanding of the 
acute characteristics of the workout protocol can 
help develop an underlying theory for the com- 
ponent parts of a programme over a chronic period 
of time. 
When performing training sessions of five sets of 
10 repetitions for large muscle group exercises (e.g. 
back squat, push press, clean pulls) and three sets 
of 10 repetitions for small muscle group exercises 
(e.g. bent-over rows, crunches), the magnitude of the 
increase in 1-RM squat ability is dependent upon the 
length of the rest periods between sets and exercises 
(Robinson et al. 1995). Three-, 1.5- and 0.5-min rest 
periods result in a 7,6 and 2% gain in 1-RM squat 
ability. The increase shown using 3-min rest periods 
is significantly greater than that shown using 0.5-min 
rest periods. Thus, when the major goal of a training 
phase is to increase 1-RM strength, longer rest periods 
are more appropriate. 

58 CHAPTER 4 
Information gleaned from research provides a 
basis for how to utilize the acute programme weight 
training variables. It helps to support the different 
combinations of training variables in the design of 
workouts for each phase of a periodized resistance 
training programme. It also allows one to understand 
which variable to emphasize because of the physiolo- 
gical responses to a resistance training protocol. Such 
information shows that not all combinations of vari- 
ables are the same and that changes made in a workout 
can have dramatic effects on the type of exercise 
stimuli that the body is receiving in that workout. 
With the many choices that can be made in the design 
of a resistance training programme, one can readily 
see the powerful set of tools available to the coach and 
athlete in resistance training programme design. This 
information also indirectly supports the theory that 
the training programme should be varied or ‘periodized’ 
to meet the changing goals and needs of athletes through- 
out the training year or throughout a sporting career. 
Classic strength/power periodization model 
One of the major goals of the classic strength/power 
periodization model is peaking of maximal force/ 
power at a certain point in time, such as for a major 
competition (Fig. 4.3). The model follows a general 
pattern of decreasing training volume and increasing 
training intensity as a major competition approaches 
(Fig. 4.2). A classic strength/power periodization 
programme model is presented in Table 4.1. However, 
there are many variations of the classic strength/power 
periodization model, as no one periodization model 
can meet the specific needs of every athlete or sport. Nevertheless, it is the theoretical framework of 
periodization that allows for more training variability 
and recovery for the athlete. The training volume can 
be decreased and the intensity increased in this model 
by decreasing the number of repetitions per set from 
the hypertrophy to the peaking training phase. In 
the model presented, the training volume is also 
decreased from the power to the peaking phase by 
decreasing the number of sets performed. Active 
recovery phases are incorporated into this model. 
However, active recovery does not mean complete 
cessation of physical activity or training, nor is this 
phase typically long. This would result in decondi- 
tioning and the athlete would then have to spend 
training time to get back to their former physical 
condition, rather than improving it. Thus, active 
recovery phases normally consist of a reduction in 
training volume and intensity rather than cessation 
of all physical training. Longer periods of active 
recovery are dependent upon the individual sport 
and the athlete’s requirements and often relate back to 
the level of training time and experience of the athlete 
within the context of the competitive requirements 
and schedule; for example, a few weeks of active 
recovery by a veteran athlete who has just won a gold 
medal at the Olympic Games and will now start to 
train for competitions next year-such a long active 
recovery period may not be detrimental to his or her 
competitive base. Conversely, a less experienced 
athlete who is trying to build his or her competitive 
status and is now getting ready for a world champion- 
ship within months of the Olympic Games, may not 
want to take off that much time. One can develop all 
types of examples where the coach and trainer must 
Training phase Hypertrophy Strength Power Peaking Active recovery 
Sets 3-5 3-5 3-5 1-3 Light physical activity 
Intensity Low Moderate High Very high RepetitionsfSet 8-1 2 2-6 2-3 1-3 
Volume Very high High Moderate Low 

PERIODIZATION OF TRAINING 59 
carefully make decisions and use sound ‘coaching 
judgements’ (called clinical judgements in medicine) 
based on scientific facts to plan such training 
schedules. Therein resides the art of strength and 
conditioning programmes. 
Variations of the classic strengthlpower period- 
ization model are the most formally studied of the 
periodized strength training models (Table 4.2). It is 
important to remember that the goal of this model is 
to maximize strengthlpower at a certain time point. 
Thus, this model is not appropriate for athletes whose 
success does not depend upon maximal force1 
power, such as road cyclists and marathon runners. 
When examining any training model it is always 
important to consider what are the major goals of the 
particular training model? In other words ‘What is the 
athlete trying to get good at?’ It is important to keep 
this in mind because the programme must address 
some aspect of the athlete’s performance goal(s). 
Classic strength/power periodlzation studies 
When examining any weight training study where 
comparisons between two different training pro- 
grammes are performed, the length of the study and 
the training status of the subjects are of paramount 
importance. During the first 4-6 weeks of any realistic 
weight training programme, most strengthlpower 
increases occur because of neural factors (Sale 1992). 
In addition, one can see changes in the quality of the muscle proteins make a dramatic change in only a 
few workouts. The increase in strengthlpower as a 
result of neural factors can be quite large, especially 
in untrained subjects. For example, after only 2 days 
of isokinetic training (three sets of 10 repetitions) 
at 4.71 radianas-l male subjects demonstrated an 
increase in torque at 4.71 radiand of 22% (Prevost 
et al. 1999). 
Another physiological change that occurs very 
quickly when weight training is performed is con- 
version of Type IIB to Type IIA muscle fibres. During 
8 weeks of weight training twice per week Type IIB 
muscle fibres decreased from 21 to 7% of the total 
muscle fibre population in both men and women 
(Staron et al. 1994). In women a significant decrease in 
Type IIB fibres was noted after just 2 weeks of training, 
a total of just four training sessions, while in men a 
significant decrease in Type IIB fibres was noted after 
4 weeks of training, a total of eight training sessions. 
For both the men and women in this study, strength 
significantly increased over 8 weeks of training with- 
out any significant change in muscle fibre size or lean 
body mass. 
Thus, in short-term studies, any significant 
difference in strengthlpower or short-term high- 
intensity anaerobic endurance between two weight 
training programmes is difficult to achieve, because 
any and all realistic weight training programmes will 
result in the above two adaptations. This is especially 
true when untrained persons are used as subjects. If 
Fig. 4.3 Classical periodization 
programmes were developed for 
strength/power athletes to peak 
for major world and Olympic 
competitions. Photo 0 Allsport/M. 
Powell. 


Table 4.2 Comparison of periodized studies. 
~~ ~~ 
Training Frequency 
Reference length (week) per week Sets x Repetitions Intensity Exercises trained Test(s) Percentage 
increase 
Multiple sets 
Stone et al. 6 3 3x6 
(1981) Progressed at Squats & 5 others Squat 
own rate Vertical jump 
Stowers et al. 7 
(1983) 
O'Bryant et al. 11 
(1988) 
McGee et al. 7 
(1992) 3 
3 
3 Classic periodization 
1 wk5 x 10 Regressed at Squats & 5 others Squat 
lwk5x5 own rate Vertical jump 
lwk3x3 
lwk3x2 
SingIe set 
1 x 10 
Multiple sets 
3 x 10 
Classic periodization 
2wk5x10 
3wk3x5 
2wk2x3 * 
* 
*a 
*a 
10 RM Combination of 8 Bench press 7* 
Squat 14* 
Vertical jump 0 
10 RM 
10 RM Combination of 8 Bench press 9* 
Squat 20* 
Vertical jump 1 
Bench press 
Squat 
Vertical jump 9* 
27*' 
10* 
Multiple sets 
3x6 81-9790 of Squat & 8 others Squat 32* 
pretraining 1 RM Cycle power 6* 
Classic periodization 
4wk5x10 70-117% of Squat & 8 others Squat 38*a 
4 wk3 x 5,1 x 10 pretraining 1 RM Cycle power 17*a 
3 wk3 x2,1 x 10 
Single set 
1 X 8-12 8-12 RM Combination of 7 Cycling to exhaustion 12 
Squat reps to exhaustion 46 

Multiple sets 
3 x 10 10 RM 
10 RM 
5RM 
3RM 
Pretraining 
10 RM 
6-8 RM 
8-10 RM 
5-7 RM 
3-5 RM 
79% 1 RM 
83% 1 RM 
79% 1 RM 
83% 1 RM 
88% 1 RM 
92% 1 RM 
6RM 
8RM 
10 RM 
10 RM 
5RM 
8RM 
3,lO RM Combination of 7 Cycling to exhaustion 
Squat reps to exhaustion 15* 
71* 
29* 
74 * 
8* 
13* 
17*' 
26*' 
28*d 
48*d Classic periodization 
2 wk3 x 10 
2wk3x5 
2wk3x3 
Multiple sets 
3 x 10 Combination of 7 Cycling to exhaustion 
Squat reps to exhaustion 
Willoughby et 01. 12 
(1992) 2 Bench press 
Squat Bench press 
Squat 
Multiple sets 
3x68 Bench press 
Squat Bench press 
Squat 
Classic periodization 
4 wk 5 x 8-10 
4wk4~5-7 
4 wk3 x 3-5 
Multiple sets 
5 x 10 Bench press 
Squat Bench press 
Squat 
Willoughby et al. 16 
(1993) Bench press 
Squat Bench press 
Squat 3 8* 
14* 
Multiple sets 
6x8 Bench press 
Squat Bench press 
Squat 10* 
22*e 
cd M Classic periodization 
4wk5x10 4wk4x8 
4wk3x6 
4wk3x4 
Multiple sets 
5 x 6 core ex 
5 x 8 all others 23*' 
34*' Bench press 
Squat Bench press 
Squat 
4 5 z Baker et al. 12 
(1994) 3 Combination 
Of 17 Bench press 
Squat 
Vertical jump 12* 
26* 
9* 0 v 
Classic periodization 
4 wk 5 x 10 core ex 
3 x 10 all others 
4 wk 5 x 5 core ex 
3 x 8 dl others 
3wk3 x 3,1 x 10 Combination 
Of 17 Bench press 
Squat 
Vertical jump 11* 
18* 
4* 
9 (continuedp. 62) 

n 
P Table 4.2 (cont’d) 
Frequency Percentage Training Intensity Exercises trained Test(s) increase Reference length (week) per week Sets x Repetitions 
Henick & Stone 15 
(1996) 
Kraemer (1997) 14 2 
3 core ex 
3 x 6 d others 
1 wk3 x 3 core ex 
3 x 6 dl others 
Undulating periodization 
2 wk 5 x 10 core ex 
3 x 10 all others 
2 wk5 x 6 core ex 
3 x 8 d others 
2 wk5 x 8 core ex 
3 x 10 all other 
2 wk 5 x 4 core ex 
3 x 6 dl others 
2 wk 5 x 6 core ex 
3 x 8 dl others 
2 wk4 x 3 core ex 
3 x 6 d others 
Multiple sets 
3x6 
Classic periodization 
8wk3 x 10 
1 wk off 
2wk3x4 
1 wkoff 
2wk3x2 
Single set 
1 x 8-10, forced reps 6RM 
3RM 
6RM 
10 RM 
10 RM 
6RM 
8RM 
6RM 
10 RM 
4RM 
6RM 
6RM 
8RM 
3RM 
6RM 
6RM 
10 RM 
4RM 
2RM Combination Bench press 
Of 17 Squat 
Vertical jump 
6 exercises 
6 exercises 
8-10 RM 9 exercises Bench press 
Squat 
Bench press 
Squat 
Bench press 
Hang clean 
Vertical jump 
Wingate power 16* 
28* 
10* 
25* 
46* 
31* 
54* 
3* 
4* 
3* 
0 

Kraemer (1997) 24 
Schiotz et al. 10 
(1998) 3 
3 
4 
4 Classic periodization 
3 wk 2-3 x 8-10 
2wk3-4X6 
2 wk5 x 1-4 
Repeat all weeks 
Single set 
1 x 8-10, forced reps 
Undulating periodization 
Strength session 
Hypertrophy session 
Multiple sets 
4 x 6 core ex 
3 x 8 dl others 
Classic periodization 
2 wk 5 x 10 core ex 
3 x 10 all others 
1 wk3 x 10,l x8,l x6 
core ex, 3 x 10 all others 
1 wk2 x 8,3 x 5 core ex, 
3 x 8 dl others 
1 wk, 1 x 8,l x 6,3 x 5 
core ex, 3 x 8 dl others 
1 wk 1 x 8,4 x 5 core ex, 
3 x 8 dl others 
1 wkl x 8,2 x 5,l x 3, 
1 x 1 core ex, 3 x 6all 
others 
1 wk2 x 5,i x 3,1 x2, 
1 x 1,3 x 6 allothers 
2 wk2 x 3,4 x 1 core ex, 
3 x 4 all others 50% 1 RM 
70-85% 1 RM 
85-95% 1 RM 
8-10 RM 
2-4 X 12-15, 
8-10,3-5 RM 
2-4 X 8-10 RM 
Initially 80% 
1RM 
Initially 50% 
pretraining 1 Rh4 12 exercises 
20 exercises 
21 exercises 
2 core, 5 
assistance 
2 core, 5 
assistance Bench press ll*S 
Hang clean 19*g 
Vertical jump 17*g 
Wingate power 14*g 
Bench reps @ 80% 1 RM 37* 
Leg press reps @ 85% 1 RM 22* 
Bench press 13* 
Leg press 6* 
Wingate power 5* 
Vertical jump 7* 
Bench reps @ 80%1 RM 
Leg press reps @ 85% 1 RM 56*g 
41 *g 
Bench press 29*g 
Leg press 2o*g 
Wingate power 55*g 
Vertical jump 23*g 
Bench press 
Squat 
Bench press 
Squat 5 
11* 
8* 
10* 
*Significant increase pre- to post-training. 
Significant difference from: a 3 x 6 group; 1 x 10 and 3 x 10 groups; 3 x 10 group; 3 x 10 and 3 x 6-8 groups; 5 x 10 group; 5 x 10 and 6 x 8 groups; 
g 1 x 6-10 group. 0) 0 

64 CHAPTER 4 
superiority of one training programme over another is 
shown in short-term studies, it may merely imply that 
the superior programme brings about quicker neural 
adaptations and/or Type IIB to Type IIA muscle fibre 
transformation. This may be especially true if no 
significant increase in muscle fibre cross-sectional 
area or lean body mass occurs. 
Another factor that needs to be considered when 
examining weight training studies where comparisons 
between programmes are made is the limitation of 
applying results from studies using untrained subjects 
to the training of athletes or highly trained indi- 
viduals. Strength/power increases occur at a much 
lower rate in highly trained compared to moderately 
trained subjects (Hiikkinen et al. 1989). Assuming that 
the results of studies using untrained subjects are 
directly applicable to trained subjects in terms of 
magnitude of change and rate of change is tenuous. 
Unfortunately, the vast majority of studies comparing 
periodized models to non-periodized models have 
used untrained or moderately training subjects. 
Studies comparing variations of the classic 
strength/power periodization model to multiple 
set and single set non-periodized programmes are 
presented in Table 4.2. Twelve of the 19 comparisons 
between the classic strength/power periodization 
model to multiple set programmes show significantly 
greater gains in 1-RM strength with periodized 
training. Only three of the strength comparisons 
demonstrate on a percentage basis a non-significant 
greater increase resulting from a multiple set pro- 
gramme compared to a strength/power periodization 
model. All of these studies, except for one, used men 
as subjects. The study that did use women (Herrick 81 
Stone 1996) shows a non-significantly greater increase 
in strength on a percentage basis using periodized 
training. All four strength comparisons between single 
set programmes and a strength/power periodization 
model favour on a percentage basis the periodization 
model, with three of the four comparisons showing 
a significantly greater increase in strength using 
periodized training. One of the studies (Kraemer 1997) 
comparing a single set programme to a periodized 
programme during 14 weeks of training utilized only 
machines when performing the one-set programme. 
The periodized programme was performed using 
predominantly free weights. The use of machines for 
the one-set programme does limit the interpretation of the results to the comparison of a one-set machine 
programme to a periodized free-weight programme. 
The vast majority of these studies support the theory 
that the classic strength/power periodized training 
model is superior to both non-periodized multiset 
and single set strength training programmes. 
Several of the studies do offer some insight into the 
reason periodized training results in greater strength 
gains than non-periodized training. A unique aspect of 
one of these studies (Willoughby 1993) was the use 
of trained subjects and that for the first 8 of 16 weeks 
of training there was no significant difference in total 
training volume between the periodization model 
and two multiset training programmes. After week 8 
the periodized group’s training volume significantly 
decreased compared to the multiset programmes. 
After 8 weeks of training all groups showed signi- 
ficant increases in 1-RM strength, but there was no 
significant difference between any of the groups. Only 
after week 8, when the periodized group’s training 
volume was decreased, did significant differences in 
strength in favour of the periodized training become 
apparent. This indicates that the decrease in training 
volume present in the classic strength/power period- 
ized model may in part explain the greater improve- 
ment in 1-Rh4 strength. In addition, it may take up 
to at least 8 weeks of training in trained subjects 
for periodized training to show superior results 
compared to non-periodized programmes. This 
conclusion is supported by another study (Baker 
et al. 1994) where, for the entire 12 weeks of training, 
total training volume (total mass lifted) and relative 
training intensity (YO 1 RM resistance) were equated 
between a multiset programme and a periodized 
programme. This allowed any difference in strength 
gains, if occurring, to be attributed to the manipula- 
tion of training volume and intensity and not to the 
total training volume or intensity used throughout the 
entire training programme. All groups significantly 
improved in strength, with no significant difference 
noted between groups. The results of both studies 
indicate the decrease in training volume and increase 
in training intensity present in the classic strength/ 
power periodized training model is in part respons- 
ible for increases in strength greater than non- 
periodized programmes. 
There are fewer comparisons of gains in motor 
performance between training programmes than 

PERIODIZATION OF TRAINING 65 
strength comparisons. Of seven comparisons between 
classic strength/power periodized models and non- 
periodized single set and multiset training models, 
four comparisons show significantly greater gains 
in motor performance tasks (vertical jump and 
cycling power) with periodized training. Two of the 
comparisons on a percentage basis favour periodized 
training; however, the difference is non-significant. 
One of the comparisons favours on a percentage 
basis a non-periodized multiset programme over a 
periodized programme; however, the difference is 
non-significant. Because of the paucity of studies 
examining changes in motor performance, con- 
clusions about motor performance must be viewed 
with some caution. However, comparisons to date do 
favour classic strength/power periodized models over 
non-periodized training. 
Only one study (McGee et al. 1992) compared 
gains in measures of local muscle endurance (cycling 
to exhaustion and squat repetitions to exhaustion) 
between a classic periodization model, multiset 
programme and single set programme. The multiset 
programme and the periodization model both resulted 
in significantly greater gains of local muscular endur- 
ance than the single set programme. No significant 
difference between the multiset and periodization 
training was shown. However, the periodized model 
did show greater gains on a percentage basis in local 
muscular endurance than the multiset training. This 
study indicates that both multiset and periodized 
weight training result in greater gains of local muscle 
endurance than a single set programme. 
Several studies have compared changes in total 
body weight and body composition between period- 
ized and non-periodized training. No significant 
change in total body weight brought about by a 
single set programme and a classic strength/power 
periodized programme (McGee et al. 1992), and 
multiset programmes and a periodized programme 
(O’Bryant et al. 1988; McGee et al. 1992) have been 
reported. In a comparison of a periodized programme 
to a multiset programme, neither group showed a 
significant change in total body weight (Stone et al. 
1981). While lean body mass and percentage body fat, 
determined by hydrostatic weighing, increased and 
decreased significantly, more related to the periodized 
training than to the multiset training programme. 
A 12-week study (Baker et al. 1994) using skinfolds to determine changes in body composition reports 
both a multiset and a periodized group showing 
significant but identical increases in lean body mass 
and total body weight, with neither group showing a 
change in total body fat. Using skinfolds to determine 
body composition it has also been reported that both 
multiset and periodized training result in no 
significant change in total body weight and non- 
significant increases in lean body mass (Schiotz et al. 
1998), while the multiset group showed a small non- 
significant decrease in percentage body fat (12.8% to 
12.2%) and the periodized group showed a significant 
decrease in percentage body fat (12.6% to 11.1%). A 
comparison of a single set programme and a period- 
ized programme using skinfolds to determine body 
composition reports that the periodized training results 
in a significantly greater increase in total body weight 
and a significantly greater decrease in percentage fat 
(periodized training 18.1% to 13.8%; single set train- 
ing 17.6% to 16.1%) than the single set programme 
(Kraemer 1997). Changes in lean body mass were not 
reported in this study. However, because of the sig- 
nificantly greater increase in total body weight and 
Significantly greater decrease in percentage fat brought 
about by the periodized programme it is obvious that 
the periodized programme also resulted in a signi- 
ficantly greater increase in lean body mass than the 
single set programme. 
Because of the paucity of studies examining 
changes in total body weight, lean body mass and 
body fat, conclusions concerning superiority of one 
type of training over another in bringing about 
changes in these variables must be viewed with 
caution. However, it is important to note that 
whenever a significant difference between training 
programmes has been reported it has always been in 
favour of the classic strength/power periodized 
training programme. 
Undulating periodization model 
Undulating periodization (also called non-linear 
periodization) is a more recent concept than the 
classic strength/power periodization model. One 
major goal of the strength/power periodization 
model is to peak strength and power at a certain 
point in time. However, for sports and activities 
with a long season, where success is dependent upon 

66 CHAPTER 4 
performance throughout the season, development 
and maintenance of physical fitness during the entire 
season is of prime importance. Peaking strength and 
power for major tournaments near the end of the 
season is important: however, without success during 
the season, qualification for major tournaments and 
competitions will not occur. Thus, the primary goal of 
a training model for sports and activities with a long 
season (e.g. basketball, baseball, soccer) is to develop 
physical fitness in such a way that success in a long 
season can occur. 
Undulating periodization varies training volume 
and intensity in such a way that fitness gains occur 
over long training periods and treats peaking of 
physical fitness at a certain point in time as a minor 
training goal. This is accomplished by varying 
training using different RM training intensities or 
training zones such as 1-3 RM (very heavy), 4-6 RM 
(heavy), 8-10 RM (moderate) and 12-15 RM (light) 
training zones. In addition, a power training zone can 
be added in some programmes. These training zones 
are varied on a training session, weekly or biweekly 
manner. However, the training zones are not neces- 
sarily sequentially performed so that training intensity 
or volume follows a pattern of constantly increasing or 
decreasing over time. For example, a training session, 
weekly or biweekly sequential use of the three train- 
ing stones might be 4-6,12-15 and 8-10 RM on one 
occasion and 8-10,4-6 and 12-15 RM on another 
occasion. The order of the training zones occuss 
randomly in this training model. The undulating 
periodization model is gaining popularity in sports 
and activities where strength/power is important for 
success during a long season, yet a planned workout 
sequence of weeks using the same intensity may not 
be conducive to the schedule, which makes applica- 
tion of the classic strength/power periodization model 
difficult to implement because of the pattern of 
high-volume training early in the model, resulting 
in a potential for residual fatigue and thus for poor 
performance (i.e. losing games) early in the season. 
An important key for the undulating or non-linear 
periodization model is the careful use of planned rest 
periods which usually occur after about every 12 
weeks of the training cycle. 
it is also possible to combine various aspects of the 
classic strength/power and undulating periodization Although only limited study has taken place to date, models. For example, using a classic strength/power 
model during the off-season and early pre-season of 
a sport, then switching to a undulating periodization 
model for the late pre-season and in-season weight 
training programme. One goal of such a programme 
would be to peak strength/power in the early pre- 
season and then continue to develop or maintain 
high levels of strength/power for the remainder of 
the pre-season and throughout the in-season weight 
training programme. 
Undulating periodization studies 
Only a few studies have compared the use of undul- 
ating periodization to other types of weight training 
programmes. However, these are quite promising 
concerning the positive effects of undulating per- 
iodization (Fig. 4.4). A comparison of the use of 
undulating periodization, with training zones varied 
on a biweekly basis, to a classic strength/power 
periodization model and a non-periodized multiset 
training programme show no significant differences 
in 1-RM strength or vertical jump ability (Baker et al. 
1994). However, the undulating model did demon- 
strate slightly greater gains in these variables on a 
percentage basis over the 12-week training pro- 
gramme [Table 4.2). All three training programmes 
resulted in similar gains in lean body mass, 
determined using skinfolds measures, with no 
significant difference demonstrated between any of 
the training programmes. 
A one-set programme has also been compared to 
a variation of an undulating programme (Kraemer 
1997). The one-set training programme consisted of 
training 3 days per week using two different groups 
of exercises and forced repetitions. The two different 
groups of exercises were alternated on a training 
session basis. The undulating programme consisted 
of training 4 days per week using two different 
training sessions alternated on a training session 
basis. A strengthlpower session consisted of primarily 
muhijoint exercises using either 3-5,8-10 or 12-15 
RM training zones, while a hypertrophy training 
session consisted of both single joint and multi- 
joint exercises using a 8-10-RM training zone and 
1-2-min rest periods between sets and exercises. The 
undulating training model resulted in significantly 
greater gains in measures of strength, local muscular 

PERIODIZATION OF TRAINING 67 
Fig. 4.4 Many sports training schedules are more conducive 
to using a new form of periodization called ‘undulating’ or 
non-linear as it allows more flexibility in schedule demands 
over a long competitive season. Photo 0 Allsport/G.M. Prior. 
endurance and power (Table 4.2). Both training 
programmes resulted in a significant decrease in 
percentage body fat as determined using skinfold 
measurements. However, the undulating model 
resulted in a significantly greater decrease in 
percentage body fat (undulating 17.9% to 12.0%; 
single set 17.1% to 15.9%). Both programmes also 
resulted in a significant gain in total body mass. 
However, the undulating model demonstrated a 
significantly greater gain in total body mass than the 
single set programme (undulating 104 kg to 111 kg; 
single set 103 kg to 105 kg). Because of the paucity of studies examining the 
results of undulating periodization, conclusions must 
be viewed with some caution. It does appear that 
undulating periodization can result in gains as great 
or greater in strength/power, lean body mass, total 
body mass, local muscular endurance and motor 
performance, and decreases in percentage body fat 
than other types of training programmes. 
Conclusions 
Although relatively few studies have compared 
different types of periodization models to other types 
of training programmes, some tentative conclusions 
can be made. Periodized programmes can result in 
greater strength/power gains than non-periodized 
multiset and single set programmes. Periodized 
programmes can also result in greater gains in motor 
performance, body composition and local muscular 
endurance than non-periodized programmes. Because 
of the relatively short training periods used in some 
studies comparing different training programmes, 
future studies need to examine changes in criteria 
over longer training periods. In addition, studies 
examining the response of women athletes, young 
athletes and older master athletes to periodized 
training are needed. Studies are also needed 
examining periodized models other than the 
traditional strength/power periodized model. A 
long-term goal of research examining periodized 
training should be to understand why periodized 
training may result in greater changes in criteria than 
non-periodized training. If this is understood, it will 
be substantially easier to design optimal strength 
training programmes to meet the needs and goals 
of athletes. 
References and recommended reading 
Baker, D.G., Wilson, D. & Carlson, R. (1994) Periodization: 
the effect on strength of manipulating volume and 
intensity. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research 
8,235-242. 
Fleck, S.J. (1999) Periodized strength training: a critical 
review. Journal ofstrength and Conditioning Research 13, 
82-89. 
Training Programs, 2nd edn. Human Kinetics, 
Champaign, IL. Fleck, S.J. & Kraemer, W.J. (1997) DesigningResistance 


68 CHAPTER 4 
Fleck, S.J. & Kraemer, W.J. (1998) Periodization Break- 
through. Advanced Research Press, New York. 
Gotshalk, L.A., Loebel, C.C., Nindl, B.C. et al. (1997) 
Hormonal responses of multiset versus single-set heavy 
resistance exercise protocols. Canadian Journal of 
Applied Physiology22 (3), 244-255. 
Hakkinen, K., Pakarinen, A., Komi, P.V., Ryushi, T. & 
Kaukanen, H. (1989) Neuromuscular adaptations and 
hormone balance in strength athletes, physically active 
males and females during intensive strength training. 
In: Proceedings of the XIIth International Congress of Bio- 
mechanics (eds R.J. Gregor, R.F. Zernicke & W. Whiting), 
pp. 889-894. Human Kinetics, Champaign, IL. 
periodization versus progressive resistance exercise on 
upper and lower body strength in women. Journal of 
Strength Conditioning Research 10,72-76. 
Kraemer, W.K. (1997) A series of studies: the physiological 
basis for strength training in American football. Journal of 
Strength and ConditioningResearch 11,131-142. 
Kraemer, W,J., Marchitelli, L. J., McCurry, D. et al. (1990) 
Hormonal and growth factor responses to a resistance 
exercise. Journal of Applied Physiology 69,1442-1450. 
Kraemer, W.K., Fleck, SJ., Dziados, J.E. et al. (1993) Changes 
in hormonal concentrations following different header 
resistance exercise protocols in women. Journal of Applied 
Physiology 75,594-604. 
McCall, G.E., Byrnes, W.C., Fleck, SJ., Dickinson, A. & 
Kraemer, W.J. (1999) Acute and chronic hormonal 
responses to resistance training designed to promote 
muscle hypertrophy. Canadian Journal of Applied 
McGee, D., Jesse, T.C., Stone, M.H. &Blessings, D. (1992) 
Leg and hip endurance adaptations to three weight 
training programs. Journal of Applied Sport Science 
Research 6,92-95. 
Mulligan, S.E., Fleck, S.J., Gordon, S.E. et al. (1996) Influence 
of resistance exercise volume on serum growth hormone 
and cortisol concentrations in women. Journal of Strength 
and Conditioning Research 10,256-262. 
ergometer performance and maximum leg and hip Herrick, A.B. & Stone, W.J. (1996) The effects of 
Physiolo~ 24,96-107. 
O’Bryant, H.S., Byrd, R. &Stone, M.H. (1988) Cycle strength adaptations to two different methods of weight 
training. Journal of Applied Sport Science Research 2, 
Prevost,M.C.,Nelson,A.G.E. &Maraj,B.K.V. (1999)The 27-30. 
effect of two days of velocity specific isokinetic training on 
torque production. Journal of Strength and Conditioning 
Research 13,35-39. 
Robinson, J.M., Stone, M.H., Johnson, R.M. et al. (1995) 
Effects of different weight training exercisehst inter- 
vals on strength, power, and high intensity exercise 
endurance. Journal of Strength and Conditioning 
Research 9,216-221. 
Sale, D.G. (1992) Neural adaptations to strength training. In: 
Strength and Power in Sport: the Encyclopedia of Sports 
Medicine (ed. P.V. Komi), pp. 249-265. Blackwell 
Scientific Publications, Oxford. 
D.C. (1998) The short-term effects of periodized and 
constant-intensity training on body composition, strength, 
and performance. Journal of Strength Conditioning 
Research 12,173-178. 
Staron, R.S., Karapondo, D.L., Kraemer, WJ. et al. (1994) 
Skeletal muscle adaptations during the early phase of 
heavy resistance training in men and women. Journal of 
Applied Physiology 76,1247-1255. 
Stone, M.H., O’Bryant, H. & Garhammer, J. (1981) A hypo- 
thetical model for strength training. Journal of Sports 
Medicine 21, 342-351. 
Stowers, T., McMillian, J., Scala, D. etal. (1983) The short- 
term effects of three different strength power training 
methods. National Strength and Conditioning Association 
Journal 524-27. 
Willoughby, D.S. (1992) A comparison of three selected 
weight training programs on the upper and lower 
body strength of trained males. Annual Journal of 
Applied Research and Coaching in Athletics, March , 
Willoughby, D.S. (1993) The effects of mesocycle length 
weight training programs involving periodization and 
partially equated volumes on upper and lower body 
strength. Journal of Strength Conditioning Research 7, 
2-8. Schiotz, M.K., Potteiger, J.A., Huntsinger, P.G. & Denmark, 
124-146. 

Chapter 5 
Periodized training 
programmes for athletes 
introduction 
In this chapter various examples of periodized train- 
ing programmes are presented. With each sport, 
different perspectives and teaching lessons related 
to programme development are offered. The devel- 
opment of extensive programme recommendations 
for every Olympic sport is beyond the scope of this 
handbook but demonstrating how to use the informa- 
tion in previous chapters is vital to proper imple- 
mentation of the programme. The introduction for 
each sport should be carefully studied to elicit the 
perspective and teaching points being demonstrated 
in the example programme. As pointed out in the 
earlier chapters of this handbook, it is important 
to view these as examples, not as the sole type of 
programme that can be used for the sport presented. 
There are many variations in training to take into 
account when a programme is designed. 
Each programme design for a sport and, more 
importantly, for the individual athlete will challenge 
the sports medicine professional and require a unique 
and specialized thought process using the type of 
information contained in this handbook. In order 
to familiarize the reader with different programme 
examples, this chapter starts off with basic informa- 
tion on periodization of training. We then provide 
example programmes for different sports to help the 
reader apply the knowledge base to the design of the 
training programme. Individual athlete considerations 
are not presented but must be included in any 
programme design. 
Basics concepts in periodization of 
resistance training 
Periodization was originally developed for athletes, usually strengthlpower athletes attempting to peak for 
a competition. The concept has now been expanded 
to include all types of physical development pro- 
grammes. Many people credit the former Eastern Bloc 
countries with developing periodized training in the 
1950s and 1960s. Interestingly, the idea was based on 
the work of Canadian endocrinologist, Hans Selye, 
who studied the adrenal gland and the effects of 
different types of stress in animals. He developed the 
concept of the General Adaptation Syndrome, in 
which a ‘stressor’ would first cause a dramatic 
decrease in physiological function but, if it did not kill 
the animal, an adaptation to the stress would occur 
over the next 6-8 weeks and then plateau off. If the 
stress was not removed or changed it would be come a 
‘distress’ and the animal would die. Periodized 
training has now become an important corollary to the 
principle of ‘progressive overload’, as variation is key 
to optimal physical development with long-term 
strength training. 
As pointed out in Chapter 4, several variations 
in terminology describing periodization have 
developed: 
1 traditional American terminology; 
2 traditional European terminology; and 
3 American terminology that grew out of traditional 
European terminology (see Fleck & Kraemer 1997, 
1998 for further review). 
This can make it difficult to understand a period- 
ized programme. In addition, there are dozens of 
models which have been proposed for use. However, 
all periodization terminology either describes a 
certain type of training, a certain portion of a training 
year, or a certain length of time within a training year. 
This makes it quite easy to understand all the various 
forms of periodization terminology. Europeans are 
normally credited with developing the original period- 
ization terminology, Some Americans use this when 
describing a periodized training plan but others have 
developed their own terminology to describe a 
periodized training plan. 
The adaptation of periodization concepts for 
use in the development of resistance training pro- 
grammes for other non-strength and power athletes 
can be accomplished by adjusting classical concepts 
and manipulating the acute programme variables 
(e.g. periodize rest period lengths for lactic acid 
toleration). 
69 

70 CHAPTER 5 
Traditional European periodization terminology 
Traditional European terminology consists of three 
general types of terms (see Chapter 4, Fig. 4.1): 
1 the first describes the length of a particular training 
period; 
2 the second, similar to off-season, pre-season and 
in-season, describes where, in the training year, a 
training phase is located; and 
3 the third type of term describes a particular type 
of training. 
training phase. Different terms are used to describe a 
week, a month and a year of training. All of these terms describe the length of a particular 
Macrecycle 
This tm is normally used to describe one entire 
training year and is important for the personal 
trainm to have a yearly plan for use with each client. 
A macrocycle is typically 1 year in length (e.g. 1 
January to 1 January of the next year). For athletes 
it is normally thought of as beginning and ending after 
the last competition of a season. Macrocycle is also 
sometimes used to describe a length of time longer 
than 1 year: it is sometimes used to describe the length 
of time between major competitions, such as the 
summer Olympics when it would refer to a 4-year 
period. 
Mesocycle 
This term was originally used to describe the major 
training phases of an entire training year so the prep- 
aration, first transition, competition and second 
transition phases were described as mesocycles. 
Thus, mesocycle originally referred to a time period 
of 2-3 months. However, with the advent of the idea 
that to ensure optimal gains in physical conditioning, 
changes in training should be made every 4-6 weeks, 
this term has changed to mean a training period 
lasting 4-6 weeks. 
Microcycle 
Microcycle refers to 1 week or 7 days of training but 
can also relate to a training cycle of up to 4 weeks in 
length, depending upon the programme design. No matter how many training sessions are performed per 
week, microcycle always refers to a set training period 
where a specific workout cycle is used for a specific 
loading and intensity range prior to moving to another 
distinct training stimulus or rest. This is the cycle 
that will specifically define what is being done for a 
particular training variable. Thus, the configuration 
of the exercise stimuli starts with the microcyle, 
moves to define the composite mesocycle which 
moves to define the composite macrocycle. 
Identifying phases of tralning to define cycles 
There are also terms to identify specific types of 
training. In this case, training phases refer to 
particular time periods within a total training year. 
Training phase originally referred to similar time 
periods within the training year as the American 
terminology of off-season, pre-season and in-season. 
Each training phase is made up of several mesocycles 
which are made up of microcycles defining the type 
of workouts used. The following are examples of 
phases commonly used in sport periodization 
of training. 
Types of training terminology 
These terms refer to broad types or categories of 
training and can be combined with other more 
specific aspects of a cycle (e.g. general training 
preparatory phase). The whole terminology process 
in periodization is to define what is being performed 
during a specific time frame in a training cycle. 
General training 
This term refers to training that develops all round 
fitness. This is often thought of as the general prep- 
aratory training needed to develop basic fitness. The 
concept also deals with the idea that many people are 
so unfit that they have to train to ‘get in shape’ so that 
they can then really start to train to make progress 
toward their goals. General strength training refers 
to weight training that develops all the major muscle 
groups of the body and overall strength capabilities. 
A general strength training programme would include 
at least one exercise for all the major muscle groups of 
the body. 

PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 71 
Sport-specific training 
This includes activities related to the specific sport 
the individual is preparing for. Thus, the type of 
training is related to the time spent on sport-specific 
training drill and activities related to the sport itself. 
Competition-specific training 
This refers to putting the athlete in a situation very 
similar to the actual sport or competition setting 
(e.g. tennis). Competition-specific training would be 
included predominately during the late pre-season, 
in-season or competition training phases. 
American strength/power periodization 
American coaches, after learning about periodization 
from the Eastern Europeans, developed their own 
terminology to describe a periodized training pro- 
gramme. The coaches developing this Americanized 
terminology were predominately from strength/power 
sports such as Olympic weight lifting and the 
throwing events in track and field. Therefore, it must 
be remembered that this terminology and type of 
programme was developed for a strength/power 
athlete and not a distant runner or any other type 
of non-strength/power athlete, although the ideas 
contained within this periodized programme can 
be applied to virtually any individual’s training. 
In general, these terms include: 
1 hypertrophy phase-the goal is to develop muscle 
mass to help in subsequent strengthlpower training; 
2 strength phase-the goal of this phase is to develop 
maximal force and set up the body to be able to 
develop power; 
3 power phase-the goal is to optimize the expression 
of maximal force and power; 
4 peaking phase-the goal of the programme is to peak 
for competition; and 
5 active recovery-the goal of this phase is to allow the 
individual time to recover both physically and psycho- 
logically from the training and competition cycles. 
General preparatory conditioning phase 
There is a distinct need to start an athlete off with a 
general training programme, which can be termed a ‘base programme’. The base programme allows for 
a gradual entry into the process of physical con- 
ditioning and allows the personal trainer to learn 
more about the client without undue physical and 
psychological stresses. Making the proper progression 
is one of the fundamental elements of a periodized 
resistance training programme. Typical mistakes 
include programmes which ‘undershoot’ or ‘over- 
shoot’ a client’s physical abilities. Yet at the start of a 
programme too much too soon is the biggest problem. 
In periodization terms this base programme is often 
referred to as a ‘general preparatory conditioning’ 
phase of the training programme. The length of this 
type of training will be highly dependent upon the 
age, health and fitness of the athlete. The general 
preparatory conditioning phase may range from 4 to 
12 weeks and improves the basic physical and mental 
toleration of resistance exercise stress. The more 
highly trained individual will need less time 
(e.g. 4 weeks) on this general conditioning phase 
in a periodization programme. Progress in physical 
abilities is not the primary goal in this phase of 
training but rather qualitative changes in how one 
feels and recovers from workouts. 
training, aerobics and nutrition should be stressed. 
Teaching proper exercise techniques is also vital 
during this phase of training as loads are light and the 
ability to concentrate with little fatigue makes for an 
ideal teaching situation. It is essential not to overshoot 
an athlete’s ability to recover from a workout or cope 
mentally with the required consistency of training. 
Rather than start a programme off too fast, the general 
preparatory conditioning phase of a periodized 
training programme allows the coach to prepare the 
athlete’s mind and body for the challenges of a 
strength training programme. 
that could be developed for various sports and 
athletes, the key to developing the optimum pro- 
gramme is the scientific and theoretical aspects 
of the programme design. In this chapter, a num- 
ber of programmes and background information 
is given to help the reader see the different options 
one can use from the previous chapter’s background 
material. The classic model for periodization has 
been for strength/power athletes as seen in Chap- 
ter 4. In Table 5.1 a further description of this classic During this phase, educational aspects of resistance 
With an almost unlimited number of programmes 

72 CHAPTER 5 
I\ the strengthlpower athlete. Ah Table 5.1 Periodization of training for 
Hypertrophy Strength Power Peaking 
~~ 
Volume High Moderate Low to moderate Low 
Intensity Low High High Very high 
Sets per exercise 3-6 3-6 3-6 1-4 
Repetitions per set 6-20 1-5 1-5 1-4 
Rest between sets 30-60 s 2-5 min 2-5 min 3-5 min 
Exercises and General total body Muscle groups needed Muscle groups needing Mostly power exercises 
Exercise order Weak areas first in Muscle groups needed Power exercises early Power exercises early exercise choice Emphasize weak areas for success in the sport power for success 
training session for success early in in training session in training session 
training session 
Active recovery follows the peaking and competition phases of the training cycle and is used for restoration of the athlete both 
mentally and physically, while allowing his or her body to prepare for further training. 
strengthlpower periodization model is overviewed. 
Key elements of the acute programme variables 
(see Chapter 3) can be distinguished and utilized 
to alter each element of the programme over 
time. 
One must consider which type of periodized pro- 
gramme to use. In general there are two basic types 
which have developed: linear and non-linear period- 
ized protocols for maximal force development. Let us 
now examine some of the basic differences between 
linear and non-linear periodization programme 
examples. 
Linear periodized programmes 
Classic periodization methods progressively increase 
in intensity with small variations in each 2-4 week 
microcycle. For example, a classic four-cycle linear 
periodized programme (4 weeks for each cycle) 
increasing in intensity might be: 
Microcycle 1: Microcycle 2: 
3-5 sets of 12-15 RM 
Microcycle 3: Microcycle 4: 
34 sets of 4-6 RM 4-5 sets of 6-10 RM 
3-5 sets of 1-3 RM It can be observed that there is some variation 
within each microcycle because of the repetition 
range of each cycle. Still, the general trend for the 
16-week programme is a steady linear increase in 
the intensity of the training programme. Because 
of the approximately straight line increase in the 
intensity of the programme, it has been termed 
‘linear’ periodized training. 
vary, with the classic programme starting with a 
higher initial volume and, as the intensity of the 
programme increases, the volume gradually decreases. 
The drop-off between the intensity and volume of 
exercise can become less as the training status of the 
athlete advances. In other words, advanced athletes 
can tolerate higher volumes of exercise during the 
heavy and very heavy microcycles. 
It is very important to point out here that one must 
be very careful not to progress too quickly to training 
with high volumes using very high intensities or 
heavy weights. Pushing the athlete too hard can lead 
to a serious overtraining syndrome which can com- 
promise progress for months. While it takes a great 
deal of excessive work to produce such an over- 
training effect, highly motivated athletes can easily The volume of the training programme will also 

PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 73 
make the mistake out of a desire to make gains and 
see progress in their training and sport performance. 
It is important to monitor the stress of the workouts. 
Remember, exercises within a programme (e.g. mul- 
tiple chest exercises) can interact to compromise each 
other. 
The purpose of the high-volume exercise in the 
early microcycles has been thought to promote the 
muscle hypertrophy necessary to enhance strength 
in the later phases of training. Thus, the late cycles of 
training are linked to the early cycles of training and 
enhance each other as strength gains are related to 
size changes in the muscle. Once maximal force has 
been developed, specialized power training pro- 
grammes can allow for separate development of 
power capabilities in muscle. Programmes which 
attempt to gain strength without the necessary 
muscle tissue are limited in their potential. 
The increases in the intensity of the periodized 
programme then start to develop the necessary 
nervous system adaptations for enhanced motor unit 
recruitment, as pointed out in earlier sections. This 
happens as the programme progresses and heavier 
resistances or higher velocities of movement are 
used. Heavier weights demand high threshold 
motor units to become involved in the force 
production process. Exercises with lighter power 
output but high training velocities also utilize 
specialized motor unit recruitment patterns. 
With the associated increase in muscle protein 
from the early cycle training, force production of 
the motor units are enhanced. Here again one sees 
an integration of the different parts of the 16-week 
training programme. 
A 16-week programme is called a mesocycle and a 
1-year training programme (macrocycle) is typically 
made up of several mesocycles. Each mesocycle 
attempts to progress the body’s muscle hypertrophy, 
strength and power upward towards the theoretical 
genetic maximum. Thus, the theoretical basis for a 
linear method of periodization consists of developing 
hypertrophy followed by improved nerve function and 
strength/power. This is repeated with each mesocycle 
and progress is made in the training programme. Rest 
between the training cycles (active recovery phases) 
allows for the necessary recovery so that overtraining 
problems are reduced if not eliminated. Undulating or non-linear periodized programmes 
More recently, the concept of undulating or non-linear 
periodized training programmes have been developed 
to maintain variation in the training stimulus without 
holding to the strict phasing of training as discussed 
in Chapter 4. However, non-linear periodized training 
sometimes makes implementation of the programme 
easier when schedule or competitive demands over 
a long period of time limit the ability to vary the 
programme sequentially in a linear manner. The non- 
linear programme allows for variation in the intensity 
and volume within each 7-10-day cycle over the 
course of the training programme (e.g. 16 weeks). 
Typically, the change in the intensity and volume of 
training will vary (e.g. within a 7-14-day cycle. After, 
say, a 16-week programme, an active recovery phase of 
1-2 weeks is then followed by another non-linear 
programme cycle or one can proceed to a linear 
programme if desired. A loading or intensity example 
for a non-linear periodized training programme over 
a 16-week mesocycle might be: 
Monday: Wednesday: 
2 sets of 12-15 Rh4 
Friday: Monday: 
3 sets of 4-6 RM 6 sets of 1-3 RM 
4 sets of 8-10 RM 
(This protocol uses a 4-day rotation with 1 day of rest 
between workouts.) 
The variation in training is much greater within the 
4-day cycle over 10 days. One can easily see that 
intensity spans over a maximum of a 15-RM range 
(possibly 1-RM sets vs. 15-RM sets in the cycle). This 
repetition intensity span in training variation appears 
to be as effective as linear programmes. The cycle of 
workouts can also include other types of training 
protocols, e.g. plyometric or six sets of three at 30% 
of 1 RM for power and velocity training. The key is 
the variation over the acute l-z-week cycle over 
perhaps a 12-16-week mesocycle. 
trains the different components of the muscle within 
the 7-14-day microcycle. Compared to the linear 
methods, non-linear programmes attempt to train 
the various components of the neuromuscular system 
within the same cycle. However, during a single In comparison to the linear programmes, the athlete 

74 CHAPTER 5 
workout only one feature is usually trained on that 
day. This appears achievable and may be more con- 
ducive to many individual’s schedules, especially 
when competitions, travel or other schedule conflicts 
can make the traditional linear method difficult to 
adhere to. 
In this programme the athlete rotates through the 
different protocols. The workout rotates between 
the different workout styles for each of the training 
sessions. If the athlete misses the Monday workout 
the rotation order is simply pushed forward so that he 
or she performs the next rotated workout scheduled. 
In this way no workout stimulus is missed in the 
training programme. It can also be dictated that a 
mesocycle will be completed when a certain number 
of workouts are completed (e.g. 48) rather than use 
training weeks to set the programme length of a 
particular cycle. 
Again, the primary exercises are typically 
periodized. One can differentially periodize other 
supplementary exercise movements (e.g. hamstring 
curls, abdominal exercises) with care related to the 
type of movement capabilities; e.g. in the ‘triceps 
push down’ one could rotate between the moderate 
(8-10 RM) and the heavy (4-6 RM) cycle intensities. 
Assistance exercises or supplementary training must 
be carefully chosen so as not to interfere with the 
primary training stimulus being created for the 
specific non-linear workout. 
Thus, two different approaches can be used to 
periodize the training programme: linear and non- 
linear programme schedules. The programmes appear 
to achieve the same effect and are superior to constant 
training programmes (see Chapter 4). The key to 
training programme success appears to be variation 
and different approaches can be used over the year to 
reach the training goals of the athlete. 
Starting off strength training with a 
base programme 
A base programme should be used by any athlete 
when beginning a weight training routine for the frst 
time or when returning from an extended period of 
detraining. It has many similarities to a programme 
for general fitness or all round strength in workout 
frequency and muscle groups exercised. This may be a part of ‘general training’ for the preparatory period 
prior to more intense training. This is especially 
important for junior and master athletes. This type 
of programme allows the athlete to get used to the 
stress of resistance exercise, The frequency of training 
is at least two, but preferably, three times per week 
with at least 1 day separating workouts. Start out with 
one set and progress to three sets over a 6-8-week 
training period of at least 16 workouts. An example 
of a base programme for in the weight room is given 
below. 
Example: base programme with equipment 
Squat: 3 sets of 10-12 RM 
Bench press: 3 sets of 10-12 RM 
Single leg curlslstiff leg deadlifts: 3 sets of 10-12 RM 
Single arm curls: 3 sets of 10-12 RM 
Bent-leg sit ups: 3 sets of 15-20 repetitions 
Shoulder (military) press (dumb-bells): 3 sets of 
10-12 RM 
Internal/external rotator cuff 3 sets of 10-12 RM 
Lateral pull downs: 3 sets of 10-12 RM 
Rest: use 2 min rest between sets and exercises. 
The base programme targets all the major muscle 
groups of the body (shoulders, chest, upper back, 
lower back, abdominals, front and back of upper arm, 
front and back of upper leg, calf, front and back of 
forearm and neck). The same body parts are trained 
each session and, initially, only one set is performed 
per exercise. In addition to multijoint exercises (e.g. 
squat, bench press), the programme also includes a 
number of single joint (isolation) exercises (e.g. arm 
curls, leg curls). 
The first session should involve instruction of all 
the spotting and exercise techniques that will be used. 
The programme involves moderate loads (10-12 RM) 
and the emphasis is on perfecting exercise technique. 
Although a 10-12 RM refers to a loading that is heavy 
enough for only 10-12 repetitions to be performed, 
the first few workouts will often involve possible 
underloading as the athlete finds through trial and 
error how to select a load for a given RM zone range. 
It is not necessary to go to complete failure but the 
loading must be in a targeted range. It is preferable to 
underestimate rather than overestimate the weight 

PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 75 
and it will therefore take a few sessions for the ath- 
lete to discover a true 10-12 RM for each exercise. 
In the meantime, it should be realized that the athlete 
should only perform 10-12 repetitions, even though 
the weight is light enough to allow for more repeti- 
tions. There is nothing wrong with this and it is 
actually a desired training progression. A slightly 
lower intensity should be used for younger boys and 
girls (< 11 years] (12-15 RM) on this programme and 
the same guidelines apply. 
The beginner should use a base programme for 6-8 
weeks. Even though both the number of exercises per 
session and the repetition range are somewhat high, 
a base programme is characterized by a low weekly 
volume of training because of a relatively low total 
number of sets and sessions. Over the duration of this 
programme, the athlete experiences an increase in 
training volume by progressing from 1 to 3 sets for 
each exercise. 
Initially, the metabolic stress is kept at a low 
level by rest periods of at least 2-3 min between 
sets. Additional time should be factored into the 
first session because of the extensive teaching and 
learning of the exercises. The athlete should shorten 
the rest intervals from workout to workout until 
the breaks are closer to 1-1.5 min. Shorter rest 
periods can be used with the circuit format com- 
pared to the other two because the muscle is 
allowed to recover for a longer period of time 
before beginning to exercise again. Thus, to pro- 
vide more rest time for any particular muscle group, 
the athlete should first start using a circuit fashion 
when more than 1 set is involved for any of the 
exercises. 
strength and local muscular endurance will be 
observed in the primary movements as a result 
of dramatic learning effects. This programme 
allows for the athlete to gain maximal force 
and become accustomed to the physical effects 
of resistance training. Recovery should be mon- 
itored carefully and there should be no excessive 
soreness. If any soreness or pain result from the 
workout, further recovery should be allowed, 
loads for each set reduced in the next workout 
and, in extremely rare cases, medical evalua- 
tion sought. With this initial programme, rapid increases in Example: further manipulation of a base programme 
Bench press* 
Squat* 
Front lateral pull downs* 
Single leg curls* 
Military press* 
Single leg extension 
Biceps curl 
ALTERNATEt: wrist curl and reverse wrist curl 
Standing heel raise* 
Lying triceps extension 
Bent-leg sit ups* 
Seated row* 
Back hyperextensions 
Internalhxternal rotator cuff exercises. 
*Start with these eight exercises in the first session. 
tDo only one exercise in one workout and do the next 
exercise in the next workout. 
Soccer 
In this first sport-specific example for soccer (Figs 5.1 
and 5.21, we provide an extensive background over- 
view of the sport so that the reader can see the process 
of sport analysis prior to programme development. 
In addition, this example demonstrates how research 
findings can be used to make decisions and char- 
acterize the needs of players in a specific sport. In 
addition, the art of using the science to develop the 
aspects of the programme not directly supported by 
investigation should be looked for as you study the 
programme. The development of a solid programme 
to meet the needs of each player is vital to a sport 
where endurance, power, agility and speed must all 
be exhibited by athletes in their successful sport per- 
formance. In addition, this programme demonstrates 
how all players of a sport do not need the same type 
of training and position-specific decisions must be 
made for programme development. 
Needs analysis of sport bioenergetics 
Distance covered 
Although there are some discrepancies in published 
data for the distance covered by soccer players in 
matches, most analyses indicate that a player should 

76 CHAPTER 5 
cover 9000-14 000 m, and the average distance 
covered by a player in a national or international 
soccer match is about 10 km. 
It is interesting to note that the recreational player 
covers about the same distance as the top class 
players. If 10 km were covered by running at a steady 
pace in 90 min, oxygen uptake would be 35 ml-min-l- 
kg-' or about 60% of the maximum value of the typ- 
ical player. This is slow 9 min-km-l jogging! What is 
the main difference between players of different 
levels? Fig. 5.1 Soccer players require a vast 
may of physical capabilities for 
success in the sport including 
speed, agility, power and strength. 
Photo 0 AllsportK. Brunskill. 
Fig. 5.2 The sport of soccer requires 
strength training to prevent injury. 
Photo 0 Allsport/S. Dunn. 
Exercise pattern 
Exercise pattern in soccer is intermittent and many 
different activities are alternating (e.g. walking, 
jogging, cruising, sprinting, backwards or sideways 
running). The total distance covered by outfield 
players consists of 25% walking, 38% jogging, 20% 
cruising and 7% backing. The sprinting distance at 
highest individual speed is only 10%. In time-motion 
research, players were found to stand still and walk 
for 57% of total playing time. One study reports that 


PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 77 
no more than 12% of the total time was spent in 
high intensity activities. Nevertheless, players need 
' a relatively high oxygen uptake. Average oxygen 
uptake during a soccer match estimated from heart 
rate (HR) is around 70-8070 of Vozm,. Interestingly, 
this value is almost the same in players belonging 
to a national team and players of a low division or 
recreational players. Heart rate during a match for 
women and youth male players also show the same 
level and pattern of changes as observed for adult 
male players. Relative intensity of effort by indi- 
vidual players is the same regardless of the player's 
level. 
This means that the main differences between 
players of different levels is not the total distance 
covered during a game, duration of low intensity 
activities or relative intensity, but the percentage 
and frequency of fast high intensity exercises during 
the game and the absolute value of maximal speed 
of play. This has been clarified from some studies 
comparing different competition level teams. 
Exercise power output 
Intermittent high intensity or variable speed activities 
typical in soccer elevate energy cost. These include 
frequent accelerating and decelerating, changing of 
direction, tackling, competing for the ball, jumping, 
rising after falling, etc. All these activities provide 
an extra physiological stress to the player. Running 
sideways and backwards elevate energy expenditure 
by 20-4070 compared to normal running, depending 
on the speed of the running. Dribbling a ball also 
requires an extra energy expenditure above that 
of simple running at the same speed. It has been 
shown that there are 1000-1200 discrete movement 
changes in a game, with the mean duration being 
The mean duration of a sprint during top class 
matches is 2 s or 17 m. The average number of 
sprints is 19 and they occur once every 4-5 min. 
When high and moderate speed running are 
added the number of activities amount to 200, 
one per 30 s. 
The interval nature of soccer is partly described by 
the high : low intensity activity ratio of 1 : 7. For every 
4 s spent running hard, approximately 28 s are spent 
in activities of a more aerobic nature. 4.5-6 S. Maximal aerobic power and anaerobic threshold 
Several studies have determined the Vozm, for elite 
male players; mean values between 56.5 and 69.2 ml. 
min-'.kg-* have been reported. For elite women 
players, mean values between 47.1 and 57.6 ml. 
min-lmkg-l have been reported. There is a positive 
relationship between Vozm, and the ability to resist 
deterioration in sprint speed during a simulated game 
test. Voimax correlates well with the total distance 
covered in a game. 
Studies show that soccer players have a high 
anaerobic threshold around 80% of Vozm,, almost 
comparable to middle distance and distance runners. 
A significant negative correlation was found between 
deterioration in repetition sprint performance and 
anaerobic threshold for well-trained players. This 
suggests that not only improving the VO~~, but also 
pulling up the anaerobic threshold are important 
training goals for the soccer player. 
Anaerobic lactacid system 
The fact that the intermittent activities are more 
energy demanding than continuous exercise is 
supported by the observations of higher blood lactate 
concentrations during intermittent exercise. While 
most studies of blood lactate concentration at half 
time or at the end of a game have shown values of 
4-10 mmol.l-', it is apparent that blood lactate values 
depend upon the intensity of activity in the few 
minutes prior to the sampling. Based on the findings 
of lactate concentrations in random interval sampling 
throughout the game, a single peak of lactate level 
during a match can at times be higher than 10 mmol. 
1-I. Individual positions and the defence tactics 
adopted by the team significantly influence lactate 
concentrations. Therefore, improving the anaerobic 
energy production system should not be underestim- 
ated as it can provide more energy at a very high 
rate during intense exercise periods of the game. 
It is known that muscle glycogen decreases rapidly 
during a soccer game. Low muscle glycogen impairs 
both aerobic endurance and anaerobic high intensity 
performance. The shorter average distance covered 
at high intensity running in low level players 
might be caused by low intramuscular glycogen 
concentrations. 

78 CHAPTER 5 
Biomechanical analysis and muscle activity 
in soccer 
Muscle strength 
In most research measuring muscle strength of soccer 
players, data are obtained using an isokinetic 
apparatus and focused on concentric actions of the 
knee extensors. Mean values between 257-284 N at 
0.0 rad.s-l, 214-300 N at 0.5 radas-' and 126-182 N 
at 3.1 radas-' have been observed. 
In a study which compared knee extensor and flexor 
strengths in male players from national teams and four 
different divisions it was shown that the national team 
players were strongest. Recently, one study showed 
the strength of elite soccer players using free weights: 
1-RM squat was 164.6 kg or 2.1 kg-body weight-1 and 
1-RM bench press was 82.7 kg or 1.1 kgvbody weight-'. 
These values were significantly higher than that for 
lower level team players. 
The soccer kick 
Most studies show that there is no relationship 
between kick performance and isokinetic knee 
extensor strength or isokinetic hip flexor strength for 
high level players. It appears that the strength of the 
knee extensors or hip flexors alone does not determine 
the final impact on the ball in a kick. Hip extensor 
muscles, hamstrings and lower leg muscles are also 
important components of the soccer kick. 
Research findings indicate that the hip flexor in 
accelerating thigh towards the ball and eccentric 
contraction of hip extensor (e.g. the hamstrings) in 
decelerating or almost stopping the forward swing 
just prior to ball contact are dominant during a kick. 
Stabilizing the ankle also influences the impact of the 
foot with the ball to maximize the release velocity of 
the ball in kicking. A successful kick incorporates 
a complex series of synergistic and antagonistic 
muscles, including the muscle groups of trunk and 
upper extremity, rather than isolated muscle strength. 
The muscles of the non-kicking leg are also important 
as they provide an important support base for contact 
targeting of the kicking leg. 
Some research showed that considerable changes 
in force from strength training did not improve peak 
ball velocity. In contrast, other studies showed that development in force from strength training 
improved kick performance. The subjects in the 
latter studies performed the strength training in 
addition to their ordinary training over a season. 
Another strength training programme, which 
built in plyometrics and ball exercise sessions, 
significantly improved kick performance. Strength 
training using special devices that allow functional 
(specific) muscle activities similar to the kicking 
motion with stretch-shortening cycle has also 
shown significant increase in peak ball velocity. 
Thus, it is important to combine basic strength 
training with soccer-specific strength training 
and skill training. 
in most kicks used in the game (e.g. push pass) 
the direction of the toes in the support leg and 
the kick leg are not always same. The direction 
of the toe in the support leg and the direction of 
the swing movement of the kick leg itself are often 
different in the higher level player at top level 
competition. In addition to an extension-flexion 
of hip and knee, hip adduction-abduction including 
diagonal plane, internal-external rotation of hip and 
knee and combinations of these movements should 
be trained. 
action is advantageous in various game events in 
addition to kicking; these include rapidly changing 
direction, sudden acceleration and deceleration, 
heading, tackling, jumping, getting up from the 
ground and numerous goalkeeping skills. These 
explosive power performances are a multifaceted 
phenomenon that represents many training factors, 
such as maximal force, rate of force development, 
stretch-shortening cycle ability and intermuscular 
coordination specific to soccer skills. Therefore, all 
of these components of explosive strength should be 
included in a periodized training programme. In contrast to the instep kick discussed above, 
It appears that a higher ability of explosive muscle 
Sprinting 
Comparing top German professional and amateur 
players at 30-m sprint tests, professional players 
were Significantly faster than the amateurs even at 
10 m. One study showed that average distance of 
sprinting during matches is 15-17 m. In another 
study, maximal sprinting distance was on average 

PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 79 
20-30 m with an upper distance of around 40 m. 
Judging from these distances, quick acceleration 
at the start must be given more emphasis than the 
maintenance of top speed. A recent study of top 
professional soccer players from Brazil showed that 
the wingers and strikers have significantly greater 
total sprint distance than the other positions. 
Individual training programmes based on the 
positional role of the player should be carefully 
considered. 
Agility and quickness 
Most studies examine the agility of a professional 
soccer player using the Illinois agility run test 
which involves a combination of sprinting, changing 
direction and weaving in and out approximately 9 m 
(30 ft). Studies showed that the mean time of the test 
was less than the highest level of standardized score 
norms. 
Any change of running direction is caused by 
an external impulse to the ground. The greater and 
quicker the direction change during desired high 
running speed, the greater force and shorter time 
of push off to the ground in the optimal direction is 
necessary. Any unnecessary extra step during turning 
should be avoided. Based upon the results of a study 
showing that an &week eccentric strength training 
programme decreased contact time on the force 
platform when changing direction, it was concluded 
that agility performance could be improved through 
eccentric strength training. 
The amortization phase of foot contact with the 
ground in changing of running direction or turning 
can be considered the eccentric phase. The muscle 
must contract concentrically to execute the take off in 
the desired direction. If change from eccentric muscle 
action to concentric action is performed quickly, the 
resultant concentric action is more powerful than if 
no eccentric action was performed or if there was a 
pause between the eccentric and concentric muscle 
contraction phases. 
To shorten the time to switch from eccentric to 
concentric muscle action and develop maximal 
contraction in the shortest time of foot-ground 
contact for quick changing of running direction, 
various stretch-shortening cycle exercises or 
‘shock’ method (plyometric training) is effective. Ball control and fake 
In receiving and controlling the ball, flexibility of 
the hip joint, muscle strength and balance of the 
supporting leg are necessary to control the ball and 
to keep the player’s body between the opponent and 
the ball. Combining a body fake or step fake with fast 
acceleration to rid him or herself of the opponent(s) is 
impossible without well-developed strength, power, 
flexibility and total body balance. Pull back and step 
over ball fake, shooting and passing fake, change of 
tempo and direction fake (quick change of accelera- 
tion and deceleration) are often used. A player can 
execute these fakes or pivots only if he or she has 
unilateral and multidirectional strength and flexibility 
of the hip, knee and ankle joint. Pendulum-like 
movement of the upper body during a fake requires 
good flexibility and strong trunk muscles. 
Heading 
Heading is a unique and an important skill in soccer. 
Usually the player jumps into the air and contacts 
the ball. While trying to head the ball there is often 
forceful body contact with surrounding players in the 
air. The trunk flexion and rotation mainly determine 
the force applied to the ball by the player. The neck 
should be isometrically fixed at the moment of impact. 
For successful heading, strengthening abdominal and 
trunk muscle is necessary. Shoulder and arm strength 
are also necessary in aggressive aerial duels. 
Tackling 
Data obtained from various players of different levels 
have showed that the total number of tackles averaged 
14 per player per game and this value increased in 
higher levels of competition. For successful slide 
tackling at right angles from a low position in a 
safe manner, the hip joint must be flexible and 
strengthened. Getting up from the ground quickly 
straight after the slide tackle and starting the next 
play rapidly requires total body explosive strength. 
Thmw-in 
Little attention has been paid to the ability of field 
players to throw the ball in a throw-in style but being 

80 CHAPTER 5 
able to throw the ball further will be advantageous in 
many situations of the game. Explosive strength and 
flexibility of trunk and shoulder should be trained for 
the long throws. 
Goalkeeping 
The goalkeeper occupies a special position in soccer. 
He or she needs to have specific physical abilities 
different from field players. Goalkeeping consists 
of more than receiving the ball with the hands and 
throwing; a high degree of quickness in reactions, 
agility in all different directions from various body 
positions, speed of getting up from the ground and 
diving, and throwing the body in another direction, 
height of jumping and starting velocity of sprinting 
forward and backward are all required. 
The more skilled goalkeepers were found to dive 
faster and more directly at the ball using a counter- 
movement jump, whereas the less skilled goalkeepers 
failed to perform a countermovement. Develop- 
ment of explosive strength and flexibility of 
upper extremities, trunk and lower body are 
necessary. 
The modern goalkeeper is more than just a shot- 
stopper. He or she has to receive the ball and pass 
with either foot; at times heading is also essential. 
To improve the ability to throw the ball as fast and 
far as possible, strength and power in the shoulders, 
chest and back muscle groups are necessary. Well- 
developed upper body explosiveness is needed to 
fist punch the high ball as far as possible. 
Body composition and size 
Increasing lean body mass to some extent is an 
important training aspect in soccer players, as 
superfluous body fat decreases performance, such as 
acceleration, jumping, sudden turning and changing 
of direction in which body mass is lifted against 
gravity. A high percentage of body fat is the cause of 
fatigue in the early phase of the game. The average 
percentage of body fat for top level male players 
is approximately 10% or below. Mean body fat 
percentage of between 19.7 and 22.0% has been 
reported for elite women players. As a general trend, 
the goalkeepers, centre backs and forwards used as 
‘target players’ tend to be taller and heavier players. However, data show that body size is not necessarily a 
determinant of sport success. 
Primary sites of injury and its prevention 
Common injuries 
Eighty-eight per cent of all soccer injuries are 
localized to the lower extremities and 90% of all 
injuries are sprains, overuse, contusion and strains. 
Injury types and localization in both men and women 
are similar but women are observed to have a greater 
incidence of knee injuries than men, and are more 
prone to suffer dislocations of the patella or anterior 
cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries. This may result from 
different muscle activation patterns for cutting or 
deceleration movement between men and women. 
Ankle sprains are the most common injuries for 
both men and women, constituting about 20% of all 
soccer injuries. Twisted ankles can occur not only 
when the player contacts another player competing 
for the ball and the player’s foot touches the ground at 
an undesirable angle, but also when the player lands 
with their foot on another player’s foot or lose their 
balance after a jump for heading and goalkeeping. 
The other most common types of injury in soccer 
are musculotendinous injuries or strains of the lower 
extremity, especially the quadriceps, hamstrings, 
adductors and gastrocnemius. Groin pain is becoming 
increasingly recognized as a common symptom of 
injuries in soccer players. Adductor longus, rectus 
abdominis, iliopsoas and rectus femoris are included 
in this region. Compression as a result of direct impact 
and distraction as a result of overstretching or over- 
load are two major causes of muscle ruptures. 
and ACL injuries are common. Injury to the ACL has 
been estimated to occur in one out of 100 senior 
players every year. These injuries occur not only in 
contact, such as being tackled by another player, but 
also in non-contact situations, such as a quick change 
of direction or pivot turn when a player’s foot is fixed 
to the ground. It is important to note that 40% of ACL 
injuries occur in non-contact situations. Meniscal injuries, medial collateral ligament (MCL) 
Mechanism of injury andprevention 
Players who have muscular weaknesses and strength 

PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 81 
imbalances are likely to experience situations where 
the muscle fails to sustain the joint. Muscle tightness, 
misalignment, muscle weakness and joint instability 
are also related to many soccer injuries. A recent 
study, which monitored a men’s college soccer 
team over a 4-year period, clearly demonstrated a 
significant decrease in team injuries during the years 
in which strength training was employed. 
Data from the World Cup final stage showed that 
more than 70% of injuries to players occurred where 
no foul play was adjudged; 50% of injuries in this 
category were associated with contact with another 
player, such as a tackle, collision and heading, 
while 20% did not involve another player. Players 
sustaining knee sprains not caused by collision had 
reduced knee extension strength in the injured leg 
compared to non-injured players. 
In soccer, those situations where high force is 
needed are likely uses only a single legs in various 
angles and planes of joint movements. In evaluation 
and prescription of strength training of soccer players, 
angle specificity should be considered as well as 
lateral specificity. 
It has recently been proposed that not only the 
conventional index for muscle balance of the 
hamstrings and quadriceps (H : Qratio) but also 
the ratio of eccentric hamstring strength to concentric 
quadriceps strength (He,, : Q,) is important for 
evaluation and to design training programmes aimed 
at increasing the muscle stabilization at the knee joint. 
It is worthy of note that the incidence of injury was 
three times higher during off-season practice 
compared with in-season practice sessions. 
A rehabilitation programme in the pre-season is 
necessary to improve joint flexibility and stability, 
muscular strength and endurance, coordination and 
balance. The exercises should be chosen to activate 
proprioceptive or kinaesthetic feedback systems and 
movement coordination similar to soccer-specific 
movement. 
Traditionally, quadriceps strength training used to 
be employed for injury prevention and rehabilitation 
of soccer players. However, isolated quadriceps 
muscle activity increases the strain within the ACL 
fivefold. For the knee and hip joint, it is important to 
emphasize structural exercises in which coactivity of 
hamstrings and quadriceps occurs instead of single 
joint exercises. For the ankle joint, coordination training with an ankle disc has been found to reduce 
the incidence of ankle sprains in soccer players 
significantly. 
Goalkeeper injuries 
The goalkeeper has a specific injury pattern different 
from field players of the team. Sixty per cent of all 
upper extremity injuries in professional soccer 
players were sustained by goalkeepers. In addition 
to the head injuries acquired in collision with other 
players or the goal posts, and abrasions or bruises 
acquired in landing directly on the body, the common 
upper extremity injuries sustained by goalkeepers 
are shoulder dislocation, fractures to the wrist, and 
fractures, dislocations and distortions of the fingers. 
These injuries occur after the goalkeeper throws him- 
or herself on to the ground or lands straight on his or 
her arm. Typical throwing injuries, such as rotator 
cuff tears or labrum tears in the joint, may also occur. 
Lower extremity injuries in goalkeepers almost always 
occur in the same way as in field players. 
Components of training for soccer conditioning 
The goals of conditioning training in soccer are first to 
improve the ability to perform explosive movements 
and the capacity to execute higher intensity exercises 
repeatedly without decreases induced by fatigue 
throughout the game and, secondly, to prevent 
injuries during games and training. To achieve this 
goal, a conditioning programme has to be multi- 
faceted and should cover all the different aspects of 
the physical abilities required for high performance 
soccer discussed above. Conditioning training for 
soccer players is divided into five components and 
their subcomponents (Fig. 5.3). There is some overlap 
between the training categories as they are so closely 
related to each other. Some training categories can 
be performed in combination (e.g. speed training, 
quickness and agility training, and plyometric 
training can be performed together in a single series 
of exercise movements). 
Strength and power training 
There are four types of strength training. The exercise, 
intensity, volume (sets and repetitions), speed, angle 

82 CHAPTER 5 
Strength training Speed training Quickness and agility training \ preparatory Hypertrophy Basel \ 
Maximum force 
High-performance 
soccer conditioning 
Lactacid 
Anaerobic endurance 
Alactacid Dynamic flexibility 
/ /Hish intensity 
Static flexibility LOW intensity 
Aerobic endurance 
Fig. 5.3 Components of periodized soccer-specific strength and conditioning training. 
of performing exercise movement, exercise mode and 
rest periods used in each of the categories differ. stabilize movement and to transfer the power generated 
in a part of the body to the whole body effectively. 
Baselpreparatory training Hypertrophy training 
The goal of baselpreparatory training is to increase 
range of motion, to improve flexibility and to facilit- 
ate the function of various proprioceptive reflexes 
and body balance control. The training involves a 
relatively high volume at low to moderate intensity 
(2-4 sets of 13-20 RM). Between sets and exercises, 
1-2 min rest is taken. Performing exercises in a full 
range of motion and moderate velocity in a controlled 
manner is important in this training. For players who 
have functional instability of the ankle joint, ankle 
disk (or balance board) training is recommended. This 
baselpreparatory training allows the player’s muscles 
and connective tissues to adapt subsequent strength 
and conditioning training and to prevent injuries in 
the beginning phase of skill or tactics training in the 
field or artificial turf. 
All the major muscle groups of the body should 
be included in the training programme. Training 
the abdominal and back muscles is also important to It is clear both from observations and anthropometric 
studies of elite soccer players that an exaggerated 
muscle hypertrophy is not essential to being an 
exceptional soccer player; however, increasing lean 
body mass is necessary to develop strength and power 
in subsequent training phases. Preventing injury and 
facilitating strength recovery after an injury also 
requires some degree of muscle hypertrophy. 
Hypertrophy exercises consist of at least one 
multijoint andlor single joint exercise for all the major 
muscle groups of the body. For lower extremities, 
exercises at different joint angles and movement 
planes should be adopted. Upper body hypertrophy 
is needed to some extent in order to prevent injury 
and to allow players-in particular goalkeepers-to 
withstand contact with other players. Hypertrophy 
training consists of a relatively high volume and 
moderate intensity (e.g. 3-4 sets of 6-10 RM). Rest 
periods are 1-2 min. 

PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 83 
Development of maximal force capabilities 
The major goal of strength training is to develop the 
body’s ability for maximal force. To improve and 
develop intra- and intermuscular coordination for 
the major muscle groups used for movements in 
soccer, exercises are predominantly of the multijoint 
strength type. 
Soccer players should also concentrate on various 
multijoint strength exercises, especially ones using a 
single leg, such as the single leg squat, a variety of 
lunges and step ups. These single leg exercises are 
performed at several depths of knee bent position, 
internal and external rotated hip angles, and abducted 
and adducted hip joint positions, similar to the 
various playing positions during soccer matches. 
To achieve maximum benefit from these exer- 
cises, free weights are superior to machines. When 
performing the single leg exercises with a barbell or 
dumb-bell, body position and motion must be con- 
trolled in all three planes. This allows proprioceptive 
and kinaesthetic feedback to occur in a manner 
similar to that in soccer performance. This phase of 
strength training mainly consists of moderate to 
high intensity and moderate to low volume (3-4 sets 
of 6-8 Rh4). Rest periods are relatively longer than 
hypertrophy training (2-3 min). 
Explosive strength (power) training 
Explosive strength (power) training improves limiting 
performance factors for soccer players in the strength 
domain. There are three training subcategories: rate of 
force development training; acceleration training; and 
plyometric training. 
RATE OF FORCE DEVELOPMENT TRAINING 
Rate of force development (RFD) training allows the 
player to exert as much force as possible in a very 
short period of time. The key to this type of training 
is maximal effort in a rested state. The loads typically 
range from 30% to 60% of 1 RM but can be as high as 
85% of 1 RM. However, the key is maximal exertion 
in the appropriate lifting movements. The rest periods 
should be 3-4 min to allow sufficient recovery in 
order to exert maximal effort in lifting movements. 
With this type of training, the ability to produce force 
quickly is the primary goal of training. ACCELERATION (BALLISTIC) TRAINING 
The goal of acceleration or ballistic training is to 
exert force ballistically in an accelerating manner. 
When lifting the lighter resistances more quickly to 
train at a faster velocity more specific to soccer, the 
bar decelerates during the later phase of the lift. To 
prevent this undesirable deceleration, actual projec- 
tion of the medicine balls or players’ bodies into free 
space like jumping with or without resistance is used. 
Some Olympic-style lifts and related lifts are also 
used, as such lifts have an explosive and accelerative 
velocity profile. 
PLYOMETRIC (STRETCH-SHORTENING CYCLE) TRAINING 
With plyometric exercises the muscles are rapidly 
loaded with an eccentric action immediately before 
concentric action. Plyometric training is designed 
for developing maximal force production in a very 
short ground contact time and reducing the inhibitory 
Golgi tendon organ reflex. In addition to vertical and 
horizontal forward jumps and hops, single leg lateral 
jumps and hops with quickly changing directions 
and turns should be adopted for soccer players. 
Speed training 
Speed training concentrates on starting and 
accelerating abilities in short distance running; the 
maintainance of top speed is not emphasized. Various 
drills to improve the initial velocities from standing 
start and acceleration techniques are used for speed 
training. Resistance running drills with harnesses, 
sleds and parachutes are also helpful to develop 
explosive starting and high acceleration for soccer 
players. Assisted or overspeed running drills can 
be used so that the neuromuscular system can learn 
the high stride frequencies the player has never 
experienced. 
Speed training should be designed to approximate 
game situations such as free running into open space 
to receive the ball, racing to the ball in one-to-one, and 
cover running. Players are more highly motivated by 
exercises using balls in competitive situations. The 
recommended distance to be used in speed training is 
in the range of 10-40 m. At least 30 s should be taken 
for the rest periods. The stance and the leg used to 
push the ground first should be changed at every 
sprint. 

84 CHAPTER 5 
Quickness and agility training 
Soccer players need to start their movements rapidly 
from both the right and left foot equally. Players who 
can react quickly in every direction from different 
body positions often have decisive roles as defenders 
and attackers especially in front of goals. Quickness 
training is defined as a series of training to improve 
a first step explosion from a stationary position or 
slow movement. The purpose of agility training is to 
increase the frequency of change of movement pattern 
and direction in a restricted time and area. Both are 
closely connected with reaction training and decision 
making. In combining quickness and agility training, 
the ability to vary body position or action quickly and 
to change direction suddenly is improved effectively. 
Endurance training 
There are two types of endurance training based upon 
the systems of energy supply: aerobic and anaerobic 
training. 
Aerobic endurance training 
Aerobic endurance training is divided into regen- 
eration, low intensity and high intensity training, 
according to the physiological functions improved 
by the training. 
REGENERATION TRAINING 
Exercises with below 65% of HGm (approximately 
below 130 b.p.m. for 20-year-old players), such as light 
jogging, are included in this category. If this type of 
training was carried out on the day after a match or 
hard training, recovery from fatigue would be facil- 
itated. It also can be used to avoid overtraining and to 
stabilize the immune system, which can be suppressed 
because of intensive and extensive mental and phys- 
ical exercise during a heavy schedule of tournaments. 
If regenerative type training such as an over dis- 
tance running lasted over 60 min, the training purpose 
would be to develop a state of physical conditioning 
to support low and high intensity training and 
anaerobic training in later training stages. 
LOW INTENSITY AEROBIC ENDURANCE TRAINING 
The purpose of low intensity aerobic endurance training is to improve peripheral factors of aerobic 
endurance (the proliferation of capillaries and the 
oxidative capacity in the muscle). Intensity of this 
training should be between 65 and 80% of &m 
(approximately 130 and 160 b.p.m. for elite 20-year- 
old players). The upper border corresponds to the 
anaerobic threshold. For an average soccer player, 
a relatively lower heart rate should be used for the 
upper border (e.g. 140-150 b.p.m.). When continu- 
ous methods are used for this training intensity, 
the duration of training varies from 30 to 60 min. 
However, care must be taken so that aerobic endur- 
ance training does not compromise speed and power 
development. 
Intermittent training games with special rules 
are strongly recommended for this training. In this 
case, the active period should be from 5 to 10 min. 
Active recovery, such as jogging or ball juggling 
with a partner, should be adopted to maintain the 
HR at approximately 130 b.p.m. The rest periods are 
2-3 min. 
HIGH INTENSITY AEROBIC ENDURANCE TRAINING 
High intensity training allows the player to improve 
central factors such as cardiac output and, as a 
result, to increase VO~~~. The range of training 
intensity corresponds approximately to 80-100% 
Intermittent training games using special rules 
should mainly be used for this training. In practice, 
170-180 b.p.m. are used for target HR by the end of 
the activity for 20-year-old soccer players. Too high an 
intensity can inhibit the increasing of stroke volume 
and further activate a larger portion of energy coming 
from glycolysis. As a result, aerobic processes are 
inhibited and the concentration or creativity neces- 
sary for tactical decision making could theoretically 
be disturbed. 
The duration of this exercise is 1-2 min. The rest 
interval should not be longer than 3 min. The number 
of repetitions might be 3-8 times. Of%,. 
Anaerobic endurance training 
The purpose of anaerobic endurance training is to 
improve the capacity to produce power and energy 
continuously via the anaerobic pathways. This 
training is further subdivided into two types of 

PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 85 
training according to exercise duration, by which 
energy supply system is used. 
LACTACIJJ ENDURANCE TRAINING 
The purpose of this training is to improve glycolytic 
energy pathways and increase tolerance to unfavour- 
able internal changes, such as accumulation of lactic 
acid and hydrogen ions (buffer capacity). This process 
usually takes about 8 weeks. The intensity should be 
almost maximum. The exercise duration is 30-90 s 
and the rest period is equal to the exercise duration 
(about 1 : 1 exercise : rest ratio progression). The 
number of repetitions is usually 3-4. The number of 
sets is 2-3 at most, with 10-20 min active recovery 
intervals between the sets. This highly intensive 
lactacid endurance training creates considerable 
physiological stress. It is recommended only for 
advanced or elite players. 
ALACTACID ENDURANCE TRAINING 
The aim of alactacid endurance training is to improve 
creatine phosphate energy supply reactions. The dura- 
tion of the exercise should be 5-8 s (running 40-70 m) 
with maximal intensity, and the rest period is about 
1-2 min. In order to avoid blood lactate accumulation, 
the training should be divided into 3-5 sets consisting 
of 4-5 repetitions. Rest periods with light exercise, 
such as walking or slow jogging, should be 5-10 min. 
This training should be distinct from sprint speed 
training. Usually there is no opportunity in the game to 
run straight over 40 m, reaching and maintaining top 
speed. Exercise patterns can be designed to approxim- 
ate game situations so that acceleration, deceleration, 
stopping, changes of direction and playing the ball are 
involved repeatedly in a single exercise training bout. 
Flexibility training 
Flexibility training mainly consists of static and 
dynamic stretching. In addition to a warm-up routine 
at the beginning of every training session and game, 
stretching can be performed as a special training task, 
theoretically to help prevent injury during the season. 
Static stretching 
Static stretching improves the range of motion of 
isolated joints and muscles. Special attention is needed for hips, thighs, hamstrings, ankles and spin 
region. Besides stretching in a team training session, 
regular stretching programmes should be undertaken 
by the player at home every day. Static stretching after 
activities helps the muscles recover from exercise 
stress and is part of most ‘cool downs’. 
Dynamic stretching 
The purpose of dynamic stretching is to increase 
the joint mobility in the active full body dynamic 
movements specific to soccer. Usually a series of 
rhythmical calisthenics type movements are used but it is useful to perform dynamic stretching with 
soccer-specific movements such as slide tackle and 
hip turn kick with 
or without balls. 
Periodization training programme for soccer 
There are many different kinds of physical abilities 
that must be developed in the training of soccer 
players as shown above. However, the human body 
cannot adapt to so many different physiological 
requirements at the same time. One method that can 
induce beneficial adaptation in one motor ability or 
physiological system necessary for soccer discussed 
above may produce negative effects on another abil- 
ity or system. Not only strength and conditioning 
training, but also tactical and technical training are 
important and often take long training periods induc- 
ing overtraining. Thus, periodization of an entire 
training programme is important to offset this 
potential for overtraining while peaking the team for 
competitions, especially championship tournaments 
at the end of most seasons. 
Therefore, in order to increase the training effect 
of the targeted abilities, to avoid overtraining and to 
overcome accommodation to the same kinds of train- 
ing for long periods of time, some selected training 
targets (prioritized training) should be distributed 
over several mesocycles in sequence, depending on 
their relationships to each other. Variation in a train- 
ing programme is vital to its success. 
We examine two examples of a 1-year periodized 
strength and conditioning training programme for 
soccer players: a model for a intercollegiate team 
(Fig. 5.4) and a model for a professional team (Fig. 5.5). 
Both programmes are based on the basic principles 

Microcyder(weekr) 
M-b FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC JAN 
1 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 ~10~11~12~13~14~15~16~17~18)19~20~21~22~23~24~25~26~27~28~29~30~31~32~33~34~35~36~37~38~39~40~41~42~43)~~45~46~47~~~~~~~~5~~5~ 
Transition 2 Competition preparation 1 Transition 1 Preparation 2 
Conc. Ware Base Hypertrophy Maxforce Explosive Recovery Hypertrophy Max force EXplosiVe Maintenance Recow 
12RM Low Intensity Low LOW Moderate High Low Lowaoderate Moderate-High High Moderate-High 
C 
0 
0 
0 High Low 
AAA L Volume 
Rep (RM) 
sel 
Rest period (mid 
Sessionsperweek 
oc 
0 
0 Low LOW Moderate High Moderate LOW LOW High Moderate LOW Low 
13-20 10-12 6-8 3-6 10-12 10-12 6-8 3-6 6-8 Rep 3-6 
3-4 34 34 1 -3 34 3-4 34 2-3 set 3-4 
1-2 1 -2 2-3 34 1-2 1-2 2-3 34 24 34 
2-3 3 3 2-3 0-2 3 3 2-3 1-2 2-3 24 
AA 
A A Intensity Low Mod High Low Mod 
Vdume High Mod Low High Mod 
222 222 WOnS per week High Moderate 
Low Moderate 
1 
3 
OAA 
A0 A 
A 00 A 
AA 
A 
00 00 00 000000000000 0 P 01 P 00 
A AA 
> 0 
00 
0 
A 
AA AAA 
LO A 
00 A 
00 AA 
A AA 
AAAAAAAAAAAA A 
Sessions per week 0 1 2 3 0 1 2 3 1-2 0 
Seaions per week 0 1 2 3 0 1 2 3 1-2 0 
Regeneration 34 2 1 34 3 1 -2 1 
Low intensw 1 2 1 0 1 2 1 1 -2 
High intensity 0 212 0 2 13 1-2 2-3 
0 
0 
0 0 1 -2 131 Lactacid 121 0 
Alactacid 0 1 2 0 12 1 -2 0 

Miaoqrla(udcs) 
MwocydS JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP ot7 NOV DEC 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 
Reparation Competition (1st stage) Transition 1 Competition (2nd stage) Transition 2 
Phase 
Intensity 
Volume 
Rw(RM) 
INTENSrrY 8 VOLU Bare I Hyper Maxfwce Explosive Maintenance ReCOVefy Maintenance (nodinear model) ReCoVefY 
Low Low Moderate High Moderate-High LOW L-oderate-High LOW 
Moderaie-High Moderate LOW Low-Moderate LOW Low-Moderate-High LOW 
13-20 I 10-12 6-8 3-6 6-10 10-12 3-15 
11 'i' 
12RM Low Set 24 3-4 
Restperiod(min) 1-2 1-2 
Sessionsperweek 3 3 ~~ 
34 34 2-3 1 -3 2-5 
2-3 34 24 1 -2 14 
3 2-3 1-3 0-2 1-3 
0 
3 
A L Intensity 
volume 
Sesiomperweek LOW Mod High Moderate Mod Moderate 
High Mod Low Low LOW LOW Low 
2221 1-2 2 1-2 
00 
0 AA 00 A 
AA A 
A 
OA A 
A0 0 AA AA AA AA AA A 
00 00 00 00 00 0 
AA AA AAAAA AA 
00 00 00 00 00 
AA AA AA AA AA 
0 00 00 00 00 00 AA 
A A OA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 
0 
0 000000000000000 00 0 
Sessions per week 0 2 3 1-2 02 1 -2 0 
Sessions per week 0 2 3 1-2 02 1-2 0 
Regeneration 
Lowintensity 
Hiqh intemW 3 2 1 1-2 1-3 1-2 1-3 
2 1 312 0-2 12 0-2 0 
0 12 113 0-2 112 0-2 n 
Lactacid 0 121 0-1 02 0-1 0 
Alactacid 0 1 2 0-1 02 0-1 0 

88 CHAPTER 5 
described above. The major differences between the 
two models are the length of the preparation and the 
competition phases. There is only one competition 
phase of 15 weeks in the collegiate model, whereas 
in professional model there is a 7-month competition 
phase divided in half by a break of 4 weeks. These 
examples are only a guideline and it should be 
emphasized that there may be many different 
periodized training programmes based upon the 
specific conditions of a particular programme and 
according to the specific demands of a given team 
and athletes. 
The North American intercollegiate model 
The competition phase of this model team starts at 
the end of August and they have two games each 
week thereafter until the beginning of November. 
Tournaments start at the end of the competition 
phase until the middle of December, depending 
on the results of the games. The plan consists of two 
preparation phases divided by a 4-week transition 
phase for recovery. 
Each preparation phase consists of hypertrophy, 
maximum force and explosive phase. The first 
half of the preparation phase, starting in January, 
has a baselpreparatory phase prior to the hypertrophy 
phase. In this model, it is assumed that players have 
not engaged in any formal strength training before, 
so baselpreparatory and hypertrophy phases are 
emphasized to stimulate their adaptation to a higher 
level of strength training and for the morphological 
changes of the body. 
Plyometric training is started in the latter half of 
the maximum force phase. Speed training and 
quickness and agility training are emphasized at 
the explosive strength phase. Aerobic endurance 
training proceeds to anaerobic training. High inten- 
sity aerobic training is avoided with hypertrophy 
training and is not emphasized in the first half of 
the maximum force phase and in the explosive 
strength phase. 
A normal in-season training programme will be 
used, consisting primarily of small numbers and low 
volume of moderate intensity multijoint exercises to 
maintain strength and explosiveness. When the team 
are picked to go to the national championship, and if there were 2-3 weeks prior to the start of the 
tournament, a concentrated load training session 
would be utilized, accentuating explosive type multi- 
joint strength exercises to regain and peak strength 
and explosiveness. 
aration phase, there is a second transition phase 
lasting 3 weeks to recover from the physical and 
mental stress of the competition phase. Following a competition and before the next prep- 
The professional model 
In most countries the professional soccer league has 
an official competition schedule lasting 7-8 months, 
divided in half by a midseason break. Usually only 
3-4 months can be used for the training or preparation 
phase. This period could be much shorter according to 
the team’s success level. 
In our model, the relative length of the basel 
preparatory and hypertrophy phases is shorter than 
the intercollegiate model, because professional 
players usually have well-developed morphological 
strength bases. Plyometric training is started at low 
intensity from the beginning of maximum force phase. 
The organization of strength, speed, quickness 
and agility, and endurance (aerobic and anaerobic) 
training are almost the same as the intercollegiate 
model, but using a greater number of sessions per 
week. 
During the first half of the competition phase, a 
normal in-season maintenance training programme 
is used. However, during a long-lasting competition 
phase, some types of muscle fibres and connective 
tissue are possibly lost, and catabolic responses may 
deteriorate over the season. These factors may result 
in injury and decreased performance in the most 
important games which are usually scheduled at 
the end of the season. Furthermore, it is difficult to 
prepare strength and explosiveness for the forthcom- 
ing second half of the competition phase in such a 
short recovery period. Therefore, the non-linear 
periodization programme is used instead of the 
normal in-season maintenance training programme 
during the second competition phase. 
Varying intensity drastically within 1 or 2 weeks, 
this programme induces optimal physiological 
responses to muscle mass maintenance, stimulates 

PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 89 
Table 5.2 Sample training programme of Table 5.3 Sample training programme of 
base phase. 
Repetitions (RM): 13-20 
Sets: 2-4 
Rest periods (min): 1-2 
Sessions per week: 2-3 0 hypertrophy phase. ---N\ Repetitions (RM): 10-12 
0 1. ,,+ -0 Sets: 3-4 
Rest periods (min): 1-2 
Sessions per week: 3 
Days 1 and 3 Day 2 Days 1 and 3 Day 2 
Lower extremities 
Back squat 
Front lunge 
Side lunge 
Leg curl 
Standing calf raise 
Toe raise 
Ankle disc* 
Upper extremities 
Field player 
Dumb-bell bench press 
Dumb-bell shoulder press 
Dumb-bell raw 
Goalkeeper (in addition to 
above exercises) 
External/internal rotationt 
Wrist curit 
Reverse wrist curlt 
Trunk and abdominals 
Crossed leg twist crunch* 
Reverse crunch* 
CrunchS 
Back crunch5 Leg press 
45O lunge 
Knee extension 
Cross over lunge 
Seated calf raise 
Toe raise 
Ankle disc* 
Dumb-bell fly 
Side shoulder raise 
Lateral pull down 
ExternaUinternal rotationt 
Wrist curlt 
Reverse wrist curlt 
Crossed leg twist crunch* 
Reverse crunch* 
CrunchS 
Back crunch5 
* 5 min each leg. 
t 2-3 sets x 20 RM. * 2-3 sets x 20-30 repetitions. 
5 2-3 sets x 10 repetitions. 
neuronal factors to maximal force generation and 
explosiveness, and allows players to recover from 
the game and training. 
Strength training programme and its variations 
Typical one session programmes for strength training 
of each phase are developed in Tables 5.2-5.7. The 
exercises should not be changed during one training 
phase but intensity, volume and rest periods between 
sets and exercises need to be changed regularly every 
1-2 weeks within the phase. The ranges of variations Lower extremities 
Back squat 
Side lunge 
Cross over lunge 
45O lunge 
Calf raise 
Toe raise 
Ankle disc* 
Upper extremities 
Field player 
Bench press 
Shoulder press 
Dumb-bell raw 
Goalkeeper (in addition to 
above exercise) 
Incline bench press 
ExternallInternal rotationt 
Wrist curlt 
Reverse wrist curlt 
Trunk and abdominals 
Roman chair side raise* 
Flat bench knee pull-in* 
Leg raise crunch* 
Roman chair back extension8 Front lunge 
Knee extension 
Standing leg curl 
Hip abduction/adduction 
Calf raise 
Toe raise 
Ankle disc* 
Upright row 
Lateral pull down 
Dumb-bell bench press 
Incline bench press 
ExternaUinternal rotationt 
wrist cult 
Reverse wrist curlt 
Roman chair side raise* 
Flat bench knee pull-in* 
Leg raise crunch* 
* 5 min each leg. 
t 2-3 sets x 20 RM. * 2-3 sets x 20-30 repetitions. 
5 2-3 sets x 10 repetitions. 
within each phase are also shown in Figs 5.4 and 5.5. 
The changing plans in each mesocycle of our models 
are as follows. 
In the base/preparatory and hypertrophy phases 
in the professional model and those of the first 
preparation phase in the intercollegiate model, 
volume should be increased gradually and intensity 
is also increased. In the last week of hypertrophy 
training, intensity should be decreased in order to 
allow recovery from accumulated fatigue. The rest 
periods are decreased gradually. 

90 CHAPTER 5 
Table 5.4 Sample training programme of 
Repetitions (RM]: 6-8 
Sets: 3-4 
Rest periods (min]: 2-3 
Sessions per week 3 maximum force phase. 0 
Days 1 and 3 Day 2 
Lower extremities 
Power clean 
Back squat 
Side lunge 
Upper extremities 
Field player Step up 
Bench press 
Shoulder press 
Dumb-bell raw 
Pull over 
Goalkeeper (in addition to 
above exercise] 
Biceps curl 
Wrist curl* 
Reverse wrist curl* 
Trunk and abdominals 
Pull down twist* 
Slant broad leg thrustt 
Pull down crunch* 
Roman chair back twistt Push jerk 
Deadlift 
Front lunge 
Cross over lunge 
Upright row 
Lateral pull down 
Dumb-bell bench press 
Pull over 
Biceps curl 
Wrist curl* 
Reverse wrist curl* 
Pull down twist* 
Slant broad leg thrustt 
Pull down crunch* 
* 2-3 sets X 8-10 RM. 
t 2-3 sets x 10 repetitions. 
In the hypertrophy phase of the second preparation 
phase in the intercollegiate model, intensity needs to 
be increased and volume is decreased to prepare for 
the next maximum force phase. The rest periods are 
decreased. 
In the explosive strength phase in the professional 
model and that of the second preparation phase in 
the intercollegiate model, the first 2 weeks’ training 
begins with high intensity which should be decreased 
towards the last week. The rest periods are increased. 
This allows the player to enter the first game of 
the season without fatigue. In the explosive 
strength phase of the first preparation phase in the 
intercollegiate model, intensity is increased and Table 5.5 Sample training programme of 
Repetitions (RM]: 3-6 
Rest periods (min]: 3-4 explosive strength phase. --I 0 
sets: 3-4 &: 
0 Sessions per week 2-3 7. 
Days 1 and 3 Day 2 
Lower extremities 
Hang clean 
Push press 
Split squat jump Push jerk 
Half squat 
Dumb-bell split snatch 
Upper extremities 
Field player 
Dumb-bell bench press Bench press 
Dumb-bell raw Seated row 
Pull over Pull over 
Goalkeeper (in addition to 
above exercise] 
Wrist curl* Wrist curl* 
Reverse wrist curl* 
Trunk and abdominals 
Medicine ball Russian 
Medicine ball overhead 
Medicine ball crunch 
Medicine ball back tosst Reverse wrist curl* 
Medicine ball Russian 
Medicine ball overhead 
Medicine ball crunch 
Medicine ball back tosst twistt twistt 
throw throwt 
throwt throwt 
* 2-3 sets X 6-8 RM. 
t 2-3 sets x 10 repetitions. 
volume is decreased towards the last week. The 
intensity level is at its highest in the last week, 
because a recovery week may not be necessary just 
before a recovery phase. The rest periods are 
increased. 
intensity is increased and maintained in the middle 
of the phase for 2-3 weeks and decreased at the end of 
the phase. Volume is decreased. The rest periods are 
maintained. 
In the maintenance phase, there are no regular 
changes of these training variables. According to a 
team schedule, the training programme itself and 
number of sessions should be varied. In the maximum force phase of both models, 

PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 91 
Table 5.6 Sample training programme of 
Repetitions (RM): 6-8 
Sets: 2-3 
Rest periods (min): 2-4 
Sessions per week: 1-2 
Days 1 and 2 in-season (normal type). 0 
Lower extremities 
Hang clean 
Single leg press 
Side lunge 
Upper extremities 
Field player 
Bench press 
Lateral pull down 
External/internal rotation * 
Biceps curl 
Wrist curl 
Reverse wrist curl 
Trunk and obdominals 
Crossed leg twist cruncht 
Reverse cruncht 
Cruncht 
Roman chair back extension* Goalkeeper (in addition to above exercise) 
* 2-3 sets x 20 repetitions. 
t 2-3 sets x 20-30 repetitions. * 2-3 sets x 10 repetitions. 
Plyometrics training programme 
An example of gradual progression for plyometrics 
training over 6 weeks for the first preparation phase 
of the intercollegiate model is presented in Table 5.8. 
The higher volume programme for the professional 
player can be developed by increasing the number of 
sets and repetitions. Using more single leg exercises 
can increase the intensity of plyometric training and 
increasing the height of obstacles such as hurdles used 
as a target of jumping or hopping. 
Weekly training distribution 
Table 5.9 shows a sample weekly training distribution 
plan of each training mesocycle. Performing heavy strength training and plyometrics on the same day is 
not to be recommended. However, this does not apply 
to high-level soccer players, because recovery from 
various skills training, tactics training and other 
conditioning training, such as endurance training, 
is also necessary. It is not uncommon to have two or 
three training games scheduled in a week at the late 
preparation phase. 
plyometrics training are similar and several training 
sessions of this type executed every day may lead to 
severe exhaustion of the player. In order to avoid the 
superimposition of fatigue traces and increase the 
effectiveness of training, performing strength training 
and plyometrics on one day and concentrating on 
endurance training on a different day are recom- 
mended. The player’s ability to perform exercises of 
another type is restored more quickly than the ability 
to repeat the same type of exercise. The fatigue effect of strength training and 
Distance running 
In this programme, distance running is used as the 
sport example because such runners bracket the 
metabolic continuum for lower force production 
needs and higher aerobic metabolism as being the 
predominant performance requirement. Typically, 
distance runners do not like to spend much time in 
the weight room as it takes time away from their run 
training. Furthermore, studies in the 1970s show- 
ing mitochondria1 and capillary reductions with 
resistance training made many runners fear resist- 
ance training as a potential risk to their performance. 
Research in the 1980s showed that resistance train- 
ing specifically designed to meet the needs of an 
endurance runner enhanced performance and injury 
prevention. Today, distance runners have come to 
rely on strength and power training to enhance hill 
running capabilities, maximal running velocity, to 
improve economy of running and to help prevent 
injury (Fig. 5.6). In this programme example, it is 
demonstrated how simple it is to add a fundamental 
programme into the training programme for a dis- 
tance runner. A supplementary strength training 
programme can easily be incorporated into the sport 
which appears to have few direct needs for high force 
production yet can benefit from its inclusion. 

92 CHAPTER 5 
0 0 
Table 5.7 Sample training programme of 
in-season (non-linear type). 
Light Moderate Heavy 
Repetitions (RM): 8-12 Repetitions (RM): 6-8 Repetitions (RM): 3-6 
Sets: 3-4 Sets: 3-4 Sets: 2-3 
Rest periods (min): 1-2 
Sessions per week: 1 Rest periods (min): 2-3 
Sessions per week: 1 Rest periods (min): 3-4 
Sessions per week 1 
Lower extremities 
Single leg press 
Side lunge 
Step up Hang clean 
Single leg press 
Side lunge 
Upper extremities 
Field player 
Dumb-bell bench press Bench press 
Dumb-bell row Lateral pull down 
Triceps extension Biceps curl 
Wrist curl Wrist curl 
Reverse wrist curl Goalkeeper (in addition to above exercises) 
Reverse wrist curl 
Trunk and abdominals 
Crossed leg twist crunch* 
Reverse crunch* 
Crunch* 
Roman chair back extension* Pull down twist) 
Slant boad leg thrust* 
Pull down cruncht 
Roman chair back twist* Hang clean 
Dumb-bell split snatch 
Push press 
Lateral pull down 
Pull over 
Wrist curl 
Reverse wrist curl 
Medicine ball Russian twist* 
Medicine ball overhead throws 
Medicine ball crunch throw* 
Medicine ball back toss* 
Note: Two of three programmes are performed a week in turn. 
* 2-3 sets x 20-30 repetitions. 
t 2-3 sets x 10-12 repetitions. * 2-3 sets x 10 repetitions. 
Periodization is the variation of acute programme 
variables (intensity, volume, frequency and rest) over 
time. Classically, periodization uses cycles that 
coincide with the preparation and the competitive 
season(s1 of athletes. Thus, a simple periodization 
programme may include four 3-month periods 
(mesocycles) within a year (macrocycle) consisting 
of the competitive, active recovery, strength (build- 
up) and power cycles, respectively (Table 5.10). 
Microcycles can be created within mesocycles to 
define and create the specific type of workouts used 
during these different training periods. 
Following the rigours of the competitive cycle, a 
period of active recovery is usually prescribed in 
which the athlete is active, but engaged in activities for pleasure and in a non-intensive relaxed manner. 
This period is obviously tempered by the level of 
competition involved. Active recovery in higher 
level Olympic athletes is much shorter than for more 
novice runners because of the need to keep a high 
level competitive edge for year round competitions. 
Nevertheless, peak training for major competitions 
(e.g. the Olympic Games) requires careful planning of 
race, training and recovery cycles in order to peak at 
the proper time. The active recovery cycle is followed 
by preparation for the following competitive season 
which begins with the strength (build-up) cycle, 
during which the athlete slowly increases the volume 
and intensity of training to prepare for the more 
intense power cycle that follows. The power cycle 

Table 5.8 Sample training programme of 
pl yometrics. 
Week 1 2 3 4 5 6 
Drills Day 112 314 516 718 9/10 11/12 
Double leg hurdle jump 
Double leg hurdle lateral jump (R) 
Double leg hurdle lateral jump (L) 
Double leg 180° hurdle jump 
Double leg forward zigzag jump 
Double leg lateral zigzag jump (R) 
Double leg lateral zigzag jump (L) 
Single arm bounding 
Lateral bounding 
Single leg hurdle jump (right leg) 
Single leg hurdle jump (left leg) 
Single leg hurdle lateral jump (right leg-L) 
Single leg hurdle lateral jump (left leg-R) 
Single leg hurdle lateral jump (right leg-R) 
Single leg hurdle lateral jump (left leg-L) 
Single leg zigzag jump (right leg) 
Single leg zigzag jump (left leg) 
Single leg lateral zigzag jump (right leg-L) 
Single leg lateral zigzag jump (left leg-R) 
Single leg lateral zigzag jump (right leg-R) 
Single leg lateral zigzag jump (left leg-L) 
Total number of jumps 3 x 8 (low) 
3 x 8 (low) 
3 x 8 (low) 
3 x 8 (low) 
3 x 8 (low) 
3 x 8 (low) 
3 x 8 (low) 
2x8 
2x8 
200 4 x 6 (middle) 
4 x 6 (middle) 
4 x 6 (middle) 
4 x 6 (middle) 
4 x 6 (middle) 
4 x 6 (middle) 
4 x 6 (middle) 
2 x 10 
2 x 10 
2 x 6 (low) 
2 x 6 (low) 
2 x 6 (low) 
2 x 6 (low) 
2 x 6 (low) 
2 x 6 (low) 
280 3 x 6 (high) 
3 x 6 (high) 
3 x 6 (high) 
3 x 6 (high) 
3X6(high) 
3 x 6 (high) 
3 x 10 
3 x 10 
2 x 6 (low) 
2 x 6 (low) 
2 x 6 (low) 
2 x 6 (low) 
2 x 6 (low) 
2 x 6 (low) 
2 x 6 (low) 
2 x 6 (low) 3 X 6 (high) 
274 2 x 6 (high) 
2X6(high) 
2 X 6 (high) 
2 x 6 (high) 
2 x 6 (high) 
2 X 6 (high) 
2 x 6 (high) 
2 x 12 
2 x 12 
2 x 6 (low) 
2 x 6 (low) 
2 x 6 (low) 
2 x 6 (low) 
2 x 6 (low) 
2 x 6 (low) 
2 x 6 (low) 
2 x 6 (low) 
228 3 x 12 
3 x 12 
2 x 6 (middle) 
2 x 6 (middle) 
2 x 6 (middle) 
2 x 6 (middle) 
2 x 6 (middle) 
2 x 6 (middle) 
2 x 6 (middle) 
2 x 6 (middle) 
2 x 6 (low) 
2 x 6 (low) 
2 x 6 (low) 
2 x 6 (low) 
216 3 x 12 
3 x 12 
2 x 6 (high) 
2X6(high) 
2 x 6 (high) 
2 x 6 (high) 
2 x 6 (high) 
2X6(high) 
2 x 6 (middle) 
2 x 6 (middle) 
2 x 6 (middle) 
2 x 6 (middle) 
216 
Note: Numbers show jumps x sets; Rand L are direction of movement; lowlmiddlelhigh show relative height of the hurdles. 

94 CHAPTER 5 
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Baselhypertrophy phase 
Weight 
Maximum force phase (1) 
Speed, Q&A 
Weight Regeneration 
Low intensity 
Maximum force phase (2) 
Speed, Q&A 
Plyometrics 
Weight 
Maximum force phase (3) 
Q&A 
Ply ometrics 
Weight Low intensity Low intensity 
Explosive phase (1) 
Speed, Q&A Anaerobic 
plyometrics Low intensity 
Weight 
Explosive phase (2) 
Speed, Q&A 
Plyometrics Low intensity 
Weight High intensity 
In-season 
Weight Low intensity 
Regeneration Anaerobic Weight 
Weight 
Weight 
Speed 
Anaerobic 
Weight 
Regeneration 
Speed, Q&A 
Anaerobic 
Weight 
Speed, Q&A 
Anaerobic 
Weight 
Speed, Q&A 
Weight Weight 
Regeneration Low intensity Regeneration 
Speed, Q&A 
Weight 
Regeneration Low intensity 
Speed, Q&A 
Plyometrics Weight 
Regeneration Low intensity 
Speed, Q&A 
Plyometrics Anaerobic 
High intensity Weight High intensity 
Regeneration 
Anaerobic Speed, Q&A Anaerobic 
High intensity Weight Plyometrics Low intensity 
Regeneration 
Anaerobic Speed, Q&A Anaerobic 
Low intensity Plyometrics Low intensity 
High intensity Weight High intensity 
Regeneration 
High intensity 
GAME 
Regeneration 
* The order of exercises in a day should be from top to bottom as shown. 
Q&A, Quickness and agility drills. 
usually finds the athlete reducing volume of training 
in order to focus on increasing intensity, which will 
ultimately prepare him or her for the competitive 
cycle to follow. 
The rationale for periodized programmes is simple: 
systematic variation allows greater performance gains than a programme that is not varied. It makes intuitive 
sense to rest the body’s physiological systems (e.g. 
nervous system and peripheral tissues) to allow for 
recovery following a period of intense training or 
competition. This is then followed with a cycle of 
relative rest during which the athlete recovers both 

PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 95 
Fig. 5.6 Strength training for distance 
runners is vital to help tolerate the high 
intensity endurance training, promote 
quicker recovery and prevent injury. 
Photo 0 Allsport/G.M. Prior. 
physiologically and psychologically before begin- 
ning another cycle of demanding training. This is 
accomplished by progressing from the build-up 
through the power phase to the next season’s 
competition-a scenario which can be repeated 
indefinitely with different microcycle decisions being 
made, based upon the fitness level and needs of the 
athlete who is now becoming a more seasoned 
competitor. Ultimately, the goal of the programme 
with each successive training-recovery period cycle 
is to improve the athlete’s performance over time. Interestingly, while beyond the scope of this text, 
research supports the use of periodization of training 
for cardiovascular or endurance training too. The most 
compelling evidence is empirical, and is found in the 
training logs of world class athletes. However, the 
mechanisms by which periodization may work, its 
efficacy at different ages and ability groups (young vs. 
old, untrained vs. trained) and the optimal way to 
combine endurance and strength periodization 
programmes simultaneously for runners are not 
completely understood scientifically. ’ 
Cycle 3 Cycle 4 Cycle 1 
Power Competition Rest Cycle 2 
Endurance 
Run LT training Race 
Cruise or tempo 
intervals Initially, increase length of usual 
runs. During second half, increase 
length of long runs, and begin 
hill bounds 
Lift Plyometrics 2-3 sets In-season programme One set 2-3 sets higher intensity, 
highest intensity, Maintain strength, power, Low volume, low intensity highest volume 
lower volume enhance injury prevention 


96 CHAPTER 5 
Compatibility of cardiovascular and strength 
programmes 
Surprising to some coaches and athletes, research 
over the past decade has emerged which indicates 
that resistance training may actually contribute to 
improvements in aerobic performance. This is not 
entirely surprising when it is viewed in context 
of earlier studies, which attempted to determine 
incompatibilities with concurrent strength and endur- 
ance training, The concept of exercise compatibility is 
covered in greater detail in Chapter 6. 
The late Dr Robert Hickson, for the University of 
Illinois-Chicago Circle was one of the first scientists 
to study the use of strength training with concurrent 
endurance training. His investigative team found that 
concurrent high intensity resistance and endurance 
training tended to hinder strength development in 
the long term. However, concurrent strength and 
endurance training did not appear to hinder develop- 
ment of endurance. In another study he examined 
high level 10-km runners and initiated a heavy (5-RM) 
squat training programme to see if it depressed their 
10-km road run times. To everyone's surprise all the 
runners clocked faster times. Subsequent studies have 
verified this point and the fear that strength training 
would decrease aerobic performance has now been 
dismissed by most coaches, especially when designed 
as a runner-specific strength training programme. 
Prior to the work of Hickson and colleagues, it was 
hypothesized that concurrent strength training might 
hinder the acquisition of endurance or actually reduce 
existing aerobic capacity ( Vozmm) through the dilution 
of capillary and mitochondria1 densities in the active 
muscles. 
Strength training may improve running 
performance 
Contrary to loss of aerobic capacity, subsequent 
studies have shown that for many runners, 
strength training-especially explosive strength 
training-actually improves lactate threshold and 
improves running economy. These are two of the 
most important determinants of endurance suc- 
cess in addition to Vozmm which appears to reach 
a training capacity more quickly than other 
variables. Lactate threshold (LT) is the running intensity (pace) 
beyond which the accumulation of lactate in the 
bloodstream continues to increase sharply (geometric- 
ally), and indicates that the exercise intensity has 
become increasingly anaerobic rather than aerobic. It 
is distinctly advantageous to improve LT, as sustain- 
able aerobic pace will correspondingly increase. 
Running economy (efficiency) is the inverse of 
the proportion created by the amount of oxygen 
consumed ( Voz) to maintain a given pace (e.g. 55 ml 
O,.min-' at 16 km-h-'). Running economy is high 
when a smaller Voz is required to maintain a pace 
(e.g. 50 ml at 16 km-h-l or 0.20), and low when 
a larger Vo2 is required to maintain the same running 
pace (e.g. 60 ml at 16 km.h-l or 0.16). 
Strength training can apparently increase LT by 
> 10% in previously non-strength trained endurance 
athletes. The mechanism by which LT is increased is 
not completely understood, but could result from 
increases in contraction force among slow twitch 
fibres (Type I), thus decreasing the relative intensity 
required of these fibres and delaying the need to 
recruit higher threshold fast twitch fibres (Type 11) 
which, if activated, would result in increased lactate 
production. 
The mechanism(s) involved with improvements 
in running economy brought about by strength and 
power training are likewise unclear, but could 
include a similar mechanism to that bringing about 
an improvement in LT (muscle fibre recruitment 
patterns), as well as effects on running style and 
biomechanical efficiency. In addition, time on the 
ground may be reduced (ground reaction forces may 
be lower) with explosive strength training. This may 
be because of increases in the force-time curve at the 
lower time points of the curve (e.g. 0.1 s). 
It appears that the judicious inclusion of strength/ 
power training in an otherwise exclusively aerobic 
conditioning programme is beneficial. The theoretical 
reduction of injuries, because tissues are stronger 
through strength training, is a compelling argument 
for the performance of strength training for endurance 
athletes. Injury reduction alone from high intensity 
and at times high-volume training of endurance 
runners, combined with LT and running economy 
considerations, makes a sports-specific supplement- 
ary strength training programme for runners a 
requirement for the competitive athlete. 

PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 97 
Periodizing combined running and strength 
programmes 
A needs analysis should first be conducted for the 
sport. In addition to time, resources and goals/ 
objectives, it is important to ascertain the short- and 
long-term requirements of the individual athlete. 
Maximal performance objectives may conflict with 
health objectives and the relative value of these 
parameters for the individual athlete must be kept 
in mind when periodization of the programme is 
carried out. 
programme should be individualized according to 
the fitness level of the athlete and their seasonal 
objectives. For example, for a traditional high school 
or college track athlete beginning a competitive track 
season in March in the northern hemisphere and 
lasting approximately 3 months, four mesocycles 
may be created, with microcycles within mesocycles 
added (Table 5.10). If the competitive mesocycle 
comprises the 3 months from March to June (Cycle 4, 
then June to September would comprise the active 
recovery mesocycle (Cycle l), September to December 
would comprise the endurance build-up mesocycle 
(Cycle 21, and January to April would be the power 
acquisition cycle (Cycle 3). Although a distance 
runner could use cross-training aerobic modalities 
other than running during this training, most highly 
competitive runners need to use running as their 
training modality. Resistance training should be 
performed on the major muscle groups of the body 
and target the joints that are most susceptible to 
injury (e.g. ankle, leg, lower back). 
that suits the needs analysis of the specific athlete 
for a given distance specialty. In fact, the runner 
may wish to modify the developed mesocycles and 
microcycles according to the results achieved and 
the requirements identified by an on-going iterative 
assessment. This highlights the fact that training 
programmes are ‘dynamic’ in nature and must be 
responsive to the different needs and conditions 
that exist. It is in fact very difficult to give specific 
recommendations for all types of distance runners 
when the individual requirements of an athlete are 
not known. The risk of a cookbook approach is that Mesocycles and microcycles within a periodized 
The example given may be modified in any manner and therefore programme design potential is limited. 
Therefore we give an example only as a starting point 
to help you develop your own programmes for 
distance runners which meet each athlete’s needs. 
Theoretical basis for aerobic training 
recommendations 
If Vojmax, LT and economy are the principal deter- 
minants of distance running success, then training 
should be specifically aimed at improvements in 
these parameters. Maximal oxygen consumption 
will be improved by aerobic training associated with 
a well-rounded specially designed distance running 
programme. This involves various types of training, 
including the performance of ‘cruise’ intervals or 
‘tempo’ runs which generally train LT (also known as 
‘anaerobic’ training). Cruise intervals, a term coined 
by the exercise physiologist Jack T. Daniels, are long 
periods of running interrupted by short periods of 
rest. Tempo intervals are continuous race pace runs 
of shorter than race distance. The key to LT training, 
whether performing cruise intervals or tempo runs, 
is to maintain a pace near the LT threshold-that 
complies with intensity and functional specificity- 
which for most runners is approximately 85-90% 
of heart rate maximum. 
As a general rule, LT training should not total 
more than 10-15% of the entire weekly mileage. LT 
training is initiated in Cycle 3, following the Cycle 2 
preparation that includes progressively longer runs 
and initial power training in the form of hill bound- 
ing. In a sense, the LT workouts, which are high 
intensity in nature, comprise the quality workouts. 
All the other runs of varying distances performed 
during the week serve as additional ‘junk miles’, 
primarily to build endurance, burn calories and 
permit enough recovery so that the quality workouts 
can be performed on a recurrent weekly basis. 
The hill bounding of Cycle 2 is preparatory for the 
more intense power workouts of LT training in Cycle 
3. They were popularized by the New Zealand coach, 
Arthur Lydiard, and are performed by using a hill 
with a gradual slope rising at least 400 m in length. 
Following a warm-up, the runner should bound up 
the hill with high knee lift while pushing strongly off 
the toes, with high kickback of the heels. Forward -- - 
the individualized needs of the athlete may be ignored speed is actually minimized in favour of accentuating 

98 CHAPTER 5 
the knee lift, pushing off the toes, and high kickback 
which results in bounding rather than running up 
the hill. 
Weekly (or every week and a half) long runs should 
be gradually increased during Cycle 2 according to the 
requirements of the distance of the event being trained 
for. Generally, neither the distance run nor the total 
weekly mileage should be increased by more than 
10% per week during this build-up phase in order to 
avoid overtraining and potential injury. 
Theoretical basis for strength training 
recommendations 
The purpose of strength training for the distance 
runner is not to develop muscle mass, but to reduce 
the chance of injury, reduce the time on the ground 
with each foot strike, and strengthen tissue so that 
greater volume and intensity of run training may be 
tolerated, especially at high levels of competition and 
with longer distance races (e.g. marathon). It is this 
training process that will allow improvement in LT 
and running economy to be achieved. Upper body 
strength exercises can help postural support of the 
upper body, arm movement and symmetrical 
development of the body. For example, it has been 
shown that during a marathon, runners drop their 
centre of mass which affects stride length; this is 
attributed to loss of postural muscle support in the 
upper body. Thus, postural support muscles need 
to be strengthened and their isometric endurance 
improved to help reduce this effect. 
is used (1 set of 12-15 RM). The athlete performs 
systematic exercises which conform to ‘push and 
pull’ exercise pairs, trunk exercises and other lower 
extremity exercises. In Cycle 2, the athlete increases 
the intensity to 10 RM and performs 2-3 sets of the 
same exercises. In addition, exercises are varied to 
change the angle of the exercise. In Cycle 3, both 
strength and running are power orientated. Therefore, 
strength training should be kept at 2-3 sets, but the 
intensity of the exercises should be raised to the range 
of 6-8 RM. In addition, explosive strength training 
exercises should be included. Recent studies have 
shown that this improves the foot strike time on the 
ground which is dependent upon explosive strength. 
High quality power exercises using about 1-3 During Cycle 1, lower intensity and a lower volume repetitions in a set to maintain maximal power output 
(plyometrics, pulls with 30% of 1 RM, etc.) are needed 
to achieve this. During the competitive running 
season, the runner needs to maintain strength and 
power and a maintenance programme should be 
used 1-2 times per week (see in-season workout 
example). 
It is not possible to be specific with recom- 
mendations for different athletes racing a variety of 
distances, especially given the differences in training 
tolerance. Individualizing the programme for the 
specific athlete, based on their response to the training, 
is mandatory. In some cases a non-linear undulating 
periodization model, discussed above, which varies 
the volume and intensity more frequently within a 
7-14-day cycle may be appropriate where training and 
competition schedules are more demanding. 
Example of periodization for a 10-km runner 
Resistance training periodization 
The choice of exercises for a runner includes 
alternating squats and lunges for the lower body, 
alternating bench press, overhead push press, and 
press downs for the ‘push’ component exercise. This 
is combined with alternating seated rows, lateral pull 
downs, and upright rows or hang pulls for the ‘pull’ 
exercise and alternating crunches and L-seats for the 
abdominal exercises, alternating roman chair back 
extensions, lower back machine and ‘good mornings’ 
for the back and, finally, alternating roman chair 
lateral raises and dumb-bell lateral flexion for the 
obliques. 
These exercises are performed during Cycles 1-3 
and a maintenance programme developed from these 
exercises for Cycle 4, which should also include 
explosive power training-a key to maintaining 
functional abilities. During Cycle 3, plyometric 
exercises (depth jumps, bounds, jumps, etc.) can be 
added as a strength base will have been achieved. 
Incorporation of these exercises is accomplished 
using the same acute variable selection as used for the 
conventional resistance training exercises. 
Let us arbitrarily decide that the order of the above 
exercises will be rotated so that pushes, pulls, torso 
and leg exercises change order with every workout. 
The number of sets of each of these exercises is 1 

PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 99 
during Cycle 4,1 during Cycle 1,3 during Cycle 2 and 
2-3 during Cycle 3, with several sets of plyometric 
drills and exercises increased progressively during 
Cycle 3. The rest periods during Cycle 1 are 2 min, 
during Cycle 2,l-1.5 min, and 3-4 min during Cycle 
3. The intensity or load is 12-15 RM during Cycle 1, 
10 RM during Cycle 2 and 6-8 RM during Cycle 3 
and power intensities (e.g. 30% of 1 RM) exercises 
for Cycle 4 along with injury prevention exercises 
(e.g. calfraises, 8-10 RM). 
A basic ‘in-season’ programme is used by distance 
runners in season. Loads, sets and exercises may be 
altered using a non-linear progression which allows 
more flexibility to the in-season or competitive 
phase schedule. This programme is performed 
2 days per week. From this starting point a ‘non- 
linear periodization model’ for loading and number 
of sets can be utilized, with complementary exercises 
to vary the programme over long training periods. 
Optimal programmes will contain closed kinetic 
chain exercise choices (e.g. squats, lunges). 
An example of a 2 day a week in-season training 
programme for an endurance runner is as follows: 
Day 1 
Warm-up 
Squat-2 sets of 12-15 
Leg curlshtiff leg deadlift-2 sets of 12-15 
Bent-leg sit ups-2 sets of 25 
Low back machine-2 sets of 12-15 
Standing calf raises-2 sets of 12-15 
Upright rows-2 sets of 8-10 
Day 2 
Warm-up 
Hang pulls from the kneed sets of 3 at 30-60% of 
1Rh4 
Leg curldstiff leg deadlift-3 sets of 12-15 
Bent-leg sit ups-3 sets of 15 
Standing calf raises-2 sets of 6-8 Rh4 
Dumb-bell chest press-2 sets of 10-12 
Swimming 
In this programme we give specific examples of 
the general composition and then show how the 
programmes for specific high level athletes might 
look. This allows the reader to see how the general programme might be translated to a particular 
athlete. 
Rationale 
High levels of strength and power are necessary for 
successful performance in swimming. In recent years 
there has been an increasing emphasis on including 
an injury prevention role for resistance training. This 
enables the swimmer to undertake higher volume 
training sessions as well as limiting the impact of 
overuse injuries on time out of the water. 
Beyond the size changes that occur with the basic 
adaptation to a strength training programme, massive 
size increases are typically not the goal of a swim- 
ming training programme. Although there are some 
instances where swimmers require a programme 
that emphasizes increase of muscle size (short sprints) 
in certain body areas (e.g. shoulders, back), this is 
generally not a primary programme goal as excessive 
size (e.g. body builder type) may impact negatively 
on other aspects of swim performance, such as 
hydrodynamics and aerobic capacity. A major aim 
is to increase the power output of the muscles 
which act as prime movers in the target swimming 
style. This is perhaps more important for swimmers 
who specialize in the shorter distance events, as 
increased muscle strength and power output can 
be translated into increased swimming speed 
when combined with practice in the pool. In 
addition, when muscle strength and power are 
increased through appropriate resistance training, 
the muscles can perform the swimming stroke at 
a lower percentage of their maximal capacity and 
therefore efficiency should be improved and fatigue 
reduced. 
To increase power as well as strength, the athlete 
should attempt to complete some of the exercises 
at a faster velocity. As the swimming stroke requires 
rapid acceleration of the limbs through the water, 
particularly in sprint events, the speed of muscle 
actions during resistance training is important. To 
swim faster, the power output must be increased 
to overcome the hydrodynamic drag force, which 
increases with the square of the velocity of the 
swimmer through the water. 
Programmes are generally similar for men and 
women swimmers, although individual variation 

100 CHAPTER 5 
occurs when an injury is identified or musculoskeletal 
screening has identified a high risk of injury. 
The aims of the programme change throughout the 
year as the athlete gets closer to major competitions. 
The focus of mesocycles shifts from strengthto more 
endurance as the competition draws closer. This 
translates to a decrease in intensity and increase in 
volume. 
Exercise selection 
Exercises are programmed on the basis that they: 
are specific to the swimmer’s competitive stroke in 
terms of muscles involved and joint movement; 
prevent muscle imbalances developing between 
agonists and antagonists: 
prevent injury to prone areas, such as the shoulder: 
provide variety; and 
suit the skill level of the athlete. 
Injury prevention 
Shoulder girdle injuries are the most common injuries 
for swimmers. The main cause of shoulder injury is 
overuse. Tendinitis mainly occurs in the swimmer’s 
rotator cuff muscles and can usually be addressed by 
increasing the strength of the external rotator muscles 
and stabilizing the muscles around the scapular. 
The constant repetition of training can cause 
inflammation or tenderness around the rotator cuff. 
On some days over 14 km are swum by the athlete and 
this usually causes the muscles producing shoulder 
internal rotation to develop considerable strength, 
resulting in an agonist-antagonist imbalance. 
The following programme is designed as an intro- 
ductory programme for the start of the swimming year. 
The aim of this programme is to increase strength and 
power output specifically in the muscles around the 
shoulders while also trying to increase the athlete’s 
general strength level. 
Introductory resistance programme 
Warm-up: 5 min on bike, stretch. 
Days 1 and 3 
Set 
Bench press 1234 
6644 Lateral pull downs 
Squats 
Standing circles 
Single arm seated row 
Forward raise 
Abdominals: see below 6644 
5533 
6666 
8866 
6666 
Day2 
Set 1234 
Chin ups 6666 
Single leg squats on incline block 6666 
Trunk rotation machine 6666 
Forward raises 8866 
Swiss ball reverse flys 6644 
Abdominals: see below. Clean pulls 5533 
Abdominal workout 
Select 200 repetitions from the following: 
Swiss ball 
crunches (2 x 20) 
leg tucks (2 x 20) 
lateral roll (2 x 20) 
side pass (2 x 10 each side) 
45Osit (2 x 30) 
overhead throws (2 x 20) 
twists (2 x 20) Medicine ball 
Week 1: do all sets and repetitions. 
Week 2: do all sets and repetitions and add another smaller 
repetition set. 
Week 3: do only first two sets-higher repetitions sets 
only. 
Week 4: do as much weight as possible on last lower 
repetition set. 
Sample individual programmes 
This first programme was designed for Daniel 
Kowalski, an Australian Olympic medallist. The 
emphasis is to provide the swimmer with enough 
strength to enable him to complete the volume of 
training that is required of a swimmer in the 1500 m 
freestyle event. A key requirement is also to increase 
the power output of the muscles so as to increase 
swimming velocity and improve efficiency. Increasing 
strength in the shoulder girdle and muscles stabilizing 
the pelvic trunk area are also primary aims. Kowalski 
had suffered from chronic rotator cuff tendonitis 
before coming to the Australian Institute of Sport 
programme and therefore injury rehabilitation and 

PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 101 
prevention exercises constitute a considerable part of 
his initial programme. 
Daniel Kowalski: Olympic silver medallist 1996, 
1500 m freestyle 
Weights programme 
Day 1 and 3 
Set 
Single arm dumb-bell 
bench press 
Lateral pull downs 
Single arm seated row 
Leg press 
Pull overs 
Abdominal workout 
Medicine ball, varied (50) 
Crunches (50) 
Leg raises (50) 
Body hold on arms (3 x 30 s) 
Day2 
Set 
Incline press 
Reverse flys 
Squats 
Lateral raises Tricep press 
Curls 
Abdominal workout 
Side crunches (50) 
Crunches (50) 
Leg raises (50) 
Twists (30) 1234 
6666 
8866 
6666 
5553 
6666 
1234 
6666 6644 
5533 
6666 
6 6 6 6(superset) 
6 6 6 6(superset) 
The following programme was designed for Petria 
Thomas, a sprint butterfly swimmer and Olympic 
medallist. The emphasis of this programme is twofold. 
Petria has very'mobile joints and as such needs to 
be made more stable in her shoulders, while also 
emphasizing the development of strength. Power 
development is important and it is expected that the 
increases in performance in the training room will 
translate to improved maximal swimming velocity as 
well as increased efficiency at submaximal swim 
velocities. Again, a further goal is injury prevention 
and rehabilitation. Petria Thomas: Olympic silver medallist 1996,200 m 
butterfly 
Strength programme 
Day 1 and 3 
1234 Set 
Incline dumb-bell press 8866 
Chin ups (wide grip) 6666 
Standing circles 6666 
Single arm row 8866 
Abdominals: as below Squats and rebound jumps 5-6 5-6 5-6 5-6 
Calf raises (+ weight) 10 10 10 10 
Day2 
Set 
Standing dumb-bell press 
Dumb-bell bench pulls 
Leg press 
Split jumps 
Rotator cuff 
Abdominals: as below 450 flys 
shrugs 
Day 4 
Set 
Close grip bench press 
Dumb-bell bench pulls 
Lunge walks 
Lateral raises 
Rotator cuff 
Curls 1234 
8866 
6666 
6666 
5555 
6666 
6666 
5555 
1234 
6666 
6666 
5555 
8866 
6666 
10 10 8 8 
Abdominal workout 
Swiss ball 
one leg tucks (3 x 15) 
crunches +weight (3 x 20) 
twists (2 x 10 each side) 
bridge (3 x 30 s) 
Wrestling 
Wrestling, like other anaerobic sports, places a 
tremendous stress on the metabolic system as well as 
being a weight class sport. The sport of wrestling is one 
of the most demanding competitive sports of today 
from a metabolic perspective. This section looks at the 
very important concept of bioenergetics as it relates to 
the success of the athlete in this sport. Conditioning 

102 CHAPTER 5 
must reflect a need to cope with the acid-base dis- 
ruption aspect of this sport, as with other combative 
sports (e.g. boxing, judo). In general, the wrestler 
needs muscular strength and power, together with 
local muscular endurance, to meet the demands of 
the match. Weight management also presents a special 
challenge to the wrestler in both the off-season and in- 
season phases of the year. If not carried out properly, 
weight loss can have dramatically detrimental effects 
on physical performance capabilities. Because the 
competitive season is so long, injury prevention also 
has a vital role in wrestling success. 
Physical demands 
The physical demands of wrestling are affected by the 
amount of weight lost prior to a match and the number 
of matches wrestled; this is the essence of the physical 
demands in wrestling. The physical demands will be 
related to the weight loss and the match schedule for a 
tournament. The ability of the wrestler to meet the 
physical and psychological demands of tournament 
wrestling will ultimately determine a champion, 
Therefore, strength and conditioning programmes 
must be centred on developing the physical condi- 
tioning weight management programmes, and skills 
needed to cope with the demands of tournament 
wrestling. 
start by examining the acute physiological stresses 
associated with a single wrestling match. This will 
help to understand the demands placed on the 
wrestler’s body while helping to establish the 
physiological basis for principles of strength and 
conditioning specific to wrestling. In order to understand such physical demands we 
Sources of energy for wrestling 
It is apparent that the sport of wrestling taxes both 
the aerobic and anaerobic energy systems. During 
the match the sport demands are maximal or near 
maximal muscular activity. In order to sustain such 
physical exertion, energy must be made available 
to the muscles involved with each of the wrestling 
moves. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP] provides the 
necessary energy for muscular activity. A limited 
amount is stored in the muscle but most ATP comes 
from energy substrates (primarily carbohydrates, protein and some fat). The body processes these 
substrates through aerobic and anaerobic metabolic 
cycles to produce ATP, the energy-producing 
molecule for the body. 
The anaerobic system is divided into the ATP- 
phosphocreatine (PC) and the lactic acid system. A 
limited supply of ATP and PC is readily available in 
the muscles for use without any metabolic processing 
of energy substrates (carbohydrates, fats or proteins). 
Splitting of PC will also produce energy to put 
together ATP molecules from adenosine diphosphate 
(ADP), which needs another phosphate molecule to 
become ATP. Glycolysis (also called the lactic acid 
energy system] is a series of biochemical reactions 
which take place within the muscle cell and con- 
tributes energy when higher power output demands 
continue for longer periods of time (> 10-20 s). 
Compared to the aerobic energy system, which 
can use and process all three energy substrates 
(carbohydrates, fats and proteins), the lactic acid 
system can only use carbohydrates (glucose) to 
produce ATP energy. This is important, as wrestling 
calls upon the lactic acid system to contribute a 
significant proportion of the energy needed for a 
wrestling match. Therefore, lactic acid accumulates 
during a wrestling match. Carbohydrates are stored 
as glycogen in the muscles and liver and broken 
down into glucose. Furthermore, food restriction 
during the weight phases can dramatically 
compromise the amount of stored glycogen in 
the body. 
When producing ATP energy from glycolysis 
(the lactic acid system), a byproduct of the energy- 
producing reaction, lactic acid or lactate, is formed. 
Higher concentrations are seen in the muscle where 
it is formed and increases in the blood are observed 
as soon as 5 s after maximal exercise activity, as the 
body attempts to expel it from the muscle or clear it. 
intense muscular activity continues, concentrations 
in the muscle as well as in the blood will continue 
to increase well above resting levels. If metabolic 
demands are excessive, the power output of the bod 
will drop. In other words, the body’s musculature will 
not be able to keep up the intensity of exercise without 
sufficient energy availability. This is one reason why 
a wrestler may not be able to complete a move in the 
last minute of the match. This is where the energy- 
producing ability of the wrestler is not equal to the 

PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 103 
Fig. 5.7 The sport of wrestling is 
unique in that it requires powerful 
movement within the context of 
extreme fatigue as a result of metabolic 
acidosis. Photo 0 Allsport/J. 
Jacobsohn. 
demands of the sport. Proper conditioning can help 
this (Fig. 5.7). 
While the ability to produce energy via the lactic 
acid energy system allows the body to maintain 
activity of high power output, it cannot be maintained 
for extended periods of time. Even with the support of 
aerobic metabolism for total energy output, the lactic 
acid system can only be maintained at maximal or 
near maximal power outputs for approximately 2-5 
min. At some point power capabilities decline. The 
build-up of lactic acid in part contributes to and is 
associated with metabolic acidosis (decreasing of the 
body’s pH balance to more acidic conditions) and 
continued reduction in the pH of the muscles 
adversely affects the body in many different ways. 
Metabolic acidosis tends to reduce the power output 
of muscular activity by reducing enzyme effectiveness 
in the biochemical energy reactions. Reduced pH also 
affects muscular force by interfering with the essential 
contraction coupling events in the contractile unit of 
the muscle. This indicates that one of the goals of a 
strength and conditioning programme for wrestling is 
to improve the tolerance of metabolic conditions 
encountered during wrestling. 
The aerobic energy system helps to support all of 
the energy demands for muscular activity during a 
wrestling match. It is also involved in the recovery 
process during exercise when muscle fibres are not being recruited and after exercise when the muscles 
are attempting to recover from the exercise stress. 
metabolic energy systems simultaneously ‘kick in’ 
to meet the requirement for energy. The magnitude of 
the contribution or the percentage coming from each 
energy source is related to the power output required 
by the muscle and the duration of the effort. It is 
important to consider the energy demands of muscles 
during a match as being dynamic. There is a shifting of 
the magnitude of the energy source percentage within 
each muscle between the three energy components in 
response to the intensity of the match. Remember, 
there are two energy systems-aerobic and anaerobic- 
but three components, as the anaerobic system is 
broken into two energy components-ATP-PC and 
lactic acid. The energy demands vary for each specific 
muscle, depending upon the demands placed on that 
muscle at any point in the wrestling match. Once muscular activity is initiated, all the 
Energy demand changes during wrestling 
Now let us take an example and see if we can put 
into practice some of the concepts we have learned 
concerning the bioenergetics of wrestling. As the 
wrestler starts the first period of wrestling, the 
majority of energy originates from aerobic sources. 
Then he ties up with the opponent using a head lock 


104 CHAPTER 5 
and right away the anaerobic demands in the arms 
and upper back dramatically shifts to more anaerobic 
sources, while the legs and much of the rest of the 
body may still be getting most of their energy from 
aerobic sources. He then decides to make his first 
‘shoot’ and attempts a single leg takedown. The energy 
demands in the legs now make a dramatic shift to 
primarily ATP-PC in order to produce the speed and 
power needed to penetrate the opponent’s defences. 
The opponent counters and thus starts to provide 
resistance to the wrestler’s upper body. Still, our 
wrestler gets in on the opponent’s legs. If the wrestler 
gets in cleanly before the opponent counters, the 
upper body may use primarily the ATP-PC system. 
If there is an extended struggle to gain the leg and 
takedown, a dramatic increase in anaerobic energy 
demands occurs in the wrestler’s upper body. The legs 
will also require a high anaerobic component if the 
wrestler attempts to get to his feet with the opponent’s 
single leg or moves into an active ride position using 
the legs to force pressure on the opponent. Conversely, 
the anaerobic demands will reduce if he just goes to 
an upper body ride position and does not utilize his 
legs for any significant force production. A takedown 
and finish off of the move takes anywhere from 5 
to 30 s and sometimes longer. When the opponent 
counters the takedown (or any other move), this 
initiates the resistance beyond body weight that must 
be moved and controlled. This sets up another volley 
of energy sequence demands for both wrestlers, and 
this type of interplay goes on the entire match, move 
by move. 
Energy availability and perfomance 
The demands for energy continue and what cannot 
be obtained from one component demands more 
from another. When the ATP-PC energy stores are 
significantly depleted, in about 5-10 s, the lactic acid 
source starts to become the primary component for 
energy as the wrestler continues to wrestle at high 
power production levels. The lactic acid in the muscle 
and the blood will continue to rise while activity 
requiring such high power output continues in the 
various muscles. Each of the various muscles used 
during the wrestling match will attempt to get rid of 
the lactic acid and will clear some of it into the blood, 
thus contributing to the lactic acid levels in the blood. Thus, in order to perform a constant series of moves 
associated with repetitive offensive and defensive 
changeovers, the energy must be available for the 
power to be maintained in takedowns, escapes, 
reversals and rides. If the optimal energy needed for 
the move is not available, the quality of the move will 
be dramatically affected. For example, this could be 
translated into a reduction of power from the bottom 
position to the feet in an escape or a lack of strength 
and power to finish off a takedown. 
Thus, reasons for missing a move change over 
the course of a match as fatigue plays a greater part. 
Energy depletion may play a greater part in fatigue in 
the later minutes of a match when energy availability 
can be very low. Thus, conditioning to offset the 
fatigue becomes a vital contribution to successful 
wrestling performance. Here is where a wrestler in 
top condition can force the match and expend the 
opponent’s energy reserves in order to build up a 
lead or wear down the opponent. If a wrestler is not 
conditioned to tolerate the metabolic acidosis of a 
match, the ability to utilize his or her body’s muscular 
strength and power will be compromised. 
While short breaks in the action happen, when 
a wrestler goes off the mat and injury time outs are 
allowed when a wrestler is hurt, this does not provide 
the necessary time for complete recovery. Thus, rest 
periods which address this type of stress are needed. 
Rest periods of 1 min or less performed in a circuit 
style are important in the pre-season part of a 
programme. 
While ATP-PC stores are partially restored, the 
majority of lactic acid is not cleared when only short 
recovery periods are observed. This begins to pose a 
real demand on the wrestler’s physical ability to 
tolerate the acidic conditions associated with high 
levels of blood lactate. The physiological need to 
buffer the factors which contribute to the shift in the 
acid-base balance in the body is vital, as reduced 
muscle and blood pH will adversely affect muscular 
actions (especially concentric movements) and 
therefore wrestling performance. 
Lactic acid responses to wrestling 
During the sustained muscular activity in a match, the 
muscles used to perform specific moves can produce 
large amounts of lactic acid. The upper body muscul- 

PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 105 
ature appears to be most involved with sustained 
muscular contractions, but the legs and hips are 
highly involved with the power moves of the match 
involving takedowns, throws, stand ups and when 
leg rides are used. Thus, it is quite possible that the 
upper and lower body musculature function 
differently because of the nature of the moves used 
and the different metabolic demands of various 
offensive and defensive moves. Blood lactic acid will 
partially reflect the clearance of lactic acid from the 
muscle into the blood. Thus, muscle lactate is 
significantly higher but follows a similar pattern to 
blood lactate. 
The blood lactic acid concentrations in response 
to a freestyle wrestling match can be over 19 mmol. 
1-’ as seen in Fig. 5.8. In addition, the blood pH is 
also significantly reduced following a single wrestling 
match. The lactic acid and hydrogen ions must be 
buffered for as long as possible in both the muscle 
and the blood if optimal function is to be maintained. 
The reduction in energy production is partly caused 
by reductions in the pH of the cellular environment 
which starts to shut down metabolic reactions. Blood 
lactate moves out of the muscle and circulates through 
the body and signals a variety of physiological 
responses in various parts of the body, including 
the brain, lungs and kidneys. 
Understanding the metabolic demands of the 
match is essential to help develop a strength and 
conditioning programme which prepares the wrestler 
for the match. It is important to remember that many 
power movements must be produced when the body 
is in a state of metabolic acidosis. 
Training implications 
Theoretical aerobic base 
For many years wrestlers have tried to train the 
aerobic energy system with long slow distance 
typically referred to as ‘road work’. This has been 
performed to help body weight management and 
develop a basic level of conditioning. How much 
aerobic fitness is needed for anaerobic sports is still 
unknown but it has been shown that interval sprint 
training can improve maximal aerobic capacity. Long 
distance running may compromise power production, 
especially in the absence of any heavy resistance Fig. 5.8 Blood lactate levels in a wrestler. *P < 0.05 from 
pre-match; t from immediate post-match. 
training for those muscles. This appears to indi- 
cate that running alone could be detrimental to 
power development when no compensatory heavy 
resistance exercise training is performed with the 
muscles involved. Thus, care must be taken when 


106 CHAPTER 5 
using aerobic conditioning for weight loss purposes, 
as excessive amounts may well affect the power 
performance that is especially important for throws 
and quick countermovements. 
As a weight class sport, increases and strength 
and power are more important to many wrestlers at 
the elite levels of competition than gains in muscle 
mass, which would potentially move them up in 
their weight class. Younger novice wrestlers should 
be advised to find a weight class for their optimal 
strength, power and size rather than intentionally 
reduce weight, because repeated dieting-weight loss 
followed by repletion back to a higher weight-has 
now been shown to have health implications for 
wrestlers. Programmes for wrestlers are focused on 
development of the strength, power and endurance 
necessary to perform the various moves on the mat 
against a competitor. In addition, isometric training 
is beneficial for certain moves in wrestling (e.g. 
hand locks, bear hugs) and specialized isometric 
supplementary training programmes can be added 
to the programme. 
Wrestling programme 
The resistance training programme is an important 
component of a conditioning programme for wrest- 
ling. Development of strength and power along 
with the ability to tolerate high levels of lactic acid 
production during a match are important to the 
wrestler’s physical capabilities. In addition, pro- 
grammes are typically not directed at excessive 
hypertrophy if the wrestler is solid for his or her fat- 
free body mass in a weight class. Other components 
of the wrestling programme include plyometrics, 
wrestling practice and drills, cardiovascular cross- 
training with limitations on running due to negative 
effects on strength and power development in the 
lower body musculature. Proper and stable weight 
loss and hydration practices also need to be under- 
taken in order to minimize fatigue and provide the 
necessary nutrients for building and maintenance of 
muscle mass and energetic function. An important 
part of the whole programme is rest and recovery 
from conditioning and practice along with suitable 
recovery nutrition. Lengths of each of the segments 
can be adjusted to address any year cycle of a 
wrestling season. Individualized programme progressions need to be used and exercises specific 
to the individual on injury rehabilitation and 
prevention exercises also need to be individualized. 
An example programme is given below. 
Phase 1 (8 weeks) 
(Monday, Wednesday, Friday) 
This part of the programme will be directed at general 
conditioning in the weight room with the develop- 
ment of the ability to tolerate the high lactic acid 
production that occurs with wrestling to be devel- 
oped in the weight room prior to practices on the mat. 
For wrestlers that wrestle year around this will also 
provide a change up in exercise selections. 
Circuit rotation 
Bench press 
Seated row 
Single knee extensions 
Single leg curls 
Low back exercise 
Sit ups (variety) 
Upright rows 
Lateral pull owns 
4-way neck exercise 
Calf raisers 
Bicep curls 
Tricep extensions 
Internal rotator cuff exercise 
External rotator cuff exercise 
Medicine ball push ups (alternate one hand on ball one hand 
on ground, right, both left) 
12-15 RM zone loading 
Progress from one circuit to three circuits 
90 s progressing to 30 s rest between sets; super set pairs 
when down to 60 s rest 
Phase 2 (8 weeks) 
The development of strength is important to the 
further development of sports-specific power. This 
programme is dedicated to development of strength 

PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 107 
and power and then further enhancing the local 
muscular endurance needed. Changes in the circuit 
programme can be made and even placing a power 
exercise (e.g. hang cleans) at the end of the circuit 
can be implemented after several weeks. 
Monday and Thursday 
Power cleans 
Push press 
Bench press 
Hang pulls from knees 
Squats 
Medicine ball chest toss 
(30% of 1 RM bench press) Tuesday and Friday 
3 circuit training protocol 
3-5-RM zone Circuit: 8-10-RM zone 
2-3-min rest between sets 60 s rest between sets 
(super set exercise pairs) 
Phase 3 (8 weeks) 
This phase of the resistance training programme is 
directed at continued development of the strength 
power base needed for a wrestler on an individual- 
ized level. Circuit training continues to taper off 
into ‘on mat’ practices where the metabolism dur- 
ing wrestling will address the metabolic mainten- 
ance of the acid-base buffering systems needed to 
offset acidosis and its negative effects on muscle 
function. 
Monday and 
Thursday 
Hang/power cleans 
Push press 
Squat jumps 
Lunges 
Cable twists 
Stiff leg deadlifts 
3-5 RM 
2-4 sets Tuesday 
Deadlift 
Bench press 
Split squat 
Front pull downs 
Knee upsltwists 
Neck exercises 
Hang cleans from 
knees at end of 
circuit Monday Wednesday Friday 
Bench press Incline press Bench press 
Squat Hang cleans Squat 
Seated rows Side squats Seated rows 
Deadlift Jump squats Dead 1 i ft 
Push press Cable twists Push press 
Sit-up versions Hanging knee ups Sit-up versions 
4 way neck Medicine ball 4 way neck 
MondayIFriday Wednesday 
2-4 RM zone strength 
3 min rest between sets 
3-4 sets 3-4 sets 
15-20 repetitions for non- Power exercises 
2-3 min rest between sets exercises 2-4 repetitions 
primary exercises 
Phase 5 (8 weeks) 
Pre-season 
Non-linear periodized days with different types of 
workouts getting ready for formal ‘on mat’ practices 
and the season. 
Monday 
Squats 
Medicine ball chest throws 
Rotator cuff exercises* 
Sit-up variations 
Calf raises* 
Neck exercises 
Biceps/triceps super sets* 
Bench press 
Friday Seated rows 
Push press 
3 circuits 2-3 sets 
3-5-RM zone 
2-3-min rest between sets 
*8-10 repetitions for assistance exercises 
Wednesday 
2 or 3 circuits with hang cleans from the knees at the end of Same as phase 2 Circuits 
the circuit 
2-3-min rest 
between sets 
Phase 4 (8 weeks) 
This phase is a pure strength power phase with 
training days reduced for recovery purposes. Friday 
Jump squats 
Hang cleans for the knees 
Bench throws (medicine ball at about 30% of 1 RM) 
Lunges 
Medicine ball exercises emphasizing twisting and overhead 
movements 

108 CHAPTER 5 
2-3 sets 
Quality repetitions from 2 to 4 repetitions per set 
2-3 min rest between sets 
Loading specific to power development 30-60% of 1 RM 
In-season 
The goals of an in-season programme are the main- 
tenance of the wrestler’s strength base and then the 
continued development of power. Stabilizing the body 
mass that the wrestler will be wrestling at is vital to 
optimal physical status. Large body weight swings 
during the season to ‘make weight’ is negative in the 
current understanding of optimal and safe wrestling 
practices. Many variations can be used with a non- 
linear periodization programme to meet the multiple 
match demands during a week. 
Volley bal I 
The sport of competitive volleyball is considered by 
many to be one of the most explosive and fast paced 
sports being contested today. Since its inception, it 
has evolved into an activity requiring tremendous 
strength, power, agility and speed, not to mention 
elaborate competitive strategies. As with many sports 
requiring these physical traits, off-court training and 
conditioning currently receive much greater attention 
and effort. Although on-court volleyball training is 
undoubtedly the most critical aspect of preparation for this sport, supplementary training can make the 
subtle difference between two comparably talented 
teams. 
Off-court training and conditioning can take many 
forms, but this section will focus on integrating 
volleyball-specific resistance exercise into a year-long 
training cycle (macrocycle). Before such a resistance 
exercise programme can be properly designed, a needs 
analysis must be performed for the sport of volleyball. 
Such an analysis includes: 
1 the anatomical and kinesiological characteristics; 
2 the energy requirements: and 
3 injury considerations for the sport. 
Performance and physiological characteristics 
of volleyball 
To understand the role that a resistance exercise 
programme can have for volleyball preparation, 
let us examine what goes on during a typical match. 
Volleyball is a very fast paced, high power sport. 
Elite male volleyball players have been reported to 
perform 250-300 high power activities during a five 
game match. Of these activities, over 50% are jumps of 
various types, 30% are short sprints and 12-16% are 
dives for balls. Jumps constitute the majority of power 
events (Fig. 5.9), and elite females have been reported 
to average 12 jumps per game, with values reaching 
as high as 35 jumps per game. Players at different 
positions naturally exhibit different jump frequencies 
Fig. 5.9 Vertical jump power is a vital 
attribute needed by volleyball athletes 
which can be specifically developed 
with a properly designed strength 
training programme. Photo 0 
IOClOlympic Museum Collections. 


PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 109 
and types. Although front line players all jump 
frequently during a game, middle blockers perform 
50% of all jumps on the front line. A majority of the 
jumps performed by middle blockers and right outside 
hitters are defensive in nature (blocking jumps), while 
almost 60% of the jumps by left outside hitters are 
offensive in nature. 
is a critical component of volleyball fitness. During 
a typical point of approximately 10 s, a player will 
change direction four times. High levels of agility 
require tremendou eccentric strength and a short 
amortization phase (transition from eccentric to 
concentric muscle action). The longer the rally, the 
greater the number of direction changes. Although 
over 50% of all points or rallies are 5-7 s in duration, 
almost 20% are 3 s long, while 15% are 9-10 s long, 
and 10% are > 15 s in duration. Although not typical, 
rallies of 20-45 s duration have been reported, and 
can affect the physiological nature of the game trem- 
endously. Overall, approximately 50 rallies occur 
during a typical game, or 250 during a five game match. 
It has been estimated that 90% of the energy 
required for successful volleyball play is derived 
from anaerobic energy sources, with only 10% coming 
from aerobic sources. A quick examination of a typical 
game clearly illustrates that volleyball is a 'burst' 
type of sport. The action occurs in short bursts of 
high power and speed activities. Although typical 
rest intervals between points may be very short 
(12-14 s), the duration of activity is even shorter. 
Aerobic capacity is most important for the recovery 
periods between rallies, but is not the primary energy 
source during the actual points. In support of these 
metabolic characteristics, volleyball players do not 
typically develop large levels of lactate accumulation. 
Likewise, although heart rates can be quite elevated 
at times, the frequent rest intervals result in consid- 
erably lower heart rates than during typical endurance 
type activities (e.g. long-distance running, swimming, 
cycling). Despite the strong emphasis on anaerobic 
metabolism, setters have exhibited the highest lactate 
accumulation and heart rates when compared to other 
positions on court. Considering that the setter is dir- 
ectly involved in almost every rally and covers much 
ground, such a metabolic and physiological response 
is to be expected. 
In general, volleyball requires many high powered The ability to change direction is termed agility, and actions, such as jumps, sprints, dives and changes 
of direction. Front row players jump the most, and 
players in different positions must perform different 
types of jumps. While the duration of a point or rally 
can be quite short, these bursts of activity must be 
performed repeatedly throughout a match. Anaerobic 
energy sources are primarily required for volleyball, 
with most energy coming from the ATP-PC system, 
with somewhat less emphasis on anaerobic glycolysis 
(lactic acid system). 
Anatomical and kinesiological characteristics 
To determine which resistance exercises should be 
incorporated into a volleyball-specific programme, let 
us examine the typical movements that occur during 
a game. Table 5.11 lists common volleyball activities, 
the kinesiological descriptions of these anatomical 
movements, and exercises that can be used to train 
these motions. It should be kept in mind that there 
are literally tens of thousands of possible resistance 
exercises, so this table does not consist of the only 
possibilities. Despite the abundance of resistance 
exercises available, many experts feel that multijoint 
exercises should constitute the most important 
exercises (core exercises). As volleyball is typically 
played with both feet on the ground, it has been 
suggested that closed kinetic chain exercises are 
preferred to open kinetic chain exercises. In addition, 
as many volleyball actions require high levels of 
power, it is important to incorporate high power 
exercises into the resistance exercise programme. 
Sport-specific injuries 
Volleyball is typified by certain types of injuries 
which must be considered when designing a long- 
term resistance exercise programme. Accommodation 
must be made for pre-existing injuries, or preventive 
exercises must be incorporated in an attempt to 
minimize the risk of injuries. Commonly injured 
areas include the shoulder musculature, because of 
the repetitive nature of high velocity spiking motions, 
and the knees and ankles, because of the repetitive 
nature of jumping and landing on a hard court. As 
such, considerable effort must be spent on developing 
the muscles of the shoulder girdle as well as those 
surrounding the joints of the lower limbs. 

110 CHAPTER 5 
Volleyball activity Anatomical actions Resistance exercises 
Set Shoulder abduction to overhead 
position, elbow extension Military press, push press, push jerk, 
incline press, bench press 
Bump 
Dig Shoulder flexion, elbow 
stabilization Dumb-bell bump raise, upright row, 
incline press, arm curl 
Shoulder flexion, shoulder abduction, 
elbow stabilization Lateral 45O raise, incline press, arm curl 
Step into diglblock Single leg strength (is. hip extension, 
knee extension, ankle extension, 
hip abduction, lateral stabilization) Split squat, lunge, side squat 
Spike 
Block Shoulder extension, internal shoulder 
rotation (concentric), external 
shoulder rotation (eccentric) Pull over, dumb-bell internal and external 
rotation, seated row, lateral pull down, 
incline press, bench press 
Shoulder abduction to overhead 
position, shoulder extension to 
resist force of ball Military press, push press, push jerk, pull 
over, seated row, lateral pull down, 
upright row 
Ready position and jumps Hip extension, knee extension, 
ankle extension Front and back squat, calf raise, hang clean 
and snatch, push jerk 
Arm swing for jumps Shoulder extension, shoulder flexion Pull over, dumb-bell bump raise, upright 
row, seated row, lateral pull down, 
military press, push 
Torso stability Vertebral flexion and extension, 
lateral vertebral flexion and reduction Abdominal exercises, front and back squat, 
hang clean and snatch, seated row 
Design of the macrocycle 
Figure 5.10 illustrates how the year-long resistance 
exercise programme (macrocycle) for volleyball is 
divided into four 12-week mesocycles. The dura- 
tion of each mesocycle can be modified to fit the 
requirements of different training scenarios. The 
macrocycle in Fig. 5.10 fits a typical collegiate 
programme in the USA where there is a primary 
season (mesocycle 4, in-season) and a less important 
secondary season. This secondary season often occurs 
during mesocycle 2.Off-court training is not altered 
much during this mesocycle even though there is 
some competition during this phase. Each mesocycle 
is separated by at least a week of active recovery (no Mesocycle 1 Mesocycle 2 Mesocycle 3 Mesocycle 4 
Off-season I Off-season II Pre-season In-season 
I I*I I*I I*I I*I 
4 52 weeks w 
Fig. 5.10 Example of a volleyball resistance exercise 
macrocycle. "Active recovery (1 week). Mesocycles are based 
on 12-week periods, although they can be longer or shorter 
depending on characteristics of the competitive and off- 
season calendars. 
lifting) to provide appropriate recovery for each 
mesocycle. Although it is often tempting to skip these 
phases, the long-term improvement of the athlete is 
greatly facilitated when such recovery is routinely 
provided. Performance testing for the core exercises 

PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 111 
Off-season Off-season Pre-season In-season 
1500 1 mesocycle mesocycle mesocycle mesocycle 
1250 
al 
5 - 1000 
m= c .o 
.E .z 750 
-al 8" 500 
250 g,. 
2% .- 
0 1 2 
I-, I I 
0 10 20 30 40 50 
Weeks of the annual macrocycle 
Fig. 5.11 Resistance exercise training volume (total 
repetitions) for the volleyball resistance exercise 
macrocycle. 
100 
95 
A 3 90 
r 
85 
2 80 .- b 
'p, 75 al c 
C 
> c .- 
$ 70 
65 
60 K Off -season 
macrocycle 
1 w 
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 
Weeks of mesocycles 1-3 
Fig. 5.12 Relative training intensity (percentage of 1 RM) 
for the first three mesocycles (off-season 1, off-season 2, 
pre-season) of the volleyball resistance exercise programme. 
Percentage of 1 RM has been estimated from the Rh4 loads 
described in the text. can be performed prior to each active recovery 
phase to establish training loads for the following 
mesocycle. 
Examination of Figs 5.11-5.13 will clarify the 
relationship of resistance exercise training volume 
and relative training intensity throughout the 
macrocycle. The greatest volume of resistance 
exercise training occurs in the off-season when more 
time can be devoted to off-court conditioning. As the 
primary season approaches, less training volume is 
prescribed in the weight room to accommodate the 
increased training demands of on-court volleyball 
practices. Eventually, the in-season training volume 
is very low, thus permitting maintenance of the gains 
developed during the off- and pre-season mesocycles. 
In an inversely related fashion, relative training 
intensity across each mesocycle moves in a gradually 
increasing fashion. The lone exception to this is the 
in-season mesocycle where the relative intensity is 
kept moderately high to help maintain the strength 
and power developed during the off- and pre-seasons. 
To minimize unnecessary training stress from in- 
season resistance exercise, each week of the in-season 
100 
95 - 2 90 
r 
85 
2 80 
.- 75 70 65 
60 .- b 
.- %! 
P al c 
C 
+ 
IIIIIIIIIIIII 
40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 
Weeks of the in-season mesocycle 
1 - Strength-heavy day ---b Strength-light day ---.-- Power-heaw dav - - -0 - - Power-liaht dav 
Fig. 5.13 Relative training intensity (percentage of 1 RM) for 
the in-season mesocycles of the volleyball resistance exercise 
programme. Percentage of 1 Rh4 has been estimated from the 
RM loads described in the text. 

112 CHAPTER 5 
programme utilizes a light day as indicated by the 
open symbols in Fig. 5.13. The following will describe 
some of the considerations for selecting the numerous 
choices for the five acute resistance exercise training 
variables: choice of exercise; order of exercise; . 
training volume; training intensity or load; and 
interset rest. 
Off-season 1 mesocycle (Table 5.12) 
This mesocycle is the initial training phase of the 
entire competitive year. The volume is high, with 
weekly total repetition starting at 1200 repetitions 
week-'. Every 4 weeks this value decreases during 
this 12-week period. Likewise, the relative intensity 
increases every 4 weeks. Figure 5 I 13 illustrates the 
different loading for the strength exercises (high force 
development) and the power exercises (high power 
development). Despite the different loading, the 
Table 5.12 Off-season 1 mesocycle 
resistance exercise programme for 
volleyball. 
Group Monday and Thursday Tuesday and Friday 
1 Military press* 
2 Lateral pull down 
3 Bench press* Dumb-bell bump raise 
Seated row 
4 Single leg extension 
5 Squat* 
6 Reverse arm curl 
Regular arm curl Single leg curl 
7 Abdominals Lateral 45O raise 
Upright row 
Hang power cleant 
(from midthigh) 
Split squat 
Side squat 
Dumb-bell internal rotation 
Dumb-bell external rotation 
Dumb-bell pull over 
Calf raise 
Abdominals 
Three sets of each exercise. 10-RM loads unless otherwise 
noted. Interset rest periods 1-2 min. Heavier loads use longer 
rest intervals. Core exercises listed in bold. 
*Periodized exercises: weeks 1-4, light, 15 RM; weeks 5-8, 
medium, 10 RM; weeks 9-12, heavy, 5 RM. 
tPeriodized exercise: weeks 1-4, light, 5 RM; weeks 5-8, 
medium, 3 RM: weeks 9-12, heavy, 2 RM. progression for intensity is similar for all exercises. 
The high power exercises utilize lower repetition 
ranges because of the possibility of technique break- 
down with fatigue from high repetitions. The core 
exercises for this macrocycle are the military press, 
bench press, back squat and hang power clean 
exercises. These constitute the most important 
exercises for this training cycle. If time constraints 
limit the number of exercises that can be performed, 
these exercises should be prioritized. As illustrated 
in Table 5.12, the exercise groups can be performed 
in any order, but the exercises within any group must 
be performed in the order listed. This arrangement 
was developed because of equipment limitations at 
many facilities. Rather than have athletes lined up at 
various exercise stations as they wait to get on a piece 
of equipment, the order of performing the exercise 
groups could be determined by equipment availability 
and athlete preference. Ideally, high power exercises 
(e.g. cleans, snatches, push jerks) are performed early 
in the training session, followed by the core exercises, 
concluding with the supplementary exercises. 
Exercise selection for mesocycle 1 includes split 
squats rather than lunges. Split squats are simply 
lunges without the forward stride, the lead foot is 
placed in proper position and the lunge motion is 
executed without moving the lead foot. This motion 
is easier to master than the lunge exercise which 
incorporates a step forward and back with the lead 
leg. Side squats are performed in a similar manner 
although the lead leg is placed 60" to the side. Such 
a motion is designed to mimic striding for a dig, 
although the torso remains upright during the side 
squat. Leg extensions and leg curls are performed 
unilaterally to emphasize the work performed by 
each individual leg. This further reinforces the 
concept of single leg strength. Dumb-bell bump raises 
are performed by grasping the dumb-bell handle in a 
vertical position with both hands. Keeping the elbows 
only slightly bent, the weight is raised in front of the 
body (shoulder flexion) to an overhead position. 
Lateral 45" raises are also performed with dumb-bells 
by raising the weight from the sides to the top of the 
head level. The elbows should remain slightly bent, 
and the arms are raised 45" to the side. The hands 
may be held in a thumbs up position if so desired. 
As so many abdominal exercises are available these 
have not been described in detail. In actuality, many 

PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 113 
coaches incorporate abdominal exercises into on- 
court practices. 
Off-season 2 mesocycle (Table 5.13) 
This off-season mesocycle adds variety to the 
previous mesocycle by changing training volume 
every 2 weeks. Relative training intensity is slightly 
increased and follows a pattern similar to mesocycle 
1. Several exercises have been changed to accommod- 
ate a training-learning progression. Hang power 
snatches have replaced hang power cleans, thus 
increasing the velocity of movement. Lunges have 
replaced split squats because the basic lunging motion 
should have been mastered by now. It should be noted 
that this exercise is not what is commonly referred to 
as ‘walking’ lunges where the athlete moves across the 
i 0. I--‘ 
Table 5.13 Off-season 2 mesocycle 
volleyball. 4 47 / resistance exercise programme for 
Group Monday and Thursday Tuesday and Friday 
1 Push press* 
Dumbbell bump raise 
2 Lateral pull down 
Seated row 
3 Incline bench press* 
4 Single leg extension 
Single leg curl 
5 Squat* 
6 Reverse arm curl 
Regular arm curl 
7 Abdominals Lateral 45O raise 
Upright row 
Hang power snatcht 
[from midthigh) 
Lunge 
Side squat 
Dumb-bell internal rotation 
Dumb-bell external rotation 
Dumb-bell pull over 
Calf raise 
Abdominals 
Three sets of each exercise. 10 RM loads unless otherwise 
noted. Interset rest periods 1-2 min. Heavier loads use longer 
rest intervals. Core exercises listed in bold. 
*Periodized exercises: weeks 1-2, light, 12 RM; weeks 3-4, 
medium, 8 RM; weeks 5-6, heavy, 3 RM; weeks 7-8, light, 
12 RM; weeks 9-10, medium, 8 RM; weeks 11-12, heavy, 
3 RM. 
tPeriodized exercise: weeks 1-2, light, 5 RM; weeks 3-4, 
medium, 3 RM; weeks 5-6, heavy, 2 RM; weeks 7-8, light, 
5 RM; weeks 9-10, medium, 3 Rh4; weeks 11-12, heavy, 2 RM. training hall in an exaggerated walk. While this can 
be a good exercise, it is different from the classical 
lunge as prescribed here. Push presses have replaced 
military presses. This exercise introduces the athlete 
to use of the ‘power zone’ muscles (musculature from 
the knees to the low back) while performing overhead 
work. This is particularly important for volleyball 
where the entire body is used for many motions (e.g. 
setting, bumps), not just the upper body musculature. 
Finally, incline presses have replaced the standard 
bench press. This change begins to incorporate a 
more sports-specific motion into the training. 
Pre-season mesocycle (Table 5.14) 
Training volume for this mesocycle decreases 
considerably, as can be seen in Fig. 5.11. This change 
is necessary because of the increasing amount of 
on-court training during this phase. To achieve the 
decreased volume, training frequency is decreased 
from four sessions per week to three. Additionally, 
fewer exercises are performed. Relative training 
intensity for the strength and power core exercises 
now changes every 2 weeks, and rotates between light, 
medium and heavy loads. The last 2 weeks of this 
mesocycle culminates in the heaviest loads to help 
‘peak‘ the athletes for the impending season. Front 
squats are now alternated with back squats in an 
attempt to continue to develop lower body muscul- 
ature while decreasing the work performed by the 
lower back. Leg curls are now performed bilaterally 
to minimize training time, while leg extensions have 
been dropped because of the large amount of knee 
extension work performed during the squat and lunge 
exercises. Both hang cleans and hang snatches are 
now performed, but from knee height rather than 
midthigh height. Although this difference in starting 
height may appear to be slight, it can be critical for the 
athlete learning to use their hip musculature properly 
during these powerful movements. Push jerks have 
also been added to develop the use of the ‘power zone’ 
muscles in overhead work. 
In-season mesocycle (Table 5.15) 
Careful prescription of the resistance exercise protocol 
is most critical during this mesocycle. Although some 
coaches do not prescribe any resistance exercise 

114 CHAPTER 5 
Table 5.14 Pre-season mesocycle resistance 
exercise programme for volleyball. 
Group Monday Wednesday Friday 
1 
2 
3 
4 Push jerkt Push presst 
Dumb-bell bump raise 
Hang power cleant 
(from knee height) 
Lateral pull down Seated row Hang power snatcht 
(from knee height) 
Front squat* 
Bilateral leg curl 
Dumb-bell pull over Lunge 
Side squat Push jerkt 
Lateral 45O raise 
Hang power cleant 
(from knee height) 
Back squat* 
Bilateral leg curl 
Dumb-bell internal rotation 
Dumb-bell external rotation Dumb-bell pull over 
Dumb-bell internal rotation 
Dumb-bell external rotation 
5 Abdominals Abdominals Abdominals 
Three sets of each exercise. 10-RM loads unless otherwise noted. Interset rest periods 1-2 min. Heavier loads use longer rest 
intervals. Core exercises listed in bold. 
*Periodized exercises: weeks 1-2, light, 15 RM; weeks 3-4, medium, 10 RM; weeks 5-6, heavy, 5 RM; weeks 7-8, light, 
12 RM; weeks 9-10, medium, 8 RM; weeks 11-12, heavy, 3 RM. 
tPeriodized exercise: weeks 1-2, light, 5 RM; weeks 3-4, medium, 3 RM; weeks 5-6, heavy, 2 RM; weeks 7-8, light, 5 RM; 
weeks 9-10, medium, 3 RM; weeks 11-12, heavy, 2 RM. 
during the competitive period, it is much too long a 
time to go without any resistance exercise training. 
However, every attempt must be made to accom- 
modate the extreme stresses inherent with a com- 
petitive season. Resistance exercise volume is further 
decreased during this mesocycle by training only 
twice per week and decreasing the number of exer- 
cises. In order to maintain the strength and power 
developed during the previous three mesocycles, the 
relative training intensity is kept fairly high. All too 
often coaches opt for performing high numbers of 
repetitions with light weights during this phase. 
Unfortunately, this type of training does not optimize 
maintenance of the strength and power critical for 
elite volleyball performance. It is also important to 
continue to provide variety to the resistance exercise 
training because it is easy for an athlete to become 
stagnant in the weight room when the stimulus does 
not change. To combat this, light and heavy days have 
been incorporated (Fig. 5.13). This is easily 
accomplished by deducting a set percentage from the typical training load. The light and heavy days 
are alternated throughout this mesocycle for further 
variety. Each week utilizes a different relative 
intensity (3 or 5 Rh4) resulting in an undulating 
pattern as seen in Fig. 5.13. The sets, repetitions 
per set, and the relative intensity all interact to 
provide considerable variety during this phase. 
Exercise selection also provides variety as several 
exercises are alternated on successive weeks. As the 
competitive season is the time for optimizing power 
capabilities, cleans, snatches and push jerks are all 
routinely incorporated during this period. The 
duration of the resistance exercise training sessions 
during the in-season period should be very short, 
30-45 min in length. The light training days get 
progressively lighter as the season progresses to 
accommodate fatigue. However, week 11 utilizes 
relatively heavy loads while volume is very low. In 
this manner, the athletes may be in peak strength 
and power condition immediately prior to the most 
important contests of the season. 

PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 115 
Session 2 Table 5.15 In-season resistance 
exercise programme for volleyball. Session 1 
Hang clean* 
Push jerk* 
Bench press 
Dumb-bell bump raise 
Front or back squat* 
Bilateral leg curl 
Abdominals (alternate each week) Hang snatch* 
Push press* 
Incline press 
Dumb-bell internal and external rotation 
Lunge or side squat 
Bilateral leg curl 
Abdominals (alternate each week) 
Two to three sets of each exercise at 10-RM loads unless otherwise noted. Interset 
rest periods of 1-2 min. Heavier loads use longer rest intervals. 
*Core exercises listed in bold use the following protocols: 
Week Sets Repetitions Load: Session 1 Load: Session 2 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 3 
3 
2 
2 
3 
3 
2 
2 
3 
2 
1 5 
3 
5 
3 
5 
3 
5 
3 
5 
3 
3 - 5RM 
90% 3 RM 
90% 5 RM 
3RM 
5RM 
85% 3 Rh'f 
85% 5 RM 
3RM 
5RM 
80% 3 RM 
85-95% 3 Rh4 90% 5 RM 
3RM 
5RM 
90% 5 RM 
85% 5 RM 
3RM 
5RM 
85% 3 RM 
80% 5 RM 
3RM 
85-95% 3 RM 
Note: Training days scheduled around the competition schedule. Do not lift the 
day before or the day of a competition if possible. 
Conclusions 
The potential variety of a resistance exercise pro- 
gramme is both a blessing and a curse. One can 
become very confused while attempting to manipulate 
all the acute training variables and their possible 
combinations. On the other hand, it is also possible to 
design a resistance exercise programme customized 
for the unique demands of almost any situation. 
The programme depicted for volleyball is meant to 
be an example based on numerous previously used programmes. As the demands of each situation differ, 
so can the resistance exercise programme be modified 
to provide the optimal stimulus. 
Gymnastics 
The sport of gymnastics is one of few in which 
winning is qualitative rather than quantitative. In 
this programme example a conventional college 
season construct for anchoring the terms and the 
season of periodization is used. Collegiate and 

116 CHAPTER 5 
international level gymnasts may sacrifice strength 
and conditioning training to devote more time to 
training specific skills and routines. However, skill 
training alone will not yield the desired results 
and supplementary training can address aspects 
of physical development which cannot be effected 
by gymnastics training alone. An effective strength 
training programme can be integrated with regular 
sport practices, ultimately improving physical 
development and performance (e.g. vertical jump) 
which contribute to enhanced performance and 
success. It is vital that the strength and conditioning 
coach strives to educate gymnasts on how strength 
and power training can be an integral part of 
preparatory training and successful performance. 
Needs analysis 
Sports-specific training refers to a certain training 
style that complements a specific sport. With that in mind, recall the concept of not only sports-specific 
training, but take it even one step further to skill- 
specific training within gymnastics. Here the specific 
skill is broken down and analysed for specific 
performance variables and movements and then 
categorized for training (Table 5.16). 
Gymnastics requires individual skills to be per- 
formed sequentially to comprise a routine. In order to 
develop an effective training programme for gymnasts, 
each event must be individually analysed to assess 
the predominant skills utilized, and therefore to 
determine the modes of training and appropriate 
exercises. 
Exercises and skills 
As an example, let us examine the women’s vault, 
which is a very short event in which the objective is 
to propel the body over the horse, covering as much 
height and distance as possible. Completion time for 
’\ 
4 - Table 5.16 Analysis of gymnastic events. - 
Performance variables 
Rate of force 
development Local 
High force muscular Isometric 
Event Skill Power High Low development endurance strength 
Beam 
Floor ~~~~ 
Vault Any skill 
Bars Cast handstand 
Giant swing 
Release move 
Jump/leap 
Press handstand 
Dance moves 
Handspring 
Saltos 
Tumblinghaltos 
Jumphap 
Dance moves Press handstand X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X X X X 
X X 

PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 117 
Fig. 5.15 Success in gymnastics depends on power 
development by arms, legs and trunk. Photo courtesy of Ball 
State University Photo Services. Fig. 5.14 Power development is vital to many events in 
gymnastics. Photo 0 Allsport/E. Shaw. 
an entire vault event with run-up is approximately 
20 s. In order to perform a successful vault, the gymnast 
requires a significant amount of power both to sprint 
and to propel the body from the horse (Fig. 5.14). 
Landing requires a great amount of eccentric strength 
to offset the great amount of force produced. One 
study showed that vertical ground reaction forces can 
be as great as 11.4 times body weight upon landing 
from a vault, indicating that eccentric strength must 
be present in order to absorb the shock and maintain 
form and balance. 
The skills required for the performance of the 
uneven parallel bars are unique (Fig. 5.15). The most 
important component of this routine is the swing, 
which requires isometric (static) strength for proper alignment of body positions and gripping of the bar. 
The event lasts approximately 1.5 min and therefore 
demands local muscular endurance. Eccentric 
strength for landing is also MI important factor for 
the uneven bars. 
The balance beam and floor exercise routines 
consist of dance, acrobatics and tumbling moves 
(Figs 5.16 and 5.17). These routines are subject to a 
time limit and last approximately 1.5 min. These two 
exercises require a significant amount of eccentric 
strength for the impact of landings. Such moves as 
handstands and planches require isometric strength 
for holding these positions. 
Although power, rate of force development and 
strength comprise much of a gymnast’s repertoire, 


118 CHAPTER 5 
local muscular endurance is also required for an 
award winning performance. Local muscular endur- 
ance is required for three of the four events: bars, 
balance beam and floor exercises. For example, near 
the end of a routine, the body is already fatigued and 
must be able to perform one or two skills that require 
explosive power. Gymnasts not conditioned for this 
type of endurance will encounter extreme difficulty 
upon completing the skills of the routine. 
Systemic (aerobic) endurance is not directly 
involved with each event but is considered a 
performance aid in practice. A gymnast becomes 
aerobically conditioned as he or she completes 
multiple skills and several routines progressively 
of each event during a practice session. Therefore, 
during competition, when there is time to complete 
only one routine of each event, the gymnast can per- 
form it with ease. Supplementary aerobic training with 
running must be carefully prescribed (< 40 km-week-I) 
as it can compromise muscular power. 
Physiology 
The intense nature of gymnastics requires predomin- 
antly fast twitch muscle fibres energized by the 
anaerobic system. Type I1 muscle fibres are used 
when the activity is of high intensity and short 
duration, such as the exercises in women’s gymna- 
stics. These fibres possess high contraction speed Fig. 5.16 Eccentric strength contributes to the ability to 
balance. Photo courtesy of Ball State University Photo Services. 
Fig. 5.17 Gymnastics performance 
relies on a combination of skill, grace 
and power. Photo 0 Allsport/S. 
Botterill. 


PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 119 
enabling the muscle to create a large amount of force 
per cross sectional area in a very short time period. 
The characteristics of Type I1 fibres demand energy 
from the anaerobic energy systems, which includes 
the ATP-PC and glycolysis energy sources. 
Injury profile 
High risk factors and the extreme physical demands 
of gymnastics make for a large incidence of injury 
within the sport. As an athlete becomes more skilled 
and competitive, the possibility of both acute and 
chronic injury increases. More hours spent in train- 
ing will increase exposure time to possible injury, 
resulting in more acute injuries. Over time, as the 
athlete becomes more skilled, the load during training 
sessions will increase, providing a greater opportunity 
for chronic injuries. 
For example, prior research has delineated the 
incidence of injury in terms of location and in terms 
of severity. Snook (1979) investigated where injuries 
occurred in competitive women gymnasts. Of the 70 
athletes studied, 47 sustained injuries in the lower 
extremities where the highest incidence of injury 
was reported; the upper extremity received the fewest 
injuries. Another study investigating the severity of 
gymnastics injuries was conducted on 26 collegiate 
women gymnasts. The women gymnasts detailed here 
sustained 106 total injuries over a 4-year span. Sixty of 
these injuries (57%) were of acute onset and related to 
a gymnastics event. The remaining 46 (43%) were of 
gradual and chronic overuse (Wadley & Albright 1993). 
The battle to keep gymnasts free from injury is never 
ending. Gymnastics coaches, strength and condition- 
ing specialists and medical support personnel must be 
aware that the nature of the sport calls for athletes to 
train and compete while injured. Sands et aJ. (1993) 
reported that women gymnasts train with an injury 
approximately 71% of their training time and a new 
injury can be expected in 9 out of every 100 training 
sessions. Because of this extremely high rate of injury, 
the strength and conditioning professional must de- 
velop consistent and reliable training regimens both to 
prevent and rehabilitate injuries incurred by athletes. Programme design 
The following is a breakdown of a gymnast’s year 
separated into four parts: post-season; off-season; 
pre-season; and in-season phases. 
Post-season 
This period is considered a relaxing, active recovery 
phase of approximately 1 month in duration. It is 
vital for the gymnast to participate in activities they 
truly enjoy psychologically outside of gymnastics, 
which may include cycling, swimming, aerobics 
or tennis. Emphasis should be placed upon injury 
rehabilitation and general maintenance of physical 
fitness at this time. A post-season is vital for pre- 
venting burn-out, as training for gymnastics com- 
prises a very intensive year even though it is broken 
down into segments. 
Off-season 
The off-season begins approximately 1 month after 
the last competition has taken place and lasts through- 
out the summer months. In this phase, the emphasis 
should not be based on gymnastics but on general 
conditioning and building strength. The first week 
of the programme should familiarize the gymnast 
with the loads, repetitions and form that will be 
used for each exercise during the training sessions. 
A progression from general conditioning towards 
increased force development is achieved during 
this time period with three phases of training dur- 
ing the off-season with each phase lasting 4 weeks. 
Endurance training is allowed but long slow runs 
should be kept to a minimum while speed is accen- 
tuated. Cross training is encouraged for variety in 
training the different energy systems. Emphasis is 
placed upon strengthening the shoulders and wrists 
in order to prevent overuse symptoms from repeated 
force extension during the competition season 
(Aronen 1985). 
The following represents a progressive summer 
programme suitable for collegiate women gymnasts. 

120 CHAPTER 5 
Phase 1 
Monday 
Back squat 
Close grip bench 
press 
Leg curl 
Bent over row 
Calf raise 
Shoulder lateral 
raise 
Internal rotation 
External rotation 
Sit ups Wednesday 
Leg press 
Incline bench 
press 
Stiff leg deadlift 
Front pull down 
Leg extension 
Back extension 
Wrist curl 
Crunch Friday 
Lunge 
Bench press 
Leg curl 
Seated row 
Calf raise 
Shoulder press 
Incline sit ups Internal rotation 
External rotation 
All exercises of phase 
1 are performed for 1-2 sets of 10-12 
repetitions per set. 
Rest periods range from 1 to 2 min between sets and 
exercises. 
Phase 2 
Monday Wednesday Friday 
Back squat* 
Bench press* 
Leg curl * 
Lateral pull 
down * 
Calf raise 
Shoulder press 
Incline sit ups 
Internal rotation 
External rotation Leg press* 
Incline bench 
press* 
Leg curl * 
Front shoulder 
raise 
Leg extension 
Back extension 
Wrist curl 
Sit ups Lunge or split 
squat* 
Bench press* 
Leg curl * 
Seated row* 
Calf raise 
Shoulder press 
Internal rotation 
External rotation 
Crunch 
*Denotes exercises performed for 3 sets of 8-10 repetitions 
per set. All other exercises are performed for 1-2 sets of 
10-12 repetitions per set. 
Rest periods range from 1 to 2 min between sets and 
exercises. 
Phase 3 
Monday 
Back squat* 
Bench press* 
Leg curl* 
Lateral pull 
down* 
Calf raise 
Shoulder press* Wednesday 
Leg press* 
Incline bench 
press* 
Leg curl* 
Front shoulder 
raise 
Leg extension Friday Lunge 
or split 
squat* 
Close grip bench 
press* 
Leg curl* 
Seated row* 
Calf raise Incline sit ups Back extension Shoulder press* 
Internal rotation Wrist curl Internal rotation 
External rotation Sit ups External rotation 
*Denotes exercises performed for 3 sets of 6 RM per set. 
All other exercises are performed for 2 sets of 8-10 
repetitions. 
Rest periods range from 2 to 3 rnin between sets and 
exercises. Crunch 
Pre-season 
The pre-season starts in September and goes through 
to December. In this phase, training the rate of force 
development starts in combination with lifting for 
strength. Rate of force development is a determining 
factor of programme design for competitive sports if 
the time available for rate of force development is less 
than 0.3 s (Zatsiorsky 1995); gymnastics is such a 
sport. For example, performance of the front aerial 
somersault requires maximal force development 
within 0.27-0.59 s (Kinolik et al. 1980). The applica- 
tion of ballistic movements, such as jump squats 
and medicine ball throws, will accommodate this 
component of gymnastics training. Rotational power 
is also emphasized during this period because of the 
need for rotational skills in gymnastics. 
programme at this time to help facilitate the increas- 
ing volume of routine work during the gymnastics 
sessions. An interval training session consisting of 
20 min should be broken down into 30-s and 1-min 
intervals. For example, when cycling, alternate 
between a 30 s to 1 min sprint followed by a 2-3 min 
rest period or complete recovery. The rest period is 
of lower intensity but is not a complete cessation of 
movement. 
A progression from low intensity preparation exer- 
cises to high intensity ballistic exercises is incorporated 
into the pre-season. This period of the training year 
will prepare the athlete for competitions beginning 
in January and is broken down into three phases 
lasting approximately 5 weeks each. Interval systemic training should be included in the 

PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 121 
Phase 1 Phase 3 
Monday, Wednesday, Friday 
Squat (3 x 10) 
Stiff leg deadlift (3 x 10) 
Bench press (3 x 10) 
Seated row (3 x 10) 
Upright row (2 x 10) 
Reverse curl (2 x 10) 
Sit ups (2 x 15) 
Wrist curl (3 x 10) 
Wrist extension (3 x 10) 
Internal rotation (2 x 10) 
External rotation (2 x 10) 
Pronatehpinate rotation (2 x 10) 
1-2-min rest periods between sets and exercises. 
Phase 2 
Monday (force 
development) 
Squat (3 x 10) 
Bench press 
(3 x 10) 
Stiff leg deadlift 
(3 x lo) 
Upright row 
(2 x 10) 
Reverse curl 
(3 x 10) 
Wrist curl (3 x 10) 
Wrist extension 
Internal rotation 
External rotation 
Pronatelsupinate 
Sit ups (2 x 15) (3 x 10) 
(2 x 10) 
(2 x 10) 
rotation (2 x 10) Wednesday 
(power 
development) 
Medicine balls 
Squat, jump and 
toss (2 x 8) 
Underhand 
throw (1 x 8) 
Lateral throw 
(1 x 8) 
Chest pass 
(1 x 8) 
Giant circle 
(1 x 8) 
Hip rotation 
(1 x 8) 
Lateral bend 
(1 x 8) 
Good morning 
(1 x 8) 
Resistance 
Side lunge 
(2 x 10) 
Wrist flexion 
(2 x 10) 
Wrist extension 
(2 x 101 
Hip adductionl 
abduction 
(3 x lo) 
(2 x 10) Isometric gripping Friday (rate 
of force 
development] 
Squat jump (3 x 8) 
Military press 
(2 x 10) 
Lateral pull down 
(2 x 10) 
Bench press 
(2 x 10) 
Seated row 
(2 x 10) 
Leg curl (2 x 10) 
Heel raise 
(2 x 10) Monday 
Hang clean (3 x 5) 
Squat (4 x 5) 
Stiff leg deadlift 
(3 x 8) 
Incline bench 
press (4 x 5) 
Front pull down 
(3 x 8) 
Shoulder press 
(3 x 8) 
Towel chin up 
(2 x 8) 
Toe raise (2 x 8) Wednesday 
Medicine balls 
Giant circle 
(1 x 10) 
Hip rotation 
(1 x 10) 
Good morning 
(1 x 10) 
Squat, jump and 
toss (3 x 6) 
Underhand throw 
Overhead throw 
Lateral throw 
Chest pass (2 x 6) 
Partner twist pass 
Sit ups (2 x 15) (2 x 6) 
(3 x 6) 
(3 x 6) 
(2 x 20) Friday 
Squat jump (4 x 5) 
Squat jump 
(no counter 
movement) 
(2 x 5) 
Bench press 
(4 x 5) 
Vertical row 
(3 x 8) 
Leg extension 
(2 x 8) 
Leg curl (2 x 8) 
Military press 
(3 x 8) 
Pull up (2 x 8) 
Toe raise (2 x 8) 
Rest period ranges from 2 to 3 min between sets and 
exercises. 
In-season 
This final phase of the year lasts the entire com- 
petition season and follows approximately 2 weeks 
of active recovery over the holiday break. Training 
during this period peaks the gymnast for rate of 
force development and overall power heading 
into the major competitions of the competitive 
season, primarily the conference championships 
and national championships. Interval training for 
endurance is eliminated and all energies are focused 
upon recuperation for competition. Particular 
attention must be paid to the athlete’s psychological 
status and adaptation to training; avoid overtraining 
at all costs. Injuries must be accounted for and the 
programme needs to be adjusted with creativity to 
progress those athletes unable to perform the core 
exercises because of injury. The in-season period 
lasts approximately 12 weeks. 
2-min rest periods between sets and exercises. 

122 CHAPTER 5 
Tuesdays (heavy) Thursdays [light) 
Jump squat (3 x 6) 
Incline press (2 x 6) 
Towel chin up (3 x 8) 
Back squat (3 x 6) 
Stiff leg deadlift (3 x 6) 
Medicine balls 
Block off throw (2 x 6) 
Overhead toss (2 x 6) 
Partner twist pass (2 x 6) Landing squat (3 x 6) 
Shoulder press (3 x 6) 
Leg extension (2 x 8) 
Leg curl (2 x 8) 
Bench press (3 x 6) 
Long row (2 x 8) 
Internal rotation (2 x 8) 
External rotation (2 x 8) 
Pronatehpinate twist (2 x 81 
Rest periods range from 3 to 5 min between sets and 
exercises. 
Athletes are coached to perform light days with 
loads that are approximately 75% of the prescribed 
RM. For example, a landing squat calling for 6 RM 
would utilize a load that could be handled for 8 RM. 
Conclusions 
Taking into consideration all the training aspects 
of gymnastics-strength, rate of force development, 
isometric strength, local muscular endurance and 
systemic endurance-a coach and athlete must take 
apart each routine and look at every skill specifically 
and how it relates to each aspect of training. Then 
apply it to the three training phases throughout the 
year: off-season, pre-season and in-season phases. 
Making the strength and conditioning training of 
gymnastics skill-specific will help to optimize 
performance. 
Tennis 
Tennis is a very interesting sport to study as it is 
played all year around (Fig. 5.18). In such a situation, 
non-linear training programmes have been used 
to deal with week-to-week changes in the match 
demands. However, supplementary strength training 
has been classically periodized so the training 
programme must be developed around a player’s 
schedule. For example, during weeks where no 
match play takes place, frequency of training can 
be increased. Effective periodization schedules are 
very demanding which is why it has been recom- 
mended that a non-linear programme may be easier 
to implement. Despite the development of a larger 
tennis ball for some competitions-to slow the game Fig. 18 Tennis players must adapt to demanding 
competition and practice schedules. Carefully designed 
periodized strength training programmes must be performed 
throughout the year in order to be effective. Photo 0 
Allsport/D. Leah. 
down-inclusion of resistance training is vital for 
the players to deal with the ‘power game’ now in 
full swing. 
Tennis players can benefit from a properly pres- 
cribed and supervised resistance training programme. 
It helps the player: 
1 improve performance; 
2 prevent injury; and 
3 prolong a competitive career. 
It is important for the tennis player to realize that 
the strength and conditioning programme he or she 
participates in has been specifically designed for 
tennis. Resistance training contributes to improved 


PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 123 
performance by increasing the overall strength and 
power of the body. Furthermore, in a competitive 
world where the physical demands of the sport are 
increasing each year, physical training is a vital 
investment toward successful long-term health 
and performance. As players get younger, exercise 
training to meet the physical demands of the sport 
needs to be started at a younger age in order to pre- 
vent injury and possibly extend a competitive career. 
Resistance training provides an exercise stimulus 
which contributes to the development of muscles, 
bones, ligaments and tendons. This combats possible 
overuse in the arms, shoulders, back, knees and ankles 
from tens of thousands of tennis shots and hours on 
the court. Thus, a little consistent time and effort in 
this area of sport conditioning can result in long- 
lasting benefits. 
Tennis is a very demanding sport because of the 
long hours spent on the court. Over the years, the 
sport has changed because of advances in equipment 
and skill of the competitors. Today, tennis is a fast 
paced game with the need for strength, speed and 
power to perform at top competitive levels. The 
physical demands on the body are great. Today, more 
than ever, a real need exists to balance the physical 
stresses of the game with a ‘training stimulus’ which 
enhances the ability of the body to meet and overcome 
the physical demands. This is especially true for 
younger tennis players who, only too often, attempt 
to simply ‘play themselves into shape’. A resistance 
exercise programme can be a major part of this 
training stimulus but how does one go about 
developing one? 
Needs analysis 
First examine the sport of tennis and really under- 
stand what the demands are. What does a tennis 
player ‘need’ in his or her resistance training 
programme? What ‘needs’ can be addressed by a 
resistance training programme? The needs analysis 
consists of several topic areas which need to be 
examined prior to starting a resistance training 
programme. They include: 
1 basic bioenergetics; 
2 basic biomechanical aspects; 
3 common sites of injuries; and 
4 possible individual considerations. Metabolic sources of energy n - - 
“+- ‘4 leg muscles during a 1-min rally 
Recovery between points 
Fig. 5.19 Example of how the different energy systems 
contribute to different aspects of tennis. Each metabolic 
source of energy contributes to the demands of the activity. 
It is the magnitude of that contribution that will differ 
depending upon the time and power output demands placed 
upon the muscle. The magnitude of the contribution is 
estimated by the size of the arrow. 
Once an examination of these areas is complete, 
the answers to questions concerning the ‘acute 
programme variables’ (choice of exercise, order 
of exercise, load, number of sets and length of rest 
periods), which actually make up the basis of the 
programme design can be addressed. 
The optimal programme is then written. It may 
still need to be modified because of administrative 
considerations and limitations (e.g. space, time and 
number of athletes to train) but, within administrative 
constraints, the best resistance training programme 
possible for the tennis player needs to be imple- 
mented. Such a programme is characterized by sport- 
and individual-specific components to improve 
performance and prevent injuries. 
Bioenergetics oftennis (Fig. 5.19) 
Tennis performance involves various skills (e.g. hit- 
ting the ball, sprinting to make a shot) which are highly 
anaerobic and of a high power nature. The ATP required 
by muscles comes from a combination of anaerobic and 
aerobic sources. Anaerobic metabolism has two basic 
components. The AT-PC (high energy phosphates) 
system provides the immediate fuel from local stores 
in the muscles, and the lactic acid system refers to the 
production of ATP from carbohydrate breakdown at 
such a high rate that the aerobic pathways get back- 
logged and lactate accumulates as a byproduct. 

124 CHAPTER 5 
In recent investigations of tennis match play, blood 
lactate levels did not increase much above rest. This 
indicates that the energy coming from the lactic acid 
system is not as great as some people believe or that 
the lactate is being cleared from the body before it 
can accumulate in the muscle and blood. The fact 
that large accumulations of lactate do not occur in a 
tennis match means that the energy demand is not 
maintained at a high rate for long enough periods of 
time to surpass the ability of the other energy systems. 
Therefore, the energy is gained from aerobic meta- 
bolism, especially during the recovery intervals, 
and predominantly from the anaerobic sources of 
stored phosphates (ATP-PC system) during the 
performance of the actual tennis skills. However, it is 
quite possible that, during an unusually intense point 
rally lasting a minute or so, significant acute demands 
would be placed upon the lactic acid system. Because 
such a pace is not maintained through an entire match 
and recovery is allowed, lactic acid is removed from 
the body quite effectively. The overall moderately 
paced continuously contributing aerobic processes, 
which use oxygen to produce ATP, are adequate in 
replenishing some of the ATP-PC in certain muscles 
between shots and to a high degree in the whole body 
between rallies. Resistance training can improve the 
metabolic function of the muscle to store and use 
more ATP and PC and, thus, enhance the performance 
ability to produce repeated high intensity spurts of 
exercise involved in each rally. 
COMPARISON OF RESISTANCE TRAINING AND 
METABOLIC TRAINING 
Resistance exercise programmes which utilize longer 
rest periods of 2-3 min also depend more on stored 
ATP-PC during a workout. Thus, resistance training 
programmes with longer rest intervals may closely 
‘mimic’ the metabolism used in much tennis match 
play. The young athlete must train to meet the ex- 
tremes of the game and shorter rest period workouts 
used over the course of the training cycle would help 
address such needs. 
For variation and workout time economy, shorter 
rest periods (1 min or less) are popular. This helps 
‘bracket’ the metabolic profile of a tennis match. 
When rest periods are 1 min, the lactic acid system 
makes a greater contribution of energy for the resist- 
ance training workout. This is demonstrated by the accumulation of lactic acid in the muscles and 
blood. Recent studies have shown that blood lactic 
acid levels increase 8-10 times above rest when 
1-min rest periods are used, compared to only 2-4 
times above rest when 3-min rest periods are used. 
The lactic acid values of a tennis match are similar to 
the 3-min rest period workout (2-4 times above rest). 
Shorter rest periods (1 min or less between sets and 
exercises) in a resistance training workout will lead 
not only to increased muscle and blood lactic acid 
levels, but also to greater fatigue and, potentially, 
lower resistances (loads) being used for each set. 
Symptoms such as nausea, dizziness and greater 
fatigue can also be observed. This means that gradual 
progression to shorter rest periods is vital for the 
young tennis player to gain physical and psycholo- 
gical toleration of this type of resistance exercise 
stress. Short rest workouts should not be used when 
the tennis player is trying to learn a new exercise or 
in the early phases of a resistance training programme, 
as the metabolic stress is counterproductive both to 
learning and toleration of the workout. After a base 
programme has been utilized for starting a young 
player on a resistance training programme (see 
Chapter 3), over the course of several workouts the 
rest time between sets can be cut down by 10 s each 
workout. Ultimately, the rest between exercises is 
also reduced in a short rest workout protocol (e.g. 
circuit weight training). 
Here is where the ‘good judgement’ of the athlete 
and coach is needed. The coach needs to watch and 
see how each athlete responds. If excessive symptoms 
are presented, increase the rest allowed and maintain 
that level until the athlete does not present any 
symptoms during or after the workout. 
workout protocol are as follows. 
1 The body develops the physiological and 
psychological ability to tolerate intense exercise. 
2 The high intensity endurance of the muscles trained 
is increased. 
3 It provides variation in training and at different 
phases of the season it allows for optimal ‘time 
economy’ to address the resistance training needs 
of the tennis player. 
However, it should be understood that the meta- 
bolic profile of such short rest programmes does not 
pattern itself after the typical metabolic demands in The advantages of a short rest resistance training 

PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 125 
a tennis match. The major reasons for considering 
such workout protocols are the economy of time and 
the metabolic preparation for the extreme demands 
in a tennis match. 
Not all exercises should be performed under low 
rest conditions. Performing a large number of total 
body multijoint exercises, special exercises for cer- 
tain muscle groups (e.g. rotator cuff exercises) and 
when training for optimal strength and power, all 
necessitate longer rest periods of at least 90 s. As 
a resistance training method in tennis, short rest 
programmes really only add a ‘metabolic dimension’ 
to the tennis player’s physical and psychological 
ability to meet the extreme metabolic demands of 
tennis match play. Such programmes need to be 
used for the proper reasons and at proper times in 
the training cycle. 
Biomechanical aspects 
The study of human movement is called biomech- 
anics. The coach and athlete are not expected to 
perform sophisticated biomechanical analyses, but a 
basic understanding of the biomechanics of tennis in 
terms of the muscles used and a profile of the activity 
is important when attempting to implement a tennis- 
specific resistance training programme. In order to 
understand the choice of exercises in a resistance 
training programme, the muscles used in tennis 
have to be understood. In this section, a very basic 
overview of the muscles used in the sport of tennis 
is discussed. This leads to an understanding of 
the ‘exercise specitkity’ involved with choosing 
resistance exercises that use the same muscles as 
in tennis and thus constitute a sports-specific 
programme. 
MOVEMENTS AND MUSCLES MOST IMPORTANT FOR 
TENNIS PERFORMANCE 
Except for the serve, all tennis strokes are partially 
under the control of the tennis player’s opponent. 
The velocity, stroke type and amount of spin of the 
oncoming ball, as well as its direction in relation to 
the tennis player’s position on the court, will affect 
his or her stroke. Although the tennis player’s goal is 
to get his or her body in such a position in relation to 
the ball that an ‘optimal’ swing can be utilized, such a 
position cannot always be attained. A great variety of stroke actions therefore result from the interactions of 
the ball’s three-dimensional position, spin, velocity 
and direction, anticipated at impact with the racquet, 
and the desired outcome in terms of velocity, 
direction and spin. 
Imparting force on the ball is dependent on 
muscular strength and power (speed-strength). A 
good tennis stroke is difficult to execute if it does 
not begin with a good base. As only a few shots are 
hit from the ideal body position, resistance training 
is needed to tolerate the forces on the muscles and 
joints that arise from such game conditions. Even 
when the tennis player is reaching, a strong lower 
body will go a long way in providing stability and 
sufficient body alignment for an effective stroke. The 
support provided by the legs, especially in single 
leg support (reaching for a wide ball, bending for a 
low ball), demands more basic strength of a slower 
nature. 
In most sports, upper body actions-as in tennis 
strokes-begin with applying force against the 
ground using the muscles of the lower body. This is 
not always readily apparent in tennis as a result of the 
eye-catching arm swings involved in the various types 
of strokes. The force is initiated by a push off action 
and is sequentially increased by a series of contri- 
buting muscles (see forehand drive example) as it 
moves up the body, through a system of links to reach 
the racquet. The different muscles serve to accelerate 
the involved body segments culminating in a high 
racquet velocity. Additionally, because the body 
segments in this path generally decrease in size, their 
velocity consequently increases further. This means 
that muscles such as the shoulder, which are situated 
at a later point in the chain, need to produce strength 
under higher velocity conditions. 
Isometric muscle actions (no movement of the 
muscle while force is being exerted) are also used in 
tennis. Examples of such isometric actions include 
the gripping of a tennis racket with the muscles of 
the hand, using postural muscles of the upper body, 
hips in holding the upper body in a crouched position 
with knees bent in a ready position, and holding a 
racket with the shoulder and arm muscles in three- 
dimensional space in place for a net volley. Dynamic 
resistance training will improve isometric strength if 
the exercises used contain the same angle as those 
used isometrically in tennis. 

126 CHAPTER 5 
If weakness or lack of endurance exist at a certain 
angle of a joint range of motion, or in a specific con- 
figuration of the body where an isometric position 
is vital to the skill, isometric resistance training of 
that specific joint angle can be performed. Various 
isometric muscle actions in tennis are part of the 
overall biomechanical profile of the sport. 
In the context of this chapter to determine what 
basic muscles are involved in general tennis strokes, 
only aspects necessitating dynamic high muscular 
forces and movements are considered. 
Forehand drive 
Push-off-calves, quadriceps (front thighs), gluteals 
(buttocks), 
Trunk rotation-obliques (part of abdominals) and 
spinal erectors (low back). 
Forehand swing-anterior deltoid (front shoulder), 
pectorals (chest), shoulder internal rotators and elbow 
flexors (e.g. biceps-front of upper arm). 
One-handed backhand drive 
Push-off-calves, quadriceps (front thighs) and 
gluteals (buttocks). 
Trunk rotation-obliques (part of abdominals) and 
spinal erectors (low back). 
Backhand swing-upper latissimus (side of back), 
rhomboids and middle trapezius (upper back), pos- 
terior deltoid (rear shoulder), middle deltoid (outer 
shoulder), shoulder external rotators and triceps. 
Two-handed backhand drive 
Push-off-calves, quadriceps (front thighs) and 
gluteals (buttocks). 
Trunk rotation-obliques (part of abdominals) and 
spinal erectors (low back). 
Backhand swing-non-dominant side: pectorals 
(chest), anterior deltoid (front shoulder), shoulder 
internal rotators; dominant side: upper latissimus 
(side of back), rhomboids and middle trapezius [upper 
back), posterior deltoid (rear shoulder), middle 
deltoid (outer shoulder), shoulder external rotators 
and triceps. 
Serve, overhead volley 
The serve and the ‘smash’ are at the top of the list in 
terms of being able to benefit from strength increases. 
They are both highly ballistic, especially the serve with its totally preprogrammed nature, with little or 
no tracking component. This allows the greatest 
amount of force to be applied. 
Trunk rotation-obliques (part of abdominals) and 
spinal erectors (low back). 
Knee and hip extension prior to impact (when a knee 
flexion position is used in the tosshackscratch 
phase)-quadriceps, gluteals. 
Arm swing-pectorals, shoulder internal rotators, 
latissimus (sides of back) and triceps (rear of upper 
arm). 
Arm extension-triceps. 
Wrist flexion-wrist flexors (inside of forearm). 
Recovery 
Upon completion of a stroke, the tennis player needs 
to recover to the ready position in anticipation of the 
next shot. This involves either shuffling or sprinting. 
For a tennis player to accelerate his or her body across 
the court, muscles (primarily lower body) are required 
to produce force but with a high velocity. Players also 
depend on slower strength when changing directions 
and when initially pushing off. The sooner the tennis 
player can get to the ball, the more time is available to 
prepare a solid and balanced base from which to 
deliver the next stroke. 
Ready position 
The ready position places a demand primarily on the 
calves, quadriceps (front thighs), gluteals (buttocks), 
spinal erectors (low back) and anterior deltoids 
(front shoulders). Improved strength in these muscles 
decreases the effort required of the tennis player to 
achieve and maintain a good ready position, or to 
do it repetitively during a rally or match. 
Grip 
A firm grip is required in tennis. It enhances racquet 
velocity during the swing, improves control by 
reducing free twisting of the racquet in the hand 
during ball-racquet impact, and optimizes the 
amount of force that is transferred from the tennis 
player’s body to the ball. A good position and stroke 
action can be negated by a grip that succumbs to the 
torque of the racquet on impact. The primary muscles 
involved are grouped under: 
wrist flexors (inside of forearm); and 
wrist extensors (outside of forearm). 

PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 127 
Common sites of injuries 
In addition to the biomechanical analysis of tennis, 
understanding the common sites of injury can help 
in the choice of exercise used in a resistance training 
programme. This is especially important as the indi- 
vidual consideration of an injury is unique to each 
athlete. With the help of sports medicine profiles, 
tennis-specific injuries can be reviewed as certain 
areas have a higher probability of sports-related 
injury. Understanding the injury profile in tennis 
allows an exercise programme to be developed which 
attempts to strengthen the muscles, joints and bones 
so that injuries can be prevented or reduced in 
severity. 
the sport sometimes exceed the ability of the player’s 
body to overcome the opposing forces. Some injuries 
are acute and traumatic, others are developed over a 
chronic period of time from continual use, yet others 
are ‘waiting to happen’ because of deficiencies in 
strength and muscular balance. It is especially the 
younger tennis player who can benefit from proper 
training in an attempt to eliminate or reduce the 
injuries observed in older tennis players resulting 
from chronic overuse and inappropriate strength 
and muscle balances. In tennis, as with any sport, the demands of playing 
AGONIST-ANTAGONIST IMBALANCES AND SITES OF 
TENNIS INJURIES 
Strength is important for injury prevention, especially 
to the tennis player’s shoulder, elbow and lower back. 
Contralateral imbalance of large muscle groups that 
are directly or indirectly anchored by the spine can 
have a negative effect on the vertebral column and the 
spinal erector muscles that stabilize this structure. 
More commonly, joint integrity may be affected by 
unfavourable antagonist-agonist (unilateral) muscle 
strength imbalances which are often sport-induced. 
It is sometimes suggested that the athlete will have 
a greater risk of injury about a particular joint if the 
respective antagonist : agonist strength ratio does 
not meet a certain value. 
When looking at the research that has been per- 
formed with tennis players, certain key areas emerge 
as possible risk sites. We can hypothesize about how 
tennis may be contributing to or creating such 
imbalances. HANDGRIP 
The average person who has not performed resistance 
training has a stronger handgrip on the dominant 
side. When this difference is emphasized in the tennis 
player, it provides obvious evidence of tennis’s highly 
unilateral facet of gripping the tennis racquet. Addi- 
tionally, the wrist flexor muscle group used in the 
handgrip may be adapting to its role in attempting 
wrist stability upon impact with the ball on forehand 
strokes, as well as its role in wrist flexion during 
the serve contact phase. However, there is no readily 
apparent reason for this contralateral imbalance to 
have any functional implications. 
ELBOW 
Affecting the elbow, actions such as the forehand 
drive can lead to a stronger biceps muscle (agonist) 
on the tennis player’s dominant side (right biceps for 
a right-handed player) that is stronger than the triceps 
muscle (antagonist) of the same side. If a two-handed 
backhand drive is utilized, it may lead to the same 
imbalance (antagonist-agonist) in the non-dominant 
arm. Clinicians sometimes cite a triceps : biceps ratio 
of 1 : 1 meaning that when these two muscles are 
approximately equal in strength, problems are found 
less often than when one of these is stronger than 
the other. The forehand drive may also contribute 
to a stronger dominant side biceps compared to the 
non-dominant side. The same type of imbalance 
(contralateral) can exist in the triceps. Even though 
the dominant side triceps may be weaker than the 
biceps on the same side, backhand volleys and the 
serve may lead to a triceps muscle that is stronger 
than that of the non-dominant side. 
SHOULDER 
At the shoulder there has been some indication 
that the internal rotator muscles may undergo tennis- 
stimulated strength increases. This may lead to an 
external : internal rotator ratio that is somewhat lower 
than the suggested ratio of 2 : 3. Furthermore, stronger 
internal rotator muscles on the tennis player’s 
dominant side, compared to the same muscle group 
on the non-dominant side, may be a reflection of 
overload created by the forehand drive and the serving 
action. The stimulation received by the dominant side 
pectorals from the serve and the various forehand 
strokes may result in a contralateral imbalance 

128 CHAPTER 5 
although recent research has not shown this to be 
the case in university women tennis players. Their 
non-dominant pectorals are probably exposed to a 
significant amount of stimulation by the use of the 
two-handed backhand. 
LOWER BODY AND TRUNK 
There should not be any abnormal strength ratios in 
the tennis player’s lower body. For example, there is 
no reason why a tennis player should not be able to 
reach a right hamstrings : right quadriceps (antagonist 
: agonist) strength ratio of approximately 2 : 3 as is 
often suggested by clinicians. This means that the 
hamstrings group (rear of the thigh) is expected 
to have two-thirds the strength of the same side 
quadriceps group for safe performance by the knee. 
The tennis player can expect the sport to place an 
approximately equal demand on leg muscles 
compared to their opposite side (contralateral) 
counterpart (e.g. left : right quadriceps). Only a very 
few aspects of tennis may emphasize a certain lower 
body muscle or muscle group over its same side 
antagonist or its contralateral partner. On the other 
hand, if the mostly unilateral nature of the involve- 
ment of the upper body in tennis causes abnormally 
shifted demands on the muscles of the trunk, 
including the spinal erectors and the abdominal 
internal and external obliques, the tennis player 
may be compromising the long-term health of the 
vertebral column. 
Resistance training can improve strength ratios by 
strengthening a relatively weak antagonist to more 
appropriately counter a sport-induced strong agonist. 
The antagonist provides deceleration forces (eccentric 
muscle action) to the limb or body segment by being 
activated as it is elongated. Therefore, the stronger 
it is, the better it can act as a shock absorber to the 
accelerative forces developed by the agonist. With 
contralateral imbalances, training weights selected 
should enable the trainee to contribute equally with 
both sides. This means that until the two partners are 
approximately equal in strength, the stronger muscle 
group is not receiving a training stimulus; otherwise, 
the imbalance would be maintained. As discussed in 
Chapter 1, resistance training can also play a part in 
augmenting joint stability via increased strength and 
thickness of connective tissue, such as tendons, 
ligaments and cartilage. Individual considerations 
Programmes can be designed for the sport but that 
does not mean that every tennis player who performs 
the programme will have all of his or her needs met. 
Individual considerations and needs have to be 
addressed. We have already seen that the ‘progres- 
sion’ of a resistance training programme is highly 
individualistic and requires attention during each 
workout. Other aspects of what an individual brings 
to a programme need to be considered in the overall 
design and implementation of a resistance training 
programme. 
One can visualize it as overlaying the sport resist- 
ance training programme on top of the individual’s 
needs and seeing what still is not covered. This is 
especially important with children where a lot of 
individual needs exist, ranging from basic strength to 
specialized injury prevention. Thus, each programme 
should provide a time when the tennis player can 
address his or her own specific needs beyond the 
basic programme progression of the tennis-specific 
workout. 
AESTHETICS/HYPERTROPHY 
From an aesthetic perspective, a tennis player may, 
over time, develop unwanted size imbalances as 
a result of tennis-induced muscle hypertrophy 
(increase in muscle size). Such growth would 
occur in the muscle groups that have been previously 
discussed as being highly utilized in tennis. As an 
example, following a few years of tennis playing, the 
dominant side forearm (wrist flexors and extensors) 
may become larger than those of the non-dominant 
side as, to a certain extent, muscle size and strength 
go hand-in-hand. With resistance training, the 
weaker (and smaller) side would be the one to 
respond with increasing strength and hypertrophy 
until the two sides were equal. This requires that 
the larger side is not exposed to greater weight than 
the smaller side. Here is where the weaker side may 
need to be individually programmed with more sets 
to speed up the progression to muscular balances 
for size and strength. With the younger tennis 
player, starting a proper resistance training in 
the early phases of a career can help prevent such 
sport-induced differences in size and strength of 
muscles. 

PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 129 
INJURY OR SICKNESS 
The injury profile of an athlete provides vital 
information when designing a resistance training 
programme to address individual needs. Injury or 
prior injury may necessitate that a completely 
different programme approach be taken with a par- 
ticular body part, joint or muscle. For example, if a 
prior injury leaves a particular muscle group weaker 
or smaller in size, the number of sets may have to be 
dramatically increased to stimulate size and strength 
increases. Therefore, rather than just doing 3 sets of 
10-12 RM for the right quadricep, 5-7 sets of 10-12 
RM may have to be performed for a period of time in 
the training programme to help gain a size balance. 
This is because the volume of exercise performed 
in resistance training is related to the increases in 
the size of the muscle. While the lower volume 
programme will make gains over time, the rate of the 
improvement will be much slower. Thus, changing 
the programme to stimulate more equitable size and 
strength profiles of limbs often requires changing the 
programme to meet the specific individual need. 
Tennis-specific resistance training programme 
Through research with tennis players, the following 
programme was shown to be effective in increasing 
strength and power, and improving tennis-specific 
components of the sport. Its use after a base pro- 
gramme is straightforward, as many of the exercises 
are already understood. Rotation of the loads also 
provides variation within the programme over the 
training cycle. 
Exercises and order 
Squat* 
Bench press* 
Single leg curl 
Bent over lateral raise 
Lunge/one leg split squat 
Shoulder (military) press* 
Single leg extension 
Front lateral pull down* 
Back hyperextension 
InternaUexternal shoulder rotator cuff exercises 
Hip tucks Wrist extension/wrist curl Bent-leg sit ups 
Arm curl 
Load 
When modified for the young tennis player, only 
for the exercises marked with an asterisk above, the 
load is rotated for each workout between moderate 
(8-10 RM), heavy (3-5 RM) and light (15-20 RM). 
One can also add a power training session into the 
rotation. This is called ‘rotational variation’ in the 
load. It is best to put the heavy training session in the 
middle of the week, with moderate and light loads 
being used at beginning and ends of the week. The 
rest of the exercises can use loads of 10-12 RM. 
Rest period length 
When heavy loads are being used, rest periods should 
be about 2-3 min. For light and moderate loads rest 
periods of about 1 min can be used. It is important that 
the younger tennis player feels rested and ready for 
the next set of repetitions. Guidelines can only be 
given to assist in workout economy and development 
of the toleration for exercise stress: the player’s 
physical response is the determining guideline if 
the workout stress is too great or not. 
Number of sets 
When heavy load or power exercises are being used, 
3-4 sets can be used for the exercises as repetitions 
are very low, with 3 sets for light and moderate loads. 
One can rotate between 1,2 and 3 sets for each of the 
other exercises. This will provide for time, economy 
and variation in the volume of the workout. 
Pre-season programme 
A circuit format can be used for pre-season training 
with 10-Rh4 loads and 30-60-s rest periods between 
exercises. This will allow for a change up in the 
metabolic profile of the workout. It may be desirable to 
only have the larger muscle group exercises included 
in a circuit and save certain isolation exercises related 
to injury prevention (e.g. internaVexterna1 shoulder 
rotator cuff exercises, wrist exercises) to be performed 
at another time. 

130 CHAPTER 5 
In-season programme 
This programme can be used in-season as only the 
frequency will change from 3 to 1-2 times per week, 
depending on the competition schedule. The rota- 
tional nature of the workout allows for variation to 
be maintained throughout the training cycle. Heel 
raise exercises may be added to the in-season workout 
routine, Other exercises CM be added or exercises 
replaced as long as the muscle or muscle groups 
trained by the programme are not neglected when 
changes are made. 
Tennis-specific intermediateadvanced 
programme 
Much of the athlete’s progression depends upon age, 
maturation, toleration and training responses to the 
exercise programme. It is impossible to give examples 
of all of the different progressive changes that may 
occur over the course of a training programme, but 
different programmes can be demonstrated with 
increasing levels of sophistication in the acute 
programme variables. Remember, it is the acute 
programme variables which alter the configuration of 
the workout and allow progression of the programme 
to take place. Different programme progressions are a 
matter of reorganizing the acute programme variables 
over time (chronic programming). 
The following is another programme manipula- 
tion which provides the coach with an example of 
how a change may be made to reflect more advanced 
training abilities of the tennis player. Again, pro- 
gression is an individual process. In some cases, if 
programmes are not changed, the athlete becomes 
stale and loses interest in the resistance training 
programme and thus any benefits are reduced over 
time. Changing programmes to meet new needs or to 
maintain the gains that have been made is an import- 
ant part of programme progression. Equipment avail- 
ability would dictate and require certain exercises 
to be replaced and performed with available 
equipment. 
Off-season programme 
Off-season is understood to mean a time when no 
competitive matches are being played. Frequency: 3 sessions per week. In this protocol 
the tennis player should alternate workouts 
AandB. 
Resistance and repetitions: 
Core exercises. Use rotational variation (10-12 RM; 
7-9 RM; 4-6 RM) power exercises, 4-5 sets of 1-3 
repetitions with 30% of 1 RM, for example with 
pulls and medicine ball exercises. A plyometric 
programme should also be added. Younger tennis 
players (< 16 years) usually do not go below 6 RM so 
their rotation would be ramped up but power exer- 
cises with the above loadings could be performed 
(e.g. 10-12 and 8-10 RM). (Noted in workouts by 
being underlined.) 
Other exercises. 10-12 RM. 
Sets: 
Core exercises. 2-3 per exercise. 
Other exercises. 2 per exercise. 
Rest period lengths: use 2 min for loads < 10 RM and 
1-1.5 min for all other resistances. 
WORKOUT A 
1 Benchpress 
2 Bent over row 
3- 
4- 
5 Rear pull down 
6 Legcurl 
7 Shoulder internal rotation 
8 Lying triceps extension 
9 Standing heel raise 
10 Wrist curl 
11 Lumbar extension 
12 Machine abdominal curl or bent-leg sit ups 
WORKOUT B 
1 Benchmess 
2 Bent over row 
4 Military press 
5 Rearpulldown 
6 Legcurl 
7 Shoulder external rotation 
8 Standing biceps curl 
9 Seated heel raise 
10 Reverse wrist curl 
11 Lumbar extension (if not squatting) 
12 Machine abdominal curl or bent-leg sit ups 3- 

PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 131 
Pre-seasodoff-season variation 
Used for 4-6 weeks pre-season or as a change up in 
the off-season. 
Frequency: 2-3 sessions per week. Alternate workouts 
AandB. 
Resistance and repetitions: 
Core exercises: Use rotational variation (10-12 RM; 
4-6 RM: for a younger tennis player 10-12 RM; 
7-9 RM). (Noted in workouts by being underlined.) 
Other exercises: 7-9 RM (for a younger tennis player: 
Sets: 2 per exercise. 
Rest intervals: use 2 min for loads < 10 RM and 
1-1.5 min for all other resistances. 8-10 RM). 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 WORKOUT A 
1 Lying across body raise 
2 Alternate: one-arm fly and low incline one-arm fly 
3 Alternate: side lunge and hydraulic machine hip 
abductionladduction (highest velocity setting) 
Lying side lateral raise 
Two-arm unilateral machine pull over 
Alternating leg curl 
Decline shoulder internal rotation 
Low incline dumb-bell cheating French press 
Standing heel raise 
Incline shoulder external rotation 
Two-arm dumb-bell wrist curl 
Machine trunk rotation 
WORKOUT B 
1 Benchpress 
2 Bent over row 
3 uandlunge 
4 Militarv Dress 
5 Rear pull down 
6 Hydraulic machine one-leg leg curl (highest 
7 Lying shoulder internal rotation 
8 Low incline dumb-bell cheating French press 
9 Seated heel raise velocity setting) 
10 Lying shoulder external rotation 
11 Two-arm dumb-bell reverse wrist curl 
12 Alternate: machine abdominal curl and hydraulic 
machine abdominal crunch (highest velocity setting) 
Alternate: do only one exercise in one workout and do 
the next exercise in the next workout. In-season [time-saving version of pre-season 
programme) 
Frequency: 2 sessions per week. Alternate workouts 
A and B. Minimum 24 h off before matches. 
Resistance and repetitions: 
Core exercises: Use rotational variation (10-12 RM; 
3-5 RM: for a younger tennis player 10-12 RM; 
6-8 RM) or periodize. 
Other exercises: 6-8 RM (younger tennis player: 
7-9 RM). 
Sets: 2 per exercise. 
Rest intervals: use 2 min for loads < 10 RM and 
1-1.5 min for all other resistances. 
WORKOUT A 
1 Slightly bent over pulley side lateral raise 
2 Alternate: fly and low incline fly 
3 Alternate: side lunge and hydraulic machine hip 
4 Lying shoulder internal rotation 
5 Low incline dumb-bell cheating French press 
6 Legcurl 
7 Alternate: incline shoulder external rotation and 
decline shoulder internal rotation 
8 Two-arm dumb-bell wrist curl 
9 Standing heel raise abductionladduction (highest velocity setting) 
10 Machine trunk rotation 
WORKOUT B 
1 Benchpress 
2 Alternate: rear Dull down and bent over row 
3 Alternate: syuat and split squat 
4 Militarv Dress 
5 Lying shoulder external rotation 
6 Hydraulic machine two-leg leg curl (highest 
7 Low incline dumb-bell cheating French press 
8 Two-arm dumb-bell reverse wrist curl 
9 Seated heel raise velocity setting) 
10 Alternate: machine abdominal curl and hydraulic 
machine abdominal crunch (highest velocity setting) 
Alternate: do only one exercise in one workout and do 
the next exercise in the next workout. 
Alternative in-season tennis protocol 
Two programmes are utilized in this programme 

132 CHAPTER 5 
and alternate each training session. Half of the team 
starts with workout A and the other half of the team 
performs workout B. Example: group 1, A; group 2, B; 
next session group 1, B; group 2, A. 
WORKOUT A 
Squat* 
InternaUexternal rotatorst 
Bench press* 
Bent-leg sit ups (crunch)t 
Wrist flexort 
Shoulder press* 
Row (elbows out)* 
D leg curls 
WORKOUT B 
Alternate between: split squat and dumb-bell side 
lunget 
InternaUexternal rotatorst 
Low incline flyt 
Bent-leg sit ups (twist)t 
Wrist extensort 
Bent over side lateral raiset 
Calf raiset 
S leg curlt 
*Alternate between 5-7-RM and 10-12-RM loads, 
tAlternate between 7-9-RM and 12-15-RM loads. 
Frequency: twice per week. 
Load: ht 2 weeks 10-12 RM. 
Rest: training groups of 2 or 3; try to keep the 
approximate order listed. Rest while partner(s) is 
performing the exercise. Training partners should 
help with spotting, encouragement and exercise 
performance. 
Sets: start with 2 sets and over the season get up to 3 
sets, especially when 5-7-RM load used. 
Power training component 
It is certainly becoming appreciated in tennis that 
physical capabilities and size are important factors. 
Over the years, a lack of understanding about the 
outcomes of resistance training in tennis players has 
been fuelled by the misconception that resistance 
training always produces the large muscles seen 
in body builders and weight lifters, which is cer- 
tainly not the type of body that tennis players want. However, tennis-specific training programmes have 
now been developed and utilized by many top players 
and they are becoming accepted as part of a total 
conditioning programme. Yet there is still a great 
deal of potential to utilize tennis-specific resistance 
training programmes to improve the physical devel- 
opment of players and allow for higher levels of 
performance while preventing overuse injuries and 
sport-induced differences in physical development. 
The key to power exercises is high quality repetitions. 
Adequate rest is needed and small number of repeti- 
tions are used even with relatively light loads. 
CHOICE OF EXERCISE 
Exercises that can use any intensity and be lifted as 
fast as possible with that load are: 
1 various Olympic-style lifts and their variations 
(e.g. hang cleans); 
2 isokinetic exercises; 
3 pneumatic or hydraulic exercises; and 
4 medicine ball drills and plyometrics. 
Basic programme (2-3 times per week) 
Primary exercises 
Hang clean (from knees) 
Squat 
Split squat 
Bench press 
Clean pull (from thighs) 
Medicine ball throw 
Push press 
Seated row 
Assistance exercises. Perform each exercise at least 
twice per week. 
Rotator cuff exercises (also push ups on medicine ball 
Lateral pull down 
Leg curl 
Calf raise 
Sit ups 
Biceps curl at different arm levels] 
ORDER OF EXERCISE 
The primary exercises are performed first in the work- 
out. These are followed by the assistance exercises. 
Perform the more complex exercises, which require 

PERIODIZED TRAINING PROGRAMMES 133 
more skill and technique, before the less complex 
exercises, or the larger muscle group exercises before 
the smaller muscle group exercises. 
NUMBER OF SETS 
Start with 1 set and progress to 3-5 sets per exercise 
depending upon where the athlete is in a training 
cycle for the week, month andlor year. 
INTENSITY 
The power exercises are performed for 5 repetitions in 
the case of the Olympic-style lifts (cleans and pulls) 
with rotating intensities of very light 30-40%; light 
50-60%; moderate to heavy 70-80%; and very heavy 
go-loo% of 1 RM. Exercises which are not Olympic- 
style lifts (e.g. bench press, seated row) should rotate 
between: light 12-15 RM; moderate 8-10 RM; heavy 
4-6 RM; and very heavy 1-3 RM. When using loads 
6 RM or lower the athlete must make the attempt to 
move the weight as quickly as possible. The athlete 
should not try to do ‘speed’ repetitions with light 
loads using free weights, barbells or stack weight 
machines where you hang on to the bar and movement 
ends (e.g. bench press, shoulder press, curl, knee 
extension, leg curl). Isokinetic, pneumatic and 
hydraulic modalities do not have this problem of a 
weight bumping into a joint or causing deceleration 
of the limb as the athlete is trying to accelerate the 
limb through the range of motion as the resistance is 
accommodating. 
REST BETWEEN SETS AND EXERCISES 
Rest 2-3 min between sets and exercises in the 
power component of the workout. This longer rest is 
especially important when learning a new technique 
or trying increase to a heavier load in the workout. 
Assistance exercises can use 1.5-1 min rest between 
sets and exercises. Lighter loads > 8 RM or < 60% of 
1 RM can use 1-2 min rest periods. When power 
training (e.g. moving a light weight as quickly as 
possible using hang cleans with 30% of 1 RM) a 
longer rest period of 2 min or greater should be used. 
References and further reading 
Alexseyev, V. &Roman, R. (1976) Different methods of 
training for an increase in muscle mass in weightlifters. 
Soviet Sports Reviews 12,14-17. Aronen, J.G. (1985) Problems of the upper extremity in 
gymnastics. Clinical Sports Medicine 4,61-71. 
Black, B. (1995) Conditioning for volleyball. Strength and 
Conditioning17 (5), 53-55. 
Bompa, T.O. (1994) Theory andMethodology of Training: 
the Key to Athletic Performance, 3rd edn. Kendall/Hunt 
Publishing, Dubuque, IA. 
Chu, D.A. (1994) Strength exercises specific to gymnastics: a 
case study. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research 
8.95-102. 
Cisar, C. & Corbelli, J. (1989) The volleyball spike: a 
kinesiological and physiological analysis with recom- 
mendations for skill development and conditioning 
programmes. National Strength and Conditioning 
Association Journal 11,4-8,76-81. 
Fleck, S.J. (1999) Periodized strength training: a critical 
review. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research 13, 
82-89. 
Fleck, SJ. & Kraemer, W.J. (1997) Designing Resistance 
Training Programmes, 2nd edn. Human Kinetics Pub- 
lishers, Champaign, IL. 
Break-through. Advanced Research Press, New 
York. 
Fry, A.C.,Kraemer, W.J., Weseman,C.A. etal. (1991) 
The effects of an off-season strength and conditioning 
programme on starters and non-starters in women’s 
intercollegiate volleyball. Journal of Applied Sports 
Science Research 5 (4,174-181. 
Hakkinen, K. & Pakarinen, A. (1991) Serum hormones in 
male strength athletes during intense short-term strength 
training. European Journal of Applied Physiology 63, 
Hakkinen, K., Alen, M. & Komi, P.V. (1985) Changes in Fleck, S.J. & Kraemer, W.J. (1998) Periodization 
194-199. 
isometric force and relaxation-time, EMG and muscle fibre 
characteristics of human skeletal muscle during strength 
training and detraining. Acta Physiologica Scandinavica 
Kinolik, Z., Garhammer, J. & Gregor, R.J. (1980) Kinetic and 
kinematic factors involved in the execution of front aerial 
somersaults. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise 125,573-583. 
12,352-356. 
Kraemer, W.J. &Fleck, S.J. (1993) Resistance Trainingfor 
Young Athletes. Leisure Press, Human Kinetics Publishers. 
Champaign, IL. 
Kraemer, W.J. & Koziris, L.P. (1992) Muscle strength training: 
techniques and considerations. Physical Therapy Practice 
2,54-68. 
Kraemer, W.J. &Newton, R.U. (2000) Training for muscular 
power. Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Clinics of 
North America 11,341-368. 
Kraemer, W.J., Fleck, SJ. & Noble, B. J. (1991) Muscle 
strength and endurance following long distance treadmill 
running. Journal of Human Muscle Performance 1, 
32-39. 

134 CHAPTER 5 
Kraemer, W.J., Patton, J., Gordon, S.E. et al. (1995) Compat- 
ibility of high intensity strength and endurance training on 
hormonal and skeletal muscle adaptations. Journal of 
AppliedPhysiology78 (3), 976-989. 
Kutzer, B. (1995) Volleyball: strength training periodization 
through volume control. Strength and Conditioning 17 (3), 
34-39. 
Matveyev, L. (1972) Periodisiemng Des Sprotichen Training. 
Berles and Wernitz, Berlin [German translation]. 
Medvedev, A. (1988) Several basics on the methodics of 
training. Soviet Sports Reviews 22 (4), 203-206. 
Meeusen, R. & Borms, J. (1992) Gymnastic injuries. Sports 
Medicine13,337-356. 
Polquin, C. & King, I. (1992) Theory and methodology of 
strength training. Sports Coach 16-18. 
Sands, W.A,, Shultz, B.B. %Newman, A.P. (1993) Women’s 
gymnastics injuries: a 5 year study. American Journal of 
Sports Medicine 21,271-276. 
Snook, G.A. (1979) Injuries in women’s gymnastics: a 5 year study. American Journal of Sports Medicine 7, 
242-244. 
Stone, M.H., O’Bryant, H. & Garhammer, J. (1981) A hypo- 
thetical model for strength training. Journal of Sports 
Medicine 21,342-351. 
Stowers, T., McMillan, J., Scala, D. et al. (1983) The short- 
term effects of three different strength-power training 
methods. National Strength and Conditioning Association 
Journal 5 (3), 24-27. 
Wadley, G.H. & Albright, J.P. (1993) Women’s intercollegiate 
gymnastics: injury patterns and ‘permanent’ medical 
disability. American Journal of Sports Medicine 21, 
3 14-3 2 0. 
Willoughby, D. (1993) The effects of mesocycle-length weight 
training programmes involving periodization and partially 
equated volumes on upper and lower body strength. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research 7,2-8. 
Zatsiorsky, V.M. (1995) Science and Practice of Strength 
Training. Human Kinetics, Champaign, IL. 

Chapter 6 - 
- 
- 
- 
M F - Special considerations in 3000 
2500 
3 
3 2000 g, 
4 1500 
1000 2 z Y strength training 
This chapter looks at some of the special consider- 
ations that sports medicine professionals need to 
be familiar with when designing resistance training 
programmes for athletes. Sex influences, detraining, 
overtraining and age considerations all impact the 
design of the programme. 
Sex differences 
Absolute strength 
Training women for sports performance follows the 
identical process as for men. Specific sex differences 
do exist (e.g. weaker upper body) but, by understand- 
ing such differences, additional programme elements 
can be added (e.g. more upper body exercises and total 
work) to limit the impact of such differences. The 
average woman’s maximal mean total body strength 
is 63.5% of the average man’s; isometric upper body 
strength averages 55.8% of that of a man; isometric 
lower body strength averages 71.9% that of a man (see 
data in Fig. 6.1, right-hand side). The large variation 
is caused by the large number of different single joint 
(elbow extension, shoulder flexion, hip extension) 
and multiple joint (squat, bench press, shoulder press) 
movements possible with both the upper and lower 
body. The data indicate that, in general, absolute 
(body weight not considered) lower body strength 
of women is closer to that of men than is absolute 
upper body strength. 
This sex difference in 1-RM strength exists even 
when competitive power lifter’s world records are 
compared for the same approximate weight class. 
In the Drug-free Power Lifting Association (1991), 
world records in the Collegiate Class in the 53-kg body 
weight class for women were 142.8-kg squat, 72.6-kg 
bench press and 156.8-kg deadlift and for men in the .- 
L c 
T In - 
I1 I # I I ’ I+ 
0 100 200 300 400 500 
Time (ms) 
Fig. 6.1 Average force-time curves and maximal peak forces 
of the isometric bilateral leg extension action in males and 
females. (Modified from Ryushi et al. 1988.) 
52-kg body weight class were 183-kg squat, 115.9-kg 
bench press and 192.8-kg deadlift. Thus, the primary 
sex difference appears to be in strength and power 
and this difference is magnified in the upper body, 
chest and shoulder musculature of women. While the 
percentage of male strength increases, especially for 
women’s lower body, various deficits remain when 
compared to men. If leg press strength is expressed 
relative to body weight and lean body mass, women 
are 92% and 106% as strong as men. The upper 
body appears to be at the greatest disadvantage when 
compared to men. Other data support the concept that 
lower body, but not upper body, strength is equal in 
men and women when expressed relative to body 
weight or lean body mass. Absolute isokinetic bench 
press and leg press strength of women is 50% and 
74% that of men, respectively. When adjusted for 
height and lean body mass bench press strength of 
women is 74% that of men, but women’s leg press 
strength is 104% that of men. 
Eccentric isokinetic peak torque relative to lean 
body mass may be equated to a greater extent between 
the sexes than concentric isokinetic peak torque. 
Women’s quadriceps and hamstrings concentric 
isokinetic peak torque relative to lean body mass 
at 60,90 and 15OoC1 averages 81% of men’s. But 
eccentric isokinetic peak torque relative to lean 
body mass at these same velocities of movement 
averages 93% of men’s. This indicates that relative 
to lean body mass the lower body eccentric strength 
135 

136 CHAPTER 6 
of women is almost equated to men’s whereas 
concentric strength is not. This may be because 
women are able to use stored elastic energy to a 
greater extent than men, and women not being 
able to recruit as many of their motor units during 
concentric as compared to eccentric muscle actions. 
Whatever the reason, it is indicated that women may 
be better at performing eccentric than concentric 
muscle actions. 
Thus, the majority of evidence indicates that the 
average woman’s absolute upper and lower body 
strength is not as great as the average man’s. Upper 
body strength and muscle mass are the most dramatic 
difference between the sexes. However, a large range 
of values exist when comparing absolute strength 
values. This large range is in part because of the 
large number of movements possible with both the 
upper and lower body musculature and to different 
strength/power testing methods (e.g. isokinetic, 
dynamic external resistance, isometric). If expressed 
relative to lean body mass or muscle cross-sectional 
area, the difference in strength between the sexes in 
many instances, but not in all, disappears. Eccentric 
strength relative to lean body mass may be equated 
between the sexes to a greater extent than concentric 
strength. Lower body strength, more often than upper 
body strength, is equated between the sexes when 
expressed relative to lean body mass or muscle cross- 
sectional area. 
Power output 
Power output in many sports or activities is a major 
determinant of success. One event where power 
output is a prime determinant of success is the snatch 
lift. Comparisons of international calibre Olympic 
weightlifters indicates that for the complete pull 
phase of the lift women’s power output relative to 
total body weight is 65% of men’s. Maximal vertical 
jump and standing long jump ability are also largely 
determined by power output. The average woman has 
been reported to have 5~73% of the maximal vertical 
jump (see Fig. 6.2 for the entire load-vertical jumping 
height curve) and 75% of the maximal standing long 
jump of the average man. For the standing long jump 
this translates to the average woman generating 
approximately 63% of the power generated by the 
average man. 50 
A 
E y 40 
s 
r“ 30 en .- 
en C .- 
3 f 20 
Y 
lot 
O’ 0 20 60 60 80 100 200 ’ 
Load (kg) 
Fig. 6.2 The load-vertical jumping height curves in males 
and females. [Modified from Mero et al. 1987.) 
This sex difference in power exists even when 
competitive weightlifter’s world records are com- 
pared for the same approximate weight class (Fig. 6.3). 
For example, in the open age group category in 
weightlifting for the 52-kg body weight class, the 
1992 world records for women in the clean and jerk 
was 108 kg and the snatch 72.5 kg, while for men the 
clean and jerk was 155.5 kg and 120.5 kg for the 
snatch. 
Interestingly, when vertical jump ability is 
expressed relative to lean body mass, only small 
(0-5.5%) differences between the sexes are apparent. 
This indicates that differences in lean body mass 
may account for the differences in vertical jump 
ability between the sexes. However, power generated 
during the standing long jump per unit of lean leg 
volume by women is significantly less than that of 
men. Cycling short sprint ability (30 s Wingate test) 
is not significantly different (2.56% difference) 
between the sexes again if expressed relative to lean 
body mass. Accounting for differences in lean body 
mass between the sexes does not appear to explain 
lower power outputs and differences in performance 
in all other power type tests. If lean body mass is 
accounted for, women’s running, short sprints and 
maximal stair climbing ability (Margaria-Kalamen 
test) is 77% and 84% of men’s. 

SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS IN STRENGTH TRAINING 137 
Fig. 6.3 Sex differences in strength and 
power exist even when comparing elite 
weightlifters, 
Fig. 6.4 Drop-off in force-velocity 
curves in men and women are similar. 
Photo 0 Allsport/J. Gichigi. 
Although the data are not consistent they do raise 
the question of why women may generate less power 
per unit volume of muscle. One possibility is a dif- 
ference in muscle fibre size. Both muscle fibre types 
(Types I and 11) are smaller in women than in men. 
While the percentage of fibres is similar in men and 
women, the size of the fibres is smaller even in trained 
women when compared to untrained men. It is not 
certain how variations in muscle fibre type may affect 
many sport performances. Power at faster velocities of 
movement may be affected if the force-velocity curve of women was different from men. However, it 
appears that the drop-off in force as the velocity of 
movement increases is similar in both sexes (Fig. 6.4). 
Furthermore, peak velocity during knee extension 
movement shows no difference between the sexes. 
The rate of force development could affect power 
output. It does appear that the skeletal muscle’s rate 
of force development is slower for the average woman 
than the average man, as shown in Fig. 6.1 (left-hand 
side) for the entire isometric force-time curve. Thus, 
the smaller power output of women’s as compared to 


138 CHAPTER 6 
men’s skeletal muscle may be partly caused by a 
slower rate of force development. The slower rate of 
stretch-shortening cycle force development in women 
would be partly caused by possible sex differences in 
muscle fibre distribution, and muscle fibre Types I 
and I1 area ratio. In addition, lower testosterone 
concentrations have been attributed to lower mental 
aggressiveness of many women for maximal activation 
of muscles. 
Training effects 
When performing the identical resistance training 
programme, previously untrained women gain 
strength at the same or a greater rate than previously 
untrained men (Wilmore 1974; Wilmore et al. 1978; 
Cureton et al. 1988). Over the course of a 10- and a 
16-week resistance training programme, women 
gained strength at a rate equal to or greater than men. 
Greater absolute increases may be demonstrated by 
men but relative increases (percentage increases) 
can be equal to or greater in women than men. 
Some initial evidence indicates that women’s 
strength gains may plateau after 3-5 months of 
training and may not progress as well as men. This 
obsemation exists in leg muscle but might be more 
pronounced in the upper body where absolute muscle 
mass is less than in men and hormonal output brought 
about by training is different in women when com- 
pared to men. This type of plateau may represent a 
shift in physiological adaptation strategies that the 
body uses to adapt (neural or hypertrophy) to result 
in strength gains. Alternatively, it could represent a 
type of staleness brought about by a lack of periodized 
training. Nevertheless, it appears that the upper body 
chest and shoulder musculature is the most difficult to 
see continued gains in strength and size, most likely 
because of a reduction in the size and number of 
muscle fibres available for training. 
training programmes need to be different to men’s. 
Comparison of men and women who used identical 
resistance training programmes demonstrate that 
previously untrained women make the same if not 
greater gains in strength than previously untrained 
men. This indicates that programmes for women do 
not have to be different to those of men. The muscle 
groups that need to be strong or powerful to be Another misconception is that women’s resistance successful in a particular sport are the same for 
both sexes. Thus, the goal of a resistance training 
programme would be to increase strengthlpower 
with the muscles needed for success in an activity, 
irrelevant of the athlete’s sex. 
In general, the upper body shows the greatest 
difference in strength between the sexes. It has been 
proposed that this is because women tend to have a 
lower proportion of their lean body mass in their 
upper body. Thus, it may be warranted to emphasize 
development of upper body lean body mass of women 
in sports where upper body strength is a limiting 
factor of performance. This does not mean that a 
programme to develop lean body mass in the upper 
body will be different between the sexes, but that 
women may benefit from having such a programme 
comprise a greater proportion of their total training 
volume in a year. 
Muscle of both sexes responds to training in the 
same manner. Muscle force output is directly related 
to the muscle’s cross-sectional area. A significant 
amount of individual variation does exist between 
cross-sectional area and force output. This appears 
to be true at all velocities of movement. However, 
there is some indication that maximal isometric force 
per cross-sectional area, maximal isometric force per 
unit volume of muscle, and 1-RM weight per cross- 
sectional area are lower in women’s muscles than 
men’s. Possible reasons for this potential difference 
in force output per cross-sectional area are the same 
as those previously discussed for possible differences 
in strength relative to lean body mass. Even if force 
output per cross-sectional area of muscle is different 
between the sexes it would have no impact on pro- 
gramme design. 
In general, both sexes have the same percentage of 
Type I and I1 fibres in a particular muscle; however, 
fibre composition may vary from muscle to muscle. h 
general, differences are apparent in fibre size between 
the sexes. Untrained women have smaller Type I and 
I1 fibres than untrained males: cross-sectional area of 
an untrained woman’s Type I and I1 fibres are 68% 
and 71%, respectively, of an untrained man’s. These 
differences in fibre size appear to be apparent in 
strength athletes; women have 66% and 71% of the 
Type I and I1 fibre areas of their male counterparts. 
Differences in fibre size are also apparent in the 
Type I1 subtypes with Type IIa and IIb fibres of 

SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS IN STRENGTH TRAINING 139 
women being significantly smaller than men’s. This 
is true even when women have had the advantage 
of using anabolic drugs. It has been suggested that 
this difference in fibre size is not brought about by a 
difference in physical activity but is one of the innate 
differences between the sexes. 
Men at rest normally have about 10-20 times 
the testosterone concentrations of women during 
prolonged strength training over several months or 
years. This may account for the larger increases in 
muscle hypertrophy in men than in women. However, 
there are other hormones, such as growth hormone 
and cortisol, that could also have an effect on muscle 
growth and hypertrophy. It has been pointed out that 
low concentrations of a hormone do not necessarily 
mean that the hormone does not have an active role 
in controlling a body function or process such as 
Investigations now show small but significant 
increases in testosterone, and free testosterone 
especially, with acute resistance exercise and on 
some occasions with resistance training. It has been 
shown that although resting blood testosterone 
concentrations in women may not change signi- 
ficantly during a 16-week resistance training 
programme, individual mean serum levels of both 
total and free testosterone correlate significantly 
with changes of muscle force production during 
the training programme. This indicates that small 
individual changes of testosterone concentrations 
brought about by training may affect the force 
capabilities of muscle in women. This may have 
increased importance during prolonged strength 
training to create more individualized training 
programmes to optimize the training stimuli. 
gain in upper arm size can be seen in women after 
6 months of periodized resistance training. Some 
women do develop a large amount of hypertrophy 
from resistance training. A group of women athletes, 
after a 6-month resistance training programme, 
exhibited an increase of 37% in upper body strength 
and 3.5,l.l and 0.9 cm (5,4 and 2%) increases in 
shoulder girth, upper arm circumference and thigh 
circumference, respectively. Larger increases in lean 
body mass and limb circumferences than normal in 
some women probably result from several factors 
including: growth. 
It has recently been demonstrated that up to 30% higher than normal resting testosterone, growth 
hormone or other hormone(s); 
greater acute hormonal response than normal to the 
performance of resistance training; 
lower than normal oestrogen : testosterone ratio; 
genetic disposition to develop a large muscle mass; 
ability to perform more intense resistance training 
programme; 
smaller muscle fibre sizes and numbers; and 
muscle fibre distribution (high percentage of Type I1 
fibres). 
However, the specificity of heavy resistance vs. 
explosive (power) resistance training with regard to 
changes in the slopes of the force-time and force 
velocity curves are similar in women and men. Maximal 
force and power training modes should be modified 
with the requirements of the sports event as well as 
the individual athlete at a given time. However, in 
some cases women may need more maximal force and 
power to optimize their performances in power and 
speed types of activities. 
Performance and menstrual problems 
Many myths exist as to the role of the menstrual cycle 
in training and performance. Premenstrual symptoms 
or dysmenorrhoea could have a detrimental effect 
upon sporting performance and some medical prof- 
essionals recommend use of oral contraceptives or 
progesterone injections to control the occurrence of 
menses and to avoid competing while menstruating. 
Olympic medal performances have been won during 
all portions of the menstrual cycle; thus the effect of 
the menstrual cycle on performance is unclear and is 
probably very individualistic. 
Sex impact conclusions 
For sports or activities requiring upper body strength 
and power the needs analysis for a women must take 
into account their weaker upper body musculature, 
in absolute and relative terms, as compared to men’s. 
The smaller upper body muscle mass of women, in 
general as compared to men, may limit women’s per- 
formance in sports requiring upper body strength or 
power. Thus, the training programme for such sports 
or activities should stress upper body exercises in an 
attempt to increase total upper body strength and 

140 CHAPTER 6 
power. This can be accomplished by adding two 
or three more upper body exercises andlor one or 
two extra sets, as volume of exercise may be very 
important for the upper body training effects on 
muscle mass. 
The weak upper body musculature of most women 
also causes problems in the performance of structural 
exercises, such as power cleans and squats. In these 
types of exercises women may find it very difficult 
or impossible for their upper bodies to support the 
resistances their lower bodies can tolerate. Incorrect 
form for these exercises should not be tolerated to 
allow the individual to lift greater resistances. Foot 
stance may have to be widened to take into con- 
sideration hip width. The sacrificing of form can 
cause injury to the athlete. Instead, the programme 
should stress exercises to help strengthen the upper 
body musculature. 
Detraining 
Effects on the neuromuscular system 
A cessation of heavy resistance training or a reduction 
in volume, intensity or frequency of strength training 
for a certain period of time is called detraining. 
Strength training may be stopped or reduced because 
of injury or as a planned part of the yearly training 
cycle. It is important to know the basic adaptations 
taking place in the neuromuscular system during 
detraining in order to design optimal training 
programmes for improving performance and 
maintaining strength or power during the 
C Training -Detraining I 
! VM 
VL 
RF 
--I 
0 4 8 12 16 18 24 
Weeks periods when resistance training is stopped or 
reduced. 
Detraining following strength training leads to 
specific functional and structural adaptations in the 
neuromuscular system. These changes take place in a 
direction opposite to those resulting from strength 
training. The magnitude and time course of 
neuromuscular adaptations during detraining are 
influenced by the amount and intensity of the 
preceding strength training, the overall training 
history of an individual subject or athlete, amount and 
type of physical activities utilized during detraining, 
and the length of the detraining period. 
Detraining subsequent to heavy resistance train- 
ing (in previously untrained subjects) leads to a 
decrease in the maximal voluntary neural activation 
of detrained muscles (Fig. 6.5). However, the decrease 
in the maximum electromyography (EMG) of muscles 
does not necessarily take place during the very first 
week of detraining but most likely during the first 
2-4 weeks of detraining. The decreases found in 
muscle fibre areas of both fibre types during detrain- 
ing (Fig. 6.5) are clear indicators of muscle atrophy 
because of termination of systematic strength training. 
Because the size of individual muscle fibres decreases, 
detraining also leads to a decrease in a detrained 
cross-sectional area of the whole muscle in question. 
This is true for both men and women. It can be con- 
cluded that detraining subsequent to heavy resistance 
training may result initially in a reduction in maximal 
voluntary neural activation of detrained muscles, 
whereas thereafter muscular atrophy tends to increase 
gradually during prolonged inactivity. 
T & ...._. 
Slow , + Training +Detraining1 
I I I I 
0 8 16 24 i Fig. 6.5 Maximal voluntary activation 
(integrated EMG) of the leg extensors 
(VL, vastus lateralis; VM, vastus 
medialis; FP, rectus femoris) and 
muscle fibre areas (for the VL) during 
strength training and detraining in 
men. (From Hakkinen 1993.) 

SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS IN STRENGTH TRAINING 141 
Effects on maximal force 
The functional and structural adaptations taking 
place in the neuromuscular system during detraining 
lead to considerable decreases in muscle strength. 
However, the time course of strength decrease is 
unique so that the decrease in maximal force does not 
take place necessarily during the very first week 
of detraining. It is possible that there would be even a 
slight occasional increase in strength during the very 
first week of detraining in both previously untrained 
subjects and strength athletes (Figs 6.6 and 6.7). This 
is most likely to happen in those strength athletes who 
have used very high volumes of resistance training 
preceding the detraining as discussed earlier with 
regard to optimal peaking under the conditions when 
the volume of training is periodically decreased 
(see Fig. 6.7). 
However, it is inevitable that detraining will lead 
to a large decrease in maximal force during the 
first 2-4 weeks of detraining (Figs 6.6 and 6.8). It is 
also likely that this critical period of time is then 
followed by a strength decrease at a diminished rate 
(Fig. 6.8). It is reasonable to suggest that the initial 
decrease in maximal force during the first 2-4 weeks 
of detraining may be a major consequence of the 
initial decrease in the maximal neural activation of 
A Male strength athletes 
0 Males 
-1 01 - rI I I I I, 
0 3.5 7 10.5 12.5 (weeks) - Strength training - Detraining 
Fig. 6.6 Maximal force during heavy resistance strength 
training and detraining in men, women and male strength 
athletes. (From Hiikkinen 1993.) Fig. 6.7 Changes in maximal force after strength training 
followed by rest or reduced volume training. (Modified from 
Gibala et ol. 1994.) 
30 r 
.r I 
I I I I I I I, 
0 4 8 12 16 20 24 (weeks) 
Heavy resistance 
training c - Detraining 
Fig. 6.8 Maximal force during heavy resistance strength 
training and detraining in men. (From Hiikkinen et ol.1985). 
detrained muscle, thereafter the reduced strength 
may be primarily related to the degree of muscle 
atrophy. Detraining leads to a great decrease in 
strength but the strength decrease during detraining 
for a few weeks or a couple of months will result in a 
strength level after detraining that is still greater than 
pretrained levels. 
Effects on explosive strength or power 
Detraining subsequent to heavy resistance training 
will lead to much more minor changes in explosive 


142 CHAPTER 6 
strength or power in comparison to that taking 
place in maximal force. This may be attributed 
to the specificity of the preceding heavy resistance 
training accompanied usually only with modest 
increases in explosive strength characteristics, such 
as vertical jumping power and explosive isometric 
force production. It is even possible that a short 
period of detraining (such as a week or two) after 
heavy resistance training will lead to some periodical 
increase (peaking) in explosive force production. This 
information could be utilized in designing resistance 
and power training programmes, especially for power 
and sprint athletes. 
Because of the specificity of training, detraining 
subsequent to explosive resistance training (low loads 
and high movement velocities) will lead to significant 
decreases in explosive strength and power charac- 
teristics of the muscles, accompanied with only 
modest changes in maximal force or muscle mass. The 
magnitude and time course of power decrease 
during detraining subsequent to explosive resistance training is related to the amount, type and intensity 
of the preceding training period, the overall training 
history of an individual athlete, the amount and type 
of physical activities utilized during detraining, and 
the length of the detraining period. 
A short period of 
detraining or a reduction in the volume of explosive 
training may lead to periodical peaking in explosive 
strength and power, especially in those athletes 
who have used high or over high volumes of train- 
ing during the preceding explosive resistance 
training. 
Detraining conclusions 
In conclusion, the role of continuous strength 
training is vital not only for strength development 
but also for the maintenance of strength and muscle 
mass. There is a need for proper strength training 
planning and recovery periods to minimize effects 
caused by detraining andlor inactivity among 
athletes. The duration of recovery periods after the 
competitive season or a reduced volume of resistance 
training during the competition season (in-season 
resistance training) should be matched with the 
specific requirements of the sport event. The 
recovery period should be long enough to allow 
time for the recovery processes of the body before the next preparatory season but not too long to lead 
to unnecessarily large decreases in muscle mass and 
strength. Part of detraining or of the recovery period 
may be useful, especially in strength athletes, for 
maintaining strength training. This refers to lower 
volumes of resistance training while maintaining 
the intensity of the loading at relatively high 
levels. 
Overtraining 
The obvious goal of any sports training programme 
is to optimize sport performance. When the training 
programme is carefully designed and takes into 
account the numerous contributory factors to per- 
formance, it is likely that maximal or near-maximal 
performances will result. However, this ideal 
situation does not often occur, resulting in less 
than desirable results. On one hand, it is possible 
that undertraining occurred and that an insufficient 
stimulus was used to attain the intended goals; on 
the other hand, it is likely that too great a training 
stimulus was prescribed. When this occurs, the risk 
of the long-term problem of overtraining is greatly 
increased. What is not always understood by the 
coach and athlete is that this is an avoidable problem. 
The careful use of proper training principles can 
provide protection from overtraining. 
resistance-trained individuals, it becomes readily 
apparent that much of the scientific data available on 
overtraining addresses this problem for endurance 
activities. As is the case with much of the exercise 
science literature, only recently has resistance 
exercise become a major focus of the sport science 
research community. As such, there is much to be 
learned about the problem of overtraining for those 
using resistance exercise. This is particularly 
important because strength training is the fastest 
growing fitness and recreational activity over the 
past several decades. When reading the existing 
overtraining literature based on endurance exercise, 
one must be aware that the performance responses 
and physiological mechanisms reported may not 
apply to the markedly different demands of resistance 
exercise. As such, there is a great need for scientific 
inquiry into the overtraining phenomenon as it relates 
to heavy resistance exercise. When studying the role of overtraining in 

SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS IN STRENGTH TRAINING 143 
New level of 
Original level performance 
m 
n 
I Exhaustion L 
I stage - 
Time 
Fig. 6.9 Changes in maximal performance before, during and 
after a single training session. 
Deftnition of overtraining 
Before proceeding it is critical to define overtraining. 
For our purposes, overtraining is defined as any 
and/or maintenance of high-intensity training 
volumes or increase in volume and/or intensity of 
exercise training resulting in long-term performance 
decrements lasting several weeks or months or 
longer. The crucial factors here are that performance 
is adversely affected, and that this performance 
decrement lasts a considerable period of time. It is not 
possible to recover from overtraining by simply taking 
a few days or even a week off from training. One way 
to look at the stress of overtraining is to compare it to 
the General Adaptation Syndrome (GAS) proposed by 
Hans Selye (1956) (see Fig. 6.9). The GAS provides a 
simple model for describing how a biological system 
deals with stressors of all types. When the biological 
system is initially presented with a stressor, the first 
response is the alarm stage. Performance is impaired 
as normal functioning of the system is interfered with. 
Eventually, the system can counter the stressor via the 
resistance stage. It is during this phase that the ability 
to adapt to the stressor is developed. Eventually, the 
system reaches a new level of performance which 
permits greater resilience to future stressors. If the 
system is unable to resist the stressor, exhaustion 
occurs. According to Selye, when advanced stages 
of exhaustion occur, death of the system results. 
Although it is unlikely that reaching the exhaustion 
stage in sport training will result in death of the 
athlete, a more likely scenario is that hopes of successful sporting performance in the near future 
are pretty much dead. 
Although not originally developed for exercise 
or sporting purposes, the GAS lends itself well to 
describing both the short- and long-term stresses of 
exercise training. For our purposes, the stressors are 
associated with either a single training session or the 
chronic effects of a long-term training programme. 
As shown in Fig. 6.9, when the stress of a single 
training session is encountered the athlete will 
become fatigued and performance will decrease. 
When the training session ends, the stress is removed 
and recovery can occur. If recovery is optimal, a new 
level of performance is possible as the body super- 
compensates for the stress of the workout, and the 
following training session is timed to coincide with 
this new level of performance capacity. If the training 
session is too stressful (e.g. too great a volume and/or 
intensity), the individual is unable to respond 
adequately and exhaustion occurs. Recovery from 
even a single bout that is excessively exhausting 
can require a long recovery that interferes with the 
training progress of the individual. If the long-term 
effects of training are being considered, the alarm 
stage may simply be the response to a stressful 
phase of training. Such stressful training must be 
coordinated with phases of adequate recovery to 
allow long-term progress. When overtraining 
occurs, too much time has been spent in the 
alarm phase with inadequate time in the recovery 
phase. The net result is the long-term condition 
of overtraining and the ensuing impairments in 
performance. 
It is important to realize that not all phases of 
stressful training will result in overtraining. For 
example, many successful coaches and athletes 
will prudently include training phases of very high 
volume and/or intensity. Often, these phases will 
produce short-term decreases in performance. 
However, such a situation is not overtraining, but 
instead is often termed overreaching. Overreaching 
can be a very beneficial phase of training, provided 
that the coach or athlete knows when to back off the 
training. If performance is adversely affected, it is 
readily regained with only a short recovery period of 
just a few days or 1-2 weeks. It is commonly believed 
that such training phases will result in a rebound in 
performance within a few weeks, with the athlete 

144 CHAPTER 6 
attaining new and higher levels of performance, 
much like the supercompensation following the 
resistance phase of the GAS. Such training techni- 
ques are used by coaches throughout the world. 
Good examples of overreaching are often seen in the 
pre-season training for North American sports. In 
many cases, the athlete reports to the training camp 
approximately 1 month prior to the start of the 
competitive season. During this time, very stressful 
training occurs. However, the wise coach knows 
when to decrease this training stress so that the 
athlete can recover and rebound to new perform- 
ance levels in anticipation of the forthcoming 
competitive season. Thus, when carefully admin- 
istered, overreaching can be a very beneficial part 
of many training programmes. 
Table 6.1 Summary of suggested 
symptoms associated with 
overtraining. (Modified with 
permission from Fry et al. 1991.) The term overtraining syndrome is sometimes used 
to indicate the impaired performances associated with 
overtraining as well as the accompanying symptoms. 
Overtraining itself refers to the actual training that 
leads to performance decrements. Numerous symp- 
toms have been associated with overtraining, although 
most are a result of studies of endurance activities 
(Table 6.1). 
One additional point regarding overtraining is 
that this condition may not occur as often as some 
would believe. It is important to differentiate between 
the athlete who mistimes his or her training for a 
competition and ends up with less than expected 
results, and the athlete who is truly overtrained and 
will not be able to return to previous performance 
levels without an extensive lay-off from training. 
Performance 
Physiology 
Psychological 
Immunological 
Biochemical 8 Performance (muscular strength and power, muscular 
endurance, cardiorespiratory endurance), 8 training tolerance, 
8 motor coordination, fl recovery requirements, l? technical 
faults, altered range of motion 
Altered HR, ECG, blood pressure and respiration patterns, 
8 body fat and postexercise body weight, h Vo,, VE, HR and 
lactate accumulation at submaximal workloads, basal 
metabolic rate, chronic fatigue, sleep and eating disorders, 
menstrual disruptions, headaches, nausea and gastrointestinal 
disturbances, muscle soreness and damage, joint and muscle 
aches and pains 
I? Feelings of depression and apathy, 8 self-esteem, 8 ability to 
concentrate, easily distracted, sensitive to stress, 
h Occurrences of illness, 8 rates of healing, impaired immune 
function (neutrophils, lymphocytes, mitogen responses, 
eosinophils) 
Hypothalamic dysfunction, l? serum cortisol and SHBG, 8 serum 
total and free testosterone, 8 testosterone : cortisol ratio, 8 serum 
Hb, iron and ferritin, negative N, balance, 8 muscle glycogen, 
8 bone mineral content, altered glucose tolerance, 8 mineral 
concentration, I? urea concentration self-efficacy 
l? Increased; decreased. 
ECG, Electrocardiogram; Hb, haemoglobin; HR, heart rate; SHBG, sex hormone- 
binding globulin; VE, volume expired; Vo,, oxygen consumption. 

SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS IN STRENGTH TRAINING 145 
Elite athletes are typically under the direction of 
highly trained coaching staff who are sensitive to 
the problems of overtraining. As a result, appropri- 
ate training programmes are used and the athletes 
routinely undergo assessments to establish levels 
of sport fitness. Athletes who train themselves, or 
who follow ill-conceived training programmes, are 
certainly at greater risk of overtraining. Often, an 
athlete will have a below par performance which 
may be blamed on Overtraining. In many cases, this 
is simply the mistiming of attaining their peak perform- 
ance. Such a condition is readily recovered from in 
a relatively short period of time, and rectified with 
an improved training programme. Athletes who are 
experiencing an extremely stressful phase of training 
may also be classified as overtrained. As previously 
indicated, such a condition is most likely over- 
reaching, because a short period of recovery can bring 
the athlete back to an acceptable performance level. 
Overtraining cues from the acute resistance 
exercise variables 
Thus far we have only concerned ourselves with 
characteristics of the long-term programme, but 
what about the design of a single training session? 
When considering how overtraining relates to 
resistance exercise, it helps to have an understand- 
ing of the five acute resistance exercise training 
variables. These five variables account for all 
possible designs of a single training session. 
Strength training can come in many forms and 
variations. All the possible variations in a single 
resistance exercise training session can be described 
by the following. 
1 Choice of exercise. 
2 Order of exercise. 
3 Volume of exercise. 
4 Intensity (load). 
5 Rest between sets. 
ing resistance exercise is the tremendous number 
of choices available and the complex interactions 
possible between these choices. Furthermore, each of 
these variables can impact the risk of overtraining if 
not properly prescribed. Let us take a closer look at 
each of these acute training variables and their 
overtraining implications. One of the fundamental problems with prescrib- Choice of exercise 
Unlike many other forms of exercise, resistance 
exercise is complicated by the vast variety of exercises 
and exercise modalities available. When designing 
an optimal programme, it is desirable to utilize all the 
appropriate resources possible, which includes the 
best exercises for the objectives. In many situations, 
the coach or athlete may be limited in what exercises 
may be performed simply because of the equipment 
available; even so, a tremendous amount of variety 
is usually still possible. The following are several 
considerations concerning choice of exercise and 
the possible implications for overtraining. 
MUSCLE INVOLVEMENT 
The appropriate resistance training exercises must 
involve the relevant musculature for the sport or 
activity being trained for. This means determining 
the primary and secondary movers for the sport, as 
well as the assisting synergistic muscles critical for 
optimal performance. Such an analysis is often termed 
the functional anatomy of the sport, and determines 
what body parts will be emphasized during training. 
The analysis requires a thorough understanding 
of the muscle involvement of the exercises selected. 
Incorrect selection of exercises can result in an over- 
emphasis of certain body parts. A possible example 
of this is overuse of the very popular bench press 
exercise. This exercise is often combined with 
numerous variations of the bench press (e.g. incline 
bench press, close grip bench press, decline bench 
press, dumb-bell variations of the bench press) as 
well as numerous shoulder exercises (e.g. shoulder 
press, lateral raises, behind the neck presses, front 
raises, bent over raises). The net result can be an 
overemphasis on the shoulder musculature. Overuse 
injuries of the shoulder are common in strength 
training when such an imbalance in exercise selection 
exists. While overuse injuries are not synonymous 
with overtraining, there is much potential overlap. 
The inability of a particular body part to tolerate the 
exercise load prescribed can contribute to 
maladaptation and impaired performances. 
MUSCLE MASS 
Selection of resistance exercises often depends in part 
on the amount of the musculature involved. One 

146 CHAPTER 6 
reason for this is that the desired training effect often 
includes the ability of various muscles and muscle 
groups to work together, hence the selection of exer- 
cises that depend on synergistic muscle activity. 
Through the coordinated neural activation of these 
muscles, the body may becomemore efficient in 
appropriately synchronizing their use on the sports 
field. Another reason is that exercises that activate 
large muscle masses are more time efficient than 
selecting numerous exercises that each involve only 
a small muscle mass. In addition, the simultaneous 
activation of large muscle masses provides a greater 
stimulus for several physiological systems. Among 
the most important may be the endocrine and the 
autonomic nervous systems which directly or 
indirectly regulate many of the acute and chronic 
responses and adaptations to resistance exercise. 
Because of the larger muscle mass involvement 
and greater stress, it is likely that the total training 
capacity may be less for large muscle mass exercises 
compared to small muscle mass exercises. An 
example of a large muscle mass exercise might be 
the barbell squat, while examples of small muscle 
mass exercises might be leg extensions and leg curls. 
Thus, the overall stress of performing barbell squats 
is greater than for leg extensions and leg curls. As a 
result, total training volume for large muscle mass 
exercises must be carefully prescribed so as to 
minimize the risk of overtraining. This does not 
mean avoid these exercises as, on the contrary, large 
muscle mass exercises are often the most important 
to include, but they are very stressful. 
VELOCITY OF MOVEMENT 
An elementary principle of exercise is the specificity 
principle, often expressed as the Specific Adaptation 
to Imposed Demands (SAID) principle. This states that 
in order to adapt in a desired manner, you must train 
in a similar manner. If high velocity of movement or 
high-power production is important, as it is to most 
athletes, then some components of training must be 
performed at high velocities or at high power. In the 
weight room this is best accomplished with certain 
exercises designed specifically for high velocities and 
high power production, specifically the Olympic-style 
weightlifting movements (snatch, clean and jerk, and 
related exercises). Although any resistance exercise 
can be performed at high velocity, proper technique may be sacrificed if performed too fast. However, the 
weightlifting movements are designed specifically to 
be performed at fast velocities. Other exercises that are 
sometimes performed in an explosive manner (at high 
velocity) include the barbell squat and the bench 
press. Thus, by carefully selecting the exercises, 
it is possible to train almost anywhere along the 
force-velocity curve. The concern for overtraining is 
that high-velocity exercises are often quite stressful. 
Technique is extremely important, and any deviation 
from proper technique may lead to inappropriate 
adaptation. As will be discussed later in greater 
detail, the rate of work production is very high for 
these exercises, meaning the exercise intensity is 
very high. Such types of exercise are potentially 
more stressful than typical weight room exercises. 
Therefore, as with large muscle mass exercises, 
total training volume and intensity for high-velocity 
resistances, exercises must be carefully prescribed so 
as to minimize the risk of overtraining. Again, this 
does not mean avoid these exercises as they may be 
critical to the desired training effect. 
RANGE OF MOVEMENT 
Most resistance exercise programmes specify using a 
full range of movement (ROM) for most exercises. It is 
well established that the greatest resistance exercise 
training effect is found in the ROM actually used for 
training. Limited ROM exercises are sometimes used 
for injury rehabilitation or for strengthening the 
‘sticking point’ of an exercise (the weakest ROM of the 
exercise). However, some individuals use partial ROM 
exercises in an attempt to handle heavier loads. When 
wisely used, this is an advanced training method that 
allows desirable neuromuscular adaptations. On the 
other hand, if a partial ROM is used simply to allow a 
heavier load to be lifted, the body may be exposed to 
a greater load than is recommended. An example of 
this is the athlete who only descends part way down 
during a squat motion. The smaller ROM permits 
extremely heavy resistances to be used. Chronic 
use of such excessive loading may be a precursor 
to overtraining. 
TRAINING MODALITY 
The type of device used to provide the resistance is a 
significant factor in the training stress provided. One 
of the fundamental concerns for some is the use of free 

SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS IN STRENGTH TRAINING 147 
weights or machine modalities. Some of the advant- 
ages of free weights include the greater involvement 
of synergistic muscles, movement through three 
dimensions, and greater proprioceptive develop- 
ment. Additionally, free weights are considerably 
less expensive than resistance exercise machines. 
It has been noted that the actual force required by 
the involved muscles will vary according to the 
biomechanical characteristics of the exercise. As such, 
the use of free weights has been classified as dynamic 
constant external resistance, as there is movement and 
the external load (weight on the barbell or dumb-bell) 
is the same throughout the ROM. Numerous machine 
modalities have been classified as variable resistance 
devices. This includes isokinetic machines (con- 
trolled velocity), pneumatic machines (compressed 
air resistance) and machines with various types 
of cams and lever systems. The force produced 
throughout the ROM will vary depending on the 
mechanical characteristics of the machine. In many 
cases, variable resistance machines do not permit 
a clear indication of the actual load being used. 
However, these machines can be useful when the 
volume of exercise is appropriate. Hydraulic devices 
also provide variable resistance and, along with 
many isokinetic devices, do not provide eccentric 
resistance, only concentric. Recently, electronically 
braked machines have allowed the individual to 
use different loads for both the concentric and the 
eccentric phases of the exercises. As discussed below, 
eccentric loading can be very stressful, and a concern 
with these devices is whether a proper ratio between 
concentric and eccentric loading is being used. 
In addition, devices with no eccentric phase of 
resistance provide a lesser stress to the system, and 
may be missing an important training component for 
an athlete. In general, machines will limit the user to 
movement in either one or two dimensions, and thus 
provide less development of synergistic activity, 
neuromuscular coordination and proprioceptive 
control. As far as overtraining is concerned, it appears 
that because of the greater physiological demands, 
the training tolerance and capacity with free weights 
may be less than with machines. Therefore, training 
programmes are not readily transferable between 
machines and free weights. A judicious coach must 
realize the difference between these resistance 
exercise modalities to avoid overtraining. TYPE OF MUSCLE ACTION 
Skeletal muscle can produce force through several 
types of muscle actions. It has been well established 
that eccentric muscle actions are extremely stressful 
and produce greater amounts of muscle tissue dis- 
ruption. As such, excessive use of eccentric activity 
can provide too great a training stress and may increase 
the risk of overtraining. 
TYPES OF RESISTANCE 
Many training programmes include not only free 
weights or machine resistance, but also other types 
of resistance. Examples might include body weight 
exercises, elastic bands and medicine balls. When 
determining training volume and intensity, these 
types of exercises may not be included in the 
calculations; however, it should be noted that these 
exercises contribute to the total training stress. 
Therefore, all exercises used should be accounted for 
when monitoring a resistance training programme. 
Failure to do so may result in underestimating the 
actual training stress and increasing the risk of 
overtraining. 
Order of exercise 
The second acute training variable is the order in 
which the exercises are performed during a training 
session. This variable is often overlooked, but can 
have a considerable impact on the physiological 
effects of training. General guidelines for order of 
exercise include the following: 
1 Large muscle mass exercises before small muscle 
mass exercises. 
2 Multijoint exercises before single joint exercises. 
3 High power exercises before lower power exercises. 
exercises that are the most fatiguing and require the 
most motor coordination should be performed when 
the athlete is fresh and capable of utilizing proper 
technique. For example, if high power exercises (e.g. 
cleans, snatches) are performed when the athlete is 
fatigued, it is likely that less than optimal technique 
is used. When this occurs, the training effect is 
decreased and the risk of acute or chronic injury is 
increased. 
The items in the above list are only guidelines. 
There are numerous variations for ordering resistance The rationale for such guidelines is that the 

148 CHAPTER 6 
exercises. Sometimes the order is established speci- 
fically to bring on fatigued conditions in an attempt to 
mimic competitive conditions. Regardless of how the 
training session is ordered, the coach and athlete must 
be aware that this variable can have a tremendous 
impact on the training. Improper and stagnant order- 
ing of exercises may be contributing risk factors for 
overtraining. 
Volume of exercise 
The most precise method for quantifying resistance 
training volume is to calculate how much work was 
performed. Work is measured in joules, and is defined 
by the equation: 
Work = force x distance 
In the training hall, volume of exercise can be 
estimated by the number of repetitions performed, 
the distance the resistance is moved and the load 
used. Work is exclusive of time; in other words, it 
does not matter how long it takes to perform the 
exercise. For example, athletes A and B both move 
the barbell 60 cm when they perform a barbell squat. 
Athlete A performs 10 repetitions with 100 kg in 20 s, 
while athlete B performs 10 repetitions with 100 kg in 
30 s. Both athletes have performed the same amount 
of work (equal number of repetitions, equal distance 
moved, equal loads). Increasing the number of re- 
petitions, the distance moved, or the load used will 
all result in greater work production. Thus, a tall 
person will produce more work when performing a 
barbell squat than a shorter person would because of 
the distance moved. Needless to say, this calculation 
may be necessary for research purposes, but is cum- 
bersome for the coach or athlete to use on a regular 
basis. The simplest method for calculating volume 
of resistance training is total repetitions performed 
during a training session. It does not matter what the 
exercise is or what resistance is used. As a result, this 
measure tells us nothing about the quality of the work 
performed, but it is a simple measure of the quantity 
of exercise. It has been argued that a more useful 
measure is volume load. This is where the repetitions 
are multiplied by the load used. For example, three 
sets of 10 repetitions with a loo-kg load results in 
a volume load of 3000 kg (3 x 10 x 100 = 3000). 
Using this method for determining training volume includes the important factor of mass moved. 
Regardless of how volume is determined, one of 
the most important variables contributing to over- 
training is the amount of exercise performed. Excessive 
training volume can result in a long-term overtrained 
condition. 
Intensity (load) 
Intensity can refer to either the mass of the resistance, 
or the rate of work production. The rate of work prod- 
uction is known as power. The following equations 
illustrate the relationship between work, velocity, 
force and power: 
Work = force x distance 
Velocity = distancehime 
Power = force x velocity 
= force x distanceltime 
= workltime. 
We can consider the rate of work production from 
two perspectives: the power of an individual exercise, 
known as exercise intensity; and the power of an 
entire training session, known as training intensity. 
Exercise intensity is defined as the power of the actual 
resistance exercise movement. Examples of high 
power resistance exercises include cleans, snatches, 
jerks and speed squats, because of their high velocities 
as well as their heavy loads. High power exercises can 
be very stressful, and must be rationed appropriately. 
In most cases, exercise technique is paramount to 
maximal power production. If technique is com- 
promised because of either short- or long-term fatigue, 
the training effect is lessened. Furthermore, high 
power activities are often referred to as ‘quality’ 
work as opposed to ‘quantity’ work. The result is 
that a tremendous training effect is obtained with 
relatively low volumes of high power activities. 
Excessive use of high power exercises may con- 
tribute to an overtraining effect. 
Training intensity is defined as the rate of work 
production for an entire training session. The amount 
of work performed in a session contributes to this 
value, but the amount of time required to complete the 
session is of equal or greater importance. The length 
of the rest intervals between sets determines the total 
time to complete the training session. If athletes A 
and B both perform identical training sessions (same 

SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS IN STRENGTH TRAINING 149 
exercises, equal sets, repetitions, loads) but athlete 
B takes twice as long to complete the workout, 
then athlete A has a greater training intensity. 
The desired training intensity will be dependent 
on the objectives of the programme. If high levels 
of muscular endurance and lactate tolerance are 
desired, then a high training intensity may be 
necessary. If maximizing muscular strength and 
power are a priority, then training intensity must 
be decreased to permit adequate recovery between 
sets. Improper manipulation of training intensity 
may expose the athlete to an increased risk of 
overtraining. 
is the determination of the load to be lifted. In the 
most simple sense, intensity is defined as the mass 
on the barbell or machine. When an individual lifts 
200 kg on a leg press, he or she is using a greater 
intensity than when he or she lifts 100 kg on the 
leg press. Another way to look at it is if two athletes 
perform maximal effort for 10 repetitions, the person 
who lifts more weight is training at a greater intensity 
even though both athletes are giving a maximal effort. 
While this definition of intensity may be correct, it is 
not often used by the coach or athlete. Most people are 
interested in relative intensities where the strength 
levels of the individuals, as measured by their 1 RM, 
are accounted for. 
relative intensity. Percentage of 1 RM is sometimes 
used for relative intensity; for example, a training 
programme may prescribe a load of 80% of 1 RM. 
If the 1 RM for the exercise is 200 kg, the load to 
be used would be 160 kg. The advantage of using 
percentage of RM loads is that it can be applied to 
individuals with varying strength levels. A dis- 
advantage is that different individuals may be able 
to perform different numbers of repetitions at any 
set percentage. Furthermore, different exercises 
may have different repetition capabilities at any 
set percentage. Nevertheless, this method of pres- 
cribing, when correctly used, can be very effective and 
precise. 
RM load can also be used to define the relative 
intensity. For example, if the training prescription 
requires that 10 repetitions be performed with 
maximal effort, it can be given as a 10-RM load, 
that is, the most weight that can be lifted 10 times. A more common use of resistance exercise intensity 
There are several different ways to express An advantage of this method of prescribing relative 
intensity is that the exact number of repetitions 
can be prescribed. The disadvantage is that there 
is likely to be some trial and error to find the exact 
load needed. Prescribing submaximal training days 
may be problematic until the exact load needed 
for any RM load (3,5,10,15 RM, etc.) is known. 
Furthermore, if submaximal training sessions are 
not included, using this method will mean that all 
sets are performed to absolute failure. This may 
work for a short training phase, but this intensity 
will be difficult to maintain over extended periods 
of time. 
Mean intensity is used to describe the average 
relative intensity used for all sets of a training session. 
This measure is helpful for quantifying the intensity 
inclusive of all sets of all exercises. To simplify this 
measure, sometimes sets under a certain relative 
intensity (e.g. 70% of 1 RM) are not included. This 
method of quantifying the relative intensity of a 
training session or other training period does not 
always reflect small amounts of very high intensity 
exercise, but simply provides a general description 
of intensity. 
is extremely dependent on this variable. Excessive 
intensity of all types and a lack of varying intensity 
can readily contribute to overtraining. Regardless of how intensity is defined, overtraining 
Rest between sets 
This acute training variable can be manipulated 
to provide tremendous variety in the metabolic 
characteristics of the training session. Training 
intensity is affected by the interset rest intervals, 
so both of these variables are related. When high 
power activities or high force exercises are desired, 
long rest intervals (e.g. 3-5 min) are used to allow 
adequate recovery before subsequent sets are per- 
formed. If the glycolytic energy system is to be 
emphasized, rest intervals can be extremely short 
(e.g. I 30 s to 1 min). Rest intervals can be anywhere 
along this time continuum. It is easy to underesti- 
mate the impact of this single acute training variable. 
If an improper rest interval is used for the intensity 
selected, the stress of the training session can 
be greater than desired, and can contribute to 
overtraining. 

150 CHAPTER 6 
Training periodization 
Long-term training, whether it is resistance exercise 
or some other form of conditioning, must be planned 
in advanced to ensure greater potential for long-term 
success. The long-term planning is referred to as 
training periodization, as the training year is divided 
into several periods where different physiological and 
performance parameters are prioritized. Periodization 
can also be based on a multiyear programme as many 
athletes may function on an Olympic cycle (4 years), 
or a collegiate career (4-5 years). Regardless of the 
time period, the long-term objectives and goals are 
specifically addressed in this plan. 
The goals will depend greatly on the sport or 
activity being trained for. For example, an Olympic- 
level athlete competing in an individual sport may 
wish to peak their performances only once every 4 
years. This is often apparent in sporting perform- 
ances during the year following the Olympic 
Games. Performances are often down at this time as 
athletes are performing high volumes of training in 
preparation for the next Olympic Games 3 years away. 
This scenario is not necessarily overtraining because 
this is part of the carefully designed long-term training 
plan for that individual. On the other hand, athletes 
participating in team sports may not have the luxury 
of devoting an entire training year or competitive 
season to long-term preparatory training. These 
athletes may have to reach peak or near-peak per- 
formances every year. As a result, the long-term 
training programme will differ greatly depending 
on the demands and characteristics of the sport or 
activity. 
At a very basic level, training periodization can 
be described by Matveyev’s Model of Periodization 
(Fig. 6.10). This model describes the relationship 
between training volume and intensity at different 
phases of the training cycle. Early preparatory work 
involves large volumes of exercise that must be per- 
formed at relatively low intensities because of the 
amount of training. This can be a very stressful phase 
of training because of the large amount of exercise. 
The following phase involves the transition to a lower 
volume and increasing intensity. The final phase prior 
to the actual target date is the competition phase 
where training volume is at its lowest and intensity 
at its greatest. This is where the final touches for peak Volume 
Intensity 
Preparatory 1st transition Competition 
phase phase phase \ 
Competition - peak 
2nd transition 
phase 
(Active recovery) 
Fig. 6.10 Relationship between training volume and 
intensity at different phases of the training cycle. 
performances are acquired. After the training peak, an 
active recovery period is used to allow restoration of 
training capacity. 
Perhaps one of the most critical messages to be 
learned from this model is that of the inverse relation- 
ship between volume and intensity. When volume is 
high, intensity must be low, and vice versa. Although 
this relationship can be violated for short periods of 
time (e.g. overreaching), the long-term training plan 
must respect this relationship to optimize performance 
and to minimize the risk of overtraining. Without a 
doubt, the most important factor for avoiding over- 
training is a properly designed training programme. 
No nutritional supplement, specially devised training 
device or other ergogenic aid can do more for the 
avoidance of overtraining than can the design of the 
training programme. The wise and prudent coach will 
be well versed in all the intimate details of training 
methodologies for their sport or activity. Furthermore, 
resistance exercise readily lends itself to precise 
quantification of training data, thus permitting 
accurate monitoring of the training stresses. 
Physiology of resistance exercise overtraining 
Although resistance exercise has become a critical 
part of most successful athletes’ training regimen, 
most of the scientific overtraining literature deals 
with endurance sports and activities. As a result, 
many of the signs and symptoms of overtraining 
reported in Table 6.2 may not even apply to resistance 
exercise overtraining. Regardless of the type of 

SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS IN STRENGTH TRAINING 151 
+&+ 
tl Table 6.2 Training factors potentially II 
contributing to resistance exercise 
overtraining. 
Training volume and intensity not inversely related 
Relative intensity (YO RM or Rh4 load) too high for extended 
periods with little variation 
Training volume (number of sessions, exercises, sets and 
repetitions) too high for extended periods with little 
variation 
Improper training intensity (time to complete training 
session) 
Excessive volume of high-power exercises (exercise 
intensity) 
Excessive volume of most stressful exercises (e.g. large 
muscle mass exercises) 
Inadequate recovery 
Performing every set to absolute failure every training 
Improper exercise selection: session 
Overuse of certain muscles, muscle groups or joints 
Development of muscle imbalances 
Improper exercise technique and/or inappropriate range of 
motion 
Excessive use of eccentric muscle actions resulting in muscle 
disruption or damage 
Effect of training modality: 
Different training capacity and tolerance for free weights 
vs. machines 
Availabity of concentric, eccentric and isometric muscle 
actions varies 
order 
forms of training (e.g. sport-specific training, 
cardiorespiratory training) Improper order of performing exercises or failure to vary 
Failure to account for the cumulative stresses from other 
RM, Repetition maximum. 
training, the phenomenon of overtraining is difficult 
to study closely. Typical approaches include either 
examining athletes after overtraining has already 
occurred, or developing a training protocol designed 
to induce an overtrained state. Either approach 
presents many limitations, thus contributing to the 
inability to answer definitively the question ‘what 
causes overtraining?’ 
Concerning resistance exercise, three different 
study approaches have been used: 1 the effect of excessive training volume; 
2 the effect of excessive relative training intensity; and 
3 the effect of combining resistance exercise with 
other forms of training (combination training, training 
compatibility). 
The first two approaches are attempts to isolate the 
individual acute training variables of volume and 
intensity, while the latter approach provides a more 
real life setting where athletes routinely combine 
resistance exercise with other forms of training and 
conditioning. The following is a brief description of 
what is known about performance and physiological 
responses to resistance exercise overtraining. 
Performance 
Although numerous symptoms of overtraining may 
be present, the single most important variable for 
diagnosing overtraining is a decrease in performance. 
Overtraining is sometimes associated with plateaux 
in performance, but it is difficult to differentiate 
these plateaux from the performance plateaux that can 
occur during normal training. Furthermore, scientific 
investigations are typically required to analyse data 
using standard statistical methods. The slight changes 
in performance that may be critical to a coach or ath- 
lete are often far from being significant from a statistical 
perspective. The net result is that it is sometimes diffi- 
cult to demonstrate performance decrements during 
scientifically controlled experiments. Decreased 
performance caused by overtraining should also be 
differentiated from a mistimed training peak. It is not 
unusual for an athlete to experience a below par per- 
formance as a result of poor timing to the programme 
plan, which is different from an actual overtraining 
scenario. 
for resistance exercise is 1-RM strength. In general, 
the human body appears to protect 1-RM strength 
guardedly, thus making it difficult unequivocally 
to diagnose overtraining. Attempts at inducing 
overtraining using high training volumes have been 
unsuccessful in eliciting decreases in 1-RM strength. 
These results would suggest that the population stud- 
ied (elite junior age weightlifters) possessed a greater 
training capacity than originally thought. When 
overtraining was induced using high relative intensity 
training, 1-RM strength was not compromised using One of the most common measures of performance 

152 CHAPTER 6 
90-95% of 1-RM loads, but did decrease by ap- 
proximately 11% when 100% of 1-RM loads 
were used daily over a 2-week period. This suggests 
that small changes in the relative intensity can be 
critical during heavy phases of training. In general, 
however, it is extremely difficult to elicit deceases 
in I-RM strength unless extreme training programmes 
are used. 
High-volume training has not been shown to 
affect lower body maximal power, but was shown 
to decrease the ability to maintain lower body power 
as measured by repeated vertical jumps. On the other 
hand, high-intensity overtraining was not shown to 
affect measures of lower body jump power, but has 
resulted in markedly decreased sprint performances. 
The slower sprint times appear to be primarily a 
result of slower times through the first 10 m, the 
most critical part of the sprint for many sports. 
When isokinetic strength was measured, the largest 
decreases in strength occurred at the speed closest 
to the training speed, which is in agreement with the 
training specificity principle. When combination 
training was used (resistance exercise and off-season 
conditioning drills for American football), 1-RM 
strength, maximal power, sprint speed and agility 
may all be compromised. Although these performance 
decrements were readily recovered from, these data 
indicate that this type of training, which is used for 
many sports, may not produce optimal results and 
could lead to the longer term condition of over- 
training. In general, when training compatibility is 
an issue, maximal improvements in any performance 
variable are difficult to attain because of the comprom- 
ising nature of this type of training. 
Most of the performance measures studied during 
overtraining research are relatively gross in nature. 
It is likely that more sensitive performance measures 
may include rates of force development, efficiency 
of electrical activity (integrated EMG/force), and 
explosive strength deficits (rates of time-limited force 
development). Future research will need to focus on 
increasingly sensitive measures to attain a better 
understanding of the overtraining phenomenon. 
Biomechanics 
It has been suggested that altered movement 
mechanics may contribute to impaired performances during a state of Overtraining. While this is likely to be 
true, it is difficult to identify definitively unless video 
and/or force plate analyses are performed. The limited 
data available indicate that high-volume phases of 
weightlifting training result in subtle but important 
changes in snatch lift technique. Even though 1-RM 
strength was being maintained or even increased, 
lifting technique was exhibiting evidence of technique 
breakdown. Barbell trajectories showed a greater 
horizontal displacement, evidence of greater swinging 
of the bar and a failure to keep the barbell close to the 
body during the second pull of the lift. Further study 
is required to understand fully the role of altered 
biomechanics in performance decrements caused by 
overtraining. 
Muscle damageldisruption 
Damage to the involved skeletal muscle can certainly 
contribute to short-term decreases in performance, 
but this is typically rectified by several days of 
decreased or suspended training. The phenomenon 
of overtraining is not caused simply by one or several 
sessions of overly stressful training leading to muscle 
damage. Although muscle damage is a possibility, the 
long-term effects of overtraining are not typically 
brought about by this single problem. On the other 
hand, if significant amounts of damage occur, and the 
athlete fails to alter training to accommodate the 
problem, recovery will be compromised. When this 
occurs, long-term ramifications could result. Condi- 
tions of rhabdomyolysis have been reported with 
severe training, most likely caused by inappropriate 
training prescription. 
Injury 
Improper exercise prescription can lead to overuse 
injuries, a potential contributor to an overtraining 
syndrome. Such injuries can be manifested in 
skeletal muscle as well as joint structures. Such 
injuries are typically difficult to recognize prior to 
their actual onset. Occasionally, strength ratios 
between antagonistic muscle groups may provide 
some indication of potential problems, but this is 
not a very exact method. One unique situation 
permitted the study of the onset of an overuse 
syndrome during a controlled laboratory setting 

SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS IN STRENGTH TRAINING 153 
using high relative intensities (100% of 1 RM). 
Overuse of the knees occurred for one subject 
during high intensity overtraining, and resulted 
in extremely large decreases in 1-RM strength 
(> 30%). It appeared that proprioceptive afferent 
inhibition from the knee joints may have been 
present during dynamic actions, but such inhibition 
was not present during isometric actions. Such data 
suggest that the method of assessing performance 
decrements is critical (dynamic vs. isometric) 
because isometric measures indicated no decreases 
in strength. 
Autonomic nervous system 
It appears that the autonomic nervous system is 
intimately involved in overtraining. As such, it 
has been theorized that two forms of overtraining 
exist: sympathetic and parasympathetic overtrain- 
ing. Sympathetic overtraining occurs when the 
sympathetic nervous system is activated to com- 
pensate for developing performance decrements. 
Eventually, the sympathetic system becomes 
exhausted and parasympathetic activity pre- 
dominates, resulting in parasympathetic over- 
training. Theoretically, sympathetic overtraining 
precedes parasympathetic overtraining, which is 
an advanced state. Large volumes of endurance 
training (up to 30 km daily) have resulted in 
conditions similar to parasympathetic over- 
training. As might be expected, performances 
were compromised for up to 1 year after such 
training. To date, no studies have recorded such 
a parasympathetic overtraining syndrome with 
high volumes of resistance exercise. However, 
excessive daily use of high relative training 
intensity (100% of 1 RM loads) over a 2-week 
period has resulted in what appears to be a 
sympathetic overtraining syndrome. Despite large 
increases in circulating catecholamines, performance 
was adversely affected with recovery of up to 8 weeks 
required for some individuals. It appears that the 
skeletal muscle had maladapted to the high relative 
intensity training, perhaps through alterations in the 
adrenergic receptor properties of the muscle. Further 
research is required to determine if such a mechanism 
is responsible for the performance decrements 
observed. Endocrine responses 
Perhaps the hormonal responses associated most 
with overtraining are those of testosterone and 
cortisol, and the ratio between these two. As has been 
reported for endurance overtraining, high volumes of 
resistance exercise have resulted in decreased serum 
testosterone and augmented cortisol, both at rest and 
postexercise. Such responses contribute to a typically 
decreased testosterone : cortisol ratio both at rest and 
postexercise. It has been postulated that this ratio is 
indicative of the anabolic-catabolic balance of the 
body, and is related to the training status of the indi- 
vidual. Although the testosterone : cortisol ratio has 
been strongly associated with the accompanying 
training stresses, it appears that such a relationship 
is not necessarily causal. A more likely regulating 
mechanism is the sympathetic nervous system which 
moderates both the hormonal and the skeletal muscle 
systems. Contrary to what is observed for high 
volumes of resistance exercise, resistance exercise 
overtraining caused by high relative training intensity 
has exhibited little effect in the resting or exercise- 
induced testosterone or cortisol concentrations. 
Of further interest is the fact that luteinizing 
hormone (LH), which helps regulate testosterone, 
and adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH), which 
helps regulate cortisol, were not affected by the high 
relative intensity overtraining. As a result, it is not 
possible to diagnose resistance exercise overtraining 
solely by the steroid hormone responses. Combination 
training protocols have sometimes reported decreased testosterone 
: cortisol ratios, perhaps an indication of 
impending overtraining with these high-volume 
training regimens. 
Growth hormone is an important hormone both 
for its anabolic and metabolic properties. When 
high-volume resistance exercise overtraining occws, 
decreased growth hormone concentrations are evident at rest and postexercise. This is a typical adaptation 
to a well-designed training protocol that stresses 
glycolytic and oxidative metabolism. As such, it 
does not appear to provide 
a sensitive marker for 
overtraining. Furthermore, no changes of growth 
hormone responses are evident with high relative 
intensity overtraining. Taken altogether, it appears 
thus far that the pituitary gland, which is the source 
of growth hormone, LH and ACTH, is not a site of 

154 CHAPTER 6 
maladaptation with high intensity resistance exercise 
overtraining. 
Skeletal muscle adaptations 
It is well established that skeletal muscle can adapt 
to resistance exercise via hypertrophy and fibre type 
transitions. The hypertrophy response is fibre type 
dependent, varying with the relative intensity used. 
The fibre type transitions are primarily from IIB to 
IIA. To date, no data exist to determine the effect of 
resistance exercise overtraining on the hypertrophy 
or fibre type transition responses. Although muscle 
protein expression can be influenced by training, 
thus influencing muscle performance, no data exist 
regarding such phenotypic expression brought about 
by resistance exercise Overtraining. Perhaps the sites 
of most interest regarding skeletal muscle responses to 
overtraining are the adrenergic receptors. It is known 
that receptors for the catecholamines associated with 
the sympathetic nervous system are extremely 
adaptable. Future study must begin to investigate 
the role of such receptors. 
Metabolic responses 
High volumes of resistance exercise have resulted 
in decreased lactate and ammonia responses to 
exercise, which are both typical responses to training. 
Postexercise blood glucose levels were decreased, 
and were speculated to be caused by a diminished 
sympathetic response, although this was not 
measured. Circulating free fatty acids were elevated, 
which may have been an attempt to replenish muscle 
glycogen stores. To date, no studies have examined 
the muscle glycogen response to chronic high- 
volume resistance exercise. High relative intensity 
overtraining has also reported decreases in lactate 
responses to exercise. Whether this is a symptom of 
overtraining or simply a normal adaptation to training 
is not known. If a sympathetic overtraining syndrome 
existed, as previously suggested, it is possible that 
anaerobic glycolysis may have been impaired, thus 
resulting in a lower work capacity prior to fatigue. 
High relative intensity overtraining does not appear 
to deplete muscle glycogen stores as indicated by 
muscle biopsies. Needless to say, because of the 
differing metabolic requirements of high volume vs. high relative intensity resistance exercise 
overtraining, different sites of maladaptation 
are likely. Further research is necessary to clarify 
more fully the metabolic responses to such 
stressful training. Such an understanding may 
provide guidance for nutritional or supple- 
mentational interventions for resistance exercise 
overtraining. 
Immune responses 
To date, no studies have closely investigated 
immune responses to an actual resistance exer- 
cise overtraining syndrome. Unlike endurance 
overtraining, where considerable study of the 
immunological responses to stressful training 
exists, this is uncharted territory for resistance 
exercise, The few data existing on immune responses 
to high volumes of resistance exercise indicate only 
slight alterations in this physiological system. As 
with numerous other systems, immune responses 
to resistance exercise overtraining is a topic for 
further study. 
Psychological responses 
Psychological parameters may provide the most 
fruitful potential for the coach or athlete dealing 
with overtraining. It has been well established 
with endurance types of overtraining that mood 
disturbances occur, as reflected by the Profile of 
Mood States. High volumes of resistance exercise 
for a 1-week period (tripling of training volume) have 
also resulted in mood disturbances. In addition, there 
is some evidence to suggest athletes become more ego 
involved during this type of training (they become 
more focused on outcome rather than on effort and 
improvement). Whether this effect was because of the 
actual high-volume training regimen, or the living, 
coaching and training environment is not known. It 
has been well established both in the classroom and 
the sports setting that long-term enjoyment and 
progress is enhanced with a strong task orientation. 
Interestingly, anxiety levels were unaffected by the 
high volumes of resistance exercise. When high 
relative intensity overtraining was monitored, no 
changes in mood states were observed, although the 
instrument used may not have been sensitive enough 

SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS IN STRENGTH TRAINING 155 
to detect subtle, but important, changes. However, 
what was observed was a decrease in self-efficacy. 
The lifters became less and less confident in their 
lifting abilities even though the lifting task was 
constantly adjusted for their current strength 
levels, Such psychological alterations could 
have a profound effect on sporting performance, 
especially when combined with physiological maladaptations. 
Overtraining conclusions 
As can be readily seen, resistance exercise provides 
a very complex training scenario. Such complexity 
can easily translate into an inappropriate training 
regimen that can lead to overtraining in numerous 
ways. Essential to avoiding resistance exercise 
overtraining is a thorough understanding of the 
training stimulus and long-term resistance exercise 
prescription. Only through proper periodization can 
training be optimized and the risk of overtraining 
minimized. Although much further research on 
resistance exercise overtraining remains to be carried 
out, several important facts emerge. Resistance 
exercise overtraining is not identical to overtraining 
resulting from endurance activities. As the various 
physiological systems are stressed differently with 
resistance exercise, overtraining of this type is 
characterized by different physiological symptoms. 
Common to all overtraining scenarios, however, is 
the fact that performance is adversely affected, and 
recovery is a long-term process. 
Age considerations 
With athletes competing at both ends of the age 
continuum (e.g. Junior and Masters competitions) 
one must take the perspective that if an individual is 
capable of participating in sports competition, they 
are also capable of the supplementary training 
required to prepare safely for such competition 
(Fig. 6.11). The concept of ‘playing yourself into 
shape’ only leads to injury and less than optimal 
performance. Strength programmes can differ with 
respect to volume of exercise and intensity of exer- 
cise but should reflect the same process of exercise 
prescription for a well rounded but sport-specific 
programme to be used by the athlete. Junior athletes 
The early controversy about strength training 
surrounded the obvious question, ‘Can young 
children really improve their muscular strength?’ 
Initial studies in this area in the 1970s were unable 
to demonstrate strength gains in children after a 
resistance training programme, thus prompting 
many people to say that strength training is of little 
value to younger children. It is now known that the 
lack of strength improvements in various studies 
over the years may have been because of poorly 
designed resistance training programmes and/or 
poor experimental designs. Building upon previous 
scientific studies, all of the more recent investiga- 
tions in the 1990s provide solid evidence showing 
muscular strength and power improvements are 
indeed possible in children, including prepubescents. 
In some cases even muscle size has been shown to 
be improved in prepubescent boys, but typically the 
gains are mediated via neurological mechanisms in 
young children who are rapidly growing. The major 
difference between boys and girls is the maturation 
rate. Girls mature sooner than boys and, in fact, may 
be able physically to handle workouts better than 
boys at an earlier age. However, this has not been 
demonstrated. While the absolute gains in strength 
may be greater in boys during certain stages of growth 
and development, the relative gains in girls and 
women have been shown to be similar to boys and 
men. Girls and young women must carefully perform 
certain exercises, such as free weight bench press and 
incline press, so as not to injure breast tissue. Also, the 
possibility of difficulty of training during certain 
phases of the menstrual cycle exists but, as pointed 
out earlier, is highly individual. Nevertheless, few 
differences appear to exist in the training methods for 
boys and girls and men and women. Therefore, no 
special needs exist and any differences need to be 
accommodated within the individualization process 
for progression for a resistance training programme. 
The difficulty of pinpointing certain age cut-off 
periods has been problematic because of matur- 
ation rates. Having the physical and psychological 
readiness to participate in a resistance training 
programme is a matter of individual maturity. 
Progression must be carefully graded and the 
toleration to exercise must be carefully monitored 

156 CHAPTER 6 
(a) (b) 
Fig. 6.11 (a) Age considerations in strength training are important for many young competitors in various sports such as figure 
skating. Photo 0 Allsport. (b) With masters athletes, care must be taken to provide for longer recovery periods from heavy 
lifting sessions. 
over time. Table 6.3 gives a few basic guidelines for 
progression over the different ages of the child. The 
basic programmes target all the major muscle groups 
of the body (shoulders, chest, upper back, lower back, 
abdominals, front and back of upper arm, front and 
back of upper leg, calf, front and back of forearm, 
neck). The same body parts are trained each session 
and, initially, only one set is performed per exercise. 
In addition to multijoint exercises (e.g. squat, bench 
press), the programme also includes a number of 
single joint (isolation) exercises (e.g. arm curls, leg 
curls). Recent studies have shown that medicine ball 
power exercises are very effective in developing 
power in young athletes. To date, many professionals are concerned when 
children use maximal or near maximal resistances 
(1-5-RM loads), yet no study beyond anecdotal 
evidence has shown why this is problematic. In fact, 
one may make the case that loads performed to failure 
at 6-10 RM may be more problematic as greater 
fatigue exists, and the potential for losing proper 
exercise technique or breaking form can result in 
injury. Ultimately, supervision and spotting are 
needed to limit or eliminate the injury potential in 
athletes of all ages. Years ago, the first response of 
many sports medicine professionals to the question as 
to whether children in sports should lift weights was 
to reply that it was unsafe to do so. Years later, after a 


SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS IN STRENGTH TRAINING 157 
Table 6.3 Basic considerations for I1 13 
resistance exercise progression in children. 1L 
Age [years) Considerations 
7 or younger Introduce the child to exercises with little or 
no weight, develop the concept of a training 
session, teach exercise techniques, keep total 
exercise volume low, include body weight, 
calisthenics and partner-resisted exercises, 
monitor exercise toleration of all workouts 
carefully, progress slowly 
6-10 
11-13 
14-15 Gradually increase the number of weight 
training exercise choices, continue to stress 
exercise technique in all resistance exercises, 
introduce a few complex exercises, start 
gradual progressive loading of exercises, 
continue to monitor exercise toleration 
Continue progressive loading of exercises, 
continue to teach more advanced exercise 
techniques, start using more complex 
manipulation of programme design, 
involvement in more of the goal setting, and 
development of the resistance training 
programme 
Progress to more advanced youth programmes 
in sport-specific resistance exercise 
programmes, continue to emphasize exercise 
techniques, evaluate total stress of the 
competitive sport, and supporting strength 
and conditioning programmes 
16 or older Entry level into more adult-like resistance 
training programmes using heavier 
resistances, advanced workout designs only 
after enough background training experience 
has been gained 
Note: If one enters an age level with no previous experience, 
progression must start at previous levels and move to the 
higher levels as exercise toleration, skill in exercise 
technique, and understanding of resistance training permits. 
closer look at the situation and especially the young 
athlete, it is now apparent that this type of response 
was an overreaction based upon a certain degree of 
ignorance about what resistance training is all about. 
Furthermore, it was not consistent with the needs of young athletes for safe participation in sport and it 
did not reflect the actual risks involved in resistance 
training, which have been shown to be very low when 
supervised. 
Masters athletes 
A recent review concluded that masters athletes 
can train as hard as younger athletes using similar 
programmes but care is needed to compensate for 
differences in the recovery phenomenon. In addition, 
any inherent medical conditions (e.g. typically 
orthopaedic for older masters athletes) must be 
worked around with exercises to be used in a strength 
training programme. However, as resistance training 
is the most therapeutic of exercise modalities, one 
can view certain aspects of a programme as being 
rehabilitative in nature. The stress of the primary 
training modalities and sports competition need to 
be carefully monitored, especially in older age. 
Compatibility of simultaneous strength and 
endurance training 
The simultaneous training for both maximal force 
and aerobic endurance might compromise the 
development of strength and power. In 1980, it was 
demonstrated in a study by the late Robert Hickson 
and his colleagues at the University of Illinois- 
Chicago Circle that when an endurance programme 
was added to a strength training programme, 1-RM 
strength improvement was suppressed after about 
2 months of training. This study demonstrated that the 
addition of an aerobic endurance training programme 
to a strength training programme contributed to at 
least a plateauing effect for strength. The physiolo- 
gical compatibility of simultaneous strength and 
endurance training has been a subject of great 
interest over the past 10 years. A variety of studies 
have demonstrated that strength can be either 
compromised or increased while no decreases in 
aerobic endurance capabilities have been observed. 
such adaptational responses to simultaneous train- 
ing remain unclear but the stimulus to the muscle 
fibre is one which is related to alterations in neural 
recruitment patterns and/or attenuation of muscle 
hypertrophy. Such physiological attenuation may, in The physiological mechanisms which may mediate 

158 CHAPTER 6 
fact, result in overtraining (decrease in performance). 
It is also possible that if simultaneous exercise train- 
ing programmes are properly designed, it may just 
require a longer period of time for the strength and 
power to express itself because of the simultaneous 
development of several ultrastructure and enzymatic 
adaptations for multiple performance demands. 
Furthermore, the magnitude of the adaptation (e.g. 
amount of protein accretion in certain muscle fibres) 
may not be the same in a system (e.g. muscle) that is 
being trained by two high-intensity training pro- 
grammes for both strength and endurance performed 
together. The key factor appears to be to prioritize 
training and not attempt to address both sports 
fitness parameters in the same training cycle. In 
addition, it had been previously demonstrated that 
simultaneous sprint and endurance training produced 
higher stress hormone responses of cortisol when 
compared to sprint or endurance training only. Here 
again, the need for training prioritization is suggested 
as a way to reduce stress. In one study (Callister et al. 
1988) at Ohio University, it was shown that simul- 
taneous sprint and endutance training impairs sprint 
speed and jump height power development. Thus, the 
interference of anaerobic training when high levels of 
aerobic training are undertaken appears consistent. 
Unfortunately, most studies have utilized relatively 
untrained subjects to examine the physiological 
effects of simultaneous strength and endurance 
training. Few data are available regarding the effects 
of simultaneous strength and endurance training 
utilizing fit athletes who are able to tolerate much 
higher intensity exercise training programmes. 
Kraemer (1995) found that high-intensity interval 
and endurance training affected power performance 
and the rate of strength gain over 3 months. It had 
been previously observed for high-speed isokinetic 
torque production that power capabilities may be 
more susceptible to overtraining because of the 
addition of an intense supplementary endurance 
training programme. This may be caused by a wide 
variety of factors differentially related to neuro- 
muscular function. Thus, it may be that power 
development is much more susceptible to the 
negative effects of combined strength and high- 
intensity endurance training programmes than 
slow velocity strength. It appears that it may be 
the extreme oxidative stress on the tissue even more than the modality that creates the alterations in the 
neuromuscular system counterproductive to power 
and high-speed development. In addition, this affects 
the adaptation of the muscle fibres. 
Interestingly, in most studies maximal oxygen 
consumption improvements have not been shown 
to be affected by the simultaneous training. This was 
substantiated by almost identical improvements seen 
in maximum oxygen consumption tests and time trials 
for a &mile run. This suggests that even the inclusion 
of a strength training programme well beyond the type 
that might be used by almost all runners does not 
adversely affect the oxidative or running capabilities. 
Thus, no incompatibility has been apparent for the 
endurance runners adding a strength and power 
programme to their training. The use of a resistance 
training programme (more sport specific) by runners 
can help to offset the tremendous pounding on the 
lower body musculature, but also add in performance 
by improving the rate of force development (see 
Chapter 5). 
result in no changes or increases in Type I and I1 
muscle fibre areas. Data support the concept that 
muscle fibre type area adaptations to simultan- 
eous training differs from the single training 
mode adaptations. The fact that all muscle fibres 
hypertrophied when strengthlpower training is 
performed alone demonstrates that recruitment 
patterns followed typical size principle order with 
Type I fibres being recruited with this type of 
programme that included both hypertrophy and 
strengthlpower components. The lack of power 
development in the groups that simultaneously 
train appears to be a function of neural mechanisms 
or unknown changes in the Type IIA fibres, as power 
is typically related to motor units with the fast twitch 
fibre populations. Thus, changes in fibre populations 
are different with simultaneous training of both 
strength and endurance. Furthermore, because of 
overuse injury some resistance training might be warranted for runners as the reduction in Type I and 
IIC fibre sizes were not indicative of any advantage in 
maximal oxygen consumption 
or 2-mile performance 
times. The findings of size antagonism (no change 
in Type I fibre hypertrophy when both modes are 
performed) on the cellular level are unique, as Type I 
fibres are affected by both oxidative stress and high Simultaneous training has been shown to either 

SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS IN STRENGTH TRAINING 159 
force recruitment stimuli. It appears the Type I and I1 
muscle fibres are differentially responsible for the 
endurance and strengthlpower training adaptations 
in the simultaneous training programmes. 
Incompatibility of training may be attributed to a 
large extent to the extreme stress of adrenal activation 
caused by the total amount of high intensity exercise. 
Whether or not successful adaptations can occur 
remains dependent upon the ability of various anabolic 
compensatory mechanisms (e.g. testosterone, insulin- 
like growth factors, growth hormone) eventually to 
override a catabolic environment. 
Is incompatibility an overtraining phenomenon? 
It appears that the inappropriate use of supplement- 
ary training modes, such as endurance exercise, 
may have the potential to interfere with the most 
optimal adaptational response of a given system 
(e.g. neuromuscular system) for a specific perform- 
ance variable. If performance becomes depressed or 
plateaus off well below expectations, it is possible 
that it is a result of a training error in the volume 
of supplementary exercise performed. At present, 
only endurance and strength training compatibility 
modes of exercise have been combined to examine 
simultaneous training. 
Sports competition 
Other factors, such as extreme volumes of physical 
competition, may contribute to an overtraining 
state in a matter of days. It has been observed that 
elite wrestlers tolerate a loss of 6% body mass and 
maintain performance. However, with 2 days of 
tournament wrestling they dramatically lose iso- 
metric force capabilities of the grip strength and upper 
body strength over those 2 days (unpublished data). 
Concomitantly, whole body power as measured via 
power production on a force plate makes no signific- 
ant changes. Such observations indicate that athletes 
may make special adaptations to the rigours of their 
sport and then only certain performance character- 
istics may be susceptible to further physical and 
emotional stress of competition. 
By being aware of the highly interactive environ- 
ment of training and competition, remedies as simple 
as a few days of rest may prevent an overtraining 
problem. The importance of periodization of training 
and sport competition start to take on dramatic importance when one considers that intensity and 
volume of exercise and competition are two of the 
primary contributors to overtraining. Any pro- 
gramme variable has the potential to contribute 
to an overtraining state but can be periodized if 
there is awareness that it may pose a problem 
(e.g. rest period lengths between sets and exercises 
and acid-base toleration). We are far from under- 
standing all of the biological bases of overtraining 
but clues as to what the factors and variables are in 
the configuration of a workout should help in the 
very careful detective work necessary to manipulate 
(overreaching) or prevent it. Incompatibility of 
multiple training modes may play one particular 
part in the overtraining phenomenon. 
Recommended reading and references 
Allsen, P.E., Parsons, P. & Bryce, G.R. (1977) Effect of men- 
strual cycle on maximum oxygen uptake. The Physician 
and Sportsmedicine 5,53-55. 
Gunderson, J. (1989) Contrasts in muscle and myofibres 
of elite male and female bodybuilders. Journal ofApplied 
Physiology67,24-31. 
Alway, S.E., Stray-Gunderson, J., Grumbt, W.H. & Gonyea, 
W.J. (1990) Muscle cross-sectional area and torque in 
resistance-trained subjects. European Journal of Applied 
Physiology 60, 86-90. 
Borges, 0. & Essen-Gustavsson, B. (1989) Enzyme activities 
in type I and I1 muscle fibres of human skeletal muscle in 
relation to age and torque development. Acta Physiologica 
Scandinavica 136,29-36. 
strength training programs on women. Journal of Applied 
Science Research 4 (3), 88-94. 
menarche from a developmental perspective. In: Girls at 
Puberty: Biological and Psychosocial Perspectives (eds 
J. Brooks-Gunn & A.C. Peterson), pp. 155-177. Plenum 
Press, New York. 
Brown, C.H. & Wilmore, J.H. (1974) The effects of maximal 
resistance training on the strength and body composition 
of women athletes. Medicine and Science in Sports 6, 
Callister, R., Shealy, M.J., Fleck, S.J. &Dudley, G.A. (1988) 
Performance adaptations to sprint, endurance and both 
modes of training. Journal of Applied Sport Science 
Research 2,46-51. 
Cameron, K.R., Wark, J.D. & Telford, R.D. (1992) Stress 
fractures and bone loss: the skeletal cost of intense 
athleticism? Excel 8,39-55. Alway, S.E., Grumbt, W.H., Gonyea, W.J. & Stray- 
Boyer, B.T. (1990) A comparison of the effects of three 
Brooks-Gunn, J. & Rubb, D.N. (1983) The experience of 
174-1 77. 

160 CHAPTER 6 
Cann, C.E., Martin, M.C., Genant, H.K. & Jaffe, R. (1984) 
Decreased spinal mineral content in amenorrheic female. 
Journal of the American Medical Association 251,626-629. 
Capen, E.K., Bright, J.A. &Line, P.Q. (1961) The effects of 
weight training on strength, power, muscular endurance 
and anthropometric measurements on a select group of 
college women. Journal of the Association forPhysica1 and 
Mental Rehabilitation 15,169-173. 
Colliander, E.B. & Tesch, P.A. (1989) Bilateral eccentric and 
concentric torque of quadriceps and hamstring in females 
and males. European Journal of Applied Physiology59, 
Colliander, E.B. & Tesch, P.A. (1990) Responses to eccentric 
and concentric resistance training in females and males. 
Acta Physiologica Scandinavica 141,49-156. 
Cureton, K,J., Collins, M.A., Hill, D.W. & McElhannon, F.M. 
(1988) Muscle hypertrophy in men and female. Medicine 
and Science in Sports and Exercise 20,338-344. 
Dale, E., Gerlach, D. & Wilhite, A. (1979) Menstrual dysfunc- 
tion in distance runners. Obstetrics and Gynecology54, 
47-53. 
Dalsky, G.P., Stocke, K.S., Ehasani, A.A. et al. (1988) Weight- 
bearing exercise training and lumbar bone mineral content 
in post menopausal female. Annals of Internal Medicine 22 7-232. 
108,824-828. 
Davies, B.N., Greenwood, E.J. & Jones, S.R. (1988) Sex 
differences in the relationship of performance in the 
handgrip and standing long jump tests to lean limb volume 
in young adults. European Journal of Applied Physiology 
Dawood, M.Y. (1983) Dysmenorrhea. Clinical Obstetrics and 
Gynecology28,719-727. 
Decree, C., Vermeulen, A. & Ostyn, M. (1991) Are high- 
performance young women athletes doomed to become 
low-performance old wives? A reconsideration of the 
increased risk of osteoporosis in amenorrheic women. 
Journal of Sports Medicine and Physical Fitness 31, 58,315-320. 
108-114. 
DeSouza, M.J. & Metzger, D.A. (1991) Reproductive 
dysfunction in amenorrheic athletes and anorexic patients: 
a review. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise 23, 
995-1007. 
Dibrizzo, R., Fort, I.L. &Brown, B. (1988) Dynamic strength 
and work variations during three stages of the menstrual 
cycle. Journal of Orthopaedic and Sports Physical Therapy 
10,110-116. 
Doolittle, R.L. & Engebretsen, J. (1972) Performance vari- 
ations during the menstrual cycle. journal of Sports 
Medicine and Physical Fitness 12,54-58. 
Drinkwater, B.L. (1984) Women and exercise: physiological 
aspects. In: Exercise and Sport Science Review (ed. R.L. 
Tejung), pp. 21-52. MAL Callamore Press, Lexington. 
Elliot, D.L. & Goldberg, L. (1983) Weightlifting and amenorr- 
hea. Journal of the American Medical Association 249, Fahey, T.D., Rolph, R., Moungmee, P., Nagel, J. & Mortara, S. 
(1976) Serum testosterone, body composition and strength 
of young adults. Medicine and Science in Sport 8,31-34. 
Falkel, J.E., Sawka, M.N., Levine, L. &Pandolf, K.B. (1985) 
Upper to lower body muscular strength and endurance 
ratios for women and men. Ergonomics 28 (12), 
1661-1670. 
Fleck, S.J. & Kraemer, WJ. (1996) Periodization 
Breakthrough! Advanced Research Press, Ronkonkoma, 
NY. 
Training Programs, 2nd edn. Human Kinetic Publishers, 
Champaign, IL. 
In: Running Injuries (ed. G.N. Guten), pp. 173-188. W.B. 
Saunders, Philadelphia. 
ance exercise. In: Overload, Fatigue, Performance 
Incompetence, and Regeneration (eds M. Lehmann, J,M. 
Steinacker & U. Gastmann). Plenum Publishing, New York 
(in press). 
overtraining and overreaching: neuroendocrine responses. 
SportsMedicine 23 (2), 106-129. 
Fry, R.W., Morton, A.R. & Keast, D. (1991) Overtraining in 
athletes: anupdate. Sports Medicine 12,32-65. 
Garhammer, J, (1989) Weightlifting and training. In: 
Biomechanics of Sport (ed. C.L. Vaughan), pp. 169-211. 
CRC Press, Boca Raton. 
Gettman, L.R. &Pollock, M.L. (1981) Circuit weight training: 
a critical review of its physiological benefits. The Physi- 
cian and Sportsmedicine 9,4440. 
Gibala, M., MacDougall, J. &Sale, D (1994) The effects of 
tapering on strength performance in trained athletes. 
International Journal of Sports Medicine 5 (8), 492-497. 
Hormonal responses of multiset versus single-set heavy 
resistance exercise protocols. Canadian Journal of Applied Fleck, S.J. & Kraemer, W.J. (1997) Designing Resistance 
Foster, C. & Lehmann, M. (1997) Overtraining syndrome. 
Fry, A.C. (2001) Overload and regeneration during resist- 
Fry, A.C. & Kraemer, W.J. (1997) Resistance exercise 
Gotshalk, L.A., Loebel, C.C., Nindl, B.C. etal. (1997) 
Physiology22 (3), 244-255. 
Gray, D.P. &Dale, E. (1984) Variables associated with 
secondary amenorrhea in women runners. Journal of 
Sports Sciences 1,5547. 
Hiikkinen, K. (1994) Neuromuscular adaptation during 
strength training, aging, detraining, and immobilization. 
Critical Reviews in Physical and Rehabilitation Medicine 
6,161-198. 
Hiikkinen, K. & Komi, P.V. (1983) Electromyographic 
changes during strength training and detraining. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise 15 (6), 
Hiikkinen, K., Alen, M. & Komi, P.V. (1985) Changes in 455-460. 
isometric force and relaxation time, electromyographic 
and muscle fibre characteristics of human skeletal muscle 
during strength training and detraining. Acta Physiologica 
354. Scandinavica 125,573-585. 

SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS IN STRENGTH TRAINING 161 
Hakkinen, K., Komi, P.V. & Alen, M. (1985) Effect of 
explosive type strength training on isometric force and 
relaxation time, electromyographic and muscle fibre 
characteristics of leg extensor muscles. Acta Physiologica 
Scandinavica 125,5 8 7-600. 
Hakkinen, K., Pakarinen, A,, Komi, P.V., Ryushi, T. & 
Kauhanen, H. (1989) Neuromuscular adaptations 
and hormone balance in strength athletes, physically 
active males and females during intensive strength 
training. In: Proceedings of XIIth International 
Congress of Biomechanics (eds R.J. Gregor, R.F. 
Zernicke & W.C. Whiting), pp. 8-9. Human Kinetics, 
Champaign, IL. 
Hiikkinen, K., Pakarinen, A,, Kyrolainen, H. et al. (1990) 
Neuromuscular adaptations and serum hormones in 
females during prolonged training. International Journal 
of Sports Medicine 11,91-98. 
Hayward, V.H., Johannes Ellis, S.M. & Romer, J.F. (1986) Sex 
differences in strength. Research Quarterly for Exercise 
andSport57,154-159. 
size of different types of fibres in whole cross-sections 
of female m tibialis anterior: an enzyme histochemical 
study. Acta Physiologica Scandinavica 123,229-235. 
Hetrick, G.A. & Wilmore, J.H. (1979) Androgen levels and 
muscle hypertrophy during an eight week weight trainig 
program for men/women. Medicine and Science in Sports 
11,102. 
Hoffman, T., Stauffer, R.W. & Jackson, AS. (1979) Sex 
difference in strength. American Journal of Sports 
Medicine 7,265-267. 
Mechanical measures during maximal velocity knee 
extension exercise and their relation to fibre composition 
of the human vastus lateralis muscle. European Journal of 
Applied Physiology 58,l-7. 
Hudson, J. (1978) Physical parameters used for female 
exclusion from law enforcement and athletics. In: 
Women and Sport: from Myth to Reality (ed. G.A. 
Ogleby), pp. 19-57. Lea & Febiger, Philadelphia. 
Israel, S. (1996) Zur problematik des iibertrainings aus 
internistischer und leistungsphysiologischer sicht. 
Medizin und Sport 16,1-12. 
Jacobson, P.C., Bever, W., Brubb, S.A., Taft, T.N. &Talmage, 
R.V. (1984) Bone density in female: college athletes and 
older athletic female. Journal of Orthopaedic Research 
Komi, P.V. & Karlsson, J. (1978) Skeletal muscle fibre types, 
enzymes activities and physical performance in young 
males and females. Acta Physiologica Scandinavica 103, 
210-218. 
Kraemer, W.J. (1994) The physiological basis for strength 
training in mid-life. In: Sports and Exercise in Midlife 
(ed. S.L. Gordon), pp. 413-433. American Academy of 
Orthopaedic Surgeons, Park Ridge, IL. Henriksson-Larsen, K. (1985) Distribution, number and 
Houston, M.E., Norman, R.W. & Froese, E.A. (1988) 
2,328-332. Kraemer, W.J. & Baechle, T.R. (1989) Development of a 
strength training program. In: Sports Medicine (eds F.L. 
Allman & A.J. Ryan), pp. 113-127,2nd edn. Academic 
Press, Orlando, FL. 
Kraemer, W.J. & Koziris, L.P. (1994) Olympic weightlifting 
and power lifting. Physiology and Nutrition for 
Competitive Sport (eds D.R. Lamb, H.G. Knuttgen & 
R. Murray), pp. 1-54. Cooper Publishing Group, 
Carmel, IN. 
Kraemer, W.J., Gordon, S.E., Fleck, S.J. etal. (1991) 
Endogenous anabolic hormonal and growth factor 
responses to heavy resistance exercise in males and 
females. International Journal of Sports Medicine 12 (Z), 
Kraemer, W.J., Fleck, S.J., Dziados, J.E. etal. (1993) Changes 
in hormonal concentrations following different heavy 
resistance exercise protocols in women. Journal of Applied 2 28-23 5. 
Physiology75 (Z), 594-604. 
Kraemer, W.J., Patton, J.F., Gordon, S.E. etal. (1995) 
Compatibility of high-intensity strength and endurance 
training on hormonal and skeletal muscle adaptations. 
Journal of Applied Physiology 78,976-989. 
Overtraining in Sport. Human Kinetics, Champaign, 
IL. 
and women: a review of the literature. Aviation, Space and 
Environmental Medicine 47,534-542. 
Leighton, J. (1957a) Flexibility characteristics of four 
specialized skill groups of college athletes. Archives of 
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation 38,24-28. 
Leighton, J. (1957b) Flexibility characteristics of three 
specialized skill groups of champion athletes. Archives of 
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation 38,580-583. 
Liu, H., Liu, P. & Qin, X. (1987) Investigation of Menstrual 
Cycle in Female Weightlifters. Department of Exercise 
Physiology, National Institute of Sports Science, Beijing, 
China. 
a review. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise 17, Kreider, R.B., Fry, A.C. &O’Toole, M.L. (eds) (1998) 
Laubach, L.L. (1976) Comparative muscular strength of men 
Loucks, A.B. & Horvath, S.M. (1985) Athletic amenorrhea: 
56-72. 
Matveyev, L. (1977) Fundamentals of Sports Training. 
Maud, P.J. & Shultz, B.B. (1986) Sex comparisons in Progress Publishers, Moscow. 
anaerobic power and anaerobic capacity tests. British 
Journal of Sports Medicine 20,51-54. 
changes in young women with high intensity weight 
training. Research Quarterly 45,433-440. 
anaerobic power tests. European Journal of Applied Mayhew, J.L. &Gross, P.M. (1974) Body composition 
Mayhew, J.L. & Salm, P.C. (1990) Sex differences in 
Physiology 60,13 3-1 38. 
Mero, A., Peltola, E. & Saarela, J. (1987) Nopeus- ja 
nopeuskestlivyyshaoittelu. Gummerus Ltd, Jyvaskyla 
[in Finnish]. 

162 CHAPTER 6 
Miller, A.E.J., MacDougall, J.D., Tarnopolsky, M.A. & Sale, 
D.G. (1992) Sex differences in strength and muscle fibre 
characteristics. European Journal of Applied Physiology 
Morrow, J.R. & Hosler, W.W. (1981) Strength comparisons in 
untrained men and trained women athletes. Medicine and 
Science in Sports and Exercise 13,194-198. 
Mulligan, S.E., Fleck, S.J., Gordon, S.E. et al. (1996) Influence 
of resistance exercise volume on serum growth hormone 
and cortisol concentrations in women. Journal of Strength 
Conditioning Research 10 (4),256-262. 
Nutik, G. & Cruess, R.L. (1974) Estrogen receptors in bone: 
an evaluation of the uptake of estrogen into bone cells. 
Proceedings of the Society of Experimental Biology and 
Medicine 146,265-268. 
Nyburgh, K.H., Bachrach, L.K., Lewis, B., Kent, K. & Marcus, 
R. (1993) Low bone mineral density at axial and appen- 
dicular sites in amenorrheic athletes. Medicine and 
Sciencein Sports and Exercise25,1197-1202. 
Prince, F.P., Hikida, R.S. & Hagerman, F.C. (1977) Muscle 
fibre types in women athletes and non-athletes. Pflugers 
Archives 371,161-165. 
Prior, J.C., Vigna, Y.M. & McKay, D.W. (1992) Reproduction 
for the athletic female: new understandings of physiology 
and management. Sports Medicine 14,190-199. 
Ryushi, T., Hlikkinen, K., Kauhanen, H. & Komi, P.V. (1988) 
Muscle fibre characteristics, muscle cross-sectional area 
and force production in strength athletes, physically active 
males and females. Scandinavian Journal of Sports 
Science 10,7-15. 
Sale, D.G., MacDougall, J.D., Alway, S.E. & Sutton, J.R. (1987) 
Voluntary strength and muscle characteristics in untrained 
men and female and male body builders. Journal of 
Applied Physiology 62,1786-1793. 
Schantz, P., Randall-Fox, E., Norgen, P. & Tyden, A. (1981) 
The relationship between the mean muscle fibre area and 
the muscle cross-sectional area of the thigh in subjects 
with large differences in thigh girth. Acta Physiologica 
Scandinavica 113,537-539. 
Schantz, P., Randall-Fox, E., Hutchison, W., Tyden, A. & 
Astrand, P.O. (1983) Muscle fibre type distribution, 
muscle cross-sectional area and maximal voluntary 
strength in humans. Acta Physiologica Scandinavica 66,254-262. 
117,219-226. 
Selye, H. (1956) The Stress offife, McGraw-Hill, New York. 
Speroff, L. & Redwine, D.B. (1980) Exercise and menstrual 
function. The Physician and Sportsmedicine 8,42-48. 
Staron,R.S.,Malicky,E.S.,Leonardi,M.J. etal. (1989) 
Muscle hypertrophy and fast fibre type conversions in 
heavy resistance-trained women. European Journal of 
Applied Physiology 60, 71-79. Staron, R.S., Leonardi, M.J., Karapondo, D.L. et al. (1991) 
Strength and skeletal muscle adaptations in heavy- 
resistance-trained women after detraining and retraining. 
Journal of AppliedPhysiology70,631-640. 
Staron, R.S., Karapondo, D.L., Kraemer, W.J. et al. (1994) 
Skeletal muscle adaptations during the early phase of 
heavy-resistance training in men and women. Journal of 
Applied Phpiology 76 (3), 124 7-1 2 5 5. 
hypothetical model for strength training. Journal of Sports 
Medicine and Physical Fitness 21,342-351. 
Stone, M.H., Keith, R.E., Kearney, J.T. et al. (1991) 
Overtraining: a review of the signs and symptoms and 
possible causes. Journal of Applied Sport Science 
Research 5,35-50. 
Thrash, K. &Kelly, B. (1987) Flexibility and strength training. 
Journal of Applied Sport Science Research 4,74-75. 
Timonen, S. & Procope, B.J. (1971) Premenstrual syndrome 
and physical exercise. Acta Obstetrica et Gynaecologica 
Scandinavica 50,331-337. 
Walberg, J.L. &Johnston, C.S. (1991) Menstrual function and 
eating behavior in female recreational weightlifters and 
competitive body builders. Medicine and Science in 
Sports andExercise 23,30-36. 
Response of beta-endorphin and estradiol to resistance 
exercise in females during energy balance and energy 
restriction. International Journal of Sports Medicine 13, Stone, M.H., O’Bryant, H. & Garhammer, J.G. (1981) A 
Walberg-Rankin, J., Franke, W.D. & Gwazdauskas, F.C. (1992) 
542-547. 
Wells, C.L. (1978) The female athlete: myths and super- 
stitions put to rest. In: Toward an Understanding of 
Human Performance (ed. E.J. Burke), pp. 37-40. 
Movement Press, Ithaca, NY. 
Wells, J.B., Jokl, E. 81 Bohanen, J. (1973) The effect of intense 
physical training upon body composition of adolescent 
girls. Journal of the Association for Physical and Mental 
Rehabilitation 17,63-72. 
Widholm, 0. (1979) Dysmenorrhea during adolescence. 
Acta Obstetrica et Gynaecologica Scandinavica 87,61-66. 
Willoughby, D.S. (1993) The effects of mesocycle-length 
weight training programs involving periodization and 
partially equated volumes on upper and lower body 
strength. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research 
7,2-8. 
Wilmore, J.H. (1974) Alterations in strength, body com- 
position, and anthropometric measurements consequent 
to a 10-week weight training program. Medicine and 
Science in Sports 6,133-138. 
Physiological alterations consequent to circuit weight 
training. Medicine and Science in Sports 10,79-84. Wilmore, J.H., Pan, R.B., Girandola, R.N. et al. (1978) 

Chapter 7 
Medical aspects and 
ad mi n ist rat ive concerns i n 
strength training 
Introduction 
This chapter comprises a basic overview of the 
administrative and medical aspects related to 
strength training. It has been shown that strength 
training is one of the safest physical activities that can 
be carried out. Paramount to this is the use of proper 
exercise technique, safe equipment, proper spotting 
and appropriate supervision. The optimal exercise 
stimulus must be created for the athlete in the training 
session. If administrative problems exist (e.g. not 
enough equipment, inappropriate equipment, too 
many athletes) the optimal programme cannot be 
performed as planned and a less than optimal exercise 
stimulus is created. The coach must also be aware of 
some of the fundamental aspects of the medical issues 
related to strength training. Only too often athletes 
train under less than optimal conditions and this 
affects the development of their full sporting potential. 
Limiting any negative impacts from administrative 
variables (e.g. space, equipment, time) will allow the 
programme to be implemented as designed. 
Medlcal aspects of strength training 
A preparticipation physical with a thorough muscu- 
loskeletal examination is warranted and prudent for 
any athlete prior to participation in a sport. A sports 
medicine team (medical support personnel, therapists 
and physicians) needs to monitor the health and 
injury status of the athlete. 
Know if the athlete is injured 
It is extremely important that the athlete’s injury 
status is tracked carefully. The programme can only 
be modified to address a known injury. Athletes often injure themselves on the field, gym, court or in other 
recreational activities, and do not tell anyone because 
of fear of prejudice or losing a competitive advantage. 
They then go into the weight room and perform an 
exercise which demands an adequate function of the 
joint or muscle that is injured and it is only then that 
they complain about the injury. The response that the 
resistance exercise caused the injury is thus untrue, 
as the injury was caused outside the weight room 
and the athlete only gained first hand knowledge 
of its severity by challenging it with a resistance 
training exercise. Therefore, injury checks that are not 
threatening to the athlete and provide for individual 
feedback regarding the exercise programme need to 
be made frequently. Ideally, the injury status of each 
athlete is known before engaging in any aspect of a 
strength and conditioning programme. More detailed 
tracking of the source of injuries observed during or 
after a resistance training workout needs to be made 
by the sports medicine staff and coaches. The athletes 
need to feel free from any external pressures when 
discussing possible injuries and how the exercise 
programme can be modified to meet their needs. 
Keep updated medical records 
The medical records of the individual athlete 
need to be taken into consideration and medical 
guidance given, especially when an athlete is coping 
with a chronic disease such as diabetes, asthma or 
heart irregularity. Underlying disease states will, 
at times, dictate certain aspects of the exercise train- 
ing programme. At the very least it is important to 
understand the physical and medical profile of the 
athletes involved in a resistance training programme 
so that preparation can be made for any rare medical 
emergencies that may occur. Sports medicine pro- 
fessionals need to respond rather than just react to 
the situation. Prior knowledge helps with this aspect 
of sports care. This concept also underscores the 
need for an emergency plan of action for the ‘weight 
room’ and at the sporting competition and training 
venues. 
Common injuries and their treatment 
Most injuries sustained in the weight room fall 
under the categories of dermatological (skin] and 
163 

164 CHAPTER 7 
musculoskeletal (muscles, tendons, ligaments and 
possibly cartilage and/or bone). 
Skin disorders 
Skin disorders of the palms of the hands most 
commonly include calluses and friction blisters. A 
blister is a fluid-filled lesion, usually found on the 
hands, filled with clear or sometimes bloody fluid 
that results from the repetitive friction associated with 
grasping a bar, handle or dumb-bell while performing 
weight training repetitions. This is an acute injury 
that, although benign in nature, can interfere with 
the comfort and safety of training. 
The best way to treat a small blister (< 5 mm dia- 
meter) is to pad or cushion it from further damage, 
with a sterile pad while the body resorbs the fluid 
naturally and heals the lesion. A larger blister (> 5 mm) 
may heal quicker and allow continued training com- 
fort if one takes a small sewing needle, which has 
been sterilized by holding a match to the tip for a few 
seconds, and piercing the blister at its periphery so 
as to allow drainage of the fluid through the resulting 
small opening. The skin on the blister should not be 
removed as it serves as a ’natural bandage’. Padding 
in the form of a sterile pad, or gauze held in place with 
athletic tape, or the use of padded weightlifting gloves 
may help heal and prevent future blisters. 
A callus is a circumscribed hyperkeratotic (heaped 
up skin cells) lesion usually found over the bony 
prominences of the palm (metacarpal heads). The 
natural history of an area on the hand which would 
otherwise form an acute blister is to become a callus 
if the friction and pressure is applied in short expos- 
ures with enough recovery in between workouts to 
allow the body to slowly build multiple layers of keratin 
(surface tissue cells of the skin). Calluses are the means 
the body has of hardening an area which requires 
additional protection from repeated friction. If calluses 
become too large they may cause pain because of the 
pressure they place on tissue (bones, tendons or 
nerves) beneath. If this happens, then gently rubbing 
with a pumice stone or shaving the calluses with a 
sharp blade will alleviate the problem. If the callus is 
soaked for a few minutes in warm water, the excess 
keratin will become visible by turning white. This 
also serves to soften the callus, so that rubbing or 
shaving is facilitated. Occasionally, a blister may form underneath or even 
over a callus if the frictional forces are sufficiently 
acute. The treatment for this is the same as for a 
blister. A blister may sometimes become infected, 
especially if the skin over it is torn away. If this 
happens, the blister base will turn very red and sore, 
and ooze pustular (yellow) fluid which tends to 
crust. This condition needs medical attention. 
or ‘strawberries.’ These are a partial erosion of the 
epidermis caused by acute friction. A common 
abrasion occurs on the chin when the athlete performs 
overhead or military press if the knurled part of the 
bar contacts the chin during the lift. Another common 
situation is when the thigh is abraded during a pulling 
movement in the power clean or other pulling exer- 
cises, as proper technique requires movement of the 
bar as close to the body as possible. 
Prevention of abrasions is easily accomplished by 
some preventive planning and protection of the area 
of skin in jeopardy with some form of cover. In some 
cases chalk is used to provide lubrication and reduce 
friction of the bar on the skin, but is not a deterrent 
as physical protection is minimal. Once the abrasion 
has formed, treatment is accomplished by washing 
the area gently with soap and water, applying a topical 
antibiotic ointment (e.g. bacitracin or mupirocin) and 
covering the abrasion with a non-adherent dressing to 
protect the wound. 
Another common condition for athletes is dry 
skin or xerosis. Frequent showering and washing 
with soap eliminates the skin’s vital oils (sebum) 
resulting in cracked skin with dry scales. The 
treatment is to decrease temporarily the number 
of repeated wetting and drying exposures and the 
use of soap. After bathing, while the skin is still 
moist, use emollients such as baby oil (greasy), 
Eucerin or Moisture1 to help keep the skin from 
excessive dryness. 
Acne is a common skin disorder found in athletes 
and is identified by comedones (blackheads) and red 
papules and pustules. It occurs most commonly on the 
face, neck, shoulders and chest. Acne is not caused by 
certain foods and lack of personal hygiene, but is a 
complex disorder caused by genetics and bacteria. Nor 
is it technically communicable to other individuals. 
While occurring most commonly during the teenage 
years, it can persist well into adulthood. Home Abrasions are also known as ‘turf burn’, ‘rug burn’ 

MEDICAL ASPECTS IN STRENGTH TRAINING 165 
treatment consists of washing the face gently with 
a mild soap, such as Dove, twice a day, followed 
by gentle drying of the face, and application of an 
over-the-counter keratolytic (keratin-removing) 
agent such as 5 or 10% benzoyl peroxide cream 
(e.g. PersaGel, Oxy5 or 10, Clearasil). If this does 
not control mild acne, then medical consultation 
should be sought, as the ultimate goal is to prevent 
the scarring of the skin that can occur with moderate 
to severe acne. 
Folliculitis is a localized infection of the hair 
follicle which appears as a small pustule centred 
around the hair shaft. Although usually occurring 
on the arms and legs, it can occur almost anywhere 
there is hair on the body. Staphylococcus aureus 
is the causative organism and mild cases may be 
treated with gentle washing with soap and water 
followed by the application of a topical antibiotic 
ointment, such as bacitracin,or mupiracin. It is 
technically a communicable condition, but is not 
likely to be transmitted unless prolonged skin 
contact between individuals (not likely in the 
weight room) such as wrestling occurs. If the 
condition is not controlled by simple measures or 
becomes more widespread, then medical attention 
should be sought. 
Musculoskeletal in juries 
Although contusions (bruises) are possible if weights 
are dropped on muscle, tendon or bone, the most 
common acute weight room injuries are sprains and 
strains. By definition, sprains affect ligaments, while 
tendons and muscles sustain strains. If the strain is 
significant enough and/or repetitive then tendonitis 
or myositis (inflammation of tendon or muscle, 
respectively) may develop. 
Ligamentous sprains are distinctly uncommon 
in the weight room because body positions and 
resistances are generally manipulated in controlled 
intentional fashion. In fact, strains are much more 
commonly sustained during unintentional falls or 
during competitive sports activity. 
Strains of tendons and muscles, on the other hand 
may be common if the athlete is extending his or her 
limit in the weight room. Commonly strained muscles 
or tendons include bicipital (biceps), triceps, flexor 
muscles of the wrist, rotator cuff (four muscles and associated tendons of the shoulder), neck, rhomboid 
major and minor (upper back muscles which stab- 
ilize the scapula), low back, hamstrings, patella 
(quadriceps) and calf. 
Strains are acute injuries which are noticed at 
the time of injury; soreness, swelling and stiffness 
resulting from inflammation are generally present. 
Depending on the severity of the strain, a day of 
rest may suffice or, in the case of severe strains, 
several weeks of recovery may be required prior to 
resumption of maximum effort lifts. Immediate use 
of ice to the strain, preferably as a slurry of ice and 
water-ice alone has poor contact area with injured 
tissue-in a zip-lock plastic food bag applied for 10- 
15 min may be effective in limiting the extent of the 
injury. Ice may be applied for pain and inflammation 
management several times a day if required. Using ice 
for longer periods of time is no more effective and 
may, in rare cases, cause frostbite. The use of ice for 
several days after an injury is recommended. Once 
the injury is clearly healing appropriately, heat 
may actually be a preferred modality because heat 
increases blood flow to the injured tissue and thereby 
improves delivery of healing resources to the tissue 
and carries detritus away. During the acute early 
phase of an injury, increasing blood flow by the use 
of heat may be counterproductive because inflamma- 
tion and swelling will increase. 
The early use of an anti-inflammatory medication 
(e.g. aspirin, ibuprofen or naproxen), may help 
with mild discomfort and decrease a 6 out of 10 pain 
to 4.5 by blunting the sharpness. However, there is 
no evidence that anti-inflammatory agents hasten 
the speed of recovery. In fact, it may be argued that 
by slightly blunting the pain, an athlete may use 
the injured tissue more than is advisable and fore- 
stall expedient tissue healing. Beyond this, gentle 
range of motion involving the affected tissues-by 
contracting, relaxing and stretching-may help 
the tissue to recover function more expeditiously. 
Gentle massage may also be of benefit because, in 
the same way as heat, increased blood flow may 
hasten healing. 
If first aid measures of apparent mild strains to 
muscles and/or tendons do not seem to be effective 
in the first few days following injury, then it is advis- 
able to seek medical attention for a more complete 
evaluation. 

166 CHAPTER 7 
Recommendations for 
(masters) athlete 
1 ’ the over-40 
It is generally accepted that ageing has a negative 
effect on the ability of an athlete to tolerate and 
recover from difficult training. Intuitively, this 
makes sense, and anecdotal as well as empirical 
evidence seems to support this assumption. 
There are situations where a masters athlete may 
be performing at the level of an athlete 10-20 years 
younger, and may even be engaging in training of 
similar intensity and volume, with commensurate 
recovery. However, this is likely to be the exception 
rather than the rule. The issue may well be one of 
performance capacity rather than age per se, i.e. as 
performance capacity degrades by virtue of dimi- 
nished training or increasing age, the ability of tissue 
to recover sufficiently prior to a repeat training 
exposure is reduced. 
Whatever the aetiology, it is well established that 
strength and power diminish as a function of age. It 
therefore seems prudent to allow more recovery time 
between exercise exposures. The precise amount of 
additional recovery cannot be specified because every 
athlete is different. It may benefit the masters athlete 
to experiment with differing recovery periods in his or 
her workout routine to discover the optimal amount. 
The corollary to diminished recovery capacity may 
be that masters athletes are also more likely to be 
injured. Again, this is a generalization which may 
apply to the majority but not necessarily to all 
masters. Therefore, it may be of benefit to consider 
a reduction in total volume of work, although the 
intensity of the workload need not necessarily be 
reduced. This will decrease the probability of injury, 
while also enhancing recovery capacity. It has been 
established with modern training technology that it 
is the ‘quality’ of the training sessions that is more 
important than ‘quantity’ of total work for perform- 
ance related gains. 
Beyond total volume reduction and increased 
recovery periods, there is probably little that the 
masters athlete needs adjust with respect to his or her 
training routine as a pure function of age. Individual 
responses to training must always take precedence 
over a blanket recommendation or cookbook formula 
for training. With keen attentiveness to training and 
recovery response, and resultant flexibility in the implementation of the training programme, masters 
athletes need not compromise the quality of their 
programmes or the achievement of superb results. 
Medical clearance 
The American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) 
recommends that anyone over the age of 35, who 
is starting a rigorous exercise programme, should 
receive a medical examination and clearance first. 
This recommendation is a very conservative one. 
In general, for a typical individual of any age or sex 
who has no identified heart disease, severe blood 
pressure uncontrolled by therapy (> 180/105 mmHg), 
Type 1 diabetes (insulin-dependent), or muscu- 
loskeletal disabilities which preclude normal 
range of motion for anticipated strength exercises, 
a specific physician-performed preparticipation 
examination is not essential. If pre-existing heart 
disease, uncontrolled blood pressure, insulin- 
dependent diabetes or significant musculoskeletal 
limitations are present, then a physical examination 
by a physician with recommendations and treatment 
initiated for the health issues of concern prior to 
the institution of a strength training programme is 
advised. It should be ensured that the athlete has a 
good musculoskeletal examination as a component 
of any preparticipation physical examination. 
Some myths of strength training related to 
medical issues 
There are many myths associated with strength 
training. A few of the most significant ones still 
impact the effectiveness of a strength training 
programme for athletes. Fears of medical problems 
are related to the development of these myths. 
Squat exercises 
One of the most enduring myths of strength training 
is the danger of squats or deep knee bends on the 
integrity of the knee. There is no convincing evidence 
that squats are injurious to the knee. One suspects 
that this impression derives from power athletes who, 
by the nature of competition, are performing at the 
physical limits of their tissue, and injure themselves 
performing 1-RM squats. The available studies show 

MEDICAL ASPECTS IN STRENGTH TRAINING 167 
no relationship between squats and ligamentous 
laxity of the knee or increases in knee susceptibility 
to injury. To the contrary, strength training which 
includes the knee tissue (cartilage, ligaments) should 
reduce the likelihood of injury and, if anything, 
reduce laxity in the knee joint because of preservation 
of tissue elasticity and strength. The key is proper 
exercise technique. 
movement with one’s body weight can help in the 
development of functional abilities that are keys to 
physical fitness. The use of squats with one’s body 
weight as the resistance mimics many activities which 
are performed throughout life during the course of 
everyday activities. As athletes grow older, performing a squat exercise 
Low backpain: the curse of insufficient strength 
An issue of considerable importance for the masters 
athletes-or for anyone-which requires debunking 
is that of back strength training for the prevention or 
treatment of low back pain (LBP). LBP is pervasive 
and accounts for many lost days training. The irony 
is that much of LBP is preventable and can represent 
detraining or lack of sufficient tissue-specific strength 
for the demand placed upon the back. 
There is much misunderstanding about back 
strengthening. Even in the US military forces, a group 
that a priori would be expected to have a greater 
degree of fitness and thus fewer fitness-associated 
problems, LBP is as prevalent as in the non-military 
population. In fact, the rest or reduction in activity 
and demand usually prescribed for LBP causes the 
back tissues to detrain. Furthermore, once an athlete 
injures his or her back there is a tendency to avoid 
activities which involve the back entirely. This 
avoidance, in the long run makes LBP development 
and maintenance an even greater likelihood. As the 
principal issue surrounding LBP is lack of strength 
for the activity required of the back tissues, the only 
intervention that will strengthen the tissues of the 
back and make them more injury resistant or to 
facilitate healing of injured low back tissue is strength 
training. 
Abdominal training can augment back health. This 
is best performed in a manner that at least minimizes 
the compressive forces on the intervertebral cartil- 
aginous discs. Abdominal crunches with the knee and hip joints at approximately goo angles can be 
recommended. This position is attained by lying on 
the back and placing the soles of the feet on the wall in 
front and then adjusting knees and hips to the proper 
angles. The second recommended abdominal exer- 
cise is the L-seat of gymnastics. This is an advanced 
exercise requiring hamstring flexibility as well as 
considerable pre-existing abdominal strength to 
perform properly. Most athletes will require elevated 
and, preferably, padded parallel bars to perform this 
exercise, and will benefit from a training partner who 
can, if necessary, assist the individual in raising their 
legs (locked at the knee) to the L position and then 
lowering them back down. The eccentric or negative 
aspect of this particular exercise is extremely effective 
if performed with good form and under control. Finally, 
obliques may be worked in many different fashions: 
lying sideways on a roman chair device; a rotary torso 
machine; or lying sideways on an inclined sit-up 
board (or even a flat mat, but the range of motion 
will be reduced). 
For athletes with pre-existing LBP from injury 
or disuse, medical concerns about aggravating pre- 
existing pain often preclude any activity employing 
the back. For athletes in rehabilitation it is a good idea 
to consult with a physician knowledgeable in the use 
of strength training for the rehabilitation of LBP. Many 
physiatrists (physical medicine physicians) and 
physical therapists are especially effective in this area 
of rehabilitation. It is important to confirm that the 
therapist understands and endorses the use of strength 
training as an effective tool for back training. If the 
therapist does not believe in strength training, he 
or she certainly will not prescribe a programme that 
includes it. 
Administrative considerations 
While a full overview of weight room management 
and care is beyond the scope of this handbook, 
it is important that the sports medicine professional 
and coach understand that without a proper weight 
training facility the effectiveness of the training 
programme is limited. Weight room design, 
equipment and capabilities continue to improve 
and are as important in their preparation as any 
other piece of equipment in the sporting 
environment. 

168 CHAPTER 7 
The administrative responsibility for running a 
weight room has become more dramatic over the 
past 10 years with the greater number of equipment 
options, higher number of athletes to train and 
safety issues, which in many countries have legal 
implications for practice. The primary respons- 
ibility of the professional responsible for this aspect 
of the programme is the care of the facility and the 
implementation of the resistance training programme 
for athletes. Each athlete needs individualized 
attention in today’s advanced training using modern 
technology but coaches need to have a fundamental 
background in basic exercises, such as power clean, 
in order to use what lifts are needed for any given 
situation based on the needs analysis (Fig. 7.1). 
After the coach has designed the optimal indi- 
vidualized sport-specific programme for an athlete, 
he or she must be able to administer it effectively and 
efficiently to an entire team or teams. This becomes 
more challenging when larger teams of athletes need 
to be trained in the same conditioning facility. Time 
management without limiting the effectiveness of the 
training programme becomes a primary concern. 
Administrative considerations that limit the imple- 
mentation of the programme design should be carefully 
addressed in future planning. Equipment and space 
are the most pressing problems in most training facilit- 
ies examining elite athletes. The major administrative 
concerns are: availability of equipment; 
availability of competent coachedtrainers; 
number of athletes; 
availability of space; and 
availability of time. 
Availability of equipment 
With the type of equipment available to create a 
specific type of external resistance, ranging from a 
standard barbell to new computerized resistance 
machines, we are entering a new age of equipment 
design, equipment diversity and equipment options. 
With over 140 equipment companies selling various 
types of weight training equipment the diversity 
of training tools for the strength and conditioning 
coach is greater than ever. The sports medicine 
professional needs to be able to evaluate the 
equipment capabilities independently of the 
marketing claims made by the company. More 
equipment diversity allows a greater number of 
options for individualizing the exercise stimuli in 
the attempt to optimize the training effects for the 
athlete. The addition of more and more equipment 
can also result in space problems. More options in 
the choice of exercise may enhance the potential of 
the training technology used for a given athlete or 
sport (e.g. eccentric loading machine for training 
downhill skiers). 
Fig. 7.1 Calluses are the body’s way of 
hardening an area, such as the hands, 
that is continually used in a lifting 
movement. Photo 0 IOC/Olympic 
Museum Collections. 


MEDICAL ASPECTS IN STRENGTH TRAINING 169 
As computers start to be integrated into the 
process of the loading of muscle, more specialized 
exercise protocols will be realized but whether such 
technology will replace the barbell remains to be seen. 
Although sophisticated equipment is not necessary to 
develop a resistance training programme, the proper 
development of weight room equipment allows more 
diversity and programme options when designing a 
resistance training programme. Weight training 
equipment represents the ‘tools’ available in the 
conditioning of different aspects of human perform- 
ance. Nevertheless, equipment availability and 
quality of the weight room is often a problem for 
coaches and trainers who must train large and/or 
diverse groups of athletes. The development of the 
type of resistance training facility is related to the 
variety of exercise programmes which need to be 
implemented. 
In general, exercises are performed using free 
weights, machines or other equipment configura- 
tions (e.g. rubber bands, slides, medicine balls). It is 
important to understand that many machines are built 
to fit the average man so younger athletes (e.g. divers, 
gymnasts, figure skaters), some women, and athletes 
of either small or very large stature may find it difficult 
to position themselves properly on many machines 
and other pieces of equipment which fix a person 
into a specific position. Improper positioning may 
not allow proper exercise technique, full range of 
exercise motion, proper resistance applications and 
could result in various types of overuse injury (e.g. 
microstops causing microtrauma). If alterations, such 
as the use of a seat pad or back pad, are made to a 
machine to allow proper fit or positioning, make sure 
the adjustment is solid (e.g. pad or support does not 
slide or move) and capable of withstanding the stress 
of lifting activity associated with the loads used. 
Any makeshift changes made to equipment must 
be performed carefully and must not compromise 
the safety of the athlete. Many free weight exercises 
require more time to learn proper exercise technique 
than many exercises performed on machines. How- 
ever, if an individual can grasp and hold a dumb-bell 
or barbell, it fits them, and so proper fit when using 
free weights is not a major administrative concern. 
Knowledge of the characteristics of each piece of 
equipment must be carefully studied and understood 
in order to optimize the strengths and minimize the weakness of each piece of equipment used. 
Understanding the type of strength curve that 
characterizes each movement in an exercise 
programme is important in order to match it with 
various types of equipment. For example, rubber 
cords, which fit all body sizes, can only produce an 
ascending strength curve as rubber-type materials 
provide more resistance as they are stretched. 
Movements with other than an ascending strength 
curve (e.g. bicep curls, as elbow flexion represents 
a bell-shaped curve) will not be optimally trained 
when using rubber cords. The specific exercise 
movements to be trained must be matched with 
the characteristics of the equipment available. 
If the equipment available is minimal, viable 
substitutes must be found; it is possible to make 
some equipment. However, safety must never be 
compromised when developing makeshift equipment 
(e.g. barbells made of rods and cement-filled cans). 
It is possible to substitute other forms of exercise, 
such as plyometrics, paired partner exercises, 
dynamic drills (e.g. stair running), in situations 
where no resistance training equipment is available 
to address certain aspects of training. Nevertheless, 
these are only temporary solutions until the optimal 
training equipment can be obtained. This becomes 
more important as the level of specialized physical 
development for the athlete becomes paramount for 
success on the elite level of competition. 
Availability of competent coaches and trainers 
The availability of a highly motivated, scientifically 
based and professional group of strength and 
conditioning coaches is vital to the success of any 
programme. More than ever, the development of 
strength and conditioning coaches who use the body 
of scientific literature for the basis of practising the 
profession is becoming more important to develop 
professionals. With the many ‘philosophies and 
mythologies’ associated with strength training, the 
profession requires those who can use sound scientific 
principles and rationales for the decision making 
process in programme development, design and 
implementation. Often, not enough strength and 
conditioning coaches are available to work with 
large numbers of athletes and this limits the indi- 
vidualization necessary for programmes related to 

170 CHAPTER 7 
sport performance. Coaches need to be versed in 
all of the fundamental knowledge bases in exercise 
and sports science and have a fundamental knowledge 
of sports medicine as it applies to strength training. 
In addition, an open mind and the ability to practise 
the profession using a ‘scientific approach’ will be 
paramount as technology and research progresses. 
Organizing the number of athletes training 
(Fig. 7.2) 
Too many athletes in a training facility can reduce 
the capacity for optimal training. Better organization 
and flow patterns need to be employed if such space 
limitations exist. Knowing the time preferences, daily 
schedules and practice demands for all of the athletes 
who use the facility will help develop more effective 
schedules for the facility. When trying to train dif- 
ferent athletes or teams with different programmes 
care must be taken to crossmatch the equipment and 
time demands of the workout. Examination of the 
different programmes to be conducted in the facility 
helps in this organizational effort. This information 
is used to adjust the exercise order of the various 
training programmes in order to eliminate lines 
of people waiting to use the equipment. This is 
especially important when timed exercise workouts 
(e.g. 1-min rest periods) are critical to the effective- 
ness of the exercise stimulus (e.g. training acid-base toleration with short rest programmes for wrestlers 
or 400-m sprinters). Efficient patterns of movement 
are accomplished by workout cards which dictate the 
exercises and sequence of movements to be used. Free 
times in the weight room can be used but this should 
be used for workouts that are not dependent upon 
timed exercise workouts. Proper sequence of exercise 
and adherence to rest periods in designed workouts 
are vital to implementation of an effective training 
stimulus. 
The amount of training time available can cause 
problems if the designed training programmes do 
not match the projected training time that is available. 
The length of a training session, including rest 
periods, should be calculated immediately after the 
session is planned. Too often ‘quick fixes’, such as 
the sole use of low-volume programmes or limiting 
the number of training days per week to the level of 
‘maintenance’ training, are an ineffective response 
to optimizing time management of athletes. Large 
muscle group exercises and short rest periods are 
acute variable choices which can provide time 
economy, but should only be prescribed in appropri- 
ate situations. If necessary, only the fewest number 
of small muscle group exercises should be eliminated 
to allow the training session to fit into the available 
time. In addition, the exercises eliminated should be 
the least important exercises needed to achieve the 
goals of the programme. Short rest periods (< 1 min) 
Fig. 7.2 Suitable space in the weight 
room must be provided for structural 
lifts on a platform. Photo 0 
IOC/Olympic Museum Collections. 


MEDICAL ASPECTS IN STRENGTH TRAINING 171 
should only be used when higher blood lactate levels 
are desired and the trainee has the fitness level to 
tolerate these. It is important not to compromise 
training programme symmetry which addresses each 
side of a joint, upper and lower body musculature, 
and structural whole body exercise movements. 
Proper spotting technique (Fig. 7.3) 
It has been shown that a training partner is vital to 
the training success of the athlete. A training partner 
who is knowledgeable about exercise technique and 
spotting for each exercise is vital for a safe weight 
room environment. Even machine exercises can 
benefit from proper spotting on exercise technique. 
Injuries are low with resistance training but are a 
Fig. 7.3 Proper spotting is needed for optimal safety in the 
weight room. Photo 0 IOC/Olympic Museum Collections. result of accidents (e.g. dropping a plate on your foot) 
and exercise technique breakdown resulting in 
muscle strains or pulls. Of paramount importance is 
the use of proper spotting technique for each exercise 
so that a safe resistance training programme can be 
implemented. A basic checklist for spotters is as 
follows: 
Ask how many repetitions the athlete will attempt. 
Know the proper exercise technique being 
performed by the athlete. 
Understand the performance characteristics of the 
equipment used. 
Know the proper spotting technique for the 
exercise. 
Be sure the spotter(s) is strong enough to assist the 
lifter with the resistance being used. 
Be attentive to the lifter at all times. 
Stop the lifter if exercise technique is incorrect. 
Do you know what to do if a serious injury occurs? 
Is there a standard weight room plan? 
No fooling around or joking, as this is important 
business. 
The goal of correct spotting is to prevent injury. 
In addition, an effective training partner can help 
motivate the athlete during demanding workouts. 
An athlete should always have access to a spotter 
in the weight training facility. 
Spotting and exercise technique practice 
When teaching a new exercise, demonstrate proper 
exercise and spotting techniques and discuss the 
major points of the techniques. Then allow each 
trainee to try the exercise with a light resistance, 
such as a barbell or dumb-bell with no weight plates 
on it, or even a broomstick. For an exercise performed 
with a machine, using a light resistance may mean 
removing all weight from the machine or taking the 
pin out of the weight stack. After the athlete attempts 
to perform the exercise, point out any flaws in 
technique. Then continue further technique practice 
with light resistances; this will minimize the effects 
of fatigue during the learning stage. The athletes 
should also demonstrate and practise proper 
spotting techniques for each of the exercises 
used in a programme. 
exercise and spotting techniques for free weight More time will usually be needed to teach proper 


172 CHAPTER 7 
exercises than for most machine exercises. This is 
because free weights require the lifter to balance 
the resistance in all directions (left, right, forward, 
backward, up, down). Most machines ‘groove’ the 
exercises into one plane of movement and require 
little if any balancing. This fixed movement pattern is 
one of the strengths of a machine and can also be one 
of its weaknesses. Additional time may also be needed 
to teach proper exercise techniques for multijoint 
exercises, such as squats, because coordination of 
movement at several joints is needed. 
Attempting to teach techniques for too many 
exercises at once, especially multijoint exercises 
(e.g. power clean), will slow down the learning 
process. How many exercise techniques a person 
can learn at one time will vary. A general guideline 
is seven or eight exercises, of which one to three can 
be multijoint exercises. 
Mistakes in the weight room that can increase the 
probability of injury are related to the following: 
The lifter attempts to lift too much weight. 
The lifter uses improper lifting technique. 
The lifter improperly places feet or hands on a 
resistance training machine so they slide off the 
pedals or handles. 
Placing hands on the pulley system of a resistance 
training machine. 
Placing hands between the weight stack of a 
resistance training machine. 
Spotters are inattentive. 
There is improper behaviour in the facility. 
A bench or piece of equipment slides during the 
exercise. 
Worn out equipment breaks during lifting 
(e.g. machine cables or pulleys). 
Not using collars on free weights. 
Accidentally dropping free weight plates while 
loading or unloading a bar. 
Even though injuries are rare, a resistance training 
facility should have an emergency plan to deal with 
a serious injury requiring medical attention. The 
plan should be posted in the weight room, and all 
supervisors should be familiar with it. An emergency 
plan might include the following information: 
Phone number of the nearest ambulance service 
and/or hospital. 
Location of the nearest hospital or emergency 
room. Training facility address and any pertinent informa- 
tion emergency personnel need to locate the weight 
room. 
Alphabetical card catalogue of athletes’ home and 
business phone numbers and addresses. 
A phone should be located in the weight room. 
Supervisors should know the location of the nearest 
phone. In addition, all supervisors should have basic 
first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation skills. 
The prescription of resistance training is both a 
science and an art. Ultimately, individualized 
programmes provide for the most optimal changes 
in the exercise prescription process. This results in 
the’best overall training response for the individual. 
A paradigm for exercise prescription has been devel- 
oped and presented in this textbook and provides the 
framework for optimal design of resistance training 
programmes. While guidelines can be given, the art 
of designing effective resistance training programmes 
comes from logical exercise prescription followed by 
evaluation and testing, and interaction with the trainee. 
Prescription of resistance training is a dynamic 
process which requires the strength and conditioning 
coach to respond to the changing levels of adaptations 
and functional capacities of the trainee with altered 
programme designs to meet the changing training 
goals. 
Equipment maintenance 
Resistance training equipment is very durable; 
however, some preventative maintenance of 
equipment will increase its life and is necessary 
for its safe operation. This is true whether the 
equipment is in a health club, school weight room 
or in a home setting. Welds on equipment should be 
inspected for cracks and bolts checked for tightness 
at least weekly. A cracked weld or loose bolt can 
easily be the cause of an injury. 
Resistance training equipment is made out of 
metal and excessive moisture causes metal to rust. 
One frequently overlooked aspect of preventative 
maintenance is to have adequate air circulation in 
the training facility so that excessive moisture is not 
a problem. The simplest and easiest ways to ensure 
adequate air ventilation is to keep doors and windows 
open and to use fans when and where possible. An air 
conditioner or dehumidifier should be installed in the 

MEDICAL ASPECTS IN STRENGTH TRAINING 173 
facility if necessary to keep the moisture level down. 
If rust develops on a piece of equipment, naval jelly 
should be used to remove it immediately and the rust 
spot touched up with a rust-resistant paint. Keeping 
the moisture level low in the facility will help 
maintain the appearance of the equipment by 
preventing rust and add to its life expectancy. 
Lubrication of equipment 
Resistance training equipment has many moving 
parts which need to be lubricated to operate smoothly 
and to prevent wear. A spray-on silicone lubricant 
is best for most lubrication needs. Chains should 
be lubricated and cleaned regularly to ensure their 
smooth operation. Weight stack rods need to be 
cleaned and lubricated weekly when in heavy use 
so that the weight plates slide freely and smoothly. 
Fine steel wool is effective for removing dirt from 
weight stack rods. In addition, the bushings in weight 
stack plates need to be inspected for wear and smooth 
operation and replaced if necessary to prevent damage 
to the weight stack rods. 
Cables andpulleys 
Many pieces of equipment have a cable and pulley 
or a chain and pulley arrangement which can become 
worn. They should be inspected regularly to ensure 
they are aligned properly and that they are operating 
smoothly. The bearings of the pulley need to be 
lubricated regularly. The pulley should also be 
checked for side to side wobble and tightened if 
necessary. A pulley and cable or chain that is not 
operating smoothly will wear out very quickly. 
For safety reasons worn cables, chains and pulleys 
should be replaced. 
Weight plates 
Free weight plates and weight plates in a weight stack 
on a machine crack and break occasionally. The most 
common cause of this is dropping of the resistance 
after completion of a repetition. Dropping of free 
weights should not be allowed and neither should 
excessive ‘banging’ of plates of a weight stack during 
performance of exercises. Welding of weight plates 
after they are cracked or broken is possible, but is difficult because of the high graphite content of many 
weight plates. In most instances, welding of weight 
plates does not last and therefore it is normally best to 
retire the broken plate and replace it. For exercises 
(e.g. deadlift, high pulls) in which the plates 
commonly hit the ground, rubberized type ‘bumper 
plates’ can be bought but are more expensive. 
Olympic bars 
Olympic bars are barbells, 218 cm in length, used for 
Olympic and power lifting. They have revolving 
sleeves on each end that allows the weights to rotate 
during a lift. This allows the bar to revolve during 
the lift and prevents ripping skin off the hands of 
the lifter. Olympic bars are very durable, but a few 
problems can develop. The bar may become bent. 
This can be a result of having the supports holding 
the bar very close together and loading the bar heavily. 
This can happen especially if the bar is left loaded 
overnight or between training sessions. Therefore, 
the bar should be unloaded when it is not in use. The 
revolving sleeves on Olympic bars at times become 
loose and normally this can be remedied by tightening 
the Allen screw at the end of the sleeve. The sleeves 
should also be regularly lubricated with a light 
lubricant. After lubrication the sleeves should be 
wiped clean and care must be taken because, if 
lubricant is on the outside of the weight, plates will 
easily slide off of the bar. This is one reason that 
the use of collars on all free weight bars should be 
mandatory. Olympic bars come in a wide price range 
and it is typically the less expensive bars that develop 
problems. Therefore, when obtaining Olympic bars 
make sure they are of quality construction and have 
good tensile strength. 
Upholstery 
Keeping the surfaces of the weight training equipment 
clean is paramount for a clean environment. The 
benches and seats of resistance training equipment 
are covered with vinyl or Naugahyde. Disinfectants 
used to remove moisture, sweat and dirt from these 
coverings over time will cause it to crack. Therefore, 
regular cleaning with a strong disinfectant should be 
followed by a mild soapy rinse. A vinyl restorant 
product should also be applied to these surfaces 

174 CHAPTER 7 
regularly. To help prevent the build-up of dirt on 
these surfaces, clean clothing should be mandatory 
in the facility and a shirt should be worn when in the 
facility. In addition, towels should be used by the 
lifters to wipe off sweat after they have finished with 
a piece of equipment. If the vinyl or Naugahyde 
becomes excessively cracked or ripped, it can be 
replaced. Most equipment companies sell replace- 
ment pads for their equipment. However, it is often 
also possible to have a local upholsterer re-cover 
the pad. 
Floor protection 
If possible, a dark rubberized flooring should be 
installed throughout the facility. Rubber mats should 
be placed where weight plates will most likely be 
placed on the floor or dropped. This is especially 
true in the area where such lifts as power cleans will 
be performed. Typically, lifting platforms are placed 
in the areas where power cleans and variations of the 
Olympic lifts are performed. An official Olympic 
lifting platform is 4 m square. It is constructed of 
wood and is designed to protect the floor if the 
barbell is dropped. 
Resistance facility tool kit 
The most frequently needed tools to make simple 
repairs to equipment should be kept in the facility. A 
training facility tool kit should include the following: 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 complete set of Allen wrenches; 
Phillips and regular head set of screwdrivers; 
files for smoothing rough spots on equipment; 
staple gun; 
complete socket set; 
paint touch up equipment; 
bolt cutters; 
measuring tape; light spray silicone lubricant; 
naval jelly; 
strong disinfectant, rubber gloves, mild soap, vinyl 
restorer, sponge and bucket to clean upholstery. 
Resistance training accessories 
The three most commonly used resistance training 
accessories are a weight training belt, gloves and shoes. Although all three do offer some positive 
aspects they are not absolutely necessary for a safe 
and effective resistance training programme. 
WEIGHT TRAINING BELT 
A weight training belt is designed to help support 
the lower back. Although weight training belts come 
in many sizes, a belt small enough to fit small chil- 
dren is not made. Use of a belt is not necessary when 
performing resistance training exercises; it is merely 
an aid to counteract a lack of strong abdominal and 
lower back musculature. Weight training belts do help 
support the lower spine but not from the back as is 
commonly thought. The belt gives the abdominal 
muscles an object to push against, allowing the build 
up of pressure in the abdomen which pushes against 
the lower spine from the front. In fact, the wide part 
of the belt would be best served by being in front of the 
abdominals. Many weightlifters do not use a belt as 
they want to develop the strength of the musculature 
alone. Belts should never be tightened except for 
heavy lifts during a training session (e.g. 3 RM and 
lower). Athletes often wear them for style and looks 
rather than functional needs. 
Wearing a tightly cinched belt during activity 
causes a higher blood pressure than if the activity 
were performed without a belt. This makes the 
pumping of blood by the heart more difficult and 
may cause undue cardiovascular stress. Wearing a 
belt during resistance exercises where the lower back 
is not heavily involved is not recommended but can 
be permitted during lifts involving the lower back. 
However, it should not be used to alleviate technique 
problems in an exercise because of weak lower back 
and abdominal muscles. Assistance exercises to 
strengthen the abdominal and lower back muscles 
should be a part of all training programmes. This 
helps eliminate chronic weakness of these areas 
which can lead to poor exercise technique. In 
addition, strong abdominals and lower back 
musculature can help in injury prevention to 
the lower back during all physical activity. 
WEIGHT TRAINING GLOVES 
Gloves are available that are specially designed for 
resistance training. These gloves do not cover the 
fingers, but only the palms of the hands. They offer 
some protection for the palms from the knurling on 

MEDICAL ASPECTS IN STRENGTH TRAINING 175 
many barbells, dumb-bells and handles of resistance 
training equipment. The protection that gloves offer 
may help prevent the formation of blisters or the 
ripping of callouses on the hands. However, they are 
not absolutely necessary for the safe performance of 
resistance training. 
WEIGHT TRAINING SHOES 
Weight training shoes are mainly designed to give 
good arch support, a tight fit so the foot does not slide 
around inside the shoe and a non-slip surface on the 
sole to prevent slipping while lifting. Weight training 
shoes offer little or no shock absorbance in the sole 
of the shoes, thus any force or power developed by 
extending the leg or hip is not used to compress the 
sole of the shoe and is available to lift the weight in 
such exercises as the squat or clean. A shoe with a 
non-slip surface on the sole and good arch support 
should be worn during resistance training but it does 
not have to be a shoe specifically designed for power 
or Olympic type weightlifting. Recommended reading 
Coker, E. (1987) Equipment padding and covering. National 
Strength and Conditioning Association Journal 9 (6), 
Coker, E. (1987) The Olympic bar. National Strength and 
Conditioning Association Journal 9 (4),73-74. 
Coker, E. (1988) Broken mirrors. National Strength and 
Conditioning Association Journal 10 (5), 58-59. 
Coker, E. (1988) Broken plates. National Strength and 
ConditioningAssociation Journal 10 (3), 58. 
Coker, E. (1988) Repairing and inspecting welds. National 
Strength and Conditioning Association Journal 10 (2), 77-78. 
62-63. 
Coker, E. (1989) Weight room flooring. National Strength and 
Conditioning Association Journal 11 (l), 26-27. 
Coker, E. (1989) Weight room tool kit. National Strength and 
Conditioning Association Journal 11 (3), 62. 
Hurd, J. (1987) Lubricating equipment. National Strength 
and Conditioning Association Journal 9 (5), 69. 
Hurd, J. (1988) Cables: inspecting and replacing. National 
Strength and Conditioning Association Journal 10 (l), 81. 
National Strength and Conditioning Association (2000) How 
to Teach Series. NSCA, Colorado Springs, CO. 

Alexeev, Vasily 6 
Amateur Athletic Association 6 
Amateur Athletic Union (AAU) 3 
American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) 9,166 
American football 7,152 
American periodization terminology Index 
strength/power athletes 56,57,69,71 
traditional 56,57 
ammonia, blood 154 
anaerobic endurance training 
distance runners 97 
soccer players 84-5 
abdominal exercises 112-13,167 
abrasions 164 
acceleration training 83 
accessories, resistance training 174-5 
acid-base buffer mechanisms 50 
acidosis, metabolic 103,105 
acne 164-5 
activation phase, soccer programmes 88,89 
active insufficiency 17 
active recovery phase 56,58,71 
classic periodization model 58,72,73 
in distance running 92 
in gymnastics 119 
undulating periodization model 73 
in volleyball 110 
acute programme variables 43,4443 
overtraining cues 145-9 
physiological responses 57-8 
variation 55 
adaptation 12 
neuromuscular see neuromuscular adaptations 
to short rest periods 50 
window of 14,37 
adenosine diphosphate (ADP] 102 
adenosine triphosphate (ATP) 102 
administration, weight room 163,167-75 
adrenergic receptors 153,154 
adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) 153 
aerobic endurance training 
distance runners 96,974 
gymnasts 118 
soccer players 84 
wrestlers 105-6 
aerobic energy system 
needs analysis 43 
intennis 124 
in volleyball 109 
inwrestling 102,103,104 
aerobic power, maximal see maximal aerobic power 
aesthetics, tennis players 128 
age considerations 155-7 
see also masters athletes 
agility 79,109 
training 84 
agonist-antagonist imbalances 81,127-8 
agonists, primary exercises 46 
air conditioners 172-3 
alactacid endurance training 85 
Albinus, Bernard Siegfried 2-3 anaerobic energy systems 
in gymnastics 119 
needs analysis 43 
in overtraining 154 
in volleyball 109 
in wrestling 102-3,104 
see also ATP-PC system: lactic acid (glycolytic) system 
anaerobic threshold, soccer players 77,84 
anatomy, medical 2-3 
ancient history 1-2 
ankle injuries 80 
prevention 81,82 
anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries 80 
anxiety 
in overtraining 154-5 
rest period length and 49-50 
assistance exercises 46,74 
athletes, organizing 170-1 
athlete-specific strength 18 
Atlas, Charles 4,6 
ATP-PC system 
needs analysis 43 
recovery 49 
in tennis 123-4 
in volleyball 109 
in wrestling 102,104 
Attila, Albert 3 
autonomic overtraining responses 153 
backhand drive 
one-handed 126 
two-handed 126 
back pain, low (LBP) 167 
back strength training 167 
balance beam 116,117,118 
balance board training 82 
ball control, in soccer 79 
ballistic training 83,120 
barbell 4 
barbell squat 7, 146 
bars, uneven parallel 116,117 
baseball 57,136 
base/preparatory training, soccer players 82 
base programme 71,744 
basketball 16,46,48,66 
beam, balance 116,117,118 
belt, weight training 174 
bench press 7,46 
incline 113 
overuse 145 
Berger, Richard A. 8 
bicepcurls 46 

178 INDEX 
bioenergetics 
rest period length 49 
soccer 75-7 
tennis 123-5 
volleyball 109 
wrestling 102-5 
needs analysis 41-2 
overtraining and 152 
soccer 78-80 
tennis 125-6 
Blaikie, William 3 
blisters 164 
blood pressure biomechanics 
uncontrolled 166 
wearing a belt and 174 
body building 6-7 
body composition 
periodization and 65 
soccer players 80 
body part exercises 46 
body size, soccer players 80 
body weight see weight, body 
British Amateur Weight Lifters’ Association [BAWLA) 5 
bruises 165 
buffer mechanisms 50 
burn-out, prevention 119 
cables 173 
calluses 164 
central nervous system 20 
chalk 164 
children 155-7 
choice of exercise 45-6,145-7 
chronic disease 163 
chronic programme manipulations 43-4,~~ 
circuit weight training protocols 48 
classic strength/power periodization model 58-9, 71-2,150 
combined with undulating model 66 
comparative studies 59-65,66 
distance runners 92-5 
programmes based on 72-3 
tennis players 122 see also periodization 
cleaning, equipment 173-4 
closed kinetic chain exercises 46,109 
coaches 
availability of competent 169-70 
prevention of overtraining 145 
weight room administration 163,167-75 
distance runners 96,158 
endocrine responses 153 
interference 16,152 
physiological effects 157-9 
distance runners 96,158 
Overtraining effect 159 
periodization and 55,58 
competition phase 56 
Soccer programmes 86,87,88 
competition-specific training 71 coaching judgements 59 
combined endurance and resistance training 157-9 
compatibility, exercise 152,157-9 
competition computer monitoring systems 40,41,169 
concentric action 9 
concentric strength 
development 32 
sex differences 135-6 
concentric training 
overtraining risk 147 
specificity 15,30-1.32 
contusions 165 
coordination 11 
cortisol 139,153,158 
creatine phosphate 85 
cross training, gymnasts 119 
cross transfer 15 
cruise intervals 97 
Curtis, William Buckingham 3 
cycling 55 
Cyr,Louis 3 
Daniels, Jack T. 97 
deadlift 7,46 
dehumidifiers 172-3 
DeLorme, T.L. 8 
design, programme 37,43-54 
detraining 140-2 see also periodization 
explosive strength/power during 141-2 
maximal force during 141 
neuromuscular effects 140 
vs. recovery 53 
diabetes, insulin-dependent 166 
dieting, wrestlers 106 
distance covered, soccer players 75-6 
distance running 55,gl-g 
compatibility of combined training 96,158 
linear training cycle 92-5 
performance, effect of strength training 96 
periodized programmes 97-9 
aerobic training component 97-8 
example for 10-km runner 98-9 
strength training component 98 
wrestlers 105-6 
dizziness 50 
dribbling a ball 77 
dryskin 164 
dumb-bell bump raise 112 
dynamic action 9,10 
dynamic constant external resistance 147 
‘dynamic tension’ training 4 
dysmenorrhoea 139 
Eastern Bloc countries 5-6,55,69 
eccentric action 9 
eccentric hamstring strength : concentric quadriceps strength 
eccentric strength in gymnastics 117 
[He,, : Q,.J ratio 81 
development 32 
sex differences 135-6 
eccentric training 
muscle soreness after 31,53 
overtraining risk 147 
insoccer 79 
specificity 15,31,32-3 

INDEX 179 
elastic bands 147 
elbow, tennis players 127 
electromyography (EMG) 
detraining 140 
to measure neural adaptations 21 
in needs analysis 41,42 
combined with resistance training see combined 
gymnasts 119 
overtraining 142 
soccer players 84-5 
energy see bioenergetics 
equipment 
availability 168-9 
lubrication 173 
maintenance 172-5 emergency plans 172 
endurance training 
endurance and resistance training 
European College of Sport Science 9 
European periodization terminology 56,69,70 
exercise 
choice 45-6,145-7 
order 47-8,147-8 
pattern, in soccer 76-7 
prescription 40-1,172 
rest periods between 49-50 
exhaustion 143 
explosive muscle actions, in soccer 78,811 
explosive (power)-type training 
acute neuromuscular responses 23 
distance runners 98 
neuromuscular adaptations 25-6 
overtraining 146 
power development 34-5 
soccer players 83,90 
strength development 32-3 
explosive strength/power, effect of detraining 141-2 
faint spells 50 
fake, in soccer 79 
fat, body 
fatigue periodization studies 65,67 
soccer players 80 
acute 21-2,22-3 
order of exercise and 47 
recovery from 22,23 
rest period length and 49-50 
in wrestling 104 
fatty acids, free 154 
firing frequency, motor unit 10-11 
fitness level 
exercise order and 48 
importance of evaluating 39 
in programme planning 37-8 
flexibility 80 
training 85 
floor exercises 116,117,118 
floor protection 174 
folliculitis 165 
football see American football; soccer 
foot strike time, reducing 96,98 
footwear, weight training 175 
force 9 force-time curves 
heavy resistance training and 32-3 
power-type strength training and 34-5 
sex differences 135,137-8 
force-velocity curves 52 
heavy resistance training and 32-3 
power-type strength training and 34-5 
sex differences 137 
forehand drive 126 
free weights 169,171-2 
maintenance 173 
overtraining risk 146-7 
soccer players 83 
base programme 74 
soccer programmes 91,94 frequency of training (per week) 14,39,53-4 
functional anatomy (of a sport) 145 
Galen 2 
General Adaptation Syndrome (Selye) 69,143 
general preparatory conditioning phase 71-2 
general strength training 70 
general training 70 
gloves, weight training 174-5 
glucose, blood 154 
glycogen 77,102,154 
glycolytic system see lactic acid (glycolytic] system 
goalkeepers, soccer 80,81 
goals, training 37 programmes 37,40 
periodization 57 
prioritizing 37-8,42 
Golgi tendon organ 11 
Goliath 1 
Greece, ancient 1-2 
Grimek, John 6 
grip, tennis 126,127 
groin pain, in soccer players 80 
ground, reducing foot strike time 96,~ 
growth hormone 57,139,153 
gymnastics 115-22 
needs analysis 116-19 
programme design 119-22 
Hackenschmidt, George 3 
hamstring : quadriceps (H : Q) ratio 81,128 
handgrip, tennis 126,127 
hangpull 46 
heading, soccer ball 79 
head injuries 81 
heart disease 166 
heart rate (HR) 
maximal (%=) 84 
insoccer 77 
in volleyball 109 
heat therapy 165 
heavy resistance training 
acute neuromuscular responses 21-3 
‘hypertrophic’ loading 22-3 
‘neural’ loading 21-2 
overtraining 142 
specificity 32-3 
Hettinger, Theodor 8 
Hickson, Robert 96,157 

180 INDEX 
Highland Games, Scottish 5 
Hill, Archibald V. 8 
hill bounding 97-8 
hip muscles, soccer players 78 
history of strength training 1-9 
Hoffman, Bob 4,s 
hormones 
in overtraining 153-4 
sex differences 139 
see also cortisol: growth hormone; testosterone 
acute neuromuscular responses 22-3 
long-term neuromuscular responses 27-8 
soccer players 82 
swimmers 99 
hypertrophy, muscle see muscle hypertrophy 
hypertrophy phase 56,58,71,72 
soccer programmes 88,139-90 
ice therapy 165 
Illinois agility run test 79 
imagined contractions 15 
immune system 
regeneration training 84 
responses to overtraining 143,144 
Inch, Thomas 4 
individual differences 29,37 
individualized programmes 37-40,128-9 
injuries 163-5 hypertrophic strength training 
emergency planning 172 
ingymnastics 119,121 
masters athletes 166 
mechanisms 80-1 
mistakes causing 172 
musculoskeletal 165 
overuse 145,152-3 
in soccer 80-1 
in tennis 1274,129 
trackinglchecking for 163 
in volleyball 109 
distance runners 96 
masters athletes 166 
needs analysis 43 
soccer players 80-1 
spotting technique for 171-2 
swimmers 99,100 
gymnastics programme 121-2 
tennis programmes 130,131-2 
volleyball programme 113-14,115 
wrestling programme 108 
insufficiency 
active 17 
passive 17-18 
in base programme 75 
in classic periodization model 55,58,64, 72-3,150 
exercise 148 
mean 149 
minimum 12,13 
overtraining risks 148-9 
relative 149 
training 148-9 injury prevention 
in-season 56,57 
intensity in undulating periodization model 66, 73 
variation 17 
see also percentage of 1 RM 
interference phenomenon 16 
International Federation of Body Builders (IFBB) 6-7 
International Federation of Sports Medicine (FIMS) 9 
International Powerlifting Federation (PF) 7 
interval training, gymnasts 120,121 
Ironman (magazine) 4-5 
isokinetic strength 
overtraining 152 
training 31,32 
isolated joint exercises 46 
isometric action 9 
in gymnastics 11 7 
in tennis 125-6 
isometric training 
repetition 14 
specificity 15,29-30,32 
strength development 32 
wrestlers 106 
joint angle 
choice of exercise and 45-6 
needs analysis 41,42 
specificity of training 15,29 
joint range of movement (ROM) see range of movement 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research 9 
jumps 
sex differences 136 
in volleyball 108-9 
junior athletes 155-7 
kick, soccer 78 
Klein, Sigmund 3 
knee 
injuries 80,81,166-7 
muscles, soccer players 78 
kneecurls 46 
knee extensions 46 
Kowalski, Daniel 100-1 
lactate threshold (LT), distance runners 96,~ 
lactic acid (glycolytic) system 
needs analysis 43 
in soccer 77,85 
in tennis 123-4 
in wrestling 102-3,104 
lactic acid (lactate], blood 
acute programme variables and 57 
in overtraining 154 
rest period length and 49,50 
in soccer players 77 
in tennis players 124 
in wrestlers 104-5 
lateral 45'raise 112 
lateral pull down 46 
lean body mass 
gains, sex differences 138 
periodization studies 65,66 
soccer players 80 
see also muscle mass 
learning, exercise order and 47,48 
leg curls 112,113,146 

INDEX 181 
leg extensions 112,113,146 
lifting platforms 174 
lifting sports, history of competitive 5-7 
ligamentous sprains 165 
linear strength/power periodization model see classic 
load 50-2 strength/power periodization model 
in base programme 74-5 
junior athletes 156 
overtraining risks 148-9 
RM 149 
in tennis-specific programmes 129 
base programme effect 75 
enhancing 57 
in gymnastics 118 
periodization studies 65,136-7 
resistances needed 50 
rest period length and 50 
low backpain (LBP) 167 
lower body muscles, in tennis 125,128 
lower body strength, sex differences 135,136 
lower extremity injuries 
in soccer 80,81 
in volleyball 109 
L-seat ofgymnastics 167 
lubrication, equipment 173 
lunges 46,112,113 
luteinizing hormone (LH) 153 
Lydiard, Arthur 97 
MacFadden, Bernarr 4,6 
machines local muscular endurance 
availability 168-9 
overtraining risk 147 
teaching use of 171 
McKenzie, R. Tait 4 
macrocycle 56-7, 70, 73 
magazines 4-5 
maintenance 
equipment 172-5 
strength 16 
masters athletes 156,157 
recommendations 166 
recovery times 53,166 
Matveyev’s Model of Periodization see classic 
Maxick (Max Sick) 4 
maximal aerobic power (VoimaX) strength/power periodization model 
in combination programmes 158 
distance runners 96,97 
soccer players 77,84 
maximum force training, soccer players 83,90 
medial collateral ligament (MCL) injuries 80 
medical aspects 163-7 
medical clearance 166 
medical records 163 
medicine, history of 2-3 
medicine ball 147,156 
Medvedev, Alexey 5-6 
meniscal injuries 80 
menstrual problems 139 
mesocycle 56-7,70, 73 
metabolic acidosis 103,105 metabolic training, in tennis 124-5 
Meyerhof, Otto 8 
microcycle 57, 70 
in linear periodized programmes 72 
in undulating periodization model 73 
Milos of Crotona 1-2 
modality, training, selection 43,146-7 
monitoring systems, computer 40,41,169 
mood disturbances, in overtraining 154-5 
motor unit 9-10 
firing frequency 10-11 
recordings from single 21 
recruitment 9-10,73 
movement pattern, specificity of training 15 
Miiller, Erich A. 8 
multijoint exercises 46,47 
multiple joint exercises 46 
muscle 
activation patterns 45-6 
acute fatigue 21-2,23 
adaptations see muscle hypertrophy; strength 
atrophy 140 
cross-sectional area 11,21 
detraining effects 140 
force output per 138 
increased see muscle hypertrophy 
damage/disruption, overtraining 152 
elasticity 35 
exercise selection and 145 
force output, sex differences 138 
glycogen 77,154 
receptors 11 
ruptures 80 
soreness, delayed 31,53,54,75 
strains 165 
strength see strength 
voluntary neural drive 20 
neural control 9-1 1 
overtraining risks 147 
specificity 15,29-32 
‘muscle-bound’ concept 4 
muscle fibres 
combination training effects 158-9 
detraining effects 140 
lactate threshold and 96 
sex differences 137,138-9 
size measurement 21 
Type I (fast twitch) 10,11,12 
in gymnastics 118 
sex differences 138 
TypeII(s1owtwitch) 10,11,12 
in gymnastics 118-19 
sex differences 138-9 muscle actions 9,10 
types 11,12 
type transition 59,154 
muscle groups 
base training programme 74 
choice of exercises 46,57 
exercise order 48 
specificity of training 15 
muscle hypertrophy 20 
enhancing 57 
measurement 21 

182 INDEX 
muscle hypertrophy (continued) 
overtraining and 154 
in periodized training programmes 73 
phase see hypertrophy phase 
in previously untrained subjects 25,26 
resistances needed 50 
sex differences 139 
in strength athletes 27-8 
tennis players 128 
exercise selection and 145-6 
sex differences 136 
see also lean body mass 
Muscular Development (magazine) 4 
muscular endurance, local see local muscular endurance 
musculoskeletal injuries 165 
musculotendinous injuries 80 
myositis 165 
myths 166-7 
National Amateur British Bodybuilding Association 
National Strength and Conditioning Association (NSCA) 9 
needs analysis 41-3 
biomechanical 41-2 
energy sources 43 
gymnastics 11 6 -1 9 
injury prevention 43 
resistance modality 43 
tennis players 123-9 
acute fatigue 21-2,23 
adaptations see neural adaptations 
compartments 20 
control of muscle actions 9-11 
recovery times 49 
role in peaking 27 
measurement 21 
in periodized training programmes 73 
in previously untrained subjects 24-5,26 
in strength athletes 27 
‘neural’ strength training 
acute neuromuscular responses 21-2 
long-term neuromuscular responses 27 
neuromuscular adaptations 20-8 
detraining 140 
heavy resistance exercise and recovery 21-3 
measurement 21 
periodization studies 59-65 
prolonged strength training 24-6 
sex differences 24-6,28 
see also muscle hypertrophy; neural adaptations 
New York Athletic Club 3 
non-linear periodization model see undulating periodization 
Oerter, A1 7,8 
oestrogen :testosterone ratio 139 
off-season 56,57 
gymnastics programme 119-20 
tennis programme 130 
volleyball programmes 112-13 
older athletes see masters athletes muscle mass 
(NABBA) 6 
nervous system 
neural adaptations 20,59 
model Olympic bars 173 
Olympic Games 
history of lifting sports 5,6 
periodization of training 58,92,150 
oral contraceptives 139 
order of exercise 47-8 
overtraining risks 147-8 
overhead volley (smash) 126 
overload 
principle 12,13,30-1 
progressive 12-13 
overreaching 143-4,145 
overtraining 142-55 
acute programme variables and 145-9 
autonomic responses 153 
avoidance, in soccer 84,85 
biomechanics 152 
choice of exercise and 145-7 
in competitions 159 
definition 143-5 
endocrine responses 153-4 
exercise order and 147-6 
frequency of training and 39 
immune responses 144,154 
incompatibility and 159 
injuries and 152-3 
intensity of exercise and 148-9 
metabolic responses 154 
muscle adaptations 154 
muscle damage/disruption 152 
performance decrements 143,144,151-2 
periodization and 72-3,150 
physiology 144,150-5 
psychological responses 144,154-5 
rest between sets and 149 
symptoms 144 
volume of exercise and 148 
vs. mistimed training 144-5,151 
overuse injuries 145,152-3 
oxygen uptake 
maximal see maximal aerobic power 
insoccer 77 
parallel bars, uneven 116,117 
parasympathetic overtraining 153 
partners, training 171 
passive insufficiency 17-16 
patella injuries 80 
peaking 55 
in classic periodization model 58 
detraining and 141,142 
mistimed 144-5,151 
phase 56,71,72 
role of nervous system 27 
in undulating periodization model 66 
Pennel, Richard 3 
percentage of 1 Rh4 (1 Rh4) 13,14,51-2 
overtraining and 149 
in volleyball 11 1 
effect of periodization 64-5 
energy availability and 104 
masters athletes 166 
measures 151-2 performance 

INDEX 183 
menstrual problems and 139 
neuromuscular 20-36 
overtraining effect 143,144,151-2 
running, strength training and 96 
see also repetition maximum (RM), 1 (I RM) 
basic concepts 69-70 
classic (linear) model see classic strength/power 
periodization model 
different velocities 52 
neuromuscular adaptations 27 
overtraining and 72-3,150 
rationale 16,39,49 
recovery periods 53-4 
terminology 56-7,69-71 
undulating (non-linear) model see undulating 
periodized training programmes 69-134 
base 71,744 
distance running 91-9 
general preparatory conditioning 71-2 
gymnastics 115-22 
soccer 75-91 
swimming 99-101 
tennis 122-33 
wrestling 101-8 
phosphocreatine (PC) 102 
see also ATP-PC system 
Physical Culture (magazine) 4,6 
plyometrics 39 
in distance running 98 
muscle soreness after 53 
order 48 
in soccer 79,83,91,93 
see also stretch-shortening cycle (SSC) exercises 
positioning, improper 169 
power 52,148 
activities, in volleyball 108-9 
development 34-5 
output 
periodization studies 59-65,66-7 
phase 56,58,71,72 
training zones 66 
power cleans 46 
order in session 47,48 
sex differences 140 
power lifting 7,43,135 
power snatches 46 
power training 34-5,48,51 
distance runners 92-4,98 
overtraining risk 148 
soccer players 81-3 
swimmers 99 
tennis players 132-3 
volleyball players 109 
pro-exhaustion methods 47 
prehabilitation 43 
premenstrual symptoms 139 
preparation phase 56,57 
prescription, exercise 40-1,172 
pre-season 56,57 periodization 17,43+1,55-68 
periodization model 
Volleyball 108-15 
sex differences 136-8 
insoccer 77 gymnastics programme 120-1 
tennis programmes 129,131 
volleyball programme 113,114 
wrestling programme 107-8 
primary exercises 46 
prioritization of training 37-8,42 
in combination programmes 158 
in soccer programmes 85 
priority system 48 
progesterone 139 
programmes, strength training 
design 37,43-53 
exercise prescription 40-1 
general 37,40 
individualization 37-40 
men vs. women 138 
needs analysis 41-3 
progressive overload 12-13 
progressive resistance training 12-13 
psychological factors, in rest period length 49-50 
psychological responses, overtraining 144,154-5 
publications, popular 4-5 
pulleys 173 
push press 113 
quadriceps strength training 81 
quality of training 38-9 
quickness 79 
training 84 
Rader, Perry and Mabel 4-5 
range of movement (ROM) 
needs analysis 42 
overtraining and 146 
specificity of training 15 
rate of force development (RFD) 
sex differences 137-8 
training 83,120 
ready position, in tennis 126 
records, medical 163 
recovery 
active see active recovery phase 
between training sessions 53-4 
distance runners 94-5 
from acute fatigue 22,23 
importance 39,143 
in masters athletes 53,166 
period see rest period 
pre-competition 55 
to ready position [tennis) 126 
rest period length and 49 
vs. detraining 142 
regeneration training, soccer players 84 
repetition maximum (m) 14,50 
1 11 RM) 
charts predicting 52 
overtraining and 151-2 
percentage of see percentage of 1 RM 
rest period length and 57 
testing 51 
load 149 
target 50,51 
target zones 50,51,66 
zones 14 

184 INDEX 
repetitions 13-14 
in base programme 75 
percentage of 1 RM and 52 
research, strength training 7-8 
resistance 
amount used 50-2 
methods of determining 50 
types, overtraining risk 147 
see also load 
resistance training 
basic principles 9-1 1 
combined with endurance training see combined 
modality, selection 43,146-7 
progressive 12-13 
in tennis 124-5 
rest periods 13-14,49-50 
adaptation to short 50 
in base programme 75 
lengths 49-50,51,57 
overtraining and 149 
tennis players 124-5,129 
in undulating periodization model 66 
in wrestling 104 
reversal, muscle strength 15-16 
rhabdomyolysis 152 
'road work', wrestlers 105 
ROM see range of movement 
RomanEmpire 2 
rotational variation 129 
rotator cuff injuries 100-1,127-8 
rubber cords 169 
rubber mats 174 
rug burn 164 
running endurance and resistance training 
distance see distance running 
drills, soccer 83 
economy (efficiency) 96 
performance, strength training and 96 
in soccer 76,77 
rust 172-3 
Samson 1 
Sandow, Eugene 3,6 
Sargent, Dudley Allen 8 
Sargent vertical jump test 8 
Saxon,Arthur 3 
science, history of 2-3 
self-efficacy, in overtraining 155 
Selye, Hans 69,143 
sensory receptors 11,20 
serve (tennis) 126 
sessions, exercise 13-14 
perday 53 
recovery periods between 53-4 
multiple 48-9 
number 48-9 
rest periods between see rest periods 
single 48,49 
tennis-specific programmes 129 
absolute strength 135-6 
acute neuromuscular responses 21-2,23 sets 13-14 
sex differences 135-40 maturation during childhood 155 
neuromuscular adaptations 24-6,28 
power development 34 
power output 136-8 
soccer players 77,80 
training effects 138-9 
shoes, weight training 175 
shoulder girdle injuries 100,109,127-8 
shoulder muscles 
overtraining 145 
in tennis 125,127-8 
Siciliano, Angelo (Charles Atlas) 4,6 
Sick, Max (Maxick) 4 
side squat 112 
Siebert, Werner W. 8 
single joint exercises 46,47 
sit ups 46 
Size Principle 10,11 
skills 11 
gymnastics 11 6 -18 
skill-specific training 55,116 
skin disorders 164-5 
snatch lift 52,136,152 
soccer 46,66,75-91 
bioenergetics needs analysis 75-7 
biomechanics and muscle activity 78-80 
injuries 80-1 
periodized training programme 85-91 
intercollegiate model 86,88 
plyometrics training 91,93 
professional model 87.88-9 
strength training 89-90,91,92 
weekly distribution 91,94 
training components 81-5 
endurance 84-5 
flexibility 85 
quickness and agility 84 
speed 83 
strength and power 81-3 
soreness, delayed muscle 31,53,54,75 
Specific Adaptation to Imposed Demands (SAID) 
specificity 15,17,18 146 
concentric training 15,30-1,32 
eccentric training 15,31,32-3 
heavy resistance training 32-3 
isometric training 15,29-30,32 
in needs analysis 41-2 
overtraining aspects 146 
transfer 42 
velocity of movement 15,52 
speed strength 52 
speed training 83,99 
split squats 112 
sport-specific training 18,71,116 
spotting 171-2 
sprains 80,165 
sprinting, in soccer 76-7.78-9 
squats 46,112 
myths about 166-7 
sex differences 140 
SSC see stretch-shortening cycle 
stacking exercises 48 
standing long jump, sex differences 136 

INDEX 185 
static action 9 
Steinborn, Milo 3-4 
strains 165 
‘strawberries’ 164 
Strength &Health (magazine) 4 
strength see also isometric action 
athlete-specific 18 
base programme effect 75 
detraining effects 141 
development 28-33 
sex differences 138 
diagnosis 18 
limits tomaximum 14-15 
maintenance 16 
muscle tissue factors affecting 11 
overtraining effects 151-2 
periodization studies 59-65,66-7 
phase 56,58, 71,72 
reversal 15-16 
sex differences 135-6 
insoccer 78 
task-specific 18 
strength training 
basic principles 12-18 
distance runners 96,98 
history see history of strength training 
medical aspects 163-7 
in soccer 81-3,89-90 
stressors 143 
stretching 
dynamic 85 
static 85 
stretch reflex 11 
stretch-shortening cycle (SSC) exercises 
in power development 35 
in programme development 39 
in soccer 79,83 
in strength development 33 
see also plyometrics 
stretch-shortening cycle (SSC) movements 9,1i 
strongmen 3-4 
structural exercises 46,47 
supplementary exercises 39,74 
swimming 99-101 
exercise selection 100 
injury prevention 100 
introductory resistance programme 100 
rationale for periodization 99-100 
sample individual programme 100-1 
sympathetic overtraining 153 
tackling, in soccer 79 
task-specific strength 18 
teaching, new exercises 171-2 
team sports 37,39-40, 150 
temporuns 97 
tendonitis 165 
tendon receptors 11 
tendon strains 165 
tennis 122-3 
bioenergetics 123-5 
biomechanics 125-6 
common injuries 127-8 individual considerations 128-9 
intermediate-advanced programme 130-3 
off-season 130 
power training component 132-3 
pre-season/off-season variation 131 
in-season 131-2 
needs analysis 123-9 
resistance training programme 129-30 
after heavy resistance training 23,139 
muscle hypertrophy and 28,139 
in overtraining 153 
power output and 138 
throw-in, in soccer 79-80 
throwing testosterone 
by goalkeepers 80 
injuries 81 
sports 7 
time management 170-1 
Titus,H.W. 4 
toolkit 174 
torque 9 
track and field sports 46 
trainers, availability of competent 169-70 
training phases 70 
transfer specificity 42 
transition 
first 56 
second see active recovery phase 
triceps :biceps ratio 127 
triceps press 46 
trunk muscles, tennis players 128 
turfburn 164 
undulating periodization model 65-6 
combined with classic model 66 
comparative studies 66-7 
distance runners 98,~ 
tennis players 122 
training programmes based on 73-4 
neuromuscular adaptations 24-6 
periodization studies 64 
strength development 29 
upholstery, equipment 173-4 
upper body exercises 
distance runners 98 
gymnasts 119 
soccer players 82 
women 139-40 
upper body strength 
gains, sex differences 138 
sex differences 135,136,139 untrained subjects 
US Powerlifting Federation (USPF) 7 
variable resistance training 32,147 
variation in training 17,55 
volume 17,49 
see also periodization 
vault 116-17 
velocity of movement 52-3,148 
overtraining aspects 146 
specificity 15, 52 
ventilation, air 172-3 

186 INDEX 
Verkhoshansky, Yuri 6 
vertical jump, sex differences 136 
Vesalius, Andreas 2 
videotape, slow-motion 41,42 
see maximal aerobic power 
volleyball 46,53,108-15 
anatomical and kinesiological features 109,110 
injuries 109 
macrocycle design 110-12 
off-season 1 mesocycle 112-13 
off-season 2 mesocycle 113 
performance and physiological characteristics 108-9 
pre-season mesocycle 113,114 
in-season mesocycle 113-14,115 
in base programme 75 
in classic periodization model 55,58,64,72-3,150 
measurement 148 
neuromuscular adaptations and 27 
number of sets and 48-9 
overtraining risks 148 
in undulating periodization model 73 
variation 17,49 
in volleyball 111 volume, training 14 
volume load 148 
walking, in soccer 76-7 
warm-up routine, soccer players 85 
Watkins,A.S. 8 weekly training distribution see frequency of training 
Weider, Ben and Joe 5 
weight, body 
exercises 147 
loss, wrestlers 106,108 
periodization studies 65,67 
weight class sports 106 
weightlifting 46 
history 5-6 
overtraining 146,152 
resistances used 51 
sex differences 136,137 
weight plates 173 
weights, free see free weights 
window of adaptation 14,37 
Winship, George Baker 3 
work 148 
workout cards 170 
World Body Building Guild (WBBG) 7 
wrestling 46,101-8 
needs analysis 43 
overtraining 159 
periodized programme 106-8 
physical demands 102-5 
training needs 105-6 
xerosis 164 
York Barbell Company 4,s