Project	  on	  Improvement	  of	  Local	  Administration	  in	  Cambodia  
Manual	  on	  Manual	  on	   Training	  Training	   Planning	  Planning	   	  	  
	  	  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	  
	  
	  
	  
 What	  is	   Training	  Planning? 	  
 Four	  Steps	  of	  Training	  Planning 	  
 Step	  1:	   Identify	  Training	  Needs	  and	  
Objectives 	  
 Step	  2:	   Develop	  a	  Training	  Plan 	  
 Step	  3:	   Develop	  the	  Course	  Design 	  
 Step	  4:	   Develop	  Training	  Materials 	  
	  
 

	   al	  Department	  of	  L ocal	  A	  
 2	  
 	  
Project	  on	  Improvement	  of	  Local	  Administration	  in	  Cambodia	  (PILAC) 	  
Ministry	  of	  Interior 	  and	  Japan	  International	  Cooperation	  Agen cy	  
Manual	  on	  T raining	  Planning	   	  
	  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table	  of	  Contents	  
	  
Glossary ................................ ................................ ........... 3 
What is Training Planning? ................................ ............... 4 
Four Steps of Traning Planning ................................ ......... 5 
Step 1: Identify Training Needs and Objectives .................. 6 
Step 2: Develop a Training Plan ................................ ........ 9 
Step 3: Develop the Course Design ................................ ..15 
Step 4: Develop Tr aining Materials ................................ ..30 
References ................................ ................................ ......44 
 
 
  
 
 
  

	   al	  Department	  of	  L ocal	  A	  
 3	  
 	  
Project	  on	  Improvement	  of	  Local	  Administration	  in	  Cambodia	  (PILAC) 	  
Ministry	  of	  Interior 	  and	  Japan	  International	  Cooperation	  Agen cy	  
Manual	  on	  T raining	  Planning	   	  
	  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Glossary  
Course designer : A person who designs a training program based on a needs 
assessment and a training plan that includes writing learning 
objectives, creating learn ing activities, lesson plans and 
audiovisuals.  
Curriculum : A document  containing the objectives, course modules, content 
outline, and delivery strategy for training or educational programs.  
Facilitator : An instructional style that uses minimal lecture, and facilitates 
participant interaction and discovery of the learning points . 
Instructional 
Media: The equipment and tools that are used in a learning environment 
such as transparency film s, PowerPoint slide presentations, 
projectors, instructional web pa ges, and videotapes . 
Instructional 
Method : Procedures that the training developer determines will create an 
effective learning environment, such as lecture, case study and 
testing . 
Module : A collection of related chapters within a course . 
Project Team : GDLA Task Force members and JICA experts  
Trainer : A term used in a corporate setting for a teacher  or instructor . 
Training Course : A collection of instructional topics and activities, related by a 
single course goal.  
Training 
development : Design and dev elopment of instructional systems and programs . 
 
 
  	  

	   al	  Department	  of	  L ocal	  A	  
 4	  
 	  
Project	  on	  Improvement	  of	  Local	  Administration	  in	  Cambodia	  (PILAC) 	  
Ministry	  of	  Interior 	  and	  Japan	  International	  Cooperation	  Agen cy	  
Manual	  on	  T raining	  Planning	   	  
	  
 
	  
	  What	  is 	  Training	  Planning ?	  
 
 
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  	  
	   
 
Definition 	   	  
“Training Planning ” is to identify training needs, recommend objectives 
and outcomes, and suggest how they can be reached, based on TNA resul ts. 
The plan states the causes of deficiency, what performance  standards are 
not being met, and who the target population is. The plan also recommends 
a means to evaluate suggested strategies, how to work with the 
management, and when interventions are to be scheduled.  
 
Training planning is the foundation of an effective training program. 
Planning directs your efforts and resources toward a proposed outcome. 
The deliverable document resulting from this step is a written training plan 
that will be submitted  f o r  a p p r o v a l  t o  a l l  p r o j e c t  m e m b e r s  a n d  M O I  t o p  
officials. Once it is approved, the plan will be used by project team members 
to guide their initial course development tasks.  
 
A training plan , the key to effective training, determin es t h e  wh a t ,  wh o ,  
when , where, how and why of the training courses. Effective training 
requires a clear picture of how the participants will apply the skill s, 
technique s, and knowledge that they have acquired from the training.  Planning  is the first step of the 
training management cycle. In 
the planning stage, the steps are 
divided into two: i) training 
needs assessment (TNA) and ii) 
trainin g planning. This manual  
discusses training planning . 
1	  

	   al	  Department	  of	  L ocal	  A	  
 5	  
 	  
Project	  on	  Improvement	  of	  Local	  Administration	  in	  Cambodia	  (PILAC) 	  
Ministry	  of	  Interior 	  and	  Japan	  International	  Cooperation	  Agen cy	  
Manual	  on	  T raining	  Planning	   	  
	  
 
	  
Four	  Steps	  of	  Training 	  Planning 	  
 
 
	  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
	  
	  
	  	  
	  
	  
	  
	  	  
	  
	  
2	  
Four Steps: 
The process of training planning  can be divided into four steps: i) identify 
training needs and objectives; ii) develop a training plan; iii) develop the 
course design; and iv) develop training mate rials.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

	   al	  Department	  of	  L ocal	  A	  
 6	  
 	  
Project	  on	  Improvement	  of	  Local	  Administration	  in	  Cambodia	  (PILAC) 	  
Ministry	  of	  Interior 	  and	  Japan	  International	  Cooperation	  Agen cy	  
Manual	  on	  T raining	  Planning	   	  
	  
 
Step	  1:	  Identify	  Training	  Needs	  and	  Objectives	   	  
 
 
The first step in training planning is to define training objectives based on 
the needs identified by training needs assessment  ( T N A ) .  T h e  i d e n t i f i e d  
training  needs will be prioritized by the M OI top officials and project team 
members in accordance with MOI policy and direction.  
 
 
  
 
 
   
The steps in identifying training needs and objectives are as follows . 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
	   	   	   Figure	  1:	  Steps	  to	  B e	  Taken	  in	  Identifying	  Training	  Needs	  and	  Objectives	  
 
 
3	  
Steps	  to	  be	  
taken 	  
	  
 

	   al	  Department	  of	  L ocal	  A	  
 7	  
 	  
Project	  on	  Improvement	  of	  Local	  Administration	  in	  Cambodia	  (PILAC) 	  
Ministry	  of	  Interior 	  and	  Japan	  International	  Cooperation	  Agen cy	  
Manual	  on	  T raining	  Planning	   	  
	  
 
 
For determining the level of the present baseline capabilities, Knowledge, 
Attitude, and Skills  (KAS) are assessed during TNA . KAS are categories of the 
taxonomy (see the table in the next page), which is a way  of organizing things 
into distin ct areas that overlap. The information on the present situation of an 
identified subject can be gathered through surveys, interviews, group 
discussions, observations, secondary data, workshops, and consultations with the MOI top officials. The present leve l of the target group for the training is 
determined through TNA.  
 
After knowing the present situation of knowledge, attitude, and skills in an identified subject, a desired situation is set up (i.e., the MOI officials take an 
initiative on promotion of D&D) in consultation with the MOI top officials and 
PILAC
 t e a m  m e m b e r s .  T o  fill t h e  g a p  b e t w e e n  the present and desired 
situation s, participants of t h e  t r a i n i n g  a r e  r e q u i r e d  t o  e n h a n c e  t h e i r  
knowledge, skills and attitude. This process  verifies  whether tra ining is an 
effective means to  fill the gap.  
 
After setting up the desired situation and confirming the present situation 
on KAS, training needs are identified  and prioritized in consultatio n with 
the PILAC project team, referring  to the TNA results. Then  the identified 
training needs are prioritized by the MOI top officials and project team 
members, considering MOI policy and direction.  
 
Training objectives are set up after identification  and prioritization of the 
training needs. In the process, categor ies of “Knowledge, Attitude, and Skills 
(KAS)”  are again used to set up the objectives. This taxonomy of learning 
behaviors can be seen as the goals of the training process. In other words, 
after the training session s, the participant should have acquired new skills, 
knowledge, and attitudes. Each category  c a n  b e  t r i g g e r e d  b y  s p e c i f i c  
activities. The Table 1 includes key word s related  to those activities a nd the 
description of each category of KAS .  Situation	  
Analysis 	  
Make	  Vision s	  
for	  Desired	  
Situation	   	  
Identify	   and	  
Prioritize	  
Training	  Needs 	  
 
Set	  up	  the	  
Training	  
Objec tives 	  
 

	   al	  Department	  of	  L ocal	  A	  
 8	  
 	  
Project	  on	  Improvement	  of	  Local	  Administration	  in	  Cambodia	  (PILAC) 	  
Ministry	  of	  Interior 	  and	  Japan	  International	  Cooperation	  Agen cy	  
Manual	  on	  T raining	  Planning	   	  
	  
 
Table 	  1:	  Learning	  Domains	  or	  Bloom’s	  Taxonomy 	  
Category  Details 	  
The	  cognitive	  domain	  involves	  knowledge	  and	  the	  development	  of	  intellectual	  skills.	  This	  
includes	  the	  recall	  or	  recognition	  of	  specific	  facts,	  procedural	  patterns,	  and	  concepts	  that	  
serve	  in	  the	  development	   of	  intellectual	  abilities	  and	  skills.	  There	  are	  six	  major	  categories,	  
which	  are	  listed	  in	  order	  below,	  starting	  from	  the	  simplest	  behavior	  to	  the	  most	  complex.	  
The	  categories	  can	  be	  thought	  of	  as	  degrees	  of	  difficulties. 	  
	  1. Knowledge :	  Recall	  data	  or	  inform ation 	  
2. Comprehension :	  Understand	  the	  meaning,	  translation,	  interpretation,	  and	  
interpretation	  of	  instructions	  and	  problems 	  
3. Application :	  Use	  a	  concept	  in	  a	  new	  situation 	  
4. Analysis :	  Separate s	  materials	  or	  concepts	  into	  component	  parts	  so	  that	  its	  
organizationa l	  structure	  may	  be	  understood 	  
5. Synthesis :	  Build s	  a	  structure	  or	  pattern	  from	  diverse	  elements.	  Put	  parts	  together	  
to	  form	  a	  whole	  with	  emphasis	  on	  creating	  a	  new	  meaning	  or	  structure 	  
6. Evaluation :	  Make	  judgments	  about	  the	  value	  of	  ideas	  or	  materials 	  Knowledge 	  
	  
	  
(Cognitive:	  
mental	  skills )	  
	  
	  
Key	  Wor ds:	  defined,	  identify,	  know,	  list,	  outlines,	  recognize,	  comprehend,	  clarify,	  acquire,	  
summarize,	  apply,	  demonstrate,	  discovers,	  prepare,	  produce,	  analyze,	  categorize,	  compile,	  
plan,	  organize,	  appraise,	  conclude,	  criticize,	  describe 	  
This	  domain	  includes	  the	  manner	  in	  which	  we	  deal	  with	  things	  emotionally,	  such	  as	  feelings,	  
values,	  appreciation,	  enthusiasms,	  motivations,	  and	  attitudes.	  The	  five	  major	  categories	  are	  
listed	  from	  the	  simplest	  behavio r	  to	  the	  most	  complex 	  
	  1. Receiving	  Phenomena :	  Awareness,	  willingness	  to	  hear,	  selected	  attention. 	  
2. Responding	  to	  Phenomena :	  Active	  participation	  on	  the	  part	  of	  the	  learners. 	  
Attends	  and	  reacts	  to	  a	  particular	  phenomenon 	  
3. Valuing :	  The	  worth	  or	  value	  a	  person	   attaches	  to	  a	  particular	  object,	  phenomenon,	  
or	  behavior 	  
4. Organization :	  Organizes	  values	  into	  priorities	  by	  contrasting	  different	  values,	  
resolving	  conflicts	  between	  them 	  
5. Internalizing	  values :	  Has	  a	  value	  system	  that	  controls	   one’s	  behavior 	  Attitude 	  
	  
(Affective:	  
growth	  in	  
feelings	  or	  
emotional	  
areas )	  
	  
Key	  Words:	   enhance,	  recommend,	  select,	  encourage,	  answers,	  assist,	  compile,	  conform,	  
discuss,	  perform,	  practice,	  report,	  complete,	  demonstrate,	  report,	  arrange,	  formulate	   	  
The	  psychomotor	  domain	  includes	  physi cal	  movement,	  coordination,	  and	  use	  of	  the	  
motor -­‐skill	  areas.	  Development	  of	  these	  skills	  requires	  practice	  and	  is	  measured	  in	  terms	  of	  
speed,	  precision,	  distance,	  procedures,	  or	  techniques	  in	  execution.	  The	  seven	  major	  
categories	  are	  listed	  from	  the	  simpl est	  behavior	  to	  the	  most	  complex .	  
	  1. Perception :	  The	  ability	  to	  use	  sensory	  cues	  to	  guide	  motor	  activity 	  
2. Set:	  Readiness	  to	  act. 	  It	  includes	  mental,	  physical,	  and	  emotional	  set .	  
3. Guided	  Response :	  The	  early	  stages	  in	  learning	  a	  complex	  skill	  that	  includes	  
imitation	  and	  trial	  and	  error 	  
4. Mechanism :	  This	  is	  the	  intermediate	  stage	  in	  learning	  a	  complex	  skill .	  
5. Complex	  Overt	  Response :	  The	  skillful	  performance	  of	  motor	  acts	  that	  involve	  
complex	  movement	  patterns 	  
6. Adaptation :	  Skills	  are	  well	  developed	  and	  the	  individual 	  can	  modify	  movement	  
patterns	  to	  fit	  special	  requirements .	  
7. Origination :	  Creating	  new	  movement	  patterns	  to	  fit	  a	  particular	  situation 	  	  Skills 	  	  
	  
(Psychomotor	  
Domain:	  
manual	  or	  
physical	  skills )	  
	  
	  
	  
Key	  Words:	   distinguish,	  relate,	  initiate,	  create,	  compose	  ,	  explain,	  react,	  show,	  state,	  react,	  
respond,	  execute,	  manipu late,	  discuss,	  control,	  utilize,	  develop,	  formulate,	  monitor,	  
measure,	  adapt,	  arrange,	  originate,	  combine,	  arrange,	  build,	  compose 	  
(Source:	  Bloom ,	  B.	  S.	  (1956).	   Taxonomy	  of	  Educational	  Objectives,	  Handbook	  I:	  The	  Cognitive	  Domain )	  Learning	  
Domains  

	   al	  Department	  of	  L ocal	  A	  
 9	  
 	  
Project	  on	  Improvement	  of	  Local	  Administration	  in	  Cambodia	  (PILAC) 	  
Ministry	  of	  Interior 	  and	  Japan	  International	  Cooperation	  Agen cy	  
Manual	  on	  T raining	  Planning	   	  
	  
 
 
Step 	  2:	  Develop	  a	  Training	  Plan	   	  	  
 
 
The second step in training planning is to develop a training plan that 
includes the following: i) tentative course title; ii) training scope; iii) target 
group; iv) key course topics and generic course activities; v)  estimation of 
developme nt time; vi)  required resources; vii)  course duration; and viii) 
budget.  
 
 
 
 
  
 
The training plan has two key purposes: to direct and focus your training 
efforts, and to help make decisions about the training. A training plan can alert you to potential  p r o b l e m s  a n d  d e s i g n  c o n s t r a i n t s .  F o r  e x a m p l e ,  
planning forces you to think about what you are going to do and what 
resources you will need about what you are going to do and what resources  
you will need to do it. The course project plan should incorporate  t h e  
following  elements.  
 
Figure	  2:	  Outline	  of	  Training	  Plan 	  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 1. Tentative	  Course	  Title	   	  
2. Definition	  of	  the	  Training	  Scope 	  
3. Identification	  of	  the	  Target	  Group 	  
4. Identification	  of	  Key	  Course	  Topics	  and	  Generic	  Course	  Activities 	  
5. Estimation	  of	  Development	  Time 	  
6. Identification	  of	  Required	  Resource 	  
7. Course	  Dur ation 	  
8. Outline	  of	  the	  Course	  Development	  Budget 	  
 
 
 
 
	  
4	  
Components	  
of	  a	  Training	  
Plan	    

	   al	  Department	  of	  L ocal	  A	  
 10	  
 	  
Project	  on	  Improvement	  of	  Local	  Administration	  in	  Cambodia	  (PILAC) 	  
Ministry	  of	  Interior 	  and	  Japan	  International	  Cooperation	  Agen cy	  
Manual	  on	  T raining	  Planning	   	  
	  
 
 
1. Tentative Course T itle 
The course should have a name that reflects its purpose.  
 
2. Definition of the Training  Scope 
The scope of the training should be defined in terms of general content boundaries. For example, the scope of a training  c o u r s e  m i g h t  b e  t o  
introduce project features and the course might be to introduce features 
and the training course.  
 
Table 	  2:	  Example	  of	   Defining	  Training	  Scope 	  
Sample 	  Questions 	   Sample	  Answers 	  
Why	  i s	  training	  needed? 	  To	  improve	   the	  level	  of	  knowledge	  on	  D&D	  for	  government	  
officials 	  
What	  should	  the	  course	  goal	  
be?	  To	  understand	  the	  government	  policy	  (D&D	  and	  local	  
administration) 	  
When	  the	   participants	   finish	  
this	  training,	  what	  should	  
they	  be	  able	  t o	  do? 	  To	  acquire	  analytical	  skills	  for	  implementing	  the	  Organic	  Law	  
that	  will	  be	  approved	   in	  the	  near	  future 	  
Under	  what	  circumstances? 	   Simulated	  work	  conditions	   	  
To	  what	  level	  of	  
competency? 	  They	  need	  to	  be	  able	  to	  articulate	  D&D	   policy	  and	  have	  a	  
common 	  view	  towards 	  promoting	  D&D .	  
With	  what	  burden	  of	  proof? 	  A	  certificate	  of	  completion	  and	  improvement	  of	  score	  from	  
pre-­‐test	  to	  post -­‐test	  
   
3. Identification of the Target  Group 
The target group (trainees/participants) is whom the training is for. The 
plan s hould include the following: i) their current level of knowledge  and 
skill; ii) the anticipated gaps in their knowledge and skill; iii) knowledge and 
skills they need to acquire ; iv) how many people need to receive the 
knowledge and skill; v) how many peop le need to receive instruction; and vi) 
and what special  considerations they might require in terms of shifts, hours, 
culture, language and geographic location.  
 
 
 
 Example	  of	  
Outline	  of	  
Training	  Plan  

	   al	  Department	  of	  L ocal	  A	  
 11	  
 	  
Project	  on	  Improvement	  of	  Local	  Administration	  in	  Cambodia	  (PILAC) 	  
Ministry	  of	  Interior 	  and	  Japan	  International	  Cooperation	  Agen cy	  
Manual	  on	  T raining	  Planning	   	  
	  
 
Table 	  3:	  Example	  of	   Identification	  of	  the	  Target	  Group 	  
Sample 	  Questions 	   Sample	  Answers 	  
Whom	  is	  the	  course	  for ?	   MOI	  officials	  (permanent	  staff) 	  
How	  long	  have	  they	  been	  with	  MOI? 	  Not	  specified	   	  
What	  do	  they	  already	  know	  about	  
the	  topic? 	  According	  to	  TNA,	  the	  majority	  of	  them	  know	  about	  
D&D.	  However,	  the	  knowledge	  is	  limited	  to	  the	  word s,	  
not	  contents	  of	  the	   policy	  in	  detail .	  
Do	  all	  of	  them	  need	  the	  training	  or	  
just	  some? 	  Initially	  some	  of	  them	  who	  work	  in	  the	  area	  of	  D&D.	  
However,	   the	  human	   resource 	  development	  system	  that	  
will	  be	  established	  in	  MOI	  is	  expected	  to	  cover	  all	  
officials	  in	  the	  l ong	  term. 	  
How	  will	  you	  determine	  who	  needs	  
it?	  Policy	  of	  MOI	  top	  managers	  and	   results 	  of	  consultation	  
with	  JICA	  and	  JICA	  experts	   	  
How	  many	  people	  need	  to	  be	  
trained?	  Location? 	  Trainees	  were	  already	  identified	  by	  JICA/MOI	  prior	  to	  
project	  implementation	  a s	  follows .	  
Top	  managers	  (125	  persons	  x	  2	  courses	  x	  4	  years) 	  
GDLA	  officials	  (25	  persons	  x	  4	  times	  x	  4	  years) 	  
Will	  training	  be	  compulsory	  or	  
voluntary? 	  Compulsory	   	  
What 	  travel,	  time	  or	  budget	  
constraints	  does	  the	  training	  design	  
need	  to	  consider? 	  One	  train ing	  cycle	  involving	  travel,	  time	  and	  budget	  will	  
be	  implemented	  by	  Phase	  as	  described	  in	  PDM.	   	  
What	  prerequisites	  do	  they	  need? 	  MOI	  and	  JICA	  experts	  agree	  to	  the	  training	  plan	  to	  be	  
consisten t	  with	  MOI	  policy	  and	  direction .	  
In	  what	  settings	  will	  they	  use 	  what	  
they	  learn	  in	  this	  course? 	  D&D	  policy	  is	  promoted,	  especially	   if	  the	  Organic	  Law	  is	  
endorsed.	   	  
 
4. Identification of Key Course Topics and Generic Course A ctivities  
Critical topics and activities that should be included in the course are called key com ponents. For example, in PILAC 1, critical topics are as follows: i) 
Progress of the Organic Law; ii) D&D Policy; and iii) Local Administration. 
Critical activities are instructional methods that should be included in the 
course. For example, instructor -led lecture, case studies based on actual 
stories from the field, group discussion, and workshop can be undertaken.  
 
Questions about key components help form a wish list of topics. The analysis phase of the training development process will determine which 
topics are critical, useful to know to improve the level of knowledge, or 
missing from the list.  Sample	  
Outline	  of	  
Training	  Plan  

	   al	  Department	  of	  L ocal	  A	  
 12	  
 	  
Project	  on	  Improvement	  of	  Local	  Administration	  in	  Cambodia	  (PILAC) 	  
Ministry	  of	  Interior 	  and	  Japan	  International	  Cooperation	  Agen cy	  
Manual	  on	  T raining	  Planning	   	  
	  
 
5. Estimation of Development T ime 
Time may be the most  i m p o r t a n t  r e s o u r c e  f o r  a  t r a i n i n g  p l a n n e r .  T h e r e  
never seems to be enough of it. Design decisions in a t raining plan are based 
on one of the two time alternatives: a non -negotiable delivery date, or an 
estimated delivery date. A non -negotiable delivery date drives design 
decisions. An estimated delivery date is derived from decisions on the 
course design.  
 
When the training has a non -negotiable delivery date, the following table 
helps you determine on the time you can spend on each development step. 
In PILAC, the training delivery date is likely to be determined in PDM.  
 
Table	  4 :	  Sample	  Estimation	  of	  Developm ent	  Time  
Item 	   Content 	  
1. Training	  
Planning	   	  The	  time	   needed	  for 	  this	  step	  depends	  on	  how	  clearly	  the	  training	  idea	  
has	  been	  developed,	  whether	  resources	  have	  been	  discussed	  and	  
committed,	  and	  whether	  a	  training	  timeline	  has	  been	  determined.	   	  
2. Analysis	   	  Analy sis	  includes	  target	  group	  analysis,	  task	  analysis,	  training	  
environment	  analysis	  and	  analysis	  report .	  
2.1	  Target	  group	  
analysis 	  A	  diverse	  and	  geographically 	  dispersed	   training 	  group	  will	  require	  
additional	  time.	  Add	  travel	  time	  to	  your	  time	  estimates. 	  
2.2	  Task	  analysis	   	  Time	   for	  this	  analysis	  depends	  to	  a	  great	  extent	  on	  how	  accessible	   are	  
the	  people	  and	  experts 	  with	  whom	  you	  are	  working,	  and	  how	  quickly	  
they	  respond	  to	  material s	  that	  you	  submit	  to	  them	  for	  review	  and	  
comments.	  Add	  time	  to	  target	  group	  an alysis .	  
2.3	  Training	  
environment	  
analysis	   	  This	  analysis	  often	   raises	  questions	  about	  resource	  availability,	  which	  
normally	  take s	  time.	  It	  includes	  identification	  of	  the	  conditions	  such	  as	  
the	  location	  of	  the	   training 	  and	  its	  facilities,	   equipment 	  and	  med ia	  
availability,	  enrollment	  condition	  (compulsory	  or	   voluntary ),	  
completion	   procedure ,	  and	  evaluation .	  
2.4	   	  Analysis	  report	   	  This	  include s	  time	  spent	  in	  meeting	  s	  that	  discuss	  the	  results	  of	  your	  
analysis	  above	   	  
3. Objective	  
Setting	   	  Setting	  up	  the	  training 	  objectives	  among	  the	  training	  planners	  (GDLA	  
Task	  Force	  members	  and	  JICA	  experts)	   	  
4. Course	  Design	   	  The	  output s	  of	  this	  ste p	  are	  course	  design	  and	  s election	  of	  
instructional	  methods	  and	  media	  should	  fit	  the	  needs	  of	  the	  target	  
group .	  
5. Training	  
Material	  
Development	   	  This	  step	  could	  take	  more	  time	  if	  you	  must	  develop	   a	  multimedia	  
material	   which	  include s	  scripting,	  casting,	  editing	  and	  production.	  It	  
includes	  development,	  formatting,	  editing,	  and	  proofing	  materials,	  
instructor	  materials,	  exercises,	  activities	   and	  supporting	  materials.	   	  
6. Revision	   	   Add	  time	  for	  minor	  edit ing	  and	  updates.	   	  Sample	  
Outline	  of	  
Training	  Plan  

	   al	  Department	  of	  L ocal	  A	  
 13	  
 	  
Project	  on	  Improvement	  of	  Local	  Administration	  in	  Cambodia	  (PILAC) 	  
Ministry	  of	  Interior 	  and	  Japan	  International	  Cooperation	  Agen cy	  
Manual	  on	  T raining	  Planning	   	  
	  
 
6.  Identification of Required Resources  
The project plan must include human and capital resources required for all 
phases of the training, including  design, implementation and monitoring 
and evaluation. They include indentifying project team members, subject 
matter experts, equipment, facilities, and services. Services include booking 
of the venue and accommodation , meals and printing.  
 
Table 	  5:	  Identification	  of	  Required	  Resources  
Sample 	  Questions 	   Sample	  Answers 	  
What	  facilities	  will	  be	  required	  for	  
training	  implementation? 	  MOI	  has	  meeting	  rooms	  which	  can	   accommodate 	  
around	  30	  persons	  and	  100	  persons.	  Other	  
alternatives	  are	  hotels	  and	  Center	  for	  Japan	  
Cooperation .	  
What	   equipmen t	  will	  be	  required	  and	  
will	  it	  be	   available 	  on	  needed	  dates? 	  Computer,	  projector,	  pointer,	  microphone,	  video	  (for	  
recording),	  portable	  printer,	  scanner 	  
What	  roles	  need	  to	  be	   filled 	  on	  the	  
project	  team,	  and	  who	  will	  fill	  them? 	  Project	  manager 	  and	   training	   implementation	  
arrangements	  team	  will	  be	  set	  up.	  Sub -­‐groups	  will	  be	  
divided	  into	  three:	  i)	  trainers/facilitators,	  ii)	  
participants,	  and	  iii)	  materials,	  facilities	  and	  
equipment 	  
(See	  Manual	  on	  Training	  Preparation )	  	  
What	  subject -­‐matter	  experts	  will	  be	  
requ ired? 	  According	  to	  training	  module,	  experienced	  
subject -­‐matter	  experts	  will	  be	  appointed	  (i.e. ,	  MOI	  
officials	  in	  charge	  of	  one -­‐window	  service ).	  
 
7. Course Duration  
Duration refers to how often and for how long the course is to be delivered. The duration of t he course can influence cost and resource decisions, as 
well as design and content development decisions. It can indicate  a need for 
follow -up expenses as evaluation of the training course.  
 8. Outline of the Course Development B udget  
(1) Budget  
The budget inclu des anticipated expenses such as fees of subject -matter 
experts, travel -related course attendance, equipment purchase or lease, 
facilities rental, printing training materials (text, presentation materials, and other references), and training kit (papers, p encils, and files).  
 
Consider what you might need to outsource. Outsourcing should be 
considered when the cost of doing it yourself, which includes learning, Sample	  
Outline	  of	  
Training	  Plan  

	   al	  Department	  of	  L ocal	  A	  
 14	  
 	  
Project	  on	  Improvement	  of	  Local	  Administration	  in	  Cambodia	  (PILAC) 	  
Ministry	  of	  Interior 	  and	  Japan	  International	  Cooperation	  Agen cy	  
Manual	  on	  T raining	  Planning	   	  
	  
 
equipment, software is higher than an estimated cost from an official.  
(2) Tools and Templates to Use  
The training plan is a report. Y ou can create it by using planning  tools such 
as Project Manager, and spreadsheet programs such as Excel to create time 
lines and Work Breakdown Structure1 ( W B S )  ( Refer to Manual on 
Training Preparation ).  
 
Figure	  3:	  Sample 	  Wor k	  Breakdown	  Structure	  
                                                   
1 A fundamental project management technique for defining and organizing the total scope  of a project , using a 
hierarchical tree structure . The first two levels of WBS (the root node and Level 2) define a set of planned 
outcomes  that collectivel y and exclusively represent 100% of the project scope. At each subsequent level, the 
children of a parent node collectively and exclusively represent 100% of the scope of their parent node.  PILAC 	  

	   al	  Department	  of	  L ocal	  A	  
 15	  
 	  
Project	  on	  Improvement	  of	  Local	  Administration	  in	  Cambodia	  (PILAC) 	  
Ministry	  of	  Interior 	  and	  Japan	  International	  Cooperation	  Agen cy	  
Manual	  on	  T raining	  Planning	   	  
	  
 
Step	  3:	  Develop	  the	  Course	  Design	   	  	  
 
 
 
The third s tep in training planning is to develop the course design including 
curriculum development, syllabus formulation  and to determine necessary 
instruction methods and media and in struction materials.   
 
   
 
  
 Training course design is a blueprint of the training course and details what the course will look like. It includes the following: the objective of the course, 
an overview of the participants; a list of prerequisites, obje ctives, course 
topics, and content descriptions; a course outline; instructional methods, 
instructional media; descriptions of instructional activities ; a description of 
evaluation methods; a course timetable that shows content sequencing with time require ments; and any required equipment or resources.  
 
The purpose  of training design document is to detail the course design itself 
and to provide an opportunity to correct errors in the intended outcomes 
according to the objectives and conten ts. Its focus is on the structure and 
content of the training course. The outline of the training course design is 
shown  in the following figures. There are two examples of training course 
design. The latter is a simplified  example. Either of the two can be chosen 
depending on time availability and type of training courses. Based on those examples, you can develop your own format as necessary.  
 
 
  
 
5	  
Training	  
Course	  
Design	   	  
 

	   al	  Department	  of	  L ocal	  A	  
 16	  
 	  
Project	  on	  Improvement	  of	  Local	  Administration	  in	  Cambodia	  (PILAC) 	  
Ministry	  of	  Interior 	  and	  Japan	  International	  Cooperation	  Agen cy	  
Manual	  on	  T raining	  Planning	   	  
	  
 
Figure	  4:	  Sample	  Training	  Course	  Design	   	  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 1. INTRODUCTION 	  
 Training	  Name 	  
This	  section	  provides	  the	  course	  title,	  its	  acronym	  if	  any,	  and	  the	  release,	  version,	  or	  
revision	  number	  of	  the	  course .	  
 Training	   Scope 	  
This	  section	  descr ibes	  the	  area	   covered 	  by	  the	  training .	  
 Training	  Materials	   	  
This	  section	  lists	  the	  deliverable	  components	  of	  the	  training	  solution,	  including	  printed	  
and	  electronic	  materials. 	  
 Duration	  of	  Course 	  
The	  section	  estimates	  the	  amount	  of	  time	  participants	  will	  tak e	  to	  complete	  the	  
course.	  Prepare	  this	  estimate	  with	  a	  caveat	  that	  it	  may	  be	  refined	  during	  the	  training	  
material	  development	  phases. 	  
 Number	  of	   Participants 	  
This	  section	  describes	   optimum ,	  minimum ,	  and	  maximum	  class	  sizes.	   	  
 Prerequisites 	  
This	  section	  descr ibes	  any	   prerequisite 	  courses,	  certifications,	  tests,	  or	  activities	  the	  
learner	  must	  complete	  before	  attending	  the	  course .	  
 Participants 	  
This	  section	  provides	  a	  description	  of	  the	  training	  population	  and	  includes 	  the	  
following :	  job	  titles,	  areas	  of	  responsi bility,	  length	  of	  service	  with	  MOI ,	  background,	  
previous	  and	  related	  experience, 	  existing	  competencies,	  education	  level,	  attitudes,	  
learning	  styles,	  media	  preferences,	  completed	   prerequisites ,	  and	  course	  expectations.	  
It	  should 	  include	  any	  additional	  infor mation	  that	  provides	  insight	  to	  the	   nature 	  of	  the	  
learner	  that	  would	  affect	  success	  in	  attaining	  the	  course	  goal.	   	  
 Course	   Objectives 	  
The	  section	  includes	  the	  course	  objectives	  and	  describes	  the	  purpose	  of	  the	  training,	  
how	  it	  fits	  into	  a	  curriculum	  applica ble,	  and	  how	  the	  training	  will	  benefit	  the	  
participant.	  The	  section	  includes	  the	  problems	  for	  which	  this	  training	  is	  a	  solution	  and	  
includes	  the	  performance	  criteria	  that	  indicate	  successful	  achievement. 	  
 Course	  assessment	  and	  evaluation 	  
This	  section	   is	  an	  overview	  of	  the	  methodology	  that	  will	  be	  used	  to	  determine	  the	  
effectiveness	  of	  the	  training.	  It	  includes	  two	  components:	  feedback	  from	  the	  learners	  
regarding	  the	  logistics	  of	  the	  training	  event	  and	  their	  perceived	  level	  of	  learning,	  as	  
well	  as	  testing	  of	   the	  participants	  to	  determine	  their	  level	  of	  learning	  based	  on	  the	  
objective .	  
	  
	  Sample	  
Training	  
Course	  
Design 	  

	   al	  Department	  of	  L ocal	  A	  
 17	  
 	  
Project	  on	  Improvement	  of	  Local	  Administration	  in	  Cambodia	  (PILAC) 	  
Ministry	  of	  Interior 	  and	  Japan	  International	  Cooperation	  Agen cy	  
Manual	  on	  T raining	  Planning	   	  
	  
 
Figure	  5:	  Sample	  Training	  Course	  Design  
2.	  	  CONTENT	  OUT LINE 	  
 Instructional	  Resources 	  
This	  section	  lists	  the	  course	  materials	  and	  the	  format	  in	  which	  they	  will	  be	  provided	  to	  
participants,	   instructors,	   and	   administrators.	   This	   includes	   materials	   in	   printed	   or	  
electronic	   form,	   and	   the	   prerequisite	   conditions	   for	   receiving	   the	   materials	   such	   as	  
network	  connections 	  and 	  mail	  delivery .	  
 Structure	  of	  Material 	  
This	  section	  describes	  each	  part	  that	  comprises	  the	  course,	  such	  as	  modules,	   lessons,	  
and	  exercises.	  The	  description	  of	  each	  part	  includes	  what	  it	  contains,	  how	  lo ng	  it	  takes,	  
how	  it	  fits	  into	  the	  other	  parts,	  and	  it s	  purpose. 	  
 Course	  and	  Performance	   Objectives 	  
This	  section	  includes	  the	  course	  objective	  and	  lists	  all	  performance	  objectives .	  
 Instructional	  Sequence	  and	  Activities	   	  
This	  section	  lists	  the	  order	  of	  course 	  topics	  and	  a	  brief	  conceptual	  description	  of	  each.	  
If	  there	  is	  a	   consistent 	  structural	  model	  on	  which	  each	  topic	  is	  based,	  then	  it	  should	  be	  
described	  here. 	  
 Content 	  
The	  section	  is	  a	  description	  of	  each	  content	  segment,	  including	  all	  structural	  levels	  such 	  
as	  modules,	  lessons	  and	  exercises.	  The	  description	  is	  based	  on	  what	  the	  material	  
contains	  rather	  than	  how	  it	  will	  be	  organized.	  If	  this	  is	  a	  product	  course,	  the	  list	  of	  
products	   covered 	  in	  the	  course	  should	  be	  listed	  here.	   	  
 Delivery	  Schedule 	  
This	  section	   describes	  the	  anticipated	  time	  that	  each	  content	  segment	  will	  take	  to	  
complete	  during	  course	  delivery.	  It	  can	  most	  conveniently	  and	  succinctly	  be	  expressed	  
as	  timetable. 	  
 Development	  Requirements	   	  
This	  section	  includes	  the	  resource	  needed	  to	  develop	  the	  tra ining	  product.	  They	  
include 	  the	  following :	  software,	  hardware,	  manuals,	   documentation ,	  in-­‐house	  
personnel,	  consulting	  services,	  project	  team	  members,	  meeting	  facilities,	  testing	  
equipment,	  tools,	  site	  tours,	  simulation	  equipment,	  video	  production	  equipment 	  or	  
crew,	  and	  any	  other	  materials	  and	  resources	  that	  are	  required	  for	  the	  facilitation	  and	  
completion	  of	  the	  development	  process. 	  
 Delivery	  Requirements	   	  
This	  section	  includes	  resource s	  required	  to	  deliver	  the	  training	  product.	  This	  can	  
include	  many	  of	  the	   same	  items	  in	  the	  development	  requirements	  section. 	  
 Production	  Requirements	   	  
This	  section	  includes	  resources	  required	  to	  produce	  materials	  for	  the	  training	  product	  
such	  as	  network	  managers,	  media	  designers,	  vid eo	  duplication	  services,	  printers,	  and	  
any	  oth er	  resources	  that	  package	  the	  developed	  material	  into	  deliverable	  form. 	  
	  
	  
	  Sample	  
Training	  
Course	  
Design 	  

	   al	  Department	  of	  L ocal	  A	  
 18	  
 	  
Project	  on	  Improvement	  of	  Local	  Administration	  in	  Cambodia	  (PILAC) 	  
Ministry	  of	  Interior 	  and	  Japan	  International	  Cooperation	  Agen cy	  
Manual	  on	  T raining	  Planning	   	  
	  
 
Figure	   6:	  Example	  of	   Simplified	   Training	  Course	  Design
Title: 	   The	  title	  should	  be	  con cise	  and	  descriptive	  of	  the	  nature	  of	  the	  training	  program. 	  
Venue: 	  This	  identifies	  the	  site	  where	  the	  training	  program	  will	  be	  held	  considering	   such	  items	  
as	  learning	  activities,	  facilities,	  equipment,	   and	   cost. 	  
Duration: 	  The	  time	  needed	  for	  the	  training	  t o	  cover	  all	  necessary	  topics 	  
Implementing	  Agencies: 	  
The	  institution(s)	  that	  will	  take	  charge	  of	  the	  actual	   execution 	  of	  the	  training 	  
Participants: 	  
Those	  who	  are	  identified	  as	  the	  expected	  attendees	  of	  the	  training	  program.	  This	  
should	  also 	  indicate	  their	  p rofile ,	  e.g.,	  number	  and	  type	  (occupation,	  etc.)	  of	  the	  
participants. 	  
	  
I.	  Rationale: 	  
It	  justifies	  the	  activity	  as	  well	  as	  expected	  outcomes	  of	  the	  programs	  based	  on	  the	  
results	  from	  the	  training	  need	  assessment. 	  
II.	  Objectives: 	  
It	  states	  what	   is	  expected	  o f	  the	  participants	  after	   the	  training .	  
III.	  Methodology: 	  
This	  describes	  the	  strategies	  that	  will	  be	  applied	  during	  the	  actual	   execution 	  of	  the	  
training	  program.	  There	  is	  no 	  single 	  best	  training	  method,	   but	  the	  recipients	  of	  the	  
training	  learn	  best	  if	  they	   participate	  actively.	  A	  combination	  of	  methods	  is	  expected	  
to	  bring	   about	   better	  results. 	  
IV.	  Course	  Contents: 	  
The	  most	  important	  topics	  that	  should	  be	  listed	  based	  on	  the	  objectives	  of	  the	  
training,	  considering	  the	  time	  frame,	  available	  facilities,	  resour ces,	  and	  manpower.	  
Break	  down	  the	  major	  topics	  into	  more	  specific	  components.	  Related	  topics	  should	  be	  
grouped	  together	  for	  continuity	  of	  thought. 	  
V.	  Expected	  Outputs: 	  
They	  are	  often	  a	   tangible	  outcome	  immediately	  after	  the	  training	  program.	   	  
VI.	  Evaluatio n	  Instruments: 	  
Evaluation	  instruments	  should	  be	  clearly	  stated. 	  
VII.	  Budget	   Requirement: 	  
An	  estimate	  of	  the	  entire	  cost	  of	  the	  training	  program	  should	  be	  included.	  Training	  
development,	  implementation	  and	  evaluation	  costs	  should	  be	  prepared	  and	  secured. 	  
VIII.	  Supplies	  and	  Materials: 	  
Supplies	  and	  materials	  needed	  during	  the	  training	  should	  be	  listed	  with	  their	  
quantities	  and	  prices. 	  
IX.	  Training	  Management: 	  
Training	  management	  shall	   consist 	  of	  such	  posts	  as	   project	  officer,	   coordinator,	  and	  
assistant. 	  This	  p art	  shall	   describe	  the	  structure	  of	  management	  and	  responsibility	  of	  
the	  staff. 	  
X.	  Training	  Evaluation: 	  
Training	  evaluation	  methods	  shall	  be	  stated	  here.	   Details	  of	  the	  evaluation	  methods	  
are	  described	  in 	  Manual	  on	  Training	  Evaluation. 	  
 Example	  
of	  
Simplified	  
Training	  
Course	  
Design	   	  

	   al	  Department	  of	  L ocal	  A	  
 19	  
 	  
Project	  on	  Improvement	  of	  Local	  Administration	  in	  Cambodia	  (PILAC) 	  
Ministry	  of	  Interior 	  and	  Japan	  International	  Cooperation	  Agen cy	  
Manual	  on	  T raining	  Planning	   	  
	  
 
Below is an example of training course design drafted by PILAC.  
 
Figure	  7:	  Sample	  Training	   Course	  Design	   	  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
A curriculum  is a statement of the intended aims and objectives, content,  
experiences, outcomes and processes of an educational program including 
the following.  
 a description of the training structure  (entry requirements, length and 
organization of the training program including assessment system)  
 a description of expected met hods of learning, teaching, and feedback  
 
The curriculum should cover both generic professional and 
specialty -specific areas. The content of the curriculum should be stated in 
terms of what knowledge, skills and expertise the participant will acquire .  
 Title 	  Top	  Management	  Seminar 	  
Venue 	   Center	  for	  Japanese	  Cooperation 	  
Duration 	   July	  9 -­‐10	  (125),	  July	  12 -­‐13	  (125),	  2007 	  
Imple menting	  Agencies 	   MOI/JICA 	  
Participants 	  Provincial	  governor,	  vice	  governors,	  high -­‐ranking	  officials	  of	  line	  
ministries	  at	  national	  level	   (125	  Participants	  x	  2	  =	   250	  participant s)	  
	   	  
Rational e	  The	  Royal	  Government	  of	  Cambodia	  developed	  the	  Strategic	  Framew ork	  
for	  Decentralization	  and	  De -­‐concentration	  in	  2005	  to	  implement	  the	  
D&D	  reform.	  However,	  it	  was	  found	  in	  Training	  Needs	  Assessment	  that	  
officials 	  do	  not	  know	  much	  about	   D&D	  policy	  and	  local	  administration.	   	  
Objective s	  (all	  governors	  and	  vice -­‐governors) 	  to	  understand	  D&D	  policy	  and	  local	  
administration	  in	  order	  to	  smoothly	  promote	  D&D	  policy 	  
Methodology 	   Lecture,	  Group	  Discussion,	  Questions	  and	  Answer s	  
Course	  Content 	   Progress	  on	  D&D	  policy 	  
 Organic	  Law	  on	  Sub -­‐National	  Democratic	  Development 	  
 Local	  Adminis tration	  in	  Cambodia	  and	  Japan	   	  
 Case	  Study	  in	  Service	  Delivery	  in	   the	  public	  sector	   	  
Lecture rs	  MOI	   high -­‐ranking	   officials,	  short -­‐term	  Japanese	  expert	  and	  researcher	  of	  
Cambodian	  Development	  Resource	  Institute	   	  
Expected	  Outputs 	   All	  participants 	  can	  underst and	  D&D	  policy	  and	  local	  administration .	  
Budget	  Requirement	   	   USXX	  dollars 	  
Supplies	  and	  Materials 	  Reference	  materials,	  PowerPoint	   presentation s,	  related	   Prakas,	   paper	  
and	  pen s	  for	  group	  work ,	  projector ,	  computer,	  board	  etc 	  
Training	  Management 	   PILAC	  Proje ct	  Team	  (GDLA	  Task	  Force	  members	  and	  JICA	  Expert) 	  
Training	  Evaluation 	  Training	  Evaluation	  Criteria	  (Training	  Contents,	  Materials,	  Level	  of	  
Understanding)	  done	  by	   participants 	  
 PILAC 	  
Curriculum	  
Development  

	   al	  Department	  of	  L ocal	  A	  
 20	  
 	  
Project	  on	  Improvement	  of	  Local	  Administration	  in	  Cambodia	  (PILAC) 	  
Ministry	  of	  Interior 	  and	  Japan	  International	  Cooperation	  Agen cy	  
Manual	  on	  T raining	  Planning	   	  
	  
 
Curriculum development  is recreating or modifying what is taught , while 
curriculum evaluation guides decision making, serves accountability  needs, 
and promotes understanding of the curriculum. Curriculum  guides include 
teaching goals and instructional strat egies. Courses of study, syllabi, or 
blueprints specify the content, learning outcomes and time allocations.  
 
 
Figure	  8:	  Sample	  Training 	  Curriculum  
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
Training	  Title 	   Training	  on	  D&D	  Policy	  and	  Local	  Administration 	  
Objective s	  MOI	  officials	  can	   smoothly	  promote	  D&D	   through	   understand ing	  the	  D&D	  
policy	  and	  local	  admini stration	   	  
Training	  Course 	  1) Top	  Management	  Seminar	   	  
2) GDLA	  Officials	  Training	   	  
Duration 	  1) July	  9 -­‐10	  (125),	  July	  12 -­‐13	  (125),	  2007 	  
2) July	  19 -­‐20	  (25),	  July	  23 -­‐24	  (25),	  July	  26 -­‐27	  (25),	  July	  30 -­‐31	  (25),	  2007 	  
Venue 	   Cambodia -­‐Japan	  Cooperation	  Center	   	  
Participants 	  1) GDLA	   high -­‐ranking	  officials	  and	  officials	  of	  concerned	  ministries	   (125	  
participants	  x	  2	  times	  =250	  participants) 	  
2) All	  GDLA	  officials	  (	   25	  Participants	  x	  4	   times	   =100	  participant s)	  
Methodology 	   Lecture,	  Group	  Discussion,	  Questions	  and	  Answer s	  
Trainers/ Facili tators 	   GDLA	  Task	  Force	  Members,	  MOI	  officials	  and	  other 	  concerned	  agencies	   	  
Course	  Contents 	   Progress	  on	  D&D	  policy 	  
 Organic	  Law	  on	  Sub -­‐National	  Democratic	  Development 	  
 Local	  Administration	  in	  Cambodia	  and	  Japan	   	  
 Case	  Study	  in	  Service	  Delivery	  in	   the	  Public	   Sector	   	  
 Group	  Discussion	   	  
Implementing	  Agencies 	   MOI	  supposed	  by	  JICA 	  
Expected	  Outputs 	  All	  participants 	  understand	  D&D	  policy	  and	  local	  administration	  in	  
Cambodia	  and	  Japan .	  
Training	  Management 	   PILAC	  Project	  Team	  (GDLA	  Task	  Force	  members	  and	  JICA	  Expert) 	  
Training	  Evaluation 	  1) Evaluation	  Criteria	  (Training	  Contents,	  Materials,	  Level	  of	  
Understanding)	  done	  by	   participants 	  
2) Pre-­‐and	   post -­‐tests,	  training	  evaluation	  criteria	  (trainers/facilitators,	  
training	  contents,	  materials,	  level	  of	  understanding)	  done	  by	  
participants 	  	  	  
 Curriculum	  
Development  

	   al	  Department	  of	  L ocal	  A	  
 21	  
 	  
Project	  on	  Improvement	  of	  Local	  Administration	  in	  Cambodia	  (PILAC) 	  
Ministry	  of	  Interior 	  and	  Japan	  International	  Cooperation	  Agen cy	  
Manual	  on	  T raining	  Planning	   	  
	  
 
 
A syllabus shows a series of training components in order and time 
allocati on among different contents. Whatever way the topics are sequenced, 
the absorptive capacity of the participants should be considered and th e 
topics  should lead toward the achievement of the training objectives. The 
following three general criteria should b e consider ed when formulating a 
syllabus:  i )  t r a i n i n g  o b j e c t i v e s ;  i i )  p a r t i c i p a n t s ;  a n d  iii) practical 
requirement s. Basic questions are as follows . 
  What is the objective of the identified module for attaining the training objectives? 
 What methodology sho uld be adopted to conduct the course effectively?  
 What specific instructional materials are needed?  
 How long does it take to achieve its objective? 
 
Table	  6:	  Sample	  Tr aining	  Syllabus	  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Syllabus	  
Formulation  
PILAC 	  

	   al	  Department	  of	  L ocal	  A	  
 22	  
 	  
Project	  on	  Improvement	  of	  Local	  Administration	  in	  Cambodia	  (PILAC) 	  
Ministry	  of	  Interior 	  and	  Japan	  International	  Cooperation	  Agen cy	  
Manual	  on	  T raining	  Planning	   	  
	  
 
 
 
Below is the training schedule  of the Top Management Semina r in PILAC 
Phase 1.  
 
	  
Table	  7:	  Training	  Schedule	  (Top	  Management	  Seminar)	    
Day	  1st	  :	  Date:	  July	  09,	  2007 	  
8:00 -­‐8:30 	   	  Registration 	   GDLA	  Task	  Force 	  
8:30 -­‐9:00 	   Opening	  Ceremony 	   H.E.	  Prum	  Sokha 	  
9:00 -­‐9:30 	   Session	  1:	  Introduction 	  
-­‐Briefing	  PILAC 	  
-­‐Introduction	  o f	  Day	  1st	  Schedule 	  Dr.	  Kato	  (JICA) 	  
9:30 -­‐10:00 	   Coffee	  Break 	   	  
10:00 -­‐11:00 	   Session	  2:	  Progress	  on	  D&D	  Policy 	   H.E.	  Sak	  Setha 	  
11:00 -­‐12:00 	   Session	  3:	  Organic	  Law	  on	  Sub -­‐National	  Democratic	  
Development 	  H.E.	  Sak	  Setha 	  
12:00 -­‐14:00 	   Lunch	  Break 	   	  
14:00 -­‐15:00 	   Session	  4:	  Local	  Government	  System	  in	  Japan 	   Mr.	  Kamiko	  (JICA	  Expert) 	  
15:00 -­‐15:15 	   Coffee	  Break 	   	  
15:15 -­‐16:15 	   Session	  5:	  Public	  Finance	  in	  Japan 	   Mr.	  Kamiko	  (JICA	  Expert) 	  
16:15 -­‐17:00 	   Session	  6:	  Small	  exercise 	   GDLA	  Task	  Force 	  
Day	  2nd	  :	  Date:	  July	  10,	  2007	  
7:45 -­‐8:00 	   Registration 	   GDLA	  Task	  Force 	  
8:00 -­‐8:30 	   Session	  7:	  Review	  of	  Day	  1st	  	  
-­‐Review	  of	  Day	  1st	  and	  introduction	  of	  Day	  2nd	  Schedule 	  GDLA	  Task	  Force 	  
8:30 -­‐9:30 	   Session	  8:	  Reflection	  of	  small	  exercise 	   H.E.	  Leng	  Vy 	  
9:30 -­‐10:00 	   Coffee	  Break 	   	  
10:00 -­‐11:00 	   Sessi on	  9:	  Case	  Study:	  One	  Window	  Service 	   Asia	  Urbs 	  
11:00 -­‐12:00 	   Session	  10:	   Accountability	  and	  Civil	  Service	  in	  Decentralising	  
Cambodia 	  Cambodia	  Development	  
Resource	  Institute	   	  
12:00 -­‐14:00 	   Lunch	  Break 	   	  
14:00 -­‐15:00 	   Session	  11:	  Questions	  and	  answers 	   Dr.	  Kato	  ( JICA	  Expert) 	  
15:00 -­‐15:30 	   Session	  12:	  Questionnaire	  for	  evaluation 	  
-­‐Delivery	  and	  collection	  of	  Overall	  Questionnaire	  and	  Day	  2nd	  
Questionnaire 	  GDLA	  Task	  Force 	  
15:30 -­‐15:45 	   Session	  13:	  Seminar	  Reporting 	   GDLA	  Task	  Force 	  
15:45 -­‐16:15 	   Session	  14:	  Closing	  Cerem ony	   H.E.	  Prum	  Sokha 	  
16:15 -­‐16:45 	   Session	  15:	  Delivery	  of	  Certification 	   H.E.	  Prum	  Sokha 	  
	  
	  
	  
	  	  
	  PILAC