•
•
•
•
•
Advanced Strength and
Conditioning
 
 
 
 
 
Becoming an effective strength and conditioning practitioner requires the
development of a professional skills set and a thorough understanding of the
scientific basis of best practice. 
Aimed at advanced students and beginning
practitioners, this book explores the latest scientific evidence and applies it to
exercise selection and programming choices across the full range of
functional areas in strength and conditioning, from strength and power to
speed and agility.
With coverage of data analysis and performance feedback, both vital skills
for the contemporary strength and conditioning coach, this concise but
sophisticated textbook is the perfect bridge from introductory study to
effective professional practice. 
Written by experts with experience in a wide
variety of sports, its chapters are enhanced by extensive illustrations and
address key topics such as:
fitness testing and data analysis
developing strength and power
motor skill acquisition and development
strategies for competition priming
monitoring training load, fatigue and recovery.
Advanced Strength and Conditioning: An Evidence-based Approach
 is a
valuable resource for all advanced students and practitioners of strength and
conditioning and fitness training.
Anthony Turner
 is the Director of postgraduate programmes at the London

Sport Institute, Middlesex University London, UK, where he is also the
Programme Leader for the MSc in strength and conditioning. 
Anthony
consults with the British Military, Queens Park Rangers Football Club,
Saracens Rugby Club and various Olympic and Paralympic athletes. 
He was
also the head of physical preparation for British Fencing between the London
and Rio Olympics. 
Anthony is accredited (with distinction) with the National
Strength and Conditioning Association and the UK Strength and
Conditioning Association (UKSCA), and was awarded the 2015 UKSCA
coach of the year for education and research. 
Anthony has published over 60
peer-reviewed journal articles, is an associate editor for the 
Strength and
Conditioning Journal
, and completed his PhD examining physical
preparation in Olympic fencing.
Paul Comfort
 is Programme Leader for the MSc in strength and
conditioning at the University of Salford, UK. 
He has applied experience
across a variety of team sports and is currently consulting with numerous
professional sports teams within the Greater Manchester area. 
Paul is a
founding member of the UKSCA, where he is also an editorial board member
for the 
Professional Strength and Conditioning Journal
 and joint editor of its
Professional Insights column. 
He has published over 100 peer-reviewed
journal articles along with numerous book chapters, and is a senior associate
editor for the 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research.

Advanced Strength and
Conditioning
An Evidence-based Approach
 
 
 
 
Edited by Anthony Turner and Paul
Comfort
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
First published 2018 
by Routledge 
2 Park Square, Milton Park, Abingdon, Oxon OX14 4RN
and by Routledge 
711 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10017
Routledge is an imprint of the Taylor & Francis Group, an informa business
© 2018 selection and editorial matter, Anthony Turner and Paul Comfort; individual
chapters, the contributors
The right of Anthony Turner and Paul Comfort to be identified as the authors of the
editorial material, and of the authors for their individual chapters, has been asserted in
accordance with sections 77 and 78 of the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988.
All rights reserved. 
No part of this book may be reprinted or reproduced or utilised in any
form or by any electronic, mechanical, or other means, now known or hereafter invented,
including photocopying and recording, or in any information storage or retrieval system,
without permission in writing from the publishers.
Trademark notice:
 Product or corporate names may be trademarks or registered
trademarks, and are used only for identification and explanation without intent to infringe.
British Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data
 
A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
 
A catalog record for this book has been requested
ISBN: 978-1-138-68735-6 (hbk) 
ISBN: 978-1-138-68736-3 (pbk) 
ISBN: 978-1-315-54234-8 (ebk)
Typeset in Berling and Futura 
by Keystroke, Neville Lodge, Tettenhall, Wolverhampton

  1
  2
  3
  4
  5
  6
  7
Contents
 
 
 
 
 
List of figures
List of tables
List of contributors
List of abbreviations
Strength and conditioning: Coach or scientist?
Perry Stewart, Paul Comfort and Anthony Turner
PART 1
 
Developing your athlete
Developing muscular strength and power
Timothy J. 
Suchomel and Paul Comfort
Stretch-shortening cycle and muscle-tendon stiffness
John J. 
McMahon
Endocrinology and resistance training
Anthony Turner and Christian Cook
Training aerobic fitness
Alex Bliss and Rob Harley
Repeat sprint ability and the role of high-intensity interval training
Anthony Turner and David Bishop
Concurrent training
Richard Clarke, Rodrigo Aspe and Jonathan Hughes

  8
  9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
PART 2
 
Programming and monitoring for your athlete
Periodisation
Anthony Turner and Paul Comfort
Workload monitoring and athlete management
Tim J. 
Gabbett
Priming match-day performance: Strategies for team sports players
Mark Russell, Natalie Williams and Liam P. 
Kilduff
Strategies to enhance athlete recovery
Emma Cockburn and Phill Bell
Fitness testing and data analysis
John J. 
McMahon, Paul Comfort and Anthony Turner
PART 3
 
Coaching your athlete
Movement screening: An integrated approach to assessing movement
quality
Chris Bishop
Technical demands of strength training
Timothy J. 
Suchomel and Paul Comfort
Weightlifting for sports performance
Timothy J. 
Suchomel and Paul Comfort
Plyometric training
Christopher J. 
Sole
Training change of direction and agility
Sophia Nimphius
Speed and acceleration training
Pedro Jiménez-Reyes, Bret Contreras and Jean-Benoît Morin
Applied coaching science
Nick Winkelman

 
Index

  1.1
  1.2
  2.1
  2.2
  2.3
  2.4
  2.5
  2.6
  2.7
  3.1
  3.2
  3.3
  3.4
  3.5
  3.6
  5.1
Figures
 
 
 
 
 
Considerations for a modern day S&C coach before commencing a
working relationship with an athlete
The multi-faceted nature of strength and conditioning
Comparison of force, power, RFD and movement time between
stronger and weaker athletes during a countermovement jump
Medial gastrocnemius (MG) fascicle length and MG pennation angle
(θ), as measured between the superficial and deep MG aponeuroses
Four sarcomeres in parallel
Four sarcomeres in series
Example emphasis change during a periodised training programme
(phase potentiation)
Back squat exercise using variable resistance with chains
Bench press exercise using variable resistance with elastic bands
An example of an object that obeys Hooke’s Law and the equation
to calculate stiffness (k), where ∆F = change in force and ∆x =
change in length
An example of the torsional spring model and how it corresponds to
the human body
An example of the joint moment-joint angular displacement
relationship during loaded flexion and extension
An example of how joint touchdown angles influence leg and joint
stiffness values
An example of the spring-mass model and how it corresponds to the
human body
A schematic diagram illustrating how the leg(s) change from being
more compliant to more stiff for a range of stretch-shortening cycle
tasks
A three intensity zone model based on the identification of

  5.2
  7.1
  8.1
  8.2
  8.3
  8.4
  8.5
  8.6
  8.7
  8.8
  8.9
  8.10
  8.11
  8.12
  8.13
  9.1
  9.2
  9.3
  9.4
  9.5
  9.6
  9.7
  9.8
10.1
ventilatory or blood lactate thresholds
Example blood lactate response to incrementally increasing running
speed with corresponding training zones and physiological markers
The recommended decision making process during periods of
concurrent Training
The inverse relationship between volume and intensity
Soon ripe, soon rotten
The 3:1 loading paradigm, illustrating the increase and then
dissipation of excessive fatigue
The general adaptation syndrome
The stimulus-fatigue-recovery-adaptation concept
The Fitness-Fatigue paradigm
Athlete preparedness based on the specific form of fatigue
The principle of diminishing returns
Basic model of periodisation entailing little variation and relatively
flat workloads
The traditional, undulating approach to the design of periodised
training
The conjugate sequence system pioneered by Yuri Verkhoshansky
(1986)
Schematic representation of the three principle tapering strategies
Schematic representation of the 2-phase taper
Biological adaptation through cycles of loading and recovery
Biological maladaptation through cycles of excessive loading and/or
inadequate recovery
Well-being continuum
Relationship between training load, training phase, and likelihood of
injury in elite rugby league players
Incidence of new and recurrent injuries before (2006-2007) and after
(2008-2009) the introduction of an injury prediction model designed
to reduce training load-related injuries
The acute:chronic workload ratio and likelihood of injury
Relationship between maximal velocity running and likelihood of
injury
Combined effect of chronic load history and maximal velocity
exposure on injury risk
A theoretical outline of the 
typical
 activities performed in the 12

10.2
11.1
12.1
12.2
13.1
13.2
13.3
13.4
13.5
13.6
13.7
13.8
13.9
13.10
13.11
13.12
13.13
13.14
13.15
14.1
14.2
15.1
15.2
15.3
15.4
15.5
hours before an away match (with overnight hotel stay) with a 20:00
hour kick-off (0 hour)
A theoretical model of organising the pre-match period to
supplement the practices currently employed with the performance
enhancing strategies outlined in the chapter
Timing of recovery strategy aims, underpinned by foundations of
optimal sleep and nutrition
Example of correctly identifying the unweighting, braking and
propulsive phases of a countermovement jump force-time curve by
overlaying the velocity-time curve
Example of conducting a temporal phase analysis of relative power-
time curves produced by more and less powerful athletes
Overhead squat (anterior view)
Overhead squat (lateral view)
Overhead squat (posterior view)
External rotation of the feet
Knee valgus
Excessive forward lean
Lower back arching
Lower back rounding
Arms fall forward
Single leg squat
Knee valgus
Hip hike
Hip drop
Inward trunk rotation
Outward trunk rotation
Scenario requiring weightlifting alternatives for the snatch
Scenario requiring weightlifting alternatives for the hang power
clean
Hook grip – thumb wraps under the bar with the fingers wrapped
around the thumb and bar
Starting position for the snatch (left) and clean (right)
The end of the first pull for the snatch (left) and clean (right)
Mid-thigh (power) position side view for the snatch (left) and
oblique view for the clean (right)
Second pull of the snatch (left) and clean (right)

15.6
15.7
15.8
15.9
15.10
15.11
15.12
15.13
15.14
15.15
15.16
16.1
16.2
16.3
16.4
16.5
16.6
17.1
17.2
17.3
17.4
17.5
18.1
18.2
19.1
Catch position of the snatch (left) and clean (right)
Power snatch (left) and power clean (right) catch positions
Recovery position for the snatch (left) and clean (right)
Starting position for a jerk variation
Completion of the dip phase of the jerk
The drive phase of the jerk
Split jerk receiving position
Power jerk receiving position
Jerk recovery
Theoretical force-velocity (power) curve with respect to
weightlifting derivatives
Sequenced progressions of speed and strength-power development
with the weightlifting derivatives that may be used within each
phase
(a) Mechanical and (b) n euro physiological models of stretch-
shortening cycle potentiation
Illustrates the force-time histories of a bilateral ankle hop and a drop
jump from 40 centimeters
Illustration of a generic periodization model where the target training
adaptation is impulsive ability or “explosiveness”
Displays a generic example of how PT may be programed during a
general preparation or strength-endurance mesocycle(s)
Displays a generic example of how PT may be programed during a
basic or maximum strength mesocycle(s)
Displays a generic example of how PT may be programed during a
mesocycle(s) where the primary training focus is developing
impulsive ability or “explosiveness”
Example of force-time curve of the plant phase of a 45° COD and a
stance phase of a maximal velocity sprint
Example assessment of COD and physical capacity
Qualitative assessment of COD performance during a 180° COD
Proposed change of direction development model
Example program from needs analysis through to long-term
planning for subsequent blocks of training
Ratio of forces (RF) and index of force orientation (DRF)
Force-velocity-power profile of Usain Bolt’s world record
Newell (1986) interacting constraints model

  1.1
  2.1
  2.2
  3.1
  4.1
  4.2
  5.1
  5.2
  6.1
  6.2
  6.3
  8.1
  8.2
  8.3
  8.4
  8.5
  8.6
  8.7
  8.8
  9.1
Tables
 
 
 
The definition and correspondence of scientific area to the roles of a
typical S&C coach
Architectural adaptations in response to different training stimuli
Relative power outputs for male athletes during various exercises
A summary of studies which have determined the effects of training
interventions on global lower limb stiffness measures
Individual studies examining the priming of testosterone via non-
physical interventions such as videos, feedback and peer assessment
Individual studies examining load, rest and hormones on hypertrophy
and strength
Operational definitions for frequently encountered terms
Table of training zones and cues that can be used by athletes and
coaches to estimate their current zone
Effective training systems to enhance aerobic fitness
Interval distances for high-intensity interval training using MAS
High-intensity interval training based on each energy system
The principle phases and sub-phases of periodisation
Exercise deletion and representation
Example sessions used as part of a basic periodised model
Two example strength sessions and two example power sessions,
which can be implemented as part of an intermediate periodised
programme
A practical example for applying and adapting the conjugate system
Example microcycle completed as part of a non-traditional
periodisation strategy
Summary of performance gains following a taper
Effect of training variables on the effect size of taper-induced
performance adaptations
An example of the acute:chronic workload ratio calculation using
weekly rolling averages

11.1
13.1
13.2
13.3
13.4
13.5
13.6
13.7
14.1
14.2
15.1
16.1
17.1
17.2
Practical recommendations for the use of various recovery
interventions
Suggested instructions for the overhead squat assessment
Suggested instructions for the single leg squat assessment
Injury rates by cycle length in marine officers with differing FMS
scores
Operational definitions for the modified LESS sheet
The Landing Error Scoring System (LESS) score sheet for the
modified version of the LESS
Grading criteria for the tuck jump assessment
Proposed gold, silver, and bronze screening packages
Rest interval length to achieve specific training goals
Cluster set rest interval length to achieve specific training goals
Reported relative kinetic variables across power clean derivatives
Examples of common plyometric training exercises
Ground contact times during various angles of change of direction
Example classification of existing change of direction speed and
agility tests

Contributors
 
 
 
 
Rodrigo Aspe
 is the Academic Course Leader for the undergraduate strength
and conditioning programme at the University of Gloucestershire. 
He
obtained an MSc in strength and conditioning from the University of
Edinburgh and is an accredited strength and conditioning coach with the UK
Strength and Conditioning Association (UKSCA). 
His research interests are
very much applied, and he has published articles in the 
Journal of Strength
and Conditioning Research
. 
Prior to academia he worked with Aberdeen
Grammar Rugby in the Scottish BT Premiership and at the north-east satellite
centre for Scottish Hockey. 
He is still an applied coach at the University of
Gloucestershire for the Talented Athlete Scholarship Scheme.
Phill Bell
 is a principal scientist at the GSK Human Performance Lab where
he combines elite athlete scientific support with applied exercise physiology
research. 
In respect of scientific support, Phill has worked with athletes in a
wide range of sports including several Olympians and world champions.
With regards to research, he has authored a number of peer-reviewed journal
articles with particular expertise in modalities to accelerate recovery from
strenuous exercise. 
Prior to joining the GSK Human Performance Lab, Phill
spent time as a lecturer in exercise physiology at Nottingham Trent
University. 
He completed his PhD at Northumbria University in exercise
physiology in 2015, focussing on a nutritional supplement for accelerating
recovery from exercise.
Chris Bishop
 is a Strength and Conditioning Coach at the London Sport
Institute, Middlesex University where he is also the Programme Leader for
the MSc in strength and conditioning. 
Prior to his career in academia, Chris
spent five years as the lead S&C coach for a private physiotherapy company
in the UK where he delivered S&C services predominantly to youth athletes
across a wide range of sports. 
His experiences working with a variety of

athletes alongside medical and healthcare professionals prompted his interest
in movement screening, which he sees as a key method for individualising
athlete program design.
David Bishop
 has 20 years of experience as both a researcher and an applied
sport scientist working with elite athletes. 
In the three years prior to the 2000
Sydney Olympics, he worked with Australian hockey, water polo, netball,
beach volleyball and kayak teams. 
Professor Bishop has also gained
invaluable experience consulting with professional teams such as the
Fremantle Football Club. 
He is the inaugural research leader (sport science)
at ISEAL and oversees world-class research focusing on improving the
sporting performance of individual athletes and teams. 
In particular, he is
internationally renowned for his research concerning team-sport performance,
with a particular focus on repeated-sprint ability (RSA), the optimisation of
training, and the effects of muscle pH on performance and fatigue. 
Professor
Bishop has more than 200 peer-reviewed articles and six book chapters in the
area of human movement and sport science. 
Professor Bishop is also the
former president of Exercise and Sport Science Australia, and assistant editor
of 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise
.
Alex Bliss
, Msc, ASCC, BASES, CSCi is currently a Lecturer in Strength
and Conditioning Science at St Mary’s University, Twickenham. 
He was
previously Senior Sport and Exercise Scientist at the University of Brighton,
managing the Sport and Exercise Science Consultancy Unit. 
He is an
accredited strength and conditioning coach through the UKSCA, a BASES-
accredited physiologist, and chartered scientist through the Science Council.
Alex has coached high-performance athletes in a range of sports, both
professional and amateur. 
He worked as a regional physiologist for six years
for England Athletics, providing athlete laboratory assessment and coach
guidance and support. 
He is currently reading for a PhD in concurrent
training in middle-distance athletes.
Richard Clarke
 is the Academic Course Leader for the undergraduate
strength and conditioning programme at The University of Gloucestershire.
After completing an undergraduate degree in strength and conditioning and
becoming a UKSCA accredited strength and conditioning coach, he
continued at the University of Gloucestershire to study for an MSc in the

topic. 
Prior to his academic role, he worked with Gloucester Rugby and the
Bristol Academy of Sport. 
Rich now acts as a Talented Athlete Scholarship
Scheme Practitioner and also coaches high performing youth athletes through
the Athlete Academy, Gloucester. 
His interests include coaching science,
coach development and speed and agility training.
Emma Cockburn
 is a Lecturer in sport and exercise physiology at
Newcastle University. 
Prior to joining Newcastle University, Emma was a
Senior Lecturer at both Middlesex and Northumbria University. 
She
completed her PhD in sport and exercise physiology in 2010, focussing on
the effect of acute milk-based carbohydrate/protein supplementation on the
attenuation of exercise-induced muscle damage. 
Emma’s research area
focusses on the physiological stress to exercise and the modification of the
acute and chronic response, specifically focussing on nutritional supplements,
and cold and hot water immersion. 
She is currently supervising three PhD
students investigating this area.
Bret Contreras
 received a PhD in sports science from Auckland University
of Technology in New Zealand and a CSCS certification from the NSCA. 
He
is widely regarded to be the world’s foremost authority on glute training. 
He
is the author of 
Bodyweight Strength Training Anatomy
, the co-author of
Strong Curves
, the co-founder of 
Strength & Conditioning Research Review
,
the inventor of Hip Thruster and the founder of Strong by Bret.
Christian Cook
 is a Research Professor in sport performance science at the
University of Canberra Research Institute for Sport and Exercise in Canberra,
Australia, and a technical consultant to the Australian Institute of Sport. 
In
addition, he holds honorary positions at Bangor University, Wales, and
Imperial College London. 
He has worked in elite performance sport for the
last 30 years, including involvement in Rugby World Cups, America’s Cup
yachting and both the summer and winter Olympics.
Tim J. 
Gabbett
 has over 20 years of experience working as an applied sport
scientist with athletes and coaches from a wide range of sports. 
He holds a
PhD in human physiology (2000) and has completed a second PhD in the
‘Applied Science of Professional Football’ (2011), with special reference to
physical demands, injury prevention and skill acquisition. 
Tim has worked
with elite international athletes over several Commonwealth Games and

Olympic Games cycles. 
He continues to work as a coaching and sport science
consultant for several high performance teams around the world. 
Tim has
published over 200 peer-reviewed articles and has presented at more than 200
national and international conferences. 
He is committed to providing ‘real
world’ support for coaches and athletes. 
To contact Tim visit
www.gabbettperformance.com
.
Rob Harley
, Mphil, is a Principal Lecturer in sport and exercise science at
the University of Brighton. 
He worked as a BASES accredited sports scientist
and strength and conditioning coach for over 20 years with the Great Britain
and England basketball teams, the England U21 and U17 netball squads, the
England U19 and U15 cricket squads and the Sussex County cricket team. 
He
is a lifelong runner and won the Beachy Head marathon in 2012. 
He has
developed a variety of strength and conditioning and physiology modules and
is currently developing an MSc in strength and conditioning to run alongside
the University of Brighton’s MSc in applied sport physiology.
Jonathan Hughes
 is the academic course leader for the MSc strength and
conditioning programme at the University of Gloucestershire. 
He is an
accredited strength and conditioning coach (ASCC) with the UKSCA.
Jonathan’s experience covers a variety of sporting backgrounds from rugby
to barefoot water-skiing, and he is currently providing the strength and
conditioning delivery to elite sports scholars at an independent school.
Jonathan’s PhD research focussed on the metabolic changes in muscle
following eccentric training. 
He currently leads a programme of research
investigating the impact of chronic and acute fatigue on injury risk in elite
youth athletes. 
He has published in international peer-reviewed journals and
has presented his work at both national and international conferences.
Pedro Jiménez-Reyes
 is Lecturer at the Faculty of Sport of the Catholic
University of San Antonio (Murcia, Spain). 
He obtained a Track & Field
Coach National Diploma in 2010 and obtained his PhD in high performance
in sport in 2010 at the University of Pablo de Olavide (Seville, Spain). 
Dr
Jiménez-Reyes’s field of research is mainly human exercise and sport
physiology and performance, with application in the field of sport training,
and a specific interest in maximal power movements (sprint, jumps). 
He has
published several peer-reviewed journal articles since 2010. 
He trains elite

athletes and collaborates and plays a consultant role with elite sprinters and
team sports in Spain.
Liam P.
 
Kilduff
 obtained his PhD from the University of Glasgow. 
He has
worked for the last 15 years as an applied researcher in performance science
at Swansea University where his research interests focus mainly on elite
athlete preparation strategies. 
He currently works with a number of summer
and winter Olympic sports along with professional rugby and football teams.
He has published in excess of 100 research papers and also sits on the
editorial board of two sport science related journals. 
He has recently worked
with Sport Wales to establish the Welsh Institute of Performance Science
(WIPS) which aims to further develop sport science in Wales, train future
sport scientists, enhance the application of science in Welsh sports and
increase collaboration between Welsh sport, academia and business.
Professor Kilduff is the director of WIPS and chairs its research steering
group.
John J. 
McMahon
, PhD, CSCS*D, ASCC, PGCAP, FHEA, is a Lecturer in
sports biomechanics and strength and conditioning at the University of
Salford. 
John received is PhD in sports biomechanics from Salford in 2015
following his research into the influence of modulating dynamic muscle-
tendon stiffness on stretch-shortening cycle function. 
John has also been an
accredited strength and conditioning coach with both the National and United
Kingdom Strength and Conditioning Associations since 2010. 
John has co-
authored 35 peer-reviewed journal articles/conference presentations relating
to athletic performance monitoring and development. 
John is currently
researching alternative methods of analysing vertical jump performance to
better inform training priorities and adaptation.
Jean-Benoît Morin
 is Full Professor at the Faculty of Sport Sciences of the
Université Côte d’Azur (Nice, France). 
He obtained a Track & Field Coach
National Diploma in 1998 and obtained his PhD in human locomotion and
performance in 2004 at the University of Saint-Etienne, France. 
Professor
Morin’s field of research is mainly human locomotion and performance, with
specific interest in running biomechanics and maximal power movements
(sprint, jumps). 
He has published over 100 peer-review journal articles since
2002, and collaborates and plays a consultant role with elite sprinters and

team-sports players all over the world.
Sophia Nimphius
, PhD, PCAS-E, ASpS2, CSCS*D, is an Associate
Professor in the School of Medical and Health Sciences at Edith Cowan
University. 
She is the sport science manager at the Hurley Surfing Australia
High Performance Centre and manages high performance services for
Softball Western Australia. 
She is a recognised pro-scheme accredited coach
elite with the Australian Strength and Conditioning Association (ASCA) and
is also a current board member. 
In addition, she is a Level 2 accredited sports
scientist and high performance manager with Exercise and Sports Science
Australia and a certified strength and conditioning specialist with the
National Strength and Conditioning Association.
Mark Russell
 is a Reader in performance nutrition and applied exercise
physiology at Leeds Trinity University. 
Mark’s areas of expertise focus
around applied exercise physiology, sport nutrition and related ergogenic aids
and strength and conditioning. 
Mark’s current research interests focus
primarily on the physiology of intermittent exercise and interventions to
promote improvements in performance in team-sports athletes. 
As a result of
this research, Mark has published over 50 peer-reviewed articles, presented at
international conferences and led multiple industry-funded contract research
projects from inception to completion. 
Mark also works with a range of
professional rugby and football teams and has consulted to AFC
Bournemouth, Newcastle United Football Club, Sunderland Association
Football Club, Welsh National Rugby Union Squad, Wigan Warriors Rugby
League Football Club and Swansea City Association Football Club. 
Mark
was also the National Lead for Applied Exercise Physiology with UK Deaf
Sport between 2010 and 2017 and was responsible for the co-ordination of
the sports science support services for DeaflympicsGB at the 2013 Summer
Deaflympics held in Sofia, Bulgaria.
Christopher J. 
Sole
, PhD, CSCS, is an Assistant Professor of exercise and
sport science at The Citadel, the Military College of South Carolina. 
His
primary research interests include training monitoring, biomechanical
analysis of resistance training exercise, adaptation to strength and power
training and relationships between training, performance and injury in sport.
Dr. 
Sole earned his PhD in sport physiology and performance from East

Tennessee State University.
Perry Stewart
, MSc, ASCC, CSCS, BASES, CSci, is the lead academy
strength and conditioning coach (U9-16) at Arsenal Football Club and a
visiting lecturer at the London Sport Institute, Middlesex University,
delivering on the MSc strength and conditioning programme. 
He is an
accredited strength and conditioning coach with the UK Strength and
Conditioning Association (UKSCA) and National Strength and Conditioning
Association (NSCA). 
Perry is also a BASES accredited sport scientist
chartered through the Science Council. 
Perry consults with the UKSCA as a
project team member and regularly contributes to the 
Strength and
Conditioning Journal
, as well as other journals. 
He was previously head of
academy sport science at Queens Park Rangers football club, and has also
worked within women’s football, youth tennis and with international athletes
from taekwondo, judo, karate, athletics and fencing.
Timothy J. 
Suchomel
, PhD, CSCS*D, USAW-SPC, is an Assistant
Professor in the department of human movement sciences and a strength and
conditioning coach at Carroll University in Waukesha, Wisconsin, USA.
Prior to Carroll University, Dr. 
Suchomel worked as an assistant strength and
conditioning coach and sport scientist during his doctoral work at East
Tennessee State University. 
He is a certified strength and conditioning
specialist with distinction through the National Strength and Conditioning
Association and a certified sports performance coach through USA
Weightlifting.
Natalie Williams
 is a PhD student at Swansea University researching the use
of vascular occlusion for sports performance. 
Natalie’s area of expertise is
applied exercise physiology looking at athlete preparation and recovery for
optimal sports performance. 
Natalie currently provides exercise physiology
support to Welsh Weightlifting and also previously worked with a range of
sports supported by Sport Wales, including cycling, gymnastics and athletics.
Natalie was previously sport science manager for Swim Wales.
Nick Winkelman
 is the Head of Athletic Performance and Science for the
Irish Rugby Football Union. 
Prior to working for Irish Rugby, Dr.
Winkelman was the Director of Education for EXOS (formerly Athletes’
Performance) where he oversaw the development and execution of all

internal and external educational initiatives. 
As a performance coach, Nick
has worked with many athletes within the NFL, MLB, NBA, national sport
organizations and military. 
He also oversaw the speed and assessment
component of the EXOS NFL Draft Development Program, which supports
more than 100 athletes a year preparing for the NFL (American football).

1RM
ADP
AMP
AO
ATP
BASES
C
CC
CHO
CK
CMJ
CNe
COD
CODS
COM
COMP
CSA
CT
CWI
DJs
DLPFC
dm
DRF
EF
EIMD
EMG
EUR
FI
FMS
Abbreviations
 
 
 
 
one repetition maximum
adenosine diphosphate
adenosine monophosphate
antioxidant supplements
adensosine triphosphate
British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences
cortisol
contractile component
carbohydrate
creatine kinase
countermovement jump
critical non-essentials
change of direction
change of direction speed
centre of mass
competition
cross-sectional area
complex training
cold water immersion
drop jumps
dorsolateral prefrontal cortex
dry muscle
decrease in the ratio of force
extrafusal fibers
exercise-induced muscle damage
electromyography/electromyographic/electromyogram
eccentric utilization ratio
fatigue index
Functional Movement Screen

FO
FPPA
FTot
F-v
GAS
GCT
GH
GPT
GRF
GSAC
HB
HF
HIIT
HR
IPC
KP
KR
LESS
LG
LLR
LSD
LSI
LT
LTP
M1
MAE
MAS
MCT
MG
MLR
MLSS
MS
MSFT
mTOR
MTS
MTU
H
+
functional overreaching
frontal plane projection angle
support phase
Force-velocity
general adaptation syndrome
ground contact time
growth hormone
general physical training
ground reaction force
gastrocnemius-soleus-achilles complex
hydrogen ion
haemoglobin
horizontal force
high-intensity interval training
heart rate
ischemic pre-conditioning
knowledge of performance
knowledge of results
Landing Error Scoring System
lateral gastrocnemius
long-latency response
long slow distance running
Limb Symmetry Index
lactate threshold
lactate turnpoint
primary motor cortex
method of amplification of error
maximal aerobic speed
monocarboxylate transport proteins
medial gastrocnemius
medium-latency response
maximal lactate steady state
muscle spindles
Multi-Stage Fitness Test
mammalian target of rapamycin
muscle-tendon stiffness
musculotendinous (muscle-tendon) unit

MVC
MVIC
NFO
OBLA
OT
PAP
PCr
PDH
PEC
PFK
PFPS
PGC-1α
Pmax
PMC
PT
P-v
RE
RF
RFD
RM
ROM
ROS
RPE
RSA
S&C
SEC
SFRA
SJ
SLH
SLR
SLS
SM
SMA
SPPCs
SSC
P
i
maximal voluntary contraction
maximal voluntary isometric contraction
non-functional overreaching
onset blood lactate accumulation
overtraining
post-activation potentiation
phosphocreatine
pyruvate dehydrogenase
parallel elastic component
phosphofructokinase
patella-femoral pain syndrome
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma
coactivator 1-alpha
inorganic phosphate
maximum horizontal external power output
premotor cortex
plyometric training
power-velocity
running economy
ratio of forces
rate of force development
repetition maximum
range of motion
reactive oxygen species
rate of perceived exertion
repeated-sprint ability
strength and conditioning
series elastic component
stimulus-fatigue-recovery-adaptation theory
squat jump
single leg hop
short-latency response
single leg squat
self-motivate
supplementary motor area
strength-power potentiating complexes
stretch-shortening cycle

SSPT
T
TCA
TJA
TL
TWI
v0
VCCF
VEGF
VF
VHS
VL
vOBLA
VPCF
vV̇O
2
 max
WBC
YIRT
V̇O
2
 max
V̇O
2
 peak
sport-specific physical training
testosterone
tricarboxylic acid
tuck jump assessment
training load
thermoneutral water immersion
theoretical maximal force (F0) to the theoretical velocity
cautionary coach feedback
vascular endothelial growth factor
vertical force
Very Heavy Sled
vastus lateralis
maximal oxygen uptake
peak oxygen uptake
velocity at the onset of blood lactate accumulation
positive coach feedback
velocity at V̇O
2
 max
whole body cryotherapy
Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test

CHAPTER 1
Strength and conditioning: Coach
or scientist?
Perry Stewart, Paul Comfort and Anthony
Turner
 
With the growth of professionalism and the significant financial incentives
(television rights, sponsorships, wages, merchandise) associated with elite
sport, it is unsurprising that the demand for scientific support services is on
the increase in many sports. 
One of the disciplines that has experienced such
growth and popularity is strength and conditioning (S&C). 
S&C coaches are
employed through government-funded organizations (national institutes of
sport), educational establishments (schools, colleges and universities),
professional sport clubs, commercial performance facilities and by individual
athletes (Dawson et al., 2013). 
Fundamentally, the role of an S&C coach is to
enhance athleticism and decrease the risk of sports injuries through the
testing, evaluation and prescription of appropriate exercises in close
collaboration with sport coaches, physiotherapists and other relevant
professionals. 
However, despite its growing acceptance within the
interdisciplinary team, S&C coach responsibilities widely vary, which is
poignantly highlighted in job specifications and further complicated by the
different job titles advertised, which have recently included: S&C specialist,
physical preparation coach, movement specialist and performance specialist
to name a few. 
What is known however, is the role of an S&C coach is
multifaceted and that sporting performance in the context of physical
preparation is influenced by much more than simply what an athlete does in
the weight room or on the track/field/court. 
The roles and responsibilities of

1)
today’s S&C coach extending far beyond that of designing and implementing
training programmes.
It is pertinent for all current and aspiring S&C coaches to appreciate the
breadth and depth of knowledge and skills required to effectively work in,
and excel in, the discipline of S&C. 
Arguably the role now is a lot different to
the one carried out as little as 10 years ago, and we must appreciate its
evolution towards a practitioner who is just as much a scientist as a coach.
Therefore, the aim of this introductory chapter is to review the necessary
attributes required to be an effective practitioner within the S&C industry.
This will be achieved by exploring and further exemplifying the facets of
S&C coaching. 
It is the intention that this will in turn set the context and
significance of each chapter that follows, where all these components are
discussed in far greater detail.
THE COACH
It is prudent to start our review at the origin of the role, coaching. 
The role of
a coach, regardless of type (technical, S&C etc.) or sport, is to improve
athletes’ physical, mental and emotional performance, in preparation for
sporting competition (Dorgo, 2009). 
Previous conceptual models of coaching
have emerged from different theoretical perspectives including leadership,
expertise, coach-athlete relationships, motivation and education, highlighting
the complexity of a coach’s role – all of which are important. 
Côté and
Gilbert (2009), define coaching effectiveness as:
The consistent application of integrated professional, interpersonal
and intra-personal knowledge to improve athletes’ competence,
confidence, connection, and character in specific coaching
contexts.
This definition can be better understood when the three components of this
model (knowledge, outcomes and contexts) are considered. 
The coach’s
skills, attitudes and behaviours – collectively referred to as ‘knowledge’ – are
separated into three interrelated categories:
Professional knowledge: Expert knowledge of subject (and sport)

2)
3)
specific theories. 
Within the realm of S&C this is likely to include:
understanding the demands of competition; how to plan and programme
components such as strength, power, speed, and metabolic conditioning;
application of macro, meso and micro-cycles; principles of dynamic
correspondence; how to differentiate training for different populations;
and pedagogical theories.
Interpersonal knowledge: To be successful, coaches have to interact
effectively with their athletes, head and assistant coaches, as well as
parents and other key stakeholders. 
This refers to the soft skills
(sometimes referred to as emotional intelligence) required to identify,
use, understand and manage interactions.
Intrapersonal knowledge: Described as self-awareness and introspection,
the ability of a coach to critically reflect. 
Gilbert and Trudel’s (2002)
research examined good coaches and how they translate experience into
knowledge and skills through reflection. 
In summary, a coach’s ability
to maximize athletes’ outcomes rests not only on extensive professional
and interpersonal knowledge, but also on constant introspection, review
and revision of one’s practice (Côté and Gilbert, 2009).
Traditionally, coaches focus the majority of attention towards developing
professional knowledge. 
Although expert knowledge of the industry and the
sport is essential, it is narrow-minded to assume this component alone will
lead to being an effective coach and having a successful career. 
In fact, it is
the integration of professional knowledge, how well a coach connects with
others (interpersonal skills), and how open they are to continued learning and
self reflection (intrapersonal skills) that will determine how effective and
successful an S&C coach will be.
The second component of effective coaching focuses on ‘athlete
outcomes’, which typically fall into performance gains (successful
performances and player development) and positive psychological responses
(high level of self esteem, intrinsic motivation, enjoyment and satisfaction).
Côté and Gilbert (2009) identified four athlete outcomes, namely:
competence, confidence, connection and character/caring. 
It is believed that
the coach responsible for designing appropriate training conditions can
enhance all of these. 
These are explained in relation to the S&C industry
below:

•
•
•
•
Competence: Enhanced physical capabilities. 
This may include
improving an athlete’s movement proficiency, strength, power, speed
and endurance performance. 
Such qualities are commonly measured and
assessed using field or laboratory based tests. 
However, a vital
consideration for any S&C coach is whether enhanced athletic ability
corresponds to improved sporting performance (which is harder to
objectively measure in the majority of cases).
Confidence: Improved sense of overall positive self-worth. 
A coach and
athlete should agree on achievable objectives and the coach ought to
design programmes that allow the athlete to succeed.
Connection: Facilitating positive bonds and social relationships inside
and outside of sport. 
A coach can encourage communication between
athlete and staff, parents and non-sport peers.
Character: Encouraging moral attributes such as respect, integrity,
empathy and responsibility. 
Encourage athletes to take responsibility for
their own environment, programming and personal standards.
The third and final component of effective coaching is ‘coaching contexts’,
which refers to the unique settings in which coaches work. 
Côté & Gilbert
(2009) describe coaching effectiveness and expertise as context specific, with
three classifications identified: (1) recreational, (2) developmental and (3)
elite sport. 
Further to this, the following situational factors should be
considered: (1) context (individual athlete or team sport, male or female,
senior or youth populations), (2) employment type (full or part time), (3) the
role (senior position or intern) and (4) the employer (amateur/professional
organization, state funded or education). 
The context alters the focus and
attention of the coach and requires a high level of specificity related to
programme design and delivery. 
For example, an S&C coach working with a
developmental team athlete with a low training age will plan, deliver and
evaluate outcomes differently than if working with an elite individual athlete
in a highly demanding performance environment.
SCIENCE OF COACHING
It is still common to hear coaching being referred to as an ‘art’ as opposed to
a science. 
However, there is an emerging body of research surrounding motor

behaviour and skill acquisition, which scientifically underpins the use of
effective communication in coaching. 
The primary emphasis of such research
has been to examine the effects of coaching instructions, cues and feedback
on attentional focus (i.e., the conscious ability to focus attention through
explicit thoughts in an effort to execute a task). 
These studies generally reveal
that communication or cues that focus the athlete’s attention internally on to
bodily movements (e.g. 
extend your knee and ankle) evoke different results
to those that cause the athlete to have an external focus (e.g. 
explode off the
ground like a rocket). 
In general, providing external attentional focus results
in increased ability to learn (Wulf et al., 2002), greater retention of
information (Wulf, 2007) and enhanced ability to perform tasks under
pressure (Bell and Hardy, 2009). 
In addition to motor learning outcomes,
external focus instructions and cues can have positive effects on
neuromuscular, physiological and psychophysical outcomes (Benz et al.,
2016). 
Therefore, subtle differences in the way a coach communicates
instructions and feedback noticeably impact the athlete’s performance, in
both the short and long term. 
Such research provides evidence that coaching
is not only an art, but embodies scientific principles, giving the term coaching
science legitimacy within the coaching community.
THE SCIENTIST
It is clear from criteria detailed in job specifications that the responsibilities
of an S&C coach have evolved to include roles from other sport science
disciplines. 
Before exploring the application of sport science we consider the
definition of science:
Science is the “pursuit and application of knowledge and
understanding, following systematic methodologies based on
evidence”
(
sciencecouncil.org
)
Therefore, sport science can be thought of as a scientific process used to
guide the practice of sport with the ultimate aim of improving sporting
performance (Bishop et al., 2006). 
The British Association of Sport and
Exercise Sciences (BASES) recognizes that the application of scientific
principles in sport is principally achieved through one of the three branches

of science: biomechanics, physiology and psychology (see 
Table 1.1
). 
The
importance of nutrition in sport and exercise science is evident and now
recognized as an integral role within the interdisciplinary team, hence its
inclusion in this chapter. 
The discipline of S&C is fundamentally engrained
in sport science with, for example, the knowledge of programming being
underpinned by the understanding of how the anatomy will adapt
(physiology), how changing exercise technique can impact the kinetic chain
and joint loading (biomechanics), goal setting and motivation (psychology)
and advising an athlete what and when to eat to maximize performance or
recovery (nutrition). 
However, in addition to the underpinning knowledge
that allows S&C professionals to perform their primary role, coaches are
progressively being expected to perform postural, gait and movement
screening, testing using laboratory based equipment (e.g. 
force plates,
isokinetic dynamometry, body composition analysis) and monitoring of
physical and physiological responses (e.g. 
vertical jumps, heart rate, position
[via GPS], rating of perceived exertion [RPE], subjective questionnaires,
blood and saliva analyses).
TABLE 1.1
 The definition and correspondence of scientific area to the roles of a typical
S&C coach
 (
http://www.bases.org.uk/About-Sport-And-Exercise-Science
)
Definition
Relation to S&C
Biomechanics
An examination of the causes and
consequences of human
movement
– Movement analysis
– Athlete performance
testing/profiling
– Monitoring external training
responses
Physiology
An examination of the way the
body responds to exercise and
training
– Athlete performance
testing/profiling
– Monitoring internal training
responses
– Recovery modalities
Psychology
An examination of human
behavior within exercise science
– Profiling
– Monitoring (questionnaires,
e.g., POMS)
– Goal setting
Nutrition
An examination and practice of
nutrition to enhance wellbeing and
– Fueling
– Hydration

athletic performance
– Supplementation
While the availability of sport science support is increasing, funding to
provide such specialist support is still relatively limited for many sports (Reid
et al., 2004) and is often reserved for the elite and wealthy organizations.
Although it should be noted that it is not suggested that S&C coaches will or
should fill the roles of biomechanists, physiologists, psychologists or
nutritionists, S&C coaches are expected to have a working understanding of,
or at times even embrace the role of these professions. 
In effect, the role of an
S&C coach is similar to that of an interdisciplinary sport and exercise
scientist who attempts to utilize and integrate more than one area of sport
science to solve real world problems (Burwitz et al., 1994). 
With the majority
of S&C coaches holding a minimum of an undergraduate level degree in an
exercise science discipline such as sport and exercise science (Hartshorn et
al., 2016), it is perhaps unsurprising as to why the professional S&C coach is
expected to absorb these roles. 
It is also hard to say whether these growing
responsibilities were academia led (noting that degrees in S&C teach would-
be coaches these skills as though they are required to succeed), or a reflection
of the economic status of the organization.
In addition to having sound professional knowledge of a broad range of
scientific areas and their practical application, the S&C coach is commonly
expected to perform data analysis. 
Due to the evidence-based environments
in which S&C coaches work, the ability to run statistical analyses using
appropriate platforms (Excel, SPSS, etc.), is becoming increasingly
important. 
Such skills enable the S&C coach to identify the success or failure
of an intervention, to recognize 
meaningful
 changes and trends and that
ultimately inform best practice. 
Furthermore, this information must be
interpreted, filtered and communicated to technical coaches, support staff,
athletes and parents in a way that is relevant and meaningful. 
This requires
the S&C coach to firstly, be competent at completing the required analysis
and secondly, have adequate interpersonal knowledge to communicate the
results within the correct sporting context.
PERFORMANCE LIFESTYLE: NON-CONTACT

COACHING
Since the dawn of professionalization in elite sport, and the subsequent
increased commercial attention and financial incentives (for both athlete and
organization), performance outcomes (success of team/individual, win/loss
ratio, player development) have become of paramount importance. 
Nurturing
an athlete is now far detached from the traditional ideology that the individual
need only focus on technical/tactical refinement and physical enhancement,
all of which can be achieved during training sessions. 
It is now expected that
professionals such as S&C coaches influence lifestyle through the education
of athletes to capitalize on the non-contact hours that were once unaccounted
for; in essence, there is now a need for non-contact coaching. 
A term that
embraces this concept is ‘marginal gains’, which was coined and popularized
by Sir Dave Brailsford who experienced great success as the performance
director of GB Cycling at the 2012 Olympics. 
Marginal gains refer to the
aggregation of a number of small gains that result in a large gain in overall
performance. 
Brailsford sums it up as 
“
put simply… how small
improvements in a number of different aspects of what we do can have a
huge impact on the performance of the team
”
 (Slater, 2012). 
Clive
Woodward describes using a similar concept when leading the England
Rugby team to World Cup victory in 2003. 
Woodward employed a strategy
of improving ‘critical non-essentials’ (CNe). 
This approach focused on
improving the small details of everything in the preparation and playing of
the team. 
It is worth noting, however, that many athletes need to focus on the
development of the basics first, and that such approaches as those mentioned
above should be used with highly developed athletes only.
Although many of the approaches used within elite sport are outside the
control of S&C coaches (for example, development of technology,
organizational culture, competition schedule, travel arrangements, etc.), many
alterations to daily lifestyle can be prescribed or controlled, these may
include: recovery modalities, sleep hygiene, strategies to reduce risk of
infection, ergonomics of equipment and travel, dealing with travelling across
time zones, etc. 
All of the aforementioned are concepts rooted in scientific
rationale and are designed and implemented to gain small advantages. 
The
S&C coach must now be constantly investigating ways to improve physical
outcomes, positive psychology, training environment and performance
lifestyle for athletes to truly gain a competitive edge. 
However, although

•
•
•
•
slight advantages can be achieved via small modifications, these are only
meaningful if the S&C coach has successfully implemented key concepts,
such as appropriate analysis, planning, coaching, monitoring and recovery.
CONSIDERATIONS FOR A MODERN DAY S&C
COACH
An S&C coach must consider a multitude of factors before commencing a
working relationship with an athlete. 
Crudely, these can be categorized into:
analysis, planning, coaching, monitoring and recovery (before returning back
to analysis) (see 
Figure 1.1
). 
Below is a non-exhaustive list of some of the
elements that may need to be considered when working with athletes:
Analysis (& re-analysis)
Athlete Background/Objective:
 short, medium, long term objectives?
How to monitor success or failure? 
Injury history? 
Training age?
Biological age? 
Preferences?
Sport/Competition Demands:
 How many games/tournaments? 
Priority
games/tournaments? 
How long is the season? 
Travel demands? 
Physical
demands (how far and fast, etc.)? 
Injury prevalence within
sport/population, including common mechanisms of injury?
Postural and Movement Screening:
 What type of movement screen? 
For
what reason are you screening? 
What are the movement dysfunctions?
What drives movement dysfunction? 
Implications on transfer of force
through the kinetic chain and injury prevalence?
Physical Performance Testing:
 Determining successful athletic factors
in the sport? 
Strength/power/speed/agility/endurance tests? 
Laboratory
or field based testing? 
Reliability? 
Validity of test? 
How to interpret and
present results?

FIGURE 1.1
•
•
•
•
•
Considerations for a modern day S&C coach before commencing a
working relationship with an athlete.
Planning (within context)
Periodization:
 Linear or non-linear? 
How to structure macro, meso and
micro cycles? 
Knowing when to overload and when to taper and when
to rest? 
How to structure technical sessions?
Exercise Programming:
 Training methods? 
Associated adaptations?
Exercise selection? 
Exercise sequence (concurrent or single stimulus)?
Prescription of training loads?
Rehabilitation/Prehabilitation:
 Methods and exercises to tackle high
risk groups/muscles/joints? 
When to apply prehabilitation strategies?
Return to play/competition strategies? 
Remedial/preparatory exercise?
Non-Contact Coaching:
 Nutritional guidance? 
Sleep hygiene? 
Strategies
to reduce the risk of infection? 
How to prepare for different time zones,
climates, surfaces?
Coaching
Professional Knowledge:
 How to apply fundamental training principles?

•
•
•
•
•
Dynamic correspondence of training? 
Understanding of
sport/competition rules, regulations and physical demands? 
Knowledge
of skill acquisition and pedagogical theory? 
Which method of training
and coaching style induces optimal physical and psychological response
(might be different at different times)?
Interpersonal Knowledge:
 How do you communicate with athletes,
coaches and other stakeholders? 
Awareness of verbal cues (internal vs.
external) and non-verbal communication? 
How do athletes best retain
information? 
Are you able to adapt the programme in relation to how the
athlete is feeling?
Intrapersonal Knowledge:
 Do you evaluate sessions? 
How do you
evaluate? 
Does it inform future practice? 
Open and willing to try new
ideas?
Confidence, Connection, Character:
 Do you understand what motivates
your athlete/s? 
How to install confidence? 
How to be a role model and
leader? 
How can you install good habits that transfer into wider society?
How to create a performance environment?
Monitoring
Monitor training load (TL) and responses to TL:
 Internal methods?
External methods? 
Methods to assess response to training? 
Performance
tests? 
Physiological markers? 
Psychological assessments? 
Wellbeing?
Are the metrics/markers/questions sensitive enough to detect meaningful
changes? 
Determining differences between functional overreaching
(FO), non-functional overreaching (NFO), overtraining (OT)? 
Data
analysis – reliability? 
Validity? 
Statistical significance/meaningful
changes (magnitude based inferences)? 
What, how and who to report the
information? 
What actions are required as a result?
Recovery
Do we need to use recovery strategies at this point? 
What is the aim of
recovery strategy? 
What are the best strategies? 
When to apply? 
Should
everyone use the same recovery strategy? 
Are they proactively planned
or reactive to environment? 
Physiological and psycho-social response?

(Return to analysis.)
CONCLUSION
S&C is a relatively new support service within the interdisciplinary team in
elite sport. 
It is clear that the role of an S&C professional is multifaceted (see
Figure 1.2
) and fundamentally requires effective attitudes, behaviours and
skills of coaching and the understanding and application of various sport
science disciplines to be successful. 
Kraemer (1990) recognizes additional
skills such as organization, administration, athlete motivation, education and
public relations as integral to the role. 
Although traditionally a coach may
value professional knowledge above all else, high levels of interpersonal
knowledge within sport-specific contexts is essential to be able to constantly
interact with athletes, coaches, support staff and other stakeholders. 
In an era
where millions of pounds are at stake and the difference between being on
and off the podium are separated by mere fractions of a second, a largely
evidence-based culture has evolved. 
S&C coaches must analyse, interpret and
influence decision-making using facts and figures, as hunches or instincts are
becoming increasingly more difficult to justify to technical coaches and
managers, and can rarely promote change when change is needed. 
Thus in
summary, the discipline of S&C requires the individual to be both an
effective coach and an interdisciplinary sport scientist. 
These required skill
sets should be embraced and seen as essential if the S&C coach is to truly
excel. 
Therefore, due to the breadth and depth of knowledge and skills
required, it may be suggested that S&C coaches should strive to be excellent
‘generalists’ and only consider being a ‘specialist’ once the basics have been
mastered. 
The following chapters provide a greater in-depth analysis of these
areas and are an important part of appreciating the role of the modern day
S&C coach. 
These chapters will be principally structured into two sections:
(1) an objective and concise review of pertinent literature in the specific
subject area, and (2) a discussion (including applied examples) of context-
specific practical applications.

FIGURE 1.2
The multi-faceted nature of strength and conditioning.
REFERENCES
Bell, J.J. 
and Hardy, J., 2009. 
Effects of attentional focus on skilled performance in golf.
Journal of Applied Sport Psychology
, 
21
(2), pp. 
163–177.
Benz, A., Winkelman, N., Porter, J. 
and Nimphius, S., 2016. 
Coaching instructions and
cues for enhancing sprint performance. 
Strength & Conditioning Journal
, 
38
(1), pp. 
1–
11.
Bishop, D., Burnett, A., Farrow, D., Gabbett, T. 
and Newton, R., 2006. 
Sports-science
roundtable: does sports-science research influence practice? 
International Journal of
Sports Physiology and Performance
, 
1
(2), pp. 
161–168.
Burwitz, L., Moore, P.M. 
and Wilkinson, D.M., 1994. 
Future directions for performance –
related sports science research: An interdisciplinary approach. 
Journal of Sports
Sciences
, 
12
(1), pp. 
93–109.
Côté, J. 
and Gilbert, W., 2009. 
An integrative definition of coaching effectiveness and
expertise. 
International Journal of Sports Science & Coaching
, 
4
(3), pp. 
307–323.
Dawson, A.J., Leonard, Z.M., Wehner, K.A. 
and Gastin, P.B., 2013. 
Building without a
plan: The career experiences of Australian strength and conditioning coaches. 
The
Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 
27
(5), pp. 
1423–1434.
Dorgo, S., 2009. 
Unfolding the practical knowledge of an expert strength and conditioning
coach. 
International Journal of Sports Science & Coaching
, 
4
(1), pp. 
17–30.
Gilbert, W.D. 
and Trudel, P., 2002. 
Learning to coach through experience: Reflection in
model youth sport coaches. 
Journal of Teaching in Physical Education
, 
21
(1), pp. 
16–
34.
Hartshorn, M.D., Read, P.J., Bishop, C. 
and Turner, A.N., 2016. 
Profile of a strength and
conditioning coach: Backgrounds, duties, and perceptions. 
Strength & Conditioning

Journal
, 
38
(6), pp. 
89–94. 
http://www.bases.org.uk/About-Sport-and-Exercise-Science
Kraemer, W. 
J. 
1990. 
A fundamental skill of the profession. 
National Strength &
Conditioning Journal
, 
12
(6), pp. 
72–73.
Reid, C., Stewart, E. 
and Thorne, G., 2004. 
Multidisciplinary sport science teams in elite
sport: Comprehensive servicing or conflict and confusion? 
The Sport Psychologist
,
18
(2), pp. 
204–217.
Slater, S., 
Olympics cycling: marginal gains underpin Team GB dominance
.
www.BBC.com
, 8 August 2012. 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/olympics/19174302
Wulf, G., 2007. 
Internal versus external focus instructions. 
In: Wulf, G., 2007. 
Attention
and Motor Skill Learning
. 
Human Kinetics: Champaign, IL, pp. 
35–81.
Wulf, G., McConnel, N., Gärtner, M. 
and Schwarz, A., 2002. 
Enhancing the learning of
sport skills through external-focus feedback. 
Journal of Motor Behaviour
, 
34
(2), pp.
171–182.

PART 1
Developing your athlete

CHAPTER 2
Developing muscular strength and
power
Timothy J. 
Suchomel and Paul Comfort
 
 
INTRODUCTION
This chapter discusses the importance of muscular strength and power with
regard to sport performance, physiological underpinnings, and various
methods of improving these qualities in athletes. 
While basic concepts of
periodisation and programming for improving strength and power
characteristics will be mentioned within this chapter, more thorough
discussions can be found in 
Chapter 8
, as well as Bompa and Haff (2009),
DeWeese et al. 
(2015a, 2015b), and Stone et al. 
(1982).

SECTION 1
THE IMPORTANCE OF MUSCULAR STRENGTH
AND POWER FOR ATHLETES
Muscular strength is defined as the ability to exert force on an external
resistance (Stone, 1993). 
Based on the demands of a sport/event, an athlete
may have to manipulate their own body mass against gravity (e.g. 
sprinting,
gymnastics, etc.), both their body mass and an opponent’s body mass (e.g.
rugby, wrestling, etc.), or an external object (e.g. 
soccer, weightlifting, etc.).
Ultimately, the force exerted will change or tend to change the motion of a
body in space. 
This concept is based on Newton’s second law (i.e. 
law of
acceleration) whereby force (f) is equal to the product of mass (m) and
acceleration (a) (f = ma). 
Based on this principle, the acceleration of a given
mass is directly proportional, and in the same direction of, the force applied.
Thus, it appears that muscular strength is the primary factor for producing an
effective and efficient movement of an athlete’s body or an external object.
This concept has been supported throughout the literature as muscular
strength has been correlated to greater rate of force development (RFD),
power, jumping, sprinting, change of direction, sport-specific skills, and
postactivation potentiation (PAP) magnitude (Suchomel et al., 2016b).
Previous literature indicated that both RFD and power output are two of
the most important characteristics regarding an athlete’s performance (Baker,
2001b; Stone et al., 2002; Morrissey et al., 1995). 
Given that muscular
strength serves as the foundation upon which other abilities can be enhanced,
it should come as no surprise that greater magnitudes of RFD and power
output are by-products of increased strength.
Rate of force development
Rate of force development may be defined as the change in force divided by
the change in time. 
Regarding sport performance, the ability to rapidly
produce force is critical given the time constraints of various tasks. 
This

notion is supported by evidence that suggests that it takes individuals a longer
period of time (>300ms) to produce their maximum force (Aagaard et al.,
2002a; Aagaard, 2003) compared to the duration of jumping and ground
contact time during sprinting (Andersen and Aagaard, 2006). 
As mentioned
above, increases in muscular strength enhance an athlete’s ability to increase
their force magnitude and RFD. 
Previous research has demonstrated that
resistance training may enhance an athlete’s RFD characteristics, which may
lead to improved performance (Aagaard et al., 2002a; Andersen et al., 2010;
Häkkinen et al., 1985). 
A recent review provided evidence that RFD, along
with greater muscular strength, may underpin the development of greater
power output (Taber et al., 2016) (
Figure 2.1
).
Power output
As mentioned above, alongside RFD, power output is considered to be one of
the most important characteristics regarding an athlete’s performance. 
Power
output may be defined as the rate of work performed. 
Any given sport task
requires the completion of a given amount of mechanical work. 
While the
work performed is important, athletes have limited time to perform these
tasks and thus it would seem beneficial to complete the work as fast as
possible. 
For example, an athlete who completes the required work of a given
task more quickly may be given a competitive edge compared to their
opponent (e.g. 
rebound in basketball) or may win the overall competition
(e.g. 
100m sprint). 
Previous research has indicated that power output differs
between the playing level of athletes (Fry and Kraemer, 1991; Baker, 2001a;
Hansen et al., 2011) and between starters and non-starters in various sports
(Young et al., 2005; Fry and Kraemer, 1991; Gabbett, 2009). 
Further research
has noted strong relationships between power output and performance
characteristics such as sprinting (Weyand et al., 2010; Weyand et al., 2000),
jumping (Hori et al., 2008; Newton et al., 1999), change of direction
(Nimphius et al., 2010; Spiteri et al., 2012), and throwing velocity (McEvoy
and Newton, 1998; Marques et al., 2011). 
Given the importance of power
output to an athlete’s success, many strength and conditioning practitioners
have sought to improve these qualities through various training strategies.
Common training strategies that have been used to enhance power output will
be discussed in second half of this chapter.

MORPHOLOGICAL FACTORS AFFECTING
STRENGTH AND POWER
Cross-sectional area
Previous literature has indicated that an increase in an athlete’s muscle cross-
sectional area (CSA) and work capacity (i.e. 
force production capacity) may
lead to an enhanced ability to increase their muscular strength (Minetti, 2002;
Zamparo et al., 2002; Stone et al., 1982). 
Typically, this is achieved via a
resistance training phase that includes a high volume of work completed with
moderate to moderately high intensities (60–80% 1RM). 
Greater detail will
be provided in second half of this chapter.

FIGURE 2.1
Comparison of force, power, RFD and movement time between stronger
and weaker athletes during a countermovement jump.
An increase in muscle fibre CSA results in an increased size of the overall
muscle (hypertrophy). 
From a physiological perspective, increases in muscle

FIGURE 2.2
CSA lead to improved force production due to an increased number of newly
formed sarcomeres. 
Simply put, an increase in the number of sarcomeres (i.e.
smallest contractile unit within muscle cell) increases the number of potential
interactions between actin and myosin microfilaments (i.e. 
cross-bridges)
which ultimately increases the force a muscle can produce. 
This is supported
by research from Kawakami et al. 
(1993) which indicated that muscle fibre
pennation angles are greater in hypertrophied muscles. 
A greater pennation
angle permits a greater number of cross-bridge interactions to occur within a
given area of the muscle, due to the packing of muscle fascicles within the
area (
Figure 2.2
).
Medial gastrocnemius (MG) fascicle length (dashed line) and MG
pennation angle (
θ
), as measured between the superficial (A) and deep (B)
MG aponeuroses.
Another influence on the CSA of muscle fibres is the ratio of Type II:I
fibres. 
Previous research indicated that an increased CSA following
resistance training coincided with a greater Type II:I ratio due to a greater
rate of hypertrophy of Type II muscle fibres compared to Type I fibres
(Campos et al., 2002). 
Additional research noted that a greater percent change
in Type II:I ratio following eight weeks of resistance training strongly
correlated with the percent change of squat jump power (Häkkinen et al.,
1981). 
Thus, it appears that an increased CSA coinciding with a greater Type
II:I ratio may increase the ability to generate power by altering the force-
velocity characteristics of the muscle. 
However, it should be noted that the
training modality will greatly impact which motor units will be recruited and

FIGURE 2.3
FIGURE 2.4
thus affect which muscle fibres (e.g. 
Type I, IIa, IIx) adapt to the training
stimulus.
The training modality may also affect how additional sarcomeres are
added. 
For example, high force training (i.e. 
resistance training) may result in
increases in a muscle’s CSA by adding sarcomeres in parallel (
Figure 2.3
),
which may increase the overall force produced by the muscle given that each
sarcomere acts independently. 
In contrast, high velocity training, e.g.,
plyometrics (discussed in detail in 
Chapter 16
), may add sarcomeres in series
(
Figure 2.4
), which may increase shortening velocity at the expense of force
production given that the sarcomeres in series pull against each other. 
This
concept is important to consider given the demands of athletes in various
sports.
Four sarcomeres in parallel.
 Adapted from Stone et al. 
(2007).
Four sarcomeres in series.
 Adapted from Stone et al. 
(2007).
Muscle architecture
While the overall size of the muscle may affect the magnitude of force
produced, additional muscle architecture characteristics may affect muscle
tension. 
A muscle’s pennation angle may be defined as the angle in which the
fascicles (i.e. 
bundle of muscle fibres) attach to the superficial or deep
aponeurosis (
Figure 2.2
). 
The muscle’s pennation angle will determine the

force-velocity characteristics of the muscle. 
For example, a greater pennation
angle will allow the muscle to place a greater emphasis on force due to the
ability to pack more muscle fascicles into a given area, leading to a greater
number of cross-bridge interactions and enhanced force production (Huxley,
1974). 
In contrast, a smaller pennation angle will place a greater emphasis on
velocity due to the position of the fascicles being more parallel in relation to
the muscle’s aponeuroses, leading to a greater shortening velocity due to the
combined shortening of sarcomeres across the area of the muscle belly.
A number of studies have assessed longitudinal changes in muscle
architecture (i.e. 
muscle thickness, pennation angle, and fascicle length)
following various resistance training programs, illustrating that changes in
muscle architecture may affect performance outcomes. 
For example,
Nimphius et al. 
(2012) indicated that moderate increases in fascicle length
following resistance training were strongly correlated with sprint times to
first and second base from home plate in elite softball players. 
Additional
research observed increases in muscle thickness and pennation angles
following heavy strength training (Aagaard et al., 2001; Kawakami et al.,
1995). 
Such adaptations may be favorable when it comes to producing
greater overall magnitudes of force within the muscle. 
Further research
indicated that training with relatively high velocity muscle actions and lighter
loads (<60% 1RM) may produce increases in fascicle length with no changes
in pennation angle (Blazevich et al., 2003; Alegre et al., 2006). 
From a
practical standpoint, architectural changes of this nature may increase the
overall shortening velocity of the muscle, likely leading to greater increases
in power output. 
Based on previous literature, it appears that muscle
architectural changes may be specific to the muscle actions performed (
Table
2.1
). 
Additional research comparing eccentric and concentric muscle action
training supports this notion (Franchi et al., 2014; Blazevich et al., 2007).
TABLE 2.1
 
Architectural adaptations in response to different training stimuli

Notes:
 CSA = cross-sectional area, ↑ = increase, ↓ = decrease, – = minimal change
It should be noted that the changes in muscle size and pennation angle
may not be uniform throughout an entire muscle belly (Ema et al., 2013;
Wells et al., 2014). 
Given the demands of various sport tasks, non-uniform
hypertrophy may result in greater growth proximally or distally depending on
the activation of musculature during training (Wakahara et al., 2012). 
For
example, the quadriceps muscles of track and field sprinters may hypertrophy
more proximally than track cyclists due to the lower limb mechanics
required. 
This idea becomes important when selecting exercises with the
intent of increasing the probability that training-induced adaptations will
transfer to an athlete’s performance.
NEUROMUSCULAR FACTORS AFFECTING
STRENGTH AND POWER
Motor unit recruitment
A motor unit may be defined as an alpha motor neuron and all of the muscle
fibres it innervates. 
The magnitude and rate of force produced coincides with
the number and type of motor units recruited. 
Classic work from Henneman
and colleagues (1965) indicates that motor units are recruited in a sequenced
manner based on their size (Henneman’s size principle). 
Motor units are
recruited in order from smallest to largest based on the neuromuscular
requirements of the activity. 
For example, smaller motor units that include
slow-twitch Type I fibres are recruited at low force magnitudes and are
followed by larger motor units that include fast-twitch Type IIa and IIx fibres

if higher force and rate of force magnitudes are required. 
While the size
principle appears to hold true during slow, graded actions as well as isometric
(Milner-Brown and Stein, 1975) and ballistic actions (Desmedt and Godaux,
1977; Desmedt and Godaux, 1978), it should be noted that motor unit
recruitment thresholds may be lowered during ballistic-type movements due
to a greater RFD demand (van Cutsem et al., 1998). 
Thus, the ability to
recruit high-threshold motor units during training would be beneficial to the
improvement of muscular strength, RFD, and power.
In order for a motor unit to be trained, it must be recruited. 
As mentioned
above, the nature of the activity will directly affect what motor units are
recruited and how they will respond to training. 
For example, a distance
runner repeatedly recruits low-threshold, slow fatiguing (Type I) motor units
due to the low-moderate forces that are produced during each stride. 
Due to
the nature of the task, high-threshold (Type II) motor units may not need to
be recruited until the Type I motor units fatigue and additional force
production is needed to sustain the activity. 
In contrast, weightlifters
performing the snatch require high magnitudes and rates of force production
during a task that lasts less than five seconds. 
In this case, both low- and
high-threshold motor units are recruited due to the order of recruitment.
However, it would appear that the preferential recruitment of high-threshold
motor units would be beneficial for the weightlifter in order to enhance
muscular power (Duchateau and Hainaut, 2003; Kraemer et al., 1996).
Seminal work by van Cutsem et al. 
(1998) demonstrated that while the
orderly recruitment of motor units existed during both slow, ramp, and
ballistic actions following ballistic-type training, motor units were recruited
at lower force thresholds. 
From a practical standpoint, it would appear that
training modalities that are ballistic in nature will allow recruitment of larger,
Type II motor units at lower thresholds, thus allowing for positive strength
and power adaptations to occur.
Firing frequency (rate coding)
Firing frequency may be defined as the frequency at which neural impulses
are transmitted from the α-motoneuron to the muscle fibres of recruited motor
units. 
Following the recruitment of specific motor units, force production
properties may be modified in two ways by the firing frequency. 
Previous

literature suggests that force production magnitude may increase upwards to
300–1500% when the firing frequency of recruited motor units increases
from its minimum to its maximum (Enoka, 1995). 
In addition, RFD may be
impacted by the firing frequency of motor units due to high initial firing
frequencies being linked to an increase in doublet discharges (i.e. 
two
consecutive motor unit discharges in ≤ 5ms) (van Cutsem et al., 1998). 
Both
the increase in magnitude and RFD as the result of an increased firing
frequency may ultimately contribute positive strength and power adaptations.
Practically speaking, certain training modalities may lead to improvements in
the firing frequency of recruited motor units. 
Previous research has
demonstrated that ballistic-type training may enhance motor unit firing
frequency within 12 weeks (van Cutsem et al., 1998). 
Additional literature
suggests that other ballistic training modalities such as weightlifting
movements (Leong et al., 1999) and sprinting (Saplinskas et al., 1980) may
enhance motor unit firing frequency, leading to enhanced strength-power
characteristics.
Motor unit synchronisation
Motor unit synchronisation refers to the simultaneous activation of two or
more motor units resulting in increased force production. 
While the
physiological underpinnings are not fully understood, some literature
indicates that motor unit synchronisation is more related to RFD compared to
the magnitude of force produced (Semmler, 2002). 
Milner-Brown and Stein
(1975) indicated that six weeks of strength training led to an increase in
motor unit synchronisation. 
Another study indicated that the motor unit
synchronisation strength was the largest in the dominant and non-dominant
hands of the weightlifters compared to musicians and untrained individuals
(Semmler and Nordstrom, 1998). 
Although van Cutsem et al. 
(1998) found
that motor unit synchronisation did not appear to change following ballistic-
type training, another study indicated that motor unit synchronisation was
enhanced during tasks that require movement, especially those involving
rapid muscle actions (Semmler et al., 2000). 
Finally, Aagaard et al. 
(2000)
suggested that heavy strength training may result in an increase in motor unit
synchronisation, possibly contributing to force production.

Neuromuscular inhibition
Neuromuscular inhibition, which refers to a reduction in the voluntary neural
drive of a given muscle group during voluntary muscle actions, may
negatively affect force production due to neural feedback received from
muscle and joint receptors (Gabriel et al., 2006). 
Undoubtedly, neural
mechanisms that negatively affect the development of force and power may
alter potential adaptations. 
However, Aagaard et al. 
(2000) indicated that
heavy strength training may down-regulate Ib afferent feedback to the spinal
motoneuron pool, ultimately reducing neuromuscular inhibition and
increasing force production. 
Additional studies reported an enhanced neural
drive from the spinal and supraspinal levels following strength training that
coincided with a decrease in neuromuscular inhibition (Aagaard et al., 2002b)
and enhanced RFD (Aagaard et al., 2002a). 
Taking the above into account,
heavy resistance training may lead to an enhanced neural drive, increased
RFD, and decreased neuromuscular inhibition, leading to potential
enhancements in the strength-power characteristics of athletes.

SECTION 2
TRAINING CONSIDERATIONS FOR IMPROVING
MUSCULAR STRENGTH AND POWER
In addition to understanding the physiological underpinnings that affect both
strength and power, practitioners must select a periodisation model, exercises
and/or training modalities, the movement intent (i.e. 
ballistic or non-ballistic),
and loads for each exercise, all while implementing each factor in a
sequenced progression. 
Moreover, the athlete’s training status must be
considered as certain training methods may be more appropriate for those
who are more/less well trained. 
Readers are directed to Cormie et al. 
(2011)
for an additional review on developing neuromuscular power.
PERIODISATION MODEL
An abundance of periodisation models exist within the strength and
conditioning field. 
Much of the extant literature supports the notion that
block periodisation may provide superior results compared to other models,
as discussed by DeWeese and colleagues (2015a). 
This model is based on the
idea that a concentrated load may be used to train one specific characteristic
during each training phase, while maintaining the previously developed
characteristic(s) (
Figure 2.5
). 
This appears to be advantageous considering
that previous literature has indicated that it may be difficult, and potentially
less productive, to develop multiple physiological characteristics or motor
abilities simultaneously (Stone et al., 2007; Issurin, 2010; Issurin, 2008). 
It
should be noted that other models of periodisation may still provide an
effective blueprint for developing an athlete’s strength-power characteristics
(e.g. 
traditional, daily undulating, etc.). 
However, further research between
periodisation models with different athletic populations is still needed to
determine their effectiveness. 
Chapter 8
 will discuss the concept of
periodisation and the effectiveness of various periodisation models for
athletic performance in greater detail.

FIGURE 2.5
Example emphasis change during a periodised training programme (phase
potentiation).
RESISTANCE TRAINING MODALITIES
The type of training modality may provide a vastly different stimulus that
may affect gains in muscle CSA, strength, or power. 
As discussed in
Chapters 8
 and 
15
, the training mode and exercises should be selected based
on their ability to achieve the goals of each training phase. 
For example,
exercises may be selected based on their power characteristics. 
Because
power is the product of force and velocity, certain exercises may emphasise
one or both characteristics. 
Simply put, FORCE 
•
 velocity, force 
•
VELOCITY, or FORCE 
•
 VELOCITY are all combinations of exercise types
used in training. 
Table 2.2
 displays relative power outputs (W.kg-
1
) of a
variety of exercises discussed within the literature. 
The following paragraphs

discuss various forms of resistance training and their effectiveness at
developing muscular strength and power.
TABLE 2.2
 
Relative power outputs for male athletes during various exercises
Exercise
Relative power
outputs; male
(W·kg-
1
)
Force-velocity
characteristics
Clean
33–80
Hang power clean
22–47
Jerk
44–80
High force and
high velocity
movements
Jerk drive
28–56
Power clean
25–80
Snatch
34–80
Clean pull from floor
33–80
Hang high pull
47–54
Moderate–high
force and
moderate–high
velocity
movements
Jump shrug
57–70
Mid–thigh clean pull from dead stop
35–67
Mid–thigh snatch pull from dead stop
35–48
Snatch pull from floor
30–80
Countermovement jump squat
64–75
Low force and
high velocity
movements
Static jump squat
58–69
Bench press
0.3–8.3
High force and
low velocity
movements
Deadlift
11–13
Squat
11–30
Notes:
 The relative power outputs displayed may vary based on the level of the athlete,
load lifted, technical efficiency of the athlete, and method used to quantify power output.
The data presented represent the ranges of averages across various loads within the
literature. 
Adapted from Comfort et al. 
(2012; 2015), Cormie et al. 
(2008), Driss et al.
(2001), Garhammer (1980; 1985; 1991; 1993), Haff et al. 
(1997; 2001; 2012; 2015),
Kawamori et al. 
(2005), McBride et al. 
(1999), Stone et al. 
(2008), Suchomel et al. 
(2013;
2014; 2015), and Thompson et al. 
(2010).

Bodyweight exercise
Bodyweight exercise is one of the most basic forms of resistance training that
has been used for decades. 
Some of the most common bodyweight exercises,
such as bodyweight weight squats, push-ups, pull-ups, and sit-ups, are still
implemented in resistance training programs to this day as either a training or
progression exercise. 
Bodyweight exercises have several advantages
including being specific to the individual’s anthropometrics and
muscle/tendon insertion, the inclusion of closed chain-based exercises, the
ability to train multiple muscle groups simultaneously, a focus on improving
relative strength, and its accessibility and versatility compared to other
training methods (Harrison, 2010).
Like any training method, bodyweight exercise has its limitations. 
The
most obvious limitation of bodyweight exercises is the inability to continue to
provide an overload stimulus to the athlete, preventing a significant transfer
to absolute strength measures (Harrison, 2010). 
For example, practitioners
may continue to prescribe a greater number of repetitions or modify the
movement (e.g. 
push-up variations including incline, feet elevated, etc.) in
order to progress each bodyweight exercise. 
However, a continual increase in
repetitions may lead to the development of strength-endurance characteristics
instead of the development of strength-power characteristics necessary for
enhanced sport performance. 
Based on their advantages and limitations, it is
suggested that bodyweight exercises should be prescribed to enhance basic
strength and movent characteristics before progressing to other training
methods that may result in greater strength and power adaptations.
Machine vs. 
free weight training
When prescribing either machine or free weight exercises, practitioners
should note that each method has its limitations. 
For example, machine-based
exercises allow for the isolation of specific muscle groups, which may be
important from a rehabilitation standpoint. 
However, utilising machine-based
exercises for sport performance may be questionable. 
Previous literature
indicated that athletic movements rarely include muscle actions performed in
an isolated manner (Behm and Anderson, 2006), with the transfer from
isolation exercises to athletic performance being somewhat limited
(Blackburn and Morrissey, 1998; Augustsson et al., 1998; Östenberg et al.,

1998). 
Thus, it appears that exercises that incorporate multiple muscle groups
may provide a superior training alternative (Anderson and Behm, 2005,
Bobbert and Van Soest, 1994). 
Furthermore, it is been noted that free weight
exercises may recruit muscle stabilisers to a greater extent than machine-
based exercises (Haff, 2000). 
Collectively, it appears that the movement
similarities with athletic movements and the recruitment of muscle stabilisers
of free weight exercises may produce greater strength-power adaptations as
they relate to sport performance.
Training with weightlifting movements
As displayed in 
Table 2.2
, weightlifting exercises produce the greatest power
outputs compared to other types of exercise. 
Given the importance of
muscular strength and power in sport, it is not surprising that many
practitioners implement the weightlifting movements and their derivatives
within resistance training programs. 
Weightlifting movements are unique in
that they exploit both the force and velocity aspects of power output by
moving moderate-heavy loads with ballistic intent. 
One key advantage of the
ballistic nature is the fact that the athlete aims to accelerate throughout the
concentric phase, whereas exercises such as the bench press and squat result
in deceleration during the later stages of the concentric phase (Newton et al.,
1996; Lake et al., 2012). 
Previous research has demonstrated that
weightlifting movements may provide a superior strength-power training
stimulus compared to jump training (Tricoli et al., 2005; Teo et al., 2016),
traditional resistance training (Hoffman et al., 2004; Channell and Barfield,
2008; Chaouachi et al., 2014; Arabatzi and Kellis, 2012), and kettlebell
training (Otto III et al., 2012). 
Greater detail regarding the use of
weightlifting movements during resistance training will be provided in
Chapter 15
.
Plyometric training
While a thorough discussion of plyometric exercises will be provided in
Chapter 16
, this chapter will provide a brief discussion on their effectiveness
as a strength-power training stimulus. 
Plyometric movements may be defined
as quick, power movements that utilise a pre-stretch/countermovement that

includes the stretch-shortening cycle. 
Specifically, plyometrics refer to a
concentric muscle action that is enhanced by a preceding eccentric muscle
action. 
Their ballistic nature, combined with an emphasis on power
development, has led to their use within strength and conditioning programs
for athletes. 
A recent meta-analysis concluded that training with plyometric
exercises may produce similar improvements in vertical jump height
compared to training with weightlifting exercises (Hackett et al., 2015),
demonstrating that plyometrics may be an effective training stimulus for
athletes.
When it comes to designing a plyometric training program, practitioners
should consider the fact that plyometric exercises are a form of resistance
training and should therefore be periodised. 
Previous research demonstrated
the effectiveness of programming plyometric exercises in a periodised
fashion during six week training programs by decreasing the volume of foot
contacts and increasing the intensity of the plyometric exercises during the
final four weeks of the training (Ebben et al., 2014; Ebben et al., 2010). 
See
Chapter 16
 for greater detail regarding plyometric training. 
Practitioners
should also consider the frequency of training sessions, length of the
program, and recovery time between repetitions, sets, and training sessions.
Typical training frequencies range from 1 to 3 sessions per week, while the
length of most programs ranges from 6 to 10 weeks (Allerheiligen and
Rogers, 1995).
Most plyometric exercises are implemented using the athlete’s body mass
as the resistance. 
However, using only the athlete’s body mass as a resistance
may be limited in terms of strength-power development. 
Practitioners may be
able to prescribe small additional loads to increase the loading stimulus on
the athlete; however a more sensible method would be to increase the
plyometric exercise intensity, while simultaneously adjusting the volume to
meet the needs of each athlete.
Eccentric training
Eccentric muscle actions are those that lengthen the muscle as a result of a
greater force being applied to a muscle than the muscle itself can produce.
Although not well understood, eccentric muscle actions possess unique
molecular and neural characteristics that may contribute to a variety of

adaptations (Douglas et al., 2016b). 
A recent review indicated that eccentric
training may produce similar or greater adaptations in muscle mechanical
function (e.g. 
muscular strength, muscular power, RFD, and stiffness),
morphological adaptations (e.g. 
tendon and muscle fibre CSA),
neuromuscular adaptations (e.g. 
motor unit recruitment and firing frequency),
and performance (e.g. 
vertical jumping, sprint speed, and change of direction)
compared to concentric, isometric, and traditional (eccentric/concentric)
training (Douglas et al., 2016a). 
Due to the potential adaptations listed above,
it is not surprising that eccentric exercise has received a growing interest as a
training stimulus.
Although interest in utilising eccentric training has grown, little is known
about how to best implement this type of training. 
Previous literature
indicated that adaptations from eccentric exercise are based on their intensity
(English et al., 2014; Malliaras et al., 2013) and contraction speed (Farthing
and Chilibeck, 2003; Isner-Horobeti et al., 2013). 
Taking this into account,
the previously mentioned literature has indicated that heavier eccentric loads
may produce favourable adaptations compared to lighter loads. 
Interestingly,
practitioners have the opportunity with eccentric-type training to prescribe
loads in excess of what the athlete can lift concentrically (i.e. 
>1RM).
Another aspect to consider with eccentric training is the type of
movement(s) the athlete is able to perform. 
For example, much of the
previously discussed literature within this section has focused on eccentric-
only movements. 
However, a growing body of literature has examined
another type of eccentric training, termed accentuated eccentric. 
Accentuated
eccentric training involves performing the eccentric phase of a lift with a
heavier load than the concentric phase as a result of a portion of the load
being removed by a weight release system (Ojasto and Häkkinen, 2009),
spotters (Brandenburg and Docherty, 2002), the athlete dropping it (Sheppard
et al., 2008), or flywheel (de Hoyo et al., 2015) at the end of the eccentric
phase. 
Collectively, the previous studies provide evidence that accentuated
eccentric training may produce greater adaptations in explosive performance
characteristics (i.e. 
jumping, sprinting, and concentric power). 
Although a
limited body of literature exists, it appears that accentuated eccentric training
may provide an effective training stimulus to improve an athlete’s strength-
power performance.

Complex training & strength-power potentiation
complexes
Complex training (CT) is a training modality that involves completing a
resistance training exercise prior to performing a ballistic exercise that is
biomechanically similar (Robbins, 2005). 
For example, back squats may be
paired with countermovement jumps, while the bench press may be paired
with bench press throws. 
CT may allow athletes to perform high force or
power exercises at a higher intensity compared to traditional training
(Verkhoshansky, 1986; Ebben et al., 2000), ultimately creating a superior
training stimulus. 
In theory, CT may result in greater strength and speed
adaptations compared to traditional resistance training methods longitudinally
by providing a broader range of training stimuli (Ebben and Watts, 1998;
Jones and Lees, 2003).
A topic of frequent research that uses CT principles is postactivation
potentiation (PAP). 
PAP is defined as an acute enhancement in performance
as a result of the muscle’s contractile history (Robbins, 2005). 
Training
complexes designed to produce a potentiated state are termed strength-power
potentiating complexes (SPPCs) (Robbins, 2005; Stone et al., 2008). 
SPPCs
involve performing a high force or high power movement that is used to
potentiate the performance of a subsequent high velocity or power
movement. 
While a number of studies have demonstrated that various
potentiation stimuli may acutely enhance strength-power performance
(Gullich and Schmidtbleicher, 1996; Young et al., 1998; Bullock and
Comfort, 2011), a number of factors within the SPPC or the athlete’s
characteristics may affect the magnitude of potentiation produced (Suchomel
et al., 2016a). 
Thus, it is not surprising that similar SPPCs resulted in no
change or a decrease in subsequent performances in other studies (Tsolakis
and Bogdanis, 2011; Jensen and Ebben, 2003; Till and Cooke, 2009). 
While
the concept of implementing SPPCs within an athlete’s resistance training
programs is appealing, limited research has examined the longitudinal effects
of training with SPPCs (Docherty and Hodgson, 2007). 
In addition,
practitioners should note that the use of SPPCs may not be as appropriate for
weaker individuals as greater muscular strength may lead to faster and greater
potentiation (Suchomel et al., 2016d; Seitz et al., 2014; Miyamoto et al.,
2013). 
Finally, it should be noted that the long-term use of SPPCs may not be
appropriate given the goals of specific resistance training phases. 
For

example, implementing SPPCs may be specific to the goals of a strength-
speed phase, but actually counterproductive during a strength-endurance
phase.
Unilateral vs. 
bilateral training
Some practitioners may argue that unilateral exercises may be more sport-
specific given the unilateral weight bearing phase of various sport tasks (e.g.
sprinting, cutting tasks, etc.). 
Thus, a frequent topic of discussion within the
strength and conditioning field is the use of unilateral exercises compared to
bilateral exercises. 
Unilateral/partial unilateral movements may be defined as
those where the resistance is unevenly distributed between an individual’s
limbs, whereas bilateral movements are those where the resistance is
distributed evenly, for the most part, between an individual’s limbs
(McCurdy et al., 2005). 
The vast majority of resistance training programs
implement predominantly bilateral exercises for strength and power
development. 
This is not surprising given that strong relationships exist
between bilateral strength and sprinting, jump height and peak power, and
change of direction performance (Suchomel et al., 2016b). 
However, in order
to provide practitioners with a variety of options for exercise prescription,
further discussion on unilateral exercise is needed.
Several studies have compared the training effects of unilateral and
bilateral training. 
McCurdy et al. 
(2005) examined the strength and power
adaptation differences following eight weeks of unilateral or bilateral strength
training and plyometric exercise in untrained subjects. 
Their results indicated
that both groups improved to a similar extent, suggesting that either mode of
training may be equally as effective. 
Similar results from another study
indicated that both unilateral and bilateral plyometric training improved both
countermovement jump (CMJ) and alternate leg bounding performance in
previously untrained females (Makaruk et al., 2011). 
However, the authors
also noted that only the bilateral training group retained their training
adaptations following a four week detraining period. 
A more recent study
indicated that similar improvements in unilateral and bilateral strength, sprint
speed, and agility were displayed by Academy rugby players following five
weeks of either training with the rear foot elevated split squat or traditional
back squat exercise (Speirs et al., 2016). 
Collectively, the previous studies

indicate that training with unilateral exercises may be an effective alternative
to bilateral exercises when it comes to improving various performance
parameters.
Previous literature has indicated that gluteus medius, hamstring, and
quadriceps activation was greater during a modified split squat compared to a
traditional bilateral squat (McCurdy et al., 2010). 
This should not be overly
surprising given the decreased stability of unilateral exercises. 
However,
decreased stability may be viewed as a limitation because it is difficult to
prescribe heavy loads with unilateral exercises. 
Given that greater stability
within a movement may lead to a greater potential to express force (Behm
and Anderson, 2006), it would appear that bilateral exercises may serve as a
better foundation for improving an athlete’s strength-power characteristics.
However, that is not to say that unilateral exercises should not be
programmed; rather, they should be implemented as assistance exercises to
bilateral lifts, especially during the general preparatory phase of training.
Variable resistance training
Traditional resistance training methods typically involve performing
exercises with an eccentric and concentric component in which the external
load remains constant throughout the entire range of motion. 
While this type
of training has become an essential addition to training programs, it is not
without its limitations. 
For example, an athlete performing a back squat may
be limited at the lowest point of their squat due to a decreased capacity to
produce force in that position. 
As a result, athletes may experience a “sticking
point” when they begin to ascend due to mechanical disadvantages being
present within the active musculature. 
In contrast, muscle force production
continues to increase and peaks during the top portion of the squat. 
Based on
this description of the back squat, it would appear that a method of training
that trains each portion of the lift based on its mechanical
advantage/disadvantage would be beneficial.
Variable resistance training refers to a training method that alters the
external resistance during the exercise in order to maximize muscle force
throughout the range of motion (Fleck and Kraemer, 2014). 
Traditionally,
this method of training involves the use of chains or elastic bands during
exercises such as the back squat (
Figure 2.6
) or bench press (
Figure 2.7
). 
The

addition of chains or elastic bands may alter the loading profile of an exercise
(Israetel et al., 2010), which may allow the athlete to match changes in joint
leverage (Zatsiorsky, 1995) and overcome mechanical disadvantages at
various joint angles (Ebben and Jensen, 2002; Wallace et al., 2006). 
Support
for this method of training comes from a meta-analysis that indicated that
greater strength gains were produced during the bench press exercise
following variable resistance training compared to traditional methods (Soria-
Gila et al., 2015). 
While additional training studies are needed, it appears that
variable resistance training may be used as an effective training tool for
developing muscular strength and power.
Kettlebell training
Another form of resistance training that has gained popularity is the use of
kettlebell exercises. 
Kettlebells are implements that consist of a weighted ball
and handle (Cotter, 2014). 
Among other movements, individuals have used
kettlebells in a variety of ways including swings, goblet squats, accelerated
swings, and modified weightlifting exercises such as a snatch for the
purposes of developing strength and power. 
Previous research has indicated
that kettlebell training may improve various measures of muscular strength
(Otto III et al., 2012; Lake and Lauder, 2012; Jay et al., 2011; Manocchia et
al., 2013; Jay et al., 2013) and explosive performance as measured by vertical
jumping (Otto III et al., 2012; Lake and Lauder, 2012) and clean and jerk
three repetition maximum (RM) (Manocchia et al., 2013). 
However, it should
be noted that two other studies indicated that vertical jump (Jay et al., 2013)
and sprint performance (Holmstrup et al., 2016) were not enhanced following
kettlebell training when compared to a control group, indicating that not all
research supports the use of kettlebells as a strength training modality.

FIGURE 2.6
FIGURE 2.7
Back squat exercise using variable resistance with chains.
Bench press exercise using variable resistance with elastic bands.
The majority of available research suggests that kettlebell training may
provide an effective strength-power training stimulus. 
However, it should be
noted that more traditional methods of training, such as weightlifting, may
provide superior adaptations when it comes to improving maximal strength
and explosiveness (Otto III et al., 2012). 
This may in part be due to overload
that may be placed on the body. 
For example, athletes training with
weightlifting movements may be able to clean and jerk 100kg; however, it
may be difficult to perform a kettlebell swing with the same load using
proper technique. 
Further research examining kettlebell training is needed to
determine its role within strength and conditioning programs.

BALLISTIC VS. 
NON-BALLISTIC
The intent of performing an exercise may alter a given training stimulus.
Ballistic exercises (i.e. 
those that accelerate throughout the entire concentric
movement) may lower the recruitment threshold for motor units (van Cutsem
et al., 1998, Desmedt and Godaux, 1977) and allow the entire motor neuron
pool to be activated within a few milliseconds (Duchateau and Hainaut,
2003). 
Based on the discussion provided earlier in this chapter, recruiting a
greater number of motor units will ultimately lead to greater magnitudes and
rates of force production. 
This notion is supported by previous research that
indicated that ballistic exercises produced greater force, velocity, power, and
muscle activation compared to the same exercises performed quickly (Lake et
al., 2012, Newton et al., 1996). 
Additional research indicates that ballistic
movements may also produce superior potentiation effects compared to non-
ballistic exercises (Suchomel et al., 2016c). 
The superiority of ballistic
exercises to produce greater training stimuli is displayed in 
Table 2.2
, where
the ballistic exercises (e.g. 
weightlifting movements) produce greater relative
power outputs compared to traditional/non-ballistic resistance training
exercises (e.g. 
back squat, bench press, etc.). 
Due to the potential training
benefits of ballistic-type exercises, it should come as no surprise that
practitioners often implement these exercises throughout the training year.
However, it should be noted that the goals of each training phase will often
dictate which exercises are prescribed.
LOADING CONSIDERATIONS
Training to failure
Training with heavy loads will ultimately lead to increases in muscular
strength. 
A method of training that emphasises this idea is training with loads
that result in failure on the final repetition. 
The theory behind this method is
that training with RM loads will lead to greater overall adaptations in strength
compared to training with submaximal loads. 
However, a previous meta-
analysis indicated that training to failure does not elicit greater strength gains
compared to not training to failure (Peterson et al., 2005). 
This is supported

by a second meta-analysis that stated that training to failure may be
unnecessary when it comes to maximising muscular strength (Davies et al.,
2016). 
The authors noted that if training to failure is incorporated into
training programs, it should be used sparingly in order to limit the risks of
injuries and overtraining. 
While training to failure likely stimulates the
recruitment of high threshold motor units, this type of training cannot be
sustained for long periods of time. 
Certainly there are periods where the
primary emphasis may be lifting very heavy loads (90–95% 1RM) to improve
maximal strength qualities; however, it does not appear that training to failure
is a required element in an athlete’s resistance training program.
Combining heavy and light loads
Training for maximal strength and power requires the use of a variety of
loads. 
Specific to strength gains, heavier loads will likely provide a training
stimulus that will enhance the magnitude and rate of force production of an
athlete. 
In contrast, training to enhance maximal power production requires
the use of a range of loads that train the entire force-velocity curve (Haff and
Nimphius, 2012). 
The training loads implemented with various exercises
should complement the exercises that are being used. 
For example, heavier
loads may be used with core exercises (e.g. 
squats, presses, and pulls) and
certain weightlifting movements (e.g. 
power clean, pull from the floor, mid-
thigh pull) that emphasise high force production, while lighter loads may be
prescribed for more ballistic movements that emphasise high velocities (e.g.
jump squat, jump shrug, bench press throws). 
However, as mentioned above,
combination loading may also be achieved through the implementation of
both weight training (high force) and plyometrics (high velocity). 
Suchomel
et al. 
(2017) discussed this concept using weightlifting derivatives.
It should be noted that a combination loading stimulus may also be
achieved across each microcycle (e.g. 
week of training) and session of
training. 
Over the course of an individual microcycle, the same exercises may
be implemented throughout the week; however, the exercises are prescribed
using a “heavy day/light day” loading concept. 
A recent review discussed this
method of programming for track and field athletes (DeWeese et al., 2015b).
In addition, Harris et al. 
(2000) displayed that a combination loading group
performed back squats at 80% 1RM on their heavy day and back squats at

60% 1RM on their light day. 
Similarly, achieving a combined loading
stimulus within a single training session is realised through the combination
of working sets as well as warm-up and warm-down sets of each exercise.
Optimal loads
Some literature supports the idea of training at or near the load that
maximises power production, termed the “optimal load” (Kawamori & Haff,
2004). 
In theory, optimal loads provide an ideal combination of force and
velocity magnitudes that produce high power outputs. 
However, it should be
noted that a number of factors may affect optimal loads. 
For example, recent
research indicated that the optimal load or range of loads for the greatest
power output is exercise specific for both upper (Soriano et al., 2016) and
lower body exercises (Soriano et al., 2015). 
Additional literature suggests that
the load that maximises power may be specific to the system (athlete plus
barbell), barbell, or joint (McBride et al., 2011), indicating that it may be
necessary to train with a range of loads, especially as an athlete gets stronger
(Stone et al., 2003). 
Collectively, it appears that training near or at optimal
loads may be beneficial from a power development standpoint. 
However, the
extant literature supports the notion that practitioners should prescribe a range
of loads instead of a single load in order to train both low and high force
power characteristics during different exercises (Haff and Nimphius, 2012).
TRAINING STATUS
An athlete’s training status may dictate 1) what exercises and loads the
individual can tolerate and 2) what their training emphasis should be. 
As with
any type of training, practitioners should be mindful of an athlete’s abilities
as exercise competency will dictate whether or not it is appropriate to
implement certain exercises or progress using various training modalities.
Because muscular strength serves as a foundation for a number of other
abilities (Suchomel et al., 2016b), the training emphasis for weaker and/or
less well-trained athletes should focus on increasing maximal strength. 
Too
often practitioners place an emphasis on high velocity or power training
without developing the necessary strength characteristics that will allow the
athletes to exploit power-type training more extensively. 
That is not to say

that power-type exercises such as weightlifting movements and plyometrics
should not be prescribed to a weaker athlete, but they may not be featured as
exclusively until an athlete increases their baseline strength levels using core
movements such as squats, presses, and pulls.
While the emphasis of training for weaker and/or less well-trained
individuals may be on gaining maximal strength, the emphasis of training for
stronger/well-trained athletes may be modified. 
Previous literature indicated
that although strength influences an athlete’s performance, the degree of this
influence may diminish when athletes maintain high levels of strength
(Kraemer and Newton, 2000). 
Therefore, the likely magnitude of potential
adaptation for increasing strength is reduced as an athlete’s maximal strength
increases. 
As a result, additional literature has indicated that after achieving
specific standards of strength (parallel back squat ≥2 x body weight as the
barbell load), an athlete’s training emphasis may shift towards power-type or
RFD training while maintaining or increasing their strength levels (Stone et
al., 2007, DeWeese et al., 2015b). 
Specifically, achieving a high baseline
level of strength may allow an athlete to maximize the benefits of
incorporating training modalities such as plyometrics, ballistic exercises, and
CT.
SUMMARY
Muscular strength is defined as the ability to exert force on an external object
and is considered to be the primary factor for greater RFD and power. 
It is
important that adequate strength development is the primary, although not
exclusive, focus of training initially, before progressing to power-type
training once an athlete’s strength increases. 
By achieving a high level of
muscular strength, athletes may increase their RFD, power, and athletic
performance, while also decreasing the risk of injury (Suchomel et al.,
2016b). 
Both morphological and neuromuscular factors may affect the
development of muscular strength and power. 
Morphological factors include
muscle cross-sectional area and architecture while neuromuscular factors
include motor unit recruitment, rate coding, motor unit synchronisation, and
neuromuscular inhibition.
From a practical standpoint, the periodisation model, modality of
resistance training, prescribed loads, and training status may directly affect

muscular strength and power adaptations and training emphases. 
The training
programs of weaker individuals should focus on improving muscular strength
before too much emphasis is placed on power. 
In contrast, stronger athletes
may shift to a power emphasis while maintaining or improving their strength
level.
REFERENCES
Aagaard, P. 
2003. 
Training-induced changes in neural function. 
Exerc Sport Sci Rev
, 31,
61–67.
Aagaard, P., Andersen, J. 
L., Dyhre-Poulsen, P., Leffers, A. 
M., Wagner, A., Magnusson,
S. 
P., Halkjær-Kristensen, J. 
& Simonsen, E. 
B. 
2001. 
A mechanism for increased
contractile strength of human pennate muscle in response to strength training: changes
in muscle architecture. 
J Physiol
, 534, 613–623.
Aagaard, P., Simonsen, E. 
B., Andersen, J. 
L., Magnusson, P. 
& Dyhre-Poulsen, P. 
2002a.
Increased rate of force development and neural drive of human skeletal muscle
following resistance training. 
J Appl Physiol
, 93, 1318–1326.
Aagaard, P., Simonsen, E. 
B., Andersen, J. 
L., Magnusson, P. 
& Dyhre-Poulsen, P. 
2002b.
Neural adaptation to resistance training: changes in evoked V-wave and H-reflex
responses. 
J Appl Physiol
, 92, 2309–2318.
Aagaard, P., Simonsen, E. 
B., Andersen, J. 
L., Magnusson, S. 
P., Halkjær-Kristensen, J. 
&
Dyhre-Poulsen, P. 
2000. 
Neural inhibition during maximal eccentric and concentric
quadriceps contraction: effects of resistance training. 
J Appl Physiol
, 89, 2249–2257.
Alegre, L. 
M., Jiménez, F., Gonzalo-Orden, J. 
M., Martín-Acero, R. 
& Aguado, X. 
2006.
Effects of dynamic resistance training on fascicle length and isometric strength. 
J Sports
Sci
, 24, 501–508.
Allerheiligen, B. 
& Rogers, R. 
1995. 
Plyometrics program design. 
Strength Cond J
, 17,
26–31.
Andersen, L. 
L. 
& Aagaard, P. 
2006. 
Influence of maximal muscle strength and intrinsic
muscle contractile properties on contractile rate of force development. 
Eur J Appl
Physiol
, 96, 46–52.
Andersen, L. 
L., Andersen, J. 
L., Zebis, M. 
K. 
& Aagaard, P. 
2010. 
Early and late rate of
force development: differential adaptive responses to resistance training? 
Scand J Med
Sci Sports
, 20, e162–e169.
Anderson, K. 
& Behm, D. 
G. 
2005. 
Trunk muscle activity increases with unstable squat
movements. 
Can J Appl Physiol
, 30, 33–45.
Arabatzi, F. 
& Kellis, E. 
2012. 
Olympic weightlifting training causes different knee
muscle-coactivation adaptations compared with traditional weight training. 
J Strength
Cond Res
, 26, 2192–2201.
Augustsson, J., Esko, A., Thomeé, R. 
& Svantesson, U. 
1998. 
Weight training of the thigh

muscles using closed versus open kinetic chain exercises: a comparison of performance
enhancement. 
J Orthop Sports Phys Ther
, 27, 3–8.
Baker, D. 
2001a. 
Comparison of upper-body strength and power between professional and
college-aged rugby league players. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 15, 30–35.
Baker, D. 
2001b. 
A series of studies on the training of high-intensity muscle power in
rugby league football players. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 15, 198–209.
Behm, D. 
G. 
& Anderson, K. 
G. 
2006. 
The role of instability with resistance training. 
J
Strength Cond Res
, 20, 716–722.
Blackburn, J. 
R. 
& Morrissey, M. 
C. 
1998. 
The relationship between open and closed
kinetic chain strength of the lower limb and jumping performance. 
J Ortho Sports Phys
Ther
, 27, 430–435.
Blazevich, A. 
J., Cannavan, D., Coleman, D. 
R. 
& Horne, S. 
2007. 
Influence of concentric
and eccentric resistance training on architectural adaptation in human quadriceps
muscles. 
J Appl Physiol
, 103, 1565–1575.
Blazevich, A. 
J., Gill, N. 
D., Bronks, R. 
& Newton, R. 
U. 
2003. 
Training-specific muscle
architecture adaptation after 5-wk training in athletes. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc
, 35, 2013–
2022.
Bobbert, M. 
F. 
& Van Soest, A. 
J. 
1994. 
Effects of muscle strengthening on vertical jump
height: a simulation study. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc
, 26, 1012–1020.
Bompa, T. 
O. 
& Haff, G. 
2009. 
Periodization: Theory and Methodology of Training
,
Champaign, IL, Human Kinetics.
Brandenburg, J. 
E. 
& Docherty, D. 
2002. 
The effects of accentuated eccentric loading on
strength, muscle hypertrophy, and neural adaptations in trained individuals. 
J Strength
Cond Res
, 16, 25–32.
Bullock, N. 
& Comfort, P. 
2011. 
An investigation into the acute effects of depth jumps on
maximal strength performance. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 25, 3137–3141.
Campos, G. 
E., Luecke, T. 
J., Wendeln, H. 
K., Toma, K., Hagerman, F. 
C., Murray, T. 
F.,
Ragg, K. 
E., Ratamess, N. 
A., Kraemer, W. 
J. 
& Staron, R. 
S. 
2002. 
Muscular
adaptations in response to three different resistance-training regimens: specificity of
repetition maximum training zones. 
Eur J Appl Physiol
, 88, 50–60.
Channell, B. 
T. 
& Barfield, J. 
P. 
2008. 
Effect of Olympic and traditional resistance training
on vertical jump improvement in high school boys. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 22, 1522–
1527.
Chaouachi, A., Hammami, R., Kaabi, S., Chamari, K., Drinkwater, E. 
J. 
& Behm, D. 
G.
2014. 
Olympic weightlifting and plyometric training with children provides similar or
greater performance improvements than traditional resistance training. 
J Strength Cond
Res
, 28, 1483–1496.
Cormie, P., McGuigan, M. 
R. 
& Newton, R. 
U. 
2011. 
Developing maximal neuromuscular
power: part 2 – training considerations for improving maximal power production. 
Sports
Med
, 41, 125–146.
Cotter, S. 
2014. 
Kettlebell Training
, Champaign, IL, Human Kinetics.
Davies, T., Orr, R., Halaki, M., Hackett, D. 
2016. 
Effect of training leading to repetition
failure on muscular strength: A systematic review and meta-analysis. 
Sports Med
, 46,

487–502.
de Hoyo, M., Pozzo, M., Sañudo, B., Carrasco, L., Gonzalo-Skok, O., Domínguez-Cobo, S.
& Morán-Camacho, E. 
2015. 
Effects of a 10-week in-season eccentric-overload training
program on muscle-injury prevention and performance in junior elite soccer players. 
Int
J Sports Physiol Perform
, 10, 46–52.
Desmedt, J. 
E. 
& Godaux, E. 
1977. 
Ballistic contractions in man: characteristic recruitment
pattern of single motor units of the tibialis anterior muscle. 
J Physiol
, 264, 673–693.
Desmedt, J. 
E. 
& Godaux, E. 
1978. 
Ballistic contractions in fast or slow human muscles:
discharge patterns of single motor units. 
J Physiol
, 285, 185–196.
DeWeese, B. 
H., Hornsby, G., Stone, M. 
& Stone, M. 
H. 
2015a. 
The training process:
Planning for strength–power training in track and field. 
Part 1: Theoretical aspects. 
J
Sport Health Sci
, 4, 308–317.
DeWeese, B. 
H., Hornsby, G., Stone, M. 
& Stone, M. 
H. 
2015b. 
The training process:
Planning for strength–power training in track and field. 
Part 2: Practical and applied
aspects. 
J Sport Health Sci
, 4, 318–324.
Docherty, D. 
& Hodgson, M. 
J. 
2007. 
The application of postactivation potentiation to elite
sport. 
Int J Sports Physiol Perform
, 2, 439–444.
Douglas, J., Pearson, S., Ross, A. 
& McGuigan, M. 
R. 
2016a. 
Chronic adaptations to
eccentric training: a systematic review. 
Sports Med
, Epub ahead of print.
Douglas, J., Pearson, S., Ross, A. 
& McGuigan, M. 
R. 
2016b. 
Eccentric exercise:
physiological characteristics and acute responses. 
Sports Med
, Epub ahead of print, 1–
13.
Duchateau, J. 
& Hainaut, K. 
2003. 
Mechanisms of muscle and motor unit adaptation to
explosive power training. 
In: Paavov, V. 
K. 
(ed.) 
Strength and Power in Sport.
 2nd ed.
Oxford, Blackwell Science.
Ebben, W. 
P., Feldmann, C. 
R., Vanderzanden, T. 
L., Fauth, M. 
L. 
& Petushek, E. 
J. 
2010.
Periodized plyometric training is effective for women, and performance is not
influenced by the length of post-training recovery. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 24, 1–7.
Ebben, W. 
P. 
& Jensen, R. 
L. 
2002. 
Electromyographic and kinetic analysis of traditional,
chain, and elastic band squats. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 16, 547–550.
Ebben, W. 
P., Jensen, R. 
L. 
& Blackard, D. 
O. 
2000. 
Electromyographic and kinetic
analysis of complex training variables. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 14, 451–456.
Ebben, W. 
P., Suchomel, T. 
J. 
& Garceau, L. 
R. 
2014. 
The effect of plyometric training
volume on jumping performance. 
In: Sato, K., Sands, W. 
A. 
& Mizuguchi, S., eds. 
32nd
International Conference of Biomechanics in Sports, Johnson City, TN, USA. 
566–569.
Ebben, W. 
P. 
& Watts, P. 
B. 
1998. 
A review of combined weight training and plyometric
training modes: complex training. 
Strength Cond J
, 20, 18–27.
Ema, R., Wakahara, T., Miyamoto, N., Kanehisa, H. 
& Kawakami, Y. 
2013.
Inhomogeneous architectural changes of the quadriceps femoris induced by resistance
training. 
Eur J Appl Physiol
, 113, 2691–2703.
English, K. 
L., Loehr, J. 
A., Lee, S. 
M. 
C. 
& Smith, S. 
M. 
2014. 
Early-phase
musculoskeletal adaptations to different levels of eccentric resistance after 8 weeks of
lower body training. 
Eur J Appl Physiol
, 114, 2263–2280.

Enoka, R. 
M. 
1995. 
Morphological features and activation patterns of motor units. 
J Clin
Neurophysiol
, 12, 538–559.
Farthing, J. 
P. 
& Chilibeck, P. 
D. 
2003. 
The effects of eccentric and concentric training at
different velocities on muscle hypertrophy. 
Eur J Appl Physiol
, 89, 578–586.
Fleck, S. 
J. 
& Kraemer, W. 
J. 
2014. 
Designing Resistance Training Programs
, Champaign,
IL, Human Kinetics.
Franchi, M. 
V., Atherton, P. 
J., Reeves, N. 
D., Flück, M., Williams, J., Mitchell, W. 
K.,
Selby, A., Beltran Valls, R. 
M. 
& Narici, M. 
V. 
2014. 
Architectural, functional and
molecular responses to concentric and eccentric loading in human skeletal muscle. 
Acta
Physiologica
, 210, 642–654.
Fry, A. 
C. 
& Kraemer, W. 
J. 
1991. 
Physical performance characteristics of American
collegiate football players. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 5, 126–138.
Gabbett, T. 
J. 
2009. 
Physiological and anthropometric characteristics of starters and non-
starters in junior rugby league players, aged 13–17 years. 
J Sports Med Phys Fitness
, 49,
233–239.
Gabriel, D. 
A., Kamen, G. 
& Frost, G. 
2006. 
Neural adaptations to resistive exercise.
Sports Med
, 36, 133–149.
Gullich, A. 
& Schmidtbleicher, D. 
1996. 
MVC-induced short-term potentiation of
explosive force. 
New Stud Athletics
, 11, 67–81.
Hackett, D., Davies, T., Soomro, N. 
& Halaki, M. 
2015. 
Olympic weightlifting training
improves vertical jump height in sportspeople: a systematic review with meta-analysis.
Br J Sports Med
, Epub ahead of print, bjsports-2015-094951.
Haff, G. 
G. 
2000. 
Roundtable discussion: Machines versus free weights. 
Strength Cond J
,
22, 18–30.
Haff, G. 
G. 
& Nimphius, S. 
2012. 
Training principles for power. 
Strength Cond J
, 34, 2–
12.
Haff, G. 
G. 
& Stone, M. 
H. 
2015. 
Methods of developing power with special reference to
football players. 
Strength Cond J
, 37, 2–16.
Häkkinen, K., Komi, P. 
V. 
& Alen, M. 
1985. 
Effect of explosive type strength training on
isometric force- and relaxation-time, electromyographic and muscle fibre characteristics
of leg extensor muscles. 
Acta Physiologica Scandinavica
, 125, 587–600.
Häkkinen, K., Komi, P. 
V. 
& Tesch, P. 
A. 
1981. 
Effect of combined concentric and
eccentric strength training and detraining on force-time, muscle fiber and metabolic
characteristics of leg extensor muscles. 
Scand J Med Sci Sports
, 3, 50–58.
Hansen, K. 
T., Cronin, J. 
B., Pickering, S. 
L. 
& Douglas, L. 
2011. 
Do force–time and
power–time measures in a loaded jump squat differentiate between speed performance
and playing level in elite and elite junior rugby union players? 
J Strength Cond Res
, 25,
2382–2391.
Harris, G. 
R., Stone, M. 
H., O’Bryant, H. 
S., Proulx, C. 
M. 
& Johnson, R. 
L. 
2000. 
Short-
term performance effects of high power, high force, or combined weight-training
methods. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 14, 14–20.
Harrison, J. 
S. 
2010. 
Bodyweight training: a return to basics. 
Strength Cond J
, 32, 52–55.
Henneman, E., Somjen, G. 
& Carpenter, D. 
O. 
1965. 
Excitability and inhibitibility of

motoneurons of different sizes. 
J Neurophysiol
, 28, 599–620.
Hoffman, J. 
R., Cooper, J., Wendell, M. 
& Kang, J. 
2004. 
Comparison of Olympic vs.
traditional power lifting training programs in football players. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 18,
129–135.
Holmstrup, M. 
E., Jensen, B. 
T., Evans, W. 
S. 
& Marshall, E. 
C. 
2016. 
Eight weeks of
kettlebell swing training does not improve sprint performance in recreationally active
females. 
Int J Exerc Sci
, 9, 437–444.
Hori, N., Newton, R. 
U., Andrews, W. 
A., Kawamori, N., McGuigan, M. 
R. 
& Nosaka, K.
2008. 
Does performance of hang power clean differentiate performance of jumping,
sprinting, and changing of direction? 
J Strength Cond Res
, 22, 412–418.
Huxley, A. 
F. 
1974. 
Muscular contraction. 
J Physiol
, 243, 1–43.
Isner-Horobeti, M.E., Dufour, S. 
P., Vautravers, P., Geny, B., Coudeyre, E. 
& Richard, R.
2013. 
Eccentric exercise training: modalities, applications and perspectives. 
Sports Med
,
43, 483–512.
Israetel, M. 
A., McBride, J. 
M., Nuzzo, J. 
L., Skinner, J. 
W. 
& Dayne, A. 
M. 
2010. 
Kinetic
and kinematic differences between squats performed with and without elastic bands. 
J
Strength Cond Res
, 24, 190–194.
Issurin, V. 
B. 
2008. 
Block periodization versus traditional training theory: a review. 
J
Sports Med Phys Fitness
, 48, 65–75.
Issurin, V. 
B. 
2010. 
New horizons for the methodology and physiology of training
periodization. 
Sports Med
, 40, 189–206.
Jay, K., Frisch, D., Hansen, K., Zebis, M. 
K., Andersen, C. 
H., Mortensen, O. 
S. 
&
Andersen, L. 
L. 
2011. 
Kettlebell training for musculoskeletal and cardiovascular health:
a randomized controlled trial. 
Scand J Work, Environ Health
, 37, 196–203.
Jay, K., Jakobsen, M. 
D., Sundstrup, E., Skotte, J. 
H., Jørgensen, M. 
B., Andersen, C. 
H.,
Pedersen, M. 
T. 
& Andersen, L. 
L. 
2013. 
Effects of kettlebell training on postural
coordination and jump performance: a randomized controlled trial. 
J Strength Cond Res
,
27, 1202–1209.
Jensen, R. 
L. 
& Ebben, W. 
P. 
2003. 
Kinetic analysis of complex training rest interval effect
on vertical jump performance. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 17, 345–349.
Jones, P. 
& Lees, A. 
2003. 
A biomechanical analysis of the acute effects of complex
training using lower limb exercises. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 17, 694–700.
Kawakami, Y., Abe, T. 
& Fukunaga, T. 
1993. 
Muscle-fiber pennation angles are greater in
hypertrophied than in normal muscles. 
J Appl Physiol
, 74, 2740–2744.
Kawakami, Y., Abe, T., Kuno, S.-Y. 
& Fukunaga, T. 
1995. 
Training-induced changes in
muscle architecture and specific tension. 
Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol
, 72, 37–43.
Kawamori, N., Crum, A. 
J., Blumert, P. 
A., Kulik, J. 
R., Childers, J. 
T., Wood, J. 
A., Stone,
M. 
H. 
& Haff, G. 
G. 
2005. 
Influence of different relative intensities on power output
during the hang power clean: identification of the optimal load. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 19,
698–708.
Kawakami, N., & Haff, G. 
(2004). 
The optimal training load for the development of
muscular power. 
J. 
Strength Cond. 
Res
, 18, 675–684.
Kraemer, W. 
J., Fleck, S. 
J. 
& Evans, W. 
J. 
1996. 
Strength and power training:

physiological mechanisms of adaptation. 
Exerc Sport Sci Rev
, 24, 363–397.
Kraemer, W. 
J. 
& Newton, R. 
U. 
2000. 
Training for muscular power. 
Phys Med Rehab Clin
N Am
, 11, 341–368.
Lake, J. 
P. 
& Lauder, M. 
A. 
2012. 
Kettlebell swing training improves maximal and
explosive strength. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 26, 2228–2233.
Lake, J. 
P., Lauder, M. 
A., Smith, N. 
A. 
& Shorter, K. 
A. 
2012. 
A comparison of ballistic
and non-ballistic lower-body resistance exercise and the methods used to identify their
positive lifting phases. 
J Appl Biomech
, 28, 431–437.
Leong, B., Kamen, G., Patten, C. 
& Burke, J. 
R. 
1999. 
Maximal motor unit discharge rates
in the quadriceps muscles of older weight lifters. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc
, 31, 1638–1644.
Makaruk, H., Winchester, J. 
B., Sadowski, J., Czaplicki, A. 
& Sacewicz, T. 
2011. 
Effects
of unilateral and bilateral plyometric training on power and jumping ability in women. 
J
Strength Cond Res
, 25, 3311–3318.
Malliaras, P., Kamal, B., Nowell, A., Farley, T., Dhamu, H., Simpson, V., Morrissey, D.,
Langberg, H., Maffulli, N. 
& Reeves, N. 
D. 
2013. 
Patellar tendon adaptation in relation
to load-intensity and contraction type. 
J Biomech
, 46, 1893–1899.
Manocchia, P., Spierer, D. 
K., Lufkin, A. 
K. 
S., Minichiello, J. 
& Castro, J. 
2013.
Transference of kettlebell training to strength, power, and endurance. 
J Strength Cond
Res
, 27, 477–484.
Marques, M., Saavedra, F., Abrantes, C. 
& Aidar, F. 
2011. 
Associations between rate of
force development metrics and throwing velocity in elite team handball players: a short
research report. 
J Hum Kinet
, 29, 53–57.
McBride, J. 
M., Haines, T. 
L. 
& Kirby, T. 
J. 
2011. 
Effect of loading on peak power of the
bar, body, and system during power cleans, squats, and jump squats. 
J Sports Sci
, 29,
1215–1221.
McCurdy, K. 
W., Langford, G. 
A., Doscher, M. 
W., Wiley, L. 
P. 
& Mallard, K. 
2005. 
The
effects of short-term unilateral and bilateral lower-body resistance training on measures
of strength and power. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 19, 9–15.
McCurdy, K. 
W., O’Kelley, E., Kutz, M., Langford, G., Ernest, J. 
& Torres, M. 
2010.
Comparison of lower extremity EMG between the 2-leg squat and modified single-leg
squat in female athletes. 
J Sport Rehabil
, 19, 57–70.
McEvoy, K. 
P. 
& Newton, R. 
U. 
1998. 
Baseball throwing speed and base running speed:
the effects of ballistic resistance training. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 12, 216–221.
Milner-Brown, H. 
S. 
& Stein, R. 
B. 
1975. 
The relation between the surface
electromyogram and muscular force. 
J Physiol
, 246, 549–569.
Minetti, A. 
E. 
2002. 
On the mechanical power of joint extensions as affected by the change
in muscle force (or cross-sectional area), ceteris paribus. 
Eur J Appl Physiol
, 86, 363–
369.
Miyamoto, N., Wakahara, T., Ema, R. 
& Kawakami, Y. 
2013. 
Further potentiation of
dynamic muscle strength after resistance training. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc
, 45, 1323–1330.
Morrissey, M. 
C., Harman, E. 
A. 
& Johnson, M. 
J. 
1995. 
Resistance training modes:
specificity and effectiveness. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc
, 27, 648–660.
Newton, R. 
U., Kraemer, W. 
J. 
& Häkkinen, K. 
1999. 
Effects of ballistic training on

preseason preparation of elite volleyball players. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc
, 31, 323–330.
Newton, R. 
U., Kraemer, W. 
J., Häkkinen, K., Humphries, B. 
& Murphy, A. 
J. 
1996.
Kinematics, kinetics, and muscle activation during explosive upper body movements. 
J
Appl Biomech
, 12, 31–43.
Nimphius, S., McGuigan, M. 
R. 
& Newton, R. 
U. 
2010. 
Relationship between strength,
power, speed, and change of direction performance of female softball players. 
J Strength
Cond Res
, 24, 885–895.
Nimphius, S., McGuigan, M. 
R. 
& Newton, R. 
U. 
2012. 
Changes in muscle architecture
and performance during a competitive season in female softball players. 
J Strength
Cond Res
, 26, 2655–2666.
Ojasto, T. 
& Häkkinen, K. 
2009. 
Effects of different accentuated eccentric load levels in
eccentric-concentric actions on acute neuromuscular, maximal force, and power
responses. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 23, 996–1004.
Östenberg, A., Roos, E., Ekdah, C. 
& Roos, H. 
1998. 
Isokinetic knee extensor strength and
functional performance in healthy female soccer players. 
Scand J Med Sci Sports
, 8,
257–264.
Otto III, W. 
H., Coburn, J. 
W., Brown, L. 
E. 
& Spiering, B. 
A. 
2012. 
Effects of
weightlifting vs. 
kettlebell training on vertical jump, strength, and body composition. 
J
Strength Cond Res
, 26, 1199–1202.
Peterson, M. 
D., Rhea, M. 
R. 
& Alvar, B. 
A. 
2005. 
Applications of the dose-response for
muscular strength development: A review of meta-analytic efficacy and reliability for
designing training prescription. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 19, 950–958.
Robbins, D. 
W. 
2005. 
Postactivation potentiation and its practical applicability: a brief
review. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 19, 453–458.
Saplinskas, J. 
S., Chobotas, M. 
A. 
& Yashchaninas, I. 
I. 
1980. 
The time of completed
motor acts and impulse activity of single motor units according to the training level and
sport specialization of tested persons. 
Electromyogr Clinical Neurophysiol
, 20, 529–
539.
Seitz, L. 
B., De Villarreal, E. 
S. 
S. 
& Haf, G. 
G. 
2014. 
The temporal profile of
postactivation potentiation is related to strength level. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 28, 706–
715.
Semmler, J. 
G. 
2002. 
Motor unit synchronization and neuromuscular performance. 
Exerc
Sport Sci Rev
, 30, 8–14.
Semmler, J. 
G., Kutscher, D. 
V., Zhou, S. 
& Enoka, R. 
M. 
2000. 
Motor unit
synchronization is enhanced during slow shortening and lengthening contractions of the
first dorsal interosseus muscle. 
Soc Neurosci Abstr
, 26, 463.
Semmler, J. 
G. 
& Nordstrom, M. 
A. 
1998. 
Motor unit discharge and force tremor in skill-
and strength-trained individuals. 
Exp Brain Res
, 119, 27–38.
Sheppard, J., Hobson, S., Barker, M., Taylor, K., Chapman, D., McGuigan, M. 
& Newton,
R. 
U. 
2008. 
The effect of training with accentuated eccentric load counter-movement
jumps on strength and power characteristics of high-performance volleyball players. 
Int
J Sports Sci Coach
, 3, 355–363.
Soria-Gila, M. 
A., Chirosa, I. 
J., Bautista, I. 
J., Baena, S. 
& Chirosa, L. 
J. 
2015. 
Effects of

variable resistance training on maximal strength: a meta-analysis. 
J Strength Cond Res
,
29, 3260–3270.
Soriano, M. 
A., Jiménez-Reyes, P., Rhea, M. 
R. 
& Marín, P. 
J. 
et al. 
2015. 
The optimal
load for maximal power production during lower-body resistance exercises: a meta-
analysis. 
Sports Med
, 45, 1191–1205.
Soriano, M. 
A., Suchomel, T. 
J. 
& Marin, P. 
J. 
2016. 
The optimal load for improving
maximal power production during upper-body exercises: a meta-analysis. 
Sports Med
,
Epub ahead of print.
Speirs, D. 
E., Bennett, M. 
A., Finn, C. 
V. 
& Turner, A. 
P. 
2016. 
Unilateral vs. 
bilateral
squat training for strength, sprints, and agility in academy rugby players. 
J Strength
Cond Res
, 30, 386–392.
Spiteri, T., Nimphius, S. 
& Wilkie, J. 
2012. 
Comparison of running times during reactive
offensive and defensive agility protocols. 
J Aust Strength Cond
, 20, 73–78.
Stone, M. 
H. 
1993. 
Position statement: explosive exercises and training. 
Natl Strength
Cond Assoc J
, 15, 7–15.
Stone, M. 
H., Moir, G., Glaister, M. 
& Sanders, R. 
2002. 
How much strength is necessary?
Phys Ther Sport
, 3, 88–96.
Stone, M. 
H., O’Bryant, H., Garhammer, J., McMillan, J. 
& Rozenek, R. 
1982. 
A
theoretical model of strength training. 
Strength Cond J
, 4, 36–39.
Stone, M. 
H., O’Bryant, H. 
S., McCoy, L., Coglianese, R., Lehmkuhl, M. 
& Schilling, B.
2003. 
Power and maximum strength relationships during performance of dynamic and
static weighted jumps. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 17, 140–147.
Stone, M. 
H., Sands, W. 
A., Pierce, K. 
C., Ramsey, M. 
W. 
& Haff, G. 
G. 
2008. 
Power and
power potentiation among strength-power athletes: preliminary study. 
Int J Sports
Physiol Perform
, 3, 55–67.
Stone, M. 
H., Stone, M. 
& Sands, W. 
A. 
2007. 
Principles and Practice of Resistance
Training
, Champaign, IL, Human Kinetics.
Suchomel, T. 
J., Comfort, P. 
& Lake, J. 
P. 
2017. 
Enhancing the force-velocity profile of
athletes using weightlifting derivatives. 
Strength Cond J
, 39, 10–20.
Suchomel, T. 
J., Lamont, H. 
S. 
& Moir, G. 
L. 
2016a. 
Understanding vertical jump
potentiation: a deterministic model. 
Sports Med
, 46, 809–828.
Suchomel, T. 
J., Nimphius, S. 
& Stone, M. 
H. 
2016b. 
The importance of muscular strength
in athletic performance. 
Sports Med
, 46, 1419–1449.
Suchomel, T. 
J., Sato, K., DeWeese, B. 
H., Ebben, W. 
P. 
& Stone, M. 
H. 
2016c.
Potentiation effects of half-squats performed in a ballistic or non-ballistic manner. 
J
Strength Cond Res
, 30, 1652–1660.
Suchomel, T. 
J., Sato, K., DeWeese, B. 
H., Ebben, W. 
P. 
& Stone, M. 
H. 
2016d.
Potentiation following ballistic and non-ballistic complexes: the effect of strength level.
J Strength Cond Res
, 30, 1825–1833.
Taber, C. 
B., Bellon, C. 
R., Abbott, H. 
& Bingham, G. 
E. 
2016. 
Roles of maximal strength
and rate of force development in maximizing muscular power. 
Strength Cond J
, 38, 71–
78.
Teo, S. 
Y., Newton, M. 
J., Newton, R. 
U., Dempsey, A. 
R. 
& Fairchild, T. 
J. 
2016.

Comparing the effectiveness of a short-term vertical jump versus weightlifting program
on athletic power development. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 30, 2741–2748.
Till, K. 
A. 
& Cooke, C. 
2009. 
The effects of postactivation potentiation on sprint and jump
performance of male academy soccer players. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 23, 1960–1967.
Tricoli, V., Lamas, L., Carnevale, R. 
& Ugrinowitsch, C. 
2005. 
Short-term effects on
lower-body functional power development: weightlifting vs. 
vertical jump training
programs. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 19, 433–437.
Tsolakis, C. 
& Bogdanis, G. 
C. 
2011. 
Influence of type of muscle contraction and gender
on postactivation potentiation of upper and lower limb explosive performance in elite
fencers. 
J Sports Sci Med
, 10, 577–583.
van Cutsem, M., Duchateau, J. 
& Hainaut, K. 
1998. 
Changes in single motor unit
behaviour contribute to the increase in contraction speed after dynamic training in
humans. 
J Physiol
, 513, 295–305.
Verkhoshansky, Y. 
1986. 
Speed-strength preparation and development of strength
endurance of athletes in various specializations. 
Soviet Sports Review
, 22, 120–124.
Wakahara, T., Miyamoto, N., Sugisaki, N., Murata, K., Kanehisa, H., Kawakami, Y.,
Fukunaga, T. 
& Yanai, T. 
2012. 
Association between regional differences in muscle
activation in one session of resistance exercise and in muscle hypertrophy after
resistance training. 
Eur J Appl Physiol
, 112, 1569–1576.
Wallace, B. 
J., Winchester, J. 
B. 
& McGuigan, M. 
R. 
2006. 
Effects of elastic bands on
force and power characteristics during the back squat exercise. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 20,
268–272.
Wells, A. 
J., Fukuda, D. 
H., Hoffman, J. 
R., Gonzalez, A. 
M., Jajtner, A. 
R., Townsend, J.
R., Mangine, G. 
T., Fragala, M. 
S. 
& Stout, J. 
R. 
2014. 
Vastus lateralis exhibits non-
homogenous adaptation to resistance training. 
Muscle Nerve
, 50, 785–793.
Weyand, P. 
G., Sandell, R. 
F., Prime, D. 
N. 
L. 
& Bundle, M. 
W. 
2010. 
The biological
limits to running speed are imposed from the ground up. 
J Appl Physiol
, 108, 950–961.
Weyand, P. 
G., Sternlight, D. 
B., Bellizzi, M. 
J. 
& Wright, S. 
2000. 
Faster top running
speeds are achieved with greater ground forces, not more rapid leg movements. 
J Appl
Physiol
, 89, 1991–1999.
Young, W. 
B., Jenner, A. 
& Griffiths, K. 
1998. 
Acute enhancement of power performance
from heavy load squats. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 12, 82–84.
Young, W. 
B., Newton, R. 
U., Doyle, T. 
L. 
A., Chapman, D., Cormack, S., Stewart, C. 
&
Dawson, B. 
2005. 
Physiological and anthropometric characteristics of starters and non-
starters and playing positions in elite Australian Rules football: a case study. 
J Sci Med
Sport
, 8, 333–345.
Zamparo, P., Minetti, A. 
& Di Prampero, P. 
2002. 
Interplay among the changes of muscle
strength, cross-sectional area and maximal explosive power: theory and facts. 
Eur J
Appl Physiol
, 88, 193–202.
Zatsiorsky, V. 
1995. 
Science and Practice of Strength Training
, Champaign, IL, Human
Kinetics.

CHAPTER 3
Stretch-shortening cycle and
muscle-tendon stiffness
John J. 
McMahon
 
 
INTRODUCTION
This chapter begins by introducing the stretch-shortening cycle (SSC),
describing its underpinning mechanisms and explaining the influence of
muscle-tendon stiffness (MTS) on SSC function. 
The chapter then describes
the different levels at which MTS can be directly or indirectly measured
during SSC tasks which involve the entire lower limb(s) such as running,
jumping and hopping. 
The following section provides a commentary on the
effects of MTS on performance outcomes measured during running, jumping
and hopping which serves to inform practitioners of the benefits and
limitations of performing these tasks with a stiff or compliant limb strategy.
The chapter concludes by summarising the results of contemporary training
studies to inform training recommendations. 
The information presented in
this chapter should, therefore, help practitioners with the design of their
training programmes aimed at developing task-specific SSC function.
WHAT IS THE STRETCH-SHORTENING CYCLE?

Early research findings revealed that when isolated skeletal muscle fibres
were tetanically stimulated (i.e., maximally activated by a nerve stimulator),
stretched and then immediately allowed to shorten, they performed a far
greater amount of positive work when compared to being purely shortened
alone (Cavagna et al., 1965; Cavagna et al., 1968). 
This sequential
combination of eccentric (lengthening) and concentric (shortening) muscle
actions was later termed the SSC (Cavanagh and Komi, 1979). 
In addition to
when measured during isolated conditions, the apparent “performance
enhancing” effect of the SSC was also demonstrated during a range of SSC
actions involving the entire lower limb(s), such as running, jumping and
hopping (Asmussen and Bonde-Petersen, 1974; Fukashiro and Komi, 1987;
Luhtanen and Komi, 1978). 
Whilst it is important to note the SSC is common
to upper limb movements too, such as throwing (Newton et al., 1997), the
majority of scientific studies that have explored the SSC to date have solely
investigated the lower limb(s) and so this chapter will discuss lower limb
SSC actions only.
Due to its aforementioned prevalence in running, jumping and hopping
movements, which are performed by many athletes as part of both training
and competition, the SSC forms the most common type of lower limb muscle
function (Van Ingen Schenau et al., 1997a). 
In recent years, there has been
much debate over the proposed mechanisms which cause the potentiating
effect (e.g., increased positive work) of the SSC, however, stimulation of
muscle stretch reflexes (e.g., muscle spindles) and storage and reutilisation of
elastic energy in the muscle-tendon unit (MTU) are the two primary
mechanisms that have been repeatedly acknowledged among researchers
(Cormie et al., 2011; Van Ingen Schenau et al., 1997a, 1997b; Turner and
Jeffreys, 2011). 
During the SSC, stretch reflexes act to increase muscle
stiffness (Taube et al., 2012), and tendon stiffness influences the storage and
reutilisation of elastic energy (Farris et al., 2011), thus it can be deduced that
MTS has a profound influence on SSC function.
WHAT IS STIFFNESS?
Simply stated, stiffness describes the relationship between a given force and
the magnitude of deformation (i.e., stretch) of an object or body (Butler et al.,
2003; Brughelli and Cronin, 2008a; McMahon et al., 2012). 
When applied to

FIGURE 3.1
the MTU, the object or body could be the muscle, the tendon or both. 
The
term “stiffness” is based on Hooke’s Law, which has been described in detail
elsewhere (Butler et al., 2003; Brughelli and Cronin, 2008a), and describes
the stiffness of an ideal spring-mass system (Butler et al., 2003). 
When an
object that obeys Hooke’s Law deforms (such as tendon), its change in length
will be directly proportional to the force acting upon it (Alexander, 1997)
(
Figure 3.1
). 
During this deformation (e.g., during the eccentric phase of a
SSC action), the object will store elastic energy which will be reutilised as the
object shortens (e.g., during the concentric phase of a SSC action) and returns
to its original resting length (Butler et al., 2003). 
It is worth pointing out at
this stage that activated muscle does not always adhere to Hooke’s Law and
the reasons for this will be discussed in the later sections of this chapter.
Nevertheless, during the performance of SSC actions, stiffness can be
described at a broad range of levels, from an individual MTU, to modelling
the entire body as a simple spring-mass system (Butler et al., 2003; Brughelli
and Cronin, 2008a).
An example of an object that obeys Hooke’s Law and the equation to
calculate stiffness (k), where ΔF = change in force and Δx = change in
length.

MUSCLE-TENDON STIFFNESS
When considering stiffness in context of the various MTUs which surround
the lower limb joints, it is known that there are both passive (tendon,
connective tissue, etc., which are commonly referred to as the series and
parallel elastic components) and active (muscle, which is commonly referred
to as the contractile component) components. 
Due to this, the MTU is
considered to be a variably stiff system because whilst tendon possesses a
fairly linear relationship (due to it demonstrating mainly elastic behaviour)
between force and deformation (Farris et al., 2011; Lichtwark and Wilson,
2005), muscle can vary its stiffness through both feedforward (e.g., pre-
programmed) and feedback (e.g., reflex) activation mechanisms (Taube et al.,
2012). 
It must also be noted that the tendon is known to possess viscous as
well as elastic properties (Pearson and McMahon, 2012), and so the amount
of tendon stretch (and thus storage of elastic energy) experienced during SSC
actions will be somewhat affected by tendon loading rate (McMahon et al.,
2014). 
Muscle activation is, therefore, the primary modulator of MTS during
SSC actions, as this will influence both muscle stiffness (i.e., the resultant
muscle length changes) and tendon stiffness (i.e., by affecting load rate)
alike.
As mentioned earlier, both pre-programmed and reflex muscle activation
strategies largely dictate the muscle stiffness attained during SSC tasks
(Taube et al., 2012). 
The pre-programmed aspect of muscle activation relates
to both muscle pre-activation, which acts to provide sufficient stiffness to the
MTU at initial ground contact (Taube et al., 2012), and variable activation
during ground contact, which helps to maintain stiffness (i.e., prevent muscle
lengthening) in the braking phase and then facilitate the controlled release of
high forces (produced in the braking phase) in the subsequent propulsion
phase (Komi, 2003). 
The reflex aspect of muscle activation relates primarily
to the stimulation of a stretch reflex called short-latency response (SLR),
although when muscle is pre-activated prior to stretching (as is the case
during SSC tasks) there are medium-latency (MLR) and long-latency (LLR)
responses involved too (Taube et al., 2012). 
These reflex responses simply
relate to their time-course of stimulation, with time epochs of 30–60 ms, 60–
90 ms and 90–120 ms typically relating to the SLR, MLR and LLR,
respectively. 
It has been suggested, however, that stretch reflex contributions
to muscle stiffness are more apparent when the muscle is not fully activated

(e.g., during sub-maximal SSC tasks [Cronin et al., 2011]) in order to help
prevent sudden muscle yielding during the braking phase (Taube et al.,
2012).
Calculating individual MTS contributions to the total stiffness attained by
a given MTU during SSC tasks is a relatively complex process which
requires the simultaneous collection of ultrasound, electromyography, force
platform and motion analysis data, followed by a lengthy data analysis
process which makes this discrete level of analysis difficult to perform in a
competitive sport setting. 
Thus, in the applied strength and conditioning
research and practice setting, it is more common to see ‘global’ measures of
lower limb MTS assessments, such as joint stiffness (
K
joint
) and leg stiffness
(
K
leg
), as these measures are easier to attain, require less processing time and
can still provide valuable insight into how MTS influences SSC function
during a variety of athletic tasks (e.g., running, jumping, hopping).
JOINT STIFFNESS
Lower limb 
K
joint
 is typically calculated using the torsional-spring model
(
Figure 3.2
) as the ratio of the peak sagittal plane joint moment (i.e., the joint
rotatory force) to peak sagittal plane joint angular displacement (
Figure 3.3
)
between the instants of ground contact and maximum joint flexion (Farley et
al., 1998). 
An alternative method of quantifying 
K
joint
 has also been described
in the literature as the ratio of negative mechanical work to change in joint
angle between the instants of ground contact and maximum joint flexion
(Arampatzis et al., 1999), however, this method was later critiqued (Gunther
and Blickhan, 2002), and to the author’s knowledge, has not since been
reported in any other studies. 
Despite the method used, however, 
K
joint
calculations require access to both a force platform and either two- or three-
dimensional motion capture, so this equipment may be more accessible to
strength and conditioning researchers and practitioners than the addition of
ultrasound and electromyography equipment needed to calculate MTS. 
The
torsional-spring model assumes that the lower limb can be represented by
multiple spring-like joints (i.e., the ankle, knee and hip) during SSC actions,
which flex and extend during the ground contact period, thus storing and
releasing energy (
Figure 3.2
).

FIGURE 3.2
An example of the torsional spring model and how it corresponds to the
human body.

FIGURE 3.3
An example of the joint moment–joint angular displacement relationship
during loaded flexion and extension.
It has been suggested that 
K
joint
 only provides a measure of ‘quasi-
stiffness’, as one stiffness value is used to describe all contributing
components to 
K
joint
, such as muscles, tendons, ligaments, cartilage and bone
(Latash and Zatsiorsky, 1993). 
Nevertheless, 
K
joint
 during SSC tasks is
mainly influenced by the magnitude of agonist muscle activation, in addition
to the magnitude of antagonist muscle co-activation, immediately prior to and
during ground contact (Arampatzis et al., 2001b; Arampatzis et al., 2001a;
Farley et al., 1998). 
Therefore, 
K
joint
 is mainly controlled by muscle stiffness
through the muscle activation mechanisms mentioned in the previous section.
Another point to consider is that 
K
joint
 attained during SSC tasks is also
influenced by limb geometry at touchdown (Farley et al., 1998; Moritz and
Farley, 2004; Devita and Skelly, 1992). 
This can be reasoned by the
understanding of the joint moment–angle relationship, in that as the lower
limb becomes more extended at touchdown, the moment about the joint
decreases for any given external ground reaction force (
Figure 3.4
), resulting
in decreased joint flexion for any given level of extensor muscle activation
(Moritz and Farley, 2004).

LEG STIFFNESS
It has been shown in several studies that 
K
joint
 is the primary determinant of
K
leg
 during SSC actions (Farley et al., 1998; Arampatzis et al., 1999;
Kuitunen et al., 2002), and so although the predominant joint that regulates
K
leg
 depends on the type of SSC task being performed, this most ‘global’
measure of lower limb stiffness provides valuable information pertaining to
SSC function and is the easiest of the lower limb stiffness hierarchy to
measure in both lab and field settings.
The 
K
leg
 measurement is based on the human body acting as a simple
spring-mass system during SSC tasks (Brughelli and Cronin, 2008b; Geyer et
al., 2006). 
The spring-mass model (
Figure 3.5
) is comprised of a point mass
(equal to body mass), which is supported by a single massless Hookean
spring (representing the leg or legs depending upon whether a unilateral or
bilateral task is being performed) (Blickhan, 1989; McMahon and Cheng,
1990). 
When the spring is not compressed (i.e., during the flight phase of
SSC tasks), it does not store any energy and thus no force is developed;
however, energy is stored when the spring is compressed (i.e., during the
braking phase of SSC tasks) and force is produced, and the majority of this
energy is reutilised when the spring subsequently recoils (i.e., during the
propulsion phase of SSC tasks) (Brughelli and Cronin, 2008a).

FIGURE 3.4
An example of how joint touchdown angles influence leg and joint
stiffness values.
From the spring-mass model, 
K
leg
 can be calculated as the ratio of the
peak ground reaction force to peak leg compression during the period of
ground contact (McMahon and Cheng, 1990). 
Other methods can also be
used to calculate 
K
leg
 based on body mass and either the natural period of
oscillation (McMahon et al., 1987; Cavagna et al., 1988) or temporal
characteristics such as ground contact and flight times (Morin et al., 2005;
Dalleau et al., 2004). 
Although the latter methods (i.e., based on body mass
and temporal factors) have been less frequently reported in the scientific
literature (Brughelli and Cronin, 2008b; Serpell et al., 2012), they are
commonly used in applied practice due to these measurements of 
K
leg
 being
easily attainable from simple jump mats, photoelectric cells (e.g., Optojump)
and even iPhone apps (Balsalobre-Fernández et al., 2017). 
The limitation of
using field-based calculations of 
K
leg
 is that they do not directly include force
and deformation in their calculations, and so they provide somewhat of a

FIGURE 3.5
proxy of ‘true’ 
K
leg
.
An example of the spring-mass model and how it corresponds to the
human body.
STIFFNESS AND PERFORMANCE
The implications of MTS being primarily regulated by pre-programmed and
reflex muscle activation, and somewhat influenced by tendon stiffness and
joint geometry, is that it is acutely sensitive to changes in SSC task type and
intensity which, in turn, influences SSC function (Ishikawa et al., 2005;
Ishikawa and Komi, 2004; McMahon et al., 2014). 
For example, when
bilateral drop jumps (DJs) were performed from increasing drop heights (10
cm lower than ‘optimal’ drop height, optimal drop height as determined by
best jump height achieved, and 10 cm higher than ‘optimal’ drop height),

vastus lateralis (VL) muscle activation increased, decreased and remained
unchanged during the pre-contact, braking and propulsive phases,
respectively, but tendon recoil decreased (Ishikawa et al., 2005). 
Tendon
recoil also reduced by virtue of increased drop height for the medial
gastrocnemius (MG), and its activation patterns were similar to those
reported for the VL in the pre-contact and braking phases; however, the MG
showed increased activation during the propulsive phase (Ishikawa et al.,
2005). 
Interestingly, the SLR amplitude decreased for the MG but increased
for the VL during DJs performed from the highest drop (Ishikawa et al.,
2005). 
This is perhaps explained by the MG showing a reduction in
lengthening during the braking phase, whereas the VL demonstrated a
general increase in lengthening during this phase (Ishikawa et al., 2005),
since the muscle spindle stretch reflex detects the rate and magnitude of
muscle lengthening (Taube et al., 2012). 
These results illustrate that
variations in MTS and thus SSC function for a given task and intensity is
muscle-specific (as noted by the differential response of the VL and MG
MTUs), and that high stiffness (as shown for the highest drop condition) does
not always transfer to improved performance (e.g., improved jump height).
The differential stiffness strategies of the individual VL and MG muscle-
tendon components during various DJ tasks mentioned above (Ishikawa et
al., 2005) are echoed by a range of studies that explored the associations
between muscle activation strategies and both 
K
leg
 and 
K
joint
 attained in a
range of DJ tasks. 
For example, there were significant correlations between
K
leg
 and the magnitude of pre-activation of the MG, lateral gastrocnemius
(LG), VL and the hamstrings during the performance of bilateral DJs by
decathletes from a height of 20 cm (Arampatzis et al., 2001b). 
Interestingly,
when DJs were performed from heights of 40 and 60 cm, relationships
between 
K
leg
 and the magnitude of pre-activation were demonstrated for VL
and the hamstrings only for this group of athletes (Arampatzis et al., 2001b).
For female athletes, significant correlations between 
K
leg
 and the magnitude
of pre-activation of the MG, LG and VL were found for bilateral DJs
performed from a 20 cm height, whereas the magnitude of pre-activation of
MG and VL only were correlated to 
K
leg
 attained during DJs from 40 cm
(Arampatzis et al., 2001a). 
Nine healthy males also demonstrated a link
between pre-activation of the VL muscle and 
K
knee
 during bilateral DJs
performed from 50 cm (Horita et al., 2002).

The above results pertaining to the varying muscle activation responses to
DJs performed from different drop heights reflect the different 
K
joint
contributions to total 
K
leg
 that have been highlighted for a range of
performances. 
For example, 
K
ankle
 has been shown to be the primary
determinant of 
K
leg
 during hopping in place at high (≥ 2.0 Hz) hopping
frequencies whereby the ability to hop at high frequencies requires high
levels of 
K
leg
 (Farley et al., 1998; Hobara et al., 2011). 
Contrastingly, 
K
knee
was the primary modulator of 
K
leg
 at low (≤ 1.5 Hz) hopping frequencies
which require lower levels of 
K
leg
 and where greater hop heights are noted
(Hobara et al., 2011; Hobara et al., 2009). 
Similarly, 
K
knee
 was also the
primary determinant of 
K
leg
 during both low (6.5 m.s
–1
) velocity running
(Arampatzis et al., 1999) and sprint running (Kuitunen et al., 2002). 
These
differential joint contributions to total 
K
leg
 across different SSC tasks reflect
differential muscle-tendon contributions to these tasks, with the contribution
of tendon (in terms of total lengthening and shortening of the MTU) being
higher and muscle length being almost constant (i.e., isometric) when 
K
leg
increases (McMahon et al., 2013b).
Based on the results of the research presented above, it is apparent that
there is an appropriate amount of 
K
leg
 for success in a particular SSC task.
This notion is supported by a range of scientific studies related to jumping.
For example, during DJ performances from heights of 20–60 cm, jump height
was maximised when participants adopted a range of 
K
leg
 strategies
(Arampatzis et al., 2001a, 2001b; Laffaye and Choukou, 2010). 
However, the
general trend in these studies was that too much 
K
leg
 had a negative impact
upon vertical jump height (Arampatzis et al., 2001a, 2001b; Laffaye and
Choukou, 2010), and this was especially seen in a study whereby DJs were
performed from very high (80 and 100 cm) drop heights (Walshe and Wilson,
1997). 
The potentially inhibiting effect of excessive 
K
leg
 was also
demonstrated during a high jumping manoeuvre, as greatest jump heights
were achieved when participants adopted a more compliant (i.e., less stiff) leg
strategy (Laffaye et al., 2005). 
The aforementioned results suggest that the
degree of 
K
leg
 required to successfully complete a jumping-based task
depends upon both the aims (e.g., maximal height attainment vs. 
fast
execution) and type (e.g., hopping vs. 
DJ) of the specific task being

performed. 
Several studies have also reported that 
K
leg
 was associated with
increased running velocity (Farley and Gonzalez, 1996; Stefanyshyn and
Nigg, 1998; Arampatzis et al., 1999; Hobara et al., 2010) and increased
running economy (McMahon and Cheng, 1990, Heise and Martin, 1998,
Dutto and Smith, 2002; Rabita et al., 2011) but not with sprint acceleration
(Lockie et al., 2011; Chelly and Denis, 2001; Pruyn et al., 2014).
The reason for 
K
leg
 being beneficial to DJ from lower heights, as
compared to DJ from greater heights and high jumping, can be explained by
increased 
K
leg
 being linked to shorter ground contact times and increased
vGRFs (ground reaction force) (Arampatzis et al., 2001a, 2001b). 
When
increasing jump height is the desired outcome, vertical impulse (area
underneath the force-time curve) must be increased (Kirby et al., 2011).
Although impulse can be maintained or increased by increasing vGRFs when
ground contact times decrease (as seen when employing a stiff jumping
strategy), it seems the latter prevails when high 
K
leg
 is demonstrated in DJs
performed from greater heights and during high jumping. 
Similarly,
researchers have shown that the achievement of faster top running speeds was
more closely related to the production of a greater resultant GRF rather than
to an increase in stride frequency (Weyand et al., 2000). 
Therefore, if running
was to be performed with high 
K
leg
, ground contact times would decrease
(Farley et al., 1991; Arampatzis et al., 2001b, 2001a), which would reduce
the time available for force production (Weyand et al., 2010). 
A reduction in
resultant GRF during running would likely reduce stride length (McMahon
and Cheng, 1990; Kerdok et al., 2002). 
This is, like for jumping, due to a
reduction in impulse. 
For example, unless a reduction in ground contact time
is accompanied by at least the maintenance of, or an increase in, GRF, there
will be a reduction in impulse. 
Therefore, top running speeds may plateau
with an increase in 
K
leg
, in spite of a potential increase in stride frequency
(McMahon et al., 1987; Farley and Gonzalez, 1996; Hobara et al., 2010).
Recent work did indeed find that the fastest man on earth (i.e., Usain Bolt)
ran with significantly lower 
K
leg
, lower stride frequency and longer ground
contact times during competition when compared with his two closest rivals
(Taylor and Beneke, 2012).
In terms of running economy, it is known that the storage and release of
elastic energy will help to reduce the work of the muscle (Roberts and Marsh,
2003; Perl et al., 2012; Lichtwark and Barclay, 2010), and although previous

FIGURE 3.6
studies revealed that a high 
K
leg
 strategy was associated with improved
running economy (McMahon and Cheng, 1990; Heise and Martin, 1998;
Dutto and Smith, 2002; Rabita et al., 2011), a stiffer MTU may not always
elicit a more economical outcome. 
For example, previous studies have
examined the relationship between MG muscle fascicle length and Achilles
tendon stiffness and maximum efficiency during a range of running and
walking tasks (Lichtwark and Wilson, 2007, 2008; Lichtwark et al., 2007),
and despite maximum efficiency for both running and walking occurring at
similar values of tendon stiffness, it was suggested that moving towards a
stiffer tendon would reduce efficiency in the walking task but would be more
ideal for running, along with longer muscle fibre lengths required to optimise
efficiency as compared to walking. 
However, modelling indicated that fibre
lengths could vary by approximately one and a half times (45–70 mm) and
tendon stiffness by approximately threefold (150–500 N•mm
–1
) to give
optimal efficiency in a given walking or running task (Lichtwark and Wilson,
2008), which further highlights both the individual and task-specific nature of
‘optimal’ MTS.
A schematic diagram illustrating how the leg(s) change from being more
compliant (opposite of stiff) to more stiff for a range of stretch-shortening
cycle tasks.
In conclusion, the amount of MTS required during a SSC task depends on

desired task outcome (
Figure 3.6
). 
If reducing ground contact time and
increasing GRF is sought then stiffer is better, but if increasing joint angular
velocity to increase short sprint acceleration or jump height is sought then too
much stiffness will be detrimental. 
Acutely modulating an athlete’s MTS
strategy in the direction of stiffening their legs via verbal coaching cues, etc.,
will increase GRFs and load rates, and so this should only be done if they are
appropriately conditioned and (in line with the previous point) if the task
warrants a stiffer strategy (
Figure 3.6
). 
A safer and more sensible approach to
increasing MTS is through long-term training.
STIFFNESS AND TRAINING
Only a few studies to date have examined the effects of training interventions
on 
K
leg
 and 
K
joint
, as determined during SSC actions (
Table 3.1
). 
Most of the
training interventions included in these studies were very distinct, which
makes it somewhat difficult to make any definitive conclusions about the
most effective training methods for increasing 
K
leg
 and 
K
joint
, but there are
some general trends noted across studies which warrant discussion.
Generally, traditional resistance exercises performed individually with
≤80% one repetition maximum (1RM) tended not to increase 
K
leg
 and 
K
joint
(Toumi et al., 2004; Kubo et al., 2007), unless performed concurrently with
plyometric exercises (Toumi et al., 2004). 
Individual traditional resistance
exercises can increase 
K
leg
, however, if performed with a relative load of up
to 90% 1RM (Cormie et al., 2010). 
Multiple traditional resistance exercises
performed with ≥85% 1RM have been shown to increase task-specific 
K
leg
(Millet et al., 2002; Arabatzi and Kellis, 2012). 
For example, the results
presented by Millet et al. 
(2002) showed increased 
K
leg
 measured during
running but not during hopping at 2.0 Hz. 
These task-specific differences in
K
leg
 seen post-intervention are most likely due to the training programme
being knee-dominant (
Table 3.1
), in light of 
K
knee
 being the primary
modulator of 
K
leg
 during running (Arampatzis et al., 1999; Kuitunen et al.,
2002) and 
K
ankle
 being the primary determinant of 
K
leg
 when hopping at 2.0
Hz (Farley et al., 1998; Hobara et al., 2011). 
Contrastingly, the training
programme included in the study by Arabatzi & Kellis (2012) was also knee-

focussed, although 
K
leg
 increased during DJs performed from 20 cm but not
60 cm, despite the latter drop height being more synonymous with 
K
knee
regulation (Arampatzis et al., 2001b); this is possibly due to the relatively
short training duration of 8 weeks. 
Similarly, moderate-heavy (60–100%
1RM) traditional resistance exercise performed concomitantly with
plyometric exercises increased 
K
leg
 during countermovement jump
performance, but reduced 
K
leg
 during DJs performed from ≥30 cm drop
heights (Hunter and Marshall, 2002). 
However, the participants tested by
Marshall and Hunter (2002) had never performed any structured plyometric
training prior to the commencement of the study nor were they given any
verbal instructions either prior to or during the jump performances, which
may have influenced these findings.
TABLE 3.1
 
A summary of studies which have determined the effects of training
interventions on global lower limb stiffness measures
Study
Subjects
Training Programme Overview
Training
Duration
Result 
Toumi et
al.
(2004)
8 male
handball
players
6 × 10 reps of leg press at 70%
1-RM
6 weeks (4
sessions/week)
No change in
K
leg
 (CMJ)
Cormie
et al.
(2010)
8 strength
trained
males
7 × 6 reps of jump squat at 0%
1-RM (2 sessions) & 3 × 5 reps
of jump squat at 30% 1-RM (1
session)
10 weeks (3
sessions/week)
Increase in 
K
leg
(CMJ)
Connie
et al.
(2010)
8 strength
trained
males
3 × 3–6 reps of back squat at
75–90% 1-RM
10 weeks (3
sessions/week)
Increase in 
K
leg
(CMJ)
Hunter
&
Marshall
(2002)
14 males
(mixed
sports)
1–4 × 3–8 reps of CMJs, 1–2 ×
6–10 reps of DTs (30–90cm) &
2–3 × 6–10 reps of
deadlift/squat at 60–100% 1-
RM
10 weeks (2
sessions/week)
Increase in 
K
leg
(CMJ)
Decrease in
K
leg
 (DJ 30,60
& 90 cm)
Millet et
al.
(2002)
7 male
triathletes
3–5 × 3–5 reps of hamstring
curl, leg press, seated press,
parallel squat, leg extension, &
heel raise at >90% 1-RM
14 weeks (2
sessions/week)
No change in
K
leg
 (hopping)
Increase in 
K
leg
(running)

Arabatzi
& Kellis
(2012)
9
physically
active
males
4–6 × 4–6 reps of power clean,
snatch, clean and jerk, high
pull, half-squat at >85% 1-RM
8 weeks (3
sessions/week)
Increase in 
K
leg
(DJ 20 & 60
cm)
Arabatzi
& Kellis
(2012)
9
physically
active
males
4–6 × 4–6 reps of leg press, leg
curl, leg extension, bench
press, half-squat at >85% 1-
RM
8 weeks (3
sessions/week)
Increase in 
K
leg
(DJ 20 cm)
Decrease in
K
leg
 (DJ 60
cm)
Toumi et
al.
(2004)
8 male
handball
players
6 × 10 reps of leg press at 70%
1-RM & 3 × 5 reps of cross-
over jump
6 weeks (4
sessions/week)
Increase in 
K
leg
(CMJ)
Kubo et
al.
(2007)
24
physically
males
5 × 10 reps of unilateral
hopping & DJs (20cm) at 40%
1-RM
12 weeks (4
sessions/week)
Increase in
K
ankle
 (DJ 20
cm)
Kubo et
al.
(2007)
24
physically
males
5 × 10 reps of unilateral calf
raise at 80% 1-RM
12 weeks (4
sessions/week)
No change in
K
ankle
 (DJ 20
cm)
Notes:
 CMJ = countermovement jump, DJ = drop jump
In contrast to the contradictory 
K
leg
 and 
K
joint
 adaptations brought about
via traditional resistance training interventions mentioned above, all training
programmes that included either plyometric, ballistic or Olympic
weightlifting exercises increased 
K
leg
 and 
K
joint
 (Cormie et al., 2010; Kubo et
al., 2007; Arabatzi and Kellis, 2012). 
The differential adaptations to 
K
leg
 and
K
joint
 following different exercise modalities and intensities have been
attributed to the different mechanisms that modulate MTS attainment. 
For
example, heavy resistance training (≥80% 1RM) leads to greater strength
(i.e., muscle force) capacity, and although muscle strength is not a direct
measure of muscle stiffness, it can be thought of as a proxy for stiffness
(Pearson and McMahon, 2012). 
Additionally, tendon stiffness, is related to
the force producing capacity of the muscle (Arampatzis et al., 2007; Muraoka
et al., 2005), and, as has been shown in several studies, tendon stiffness
increases in response to traditional resistance training, in addition to isometric
and eccentric-focussed training (refer to the recent systematic review and

meta-analysis on this topic by Bohm et al., 2015).  
Alternatively, enhanced
muscle recruitment strategies (as is commonly associated with plyometric
training and weightlifting [Chimera et al., 2004; Arabatzi and Kellis, 2012])
may explain increased post-training 
K
leg
 and 
K
joint
 (Taube et al., 2012), as
muscle strength and tendon stiffness generally do not increase following
plyometric training (Kubo et al., 2007; Bohm et al., 2015) unless performed
with a very high volume (Fouré et al., 2010, 2011).
The mixed results of training studies presented in 
Table 3.1
, particularly
when interpreted alongside the underpinning mechanisms for MTS
adaptation, highlight the efficacy of including both traditional resistance (i.e.,
strength) and power-focussed exercises in a training programme designed to
increase MTS. 
Traditional resistance exercises, particularly when utilised by
relatively weak athletes, should be performed for at least 8–12 weeks as this
is the minimum amount of time likely needed to induce increases in tendon
stiffness, despite muscle strength gains occurring from as soon as 4 weeks
(Kubo et al., 2012, 2010). 
If an athlete is relatively strong then it may be
prudent to include low-load SSC tasks alongside traditional resistance
exercises (particularly as they progress through the training weeks) to
facilitate the previously mentioned enhanced muscle activation strategies that
can be gained through this (Chimera et al., 2004). 
Because increases in
muscle strength generally outweigh increases in tendon stiffness, due to the
differential time-course of adaptation of these structures to resistance training
(Kubo et al., 2012, 2010), moderate-high-load SSC tasks performed too early
may lead to excessive strain of the lower limb tendons (McMahon et al.,
2013a). 
Thus these should be avoided until at least after the 12-week
resistance training period, unless the athlete is deemed to be ‘strong’ (see
Chapter 2
) and is used to performing such SSC tasks.
REFERENCES
Alexander, R. 
M. 
(1997) Invited Editorial on “Interaction of leg stiffness and surface
stiffness during human hopping”. 
Journal of Applied Physiology
, 82, 13–14.
Arabatzi, F. 
& Kellis, E. 
(2012) Olympic weightlifting training causes different knee
muscle-coactivation adaptations compared with traditional weight training. 
The Journal
of Strength and Conditioning Research
, 26, 2192–2201.
Arampatzis, A., Bruggemann, G. 
P. 
& Klapsing, G. 
M. 
(2001a) Leg stiffness and
mechanical energetic processes during jumping on a sprung surface. 
Medicine and

Science in Sports and Exercise
, 33, 923–931.
Arampatzis, A., Bruggemann, G. 
P. 
& Metzler, V. 
(1999) The effect of speed on leg
stiffness and joint kinetics in human running. 
Journal of Biomechanics
, 32, 1349–1353.
Arampatzis, A., Karamanidis, K., Morey-Klapsing, G., De Monte, G. 
& Stafilidis, S.
(2007) Mechanical properties of the triceps surae tendon and aponeurosis in relation to
intensity of sport activity. 
Journal of Biomechanics
, 40, 1946–1952.
Arampatzis, A., Schade, F., Walsh, M. 
& Bruggemann, G. 
P. 
(2001b) Influence of leg
stiffness and its effect on myodynamic jumping performance. 
Journal of
Electromyography and Kinesiology
, 11, 355–364.
Asmussen, E. 
& Bonde-Petersen, F. 
(1974) Storage of elastic energy in skeletal muscles in
man. 
Acta Physiologica Scandinavica
, 91, 385–392.
Balsalobre-Fernández, C. 
Hovannes, A. 
& Jean-Benoit, M. 
(2017) The Validity and
Reliability of an iPhone App for Measuring Running Mechanics. 
Journal of Applied
Biomechanics
, 33, 222–226.
Blickhan, R. 
(1989) The spring mass model for running and hopping. 
Journal of
Biomechanics
, 22, 1217–1227.
Bohm, S., Mersmann, F. 
& Arampatzis, A. 
(2015) Human tendon adaptation in response to
mechanical loading: a systematic review and meta-analysis of exercise intervention
studies on healthy adults. 
Sports Medicine – Open
, 1, 1–18.
Brughelli, M. 
& Cronin, J. 
(2008a) Influence of running velocity on vertical, leg and joint
stiffness: modelling and recommendations for future research. 
Sports Medicine
, 38,
647–657.
Brughelli, M. 
& Cronin, J. 
(2008b) A review of research on the mechanical stiffness in
running and jumping: methodology and implications. 
Scandinavian Journal of Medicine
and Science in Sports
, 18, 417–426.
Butler, R. 
J., Crowell, H. 
P. 
& Davis, I. 
M. 
(2003) Lower extremity stiffness: implications
for performance and injury. 
Clinical Biomechanics
, 18, 511–517.
Cavagna, G. 
A., Dusman, B. 
& Margaria, R. 
(1968) Positive work done by a previously
stretched muscle. 
Journal of Applied Physiology
, 24, 21–32.
Cavagna, G. 
A., Franzetti, P., Heglund, N. 
C. 
& Willems, P. 
(1988) The determinants of
the step frequency in running, trotting and hopping in man and other vertebrates. 
The
Journal of Physiology
, 399, 81–92.
Cavagna, G. 
A., Saibene, F. 
P. 
& Margaria, R. 
(1965) Effect of negative work on the
amount of positive work performed by an isolated muscle. 
Journal of Applied
Physiology
, 20, 157–158.
Cavanagh, P. 
& Komi, P. 
(1979) Electromechanical delay in human skeletal muscle under
concentric and eccentric contractions. 
European Journal of Applied Physiology and
Occupational Physiology
, 42, 159–163.
Chelly, S. 
M. 
& Denis, C. 
(2001) Leg power and hopping stiffness: relationship with sprint
running performance. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise
, 33, 326–333.
Chimera, N. 
J., Swanik, K. 
A., Swanik, C. 
B. 
& Straub, S. 
J. 
(2004) Effects of plyometric
training on muscle-activation strategies and performance in female athletes. 
Journal of
Athletic Training
, 39, 24–31.

Cormie, P., McGuigan, M. 
R. 
& Newton, R. 
U. 
(2010) Changes in the eccentric phase
contribute to improved stretch-shorten cycle performance after training. 
Medicine and
Science in Sports and Exercise
, 42, 1731–1744.
Cormie, P., McGuigan, M. 
R. 
& Newton, R. 
U. 
(2011) Developing maximal
neuromuscular power part 1– biological basis of maximal power production. 
Sports
Medicine
, 41, 17–38.
Cronin, N. 
J., Carty, C. 
P. 
& Barrett, R. 
S. 
(2011) Triceps surae short latency stretch
reflexes contribute to ankle stiffness regulation during human running. 
PLoS ONE
, 6,
e23917.
Dalleau, G., Belli, A., Viale, F., Lacour, J. 
R. 
& Bourdin, M. 
(2004) A simple method for
field measurements of leg stiffness in hopping. 
International Journal of Sports
Medicine
, 25, 170–176.
Devita, P. 
& Skelly, W. 
A. 
(1992) Effect of landing stiffness on joint kinetics and energeics
in the lower-extremity. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise
, 24, 108–115.
Dutto, D. 
J. 
& Smith, G. 
A. 
(2002) Changes in spring-mass characteristics during treadmill
running to exhaustion. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise
, 34, 1324–1331.
Farley, C. 
T., Blickhan, R., Saito, J. 
& Taylor, C. 
R. 
(1991) Hopping frequency in humans:
a test of how springs set stride frequency in bouncing gaits. 
Journal of Applied
Physiology
, 71, 2127–2132.
Farley, C. 
T. 
& Gonzalez, O. 
(1996) Leg stiffness and stride frequency in human running.
Journal of Biomechanics
, 29, 181–186.
Farley, C. 
T., Houdijk, H. 
H. 
P., Van Strien, C. 
& Louie, M. 
(1998) Mechanism of leg
stiffness adjustment for hopping on surfaces of different stiffnesses. 
Journal of Applied
Physiology
, 85, 1044–1055.
Farris, D. 
J., Trewartha, G. 
& McGuigan, M. 
P. 
(2011) Could intra-tendinous hyperthermia
during running explain chronic injury of the human Achilles tendon? 
Journal of
Biomechanics
, 44, 822–826.
Fouré, A., Nordez, A. 
& Cornu, C. 
(2010) Plyometric training effects on Achilles tendon
stiffness and dissipative properties. 
Journal of Applied Physiology
, 109, 849–854.
Fouré, A., Nordez, A., McNair, P. 
& Cornu, C. 
(2011) Effects of plyometric training on
both active and passive parts of the plantarflexors series elastic component stiffness of
muscle-tendon complex. 
European Journal of Applied Physiology
, 111, 539–548.
Fukashiro, S. 
& Komi, P. 
V. 
(1987) Joint moment and mechanical power flow of the lower
limb during vertical jump. 
International Journal of Sports Medicine
, 8, 357.
Geyer, H., Seyfarth, A. 
& Blickhan, R. 
(2006) Compliant leg behaviour explains basic
dynamics of walking and running. 
Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological
Sciences
, 273, 2861–2867.
Gunther, M. 
& Blickhan, R. 
(2002) Joint stiffness of the ankle and the knee in running.
Journal of Biomechanics
, 35, 1459–1474.
Heise, G. 
D. 
& Martin, P. 
E. 
(1998) “Leg spring” characteristics and the aerobic demand of
running. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise
, 30, 750–754.
Hobara, H., Inoue, K., Gomi, K., Sakamoto, M., Muraoka, T., Iso, S. 
& Kanosue, K. 
(2010)
Continuous change in spring-mass characteristics during a 400 m sprint. 
Journal of

Science and Medicine in Sport
, 13, 256–261.
Hobara, H., Inoue, K., Omuro, K., Muraoka, T. 
& Kanosue, K. 
(2011) Determinant of leg
stiffness during hopping is frequency-dependent. 
European Journal of Applied
Physiology
, 111, 2195–2201.
Hobara, H., Muraoka, T., Omuro, K., Gomi, K., Sakamoto, M., Inoue, K. 
& Kanosue, K.
(2009) Knee stiffness is a major determinant of leg stiffness during maximal hopping.
Journal of Biomechanics
, 42, 1768–1771.
Horita, T., Komi, P. 
V., Nicol, C. 
& Kryolainen, H. 
(2002) Interaction between pre-landing
activities and stiffness regulation of the knee joint musculoskeletal system in the drop
jump: implications to performance. 
European Journal of Applied Physiology
, 88, 76–84.
Hunter, J. 
P. 
& Marshall, R. 
N. 
(2002) Effects of power and flexibility training on vertical
jump technique. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise
, 34, 478–486.
Ishikawa, M. 
& Komi, P. 
V. 
(2004) Effects of different dropping intensities on fascicle and
tendinous tissue behavior during stretch-shortening cycle exercise. 
Journal of Applied
Physiology
, 96, 848–852.
Ishikawa, M., Niemela, E. 
& Komi, P. 
V. 
(2005) Interaction between fascicle and
tendinous tissues in short-contact stretch-shortening cycle exercise with varying
eccentric intensities. 
Journal of Applied Physiology
, 99, 217–223.
Kerdok, A. 
E., Biewener, A. 
A., McMahon, T. 
A., Weyand, P. 
G. 
& Herr, H. 
M. 
(2002)
Energetics and mechanics of human running on surfaces of different stiffnesses. 
Journal
of Applied Physiology
, 92, 469–478.
Kirby, T., McBride, J., Haines, T. 
& Dayne, A. 
(2011) Relative net vertical impulse
determines jumping performance. 
International Journal of Sports Physiology and
Performance
, 27, 207–214.
Komi, P. 
V. 
(2003) Stretch-shortening cycle. 
In:
 Komi, P. 
V. 
(Ed.) 
Strength and Power in
Sport.
 2nd ed. 
Oxford, Blackwell Science.
Kubo, K., Ikebukuro, T., Maki, A., Yata, H. 
& Tsunoda, N. 
(2012) Time course of changes
in the human Achilles tendon properties and metabolism during training and detraining
in vivo. 
European Journal of Applied Physiology
, 112, 2679–2691.
Kubo, K., Ikebukuro, T., Yata, H., Tsunoda, N. 
& Kanehisa, H. 
(2010) Time course of
changes in muscle and tendon properties during strength training and detraining. 
Journal
of Strength and Conditioning Research
, 24, 322–331.
Kubo, K., Morimoto, M., Komuro, T., Yata, H., Tsunoda, N., Kanehisa, H. 
& Fukunaga, T.
(2007) Effects of plyometric and weight training on muscle-tendon complex and jump
performance. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise
, 39, 1801–1810.
Kuitunen, S., Komi, P. 
V. 
& Kyrolainen, H. 
(2002) Knee and ankle joint stiffness in sprint
running. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise
, 34, 166–173.
Laffaye, G., Bardy, B. 
G. 
& Durey, A. 
(2005) Leg stiffness and expertise in men jumping.
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise
 37, 536–543.
Laffaye, G. 
& Choukou, M. 
A. 
(2010) Gender bias in the effect of dropping height on
jumping performance in volleyball players. 
The Journal of Strength and Conditioning
Research
, 24, 2143–2148.
Latash, M. 
L. 
& Zatsiorsky, V. 
M. 
(1993) Joint stiffness: myth or reality? 
Human

Movement Science
, 12, 653–692.
Lichtwark, G. 
A. 
& Barclay, C. 
J. 
(2010) The influence of tendon compliance on muscle
power output and efficiency during cyclic contractions. 
The Journal of Experimental
Biology
, 213, 707–714.
Lichtwark, G. 
A., Bougoulias, K. 
& Wilson, A. 
M. 
(2007) Muscle fascicle and series
elastic element length changes along the length of the human gastrocnemius during
walking and running. 
Journal of Biomechanics
, 40, 157–164.
Lichtwark, G. 
A. 
& Wilson, A. 
M. 
(2005) In vivo mechanical properties of the human
Achilles tendon during one-legged hopping. 
Journal of Experimental Biology
, 208,
4715–4725.
Lichtwark, G. 
A. 
& Wilson, A. 
M. 
(2007) Is Achilles tendon compliance optimised for
maximum muscle efficiency during locomotion? 
Journal of Biomechanics
, 40, 1768–
1775.
Lichtwark, G. 
A. 
& Wilson, A. 
M. 
(2008) Optimal muscle fascicle length and tendon
stiffness for maximising gastrocnemius efficiency during human walking and running.
Journal of Theoretical Biology
, 252, 662–673.
Lockie, R. 
G., Murphy, A. 
J., Knight, T. 
J. 
& Janse de Jonge, X. 
A. 
K. 
(2011) Factors that
differentiate acceleration ability in field sport athletes. 
The Journal of Strength and
Conditioning Research
, 25, 2704–2714.
Luhtanen, P. 
& Komi, P. 
V. 
(1978) Mechanical energy states during running. 
European
Journal of Applied Physiology and Occupational Physiology
 38, 41–48.
McMahon, J. 
J., Comfort, P. 
& Pearson, S. 
(2012) Lower limb stiffness: effect on
performance and training considerations. 
Strength and Conditioning Journal
, 34, 94–
101.
McMahon, J. 
J., Comfort, P. 
& Pearson, S. 
(2014) Relationships between medial
gastrocnemius tendon stiffness and lower limb stiffness during unilateral hopping. 
The
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research
, 28, S2.
McMahon, J. 
J., Pearson, S. 
& Comfort, P. 
(2013a) Changes in medial gastrocnemius
muscle-tendon interaction following 8 weeks of resistance training. 
The Journal of
Strength and Conditioning Research
, 27, S1–S2.
McMahon, J. 
J., Pearson, S. 
& Comfort, P. 
(2013b) Changes in medial gastrocnemius
muscle-tendon interaction with an increase in movement frequency. 
The Journal of
Strength and Conditioning Research
, 27, S77–S78.
McMahon, T. 
A. 
& Cheng, G. 
C. 
(1990) The mechanics of running – how does stiffness
couple with speed? 
Journal of Biomechanics
, 23, 65–78.
McMahon, T. 
A., Valiant, G. 
& Frederick, E. 
C. 
(1987) Groucho running. 
Journal of
Applied Physiology
, 62, 2326–2337.
Millet, G. 
P., Jaouen, B., Borrani, F. 
& Candau, R. 
(2002) Effects of concurrent endurance
and strength training on running economy and VO
2
 kinetics. 
Medicine and Science in
Sports and Exercise
, 34, 1351–1359.
Morin, J. 
B., Dalleau, G., Kyröläinen, H. 
H., Jeannin, T. 
& Belli, A. 
(2005) A simple
method for measuring stiffness during running. 
Journal of Applied Biomechanics
, 21,
167–180.

Moritz, C. 
T. 
& Farley, C. 
T. 
(2004) Passive dynamics change leg mechanics for an
unexpected surface during human hopping. 
Journal of Applied Physiology
, 97, 1313–
1322.
Muraoka, T., Muramatsu, T., Fukunaga, T. 
& Kanehisa, H. 
(2005) Elastic properties of
human Achilles tendon are correlated to muscle strength. 
Journal of Applied Physiology
,
99, 665–669.
Newton, U. 
R., Murphy, J. 
A., Humphries, J. 
B., Wilson, J. 
G., Kraemer, J. 
W. 
&
Häkkinen, K. 
(1997) Influence of load and stretch shortening cycle on the kinematics,
kinetics and muscle activation that occurs during explosive upper-body movements.
European Journal of Applied Physiology and Occupational Physiology
, 75, 333–342.
Pearson, S. 
J. 
& McMahon, J. 
(2012) Lower limb mechanical properties: determining
factors and implications for performance. 
Sports Medicine
, 42, 929–940.
Perl, D. 
P., Daoud, A. 
I. 
& Lieberman, D. 
E. 
(2012) Effects of footwear and strike type on
running economy. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise
, 4, 1335–1343.
Pruyn, E. 
C., Watsford, M. 
& Murphy, A. 
(2014) The relationship between lower-body
stiffness and dynamic performance. 
Applied Physiology, Nutrition, and Metabolism
, 39,
1144–1150.
Rabita, G., Slawinski, J., Girard, O., Bignet, F. 
& Hausswirth, C. 
(2011) Spring-mass
behavior during exhaustive run at constant velocity in elite triathletes. 
Medicine and
Science in Sports and Exercise
, 43, 685–692.
Roberts, T. 
J. 
& Marsh, R. 
L. 
(2003) Probing the limits to muscle-powered accelerations:
lessons from jumping bullfrogs. 
The Journal of Experimental Biology
, 206, 2567–2580.
Serpell, B. 
G., Ball, N. 
B., Scarvell, J. 
M. 
& Smith, P. 
N. 
(2012) A review of models of
vertical, leg, and knee stiffness in adults for running, jumping or hopping tasks. 
Journal
of Sports Sciences
, 30, 1347–1363.
Stefanyshyn, D. 
J. 
& Nigg, B. 
M. 
(1998) Contribution of the lower extremity joints to
mechanical energy in running vertical jumps and running long jumps. 
Journal of Sports
Sciences
, 16, 177–186.
Taube, W., Leukel, C. 
& Gollhofer, A. 
(2012) How neurons make us jump: The neural
control of stretch-shortening cycle movements. 
Exercise and Sport Sciences Reviews
,
40, 106–115.
Taylor, M. 
J. 
D. 
& Beneke, R. 
(2012) Spring mass characteristics of the fastest men on
earth. 
International Journal of Sports Medicine
, 33, 667–670.
Toumi, H., Best, T. 
M., Martin, A. 
& Poumarat, G. 
(2004) Muscle plasticity after weight
and combined (weight plus jump) training. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and
Exercise
, 36, 1580–1588.
Turner, A. 
N. 
& Jeffreys, I. 
(2011) The stretch-shortening cycle: proposed mechanisms and
methods for enhancement. 
Strength and Conditioning Journal
, 32, 87–99.
Van Ingen Schenau, G. 
J., Bobbert, M. 
F. 
& DeHaan, A. 
(1997a) Does elastic energy
enhance work and efficiency in the stretch-shortening cycle? 
Journal of Applied
Biomechanics
, 13, 389–415.
Van Ingen Schenau, G. 
J., Bobbert, M. 
F. 
& DeHaan, A. 
(1997b) Mechanics and energetics
of the stretch-shortening cycle: a stimulating discussion. 
Journal of Applied

Biomechanics
, 13, 484–496.
Walshe, A. 
D. 
& Wilson, G. 
J. 
(1997) The influence of musculotendinous stiffness on drop
jump performance. 
Canadian Journal of Applied Physiology
, 22, 117–132.
Weyand, P. 
G., Sandell, R. 
F., Prime, D. 
N. 
L. 
& Bundle, M. 
W. 
(2010) The biological
limits to running speed are imposed from the ground up. 
Journal of Applied Physiology
,
108, 950–961.
Weyand, P. 
G., Sternlight, D. 
B., Bellizzi, M. 
J. 
& Wright, S. 
(2000) Faster top running
speeds are achieved with greater ground forces not more rapid leg movements. 
Journal
of Applied Physiology
, 89, 1991–1999.

CHAPTER 4
Endocrinology and resistance
training
Anthony Turner and Christian Cook
INTRODUCTION
The endocrine system includes all tissues and glands that secrete hormones
into the circulatory system. 
In this chapter, we focus on those involved in
resistance training, mainly (1) the anabolic hormone (those that directly or
pervasively promote tissue building) testosterone and (2) the primary
catabolic hormone (promoting tissue degradation or repartitioning of energy
reserves) cortisol. 
To a large extent, these hormones can influence our
motivation to train, the loads we lift, performance gains and our ability to
cope with large volumes of training stress. 
Naturally then, understanding
their effects as part of a periodised strength and conditioning (S&C)
programme is important if increases in strength, hypertrophy and general
performance are to be optimised; providing this information is therefore the
aim of this chapter.
Testosterone (T) and cortisol are affected by the following strength
training variables: exercise modality (involved musculature), exercise
sequence, intensity (load), sets and repetitions (volume) and rest period. 
They
are also affected by preconditioning (priming) strategies (discussed in
Chapter 10
) and environmental stimuli, such as observers, training partners
and visual images, for example. 
Finally, the individual athlete is also a factor,
with elite athletes often showing different patterns to sub-elite counterparts

due to training history and base line strength. 
The manipulation of each of
these variables will be discussed throughout, but first we will describe the
fundamental role of receptors and the significance of muscle remodelling.
HORMONE-RECEPTOR COMPLEX
Hormones can be defined as chemical messengers that are transported to
specific target cells which possess specific hormone receptors. 
The specificity
of a hormone and its receptor is often explained using the lock and key
theory, whereby the receptor is the lock and the hormone is the key. 
It is
important to note that while the concentration of hormones is important, so
too is the number of receptors available, as this ultimately determines the
possibility of interactions. 
For example, when a cell has reached its genetic
ceiling for adaptation (e.g., through protein accretion), receptors may become
non-responsive and down-regulate, thus reducing the probability of hormonal
binding (Kraemer et al., 2008). 
Alternatively, receptors can up-regulate and
increase the probability of interactions. 
In essence, exposure to T and stress
can alter both affinity and the number of androgen receptors, which can
change the probability of a response (Basualto-Alarcón et al., 2013). 
For
example, Kadi et al. 
(2000) reported that in response to continued resistance
training, power lifters had a greater number of androgen receptors in their
trapezius muscle, and thus an enhanced ability to use T. 
In addition,
Ratamess et al. 
(2005) have shown significant correlations between baseline
androgen receptor content in the vastus lateralis and 1RM squat, further
suggesting that androgen receptor content may assist in mediating strength
changes during resistance training.
MUSCLE REMODELLING
Muscle remodelling involves the disruption of muscle fibres (stimulus/load
dependent) in response to mechanical loading, resulting in the inflammatory
process (immune cells and catabolic hormones) and subsequent release of
anabolic hormones (Clarkson & Tremblay, 1998). 
In addition, mechanical
loading increases receptor and membrane permeability to hormones and
nutrients, therefore tissue activation may be considered a precursor to

anabolism (Kraemer & Ratamess, 2005). 
Consequently, only the recruited
muscle fibres can be remodelled (Kraemer et al., 2008), emphasising the need
to exercise muscle groups in a sport-specific manner (including range of
motion, muscle action, velocity of movement, force generation and relative
intensity), and the need to utilise progressive overload. 
The latter will
increase motor unit recruitment, thereby exposing a greater number of muscle
fibres to hormone-tissue interactions (Kraemer & Ratamess, 2005).
Given the need to induce muscle damage (and thus an inflammatory
response) so that adaptations can occur, it is interesting to consider whether
implementing recovery strategies during phases in which hypertrophy is the
goal, is actually detrimental. 
Because hypertrophy occurs in response to
damage, strategies that actually reduce the subsequent inflammatory
response, such as contrast water therapy, compression garments and massage,
may limit its effect. 
Such suggestions may influence team-sport, pre-season
recovery routines, where hypertrophy may be sought, vs. 
in-season routines,
where performance maintenance is fundamental and must be quickly re-
established following games. 
Current practices thus appear to discourage
recovery strategies in the off-season, and only include them during the season
and when in close proximity to competitions. 
This theory is discussed further
in 
Chapter 12
.
TESTOSTERONE
Testosterone is responsible for the development of male secondary sex
characteristics, spermatogenesis and the male skeletal system. 
Pertinent to
this discussion, T is involved in the muscle growth and protein retention
observed during strength training through its direct (i.e., muscle growth) and
indirect (e.g., stimulation of growth hormone and neuron receptors and
effects on training motivation) affects on muscle tissue (Fleck & Kraemer,
2004; Kraemer et al., 2008). 
Moreover, due to its anabolic effects, the levels
of circulating T have been proposed as a physiological marker to evaluate the
anabolic status of the body (Hakkinen et al., 1985). 
Finally, T is also related
to behaviour modification, and more recent research appears to see this as
being its greatest asset within training and performance adaptations; our
discussion of T thus starts here.

Testosterone and behaviour
Testosterone’s correlation to strength and hypertrophy may reflect its
biomarker potential for stress, rather than simply its direct anabolic effects on
muscle (Crewther et al., 2012). 
More recent research in sport has started to
exploit T’s known effect on behaviour (Aleman et al., 2004), including
increasing aggression (Hermans et al., 2008), risk-taking (Ronay & von
Hippel, 2010) and unconscious motivation (Aarts & van Honk, 2009), as well
as exploring its modulation via non-physical interventions. 
This has been
demonstrated previously, for example, through visual images including sports
fans watching their teams win (Bernhardt et al., 1998), competing at the
home stadium (Neave & Wolfson, 2003) and watching previous victories
(Carré & Putman, 2010). 
Also through watching a sexually arousing film
(Stoléru & Ennaji, 1993) and being in a position regarded as powerful in
display (Carney & Cuddy, 2010). 
Therefore, it has been proposed that
utilising T’s ability to modulate behaviour through increased training
motivation will positively influence training based outcomes (Cook &
Beaven, 2013). 
In fact, in elite athletes who train closer to their maximum,
this effect may be more influential than that of anabolism; these qualities
result in a higher quality and quantity of work performed which in turn
promote strength and hypertrophy using other anabolic functions. 
Given
these findings, the S&C coach can maximise sessions and competition
performance by identifying methods of psychological priming or
preconditioning.
In support of such priming, the volitional training performance of elite
female athletes when self-selecting a 3RM workload was strongly related to
individual variation in pre-exercise salivary T concentrations within a
training program. 
Relationships were found in the bench press (
R
2
 = 0.70),
back squat (
R
2
 = 0.45) and power production via a maximal-distance
medicine ball throw (
R
2
 = 0.50); similar results have also been found in males
(Crewther et al., 2009a). 
Therefore, volitional workload selection and
performance are correlated to relative pre-exercise salivary T levels. 
As such,
in elite athletes, free T may be a useful marker of voluntary effort and its role
here may supersede its role on muscle hypertrophy via protein synthesis. 
For
example, given that small, between-session increases in total load (i.e.,
continued overload) are indicative of adaptations and become more difficult
as the athlete progresses in training age, the athlete’s voluntary effort partially

reflects their state of motivation, recovery and readiness to perform in
individual training sessions (Cook & Beaven, 2013). 
Interestingly, then,
previous associations found between strength, power and T levels (discussed
below) may also be related to an enhanced psychological desire to perform
well. 
Therefore, in addition to priming T via physical interventions such as
prior workouts and exercise order (again discussed below), T may also be
primed via non-physical interventions such as videos, feedback and peer
assessment; a summary of studies examining this is outlined in 
Table 1
.
Testosterone and strength and power
As well as cellular interactions, T can bind with receptors on neurons and
therefore increase instantaneous muscle strength and recruited muscle mass
(Kraemer et al., 2008; Kraemer & Ratamess, 2005). 
This is achieved through
an increase in neurotransmitter release and structural adaptations of the
neuromuscular junction (Fleck & Kraemer, 2004; Nagaya & Herrera, 1995),
where T-nervous interactions can regenerate nerves and increase the cell
body size and dendrite length and diameter (Nagaya & Herrera, 1995). 
These
neural adaptations (along with behavioural modifications), coupled with its
effects on calcium handling and muscle contractility (Curl et al., 1989), may
demonstrate an advanced strategy to increase force capability. 
For example,
basal serum T levels have been correlated to average power output, jump
height and both power and work performed during 60s continuous jumping
(Bosco et al., 1996b). 
Basal T levels have also been correlated with
countermovement jump height, strength and sprint speed in professional male
rugby players (Crewther et al., 2012; Crewther et al., 2009b), soccer players
(Bosco et al., 1996a) and elite women athletes (Cardinale & Stone, 2006).
These correlations may be due, in part, to T’s significant effects on motor
neurons (Viru et al., 2003), and serves to highlight the importance of
increased T concentrations and the significance of T-nervous interactions
within sports performance. 
Given the aforementioned benefits of T on
strength, power and training motivation, it appears prudent to coincide
training with periods of increased T availability.
TABLE 4.1
 
Individual studies examining the priming of testosterone via non-physical
interventions such as videos, feedback and peer assessment

Motivational videos
Cook & Crewther (2012a) examined the acute effects of video clips on salivary T and
cortisol (C) concentrations and subsequent 3RM squat performances in elite male rugby
players. 
They found that significant (
p
 > 0.001) increases in T concentrations were
noted with watching erotic, humorous, aggressive and training videos, with T decreasing
significantly (versus control) after a sad clip. 
A significant improvement in 3RM
performances was noted after the erotic, aggressive and training clips and a strong
within-individual correlation (
r
 = 0.85) was noted between the relative changes in T and
the 3RM squats across all video sessions. 
Finally, the aggressive video clip induced the
largest relative change in T. 
The authors suggested that findings may be related to T’s
(behavioural) effect on risk-taking (Ronay & von Hippel, 2010), whereby they were
willing to try and lift a heavier weight.
Pre-match video with feedback
Given that a pre-match talk, often with video analysis, is commonplace in elite sport,
Crewther & Cook (2012b) assessed the T and C response following this. 
They
hypothesised that watching a video clip of successful skill execution by the player with
positive coach feedback (VPCF) would produce the largest pre-game T responses, the
smallest cortisol (C) responses and the best performance outcomes. 
This was compared
to watching a video clip of successful skill execution by an opposing player with
cautionary coach feedback (VCCF), and the player left alone to self-motivate (SM).
Salivary free T and C, along with player performance as rated by the coach, were indeed
best in the former condition, with VCCF producing the largest C response. 
Across all
treatments, greater individual T responses and lower C responses were associated with
better performance outcomes.
Post-match video with feedback
Crewther and Cook (2012) tested the effects of different post-match video and feedback
interventions on the subsequent hormonal responses to a physical stress-test (i.e., three
sets of power cleans, back squats and bench press) and game performance in
professional rugby union players. 
On four occasions, players completed a video session
(one hour each) with accompanying coach feedback the day after a rugby union match.
The interventions showed either video footage of player mistakes with negative coach
feedback (NCF1) or player successes with positive feedback (PCF1). 
The PFC approach
was associated with significantly (
p
 > 0.01) greater free T (36% to 42%) and associated
with higher (28% to 51%) pre-game T concentrations and superior game-ranked
performances. 
The authors concluded that the post-game presentation of specific video
footage combined with different coach feedback influenced the free hormonal state of
rugby players and game performance several days later. 
Their results further support the
reciprocal model (Mazur & Booth, 1998), which states that free hormones not only
influence behaviour, but also are in turn affected by behaviour.
Social environment and video presentations

Cook & Crewther (2014) examined the social environment effects during a post-match
video presentation on the subsequent hormonal responses and match performance in
professional male athletes. 
To modify the social environment the video presentations
were completed in the presence of: (1) strangers who were bigger (SB), (2) strangers
who were smaller (SS), (3) friends who were bigger (FB) and (4) friends who were
smaller (FS). 
The T responses to the stress test differed in magnitude across each
intervention (SS > SB and FB > FS), as did C responsiveness (SB > SS > FS and FB).
This agreed with previous research showing that T levels increased when they defeated
strangers, but not their friends (Wagner et al., 2002). 
Differences in male T
concentrations have also been demonstrated when interacting socially with other males
simply perceived to be similar (i.e., increasing T) or dissimilar (i.e., lowering T)
(DeSoto et al., 2009). 
Coaches can use this information to determine the suitability of
feedback, not simply in terms of whether it is positive or not, but the audience with
which it is shared in front of.
Manipulating exercise sessions to enhance testosterone
release
Testosterone exhibits diurnal variations whereby concentrations are typically
higher in the morning and drop throughout the day; this is also the case for
cortisol, however (Lejune-Lenain et al., 1987). 
The question emerges of
whether it is better to exercise in the morning when concentrations are
highest, or to exercise in the evening to maintain increased concentrations
throughout the day (Kraemer et al., 2008). 
Cook et al. 
(2013) have
investigated the effect of offsetting the circadian decline in T through
morning training; they compared the efficacy of a morning strength or sprint
session on afternoon performance. 
They found that the addition of morning
short sprints potentiated subsequent afternoon sprints only, however, a short
weights session increased not only afternoon sprint performance, but also
measures of maximal strength and lower body power; both interventions
increased T above a control group. 
This finding is supported through data
investigating afternoon throwing performance in shot-putters following a
morning resistance training session (Ekstrand et al. 
2013). 
Here afternoon
throwing performance was improved for up to 6 hours.
Teo et al. 
(2011) investigated the effects of circadian rhythm on a single
training session on maximal force production and power output. 
Results

revealed that both, measured within countermovement jumps, squat jumps,
isometric pulls and 1RM squats, were highest at 4 p.m. 
compared to 8 a.m.
(lowest), 12 p.m. 
and 8 p.m. 
(both similar). 
This pattern was mirrored by
aural temperature, with the increase in body temperature considered largely
responsible. 
Four p.m. 
also revealed the lowest rating of perceived exertion
(RPE) and collectively data argues that coaches and athletes should consider
scheduling training or testing sessions around this time (Teo et al., 2011), or
at least consider the significance an increase in core body temperature has;
this is discussed further in 
Chapter 10
. 
Perhaps two sessions, with the first
being resistance training based and the second, consisting of more sport-
specific speed and power based drills, commencing at 4 p.m., is ideal.
Beaven et al. 
(2011) investigated the ordering of exercises within a
training session to identify which exercise sequence provides an enhanced
anabolic milieu for adaptation; specifically, should you programme strength
exercises first or power exercises first? 
The power block consisted of three
sets of three repetitions of jump squat exercise at 50% of 1RM and the
strength block consisted of three sets of three repetitions of box squat at
3RM. 
The hormonal response after the strength–power bout was greatest,
demonstrating small increase in T (13% ± 7%) and a trivial increase in
cortisol (27% ± 30%). 
Results thus suggest that this exercise sequence is
optimal in creating an anabolic environment.
Finally, T concentrations during training sessions have been reported to
remain elevated for up to 45 to 60 minutes and decrease from then on
(Zatsiorsky & Kraemer, 2006). 
Viru et al. 
(2003) further suggested that
following training sessions of 1-hour duration, the testosterone: cortisol (T:C)
ratio (discussed below) may decrease as a fatigue phenomenon. 
It may be
prudent therefore to limit exercise sessions to ≤60 minutes as beyond this
duration the session may begin to progress towards catabolism, whereby
more receptors become responsive to cortisol interactions. 
Such an approach
possibly warrants splitting the days training objectives into two to three ~30
minute sessions, rather than one longer duration session. 
However, it should
be noted that such advice may best suit strength and power based training as
hypertrophy sessions may be required to extend beyond this given the need to
train to failure across multiple exercises; more recent research defines this as
more important than the concentration of hormones. 
This is discussed below.

Manipulating acute resistance training variables to
enhance testosterone release
Large muscle group exercises such as squats, deadlifts (Fahey et al., 1976),
Olympic lifts (Kraemer et al., 1992) and jump squats (Volek et al., 1997)
significantly increase T concentrations, whereas little or no change has been
reported with bench press and exercises involving smaller musculature
(Kraemer et al., 2008; Fleck & Kraemer, 2004). 
It may be advised that,
within a training session, large muscle group exercises are performed before
small muscle group exercises in order to expose the smaller musculature to
the increased concentrations of T (Kraemer & Ratamess, 2005). 
This is
supported by Hansen et al. 
(2001) who measured strength changes in elbow
flexors following nine weeks of strength training. 
Two groups performed
elbow flexion exercises, however, one group preceded these with lower body
exercise. 
Only this group significantly increased acute T concentrations with
concomitant increases in the strength of the elbow flexors.
Hakkinen & Pakarinen (1993) report increases in T (and growth hormone)
following ten sets of ten repetitions at 70% 1RM, but no significant changes
following twenty sets of 1RM. 
Further, Bosco et al. 
(2000) reported no
change following ten sets of two to three repetitions, but when the volume
increased to twenty sets of two to four repetitions, increases in T were noted.
A moderate to high volume of exercise, achieved with multiple sets,
repetitions or exercises may be required as the release of T may be correlated
with lactate accumulation (Lin et al., 2001; Linnamo et al., 2005; Lu et al.,
1997). 
Kraemer et al. 
(1991, 1990) and Beaven et al. 
(2008a) summarise that
bodybuilding (hypertrophy) programmes, utilising moderate load, high
volume training, with short rest periods are most effective for stimulating
acute T increases.
It should be noted that this prescription of training (three sets of ten
repetitions, short rest periods) also notes the highest release of growth
hormone with both hormones seemingly released maximally following high
levels of lactate and hydrogen ions (Godfrey et al., 2009). 
It may be that
lactate acts as a pseudo-hormone, but further research is required to fully
elucidate its signalling role in this context (Godfrey et al., 2009). 
This
association explains the muscle group-focussed sessions and short rest
periods of bodybuilders, as sessions that alternate between body parts may
allow for the dissipation of lactate and therefore reduce the T and growth

hormone (GH) response. 
It may also explain the commonly used slow-
continuous method (e.g., 4s concentric and 4s eccentric), as this would
increase time under tension (facilitating the accumulation of lactate and
hydrogen ions (H
+
), reduce local blood circulation (with total occlusion
occurring at loads >45% 1RM) and promote venous pooling. 
The consequent
promotion of blood pooling and fluid volume shifts in order to maintain
osmotic pressure may then increase the concentration of hormones, time
available for interaction and, therefore, the probability of hormone-receptor
interactions. 
It must be noted, however, that such low velocity training does
not translate effectively to enhanced strength, power or performance in
athletic tasks.
Testosterone, growth hormone and hypertrophy
Despite the above research, sole reliance (or rather assumed best practice) on
the above “body-building” style programming to design hypertrophy-based
sessions has become contentious. 
Recent studies have questioned the direct
role of T and growth hormone in response to exercise stimuli in promoting
hypertrophy and indeed strength; these suggest that neither circulating
hormones nor indeed load (Morton et al., 2016; Schoenfeld et al., 2015; West
et al., 2009; West & Phillips, 2012) affect these outcomes. 
While they, like
others, have shown that concentrations of T and growth hormone (and also
cortisol) are increased as a result of an acute exercise bout (
p
 < 0.001) over a
12-week training period (training 4 times/week), there is no significant
change from baseline, and nor do concentration changes significantly
correlate with any physical measure (e.g., changes in muscle cross sectional
area, lean body mass and strength increases in the bench, shoulder and leg
press). 
Instead, both hypertrophy and strength increases can be achieved
through high and low repetition training (using loads of 30–50% and 75–90%
of 1RM, respectively) provided exercises are performed until volitional
failure (Morton et al., 2016). 
The comparable gains in muscle cross sectional
area and strength of high repetition training (relative to low repetition
training) are likely because the former involves a higher volume, which
requires maximal activation of motor units (Morton et al., 2016). 
It should be
noted, however, that strength gains are still greatest using higher loads; this is
discussed briefly below, but more detail is found in 
Chapter 2
.

There is growing consensus that volume load and training to muscular
failure are the causative factors for muscle hypertrophy. 
The latter increases
motor unit recruitment and thus the quantity of muscle fibres that are exposed
to the stimulus and undergo the remodelling process. 
Perhaps traditional
hypertrophy programmes (i.e., three sets of ten, short rest) are only more
beneficial with respect to time, as you can fit more volume in within a shorter
period of time? 
These answers may be further gleaned from the studies
identified in 
Table 4.2
.
TABLE 4.2
 Individual studies examining load, rest and hormones on hypertrophy and
strength
Effects of low vs. 
high load resistance training on muscle strength and hypertrophy
Schoenfeld et al. 
(2015) compared a low load routine of 25–35 repetitions to a moderate
load routine of 8–12 repetitions. 
Both groups performed three sets of seven different
exercises representing all major muscles, with all sets performed to or near failure.
Training was performed three times per week on non-consecutive days, for a total of
eight weeks. 
Both high load and moderate load conditions produced significant
increases in cross-sectional area (CSA), with no significant differences between groups.
Improvements in back squat and bench press strength were greatest in the high load
group, but only significant in the former. 
Upper body muscle endurance (assessed by the
bench press at 50% 1RM to failure) improved, albeit non-significantly, to a greater
extent in low load group. 
Both load conditions can increase hypertrophy, with changes
in strength and endurance showing some specificity to load.
Effects of different volume-equated resistance training loading strategies on muscular
adaptations
Schoenfeld et al. 
(2014) investigated adaptations to a volume-equated bodybuilding-
type training program (3 sets of 10 with 90s rest) vs. 
a powerlifting-type routine (7 sets
or 3RM with 3min rest) in well-trained subjects. 
After eight weeks, no significant
differences were noted in muscle thickness of the biceps brachii, but significant
differences were found in 1RM bench press, and a trend was found for greater increases
in the 1RM squat; these gains naturally favoured the powerlifting approach. 
In
conclusion, this study showed that both bodybuilding- and powerlifting-type training
promote similar increases in muscular size, but powerlifting-type training is superior for
enhancing maximal strength.
The effect of inter-set rest intervals on resistance exercise-induced muscle
hypertrophy
Henselmans & Schoenfeld (2014) investigated the effect of inter-set rest intervals on
resistance training-induced muscular hypertrophy. 
Their review revealed that the rest

period recommendations of 30s to 1min, to mediate an elevation in post-exercise serum
growth hormone levels, have become untenable; no study has demonstrated greater
muscle hypertrophy using shorter compared with longer rest intervals.
Novice vs. 
experienced vs. 
well trained vs. 
elite
Despite the above research, it is becoming increasingly important to
differentiate between studies in novices, experienced or well trained and
those regarded as elite. 
In this context, this continuum defines either strength
and conditioning experience, normally recognised by measures of maximal
strength, and/or level of sports performance and thus exposure to high-level
environments and competitions (and associated stress). 
Many studies suggest
a considerable difference between these levels of athletes, with the reported
associations between T and physical performance best demonstrated in elite-
trained athletes (Crewther et al., 2011). 
For example, Crewther et al. 
(2012)
only found relationships between salivary free T concentrations and back
squat (1RM; 
r
 = 0.92) and sprinting (10m; 
r
 = 0.87) performance in those
who could squat double body weight – the reasons for this are likely
multifaceted and covered throughout this chapter, including via the dual-
hormone hypothesis described below. 
Of note, the aforementioned
correlations found above, are despite there being no difference in T
concentrations between groups (i.e., 1RM > 2.0 × body weight vs. 
1RM < 1.9
× body weight). 
Therefore, it may be that training background and strength
levels are most important, as these are indicative of Type II fibre content and
androgen receptor content, and infer enhanced motivation and risk taking
behaviours, for example, these represent the enhanced ability to actually use
free T. 
Therefore, more needs to be done to differentiate responses across
populations, which may evolve into training paradigms that shift accordingly.
It is also important to consider individual responses to resistance training;
this is especially the case when working with elite athletes. 
Pooling data (and
thus presenting means only) can have an impact on both the validity of the
results and the interpretation of study findings. 
For example, Beaven et al.
(2008b) compared acute individual T responses of professional elite rugby
players across commonly prescribed resistance training protocols (4 × 10 at
70%, 3 × 5 at 85%, 5 × 15 at 55%, or 3 × 5 at 40%). 
They showed an
insignificant protocol effect on T concentration when considered as a

homogenous group. 
However, when individual data among protocols were
examined, a clear protocol-dependent effect was observed. 
Each individual
athlete seemed to respond optimally, in terms of a T concentration increase,
to one or two of the protocols, with minimal responses to the other protocols.
Therefore, the protocol considered optimal in terms of anabolic response
differed among individuals.
However, as aforementioned, changes in T do acutely influence training
motivation, and thus load lifted and perhaps in this context, the ability to lift
until true muscle fatigue across several sets. 
The at least pervasive effect of T
on strength and hypertrophy is nicely surmised by Beaven et al. 
(2008a).
They identified that (1) men show muscle growth at puberty when T
production increases (Ramos et al., 1998); (2) aging men gradually lose
muscle mass and strength, and exogenous application of T can reverse this
(Anawalt & Merriam, 2001); (3) T replacement increases the fat-free mass
and muscle size caused by hypogonadism (i.e., reduction or absence of
hormone secretion or other physiological activity of the gonads) (Bhasin et
al., 1997; Aleman et al., 2004); (4) exogenous application of
supraphysiologic doses of T in men results in greater strength and muscle
gains from resistance exercise (Bhasin et al., 1999; Strawford et al., 1999);
and (5) pharmacologic blockade of T-specific receptors suppresses exercise-
induced hypertrophy of skeletal muscle (Inoue et al., 1994).
CORTISOL
Cortisol (C), a steroid hormone, is secreted from the adrenal cortex following
stimulation from adrenocorticotrophic hormone (released by the anterior
pituitary gland). 
The primary pathway for C secretion is through stimulation
of the hypothalamus by the central nervous system as a result of
hypoglycaemia, the flight or fight response, or exercise. 
Cortisol is
considered a catabolic hormone to skeletal muscle tissue, and is released in
response to low levels of glycogen; its primary role is to stimulate
gluconeogenesis and glycogenolysis via glycogen, protein and lipid
metabolism, and through its permissive actions on other hormones (e.g.,
catecholamines and glucagon). 
Although, if secreted over a prolonged period,
it is generally considered detrimental to muscle mass, in short bursts it can
actually facilitate subsequent anabolism. 
In this regard, it acts as a

repartitioning hormone allowing energy to be re-distributed to where it is
needed (e.g. 
a contracting muscle). 
It may also predict performance, similar
to T (Crewther & Christian, 2010), and more recently, much like T, the effect
C has on behavioural characteristics has been explored.
Cortisol concentration levels
Cortisol release response is similar to T and GH, whereby anaerobic
metabolism acts as a potent stimulus (Ratamess et al., 2005). 
Therefore,
despite chronically high levels of C reflecting adverse effects and progression
towards overtraining, acute responses may be an essential part of the
remodelling process, whereby the muscle must first be disrupted before it can
adapt (Kraemer & Ratamess, 2005). 
It is, however, suggested that these acute
training variables are varied to allow the adrenal gland to recover (secrete less
cortisol) and prevent overtraining. 
Continued stress causes delayed recovery
due to the over release of C and its negative effects exerted through
gluconeogenesis and immune system depression (Kraemer et al., 2008).
The rise in GH and C concentrations during resistance training may also
contribute to the regulation of glucose and glycogen metabolism (Samilios et
al., 2003). 
Therefore, in strength-endurance type protocols (low load, high
repetitions), the low tension applied for an extended period of time may cause
hormonal responses in response to the activation of the anaerobic metabolism
and the need for restoration of energy substrates (Samilios et al., 2003). 
It
should be noted, however, that although bodybuilding type programmes
evoke concurrent adaptations in both hormones, the magnitude of GH (and T)
is greater than C, which may compensate for the negative effects (Samilios et
al., 2003).
Circulating C levels reflect tissue remodelling and concurrent
inflammatory responses (Kraemer et al., 1996). 
High levels of C (> 800
mmol/L) may signify an overtrained state (Fry et al., 1998), and have been
highly correlated to serum creatine kinase concentration, which is a marker of
muscle damage (Kraemer et al., 1993). 
In addition, the T:C ratio may provide
a gross estimation (as both hormones have multiple functions across multiple
tissue organs) of the anabolic/catabolic state of the body (Fry & Kraemer,
1997; Fry & Schilling, 2002). 
This has been positively related to performance
(Alen et al., 1998), overreaching (Hakkinen et al., 1987) and overtraining

(Stone et al., 1991). 
For example, McLellan et al. 
(2010) examined pre,
during, and post-match neuromuscular and endocrine responses to
competitive rugby league match play. 
Force–time data from the CMJ
(including peak rate of force development, peak power and peak force) and
saliva samples were collected to determine the T:C ratio and force output
characteristics. 
Results revealed a return to normal T:C within 48 hours post-
match, with neuromuscular function equally compromised for up to 48 hours
after match play. 
These may indicate that a minimum period of 48 hours is
required for neuroendocrine homeostasis post-competition.
Finally, T and insulin can counter the catabolic effects of C by blocking
the genetic element in the DNA for C (Kraemer et al., 2008). 
However, this
can only be achieved if they are bound to a greater number of receptors than
C. 
Thus, after a period of training and endocrine adaptation, the effects of C
may become less dramatic due to disinhibition of C by T (Kraemer et al.,
2008). 
Resistance training experience of ≥ 2 years has been shown to be
accompanied by increases in the T:C ratio (Hakkinen et al., 1998), and may
be indicative of enhanced strength and training tolerance (Fry & Schilling,
2002).
Cortisol, behaviour and its moderating effect on
testosterone
Cortisol may jointly work with T to moderate status-seeking behaviours
(Cook & Crewther, 2014). 
This may be achieved via suppression of the
hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal-axis (and T secretion), inhibition of T actions
on the target tissue and/or the down-regulation of the androgen receptors
(Liening & Josephs, 2010). 
Similar to T, C responsiveness can vary in the
presence of strangers or friends (Wagner et al., 2002). 
The acute
neuroendocrine responses to social interactions have possible implications for
modifying future performance and recovery, with transient changes in T and
C levels linked to recovery from a competitive sport and/or subsequent match
performance (Crewther & Cook, 2012; Cook & Crewther, 2012b). 
Therefore,
controlling for situations that may challenge the stress tolerance of athletes, if
not used purposefully, may hinder any sought-after training adaptations or
performance gain.
The reported associations between T and physical performance tend to be

best demonstrated in elite-trained athletes (Crewther et al., 2011). 
It is
possible that these results might be less about a superior physical ability and
more about a superior ability for performing under stress. 
For example,
untrained individuals typically exhibit a larger neuroendocrine stress
response (e.g., C) than trained individuals when exercising at the same
workloads (Hackney, 2006). 
Behavioural studies explain that C may be
moderating the effect of T (Mehta & Josephs, 2010; Mehta & Prasad, 2015)
such that relationships are mostly positive at low C levels and negative at
high C levels (Mehta & Prasad, 2015). 
For example, C can influence T
activity or release via the motivational circuitry, psychological processing
and feedback inhibition (Mehta & Prasad, 2015), supporting findings that T is
positively related to dominance or aggression outcomes in men, but only
when C levels are low (Mehta & Josephs, 2010; Mehta & Prasad, 2015).
These findings are applicable to sport and exercise, not only because
muscle performance and dominance are linked (Gallup et al., 2007), but also
because any exercise protocol deemed to be stressful may attenuate results.
Currently only Crewther et al. 
(2016) have explored the moderating effect of
C within this context. 
They examined the effect of C on the T relationship
within handgrip strength; the men were assessed around a short bout of sprint
cycling exercise (to create “stress”). 
The authors found that while T and C
measures did not predict pre-test or resultant changes in handgrip strength
scores, a significant hormonal interaction was identified, such that T
predicted both strength outcomes when taking into account individual
differences in pre-test C levels. 
The direction of their relationships, however,
was in contrast from the aforementioned. 
Specifically, pre-test T and
handgrip strength were negatively associated in men with high pre-test C
levels, and T and handgrip strength changes were negatively related in men
with low pre-test C levels. 
The authors suggest that being less stressed (i.e.,
low C) might ensure that other potentiating mechanisms (e.g., myosin
phosphorylation, motor unit recruitment) are activated by exercise (Tillin &
Bishop, 2009), with a small or negative T response possibly indicating better
tissue uptake (Crewther et al., 2011) and/or metabolite conversion (Wood &
Stanton, 2012). 
Certainly further investigations are required into this
mechanism which partly supports why inconsistent relationships are seen in
men with little or no training experience, and why physiological elevations in
T are not always necessary for muscle growth (Morton et al., 2016).

CONCLUSION AND PRACTICAL APPLICATION
For muscle hypertrophy, training programmes can utilise three sets of ten
repetitions at or near 10RM loads, with short rest periods of no longer than
one minute. 
This appears to maximally release anabolic hormones with blood
lactate concentration seen as a causative factor. 
However, gaining research
based momentum is the likelihood that actually three sets to failure, with rep
ranges of 8–25, are just as effective. 
This appears to be due to motor unit
recruitment rather than changes in hormone concentrations and load. 
Finally,
seven sets of three repetitions (to failure) have also shown similar increases in
hypertrophy, but this approach induces superior increases in strength. 
From a
sports perspective, therefore, this may be the best volume load strategy.
Beyond hypertrophy, and pertinent to sports performance, is the effect that
T demonstrates on the nervous system and behaviour. 
High levels appear to
augment physical performance either directly or through motivational and
perhaps risk taking means. 
The timing of training sessions (including for
purposes of priming) and the effect of feedback, videos and “psyching up”
interventions, in general, should therefore be explored to truly maximise both
the training and competition performances.
Finally, it is important to acknowledge that more individualisation is
needed when interpreting endocrinology research; this may be of particular
relevance to elite athletes and very strong athletes. 
For example, the T release
across commonly prescribed resistance training protocols differed greatly
among professional athletes, suggesting that strength gain may be further
enhanced by individuals adopting a periodisation model that predominately
focused on the protocol that maximised their T response. 
The periodic
measurement of hormones could therefore provide a method to ensure that
the periodisation of resistance training is optimised for each individual
athlete, also noting that athletes may, in time, change in their hormonal
response to each resistance training protocol. 
Also, it may be that it is the
increased androgen receptor content of very strong athletes that dictates the
use of T, and perhaps interventions aimed at increasing T concentrations can
not be realised until athletes can, for example, squat almost double body
weight. 
Finally, it may be that it is an athlete’s ability to tolerate stress, or
perhaps not view a particular situation as stressful, that ultimately dictates the
benefits that T has to performance – with or without a high androgen receptor
content. 
The moderating effect of C may be such that high C levels ultimately

override high concentrations of T. 
Again, environmental stimuli, athlete
feedback and recovery strategies become central to this.
REFERENCES
Aarts, H., & van Honk, J. 
(2009). 
Testosterone and unconscious positive priming increase
human motivation separately. 
Neuro Report
, 
20
, 1300–1303.
Aleman, A., Bronk, E., Kessels, R., Koppeschaar, H., & Van Honk, J. 
(2004). 
A single
administration of testosterone improves visuospatial ability in young women.
Psychoneuroendocrinology
, 
29
, 612–617.
Alen, M., Pakarinen, A., Hakkinen, K., & Komi, P. 
(1998). 
Responses of serum
androgenic-anabolic and catabolic hormones to prolonged strength training. 
Int. 
J. 
Sport.
Med
, 
9
, 229–233.
Anawalt, B., & Merriam, G. 
(2001). 
Neuroendocrine aging in men: andropause and
somatopause. 
Endocrin Metab Clin
, 
30
, 647–669.
Basualto-Alarcón, C., Jorquera, G., Altamirano, F., Jaimovich, E., & Estrada, M. 
(2013).
Testosterone signals through mTOR and androgen receptor to induce muscle
hypertrophy. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc
, 
45
 (9), 1712–1720.
Beaven, C., Cook, C., & Gill, N. 
(2008a). 
Significant strength gains observed in rugby
players after specific resistance exercise protocols based on individual salivary
testosterone responses. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 
22
 (2), 419–425.
Beaven, C., Gill, N., & Cook, C. 
(2008b). 
Salivary testosterone and cortisol responses to
four resistance exercise protocols in professional rugby players. 
J Strength Cond Res
,
22
, 426–432.
Beaven, C., Gill, N., Ingram, J., & Hopkins, W. 
(2011). 
Acute salivary hormone responses
to complex exercise bouts. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 
25
 (4), 1072–1078.
Bernhardt, P., Dabbs, J., Fielden, J., & Lutter, C. 
(1998). 
Testosterone changes during
vicarious experiences of winning and losing among fans at sporting events. 
Physiol.
Behav
, 
65
, 59–62.
Bhasin, S., Storer, T., Berman, N., Callegari, N., Cleavenger, B., Phillips, J., et al. 
(1999).
The effects of supraphysiologic doses of testosterone on muscle size and strength in
normal men. 
N Engl J Med
, 
355
, 1–7.
Bhasin, S., Storer, T., Berman, N., Yarasheski, K., Cleavenger, B., Phillips, J. 
L., et al.
(1997). 
Testosterone replacement increases fat-free mass and muscle size in
hypogonadal men. 
J Clin Endocrinol Metab
, 
82
, 407.
Bosco, C., Colli, R., Bonomi, R., Von Duvillard, S., & Viru, A. 
(2000). 
Monitoring
strength training: neuromuscular and hormonal profile. 
Med. 
Sci. 
Sport. 
Exerc
, 
32
, 202–
208.
Bosco, C., Tihanyi, J., & Viru, A. 
(1996a). 
Relationships between field fitness test and
basal serum testosterone and cortisol level in soccer players. 
Clin Physiol
, 
16
 (317), 22.
Bosco, C., Tihanyi, J., Rivalta, L., Parlato, G., Tranquilli, C., Pulvirenti, G., Fonti, C. 
Viru,

M., Viru, A. 
(1996b). 
Hormonal responses in strenuous jumping effort. 
Jpn. 
J. 
Physiol
,
46
, 93–98.
Cardinale, M., & Stone, M. 
(2006). 
Is testosterone influencing explosive performance? 
J
Strength Cond Res
, 
20
, 103–107.
Carney, D., & Cuddy, A. 
Y. 
(2010). 
Power posing: brief nonverbal displays affect
neuroendocrine levels and risk tolerance. 
Psychol. 
Sci
, 
21
, 1363–1368.
Carré, J., & Putman, S. 
(2010). 
Watching a previous victory produces an increase in
testosterone among elite hockey players. 
Psychoneuroendocrinology
, 
35
, 475–479.
Clarkson, P., & Tremblay, I. 
(1998). 
Exercise-induced muscle damage, repair and
adaptation in humans. 
J. 
Appl. 
Physiol
, 
65
, 1–6.
Cook, C., & Beaven, C. 
(2013). 
Salivary testosterone is related to self-selected training
load in elite female athletes. 
Physiology and Behavior
, 
8
 (12), 116–117.
Cook, C., & Crewther, B. 
(2012a). 
Changes in salivary testosterone concentrations and
subsequent voluntary squat performance following the presentation of short video clips.
Hormones and Behavior
, 
61
, 17–22.
Cook, C., & Crewther, B. 
(2012b). 
The effects of different pre-game motivational
interventions on athlete free hormonal state and subsequent performance in professional
rugby union matches. 
Physiology and Behavior
, 
106
 (5), 638–688.
Cook, C., & Crewther, B. 
(2014). 
The social environment during a post-match video
presentation affects the hormonal responses and playing performance in professional
male athletes. 
Physiology and Behavior
, 
130
, 170–175.
Cook, C., Kilduff, L., Crewther, B., Beaven, M., & West, D. 
(2013). 
Morning based
strength training improves afternoon physical performance in rugby union players.
Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport
, 
17
, 317–321.
Crewther, B., & Christian, C. 
(2010). 
Relationships between salivary testosterone and
cortisol concentrations and training performance in Olympic weightlifters. 
The Journal
of Sports Medicine and Physical Fitness
, 
50
 (3), 371–375.
Crewther, B., & Cook, C. 
(2012). 
Effects of different post-match recovery interventions on
subsequent athlete hormonal state and game performance. 
Physiol Behav
, 
106
, 471–475.
Crewther, B., Lowe, T., Weatherby, R., & Gill, N. 
(2009a). 
Prior sprint cycling did not
enhance training adaptation, but resting salivary hormones were related to workout
power and strength. 
Eur J Appl Physiol
, 
105
, 919–927.
Crewther, B., Lowe, T., Weatherby, R., Gill, N., & Keogh, J. 
(2009b). 
Neuromuscular
performance of elite rugby union players and relationships with salivary hormones. 
J
Strength Cond Res
, 
23
, 2046–2053.
Crewther, B., Thomas, A., Stewart-Williams, S., Kilduff, L., & Cook, C. 
(2016). 
Is salivary
cortisol moderating the relationship between salivary testosterone and hand-grip
strength in healthy men? 
European Journal of Sport Science
, 
1391
, 1–7.
Crewther, B., Cook, C., Cardinale, M., Weatherby, R., & Lowe, T. 
(2011). 
Two emerging
concepts for elite athletes: the short-term effects of testosterone and cortisol on the
neuromuscular system and the dose-response training role of these endogenous
hormones. 
Sports Medicine
, 
41
 (2), 103–123.
Crewther, B., Cook, C., Gaviglio, C., Kilduff, L., & Drawer, S. 
(2012). 
Baseline strength

can influence the ability of salivary free testosterone to predict squat and sprinting
performance. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 
26
 (1), 261–268.
Curl, C., Delbridge, L., Canny, B., & Wendt, I. 
(1989). 
Testosterone modulates
cardiomyocyte Ca(2+) handling and contractile function. 
Physiol Rev
, 
58
, 293–297.
Czech, M. 
P. 
(2009). 
Signal transmissions by the insulin-like growth factors. 
Cell
, 
59
, 235–
238.
DeSoto, C., Hitlan, R., Deol, R., & McAdams, D. 
(2009). 
Testosterone fluctuations in
young men: the difference between interacting with like and not-like others. 
Evol
Psychol
, 
8
, 173–188.
Ekstrand, L., Battaglini, C., & McMurray, R. 
(2013). 
Assessing explosive power
production using the backward overhead shot throw and the effects of morning
resistance exercise on afternoon performance. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 
27
 (1), 101–106.
Fahey, T., Rolph, R., Moungmee, P., Nagel, J., & Mortara, S. 
(1976). 
Serum testosterone,
body composition and strength of young adults. 
Med. 
Sci. 
Sports
, 
8
, 31–34.
Fleck, S., & Kraemer, W. 
(2004). 
Designing Resistance Training Programs.
 Champaign,
IL: Human Kinetics.
Fry, A., & Kraemer, W. 
(1997). 
Resistance exercise overtraining and overreaching:
neuroendocrine responses. 
Sport. 
Med
, 
23
, 106–129.
Fry, A., & Schilling, B. 
(2002). 
Weightlifting training and hormonal responses in
adolescent males: implications for program design. 
Strength Cond
, 
24
, 7–12.
Fry, A., Kraemer, W., & Ramsey, L. 
(1998). 
Pituitary-adrenal-gonadal responses to high-
intensity resistance exercise overtraining. 
J. 
Appl. 
Phsiol.
, 
85
, 2352–2359.
Gallup, A., White, D., & Gallup, G. 
(2007). 
Handgrip strength predicts sexual behavior,
body morphology, and aggression in male college students. 
Evolution and Human
Behavior
, 
28
 (6), 423–429.
Godfrey, R., Whyte, G., Buckley, J., & Quinlivan, R. 
(2009). 
The role of lactate in the
exercise-induced human growth hormone response: evidence from McArdle disease.
British Journal of Sports Medicine
, 
43
 (7), 521–525.
Hackney, A. 
(2006). 
Stress and the neuroendocrine system: the role of exercise as a
stressor and modifier of stress. 
Expert Review of Endocrinology and Metabolism
, 
1
 (6),
783–792.
Hakkinen, K., & Pakarinen, A. 
(1993). 
Acute hormonal responses to two different fatiguing
heavy-resistance protocols in male athletes. 
J. 
Appl. 
Physiol
, 
74
, 882–887.
Hakkinen, K., Komi, P., Alen, M., & Kauhanen, H. 
(1987). 
Relationships between training
volume, physical performance capacity, and serum hormone concentrations during
prolonged training in elite weightlifters. 
Int. 
J. 
Sport. 
Med
, 
8
, 61–65.
Hakkinen, K., Pakarinen, A., Alen, M., & Komi, P. 
(1985). 
Serum hormones during
prolonged training of neuromuscular performance. 
Eur. 
J. 
Appl. 
Physiol
, 
53
, 287–293.
Hakkinen, K., Pakarinen, A., Newton, R., & Kraemer, W. 
(1998). 
Acute hormone
responses to heavy resistance lower and upper extremity exercise in young versus old
men. 
Eur J. 
Appl. 
Physiol
, 
77
, 312–319.
Hansen, S., Kvorning, T., Kjaer, M., & Sjogaard, G. 
(2001). 
The effect of short-term
strength training on human skeletal muscle: importance of physiologically elevated

hormone levels. 
Scand J. 
Med. 
Sci. 
Sport
, 
11
, 347–354.
Henselmans, M., & Schoenfeld, B. 
(2014). 
The effect of inter-set rest intervals on
resistance exercise-induced muscle hypertrophy. 
Sports Medicine
, 
44
 (12), 1635–1643.
Hermans, E. 
J., Ramsey, N. 
F., & van Honk, J. 
(2008). 
Exogenous testosterone enhances
responsiveness to social threat in the neural circuitry of social aggression in humans.
Biol Psychiatry
, 
63
, 263–270.
Inoue, K., Yamasaki, S., Fushiki, T., Okada, Y., & Sugimoto, E. 
(1994). 
Androgen receptor
agonist suppresses exercise-induced hypertrophy of skeletal muscle. 
Eur J Appl Physiol
,
69
, 88–91.
Kadi, F., Bonnerud, P., Eriksson, A., & Thornell, T. 
(2000). 
The expression of androgen
receptors in human neck and limb muscles: effects of training and self-administration of
androgenic steroids. 
Histochem. 
Cell Biol
, 
113
, 25–29.
Kraemer, W., & Ratamess, N. 
(2005). 
Hormonal responses and adaptations to resistance
exercise and training. 
Sport Medicine
, 
34
, 339–361.
Kraemer, W., Clemson, A., Triplett, N., Bush, J., Newton, R., & Lynch, J. 
(1996). 
The
effects of plasma cortisol evelauation on total and differential leukocyte counts in
response to heavy resistance exercise. 
Eur. 
J. 
Appl. 
Physiol
, 
73
, 93–97.
Kraemer, W., Fleck, S., Dziados, J., Harman, E., Marchitelli, L., Gordon, S., et al. 
(1993).
Changes in hormonal concentrations following different heavy resistance exercise
protocols in women. 
J. 
Appl. 
Physiol
, 
75
, 594–604.
Kraemer, W., Fry, A., Warren, B., Stone, M., Fleck, S., Kearney, J., et al. 
(1992). 
Acute
hormonal response in elite junior weightlifters. 
Int. 
J. 
Sport. 
Med.
 
13
, 103–109.
Kraemer, W., Gorden, S., Fleck, S., Marchitelli, L., Mello, R., Diziados, J., et al. 
(1991).
Endogenous anabolic hormonal and growth factor responses to heavy resistance exercise
in males and females. 
Int. 
J. 
Sport. 
Med
, 
12
, 228–235.
Kraemer, W., Marchitelli, L., McCurry, D., Mello, R., Dziados, J., Harman, E., et al.
(1990). 
Hormonal and growth factor responses to heavy resistance exercise. 
J. 
Appl.
Physiol
, 
69
, 1442–1450.
Kraemer, W., Vingren, J., & Spiering, B. 
(2008). 
Endocrine responses to resistance
training. 
In T. 
Baechle, & R. 
Earle, In: 
Essentials of Strength Training and Conditioning
(pp. 
41–64). 
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics.
Lejune-Lenain, C., Van Cauter, E., Desir, D., Beyloss, M., & Franckson, J. 
(1987). 
Control
of circadian and episodic variations of adrenal androgens secretion in man. 
J.
Endocrinol. 
Invest
, 
10
, 267–276.
Liening, S., & Josephs, R. 
(2010). 
It is not just about testosterone: physiologicalmediators
and moderators of testosterone’s behavioral effects. 
Soc Pers Psychol Compass
, 
4
, 982–
994.
Lin, H., Wang, S., & Wang, R. 
(2001). 
Stimulatory effect of exercise on testeosterone
production by rat Leydig cells. 
J. 
Cell. 
Biochem
, 
83
, 14–154.
Linnamo, V., Pakarinen, A., Komi, P., Kraemer, W., & Hakkinen, K. 
(2005). 
Acute
hormonal responses to submaximal and maximal heavy resistance and explosive
exercises in men and women. 
J. 
Strength Cond. 
Res
, 
19
, 566–571.
Lu, S., Lau, C., Tung, Y., Huang, S., Chen, Y., Shih, H., et al. 
(1997). 
Lactate and the

effects of exercise on testosterone secretion: evidence for the involvement of a cAMP-
mediated mechanism. 
Med. 
Sci. 
Sports Exerc
, 
29
, 1048–1054.
Mazur, A., & Booth, A. 
(1998). 
Testosterone and dominance in men. 
Behav Brain Sci
, 
21
,
353–397.
McLellan, C., Lovell, D., & Glass, C. 
(2010). 
Creatine kinase and endocrine responses of
elite player pre, during, and post rugby league match play. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 
24
 (11),
2908–2919.
Mehta, P., & Josephs, R. 
(2010). 
Testosterone and cortisol jointly regulate dominance:
evidence for a dual-hormone hypothesis. 
Hormones and Behavior
, 
58
 (5), 898–906.
Mehta, P., & Prasad, S. 
(2015). 
The dual-hormone hypothesis: a brief review and future
research agenda. 
Current opinion in behavioral sciences
, 
3
, 163–168.
Morton, R., Oikawa, S., Wavell, C., Mazara, N., McGlory, C., Quadrilatero, J., et al.
(2016). 
Neither load nor systemic hormones determine resistance training-mediated
hypertrophy or strength gains in resistance-trained young men. 
J. 
Appl. 
Physiol
, In
press.
Nagaya, N., & Herrera, A. 
(1995). 
Effects of testosterone on synaptic efficacy at
neuromuscular junctions in asexual dimorphic muscle of male frogs. 
J. 
Physiol
, 
483
,
141–153.
Neave, N., & Wolfson, S. 
(2003). 
Testosterone, territoriality, and the ‘home advantage’.
Physiol. 
Behav.
, 
78
, 269–275.
Ramos, E., Frontera, W., Llopart, A., & Feliciano, D. 
(1998). 
Strength and hormonal levels
in adolescents: gender related differences. 
Int J Sports Med
, 
19
, 526–531.
Ratamess, N., Kraemer, W., Volek, J., Jeff, S., Maresh, C., Van Heest, J., et al. 
(2005).
Effects of heavy resistance exercise volume on post-exercise androgen receptor content
in resistance trained men. 
J Steroid Biomech. 
Molec. 
Biol
, 
93
, 35–42.
Ronay, R., & von Hippel, W. 
(2010). 
The presence of an attractive woman elevates
testosterone and physical risk taking in young men. 
Soc Psychol Pers Sci
, 
, 57–64.
Samilios, I., Pilianidis, T., Karamouzis, M., & Tokmakids, S. 
(2003). 
Hormonal responses
after various resistance exercise protocols. 
Med. 
Sci. 
Sports Exerc
, 
35
, 644–654.
Schoenfeld, B., Peterson, M., Ogborn, D., Contreras, B., & Sonmez, G. 
(2015). 
Effects of
low- vs. 
high-load resistance training on muscle strength and hypertrophy in well-
trained men. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 
29
, 2954–2963.
Schoenfeld, B., Ratamess, N., Peterson, M., Contreras, B. 
S., & Alvar, B. 
(2014). 
Effects of
different volume-equated resistance training loading strategies on muscular adaptations
in well-trained men. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 
28
 (10), 2909–2918.
Stoléru, S., & Ennaji, A. 
C. 
(1993). 
LH pulsatile secretion and testosterone blood levels are
influenced by sexual arousal in human males. 
Psychoneuroendocrinology
, 
18
, 205–218.
Stone, M., Fleck, S., Triplett, N., & Kraemer, W. 
(1991). 
Physiological adaptations to
resistance training exercise. 
Sport. 
Med
, 
11
, 210–231.
Strawford, A., Barbieri, T., van Loan, M., Parks, E. 
C., Barton, N. 
N., Christiansen, M., et
al. 
(1999). 
Resistance exercise and supraphysiologic androgen therapy in eugonadal men
with HIV-related weight loss. 
JAMA
, 
281
, 1282–1290.
Teo, W., McGuigan, M., & Newton, M. 
(2011). 
The effects of circadian rhythmicity of

salivary cortisol and testosterone on maximal isometric force, maximal dynamic force,
and power output. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 
25
 (6), 1538–1545.
Tillin, N., & Bishop, D. 
(2009). 
Factors modulating post-activation potentiation and its
effect on performance of subsequent explosive activities. 
Sports Medicine
, 
39
 (2), 147–
166.
Viru, A., Viru, M., & Bosco, C. 
(2003). 
Hormones in short-term exercises: resistance and
power exercises. 
Strength Cond. 
J
, 
24
, 7–15.
Volek, J., Kraemer, W., Bush, J., Incledon, T., & Boetes, M. 
(1997). 
Testosterone and
cortisol in relationship to dietary nutrients and resistance exercise. 
J. 
Appl. 
Physiol
, 
82
,
49–57.
Wagner, J., Flinn, M., & England, B. 
(2002). 
Hormonal response to competition among
male coalitions. 
Evol Hum Behav
, 
23
, 437–442.
West, D., & Phillips, S. 
(2012). 
Associations of exercise-induced hormone profiles and
gains in strength and hypertrophy in a large cohort after weight training. 
Eur J Appl
Physiol
, 
112
, 2693–2702.
West, D., Kujbida, G., Moore, D., Atherton, P., Burd, N., Padzik, J., et al. 
(2009).
Resistance exercise-induced increases in putative anabolic hormones do not enhance
muscle protein synthesis or intracellular signalling in young men. 
J Physiol
, 
587
, 5239–
5247.
Wood, R., & Stanton, S. 
(2012). 
Testosterone and sport: current perspectives. 
Hormones
and Behavior
, 
61
 (1), 147–155.
Zatsiorsky, V., & Kraemer, W. 
(2006). 
Science and Practice of Strength Training
 (2nd
Edition). 
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics.

CHAPTER 5
Training aerobic fitness
Alex Bliss and Rob Harley
 
 
 

SECTION 1 – INTRODUCTION
DEFINING AEROBIC FITNESS AND OTHER
FREQUENTLY ENCOUNTERED TERMS
The physiological determinants of successful endurance sport performance
have been considered for many years. 
Nobel prize winner A.V. 
Hill described
endurance exercise in athletics and measured the contribution to performance
by aerobic energy production pathways in the early 1920s. 
The maximal
oxygen uptake was described as V̇O
2
 max and has continued to be considered
an important performance determinant to the present day (Basset, 2002).
However, a common issue in sports and exercise science is that the term
“aerobic” is used to describe exercise in terms of duration, more so than the
primary metabolic pathway for the activity. 
An “aerobic” effort is often used
to describe long duration exercise, with the reverse being true of “anaerobic”
efforts (Chamari & Padulo, 2015). 
In truth, dichotomising exercise into
purely “aerobic” or “anaerobic” effort is not an accurate method by which to
explain the physiological processes that are occurring. 
For example, at the
end of a ramp-based V̇O
2
 max test (described below), a participant’s blood
lactate level will typically be above 8mmol·L
–1
. 
Therefore, during this test of
maximal oxygen uptake, a portion of the energy provided to achieve the
exercise intensity required during the test has come from anaerobic energy
pathways (anaerobic glycolysis).
To ensure consistency, and to encourage coaches and sports scientists
working in applied practice to provide a clear message to their athletes,
defining some of the common terminology encountered should help to
improve practice (Chamari & Padulo, 2015). 
Therefore, prior to describing
methods or strategies to train aerobic fitness, it is perhaps pertinent to
carefully define what aerobic fitness is, and moreover, what it is not.
Aerobic fitness
Aerobic fitness, otherwise known as cardiovascular fitness, is a broad term,

and encompasses the main physiological determinants of performance, as
outlined below. 
In sport and exercise settings, measuring an athlete’s
cardiovascular fitness is a key tool when establishing the credentials for
upcoming performances and attempting to understand or explain previous
performances. 
This is particularly so in sports where demonstrating superior
aerobic fitness is a critical determinant in the performance and success of the
athlete, most notably in sports performed above 80% of maximum heart rate
and lasting longer than an hour.
Aerobic power
Technically, V̇O
2
 max is a measure of the 
rate
 of oxygen consumption
(absolute = L·min
–1
. 
Relative to body mass = mL·kg
–1
·min
–1
) over a period of
time. 
Therefore, a calculation of the maximal power generated by
aerobic/oxidative pathways can be performed during a maximal oxygen
uptake test involving the collection of expired air for gas analysis purposes.
Individuals with high maximal aerobic power exhibit increased
concentrations of aerobic enzymes, mitochondrial size and density,
myoglobin, and capillary density, allowing for enhanced oxygen extraction at
the muscular level (Tomlin & Wenger, 2001).
Aerobic capacity
Capacity, by definition, concerns the maximum amount that can be contained
or produced. 
With regards to aerobic capacity, this is linked to the production
of energy for exercise utilising aerobic metabolism pathways (MacInnis &
Gibala, 2017). 
At maximal levels, this is often termed maximal aerobic
capacity/maximal oxygen uptake (V̇O
2
 max) or peak aerobic capacity/peak
oxygen uptake (V̇O
2
 peak). 
However, aerobic capacity is used as a term to
identify blood lactate or ventilatory markers, such as maximal lactate steady-
state (MLSS) or rate of work that can be sustained for extended periods of
time, with increases in V̇O
2
 max and other aerobic capacity markers resulting
from endurance training (Tomlin & Wenger, 2001; Ekblom et al., 1968).

1.
2.
3.
PHYSIOLOGICAL DETERMINANTS OF
ENDURANCE PERFORMANCE
Requirements from the various metabolic systems that produce energy within
the human body during endurance running are dictated by the functions of
race duration and race intensity (Boileau et al., 1982). 
Oxidative
phosphorylation is the primary energy producing pathway in middle- and
long-distance events. 
Therefore, athletes of national, international, or world-
class level usually display well-developed aerobic fitness in a number of
critical physiological performance parameters closely linked to oxygen
uptake, namely:
 
the maximal oxygen uptake or V̇O
2
 max,
the amount of oxygen required to exercise at submaximal speeds (e.g.,
running economy),
the amount of oxygen required to maintain low blood lactate levels
(lactate threshold, turnpoint) (Jones, 2007).
 
Models of endurance physiology from the mid 1990s to the end of the 21st
century display these determinants of performance (and others), and they are
inexorably linked to “performance velocity” (Coyle, 1995), “maximal
velocity in races” (Basset and Howley, 2000), or “race pace” (Jones, 2006).
MEASURING AEROBIC FITNESS
V̇O
2
 max is the criterion measure of aerobic fitness and is considered to be
the best single physiological variable for defining the function of the
cardiovascular and respiratory systems (Cooke, 2009). 
However, the “gold
standard” method for assessing aerobic fitness is to directly measure
pulmonary gas exchange during exercise. 
This can be achieved using the
Douglas bag method or by using breath-by-breath systems. 
For further
information on these methods, readers are encouraged to read Jones (2007).
The measurement of the key determinants of aerobic fitness (see 
Table
5.1
) can be conducted using various protocols. 
For endurance athletes,
assessments will usually comprise a laboratory assessment of two parts: a

“submaximal” test, used to establish blood lactate and ventilatory responses
such as economy/efficiency, and a “maximal” test, used to establish the V̇O
2
max. 
Both tests include multiple stages that will incrementally increase in
speed or power output required. 
Stage duration for the submaximal element
of the assessment is usually three or four minutes, which is enough time to
allow for “steady state” conditions to be achieved. 
This phase of the test is
used to determine economy, lactate threshold, lactate turnpoint, and heart rate
zones that can be used when prescribing training. 
The “maximal” test will
involve shorter stage durations, but begin at a higher speed or power output
and be performed until volitional exhaustion. 
The precision of these
measurements has been shown to be around 3% and can be extremely useful
in monitoring the effectiveness of training interventions (Jones, 2007).
TABLE 5.1
 Operational definitions for frequently encountered terms. 
Adapted from
Jones (2007)
Construct
Acronym
Definition
Lactate
threshold
LT
The first “breakpoint” or “observable rise” in blood
lactate levels where levels consistently exceed baseline
(~1mmol·L
–1
)
Lactate
turnpoint
LTP
The second “sudden and sustained” increase in blood
lactate levels during incremental exercise. 
Approximate
to MLSS.
Maximal lactate
steady state
MLSS
The highest work rate at which blood lactate is elevated
above baseline but remains stable. 
Blood lactate levels
should not rise more than 1mmol·L
–1
 after 30 minutes
exercise at the same work rate.
Onset blood
lactate
accumulation
OBLA
Blood lactate reference value of 4mmol·L
–1
. 
The level at
which, despite consistent work rate, the level of blood
lactate will accumulate and continually rise over time.
Maximal
oxygen uptake
V̇O
2
 max
The maximal rate of oxygen uptake. 
Identified by a
plateau (or reduction) in V̇O
2
 despite increasing work
rate.
Peak oxygen
uptake
V̇O
2
 peak
The peak rate of oxygen uptake. 
Used in the absence of a
plateau in oxygen uptake.
Velocity at V̇O
2
max
vV̇O
2
 max
The velocity at V̇O
2
 max obtained by solving the
regression equation describing measured V̇O
2
 at

submaximal intensities and V̇O
2
 max.
Running
economy
RE
The oxygen cost (or energy cost, see Shaw et al., 2015)
of running at submaximal speeds or distances.
Athletes from other sports that require direct assessment of their aerobic
fitness might undergo profiling as outlined above, although “sport-specific”,
field-based estimates, such as the yo-yo intermittent recovery or multistage
fitness test, for example, might be utilised. 
These assessments sacrifice the
precision of measurement that can be obtained in a laboratory setting
(although some laboratory equipment and techniques can be utilised in the
field, e.g., portable gas/lactate analysers) in an effort to improve ecological
validity. 
The number of sport-specific, field-based protocols for measuring or
estimating aerobic fitness are too numerous to adequately capture here, but
have been extensively outlined (Winter et al., 2007; Tanner & Gore, 2013).

SECTION 2 – TRAINING
PREFACE
This section is not designed to be prescriptive, but to outline evidence-based
training methods and techniques that have been employed to bring about
improved performance. 
In a recent editorial for the 
International Journal of
Sports Physiology and Performance
 on the importance of “context”, it was
stated that: “there is such diversity across sports that it is important to
consider the context of the individual athlete and environment… with
decisions being made based on the sport, athlete level, training history, and so
on” (McGuigan, 2016). 
Strength and conditioning scientists should be careful
when extrapolating findings of research studies, particularly when using
untrained participants, when giving advice to athletes and their coaches
(Midgley et al., 2007). 
Coaches and scientists reading this chapter must
carefully consider the complexities, nuances, and idiosyncrasies of their
athlete(s) and their performance environment when applying any of the
knowledge presented herein. 
If responsible for training prescription, they are
encouraged to base their decision making processes around both evidence-
based practice (from peer-reviewed scholarly journals, textbooks, etc.) and
practice-based evidence (correspondence with their athlete[s] and their
coach[es] or other practitioner peers). 
Over time, the strength and
conditioning scientist will develop their own philosophy to training, based on
the above, and should, through reflective practice and continued professional
development, improve and adapt this philosophy to ensure they are creating a
training environment that encourages positive adaptations for their athlete(s).
EXERCISE INTENSITY ZONES
Improving the physiological determinants of endurance performance requires
careful manipulation of training volume (duration and frequency) and
intensity. 
While volume is easily identifiable (by distance completed or time
spent training), intensity of training effort is more difficult to classify. 
A

FIGURE 5.1
common approach is to use blood lactate responses and corresponding heart
rates to exercise at different intensities obtained through an incremental ramp
test. 
Seiler (2010) identified a three intensity zone model (
Figure 5.1
) based
around the lactate threshold and ventilatory thresholds, while DiMenna and
Jones (2016) have proposed a similar four zone model utilising intensity
landmarks identified from a blood lactate profile. 
Seiler’s (2010) zone 1 was
classified as “low intensity training” (below lactate/ventilatory turnpoint 1 –
also called lactate threshold) and referred to as “easy training” by DiMenna
and Jones (2016). 
Zone 2 was classified as “threshold training”, which
describes the intensities between lactate threshold and lactate
turnpoint/maximal lactate steady state, and referred to as “steady training” by
DiMenna and Jones (2016). 
Zone 3, referred to as “high intensity training”
(intensities above the lactate turnpoint/maximal lactate steady state), was
broken down into two further zones by DiMenna and Jones (2016). 
The first
is termed “tempo training”, which describes continuous training performed at
intensities just above the lactate turnpoint, usually performed for 20 to 30
minutes. 
The second is termed “interval training” which involves short, high-
intensity bursts of activity from durations of six minutes down to 30 seconds
performed with increasing intensity and shorter interval duration.
A three intensity zone model based on the identification of ventilatory or
blood lactate thresholds (Seiler, 2010).
LOW-INTENSITY/EASY TRAINING (BELOW

LACTATE THRESHOLD)
This intensity of training is usually implemented as easy recovery sessions
and to allow athletes the opportunity to accumulate large training volumes,
and usually performed as bouts of greater than 30 minutes. 
High training
volumes and number of years’ running experience have been suggested to be
important for improving running economy (Morgan et al., 1995; Midgley et
al., 2007). 
While being appropriate for distance athletes, its applicability for
athletes who partake in repeated sprint activity sports is limited. 
Endurance
athletes have been shown to spend around 80% of their training time in this
zone (Seiler & Tønneson, 2009).
THRESHOLD/STEADY TRAINING (BETWEEN
LACTATE THRESHOLD AND LACTATE
TURNPOINT)
This type of training is especially important for endurance athletes as it is felt
that the accumulation of mileage over a prolonged period of time helps
improve running economy. 
Jones (2006) reported that Paula Radcliffe’s
running economy improved by 15% between 1992 and 2003, the largest
improvements occurring at speeds where an individual undertakes the largest
proportion of their training. 
Training at intensities below the lactate turnpoint
are usually performed over distances of 5 to 15 miles. 
If coaches have not got
access to laboratory data in determining speeds and heart rates that
correspond to these training zones, a simple coaching cue of “comfortably
hard” could help athletes achieve the correct intensity (see 
Figure 5.2
 and
Table 5.2
). 
In the authors’ experience, this has proved especially useful when
working with games players during the off-season due to their unfamiliarity
with this form of training. 
Exercising above the lactate turnpoint will feel
more physically demanding, and the corresponding coaching cue of “hardly
comfortable” should help athletes internalise how they should be feeling
during tempo and interval type training.
TEMPO AND HIGH-INTENSITY TRAINING

(ABOVE LACTATE TURNPOINT/MAXIMAL
LACTATE STEADY STATE)
Typically, periodised training programmes of highly trained endurance
athletes will involve more continuous, low-intensity, high-volume type
training early in the season, with short duration, high-intensity training
undertaken as the athlete enters their pre-competition and competition
training phases (Laursen & Jenkins, 2002). 
The rationale behind utilising this
training method is that increases in volume alone do not appear sufficient to
improve the key determinants of endurance performance, other than running
economy (Laursen & Jenkins, 2002). 
Esfarjani & Laursen (2007) showed that
moderately trained athletes, training at velocities equivalent to 100% and
130% of the velocity at V̇O
2
 
max (vV̇O
2
 max) led to significant
improvements in vV̇O
2
 
max, V̇O
2
 max, and 3000m time trial performance.
The findings in recreationally active and moderately trained athletes also
appear to extend to well-trained populations. 
Enoksen et al. 
(2011)
demonstrated that in 10 weeks, well-trained middle-distance runners
improved vV̇O
2
 max velocity at lactate threshold, and running economy
when adopting a high-intensity, low-volume training programme, as where
their matched high-volume, low-intensity training group improved their
running economy only. 
The runners were training six times per week,
completing mean training mileages of > 90km per week, and had mean V̇O
2
max values > 70 mL·kg
–1
·min
–1
. 
The high-intensity group completed 33% of
training at a heart rate higher than 82% of maximum, with the low-intensity
group completing 13% of total training volume in the same range. 
However,
it appears that the dose-response relationship for high-intensity interval
training needs to be carefully considered with highly-trained athletes. 
Menz
et al. 
(2015) found that 11 sessions of high-intensity interval training that
elicited heart rate responses between 88% and 94% of maximum heart rate
did not significantly affect V̇O
2
 max when compared with a control group.
The most likely explanation for the lack of meaningful change was the short
duration of the programme (three weeks) resulting in a chronic stimulus that
was insufficient to promote physiological adaptation. 
Although other studies
employing the same exercise regimen (four repetitions of four minutes or
“4x4”) had demonstrated significant improvements in V̇O
2
 max in four

FIGURE 5.2
weeks (Helgerud et al. 
2007), the participants had markedly lower starting
maximal aerobic power values than those of the Menz et al. 
(2015) study
(58.1 ± 4.5 mL·kg
–1
·min
–1
 vs. 
63.7 ± 7.7 mL·kg
–1
·min
–1
, respectively). 
This
led the authors to conclude that, in line with other work, lower V̇O
2
 max
values at baseline and changes to V̇O
2
 max are significantly correlated (Menz
et al., 2015). 
Coaches and scientists should, therefore, consider the dose-
response relationship when introducing high-intensity interval training with
athletes, and on the balance of evidence, expect highly-trained athletes to
respond more slowly to this type of training intervention than recreationally
active or moderately-trained athletes.
Example blood lactate response to incrementally increasing running speed
with corresponding training zones and physiological markers.
TABLE 5.2
 
Table of training zones and cues that can be used by athletes and coaches to
estimate their current zone. 
With laboratory assessment, training zones and
corresponding intensities can be based on blood lactate levels and the corresponding
heart rate at that level to obtain an objective, easily monitored method to allow for
training in the desired zone
Training zone
Typical blood lactate
range (mmol·L
–1
)
Coaching cue
Breathing reference
Low intensity/easy
~1
Very easy or easy
Very easy or easy to

talk while exercising
Threshold/steady
1 (or higher than
baseline)–3
Comfortably hard
Ok to talk
Tempo
3–4
Hardly comfortable
Hard to talk
High intensity
>4
Hard to maximum
effort
Cannot talk

STRENGTH TRAINING AS PART OF A STRATEGY
FOR IMPROVING AEROBIC FITNESS
Historically, endurance training methods aiming at improving markers of
aerobic fitness and strength training have been viewed as separate entities,
with the traditional view being that improvements in aerobic fitness result
from endurance training only (Yamamoto et al., 2008). 
Combining strength
training with endurance training aimed at improving aerobic fitness (often
referred to as concurrent training, discussed in more detail in 
Chapter 7
) has
been suggested to impair muscular hypertrophy and has been termed “the
interference effect” (Hickson, 1980). 
Endurance athletes are often reluctant to
engage with strength training through concerns over muscular hypertrophy,
consequential increases in body mass, and perceived questionable specificity
of the exercises undertaken (Crane, 2011). 
Other concerns expressed include
delayed onset muscle soreness and decreased capillary density and
mitochondrial function (Yamamoto et al., 2008).
The issue of compatibility appears well grounded in physiological and
resistance training theory, as it is known that strength and endurance training
operate at different ends of the physiological energy systems spectrum (Jones
et al., 2013). 
At the molecular level, following a bout of strength training,
there is a sustained increase in the activity of mammalian target of rapamycin
(mTOR) which helps to up-regulate protein synthesis and critically underpins
improvements in muscle strength and size (Baar, 2014), which are key goals
of this type of exercise. 
Following endurance training, there is increased
activation of the adenosine-monophosphate-activated protein kinase-
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator (AMPK-PCG
1α) pathway which inhibits mTOR and therefore leads to diminishing protein
accretion (de Souza et al., 2014). 
Despite the above concerns, research has
shown that the combination of a variety of strength training modalities with
endurance or aerobic fitness training can bring about performance benefits
(Bonacci et al., 2011; Beattie et al., 2014; Beattie et al., 2017).
Traditional, heavy-resistance strength training enhances performance
through stimulating adaptations in muscle cross-sectional area, or
hypertrophy (Paavolainen et al., 1999). 
Classically, strength training is
introduced into an athlete’s programme to bring about changes in muscle

cross-sectional area (hypertrophy) and to improve force generation properties
of the muscles targeted. 
There are three main types of strength training:
maximal strength, explosive strength (strength-speed and speed-strength),
and reactive strength, each of which can be identified by the velocity of
movement (Siff, 2003). 
It has been suggested that in order to provide the
most functionally relevant and performance enhancing training for endurance
athletes, the resistance training element should focus around explosive and
reactive type exercise. 
Developing high levels of explosive-strength (also
referred to as rate of force development) and subsequently high external
mechanical power are thought to be two of the most important characteristics
for a wide range of sporting performance (Suchomel et al., 2016). 
Sports
performers that particularly benefit from high levels of explosive-strength are
those that are required to jump, rapidly change direction, or, as in the case
with sprint and short-middle-distance athletes, are required to sprint
maximally (Haff & Nimphius, 2012). 
Paavolainen et al. 
(1999) investigated
the use of simultaneous endurance training and explosive strength training,
consisting of various sprints, jumps, and low-load, high-movement velocity
resistance training, including leg press and leg extension exercises, on 5km
running performance. 
They demonstrated an improvement in 5km time trial
in well-trained endurance athletes without changes in maximal oxygen
uptake. 
However, before explosive-strength can be developed, the scientific
literature suggests that high levels of muscular strength must form the
foundation on which high rates of force development and external
mechanical power can be built (Suchomel et al., 2016), as well as to reduce
injury risk (Beattie et al., 2014).
In addition to the rationale above, well-trained elite athletes are unlikely to
be able to significantly alter their maximal oxygen uptake (Jones, 1998).
Therefore, strength training has been proposed as a method by which
performance in endurance events can be improved, as such training
demonstrated beneficial effects on running economy, muscular power, and
neuromuscular function (Paavolainen et al., 1999, Beattie et al., 2014; Beattie
et al., 2017).
THE ROLE OF AEROBIC FITNESS IN REPEATED
SPRINT ACTIVITY SPORTS

The duration and intensity of sporting activity will dictate the importance of
aerobic energy contribution and the types of aerobic fitness required for
optimal performance. 
It is commonly recognised that the longer the duration
and the higher the intensity of sporting activity the more influence levels of
aerobic fitness will have on performance. 
A number of team sports, along
with racquet sports, involve high-intensity activity interspersed with
moderate to low-intensity activity, and are commonly referred to as repeated
sprint activity sports. 
Although the exact aerobic contribution for peak
performance in these sports and, therefore, the aerobic fitness levels which
are required for high level performance will vary, and are often a cause for
discussion, the importance of aerobic fitness, and its constituent parts, to help
maintain a high work rate is of paramount importance. 
The interplay and link
between increases in aerobic fitness components and increases in
performance has been clearly demonstrated in a variety of sports. 
Helgerud et
al. 
(2001) reported that elite junior soccer players (mean age 18.1 years and
over eight years’ playing experience) were able to improve their soccer
performance as indicated by a 20% increase in distance covered in the match,
100% increase in the number of sprints performed, 24% increase in the
number of involvements with the ball, as well as players being able to
perform at a higher work intensity (85.6% of max heart rate rather than
82.7%) following two sessions of interval training per week, consisting of
4x4 minutes at 90–95% max heart rate with a 3 minute active recovery, in
addition to their regular training for eight weeks. 
This improvement in
performance was facilitated by improvements in all three components of
aerobic fitness with V̇O
2
 max significantly increasing from 58.1 ± 4.5
mL·kg
–1
·min
–1
 to 64.3 ± 3.0 mL·kg
–1
·min
–1
 (P<0.05), lactate threshold
increasing from 47.8 ± 5.3 mL·kg
–1
·min
–1
 to 55.4 ± 4.1 mL·kg
–1
·min
–1
(P<0.05), and running economy improving by 6.7% (P<0.05). 
Although the
distances covered and the duration of playing time is significantly less for a
basketball match than a soccer match, Ben Abdelkrim et al. 
(2009, 2010) has
provided evidence to support the importance of basketball players possessing
a good level of aerobic conditioning. 
The authors demonstrated that the
amount of high-intensity activity that was performed during the second and
fourth quarters significantly dropped while blood metabolites significantly
increased, indicating increasing levels of fatigue in the later stages of
basketball matches.

USING SMALL-SIDED GAMES TRAINING TO
IMPROVE AEROBIC FITNESS FOR REPEATED
SPRINT ACTIVITY SPORTS
As mentioned earlier, the aerobic energy contribution and, therefore, the
importance of aerobic fitness for a variety of repeated sprint activity sport
athletes, will vary depending upon the duration and intensity of those sports.
Strength and conditioning coaches need to develop an understanding of the
energy demands required in their sport in order to target the energy systems
employed. 
A detailed discussion of the acute training variables that can be
implemented to enhance repeated sprint ability is outlined in 
Chapter 6
. 
This
section will focus on the literature and practice related to the employment of
small-sided games to improve aerobic fitness, technical ability, and
enjoyment. 
Small-sided games in a variety of repeated sprint activity sports
(e.g., soccer, rugby, handball, basketball) have been demonstrated to elicit
appropriate levels of physiological overload in order to improve and/or
maintain aerobic fitness parameters (Impellizzeri et al., 2006; Buchheit et al.,
2009; Halouani et al., 2014). 
The use of small-sided games as conditioning
sessions also requires players to employ sports-specific skills and movement
patterns (e.g., changes of direction), and exposes players to competitive
situations, forcing them to play under pressure and in a fatigued state.
Impellizzeri et al. 
(2006) demonstrated that small-sided games of soccer
can be used as an effective training mode to enhance aerobic fitness and
match performance. 
They used 40 junior soccer players (mean age 17.2 ± 0.2
years with nine years playing experience) and allocated them to either an
aerobic interval running group or a small-sided game group. 
Two sessions
per week of their regular training were conducted in this mode of activity.
The aerobic interval training programme design consisted of four bouts of 4
minutes running around a soccer pitch at 90–95% max heart rate, with 3
minutes active recovery (60–70% maximum heart rate), which has previously
been demonstrated by Helgerud et al. 
(2001) to improve aerobic parameters
and game playing performance. 
The small-sided games ranged from 3 vs. 
3
to 5 vs. 
5 and were implemented with the same time intervals as the running
group. 
To negate any decline in work intensity, replacement balls were
always available should a ball be kicked out of the playing area. 
The average
exercise intensity as expressed as a percentage of maximum heart rate during

the small-sided games was not different from that reached in the interval
running sessions (91.3 ± 2.2% vs. 
90.7 ± 1.2%, respectively). 
Significant
improvement in aerobic power and capacity occurred in both intervention
groups. 
V̇O
2
 max significantly improved from 55.6 ± 3.4 to 60.2 ± 3.9 mL·
kg
–1
·min
–1
 for the running intervention group and 57.7 ± 4.2 to 61.6 ± 4.5
mL·kg
–1
·min
–1
 for the small-sided games group. 
It is interesting to note that
most of this improvement was made in the first four weeks during pre-season
training with no significant improvement taking place over the next eight
weeks. 
The speed at lactate threshold also significantly improved over the
twelve week intervention from 11.2 ± 0.6 to 12.2 ± 0.4 km·h
–1
 for the running
interval group and 11.3 ± 0.7 to 12.4 ± 0.5 km·h
–1
 for the small-sided games
group. 
Interestingly, the time course for this change was slightly different
with velocity and V̇O
2
 at the lactate threshold improving a further 5% from
mid- to post-training, unlike the aerobic power data indicating that the time
course for adaptations to this component of aerobic fitness may take longer
than those associated with changes in aerobic power. 
Finally, a 13%
improvement in the time to complete Ekblom’s soccer specific endurance
circuit (Balsom, 1994) was reported as occurring during the first four weeks
of training with no further improvement during the subsequent eight weeks of
training.
It is clear to see that training involving technical elements (i.e., small-
sided games) can be used as effectively as running interval training to
improve aerobic parameters which impact upon soccer performance.
However, given the task-specific nature of small-sided games (short sharp
changes of direction, jumping, lateral running, etc.) which are replicated in
Ekblom’s endurance circuit, Impellizzeri et al. 
(2006) did comment that
contrary to their hypotheses, the small-sided games group did not achieve
superior performance enhancements compared with the running interval
group. 
In their conclusions they suggest that using small-sided games
increased players’ motivation and made high-intensity training more
acceptable. 
This hypothesis has recently been tested by Los Arcos and
colleagues (2015) who used a Physical Activity Enjoyment Scale (Motl et al.,
2001) to demonstrate that small-sided games promoted considerably higher
physical enjoyment scores than the interval running sessions (P<0.05). 
Unlike
the study by Impellizzeri et al. 
(2006), the intervention took place during the
last six weeks of the season, when studies have previously reported declines
in aerobic fitness (Gravina et al., 2008, Caldwell et al., 2009, Tønnessen et

al., 2013). 
Motl et al. 
(2001) reported that the change in maximal aerobic
speed over the six week period (16.8 ± 0.9 to 17.1 ± 1.0 km·h
–1
 and 17.0 ±
0.8 to 16.9 ± 0.8 km·h
–1
) was not significantly different (1.7 ± 1.5%, P<0.05
and –0.4 ± 1.9%, P<0.05) for interval training vs. 
small-sided games,
respectively, and concluded that the small-sided games were as effective as
interval training in maintaining aerobic fitness. 
Clemente et al. 
(2014) has
recently proposed methodological guidelines for the organisation of small-
sided soccer games, categorising them based upon the game structure and
pitch dimensions and how this will influence the acute training variables of
intensity, repetition, duration, recovery, and volume.
Similar evidence supporting the use of small-sided games to enhance
aerobic fitness has been demonstrated in rugby by Gabbett (2006), who
implemented a nine week in-season training study comparing the use of
either two traditional conditioning sessions (e.g., repeated short-duration,
high-intensity running activities with no skilled component) to two skills-
based conditioning games (with modified rules and modified field size) in
addition to the athletes’ regular training sessions. 
Although over the nine
weeks the week-by-week training load varied, the total training load, assessed
using Foster’s sessional RPE (Foster et al., 2001), for all the sessions
undertaken for both conditions were not significantly different. 
V̇O
2
 max
assessed using the multistage shuttle run test was shown to significantly
increase for both the traditional conditioning (49.6 ± 0.7 to 52.2 ± 0.5 mL·kg
–
1
·min
–1
, P<0.05) and the skills-based conditioning games groups (46.6 ± 0.5
to 48.8 ± 0.4 mL·kg
–1
· min
–1
, P<0.05). 
It is interesting to note that significant
improvements in 40 metre sprints and vertical jump ability also occurred in
the skills-based conditioning group but not in the traditional training group.
Strength and conditioning coaches are encouraged to work closely with
skills-based coaches in the development and implementation of appropriate
small-sided games to help enhance and maintain aerobic fitness while
affording the additional physical and technical benefits discussed in this
chapter.
CONCLUSION
The prioritisation of aerobic fitness training is a complex area and will
depend upon many variables, from the aerobic demand of the athlete’s sports

performance to the stage of the season the athlete is currently performing in.
Although selecting training zones and the amount of time an athlete should
spend training in that zone is still a contentious issue, the evidence to support
the use of high-intensity training for improving the aerobic fitness of athletes
who partake in repeated sprint activity sports is growing. 
Readers are directed
to 
Chapter 6
 on repeated sprint activity and high-intensity training for
guidance on prescription, and are encouraged to explore the implementation
of small-sided games to afford the benefits described previously. 
The use of
strength training as a method to aid aerobic fitness development should also
be considered by coaches working with well-trained endurance athletes.
REFERENCES
Baar, K. 
(2014). 
Using molecular biology to maximize concurrent training. 
Sports
Medicine.
 44(2): S117–125.
Balsom, P. 
(1994). 
‘Evaluation of physical performance’ in: Ekblom, B. 
(ed) 
Handbook of
Sports Medicine and Science, Football (Soccer)
. 
Blackwell Scientific Publications,
Oxford, UK: 102–123.
Basset, D. 
R. 
(2002). 
Scientific contributions of A.V. 
Hill: exercise physiology pioneer.
Journal of Applied Physiology.
 93: 1567–1582.
Basset, D. 
R. 
& Howley, E.T. 
(2000). 
Limiting factors for maximal oxygen uptake and
determinants of endurance performance. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise
,
32(1): 70–84.
Beattie, K., Carson, B. 
P., Lyons, M., Rossiter, A. 
& Kenny, I. 
C. 
(2017). 
The effect of
strength training on performance indicators in distance runners. 
Journal of Strength and
Conditioning Research.
 31(1): 9–23.
Beattie, K., Kenny, I. 
C., Lyons, M. 
& Carson, B. 
P. 
(2014). 
The effect of strength training
on performance in endurance athletes. 
Sports Medicine.
 44(6): 845–865.
Ben Abdelkrim, N., Castagna, C., El Fazaa, S., El Ati, J. 
(2010) The effect of players’
standard and tactical strategy on game demands in men’s basketball. 
Journal of Strength
and Conditioning Research.
 24(10): 2652–2662.
Ben Abdelkrim, N., Castagna, C., Fazaa, S.E., Tabka, Z. 
& Ati, J.E. 
(2009). 
Blood
metabolites during basketball competitions. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning
Research.
 23(3): 765–773.
Boileau, R. 
A., Mayhew, J. 
L., Riner, W. 
F. 
(1982). 
Physiological characteristics of elite
middle and long distance runners. 
Canadian Journal of Applied Sport Science
. 
7(3):
167–172.
Bonacci, J., Green, D., Saunders, P. 
U., Frannetovich, M., Blanch, P. 
& Vicenzino, B.
(2011). 
Plyometric training as an intervention to correct altered neuromotor control
during running after cycling in triathletes: A preliminary randomised controlled trial.

Physical Therapy in Sport.
 12(1): 15–21.
Buchheit, M., Laursen, P. 
B., Kuhnle, J., Ruth, D., Renaud, C., & Ahmaidi, S. 
(2009).
Game-based training in young elite handball players. 
International Journal of Sports
Medicine
. 
30: 251–258.
Caldwell, B. 
P. 
& Peters, D. 
M. 
(2009). 
Seasonal variation in physiological fitness of a
semi professional soccer team. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research.
 23:
1370–1377.
Chamari, K. 
& Padulo, J. 
(2015). 
‘Aerobic’ and ‘Anaerobic’ terms used in exercise
physiology: A critical terminology reflection. 
Sports Medicine – Open.
 1(9): 1–4
Clemente, F. 
M., Lourenço Martins, F. 
M. 
& Mendes, R. 
S. 
(2014). 
Developing aerobic
and anaerobic fitness using small-sided soccer games: Methodological proposal.
Strength and Conditioning Journal.
 36(3): 76–87.
Cooke, C. 
B. 
(2009). 
‘Maximal oxygen uptake, economy, and efficiency’ in Eston, R., &
Reilly, T. 
(eds.) 
Kinanthropometry and Exercise Physiology Laboratory Manual: Tests,
Procedures and Data. 
Volume 2: Physiology
 (3rd ed.). 
Routledge, UK. 
174–212.
Coyle, E. 
F. 
(1995). 
Integration of the physiological factors determining endurance
performance ability. 
Exercise and Sport Science Review
. 
23: 25–63.
Crane, D. 
(2011). 
Strength training for endurance performance: A triathlon perspective.
Journal of Australian Strength and Conditioning
. 
19(3): 65–76.
DiMenna, F. 
J., & Jones, A. 
M. 
(2016). 
Developing endurance for sports performance.
Strength and Conditioning for Sports Performance
, 92–117.
de Souza, E. 
O., Valmor, T., Aoki, M. 
S., Roschel, H., Brum, P. 
C., Bacurau, A. 
V. 
N.,
Silva-Batista, C., Wilson, J. 
M., Neves, M., Soares, A. 
G. 
& Ugrinowitsch, C. 
(2014).
Effects of concurrent strength and endurance training on genes related to myostatin
signalling pathway and muscle fiber responses. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning
Research.
 28(11): 3215–3223.
Ekblom, B., Astrand, P., Saltin, B. 
& Wallström, B. 
M. 
(1968). 
Effect of training on
circulatory response to exercise. 
Journal of Applied Physiology.
 24(4): 518–528.
Enoksen, E., Shalfawi, S. 
A. 
I. 
& Tønnessen, E. 
(2011). 
The effect of high- vs. 
low-
intensity training on aerobic capacity in well-trained male middle-distance runners.
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research.
 25(3): 812–818.
Esfarjani, F. 
& Laursen, P. 
B. 
(2007). 
Manipulating high-intensity interval training: Effects
on V̇O
2
 max, the lactate threshold and 3000m running performance in moderately
trained males. 
Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport.
 10: 27–35.
Foster, C., Florhaug, J.A., Franklin, J., Gottschall, L., Hrovatin, L.A., Parker, S., Doleshal,
P. 
& Dodge, C. 
(2001). 
A new approach to monitoring exercise training. 
Journal of
Strength and Conditioning Research.
 15: 109–115.
Gabbett, T. 
J., Skill-based conditioning games as an alternative to traditional conditioning
for Rugby League players. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research
. 
20(2): 306–
315.
Gravina, L., Gil, S. 
M., Ruiz, F., Zubero, J., Gil, J. 
& Irazusta, J. 
(2008). 
Anthropometric
and physiological differences between first team and reserve soccer players aged 10–14
years at the beginning and end of the season. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning

Research.
 22: 1308–1314.
Haff, G. 
G., & Nimphius, S. 
(2012). 
Training principles for power. 
Strength and
Conditioning Journal.
 34(6): 2–12.
Halouani, J., Chtourou, H., Gabbett, T., Chaouachi, A., & Chamari, K. 
(2014). 
Small-sided
games in team sports training: A brief review. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning
Research
, 28(12), 3594–3618.
Helgerud, J., Engen, L.C., Wisloff, U. 
& Hoff, J. 
(2001). 
Aerobic endurance training
improves soccer performance. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise
, 33(11):
1925–1931.
Helgerud, J., Høydal, K., Wang, E., Karlsen, T., Berg, P., Bjerkaas, M., Simonsen, T.,
Helgesen, C., Hjorth, N., Bach, R. 
& Hoff, J. 
(2007). 
Aerobic high-intensity intervals
improve VO
2
 max more than moderate training. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and
Exercise.
 39(4): 665–671.
Hickson, R. 
C. 
(1980). 
Interference of strength development by simultaneously training for
strength and endurance simultaneously. 
European Journal of Applied Physiology.
 45:
255–263.
Impellizzeri, F., Marcora, S., Castagna, C., Reilly, T., Sassi, A., Iaia, F. 
& Rampinini, E.
(2006). 
Physiological and performance effects of generic versus specific aerobic training
in soccer players. 
International Journal of Sports Medicine.
 27(6): 483–492.
Jones, A. 
M. 
(2006). 
The physiology of the world record holder for the women’s marathon.
International Journal of Sports Science and Coaching.
 1(2): 101–116.
Jones, A. 
M. 
(2007). 
‘Middle- and long-distance running’ in Winter, E. 
M., Jones, A. 
M.,
Davison, R. 
C. 
R., Bromley, P. 
D., & Mercer, T. 
H. 
(eds.) 
Sport and Exercise
Physiology Testing Guidelines: The British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences
Guide.
 Routledge, UK, 147–154.
Jones, A.M. 
(1998). 
A five year physiological case study of an Olympic runner. 
British
Journal of Sports Medicine.
 32(1): 39–43.
Jones, T. 
W., Howatson, G., Russell, M. 
& French, D. 
N. 
(2013). 
Performance and
neuromuscular adaptations following differing ratios of concurrent strength and
endurance training. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research
. 
27(12): 3342–3351.
Laursen, P. 
& Jenkins, D. 
G. 
(2002). 
The scientific basis for high-intensity interval
training: optimising programmes and maximising performance in highly trained
endurance athletes. 
Sports Medicine.
 32(1): 53–73.
Los Arcos, A., Vázquez, J.S., Martín, J., Lerga, J., Sánchez, F., Villagra, F. 
& Zulueta, J.J.
(2015). 
Effects of small-sided games vs. 
interval training in aerobic fitness and physical
enjoyment in young elite soccer players. 
PLoS ONE
 10(9): e0137224.
10.1371/journal.pone.0137224.
MacInnis, M. 
J., & Gibala, M. 
J. 
(2017). 
Physiological adaptations to interval training and
the role of exercise intensity. 
The Journal of Physiology
, 595(9): 2915–2930.
McGuigan, M. 
(2016). 
Extreme positions in sport science and the importance of context: It
depends? 
International Journal of Sports Physiology and Performance.
 11: 841.
Menz, V., Strobl, J., Faulhaber, M., Gatterer, H. 
& Burtshcer, M. 
(2015). 
Effect of 3-week

high-intensity interval training on VO
2
 max, total haemoglobin mass, plasma and blood
volume in well-trained athletes. 
European Journal of Applied Physiology.
 115: 2349–
2356.
Midgley, A. 
W., McNaughton, L. 
R. 
& Jones, A. 
M. 
(2007). 
Training to enhance the
physiological determinants of long-distance running performance: Can valid
recommendations be given to runners and coaches based on current scientific
knowledge? 
Sports Medicine.
 37(10): 857–880.
Morgan, D. 
W., Bransford, D. 
R., Costill, D. 
L., Daniels, J. 
T., Howley, E. 
& Krahenbuhl,
G. 
S. 
(1995). 
Variation in the aerobic demand of running among trained and untrained
subjects. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise.
 27(3): 404–409.
Motl, R. 
W., Dishman, R. 
K., Saunders, R., Dowda, M., Felton, G. 
& Pate, R. 
R. 
(2001).
Measuring enjoyment of physical activity in adolescent girls. 
American Journal of
Preventative Medicine.
 21: 110–117.
Paavolainen, L., Hakkinen, K., Hamalainen, I., Nummela, A., & Rusko, H. 
(1999).
Explosive-strength training improves 5-km running time by improving running
economy and muscle power. 
Journal of Applied Physiology.
 86(5): 1257–1533.
Seiler, S. 
(2010). 
What is best practice for training intensity and duration distribution in
endurance athletes? 
International Journal of Sports Physiology and Performance.
 5:
276–291.
Seiler, S. 
& Tønneson, E. 
(2009). 
Intervals, thresholds, and long slow distance: the role of
intensity and duration in endurance training. 
Sports Science.
 13: 32–53.
Siff, M. 
C. 
(2003). 
Supertraining
 (6th ed.) Supertraining Institute, Denver, USA.
Suchomel, T. 
J., Nimphius, S. 
& Stone, M. 
H. 
(2016). 
The importance of muscular strength
in athletic performance. 
Sports Medicine.
 46(10): 1419–1449.
Tanner, R. 
K. 
& Gore, C. 
J. 
(2013). 
Physiological Tests for Elite Athletes
 (2nd ed.) Human
Kinetics, Champaign, IL, USA.
Tomlin, D. 
L. 
& Wenger, H. 
A. 
(2001). 
The relationship between aerobic fitness and
recovery from high intensity exercise. 
Sports Medicine.
 31(1): 1–11.
Tønnessen, E., Hem, E., Leirstein, S., Haugen, T. 
& Seiler, S. 
(2013). 
Maximal aerobic
power characteristics of male professional soccer players, 1989–2012. 
International
Journal of Sports Physiology and Performance.
 8: 323–329.
Winter, E. 
M., Jones, A. 
M., Davison, R. 
C. 
R., Bromley, P. 
D. 
& Mercer, T. 
H. 
(eds.)
(2007). 
Sport and Exercise Physiology Testing Guidelines: The British Association of
Sport and Exercise Sciences Guide.
 Routledge, UK.
Yamamoto, L. 
M., Lopez, R. 
M., Klau, J. 
F., Casa, D. 
J., Kraemer, W. 
J. 
& Maresh, C. 
M.
(2008). 
The effects of resistance training on endurance distance running performance
among highly trained runners: A systematic review. 
Journal of Strength and
Conditioning Research.
 22(6): 2036–2044.

CHAPTER 6
Repeat sprint ability and the role of
high-intensity interval training
Anthony Turner and David Bishop
INTRODUCTION
Many sports involve frequent bursts of high-intensity movements
interspersed with brief recovery intervals (consisting of complete rest or low-
to moderate-intensity activity) over an extended period of time (one to four
hours) (Bangsbo et al., 1991; Faude et al., 2007; Girard et al., 2008; Glaister,
2005; Spencer et al., 2005). 
Therefore, the ability to recover and to reproduce
performance during subsequent high-intensity efforts is probably an
important fitness requirement of athletes engaged in these disciplines, and has
been termed repeated-sprint ability (RSA) (Bishop et al., 2001; FitzSimons et
al., 1993). 
While many different types of training have been proposed to
improve RSA, high-intensity interval training (HIIT) has been suggested as a
means of developing many of the factors contributing to RSA (Bishop et al.,
2011). 
Given the apparent importance of HIIT for developing RSA, it is
fundamental that strength and conditioning coaches have a thorough
understanding of how to programme HIIT to best achieve improvements in
RSA. 
Therefore, the aims (and order) of this chapter are: (1) discussing the
interaction between sprint intervals (duration and frequency) and metabolic
energy supply, (2) identifying various approaches to HIIT programming – the
reader should be able to rationalise the use of each given the aforementioned,
and finally, (3) discuss RSA testing that can then be used to judge the

efficacy of training.
THE BIOCHEMISTRY OF REPEATED SPRINTS
Repeated-sprint ability requires both a high maximal sprint power and the
ability to maintain high maximal power during each subsequent sprint. 
A
high maximal sprint power is related to the ability to deplete large amounts of
high-energy phosphates at a fast rate. 
The human muscle stores ~3 25
mmol/kg dry muscle (dm) of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). 
With a peak
ATP turnover rate of ~15 mmol/kg dm/s, that’s enough to fuel one to two
seconds of maximal work (Gaitanos et al., 1993). 
Therefore, from a
metabolic perspective, power is dictated by the amount and rate at which
ATP is synthesised and then hydrolysed. 
ATP is never actually fully depleted
(as it is used for basic cellular functioning too), but depleted by 45% in a 30s
sprint (Boobis et al., 1982) and between 15% and 30% in a 10s sprint (Jones
et al., 1985). 
As ATP stores are broken down, various metabolic pathways
(energy systems) collaborate to resynthesise ATP in an attempt to maintain
peak rates of ATP turnover. 
As the brief recovery times between repeated
sprints will lead to only a partial restoration of energy stores, the amount of
ATP resynthesised is likely to be an important determinant of the ability to
maintain high maximal power during each subsequent sprint. 
With respect to
the energy systems used to resynthesise ATP, there is a trade-off between
power and capacity. 
The contribution of each energy system is determined by
exercise intensity, bout frequency, and the duration of the rest period. 
The
energy systems are Phosphocreatine (PCr), anaerobic glycolysis, and the
aerobic/oxidative system; these are briefly discussed in the next sections.
PCr
There are ~ 80 mmol/kg dm of PCr stored in the muscle (Gaitanos et al.,
1993) – around three times the amount of ATP – and with a turnover rate of ~
9 mmol ATP/kg dm/s (Hultman & Sjöholm, 1983), PCr stores are largely
depleted within 10s of sprinting (Glaister, 2005). 
The PCr system has the
fastest ATP turnover rate of all energy systems, as there is only one
enzymatic reaction (compared to the nine that occur with glycolysis, for

example). 
As with ATP, and because of the contribution made by the other
pathways, PCr is not normally depleted. 
For example, during all-out efforts,
PCr is only depleted by 60–80% over 30s (Boobis et al., 1982), 40–70% over
10s (Jones et al., 1985), 30–55% over 6s (Boobis et al., 1982) and 25% over
2.5s (of electrical muscle stimulation) (Hultman & Sjöholm, 1983); these
results suggest that the ATP for a short sprint is also heavily subsidised by
anaerobic glycolysis.
Because the recovery of power output maps the time course of PCr
resynthesis (Bogdanis et al., 1995; Sahlin & Ren, 1989), and is attenuated by
creatine supplementation (Mujika et al., 2000), PCr availability is likely to be
a major factor governing the ability to repeat a maximal sprint effort
(Glaister, 2005). 
PCr is resynthesised by the aerobic system within the
mitochondria, via the creatine shuttle, and requires one molecule of ATP.
Given this cost, restoration happens when energy requirements are low, such
as during rest periods. 
As such, the contribution of PCr to subsequent sprints
is governed by the length of the rest period; PCr resynthesis occurs at around
1.3 mmol/kg dm/s (Gaitanos et al., 1993). 
Approximately 85% of PCr stores
are restored in two minutes, 90% in four minutes, and 100% in eight minutes
(Harris et al., 1976; Hultman et al., 1967). 
Furthermore, recovery only
happens when the blood supply to the working muscle is not occluded, which
in turn is suggestive of why an active recovery between bouts is important
(and may expedite PCr resynthesis). 
For example, an active recovery (vs.
passive) consisting of cycling at sub-maximal intensities significantly
increased peak power using 8 x 6s cycle sprints with 30s of rest (Signorile et
al., 1993). 
In addition to aiding PCr resynthesis, the active recovery may
reduce muscle acidosis by speeding up the removal of hydrogen ions (H
+
)
and lactate from the working muscles; this would also increase lactate’s use
as a fuel source (Signorile et al., 1993).
Adaptations that aid the resynthesis of ATP by the PCr system likely result
from increases in the enzymes creatine kinase and myokinase (the latter
catalyses the phosphorylation of two adenosine diphosphate [ADP]
molecules to ATP and adenosine monophosphate [AMP], and adaptations to
the aerobic system such as increased blood flow and mitochondrial
biogenesis.) For example, Bishop et al. 
(2008) reported improvements in PCr
resynthesis following a HIIT protocol of 6–12 × 2min reps at ~ V̇O
2
max,
with 1min rest periods. 
Adaptations here were attributed to improvements in
aerobic fitness, in either V̇O
2
max or the rate of PCr resynthesis. 
This was in

contrast to 8 x 30s reps at ~ 130% V̇O
2
max, with 90s rest periods, where no
change was found. 
There is, however, limited research investigating the
effects of different types of training on PCr resynthesis.
ANAEROBIC GLYCOLYSIS
During brief maximal sprints, the rapid drop in PCr stores is offset by
increased activation of glycolysis and glycogenolysis; the former relating to
the breakdown of glucose from the blood stream and the latter the breakdown
of glycogen in the cytoplasm. 
The maximal turnover rate of ATP production
via these pathways is around ~ 8 mmol/kg dm/s (Gaitanos et al., 1993;
Hultman & Sjöholm, 1983; Jones et al., 1985; Parolin et al., 1999). 
This
system involves multiple enzymatic reactions, so is not as fast as the PCr
system, but collectively they maintain an ATP turnover rate of ~ 12 mmol/kg
dm/s (Boobis et al., 1982; Gaitanos et al., 1993). 
Glycolysis uses one ATP, as
glucose must first be converted into glucose 6-phosphate via the hexokinase
reaction once it enters the cytosol; this point should emphasise the
importance of starting competitions in a fully glycogen loaded state. 
The
rapid onset of anaerobic glycolysis with maximal work can be noted by
studies that report high values of lactate (> 4 mmol/L) within 10s (Boobis et
al., 1982; Jones et al., 1985). 
Surprisingly, values as high as 40 mmol/kg dm
have been recorded after just 6s of sprint cycling (Dawson et al., 1997).
Following different types of training, adaptations to this system include
increases in the enzymes phosphorylase, phosphofructokinase (PFK), and
pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH). 
PFK is considered the regulatory enzyme
here, responding to increased cellular levels of AMP and inorganic phosphate
(P
i
), as would be expected at the start of a sprint. 
Increases in PDH activity
ensures that pyruvate production is more closely matched to oxidation, thus
increasing Acetyl-CoA provision for the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle. 
This
is an important adaptation to RSA, as it means less production of lactate acid,
or rather, the accompanying increases in H
+
. 
Training-induced changes in
phosphorylase and PFK are likely greater using intervals that stimulate
maximal accumulated oxygen deficit (Bishop et al., 2011), for example,
training that involves repeated 30s bouts (Bogdanis et al., 1995).
Furthermore, greater rest durations appear needed (> 4min) to ensure a
maximally high intensity of work, and thus maximal stimulation of glycolytic

enzymatic activity.
With intramuscular stores of around 400 mmol/kg dm (Gaitanos et al.,
1993), glycogen availability is not likely to majorly compromise ATP
provision during the repeated sprints typically used during investigatory
studies (Glaister et al., 2005). 
Instead, it may be the progressive changes in
metabolic environment (as noted by the aforementioned high lactate values)
that ultimately cause a reduction in ATP provision via this system. 
For
example, Gaitanos et al. 
(1993), using 10 x 6s sprints with 30s rest periods,
found that the first sprint produced ATP using 50% PCr and 44% glycolysis,
while the tenth sprint used 80% PCr and 16% glycolysis; this was
accompanied by a 27% loss in power output, an 11 mmol/L increase in
muscle lactate, and a significant drop in ATP production rate. 
In such
scenarios, noting the relatively forgiving W:R (work to rest ratio) of Gaitanos
et al. 
(1993), the shortfall in energy is thus provided by the aerobic system.
Hydrogen ion flux and buffer capacity
The anaerobic conversion of pyruvate yields lactate and H
+
. 
Lactate,
however, is not the cause of fatigue and can be used as an energy substrate.
For this, lactate is transported in the blood to the liver, referred to as the Cori
cycle, and converted into glucose. 
Instead, the H
+
 accumulation decreases
intracellular pH, which in turn has been reported to inhibit oxidative
phosphorylation and the activity of glycolytic enzymes (such as PFK), as
well as the binding of calcium to troponin and thus muscle excitation-
contraction coupling (Nakamaru & Schwartz, 1972). 
Therefore, the removal
of H
+
 from skeletal muscle is likely to be of importance for the ability to
sustain repeated sprints (Pilegaard at al., 1999). 
For example, while the
trained and untrained may have similar release rates of lactate and H
+
 during
intense exercise, the intracellular-to-interstitial gradients of these are lower in
the trained population (Sahlin & Henriksson, 1984). 
Combined, these results
suggest a trainable muscle buffer capacity that may be important to RSA
performance.
The transient nature of the physiological pH (i.e., 7.4), which is affected
by changes in H
+
, is governed by a series of buffering mechanisms. 
These
attenuate the effects of H
+
 on metabolism by removing H
+
 when the pH
declines (creating an acidic environment) and by releasing H
+
 when the pH

increases. 
There are both intracellular (i.e., protein and phosphate groups) and
extracellular (i.e., proteins, haemoglobin [Hb], and the bicarbonate pool)
buffers. 
As the H
+
 diffuses out of the muscle into the blood, it is buffered by
bicarbonate (via the bicarbonate buffering system), thus attenuating changes
in plasma pH by shifting the chemical equilibrium according to Le
Chatelier’s principle. 
For example, any excess H
+
 will associate with
bicarbonate forming carbonic acid, thus resulting in a smaller net increase in
acidity. 
The reaction is illustrated in 
Equation 6.1
. 
This buffering system is
further facilitated by an increase in respiration rate to remove excess CO
2
 and
thus acidity. 
Interestingly, one of the reasons you vomit during high-intensity
training is that this provides the quickest means to remove large amounts of
acid – the stomach is full of hydrochloric acid. 
In a similar way to
bicarbonate, phosphate ions (see 
Equation 6.2
) and carnosine act as
intracellular buffers. 
Carnosine is a dipeptide formed of two amino acids,
beta-alanine and histidine, with the former often regarded as an ergogenic aid
to HIIT type activities (Artioli et al., 2010). 
Similarly, supplementation with
sodium bicarbonate can be beneficial (Bishop et al., 2004a), as is a
combination of both (Tobias et al., 2013).
Bishop et al. 
(2004a) have shown that muscle buffer capacity (calculated
in vivo from the ratio of blood lactate to changes in pH and as per 
Equation
6.3
) and RSA (5 x 6s cycle sprints, departing every 30s) are significantly
correlated (
r
 = 0.72, 
n
 = 23); this relationship with RSA was actually higher
than that for V̇O
2
max and LT (
r
 = 0.60 and 0.55, respectively). 
Further, Edge
et al. 
(2006) have shown that increases in buffer capacity are intensity
dependent. 
In two groups matched for volume and showing similar
improvements in V̇O
2
max and LT post training, only the high-intensity group
(working at 120–140% LT) significantly improved buffer capacity.
Improvements in buffer capacity are also attributable to improvements in the
sarcolemmal lactate/H
+
 transport capacity as well as an enhanced content of
monocarboxylate transport proteins (MCT1 and MCT4) (Pilegaard et al.,
1999).
Equation 6.1
Where CO
2
 
= carbon dioxide, water = H
2
O, carbonic acid = H
2
CO
2
,
hydrogen = H
+
, and bicarbonate = HCO
3
-
.
CO
2
 + H
2
O 
⇋
 H
2
CO
3
 
⇋
 HCO
3
-
 + H
+

Equation 6.2
HPO
4
2−
 
= hydrogen phosphate, H
+
 
= hydrogen, and PO
4
3−
 
=
phosphate.
HPO
4
2−
 H
+
 + PO
4
3−
Equation 6.3
Calculation of buffer capacity (β), where Δ = change and La
-
 =
lactate
 (Sahlin & Henriksson, 1984).
β
 = Δ [La
-
)]
i
 /Δ pH
i
AEROBIC METABOLISM
Unlike the anaerobic production of ATP that occurs in the cytoplasm of the
cell, oxidative production occurs in the mitochondria. 
Here, pyruvate (via
PDH) is converted to acetyl coenzyme A (rather than lactic acid), where it
enters the TCA cycle and then the electron transport chain, before yielding 28
moles of ATP (vs. 
one from the PCr system, 2 from glycolysis, and 3 from
glycogenolysis). 
This system contributes to ATP provision sooner than
commonly believed. 
For example, during the first 6s of a 30s maximal sprint
(Parolin et al., 1999), or the first 5s of a 3min intense bout (> 120% V̇O
2
max)
(Bangsbo et al., 2001), an ATP turnover rate of ~ 1 mmol ATP/kg dm/s was
hypothesised; this contributed ~ 10% of total energy produced. 
Also, as
sprints are repeated, the V̇O
2
 of successive sprints will increase (Gaitanos et
al., 1993; Spencer et al., 2005) if recovery periods are not sufficient to
resynthesise PCr, oxidise lactate, or remove accumulated intracellular Pi
(through ADP phosphorylation via myokinase). 
For example, McGawley &
Bishop (2015) investigated the V̇O
2
 during the first and last sprints during
two, 5 × 6s repeated-sprint bouts separated by passive rest, such that work
done between each bout was the same. 
These investigators sought to assess
the influence made by oxidative metabolism on RSA, hypothesising that
reductions in fatigue and improved sprint times would be related to markers
of aerobic fitness. 
Across both bouts, the V̇O
2
 during the first sprint was
significantly less than the last sprint (
p
 < 0.001), the estimated aerobic

contribution to the final sprint (measured in k J) was significantly related to
V̇O
2
max (
r
 = 0.81, 
p
 = 0.015 and 
r
 = 0.93, 
p
 = 0.001, respectively) and
finally, the V̇O
2
 attained in the final sprint was not significantly different
from V̇O
2
 max (
p
 = 0.284 and 
p
 = 0.448, respectively). 
The authors thus
concluded that given the continuous increases in V̇O
2
 
across sprints, V̇O
2
max might be a limiting factor to performance in latter sprints. 
However,
while V̇O
2
 may increase with successive sprints, the supply of ATP made by
the aerobic system is significantly less than required for repeated sprints
(Gaitanos et al., 1993) and uses a lower ATP turnover rate. 
As such, while
this could guard against a build-up of fatiguing by-products (and sprint
frequency/duration can be increased), it would not be able to sustain power
output (i.e., sprint performance).
RSA is greater when tested in conditions of hyperoxia (Charles et al.,
1996; Hogan et al., 1999) or enhanced oxygen availability (via erythropoietin
injection) (Balsom et al., 1994a); the opposite is true when RSA is tested in
hypoxic conditions (Balsom et al., 1994b). 
The consensus is that a greater
quantity of PCr at the start of each sprint would reduce the demand on
anaerobic glycolysis (and concomitant fatiguing by-products, e.g., H
+
 and P
i
)
and enhance ATP turnover (Glaister et al., 2005). 
Glaister (2005) concludes
that the key role of the aerobic system during repeated sprints is the return to
homeostasis during rest. 
The natural assumption is that increasing V̇O
2
max
will increase recovery rates and thus improve RSA. 
While there is little
contention to this, it is worth noting that there is probably an optimal value
above which further increases in RSA may not be noted (Bishop et al., 2011).

SECTION SUMMARY AND NON-CHEMICAL
SOURCES OF FATIGUE
Sprint power is dictated by the amount and rate at which ATP is synthesised
and then hydrolysed, and three mechanisms principally contribute to ensuring
that ATP is resynthesised as fast as it is hydrolysed. 
These are (1) the
donation of a phosphate group from PCr, (2) substrate level phosphorylation
involving the breakdown of glycogen or glucose to pyruvate, and (3)
oxidative phosphorylation. 
The rate of hydrolysis is based on the number of
reactions required, while the ability to sustain ATP turnover at fast rates is
based on PCr availability and avoiding metabolic by-product accumulation
(e.g., Pi, H
+
). 
As sprint frequency increases, and rest periods do not allow for
sufficient recovery, ATP synthesis becomes progressively supported by
oxidative phosphorylation. 
While oxidative phosphorylation allows for
sustained work periods and repeated efforts, it does so with reduced
metabolic power, and thus RSA declines.
It should also be noted that decline in RSA is related to additional
muscular and neurochemical factors not outlined above. 
These include
muscle excitability, whereby during intense contractions the Na
+
 - K
+
 pump
cannot effectively reaccumulate the K
+
 into the muscles cells, with the
subsequent K
+
 efflux causing muscle membrane depolarisation, and thus the
reduction of muscle excitability (Clausen et al., 1998). 
There may be
reductions to neural drive (i.e., a decrease in recruitment, firing rate, or both)
and a reduced cerebral function owing to disturbances in neurotransmitter
concentrations (e.g., serotonin, dopamine, acetylcholine) (Ross et al., 2001).
There may be altered muscle recruitment strategies, such as timing delays
between agonist and antagonist muscle activation – highlighting a possible
decrease in muscle coactivation with fatigue (Hautier et al., 2000) – and a
preferential recruitment of slow-twitch motor units (Matsuura et al., 2006).
There may also be changes in stiffness regulation, with the negative effects of
a more compliant system outlined in 
Chapter 3
. 
Finally, fatigue is also likely
to result from several homeostatic perturbations including hyperthermia,
dehydration, and muscle damage.

TRAINING TO IMPROVE RSA
Having discussed the biochemical factors governing RSA, the aim of the
following section is to outline how we can train to improve RSA via HIIT. 
As
discussed, aerobic fitness is fundamental to RSA, and there is evidence HIIT
may improve aerobic fitness to a greater extent than more traditional steady
state endurance type training (Gormley et al., 2008; Esfarjani & Laursen,
2007; Helgerud et al., 2007; Wisloff et al., 2007) – this concept is discussed
further in 
Chapter 5
. 
We will start our introduction of HIIT approaches to
improve RSA with those that may have their greatest benefit. 
Professor Ulrik
Wisloff and colleagues are responsible for one such method, and have
popularised the four-by-four running method that has proven popular and
effective with soccer players and Nordic skiers, for example; this approach
and its comparison to other methodologies is summarised in 
Table 6.1
. 
Also,
and as described by Baker (2011), aerobic fitness can be improved using 15s
intervals at 100–120% maximal aerobic speed (MAS), with a 1:1 work to rest
ratio (W:R) and continuing for five to ten minutes. 
Table 6.2
 shows how to
calculate interval distances from a 1.5 mile run, and how to organise these
sessions within team sports. 
When estimating MAS, any distance (or time)
can be used, but the athlete should be working for ≥ 5 minutes (Baker, 2011).
When training for a sport like boxing, for example, it may be prudent to use
these types of methods early on in the periodised plan (to ensure an
appropriate aerobic base), before progressing the athletes towards shorter yet
higher intensity intervals that are more relatable to the sport. 
In sports such as
football, and particularly for midfielders where a high V̇O
2
max may be just
as important as RSA, it may be prudent to include these throughout the
periodised plan.
Most RSA based studies use V̇O
2
max as the major determinant of RSA
performance – no surprise given its role in PCr resysnthesis and the
contribution it makes as intervals extend. 
However, there are conflicting
findings regarding this relationship that appear largely attributable to the RSA
test used. 
For example, a moderate correlation (
r
 
= –0.35) between V̇O
2
max
and RSA was found when using 8 x 40m sprints with 30s of active recovery
between sprints (Aziz et al., 2000), but not 6 x 20m sprints with 20s of
recovery between sprints (Aziz et al., 2007). 
Bishop et al. 
(2004b) utilised an
RSA involving 5 x 6s cycle sprints departing every 30s and found a

relationship between RSA and V̇O
2
max of 
r
 = 0.60. 
The discrepancies
between these and others are probably attributable to the length and
frequency of the sprints used, as this is likely to alter the contribution of the
aerobic system (Balsom et al., 1992). 
In essence, V̇O
2
max has not been
reported to relate to RSA when only a few sprints of less than 40m (or 6s)
have been used (Da Silva et al., 2010). 
Also, in protocols using a W:R ≥ 1:5,
there may be sufficient recovery provided for the aerobic system to
resynthesise ATP and PCr despite inadequate fitness levels.
TABLE 6.1
 Effective training systems to enhance aerobic fitness. 
Adapted from
Helgerund et al. 
(2007).
Training group
Protocol
Training
intensity
Pre-
training
VO
2
max
Post-training
VO
2
max
Long slow
distance running
(LSD)
Continuous run at 70%
HRmax for 45 min
Low–
moderate
55.8 ± 6.6
(ml/kg/min)
56.8 ± 6.3
(ml/kg/min)
Lactate threshold
running (LT)
Continuous run at lactate
threshold (85% HRmax)
for 24 min
Moderate–
high
59.6 ± 7.6
(ml/kg/min)
60.8 ± 7.1
(ml/kg/min)
15/15 interval
running
47 repetitions of 15s
intervals at 90–95%
HRmax with 15s of active
resting periods at warm-up
velocity, corresponding to
70% HRmax between
High
60.5 ± 5.4
(ml/kg/min)
64.4 ± 4.4
(ml/kg/min)
*
4 x 4 min interval
running
4 x 4 min interval training
at 90–95% HRmax with 3
min of active resting
periods at 70% HRmax
between each interval
High
55.5 ± 7.4
(ml/kg/min)
60.4 ± 7.3
(ml/kg/min)
*
Notes:
 
*
 significantly (
P
 < 0.001) different from pre- to post-training
TABLE 6.2
 
Interval distances for high-intensity interval training using MAS and
calculated using a 1.5 mile run time of ten minutes. 
Adapted from (Baker, 2011)

Training protocol
• 15s intervals at 100–120% maximal aerobic speed
(MAS)
• Work to rest ratio of 1:1
• Repeat over 5 min using multiple sets as appropriate
Calculating 100% MAS
• v = d/t
• Where v = velocity (m/s), d = distance (m) and t =
time (s)
• 1.5 miles = 2413m; 10 min = 600s
• v = 2414/600 = 4m/s
Calculating interval distance
If an athlete runs 4m every second, then he/she will run
60m in 15s (4 x 15).
Calculating 120% MAS
1.2 x 100% MAS value i.e., 4m/s x 1.2 = 4.8m/s
Notes on shuttles and
variations using agility drills
A 30m shuttle, i.e., out and back covering 60m, probably
represents 120% MAS as you must factor in the change
of direction.
Don’t individualise too much
We don’t recommend calculating lane distance for
everyone in the group. 
Instead, simply group runners
based on 30s intervals.
What does it look like?
For example, group 1: 12 min for 1.5 mile, therefore
they run out and back 25m (≈120% MAS), up to group
6: 9.5 min/1.5 mile = 32m out and back.
What if you do not have the
space?
Assuming only a 20m shuttle is available. 
Prior to the
run (but within the 15s), athletes perform an exercise the
intensity of which is dependent of how short the lane is.
The exercise may be a series of tuck jumps or as simple
as starting from a prone position.

Adaptations via V̇O
2
max may be largely determined by improvements in
blood flow (i.e., central factors), via increased stroke volume, for example
(Basset & Howley, 2000). 
Unsurprisingly, RSA has also been found to
strongly correlate with peripheral factors (Spencer et al., 2005). 
For example,
Da Silva et al. 
(2010) showed that an RSA test consisting of 7 x 35m sprints
(involving a change of direction) and a between-sprint recovery period of 25s
produced high values of lactate (15.4 ± 2.2 mmol/L). 
Logically then, Da Silva
et al. 
(2010) found that the velocity at the onset of blood lactate accumulation
(vOBLA) better correlated with RSA performance (
r
 = –0.49); vOBLA
reflects peripheral training adaptations such as increased capillary density and
capacity to transport lactate and H
+
 (Billat et al., 2003; Thomas et al., 2004).
Therefore, to improve RSA, it appears prudent to not only target the
development of vOBLA, but also the muscles’ buffer capacity. 
Several
intervals of 30–60s, with 1:1 W:R may therefore be beneficial. 
Also, to
enable the accumulation of H
+
, passive recovery between intervals may be
best.
Finally, Da Silva et al. 
(2010) (protocol aforementioned) and Pyne et al.
(2008) (using 6 x 30m sprints with 20s of rest) found that the strongest
predictor of RSA was actually anaerobic power, i.e., the fastest individual
sprint time; this explained 78% of the variance and had a relationship (
r
) of
0.66, respectively. 
Results suggest that in addition to training targeting the
improvement of V̇O
2
max, vOBLA, and muscle buffer capacity, some training
should also focus on improving strength, power, and sprint speed (including
acceleration). 
As well as traditional gym and track-based sessions (outlined in
Chapters 15
, 
16
 and 
18
, respectively), this may also need to include single
repetition, all-out 30s intervals to maximally activate glycolytic flux and thus
adaptations in in PFK and phosphorylase. 
The former adaptations may be on
account of increases in rate of force development, stretch-shortening cycle
mechanics, movement efficiency, and also increases in Type II muscle fibre
content. 
These fibres, which contain higher amounts of PCr than Type I
(Sant’Ana Pereira et al., 1996), may be able to replenish ATP faster.
However, this advantage may diminish after several sprints as Type I fibres
have better mitochondrial density and thus are better able to resynthesise PCr.
Furthermore, and as an additional caveat to this, enhanced initial sprint
performance via improved glycolytic flux may actually lead to increased
fatigue in subsequent sprints given the likely build up of additional fatiguing
by-products. 
So this training intervention may need to be supported by others

aimed at increasing V̇O
2
max and buffer capacity to truly to see it as a
positive adaptation. 
Training approaches associated with each energy system
are identified in 
Table 6.3
.
REPORTING RESULTS FROM RSA TESTS
It is important to judge the efficacy of any training intervention, and this can
be done by monitoring an athlete’s RSA performance over time. 
Once a drill
has been designed that replicates the sport and, importantly, requires athletes
to work at an intensity that represents (and even surpasses) a worst-case
scenario bout of play, there are considerations with regards to data analysis.
The method of data analysis for RSA testing is largely a question of two
alternatives: (1) reporting total (or mean) sprint time for all sprints, or (2) the
rate of fatigue (or performance drop-off). 
The latter can be reported by one of
two methods: (1) sprint decrement (Sdec) or (2) the fatigue index (FI). 
The
formula for each, according to Spencer et al. 
(2005) is listed below in
Equations 6.4
 and 
6.5
, respectively. 
Unlike the FI, the Sdec takes into
account all sprints and is less influenced by a good or bad start or finish
(Bishop et al., 2001).
TABLE 6.3
 
High-intensity interval training based on each energy system
Training focus
Training plan
Rationale
Phosphocreatine
system
Gym based strength and power
Track based max speed and
acceleration
Repeated bouts (6–12) of 6–30s,
with ~ 60s rest
≥ 2 min intervals, separated by
relatively shorter rest periods
e.g., 1 min, and ≥ 4 reps
Increase initial sprint speed
May increase PCr stores by
virtue of increased Type II fiber
concentration
Reduced effort through increases
in strength, power (including
RFD and SSC mechanics), and
technical proficiency
Increases in aerobic capacity and
thus creatine shuttle efficiency
Anaerobic
glycolysis
Maximal intensity 30s intervals
separated by > 4 min to ensure
subsequent intervals are again
maximally utilizing anaerobic
glycolytic enzymes
Maximally activate and thus
adapt key enzymes, e.g., PFK
and phosphorylase

Muscle buffer
capacity
Repeated bouts (~ 6) of 30–60s
intervals, with work to rest ratio
of 1:1. 
Utilise a passive recovery
Increase and accumulation of H
+
and thus buffer capacity
Aerobic system
Longer duration (≥ 2-min)
intervals (at ~ VO
2
 max)
separated by relatively shorter
rest periods, and ≥ 4-reps
Improve PCr resynthesis via the
creatine shuttle, mitochondrial
biogenesis, and enhanced blood
flow.
Equation 6.4
Calculation of sprint decrement (S
dec
)
S
dec
 
(%) = [(S1 + S2 + S3 + …+ S
final
)/S1 X number of sprints] –1 X
100
Equation 6.5
Calculation of fatigue index (FI)
FI (%) = [(S
slowest
 
– S
fastest
)/S
fastest
] X 100
To improve reliability, Spencer et al. 
(2005) advise that 5 minutes prior to
testing, athletes complete a single criterion sprint. 
During the subsequent first
sprint of the RSA test, athletes must achieve at least 95% of this score.
Should they fail, the test is terminated and restarted following another 5
minute break. 
While total (or mean) sprint time demonstrates good reliability
(CV < 3%), indices of fatigue are much less reliable (CVs 11–50%);
therefore we advise the former be predominately used (Oliver, 2009; Spencer
et al., 2006).
CONCLUSION
It is the manipulation of exercise duration, frequency, and rest period that
brings about specific adaptations to metabolic pathways. 
The results of
Balsom et al. 
(1994b) provide a useful summary of this point. 
They found
that 40 x 15m sprints (~ 2.5s), with 30s rest could be completed without any
reduction in performance. 
However, using the same rest period, 40 x 30m (~

4.5s) and 15 x 40m (~ 6s) sprint times increased significantly, and after only
the third 40m sprint, times were already significantly longer. 
Blood lactate
was also only elevated in the longer sprints. 
Although all sprint combinations
were matched for distance (i.e., each covered 600m), each emphasised a
different energy system, with the final one presumably incorporating the
largest aerobic stimulus. 
Such (small) differences in HIIT design can make all
the difference to competition performance. 
Therefore, when programming,
S&C coaches need an understanding of exercise biochemistry to ensure they
are targeting the appropriate energy system.
REFERENCES
Artioli, G., Gualano, B., Smith, A., Stout, J., & Lancha, A. 
(2010). 
Role of beta-alanine
supplementation on muscle carnosine and exercise performance. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc
,
42
 (6), 1162–1173.
Aziz, A., Chia, M., & Teh, K. 
(2000). 
The relationship between maximal oxygen uptake
and repeated sprint performance indices in field hockey and soccer players. 
J Sports
Med Phys Fitness
, 
40
, 195–200.
Aziz, A., Mukherjee, S., Chia, M., & Teh, K. 
(2007). 
Relationship between measured
maximal oxygen uptake and aerobic endurance performance with running repeated
sprint ability in young elite soccer players. 
J Sports Med Phys Fitness 7
, 401–407.
Baker, D. 
(2011). 
Recent trends in high-intensity aerobic training for field sports.
Professional Strength and Conditioning
, 
22
, 3–8.
Balsom, P., Ekblom, B., & Sjodin, B. 
(1994a). 
Enhanced oxygen availability during high
intensity intermittent exercise decreases anaerobic metabolite concentrations in blood.
Acta Physiologica Scandinavica
, 
150
, 455–456.
Balsom, P., Gaitanos, D., Ekblom, B., & Sjodin, B. 
(1994b). 
Reduced oxygen availability
during high intensity intermittent exercise impairs performance. 
Acta Physiologica
Scandinavica
, 
152
, 279–285.
Balsom Seger, J., Sjodin, B., & Ekblom, B. 
(1992). 
Maximal-intensity intermittent
exercise: effect of recovery duration. 
Int J Sports Med
, 
13
, 528–533.
Bangsbo, J., Krustrup, P., González-Alonso, J., & Saltin, B. 
(2001). 
ATP production and
efficiency of human skeletal muscle during intense exercise: effect of previous exercise.
Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab
, 
280
 (6), E956–E964.
Basset, D. 
& Howley, E. 
(2000). 
Limiting factors for maximum oxygen uptake and
determinants of endurance performance. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc
, 
32
, 70–84.
Billat, V., Sirvent, P., Py, G., Koralsztein, J., & Mercier, J. 
(2003). 
The concept of maximal
lactate steady state. 
Sport Med
, 
33
, 406–426.
Bishop, D., Davis, C., Edge, J., & Goodman, C. 
(2004a). 
Induced metabolic alkalosis
affects muscle metabolism and repeated-sprint ability. 
Med Sci Sports Exer
, 
36
, 807–

813.
Bishop, D., Edge, J., & Goodman, C. 
(2004b). 
Muscle buffer capacity and aerobic fitness
are associated with repeated-sprint ability in women. 
Eur J Appl Physiol
, 
92
, 540–547.
Bishop, D., Edge, J., & Thomas, C. 
(2008). 
Effects of high-intensity training on muscle
lactate transporters and postexercise recovery of muscle lactate and hydrogen ions in
women. 
Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol
, 
295
, 1991–1998.
Bishop, D., Girard, O., & Mendez-Villanueva, A. 
(2011). 
Repeated-sprint ability – Part II.
Sports Medicine
, 
41
 (9), 741–756.
Bishop, D., Spencer, M., Duffield, R., & Lawrence, S. 
(2001). 
The validity of a repeated
sprint ability test. 
Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport
, 
4
 (1), 19–29.
Bogdanis, G., Nevill, M., Boobis, L., Lakomy, H., & Nevill, A. 
(1995). 
Recovery of power
output and muscle metabolites following 30 s of maximal sprint cycling in man. 
J
Physiol
, 
482
 (2), 467–480.
Boobis, L., Williams, C., & Wooton, S. 
(1982). 
Human muscle metabolism during brief
maximal exercise in man. 
J Physiol
, 
338
, 21–22.
Charles, S., Fulco, C., Lewis, S., Frykman, P., Boushel, R., Smith, S., et al. 
(1996). 
Muscle
fatigue and exhaustion during dynamic leg exercise in normoxia and hypobaric hypoxia.
J Appl Physiol
, 
81
 (5), 1891–1900.
Clausen, T., Nielsen, O., Harrison, A., Flatman, J., & Overgaard, K. 
(1998). 
The Na+, K+
pump and muscle excitability. 
Acta Physiologica Scandinavica
, 
162
 (3), 183–190.
Da Silva, J., Guglielmo, L., & Bishop, D. 
(2010). 
Relationship between different measures
of aerobic fitness and repeated sprint ability in elite soccer players. 
J Strength Cond Res
,
24
 (8), 2115–2121.
Dawson, B., Goodman, C., Lawrence, S., Preen, D., Polglaze, T., Fitzsimons, M., et al.
(1997). 
Muscle phosphocreatine repletion following single and repeated short sprint
efforts. 
Scandinavian Journal of Medicine and Science in Sports
, 
7
, 206–213.
Edge, J., Bishop, D., & Goodman, C. 
(2006). 
The effects of training intensity on muscle
buffer capacity in females. 
European Journal of Applied Physiology
, 
96
 (1), 97–105.
Esfarjani, F., & Laursen, P. 
(2007). 
Manipulating high-intensity interval training: effects on
VO
2
 max, the lactate threshold and 3000 m running performance in moderately trained
males. 
Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport
, 
10
, 27–35.
Faude, O., Meyer, T., Rosenberger, F., Fries, M., Huber, G., & Kindermann, W. 
(2007).
Physiological characteristics of badminton match play. 
Eur J Appl Physiol
, 100 (4),
479–485.
Fitzsimons, M., Dawson, B., Ward, D., & Wilkinson, A. 
(1993). 
Cycling and running tests
of repeated sprint ability. 
Australian Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport
, 
25
, 82.
Gaitanos, G., Williams, C., Boobis, L., & Brooks, S. 
(1993). 
Human muscle metabolism
during intermittent maximal exercise. 
J Appl Physiol
, 
75
 (2), 712–719.
Girard, O., Lattier, G., Maffiuletti, N. 
A., Micallef, J. 
P., & Millet, G. 
P. 
(2008).
Neuromuscular fatigue during a prolonged intermittent exercise: application to tennis.
Journal of Electromyography and Kinesiology
, 
18
 (6), 1038–1046.
Glaister, M. 
(2005). 
Multiple sprint work: physiological responses, mechanisms of fatigue
and the influence of aerobic fitness. 
Sports Med
, 
35
, 757–777.

Glaister, M., Stone, M., Stewart, A., Hughes, M., & Moir, G. 
(2005). 
The influence of
recovery duration on multiple sprint cycling performance. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 
19
,
831–837.
Gormley, S., Swain, D., High, R., Spina, R., Dowling, E., Kotipalli, U., et al. 
(2008). 
Effect
of intensity of aerobic training on VO
2
 max. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and
Exercise
, 
40
 (7), 1336–1343.
Harris, R., Edward, R., Hultman, E., Nordesjo, L., Nylind, B., & Sahlin, K. 
(1976). 
The
time course of phosphorylcreatine resynthesis during recovery of the quadricepts muscle
in man. 
Pflügers Archiv European Journal of Physiology
, 
367
, 137–142.
Hautier, C., Arsac, L., Deghdegh, K., Souquet, J., Belli, A., & Lacour, J. 
(2000). 
Influence
of fatigue on EMG/force ratio and cocontraction in cycling. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc
, 
32
(4), 839–843.
Helgerud, J., Hoydal, K., Wang, E., Karlsen, T., Berg, P., & Bjerkaas, M. 
(2007). 
Aerobic
high-intensity intervals improve VO
2
 max more than moderate training. 
Med Sci Sports
Exerc
, 
39
, 665–671.
Hogan, M., Kohin, S., Stary, C., & Hepple, R. 
(1999). 
Rapid force recovery in contracting
skeletal muscle after brief ischemia is dependent on O
2
 availability. 
J Appl Physiol
, 
87
(6), 2225–2229.
Hultman, E., & Sjöholm, H. 
(1983). 
Energy metabolism and contraction force of human
skeletal muscle in situ during electrical stimulation. 
J Physiol
, 
345
, 525–532.
Hultman, E., Bergstrom, J., & Anderson, N. 
(1967). 
Breakdown and resynthesis of
phosphorylcreatine and adenosine triphosphate in connection with muscular work in
man. 
Scandinavian Journal of Clinical and Laboratory Investigation
, 
19
, 56–66.
Jones, N., McCartney, N., Graham, T., Spriet, L., Kowalchuk, J., Heigenhauser, G., et al.
(1985). 
Muscle performance and metabolism in maximal isokinetic cycling at slow and
fast speeds. 
J Appl Physiol
, 
59
, 132–136.
Matsuura, R., Ogata, H., Yunoki, T., Arimitsu, T., & Yano, T. 
(2006). 
Effect of blood
lactate concentration and the level of oxygen uptake immediately before a cycling sprint
on neuromuscular activation during repeated cycling sprints. 
Journal of Physiological
Anthropology
, 
25
 (4), 267–273.
McGawley, K., & Bishop, D. 
(2015). 
Oxygen uptake during repeated-sprint exercise.
Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport
, 
18
 (2), 214–218.
Mujika, I., Padilla, S., Adilla, S., Ibanez, J., Izquierdo, I., & Gorostiaga, E. 
(2000). 
Creatine
supplementation and sprint performance in soccer players. 
Med. 
Sci. 
Sports Exerc
, 
32
(2), 2000.
Nakamaru, Y., & Schwartz, A. 
(1972). 
The influence of hydrogen ion concentration on
calcium binding and release by skeletal muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum. 
J Gen Physiol
,
59
, 22–32.
Oliver, J. 
(2009). 
Is a fatigue index a worthwhile measure of repeated sprint ability? 
J. 
Sci.
Med. 
Sport
, 
12
, 20–23.
Parolin, M., Chesley, A., Matsos, M., Spriet, L., Jones, N., & Heigenhauser, G. 
(1999).
Regulation of skeletal muscle glycogen phosphorylase and PDH during maximal

intermittent exercise. 
Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab
, 
277
 (5), E890–E900.
Pilegaard, H., Domino, K., Noland, T., & Bangsbo, J. 
(1999). 
Effect of high-intensity
exercise training on lactate/H+ transport capacity in human skeletal muscle. 
Am J
Physiol
, 
276
, E255–E261.
Pyne, D., Saunders, P., Montgomery, P., Hewitt, A., & Sheehan, K. 
(2008). 
Relationships
between repeated sprint testing, speed, and endurance. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 
22
 (5),
1633–1637.
Ross, A., Leveritt, M., & Riek, S. 
(2001). 
Neural influences on sprint running. 
Sports
Medicine
, 
31
 (6), 409–425.
Sahlin, K. 
& Henriksson, J. 
(1984). 
Buffer capacity and lactate accumulation in skeletal
muscle of trained and untrained men. 
Acta Physiol Scand
, 
122
, 331–339.
Sahlin, K. 
& Ren, J. 
(1989). 
Relationship of contraction capacity to metabolic changes
during recovery from a fatiguing contraction. 
J Appl Physiol
, 
67
 (2), 648–654.
Sant’Ana Pereira, J., Sargeant, A., Rademaker, A., de Haan, A., & van Mechelen, W.
(1996). 
Myosin heavy chain isoform expression and high energy phosphate content in
human muscle fibres at rest and post-exercise. 
J Physiol
, 
496
 (2), 583–588.
Signorile, J., Tremblay, L., & Ingalls, C. 
(1993). 
The effects of active and passive recovery
on short-term, high intensity power output. 
Can J Appl Physiol
, 
18
 (1), 31–42.
Spencer, M., Bishop, D., Dawson, B., & Goodman, C. 
(2005). 
Physiological and metabolic
responses of repeated-sprint activities. 
Sport Med
, 
35
, 1025–1044.
Spencer, M., Fitzsimons, M., & Dawson, B. 
(2006). 
Reliability of a repeated sprint test for
field-hockey. 
J Sci Med Sport
, 
9
, 181–184.
Thomas, C., Sirvent, P., Perrey, S., Raynaud, E., & Mercier, J. 
(2004). 
Relationships
between maximal muscle oxidative capacity and blood lactate removal after
supramaximal exercise and fatigue indexes in humans. 
J Appl Physiol
, 
97
, 2132–2138.
Tobias, G., Tobias, G., Benatti, F., de Salles Painelli, V., Roschel, H., Gualano, B., et al.
(2013). 
Additive effects of beta-alanine and sodium bicarbonate on upper-body
intermittent performance. 
Amino Acids
, 
45
 (2), 309–317.
Wisloff, U., Stoylen, A., & Loennechen, J. 
(2007). 
Superior cardiovascular effect of
aerobic interval training versus moderate continuous training in heart failure patients.
Circulation
, 
115
, 3086–3094.

CHAPTER 7
Concurrent training
Richard Clarke, Rodrigo Aspe and Jonathan
Hughes
 
INTRODUCTION
Successful sports performance is multifaceted and includes optimal
preparation of skill, tactics, and physical qualities. 
Sports such as marathon
running and weightlifting have clear physical qualities. 
For example, a
marathon runner requires excellent aerobic capacity with elite athletes
typically demonstrating V̇O
2
 max values of 70–85 ml kg
–1
 min
–1
 (Joyner &
Coyle, 2008). 
In contrast, weightlifting necessitates high levels of muscular
force, and as a result, a greater cross-sectional area (CSA) of type II muscle
fibers (Aagaard et al., 2011; Fry et al., 2006). 
Therefore, the amount of time
dedicated to enhancing strength and power qualities by the endurance athlete
is markedly lower than that dedicated by the weightlifter, just as the time
dedicated to aerobic qualities is lower for the weightlifter compared to the
marathon runner.
There are many sports that require a range of physical qualities including
both strength and aerobic capacity for optimal performance. 
For instance, in a
single rugby union match it may be necessary for a player to accelerate past
their opponent in a line break (acceleration and power), ruck and maul in
offensive and defensive plays (muscular size and strength), and cover great
distances, tracking and tackling throughout (aerobic capacity). 
Therefore,
training for rugby and many other team sports requires multiple physical

qualities, which often need to be developed concurrently (Chiwaridzo et al.,
2016). 
Typically, these qualities are classified into two training categories,
endurance and strength training. 
Endurance training is commonly denoted by
relatively low intensity and relatively high volume training which places
greatest demand on oxidative metabolism, and promotes adaptations specific
to enhanced oxygen uptake and delivery, such as increased mitochondrial and
capillary density (Baar, 2014) (see 
Chapter 5
). 
In contrast, strength training is
characterised as high intensity and low volume, and places greater demand on
anaerobic metabolism and promotes adaptations enhancing muscle CSA and
neuromuscular efficiency to enhance force production (Farup et al., 2012)
(see 
Chapter 2
). 
Herein lies the concern, as concurrent strength and
endurance training promotes diverse physiological adaptations (Nader, 2006),
it is important that strength and conditioning coaches and sport scientists
have appropriate physiological knowledge to optimise programming and thus
training adaptations. 
The aim of this chapter, therefore, is to discuss the
adaptive response to concurrent exercise, and identify how periodisation can
minimise the interference effect of these diverse adaptations.
THE INTERFERENCE EFFECT
The interference effect is possibly due to the high volume and long duration
that is often associated with endurance based training (Wilson et al., 2012). 
It
is presumed that endurance exercise interferes with resistance exercise
sessions via residual fatigue and substrate depletion, and therefore blunts any
muscular development (Leveritt & Abernethy, 1999). 
This is examined more
precisely over the following sections.
Neural development
It has been well documented that increases in maximal strength during the
initial weeks of strength training can be attributed largely to the increased
motor unit activation of the trained agonist muscles (Häkkinen et al., 1998;
Häkkinen et al., 2001a; Häkkinen et al., 2001b). 
It has been demonstrated that
strength training, performed concurrently with endurance training, has no
detriment to neuromuscular characteristics in trained populations (Mikkola et
al., 2007; Paavolainen et al., 1999; Støren et al, 2008; Taipale et al., 2010).

Häkkinen et al., (2003) demonstrated that alongside large gains in maximal
force there was an increase in the maximum integrated electromyograms
(EMGs) in the leg extensor muscles during a concurrent training programme
lasting 21 weeks. 
Increases in EMG amplitudes via strength training would
result from the increased number of active motor units and/or an increase in
their rate coding (Sale, 1992). 
More recently, Jones et al., (2013) reported no
differences in neuromuscular responses between strength training and
concurrent training interventions, which is in agreement with previous
research stating neuromuscular characteristics are not fully inhibited by
concurrent training (McCarthy et al., 1995; Mikkola et al., 2007; Paavolainen
et al., 1999). 
However, where an interference effect has been demonstrated, it
is purported to manifest as 1) alteration in the neural recruitment patterns of
skeletal muscle (Chromiak & Mulvaney, 1990; Gergley, 2009), 2) limitation
in force generation (Rhea et al., 2008; Rønnestad et al., 2012), and 3)
increased neuromuscular fatigue from increased training demands of high
volume endurance training (Leveritt & Abernethy, 1999; Davis et al., 2008).
These findings have been supported via a meta-analysis that indicated whilst
muscular power increased, the magnitude of change was significantly lower
in concurrent trained groups (ES = 0.55) compared to strength-only trained
groups (ES = 0.91) (Wilson et al., 2012). 
It is speculated that forces at high
contraction velocities, i.e., movements that need ‘explosive’ strength with
high levels of rate of force development (RFD), are affected more by
endurance training than force at low fascicle shortening velocities (Dudley &
Djamil, 1985).
Muscular development
Following periods of concurrent training, skeletal muscle CSA has been
found to be depressed (Bell et al., 1991), and within the total CSA, individual
muscle fibers have hypertrophied to a lesser degree (Kraemer et al., 1995;
Bell et al., 2000). 
Mikkola et al., (2012) postulate that during bouts of
concurrent training, optimal adaptation of trained muscles to both strength
and endurance training stimuli may not be morphologically or metabolically
possible. 
Possibly elevations in the catabolic hormonal state of skeletal
muscle could lead to a reduced change in the CSA (Kraemer et al., 1995; Bell
et al., 2000). 
In support, there is a likely impact of testosterone and cortisol

interference due to mixed endocrinal responses to training (Taipale &
Häkkinen, 2013). 
Also, endurance training may decrease muscle fiber size in
order to accommodate increases in capillary and mitochondrial density (Sale
et al., 1990). 
This may be partly due to the oxidative stress imposed on the
muscle and the need to optimise the kinetics of oxygen transfer because of
the addition of endurance training to strength training (Häkkinen et al., 2003).
Furthermore, a lack of development in muscle CSA during concurrent
training could be attributed to chronic muscle glycogen depletion (down
regulating the signaling cascade required for protein accretion, as well as
reducing training performance) and an increase in catabolic hormones
(Mikkola et al., 2012). 
Further analysis demonstrates that potential
disruptions to muscle hypertrophy during concurrent training are more
prominent when strength training is concurrently performed with running
compared to cycling (Wilson et al., 2012). 
This is potentially due to greater
levels of muscle damage in running, thereby reducing the development of
muscle tissue via competing demands for tissue regeneration via the
inflammatory process (Clarkson & Hubal, 2002).
Molecular signaling
Excessive bouts of endurance exercise are known to reduce rates of protein
synthesis for several hours following the cessation of training (Rennie &
Tipton, 2000). 
Molecular signaling research has evidenced that during (and
following) endurance training the metabolic signaling pathways that are
linked to substrate depletion and calcium release and uptake into the
sarcoplasmic reticulum are activated (Coffey & Hawley, 2007). 
The
secondary messenger adenosine monophosphate-activated kinase (AMPK) is
activated, as its role is to increase mitochondrial function to enhance aerobic
capacity (Rose & Hargreaves, 2003). 
However, this activation inhibits the
mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), whose role is to mediate skeletal
muscle hypertrophy through upregulation of protein synthesis via activation
of ribosome proteins (Bodine, 2006). 
Knowledge of this signaling system
informs us that in conditions of low glycogen and high concentration of
calcium and AMP (as would occur during aerobic training), the AMPK
pathway is activated and thus protein accretion (via the mTOR pathway) is
significantly reduced. 
Thus, strength training in a fasted or fatigued state may

not be best practice.
Cardio-respiratory development
There is empirical evidence that in elite endurance athletes, strength training
can lead to enhanced long-term (> 30 min) and short-term (< 15 min)
endurance capacity (Aagaard & Andersen, 2010). 
Investigations into
adaptations of cardiorespiratory function have indicated that there are no
differences in the magnitude of adaptation when endurance training is
completed in isolation or concurrently with strength training (Bell et al.,
2000; McCarthy et al., 2002). 
The greatest impact on cardiorespiratory
adaptations come when the peripheral adaptations (e.g., capillary and
mitochondrial density) are blunted when the demands of resistance training
increase the competition for rises in contractile protein synthesis (promoting
an increase in fibre size and muscle CSA) and an increase in glycolytic
enzymes (Docherty & Sporer, 2000). 
More recent focus on cardiorespiratory
adaptations has investigated the acute effects of concurrent training on
oxidative metabolism (Alves et al., 2012; Kang et al., 2009). 
Alves et al.,
(2012) did not observe differences in mean values of VO
2
 or HR during
endurance exercise performed prior to or following a strength training
session. 
However, Kang et al., (2009) demonstrated greater mean values for
participants’ VO
2
 when endurance exercise was performed following strength
training compared with endurance exercise only. 
There are a number of
methodological variations that can explain these differences, i.e., intensity of
endurance exercise, strength exercises chosen, and populations used.
The positive effects of strength training for endurance athletes may occur
independently to changes in cardiorespiratory development (Paavolainen et
al., 1999) and could be due to improvements in RFD that aide improvements
in exercise economy. 
Further, improved RFD may reduce time to reach the
desired force for each movement via reduced ground contact times. 
A shorter
contraction time coupled with relative high force production would also be
likely to enhance the utilisation of elastic energy in the muscle-tendon system
in the lower body (as long as impulse is maintained), and could reduce the
demand of ATP production, thus improving exercise economy.

TRAINING STRATEGIES TO MINIMISE
INTERFERENCE
Training periodisation
When periodising a training programme for a sport that includes a range of
physical qualities, planning of training units within a training day,
microcycle, and mesocycle needs to be cautiously managed to minimise the
interference effect; one training session may inhibit adaptations to a prior or
subsequent training unit. 
In addition, the inclusion of training units such as
technical and tactical skills within the sport may provide enough stimuli to
maintain or enhance physical qualities and such training stressors should be
considered in the periodised plan to optimise fitness and minimise fatigue
(Issurin, 2010; Suarez-Arrones et al., 2014).
An eight-week preseason concurrent strength and aerobic training
programme (prioritising 1RM half back squat and Yo-Yo Intermittent
Recovery Test) was effective at improving both cardiovascular and
neuromuscular measures in professional soccer players (Wong et al., 2010).
The experimental group completed twice weekly strength training units and
eight minutes of high intensity running sessions (low volume) on the same
day, additional to their normal 6–8 weekly soccer training units. 
Likewise,
Sedano et al., (2013) demonstrated improved running economy, 3 km time
trial and 1RM strength with concurrent training in elite endurance athletes.
Here participants completed their normal 6 weekly endurance units (intervals
x 3, moderate running 0.5–1.5 h x 2 and fast running 0.5–1 h x 1) with the
inclusion of two weekly strength units over a 12-week training programme.
Noticeably, both studies included two daily training units when resistance
training was performed; during these days, resistance training units were
performed in the morning prior to endurance units performed in the
afternoon. 
Piacentini et al., (2013) also demonstrated similar results with
concurrent training in highly trained master endurance athletes. 
These studies
used linear periodisation patterns of increased intensity over time and
demonstrated improvements in strength and endurance performance measures
with no hypertrophy or concomitant changes to anthropometry. 
While these
concurrent training studies demonstrate minimal interference effect to
cardiovascular performance in aerobic endurance based sports, they

conversely demonstrate endurance training may inhibit strength training
adaptations such as muscle CSA to a greater degree. 
Therefore, consideration
and appropriate planning must be applied when planning training blocks to
stimulate muscle hypertrophy for collision sports where a goal of training is
likely to be an increase in muscle mass.
Comparing athletes with low resistance training age to well-trained
strength athletes is unwise as the stimulus for adaptation is different.
Longitudinal research where strength based athletes have participated in
concurrent training (Appleby et al., 2012; Stodden & Galitski, 2010) have
typically dedicated specific training periods such as preseason (Appleby et
al., 2012) or off-season (Stodden & Galitski, 2010) to hypertrophy
development and included a minimum of three resistance training sessions
per week for this mesocycle. 
This form of periodisation enables a large
training stimulus to be applied to well-trained athletes. 
During in-season,
training frequency was reduced to a minimum of one session a week to
maintain physiological adaptations made in pre- and off-season. 
In both these
studies, 1RM strength improved within year one and year two, alongside the
inclusion of speed, agility, aerobic capacity, technical and tactical training
units. 
A review on the development, retention, and decay of strength in
strength and power based athletes confirm these programming variables,
suggesting that to maintain strength, 1–2 training units per week are required
(McMaster et al., 2013). 
Interestingly, it also speculated that a detraining
period of three weeks has no effect on muscular strength (McMaster et al.,
2013). 
This provides valuable information in regards to the duration of
strength training residuals and subsequent opportunities for tapering
strategies or prioritising other training units.
For successful periodisation within sports where concurrent training is
required, it would be prudent to determine off-season and in-season periods
to establish specific training goals. 
Furthermore, determining preseason and
in-season mesocycle goals would help focus programming and lessen the
interference effect of physiological adaptations of diverse physical qualities.
For example, García-Pallarés et al., (2009) demonstrated in elite kayakers
that strength and endurance qualities can be trained concurrently with
positive performance outcomes. 
The distinctive aspect of this research was
coupling hypertrophy training with aerobic training in the first mesocyle, and
strength training and maximal aerobic power in the second mesocycle. 
The
rationale for this was due to the physiological adaptations expected,

hypertrophy (increase in contractile proteins synthesis) and aerobic power
training (increase in oxidative capacity) promote opposing adaptations at a
peripheral level (García-Pallarés et al., 2009). 
Periodising fitness qualities in
this manner has the potential to limit the interference effect based on specific
physiological adaptations. 
The use of transition or detraining periods from
strength training units within programming may also be beneficial as 1) this
period may enable restoration and supercompensation and 2) another training
unit may be prioritised without detrimental effects to strength (McMaster et
al., 2013; Sedano et al., 2013). 
Finally, special attention should be considered
in regards to the type of sport, for example, contact sports may necessitate a
need for hypertrophy and an increased frequency of resistance training units
whilst minimising the amount of aerobic training units completed.
Training session sequencing
One opportunity to manipulate training variables and reduce interference may
be through the sequencing of training units within a microcycle. 
In
programmes that include both strength and endurance based training stimuli
on the same day, the training outcome may be different depending on the
session sequencing and the subsequent accumulated fatigue (as mentioned in
the molecular signaling section). 
Some studies have investigated the
endocrine response to training sequencing as chronic physical adaptations are
enhanced by optimal endocrine responses (Craig et al., 1991; Kraemer &
Ratamess, 2005). 
However, these investigations have continually provided
mixed conclusions. 
Cadore et al., (2012) reported strength training after
endurance training resulted in increased testosterone levels compared to
strength training prior to endurance. 
In addition, no change in cortisol
response was reported, regardless of exercise sequencing. 
Goto et al., (2005)
support endurance-strength training, as they found no difference in
testosterone or cortisol concentration after resistance only or endurance-
strength sequencing. 
Moreover, Taipale & Häkkinen (2013) reported a
reduction in testosterone (at 24 and 48hrs recovery) during strength-
endurance sequencing alongside lower levels of cortisol post training
compared to the endurance-strength sequencing group. 
Utilising endurance-
strength sequencing may also allow for the strength training stimulus to be
the last stimulus of the day (evening session) where strength levels are at

their highest (Souissi et al., 2013). 
This sequencing may result in an elevation
in the mTOR signaling pathway and maximise post-session recovery time,
facilitating more time for protein synthesis and a more favorable anabolic
environment (Lundberg et al., 2012; Chtourou et al., 2014), including while
sleeping. 
Equally, it has been reported that strength training in the morning
produces a ‘priming effect’ resulting in improved physical performance six
hours later (Cook et al., 2014). 
(See 
Chapter 10
 for additional detail regarding
priming strategies.) Although this phenomenon has not been studied in regard
to training session adaptations or to the adaptation and signaling interaction,
it may be that there is still much more to learn.
Further studies have also measured performance related outcomes, such as
Collins & Snow (1993) and Chtara et al., (2008) who report training
sequence has no significant effect on maximal strength or aerobic power
adaptations in untrained men. 
Conversely, well-trained kayakers did not show
improvement in a maximal strength mesocycle when strength training was
performed prior to endurance training or with at least six hours of rest
(García-Pallarés et al., 2009). 
However, as discussed later, it is important to
consider all training variables such as volume and intensity when comparing
magnitude of change after training interventions.
This supports the requirement for a strong consideration of the training
variables, not just the overall sequence when programming concurrent
training, especially when endurance training is to be performed prior to
strength training. 
Therefore, the mixed conclusions in the literature of the
optimum exercise sequencing may be due to variation in other variables, such
as the training duration, intensity, and modality (Kraemer et al., 1995;
Rønnestad et al., 2012; Bell et al., 2000). 
Supporting this, Wilson et al.,
(2012) reported that endurance training modality and volume (frequency and
duration) are key determining factors of the interference effect. 
Therefore,
sequencing studies may only be compared if these variables have been
matched in the studies protocols.
Training recovery
Insufficient recovery between training sessions may limit the desired
adaptations from previous training, cumulatively contributing to overtraining
syndrome. 
Residual fatigue from aerobic training may reduce the quality of

strength training sessions by alterations in the neural recruitment patterns of
skeletal muscle (Chromiak & Mulvaney, 1990; Gergley, 2009), limitations to
adequate force generation (Rhea et al., 2008; Rønnestad et al., 2012), and
increased neuromuscular fatigue (Leveritt & Abernethy, 1999; Davis et al.,
2008). 
For example, Schumann et al., (2013) reported that endurance –
strength training sequencing resulted in longer lasting fatigue levels post
training session (creatine kinase, testosterone cortisol ratio, and maximal
force production) compared to the strength – endurance sequencing group.
Robineau et al., (2016) concluded that strength and power adaptations were
inhibited unless at least six hours recovery was allowed between training
sessions (strength followed by high intensity endurance exercise); however, a
24-hour recovery period was superior to further reduce interference.
Furthermore, Sale et al., (1990) reported that strength and endurance training
performed on the same day (alternating order) had no effect on muscle
hypertrophy, but did cause a significant reduction in strength development in
untrained men compared to separate day training (~ 24 hours rest). 
It is likely
that the reduced interference with increasing recovery between sessions is
due to the lower likelihood of an interference effect in the muscle signaling
pathways (Lundberg et al., 2012), a maximised recovery time allowing for
increased protein synthesis, and management of fatigue before the following
training sessions (Chtourou et al., 2014).
Interference may also be increased when the same muscle groups are
utilised for strength and endurance based training (Craig et al., 1991; Sporer
& Wenger, 2003). 
Sporer & Wenger (2003) report that lower body strength
was significantly decreased for at least eight hours after completion of both a
sub-maximal aerobic training protocol (36 min cycling at 70% maximal
power at VO
2
) and a high-intensity interval training protocol (three min.
work and three min rest at 95–100% of maximal power at VO
2
) with no
difference between groups at any recovery time point. 
Moreover, strength
and endurance training performed on different days resulted in a greater
hypertrophy effect size (although not significantly different) than those
performed on the same day (1.06 vs. 
0.8) (Wilson et al., 2012). 
Where this is
not possible, athletes who engage in multiple strength training units per week
may benefit from utilising a split training routine where upper body strength
training can be completed on days that contain aerobic training sessions
(given these predominately tax the legs), as upper body hypertrophy has
shown to have less interference during periods of concurrent training

compared to lower body hypertrophy (Wilson et al., 2012).
Training intensity
It may also be important to consider endurance training intensity as Chtara et
al., (2008) and Davis et al., (2008) reported that interference is more likely to
occur at aerobic training intensities close to maximal oxygen uptake. 
In
addition, it may also be recommended that long duration aerobic exercise
should be avoided as the depletion of glycogen stores negatively affects
subsequent training sessions (Bergström et al., 1967). 
However, Sporer &
Wenger, (2003) concluded that endurance training intensity had no
significant acute effect on strength after eight hours rest. 
Furthermore, De
Souza et al., (2007) compared the acute effect (ten minutes rest) of two
endurance training protocols (one close to the second ventilatory threshold
and the other of a higher intensity at maximal aerobic speed) on maximal
strength. 
Results demonstrated that neither endurance protocol had a
detrimental effect on maximal strength. 
Silva et al., (2012) support this by
reporting no difference in strength improvements after continuous low
intensity or intermittent high intensity aerobic training when performed prior
to strength training over an eleven week period. 
Interestingly, it has also been
reported that high intensity aerobic training may minimise the interference
effect due to the recruitment of high threshold motor units and muscle fibers
and a potential reduction in training volume. 
For example, Wong et al.,
(2010) reported significant improvements in strength, sprint speed, and
aerobic performance after strength sessions were utilised concurrently with
high intensity aerobic training (15:15s at 120% maximal aerobic speed and
passive recovery). 
Importantly, this training allowed for ~ 5 hours between
the morning strength session and the afternoon high intensity aerobic session,
which may have also contributed to the significant adaptations found. 
High
intensity interval training is discussed further in 
Chapter 6
.
Training frequency and volume and mode
Optimal training frequency is also important as a number of studies
investigating concurrent training have reported varied conclusions on
whether endurance training attenuates strength and power adaptations (Sale et

al., 1990; Craig et al., 1991; Abernethy & Quigley, 1993; Hennessy &
Watson, 1994; Kraemer et al., 1995; McCarthy et al., 1995). 
Jones et al.,
(2013) speculated that these differences may be linked to endurance training
frequency, as attenuated responses are more often reported in studies utilising
a high (Craig et al., 1991; Hennessy & Watson, 1994; Kraemer et al., 1995)
vs. 
a low training frequency (Abernethy & Quigley, 1993; McCarthy et al.,
1995; Sale et al., 1990). 
Jones et al., (2013) reported that recreationally
trained men taking part in a high frequency strength and muscular endurance
training (both 3 x per week) resulted in lower strength and hypertrophy
adaptation compared to a programme performing strength only (3 x per
week) or low frequency strength and muscular endurance training (3 x
strength and 1 x endurance per week). 
In contrast, McCarthy et al., (1995)
found similar improvements in maximal strength and power when combined
strength and endurance training was performed three days per week
compared to strength training only. 
These differences may be due to the
competing peripheral demands of the isokinetic knee extension endurance
training performed in the study by Jones et al., (2013) compared to the central
demands of a 50-min cycle at 70% heart rate reserve reported by McCarthy et
al., (1995). 
Subsequently, it may be important to think about the peripheral
demands, potential muscle damage, and biomechanical similarity of the
endurance training intervention when minimising the interference effect.
Wilson et al., (2012) support this, reporting smaller reductions in lower body
hypertrophy, strength, and power, when endurance exercise was performed
on a cycle ergometer compared to running.
It should be noted that methodological differences make comparing and
contrasting frequency research problematic due to variations in training
duration and intensity, thus producing erroneous results due to differences in
total training volume. 
Supporting this, through a meta-analysis of concurrent
training studies, Wilson et al., (2012) concluded that there is a significant
relationship between endurance training frequency, duration, and lower body
adaptations in hypertrophy (
r
 = –0.26 and –0.75, respectively), strength (
r
 = –
0.31 and –0.34, respectively), and power (
r
 = –0.35 and –0.29, respectively).
However, no correlation between endurance training intensity and effect sizes
was reported due to insufficient data. 
The prescription of strength training
should also be monitored, as when concurrent training is necessary, the
overall training load is likely much higher due to needing to meet this
minimum-dose response of two different fitness qualities. 
Therefore,

strength-training regimes of moderate volume may be a sufficient and a safe
alternative to high volume training to failure (García-Pallarés et al., 2009;
Izquierdo-Gabarren et al., 2010).
SUMMARY
The concurrent training research provides equivocal findings on rate and
magnitudes of adaptations (positive and negative in their manifestation)
across a number of physiological variables including strength, power, and
cardiorespiratory functions. 
This wide range of findings may be due to the
large number of variables contributing to the potential interference effect.
The research seems to support that the interference effect has its greatest
effect on strength development (via hypertrophic adaptations) and that the
most likely mechanism of this interference is linked to the molecular
signaling activated from the type of training undertaken. 
Athletes who require
high levels of muscular strength and hypertrophy may therefore be best
limiting any long periods of concurrent training.
During the planning of training, overall periodisation including
microcycles and mesocycles need to be cautiously managed to control fatigue
and minimise the interference effect (see 
Figure 7.1
 for recommendations). 
It
would be prudent to determine off-season and in-season periods to establish
specific training goals where as much focus can be placed on a single training
outcome as possible. 
It may also be optimum to reduce the frequency of
endurance training (and strongly consider total accumulated fatigue) when
hypertrophy adaptations are required. 
During training cycles where
concurrent training is unavoidable, it would be prudent to consider the level
of stimulus required of different modes of training and determine a minimal
dose response. 
For example, detraining or transition periods from strength
training may be beneficial to allow supercompensation and for other physical
qualities, such as speed and agility, to be prioritised.
It may be concluded that best practice is to have strength and endurance
training units split by at least 24 hours of rest; where this is not possible, 6–8
hours would be sufficient. 
In scenarios where training density must be much
higher, strength training should follow endurance training to ensure optimal
strength improvements, but the overall accumulated fatigue being carried
from one session to another should be the main variable of interest. 
This may

FIGURE 7.1
also be managed via a reduced endurance training frequency of less than
three sessions per week. 
In addition, aerobic training using different muscle
groups should be considered. 
For example, where 24 hours of rest cannot
utilised, upper body strength development may best be performed on aerobic
training days. 
Aerobic training may also be completed via a mode that does
not interfere with areas of desired strength development or reduces the level
of eccentric stress, for example, an arm or cycle ergometer compared to
running. 
Also appropriate fueling, i.e., glycogen replenishment prior to
strength training, would be beneficial.
The recommended decision making process during periods of concurrent
training.
REFERENCES
Aagaard, P. 
& Andersen, J. 
L. 
(2010). 
Effects of strength training on endurance capacity in

top-level endurance athletes. 
Scandinavian Journal of Medicine & Science in Sports
,
20(s2), 39–47.
Aagaard, P., Andersen, J., Bennekou, M., Larsson, B., Olesen, J. 
L., Crameri, R.,
Magnusson, S. 
P. 
& Kjær, M. 
(2011). 
Effects of resistance training on endurance
capacity and muscle fiber composition in young top level cyclists. 
Scandinavian Journal
of Medicine & Science in Sports
, 21(6), e298–e307.
Abernethy, P. 
J. 
& Quigley, B. 
M. 
(1993). 
Concurrent strength and endurance training of
the elbow extensors. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 7(4), 234–240.
Alves, J., Saavedra, F., Simão, R., Novaes, J., Rhea, M. 
R., Green, D. 
& Reis, V. 
M.
(2012). 
Does aerobic and strength exercise sequence in the same session affect the
oxygen uptake during and postexercise? 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning
Research
, 26(7), 1872–1878.
Appleby, B., Newton, R. 
U. 
& Cormie, P. 
(2012). 
Changes in strength over a 2-year period
in professional rugby union players. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
,
26(9), 2538–2546.
Baar, K. 
(2014). 
Using molecular biology to maximize concurrent training. 
Sports
Medicine
, 44(2), 117–125.
Bell, G. 
J., Petersen, S. 
R., Wessel, J., Bagnall, K. 
& Quinney, H. 
A. 
(1991). 
Physiological
adaptations to concurrent endurance training and low velocity resistance training.
International Journal of Sports Medicine
, 12(04), 384–390.
Bell, G. 
J., Syrotuik, D., Martin, T. 
P., Burnham, R. 
& Quinney, H. 
A. 
(2000). 
Effect of
concurrent strength and endurance training on skeletal muscle properties and hormone
concentrations in humans. 
European Journal of Applied Physiology
, 8, 418–427.
Bergström, J., Hermansen, L., Hultman, E. 
& Saltin, B. 
(1967). 
Diet, muscle glycogen and
physical performance. 
Acta Physiologica Scandinavica
, 71(2–3),140–150.
Bodine, S. 
C. 
(2006). 
mTOR signaling and the molecular adaptation to resistance exercise.
Medicine & Science in Sports and Exercise
, 38(11), 1950–1957.
Cadore, E. 
L., Izquierdo, M., dos Santos, M. 
G., Martins, J. 
B., Rodrigues Lhullier, F. 
L.,
Pinto, R. 
S., Silva, R. 
F. 
& Kruel, L. 
F. 
M. 
(2012). 
Hormonal responses to concurrent
strength and endurance training with different exercise orders. 
The Journal of Strength
& Conditioning Research
, 26(12), 3281–3288.
Chiwaridzo, M., Ferguson, G. 
D. 
& Smits-Engelsman, B. 
C. 
(2016). 
A systematic review
protocol investigating tests for physical or physiological qualities and game-specific
skills commonly used in rugby and related sports and their psychometric properties.
Systematic Reviews
, 5(1), 122.
Chromiak, J. 
A. 
& Mulvaney, D. 
R. 
(1990). 
A review: The effects of combined strength
and endurance training on strength development. 
The Journal of Strength &
Conditioning Research
, 4(2), 55–60.
Chtara, M., Chaouachi, A., Levin, G. 
T., Chaouachi, M., Chamari, K., Amri, M. 
&
Laursen, P. 
B. 
(2008). 
Effect of concurrent endurance and circuit resistance training
sequence on muscular strength and power development. 
The Journal of Strength &
Conditioning Research
, 22(4), 1037–1045.
Chtourou, H., Hammouda, O., Aloui, A., Chaabouni, K., Makni-Ayedi, F., Wahl, M.,

Chaouachi, A., Chamari, K. 
& Souissi, N. 
(2014). 
The effect of time of day on hormonal
responses to resistance exercise. 
Biological Rhythm Research
, 45(2), 247–256.
Clarkson, P. 
M. 
& Hubal, M. 
J. 
(2002). 
Exercise-induced muscle damage in humans.
American Journal of Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation
, 81(11), S52–S69.
Coffey, V. 
G. 
& Hawley, J. 
A. 
(2007). 
The molecular bases of training adaptation. 
Sports
Medicine
, 37(9), 737–763.
Collins, M.A. 
& Snow, T.K. 
(1993). 
Are adaptations to combined endurance and strength
training affected by the sequence of training? 
Journal of Sports Sciences
, 11(6), 485–
491.
Cook, C. 
J., Kilduff, L. 
P., Crewther, B. 
T., Beaven, M. 
& West, D. 
J. 
(2014). 
Morning
based strength training improves afternoon physical performance in rugby union
players. 
Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport
, 17(3), 317–321.
Craig, B. 
W., Lucas, J., Pohlman, R. 
& Stelling, H. 
(1991). 
The effects of running,
weightlifting and a combination of both on growth hormone release. 
The Journal of
Strength & Conditioning Research
, 5(4), 198–203.
Davis, W. 
J., Wood, D. 
T., Andrews, R. 
G., Elkind, L. 
M. 
& Davis, W. 
B. 
(2008).
Concurrent training enhances athletes’ strength, muscle endurance, and other measures.
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 22(5), 1487–1502.
De Souza, E. 
O., Tricoli, V., Franchini, E., Paulo, A. 
C., Regazzini, M. 
& Ugrinowitsch, C.
(2007). 
Acute effect of two aerobic exercise modes on maximum strength and strength
endurance. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 21(4), 1286–1290.
Docherty, D. 
& Sporer, B. 
(2000). 
A proposed model for examining the interference
phenomenon between concurrent aerobic and strength training. 
Sports Medicine
, 30(6),
385–394.
Dudley, G. 
A. 
& Djamil, R. 
(1985). 
Incompatibility of endurance- and strength-training
modes of exercise. 
Journal of Applied Physiology
, 59, 1446–1451.
Farup, J., Kjølhede, T., Sørensen, H., Dalgas, U., Møller, A. 
B., Vestergaard, P. 
F. 
&
Vissing, K. 
(2012). 
Muscle morphological and strength adaptations to endurance vs.
resistance training. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 26(2), 398–407.
Fry, A. 
C., Ciroslan, D., Fry, M. 
D., LeRoux, C. 
D., Schilling, B. 
K. 
& Chiu, L. 
Z. 
(2006).
Anthropometric and performance variables discriminating elite American junior men
weightlifters. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 20(4), 861–866.
García-Pallarés, J., Sánchez-Medina, L., Carrasco, L., Díaz, A. 
& Izquierdo, M. 
(2009).
Endurance and neuromuscular changes in world-class level kayakers during a periodized
training cycle. 
European Journal of Applied Physiology
, 106(4), 629–638.
Gergley, J. 
C. 
(2009) Comparison of two lower-body modes of endurance training on
lower-body strength development while concurrently training. 
The Journal of Strength
& Conditioning Research
 23, 979.
Goto, K., Ishii, N., Kizuka, T. 
& Takamatsu, K. 
(2005). 
The impact of metabolic stress on
hormonal responses and muscular adaptations. 
Medicine & Science in Sports &
Exercise
, 37(6), 955–963.
Häkkinen, K., Kallinen, M., Izquierdo, M., Jokelainen, K., Lassila, H., Mälkiä, E.,
Kraemer, W. 
J., Newton, R. 
U. 
& Alen, M. 
(1998). 
Changes in agonist-antagonist EMG,

muscle CSA, and force during strength training in middle-aged and older people.
Journal of Applied Physiology
, 84(4), 1341–1349.
Häkkinen, K., Kraemer, W. 
J., Newton, R. 
U. 
& Alen, M. 
(2001a). 
Changes in
electromyographic activity, muscle fibre and force production characteristics during
heavy resistance/power strength training in middle-aged and older men and women.
Acta Physiologica
, 171(1), 51–62.
Häkkinen, K., Pakarinen, A., Kraemer, W. 
J., Häkkinen, A., Valkeinen, H. 
& Alen, M.
(2001b). 
Selective muscle hypertrophy, changes in EMG and force, and serum
hormones during strength training in older women. 
Journal of Applied Physiology
,
91(2), 569–580.
Häkkinen, K., Alen, M., Kraemer, W. 
J., Gorostiaga, E., Izquierdo, M., Rusko, H., Mikkola,
J., Häkkinen, A., Valkeinen, H., Kaarakainen, E., Romu, S., Erola, V., Ahtiainen, J. 
&
Paavolainen, L. 
(2003) Neuromuscular adaptations during concurrent strength and
endurance training versus strength training. 
European Journal of Applied Physiology
,
89, 42–52.
Hennessy, L. 
C. 
& Watson, A. 
W. 
(1994). 
The interference effects of training for strength
and endurance simultaneously. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 8(1),
12–19.
Issurin, V. 
B. 
(2010). 
New horizons for the methodology and physiology of training
periodization. 
Sports Medicine
, 40(3), 189–206.
Izquierdo-Gabarren, M., Exposito, R. 
J., García-Pallarés, J., Medina, L., Villareal, E. 
&
Izquierdo, M. 
(2010). 
Concurrent endurance and strength training not to failure
optimizes performance gains. 
Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise
, 42(06), 1191–
1199.
Jones, T. 
W., Howatson, G., Russell, M. 
& French, D. 
N. 
(2013). 
Performance and
neuromuscular adaptations following differing ratios of concurrent strength and
endurance training. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 27(12), 3342–
3351.
Joyner, M. 
J. 
& Coyle, E. 
F. 
(2008). 
Endurance exercise performance: the physiology of
champions. 
The Journal of Physiology
, 586(1), 35–44.
Kang, J., Rashti, S. 
L., Tranchina, C. 
P., Ratamess, N. 
A., Faigenbaum, A. 
D. 
& Hoffman,
J. 
R. 
(2009). 
Effect of preceding resistance exercise on metabolism during subsequent
aerobic session. 
European Journal of Applied Physiology
, 107(1), 43–50.
Kraemer, W. 
J., Patton, J. 
F., Gordon, S. 
E., Harman, E. 
A., Deschenes, M. 
R., Reynolds,
K., Newton, R. 
U., Triplett, N. 
T. 
& Dziados, J. 
E. 
(1995) Compatibility of high-
intensity strength and endurance training on hormonal and skeletal muscle adaptations.
Journal of Applied Physiology
, 78, 976–989.
Kraemer, W. 
J. 
& Ratamess, N. 
A. 
(2005). 
Hormonal responses and adaptations to
resistance exercise and training. 
Sports Medicine
, 35(4), 339–361.
Leveritt, M. 
& Abernethy, P. 
J. 
(1999). 
Acute effects of high-intensity endurance exercise
on subsequent resistance activity. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
 13,
47–51.
Lundberg, T. 
R., Fernandez-Gonzalo, R., Gustafsson, T. 
& Tesch, P. 
A. 
(2012). 
Aerobic

exercise alters skeletal muscle molecular responses to resistance exercise. 
Medicine &
Science in Sports & Exercise
, 44(9), 1680–1688.
McCarthy, J. 
P., Agre, J. 
C., Graf, B. 
K., Pozniak, M. 
A. 
& Vailas, A. 
C. 
(1995)
Compatibility of adaptive responses with combining strength and endurance training.
Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise
, 27, 429–436.
McCarthy, J. 
P., Pozniak, M. 
A. 
& Agre, J. 
C. 
(2002). 
Neuromuscular adaptations to
concurrent strength and endurance training. 
Medicine & Science in Sports and Exercise
,
34(3), 511–519.
McMaster, D. 
T., Gill, N., Cronin, J. 
& McGuigan, M. 
(2013). 
The development, retention
and decay rates of strength and power in elite rugby union, rugby league and American
football. 
Sports Medicine
, 43(5), 367–384.
Mikkola, J. 
S., Rusko, H. 
K., Nummela, A. 
T., Paavolainen, L. 
M. 
& Häkkinen, K. 
(2007)
Concurrent endurance and explosive type strength training increases activation and fast
force production of leg extensor muscles in endurance athletes. 
The Journal of Strength
& Conditioning Research
, 21, 613.
Mikkola, J., Rusko, H., Izquierdo, M., Gorostiaga, E. 
M. 
& Häkkinen, K. 
(2012).
Neuromuscular and cardiovascular adaptations during concurrent strength and
endurance training in untrained men. 
International Journal of Sports Medicine
, 33(09),
702–710.
Nader, G. 
A. 
(2006). 
Concurrent strength and endurance training: from molecules to man.
Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise
, 38(11), 1965.
Paavolainen, L., Häkkinen, K., Hamalainen, I., Nummela, A. 
& Rusko, H. 
(1999)
Explosive-strength training improves 5-km running time by improving running
economy and muscle power. 
Journal of Applied Physiology
, 86, 1527–1533.
Piacentini, M. 
F., De Ioannon, G., Comotto, S., Spedicato, A., Vernillo, G. 
& La Torre, A.
(2013). 
Concurrent strength and endurance training effects on running economy in
master endurance runners. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 27(8),
2295–2303.
Rennie, M. 
J. 
& Tipton, K. 
D. 
(2000). 
Protein and amino acid metabolism during and after
exercise and the effects of nutrition. 
Annual Reviews in Nutrition
, 20, 457–483.
Rhea, M. 
R., Oliverson, J. 
R., Marshall, G., Peterson, M. 
D., Kenn, J. 
G. 
& Ayllón, F.N.
(2008) Non-compatibility of power and endurance training among college baseball
players. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 22, 230. 
Robineau, J., Babault, N., Piscione, J., Lacome, M. 
& Bigard, A. 
X. 
(2016). 
Specific
training effects of concurrent aerobic and strength exercises depend on recovery
duration. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 30(3), 672–683.
Rønnestad, B. 
R., Hansen, E. 
A. 
& Raastad, T. 
(2012). 
High volume of endurance training
impairs adaptations to 12 weeks of strength training in well-trained endurance athletes.
European Journal of Applied Physiology
, 112(4), 1457–1466.
Rose, A. 
J. 
& Hargreaves, M. 
(2003). 
Exercise increases Ca2+-calmodulin-dependent
protein kinase II activity in human skeletal muscle. 
Journal of Physiology
, 553(1), 303–
309.
Sale, D. 
G., MacDougall, J. 
D., Jacobs, I. 
& Garner, S. 
(1990). 
Interaction between

concurrent strength and endurance training. 
Journal of Applied Physiology
, 68(1), 260–
270.
Sale, D. 
G. 
(1992) Neural adaptation to strength training. 
In P. 
V. 
Komi (Ed.), 
Strength and
Power in Sports (The Encyclopedia of Sports Medicine)
. 
Oxford: Blackwell Science
Ltd. 
281–315.
Schumann, M., Eklund, D., Taipale, R.S., Nyman, K., Kraemer, W.J., Häkkinen, A.,
Izquierdo, M. 
& Häkkinen, K. 
(2013). 
Acute neuromuscular and endocrine responses
and recovery to single-session combined endurance and strength loadings: “order effect”
in untrained young men. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 27(2),
pp.421–433.
Sedano, S., Marín, P. 
J., Cuadrado, G. 
& Redondo, J. 
C. 
(2013). 
Concurrent training in elite
male runners: the influence of strength versus muscular endurance training on
performance outcomes. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 27(9), 2433–
2443.
Silva, R. 
F., Cadore, E. 
L., Kothe, G., Guedes, M., Alberton, C. 
L., Pinto, S. 
S., … Kruel,
L. 
F. 
M. 
(2012). 
Concurrent training with different aerobic exercises. 
International
Journal of Sports Medicine
, 33(8), 627–634.
Souissi, N., Chtourou, H., Aloui, A., Hammouda, O., Dogui, M., Chaouachi, A. 
&
Chamari, K. 
(2013). 
Effects of time-of-day and partial sleep deprivation on short-term
maximal performances of judo competitors. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning
Research
, 27(9), 2473–2480.
Sporer, B. 
C. 
& Wenger, H. 
A. 
(2003). 
Effects of aerobic exercise on strength performance
following various periods of recovery. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning
Research
, 17(4), 638–644.
Stodden, D. 
F. 
& Galitski, H. 
M. 
(2010). 
Longitudinal effects of a collegiate strength and
conditioning program in American football. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning
Research
, 24(9), 2300–2308.
Støren, O., Helgerud, J., Stoa, E. 
M. 
& Hoff, J. 
(2008). 
Maximal strength training improves
running economy in distance runners. 
Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise
, 40(6),
1087.
Suarez-Arrones, L., Tous-Fajardo, J., Nunez, J., Gonzalo-Skok, O., Gálvez, J. 
& Mendez-
Villanueva, A. 
(2014). 
Concurrent repeated-sprint and resistance training with
superimposed vibrations in rugby players. 
International Journal of Sports Physiology
and Performance
, 9(4), 667–673.
Taipale, R. 
S., Mikkola, J., Nummela, A., Vesterinen, V., Capostagno, B., Walker, S., …
Häkkinen, K. 
(2010). 
Strength training in endurance runners. 
International Journal of
Sports Medicine
, 31(7), 468–476.
Taipale, R. 
S. 
& Häkkinen, K. 
(2013). 
Acute hormonal and force responses to combined
strength and endurance loadings in men and women: the “order effect”. 
PloS One
, 8(2),
e55051.
Wilson, J. 
M., Marin, P. 
J., Rhea, M. 
R., Wilson, S. 
M., Loenneke, J. 
P. 
& Anderson, J. 
C.
(2012). 
Concurrent training: a meta-analysis examining interference of aerobic and
resistance exercises. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 26(8), 2293–

2307.
Wong, P. 
L., Chaouachi, A., Chamari, K., Dellal, A. 
& Wisloff, U. 
(2010). 
Effect of
preseason concurrent muscular strength and high-intensity interval training in
professional soccer players. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 24(3),
653–660.

PART 2
Programming and monitoring for
your athlete

CHAPTER 8
Periodisation
Anthony Turner and Paul Comfort
 
 
 
INTRODUCTION
Periodisation (also referred to as phase potentiation) is regarded as a superior
method for developing an athlete’s performance (Fleck, 1999; Haff, 2004a;
Haff, 2004b; Stone et al., 1999a; Stone et al., 1999b; Stone et al., 2000).
However, because peak performance can only be maintained for two to three
weeks (Stone, Stone, & Sands, 2007), the ability to phase training
appropriately to ensure that the athlete’s peak level of performance coincides
with a competition date long into the future (e.g., the Olympics, or key
matches in team sports) is a fundamental skill to all strength and conditioning
(S&C) coaches. 
Such levels of performance may only be attained following
the appropriate application of periodisation, whereby a calculated
manipulation of training parameters (e.g., frequency, intensity, duration,
volume, exercise selection) ensures optimal adaptations and minimal fatigue
at the point of competition. 
Despite an apparent lack of scientific rigour to
govern its application (Cissik, Hedrick, & Barnes, 2008; Fleck, 1999; Fry,
Morton, & Kreast, 1992; Plisk & Stone, 2003; Stone et al., 1999a),
periodisation is widely practised (Durell, Puyol, & Barnes, 2003; Ebben &
Blackard, 2001; Ebben, Carroll, & Simenz, 2004; Simenz, Dugan, & Ebben,
2005) and recommended (Haff, 2004a; Haff, 2004b; Plisk & Stone, 2003).

The aim of this chapter is to provide the S&C coach with a detailed overview
of periodisation so as they may be cognizant of its theory and methodology.
It is hoped that this will further facilitate its implementation and successful
application.
DEFINING PERIODISATION
Periodisation may be defined as a training plan whereby peak performance is
brought about through the potentiation of biomotors and the management of
fatigue and accommodation. 
This is principally achieved through the logical
yet creative variation of training methods, intensities and volume loads.
Important to the latter, volume and intensity (volume load) share an inverse
relationship (
Figure 8.1
) with the only notable exceptions being during
periods of planned overreaching (discussed later). 
More recent research has
identified that manipulating training load via cluster sets (Tufano et al., 2016)
and higher volume (sets) powerlifting protocols (Schoenfeld, Ratamess,
Peterson, Contreras, Sonmez, & Alvar, 2014) may also permit higher
volumes of training at higher intensities. 
However, careful implementation of
such strategies should be considered, preferably away from competition, to
ensure that the higher training volumes do not negatively impact performance
due to the associated increase in fatigue.

FIGURE 8.1
The inverse relationship between volume and intensity. 
In general, as the
periodised programme advances and competition nears, intensity
increases whilst volume decreases. 
GPT = general physical training; SSPT
= sport-specific physical training; comp = competition.
Plisk and Stone (2003) suggest that periodisation should be applied on a
cyclic or periodic basis, structured into macro-, meso- and microcycles that
progress from extensive to intensive workloads. 
These cycles are often
defined by their allotted period of time, with a macrocyle typically referring
to a year, a mesocyle (each period/phase of focussed training) two to eight
weeks, dependent on the competition schedule, and a microcycle one day to
one week. 
There is, however, large variability in the time course of each with,
for example, macrocyles running four years in the case of Olympic training
programmes (quadrennial plan). 
Also, mesocycles are often divided into 4 ±
2 week blocks as this appears to provide the optimal time frame for
adaptation in well-trained athletes (Matveyev, 1977; Plisk & Stone, 2003;
Stone, Stone, & Sands, 2007; Zatsiorsky & Kraemer, 2006).
Periodisation is also often defined by its progression from general to
special tasks (see 
Figure 8.1
) whereby there is a conscious incorporation of
technique/sport-specific biomotors as the programme progresses and

•
•
•
•
•
competition nears. 
It is important to note that, in terms of sport-specificity,
this refers to training, which results in adaptations that achieve specific, pre-
established goals, and not mimicking the movements of sporting tasks.
Bompa and Haff (2009) also report two major phases of periodisation; the
preparatory phase and the competitive phase. 
In addition, the preparatory
phase has two sub-phases: general physical training (GPT) and sport-specific
physical training (SSPT) (
Table 8.1
). 
The objective of the GPT is to improve
the athlete’s work capacity and maximise adaptations in preparation for
future workloads. 
The SSPT serves as a transition into the competitive phase,
whereby physical capacity is developed specific to the physiological profile
of the sport, and where sportspecific biomotors are perfected. 
During the
competitive phase, the work capacity developed during the SSPT should be
maintained as a minimum objective. 
However, in team sports with regular
competition and extended competition phases, mesocycles may be attributed
to maintenance of some attributes and development of others. 
This phased
approach is also essential to ensure that the desired muscular adaptations
occur, as strength and power training result in different architectural
adaptations (discussed in detail in 
Chapter 2
).
TABLE 8.1
 The principle phases and sub-phases of periodisation
Training phase
Preparatory phase
Competitive phase
GPT
SSPT
Phase objective
↑ work (aerobic
and anaerobic)
capacity
↑ Neuromuscular
functioning
Refine technique
Develop sport-
specific
biomotors
Develop sport-
specific energy
metabolism
Maintain biomotor
conditioning
Notes:
 GPT = general physical training; SSPT = sport-specific physical training
The importance of the preparatory phase is highlighted by Zatsiorsky and
Kraemer (2006) who use the analogy “soon ripe, soon rotten”. 
Along with
data from Fry et al., (2000b) and Stone et al., (2007) this suggests that the
average training intensity is inversely correlated with (1) the time a

performance peak can be maintained, (2) the height of that performance peak
and (3) the rate of detraining (
Figure 8.2
).
The S&C coach should note that the science and practice of periodisation
is largely based on hypothesis-generating studies, anecdotal evidence and
related research (Cissik, Hedrick, & Barnes, 2008; Fleck, 1999; Fry, Morton,
& Kreast, 1992; Plisk & Stone, 2003; Stone et al., 1999a). 
In addition, most
studies involved only short-term experimental periods (e.g., five to sixteen
weeks) and subjects with limited training experience (Cissik, Hedrick, &
Barnes, 2008; Fleck, 1999; Fry, Morton, & Kreast, 1992; Plisk & Stone,
2003; Stone et al., 1999a). 
However, despite these challenges to an evidence-
based ideology, there is enough anecdotal evidence, case-study reports and
empirically similar research to advocate its use across all population groups.
RECOVERY AND ADAPTATION
Mesocycle blocks are usually arranged in a 3:1 loading paradigm (
Figure
8.3
), whereby the load (volume or intensity depending on the goals of the
phase) gradually increases for the first three microcycles (weeks) before an
unloading phase in the fourth (creating the typical undulating appearance of
periodised programmes). 
The unloading phase reduces accumulated fatigue,
thereby allowing adaptations to manifest (Haff, 2004a; Haff, 2004b; Plisk &
Stone, 2003). 
The importance of appropriately planned work to rest ratios
(with respect to training sessions) should be noted, with Plisk and Stone
(2003) suggesting that the greater the number of progressive loading steps,
the greater the number of unloading steps required, e.g., a 6:2 paradigm.
Since the majority of training adaptations take place during recovery periods
(Haff, 2004a), the need to reduce accumulated fatigue to facilitate the
adaptation processes cannot be understated.

FIGURE 8.2
Soon ripe, soon rotten. 
Training intensity is inversely correlated with (1)
the time a performance peak can be maintained, (2) the height of that
performance peak and (3) the rate of detraining. 
Adapted from Stone et al.
(2007).

FIGURE 8.3
The 3:1 loading paradigm, illustrating the increase and then dissipation of
excessive fatigue.
The importance of recovery phases for the purposes of adaptation is well
established (Haff, 2004a; Haff, 2004b). 
The S&C coach must therefore
ensure that work to rest ratios are appropriately planned (e.g., utilising the 3:1
step loading paradigm) to avoid excessive fatigue and a reduced stimulus for
adaptation. 
According to Stone et al. 
(2007), this trade-off is described by
three principle theories: (1) Selye’s general adaptation syndrome (GAS), (2)
stimulus-fatigue-recovery-adaptation theory (SFRA) and (3) the Fitness-
Fatigue theory (Fit-Fat).
General adaptation syndrome
The GAS paradigm describes the body’s physiological response to stress,
which, according to Selye (1956), is the same despite the stressor. 
The GAS

assumes three distinct phases during stress, which, for the following example,
will be an exercise training session. 
The alarm phase (phase 1) represents the
recognition and initial response to the session. 
This may be in the form of
fatigue, stiffness or DOMS (delayed onset of muscle soreness), for example.
The resistance phase (phase 2) is then initiated in which the body is returned
to either its pre-exercise session homeostasis or its new adapted higher state
(i.e., supercompensation occurs). 
Finally, and assuming the accumulation of
stress is too great (e.g., the absence of an unloading week), the exhaustion
phase (phase 3) occurs and may be considered synonymous with overtraining
if it continues over a prolonged period (Stone, Stone, & Sands, 2007). 
The
GAS is depicted in 
Figure 8.4
.
Stimulus-fatigue-recovery-adaptation theory
The SFRA concept (Verkhoshansky, 1981; Verkhoshansky, 1979;
Verkhoshansky, 1988) suggests that fatigue accumulates in proportion to the
magnitude and duration of a stimulus. 
Then, following the stimulus, e.g., an
exercise session, the body is rested enabling fatigue to dissipate and
adaptations (often referred to as supercompensation) to occur. 
This concept
also suggests that if the stress is not applied with sufficient frequency (also
known as density), detraining (also known as involution) will occur. 
It is also
important to note that if competition frequency is high, then training
frequency will have to reduce to permit appropriate recovery. 
Moreover,
involution time is influenced by the length of the preparation period (Stone,
Stone, & Sands, 2007), with greater training programme duration increasing
the duration of the residual effects (see 
Figure 8.2
) (Zatsiorsky & Kraemer,
2006). 
In addition, and by virtue of this, the duration of subsequent
preparation phases can progressively decrease. 
The importance of preparation
has been previously discussed within this chapter. 
The SFRA concept is
illustrated in 
Figure 8.5
.
The SFRA concept is also used to describe the supercompensation
observed following periods of planned overreaching (Verkhoshansky, 1981;
Verkhoshansky, 1988). 
For example, the accumulation of fatigue from the
sequential execution of similar training sessions (i.e., a concentrated,
primarily unidirectional loading of, for example, strength/power training),
usually with a progressive increase in volume, is superimposed on one

FIGURE 8.4
another. 
This leads to excessive fatigue and acutely (~4 weeks) diminished
strength and power capabilities. 
However, following the return to normal
training, or a ‘de-load’ period (and by virtue of a delayed training effect
phenomenon), they then rebound beyond their initial values (Fry, Webber,
Weiss, Fry, & Li, 2000b; Stone & Fry, 1998.). 
This strategy, however, is
reserved for elite level athletes whose window for adaptation is small and
therefore requires more intense interventions to bring about a
supercompensation response (Bompa & Haff, 2009). 
Planned overreaching
strategies are briefly discussed later in this chapter.
The general adaptation syndrome.

FIGURE 8.5
The stimulus-fatigue-recovery-adaptation concept.
Fitness-Fatigue paradigm
Currently, this is the most prevailing theory of training and adaptation (Chiu
& Barnes, 2003; Plisk & Stone, 2003; Zatsiorsky & Kraemer, 2006) and is
considered the basic tenet of a taper (discussed later in this chapter) (Mujika
& Padilla, 2003). 
According to this paradigm, athlete preparedness may be
evaluated based on the principle after-effects of training: fitness and fatigue
(Zatsiorsky & Kraemer, 2006). 
Unlike the GAS and SFRA concepts, which
assume fitness and fatigue share a cause and effect relationship, the Fitness-
Fatigue model suggests they demonstrate an inverse relationship. 
This
implies that strategies that maximise fitness and minimise fatigue will have
the greatest potential to optimise athlete preparedness (Stone, Stone, &
Sands, 2007). 
The Fitness-Fatigue concept is illustrated in 
Figure 8.6
.
An additional key difference between the Fitness-Fatigue concept and the
aforementioned models, is that it differentiates between the actions of various
stressors, such as neuromuscular and metabolic stress (Chiu & Barnes, 2003),
implying that the after-effects of fitness and fatigue are exercise specific
(Stone, Stone, & Sands, 2007; Zatsiorsky & Kraemer, 2006). 
This suggests

that if the athlete is too tired to repeat the same exercise with acceptable
quality, they may still be able to perform an alternative exercise to
satisfaction (
Figure 8.7
), which also aids in reducing monotony for athletes.
This, for example, provides the basic tenant to hypertrophy programmes
incorporating three- to five–day splits and concurrent training involving both
aerobic and resistance workouts.
TRAINING MONOTONY
The lack of change associated with monotonous training volume, intensity or
method can predispose an athlete to stagnation (Stone, Keith, Kearney, Fleck,
Wilson, & Triplett, 1991; Zatsiorsky & Kraemer, 2006). 
Also, as described
by the principle of diminishing returns (Zatsiorsky & Kraemer, 2006), as an
athlete improves in whichever attribute they are developing, the room for
adaptation decreases and therefore so does the rate of adaptation (see 
Figure
8.8
). 
It is, therefore, of upmost importance to incorporate variability within
the design of periodised S&C plans, and serves as the rationale for the regular
application of novel and semi novel tasks (exercise deletion and
representation) (Stone, Stone, & Sands, 2007); 
Table 8.2
 illustrates how this
may be incorporated within a periodised plan. 
As a final word of caution,
however, too much variability can reduce the opportunity for the body to
adapt to a given stimulus and reduce the development of skill acquisition
(Bompa & Haff, 2009).

FIGURE 8.6
The Fitness-Fatigue paradigm.

FIGURE 8.7
FIGURE 8.8
Athlete preparedness based on the specific form of fatigue. 
Adapted from
Zatsiorsky and Kraemer (2006).
The principle of diminishing returns.

TABLE 8.2
 Exercise deletion and representation
Exercise
Countermovement
Jumps (CMJ)
Delete CMJ from programme,
replace with drop jump
Reintroduce CMJ
into programme
Mesocycle
1
2
3
APPLICATION OF PERIODISATION
Basic Model of Periodisation
The type of periodised model used should reflect the S&C training age of the
athlete and not their competition age or rank. 
It is considered prudent,
therefore, to initiate S&C programmes with basic periodised models. 
These
generally entail little variation and relatively flat workloads (Stone, Stone, &
Sands, 2007), with the main emphasis being on the logical and thus
potentiated progression of biomotors (e.g., strength-endurance " strength "
power). 
Figure 8.9
 illustrates a basic model.
As an example of this basic strategy, the athlete completes a
hypertrophy/strength-endurance phase for six microcycles (i.e., six weeks or
one mesocycle), a strength phase for four microcycles and then a power
phase for four microcycles (
Table 8.3
). 
Note that the strength-endurance
phase is longest because volume is considered a key stimulus for
hypertrophy, and is also required to sufficiently increase work capacity, ready
for the subsequent phases. 
Each phase (dependent on the prescribed volume
loads) may be further separated by an unloading week, as may happen
following the power phase and before the competition. 
In addition, heavy and
light days (with respect to volume as changing intensity will alter the
stimulus for strength adaptations) may still be prescribed. 
This strategy,
considered appropriate for athletes with a low S&C training age, introduces
them to S&C (i.e., the merits of and the required discipline) and periodisation
(i.e., the need to systematically alter the emphasised biomotors and a quality
over quantity approach) and enables them to get a “feel” for gym-based
training interventions as well as developing their associated technique. 
As a
final note on this basic model (which is actually applicable to all models), to

FIGURE 8.9
ensure the athlete gets the most out of each phase, the S&C coach should
ensure they are technically sound to perform the exercise of each phase
before progressing onto it. 
For example, power cleans and snatches may be
part of the power phase, however, the athlete may have to start practicing and
developing them, along with their derivatives, in the strength-endurance
phase and maintaining them in the strength phase. 
In the strength-endurance
phase, cluster sets might be used, for example, to ensure maintenance of
technique and velocity (Tufano et al., 2016). 
In the strength phase,
weightlifting pulling derivatives using loads ≥ 100% 1RM power clean might
be used, as force production is key to their effective use during the power
phase (Suchomel, Comfort, & Stone, 2015; Suchomel, Comfort, & Lake,
2017).
Basic model of periodisation entailing little variation and relatively flat
workloads.
TABLE 8.3
 Example sessions used as part of a basic periodised model
Example hypertrophy
session
Example strength session
Example power session
Intensity:
 3 × 8–15 (60–
75% 1RM), working toward
failure, < 3 min between sets
and exercises
Intensity:
 4 × 4 @ 4–6RM
(~85–90% 1RM), > 3 min
between sets and exercises
Intensity:
 Intensity: 5 × 3
@ variable loads, > 3 min
between sets and exercises

Exercises:
 Squats, Romanian deadlift, bench press, pull-
ups. 
Weightlifting and plyometric techniques may be
developed as part of the warm-up
Exercises:
 Clean (70–90%
RM), jump squats (0–50%
1RM), plyometrics (body
mass) and medicine ball
throws. 
Strength may be
maintained with 3 × 3
squats @ 85–90% 1RM
Note:
 Volume load presented as sets × reps
Intermediate Model of Periodisation
As the athlete’s S&C age advances and adaptations begin to plateau, greater
variability becomes paramount. 
In addition, due to the enhanced work
capacity of the athlete, greater volume loads are undertaken and thus the need
for planned recovery sessions. 
The periodised programme begins to evolve
into wavelike increases in volume loads (Matveyev, 1972; Matveyev, 1977)
that typically fluctuate at the microcyclic level (Stone et al., 1999a; Stone et
al., 1999b). 
This is referred to as summated microcycles and is usually
represented as the 3:1 paradigm previously discussed. 
In addition, and due to
the need to incorporate variability, each microcycle can incorporate multiple
biomotors (e.g., strength, power and speed work), some for the purpose of
maintenance and potentiation, and others for the purpose of development and
adaptation. 
Additional methods of incorporating variability and thus
adaptation include inter-session variability (e.g., heavy/high volume and
light/lower volume days and exercise deletion and re-presentation methods)
and intra-session variability (e.g., cluster sets and postactivation potentiation
protocols). 
Figure 8.10
 illustrates this traditional approach to designing
periodised programmes, which is attributed to Matveyev (1972; 1977). 
An
example intermediate periodised programme is illustrated in 
Table 8.4
.

FIGURE 8.10
The traditional, undulating approach to the design of periodised training,
which is attributed to the work of Matveyev (1977). 
Note the 3:1 loading
method within each mesocylce.
TABLE 8.4
 
Two example strength sessions and two example power sessions, which can
be implemented as part of an intermediate periodised programme
Strength session 1
Strength session 2
Power session 1
Power session 2
Back squats (5 × 3
~90% 1RM)
*Power clean (3 × 3
~ 80% 1RM)
Power snatch from
hang (5 × 3 ~80%
1RM)
Power clean from
hang & split jerk (5
× 3 ~75% 1RM)
*Jump shrugs (3 × 5
~35% 1RM)
Split Squat (3 × 3
~85% 1RM)
*Deadlifts (3 × 3
~85% 1RM)
*Front squats (3 × 3
~85% 1RM)
Bent over row (3 × 5
~85% 1RM)
Romanian dead lift
(3 × 3 ~85% 1RM)
CMJ (5 × 5 (body
mass))
Drop jumps (5 × 5)
Bench press (3 × 5
~85% 1RM)
Pull-ups (3 × 3
~85% 1RM)
*Pull-ups (3 × 3
~85% 1RM)
*Bench press (3 × 3
~85% 1RM)
Notes:
 Volume load presented as sets × reps; * used to develop/maintain technique and
strength/power

Advanced model of periodisation
As the athlete’s S&C age advances further still, and the windows of
adaptation begin to diminish further, more advanced strategies are required
which incorporate yet more variability and greater volume loads. 
The
majority of the emphasis is now placed on the prescription of volume loads
through advanced strategies such as the conjugated system (
Figure 8.12
; also
known as the coupled successive system) (Verkhoshansky, 1986). 
Because
this places the athlete dangerously close to the overtraining syndrome,
athletes undertaking this system must be able to tolerate very high volume
loads (Plisk & Stone, 2003) and the S&C coaches applying these
interventions must be highly skilled. 
Furthermore, it may be advisable to
ensure athletes have at least 2 years formal S&C experience, with associated
strength adaptations, as this is usually associated with increases in the
anabolic environment of the body (by virtue of increased testosterone relative
to cortisol), and thus greater tolerance to demanding training (this is
discussed further in 
Chapter 4
).
The conjugate system involves periods of planned overreaching followed
by periods of restitution (Plisk & Stone, 2003). 
Plisk and Stone (2003)
suggest that this is best implemented in blocks of four microcycles with only
one primary emphasis (e.g., strength), and maintenance loads allocated to
other abilities (e.g., speed/power). 
This system aims to saturate the
emphasised training stress, causing cumulative fatigue and concurrent
decreases in performance; this of course can be difficult within team sport
environments where fixture congestion is common (e.g., soccer, basketball).
Then, during the following restitution blocks, the emphasis is reversed
(
Figure 8.11
). 
For example, the volume load for strength training markedly
drops whilst that for speed work is moderately increased. 
By virtue of a
delayed training effect phenomenon, the athlete’s strength capabilities
undergo supercompensation. 
A practical example of the conjugate system,
adapted from the work of Plisk and Stone (2003) and Stone et al. 
(2007), is
illustrated in 
Table 8.5
.
Support for the conjugate system may be gleaned from studies
investigating the response of the endocrine system to prolonged (≥ 3 weeks)
and severe increases in volume load (Hakkinen, 1989; Hakkinen, Pakarinen,
Alen, Kauhanen, & Komi, 1988; Pendalay & Kilgore, 2001; Ratamess et al.,
2003; Fry, Webber, Weiss, Fry, & Li, 2000b). 
In general, these studies report

FIGURE 8.11
significant decreases in resting/pre-exercise testosterone concentration and
the testosterone:cortisol ratio, followed by supernormal levels and
corresponding performance improvements upon returning to normal volume
loads with a subsequent taper. 
These findings are considered significant as
testosterone concentration and the testosterone:cortisol ratio are indices of the
anabolic/catabolic state of the body (Plisk & Stone, 2003; Fry, Kraemer,
Stone, Koziris, Thrush, & Fleck, 2000a). 
As a word of warning, however,
practitioners should limit the duration of these concentrated blocks so that an
overtraining syndrome does not develop (Plisk & Stone, 2003). 
Also, S&C
coaches should be attentive to the potential signs and symptoms of
overtraining with each passing week (Foster, 1998; Jones, 1991; Stone,
Keith, Kearney, Fleck, Wilson, & Triplett, 1991).
The conjugate sequence system pioneered by Yuri Verkhoshansky (1986).
TABLE 8.5
 A practical example for applying and adapting the conjugate system
Training
Accumulation
Restitution
Accumulation
Restitution

emphasis
block 1
block 1
block 2
block 2
Duration
4 weeks
2–3 weeks
4 weeks
2–3 weeks
Strength and
power training
16 sessions @
4d/wk
4–6 sessions @
2d/wk
16 sessions @
4d/wk
4–6 sessions @
2d/wk
Speed and
agility training
8 sessions @
2d/wk
9 sessions @
3d/wk
8 sessions @
2d/wk
9 sessions @
3d/wk
MAINTENANCE PROGRAMMES
Maintaining peak performance for 35 weeks
The traditional periodisation strategies identified above are concerned with
athletes who need to peak for a single or acute (< 2 weeks) phase of
competitions, e.g., track athletes and martial artists. 
Some athletes, however,
especially team sport athletes, must reach their peak as part of pre-season
training, and then maintain it for periods of up to 35 weeks, ideally peaking
for the final.
For example, Kraemer et al. 
(2004a) showed that both starting and non-
starting soccer players experienced reductions in sport performance over an
eleven-week period of the competitive season. 
Although more pronounced in
the starters, the fact that performance reductions were observed in all players
indicates that performance adaptations may be independent of total match
play and that the volume load of practices/S&C sessions should be carefully
evaluated. 
Of significance was the fact that a catabolic environment
(increased cortisol and decreased testosterone) was initiated in the pre-season
and not obviated throughout the competition phase. 
This may have
determined the metabolic status of the players as they entered the competitive
period. 
While this may be exclusive to the training approach of collegiate
soccer, or those that require athletes to get into shape quickly, the need for
athlete restoration, particularly as they enter the competitive phase, can be
noted.
Further challenges associated with maintenance programmes may be
gleaned from studies undertaken by Kraemer et al. 
(1989) and Aldercrentz et
al. 
(1986). 
These investigators reported that sprint running increases

circulating concentrations of cortisol and decreased concentrations of plasma
testosterone. 
Therefore, for sports such as rugby and soccer, which may be
categorized as high-intensity intermittent exercise with a prevalence of
repeated bouts of maximal effort sprints, it is likely that an adverse metabolic
environment will present itself if training programmes are not appropriately
periodised.
Non-traditional approach to periodisation
It has been suggested that while the traditional form of periodisation
(discussed above) is appropriate during the off- and pre-season, a non-
traditional form of periodisation is more viable to team sports during the in-
season (Gamble, 2006; Hoffman, Kraemer, Fry, Deschenes, & Kemp, 1990;
Kraemer et al., 2003; Kraemer et al., 2004b; Kraemer et al., 2000). 
At times,
this may be out of necessity because of its ability to adapt to sports
competition calendar and its ease of administration within long seasons
(Hoffman, Kraemer, Fry, Deschenes, & Kemp, 1990; Kraemer et al., 2003;
Kraemer et al., 2000). 
This form of periodisation involves changes in volume
loads and biomotor emphasis on a session to session basis. 
An example of a
non-traditional periodised programme is illustrated in 
Table 8.6
. 
One of the
merits of this system is suggested to be the ease with which sessions can be
quickly tailored to the competition schedule of the athlete (Haff, 2004a). 
If,
for example, a competition is suddenly cancelled or arranged, the athlete can
switch to the heavy or light training day respectively. 
In addition, a
microcycle and a mesocycle can be defined by the number of completed
sessions or rotations, respectively, of the prescribed programme.
TABLE 8.6
 
Example microcycle completed as part of a non-traditional periodisation
strategy. 
Note that a mesocycle may be considered complete following a set number of
rotations and athletes can rearrange the order based on competition scheduling. 
Finally,
hypertrophy sessions are avoided due to its higher training load requirements
Day
Monday
Wednesday
Friday
Emphasis and
volume load
Pushing
strength: 4 × 4
@ 4–6 RM
Pulling strength: 4 × 4 @
4–6 RM
Power: 5 × 3 @ variable
loads
Example
Squats, bench
Romanian deadlift, pull-
Weightlifting and

exercises
press and
overhead press
ups and barbell row
derivatives and
plyometrics
Finally, for the purposes of maintenance, a training frequency of two days
per week is often recommended for training during the competitive phase
(Ebben & Blackard, 2001; Ebben, Hintz, & Simenz, 2005; Gamble, 2006;
Haff, 2004b; Simenz, Dugan, & Ebben, 2005). 
However, including even two
S&C sessions a week to team sport players involved in regular competition
may prove difficult. 
Gamble (2006) suggests that the issue of limited training
time may be addressed by combining S&C training into sport practice. 
For
example, speed, agility and plyometrics training can be included into team
practices, and metabolic conditioning can be maintained through game-
related conditioning methods. 
In addition, the skill element specific to each,
particularly the latter example, encourages its use by the sport coaches
(Gamble, 2004). 
This tactical metabolic training approach can be structured
according to work:rest ratios of the specific sport (Gamble, 2007; Plisk &
Gambetta, 1997) and dominant energy systems.
THE TAPER
The progressive increases in the volume load of periodised S&C programmes
are likely to accumulate excessive fatigue and overstress the neuroendocrine
system. 
This will reduce the stimulus for adaptation (as previously discussed)
and lead to adverse circulating hormonal concentrations (Fry & Kraemer,
1997). 
However, a reduction in training with a concomitant optimal anabolic
environment (or reduced catabolic processes) induced by a taper could
potentially enhance performance (Izquierdo et al., 2007). 
The taper requires a
reduction in the volume (i.e., exercises, sets or repetitions) of training in the
final days before important competition, with the aim of optimising
performance (Bosquet, Montpetit, Arvisais, & Mujika, 2007). 
It should be
stressed that the objective of the taper is to dissipate the accumulated fatigue
(enabling performance-enhancing adaptations to become apparent), rather
than advance the athlete’s level of fitness (Mujika & Padilla, 2003).
Significant improvements after tapering have been reported in numerous
sports and 
Table 8.7
 summarises the associated performance gains as

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
summarised by Wilson and Wilson (2008).
TABLE 8.7
 
Summary of performance gains following a taper. 
Adapted from the review
of Wilson and Wilson (2008)
5–6% improvements in criterion competition performance gains.
Up to 20% increases in neuromuscular function (i.e., strength and power).
10–25% increases in cross sectional area of muscle tissue.
1–9% improvements in VO
2
max (this is likely a consequence of hypervolemia, up to
a 15% increase in RBC production and increases oxidative enzyme activity).
Up to an 8% increase in running economy.
Serum TST may increase by 5%, with a corresponding 5% decrease in cortisol.
Catecholamines may be reduced by up to 20%.
Reduced creatine kinase concentrations (suggestive of decreased muscle damage
following a workout).
A 10% increase in anti-inflammatory immune cells, with a concomitant decrease in
inflammatory cytokines.
Increased muscle glycogen stores (17–34%; often proportional to the reduction in
volume load) especially following CHO loading. 
However, care should be taken to
match energy intake with the reduced energy expenditure that characterises the taper.
Reduced RPE, depression, anger and anxiety and increased vigour.
Decreased sleep disturbances.
TAPER STRATEGIES
Generally three types of taper are used: a step taper, a linear taper and an
exponential taper (
Figure 8.12
). 
A step taper involves an immediate and
abrupt decrease in training volume, e.g., decreasing the volume load by 50%
on the first day of the taper and maintaining this throughout. 
A linear taper
involves gradually decreasing the volume load in a linear fashion, e.g., by 5%
of initial values every workout. 
The exponential taper decreases volume at a
rate proportional to its current value (half-life), e.g., by 5% of the previous
sessions values every workout. 
In addition, exponential tapers can have fast
or slow decay rates. 
Also, Bosquet et al. 
(2007) suggested an additional taper,
referred to as a ‘‘2-phase taper’’ which involves a classical reduction in the

training load, followed by a moderate increase during the last days of the
taper (
Figure 8.13
). 
The objective of this strategy is to reduce the athlete’s
fatigue before the reintroduction of more prolonged or intense efforts. 
The
efficacy of the 2-phase taper maybe gleaned from anecdotal observations of
the progressive improvement in performance often observed in an athlete
from the first round of a competition to the final (Thomas, Mujika, & Busso,
2009). 
This form of taper requires further investigation.
THE OPTIMAL TAPER STRATEGY
As previously mentioned, a taper involves either a reduction in the volume
load or a reduction of a combination of the moderators of training, i.e.,
intensity, volume and frequency. 
The optimal manipulation of these variables
may be best evidenced from the meta-analysis conducted by Bosquet et al.
(2007); 
Table 8.8
 summaries their findings measured as effect sizes, for
which the scale proposed by Cohen (1988) was used in their interpretation.
Accordingly, the magnitude of the difference was considered small (0.2),
moderate (0.5) or large (0.8).


FIGURE 8.12
FIGURE 8.13
Schematic representation of the three principle tapering strategies.
Adapted from Mujika and Padilla (2003).
Schematic representation of the 2-phase taper. 
Adapted from Thomas et
al. 
(2009).
TABLE 8.8
 
Effect of training variables on the effect size of taper-induced performance
adaptations. 
Data from Bosquet et al. 
(2007)
Variable
Effect size
95% CI
p
↓ in volume
≤20%
–0.02
–0.32–0.27
0.88
21–40%
  0.27
  0.04–0.49
0.02
41–60%
  0.72
  0.04–1.09
0.0001
≥60%
  0.27
–0.03–0.06
0.07
↓ in intensity
Yes
–0.02
–0.04–0.33
0.91
No
  0.33
  0.19–0.47
0.0001
↓ in frequency
Yes
  0.24
–0.03–0.52
0.08

No
  0.35
  0.18–0.51
0.0001
Duration of taper
≤7 d
  0.17
–0.05–0.38
0.14
8–14 d
  0.59
  0.26–0.92
0.0005
15–21 d
  0.28
–0.02–0.59
0.07
≥ 22
  0.31
  0.14–0.75
0.18
Pattern of taper
Step
  0.42
–0.11–0.95
0.12
Progressive
  0.30
  0.16–0.45
0.0001
Notes:
 CI = Confidence intervals; P = significance value; . 
= magnitude of the difference
was considered small (0.2), moderate (0.5) or large (0.8)
The results from Bosquet et al. 
(2007) revealed that the optimal taper is
two weeks in duration and consists of exponentially reducing the volume of
training by 41
–
61%, whilst maintaining both the intensity and frequency of
sessions. 
It should be noted that the large variability between studies, as
suggested by 95% confidence intervals, suggests that not all athletes will
respond favourably to this taper prescription, which may be attributable to the
differences in training status and accumulated fatigue prior to the taper, i.e.,
greater volume reductions are necessary when previous training durations are
longer and more intense.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION
Periodisation represents an optimal strategy for organising S&C programmes.
The selected strategy (i.e., basic, intermediate, advanced, non-traditional)
should be based on the level of the athlete and the constraints of the
competitive season. 
A common theme throughout all periodisation protocols
is the need to manipulate volume loads, progress from general to specific
training and to dissipate fatigue, where pre-competition tapers appear
evidently beneficial. 
Also, the use of a taper appears to produce an additional
supercompensation effect following the accumulated fatigue of the preceding
training programme. 
For sports engaged in infrequent competition, traditional

periodisation may be best. 
For team sports with long seasons and frequent
competitions, non-traditional periodisation may better suit the demands
placed on the athletes, with a reduction in volume but not intensity in the
training session immediately prior to competition.
REFERENCES
Aldercrentz, H., Harkonen, M., Kuoppasalmi, K., Naveri, H., Huhtaniemi, I., Tikkanen, H.,
et al. 
(1986). 
Effect of training on plasma anabolic and catabolic steroid hormones and
their response during physical training. 
International Journal of Sports Medicine
, 
7
, 27–
28.
Bompa, T. 
& Haff, G. 
(2009). 
Periodiasation. 
Theory and methodology of training
 (5th
ed.). 
Champaign, IL, USA: Human Kinetics.
Bosquet, L., Montpetit, J., Arvisais, D., & Mujika, I. 
(2007). 
Effects of tapering on
performance: A meta-analysis. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise
, 
39
, 1358–
1365.
Chiu, L. 
& Barnes, J. 
(2003). 
The fitness-fatigue model revisited: Implications for planning
short- and longterm training. 
Strength and Conditioning Journal
, 
25
, 42–51.
Cissik, J., Hedrick, A., & Barnes, M. 
(2008). 
Challenges applying research on
periodisation. 
Strength and Conditioning Journal
, 
30
, 45–51.
Cohen, J. 
(1988). 
Statistical Power Analysis for the Behavioral Sciences.
 Hillsdale, NJ,
USA: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Durell, D., Puyol, T., & Barnes, J. 
(2003). 
A survey of the scientific data and training
methods utilized by collegiate strength and conditioning coaches. 
Journal of Strength
and Conditioning Research
, 
17
, 368–373.
Ebben, W. 
& Blackard, D. 
(2001). 
Strength and conditioning practices of National Football
League strength and conditioning coaches. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning
Research
, 
15
, 48–58.
Ebben, W., Carroll, R., & Simenz, C. 
(2004). 
Strength and conditioning practices of
National Hockey League strength and conditioning coaches. 
Journal of Strength and
Conditioning Research
, 
18
, 889–897.
Ebben, W., Hintz, M., & Simenz, C. 
(2005). 
Strength and conditioning practices of Major
League Baseball strength and conditioning coaches. 
Journal of Strength and
Conditioning Research
, 
19
, 538–546.
Fleck, S. 
(1999). 
Periodized strength training: a critical review. 
Journal of Strength and
Conditioning Research
, 
13
, 82–89.
Foster, C. 
(1998). 
Monitoring training in athletes with reference to overtraining syndrome.
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise
, 
30
, 1164–1168.
Fry, A. 
& Kraemer, W. 
(1997). 
Resistance exercise overtraining and overreaching:
Neuroendocrine responses. 
Sports Medicine
, 
23
, 106–129.
Fry, A., Kraemer, W., Stone, M., Koziris, L., Thrush, J., & Fleck, S. 
(2000a). 
Relationships

between serum testosterone, cortisol, and weightlifting performance. 
Journal of Strength
and Conditioning Research
, 
14
, 338–343.
Fry, A., Webber, J., Weiss, L., Fry, M., & Li, Y. 
(2000b). 
Impaired performances with
excessive high-intensity free-weight training. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning
Research
, 
14
, 34–61.
Fry, R., Morton, A., & Kreast, D. 
(1992). 
Periodization of training stress. 
Canadian
Journal of Sports Science
, 
17
, 234–240.
Gamble, P. 
(2004). 
A skill-based conditioning games approach to metabolic conditioning
for elite rugby football players. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research
, 
18
,
491–497.
Gamble, P. 
(2007). 
Challenges and game-related solutions to metabolic conditioning for
team sports athletes. 
Strength and Conditioning Journal
, 
29
, 60–65.
Gamble, P. 
(2006). 
Periodisation of training for team sports. 
Strength and Conditioning
Journal
, 
28
, 56–66.
Haff, G. 
(2004a). 
Roundtable discussion: Periodization of training – Part 1. 
Strength and
Conditioning Journal
, 
26
, 50–69.
Haff, G. 
(2004b). 
Roundtable discussion: Periodization of training – Part 2. 
Strength and
Conditioning Journal
, 
26
, 56–70.
Hakkinen, K. 
(1989). 
Neuromuscular and hormonal adaptations during strength and power
training: A review. 
Journal of Sports Medicine and Physical Fitness
, 
29
, 9–26.
Hakkinen, K., Pakarinen, A., Alen, M., Kauhanen, H., & Komi, P. 
(1988). 
Neuromuscular
and hormonal adaptations in athletes to strength training in two years. 
Journal of
Applied Physiology
, 
65
, 2406–2412.
Hoffman, J., Kraemer, W., Fry, A., Deschenes, M., & Kemp, M. 
(1990). 
The effects of
self-selection for frequency of training in a winter conditioning program for football.
Journal of Applied Sport Science and Research
, 
4
, 76–82.
Izquierdo, M., Ibanez, J., Gonzalez-Badillo, J., Ratamess, N., Kraemer, W., Hakkinen, K.,
et al. 
(2007). 
Detraining and tapering effects on hormonal responses and strength
performance. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research
, 
21
, 768–777.
Jones, L. 
(1991). 
Do Bulgarian methods lead the way for USA? 
Weightlift. 
U.S.A
., 9, 10–
11.
Kraemer, W., Fleck, S., Callister, R., Shealy, M., Dudley, G., Maresh, C., et al. 
(1989).
Training responses of plasma betaendorphin, adrenocorticotropin, and cortisol. 
Medicine
and Science in Sports and Exercise
, 
21
, 146–153.
Kraemer, W., French, D., Paxton, N., Hakkinen, K., Volek, J., Sebastianelli, W., et al.
(2004a). 
Changes in exercise performance and hormonal concentrations over a Big Ten
soccer season in starters and nonstarters. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning
Research
, 
18
, 121–128.
Kraemer, W., Häkkinen, K., Triplett-Mcbride, N., Fry, A., Koziris, L., Ratamess, N., et al.
(2003). 
Physiological changes with periodized resistance training in women tennis
players. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise
, 
35
, 157–168.
Kraemer, W., Nindl, B., Ratamess, N., Gotshalk, L., Volek, J., Fleck, S., et al. 
(2004b).
Changes in muscle hypertrophy in women with periodized resistance training. 
Medicine

and Science in Sports and Exercise
, 
36
, 697–708.
Kraemer, W., Ratamess, N., Fry, A., Triplett-McBride, T., Koziris, L., Bauer, J., et al.
(2000). 
Influence of resistance training volume and periodization on physiological and
performance adaptations in collegiate women tennis players. 
American Journal of
Sports Medicine
, 
28
, 626–633.
Matveyev, L. 
(1972). 
Periodisierang des SprotichenTraining.
 Berlin, Germany: Berles and
Wernitz.
Matveyev, L. 
(1977). 
Fundamentals of sport training. 
Fizkultura i Sport, Moscow
.
Mujika, I. 
& Padilla, S. 
(2003). 
Scientific bases for precompetition tapering strategies.
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise
, 
35
, 1182–1187.
Pendalay, G. 
& Kilgore, L. 
(2001). 
Hormonal fluctuation: A new method for the
programming of training. 
Weightlift. 
U.S.A.
, 
19
, 15.
Plisk, S. 
& Gambetta, V. 
(1997). 
Tactical metabolic training: Part 1. 
Strength and
Conditioning Journal
, 
19
, 44–53.
Plisk, S. 
& Stone, M. 
(2003). 
Periodisation strategies. 
Strength and Conditioning Journal
,
25
, 19–37.
Ratamess, N., Kraemer, W., Volek, J., Rubin, M., Gomez, A., French, D., et al. 
(2003). 
The
effects of amino acid supplementation on muscular performance during resistance
training overreaching. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research
, 
17
, 250–258.
Schoenfeld, B., Ratamess, N., Peterson, M., Contreras, B., Sonmez, G., & Alvar, B. 
(2014).
Effects of different volume-equated resistance training loading strategies on muscular
adaptations in well-trained men. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 
28
(10), 2909–2918.
Selye, H. 
(1956). 
The Stress of Life.
 New York, USA: McGraw-Hill.
Simenz, C., Dugan, C., & Ebben, W. 
(2005). 
Strength and conditioning practices of
National Basketball Association strength and conditioning coaches. 
Journal of Strength
and Conditioning Research
, 
19
, 495–504.
Stone, M., & Fry, A. 
(1998). 
Increased training volume in strength/power athletes. 
In R.
Kreider, A. 
Fry, & M. 
O’Toole, 
Overtraining in Sport
. 
Champaign, IL, USA: Human
Kinetics. 
87–105.
Stone, M., Keith, R., Kearney, J., Fleck, S., Wilson, G., & Triplett, N. 
(1991).
Overtraining: A review of the signs, symptoms and possible causes. 
Journal of Applied
Sports Science Research
, 
5
, 35–50.
Stone, M., O’Bryant, H., Schilling, B., Johnson, R., Pierce, K., Haff, G., et al. 
(1999a).
Periodization. 
Part 1: Effects of manipulating volume and intensity. 
Strength and
Conditioning Journal
, 
21
, 56–62.
Stone, M., O’Bryant, H., Schilling, B., Johnson, R., Pierce, K., Haff, G., et al. 
(1999b).
Periodization. 
Part 2: Effects of manipulating volume and intensity. 
Strength and
Conditioning Journal
, 
21
, 54–60.
Stone, M., Potteiger, J., Pierce, K., Proulx, C., O’Bryant, H., Johnson, R., et al. 
(2000).
Comparison of the effects of three different weight-training programs on the one
repetition maximum squat. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research
, 
14
, 332–
333.

Stone, M., Stone, M., & Sands, W. 
(2007). 
Principles and practice or resistance training.
USA: Human Kinetics.
Suchomel, T., Comfort, P., & Lake, J. 
(2017). 
Enhancing the force-velocity profile of
athletes using weightlifting derivatives. 
Strength & Conditioning Journal
, 
39
 (1), 10–20.
Suchomel, T., Comfort, P., & Stone, M. 
(2015). 
Weightlifting pulling derivatives:
Rationale for implementation and application. 
Sports Medicine
, 
45
 (6), 823–839.
Thomas, L., Mujika, I., & Busso, T. 
(2009). 
Computer simulations assessing the potential
performance benefit of a final increase in training during pre-event taper. 
Journal of
Strength and Conditioning Research
, 
23
, 1729–1736.
Tufano, J., Conlon, J., Nimphius, S., Brown, L., Banyard, H., Williamson, B., et al. 
(2016).
Cluster sets permit greater mechanical stress without decreasing relative velocity.
International Journal of Sports Physiology and Performance
, 1–24.
Verkhoshansky, Y. 
(1986). 
Fundamentals of Special Strength Training in Sport.
 Livonia,
MI, USA: Sportivny Press.
Verkhoshansky, Y. 
(1981). 
How to set up a training program in speed strength events.
Soviet Sports Review
, 
16
, 123–126.
Verkhoshansky, Y. 
(1979). 
Principles of planning speed/strength training program in track
athletes. 
Legaya Athleticka
, 8–10.
Verkhoshansky, Y. 
(1988). 
Programming and Organization of Training.
 Livonia, MI,
USA: Sportivny Press.
Wilson, J., & Wilson, G. 
(2008). 
A practical approach to the taper. 
Strength and
Conditioning Journal
, 
30
, 10–17.
Zatsiorsky, V., & Kraemer, W. 
(2006). 
Science and Practice of Strength Training
 (2nd
ed.). 
Human Kinetics.

CHAPTER 9
Workload monitoring and athlete
management
Tim J. 
Gabbett
THEORY OF TRAINING MONITORING AND THE
“OPTIMUM” TRAINING DOSE
Physical capacity can be improved by means of the biological adaptation
feature common amongst living species (Bompa, 1983). 
Stress, defined as a
disturbance from “normal”, in a biological system stimulates adaptive
responses to restore homeostasis beyond recovery until super-compensation
is attained (Selye, 1956). 
Selye (1956) described this as the general
adaptation syndrome, where a stressor results in a sequence of responses
(
Figure 9.1
). 
The initial response is a negative ‘alarm stage’ where the
physiological state is diminished (fatigue). 
With adequate recovery, there is a
positive resistance response where regeneration occurs, resulting in a super-
compensation effect (fitness) (Bompa, 1983; Budgett, 1990; Matveyev, 1981;
Morton, 1997). 
However, if the stress is greater than the organism’s adaptive
capabilities, exhaustion occurs. 
The response phase is considered to be
proportionate to the magnitude of the stimulus, and with sufficient
regeneration, leads to an improved condition (
Figure 9.2
).

FIGURE 9.1
FIGURE 9.2
Biological adaptation through cycles of loading and recovery (adapted
from Meeusen, 2013 and Soligard et al., 2016).
Biological maladaptation through cycles of excessive loading and/or
inadequate recovery (adapted from Meeusen et al., 2013 and Soligard et
al., 2016).
An extension of this theory is the Fitness-Fatigue model presented by

Banister and colleagues (1975). 
These authors proposed that performance
could be determined from the interaction of fitness and fatigue. 
They
contended that an exercise stimulus induces two responses, indicated by a
positive (fitness) and negative (fatigue) function. 
However, these responses
differ in magnitude and duration, fitness having a smaller magnitude but
longer duration (Zatsiorsky & Kraemer, 1995). 
Provided enough time is
given for the negative effect of fatigue to subside between exercise bouts, the
cumulative fitness effects of long term training will lead to improved physical
capacity (Bompa & Haff, 1999). 
It has also been proposed that there are
fitness and fatigue effects on more than one system of the body (Chiu &
Barnes, 2003). 
Specific stimuli will have different fatigue responses (e.g.,
musculoskeletal, metabolic, and immunological) and it is the summation of
the after-effects of fitness and fatigue on all of these systems that ultimately
represents preparedness (i.e., physical capacity). 
While the individual fitness
and fatigue after-effects are independent, attention must be paid to the
potential combined and interacting effect of these two factors.
Physical training is necessary to enhance physical capacity; however,
adequate periods of recovery are required in order for sufficient regeneration
to occur (Budgett, 1990; Meeusen et al., 2006). 
If a training stress is
inadequate, overload will not be achieved and neither will any adaptive
response, and therefore athletes will fail to improve their physical condition,
whereas a training stress that is too high, and/or with inadequate recovery,
will have the negative effects of fatigue accumulation, leading to reduced
performance potential (Busso, 2003). 
Prescribing the optimum training and
recovery doses poses a considerable challenge for coaches, sport scientists,
and strength and conditioning staff.
Overreaching and overtraining
A negative training state can occur when inadequate recovery is provided in
response to physical training programs (Fry, Morton, & Keast, 1991; Kenttä,
G., & Hassmén, 1998). 
The continuous nature and unclear turning point
between the positive (performance enhancement) and negative (performance
decrement) aspects of training and over-reaching makes overtraining difficult
to diagnose (Fry et al., 1991; Kuipers & Keizer, 1988).
For the context of this review, overtraining is used to describe an

imbalance between stress (training and non-training) and recovery (Lehmann
et al., 1999; Richardson et al., 2008). 
Successful application of overtraining,
deliberately aiming to stimulate physiological adaptations, is considered
functional overreaching (outcome) (Zatsiorsky & Kraemer, 1995). 
Functional
overreaching may involve transient performance incompetence, due to the
induced fatigue, but results in an improved condition following short-term
recovery periods (days or weeks) (Meeusen et al., 2006). 
Performance failing
to rebound following prolonged intense training and insufficient recovery is
termed non-functional overreaching (Meeusen et al., 2006). 
Amongst the
plethora of research investigating the signs and symptoms of non-functional
overreaching, a gold-standard diagnosis is lacking (Meeusen et al., 2006).
Indicators of non-functional overreaching include performance decrements,
severe physical and psychological fatigue including muscle soreness, overuse
injuries, and increases in perceived effort, all of which may persist for
months (Fry et al., 1991; Meeusen et al., 2006). 
Furthermore, physiological
symptoms such as endocrine changes, increases in heart rate (HR),
ventilation and blood lactate concentration for a given workload, increases in
resting HR and the slow return of HR after exercise, decrease in maximal
oxygen consumption (VO
2
 max), decreases in sub-maximal and maximal
blood lactate concentration, and decreased work capacity are observed
(Kenttä & Hassmén, 1998; Kuipers & Keizer, 1988). 
Importantly, separating
acute changes to homeostasis as a response to overtraining from symptoms of
non-functional overreaching is dependent on the timing of the assessment.
Overtraining syndrome is the end state of chronic non-functional
overreaching with sport-specific performance decrements accompanied by
psychological symptoms in the absence of a diagnosable medical condition
(Fry et al., 1991). 
The defining symptom is the inability to correct these with
periods of recovery (i.e., the need for complete long-term rest of months or
even years). 
Overtraining syndrome has also been linked to a range of
sympathetic and parasympathetic symptoms (Kuipers & Keizer, 1988;
Lehmann et al., 1999). 
The sympathetic symptoms relate to increased
sympathetic nervous system activity at rest, such as increased HR, potentially
leading to restlessness and excitation (Kuipers & Keizer, 1988). 
On the other
hand, the parasympathetic symptoms are characterized by a predominance in
vagal tone or adrenal insufficiency and dominating parasympathetic activity
at rest and during exercise (e.g., reduced HR) related to inhibition and
depression (Kuipers & Keizer, 1988). 
Similarly to non-functional

FIGURE 9.3
overreaching, the continuous nature of overtraining limits the ability of these
isolated symptoms to differentiate overtraining syndrome from overtraining.
However, while some physiological and biochemical markers have been
shown to confirm staleness, they fail to prevent it due to the continuous
nature of overtraining and the delayed feedback often associated with such
measures (e.g., time for laboratory analysis) (Hooper & Mackinnon, 1995;
Kellmann, 2010).
Well-being continuum (adapted from Fry et al., 1991).
The equivocal data surrounding physiological, biochemical, and
immunological measures, and their lack of feasibility and inability to separate
functional and non-functional overreaching, restricts their application. 
As
such, currently the most effective and practical way of detecting non-
functional overreaching or overtraining syndrome is thought to be via
psychological markers and/or performance decrements (Saw et al., 2016).
Coaches must carefully monitor athlete workloads and symptoms of well-
being in order to adjust the training stimulus when required, and reach a
balance between adequate training, under-training, and over-training (
Figure
9.3
).
External and internal workloads
Sport scientists typically obtain measurements of a prescribed 
external
training load (i.e., physical ‘work’), accompanied by an 
internal
 training load
(i.e., physiological or perceptual ‘response’). 
External training loads may
include total distance run, the weight lifted, or the number and intensity of
sprints, jumps, or collisions (to name a few). 
Internal training loads include
ratings of perceived exertion and heart rate. 
The individual characteristics of
the athlete (e.g., chronological age, training age, injury history, and physical

capacity) combined with the applied external and internal training loads
determine the training outcome (Impellizzeri et al., 2005).
For example, identical external training loads could elicit considerably
different internal training loads in two athletes with vastly different individual
characteristics; the training stimulus may be appropriate for one athlete, but
inappropriate (either too high or too low) for another. 
An overweight, middle-
aged male will have very different physiological and perceptual responses to
an 800m effort than a trained runner. 
Although the external training load is
identical, the internal training load will be much higher in the older, unfit
individual! 
As the dose-response to training varies between individuals,
training should be prescribed on an individual basis.
MYTHS AND MISCONCEPTIONS
Can workload information really be used to “predict”
injury?
Given the relationship between athlete workloads and injury, a logical
assumption is that workload data could be used to “predict” when an athlete
is at risk of injury. 
Over a two-year period, we used the session-RPE (rating
of perceived exertion) to model the relationship between training loads and
the likelihood of injury in elite rugby league players (Gabbett, 2010).
Training load and injury data were modelled using a logistic regression
model with a binomial distribution (injury vs. 
no injury) and logit link
function, with data divided into pre-season, early competition, and late
competition phases.

FIGURE 9.4
Relationship between training load, training phase, and likelihood of
injury in elite rugby league players (adapted from Gabbett, 2016). 
The
competitive phase of the season was divided in half to calculate the
likelihood of injury during the “early competition” and “late
competition” phases.
Players were 50–80% likely to sustain a pre-season injury within the
weekly training load range of 3,000 to 5,000 arbitrary units [RPE x minutes,
as above]. 
These training load ‘thresholds’ for injury were considerably lower
(1,700 to 3,000 session-RPE units/week) in the competitive phase of the
season. 
Importantly, on the steep portion of the sigmoidal training load-injury
curve, very small changes in training load resulted in very large changes in
injury risk (
Figure 9.4
).
Training load and injury data were prospectively recorded over a further
two competitive seasons in those elite rugby league players. 
An injury
prediction model based on planned and actual training loads was developed
and implemented to determine if non-contact, soft-tissue injuries could be
predicted. 
One-hundred and fifty-nine non-contact, soft-tissue injuries were
sustained over those two seasons. 
The percentage of true positive predictions
was 62% (
N
 = 121) and the false positive and false negative predictions were
13% (
N
 = 20) and 11% (
N
 = 18), respectively. 
Players who exceeded the
weekly training load threshold were 70 times more likely to test positive for

FIGURE 9.5
non-contact, soft-tissue injury, while players who did not exceed the training
load threshold were injured 1/10 as often. 
Furthermore, following the
introduction of this model, the incidence of non-contact, soft-tissue injuries
was halved (
Figure 9.5
).
We also analyzed the prevalence of injury and the predictive ratios
obtained from the model. 
The prevalence of injury in this sample of
professional rugby league players was 8.6%. 
If the predictive equation was
positive for a given player, the likelihood of injury increased from 8.6% to
86%, and if the results of the test were negative, the likelihood of injury
decreased from 8.6% to 0.1%. 
Furthermore, 87% (121 from 139 injuries) of
the 8.6% of players who sustained an injury were correctly identified by the
injury prediction model.
Incidence of new and recurrent injuries before (2006–2007) and after
(2008–2009) the introduction of an injury prediction model designed to
reduce training load-related injuries (adapted from Gabbett, 2010).
It is important to recognize that injury “
prediction
” does not mean that
injuries can be determined with Nostradamus-like precision! 
Workload-injury
models are based on probabilities; i.e., based on the known relationship

between workload and injury, at a given workload (for a given player and
point in time), what is the 
likelihood
 of injury? 
Although several
commercially available software programs claim to predict training load-
related injuries, to date, our study is the only one to predict injury based on
workload data, apply that model in a high performance sporting environment,
and then report the results in a peer-reviewed journal. 
We acknowledge that
any regression model that predicts injury is best suited to the population from
which it is derived, and that non-linear models 
may
 have greater utility than
linear models. 
In addition, caution should be applied when extrapolating
these results to other sports and populations. 
Despite this potential limitation,
these findings provide information on the training dose-response relationship
in elite rugby league players, and a scientific method of monitoring and
regulating training load in these athletes. 
Importantly, in a team environment,
this approach allows players to be managed on an individual basis.
Is there a “gold standard” workload measure?
With so many diverse external and internal load monitoring tools available, a
question commonly asked is, “what ‘metrics’ should I measure?” 
The answer
to this question will depend largely on the sport. 
For example, despite both
athletes being required to run and throw, high speed running metres is a
meaningless metric for baseball pitchers, as is the total number of throws for
a football goal-keeper. 
It is likely that the most appropriate metrics will be
associated with performance as well as injury risk. 
In all likelihood, the
optimal measures for each sport, and perhaps each individual, have not yet
been described.
It needs to be recalled that the demands of the match will be specific to
individual tissues and energy systems for any given athlete’s role within any
given sport. 
The rate-limiting tissue and/or energy systems need to be
targeted first and foremost both during preparation and monitoring. 
High
chronic training loads on an exercise bike are not the same as high chronic
over ground sprinting loads as they will induce different changes in the
musculature of the thigh. 
If the ultimate aim of the sport is repeated-sprint
ability, then accrual of high chronic cycling loads (at the expense of high
speed running) are likely to reduce performance and increase injury risk.
The session-RPE is most likely the simplest loading metric to apply to

athletes across team and individual sports. 
Increasingly advanced
technological solutions are becoming available at an astonishing rate, with
many claims being made regarding the veracity of standard and novel
measurements. 
When considering the purpose of these metrics, we need to
return to the primary aims of describing appropriate loads to maximize
physical improvement while simultaneously minimizing injury risk. 
In many
situations (e.g., in sub-elite populations), it would appear that the added
accuracy provided by the more complex measures are clinically insignificant,
and quite possibly not worth the additional investment. 
As technology
continues to improve, this statement will almost certainly need revision, but
before investing in expensive technology, performance and medical staff
should consider the demands of the sport and whether the technology can
measure the critical “metrics” for the sport in question.
Are subjective measures really that valuable?
In a recent systematic review, Saw et al. 
(2016) reported a poor relationship
between subjective and objective markers of athlete well-being. 
However,
subjective measures reflected acute and chronic training loads with superior
sensitivity and consistency to objective measures. 
Subjective well-being was
typically impaired with an acute increase in training load, and also with
chronic training, while an acute decrease in training load improved subjective
well-being. 
Collectively, these results suggest that subjective markers may
provide greater insight into athlete status than objective markers.
Successful implementation of any subjective reporting, be it athlete well-
being or session-RPE, is dependent on effective relationships and honest
communication between the athlete and coaching staff. 
Despite the evidence
demonstrating that subjective markers may be useful in the athlete
monitoring process, the success of these processes are contingent on athlete
compliance (i.e., the athlete completing the surveys when required). 
In
addition, a degree of skepticism surrounds both the “honesty” of athlete
responses (from coaching staff) and “what is actually done with the results”
(from athletes). 
An obvious, but perhaps poorly understood, consideration
with the collection of training load and well-being data is that the data
collection alone is not the “end-point” and will not guarantee a positive
training outcome. 
Effective use of this information requires both appropriate

analysis of the data and interpretation within the context of the training plan
(e.g., injury and training history, stage of season, microcycle, etc.).
“FACTS” ABOUT WORKLOAD MONITORING –
WHAT DOES THE EVIDENCE SAY?
All practitioners involved in the training process (e.g., coaches,
physiotherapists, and strength and conditioning staff) are interested in
identifying the optimum amount of training to elicit specific performance
levels. 
This training “dose-response” relationship is analogous to
pharmacological studies where chemists wish to understand the positive and
negative effects of a particular drug. 
Sport scientists understand that
physically hard training is required in order to prepare athletes for the
demands of competition, but are also aware that excessive loading can result
in increased injury risk.
Early research reported a positive relationship between training load and
injury, suggesting that the harder athletes train the more injuries they are
likely to sustain (Gabbett, 2004a; Gabbett & Domrow, 2007). 
Furthermore,
greater amounts of high-speed running have been associated with greater
lower-body, soft-tissue injury risk (Gabbett & Ullah, 2012), while reductions
in training load resulted in fewer injuries and greater improvements in
aerobic fitness (Gabbett, 2004b). 
However, in more recent times, a significant
body of evidence has emerged to demonstrate that high chronic training loads
may protect athletes against injury (Hulin et al., 2014; 2016a and 2016b;
Gabbett, 2016; Soligard et al., 2016; Murray et al., 2016b; Windt et al.,
2016). 
Collectively, these results suggest that training load might best be
described as the “vehicle” that drives athletes towards 
or away from
 injury
(Windt & Gabbett, 2016).
In the first study to demonstrate the protective effect of high training
loads, Hulin et al. 
(2014) reported that cricket fast bowlers who bowled a
greater number of balls over a four week period (i.e., 
chronic training load
)
had a lower risk of injury than bowlers who bowled fewer balls. 
These
findings have subsequently been replicated across a wide range of sports
(e.g., rugby league, Australian football, Gaelic football) (Hulin et al., 2016a
and 2016b; Murray et al., 2016a; Malone et al., 2016a and 2016b).
Importantly, the best predictor of injury was the size of the current week’s

FIGURE 9.6
training load (termed 
acute training load
) in relation to the chronic training
load. 
We have termed this the “
acute:chronic workload ratio
” (also
previously referred to as “training-stress balance”) (Gabbett, 2016). 
When the
acute:chronic workload ratio was within the range of 0.8 to 1.3 (i.e., the acute
training load was approximately equal to the chronic training load), the risk
of injury was relatively low. 
However, when the acute:chronic workload ratio
≥1.5 (i.e., the acute training load was much greater than chronic training
load), the risk of injury increased exponentially (
Figure 9.6
) (Blanch &
Gabbett, 2016). 
The protective effect of training appears to arise from two
sources: (1) exposure to “load” allows the body to tolerate “load”, and (2)
training develops the physical qualities (e.g., strength, prolonged high-
intensity running ability, and aerobic fitness) that are associated with a
reduced injury risk (Gabbett & Domrow, 2005; Gabbett et al., 2012; Malone
et al., 2016a). 
There are several methods available to calculate the
acute:chronic workload ratio including the use of rolling averages (Gabbett,
2016), exponentially-weighted moving averages (Murray et al., 2016a;
Williams et al., 2016), different acute and chronic loading windows (Carey et
al., 2016), and daily calculations. 
An example of how to calculate the
acute:chronic workload ratio on a weekly basis is provided in 
Table 9.1
.
The acute:chronic workload ratio and likelihood of injury (adapted from
Gabbett, 2016). 
Although it is simple to recognize that large “spikes” in
workload lead to increases in injury risk, it is possible that large
“troughs” in workload may also increase injury risk. 
The circled region

of the figure highlights injury risk with large reductions in workload. 
It
appears that large “troughs” in workload may also increase injury risk,
indicating that both overtraining and undertraining may increase injury
risk. 
There are two possible explanations for this finding: (1)
undertraining leaves athletes underprepared for competition demands,
and (2) “troughs” in workload generally precede “spikes” in workload.
One final point has been underemphasized within the training load-injury
literature. 
Although “spikes” in training load may contribute to injuries,
undertraining and “troughs” in training load may elicit similar negative
consequences (see circled area in 
Figure 9.6
). 
For example, a “U”-shaped
relationship between the number of maximal velocity exposures and injury
risk has been shown in team sport athletes; both over- 
and under-training
increased injury likelihood (Malone et al., 2016b) (
Figure 9.7
). 
The risk
associated with exposure to maximal velocity running is mitigated through
exposure to high chronic training loads (Malone et al., 2016b) (
Figure 9.8
).
Of course, coaches need to be sensible in their approach towards exposing
athletes to high velocities. 
Allowing adequate recovery (at least two days, but
more likely three days) following a match and prior to the next match is
critical. 
Equally, the timing of exposures within a session is important to
consider. 
The general consensus is to perform speed training at the beginning
of a session and earlier in the training week (following a period of recovery),
when athletes are in the most recovered state.
These results have three important practical implications: (1) high chronic
training loads may protect against injury, (2) athletes are better able to
tolerate the high-intensity components of training if they have been exposed
to higher chronic training loads, and (3) the acute:chronic workload ratio is a
greater predictor of injury than either acute or chronic load in isolation.
TABLE 9.1
 
An example of the acute:chronic workload ratio calculation using weekly
rolling averages. 
Several methods have been proposed to calculate the acute:chronic
workload ratio. 
The reader is encouraged to consult individual studies to evaluate the
relative merit of these methods. 
Note that the variable used to monitor workload will
depend on the sport. 
For example, high-speed running may be important for football
players, while the number of pitches thrown may be the important workload variable for
a baseball pitcher. 
For the purpose of this table, total weekly distance (kilometres) has
been chosen as the workload variable of interest. 
A “spike” in workload in week 7
resulted in an acute:chronic workload ratio of 1.35 which may put the athlete at
increased risk of injury

FIGURE 9.7
Training Week
Acute Workload
Chronic
Workload
Acute:Chronic Workload
Ratio
Week 1
10 km
–
–
Week 2
12 km
–
–
Week 3
14 km
–
–
Week 4
15 km
12.75 km
1.18
Week 5
14 km
13.75 km
1.02
Week 6
20 km
15.75 km
1.27
Week 7
25 km
18.50 km
1.35
Week 8
22 km
20.25 km
1.09
Relationship between maximal velocity running and likelihood of injury
(adapted from Malone et al., 2016b).

FIGURE 9.8
Combined effect of chronic load history and maximal velocity exposure
on injury risk (adapted from Malone et al., 2016b).
SUMMARY
All members of a sport performance team, including coaches, strength and
conditioning, and medical staff, are interested in the optimum dose of training
required to achieve specific performance levels. 
On the one hand, too much
training may leave the athlete predisposed to excessive fatigue, while too
little training may result in the athlete being underprepared for the demands
of competition. 
Until recently, the optimum training load to maximize
performance and minimize injury risk has largely been a theoretical concept.
For example, despite common belief, it has been shown that high chronic
workloads may protect against injury as long as these workloads are achieved
safely. 
Recently, we have presented the acute:chronic workload ratio (i.e., the
size of the short-term workload, termed 
acute workload,
 in relation to the
workload performed over a longer period of time, termed 
chronic workload
)
as a means of safely progressing athlete training programs. 
Our findings have
shown that maintaining an acute:chronic workload ratio between 0.8 and 1.3
(i.e., slight decreases and increases in workload) results in minimal injury
risk, whereas large fluctuations (including spikes and troughs) in workload
result in large increases in injury risk. 
Despite these findings, it is important
to recognize that coaches (and support staff) are constantly evaluating the
risks and rewards of training, and that 
injury risk is not identical to injury
rate.
 Fluctuations in workload can arise from unplanned (e.g., poor session

and weekly planning or intense matches) and also planned (e.g., congested
fixture schedules, “shock blocks”) origins; while these spikes and troughs in
workload may carry increased risk, when prescribed as part of a well-planned
training program they may also elicit performance benefits.
REFERENCES
Banister, E. 
W., Calvert, T. 
W., Savage, M. 
V., & Bach, T. 
M. 
(1975). 
A systems model of
training for athletic performance. 
Australian Journal of Sports Medicine
, 
7
(3), 57–61.
Blanch, P. 
& Gabbett, T. 
J. 
(2016). 
Has the athlete trained enough to return to play safely?
The acute:chronic workload ratio permits clinicians to quantify a player’s risk of
subsequent injury. 
British Journal of Sports Medicine
, 50, 471–475.
Bompa, T. 
O. 
(1983). 
Theory and Methodology of Training: The Key to Athletic
Performance
. 
Dubuque, IA, USA: Kendall and Hunt Publishing Company.
Bompa, T. 
O. 
& Haff, G. 
G. 
(1999). 
Periodization: Theory and Methodology of Training
.
Champaign, IL, USA: Human Kinetics.
Budgett, R. 
(1990). 
Overtraining syndrome. 
British Journal of Sports Medicine
, 
24
(4),
231–236. 
doi:10.1136/bjsm.24.4.231
Busso, T. 
(2003). 
Variable dose-response relationship between exercise training and
performance. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise
, 
35
(7), 1188–1195.
Carey, D. 
L., Blanch, P., Ong, K. 
L., Crossley, K. 
M., Crow, J., & Morris, M. 
E. 
(2016).
Training loads and injury risk in Australian football-differing acute:chronic workload
ratios influence match injury risk. 
British Journal of Sports Medicine
, Oct 27. 
pii:
bjsports-2016-096309. 
doi: 10.1136/bjsports-2016-096309. 
[Epub ahead of print].
Chiu, L. 
Z. 
F., & Barnes, J. 
L. 
(2003). 
The Fitness-Fatigue model revisited: Implications
for planning short- and long-term training. 
Strength & Conditioning Journal
, 
25
(6), 42–
51. 
doi:10.1519/1533-4295(2003)025<0042:Tfmrif>2.0.Co;2
Fry, R. 
W., Morton, A. 
R., & Keast, D. 
(1991). 
Overtraining in athletes: An update. 
Sports
Medicine
, 
12
(1), 32–65.
Gabbett, T. 
J. 
(2004a). 
Influence of training and match intensity on injuries in rugby
league. 
Journal of Sports Sciences
, 22, 409–417.
Gabbett, T. 
J. 
(2004b). 
Reductions in pre-season training loads reduce training injury rates
in rugby league players. 
British Journal of Sports Medicine
, 38, 743–749.
Gabbett, T. 
J. 
(2010). 
The development and application of an injury prediction model for
noncontact, soft-tissue injuries in elite collision sport athletes. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 24,
2593–2603.
Gabbett, T. 
J. 
(2016). 
The training-injury prevention paradox: should athletes be training
smarter 
and
 harder? 
British Journal of Sports Medicine
, 50, 273–280.
Gabbett, T. 
J. 
& Domrow, N. 
(2005). 
Risk factors for injury in sub-elite rugby league
players. 
American Journal of Sports Medicine
, 33, 428–434.
Gabbett, T. 
J. 
& Domrow, N. 
(2007). 
Relationships between training load, injury, and

fitness in sub-elite collision sport athletes. 
Journal of Sports Sciences
, 25, 1507–1519.
Gabbett, T. 
J. 
& Ullah, S. 
(2012). 
Relationship between running loads and soft-tissue injury
in elite team sport athletes. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research
, 26, 953–
960.
Gabbett, T. 
J., Ullah, S., & Finch, C. 
F. 
(2012). 
Identifying risk factors for contact injury in
professional rugby league players – application of a Frailty model for recurrent injury.
Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport
, 15, 496–504.
Hooper, S. 
L. 
& Mackinnon, L. 
T. 
(1995). 
Monitoring overtraining in athletes:
Recommendations. 
Sports Medicine
, 
20
(5), 321–327. 
doi:10.2165/00007256-
199520050-00003
Hulin, B. 
T., Gabbett, T. 
J., Blanch, P., Chapman, P., Bailey, D., & Orchard, J. 
W. 
(2014).
Spikes in acute workload are associated with increased injury risk in elite cricket fast
bowlers. 
British Journal of Sports Medicine
, 48, 708–712.
Hulin, B. 
T., Gabbett, T. 
J., Caputi, P., Lawson, D. 
W., & Sampson, J. 
A. 
(2016a). 
Low
chronic workload and the acute:chronic workload ratio are more predictive of injury
than between-match recovery time: A two-season prospective cohort study in elite rugby
league players. 
British Journal of Sports Medicine
, (in press).
Hulin, B. 
T., Gabbett, T. 
J., Caputi, P., Lawson, D., & Sampson, J. 
A. 
(2016b). 
The
acute:chronic workload ratio predicts injury: High chronic workload may decrease
injury risk in elite rugby league players. 
British Journal of Sports Medicine
, 50, 231–
236.
Impellizeri, F. 
M., Rampinini, E., & Marcora, S. 
M. 
(2005). 
Physiological assessment of
aerobic training in soccer. 
Journal of Sports Sciences
, 23, 583–592.
Kellmann, M. 
(2010). 
Preventing overtraining in athletes in high-intensity sports and
stress/recovery monitoring. 
Scandinavian Journal of Medicine & Science in Sports
,
20(Suppl 2), 95–102. 
doi:10.1111/j.1600-0838.2010.01192.x
Kenttä, G. 
& Hassmén, P. 
(1998). 
Overtraining and recovery. 
Sports Medicine
, 26(1), 1–
16.
Killen, N. 
M., Gabbett, T. 
J. 
& Jenkins, D. 
G. 
(2010) Training loads and incidence of injury
during the preseason in professional rugby league players. 
Journal of Strength and
Conditioning Research
, 24, 2079–2084.
Kuipers, H. 
& Keizer, H. 
A. 
(1988). 
Overtraining in elite athletes: Review and directions
for the future. 
Sports Medicine
, 6, 79–92.
Lehmann, M., Foster, C., Gastmann, U., Keizer, H., & Steinacker, J. 
M. 
(Eds.). 
(1999).
Overload, Performance Incompetence, and Regeneration in Sport
. 
New York: Springer
US.
Malone, S., Roe, M., Doran, D. 
A., Gabbett, T. 
J., & Collins, K. 
D. 
(2017a). 
Aerobic
fitness and playing experience protect against spikes in workload: The role of the
acute:chronic workload ratio on injury risk in elite Gaelic football. 
International Journal
of Sports Physiology and Performance
, 12, 393–401.
Malone, S., Roe, M., Doran, D., Gabbett, T. 
J., and Collins, K. 
(2017b). 
High chronic
training loads and exposure to bouts of maximal velocity running reduce injury risk in
Gaelic football. 
Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport
, 20, 250–254.

Matveyev, L. 
(1981). 
Fundamentals of Sports Training
. 
Trans. 
A.P. 
Zdornykh. 
Moscow,
USSR: Progress Publishers.
Meeusen, R., Duclos, M., Foster, C., et al. 
(2013). 
Prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of
the overtraining syndrome: joint consensus statement of the European College of Sport
Science and the American College of Sports Medicine. 
Medicine and Science in Sports
and Exercise
, 45, 186–205.
Meeusen, R., Duclos, M., Gleeson, M., Rietjens, G., Steinacker, J., & Urhausen, A. 
(2006).
Prevention, diagnosis and treatment of the overtraining syndrome: ECSS position
statement ‘task force’. 
European Journal of Sport Science
, 6(1), 1–14.
Morton, R. 
H. 
(1997). 
Modelling training and overtraining. 
Journal of Sports Sciences
,
15(3), 335–340. 
doi:10.1080/026404197367344
Murray, N. 
B., Gabbett, T. 
J., Townshend, A. 
D., & Blanch, P. 
(2016a). 
Calculating
acute:chronic workload ratios using exponentially weighted moving averages provides a
more sensitive indicator of injury likelihood than rolling averages. 
British Journal of
Sports Medicine
, Dec 21. 
pii: bjsports-2016-097152. 
doi: 10.1136/bjsports-2016-
097152. 
[Epub ahead of print].
Murray, N. 
B., Gabbett, T. 
J., Townshend, A. 
D., Hulin, B. 
T., & McLellan, C.P. 
(2016b).
Individual and combined effects of acute and chronic running loads on injury risk in
elite Australian footballers. 
Scandinavian Journal of Sports Science and Medicine
, (in
press).
Richardson, S. 
O., Andersen, M. 
B., & Morris, T. 
(2008). 
Overtraining Athletes: Personal
Journeys in Sport
. 
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics.
Saw, A. 
E., Main, L. 
C., & Gastin, P. 
B. 
(2016). 
Monitoring the athlete training response:
Subjective self-reported measures trump commonly used objective measures: A
systematic review. 
British Journal of Sports Medicine
, 50, 281–291.
Selye, H. 
(1956). 
The Stress of Life
 (2nd ed.). 
New York, USA: McGraw-Hill.
Soligard, T., Schwellnus, M., Alonso, J., Bahr, R., Clarsen, B., Dijkstra, P., Gabbett, T.J.,
Gleeson, M., Hägglund, M., Hutchinson, M. 
R., Janse Van Rensburg, C., Khan, K.,
Meeusen, R., Orchard, J. 
W., Pluim, B. 
M., Raftery, M., Erdener, U., Budgett, R., &
Engebretsen, L. 
(2016). 
International Olympic Committee consensus statement on load
in sport and risk of injury: How much is too much? 
British Journal of Sports Medicine
,
50, 1030–1041
Williams, S., West, S., Cross, M. 
J., & Stokes, K.A. 
(2016). 
Better way to determine the
acute:chronic workload ratio? 
British Journal of Sports Medicine
, Sep 20. 
pii: bjsports-
2016-096589. 
doi: 10.1136/bjsports-2016-096589. 
[Epub ahead of print].
Windt, J., Gabbett, T. 
J., Ferris, D., & Khan, K. 
M. 
(2016). 
Training load-injury paradox: is
greater preseason participation associated with lower in-season injury risk in elite rugby
league players? 
British. 
Journal of Sports Medicine
, (in press).
Windt, J. 
and Gabbett, T. 
J. 
(2016). 
How do training and competition workloads relate to
injury? 
The workload-injury aetiology model. 
British Journal of Sports Medicine
, (in
press).
Zatsiorsky, V. 
M., & Kraemer, W. 
J. 
(1995). 
Science and Practice of Strength Training
.
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics.

CHAPTER 10
Priming match-day performance:
Strategies for team sports players
Mark Russell, Natalie Williams and Liam P.
Kilduff

SECTION 1: LITERATURE REVIEW
Elite sporting competitions typically start at varying times throughout the
waking day. 
In the case of team sports, kick-off can occur anywhere between
11:00 hours (e.g., Academy football games) to 21:00 hours (e.g., elite
evening matches). 
While extraneous factors, including the demands of
television (Drust et al., 2005), likely determine these start-times, athletes may
be susceptible to changes in physical performance throughout the day
(Chtourou and Souissi, 2012, Teo et al., 2011a, Teo et al., 2011b). 
While an
abundance of research has profiled the effects of different preparatory
strategies on markers of team sport performance, a potential role also exists
for interventions performed on the day of a match to acutely enhance
subsequent performance (Kilduff et al., 2013a, Russell et al., 2015b). 
This
chapter provides suggestions for additional and/or modified practices which
are likely beneficial for team sports players. 
Although not mutually
exclusive, such strategies can broadly be categorised as those which are
implemented: 1) more than three hours before a match commences (e.g., prior
priming exercises), 2) less than three hours before competition starts (e.g.,
modified warm-up practices including post-activation potentiation [PAP] and
heat maintenance strategies, ischemic pre-conditioning [IPC] and hormonal
priming), and 3) during scheduled within-match breaks (e.g., half-time; heat
maintenance strategies).
STRATEGIES IMPLEMENTED MORE THAN
THREE HOURS BEFORE A MATCH COMMENCES
Attenuating the effects of sleep deprivation
In agreement with data from the general population (Kronholm et al., 2009),
empirical observations highlight that sleep deprivation is common on the
night(s) prior to sporting competition, especially if matches require prior
international air travel. 
While the performance effects of acute sleep loss
appear equivocal (Blumert et al., 2007, Oliver et al., 2009, Cook et al., 2011)

highlights a potential modulating role of sleep duration on skilled
performance. 
Specifically, in a rugby passing task, players who self-reported
seven to nine hours’ sleep on the night before testing outperformed their
sleep-deprived counterparts (i.e., those reporting three to five hours sleep) by
~20% (Cook et al., 2011). 
Interestingly, such differences were ameliorated
when creatine (50 or 100 mg·kg-1) or caffeine (1 or 5 mg·kg
–1
) were
provided to sleep-deprived players 90 minutes before skill testing
commenced, a response attributed to the attenuation of sleep-deprivation
induced reductions in brain phospohocreatine concentrations and the
stimulatory effects of adenosine-receptors, respectively (Cook et al., 2011).
While the morning timing of the skilled assessment must be noted (11:30
hours), provision of a caffeine or creatine dose upon waking may elicit
ergogenic effects for activities, including skilled actions, performed
thereafter.
Prior priming exercise
Optimised physical performance is subject to a range of both intrinsic and
extrinsic factors. 
Circadian rhythmicity, a roughly 24-hour cycle of
physiological and behavioural processes, is acknowledged as one of many
modulators of numerous key performance indicators (Atkinson and Reilly,
1996, Chtourou and Souissi, 2012, Teo et al., 2011b). 
For example, changes
in anaerobic physical performance (e.g., force and power expression) occur at
different times of the day (Chtourou and Souissi, 2012, Teo et al., 2011a).
Offsetting circadian declines in performance may prove beneficial for team
sports players.
Testosterone (T) and cortisol (C) have been implicated in the modulation
of performance in elite athletes (Cook and Crewther, 2012b), and show
circadian rhythmicity with an early morning (A.M.) peak followed by a
transient decline through the day (Kraemer et al., 2001, Teo et al., 2011a).
Considering the potential role of T in mediating athletic performance and
behaviour, offsetting the circadian decline could be of benefit to sporting
activities performed at times when circadian declines in T persist, such as in
the afternoon (P.M.).
A strength or hypertrophy training stimulus can acutely raise post-exercise
concentrations of T (Kraemer and Ratamess, 2005), and thus, in the context

of starting an event with elevated T, may be beneficial to precede subsequent
competition. 
Indeed, Ekstrand et al. 
(2013) have demonstrated that A.M.
resistance exercise that included back squats performed to failure and power
clean exercises, improved throwing distance in well trained shot-putters six
hours later. 
Similarly, improved P.M. 
performance was observed when rugby
union players preceded P.M. 
performance assessments with sprints (5 × 40m)
and whole-body resistance (bench press and back squat routines up to 100%
of three repetition-maximum (RM) values) exercises six hours beforehand
(Cook et al., 2013b). 
Notably, the A.M. 
sprint and resistance exercise
attenuated a circadian decline in T concentrations when compared to a rested
control trial (Cook et al., 2013b). 
Such findings highlight a potential role for
specific modes of A.M. 
exercise to improve P.M. 
performance, and that such
findings may be modulated by changes in hormone status.
However, acknowledging the practical considerations associated with the
pre-competition practices of professional team sport players, the methods of
A.M. 
exercise examined previously (Cook et al., 2013b, Ekstrand et al.,
2013) may preclude their use on the day of competition and/or have limited
transfer to match-specific performance indicators. 
Whole body resistance
exercises performed to maximal intensity and/or failure, while beneficial to
linear sprinting and force expression, are unlikely to be routinely adopted in
the pre-competition setting. 
Accordingly, Russell et al. 
(2016) compared the
efficacy of different methods of A.M. 
exercise on P.M. 
performances.
Specifically, six 40m sprints (incorporating 180° changes of direction)
performed ~5 hours before subsequent exercise improved both sprinting and
jumping performance while eliciting the greatest effect on salivary T.
Additionally, upper-body resistance exercise augmented sprint performance
and elicited more favourable T concentrations, whereas cycle sprints
increased countermovement jump performance alone. 
Such findings highlight
a possible role of priming methods that may be better accepted by players and
coaches on the day of competition while demonstrating transfer to match-
specific performance indicators.
Combining prior priming exercise with IPC
Multiple bouts of skeletal muscle ischemia (induced using a cuff or
tourniquet) interspersed with periods of reperfusion to acutely enhance

muscle function is known as ischemic pre-conditioning (IPC) (Bailey et al.,
2012, Jean-St-Michel et al., 2011). 
IPC has typically been used in isolation as
a passive pre-competition strategy that is administered ~1–2 hours before
competition commences (Bailey et al., 2012, Jean-St-Michel et al., 2011,
Lisboa et al., 2016). 
However, Cook et al. 
(2014) identified an occlusion-
dependent elevation in salivary T immediately following a resistance exercise
session that also utilised IPC. 
This response was achieved using five sets of
five repetitions at 70% 1RM – a significantly lower volume of work when
compared to previous priming studies (Cook et al., 2013b, Ekstrand et al.,
2013). 
While further research is required, evidence suggests that IPC could
be used in combination with resistance exercise as a more favourable and
practical pre-competition strategy via attenuation of circadian declines in T.
STRATEGIES IMPLEMENTED LESS THAN THREE
HOURS BEFORE A MATCH COMMENCES
Ischemic pre-conditioning
As outlined previously, IPC has typically been used in isolation as a passive
pre-competition strategy. 
Mechanisms to explain the efficacy of this
performance-enhancing strategy relate to the increase in muscle blood flow
resulting from changes in adenosine concentrations and the function of intra-
muscular adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-sensitive potassium channels.
Improved oxygen delivery and metabolite clearance via an increase in blood
flow potentially up-regulates intra- and extra-cellular movement (de Groot et
al., 2010). 
Increased muscle force contractility (via a more efficient
excitation-contraction coupling process) has also been proposed to explain
the efficacy of IPC in animals (Pang et al., 1995).
Within the constraints of athletic performance, the benefits of IPC have
been observed in time to exhaustion (Crisafulli et al., 2011, de Groot et al.,
2010), anaerobic performance (Bailey et al., 2012, Jean-St-Michel et al.,
2011, Lisboa et al., 2016) and muscle activation (Wilson et al., 2013b,
Yasuda et al., 2014) when implemented as a passive pre-competition strategy.
Bailey et al. 
(2012) reported significant reductions in blood lactate
accumulation and a 34 second improvement in 5000m running time when a

group of healthy males preceded exercise with 4 × 5 minute bouts of bilateral
occlusion at 220 mmHg, followed by 45 minutes of rest. 
Similarly, 100m
swim time-trial performance was improved (~1%; equivalent to 0.7 seconds)
45 minutes after an upper limb IPC protocol which included 4 × 5 minutes of
occlusion (cuff inflated to 15 mmHg greater than measured systolic arterial
pressure) (Jean-St-Michel et al., 2011). 
However, not all studies examining
the effects of IPC in intermittent sports players have yielded positive results
(Gibson et al., 2013).
A time-dependency of IPC efficacy may exist as Lisboa et al. 
(2016)
reported that the ergogenic effects of IPC (4 × 5 minute bouts of occlusion;
220 mmHg and 180 mmHg for thighs and arms, respectively) which were
absent when performed within one hour of subsequent exercise manifested
after a two or eight hour post-IPC recovery period. 
Although the application
of IPC to intermittent team sports players warrants further investigation, IPC
could prove efficacious for use on the day of competition.
Hormonal priming
Concentrations of T are positively correlated to indices of physical
performance deemed crucial to team sports performance (e.g., positive
correlation between baseline T concentrations and ability to produce power)
(Crewther et al., 2012b, Crewther et al., 2009, Cook and Crewther, 2012a,
Crewther et al., 2012a). 
For example, squat strength (r = 0.92) and sprint
times (r = –0.87) are correlated with salivary T in elite strength trained
athletes (Crewther et al., 2012a). 
A potential link also exists between
endogenous T and aspects of athletic behaviour related to motivation and
confidence to compete (Cook and Crewther, 2012b). 
Notably, in Judo, free T
concentrations have been positively associated with numerous offensive
behaviours as well as success in both physical and non-physical tasks
(Salvadora et al., 1999).
Key coaching messages delivered in pre-match talks that outline tactical
practices (<3 hours prior to competition) and aim to motivate and instil
confidence in players through the use of verbal persuasion (<1 hour prior to
competition) are usually reinforced through the warm-up and the final 20
minutes before the start of competition. 
However, the extent to which such
practices benefit a player’s performance are unclear. 
When performed 75

minutes before a match, positive coach feedback which accompanies a player
viewing footage of themselves performing a skill successfully has been
reported to promote the highest pre-game T concentrations and best
performance ratings (Cook and Crewther, 2012b). 
Conversely, cautionary
coach feedback accompanying videos of successful skill execution by an
opposing player produced larger C responses and worse performance ratings.
Moreover, presenting highly trained males with aggressive or intense training
videos acutely raised T, which was associated with improved 3RM back
squat performance 15 minutes later (Cook and Crewther, 2012a). 
Therefore,
watching videos and receiving associated feedback has the potential to
influence hormonal and performance responses and might provide a suitable
strategy for the preparation of team sports players before competition. 
In the
context of applied practice, it may be worthwhile to include such strategies
during the team briefing as these very often include the use of video footage
and performance analysis.
Modifying the warm-up: Increased intensity
Transitioning an athlete from a state of rest to a state of exercise, while
minimising residual fatigue, is the principal aim of a warm-up. 
As such, the
warm-up intensity is a key consideration for the effectiveness of this pre-
competition strategy. 
Albeit from events outside of the scope of team sports,
an athlete’s normal warm-up practices may be less than optimal, especially in
relation to exercise intensity (Cook et al., 2013a, Ingham et al., 2013).
Ingham et al. 
(2013) reported that modifying prior exercise (300m of striding;
6 × 50m separated by a 45–60 second active recovery) to an equidistant
warm-up of 100m of striding (2 × 50m separated by a 45–60 second active
recovery) and 200m of race pace running elicited improved 800m time trial
performance (~1%). 
Moreover, increasing the typical warm-up intensity by
~30% improved mean 20m resisted sprint performances in elite bob-skeleton
athletes (Cook et al., 2013a). 
Therefore, it may be worthwhile for
practitioners to consider opportunities to increase the intensity of all or
isolated drills used in the team-sport warm-up; however, the efficacy of such
practices are yet to be confirmed when prolonged (e.g., 45 minutes or longer)
as opposed to short (e.g., fewer than ten minutes) durations of competition
follow warm-up activities.

Modifying the warm-up: Protection of gains
In the absence of heat-protection interventions, body temperature decreases
rapidly following the cessation of exercise (Kilduff et al., 2013b, Mohr et al.,
2004, Sargeant, 1987, West et al., 2013b, Russell et al., 2015a). 
From an
applied context, a player’s own preferences (e.g., final kit and tactical
preparations), pre-match ceremonies (e.g., meeting with dignitaries, national
anthems) and specific rules and regulations (e.g., pitch-protection policies or
the use of “call rooms”) may result in a 10–20 minute period that separates
the end of the warm-up and the start of the match. 
Temperature losses after
similar durations of recovery have been reported to nullify any prior heat
gains (Kilduff et al., 2013b, West et al., 2013b, Russell et al., 2015a).
Notably, Russell et al. 
(2015a) observed a loss of 80% of the temperature
gained in the warm-up following a 15 minute period of passive rest that
preceded a repeated sprint assessment.
Passive heat maintenance, a strategy that typically seeks to maintain
muscle and body temperature by attenuation of temperature losses by
specialised garments or heating methods, has been proven to be beneficial for
minimising post-warm-up reductions in body temperature (Kilduff et al.,
2013b, Russell et al., 2015a). 
Kilduff et al. 
(2013b) observed that wearing a
survival garment during the post-warm-up recovery period offset the core
temperature lost by ~50% while also benefitting lower body peak power
output and repeated sprint ability in professional rugby league players.
Additionally, combining passive heat maintenance with 3 × 5
countermovement jumps (20% body mass load) has been found to elicit
further protective effects than heat maintenance alone when used in the post-
warm-up period (West et al., 2016). 
These data demonstrate the importance
of maintaining body temperature during the post-warm-up period for
offsetting any temperature related decrements in physical performance and
thus provide an opportunity for practitioners to improve subsequent
performance.
Modifying the warm-up: Post-activation potentiation
(PAP)
Force production by a specific muscle group can be influenced by the

contractile history of that muscle group (Kilduff et al., 2008). 
Providing that
the mechanisms of muscle potentiation outweigh the residual effects of co-
existing fatigue, acute enhancement of skeletal muscle performance has been
reported following a pre-load stimulus (Gouvea et al., 2013, Wilson et al.,
2013a). 
Where PAP explains transient improvements in physical
performance, mechanisms have been suggested to reflect increased actin-
myosin myofilament sensitivity to Ca2+, enhanced recruitment of motor
neurons and/or a more favourable central input to the motor neuron (Tillin
and Bishop, 2009, Wilson et al., 2013a). 
Several factors have been proposed
to modulate an athlete’s ability to use PAP, such as participant strength, the
volume and type of the preload stimulus and the duration of recovery
between the preload stimulus and subsequent activity (Wilson et al., 2013a).
In the context of modifiable factors that may influence the use of PAP on the
day of competition, the literature concerning the volume and type of the
preload stimulus are primarily discussed here, although it is acknowledged
that other factors such as the strength of the player and the timing of the
intervention relative to subsequent exercise modulate the efficacy of PAP
interventions.
Hamada et al. 
(2003) emphasised the importance of preload stimulus
volume throughout a fatiguing protocol of isometric maximal voluntary
contractions of the knee extensors (16 × 5 seconds each separated by three
seconds of rest). 
Maximal twitches were evoked before the first contraction,
during each three second rest period and at intervals during the 5 minute
recovery period following the final contraction. 
Over the first three
contractions, a 127% increase from baseline values was gradually realised for
twitch peak torque. 
By the final contraction, twitch peak torque progressively
decreased to a value of 32% below baseline. 
Thus, after initially peaking, the
influence of fatigue became more dominant as the volume of contractions
increased. 
Notably, a 32% increase above baseline values in twitch peak
torque occurred after 30–120 seconds of recovery from the fatiguing protocol
(Hamada et al., 2003). 
The decay of PAP therefore appears inferior to the
decay in fatigue; hence, a net potentiated response was observed during
recovery.
The majority of studies examining the PAP phenomenon have employed
heavy (75–95% 1RM) resistance exercise as the preload stimulus. 
Where a
single set of heavy isotonic exercise has been performed, improvements in
power production are primarily absent (Baker, 2003, Jensen and Ebben,

2003, Brandenburg, 2005, McBride et al., 2005). 
Consequently, in agreement
with Hamada et al. 
(2003), it appears that when trying to harness the effects
of PAP multiple sets of a preload stimulus should be programmed. 
However,
bearing in mind the practical considerations associated with the pre-
competition practices of team sport players, the use of heavy resistance
exercise is likely not feasible before a game. 
Alternative methods of inducing
PAP that require less equipment and/or might be better tolerated by players
and coaches on the day of competition are therefore appealing.
Ballistic activities such as weighted jumps are associated with the
preferential recruitment of type II motor units (Desmedt and Godaux, 1977),
and therefore may be utilised as a PAP stimulus. 
Previous research has also
reported that depth jumps are able to increase strength (Masamoto et al.,
2003) and high velocity performance (Hilfiker et al., 2007), while the use of
isometric maximal voluntary contractions also induce PAP (Guillich and
Schmidtbleicher, 1996, Hamada et al., 2003). 
Turner et al. 
(2015) observed
that three sets of ten repetitions of alternate-leg bounding whilst wearing a
weighted vest (incorporating 10% of body mass), improved 10m and 20m
sprint performance by 2–3% at four and eight minutes post-bounding.
Notably, using 3 × 3 ballistic bench throws at 30% 1RM, West et al. 
(2013a)
reported that improvements in upper body power output occurred after an
eight minute recovery period, and that the magnitude of this improvement
was similar to that induced by a more traditional heavy resistance exercise
bout (i.e., 3 × 3 bench press at 87% 1RM). 
Therefore, ballistic activities
might provide an alternative method of inducing a PAP response that is
comparable in magnitude to that induced during heavy resistance exercise,
but might be preferable to players and staff on the day of a game.
From a practical perspective, given the transient nature of the PAP
response and the timeframe separating the end of the warm-up and the start of
competition, the benefit of PAP to subsequent performance could be limited
to the initial stages of a player’s involvement in competition. 
Nevertheless,
pooled estimates of change and effect size analyses show that a warm-up
based on PAP produces benefits to jump (3.73%, effect size = 0.26) and
sprint performances (4.7%, effect size = 0.79) compared with control or other
warm-up activities (Hammami et al., 2016). 
However, it has not yet been
determined whether the tactical introduction of substitutes who have induced
a PAP response can influence team performance at varying stages of a game,
and/or whether PAP has promise as a potential half-time strategy. 
Likewise,

the repeatability of PAP-induction remains to be established in team sports
players.
STRATEGIES IMPLEMENTED DURING
SCHEDULED WITHIN-MATCH BREAKS (E.G.,
HALF-TIME)
A 10–20 minute temporary mid-way pause in play, known as half-time, is a
common feature of most team sport matches, and typical activities include
players returning to the dressing room, engaging in tactical discussion,
receiving medical treatment and consuming nutritional ergogenic aids
(Russell et al., 2015b, Towlson et al., 2013). 
However, 20% of soccer players
have their least intense 15 minute period of a match within the initial stages
of the second half (Mohr et al., 2005), and when compared to the opening 15
minutes of soccer match-play, selected physical performance markers
decrease in players and referees between 45 and 60 minues (Lovell et al.,
2013a). 
Therefore, half-time has been proposed as an opportunity to enhance
subsequent performance (Russell et al., 2015b). 
In order to avoid replication
of the interventions already discussed, an overview of studies reporting the
specific use of half-time interventions now follows. 
Interested readers should
also consider the use of the aforementioned strategies (e.g., PAP, hormonal
priming, etc.) to supplement those presented here.
Heat maintenance strategies
During a passive half-time period, muscle and core temperature reduces in
excess of 1°C (Mohr et al., 2004), a finding comparable to that reported
previously at the end of the warm-up (Kilduff et al., 2013b, West et al.,
2013b, West et al., 2016). 
As protection of temperature-related mechanisms
have proven beneficial post warm-up, such strategies may also have efficacy
when implemented during the half-time period of matches played in
temperate conditions. 
Accordingly, Russell et al. 
(2015a) observed attenuated
losses of core temperature when professional rugby union players wore
survival jackets throughout a 15 minute simulated half-time. 
Notably, the
drop in core temperature over half-time was associated with reductions in

peak power output thereafter. 
While ergogenic effects have been observed,
consideration should be given to the logistics of passive heat maintenance
strategies in the context of applied practice as some players (e.g., those
receiving injury treatments) may find this approach restrictive when
additional clothing is worn during half-time. 
Likewise, the possible
deleterious effects that omitting a period of temperature recovery may have
upon performances executed in hot and humid conditions remains to be
characterised.
Alternative methods of heat preservation may include short bouts of
activity, a strategy known as active heat maintenance, which has
demonstrated efficacy over half-time (as reviewed by Hammami et al., 2016).
Seven minutes of moderate-intensity running commencing mid-way through
half-time has been found to attenuate a 1.5°C reduction in muscle
temperature and protect the 2.4% decrements in mean sprint performance
observed under control conditions (Mohr et al., 2004). 
Likewise, Edholm et
al. 
(2014) reported similar magnitudes of sprint performance maintenance
and attenuated losses in jump performance following a low-intensity half-
time rewarm-up. 
Additionally, beneficial effects have been yielded from
intermittent agility exercise, whole body vibration, small-sided games and
lower body resistance exercises performed during half-time (Lovell et al.,
2013b, Zois et al., 2013).
Skilled, as well as physical, performances may benefit from active
rewarm-ups performed during half-time. 
For example, seven minutes of
low/moderate-intensity activity and light calisthenics performed towards the
end of half-time improved performance during an actual match as less
defensive high-intensity running, and more ball possession, was observed in
the second half (Edholm et al., 2014). 
Skilled performance during an isolated
technical assessment has also been reported to be maintained when small-
sided games incorporating skilled actions were performed during a simulated
half-time break (Zois et al., 2013). 
However, while active rewarm-ups appear
beneficial, consideration must be given to the duration of the activities
performed in the context of applied practice. 
Likewise, the possibility that
additive effects may be elicited from combining methods of active and
passive heat maintenance remain to be determined in the half-time as
opposed to post-warm-up paradigm (West et al., 2016).

DO PRE-COMPETITION STRATEGIES APPLY TO
PRE-TRAINING?
This chapter has so far considered pre-exercise and priming activities for the
benefit of subsequent 
competitive
 performance. 
While evidence exists to
support the influence of prior exercise on key performance indicators
executed thereafter, it remains to be determined if chronic training
adaptations can also benefit from such activities. 
At some point in the season,
empirical observations highlight that the majority of team sports require
training days that consist of two or more sessions performed within a day.
It could be argued that, either intentionally or unintentionally, the structure
of the training day is using prior activity to either 1) influence afternoon
performance (and thus the intensity of the adaptive stimulus), or 2) periodise
specific components of training in scenarios where competing demands are
placed on players. 
As discussed previously, the benefits of preceding specific
activities with a prior exercise session is a desired effect of priming exercises
performed up to six hours before (Cook et al., 2013b, Ekstrand et al., 2013,
Russell et al., 2016). 
Moreover, despite neuromuscular, endocrine or
physiological responses over a 24 hour follow-up period not being affected
by the within-day sequencing of strength and speed training (two hour inter-
session recovery), 10m sprint time was enhanced when a speed session was
sequenced second (Johnston et al., 2016a). 
Therefore, the structure of a
training day can be manipulated to acutely exaggerate specific session aims,
but the chronic training adaptations resulting from the long term cumulative
effects of such session structures remains to be determined.
Conversely, interference theory (a phenomenon whereby competing
adaptations such as the expression of strength or endurance appear muted in
concurrent training programmes) highlights that simultaneous programming
of opposing training stimuli may be detrimental to the potential realised if
each training stimulus is performed in isolation. 
Hickson (1980) reported
attenuation of strength gains when endurance and strength training were
performed concurrently over a ten week period. 
Likewise, Ratamess et al.
(2016) reported 9–19% reductions in resistance exercise performance when
15–45 minutes of endurance exercise was performed ten minutes beforehand.
However, Jones et al. 
(2016) reported a superior ability to maintain a relative
strength loading intensity when strength training was performed prior to

endurance exercise as opposed to vice versa. 
Evidence therefore exists
concerning the impact of session ordering within a single day.
A further consideration relates to the effects that residual fatigue may have
as most periodisation strategies would advocate a transition from high
speed/low force activities (e.g., speed or technical sessions) to high force/low
speed actions (e.g., strength training) based upon the degree of complexity
(and thus risk of error/failure and injury) a player experiences. 
Indeed, Jones
et al. 
(2016) reported that post-session blood C and lactate concentrations
were greater when endurance training was performed immediately prior to
strength training as opposed to vice versa. 
On the other hand, despite
subjective markers of muscle soreness being elevated for 24 hours, Johnston
et al. 
(2016b) report no performance differences between a single (maximal
speed session: 6 × 50m sprints, 5 minute intra-set recovery) or double
(maximal speed session plus 4 × 5 back squats and Romanian deadlift at 85%
1RM) training day when two hours separated consecutive sessions. 
Although
differences in the recovery time between sessions, and the degree of
similarity between the two exercise stimuli examined, may explain the
divergent results, practitioners should bear in mind the degree of cumulative
fatigue that players experience over the course of the training day. 
Residual
fatigue resulting from a prior training session may compromise movement
qualities (and plausibly elevate injury risk) in a subsequent team technical
session that is inherently more unpredictable than resistance training. 
Further
research is therefore required to ascertain the effects of priming exercises on
chronic training adaptations as opposed to acute competitive performances.

SECTION 2: PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS
In addition to the time spent training and preparing players for competition,
match-day also provides an opportunity to enhance subsequent performance
(Kilduff et al., 2013a, Russell et al., 2015b). 
Implementation of appropriate
warm-ups, heat maintenance strategies, post-activation potentiation (PAP),
ischemic pre-conditioning (IPC), hormonal priming and prior priming
exercise has been found to acutely enhance performance thereafter. 
Given the
range of times when most team sport competitions commence (e.g., 11:00–
21:00 hours), it may be possible for practitioners to implement a number of
these acute interventions in pursuit of additive performance enhancing
effects. 
A theoretical model that incorporates multiple strategies which could
contribute to a multifaceted match-day performance enhancement initiative is
presented.
In order to further understand the “windows of opportunity” which may
exist on match-day, it is important to initially contextualise the current
practices of team sport players. 
A theoretical outline of the 
typical
 activities
performed in the 12 hours before an away match (with overnight hotel stay)
with a 20:00 kick-off (0 hour) is presented in 
Figure 10.1
.
Generally, players may be encouraged to sleep in on the morning of a
match but may awaken in time for a team breakfast 12 hours before kick-off.
Thereafter, players may partake in a bout of low-intensity exercise, such as a
walk or jog, which precedes a period of rest and recuperation before lunch is
served. 
After a period of the player’s own time, a technical or tactical briefing
may then follow before the logistics of travel to the match venue are
undertaken. 
Within two hours of kick-off, players have arrived at the match
venue and the preparations that follow might then become more
individualised to a player’s needs and focus upon the organisation of playing
kit, self-motivation strategies, one-to-one player/coach interactions and
provision of 
ad hoc
 medical/physiotherapy attention. 
A team-based pre-
match warm-up will then be undertaken and hydro-nutritional strategies that
seek to optimise a player’s preparedness for subsequent exercise will
continue during this period.
As the match-day practices of professional sports teams are very often

structured and rigid in nature, it is imperative that any proposed modification
to the preparatory period seeks to complement existing protocols.
Accordingly, practical guidelines to incorporate such strategies may therefore
be beneficial for practitioners. 
A theoretical model of organising the pre-
match period to supplement the practices currently employed with the
performance enhancing strategies outlined previously in the chapter is
presented in 
Figure 10.2
.
Strategies which practitioners may wish to consider can broadly be
categorised as those which are administered before competition commences
and those which can be implemented during scheduled breaks in play. 
If the
night preceding competition has yielded poor sleep quality and/or duration,
then ingestion of acute doses of caffeine (up to 5 mg•kg-1) or creatine (up to
100 mg•kg-1) may help to attenuate the negative effects of sleep-deprivation
(Cook et al., 2011). 
Based on previous evidence relating to physical
performance, a priming exercise session performed five to six hours before a
match commences could offer an effective strategy for optimised match
performances (Cook et al., 2013b, Russell et al., 2016, Ekstrand et al., 2013).
A 20 minute resistance session that incorporates upper and lower body lifts of
varying intensities (three sets at 50, 70, 90 and 100% of 3RM separated by
1.5 minutes of recovery) has been found to be a time efficient performance-
enhancing strategy (Cook et al., 2013b, Ekstrand et al., 2013). 
Likewise, six
sets of 40m maximal sprints (20 seconds intra-set recovery) have been
reported to attenuate circadian declines in testosterone (T) and improve
subsequent jump and sprinting performances (Russell et al., 2016).
Combining ischemic preconditioning (IPC) with resistance exercise may also
afford benefits while concomitantly reducing the overall load required in this
session (Cook et al., 2014). 
Performing a priming session before travelling to
the match venue might offer a practical method of implementing this strategy
(
Figure 10.2
).
Positive cues from a coach that accompany individualised footage of
successful player executions might also benefit performance (Cook and
Crewther, 2012b, Cook and Crewther, 2012a). 
Of cautionary note however, if
such videos focus upon the successful skill executions of opposing players,
an enhanced stress response may be observed (Cook and Crewther, 2012b).
Considering that team briefings that take place before travel to the match
venue often include the use of video footage, modification of the team
briefing to include hormonal priming activities may offer a logistically

feasible method of incorporating such a strategy on match-day.

FIGURE 10.1
A theoretical outline of the 
typical
 activities performed in the 12 hours
before an away match (with overnight hotel stay) with a 20:00 hour kick-
off (0 hour).

FIGURE 10.2
A theoretical model of organising the pre-match period to supplement the
practices currently employed with the performance enhancing strategies
outlined in the chapter.
Within 45 and 120 minutes of subsequent exercise, isolated bouts of IPC
may be worthwhile (Bailey et al., 2012, Jean-St-Michel et al., 2011, Lisboa et
al., 2016), perhaps by alternating bouts of ischemia (induced through the use
of a cuff or tourniquet) and reperfusion either before the warm-up or by
modifying warm-up content to include such a strategy. 
Similarly, the warm-
up could be further modified in relation to its intensity of specific or all drills
performed as “normal” warm-up practices are usually less than optimal
(Cook et al., 2013a).
Where possible, fewer than 20 minutes should separate the end of the
warm-up and the start of the match. 
Additionally, heated clothing, outdoor
survival jackets and/or heating pads can be worn over specific musculature to
minimise muscle temperature losses in the time separating the end of the
warm-up and onset of competition (Kilduff et al., 2013b, West et al., 2016),
an approach that might be combined with acute exercise (West et al., 2016)
and prove especially worthwhile when players are expected to experience
prolonged delays before the start of subsequent exercise (e.g., observing
national anthems, waiting to be substituted onto the game and/or between
halves of play at half-time).
Attenuating heat losses via additional exercise performed throughout the
breaks separating consecutive movement periods may also prove beneficial
prior to pitch entry (West et al., 2016). 
Plausibly, potentiating activities, such
as heavy (>75% 1RM) resistance exercise (Gouvea et al., 2013) or ballistic
activities (e.g., weighted bounds at body mass + 10% and ballistic bench
throws at 30% 1RM) that induce a PAP response (West et al., 2013a, Turner
et al., 2015) may concomittanlty attenuate temperature losses occuring in the
post warm-up period while also benefitting subsequent explosive actions.
Consideration would need to be given to the practical application here, but as
ballistic exercises elicit comparable results to traditional heavy resistance
exercise (West et al., 2013a), ballistic exercises might provide a practical
method of inducing PAP and improving subsequent performance during
match-play when a suitable recovery time is implemented (i.e., between 4–12
minutes). 
Likewise, while accounting for current half-time practices
(Towlson et al., 2013), passive (Russell et al., 2015a) and/or active (Edholm

et al., 2014, Lovell et al., 2013b, Mohr et al., 2004) heat maintenance
strategies that can be feasibly implemented throughout scheduled breaks in
play should be incorporated.
SUMMARY
The support of previous authors for the use of prior priming activities, a well-
structured warm-up and half-time interventions means that a method which
combines a number of these strategies for use on the day of competition
might be of interest to strength and conditioning coaches involved with team
sports. 
A practical model that allows for the combination of a number of
interventions which, individually, have been found to enhance the
performance of actions involved in team sport match-play, could theoretically
elicit additive effects over the use of such strategies in isolation.
REFERENCES
Atkinson, G. 
& Reilly, T. 
(1996) Circadian variation in sports performance. 
Sports
Medicine
, 21, 292–312.
Bailey, T. 
G., Jones, H., Gregson, W., Atkinson, G., Cable, N. 
T. 
& Thijssen, D. 
H. 
(2012)
Effect of ischemic preconditioning on lactate accumulation and running performance.
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise
, 44, 2084–2089.
Baker, D. 
(2003) Acute effect of alternating heavy and light resistances on power output
during upper-body complex power training. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning
Research
, 17, 493–497.
Blumert, P. 
A., Crum, A. 
J., Ernsting, M., Volek, J. 
S., Hollander, D. 
B., Haff, E. 
E. 
&
Haff, G. 
G. 
(2007) The acute effects of twenty-four hours of sleep loss on the
performance of national-caliber male collegiate weightlifters. 
Journal of Strength and
Conditioning Research
, 21, 1146–1154.
Brandenburg, J. 
P. 
(2005) The acute effects of prior dynamic resistance exercise using
different loads on subsequent upper-body explosive performance in resistance-trained
men. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research
, 19, 427–432.
Chtourou, H. 
& Souissi, N. 
(2012) The effect of training at a specific time of day: a review.
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research
, 26, 1984–2005.
Cook, C., Holdcroft, D., Drawer, S. 
& Kilduff, L. 
P. 
(2013a) Designing a warm-up
protocol for elite bob-skeleton athletes. 
International Journal of Sports Physiology and
Performance
, 8, 213–215.
Cook, C. 
J. 
& Crewther, B. 
T. 
(2012a) Changes in salivary testosterone concentrations and

subsequent voluntary squat performance following the presentation of short video clips.
Hormones and Behavior
, 61, 17–22.
Cook, C. 
J. 
& Crewther, B. 
T. 
(2012b) The effects of different pre-game motivational
interventions on athlete free hormonal state and subsequent performance in professional
rugby union matches. 
Physiology & Behavior
, 106, 683–688.
Cook, C. 
J., Crewther, B. 
T., Kilduff, L. 
P., Drawer, S. 
& Gaviglio, C. 
M. 
(2011) Skill
execution and sleep deprivation: effects of acute caffeine or creatine supplementation –
a randomized placebo-controlled trial. 
Journal of the International Society of Sports
Nutrition
, 8, 2.
Cook, C. 
J., Kilduff, L. 
P. 
& Beaven, C. 
M. 
(2014) Improving strength and power in
trained athletes with 3 weeks of occlusion training. 
International Journal of Sports
Physiology and Performance
, 9, 166–172.
Cook, C. 
J., Kilduff, L. 
P., Crewther, B. 
T., Beaven, M. 
& West, D. 
J. 
(2013b) Morning
based strength training improves afternoon physical performance in rugby union
players. 
Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport
, 17, 317–321.
Crewther, B. 
T., Cook, C. 
J., Gaviglio, C. 
M., Kilduff, L. 
P. 
& Drawer, S. 
(2012a) Baseline
strength can influence the ability of salivary free testosterone to predict squat and
sprinting performance. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research
, 26, 261–268.
Crewther, B. 
T., Kilduff, L. 
P., Cook, C. 
J., Cunningham, D. 
J., Bunce, P., Bracken, R. 
M.
& Gaviglio, C. 
M. 
(2012b) Relationships between salivary free testosterone and the
expression of force and power in elite athletes. 
Journal of Sports Medicine and Physical
Fitness
, 52, 221–227.
Crewther, B. 
T., Lowe, T., Weatherby, R. 
P., Gill, N. 
& Keogh, J. 
(2009) Neuromuscular
performance of elite rugby union players and relationships with salivary hormones.
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research
, 23, 2046–2053.
Chrisafulli, A., Tangianu, F., Tocco, F., Concu, A., Mameli, O., Mulliri, G. 
& Caria, M. 
A.
(2011) Ischemic preconditioning of the muscle improves maximal exercise performance
but not maximal oxygen uptake in humans. 
Journal of Applied Physiology
, 111, 530–
536.
de Groot, P. 
C., Thijssen, D. 
H., Sanchez, M., Ellenkamp, R. 
& Hopman, M. 
T. 
(2010)
Ischemic preconditioning improves maximal performance in humans. 
European Journal
of Applied Physiology
, 108, 141–146.
Desmedt, J. 
E. 
& Godaux, E. 
(1977) Ballistic contractions in man: characteristic
recruitment pattern of single motor units of the tibialis anterior muscle. 
The Journal of
Physiology
, 264, 673–693.
Drust, B., Waterhouse, J., Atkinson, G., Edwards, B. 
& Reilly, T. 
(2005) Circadian
rhythms in sports performance – an update. 
Chronobiology International
, 22, 21–44.
Edholm, P., Krustrup, P. 
& Randers, M. 
B. 
(2014) Half-time re-warm up increases
performance capacity in male elite soccer players. 
Scandinavian Journal of Medicine
and Science in Sports
.
Ekstrand, L. 
G., Battaglini, C. 
L., McMurray, R. 
G. 
& Shields, E. 
W. 
(2013) Assessing
explosive power production using the backward overhead shot throw and the effects of
morning resistance exercise on afternoon performance. 
Journal of Strength and

Conditioning Research
, 27, 101–106.
Gibson, N., White, J., Neish, M. 
& Murray, A. 
(2013) Effect of ischemic preconditioning
on land-based sprinting in team-sport athletes. 
International Journal of Sports
Physiology and Performance
, 8, 671–676.
Gouvea, A. 
L., Fernandes, I. 
A., Cesar, E. 
P., Silva, W. 
A. 
& Gomes, P. 
S. 
(2013) The
effects of rest intervals on jumping performance: a meta-analysis on post-activation
potentiation studies. 
Journal of Sports Sciences
, 31, 459–467.
Guillich, A. 
& Schmidtbleicher, D. 
(1996) MVC-induced short term potentiation of
explosive force. 
New Studies Athletics
, 11, 67–81.
Hamada, T., Sale, D. 
G., MacDougall, J. 
D. 
& Tarnopolsky, M. 
A. 
(2003) Interaction of
fibre type, potentiation and fatigue in human knee extensor muscles. 
Acta physiologica
Scandinavica
, 178, 165–173.
Hammami, A., Zois, J., Slimani, M., Russell, M. 
& Bouhlel, E. 
(2016) The efficacy, and
characteristics, of warm-up and re-warm-up practices in soccer players: a systematic
review. 
Journal of Sports Medicine and Physical Fitness.
Hickson, R. 
C. 
(1980) Interference of strength development by simultaneously training for
strength and endurance. 
European Journal of Applied Physiology and Occupational
Physiology
, 45, 255–263.
Hilfiker, R., Hubner, K., Lorenz, T. 
& Marti, B. 
(2007) Effects of drop jumps added to the
warm-up of elite sport athletes with a high capacity for explosive force development.
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research
, 21, 550–555.
Ingham, S. 
A., Fudge, B. 
W., Pringle, J. 
S. 
& Jones, A. 
M. 
(2013) Improvement of 800-m
running performance with prior high-intensity exercise. 
International Journal of Sports
Physiology and Performance
, 8, 77–83.
Jean-St-Michel, E., Manlhiot, C., Li, J., Tropak, M., Michelsen, M. 
M., Schmidt, M. 
R.,
McCrindle, B. 
W., Wells, G. 
D. 
& Reddington, A. 
N. 
(2011) Remote preconditioning
improves maximal performance in highly trained athletes. 
Medicine and Science in
Sports and Exercise
, 43, 1280–1286.
Jensen, R. 
L. 
& Ebben, W. 
P. 
(2003) Kinetic analysis of complex training rest interval
effect on vertical jump performance. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research
,
17, 345–349.
Johnston, M., Johnston, J., Cook, C. 
J., Costley, L., Kilgallon, M. 
& Kilduff, L. 
P. 
(2016a)
The effect of session order on the physiological, neuromuscular, and endocrine
responses to maximal speed and weight training sessions over a 24-h period. 
Journal of
Science and Medicine in Sport
.
Johnston, M. 
J., Cook, C. 
J., Drake, D., Costley, L., Johnston, J. 
P. 
& Kilduff, L. 
P. 
(2016b)
The neuromuscular, biochemical, and endocrine responses to a single-session vs.
double-session training day in elite athletes. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning
Research
, 30, 3098–3106.
Jones, T. 
W., Howatson, G., Russell, M. 
& French, D. 
N. 
(2016) Effects of strength and
endurance exercise order on endocrine responses to concurrent training. 
European
Journal of Sport Sciences
, 7, 1–9.
Kilduff, L. 
P., Finn, C. 
V., Baker, J. 
S., Cook, C. 
J. 
& West, D. 
J. 
(2013a) Preconditioning

strategies to enhance physical performance on the day of competition. 
International
Journal of Sports Physiology and Performance
, 8, 677–681.
Kilduff, L. 
P., Owen, N., Bevan, H., Bennett, M., Kingsley, M. 
I. 
& Cunningham, D.
(2008) Influence of recovery time on post-activation potentiation in professional rugby
players. 
Journal of Sports Sciences
, 26, 795–802.
Kilduff, L. 
P., West, D. 
J., Williams, N. 
& Cook, C. 
J. 
(2013b) The influence of passive
heat maintenance on lower body power output and repeated sprint performance in
professional rugby league players. 
Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport
, 16, 482–
486.
Kraemer, W. 
J., Loebel, C. 
C., Volek, J. 
S., Ratamess, N. 
A., Newton, R. 
U., Wickham, R.
B., Gotshalk, L. 
A., Duncan, N. 
D., Mazzetti, S. 
A., Gomez, A. 
L., Rubin, M. 
R., Nindl,
B. 
C. 
& Hakkinen, K. 
(2001) The effect of heavy resistance exercise on the circadian
rhythm of salivary testosterone in men. 
European Journal of Applied Physiology
, 84,
13–18.
Kraemer, W. 
J. 
& Ratamess, N. 
A. 
(2005) Hormonal responses and adaptations to
resistance exercise and training. 
Sports Medicine
, 35, 339–361.
Kronholm, E., Sallinen, M., Suutama, T., Sulkava, R., Era, P. 
& Partonen, T. 
(2009) Self-
reported sleep duration and cognitive functioning in the general population. 
Journal of
Sleep Research
, 18, 436–446.
Lisboa, F. 
D., Turnes, T., Cruz, R. 
S., Raimundo, J. 
A., Pereira, G. 
S. 
& Caputo, F. 
(2016)
The time dependence of the effect of ischemic preconditioning on successive sprint
swimming performance. 
Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport
.
Lovell, R., Barrett, S., Portas, M. 
& Weston, M. 
(2013a) Re-examination of the post half-
time reduction in soccer work-rate. 
Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport
, 16, 250–
254.
Lovell, R., Midgley, A., Barrett, S., Carter, D. 
& Small, K. 
(2013b) Effects of different
half-time strategies on second half soccer-specific speed, power and dynamic strength.
Scandinavian Journal of Medicine and Science in Sports
, 23, 105–113.
Masamoto, N., Larson, R., Gates, T. 
& Faigenbaum, A. 
(2003) Acute effects of plyometric
exercise on maximum squat performance in male athletes. 
Journal of Strength and
Conditioning Research
, 17, 68–71.
McBride, J. 
M., Nimphius, S. 
& Erickson, T. 
M. 
(2005) The acute effects of heavy-load
squats and loaded countermovement jumps on sprint performance. 
Journal of Strength
and Conditioning Research
, 19, 893–897.
Mohr, M., Krustrup, P. 
& Bangsbo, J. 
(2005) Fatigue in soccer: a brief review. 
Journal of
Sports Sciences
, 23, 593–599.
Mohr, M., Krustrup, P., Nybo, L., Nielsen, J. 
J. 
& Bangsbo, J. 
(2004) Muscle temperature
and sprint performance during soccer matches--beneficial effect of re-warm-up at half-
time. 
Scandinavian Journal of Medicine and Science in Sports
, 14, 156–162.
Oliver, S. 
J., Costa, R. 
J., Laing, S. 
J., Bilzon, J. 
L. 
& Walsh, N. 
P. 
(2009) One night of
sleep deprivation decreases treadmill endurance performance. 
European Journal of
Applied Physiology
, 107, 155–161.
Pang, C. 
Y., Yang, R. 
Z., Zhong, A., Xu, N., Boyd, B. 
& Forrest, C. 
R. 
(1995) Acute

ischaemic preconditioning protects against skeletal muscle infarction in the pig.
Cardiovascular Research
, 29, 782–788.
Ratamess, N. 
A., Kang, J., Porfido, T. 
M., Ismaili, C. 
P., Selamie, S. 
N., Williams, B. 
D.,
Kuper, J. 
D., Bush, J. 
A. 
& Faigenbaum, A. 
D. 
(2016) Acute resistance exercise
performance is negatively impacted by prior aerobic endurance exercise. 
Journal of
Strength and Conditioning Research
, 30, 2667–2681.
Russell, M., King, A., Bracken, R. 
M., Cook, C. 
J., Giroud, T. 
& Kilduff, L. 
P. 
(2016) A
comparison of different modes of morning priming exercise on afternoon performance.
International Journal of Sports Physiology and Performance
, 11, 763–767.
Russell, M., West, D. 
J., Briggs, M. 
A., Bracken, R. 
M., Cook, C. 
J., Giroud, T., Gill, N. 
&
Kilduff, L. 
P. 
(2015a) A passive heat maintenance strategy implemented during a
simulated half-time improves lower body power output and repeated sprint ability in
professional Rugby Union players. 
PLoS One
, 10, e0119374.
Russell, M., West, D. 
J., Harper, L. 
D., Cook, C. 
J. 
& Kilduff, L. 
P. 
(2015b) Half-time
strategies to enhance second-half performance in team-sports players: a review and
recommendations. 
Sports Medicine
, 45, 353–364.
Salvadora, A., Suay, F., Martinez-Sanchis, S., Simon, V. 
M. 
& Brain, P. 
F. 
(1999)
Correlating testosterone and fighting in male participants in judo contests. 
Physiology
and Behavior
, 68, 205–209.
Sargeant, A. 
J. 
(1987) Effect of muscle temperature on leg extension force and short-term
power output in humans. 
European Journal of Applied Physiology and Occupational
Physiology
, 56, 693–698.
Teo, W., McGuigan, M. 
R. 
& Newton, M. 
J. 
(2011a) The effects of circadian rhythmicity
of salivary cortisol and testosterone on maximal isometric force, maximal dynamic
force, and power output. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research
, 25, 1538–
1545.
Teo, W., Newton, M. 
J. 
& McGuigan, M. 
R. 
(2011b) Circadian rhythms in exercise
performance: implications for hormonal and muscular adaptation. 
Journal of Science
and Medicine in Sport
, 10, 600–606.
Tillin, N. 
A. 
& Bishop, D. 
(2009) Factors modulating post-activation potentiation and its
effect on performance of subsequent explosive activities. 
Sports Medicine
, 39, 147–166.
Towlson, C., Midgley, A. 
W. 
& Lovell, R. 
(2013) Warm-up strategies of professional
soccer players: practitioners’ perspectives. 
Journal of Sports Sciences
, 31, 1393–1401.
Turner, A. 
P., Bellhouse, S., Kilduff, L. 
P. 
& Russell, M. 
(2015) Postactivation potentiation
of sprint acceleration performance using plyometric exercise. 
Journal of Strength and
Conditioning Research
, 29, 343–350.
West, D. 
J., Cunningham, D. 
J., Crewther, B. 
T., Cook, C. 
J. 
& Kilduff, L. 
P. 
(2013a)
Influence of ballistic bench press on upper body power output in professional rugby
players. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research
, 27, 2282–2287.
West, D. 
J., Dietzig, B. 
M., Bracken, R. 
M., Cunningham, D. 
J., Crewther, B. 
T., Cook, C.
J. 
& Kilduff, L. 
P. 
(2013b) Influence of post-warm-up recovery time on swim
performance in international swimmers. 
Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport
, 16,
172–176.

West, D. 
J., Russell, M., Bracken, R. 
M., Cook, C. 
J., Giroud, T. 
& Kilduff, L. 
P. 
(2016)
Post-warmup strategies to maintain body temperature and physical performance in
professional rugby union players. 
Journal of Sports Sciences
, 34, 110–115.
Wilson, J. 
M., Duncan, N. 
M., Marin, P. 
J., Brown, L. 
E., Loenneke, J. 
P., Wilson, S. 
M.,
Jo, E., Lowery, R. 
P. 
& Ugrinowitsch, C. 
(2013a) Meta-analysis of postactivation
potentiation and power: effects of conditioning activity, volume, gender, rest periods,
and training status. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research
, 27, 854–859.
Wilson, J. 
M., Lowery, R. 
P., Joy, J. 
M., Loenneke, J. 
P. 
& Naimo, M. 
A. 
(2013b) Practical
blood flow restriction training increases acute determinants of hypertrophy without
increasing indices of muscle damage. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research
,
27, 3068–3075.
Yasuda, T., Fukumura, K., Fukuda, T., Iida, H., Imuta, H., Sato, Y., Yamasoba, T. 
&
Nakajima, T. 
(2014) Effects of low-intensity, elastic band resistance exercise combined
with blood flow restriction on muscle activation. 
Scandinavian Journal of Medicine and
Science in Sports
, 24, 55–61.
Zois, J., Bishop, D., Fairweather, I., Ball, K. 
& Aughey, R. 
J. 
(2013) High-intensity re-
warm-ups enhance soccer performance. 
International Journal of Sports Medicine
, 34,
800–805.

CHAPTER 11
Strategies to enhance athlete
recovery
Emma Cockburn and Phill Bell
INTRODUCTION
Reductions in performance potential in the days following strenuous exercise
due to insufficient recovery provides a problem for athletes and practitioners
alike, particularly given many sporting scenarios require multiple and
consecutive day’s performance. 
Consequently, in order to enhance athlete
recovery (i.e., physical performance potential), numerous strategies aimed at
attenuating physiological stress responses and accelerating return to
physiological baseline have been proposed.
Physiological stress responses to strenuous exercise may be muscular or
systemic in nature, and are commonly assessed via indices of muscle damage,
inflammation or oxidative stress. 
The stress responses tend to be classified
into two categories: the primary phase, which is characterised by direct
damage to the muscle and the secondary phase, which involves exacerbation
of the damage. 
Such stress responses may be transient in nature, however,
they may have a lengthier impact in respect of their effect on physical
performance capacity. 
Furthermore, there are distinct differences in stress
responses which are directly related to the exercise completed, and as such it
is important to understand the impact of the type of exercise on the resulting
physiological response. 
In respect of this, dependent upon the activity
completed, exercise tasks may be classified into mechanical, metabolic or

mixed stress activities. 
Mechanical stress is most apparent during high-force
eccentric muscle actions, whereas metabolic stress is often the result of
prolonged high-energy turnover akin to endurance exercise. 
These
disturbances are characterised in the literature via numerous avenues
including but not limited to; elevations in systemically measured molecules,
perceptions of pain and, perhaps most importantly in the context of this book,
compromised muscular function. 
It is these responses that recovery
interventions aim to influence, with the goal of accelerating performance
potential back towards baseline levels.
This chapter aims to explore the application and efficacy of a range of
popular and emerging recovery strategies, whilst also providing insight into
the physiological mechanisms that underpin the stress response to exercise.
Additionally, guidance with regards to real world application of recovery
strategies is provided.

SECTION 1: LITERATURE REVIEW
Acute carbohydrate/protein supplementation
Numerous researchers have investigated the effects of nutritional
supplements on acute recovery from strenuous exercise (Bell et al., 2016,
Cockburn et al., 2013, Howatson et al., 2012, Rankin et al., 2015), and
primarily their ability to limit decrements and/or enhance recovery of muscle
function. 
The nutritional supplements investigated are varied and have
included creatine (McKinnon et al., 2012), functional foods such as cherry
juice (Bell et al., 2016) and blueberries (McLeay et al., 2012) (reviewed in
later sections), leucine (Kirby et al., 2012), branched chain amino acids
(Howatson et al., 2012) and whey protein (Buckley et al., 2010). 
Protein
supplements are particularly popular due to the belief that they increase
muscle mass, improve performance and enhance recovery (Lieberman et al.,
2010).
The ingestion of protein or amino acids leads to the stimulation of muscle
protein synthesis, which manifests as a positive net muscle protein balance
following resistance exercise (Borsheim et al., 2002, Tipton et al., 1999,
Tipton et al., 2003). 
It is hypothesised that due to this change, secondary
damage to the muscle will be limited and recovery of muscle function
optimised.
Numerous studies have investigated the role of protein supplements on
recovery from strenuous exercise with equivocal findings (Betts et al., 2009,
Cockburn et al., 2013, Saunders et al., 2007, White et al., 2008, Wojcik et al.,
2001). 
Recently, a systematic review on this topic concluded that the
ingestion of protein supplements does not result in reduced muscle damage or
enhanced recovery of muscle function (Pasiakos et al., 2014). 
However, it is
well acknowledged that large variability in study design likely contributes to
the observed differences. 
One of these is linked to the variety of protein
supplements available, therefore, the remainder of this section will focus on
the co-ingestion of protein with carbohydrate (CHO).
Previous research has demonstrated the attenuation of muscle damage
with CHO-protein supplements when compared to CHO or placebo solutions
(Baty et al., 2007, Cade et al., 1991, Saunders et al., 2004, Saunders et al.,

2007, Seifert et al., 2005). 
However, intramuscular proteins, specifically
creatine kinase (CK) were the only measurement outcomes in all but one
study; Baty et al., (2007) demonstrated a reduction in soreness at 24 hours
with CHO-protein ingestion. 
However, basing conclusions predominantly on
measures of intramuscular proteins in the blood is problematic for a number
of reasons. 
Firstly, the time course of changes in muscle strength, muscle
soreness and blood CK are varied (Peake et al., 2017a), and thus limiting
increases in CK may not be extrapolated to attenuating decrements in muscle
function. 
Secondly, CK measured in the blood is not reflective of the
magnitude of damage, as CK concentrations also reflect clearance by the
reticuloendothelial system (Clarkson et al., 1992). 
Therefore, it is imperative
that when determining the efficacy of recovery interventions, measures of
muscle function are included.
Work by Wojcik et al., (2001) found no beneficial effect of a milk-based
CHO-protein drink on changes in muscle soreness, isometric peak torque and
CK in comparison to both a CHO and placebo beverage. 
This was despite
evidence of damage and increased muscle protein breakdown, findings which
were subsequently supported (Betts et al., 2009, Breen et al., 2010, Green et
al., 2008, White et al., 2008). 
The mode of exercise used to elicit a stress
response differs substantially (eccentric muscle actions, downhill running,
Loughborough Intermittent Shuttle Test); thus, the physiological responses,
time course and magnitude of change in muscle function, muscle soreness
and intramuscular proteins is likely to differ.
We have repeatedly demonstrated positive effects of CHO-protein
supplementation (cow’s milk) on recovery of muscle function following a
bout of eccentric actions of the knee flexors (Cockburn et al., 2008, Cockburn
et al., 2010, Cockburn et al., 2012, Cockburn et al., 2013). 
Positive effects
were also demonstrated for limiting increases in soreness (Cockburn et al.,
2010) and intramuscular proteins (Cockburn et al., 2008, Cockburn et al.,
2010, Cockburn et al., 2012). 
Although the mechanistic basis underpinning
this effect was not elucidated in this work, it is postulated that the
consumption of milk led to a positive protein balance limiting damage to the
muscle and/or enhancing repair. 
Indeed Elliot et al., (2006) demonstrated net
muscle protein synthesis following one-legged resistance exercise with the
ingestion of milk.
There is clear discrepancy between the findings of Cockburn et al., (2008,
2010, 2012) who found positive effects, and the findings of Green et al.,

(2008), Betts et al., (2009), Breen et al., (2010), White et al., (2008) and
Wojcik et al., (2001) who demonstrated no effect of CHO-protein
supplements on recovery. 
Although Green et al., (2008), Betts et al., (2009)
and Breen et al., (2010) used running or cycling protocols that may explain
these contrasting findings, Wojcik et al., (2001) and White et al., (2008) both
used eccentric actions, which is similar to Cockburn et al., (2008). 
One
hypothesised explanation may be related to the magnitude of stress response.
Both Wojcik et al., (2001) and White et al., (2008) used eccentric actions of
the knee extensors in contrast to eccentric actions of the knee flexors, which
may be more susceptible to damage. 
However, White et al., (2008) utilised
eccentric muscle actions and demonstrated similar decrements in maximum
voluntary isometric contraction to Cockburn et al., (2008), yet did not
observe a benefit of CHO-protein supplementation. 
Therefore, mode of
exercise and severity of damage may only explain part of the equivocal
findings.
It is more likely that a range of differences in study design contribute to
the inconsistent findings. 
For example, the functional outcomes used
(isometric versus isokinetic), the amount, type and timing of CHO-protein
supplementation and the training status of participants may all influence the
results. 
For example, both White et al., (2008) and Wojcik et al., (2001)
utilised sedentary males; White et al., (2008) provided whey protein; Wojcik
et al., (2001) had participants complete cycling exercise 12 hours prior to the
bout of eccentric exercise. 
This is in contrast to Cockburn et al., (2008) who
recruited male team sport players and provided milk-based protein which
contains both casein and whey. 
These factors potentially explain the
contrasting findings.
It is clear the results are conflicting, but one of the main limitations of
research investigating this topic is the reliance on male participants. 
Evidence
from animal studies suggest that oestrogen may limit some of the effects of
muscle damage (Stupka and Tiidus, 2001, Komulainen et al., 1999).
However, studies in humans are inconclusive. 
For example, research has
found higher levels of soreness in males (Dannecker et al., 2012, Kerksick et
al., 2008) with others reporting no gender differences (Dannecker et al.,
2008, Sewright et al., 2008). 
Given this conflicting evidence and the potential
for inter-sex variability, results from studies utilising male participants alone
cannot be directly applied to females. 
To date, there are only two studies that
have investigated the effect of CHO-protein supplements on acute recovery in

females.
Most recently, Rankin et al., (2015) demonstrated that the consumption of
CHO-protein (cow’s milk) limited decrements in muscle function, increases
in soreness and elevations in intramuscular proteins following resistance
based eccentric exercise in females. 
This is in contrast to Green et al., (2008)
who utilised a downhill running protocol and provided protein in the form of
whey, and found no positive effect of CHO-protein supplementation. 
Rankin
et al., (2015) also studied the effect on males and found that although there
were benefits of CHO-protein for attenuating increases in soreness and
intramuscular proteins, the same effect was not found for muscle function.
This is in contrast to similar research (Cockburn et al., 2008, Cockburn et al.,
2010, Cockburn et al., 2012, Cockburn et al., 2013), and demonstrates a
different impact of the same supplement in males and females, supporting the
point that findings from one sex should not be directly applied to the other.
In summary, no definitive conclusion can be made on the efficacy of
CHO-protein supplements for enhancing recovery. 
This is likely due to the
variety of study designs and methods utilised. 
However, it is unlikely that
there are any harmful consequences of this recovery intervention as athletes
are recommended to consume both CHO and protein to aid in muscle
adaptation.
Antioxidants and functional foods
The use of antioxidant supplements (AO) or functional foods as modalities to
enhance exercise recovery has received attention in recent years (Bell et al.,
2013). 
Primarily, vitamin C (Bryer and Goldfarb, 2006, Connolly et al.,
2006a, Thompson et al., 2003, Close et al., 2006) and vitamin E (Avery et al.,
2003, Beaton et al., 2002, Warren et al., 1992) have been investigated within
the literature as AO candidates for accelerating recovery (McGinley et al.,
2009). 
Within the functional food and recovery space, cherries (Bell et al.,
2016, Bowtell et al., 2011), blueberries (McAnulty et al., 2011), beetroot
(Clifford et al., 2016) and pomegranates (Trombold et al., 2011) amongst
others have received varying degrees of attention due to their high volumes
of antioxidant compounds.
The rationale underpinning the use of AO or functional foods to accelerate
or enhance recovery relates to the purported negative effects of exercise-

induced oxidative stress. 
It has been proposed that due to increased flux of
oxygen through mitochondria during exercise, there is an increased
generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) which subsequently overwhelm
endogenous antioxidant defences (Mastaloudis et al., 2004). 
Following this, a
cascade of oxidative damage and inflammation may ultimately result in
reduced function of cellular constituents (Powers and Jackson, 2008) and
therefore reduced capacity to perform. 
It follows that supplementing with
exogenous AO may complement endogenous AO defences and reduce the
purported negative impact of excess ROS. 
Despite this, however, there is
little evidence to support the use of AO supplementation in accelerating
functional recovery, although the use of certain functional foods has provided
more promising results. 
As a result, it is important that AO and functional
foods are not considered synonymously when referring to modalities to
enhance exercise recovery and as such will be considered independently
within this section.
The literature investigating the use of AO as a recovery aid has primarily
focussed upon exercise-induced muscle damage (McGinley et al., 2009,
Goldfarb, 1999, Petersen et al., 2001, Dekkers et al., 1996, Childs et al.,
2001, Kaminski and Boal, 1992, Jakeman and Maxwell, 1993) or endurance
exercise models (Mastaloudis et al., 2006, Mastaloudis et al., 2004).
Additionally, there is a smaller volume of literature reporting antioxidant
supplementation effects in response to repeat sprint exercise (Thompson et
al., 2003, Thompson et al., 2001a, Thompson et al., 2001b).
Early work suggested that vitamin C supplementation exerted a protective
effect against eccentric exercise-induced muscle damage (EIMD) (Kaminski
and Boal, 1992). 
Using a randomised cross-over design, the authors reported
that when subjects were supplemented with 1000mg vitamin C (3x per day,
three days pre- and seven days post-exercise), lower reports of post-exercise
muscle soreness were provided (versus a placebo). 
Supporting this finding,
Jakeman and Maxwell (1993) reported significantly improved recovery of
maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) in a group supplemented with 400mg
of vitamin C for twenty-one days prior to and seven days following a box-
jump based EIMD protocol. 
Further support is provided by Bryer and
Goldfarb (2006) who reported attenuated increases in a number of indices of
EIMD following two weeks of pre- and four days of post-eccentric exercise
vitamin C supplementation. 
Providing evidence that vitamin C
supplementation may be able to offset the effects of EIMD.

In contrast, a number of studies have found little or no effect of AO
supplementation on recovery from bouts of EIMD. 
For example, Childs et al.,
(2001) reported no benefit of seven days combined vitamin E/N-
acetylcysteine (NAC) supplement in recovery from eccentrically induced
damage of the elbow flexors. 
To the contrary, a number of blood biomarkers
related to muscle damage (creatine kinase, myoglobin and lactate
dehydrogenase) were reported to be increased, as well as significant increases
in a number of oxidative stress indices. 
Cumulatively, the authors surmised
that the antioxidant supplementation had actually increased tissue damage
rather than accelerated its recovery. 
Close et al., (2006) provided further
evidence of potential negative effects of AO supplementation on recovery.
Specifically, recovery of quadriceps muscle function (isokinetic
dynamometry) was delayed in subjects supplemented with 1000mg of
vitamin C for two hours prior to and fourteen days following a downhill
running protocol used to elicit EIMD. 
Additionally, there was no difference
in DOMS ratings between subjects receiving vitamin C and placebo.
Interestingly in this study, the authors reported that oxidative stress was
attenuated in the vitamin C group without any corresponding functional
benefit, alluding to the possibility that attenuation of oxidative stress was not
a mechanism for accelerating functional recovery.
With regards to endurance performance, combined vitamin C and E
supplementation (three weeks pre-, six days post-race of 1g vitamin C and
300mg vitamin E) has been shown to reduce markers of oxidative stress in
ultramarathon runners, however it did not influence inflammatory indices
(Mastaloudis et al., 2004). 
The same authors reported in a later paper, again
using ultramarathon runners, that vitamin C and E supplementation was
unable to reduce the effects of post-exercise muscle damage (Mastaloudis et
al., 2006). 
Blood based biomarkers of muscle damage and inflammation were
unchanged with vitamin C and E, and recovery of lower limb peak torque
was similarly unaffected by supplementation despite increases in plasma
vitamin C and E (suggesting good bioavailability).
Cumulatively, the weight of evidence does not support the use AO in
accelerating functional recovery, however there does appear to be a degree of
efficacy in AO supplementation for reducing the initial stress response
(oxidative stress). 
Notably, however, concerns have been raised in respect of
dampening the oxidative stress response during training programmes. 
In
respect of vitamin C & E supplementation, a review has suggested that high

doses may indeed blunt favourable cell signalling processes leading to
adaptations, although evidence for direct inhibition of exercise-induced ROS
is lacking (Cobley et al., 2015).
Functional foods such as cherries, blueberries, beetroot and pomegranates
have received growing attention in the literature with regards to their use as a
supplement to aid in recovery. 
High levels of naturally occurring compounds
found within these foods, called anthocyanins, have been shown to exhibit
antioxidative and anti-inflammatory properties (Wang et al., 1997, Wang et
al., 1999, Seeram et al., 2001, Bitsch et al., 2004) and as such have been
proposed to aid in recovery.
Perhaps the most prominent functional food in this category are cherries,
which have been demonstrated to accelerate recovery in a number of studies,
both in terms of functional performance and related physiological markers.
Cherries are notably high in anthocyanins (Bell et al., 2013) when compared
to other natural food sources, and as such provide a candidate to impact upon
exercise-induced oxidative stress and inflammation.
In the first study to investigate the application of cherry supplementation
in a damaging exercise model, Connolly et al., (2006b) reported that
supplementation of a Montmorency tart cherry juice mix, four days prior to
and four days following an elbow flexor EIMD protocol, protected against
maximal isometric strength loss. 
This finding was further supported by
Bowtell et al., (2011) who demonstrated recovery of isokinetic knee extensor
force was faster when supplementing with a tart Montmorency cherry juice
concentrate (vs. 
isoenergetic placebo) prior to and following EIMD of the
quadriceps.
Positive effects of cherries on recovery have been further demonstrated
when using mixed models of inducing post-exercise stress (i.e., eccentric
muscle damage and metabolic stress [via prolonged high-energy turnover]) or
metabolic stress alone. 
Accelerated recovery of MVC, 20 metre sprint and
countermovement jump performance (mirrored by attenuations in some
inflammatory indices), were found in subjects who consumed Montmorency
tart cherry concentrate (30 mL, 2x per day) for four days prior to and four
days following simulated soccer play (Bell et al., 2016). 
In another study,
participants given Montmorency tart cherry concentrate supplementation for
five days prior to and two days following a marathon demonstrated
improvements in isokinetic strength recovery and lower values of
inflammatory and oxidative stress indices measured in the blood (Howatson

et al., 2010). 
Although not investigating functional performance, the same
group also demonstrated attenuated inflammatory and oxidative stress
responses in cyclists completing three consecutive days of simulated road
cycling (Bell et al., 2014).
The mechanism underpinning the positive effects on exercise recovery of
cherries and other functional foods is not clear. 
The dampening of the
oxidative stress response through direct actions of exogenous functional food
antioxidants such as anthocyanins appears unlikely given their poor
bioavailability (Bell et al., 2013, Manach et al., 2005). 
Although a
comprehensive review is outside the scope of this section, it has been
suggested that functional food based anthocyanins may be able to upregulate
the endogenous antioxidant response (Shih et al., 2007, Traustadottir et al.,
2009), combatting the function-impairing stress responses associated with
strenuous exercise. 
Whatever the mechanism, there does appear to be a
degree of efficacy in the use of functional foods such as cherries in
accelerating recovery from exercise.
In summary, the use of AO and functional foods as supplements to aid
recovery has received a great deal of attention in the past two decades.
Evidence providing efficacy for AO supplements to benefit recovery of
functional performance is lacking, however there is a suggestion they do
combat oxidative stress. 
With regards to functional foods, the evidence
appears to support the use of foods high in anthocyanin compounds in
accelerating recovery. 
Not covered in detail within this section is the effect of
such supplementation on physiological adaptation. 
However, to date there is
no evidence that any naturally occurring functional food inhibits adaptation
to training, whereas AO supplementation has been implicated in such
undesirable effects (Cobley et al., 2015). 
Regardless, there are numerous
scenarios where recovery is of paramount importance (e.g., within a
tournament scenario) and adaptation is not, in which case the use of any
recovery strategy that doesn’t hinder subsequent performance may be of
value despite a lack of conclusive evidence.
Cold water immersion
Cryotherapy has been extensively used as a recovery intervention. 
Cold water
immersion (CWI) is a popular method of recovery, and as such, this section

will focus on research surrounding the use of CWI only. 
Traditionally, CWI
involves immersion in cold water of less than 15°C, with immersion depth
and time varying (waist to shoulder; 3–20 minutes).
A vast number of studies have been conducted on the efficacy of CWI for
attenuating decrements in muscle function and increases in soreness (Ingram
et al., 2009, Leeder et al., 2015, Roberts et al., 2014). 
There are varied
results, which is likely due to a variety in the mode of exercise, the method of
application of CWI (immersion depth; time; temperature), participant training
status and outcome measures utilised. 
A number of meta-analysis studies
have been conducted in an attempt to provide general conclusions. 
Leeder et
al. 
(2012) conducted a meta-analysis on the effect of CWI on recovery from
eccentric and high-intensity exercise (drop jumps, simulated team sport,
cycling sprints). 
It was concluded that CWI is an effective strategy for
reducing muscle soreness up to 96 hours and has small but significant effects
in reducing CK, however the effects on muscle function are unclear (Leeder
et al., 2012). 
Although CWI was not effective for improving the rate of
recovery of muscle strength, it was beneficial for recovery of muscle power
at 24, 48 and 72 hours post exercise. 
The authors stated there is no obvious
explanation for improvements in muscle power but not strength, although
they did speculate that CWI aids in the recovery of type II fibres which are
preferentially damaged following eccentric exercise. 
Type II fibres are
predominantly used in high-velocity muscle actions and thus their enhanced
recovery would impact on the recovery of muscle power.
Further support for the use of CWI in alleviating muscle soreness at 24, 48
and 96 hours is provided by Bleakley et al., (2012) and Hohenauer et al.,
(2015). 
However, there were no clear effects on objective recovery variables
(muscle function, muscle damage, inflammation). 
In contrast to these
findings, Higgins et al., (2016) concluded that CWI did not enhance
perceptions of muscle soreness in well-trained team-sport athletes following
an exercise stress specific to team sports. 
However, via the meta-analysis
they demonstrated that CWI enhanced athletes’ perceptions of fatigue and
recovery up to 72 hours post exercise, and was beneficial for attenuating
decrements in neuromuscular function (CMJ, max sprints) up to 24 hours
post only.
Overall, there is significant variability in the effectiveness of CWI on the
recovery of muscle function/performance, but more widespread agreement
that it is an effective strategy for reducing muscle soreness. 
Machado et al.,

(2016) conducted a meta-analysis on the effect of CWI on muscle soreness in
an attempt to determine the most effective water temperature and immersion
time. 
Their findings were in support of Leeder et al., (2012), Bleakley et al.,
(2012) and Hohenauer et al., (2015) in that CWI was more effective than
passive recovery for alleviating muscle soreness. 
Additionally, they
concluded that water temperatures of 11–15°C for 11–15 minutes provided
the optimal results.
The underlying mechanisms for enhanced recovery of muscle soreness via
CWI are related to localised cooling, hydrostatic pressures, the redistribution
of blood flow (Ihsan et al., 2016) and analgesic effects. 
Cold-induced
vasoconstriction and hydrostatic pressure increase central venous pressure
that facilitates the movement of fluids from intracellular and interstitial
spaces to intravascular compartments (Ihsan et al., 2016). 
The result is an
increase in intracellular-intravascular osmotic gradients that aid in the
clearance of cellular debris and necrotic tissue (Ihsan et al., 2016).
Subsequently, there is a reduction in oedema and inflammation that may limit
secondary damage to the muscle and thus attenuate muscle soreness and
decrements in muscle function. 
Both hydrostatic pressure and cold
temperatures have been proposed to stimulate these physiological changes. 
In
an attempt to differentiate between the processes, Leeder et al., (2015)
compared seated versus standing CWI on recovery following intermittent
sprint exercise. 
No differences were observed in measures of muscle
function, soreness, CK and inflammation, suggesting that by increasing
hydrostatic pressure via standing there is no additional recovery benefit
(Leeder et al., 2015). 
However, both CWI groups did not improve recovery in
comparison to a control. 
More recently, Higgins et al., (2016) concluded that
CWI is more beneficial for recovery of muscle soreness in comparison to
thermoneutral water immersion (TWI). 
This suggests that any underlying
mechanisms associated with enhancing perceptions of muscle soreness are
associated with temperature rather than hydrostatic pressure.
Although there is limited evidence to distinguish the physiological effects
of CWI, the traditional notion is that CWI restricts inflammation and cellular
stress. 
Recently, Peake et al., (2017b) demonstrated that following resistance
exercise, CWI did not alter the inflammatory response in comparison to
active recovery in physically active men. 
This was despite the exercise bout
stimulating intramuscular inflammation as evidenced by increased numbers
of neutrophils and macrophages, and increased intramuscular gene expression

of cytokines. 
This research provides evidence against the traditional notion
that CWI restricts inflammation and cellular stress following resistance
exercise (Peake et al., 2017b). 
Further research is required to elucidate the
mechanisms underlying potential enhanced recovery with CWI as the
physiological benefits remain unclear.
EMERGING THERAPIES
Whole body cryotherapy
Whole body cryotherapy (WBC) is becomingly increasingly used in sports
medicine as a treatment for muscle soreness (Costello et al., 2016). 
It
involves single or multiple brief exposures (two to four minutes) to extremely
cold temperatures (-80 to -190°C) that are either achieved via liquid nitrogen
or refrigerated cold air. 
During exposures, athletes wear minimal clothing,
gloves, ear protectors, a nose and mouth mask, as well as dry shoes and socks
to reduce the risk of cold-related injury.
Potentially, the significant cold temperatures (in comparison to CWI) may
lead athletes to believe that recovery will be enhanced. 
Similar to CWI, the
benefits of WBC are hypothesised to be related to cold-induced
vasoconstriction that may limit oedema, inflammation and secondary damage
to the muscle, and an analgesic effect of cold that may limit soreness.
In a review conducted by Bleakley et al., (2014) it was concluded that
WBC offers improvements in subjective recovery and muscle soreness, but
there were few benefits for recovery of muscle function following a variety of
exercise stresses. 
However, these outcomes were based on the limited
research that has been conducted to date. 
Similar to research investigating
other recovery interventions, the method of application of WBC, the mode of
exercise and the training status of participants vary between studies, which
impacts on the conclusions that can be drawn. 
For example, Costello et al.,
(2012) demonstrated that WBC had no effect on alleviating muscle soreness
or enhancing muscle recovery following WBC applied 24 hours post-
exercise. 
However, Ferriera-Junior et al., (2014) demonstrated that immediate
exposure to WBC following drop jumps prevented muscle swelling and
resulted in quicker recovery of muscle strength. 
The distinguishing factor

between these studies is when WBC was applied. 
Applying 24 hours post
exercise may not coincide with the inflammatory response and as a result
may be too late to influence recovery processes. 
Recently, Russell et al.,
(2017) investigated the effect of WBC following repeat sprint exercise on a
range of recovery markers in professional academy footballers. 
It was found
that although WBC increased testosterone concentrations for 24 hours, no
other markers of physiological, performance or perceptual recovery were
affected.
Many of the positive results in favour of WBC have come from studies
investigating its repeated use over days. 
Both Hausswirth et al., (2011) and
Fonda and Sarabon, (2013) investigated the effects of WBC on performance
and perceptual markers following muscle damage using three and five
sessions of WBC, respectively. 
Both studies reported that WBC resulted in
faster recovery of peak torque and lower perceptions of pain compared to the
control group. 
Methodological differences in relation to mode of exercise,
temperature, exposure time and outcome variables make it difficult to
establish whether WBC is effective and how best to apply it.
It is purported that WBC may confer an added advantage in comparison to
CWI due to the significantly colder temperatures athletes are exposed to. 
This
may produce a large temperature gradient for tissue cooling. 
However, air has
poor thermal conductivity in comparison to water that prevents significant
subcutaneous and core body cooling. 
In relation to body temperature
changes, Costello et al., (2012) investigated the effect of four minutes of CWI
(8°C) and WBC (-110°C) on muscle, skin and core temperature. 
Both
treatments elicited similar effects on decreases in muscle and core
temperature, but WBC lead to greater changes in skin temperature. 
The
authors stated that the colder temperature of WBC compensated for the
reduced thermal conductivity of air (Costello et al., 2012). 
More recent
research (Costello et al., 2014) has demonstrated that although WBC leads to
greater immediate decreases in skin temperature that this effect is reversed
from 10 to 60 minutes post. 
This suggests that although WBC can stimulate
greater reductions in skin temperature, the recovery back to baseline is
quicker than CWI (skin remains cooler with CWI). 
However, CWI is
routinely applied for approximately ten minutes, which may lead to similar
initial reductions in skin temperature as WBC. 
Further to these findings,
although skin temperature is reduced in both WBC and CWI, neither is
sufficient enough to elicit an analgesic effect (Costello et al., 2014). 
It

remains to be elucidated if different cooling protocols elicit more optimal
effects.
Although there may be minimal differences in the cooling effects of WBC
and CWI, only one study known to date has compared the efficacy of these
interventions on muscle function and soreness. 
Abaidia et al., (2016) recently
demonstrated that participants exposed to CWI had lower levels of muscle
soreness and CK, higher perceptions of recovery and a greater attenuation of
decrements in muscle power but not muscle strength in the days post
eccentric exercise than those completing WBC. 
It can be speculated that the
faster recovery with CWI is partly linked to the thermal conductivity of
water, hydrostatic pressure (Abaidia et al., 2016) and potentially longer
reductions in skin temperature (Costello et al., 2014). 
The evidence in
support of this expensive recovery intervention is limited. 
However, future
research is required to advance what is known in relation to the physiological
rationale for WBC, and in relation to CWI.
Compression garments
Compression garments are increasingly used within sport. 
It is claimed that
their use can improve recovery from strenuous exercise (Hill et al., 2014a).
The purported physiological benefits may be linked to the creation of an
external pressure gradient and/or enhanced blood flow that both may reduce
swelling, and/or enhance the removal of waste products and muscle
metabolites (Hill et al., 2014a).
Similar to other recovery interventions, the results are equivocal, which is
likely due to the variety in mode of exercise, application of the garment,
training status of participants and/or outcome measures utilised. 
In a recent
meta-analysis, Hill et al., (2014a) found that when compression garments are
worn after, or during and after strenuous exercise, there is a moderate benefit
in reducing muscle soreness and CK concentrations, and improvements in
recovery of muscle strength and power. 
However, in the same year, the same
group demonstrated that the use of a lower limb compression garment worn
for 72 hours after a marathon had no effect on improving recovery of muscle
performance or the removal of serum markers of muscle damage and
inflammation (Hill et al., 2014b). 
There was, however, a significant reduction
in perceived levels of muscle soreness at 24 hours in those that wore the

compression garment.
There may be many reasons for the conflicting findings, however; much of
the discrepancy in results has been linked to the pressure exerted by the
garment. 
A variety of compression garments are utilised in research and the
pressure applied, which is not routinely reported, is significantly affected by
garment type, size and posture assumed by the athlete (Brophy-Williams et
al., 2015). 
In respect of this, recent research has demonstrated that the
pressure exerted likely plays a role in the efficacy of compression garments.
Hill et al., (2017) compared the effectiveness of high (14.8 ± 2.2 mmHg at
the thigh; 24.3 ± 3.7 mmHg at the calf) and low (8.1 ± 1.3 mmHg at the thigh
and 14.8 ± 2.1 mmHg at the calf) compression garments on recovery
following drop jumps. 
The authors concluded that the pressure exerted by a
compression garment did affect recovery following EIMD, with a higher
pressure more beneficial for recovery of muscle function (Hill et al., 2017), a
key consideration for applied practitioners and athletes.
Although there is evidence to suggest garments that exert high pressures
are more effective for recovery, there are large variations in the degree of
pressures exerted across a population. 
This is likely due to differences in limb
and tissue size (Hill et al., 2017). 
However, athletes must be aware that
higher does not necessarily equal better, and there may be an optimal level of
pressure required. 
Although low levels of compression may be insufficient to
impact on physiological processes such as blood flow and osmotic pressure,
compression that is too high may restrict blood flow (Hill et al., 2017) and
thus negatively impact on recovery. 
Defining the optimal level of pressure is
difficult due to reasons previously discussed (individual variation in limb and
tissue size).
Neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES)
Neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) involves the application of
surface electrodes over muscle motor points to stimulate visible muscle
contractions and enhance blood flow (Malone et al., 2014, Taylor et al.,
2015). 
It is purported that an increase in blood flow will aid the repair of
skeletal muscle by increasing the delivery of oxygen, hormones and
restorative nutrients (Wilcock et al., 2006), and a potential reduction in
inflammation (Wilcock et al., 2006, Barnett, 2006).

Malone et al., (2014) conducted a meta-analysis on the efficacy of NMES
for recovery compared to active and passive recovery. 
Through the evidence
they concluded that NMES has positive effects on muscle soreness and
perceptions of well-being, however, it was not more effective than both
passive and active recovery in improving the recovery of muscle performance
and function. 
Similar to most other recovery interventions, there is
considerable heterogeneity within existing research protocols (Malone et al.,
2014). 
One of the key areas that may account for this heterogeneity is the
application of NMES with regards to the stimulation intensity and duration
the device is worn. 
A variety of stimulation intensities are used that make
optimal parameters difficult to conclude on. 
Achieving the optimal intensity
is important as muscle activation must be induced but should not lead to
muscle fatigue (Malone et al., 2014). 
Furthermore, considerable individual
variability can exist due to differences in adipose tissue and an individual’s
perception of pain and discomfort (Malone et al., 2014).
The studies utilised by Malone et al., (2014) predominantly applied NMES
for 20–25 minutes, with one study using it for 60 minutes (Westcott et al.,
2011); these studies did not demonstrate positive outcomes for the recovery
of muscle function. 
Regarding the training and competing athlete, measures
of muscle function and performance are of key importance. 
Therefore, more
recent research has attempted to address the potential limitations of previous
work (application time and stimulation intensity). 
In this study, NMES was
worn for eight hours at a specified stimulation intensity (Frequency of 1 Hz;
Current of 27 mA; Pulse width of 140 µs) post high-intensity sprints in
professional rugby union and academy soccer players (Taylor et al., 2015).
Results demonstrated that in comparison to a control, NMES was beneficial
in reducing muscle soreness and CK, whilst improvements in muscle function
at 24 hours were reported (Taylor et al., 2015). 
This research suggests that to
achieve enhanced recovery of muscle function, the optimal duration of
NMES application is likely to be hours rather than minutes. 
However, this
study only assessed recovery up to 24 hours post. 
Recovery interventions are
utilised in both training and competition scenarios, therefore, it is important
to understand their efficacy in the days (e.g., 72 hours) post strenuous
exercise. 
Therefore, future research investigating the efficacy of NMES
should focus on tracking recovery over 72 hours (as a minimum) and
continuously applying NMES over hours (as opposed to minutes).

CONCLUSION
It is clear that research investigating the efficacy of many recovery
interventions is still in its infancy. 
Research into several strategies has
produced conflicting findings which are likely related to differences in
application of the strategy, exercise stress, outcome measures and participant
training status. 
Further to this, the majority of research has been conducted in
males only, and given the reported sex differences in stress responses, it
should not be assumed that the results from such studies are directly
transferable to females.
Regarding the use of interventions for acute recovery (e.g., 72 hours post
exercise) then as far as the authors are aware there is no current evidence that
the use of the strategies discussed in this review are harmful. 
However, the
information discussed has not focussed on long-term or chronic repeated use
of these recovery strategies. 
The next section of this chapter will focus on the
application of recovery interventions to practice.

SECTION 2: APPLYING RECOVERY STRATEGIES
IN PRACTICE
Recovery versus adaptation
In 
Section 1
, we discussed that following training there is a physiological
stress response that reduces performance potential. 
In order to facilitate
quicker return to play or training, athletes utilise recovery interventions (such
as those in 
Section 1
) which act upon the physiological stress responses
induced through vigorous exercise. 
The postulated benefits of such
interventions are linked to a reduction in muscle soreness and accelerated
recovery of muscle function. 
However, subsequent to the aforementioned
stress responses (muscle damage, inflammation, oxidative stress) is a cascade
of molecular signals that initiate adaptive processes, providing the desired
outcomes of training (i.e., anabolism, angiogenesis etc). 
It is now well
acknowledged that inflammation and protein breakdown of the muscle are
vital to repair, regeneration and physiological adaptation. 
Therefore, there is
an increasing volume of research investigating the adaptive response to
training when recovery interventions are applied. 
Although this paradigm is
in its infancy, the majority of the research has focussed on the use of CWI,
therefore, this section will focus on CWI research only with regards to its
potential impact on physiological adaptation. 
The research in this area can be
categorised into two themes, the use of CWI following 1) strength training
and 2) endurance training.
1) The use of CWI during strength training
Research has demonstrated that using CWI during a block of strength training
blunts aspects of physiological adaptation (Frohlich et al., 2014, Roberts et
al., 2015, Yamane et al., 2015). 
Roberts et al., (2015) investigated the chronic
use of CWI following lower-body strength training session (twice per week)
for 12 weeks. 
It was found that although there were significant increases in
muscle mass, maximum strength and rate of force development, this change
was significantly less in the CWI condition compared to an active control.
Furthermore, type II muscle fibres, total cross-sectional area and maximum

isometric torque significantly increased in active recovery, but this was not
observed in those receiving CWI. 
The authors concluded that CWI
substantially attenuated long-term gains in muscle mass and strength. 
In an
attempt to understand the underpinning physiology, Roberts et al., (2015)
measured p70S6K phosphorylation, total protein content and satellite cell
numbers from muscle biopsies following a single leg strength exercise.
p70S6K is a key regulator in the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR)
pathway of protein synthesis, and thus any down regulation in p70S6K is
likely to be reflective of attenuated protein synthesis, potentially impacting
long-term adaptation. 
The results demonstrated that CWI suppressed the
activity of satellite cells and p70S6K during recovery from strength exercise.
Therefore, this research demonstrates that CWI may downregulate muscle
protein regeneration, impacting on physiological and performance adaptation.
However, this research did not include a control group, and further research
is required to confirm these findings. 
It is assumed that the downregulation of
this pathway is linked to a reduced inflammatory response. 
However, using
the same data, Peake et al., (2017b) demonstrated that CWI did not restrict
inflammation in comparison to an active control. 
Therefore, the restriction of
kinases involved in the mTOR pathway is not due to cold-induced
vasoconstriction that reduces the inflammatory response, and thus remains
unknown.
2) The use of CWI during endurance training
A number of studies have demonstrated that CWI enhances adaptation from
endurance exercise (Halson et al., 2014, Ihsan et al., 2014, Ihsan et al., 2015,
Joo et al., 2016). 
Halson et al., (2014) found that during 39 days of structured
training in nationally competitive level endurance cyclists, using CWI four
times per week resulted in a greater increase in repeat cycling performance.
In an attempt to understand the physiological mechanisms, Ihsan et al.,
(2015) investigated changes in total and phosphorylated 5’ AMP-activated
protein kinase (AMPK) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor
gamma coactivator 1-alpha (PGC-1α) over four weeks of endurance training
with or without CWI. 
PGC-1α is well accepted as a critical regulator of
mitochondrial biogenesis in skeletal muscle whilst AMPK is an upstream
regulator of PGC-1α (Jager et al., 2007). 
The authors reported that there was

•
o
a significant increase in both total and phosphorylated AMPK in CWI versus
the control group, and although no significant difference was observed for
PGC-1α, there was a large effect size in favour of CWI. 
Therefore, it was
concluded that regular CWI enhances p38 AMPK and possibly mitochondrial
biogenesis (Ihsan et al., 2015). 
In support of this research both Ihsan et al.,
(2014) and Joo et al., (2016) have found that both PGC-1α and vascular
endothelial growth factor (VEGF) messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA)
expressions are increased when CWI is used following a bout of endurance
exercise, concluding that acute post-exercise cooling may provide a suitable
strategy for enhancing mitochondrial biogenesis (Ihsan et al., 2014). 
Joo et
al., (2016) found that CWI without prior exercise also mediated the increased
activation of these pathways, but that the combination of exercise and CWI
led to a greater expression. 
Therefore, CWI potentially may be used to
modulate mitochondrial biogenesis following endurance exercise.
CONCLUSION
Following strength training, CWI is implicated in the blunting of adaptive
responses, and therefore this should be considered when physiological and
performance adaptation is the priority rather than recovery. 
Conversely, the
evidence suggests that during endurance training periods, athletes and applied
practitioners may want to implement CWI given the reported benefits on
mitochondrial biogenesis. 
In summary, the research reviewed in this section
demonstrates the importance of considering the specific scenario when
considering applying recovery strategies.
Guidelines for practical application
A number of key questions should be taken into account when considering
implementing recovery strategies and making decisions on the most
appropriate strategy to utilise:
Scenario – Training or competition?
Competition: The primary aim of competition is to ensure that
the athlete can perform optimally in their sport. 
During these
scenarios, select a recovery strategy that has been demonstrated

o
•
o
o
o
•
o
to limit decrements and/or enhance recovery of performance and
limit perceptions of muscle soreness.
Training: If the aim of this training period is physiological
adaptation, then limit the chronic use of recovery strategies when
there is evidence or potential for those interventions to inhibit
adaptive responses involving inflammation and oxidative stress.
In training scenarios, the focus should be placed on the
foundations of good sleep and nutrition practices.
Type and timing of stress – What is the athlete recovering from and
when is it happening?
Each category of exercise stress (mechanical, metabolic, mixed)
elicits different physiological responses (magnitude and timing)
dependent upon the type of exercise performed. 
Therefore, it is
important to understand the timing of the specific stress response
occurring, ensure the recovery intervention selected has been
shown to reduce that response and ensure that the intervention is
applied at the correct time in relation to the stress response
(
Figure 11.1
).
Example 1 – Following a heavy resistance training session the
aim may be to limit the breakdown of muscle protein structures
and/or increase muscle protein synthesis. 
Therefore, a CHO-
protein supplement would be most suited to this scenario.
Example 2 – Following high-intensity endurance cycling, there is
likely to be an elevated inflammatory response which may
inhibit subsequent day’s performance (important in stage races
where multiple, consecutive days’ performance are required).
The aim of CWI is to reduce blood flow that may limit the
inflammatory response and given the inflammatory cascade is
most active in the hours following exercise cessation, CWI
should be applied immediately following performance.
Alternatively, however, the aim of NMES is to increase blood
flow (which may exacerbate inflammation) in order to enhance
the delivery of oxygen and nutrients. 
Therefore, the optimum
time for application is once the inflammatory process has
occurred (i.e., > 6 hours post-exercise)
What about nutrition and sleep, the foundations of recovery?
Do not forget, good nutrition and sleep form the foundations of

o
•
o
FIGURE 11.1
recovery and should be prioritised.
It is important that athlete sleep is of optimal quality and quantity
(see Samuels, 2009 for review); appropriate nutritional strategies
that support rehydration, muscle glycogen resynthesis and
protein metabolism are utilised (
Figure 11.1
), and mental
fatigue/stress is limited via adequate rest.
Are recovery interventions for everyone at every time?
Recovery interventions should not be treated using a one-size-
fits-all approach. 
As previously discussed the scenario (training
vs. 
competition) and exercise stress should be accounted for.
However, even within one team there is a range of positional
demands and training statuses. 
These factors may impact on the
magnitude and timing of the physiological stress response and
thus one recovery intervention may not be required for all
athletes within that team.
Timing of recovery strategy aims, underpinned by foundations of optimal
sleep and nutrition.
Practical recommendations for acute recovery
Once the most appropriate recovery intervention has been selected for the
scenario, type and timing of stress and the individual, and the foundations of

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
recovery are built into the programme, 
Table 11.1
 provides practical
recommendations for their use (in acute situations).
TABLE 11.1
 Practical recommendations for the use of various recovery interventions
Recovery intervention
Practial recommendations
CHO/Protein
Consume immediately following heavy
resistance-based exercise
Milk (cow’s) has demonstrated positive effects
in terms of muscle function
Antioxidants and functional foods
Use functional foods rather than antioxidant
supplements to accelerate recovery from
metabolically stressful exercise (e.g., endurance
cycling)
Avoid antioxidant supplements during training
phases
Cold water immersion
Apply CWI immediately following high-
intensity exercise
Use a temperature in the range of 11–15˚C for
11–15 minutes
Most promise in alleviating perceptions of
muscle soreness
Whole body cryotherapy
Little support for this expensive intervention and
lacking in high-quality research
Potential for positive recovery effects if applied
immediately following high-intensity exercise or
over a number of days
Compression garments
Apply following muscle damaging or high-
intensity performances
Maintain compression garment’s application for
up to 72 hours post-exercise, or until next
performance
Garment must apply sufficient pressure to
impact on blood flow, but not restrict it
NMES
Duration of eight hours has demonstrated the
most promise in terms of effects on performance

•
and muscle soreness
Stimulation intensity must be enough to elicit
muscle actions but not fatigue (or discomfort)
 
CONCLUSION
There is a clear desire for athletes to be able to accelerate recovery from
exercise. 
This chapter has highlighted the evidence underpinning the use of a
range of recovery strategies commonly used within applied practice. 
Within
many of the modalities reviewed there are conflicting reports on the efficacy
of such practices. 
Therefore, it is difficult to make concrete statements with
regards to application. 
Despite this, there is little evidence to suggest that
recovery strategies (those discussed in this chapter) are harmful to the athlete,
and as a result when accelerating recovery is the only consideration, the
application of recovery interventions (at the right time) seems appropriate.
Conversely, in periods of training where physiological adaptation is the
desired outcome, and given the emerging evidence suggesting blunting
effects, serious consideration should be given with regards to the use of
certain recovery interventions. 
In summary, practitioners should consider the
scenario and what the goal is before making a decision on whether to apply
recovery strategies.
REFERENCES
Abaidia, A. 
E., Lamblin, J., Delecroix, B., Leduc, C., McCall, A., Nedelec, M., Dawson,
B., Baquet, G. 
& Dupont, G. 
2016. 
Recovery from exercise-induced muscle damage:
cold water immersion versus whole body cryotherapy. 
Int J Sports Physiol Perform
, 1–
23.
Avery, N. 
G., Kaiser, J. 
L., Sharman, M. 
J., Scheett, T. 
P., Barnes, D. 
M., Gomez, A. 
L.,
Kraemer, W. 
J. 
& Volek, J. 
S. 
2003. 
Effects of vitamin E supplementation on recovery
from repeated bouts of resistance exercise. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 17, 801–809.
Barnett, A. 
2006. 
Using recovery modalities between training sessions in elite athletes:
does it help? 
Sports Med
, 36, 781–796.
Baty, J. 
J., Hwang, H., Ding, Z., Bernard, J. 
R., Wang, B., Kwon, B. 
& Ivy, J. 
L. 
2007. 
The
effect of a carbohydrate and protein supplement on resistance exercise performance,

hormonal response, and muscle damage. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 21, 321–329.
Beaton, L. 
J., Allan, D. 
A., Tarnopolsky, M. 
A., Tiidus, P. 
M. 
& Phillips, S. 
M. 
2002.
Contraction-induced muscle damage is unaffected by vitamin E supplementation. 
Med
Sci Sports Exerc
, 34, 798–805.
Bell, P. 
G., McHugh, M. 
P., Stevenson, E. 
& Howatson, G. 
2013. 
The role of cherries in
exercise and health. 
Scand J Med Sci Sports
, 24, 477–490.
Bell, P. 
G., Stevenson, E., Davison, G. 
W. 
& Howatson, G. 
2016. 
The effects of
Montmorency tart cherry concentrate supplementation on recovery following prolonged,
intermittent exercise. 
Nutrients
, 8, 441.
Bell, P. 
G., Walshe, I. 
H., Davison, G. 
W., Stevenson, E. 
& Howatson, G. 
2014.
Montmorency cherries reduce the oxidative stress and inflammatory responses to
repeated days high-intensity stochastic cycling. 
Nutrients
, 6, 829–843.
Betts, J. 
A., Toone, R. 
J., Stokes, K. 
A. 
& Thompson, D. 
2009. 
Systemic indices of skeletal
muscle damage and recovery of muscle function after exercise: effect of combined
carbohydrate-protein ingestion. 
Appl Physiol Nutr Metab
, 34, 773–784.
Bitsch, R., Netzel, M., Frank, T., Strass, G. 
& Bitsch, I. 
2004. 
Bioavailability and
biokinetics of anthocynanins from red grape juice and red wine. 
J Biomed Biotechnol
, 5,
293–298.
Bleakley, C., McDonough, S., Gardner, E., Baxter, G. 
D., Hopkins, J. 
T. 
& Davison, G. 
W.
2012. 
Cold-water immersion (cryotherapy) for preventing and treating muscle soreness
after exercise. 
Cochrane Database Syst Rev
, CD008262.
Bleakley, C. 
M., Bieuzen, F., Davison, G. 
W. 
& Costello, J. 
T. 
2014. 
Whole-body
cryotherapy: empirical evidence and theoretical perspectives. 
Open Access J Sports
Med
, 5, 25–36.
Borsheim, E., Tipton, K. 
D., Wolf, S. 
E. 
& Wolfe, R. 
R. 
2002. 
Essential amino acids and
muscle protein recovery from resistance exercise. 
Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab
, 283,
E648–E657.
Bowtell, J. 
L., Sumners, D. 
P., Dyer, A., Fox, P. 
& Mileva, K. 
2011. 
Montmorency cherry
juice reduces muscle damage caused by intensive strength exercise. 
Med Sci Sports
Exerc
, 43, 1544–1551.
Breen, L., Tipton, K. 
D. 
& Jeukendrup, A. 
E. 
2010. 
No effect of carbohydrate-protein on
cycling performance and indices of recovery. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc
, 42, 1140–1148.
Brophy-Williams, N., Driller, M. 
W., Shing, C. 
M., Fell, J. 
W. 
& Halson, S. 
L. 
2015.
Confounding compression: the effects of posture, sizing and garment type on measured
interface pressure in sports compression clothing. 
J Sports Sci
, 33, 1403–1410.
Bryer, S. 
C. 
& Goldfarb, A. 
H. 
2006. 
Effect of high dose vitamin C supplementation on
muscle soreness, damage, function, and oxidative stress to eccentric exercise. 
Int J Sport
Nutr Exerc Metab
, 16, 270–280.
Buckley, J. 
D., Thomson, R. 
L., Coates, A. 
M., Howe, P. 
R., Denichilo, M. 
O. 
& Rowney,
M. 
K. 
2010. 
Supplementation with a whey protein hydrolysate enhances recovery of
muscle force-generating capacity following eccentric exercise. 
J Sci Med Sport
, 13,
178–181.
Cade, J. 
R., Reese, R. 
H., Privette, R. 
M., Hommen, N. 
M., Rogers, J. 
L. 
& Fregly, M. 
J.

1991. 
Dietary intervention and training in swimmers. 
Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol
,
63, 210–215.
Childs, A., Jacobs, C., Kaminski, T., Halliwell, B. 
& Leeuwenbrugh, C. 
2001.
Supplementation with vitamin C and N-acetyl-cysteine increases oxidative stress in
humans after an acute muscle injury induced by eccentric exercise. 
Free Radic Biol
Med
, 31, 745–753.
Clarkson, P. 
M., Nosaka, K. 
& Braun, B. 
1992. 
Muscle function after exercise-induced
muscle damage and rapid adaptation. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc
, 24, 512–520.
Clifford, T., Bell, O., West, D. 
J., Howatson, G. 
& Stevenson, E. 
J. 
2016. 
The effects of
beetroot juice supplementation on indices of muscle damage following eccentric
exercise. 
European Journal of Applied Physiology
, 116, 353–362.
Close, G. 
L., Ashton, T., Cable, T., Doran, D., Holloway, C., McArdle, F. 
& MacLaren, D.
P. 
2006. 
Ascorbic acid supplementation does not attenuate post-exercise muscle
soreness following muscle-damaging exercise but may delay the recovery process.
British Journal of Nutrition
, 95, 976–981.
Cobley, J. 
N., McHardy, H., Morton, J. 
P., Nikolaidis, M. 
G. 
& Close, G. 
L. 
2015.
Influence of vitamin C and vitamin E on redox signaling: implications for exercise
adaptations. 
Free Radic Biol Med
, 84, 65–76.
Cockburn, E., Bell, P. 
G. 
& Stevenson, E. 
2013. 
Effect of milk on team sport performance
following exercise- induced muscle damage. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc
.
Cockburn, E., Hayes, P. 
R., French, D. 
N., Stevenson, E. 
& St Clair Gibson, A. 
2008.
Acute milk-based protein-CHO supplementation attenuates exercise-induced muscle
damage. 
Appl Physiol Nutr Metab
, 33, 775–783.
Cockburn, E., Robson-Ansley, P., Hayes, P. 
R. 
& Stevenson, E. 
2012. 
Effect of volume of
milk consumed on the attenuation of exercise-induced muscle damage. 
Eur J Appl
Physiol
, 112, 3187–3194.
Cockburn, E., Stevenson, E., Kayes, P. 
R., Robson-Ansley, P. 
& Howatson, G. 
2010.
Effect of milk-based carbohydrate-protein supplement timing on the attenuation of
exercise-induced muscle damage. 
Appl Physiol Nutr Metab
, 35, 270–277.
Connolly, D. 
A., Lauzon, C., Agnew, J., Dunn, M. 
& Reed, B. 
2006a. 
The effects of
vitamin C supplementation on symptoms of delayed onset muscle soreness. 
J Sports
Med Phys Fitness
, 46, 462–467.
Connolly, D. 
A. 
J., McHugh, M. 
P. 
& Padilla-Zakour, O. 
I. 
2006b. 
Efficacy of a tart cherry
juice blend in preventing the symptoms of muscle damage. 
Br J Sports Med
, 40, 679–
683.
Costello, J. 
T., Algar, L. 
A. 
& Donnelly, A. 
E. 
2012. 
Effects of whole-body cryotherapy
(-110 degrees C) on proprioception and indices of muscle damage. 
Scand J Med Sci
Sports
, 22, 190–198.
Costello, J. 
T., Baker, P. 
R., Minett, G. 
M., Bieuzen, F., Stewart, I. 
B. 
& Bleakley, C. 
2016.
Cochrane review: whole-body cryotherapy (extreme cold air exposure) for preventing
and treating muscle soreness after exercise in adults. 
J Evid Based Med
.
Costello, J. 
T., Donnelly, A. 
E., Karki, A. 
& Selfe, J. 
2014. 
Effects of whole body
cryotherapy and cold water immersion on knee skin temperature. 
Int J Sports Med
, 35,

35–40.
Dannecker, E. 
A., Knoll, V. 
& Robinson, M. 
E. 
2008. 
Sex differences in muscle pain: self-
care behaviors and effects on daily activities. 
J Pain
, 9, 200–209.
Dannecker, E. 
A., Liu, Y., Rector, R. 
S., Thomas, T. 
R., Fillingim, R. 
B. 
& Robinson, M.
E. 
2012. 
Sex differences in exercise-induced muscle pain and muscle damage. 
J Pain
,
13, 1242–1249.
Dekkers, J. 
C., Van Doornen, L. 
P. 
& Kemper, H. 
G. 
1996. 
The role of antioxidant
vitamins and enzymes in the prevention of exercise-induced muscle damage. 
Sports
Med
, 21, 213–238.
Elliot, T. 
A., Cree, M. 
G., Sanford, A. 
P., Wolfe, R. 
R. 
& Tipton, K. 
D. 
2006. 
Milk
ingestion stimulates net muscle protein synthesis following resistance exercise. 
Med Sci
Sports Exerc
, 38, 667–674.
Ferriera-Junior, J. 
B., Bottaro, M., Lonneke, J. 
P., Vieira, A., Vieira, C. 
A. 
& Bemben, M.
G. 
2014. 
Could whole-body cryotherapy (below− 100° C) improve muscle recovery
from muscle damage? 
Frontiers in Physiology
, 5, 247.
Fonda, B. 
& Sarabon, N. 
2013. 
Effects of whole-body cryotherapy on recovery after
hamstring damaging exercise: a crossover study. 
Scand J Med Sci Sports
, 23, e270–
e278.
Frohlich, M., Faude, O., Klein, M., Pieter, A., Emrich, E. 
& Meyer, T. 
2014. 
Strength
training adaptations after cold water immersion. 
J Strength Cond Res
.
Goldfarb, A. 
H. 
1999. 
Nutritional antioxidants as therapeutic and preventive modalities in
exercise-induced muscle damage. 
Can J Appl Physiol
, 24, 249–266.
Green, M. 
S., Corona, B. 
T., Doyle, J. 
A. 
& Ingalls, C. 
P. 
2008. 
Carbohydrate-protein
drinks do not enhance recovery from exercise-induced muscle injury. 
Int J Sport Nutr
Exerc Metab
, 18, 1–18.
Halson, S. 
L., Bartram, J., West, N., Stephens, J., Argus, C. 
K., Driller, M. 
W., Sargent, C.,
Lastella, M., Hopkins, W. 
G. 
& Martin, D. 
T. 
2014. 
Does hydrotherapy help or hinder
adaptation to training in competitive cyclists? 
Med Sci Sports Exerc
, 46, 1631–1639.
Hausswirth, C., Louis, J., Bieuzen, F., Pournot, H., Fournier, J., Fillard, J. 
R. 
&
Brisswalter, J. 
2011. 
Effects of whole-body cryotherapy vs. 
far-infrared vs. 
passive
modalities on recovery from exercise-induced muscle damage in highly-trained runners.
PLoS One
, 6, e27749.
Higgins, T. 
R., Greene, D. 
A. 
& Baker, M. 
K. 
2016. 
The Effects of Cold Water Immersion
and Contrast Water Therapy for Recovery from Team Sport: A Systematic Review and
Meta-Analysis. 
J Strength Cond Res
.
Hill, J., Howatson, G., Van Someren, K., Gaze, D., Legg, H., Lineham, J. 
& Pedlar, C.
2017. 
Effects of Compression Garment Pressure on Recovery from Strenuous Exercise.
Int J Sports Physiol Perform
, 1–22.
Hill, J., Howatson, G., Van Someren, K., Leeder, J. 
& Pedlar, C. 
2014a. 
Compression
garments and recovery from exercise-induced muscle damage: a meta-analysis. 
Br J
Sports Med
, 48, 1340–1346.
Hill, J. 
A., Howatson, G., Van Someren, K. 
A., Walshe, I. 
& Pedlar, C. 
R. 
2014b. 
Influence
of compression garments on recovery after marathon running. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 28,

2228–2235.
Hohenauer, E., Taeymans, J., Baeyens, J. 
P., Clarys, P. 
& Clijsen, R. 
2015. 
The effect of
post-exercise cryotherapy on recovery characteristics: a systematic review and meta-
analysis. 
PLoS One
, 10, e0139028.
Howatson, G., Hoad, M., Goodall, S., Tallent, J., Bell, P. 
G. 
& French, D. 
N. 
2012.
Exercise-induced muscle damage is reduced in resistance-trained males by branched
chain amino acids: a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled study. 
J Int Soc
Sports Nutr
, 9, 20.
Howatson, G., McHugh, M. 
P., Hill, J. 
A., Brouner, J., Jewell, A. 
P., Van Someren, K. 
A.,
Shave, R. 
E. 
& Howatson, S. 
A. 
2010. 
Influence of tart cherry juice on indices of
recovery following marathon running. 
Scand J Med Sci Sports
, 20, 843–852.
Ihsan, M., Markworth, J. 
F., Watson, G., Choo, H. 
C., Govus, A., Pham, T., Hickey, A.,
Cameron-Smith, D. 
& Abbiss, C. 
R. 
2015. 
Regular postexercise cooling enhances
mitochondrial biogenesis through AMPK and p38 MAPK in human skeletal muscle. 
Am
J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physio
, 309, R286–R294.
Ihsan, M., Watson, G. 
& Abbiss, C. 
R. 
2016. 
What are the Physiological Mechanisms for
Post-Exercise Cold Water Immersion in the Recovery from Prolonged Endurance and
Intermittent Exercise? 
Sports Med
, 46, 1095–1109.
Ihsan, M., Watson, G., Choo, H. 
C., Lewandowski, P., Papazzo, A., Cameron-Smith, D. 
&
Abbiss, C. 
R. 
2014. 
Postexercise muscle cooling enhances gene expression of PGC-
1alpha. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc
.
Ingram, J., Dawson, B., Goodman, C., Wallman, K. 
& Bielby, J. 
2009. 
Effect of water
immersion methods on post-exercise recovery from simulated team sport exercise. 
J Sci
Med Sport
, 12, 417–421.
Jager, S., Handschin, C., St-Pierre, J. 
& Spiegelman, B. 
M. 
2007. 
AMP-activated protein
kinase (AMPK) action in skeletal muscle via direct phosphorylation of PGC-1alpha.
Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
, 104, 12017–12022.
Jakeman, P. 
& Maxwell, S. 
1993. 
Effect of antioxidant vitamin supplementation on muscle
function after eccentric exercise. 
Eur J Appl Physiol
, 67, 426–430.
Joo, C., Allan, R., Drust, B., Close, G., Jeong, T., Bartlett, J., Mawhinney, C., Louhelainen,
J., Morton, J. 
& Gregson, W. 
2016. 
Passive and post-exercise cold-water immersion
augments PGC-1α and VEGF expression in human skeletal muscle. 
Eur J Appl Physiol
,
116, 2315–2326.
Kaminski, M. 
& Boal, R. 
1992. 
An effect of ascorbic acid on delayed-onset muscle
soreness. 
Pain
, 50, 317–321.
Kerksick, C., Taylor, L. 
T., Harvey, A. 
& Willoughby, D. 
2008. 
Gender-related differences
in muscle injury, oxidative stress, and apoptosis. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc
, 40, 1772–1780.
Kirby, T. 
J., Triplett, N. 
T., Haines, T. 
L., Skinner, J. 
W., Fairbrother, K. 
R. 
& McBride, J.
M. 
2012. 
Effect of leucine supplementation on indices of muscle damage following drop
jumps and resistance exercise. 
Amino Acids
, 42, 1987–1996.
Komulainen, J., Koskinen, S. 
O., Kalliokoski, R., Takala, T. 
E. 
& Vihko, V. 
1999. 
Gender
differences in skeletal muscle fibre damage after eccentrically biased downhill running
in rats. 
Acta Physiol Scand
, 165, 57–63.

Leeder, J., Gissane, C., Van Someren, N. 
K., Gregson, W. 
& Howatson, G. 
2012. 
Cold
water immersion and recovery from strenuous exercise: a meta-analysis. 
Br J Sports
Med
, 46, 233–240.
Leeder, J. 
D., Van Someren, K. 
A., Bell, P. 
G., Spence, J. 
R., Jewell, A. 
P., Gaze, D. 
&
Howatson, G. 
2015. 
Effects of seated and standing cold water immersion on recovery
from repeated sprinting. 
J Sports Sci
, 1–9.
Lieberman, H. 
R., Stavinoha, T. 
B., McGraw, S. 
M., White, A., Hadden, L. 
S. 
& Marriott,
B. 
P. 
2010. 
Use of dietary supplements among active-duty US Army soldiers. 
Am J Clin
Nutr
, 29274.
Machado, A. 
F., Ferreira, P. 
H., Micheletti, J. 
K., De Almeida, A. 
C., Lemes, Í. 
R.,
Vanderlei, F. 
M., Junior, J. 
N. 
& Pastre, C. 
M. 
2016. 
Can water temperature and
immersion time influence the effect of cold water immersion on muscle soreness? 
A
systematic review and meta-analysis. 
Sports Med
, 46, 503–514.
Malone, J. 
K., Blake, C. 
& Caulfield, B. 
M. 
2014. 
Neuromuscular electrical stimulation
during recovery from exercise: a systematic review. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 28, 2478–
2506.
Manach, C., Williamson, G., Morand, C., Scalbert, A. 
& Rémésy, C. 
2005. 
Bioavailability
and bioefficacy of polyphenols in humans. 
I. 
Review of 97 bioavailability studies. 
Am J
Clin Nutr
, 81, 230S–242S.
Mastaloudis, A., Morrow, J. 
D., Hopkins, D. 
W., Devaraj, S. 
& Traber, M. 
G. 
2004.
Antioxidant supplementation prevents exercise-induced lipid peroxidation, but not
inflammation, in ultramarathon runners. 
Free Radic Biol Med
, 36, 1329–1341.
Mastaloudis, A., Traber, M. 
G., Carstensen, K. 
& Widrick, J. 
J. 
2006. 
Antioxidants did not
prevent muscle damage in response to an ultramarathon run. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc
, 38,
72–80.
McAnulty, L. 
S., Nieman, D. 
C., Dumke, C. 
L., Shooter, L. 
A., Henson, D. 
A., Utter, A. 
C.,
Milne, G. 
& McAnulty, S. 
R. 
2011. 
Effect of blueberry ingestion on natural killer cell
counts, oxidative stress, and inflammation prior to and after 2.5 h of running. 
Appl
Physiol Nutr Metab
, 36, 976–984.
McGinley, C., Shafat, A. 
& Donnelly, A. 
E. 
2009. 
Does antioxidant vitamin
supplementation protect against muscle damage? 
Sports Med
, 39, 1011–1032.
McKinnon, N. 
B., Graham, M. 
T. 
& Tiidus, P. 
M. 
2012. 
Effect of creatine supplementation
on muscle damage and repair following eccentrically-induced damage to the elbow
flexor muscles. 
J Sports Sci Med
, 11, 653–659.
McLeay, Y., Barnes, M. 
J., Mundel, T., Hurst, S. 
M., Hurst, R. 
D. 
& Stannard, S. 
R. 
2012.
Effect of New Zealand blueberry consumption on recovery from eccentric exercise-
induced muscle damage. 
J Int Soc Sports Nutr
, 9, 19.
Pasiakos, S. 
M., Lieberman, H. 
R. 
& McLellan, T. 
M. 
2014. 
Effects of protein supplements
on muscle damage, soreness and recovery of muscle function and physical performance:
a systematic review. 
Sports Med
, 44, 655–670.
Peake, J. 
M., Neubauer, O., Della Gatta, P. 
A. 
& Nosaka, K. 
2017a. 
Muscle damage and
inflammation during recovery from exercise. 
J Appl Physiol (1985)
, 122, 559–570.
Peake, J. 
M., Roberts, L. 
A., Figueiredo, V. 
C., Egner, I., Krog, S., Aas, S. 
N., Suzuki, K.,

Markworth, J. 
F., Coombes, J. 
S. 
& Cameron-SmithH, D. 
2017b. 
The effects of cold
water immersion and active recovery on inflammation and cell stress responses in
human skeletal muscle after resistance exercise. 
The Journal of Physiology
, 595, 695–
711.
Petersen, E. 
W., Ostrowski, K., Ibfelt, T., Richelle, M., Offord, E., Halkjær-Kristensen, J.
& Pedersen, B. 
K. 
2001. 
Effect of vitamin supplementation on cytokine response and on
muscle damage after strenuous exercise. 
Am J Physiol Cell Physiol
, 280(6), C1570–
C1575.
Powers, S. 
K. 
& Jackson, M. 
J. 
2008. 
Exercise-induced oxidative stress: cellular
mechanisms and impact on muscle force production. 
Physiol Rev
, 88, 1243–1276.
Rankin, P., Stevenson, E. 
& Cockburn, E. 
2015. 
The effect of milk on the attenuation of
exercise-induced muscle damage in males and females. 
Eur J Appl Physiol
, 115, 1245–
1261.
Roberts, L. 
A., Nosaka, K., Coombes, J. 
S. 
& Peake, J. 
M. 
2014. 
Cold water immersion
enhances recovery of submaximal muscle function after resistance exercise. 
Am J
Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol
, 307, R998–R1008.
Roberts, L. 
A., Raastad, T., Markworth, J. 
F., Figueiredo, V. 
C., Egner, I. 
M., Shield, A.,
Cameron-Smith, D., Coombes, J. 
S. 
& Peake, J. 
M. 
2015. 
Post-exercise cold water
immersion attenuates acute anabolic signalling and long-term adaptations in muscle to
strength training. 
J Physiol
, 593, 4285–4301.
Russell, M., Birch, J., Love, T., Cook, C. 
J., Bracken, R. 
M., Taylor, T., Swift, E.,
Cockburn, E., Finn, C., Cunningham, D., Wilson, L. 
& Kilduff, L. 
P. 
2017. 
The effects
of a single whole-body cryotherapy exposure on physiological, performance, and
perceptual responses of professional academy soccer players after repeated sprint
exercise. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 31, 415–421.
Samuels, C. 
2009. 
Sleep, recovery, and performance: the new frontier in high-performance
athletics. 
Phys Med Rehabil Clin N Am
, 20, 149–159, ix.
Saunders, M. 
J., Kane, M. 
D. 
& Todd, M. 
K. 
2004. 
Effects of a carbohydrate-protein
beverage on cycling endurance and muscle damage. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc
, 36, 1233–
1238.
Saunders, M. 
J., Luden, N. 
D. 
& Herrick, J. 
E. 
2007. 
Consumption of an oral carbohydrate-
protein gel improves cycling endurance and prevents postexercise muscle damage. 
J
Strength Cond Res
, 21, 678–684.
Seeram, N. 
P., Momin, R. 
A., Nair, M. 
G. 
& Bourquin, L. 
D. 
2001. 
Cyclooxygenase
inhibitory and antioxidant cyanidin glycosides in cherries and berries. 
Phytomedicine
, 8,
362–369.
Seifert, J. 
G., Kipp, R. 
W., Amann, M. 
& Gazal, O. 
2005. 
Muscle damage, fluid ingestion,
and energy supplementation during recreational alpine skiing. 
Int J Sport Nutr Exerc
Metab
, 15, 528–536.
Sewright, K. 
A., Hubal, M. 
J., Kearnes, A., Holbrook, M. 
T. 
& Clarkson, P. 
M. 
2008. 
Sex
differences in response to maximal eccentric exercise. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc
, 40, 242–
251.
Shih, P. 
H., Yeh, C. 
T. 
& Yen, G. 
C. 
2007. 
Anthocyanins induce the activation of phase II

enzymes through the antioxidant response element pathway against oxidative stress-
induced apoptosis. 
J Agric Food Chem
, 55, 9427–9435.
Stupka, N. 
& Tiidus, P. 
M. 
2001. 
Effects of ovariectomy and estrogen on ischemia-
reperfusion injury in hindlimbs of female rats. 
J Appl Physiol (1985)
, 91, 1828–1835.
Taylor, T., West, D. 
J., Howatson, G., Jones, C., Bracken, R. 
M., Love, T. 
D., Cooke, C. 
J.,
Swift, E., Baker, J. 
S. 
& Kilduff, L. 
P. 
2015. 
The impact of neuromuscular electrical
stimulation on recovery after intensive, muscle damaging, maximal speed training in
professional team sports players. 
J Sci Med Sport
, 18, 328–332.
Thompson, D., Williams, C., Garcia-Roves, P., McGregor, S. 
J., McArdle, F. 
& Jackson,
M. 
J. 
2003. 
Post-exercise vitamin C supplementation and recovery from demanding
exercise. 
Eur J Appl Physiol
, 89, 393–400.
Thompson, D., Williams, C., Kingsley, M., Nicholas, C. 
W., Lakomy, H. 
K., McArdle, F.
& Jackson, M. 
J. 
2001a. 
Muscle soreness and damage parameters after prolonged
intermittent shuttle-running following acute vitamin C supplementation. 
Int J Sports
Med
, 22, 68–75.
Thompson, D., Williams, C., McGregor, S. 
J., Nicholas, C. 
W., McArdle, F., Jackson, M. 
J.
& Powell, J. 
R. 
2001b. 
Prolonged vitamin C supplementation and recovery from
demanding exercise. 
Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab
, 11, 466–481.
Tipton, K. 
D., Borsheim, E., Wolf, S. 
E., Sanford, A. 
P. 
& Wolfe, R. 
R. 
2003. 
Acute
response of net muscle protein balance reflects 24-h balance after exercise and amino
acid ingestion. 
Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab
, 284, E76–89.
Tipton, K. 
D., Ferrando, A. 
A., Phillips, S. 
M., Doyle, D., JR. 
& Wolfe, R. 
R. 
1999.
Postexercise net protein synthesis in human muscle from orally administered amino
acids. 
Am J Physiol
, 276, E628–634.
Traustadottir, T., Davies, S. 
S., Stock, A. 
A., Su, Y., Heward, C. 
B., Roberts, L. 
J., II &
Harman, S. 
M. 
2009. 
Tart cherry juice decreases oxidative stress in healthy older men
and women. 
J. 
Nutr.
, 139, 1896–1900.
Trombold, J. 
R., Reinfeld, A. 
S., Casler, J. 
R. 
& Coyle, E. 
F. 
2011. 
The effect of
pomegranate juice supplementation on strength and soreness after eccentric exercise. 
J
Strength Cond Res
, 25, 1782–1788 10.1519/JSC.0b013e318220d992.
Wang, H., Cao, G. 
& Prior, R. 
L. 
1997. 
Oxygen radical absorbing capacity of
anthocyanins. 
J Agric Food Chem
, 45, 304–309.
Wang, H., Nair, M. 
G., Strasburg, G. 
M., Chang, Y.-C., Booren, A. 
M., Gray, J. 
I. 
&
Dewitt, D. 
L. 
1999. 
Antioxidant and antiinflammatory activities of anthocyanins and
their aglycon, cyanidin, from tart cherries. 
J Nat Prod
, 62, 294–296.
Warren, J. 
A., Jenkins, R. 
R., Packer, L., Witt, E. 
H. 
& Armstrong, R. 
B. 
1992. 
Elevated
muscle vitamin E does not attenuate eccentric exercise-induced muscle injury. 
J Appl
Physiol
, 72, 2168–2175.
Westcott, W. 
L., Chen, T., Neric, F. 
B., Dinubile, N., Bowirrat, A., Madigan, M., Downs,
B. 
W., Giordano, J. 
M. 
S., Chen, A. 
& Bajaj, A. 
2011. 
The Marc ProTM device
improves muscle performance and recovery from concentric and eccentric exercise
induced muscle fatigue in humans: a pilot study. 
JEPonline
, 14, 55–67.
White, J. 
P., Wilson, J. 
M., Austin, K. 
G., Greer, B. 
K., St John, N. 
& Panton, L. 
B. 
2008.

Effect of carbohydrate-protein supplement timing on acute exercise-induced muscle
damage. 
J Int Soc Sports Nutr
, 5, 5.
Wilcock, I. 
M., Cronin, J. 
B. 
& Hing, W. 
A. 
2006. 
Physiological response to water
immersion: a method for sport recovery? 
Sports Med
, 36, 747–765.
Wojcik, J. 
R., Walber-Rankin, J., Smith, L. 
L. 
& Gwazdauskas, F. 
C. 
2001. 
Comparison of
carbohydrate and milk-based beverages on muscle damage and glycogen following
exercise. 
Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab
, 11, 406–419.
Yamane, M., Ohnishi, N. 
& Matsumoto, T. 
2015. 
Does regular post-exercise cold
application attenuate trained muscle adaptation? 
Int J Sports Med
.

CHAPTER 12
Fitness testing and data analysis
John J. 
McMahon, Paul Comfort and Anthony
Turner
INTRODUCTION
This chapter provides an overview of the main factors that should be
considered when designing and conducting fitness testing batteries and when
subsequently analysing the resultant data. 
The chapter is presented in the
general order in which the process of designing and implementing a fitness
testing battery is completed. 
This approach reflects a clear step-by-step
process that practitioners should adhere to, where possible, in order to design
and implement effective fitness testing batteries and ensure that resultant data
is analysed correctly. 
Specific examples of how the main factors for
consideration apply to commonly utilised fitness tests are provided
throughout. 
The information presented in this chapter should, therefore, help
practitioners with the design of their own fitness testing batteries and data
analysis techniques.
WHY FITNESS TEST?
Conducting fitness testing batteries with an individual athlete or a squad of
athletes provides practitioners with an objective method of monitoring
changes in specific fitness qualities (e.g., strength, power, speed, etc.) over
time. 
The specific fitness qualities that are assessed as part of fitness testing

batteries should be determined following a needs analysis of the athlete’s
sport, with, where appropriate, consideration also given to different positional
demands of the sport. 
The results gleaned from fitness testing batteries should
be used to inform the athlete’s upcoming training priorities and, if applicable,
provide insight into the success of the athlete’s previous training cycle(s).
Fitness testing results should, therefore, be used by practitioners to facilitate
the construction of effective training programmes by identifying a given
athlete’s area(s) for improvement and highlighting what may or may not have
worked well for said athlete in the previous training cycle(s).
WHEN TO TEST
Fitness testing should, ideally, initially take place at the beginning of the pre-
season training cycle as the results of testing conducted at this time point
would provide a baseline of fitness data which will inform this initial training
block (based on identified strengths and weaknesses), and serve as a
reference point for data collected as part of further fitness testing sessions
conducted throughout the remainder of the season. 
Ideally, the same fitness
testing battery would initially be conducted twice (typically interspersed by a
two to seven day gap) at the beginning of pre-season in order for the
measurement error of each test (and the athlete or squad tested where
appropriate) to be established; thus, the computation of both between trail
and between day variability is known. 
This will inform the practitioner of
what a meaningful change in each tested fitness parameter would be for a
given athlete or squad of athletes, and thus will help the practitioner to
identify ‘true’ changes in a particular test score in subsequent fitness testing
sessions. 
If it is not appropriate or feasible to test the athlete(s) twice in fairly
quick succession, and thus for athlete/squad specific-test measurement error
to be established, then practitioners should use published (preferably subject-
specific) test measurement error values to help identify meaningful changes
in performance.
After testing at least once at the beginning of the pre-season training cycle,
the scheduling of subsequent fitness testing sessions will vary from sport to
sport, depending upon several factors such as the duration and scheduling of
the season. 
Generally, practitioners should at least aim to fitness test athletes
again at the end of the pre-season training cycle so that athletes’ level of

preparedness for competition can be benchmarked against both
published/squad normative data and the fitness test results gathered at the
onset of the pre-season training block (i.e., to inform the magnitude of
improvement/decline in each assessed fitness quality). 
Preferably, fitness
testing will take place at some point within the competitive season
(particularly for sports whose season includes a break from competition) to
assess the physical demands of competition on the athletes’ fitness
characteristics. 
If this is not possible then an alternative solution could be to
select one or two key fitness tests (e.g., the vertical jump) to conduct on a
frequent basis as part of continual athlete monitoring procedures.
Although fitness testing scheduling throughout the season may vary
between sports, it should be conducted when athletes are rested (i.e.,
sufficient time [~48 hours] must have lapsed post the last match/intense
training session). 
Additionally, when periodic fitness testing does take place,
athletes should be tested at approximately the same time of day to account for
circadian rhythms and body temperature, which impacts several physical and
morphological qualities such as muscle strength (Gauthier et al., 2001; Teo et
al., 2011), power output (Teo et al., 2011; West et al., 2014) and tendon
stiffness (Onambele-Pearson & Pearson, 2007; Pearson & Onambele, 2006).
TEST SELECTION
Once a rationale for conducting fitness testing has been determined and the
appropriate timing of fitness testing has been identified, it is important to
decide upon which test(s) to conduct. 
This will depend upon the previously
identified demands of the sport (as achieved through conducting an evidence-
based needs analysis) and, if applicable, will consider position-specific
physical requirements. 
Additionally, other factors such as the athlete’s age
and training status should also be considered when determining appropriate
test selection. 
For example, a commonly used and widely accepted measure
of ascertaining an athlete’s maximal dynamic strength capacity is the one
repetition maximum (1-RM) test. 
This type of test requires athletes to
perform up to five single repetition sets (after an appropriate warm-up) of
given exercise with a gradually increasing load until an incomplete attempt
occurs (Baechle et al., 2008). 
The penultimate repetition (i.e., the last
successful lift achieved) is then considered to be the athlete’s 1-RM load for

that exercise. 
It may, however, be deemed inappropriate to conduct a 1-RM
test with weaker or beginner athlete(s). 
In this case, a 3- or 5-RM test of
dynamic strength might be more appropriate, assuming the athlete(s) can
perform the selected exercise with correct technique, as it has been shown
that the load lifted in these multiple repetition tests of dynamic strength can
be used to predict the 1-RM load (Reynolds et al., 2006). 
It should be noted,
however, that the ability to accurately predict 1-RM loads from multiple
repetition tests of strength depends upon the exercise used (Hoeger et al.,
1990; Shimano et al., 2006), and this should be considered in advance of
testing. 
It is worth noting, however, that the 1-RM power clean test, which
requires a higher degree of technical competency than commonly tested
compound exercises such as the back squat, has been shown to be reliable
even in youth (Faigenbaum et al., 2012) and inexperienced collegiate
(Comfort & McMahon, 2015) athletes, following a sufficient period of
familiarisation.
When an athlete does not demonstrate correct exercise technique at high
loads but determining maximal strength for the athlete is deemed to be a
requirement, then performing a multi-joint isometric ‘strength’ assessment,
such as the isometric squat or mid-thigh pull, could be a suitable option.
Isometric strength tests require minimal familiarity (providing that the athlete
puts in a maximal effort during each repetition), skill and time when
compared to dynamic strength tests which arguably makes them better suited
to testing both beginner/weaker individuals and groups of athletes. 
These
factors also enable multi-joint isometric tests to yield high reliability and low
variability values (Blazevich et al., 2002; Comfort et al., 2015; Dos’Santos et
al., 2016; Haff et al., 2015; Thomas et al., 2015), thus increasing the
sensitivity of these tests for detecting ‘true’ performance changes.
Additionally, strong associations have been reported between isometric and
dynamic strength tests (Beckham et al., 2013; McGuigan et al., 2010; Nuzzo
et al., 2008), which means that the values derived from isometric strength
tests can be used to inform dynamic load prescription for a given training
cycle by applying the relevant prediction equation (De Witt et al., Publish
Ahead of Print). 
A limitation of isometric strength tests, however, is that they
require a force platform, which, although cheaper validated force platforms
are now available, could restrict accessibility for many athletes, and the
capacity of fixing a barbell at the required position (i.e., a custom rig or
power rack).

In addition to isometric tests offering a suitable alternative to dynamic 1-
RM testing, recent studies have shown that 1-RM values attained in a range
of bench press (Bosquet et al., 2010; García-Ramos et al., 2016a; Jidovtseff
et al., 2011) and squatting derivatives (Bazuelo-Ruiz et al., 2015; Conceição
et al., 2016) can, in most cases, be almost perfectly predicted from the barbell
velocity measured using a linear position transducer during these exercises
performed with sub-maximal loads (and applying the relevant prediction
equations). 
This approach, like some of the other approaches discussed
earlier, may help to overcome the potential for safety/injury risk issues that
are associated with 1-RM testing of beginner/weaker athletes. 
Similar to
isometric strength tests and equipment, linear position transducers have been
shown to yield valid and highly reliable measurements of system and barbell
velocity, which enables this method to be compared to gold standard methods
of assessing velocity (e.g., force platforms if measuring system velocity) and
used to detect performance changes (García-Ramos et al., 2016b; Garnacho-
Castaño et al., 2015; Giroux et al., 2015).
Maximal sprint performance is highly regarded as an important
determinant of performance in many sports, but the distance(s) over which
maximal sprint performance should be assessed will depend on the typical
sprint distances covered during competitive sport play and, preferably,
position-specific sprint distances should be considered. 
Similarly, if jump
testing is deemed to be important to include within a testing battery for a
given sport, then attention should be given to the type(s) of jumps performed
in competition. 
For example, are the jumps performed in the sport usually
performed unilaterally or bilaterally, with or without a countermovement,
vertically or horizontally? 
Each of these factors should be considered when
deciding upon the type(s) of jump test(s) to conduct. 
There are also other
reasons why specific jump tests may be selected as part of the fitness testing
battery, even if they are not commonly performed as part of the athlete’s
sport. 
For example, the squat jump (SJ) might be tested along with the
countermovement jump (CMJ), even if the former is not typically performed
as part of the sport, simply in order to provide an indication of how well an
athlete can utilise the stretch-shortening cycle (SSC). 
As such, an eccentric
utilisation ratio (EUR) can be calculated (EUR = CMJ height ÷ SJ height)
with a ratio of >1.0 demonstrating that the use of the SSC results in a greater
jump height, however, if the ratio is <1.0 the SSC needs to be developed
(McGuigan et al., 2006). 
Therefore, fitness test selection will be informed by

both the typical demands of the sport and the general athletic qualities that
underpin these demands.
EQUIPMENT SELECTION
Once it has been decided which test(s) will be conducted, the next step is to
decide which equipment to use for the selected test(s). 
Ideally, the gold
standard equipment for testing a particular fitness quality should be used
where possible; however, this may be unrealistic from both an accessibility
and time perspective for many practitioners. 
An example of the latter is that
although some practitioners working with a team sport may have access to
expensive direct gas analysers for measuring maximal aerobic capacity, it
would take a very long time to assess a full squad on this parameter. 
Instead,
practitioners should consider using alternative equipment that has been
validated against the currently considered gold standard equipment when
access to the latter is either impossible or unrealistic. 
In referring back to the
aforementioned example of measuring maximal aerobic capacity, basic
equipment such as cones, a measuring tape and an audio device could be used
to conduct the Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test (YIRT) or Multi-Stage
Fitness Test (MSFT), which have both been shown to provide a valid, field-
based alternative to direct gas analysis (Krustrup et al., 2003; Ramsbottom et
al., 1988).
In terms of quantifying jump performance, a force platform is considered
to be the gold standard equipment (García-López et al., 2013), particularly
when using the take-off velocity method (Moir, 2008), but similar to direct
gas analysers, force platforms may be inaccessible for some practitioners due
their general cost. 
In recent years, however, many cheaper alternatives (that
calculate jump height using the flight time method) have been validated. 
For
example, photoelectric cells have been shown to yield similar jump height
values to those attained using a force platform (García-López et al., 2013;
Glatthorn et al., 2011). 
Jump mats have generally been shown to yield
inaccurate but reliable measurements of jump height (García-López et al.,
2013; McMahon et al., 2016b; Nuzzo et al., 2011), meaning that their values
can be easily and correctly converted through published equations (García-
López et al., 2013; McMahon et al., 2016b). 
It is worth taking into
consideration that the accuracy of jump height values attained from jump

mats depends on the type of jump being performed and the level of
performer, with lower accuracy seen for short contact jumps, such as the drop
jump (Kenny et al., 2012), and for athletes who can jump very high (Whitmer
et al., 2015). 
An even cheaper alternative method of measuring jump height
from flight time is through iPhone apps, with jump height attained using the
My Jump app, for example, showing almost perfect agreement with values
attained from a force platform (Balsalobre-Fernández et al., 2015). 
It must be
noted here that the flight time method of calculating jump height is prone to
errors when compared to the take-off velocity method (Moir, 2008) due to,
for example, tucking of the legs during the flight phase, and so standardising
the instructions given to athletes regarding the flight phase of the jump is
especially important when assessing jump height in this manner (see the
‘
Standardising Protocols
’ section for more information).
Fully automatic timing systems, such as those used at international
athletics events, are considered to be the gold standard equipment for
measuring linear sprint speed (Haugen & Buchheit, 2016; Haugen et al.,
2012b). 
These systems are, however, very expensive and impractical for most
practitioners to utilise (Haugen & Buchheit, 2016). 
Due to this, several
alternatives of varying practicality have been suggested in the literature such
as electronic timing gates, laser guns and high-speed videography (Haugen &
Buchheit, 2016). 
Of these suggestions, electronic timing gates are perhaps the
most practical in terms of accessibility and speed of data processing, and thus
are frequently used in both research and applied settings (Haugen &
Buchheit, 2016). 
The accuracy of sprint times recorded by electronic timing
gates do, however, depend on several factors, including the type of photocells
used (e.g., single- versus dual-beam). 
Unlike single-beam electronic timing
gates (Earp & Newton, 2012; Haugen et al., 2014), dual-beam electronic
timing gates have been shown to reduce the likelihood of an athlete’s arms or
legs breaking the beams, rather than their hips as is preferred (Yeadon et al.,
1999). 
Nevertheless, single-beam electronic timing gates are still commonly
used in both research and applied settings (Carr et al., 2015; Dos’Santos et
al., Publish Ahead of Print), possibly due to them being cheaper to purchase
(Earp & Newton, 2012), and they have been validated against fully automatic
timing systems (Haugen et al., 2012b). 
Split-beamed and post-processing
timing gates are also available for use, although the errors in sprint times
attained by split-beamed timing gates are similar to those measured via
single-beamed systems (Haugen et al., 2012a, 2013), and the test-retest

reliability of post-processing timing gates is currently unknown (Haugen &
Buchheit, 2016).
Although gold standard equipment can provide more detail about a
particular fitness characteristic, in reality, the type of equipment selected by
practitioners to test specific fitness qualities depends upon accessibility,
feasibility and affordability. 
Whether using gold standard equipment or
validated alternatives, it is vitally important to understand the associated
measurement error to allow accurate decisions to be made regarding training
adaptations (this will be discussed in detail in the ‘Interpreting results’
section). 
As some validated equipment alternatives of a similar cost have
larger measurement error than others, it would be prudent to choose the
alternative equipment that has the highest degree of accuracy. 
Another
important consideration when selecting equipment for testing certain fitness
characteristics is sampling frequency capability. 
For example, if assessing
vertical jump height using a force platform, it has been suggested that a
minimum sampling frequency of 1000 Hz should be used (Owen et al., 2014;
Street et al., 2001). 
On the other hand, a sampling frequency range of 500–
2000 Hz had no effect on force-time variables assessed during the isometric
mid-thigh pull (Dos’Santos et al., 2016). 
Alternatively, it has been recently
suggested that the minimum sample frequency of linear position transducers
for yielding quality movement velocity data is 25 Hz, and that sampling
above this frequency does not improve recording precision and may, if an
excessively high sample frequency is selected, have adverse effects on data
quality (Bardella et al., Publish Ahead of Print). 
Each of these factors should
be considered in order to inform the best equipment choice for a given
purpose and budget.
STANDARDISING PROTOCOLS
Another very important factor to consider as part of the fitness testing process
is the standardisation of protocols for the test(s) to be conducted, as this will
affect the reliability, variability and comparability of the data collected. 
For
dynamic strength tests, the standardisation required might be as simple as
ensuring correct barbell placement (e.g., high or low barbell position in the
back squat (Wretenberg et al., 1996)), the range of motion (e.g., squat depth)
is consistent (Bryanton et al., 2012) and athletes put in a maximal effort. 
The

latter point is, indeed, a requirement of all maximal tests. 
Additionally, the
rest period prescribed between trials may also affect the results gathered. 
For
example, during 1-RM back squat testing, there were no significant
differences in the ability to lift a maximal load when subjects were given one,
three or five minutes’ rests between lifts (Matuszak et al., 2003), although a
greater percentage of the subjects lifted successfully after the three- versus
the one-minute rest period (76% versus 94%), suggesting that a minimum of
three minutes’ rest should be prescribed between 1-RM attempts. 
Therefore,
adequate test-specific rest periods should be prescribed between recorded
trials in order to improve test accuracy.
For jump tests, there are many factors that need to be standardised in order
to glean consistent data. 
For example, when jump testing it is important to
consider whether or not athletes are permitted to swing their arms, as this has
been shown to augment jump height (Hara et al., 2006; Hara et al., 2008;
Walsh et al., 2007) but slightly reduce measurement reliability (Markovic et
al., 2004). 
Also, the range of motion (e.g., countermovement or starting
depth) (Gheller et al., 2015; Kirby et al., 2011; McBride et al., 2010) and
movement/contact time (Arampatzis et al., 2001; Walsh et al., 2004) will
influence the resultant jump height and associated force-time variables. 
This
highlights the importance of being clear and consistent with the coaching
cues used (e.g., “jump as fast and as high as possible”) when jump testing
athletes (Louder et al., 2015; McMahon et al., 2016a).
Sprint testing typically has even more methodological factors than
strength and jump testing that need to be standardised. 
For example, the
accuracy of sprint times recorded by electronic timing gates will depend upon
the height at which they are set up (Cronin & Templeton, 2008; Yeadon et
al., 1999), the starting distance from the first beam (Altmann et al., 2015;
Haugen et al., 2015) and the starting stance (Frost & Cronin, 2011; Frost et
al., 2008; Johnson et al., 2010). 
Thus, the standardisation of protocols can
relate both to the equipment setup and the instructions given to the athlete.
TESTING ORDER
The order of testing is largely dictated by the amount of recovery required
following a given test, and so usually baseline measurements of height, mass,
body composition and range of motion would be performed first, followed by

skill- and/or speed-based tests (jumps, change of direction/agility and
sprints), then maximal strength tests (dynamic or isometric) and finally
muscular endurance and/or aerobic capacity tests. 
In reality, the order of
fitness testing will depend upon time/equipment availability and the number
athletes being tested, and so a ‘round-robin’ approach might be adopted by
practitioners when larger groups of athletes are being tested in a single
session. 
If this is the case, then the testing order for a given athlete should
remain the same in subsequent testing sessions and, ideally, the aerobic
capacity tests should be performed last by all athletes. 
The latter is much
more feasible when the YIRT or MSFT is conducted in a large space,
allowing several athletes to be tested at the same time.
DATA ANALYSIS
After all testing has been completed, at least some (if not most) of the data
will need to be processed, as most equipment/software does not provide
instantaneous results. 
Like the testing protocols, the way in which data is
analysed post-testing will also greatly influence the accuracy, reliability and
variability of the results. 
The analysis of force-time data is probably the main
type of commonly collected data that varies most between published studies
and, most likely, in practice. 
Thus, the standardisation of force-time data
analysis is of paramount importance to allow for accurate interpretation of
these data. 
For example, when analysing vertical jump force-time data, the
method of determining bodyweight and the thresholds used to identify the
onset of movement and the instants of take-off and touchdown will greatly
influence factors such as jump height and reactive strength index modified, in
addition to variables calculated through forward dynamics procedures such as
velocity and power (Eagles et al., 2015; Owen et al., 2014; Street et al.,
2001). 
Additionally, correctly identifying the beginning and end of the
braking (if a countermovement is included) and propulsive phases of the
vertical jump (
Figure 12.1
) is important for ensuring correct calculations of
several variables in each of these phases, including mean and peak force, time
to peak force, rate of force development and impulse. 
Analysing rate of force
development attained in the isometric mid-thigh pull at predetermined time
bands, rather than as an average between the onset of force production and
peak force, has been shown to be superior from a reliability perspective (Haff

et al., 2015), which further justifies standardisation of the analysis of force-
time data for specific tests.
Another consideration when analysing force-time data is how much detail
is wanted from the data. 
For example, only gross measures of a given
performance (e.g., mean and peak values of force and related data) are
typically reported and compared between fitness testing sessions, whereas
comparing performance data sampled throughout the entire movement
(which is typically referred to as a temporal phase analysis) can yield far
more detailed information about how performances/changes in performances
are achieved. 
Indeed, the latter approach has been recently shown to provide
detailed information about neuromuscular fatigue in the countermovement
jump (Gathercole et al., 2015), the effect of external load on jump squat
performance (Cormie et al., 2008), the effect of weightlifting derivatives on
expressions of force (Suchomel & Sole, Publish Ahead of Print) and
differences in neuromuscular function between senior and academy rugby
league players (McMahon et al., Publish Ahead of Print). 
Although the
temporal phase analysis approach may sound complex, it can actually be
conducted in a relatively straightforward manner through the use of
customised Microsoft Excel spreadsheets (
Figure 12.2
). 
Even if a full
temporal phase analysis is considered to be too complex, there is an often
underutilised abundance of additional variables that can be calculated from
force-time data with just a basic understanding of forward dynamics
procedures that can further inform practitioners of their athletes’ capacity.

FIGURE 12.1
Example of correctly identifying the unweighting, braking and propulsive
phases of a countermovement jump force-time curve (solid grey line) by
overlaying the velocity-time curve (dotted black line). 
The dotted grey
line represents zero centre of mass velocity.
To conclude, the standardisation of data analysis is very important and
must be applied consistently within and between testing sessions. 
Where
possible, the criterion method (e.g., Owen et al., 2014) for analysing a
particular dataset should applied. 
If a criterion method has not yet been
established for analysing a given dataset, or if certain equipment is used that
provides instantaneous results via undisclosed data analysis methods, then
practitioners should at least be consistent and transparent with their data
analysis procedures. 
When comparing data collected through fitness testing
batteries to the normative data from published studies, practitioners should
pay particular attention to the methods of data analysis employed in those
studies before forming their conclusions. 
Another point to consider before
comparing results between sessions and athletes or to published studies is the
normalisation of strength and kinetic data for body mass (or alternatively,
employ another appropriate scaling technique, such as those that consider
body height and fat free mass), as these data are largely influenced by an
athlete’s size (Folland et al., 2008).

FIGURE 12.2
Example of conducting a temporal phase analysis of relative power-time
curves produced by more (grey lines) and less (black lines) powerful
athletes. 
The solid lines represent mean data and the dotted lines represent
upper and lower 95% confidence intervals. 
Non-overlapping areas
between curves (e.g., between the dashed vertical lines) denote
differences.
REFERENCES
Altmann, S., Hoffmann, M., Kurz, G., Neumann, R., Woll, A. 
& Haertel, S. 
(2015).
Different starting distances affect 5-m sprint times. 
The Journal of Strength &
Conditioning Research
, 
29
(8), 2361–2366.
Arampatzis, A., Schade, F., Walsh, M. 
& Bruggemann, G.P. 
(2001). 
Influence of leg
stiffness and its effect on myodynamic jumping performance. 
Journal of
Electromyography and Kinesiology
, 
11
(5), 355–364.
Baechle, T.R., Earle, R.W. 
& Wathen, D. 
(2008) Resistance training. 
In Baechle, T.R. 
and
Earle, R.W. 
(Eds.), 
Essentials of Strength Training and Conditioning
. 
Champaign, IL:
Human Kinetics. 
381–412.
Balsalobre-Fernández, C., Glaister, M. 
& Lockey, R.A. 
(2015). 
The validity and reliability
of an iPhone app for measuring vertical jump performance. 
Journal of Sports Sciences
,
33
(15), 1574–1579.
Bardella, P., Carrasquilla García, I., Pozzo, M., Tous-Fajardo, J., Saez de Villareal, E. 
&
Suarez-Arrones, L. 
(Publish Ahead of Print). 
Optimal sampling frequency in recording
of resistance training exercises. 
Sports Biomechanics
.

Bazuelo-Ruiz, B., Padial, P., García-Ramos, A., Morales-Artacho, A.J., Miranda, M.T. 
&
Feriche, B.B. 
(2015). 
Predicting maximal dynamic strength from the load-velocity
relationship in squat exercise. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 
29
(7),
1999–2005.
Beckham, G., Mizuguchi, S., Carter, C., Sato, K., Ramsey, M., Lamont, H., Hornsby, G.,
Haff, G. 
& Stone, M. 
(2013). 
Relationships of isometric mid-thigh pull variables to
weightlifting performance. 
The Journal of Sports Medicine and Physical Fitness
, 
53
(5),
573–581.
Blazevich, A.J., Gill, N. 
& Newton, R.U. 
(2002). 
Reliability and validity of two isometric
squat tests. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 
16
(2), 298–304.
Bosquet, L., Porta-Benache, J. 
& Blais, J. 
(2010). 
Validity of a commercial linear encoder
to estimate bench press 1 RM from the force-velocity relationship. 
Journal of Sports
Science and Medicine
, 
9
, 459–463.
Bryanton, M.A., Kennedy, M.D., Carey, J.P. 
& Chiu, L.Z.F. 
(2012). 
Effect of squat depth
and barbell load on relative muscular effort in squatting. 
The Journal of Strength &
Conditioning Research
, 
26
(10), 2820–2828.
Carr, C., McMahon, J.J. 
& Comfort, P. 
(2015). 
Relationships between jump and sprint
performance in first-class county cricketers. 
Journal of Trainology
, 
4
(1), 1–5.
Comfort, P., Jones, P.A., McMahon, J.J. 
& Newton, R. 
(2015). 
Effect of knee and trunk
angle on kinetic variables during the isometric mid-thigh pull: Test-retest reliability.
International Journal of Sports Physiology and Performance
, 
10
(1), 58–63.
Comfort, P. 
& McMahon, J.J. 
(2015). 
Reliability of maximal back squat and power clean
performances in inexperienced athletes. 
The Journal of Strength and Conditioning
Research
, 
29
(11), 3089–3096.
Conceição, F., Fernandes, J., Lewis, M., Gonzaléz-Badillo, J.J. 
& Jimenéz-Reyes, P.
(2016). 
Movement velocity as a measure of exercise intensity in three lower limb
exercises. 
Journal of Sports Sciences
, 
34
(12), 1099–1106.
Cormie, P., McBride, J.M. 
& McCaulley, G.O. 
(2008). 
Power-time, force-time, and
velocity-time curve analysis during the jump squat: Impact of load. 
Journal of Applied
Biomechanics
, 
24
(2), 112–120.
Cronin, J.B. 
& Templeton, R.L. 
(2008). 
Timing light height affects sprint times. 
The
Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 
22
(1), 318–320.
De Witt, J.K., English, K.L., Crowell, J.B., Kalogera, K.L., Guilliams, M.E., Nieschwitz,
B.E., Hanson, A.M. 
& Ploutz-Snyder, L.L. 
(Publish Ahead of Print). 
Isometric mid-
thigh pull reliability and relationship to deadlift 1RM. 
The Journal of Strength &
Conditioning Research
.
Dos’Santos, T., Thomas, C., Jones, P.A. 
& Comfort, P. 
(Publish Ahead of Print).
Mechanical determinants of faster change of direction speed performance in male
athletes. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
.
Dos’Santos, T., Jones, P. 
A., Kelly, J., McMahon, J.J., Comfort, P. 
& Thomas, C. 
(2016).
Effect of sampling frequency on isometric mid-thigh pull kinetics. 
International Journal
of Sports Physiology and Performance
, 
11
(2), 255–260.
Eagles, A.N., Sayers, M.G.L., Bousson, M. 
& Lovell, D.I. 
(2015). 
Current methodologies

and implications of phase identification of the vertical jump: A systematic review and
meta-analysis. 
Sports Medicine
, 
45
(9), 1311–1323.
Earp, J.E. 
& Newton, R.U. 
(2012). 
Advances in electronic timing systems: Considerations
for selecting an appropriate timing system. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning
Research
, 
26
(5), 1245–1248.
Faigenbaum, A.D., McFarland, J.E., Herman, R.E., Naclerio, F., Ratamess, N.A., Kang, J.
& Myer, G.D. 
(2012). 
Reliability of the one-repetition-maximum power clean test in
adolescent athletes. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 
26
(2), 432–437.
Folland, J.P., Mc Cauley, T.M. 
& Williams, A.G. 
(2008). 
Allometric scaling of strength
measurements to body size. 
European Journal of Applied Physiology
, 
102
(6), 739–745.
Frost, D.M. 
& Cronin, J.B. 
(2011). 
Stepping back to improve sprint performance: A kinetic
analysis of the first step forwards. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
,
25
(10), 2721–2728.
Frost, D.M., Cronin, J.B. 
& Levin, G. 
(2008). 
Stepping back to improve sprint
performance: A kinetic analysis of the first step forwards.. 
The Journal of Strength &
Conditioning Research
, 
22
(3), 918–922.
García-López, J., Morante, J.C., Ogueta-Alday, A. 
& Rodríguez-Marroyo, J.A. 
(2013). 
The
type of mat (contact vs. 
photocell) affects vertical jump height estimated from flight
time. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 
27
(4), 1162–1167.
García-Ramos, A., Jaric, S., Padial, P. 
& Feriche, B. 
(2016a). 
Force-velocity relationship of
upper body muscles: Traditional versus ballistic bench press. 
Journal of Applied
Biomechanics
, 
32
(2), 178–185.
García-Ramos, A., Stirn, I., Strojnik, V., Padial, P., De la Fuente, B., Argüelles-
Cienfuegos, J. 
& Feriche, B. 
(2016b). 
Comparison of the force-, velocity-, and power-
time curves recorded with a force plate and a linear velocity transducer. 
Sports
Biomechanics
, 
15
(3), 329–341.
Garnacho-Castaño, M.V., López-Lastra, S. 
& Maté-Muñoz, J.L. 
(2015). 
Reliability and
validity assessment of a linear position transducer. 
Journal of Sports Science &
Medicine
, 
14
(1), 128–136.
Gathercole, R., Sporer, B., Stellingwerff, T. 
& Sleivert, G. 
(2015). 
Alternative
countermovement-jump analysis to quantify acute neuromuscular fatigue. 
International
Journal of Sports Physiology and Performance
, 
10
(1), 84–92.
Gauthier, A., Davenne, D., Martin, A. 
& Van Hoecke, J. 
(2001). 
Time of day effects on
isometric and isokinetic torque developed during elbow flexion in humans. 
European
Journal of Applied Physiology
, 
84
(3), 249–252.
Gheller, R.G., Dal Pupo, J., Ache-Dias, J., Detanico, D., Padulo, J. 
& dos Santos, S.G.
(2015). 
Effect of different knee starting angles on intersegmental coordination and
performance in vertical jumps. 
Human Movement Science
, 
42
, 71–80.
Giroux, C., Rabita, G., Chollet, D. 
& Guilhem, G. 
(2015). 
What is the best method for
assessing lower limb force-velocity relationship? 
International Journal of Sports
Medicine
, 
36
(2), 143–149.
Glatthorn, J.F., Gouge, S., Nussbaumer, S., Stauffacher, S., Impellizzeri, F.M. 
&
Maffiuletti, N.A. 
(2011). 
Validity and reliability of Optojump photoelectric cells for

estimating vertical jump height. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
,
25
(2), 556–560.
Haff, G.G., Ruben, R.P., Lider, J., Twine, C. 
& Cormie, P. 
(2015). 
A comparison of
methods for determining the rate of force development during isometric midthigh clean
pulls. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 
29
(2), 386–395.
Hara, M., Shibayama, A., Takeshita, D. 
& Fukashiro, S. 
(2006). 
The effect of arm swing on
lower extremities in vertical jumping. 
Journal of Biomechanics
, 
39
(13), 2503–2511.
Hara, M., Shibayama, A., Takeshita, D., Hay, D.C. 
& Fukashiro, S. 
(2008). 
A comparison
of the mechanical effect of arm swing and countermovement on the lower extremities in
vertical jumping. 
Human Movement Science
, 
27
(4), 636–648.
Haugen, T. 
& Buchheit, M. 
(2016). 
Sprint running performance monitoring:
Methodological and practical considerations. 
Sports Medicine
, 
46
(5), 641–656.
Haugen, T.A., Tønnessen, E. 
& Seiler, S. 
(2012a). 
Speed and countermovement-jump
characteristics of elite female soccer players, 1995–2010. 
International Journal of
Sports Physiology and Performance
, 
7
(4), 340–349.
Haugen, T.A., Tønnessen, E. 
& Seiler, S. 
(2013). 
Anaerobic performance testing of
professional soccer players 1995–2010. 
International Journal of Sports Physiology and
Performance
, 
8
(2), 148–156.
Haugen, T.A., Tønnessen, E. 
& Seiler, S. 
(2015). 
Correction factors for photocell sprint
timing with flying start. 
International Journal of Sports Physiology and Performance
,
10
(8), 1055–1057.
Haugen, T.A., Tønnessen, E. 
& Seiler, S.K. 
(2012b). 
The difference is in the start: Impact
of timing and start procedure on sprint running performance. 
The Journal of Strength &
Conditioning Research
, 
26
(2), 473–479.
Haugen, T.A., Tønnessen, E., Svendsen, I.S. 
& Seiler, S. 
(2014). 
Sprint time differences
between single- and dual-beam timing systems. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning
Research
, 
28
(8), 2376–2379.
Hoeger, W.W.K., Hopkins, D.R., Barette, S.L. 
& Hale, D.F. 
(1990). 
Relationship between
repetitions and selected percentages of one repetition maximum: A comparison between
untrained and trained males and females. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning
Research
, 
4
(2), 47–54.
Jidovtseff, B., Harris, N.K., Crielaard, J.-M. 
& Cronin, J.B. 
(2011). 
Using the load-velocity
relationship for 1RM prediction. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
,
25
(1), 267–270.
Johnson, T.M., Brown, L.E., Coburn, J.W., Judelson, D.A., Khamoui, A.V., Tran, T.T. 
&
Uribe, B.P. 
(2010). 
Effect of four different starting stances on sprint time in collegiate
volleyball players. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 
24
(10), 2641–
2646.
Kenny, I.C., Cairealláin, A.Ó. 
& Comyns, T.M. 
(2012). 
Validation of an electronic jump
mat to assess stretch-shortening cycle function. 
The Journal of Strength and
Conditioning Research
, 
26
(6), 1601–1608.
Kirby, T., McBride, J., Haines, T. 
& Dayne, A. 
(2011). 
Relative net vertical impulse
determines jumping performance. 
International Journal of Sports Physiology and

Performance
, 
27
(3), 207–214.
Krustrup, P., Mohr, M., Amstrup, T., Rysgaard, T., Johansen, J., Steensberg, A., Pedersen,
P.K. 
& Bangsbo, J. 
(2003). 
The yo-yo intermittent recovery test: Physiological response,
reliability, and validity. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise
, 
35
(4), 697–705.
Louder, T., Bressel, M. 
& Bressel, E. 
(2015). 
The kinetic specificity of plyometric training:
Verbal cues revisited. 
Journal of Human Kinetics
, 
49
(1), 201–208.
Markovic, G., Dizdar, D., Jukic, I. 
& Cardinale, M. 
(2004). 
Reliability and factorial
validity of squat and countermovement jump tests. 
The Journal of Strength and
Conditioning Research
, 
18
(3), 551–555.
Matuszak, M.E., Fry, A.C., Weiss, L.W., Ireland, T.R. 
& McKnight, M.M. 
(2003). 
Effect
of rest interval length on repeated 1 repetition maximum back squats. 
The Journal of
Strength & Conditioning Research
, 
17
(4), 634–637.
McBride, J., Kirby, T., Haines, T. 
& Skinner, J. 
(2010). 
Relationship between relative net
vertical impulse and jump height in jump squats performed to various squat depths and
with various loads. 
International Journal of Sports Physiology and Performance
, 
5
(4),
484–496.
McGuigan, M.R., Doyle, T.L.A., Newton, M., Edwards, D.J., Nimphius, S. 
& Newton,
R.U. 
(2006). 
Eccentric utilization ratio: Effect of sport and phase of training. 
The
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research
, 
20
(4), 992–995.
McGuigan, M.R., Newton, M.J., Winchester, J.B. 
& Nelson, A.G. 
(2010). 
Relationship
between isometric and dynamic strength in recreationally trained men. 
The Journal of
Strength & Conditioning Research
, 
24
(9), 2570–2573.
McMahon, J., Murphy, S., Rej, S. 
& Comfort, P. 
(Publish Ahead of Print).
Countermovement jump phase characteristics of senior and academy rugby league
players. 
International Journal of Sports Physiology and Performance
.
McMahon, J., Ripley, N. 
& Rej, S. 
(2016a). 
Effect of modulating eccentric leg stiffness on
concentric force-velocity characteristics demonstrated in the countermovement jump.
Journal of Sports Sciences
, 
34
(S1), S19.
McMahon, J.J., Jones, P.A. 
& Comfort, P. 
(2016b). 
A correction equation for jump height
measured using the just jump system. 
International Journal of Sports Physiology and
Performance
, 
11
(4), 555–557.
Moir, G.L. 
(2008). 
Three different methods of calculating vertical jump height from force
platform data in men and women. 
Measurement in Physical Education and Exercise
Science
, 
12
(4), 207–218.
Nuzzo, J.L., Anning, J.H. 
& Scharfenberg, J.M. 
(2011). 
The reliability of three devices
used for measuring vertical jump height. 
The Journal of Strength and Conditioning
Research
, 
25
(9), 2580–2590.
Nuzzo, J.L., McBride, J.M., Cormie, P. 
& McCaulley, G.O. 
(2008). 
Relationship between
countermovement jump performance and multijoint isometric and dynamic tests of
strength. 
The Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research
, 
22
(3), 699–707.
Onambele-Pearson, N.L. 
& Pearson, S.J. 
(2007). 
Time-of-day effect on patella tendon
stiffness alters vastus lateralis fascicle length but not the quadriceps force-angle
relationship. 
Journal of Biomechanics
, 
40
(5), 1031–1037.

Owen, N.J., Watkins, J., Kilduff, L.P., Bevan, H.R. 
& Bennett, M.A. 
(2014). 
Development
of a criterion method to determine peak mechanical power output in a countermovement
jump. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 
28
(6), 1552–1558.
Pearson, S.J. 
& Onambele, G.N.L. 
(2006). 
Influence of time of day on tendon compliance
and estimations of voluntary activation levels. 
Muscle and Nerve
, 
33
(6), 792–800.
Ramsbottom, R., Brewer, J. 
& Williams, C. 
(1988). 
A progressive shuttle run test to
estimate maximal oxygen uptake. 
British Journal of Sports Medicine
, 
22
(4), 141–144.
Reynolds, J.M., Gordon, T.J. 
& Robergs, R.A. 
(2006). 
Prediction of one repetition
maximum strength from multiple repetition maximum testing and anthropometry. 
The
Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 
20
(3), 584–592.
Shimano, T., Kraemer, W.J., Spiering, B.A., Volek, J.S., Hatfield, D.L., Silvestre, R.,
Vingren, J.L., Fragala, M.S., Maresh, C.M., Fleck, S.J., Newton, R.U., Spreuwenberg,
L.P.B. 
& Häkkinen, K. 
(2006). 
Relationship between the number of repetitions and
selected percentages of one repetition maximum in free weight exercises in trained and
untrained men. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 
20
(4), 819–823.
Street, G., McMillan, S., Board, W., Rasmussen, M. 
& Heneghan, J.M. 
(2001). 
Technical
note sources of error in determining countermovement jump height with the impulse
method. 
Journal of Applied Biomechanics
, 
17
(1), 43–54.
Suchomel, T.J. 
& Sole, C.J. 
(Publish Ahead of Print). 
Force-time curve comparison
between weightlifting derivatives. 
International Journal of Sports Physiology and
Performance
.
Teo, W., McGuigan, M.R. 
& Newton, M.J. 
(2011). 
The effects of circadian rhythmicity of
salivary cortisol and testosterone on maximal isometric force, maximal dynamic force,
and power output. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 
25
(6), 1538–1545.
Thomas, C., Comfort, P., Chiang, C.-Y. 
& Jones, P.A. 
(2015). 
Relationship between
isometric mid-thigh pull variables and sprint and change of direction performance in
collegiate athletes. 
Journal of Trainology
, 
4
(1), 6–10.
Walsh, M., Arampatzis, A., Schade, F. 
& Bruggemann, G.P. 
(2004). 
The effect of drop
jump starting height and contact time on power, work performed, and moment of force.
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 
18
(3), 561–566.
Walsh, M.S., Böhm, H., Butterfield, M.M. 
& Santhosam, J. 
(2007). 
Gender bias in the
effects of arms and countermovement on jumping performance. 
The Journal of Strength
& Conditioning Research
, 
21
(2), 362–366.
West, D.J., Cook, C.J., Beaven, M.C. 
& Kilduff, L.P. 
(2014). 
The influence of the time of
day on core temperature and lower body power output in elite rugby union sevens
players. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 
28
(6), 1524–1528.
Whitmer, T.D., Fry, A.C., Forsythe, C.M., Andre, M.J., Lane, M.T., Hudy, A. 
& Honnold,
D.E. 
(2015). 
Accuracy of a vertical jump contact mat for determining jump height and
flight time. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 
29
(4), 877–881.
Wretenberg, P., Feng, Y. 
& Arborelius, U.P. 
(1996). 
High- and low-bar squatting
techniques during weight-training. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise
, 
28
(2),
218–224.
Yeadon, M.R., Kato, T. 
& Kerwin, D.G. 
(1999). 
Measuring running speed using

photocells. 
Journal of Sports Sciences
, 
17
(3), 249–257.

PART 3
Coaching your athlete

CHAPTER 13
Movement screening: An integrated
approach to assessing movement
quality
Chris Bishop
INTRODUCTION
Movement screening is a concept that has been widely adopted by the
strength and conditioning (S&C) community in the past ten to fifteen years.
Typical procedures aim to distinguish a level of competency with an
associated movement pattern, with such examples including overhead squats,
lunges, or landing mechanics. 
Determining an athlete’s competency in a
given movement pattern can aid practitioners in decision-making regarding
programme design. 
For example, an excessive forward lean during an
overhead squat test may suggest that the athlete in question needs to enhance
his or her squat mechanics (commonly, increased dorsiflexion) prior to heavy
loading. 
Similarly, if a jump test is used to assess landing mechanics and
excessive knee valgus is present, it may be unwise to programme high-
intensity plyometrics. 
Consequently, movement screens offer S&C coaches
the chance to ‘get a glimpse’ of an athlete’s movement profile so that more
appropriate decisions can be made on an individual level regarding
appropriate exercise prescription. 
Furthermore, each warm up and training
session should also be seen as an opportunity to subjectively identify any
dysfunctional movement patterns.

Multiple methods for screening an athlete’s movement exist under both
low- and high-velocity conditions. 
For example, the overhead squat and
single leg squat provide practitioners with an overall indication of movement
quality (Clark and Lucett 2010; Clark et al. 
2012). 
The main focus being to
identify movement dysfunction within the screening pattern specific to key
joints in the kinetic chain: namely, the ankle, knee, lumbo-pelvic-hip
complex, thoracic spine, and shoulder joints. 
More recently, the Functional
Movement Screen (FMS) has come to the forefront of numerous academic
publications (Cook et al. 
2010; Frost et al. 
2012; Fox et al. 
2013; Frost et al.
2014; Kazman et al. 
2014), which consists of seven tests (one of which is the
overhead squat) that aim to challenge movement quality, mobility, and
stability. 
The quality of each test is graded on a numerical scale from zero to
three; three being given if the test is performed perfectly, two if the test is
completed but with compensations, one if the test is completed but with poor
form, and zero if the test is unable to be completed due to the client
experiencing pain during its commencement (Beardsley and Contreras 2014).
It has been suggested that these two methods lack the notion of ‘sport-
specificity’ because of the tests occurring at low velocities (Bishop et al.
2015). 
However, additional screening methods that account for this concept
of high velocity also exist: including the Landing Error Scoring System
(LESS) (Padua et al. 
2009; Padua et al. 
2011; Padua et al. 
2012), tuck jump
assessment (Myer et al. 
2008; Klugman et al. 
2011; Myer et al. 
2011;
Herrington et al. 
2013; Read et al. 
2015), and single leg hop (Barber et al.
1990; Noyes et al. 
1991; Ross et al. 
2002; Reid et al. 
2007; Munro and
Herrington 2011; Rohman et al. 
2015). 
The LESS test aims to assess landing
mechanics from a procedure similar to that of a typical drop jump
methodology, but instead of ‘stepping off’ a box, subjects are required to
jump forward 50% of their own height before rebounding up into a vertical
jump. 
The tuck jump assessment aims to assess landing mechanics from
repeated tuck jumps over a continuous ten second period, and the single leg
hop has been used as a method of determining levels of asymmetry post-ACL
surgery. 
These high-velocity assessments aim to expose an athlete’s
imbalances or weaknesses during bilateral and unilateral landing mechanics.
Whilst this information can be considered useful, methods are frequently
assessed subjectively which could be further enhanced if objective measures
were incorporated into the assessment process (discussed later).
With each test aiming to identify movement quality in their own specific

way, it can often be challenging to practitioners to identify which ones are
most suitable, practical, and time efficient for assessing movement quality.
Therefore, the purpose of this chapter is to critically evaluate current methods
for screening movement (which will be identified from existing research) and
to suggest a viable system which practitioners may consider moving forward.
OVERHEAD SQUAT
In contrast to the FMS, there is no numerical grading system for the overhead
squat specifically. 
As a result, any research pertaining to this exercise as a
movement screen has had to take a ‘laboratory-based’ emphasis. 
Such studies
have included the use of force plates, motion analysis, or electromyography
(EMG) in an attempt to quantify specific kinetic and kinematic information.
Atkins et al. 
(2013) performed the overhead squat on twin force plates on
105 elite youth footballers (U13 to U17 age groups), quantifying vertical
ground reaction force (GRF) asymmetries. 
Significant inter-limb differences
(
p
 < 0.01) in peak GRF was noted across all age groups (U13 = 6%, U14 =
13%, U15 = 11%, U16 = 9%, and U17 = 4%). 
It is interesting to note the
higher values of asymmetry at the U14 and U15 age groups. 
Although not
accounted for, it was suggested that this ‘spike’ in imbalance may have been
a result of maturation, a concept which would seem plausible if the guidelines
of the youth physical development model are adhered to (Lloyd et al. 
2015).
In respect to asymmetry, 15% has been proposed as a threshold for
heightened injury risk (Barber et al. 
1990; Noyes et al. 
1991; Grindem et al.
2011; Garrison et al. 
2015). 
However, such data has only been suggested for
hop tests, and comparable asymmetry data during low-velocity movement
screens is non-existent. 
Despite the usefulness of these results, many
practitioners in the field may not have access to force plates. 
Therefore, we
should never under-estimate the importance of a critical eye when it comes to
assessing movement quality, a subjective concept that has been recognised as
an integral piece of the screening jigsaw (Bishop et al. 
2015). 
That being
said, Atkins’ research provides a useful insight into the rationale for using the
overhead squat across multiple age groups in a youth sporting population.
Motion analysis has also been a common tool when aiming to delve
deeper into the mechanics of this screen (Butler et al. 
2010; Whiteside et al.
2014; Mauntel et al. 
2015). 
Butler et al. 
(2010) undertook a biomechanical

analysis of the overhead squat whereby peak joint angles and joint moments
were calculated for 28 subjects (scored subjectively via the FMS grading
criteria). 
Significant differences (
p
 < 0.01) were seen between groups (those
who scored one, two, and three) for peak knee and hip flexion and knee
extension moment, but not for dorsiflexion (Butler et al. 
2010), perhaps
suggesting a ‘hip hinge’ strategy was adopted by those who scored better.
However, it is unclear whether such differences were a result of reduced joint
range of motion or whether alternative coaching cues could have solved the
movement competency issue. 
More recently, Whiteside et al. 
(2014)
compared motion analysis with real-time grading for the overhead squat
screen. 
The usual kinematic parameters such as spinal and knee alignment,
depth of squat, and torso to tibia positioning were graded subjectively by
real-time ‘raters’. 
Additionally, kinematic equivalents were created by the
motion analysis software. 
For example, in order to establish whether the
femur went below parallel, the long axis of the femur was aligned with the
transverse plane axis in a software program (Whiteside et al. 
2014). 
Results
indicated an 18.2% level of agreement between real-time and motion analysis
when interpreting movement quality. 
It has been suggested that raters are
required to survey multiple areas when screening in real-time, which may
increase the probability of inaccuracies during subjective analysis. 
This is
supported by Banskota et al. 
(2008) who reported real-time visual kinematic
errors between 10–15°, which may suggest that grading the overhead squat
without accompanying technology may not be reliable when identifying
kinematic dysfunctions.
Considering its popularity in the field as a generic screening protocol, little
research appears to exist in relation to muscle activity (EMG) during the
overhead squat. 
It has been reported that when subjects exhibit medial knee
displacement (knee valgus), this compensation is accompanied by
significantly reduced (
p
 < 0.001) dorsiflexion and increased adductor
activation (
p
 = 0.02) (Bell et al. 
2012). 
This is further supported by Macrum
et al. 
(2012) who used a 12° ‘wedge’ to purposefully restrict ankle
dorsiflexion during a squat pattern (compared to a no wedge condition).
There was a significant increase in medial knee displacement (
p
 < 0.001;
effect size = 2.92) and significant decrease in vastus lateralis and vastus
medialis oblique activation (
p
 < 0.05; effect size range = 0.2–0.33) during the
wedge condition. 
Essentially, it was concluded that reduced ankle range of
motion resulted in lower quadriceps activity and increased compensations

FIGURE 13.1
medially at the knee joint, highlighting the importance of adequate
dorsiflexion.
In conclusion, the aforementioned evidence would indicate that the use of
expensive laboratory equipment (force plates, motion analysis, and EMG) is
favourable to obtain accurate kinematic, kinetic, and muscle activity
information for the overhead squat. 
However, it must be acknowledged that
few practitioners will have access to these types of equipment; therefore,
alternative methods of assessing movement quality should also be
considered. 
Numerous smart phone/tablet ‘apps’ such as Coach’s Eye, Hudl
Technique, and even the standard video recording function on these devices
will almost certainly enhance a coach’s capacity to extract reliable
information from this assessment. 
Therefore, in order for practitioners to be
able to interpret their findings (regardless of the methods employed), it would
be useful to understand common dysfunctions associated with this screen.
Example pictures of a desirable overhead squat pattern (
Figures 13.1
–
13.3
)
and common movement dysfunctions (
Figures 13.4
–
13.9
) have been included
in line with previous suggestions (Bishop et al. 
2016).
Overhead squat (anterior view).

FIGURE 13.2
FIGURE 13.3
FIGURE 13.4
Overhead squat (lateral view).
Overhead squat (posterior view).
External rotation of the feet.

FIGURE 13.5
FIGURE 13.6
FIGURE 13.7
Knee valgus.
Excessive forward lean.
Lower back arching.

FIGURE 13.8
FIGURE 13.9
Lower back rounding.
Arms fall forward.
Regardless of the methods employed to assess this screen, athletes should
be instructed to perform the overhead squat identically each time, thus
enhancing the reliability of extracting any relevant information pertaining to
movement competency. 
Suggested set up procedures have been proposed by
Bishop et al. 
(2016) and can be seen in 
Table 13.1
.
SINGLE LEG SQUAT
The single leg squat (SLS) has been the subject of numerous research studies,
predominantly in the rehabilitation field if we are to take note of where the
majority of literature has been published. 
The main focus of research has
been on muscle activation levels (Zeller et al. 
2003; DiStefano et al. 
2009), its
ability to identify hip abductor weakness (Beutler et al. 
2002; Noehren et al.

2012; Mauntel et al. 
2014; Macadam et al. 
2015), and differentiated
kinematics between injured and non-injured populations (Levinger et al.
2007; Willy et al. 
2012; Herrington, 2014; Trulsson et al. 
2015).
TABLE 13.1
 Suggested instructions for the overhead squat assessment (adapted from
Bishop et al. 
2016)
Instruction
Rationale for instruction
Set feet hip-
width apart at 12
o’clock
Narrow foot position, set straight ahead will require optimal levels of
dorsiflexion (20–30°) (Clark and Lucett 2010), to avoid
compensations at the foot/ankle complex. 
It should be noted that this
may not be considered optimal foot positioning for loaded squat
training, rather it is designed to identify potential restrictions in ankle
range of motion earlier on in the squat pattern, if they exist.
Furthermore, external rotation at the feet may also allow for more
depth by virtue of additional range being ‘provided’ at the hip joint.
As such, straight feet are recommended to get an indication of
mobility in the squat pattern with respect to both the ankle and hips.
Shoulders in full
flexion
Optimal shoulder flexion has been reported to be 180° (Howe and
Blagrove 2015) and coaches should instruct athletes to ‘raise their
arms above their head’ and maintain this position throughout the
screen. 
Coaches are looking to see if the arms are a continuation of
straight spinal alignment throughout the available range of motion.
Keep head
neutral/eyes
looking forward
It has been suggested that this falls in line with optimal squatting
technique (Myer et al. 
2014). 
If the athlete is allowed to flex at the
neck (look down) this may make it harder to visually distinguish
compensations at the shoulder joint such as the arms falling forward.
Ask athlete to
remove
footwear
In order to standardise testing procedures, all athletes should remove
footwear so that no ‘assistance’ can be provided for any reduced ankle
mobility.
Ask athlete to
squat as deep as
possible
This should encourage athletes to challenge their depth in the squat
pattern. 
Some compensations such as knee valgus and excessive
forward lean may not be apparent at shallow depths, therefore it is in
the interest of the coach to determine if full range of motion is
available and whether the athlete has the strength to maintain form
throughout the available range. 
Furthermore, visual demonstrations
have been suggested as a more advantageous strategy to enhance
motor learning (Horn et al. 
2010), therefore the author suggests that
no demonstrations are provided as this may affect outcomes.

With muscle activation (measured via EMG) typically reported as a
percentage of maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC), gluteus
maximus activation would appear to range from 35–81% (Zeller et al. 
2003;
Boudreau et al. 
2009; DiStefano et al. 
2009) in healthy populations whilst
subjects portraying injury symptoms or faulty movement mechanics (knee
valgus) have noted muscle activation as low as 17–20% (Nakagawa et al.
2012; Mauntel et al. 
2014). 
Similar trends can be seen for the gluteus medius
muscle with activation levels reported between 30–77% in healthy subjects
(Zeller et al. 
2003; Boudreau et al. 
2009; DiStefano et al. 
2009), but as low as
18% in subjects with patella-femoral pain syndrome (PFPS) (Nakagawa et al.
2012). 
Despite the notable contributions from the gluteal complex, it would
appear that the highest muscle activation is seen in the quadriceps, with
muscle activation ranging from 75–116% (Zeller et al. 
2003; Mauntel et al.
2014).
Further to this, research has demonstrated a capacity for the SLS to
portray significant differences between healthy and injury-symptomatic
subjects when assessed using more objective measures. 
Munro et al. 
(2012)
used two-dimensional video analysis to assess the reliability of frontal plane
projection angle (FPPA) of the knee joint during the single leg squat.
Reflective markers were positioned in the centre of the knee and ankle joints
and on the proximal thigh in line with the anterior superior iliac spine,
allowing subsequent analysis to quantify the angle. 
Between-session data
reported strong levels of reliability with intra-class correlation coefficients of
0.72–0.88 for the assessment of FPPA. 
Consequently, results from research
using similar methods can likely be interpreted with confidence. 
Earlier
research from Levinger et al. 
(2007) used a single digital camera and
reflective markers to quantify the same metric. 
Results identified a significant
difference (
p
 = 0.019) between healthy subjects who reported a mean FPPA
of 7.79 ± 4.42° during the SLS compared to 11.75 ± 3.61° in subjects
demonstrating PFPS. 
This was further supported by Herrington (2014) who
used similar procedures and reported a significant difference (
p
 < 0.01) in
mean knee valgus angles between healthy subjects (8.4 ± 5.1°) and those
reporting PFPS (16.8 ± 5.4°).
In conclusion, the SLS has established the involvement of the gluteal
complex, supported the hypothesis that there is an association with knee
valgus and FPPA, and differentiated between subjects with and without
injury symptoms. 
Furthermore, the use of a single digital camera would

FIGURE 13.10
FIGURE 13.11
appear to suffice when quantifying compensations at the knee joint; thus, the
use of smart phones/tablets can again be considered by practitioners to
enhance the accuracy of subsequent analysis. 
Where practitioners in the field
may struggle is using reflective markers (often associated with laboratory-
based analysis). 
However, use of apps such as Coach’s Eye and Hudl
Technique will allow for lines to be drawn/angles to be calculated at relevant
points within the video capture, allowing for increased accuracy during
subjective kinematic analysis. 
With this in mind, example pictures have been
provided demonstrating desirable form (
Figure 13.10
) and common
compensations (
Figures 13.11
–
13.15
) associated with this screen.
Single leg squat.
Knee valgus.

FIGURE 13.12
FIGURE 13.13
FIGURE 13.14
Hip hike.
Hip drop.
Inward trunk rotation.

FIGURE 13.15
Outward trunk rotation.
Finally, just as described for the overhead squat, universal testing procedures
should always be adhered to where possible, and suggestions for the SLS are
summarised in 
Table 13.2
.
FUNCTIONAL MOVEMENT SCREEN
The Functional Movement Screen (FMS) has received much attention in the
literature in recent years (Cook et al. 
2010; Frost et al. 
2012; Fox et al. 
2013;
Frost et al. 
2014; Kazman et al. 
2014). 
The FMS consists of seven individual
tests (deep [overhead] squat, inline lunge, hurdle step, active straight leg
raise, shoulder mobility, trunk stability push-up, and rotary stability) that
provide an overall impression of movement quality (Cook et al. 
2010). 
With
that in mind, one of its creators has previously suggested that if athletes are
unable to perform such movement, then uncovering this information may
assist with reducing injuries and improving athletic performance (Cook
2004). 
Furthermore, the numerical grading system (zero to three) means that
comparative data analysis is easy for practitioners to run; thus, an attempt to
establish its relationship with athletic performance and injury risk has been a
popular stream of investigation.
TABLE 13.2
 Suggested instructions for the single leg squat assessment
Instruction
Rationale for instruction
Keep hands placed on
hips
Allowing arms to be outstretched will naturally counteract an
athlete’s centre of mass, allowing them to go deeper.

Keeping hands fixed to hips will help to standardise testing
procedures and remove any ‘assistance’ from an outstretched
arm position.
Position non-stance foot
parallel to stance foot
Stretching the non-stance leg in front as seen in the ‘pistol
squat’ exercise will also aid technique. 
Interpretation of SLS
quality has a major focus on hip alignment; thus, keeping the
hovering foot raised just off the ground should help to
determine if there is a true hike/drop in this region, due to the
hips starting as close to neutral as possible (should this be the
case before any movement is initiated).
Point stance foot straight
ahead
External rotation at the foot may have an unwanted effect on
the knee joint. 
The tibia inserts into both the knee and ankle
joints and any external rotation of the foot (and therefore
tibia) may encourage internal rotation of the femur,
potentially increasing the likelihood of knee valgus.
Ask athlete to remove
footwear
In order to standardise testing procedures, all athletes should
remove footwear so that no ‘assistance’ can be provided for
any reduced ankle mobility.
Ask athlete to squat to as
deep as possible
This should encourage athletes to challenge their range of
motion and strength in this pattern. 
However, the
neuromuscular demand for this test is greater than the
overhead squat and coaches should be aware of asking
athletes to squat ‘as deep as possible’ for any athlete showing
signs or symptoms of injury, particularly at the knee joint.
Parchmann and McBride (2011) investigated the relationship between the
FMS and maximal lower body strength (1RM back squat) with 10m and 20m
sprints, agility t-test, and vertical jump height in 25 NCAA Division 1 college
athletes. 
Results revealed no significant correlations between the sum of
scores in the FMS and any of the performance tests. 
In contrast, the
relationship between 1RM squat strength and 10m (
r
 = –0.81), 20m (
r
 = –
0.87), vertical jump (
r
 = 0.87), and agility t-test (
r
 = –0.76) provides some
evidence that maximal strength plays a pivotal role in an athlete’s capacity to
sprint, jump, and change direction.
The lack of association with physical performance is further supported by
the work of Okada et al. 
(2011) who investigated the relationship between the
FMS, core stability, and measures of performance. 
Twenty-eight healthy
subjects performed spinal flexion/extension and side plank endurance tests

for the core musculature, in addition to an overhead medicine ball toss and
single leg squat for the performance-orientated assessments. 
There were no
significant correlations between the FMS and either core stability or
performance-based tests (Okada et al. 
2011), again indicating a distinct lack
of relationship. 
However, it should be acknowledged that the single leg squat
could be considered a questionable choice when labelled as a ‘performance
test’. 
Finally, Fox et al. 
(2013) reported normative FMS scores in male Gaelic
field sports and noted no difference between elite and sub-elite athletes (mean
score = 15.8 ± 1.58 vs. 
15.34 ± 1.31, respectively). 
The results from Fox et al.
(2013) indicate that the FMS may not be able to differentiate between athletes
of varying performance levels, which may suggest it is too generic to use on
an athlete population.
Similar to any attempted research with athletic performance, its
association with injury risk has also been investigated. 
Any such studies have
been required to create a ‘cut-off’ point during statistical analysis in order to
determine the sum score’s capacity to predict injury. 
Typically, a score of ≤
14 has been used as a threshold, most likely because it provides an indication
of an average score of two across all tests. 
Naturally, there are flaws with
such an assumption (discussed later). 
O’Connor et al. 
(2011) used the FMS in
an attempt to predict injuries in 874 marine officers. 
Subjects were divided
into either long (68 days, 
N
 = 427) or short (38 days, 
N
 = 447) training
cycles, and injuries were monitored throughout. 
Regardless of training cycle,
FMS scores were categorised into ≤ 14, 15–17, and ≥ 18, and results can be
seen in 
Table 13.3
.
The results from O’Connor’s study indicate that marine officers who
scored ≤ 14 were more likely to get injured when compared to those who
scored in the other two brackets. 
However, it must be noted that the identified
imbalances (as measured by the scores of ≤ 14) were not ‘treated’ within the
respective training cycles; therefore, it is impossible to know whether these
injuries could have been prevented.
Chorba et al. 
(2010) assessed the ability of the FMS to determine injury
risk in a female collegiate population (
n
 = 38), with seven subjects reporting
prior reconstructive surgery on their anterior cruciate ligament (ACL).
Results identified 69% of subjects that scored ≤ 14 sustained an injury during
the intervention period (pre-season) and a strong correlation (
r
 = 0.76) was
reported between this group and injury rates. 
However, what is perhaps more
important is that the FMS was unable to differentiate between subjects with

and without prior ACL trauma. 
With ACL injuries having been shown to
alter movement patterns (Stergiou et al. 
2007), a screening process that is
unable to differentiate between subjects that have or have not had this type of
injury may increase the risk of re-injury to an athlete, as this aspect of the
screening process could be missed. 
Specifically, the predominance of static
tasks performed during the FMS may not have been challenging enough to
determine functional limitations in athletes with a prior injury. 
This
highlights the need for more dynamic forms of assessment that are reflective
of speeds and forces experienced during sporting movements.
TABLE 13.3
 Injury rates by cycle length in marine officers with differing FMS scores
(adapted from O’Connor et al. 
2011)
Cycle
FMS score
N
Injured (%)
P
Long Cycle
≤14
36
52.8
*
0.001
15–17
283
29.3
≥ 18
108
44.4
Short Cycle
≤ 14
57
40.4
*
0.015
15–17
223
22.2
≥ 18
166
28.9
Note:
 
*
Statistically significant compared to other FMS scoring brackets
Butler et al. 
(2011) investigated whether performance in physical fitness
tests and the FMS were predictors of injury in 108 firefighters. 
The
performance tests consisted of a sit and reach test, push-up test (maximum
number performed in two minutes), pull-up test (until failure), 1.5 mile run,
and a firefighter-specific ‘tower test’. 
However, when the seven tests were
assessed individually by way of regression analysis, the deep squat and push-
up test together were the only two tests that were able to moderately predict
injury (
r
 = 0.330), whilst the sit and reach test was the only physiological
variable that was a moderate predictor of injury (
r
 = 0.218). 
With this in
mind, these results should be interpreted with caution, as the sit and reach
does not challenge joint mobility in specific areas of the kinetic chain and is
unlikely to be used as either a ‘performance test’ or screening protocol in
S&C practice.

Whilst there appears to be some evidence to the notion that FMS scores ≤
14 may be associated with heightened injury risk, methodological issues and
interpretation of results must be considered as part of the bigger picture.
Furthermore, regardless of using the FMS to complement physical fitness
testing or identifying those at increased injury risk, some logistical
considerations must be considered. 
Clifton et al. 
(2015) undertook off-season
screening using the FMS protocol on 103 collegiate athletes, with the primary
purpose of identifying if the deep squat test could predict overall FMS
performance. 
Scores were categorised into low performers (< 2 for the deep
squat screen; < 12 for sum FMS score) and high performers (≥ 2 for the deep
squat; ≥ 12 for sum FMS score). 
Interestingly, subjects who scored ‘low’ on
the deep squat screen also scored significantly lower (
p
 < 0.001) on the FMS
as a whole. 
Furthermore, the deep squat was positively correlated with FMS
sum score (
r
 = 0.50, 
p
 < .001), and although correlation does not dictate
causation, it provides some indication that better movement quality from an
overhead squat screen may be indicative of overall movement quality.
Knowing that the overhead squat is effective at challenging the mobility of all
key joints in the kinetic chain, it could be suggested that this test provides the
most useful information out of any one screen from the FMS. 
It is not being
suggested that the additional six screens are insignificant, more so that it is
likely that useful information may be best extracted from each individual test,
rather than a composite score. 
This is supported by Li et al. 
(2015) who used
exploratory factor analysis to highlight that collectively, the seven tests had
low internal consistency which could be somewhat overcome by placing a
greater emphasis on individual test scores rather than the sum. 
Practically
speaking, a sum score of 19 could be obtained with maximum scoring for all
tests apart from a one on a single test. 
As such, if that test were to be ignored
(by virtue of using the sum score as a guide alone), this may be a potential
risk factor for injury.
Furthermore, many of these movements (or similar) will continually be
monitored each time athletes step into the weight room by virtue of squats,
lunges, presses, and rotational exercises (and their associated variations)
being frequently programmed for athletes. 
Therefore, monitoring technique
development for these movement patterns can likely be done continuously
during training sessions. 
It should also be emphasised that the chosen
movements in the FMS (whether used as a screen or monitored in training)
should be performed with optimal technique as many will form the

foundation for key qualities such as strength and power to be built upon
safely. 
Additional consideration must also be given to logistics in the field.
Time is a crucial factor in the sporting profession, with the S&C coach often
asked to produce results in a time-constrained, high-pressure environment.
The reality is that seven tests (five of which must be performed on both
limbs) if done properly, will take about 10 to 15 minutes to complete. 
This
does not make for a particularly practical use of time when working with
large groups of athletes. 
In addition, the FMS is typically graded in real-time
and the previous information in this chapter from Whiteside et al. 
(2014) and
Banskota et al. 
(2008) would also indicate that such subjective measures may
require further support to enhance the reliability of the outcomes. 
When all
things are considered, it is perhaps practical to suggest that alternative
screening tests may assist coaches in identifying movement compensations in
a more time-efficient manner. 
Furthermore, high-velocity screens may at
least partially replicate the forces experienced in a sporting situation (Bishop
et al. 
2015), justifying their place in a screening battery.
LANDING ERROR SCORING SYSTEM
The Landing Error Scoring System (LESS) is a screening tool that aims to
subjectively assess an athlete’s risk of suffering a non-contact ACL injury
from a similar method as a traditional drop jump (Padua et al. 
2009; Padua et
al. 
2011; Padua et al. 
2012; Smith et al. 
2012). 
The key difference is that the
athlete is required to jump forward (off a 30cm box) 50% of their height and
then jump vertically as high as possible, as opposed to ‘stepping off’ the box
as per the drop jump method. 
Two cameras are used from the sagittal and
frontal plane, views that allow practitioners to grade an athlete’s landing
mechanics against a set of pre-determined criteria (Padua et al. 
2009).
Originally, a 17-point scale was created that addressed potential kinematic
compensations at the ankles, knees, hips, and torso. 
However, it has been
deemed too time consuming (Padua et al. 
2009); thus, a modified version was
validated in 2011 (Padua et al. 
2011). 
The modified version has ten points to
consider for grading and has reported acceptable reliability when graded in
real-time (intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) = 0.72–0.81) (Padua et al.
2011), compared to the full 17-point scale with accompanying video analysis
(ICC = 0.84) (Padua et al. 
2009). 
Tables 13.4
 and 
13.5
 show the operational

definitions and grading criteria, respectively.
One of the original LESS studies by Padua et al. 
(2009) investigated the
reliability of this protocol on 2,691 army cadets from US military academies.
As previously mentioned, strong ICC values were reported (0.84), but scores
were also placed into brackets depending on outcome. 
A score of ≤ 4 was
deemed ‘excellent’ whilst > 6 was considered ‘poor’. 
There were
considerable differences between male and female cadet scores, with 29% of
males and 14% of females scoring in the excellent category and 23% of
males and 36% of females scoring poorly (Padua et al. 
2009). 
Poor scores
were associated with higher levels of knee valgus, hip adduction, and
increased hip/knee internal rotation. 
Perhaps more importantly, the LESS was
able to distinguish between subjects who had previously suffered an ACL
injury and those who had not, an outcome that has been noted again more
recently (Bell et al. 
2014).
TABLE 13.4
 Operational definitions for the modified LESS sheet (adapted from Padua et
al. 
2011)
LESS criteria
Operational definition
Rater view
Stance width
Abnormally wide or narrow stance during
landing, they receive an error (+1)
Front
Foot-rotation position
Moderate amount of external rotation or
internal rotation, they receive an error (+1)
Front
Initial foot-contact
symmetry
If one foot lands before the other or there is
alternating heel-to-toe/toe-to-heel landing
mechanics, they receive an error (+1)
Front
Knee valgus
Small amount of knee valgus (+1)
Large amount of knee valgus (+2)
Front
Lateral trunk flexion
If trunk is not perfectly vertical in frontal
plane, they receive an error (+1)
Front
Initial landing of feet
If subject lands heel-to-toe or flat-footed,
they receive an error (+1)
Side
Amount of knee flexion
Small amount of knee flexion displacement
(+1)
Average amount of knee flexion
displacement (+2)
Side

Amount of trunk flexion
Small amount of trunk flexion
displacement (+1)
Average amount of trunk flexion
displacement (+2)
Side
Total joint displacement
in sagittal plane
Large displacement of trunk & knees =
‘soft’ (0)
Average displacement of trunk & knees =
‘average’ (+1)
Small displacement of trunk & knees =
‘stiff’ (+2)
Side
Overall impression
Soft landing with no frontal plane motion
at the knee = ‘excellent’ (0)
Stiff landing with large frontal plane
motion at the knee = ‘poor’ (+2)
All other criteria rates ‘average’ (+1)
N/A
Additional normative values for the LESS have been reported elsewhere in
the research (Padua et al. 
2012; Smith et al. 
2012). 
Smith et al. 
(2012)
reported mean LESS scores of 4.42–5.53 in healthy high school and college
athletes versus 4.70–5.91 in high school and college athletes who had
previous ACL injuries. 
Padua et al. 
(2012) undertook two ACL injury
prevention programs on youth soccer players consisting of flexibility,
balance, strength, plyometrics, and agility training for either a short (three
months; 
n
 = 33) or long (nine months; 
n
 = 51) intervention period.
Furthermore, a ‘retention’ LESS test was undertaken three months post-
training to determine the effectiveness of each intervention. 
Pre-intervention
LESS scores were 5.17 and 5.70 for the three- and nine-month groups,
respectively. 
Post-intervention LESS scores improved to 3.39 and 4.07,
demonstrating how motor control in landing mechanics improved from both
interventions. 
However, the three-month group portrayed a mean retention
score of 4.69 whereas the nine-month intervention group’s mean score was
reported to be 4.20 (Padua et al. 
2012). 
The authors deduced that three
months may not be a long enough period to retain significant improvements
in landing mechanics for high school and college athletes. 
Although
speculative, it is logical to assume that athletes with a lower training age
(such as high school athletes) will require longer for desired movement
competency to be truly engrained.

TABLE 13.5
 The Landing Error Scoring System (LESS) score sheet for the modified
version of the LESS (adapted from Padua et al. 
2011)
Observing from the front
Observing from the side
  1. 
Stance width
  ~ Normal (0)
  ~ Wide (1)
  ~ Narrow (1)
  6. 
Initial landing of feet
  ~ Toe-to-heel (0)
  ~ Heel-to-toe (1)
  ~ Flat feet (1)
  2. 
Maximum foot rotation position
  ~ Normal (0)
  ~ Moderately externally rotated (1)
  ~ Slightly internally rotated (1)
  7. 
Amount of knee flexion displacement
  ~ Large (0)
  ~ Average (1)
  ~ Small (2)
  3. 
Initial foot contact
  ~ Symmetric (0)
  ~ Not symmetric (1)
  8. 
Amount of trunk flexion displacement
  ~ Large (0)
  ~ Average (1)
  ~ Small (2)
  4. 
Maximum knee valgus angle
  ~ None (0)
  ~ Small (1)
  ~ Large (2)
  9. 
Total joint displacement (sagittal plane)
  ~ Soft (0)
  ~ Average (1)
  ~ Stiff (2)
  5. 
Trunk lateral flexion
  ~ None (0)
  ~ Small to moderate (1)
10. 
Overall impression
  ~ Excellent (0)
  ~ Average (1)
  ~ Poor (2)
TOTAL SCORE =
In light of the evidence, the LESS would appear to be a reliable method
for assessing landing mechanics, and has been shown to differentiate between
subjects who have and have not suffered ACL trauma. 
Normative scores for
this assessment would appear to fall within a range of ~4–6, with a key
emphasis on trying to reduce this figure should it be continually used as part
of a screening battery. 
Despite the information portrayed in favour of the
LESS, results are subjective, which although favourable to practitioners in the
field, is likely to exhibit error with unfamiliar raters. 
Similar to the single leg
squat, quantifying objective measures such as knee valgus or FPPA could be
considered to enhance this screen, especially as video analysis is already a
pre-requisite for test requirements and has been used across comparable

landing tasks (Comfort et al. 
2016) such as the drop jump. 
Finally, the LESS
grades mechanics from only a single landing, and a test that interprets
movement quality during repeated jumping actions may be able to identify
landing dysfunctions that the LESS cannot.
TUCK JUMP ASSESSMENT
The tuck jump assessment (TJA) requires subjects to perform tuck jumps on
the spot repeatedly for ten seconds (Myer et al. 
2011). 
This repeated nature
may allow coaches to observe flaws in landing mechanics during a higher
intensity plyometric exercise when compared to the LESS (Myer et al. 
2011;
Bishop et al. 
2015). 
In addition, although the test only occurs over a ten-
second timeframe, the repeated nature may induce some level of fatigue, a
concept that is unlikely to play a part in other high-velocity screens. 
As per
the LESS, a grading criterion was created by Myer et al. 
(2011) and can be
viewed in 
Table 13.6
.
One of the first priorities when using any testing protocol is to assess its
reliability in order to understand whether it can be repeatedly used (Bishop et
al. 
2015) and can detect true changes (Turner et al. 
2015). 
Reliability of the
TJA has been researched by Herrington et al. 
(2013) and Read et al. 
(2015).
Herrington et al. 
(2013) used two raters to independently grade ten adult
subjects and showed that the average agreement was 93%, with 100%
agreement across five of the individual criteria. 
Read et al. 
(2015) screened
25 pre- and 25 post-peak height velocity elite youth soccer players with each
player’s score graded retrospectively across two different sessions. 
The TJA
was deemed highly reliable (ICC = 0.88) but when each criterion was
analysed individually, knee valgus was the only one that reached a substantial
agreement between testing sessions across both groups (Read et al. 
2015).
These results indicate that although the TJA may be a reliable measure for
screening landing mechanics, caution should be taken when interpreting the
sum score.
TABLE 13.6
 Grading criteria for the tuck jump assessment (adapted from Myer et al.
2011)
Tuck jump assessment
Pre  Mid  Post
Comments

  1.
  2.
  3.
  4.
  5.
  6.
  7.
  8.
  9.
10.
Knee & thigh motion
Lower extremity valgus at landing
_______________________
Thighs do not reach parallel (peak of
jump)
_______________________
Thighs not equal side-to-side (during
flight)
_______________________
Foot position during landing
Foot placement not shoulder-width apart
_______________________
Foot placement not parallel (front to
back)
_______________________
Foot contact timing not equal
_______________________
Excessive landing contact noise
_______________________
Plyometric technique
Pause between jumps
_______________________
Technique declines prior to ten seconds
_______________________
Does not land in same foot-print
(excessive in-flight motion)
_______________________
Total score
This is further supported by Lininger et al. 
(2015) who undertook an
exploratory factor analysis of the TJA on college athletes. 
Previous literature
from Myer et al. 
(2011) identified five risk factors that each of the ten
grading criterion might fall into: ligament dominance, quadriceps dominance,
leg dominance, trunk dominance, and technique perfection. 
Lininger’s
analysis investigated the internal structure of the TJA via a psychometric
examination, and results indicated that fatigue, distal landing pattern, and
proximal control accounted for 46% of the variance. 
With nearly half the
variance accounted for by three factors not outlined by Myer’s original
suggestions, the authors suggested that the use of a sum score at the end the
assessment may be questionable. 
Finally, Klugman et al. 
(2011) examined
whether an in-season ten-week plyometric program improved TJA scores in
49 female high school soccer athletes. 
Subjects were split into intervention (
n

= 15) and control (
n
 = 34) groups, but it was not specified how many sessions
a week the intervention group performed; merely that they attended 95% of
total training sessions. 
The intervention group showed a slight improvement
in TJA scores (pre = 5.4, post = 4.9). 
However, the control group who
received no additional training other than their regular soccer practices also
made comparable improvements (pre = 5.8, post = 5.0) (Klugman et al.
2011). 
It was suggested that there may be a dose-response relationship from
this type of training and that ten weeks may not have been enough to depict
significant improvements in tuck jump performance. 
However, without
knowing more specific details of the number of sessions undertaken, it is
impossible to draw objective evaluations.
In conclusion, the evidence from Herrington et al. 
(2013) and Read et al.
(2015) would suggest that the TJA is a reliable screening method; however,
using the sum score may not provide as much value to the coach as was
perhaps first intended. 
Lack of consistency between which grading criteria
repeatedly present themselves and the suggested modifiable risk factors
would suggest that further research is almost certainly warranted with this
screen. 
Furthermore, Myer et al. 
(2008) highlight the importance of an
athlete’s neuromuscular control and suggested that the TJA has the capacity
to repeatedly monitor this. 
Whilst this idea cannot be argued with, the
practicalities of who to implement this with must be considered. 
Notable
discrepancies in landing mechanics have been noted in the LESS from just a
single landing, yet the repeated nature of the TJA will make this test a
considerable progression. 
It is the advice of the author that coaches carefully
consider whether an athlete is ready for such an advanced screening method.
Perhaps the TJA would best be utilised as a progression from the LESS, with
coaches incorporating it once all compensations have been rectified from a
single landing.
So far, the high-velocity screens discussed have both been bilateral in
nature. 
Jones et al. 
(2014) suggested that injuries occur in a multitude of ways
such as cutting and side-stepping, both of which occur in a unilateral
environment. 
With this in mind, it is suggested that a high-velocity unilateral
screen will also provide practitioners with some useful information.
SINGLE LEG HOP

Hop tests have been the subject of numerous research studies in the
rehabilitation setting (Barber et al. 
1990; Noyes et al. 
1991; Ross et al. 
2002;
Reid et al. 
2007; Munro and Herrington, 2011; Rohman et al. 
2015), with a
particular emphasis on their ability to differentiate performance between
those who have and have not had ACL trauma and provide quantifiable data
pertaining to return to activity post-ACL injury. 
Unlike many of the
aforementioned screening methods, hop tests would not appear to have a
specific grading criterion; moreover, their use appears to have been
associated with asymmetry scores between limbs. 
These differences are often
used to calculate a Limb Symmetry Index (LSI) score (see 
Equation 13.1
),
which acts as a percentage of symmetry between limbs on the associated test
(Barber et al. 
1990; Garrison et al. 
2015).
Equation 13.1
Limb Symmetry Index (%) = (Involved limb ÷ Uninvolved
limb) × 100
The single leg hop (SLH) is performed for maximal distance achieved on one
limb and requires no expensive equipment, thus, it can be used by coaches at
all levels in the industry. 
The simplicity associated with the test is
undoubtedly a reason as to its common inclusion in a research setting.
Rohman et al. 
(2015) monitored changes in LSI scores for ten functional tests
(including the SLH) in 122 subjects during the ACL rehabilitation process.
The authors described how it was deemed necessary for subjects to
demonstrate 90% symmetry between limbs on all tests to be considered
‘rehabilitated’. 
The SLH was first conducted 158 days post-surgery and
demonstrated LSI scores of 78.2%, with the 90% threshold being reached 81
days later (Rohman et al. 
2015). 
Although no specific details of the
rehabilitation process were provided, it is useful to note that subjects reached
the required symmetry scores eight months post-surgery. 
However, this 90%
threshold has not always been suggested as the benchmark for symmetry
between limbs.
Earlier research from Barber et al. 
(1990) undertook a quantitative
comparison of healthy subjects (
n
 = 93) and those showing positive ACL
symptoms (but who had not had surgery) (
n
 = 35). 
Mean asymmetry scores
never went higher than 5% in the healthy subjects, whereas the ACL group

showed significantly greater (
p
 = 0.001) asymmetries of 18% between limbs.
Interestingly, ~92% of the healthy population reported LSI scores ≥ 85%,
which led authors to suggest that this was an acceptable asymmetry threshold
for healthy subjects. 
This has been further supported by Noyes et al. 
(1991)
who also investigated lower body asymmetries determined by hop tests post-
ACL injuries. 
Sixty-seven patients (male = 40; female = 27) performed the
SLH, the triple hop for distance, crossover hop for distance, and 6m timed
hop as methods for determining asymmetry levels. 
With abnormal LSI scores
considered to be below 85%, the SLH showed 52% of subjects demonstrated
greater imbalances than the suggested threshold and 49% showed greater
asymmetries during the timed hop also (Noyes et al. 
1991). 
It was concluded
that hop tests offer a simple method for determining lower limb functional
limitations and should be used in conjunction with other tests to complete the
screening picture. 
Finally, further evidence is offered by Grindem et al.
(2011) who used the SLH (and the triple hop, crossover hop, and 6m timed
hop) as predictors of function in 91 subjects with an ACL injury. 
One year
after diagnosis, the SLH was the only test able to detect asymmetries > 15%
with a mean LSI of 83.6% in the ACL group (Grindem et al. 
2011).
Consequently, this led the authors to suggest that practitioners should use the
SLH specifically as an assessment for lower limb function when returning
from knee injury.
In conclusion, it would appear from the literature that the SLH is a viable
method for determining inter-limb asymmetries, particularly for those who
may be returning from injury. 
Despite its efficacy for injured populations, it
is still suggested that the SLH is used for non-injured and athletic populations
as a simple and effective screen for monitoring inter-limb differences.
Considering a grading criterion does not currently exist for this test, it is
prudent to use the LSI as a measure of determining such differences during a
unilateral, high-velocity screen, and thus providing coaches with a tangible
outcome to inform their practice. 
Should kinematic information wish to be
investigated for this screen, then video analysis is required and, once again,
objective information pertaining to knee valgus and FPPA could be
considered if resources allow. 
If video analysis is used without accompanying
objective measures, practitioners should consider focusing on knee/hip
alignment and torso compensations in order to determine successful landing
technique. 
Although different tests, the associated compensations often seen
during the SLS test (
Figures 13.11
–
13.15
) may provide a useful starting point

when subjectively interpreting movement competency during this screen.
PUTTING A SCREENING PACKAGE TOGETHER
It is clear from the aforementioned evidence that the popular methods of
assessing movement (overhead squat, FMS) require further support if
coaches are to fully understand an athlete’s movement profile. 
Therefore,
high-velocity screens and methods for determining asymmetries are likely
useful methods that will show movement information that the former cannot
account for. 
However, it must be acknowledged that not all coaches will have
access to the equipment needed to optimise the reliability of some of the
testing procedures. 
With this in mind, it would be useful for coaches to have
alternative options for screening movement so that some useful information
can be obtained from the process. 
It should be understood, however, that if
the most reliable methods cannot be adhered to (such as using force plates
and/or motion analysis), then some degree of error will likely accompany a
coach’s interpretation of the results. 
Whilst this is far from perfect, it is also
most likely unavoidable and, provided this is accepted by the coach, the
margin for error will most likely reduce with continued practice. 
Therefore,
‘gold’, ‘silver’, and ‘bronze’ packages have been suggested when screening
movement (see 
Table 13.7
) and methods can be chosen to suit each
practitioner’s situation. 
It is important to recognise that the screens
themselves do not change between packages, rather the methods of analysis.
The screens have been selected based off the aforementioned information
presented in this chapter. 
In addition, it is the suggestion of the author that
bilateral and unilateral screens under both low- and high-velocity conditions
may help to provide coaches with a more complete picture of movement
quality than any one screen alone. 
However, practitioners are encouraged to
remember that, as always, any system requires flexibility, and if a given test
is not deemed appropriate for the population in question, then alternatives
may be more appropriate.
TABLE 13.7
 Proposed gold, silver, and bronze screening packages
Gold
Silver
Bronze
Overhead squat
Conducted on twin
Recorded using
Assessed in

force plates to
quantify vGRF
3-D motion analysis
used to quantify
kinematic
information
smart phone video
analysis (e.g.:
Coach’s Eye)
Assessed
retrospectively
real-time
Single leg squat
3-D motion analysis
used to quantify
kinematic
information
EMG used to
determine lower
limb muscle
activation
Recorded using
smart phone video
analysis (e.g.:
Coach’s Eye)
Assessed
retrospectively
Assessed in
real-time
LESS
Conducted on twin
force plates to
quantify landing
forces
3-D motion analysis
used to quantify
kinematic
information
Recorded using
smart phone video
analysis (e.g.:
Coach’s Eye)
Assessed
retrospectively
Assessed in
real-time
Single leg hop
Conducted on a
force plate to
quantify landing
forces
3-D motion analysis
used to quantify
kinematic
information
Recorded using
smart phone video
analysis (e.g.:
Coach’s Eye)
Assessed
retrospectively
Assessed in
real-time
Notes:
 LESS = Landing Error Scoring System, vGRF = vertical ground reaction force,
EMG = electromyography
Naturally, the most accurate information from screening an athlete’s

movement will come from the gold package, due to the higher reliability
associated with the accompanying data analysis. 
Whilst these procedures may
be optimal, they are perhaps limited to those at the highest level of elite sport
who either have the equipment themselves or the finances to align themselves
to an institution that does. 
Even then, the time needed to set up EMG and
motion analysis equipment, as an example, not to mention the time required
to assess the screens afterwards, may not make the gold package the most
practically viable in the field. 
For the silver package, the screens are still
graded retrospectively, and thus the time needed post-procedures is still a
requirement. 
However, due to recording from devices such as tablets or the
coach’s own recording equipment, procedures will take substantially less
time to complete. 
This in itself holds the advantage of reducing the time the
athlete is required to be there for testing, and thus any motivational issues
affected by duration are likely to be less of a factor. 
Finally, with smart
phones and tablets being so readily accessible to individuals these days, there
is an argument to say that no coach should subject their screening methods to
the ‘error of real-time’ and thus the bronze package. 
However, it still may
have its place in the field. 
The margin for error when grading an athlete’s
movement is likely to be less as coaches become more established at using
them. 
Therefore, if large squads are being assessed across any of the
suggested screens and the pressure of providing an immediate report (despite
its potential inaccuracies) is at the forefront of a coach’s agenda, then real-
time grading may be the only option. 
Therefore, it is suggested that coaches
grade each screen in real-time and retrospectively (to begin with) in an
attempt to determine real-time accuracy. 
Once an acceptable level of
agreement between the two methods is achieved, it may then be plausible to
rely on the bronze package when time-efficient screening strategies are
required.
CONCLUSION
Movement screening has been a vogue topic in recent years, with many
debating its usefulness and applicability in the field. 
The lack of association
between a range of movement-based tests (FMS) and performance may
suggest that time could be better spent on other screens. 
However, an
impression of movement quality is still almost certainly required, and as

such, an assessment that challenges the major areas in the kinetic chain
should provide this, justifying the overhead squat’s position in a screening
battery. 
As previously mentioned, the question of whether or not movement
mechanics alter under load and/or speed must be considered. 
The LESS
allows for both, and has the advantage of differentiating between subjects
who have and have not experienced previous ACL trauma. 
Noting that many
sporting actions occur unilaterally and are governed by a finite period of
time, it makes sense to incorporate low- and high-velocity unilateral testing
procedures to a screening battery. 
Consequently, the SLS and SLH may allow
for these principles to be accounted for. 
Finally, it is always suggested that
coaches should use whatever testing procedures best fits their practice. 
As
such, a combination of bilateral and unilateral, low and high velocity, and
using expensive equipment or real-time analysis should allow for the
majority of coaches to gauge some useful information from their screening
methods, regardless of the tests chosen.
REFERENCES
Atkins, S.J., Hesketh, C., and Sinclair, J.K. 
(2013). 
The presence of bilateral imbalance of
the lower limbs in elite youth soccer players of different ages. 
Journal of Strength and
Conditioning Research
, 30: 1007–1013.
Banskota, B., Lewis, J., Hossain, M., Irvine, A., and Jones, M.W. 
(2008). 
Estimation of the
accuracy of joint mobility assessment in a group of health professionals. 
European
Journal of Orthopaedic Surgery & Traumatology
, 18: 287–289.
Barber, S.D., Noyes, F.R., Mangine, R.E., McCloskey, J.W., and Hartman, W. 
(1990).
Quantitative assessment of functional limitations in normal and anterior cruciate
ligament-deficient knees. 
Clinical Orthopaedics and Related Research
, 255: 204–214.
Beardsley, C. 
and Contreras, B. 
(2014). 
The Functional Movement Screen: A review.
Strength and Conditioning Journal
, 36: 72–80.
Bell, D.R., Smith, M.D., Pennuto, A.P., Stiffler, M.R., and Olsen, M.E. 
(2014). 
Jump-
landing mechanics after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: A landing error
scoring system study. 
Journal of Athletic Training
, 49: 435–441.
Bell, D.R., Vesci, B.J., DiStefano, L.J., Guskiewicz, K.M., Hirth, C.J., and Padua, D.A.
(2012). 
Muscle activity and flexibility in individuals with medial knee displacement
during the overhead squat. 
Athletic Training and Sports Health Care
, 4: 117–125.
Beutler, A.I., Cooper, L.W., Kirkendall, D.T., and Garrett, W.E. 
(2002).
Electromyographic analysis of single-leg closed chain exercises: Implications for
rehabilitation after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction. 
Journal of Athletic
Training
, 37: 13–18.

Bishop, C., Edwards, M., and Turner, A. 
(2016). 
Screening movement dysfunctions using
the overhead squat. 
Professional Strength & Conditioning Journal
, 42: 22–30.
Bishop, C., Read, P., Walker, S., and Turner, A. 
(2015). 
Assessing movement using a
variety of screening tests. 
Professional Strength & Conditioning Journal
, 37: 17–26.
Boudreau, S.N., Dwyer, M.K., Mattacola, C.G., Lattermann, C., Uhl, T.L., and McKeon,
J.M. 
(2009). 
Hip muscle activation during the lunge, single-leg squat and step-up-and-
over exercises. 
Journal of Sport Rehabilitation
, 18: 91–103.
Butler, R.J., Contreras, M., Burton, L.C., Plisky, P.J., Goode, A., and Kiesel, K. 
(2011).
Modifiable risk factors predict injuries in firefighters during training academies. 
Work:
A Journal of Prevention, Assessment and Rehabilitation
, 46: 11–17.
Butler, R.J., Plisky, P.J., Southers, C., Scoma, C., and Kiesel, K.B. 
(2010). 
Biomechanical
analysis of the different classifications of the Functional Movement Screen deep squat
test. 
Sports Biomechanics
, 9: 270–279.
Chorba, R.S., Chorba, D.J., Bouillon, L.E., Overmyer, C.A., and Landis, J.A. 
(2010). 
Use
of a Functional Movement Screening tool to determine injury risk in female collegiate
athletes. 
North American Journal of Sports Physical Therapy
, 5: 47–54.
Clark, M. 
and Lucett, S. 
(2010). 
NASM Essentials of Corrective Exercise Training.
Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, Third Edition.
Clark, M.A., Lucett, S.C., and Sutton, B.G. 
(2012). 
NASM Essentials of Personal Fitness
Training.
 Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, Fourth Edition.
Clifton, D.R., Grooms, D.R., and Onate, J.A. 
(2015). 
Overhead deep squat performance
predicts Functional Movement Screen™ score. 
International Journal of Sports Physical
Therapy
, 10: 622–627.
Comfort, P., Colclough, A., and Herrington, L. 
(2016). 
A comparison of frontal plane
projection angle across landing tasks in female gymnasts. 
International Journal of
Athletic Therapy and Training
, 21: 42–47.
Cook, G. 
(2004). 
Athletic Body in Balance – Optimal Movement Skills and Conditioning
for Performance.
 Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics.
Cook, G., Burton, L., Kiesel, K., Rose, G., and Bryant, M. 
F. 
(2010). 
Movement:
Functional Movement Systems: Screening, Assessment, Corrective Strategies.
 Lotus
Publishing.
DiStefano, L.J., Blackburn, J.T., Marshall, S.W., and Padua, D.A. 
(2009). 
Gluteal muscle
activation during common therapeutic exercises. 
Journal of Orthopaedic and Sports
Physical Therapy
, 39: 532–540.
Fox, D., O’Malley, E., and Blake, C. 
(2013). 
Normative data for the Functional Movement
Screen™ in male Gaelic field sports. 
Physical Therapy in Sport
, 27: 458–462.
Frost, D.M., Beach, T.A.C., Callaghan, J.P., and McGill, S. 
M. 
(2012). 
Using the
Functional Movement Screen™ to evaluate the effectiveness of training. 
Journal of
Strength and Conditioning Research
, 26: 1620–1630.
Frost, D.M., Beach, T.A.C., Callaghan, J.P., and McGill, S. 
M. 
(2014). 
FMS™ scores
change with performers’ knowledge of the grading criteria – Are general whole body
movement screens capturing ‘dysfunction’? 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning
Research
, Published ahead of print.

Garrison, J.C., Bothwell, J.M., Wolf, G., Aryal, S., and Thigpen, C.A. 
(2015). 
Y Balance
Test™ anterior reach symmetry at three months is related to single leg functional
performance at time of return to sports following anterior cruciate ligament
reconstruction. 
International Journal of Sports Physical Therapy
, 10: 602–611.
Grindem, H., Logerstedt, D., Eitzen, I., Moksnes, H., Axe, M.J., Snyder-Mackler, L.,
Engebretsen, L., and Risberg, M.A. 
(2011). 
Single-legged hop tests as predictors of self-
reported knee function in nonoperatively treated individuals with anterior cruciate
ligament injury. 
American Journal of Sports Medicine
, 39: 2347–2354.
Herrington, L. 
(2014). 
Knee valgus angle during single leg squat and landing in
patellofemoral pain patients and controls. 
The Knee
, 21: 514–517.
Herrington, L., Myer, G.D., and Munro, A. 
(2013). 
Intra and inter-tester reliability of the
tuck jump assessment. 
Physical Therapy in Sport
, 14: 152–155.
Horn, R.R., Williams, A.M., and Scott, M.A. 
(2010). 
Learning from demonstrations: The
role of visual search during observational learning from video and point-light models.
Journal of Sports Sciences
, 20: 253–269.
Howe, L.P. 
and Blagrove, R.C. 
(2015). 
Shoulder function during overhead lifting tasks:
Implications for screening athletes. 
Strength and Conditioning Journal
, 37: 84–96.
Jones, P.A., Herrington, L.C., Munro, A.G., and Graham-Smith, P. 
(2014). 
Is there a
relationship between landing, cutting and pivoting tasks in terms of the characteristics of
dynamic knee valgus. 
American Journal of Sports Medicine
, 42: 2095–2102.
Kazman, J.B., Galecki, J.M., Lisman, P., Deuster, P.A., and O’Connor, F. 
G. 
(2014). 
Factor
structure of the Functional Movement Screen in marine officer candidates. 
Journal of
Strength and Conditioning Research
, 28: 672–678.
Klugman, M.F., Brent, J.L., Myer, G.D., Ford, K.R., and Hewett, T. 
E. 
(2011). 
Does an in-
season only neuromuscular training protocol reduce deficits quantified by the tuck jump
assessment? 
Clinical Sports Medicine
, 30(4): 825–840.
Levinger, P., Gilleard, W., and Coleman, C. 
(2007). 
Femoral medial deviation angle during
a one-leg squat test in individuals with patellofemoral pain syndrome. 
Physical Therapy
in Sport
, 8: 163–168.
Li, Y., Wang, X., Chen, X., and Dai, B. 
(2015). 
Exploratory factor analysis of the
functional movement screen in elite athletes. 
Journal of Sports Sciences
, 33: 1166–1172.
Lininger, M.R., Smith, C.A., Chimera, N.J., Hoog, P., and Warren, M. 
(2015). 
The tuck
jump assessment: An exploratory factor analysis in a college age population. 
Journal of
Strength & Conditioning Research
, Published ahead of print.
Lloyd, R.S., Oliver, J.L., Faigenbaum, A.D., Howard, R., De Ste Croix, M.B.A., Williams,
C.A., Best, T.M., Alvar, B.A., Micheli, L.J., Thomas, D.P., Hatfield, D.L., Cronin, J.B.,
and Myer, G.D. 
(2015). 
Long-term athletic development – Part 1: A pathway for all
youth. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research
, 29: 1439–1450.
Macadam, P., Cronin, J., and Contreras, B. 
(2015). 
An examination of the gluteal muscle
activity associated with dynamic hip abduction and hip external rotation exercise: A
systematic review. 
International Journal of Sports Physical Therapy
, 10: 573–591.
Macrum, E., Bell, D., Boling, M., Lewek, M., and Padua, D. 
(2012). 
Effects of limiting
ankle-dorsiflexion range of motion on lower extremity kinematics and muscle-activation

patterns during a squat. 
Journal of Sport Rehabilitation
, 21: 144–150.
Mauntel, T.C., Post, E.G., Padua, D.A., and Bell, D.R. 
(2015). 
Sex differences during an
overhead squat assessment. 
Journal of Applied Biomechanics
, 31: 244–249.
Munro, A.G., and Herrington, L.C. 
(2011). 
Between-session reliability of four hop tests
and the agility 
t
-test. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research
, 25: 1470–1477.
Munro, A., Herrington, L., and Carolan, M. 
(2012). 
Reliability of 2-Dimensional video
assessment of frontal-plane dynamic knee valgus during common athletic screening
tasks. 
Journal of Sport Rehabilitation
, 21: 7–11.
Myer, G.D., Brent, J.L., Ford, K.R., and Hewett, T.E. 
(2011). 
Real-time assessment and
neuromuscular training feedback techniques to prevent anterior cruciate ligament injury
in female athletes. 
Strength and Conditioning Journal
, 33: 21–35.
Myer, G.D., Kushner, A.M., Brent, J.L., Schoenfeld, B.J., Hugentobler, J., Lloyd, R.S.,
Vermeil, A., Chu, D.A., Harbin, J., and McGill, S.M. 
(2014). 
The back squat: A
proposed assessment of functional deficits and technical factors that limit performance.
Strength and Conditioning Journal
, 36: 4–27.
Myer, G.D., Ford, K.R., and Hewett, T.E. 
(2008). 
Tuck jump assessment for reducing
anterior cruciate ligament injury risk. 
Athletic Therapy Today
, 13: 39–44.
Nakagawa, T.H., Moriya, E.T.U., Maciel, C.D., and Serrao, F.V. 
(2012). 
Trunk, pelvis, hip,
and knee kinematics, hip strength, and gluteal muscle activation during a single-leg
squat in males and females with and without patellofemoral pain syndrome. 
Journal of
Orthopaedic and Sports Physical Therapy
, 42: 491–501.
Noehren, B., Barrance, P.J., Pohl, M.P., and Davis, I.S. 
(2012). 
A comparison of
tibiofemoral and patellofemoral alignment during a neutral and valgus single leg squat:
An MRI study. 
The Knee
, 19: 380–386.
Noyes, F.R., Barber, S.D., and Mangine, R.E. 
(1991). 
Abnormal lower limb symmetry
determined by function hop tests after anterior cruciate ligament rupture. 
American
Journal of Sports Medicine
, 19: 513–518.
O’Connor, F.G., Deuster, P.A., Davis, J., Pappas, C.G., and Knapik, J.J. 
(2011). 
Functional
movement screening: Predicting injuries in officer candidates. 
Medicine and Science in
Sports and Exercise
, 43(12), 2224–2230.
Okada, T., Huxel, K.C., and Nesser, T.W. 
(2011). 
Relationship between core stability,
functional movement, and performance. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research
,
25: 252–2611.
Padua, D.A., Boling, M.C., DiStefano, L.J., Onate, J.A., Beutler, A.I. 
and Marshall, S.W.
(2011). 
Reliability of the Landing Error Scoring System-real time, a clinical assessment
tool of jump-landing biomechanics. 
Journal of Sport Rehabilitation
, 20, 145–156.
Padua, D.A., DiStefano, L.J., Marshall, S.W., Beutler, A.I., De la Motte, S.J., and
DiStefano, M.J. 
(2012). 
Retention of movement pattern changes after a lower extremity
injury prevention program is affected by program duration. 
American 
Journal of Sports
Medicine
, 40: 300–306.
Padua, D.A., Marshall, S.W., Boling, M.C., Thigpen, C.A., Garrett, W.E., and Beutler, A.I.
(2009). 
The Landing Error Scoring System (LESS) is a valid and reliable clinical
assessment tool of jump-landing biomechanics: The Jump-ACL study. 
American

Journal of Sports Medicine
, 37: 1996–2002.
Parchmann, C.J., and McBride, J.M. 
(2011). 
Relationship between Functional Movement
Screen and athletic performance. 
Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 25:
3378–3384.
Read, P.J., Oliver, J.L., De Ste Croix, M.B.A., Myer, G.D., and Lloyd, R.S. 
(2015).
Reliability of the tuck jump assessment injury risk screening assessment in elite male
youth soccer players. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research
, 30: 1510–1516.
Reid, A., Birmingham, T.B., Stratford, P.W., Alcock, G.K., and Giffin, J.R. 
(2007). 
Hop
testing provides a reliable and valid outcome measure during rehabilitation after anterior
cruciate ligament reconstruction. 
Physical Therapy
, 87: 337–349.
Rohman, E., Steubs, J.T., and Tompkins, M. 
(2015). 
Changes in involved and uninvolved
limb function during rehabilitation after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction:
Implications for limb symmetry index measures. 
American Journal of Sports Medicine
,
43: 1391–1398.
Ross, M.D., Langford, B., and Whelan, P.J. 
(2002). 
Test-retest reliability of 4 single-leg
horizontal hop tests. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research
, 16: 617–622.
Smith, H.C., Johnson, R.J., Shultz, S.J., Tourville, T., Holterman, L.A., Slauterbeck, J.,
Vacek, P.M., and Beynnon, B. 
D. 
(2012). 
A prospective evaluation of the Landing Error
Scoring System (LESS) as a screening tool for anterior cruciate ligament injury risk.
American Journal of Sports Medicine
, 40: 521–526.
Stergiou, N., Ristanis, S., Moraiti, C., and Georgoulis, C. 
(2007). 
Tibial rotation in anterior
cruciate ligament (ACL)-deficient and reconstructed knees: A theoretical proposition for
the development of osteoarthritis. 
Sports Medicine
, 37: 601–613.
Trulsson, A., Miller, M., Hansson, G.A., Gummesson, C., and Garwicz, M. 
(2015). 
Altered
movement patterns and muscular activity during single and double leg squats in
individuals with anterior cruciate ligament injury. 
BMC Musculoskeletal Disorders
, 16:
28.
Turner, A., Brazier, J., Bishop, C., Chavda, S., Cree, J., and Read, P. 
(2015). 
Data analysis
for strength and conditioning coaches: Using Excel to analyse reliability, differences,
and relationships. 
Strength and Conditioning Journal
, 37: 76–83.
Whiteside, D., Deneweth, J.M., Pohorence, M.A., Sandoval, B., Russell, J.R., McLean,
S.G., Zernicke, R.F., and Goulet, G.C. 
(2014). 
Grading the Functional Movement
Screen: A comparison of manual (real-time) and objective methods. 
Journal of Strength
and Conditioning Research
, 30: 924–933.
Willy, R.W., Manal, K.T., Witvrouw, E.E., and Davis, I.S. 
(2012). 
Are mechanics different
between male and female runners with patellofemoral pain? 
Medicine and Science in
Sports and Exercise
, 44: 2165–2171.
Zeller, B.L., McCrory, J.L., Kibler, B., and Uhl, T.L. 
(2003). 
Differences inn kinematics
and electromyographic activity between men and women during the single-legged squat.
American Journal of Sports Medicine
, 31: 449–456.

CHAPTER 14
Technical demands of strength
training
Timothy J. 
Suchomel and Paul Comfort
INTRODUCTION
There are a number of factors to consider when implementing various forms
of resistance training. 
While some factors such as the range of motion (ROM)
performed, grip/stance, and load placement appear to be simplistic, others
such as rest intervals, the direction that force is produced during exercises,
and the intent of the movement, may be overlooked by practitioners. 
Thus, it
is important for practitioners to develop an understanding of how each factor
may affect potential training adaptations.

SECTION 1
EXERCISE TECHNIQUE
The technique used during a given exercise may largely alter the resultant
training stimulus. 
Aside from an athlete’s anthropometrics and training age,
an exercise may be modified through changes in the ROM performed or the
grip or stance adopted. 
The following paragraphs will discuss each of the
outlined topics and how they may affect the adaptations elicited from
training.
Range of motion
The ROM performed during an exercise describes the displacement of an
athlete’s body mass and/or the external load being lifted. 
When prescribing
exercises for athletes, practitioners must focus on not only the ability of
athlete to perform the exercise, but teaching them to perform each exercise
through a ROM that permits the safe/correct execution of the exercise and
will ultimately elicit the desired training adaptations. 
There is little debate
that performing an exercise with proper technique is more important than the
weight that may be lifted, however, some athletes may sacrifice the ROM
performed in order to ‘claim’ that they lifted a heavier load. 
While this
practice may only occur during ‘max out’ sessions, it should not be
encouraged due to the training implications that may result from chronic use
(e.g., training to failure mindset, developing poor technique habits, etc.).
Instead, practitioners should promote the execution of exercises through the
full ROM an athlete is able to perform, taking into account existing
constraints such as the athlete’s safety, flexibility, anthropometrics, and
previous injuries that may hinder performance. 
By promoting such a practice,
it is more likely that athletes will develop good training habits and positive
training adaptations (e.g., increased strength and power, decreased injury
risk, and improved/maintained ROM at the trained joints).
Squatting variations (e.g., back squat, front squat, goblet squat, etc.) are

one of the most commonly prescribed exercises within resistance training
programs. 
Regardless of the variation, the method in which it is performed is
often the subject of discussion when it comes to the desired ROM performed
by athletes. 
Based on a practitioner’s coaching philosophy, he or she may
desire that their athletes perform full squats, parallel squats, half-squats,
quarter-squats, or any combination of those previously listed. 
Certain squat
depths may be considered by some to be ‘more position specific’ or ‘safer’;
however, the desired adaptations being sought may dictate the ROM
performed. 
For example, previous research indicated that training with deep
squats produced greater increases in quadriceps muscle cross-sectional area,
lower extremity lean body mass, isometric knee extension strength, and jump
height compared to shallow squats (Bloomquist et al., 2013). 
However,
additional research indicated that training with quarter-squats produced
greater improvements in sprint speed adaptations compared to full squats
(Rhea et al., 2016).
It is important to note that the ROM performed during an exercise may
dictate the activation of specific musculature, the training adaptations
elicited, or the specificity to a sport movement. 
Previous research has
indicated that greater gluteus maximus activation occurs during deeper
squats, but found no differences between partial, parallel, or deep squats in
vastus medialis, vastus lateralis, or biceps femoris activation (Caterisano et
al., 2002). 
Similarly, Gorsuch et al. 
(2013) displayed that greater activation of
the rectus femoris and erector spinae muscles was produced during parallel
squats compared to partial squats, but noted no differences in biceps femoris
or lateral gastrocnemius activation between squat variations. 
Additional
literature supports these findings for the rectus femoris (Pereira et al., 2010),
moreover, Bryanton et al. 
(2012) suggested that greater relative muscular
effort was produced at greater squat depths for both hip and knee extensors.
While practitioners may have their opinions on what ROM should be
performed, the decision to increase or decrease the ROM performed may be
justified if the athlete is returning from injury or within specific training
periods where larger or smaller volume-loads may be needed to elicit specific
training adaptations. 
A further description of this will be discussed in 
Section
2
 below.
Grip and stance variation

The grip or stance used during a given exercise may modify the training
stimulus by changing the muscle activation patterns of the muscles being
trained. 
For example, a wider grip during a bench press may increase the
amount of activation of the sternoclavicular portion of the pectoralis major
while decreasing the activation of the triceps brachii and anterior deltoid
(Lehman, 2005, Barnett et al., 1995), however, such a grip may increase risk
of shoulder injuries. 
Similarly, a wider squat stance may increase the
activation of the adductor muscles (McCaw and Melrose, 1999), while a
wider deadlift stance may increase vastus medialis, vastus lateralis, and
tibialis anterior activation (Escamilla et al., 2002). 
Whether referring to a
bench press, squat, or deadlift variation, different activation patterns may
alter the extent to which the musculature is activated, which may ultimately
affect potential architectural or neuromuscular adaptations. 
Previous literature
has discussed this idea in greater detail for the bench press (Green and
Comfort, 2007) and pull-up/lat pull-down (Leslie and Comfort, 2013)
exercises.
Another grip consideration that has been previously discussed is the use of
the ‘hook grip’ (Favre and Peterson, 2012). 
The hook grip is frequently used
during the traditional weightlifting movements (e.g., snatch, clean and jerk)
and their derivatives (e.g., clean pull from the floor, hang power snatch, mid-
thigh pull, etc.). 
The idea behind the hook grip is that by wrapping additional
fingers around the thumb, the athlete may prevent grip from being a limiting
factor when it comes to the weight that can be lifted for single and multiple
repetitions.
MECHANICAL DEMANDS OF EXERCISES
Force-velocity characteristics
The nature of each exercise partially determines the force-velocity
characteristics that an athlete trains. 
For example, the back squat serves as a
force-dominant exercise in which the primary goal is to develop muscular
strength. 
In contrast, the jump squat is a velocity-dominant exercise that may
be used to develop high-velocity/power characteristics. 
Cormie et al. 
(2010a)
displayed that relatively weak men may improve their athletic performance

by training with either a strength or ballistic training emphasis. 
However, the
authors also noted specific adaptations (i.e., greater strength vs. 
greater
velocity adaptations) based on the type of training used. 
While it is important
to emphasise high-force movements or high-velocity movements during
certain periods of the training year, previous literature has promoted the use
of combined loading (Haff and Nimphius, 2012) where athletes train and
develop both the force and velocity sides of their force-velocity profile,
although altering the primary focus periodically. 
Training in such a manner
may ultimately lead to favorable adaptations in rate of force development
(RFD) and power (Cormie et al., 2007). 
A recent review discussed how this
method of training can be implemented using a sequenced progression of
weightlifting derivatives (Suchomel et al., 2017).
Stretch-shortening cycle
The inclusion/exclusion of the stretch-shortening cycle (SSC) within a
movement may impact the training stimulus an athlete receives. 
The SSC
may allow for the activation of the stretch-reflex, optimisation of length-
tension muscle factors, optimisation of muscle activation, and the concentric
muscle action beginning at a higher force output (Aagaard et al., 2000, Komi,
2000, Komi, 1986, Cormie et al., 2010b). 
By using the SSC, an athlete may
produce greater magnitudes and rates of force production, potentially
allowing for heavier loads to be lifted or a given load being lifted at a higher
velocity. 
In contrast, movements that exclude the SSC may require unique
neuromuscular demands. 
For example, an exercise performed using a static
start position may require a greater RFD compared to a movement that
includes the SSC because an athlete must overcome the inertia of the training
load from a dead-stop position compared to having developed a given
magnitude of force previously. 
This has been observed in research that
examined weightlifting derivatives (Comfort et al., 2011b, Comfort et al.,
2011a). 
The inclusion/exclusion of the SSC may place varying demands on
athletes, and thus, practitioners should consider each athlete’s sport/event
when programming exercises to allow for maximum transfer of training.
Load placement

Similar to the ROM discussed above, the placement of the load during
different exercise variations (e.g., front squat vs. 
back squat) may modify the
activation of specific musculature. 
One study indicated that the front squat
produced greater vastus lateralis activation during the ascending phase and
entire movement, while the back squat produced greater semitendinosus
activation during the ascending phase (Yavuz et al., 2015). 
In contrast, two
other studies reported no differences in muscle activation between the front
squat and back squat (Gullett et al., 2009, Contreras et al., 2016a, Yavuz et
al., 2015). 
Additional research demonstrated that greater peak force, velocity,
and power were achieved using a hexagonal bar deadlift compared to a
traditional deadlift (Swinton et al., 2011).
While the previous example discusses exercises that are typically used for
strength development, similar results have been shown with ballistic jumping
movements. 
Previous research discussed the acute kinetic and kinematic
differences between the jump squat and hexagonal bar jump (Swinton et al.,
2012). 
Their results indicated that the hexagonal bar jump produced greater
force, RFD, and jump heights at several different loads. 
Both studies by
Swinton et al. 
(2011, 2012) noted that the differences displayed may have
been due to more favourable moment arms based on the load being closer to
the lifter’s centre of mass, ultimately allowing for more efficient vertical
force production.
Force production vectors
Muscular strength has been defined as the ability to produce force against an
external resistance; however, when it comes to exercise selection, the
direction in which the force is produced may alter an athlete’s training
outcomes. 
Recent research has examined the effects of training with exercises
that emphasise more vertical force vectors compared to horizontal (Contreras
et al., 2016b) or unilateral-multidirectional (Gonzalo-Skok et al., 2016).
Contreras et al. 
(2016b) indicated that adolescent rugby and rowing athletes
who trained with either the front squat or barbell hip thrust for six weeks
demonstrated specific force vector adaptations. 
Specifically, those who
trained with the front squat displayed greater improvements in the vertical
jump, while the hip thrust group displayed greater improvements in the
horizontal jump and 10m and 20m sprint times. 
Similarly, Gonzalo-Skok et

al. 
(2016) indicated that amateur/semiprofessional team-sport athletes who
trained with squats produced greater unilateral and bilateral vertical jump and
25m sprint adaptations compared to those who trained with unilateral-
multidirectional versapulley. 
In addition, those who trained using the
versapulley produced greater improvements in lateral and horizontal jumps
and change of direction tasks. 
Considering the above results, practitioners
may note that the application of force during various exercises may produce
specific adaptations. 
DeWeese et al. 
(2016) discussed this idea regarding
resistance training practices for developing sprint speed. 
Although the above
studies contradicted each other with what training method produced superior
results, it is important that practitioners understand the orientation of the
athlete when they are generating force.
Ballistic and non-ballistic exercises
The nature of the exercise(s) performed may result in a different training
stimulus experienced by the athlete based on the intent of the movement. 
As
noted above and in 
Chapter 2
, this may include modifications in the force-
velocity characteristics of the exercise. 
Previous work by Lake et al. 
(2012)
and Newton et al. 
(1996) has highlighted the differences between lower and
upper body exercises performed in a ballistic manner (i.e., acceleration
throughout the entire movement) and exercises performed quickly (i.e.,
intentionally fast with a negative acceleration at the end of the movement).
Taken together, these studies indicated that exercises performed in a ballistic
manner produced greater force, velocity, power, and muscle activation
compared to the same exercises performed quickly.
Practitioners may choose from a variety of ballistic exercises that may
provide an effective training stimulus. 
Regarding the development of lower
body explosive strength, the exercises that first come to mind may be the
weightlifting movements and their derivatives due to their ability to improve
force-velocity characteristics to a greater extent compared to other training
methods (Hoffman et al., 2004, Tricoli et al., 2005, Otto III et al., 2012, Teo
et al., 2016, Arabatzi and Kellis, 2012, Chaouachi et al., 2014, Channell and
Barfield, 2008). 
This is likely due to movement specificity, but also the
ability to accelerate a moderate-heavy load in a jumping movement with
ballistic intent. 
Greater detail on how practitioners can use weightlifting

movements to enhance sport performance will be covered in 
Chapter 15
.
While weightlifting movements provide an effective ballistic training
stimulus, it should be noted that exercises like the jump squat (Cormie et al.,
2010a), kettlebell swing (Lake and Lauder, 2012), and ballistic squat can also
provide an effective training stimulus for the improvement of lower body
explosive strength.
Regarding ballistic upper body exercises, practitioners may be more
limited with their exercise selection. 
Typical upper body ballistic exercises
may include the bench press throw, plyometric push-up, and medicine ball
throw. 
Newton et al. 
(1996) indicated that a ballistic bench press throw may
produce greater force, power, and muscle activation compared to a bench
press performed quickly. 
The extent of these differences can be explained by
the velocity of the movement throughout its completion. 
The previous study
noted that the velocity of the ballistic bench press throw was accelerated
throughout the entire movement whereas the traditional bench press
decelerated at the end of the movement. 
Taking these results into account, the
traditional bench press may serve as more of a foundational exercise to
develop strength, while the bench press throw may be used to develop RFD
and power characteristics (Soriano et al., 2016). 
Similarly, Vossen et al.
(2000) indicated that plyometric push-ups result in greater improvements in
strength and power compared to traditional push-ups.
As noted above, the ability of ballistic exercises to improve a
strength/power training stimulus is well documented. 
An additional benefit of
ballistic exercises may be their ability to be used as a potentiation stimulus,
as noted by Maloney et al. 
(2014). 
Previous research indicated that ballistic,
concentric-only half-squats produced a larger and faster potentiation effect
compared to those performed in a non-ballistic manner (Suchomel et al.,
2016c, Suchomel et al., 2016d). 
This may be due to the ability of ballistic
exercises to recruit high threshold motor units (van Cutsem et al., 1998),
which display greater potentiation compared to smaller lower threshold motor
units (Hamada et al., 2000).
REST INTERVALS
Inter-set rest intervals

Previous literature has indicated that rest intervals as short as 30 seconds
(Sheppard and Triplett, 2016) or one minute (Kraemer et al., 2002) may be
used to stimulate adaptations in muscle hypertrophy. 
While a greater
metabolic demand may be present following high volume exercise sets
(Gorostiaga et al., 2012, Gorostiaga et al., 2010), an athlete’s ability to
recover during a short rest interval is limited, and thus, their capacity to
tolerate the same loads or heavier loads becomes diminished as the number of
sets increases (de Salles et al., 2009, Buresh et al., 2009). 
This is likely due to
decreased adensosine triphosphate (ATP), phosphocreatine (PCr), and
glycogen concentrations as well as increases in lactate concentrations due to
repetitive high volume sets (Gorostiaga et al., 2012, Gorostiaga et al., 2010).
As noted in 
Chapter 4
, shorter rest intervals may induce elevations in
anabolic hormones such as growth hormone (Kraemer et al., 1990, Kraemer
et al., 1993, Boroujerdi and Rahimi, 2008). 
However, shorter rest intervals
may also produce greater elevations in cortisol (Kraemer et al., 1993, Rahimi
et al., 2010a, Rahimi et al., 2010b, Buresh et al., 2009), which may ultimately
attenuate the effect that growth hormone and possibly testosterone (Rahimi et
al., 2011) have on muscle hypertrophy.
Despite previous recommendations, additional literature indicated that
longer rest intervals (1.5–3 minutes) may produce superior muscle
hypertrophy and strength adaptations compared to shorter inter-set rest
intervals (0.5–1 minute) (Schoenfeld et al., 2016, Robinson et al., 1995). 
This
may be due to a number of factors; however, one must consider not only the
quantity of work, but the quality of work. 
For example, previous research
indicated that subjects were unable to complete four sets of ten repetitions
during the back squat with 70% 1RM and two minutes of inter-set rest
(Oliver et al., 2016). 
In response to the failed sets, the authors noted that they
decreased the load performed within the remaining sets, which likely
decreased the overload placed on the athlete. 
Longer inter-set rest periods
may allow for an athlete to replenish their ATP stores and lessen the
metabolic fatigue experienced to a greater extent prior to a subsequent set
compared to shorter rest periods. 
Ultimately, this may lead to a higher quality
of work performed through the continued use of the prescribed loads, and
possible increased loads, during all sets, potentially leading to greater
physiological adaptations (e.g., work capacity and muscle cross-sectional
area).
Collectively, it appears that while shorter rest intervals have the potential

to produce a hypertrophic response, peak adaptations in trained individuals
may be limited due to the loads that may be maintained over multiple
exercise sets. 
Moreover, if the ultimate goal is to increase the muscular power
of the athlete, training with shorter rest intervals may result in an endurance
effect, which may interfere with long-term hypertrophy adaptations (Hawley,
2009, Baar, 2006). 
It should be noted that if practitioners are concerned with
the increase in the overall training time associated with longer inter-set rest
intervals, they may consider short rest intervals within a set to spilt up and
maintain the work performed. 
This approach to training, termed cluster set
training (Haff et al., 2008), will be discussed in greater detail below.
Much of the existing literature suggests that longer rest intervals may
produce superior adaptations in muscular strength and power. 
As mentioned
above, Robinson et al. 
(1995) indicated that longer rest intervals (1.5–3
minutes) produced greater strength and power adaptations during a high-
volume program. 
Additional research indicated that longer rest intervals (2.5–
5 minutes) resulted in a greater volume of work to be performed during a
workout (Willardson and Burkett, 2005, Willardson and Burkett, 2008),
greater ability to train with heavier loads (Willardson and Burkett, 2006), and
greater strength increases (de Salles et al., 2010, Pincivero et al., 1997,
Robinson et al., 1995) compared to shorter rest intervals (0.5–2 minutes).
While another study indicated that no statistical differences in strength gains
were found between two and four minute rest intervals (Willardson and
Burkett, 2008), those who trained using longer rest intervals produced a
larger practical effect compared to those who trained with shorter rest
intervals (i.e., Cohen’s d = 2.96, very large vs. 
d = 1.96, large) (Hopkins,
2014). 
The discussed research is in line with previous rest interval
recommendations for improving muscular strength and power (i.e., 2–5
minutes) (Sheppard and Triplett, 2016, Kraemer et al., 2002, de Salles et al.,
2009). 
It should be noted that the range in rest interval length may exist due
to the training age (Willardson and Burkett, 2008), fibre type composition of
the athletes, and the loads implemented in training. 
Rest interval
recommendations are summarised in 
Table 14.1
.
Intra-set/inter-repetition rest intervals
A growing body of literature has investigated inter-repetition rest within a set

of exercise. 
Specifically, research has examined the effect that cluster sets
(Haff et al., 2008) have on kinetic, kinematic, and technique characteristics
during various repetition schemes. 
A cluster set may be defined as a
traditional exercise set that is split into smaller sets of repetitions (i.e.,
clusters) that are separated by rest intervals. 
One of the first studies
examining cluster sets investigated the effect of various set configurations
(i.e., traditional, undulating, and cluster) on clean pull performance (Haff et
al., 2003). 
Their results indicated that a cluster set configuration may result in
greater barbell velocity and displacement and power-generating capacity
across an entire set. 
A similar series of studies examined the effect of rest
interval length between repetitions within several sets on various power clean
performance variables (Hardee et al., 2013, Hardee et al., 2012b, Hardee et
al., 2012a). 
Collectively, their results indicated that cluster set configurations
using 20–40 seconds of rest between repetitions allowed the subjects to
maintain power output, technique, and lower their perceived exertion.
TABLE 14.1
 Rest interval length to achieve specific training goals. 
Rest interval length
may vary based on the type of exercise, load, repetition scheme, and training status of
the athlete
Training goal
Rest interval
length
Hypertrophy
1.5–3 minutes
Strength
2–5 minutes
Power
2–5 minutes
Additional literature examined the effect of cluster set configurations on
higher repetition sets that focus on muscle hypertrophy. 
A series of studies
reported that high repetition sets with inter-repetition rest resulted in greater
gains in strength and power, while producing similar gains in lean body mass
(Oliver et al., 2013), greater total volume load and power, similar anabolic
hormonal response, and decreased metabolic stress (Oliver et al., 2015), and
maintained force, velocity, and power (Oliver et al., 2016) compared to
traditional sets. 
Additional research indicated that cluster sets that utilised 30
second rest intervals between either two or four repetitions within a set of 12
maintained force, velocity, and power (Tufano et al., 2016c), and allowed for

greater force, total work, and time under tension (Tufano et al., 2016b).
Considering the metabolic demand that high repetition sets place on the body
(Gorostiaga et al., 2012, Gorostiaga et al., 2010), which may limit the
utilisation of specific loads as the number of sets increases (de Salles et al.,
2009, Buresh et al., 2009), the benefits of using cluster sets should not be
overlooked.
Practitioners must take note of the amount of total training time required if
certain rest intervals are implemented within cluster set configurations. 
For
example, previous research noted that performing six, two repetition clusters
for a set of 12 total repetitions may take longer than performing three, four
repetition clusters (Tufano et al., 2016c). 
Smaller clusters require a larger
amount of training time due to the increased amount of rest taken within a
set. 
Considering that some sport governing bodies set strict guidelines on the
amount of time for team activities, it is important for practitioners interested
in using cluster sets to choose cluster set configurations that are both time
efficient and effective at managing fatigue. 
For a more thorough discussion
on the theoretical and practical applications of cluster sets, readers are
directed to a recent review (Tufano et al., 2016a). 
Cluster set rest interval
recommendations are summarised in 
Table 14.2
.
Potentiation complex rest intervals
While the previously discussed rest intervals may be specific to traditional
resistance training exercises, unique rest intervals may exist when
implementing potentiation complexes. 
There are a number of factors that may
affect the magnitude of potentiation expressed (Suchomel et al., 2016a, Tillin
and Bishop, 2009). 
However, a portion of the existing potentiation literature
has focused on examining the effect that various rest intervals have on the
magnitude of potentiation expressed. 
Following a potentiating stimulus, both
a state of fatigue and potentiation exist (Fowles and Green, 2003, Rassier and
Macintosh, 2000, Hodgson et al., 2005, Sale, 2002). 
The interplay between
fatigue and potentiation may be acutely modeled on the fitness-fatigue
paradigm (Zatsiorsky, 1995), where the subsequent performance is the result
of the interaction between fatigue and the fitness after-effects that are the
result of an exercise stimulus. 
While meta-analyses indicated that rest
intervals ranging three to seven minutes, seven to ten minutes (Wilson et al.,

2013), and eight to twelve minutes (Gouvêa et al., 2013) produced positive
moderate practical effects, additional literature indicated that the type,
intensity, and duration of the exercise may determine whether fatigue or
potentiation is dominant over the other (Masiulis et al., 2007). 
Thus, it should
come as no surprise that certain protocols may produce positive moderate
practical effects as early as two minutes post-stimulus (Suchomel et al.,
2016c) or as late as 15 or 20 minutes post-stimulus (Gilbert and Lees, 2005).
Therefore, practitioners should consider that each individual potentiation
complex possesses unique characteristics and may therefore have its own
‘optimal’ rest interval.
TABLE 14.2
 Cluster set rest interval length to achieve specific training goals. 
Adapted
from Haff (2016)
Training goal
Cluster set rest
interval length
Hypertrophy
5–15 seconds
Strength
20–25 seconds
Power
30–40 seconds
Another factor that may affect the rest interval during various potentiation
complexes is the relative strength of the individuals completing the protocol.
Previous literature has indicated that strong relationships exist between an
individual’s relative strength and the magnitude of potentiation expressed
(Suchomel et al., 2016d, Seitz et al., 2014, Suchomel et al., 2016b). 
This idea
is supported by the notion that stronger individuals may be able to tolerate a
more fatiguing protocol given their frequent exposure to high intensity
loading during training (Stone et al., 2008). 
Moreover, additional literature
noted that stronger individuals potentiate earlier (Suchomel et al., 2016d,
Seitz et al., 2014, Jo et al., 2010) and to a greater extent compared to weaker
individuals. 
Thus, when designing potentiation complexes for athletes,
practitioners should ensure that they take the athlete’s relative strength into
account.

SECTION 2 – PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS
MODIFICATIONS FOR APPROPRIATE EXERCISE
PERFORMANCE
Appropriate modifications/alternatives may need to be made in order for an
athlete to safely perform a specific exercise or receive a given training
stimulus. 
Whether it may be inexperience with an exercise or a lack of quality
coaching, some athletes have difficulty performing certain exercises. 
Thus, it
is important to provide athletes with consistent coaching modifications to
help them learn and/or improve their technique in order to perform exercises
correctly.
Previous recommendations were made to maximise leg muscle activation
and minimise the risk of injury during the back squat (Comfort and Kasim,
2007). 
Briefly, an athlete’s feet should be wider than shoulder-width apart
with a natural foot position (McCaw and Melrose, 1999, Ninos et al., 1997),
unrestricted movement of the knees while the heels maintain contact with the
floor (Fry et al., 2003), a forward or upward gaze (Donnelly et al., 2006), and
full ROM (115–125° of knee flexion) (Caterisano et al., 2002, Ninos et al.,
1997) as long as the athlete is able to maintain a lordotic curve or neutral
spine. 
Some athletes may have difficulty reaching the desired squat depth due
to several potential issues (e.g., inexperience, stance, lack of flexibility,
balance, etc.). 
Some common methods to implement that may help an athlete
achieve the desired squat depth may be to modify their stance width and/or
rotating their toes out (i.e., hip external rotation). 
These modifications will
open up the hip joints and allow for greater displacement of the athlete’s
body. 
While the above provides one example, additional technique
recommendations have been made for the bench press (Green and Comfort,
2007) and pull-up/lat pull-down (Leslie and Comfort, 2013) exercises.
Footwear
While some athletes may be able to effectively squat to the desired depth by

adjusting their stance width or turning their toes out, a pre-existing
anatomical limitation or lack of flexibility within the ankle may still prevent
an athlete from performing a good squat. 
An additional consideration may be
to slightly elevate the heels of athletes in order to lessen the effect that this
limitation has on their squat performance. 
This may be accomplished by
placing small weights under an athlete’s heels or by purchasing weightlifting
shoes. 
Previous literature has indicated that weightlifting shoes may allow for
a greater squat depth, an upright torso, and greater stability to be achieved
(Legg et al., 2017, Hughes and Prescott, 2015). 
Further work has suggested
that weightlifting shoes may reduce the forward trunk lean of individuals,
reducing potential shear stress in the spine, and also increase knee extensor
muscle activation compared to running shoes (Sato et al., 2012). 
While the
addition of weightlifting shoes will not inherently fix poor squat technique by
themselves, it appears that they may allow athletes to achieve a greater squat
depth, allow for a more vertical torso, improve stability, and increase muscle
activation, which may lead to improvements in strength and potential
reductions in injuries.
Weightlifting movements
The weightlifting movements (i.e., snatch and clean and jerk) and their
derivatives are popular exercises within resistance training programs.
However, they are often described as technically complex movements that
are difficult to teach and for athletes to learn. 
Practitioners may find that
some of their athletes may have difficulty learning a particular aspect of a full
weightlifting movement (e.g., performing the first pull to the knee,
transitioning to the second pull starting position, properly executing the catch
phase, etc.). 
While this may deter some practitioners from prescribing
weightlifting movements within their athletes’ training programs, it should be
noted that a number of derivatives exist that serve as effective substitutes
(Suchomel et al., 2017). 
Scenarios that a practitioner may face when it comes
to choosing an alternative weightlifting movement are displayed in 
Figures
14.1
 and 
14.2
.

FIGURE 14.1
FIGURE 14.2
Scenario requiring weightlifting alternatives for the snatch.
Scenario requiring weightlifting alternatives for the hang power clean.
Unilateral training alternatives
Although the back squat exercise is a popular choice for lower extremity
strength development, it is not without its limitations. 
As mentioned above, it
is possible that the back squat may result in a greater forward lean compared
to the front squat. 
Moreover, this may result in greater shear forces in the
spine experienced by athletes. 
While proper technique modifications with the
potential assistance of weightlifting shoes may mediate these issues,
practitioners should also note that unilateral exercises, such as the rear foot
elevated split squat, may serve as effective exercise alternatives. 
Previous
literature indicated that unilateral training resulted in similar improvements in
strength and power adaptations (McCurdy et al., 2005), as well as sprint
speed and agility (Speirs et al., 2016). 
Further research indicated that a
modified split squat resulted in greater gluteus medius, hamstring, and
quadriceps activation compared to a bilateral squat (McCurdy et al., 2010).

These authors also noted that the modified split squat also maintained a more
upright torso, which may potentially decrease shear force stress in an
athlete’s lower back. 
This notion is supported by large effect size differences
in left and right erector spinae activation between the rear foot elevated split
squat and back squat exercise (Bellon et al., 2013). 
Collectively, the previous
literature that has compared the effects of unilateral and bilateral lower
extremity exercises indicates that unilateral exercises may be suitable
alternatives for practitioners to prescribe, especially if an athlete is hampered
by lower back pain. 
However, it should be noted that unilateral exercises may
be best implemented as assistance exercises to bilateral lifts due to the
decreased stability of a single limb being used.
CUEING AND FEEDBACK
Sport and strength and conditioning coaches traditionally have their own
methods of cueing and providing feedback to athletes. 
While this is done to
get athletes to perform an exercise or task in a certain manner, practitioners
should note that how they provide cues and feedback may have a profound
effect on the training stimulus that athletes receive.
Cueing
Previous work by Wulf (2007) indicates that cues and feedback that are
external (i.e., athlete focuses on movement effect) are much more effective
than those that are internal (i.e., athlete focuses on his or her body
movements) when it comes to how motor skills are performed, learned, and
retained. 
A recent review that discussed instructions and cues for improving
sprint performance echoed these sentiments, suggesting that cueing should
provide an external focus for the athlete (Benz et al., 2016). 
The authors
suggested that coaches should consider providing external and/or neutral cues
at a 100% frequency while keeping the quantity of instructions low. 
A similar
strategy may be applied when cueing athletes in the weight room. 
For
example, if an athlete is performing an overhead press and the training
emphasis is speed-strength, an appropriate external cue may be: ‘Make the
bar rattle at the top.’ 
Compared to an internal cue of: ‘Contract your arms
faster to push the weight.’ 
From the athlete’s perspective, the external cue

gives them the goal based on a sound that would indicate that they moved the
weight quickly. 
As athletes become more experienced, smaller cueing
phrases may be used. 
At this point, an athlete and their coach understand
what a specific cue means for them compared to another athlete. 
A common
cue used in the weight room that can be applied to many scenarios is: ‘Stay
tight!’ 
As previously mentioned, this cue may be sufficient for a more
experienced athlete; however, it may also mean something different to two
different athletes. 
It is recommended that practitioners apply an external
focus strategy when it comes to cueing exercises, keeping in mind that the
amount of information provided should be concise and specific to each
athlete.
Feedback
Similar to coaching cues, research supports the use of providing external
feedback to athletes as opposed to internal feedback. 
Coaches can provide
feedback in a variety of ways including audio (e.g., verbal discussions),
visual (e.g., video analysis and/or demonstrations), and quantitative (e.g.,
data display). 
Previous research demonstrated that augmented feedback
(including coaching and 2-D video analysis) resulted in greater kinetic and
kinematic adaptations during the power snatch exercise compared to a control
group (Winchester et al., 2009). 
While this method was effective, another
study examined the use of the method of amplification of error (MAE) and
how it affected snatch performance compared to traditional coaching
feedback (Milanese et al., 2017). 
Briefly, MAE allows athletes to learn to
correct their movements by understanding how to perform the movement
incorrectly. 
The authors indicated that the MAE group produced greater
kinematic improvements of snatch technique compared to direct instruction
only. 
Finally, a practical example of quantitative feedback may be through
the use of velocity-based training (Mann et al., 2015). 
In order to achieve a
specific velocity during training, the athlete may need to be provided with
immediate velocity feedback. 
Using current technologies, an athlete may see
the velocity they produced and adjust the weight accordingly in order to meet
the goal of that particular training session.
The amount of feedback given to an athlete may be based on their training
age. 
However, practitioners should be cautious as to how much feedback is

provided at any given time. 
Athletes may not be able to receive multiple
pieces of information and perform an exercise effectively, especially if
feedback is provided after every repetition. 
In order to effectively provide
feedback to an athlete, practitioners should choose one point of emphasis that
an athlete can work on during subsequent training sets. 
Practitioners should
focus on the most important aspect that is hindering appropriate exercise
performance before fine-tuning technique with smaller corrections. 
This is
especially true if an athlete is putting themselves at risk for injury.
RANGE OF MOTION SPECIFICITY EXAMPLE
While practitioners may have their opinions on what ROM should be
performed (full or partial), the decision to increase or decrease the ROM may
be justified if the athlete is returning from injury or training within specific
training periods where larger or smaller volume-loads may be needed to elicit
specific training adaptations. 
The most obvious instance would include an
athlete’s return from an injury. 
In this situation, practitioners may not be as
focused on improvements that will transfer to the athlete’s sport/event, but
instead may be focused on having the athlete regain the competency of an
exercise using a reduced ROM. 
Some of this training may be dictated by the
sports medicine staff; however, strength and conditioning practitioners should
be aware and involved in some capacity as well. 
Ultimately, once an athlete
again achieves the desired ROM during a given exercise, strength and
conditioning practitioners may take over and transition the athlete into a
return to fitness phase.
While the above scenario certainly occurs, it should be noted that it may
be practical to reduce the ROM of a given exercise during certain times of the
training year in order to maintain certain abilities or reach peak adaptations.
For example, it may be preferable during certain times of year to perform
half-squats or quarter-squats in order to dissipate any accumulated fatigue
and to peak for a certain event. 
If a practitioner is working with a sprinter,
reducing the ROM of the work sets may be advantageous from multiple
aspects. 
For example, it may be practical to progress a sprinter from
performing full squats and adding in half-squats and quarter-squats during
certain phases of training (Bazyler et al., 2014). 
Using a progression may not
only reduce an athlete’s neuromuscular fatigue due to less eccentric work

performed, but partial squats may also increase the mechanical specificity of
their training for maximum velocity. 
This notion is supported by recent
research that indicated that training with quarter-squats resulted in greater
improvements in 40-yard sprint time and vertical jump height compared to
training with full and half-squats (Rhea et al., 2016). 
However, it should be
noted that additional literature has suggested that the complete removal of
full ROM squats in trained individuals may result in a plateau and possible
reductions in 1RM strength (Harris et al., 2000, Painter et al., 2012). 
Thus,
practitioners should consider prescribing a combination of both full and
partial ROM squats in order to improve/maintain overall and angle-specific
strength.
SUMMARY
While there are a number of factors that a practitioner must consider when
prescribing resistance training exercises to their athletes, each individual
factor should not be overlooked. 
Exercise technique considerations such as
the ROM performed and the grip/stance used may alter the training stimulus
for athletes. 
In addition, practitioners must consider mechanical demands of
each exercise including their force-velocity characteristics, the
inclusion/exclusion of the SSC, load placement, direction in which the force
is produced, and ballistic/non-ballistic nature. 
Finally, the rest intervals used,
whether they are inter-set, intra-set, or within potentiation complexes, should
be specific to the characteristics that are being developed within each phase
of training.
From a practical standpoint, practitioners should implement appropriate
modifications to exercises in order to provide an effective training stimulus
for their athletes. 
In addition, consistent external coaching cues combined
with specific feedback will improve the learning and retention of challenging
tasks. 
Finally, practitioners should note that a decreased ROM combined with
a sufficient load may provide an effective training stimulus that is more
specific to positions achieved during different phases of sport training.
REFERENCES

Aagaard, P., Simonsen, E. 
B., Andersen, J. 
L., Magnusson, S. 
P., Halkjaer-Kristensen, J. 
&
Dyhre-Poulsen, P. 
2000. 
Neural inhibition during maximal eccentric and concentric
quadriceps contraction: effects of resistance training. 
J Appl Physiol
, 89, 2249–2257.
Arabatzi, F. 
& Kellis, E. 
2012. 
Olympic weightlifting training causes different knee
muscle-coactivation adaptations compared with traditional weight training. 
J Strength
Cond Res
, 26, 2192–2201.
Baar, K. 
2006. 
Training for endurance and strength: lessons from cell signaling. 
Med Sci
Sports Exerc
, 38, 1939–1944.
Barnett, C., Kippers, V. 
& Turner, P. 
1995. 
Effects of variations of the bench press exercise
on the EMG activity of five shoulder muscles. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 9, 222–227.
Bazyler, C. 
D., Sato, K., Wassinger, C. 
A., Lamont, H. 
S. 
& Stone, M. 
H. 
2014. 
The
efficacy of incorporating partial squats in maximal strength training. 
J Strength Cond
Res
, 28, 3024–3032.
Bellon, C. 
R., Leigh, S. 
& Suchomel, T. 
J. 
A comparison of muscle activation of the lower
back and legs between a back squat and a rear foot elevated split squat exercise. 
In:
Beckham, G. 
K. 
& Swisher, A., eds. 
8th Annual Coaches and Sport Science College,
December 13–14, 2013. 
Johnson City, TN. 
17–19.
Benz, A., Winkleman, N., Porter, J. 
& Nimphius, S. 
2016. 
Coaching instructions and cues
for enhancing sprint performance. 
Strength Cond J
, 38, 1–11.
Bloomquist, K., Langberg, H., Karlsen, S., Madsgaard, S., Boesen, M. 
& Raastad, T. 
2013.
Effect of range of motion in heavy load squatting on muscle and tendon adaptations. 
Eur
J Appl Physiol
, 113, 2133–2142.
Boroujerdi, S. 
S. 
& Rahimi, R. 
2008. 
Acute GH and IGF-I responses to short vs. 
long rest
period between sets during forced repetitions resistance training system. 
South African J
Res Sport, Phys Ed Rec
, 30, 31–38.
Bryanton, M. 
A., Kennedy, M. 
D., Carey, J. 
P. 
& Chiu, L. 
Z. 
F. 
2012. 
Effect of squat depth
and barbell load on relative muscular effort in squatting. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 26, 2820–
2828.
Buresh, R., Berg, K. 
& French, J. 
2009. 
The effect of resistive exercise rest interval on
hormonal response, strength, and hypertrophy with training. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 23,
62–71.
Caterisano, A., Moss, R. 
E., Pellinger, T. 
K., Woodruff, K., Lewis, V. 
C., Booth, W. 
&
Khadra, T. 
2002. 
The effect of back squat depth on the EMG activity of 4 superficial hip
and thigh muscles. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 16, 428–432.
Channell, B. 
T. 
& Barfield, J. 
P. 
2008. 
Effect of Olympic and traditional resistance training
on vertical jump improvement in high school boys. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 22, 1522–
1527.
Chaouachi, A., Hammami, R., Kaabi, S., Chamari, K., Drinkwater, E. 
J. 
& Behm, D. 
G.
2014. 
Olympic weightlifting and plyometric training with children provides similar or
greater performance improvements than traditional resistance training. 
J Strength Cond
Res
, 28, 1483–1496.
Comfort, P., Allen, M. 
& Graham-Smith, P. 
2011a. 
Comparisons of peak ground reaction
force and rate of force development during variations of the power clean. 
J Strength

Cond Res
, 25, 1235–1239.
Comfort, P., Allen, M. 
& Graham-Smith, P. 
2011b. 
Kinetic comparisons during variations
of the power clean. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 25, 3269–3273.
Comfort, P. 
& Kasim, P. 
2007. 
Optimizing squat technique. 
Strength Cond J
, 29, 10–13.
Contreras, B., Vigotsky, A. 
D., Schoenfeld, B. 
J., Beardsley, C. 
& Cronin, J. 
2016a. 
A
comparison of gluteus maximus, biceps femoris, and vastus lateralis electromyography
amplitude in the parallel, full, and front squat variations in resistance-trained females. 
J
Appl Biomech
, 32, 16–22.
Contreras, B., Vigotsky, A. 
D., Schoenfeld, B. 
J., Beardsley, C., McMaster, D. 
T.,
Reyneke, J. 
& Cronin, J. 
2016b. 
Effects of a six-week hip thrust versus front squat
resistance training program on performance in adolescent males: a randomized-
controlled trial. 
J Strength Cond Res, Epub ahead of print
.
Cormie, P., McCaulley, G. 
O. 
& McBride, J. 
M. 
2007. 
Power versus strength-power jump
squat training: influence on the load-power relationship. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc
, 39, 996–
1003.
Cormie, P., McGuigan, M. 
R. 
& Newton, R. 
U. 
2010a. 
Adaptations in athletic performance
after ballistic power versus strength training. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc
, 42, 1582–1598.
Cormie, P., McGuigan, M. 
R. 
& Newton, R. 
U. 
2010b. 
Changes in the eccentric phase
contribute to improved stretch-shorten cycle performance after training. 
Med Sci Sports
Exerc
, 42, 1731–1744.
de Salles, B. 
F., Simao, R., Miranda, F., Da Silva Novaes, J., Lemos, A. 
& Willardson, J.
M. 
2009. 
Rest interval between sets in strength training. 
Sports Med
, 39, 765–777.
de Salles, B. 
F., Simão, R., Mirand, H., Bottaro, M., Fontana, F. 
& Willardson, J. 
M. 
2010.
Strength increases in upper and lower body are larger with longer inter-set rest intervals
in trained men. 
J Sci Med Sport
, 13, 429–433.
DeWeese, B. 
H., Bellon, C. 
R., Magrum, E., Taber, C. 
B. 
& Suchomel, T. 
J. 
2016.
Strengthening the springs. 
Technique Magazine.
Donnelly, D. 
V., Berg, W. 
P. 
& Fiske, D. 
M. 
2006. 
The effect of the direction of gaze on
the kinematics of the squat exercise. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 20, 145–150.
Escamilla, R. 
F., Francisco, A. 
C., Kayes, A. 
V., Speer, K. 
P. 
& Moorman III, C. 
T. 
2002.
An electromyographic analysis of sumo and conventional style deadlifts. 
Med Sci Sports
Exerc
, 34, 682–688.
Favre, M. 
& Peterson, M. 
D. 
2012. 
Teaching the first pull. 
Strength Cond J
, 34, 77–81.
Fowles, J. 
R. 
& Green, H. 
J. 
2003. 
Coexistence of potentiation and low-frequency fatigue
during voluntary exercise in human skeletal muscle. 
Can J Physiol Pharmacol
, 81,
1092–1100.
Fry, A. 
C., Smith, J. 
C. 
& Schilling, B. 
K. 
2003. 
Effect of knee position on hip and knee
torques during the barbell squat. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 17, 629–633.
Gilbert, G. 
& Lees, A. 
2005. 
Changes in the force development characteristics of muscle
following repeated maximum force and power exercise. 
Ergonomics
, 48, 1576–1584.
Gonzalo-Skok, O., Tous-Fajardo, J., Valero-Campo, C., Berzosa, C., Bataller, A. 
V., Arjol-
Serrano, J. 
L., Moras, G. 
& Mendez-Villanueva, A. 
2016. 
Eccentric overload training in
team-sports functional performance: constant bilateral vertical vs. 
variable unilateral

multidirectional movements. 
Int J Sports Physiol Perform, Epub ahead of print
.
Gorostiaga, E. 
M., Navarro-Amézqueta, I., Calbet, J. 
A. 
L., Hellsten, Y., Cusso, R.,
Guerrero, M., Granados, C., González-Izal, M., Ibáñez, J. 
& Izquierdo, M. 
2012. 
Energy
metabolism during repeated sets of leg press exercise leading to failure or not. 
PloS One
,
7, e40621.
Gorostiaga, E. 
M., Navarro-Amézqueta, I., Cusso, R., Hellsten, Y., Calbet, J. 
A. 
L.,
Guerrero, M., Granados, C., González-Izal, M., Ibáñez, J. 
& Izquierdo, M. 
2010.
Anaerobic energy expenditure and mechanical efficiency during exhaustive leg press
exercise. 
PloS One
, 5, e13486.
Gorsuch, J., Long, J., Miller, K., Primeau, K., Rutledge, S., Sossong, A. 
& Durocher, J. 
J.
2013. 
The effect of squat depth on multiarticular muscle activation in collegiate cross-
country runners. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 27, 2619–2625.
Gouvêa, A. 
L., Fernandes, I. 
A., César, E. 
P., Silva, W. 
A. 
B. 
& Gomes, P. 
S. 
C. 
2013. 
The
effects of rest intervals on jumping performance: a meta-analysis on post-activation
potentiation studies. 
Journal of Sports Sciences
, 31, 459–467.
Green, C. 
M. 
& Comfort, P. 
2007. 
The affect of grip width on bench press performance and
risk of injury. 
Strength Cond J
, 29, 10–14.
Gullet, J. 
C., Tillman, M. 
D., Gutierrez, G. 
M. 
& Chow, J. 
W. 
2009. 
A biomechanical
comparison of back and front squats in healthy trained individuals. 
J Strength Cond Res
,
23, 284–292.
Haff, G. 
G. 
2016. 
Cluster sets - Current methods for introducing variations to training sets
.
39th National Strength and Conditioning Association National Conference and
Exhibition, New Orleans, LA.
Haff, G. 
G., Hobbs, R. 
T., Haff, E. 
E., Sands, W. 
A., Pierce, K. 
C. 
& Stone, M. 
H. 
2008.
Cluster training: a novel method for introducing training program variation. 
Strength
Cond J
, 30, 67–76.
Haff, G. 
G. 
& Nimphius, S. 
2012. 
Training principles for power. 
Strength Cond J
, 34, 2–
12.
Haff, G. 
G., Whitley, A., McCoy, L. 
B., O’Bryant, H. 
S., Kilgore, J. 
L., Haff, E. 
E., Pierce,
K. 
& Stone, M. 
H. 
2003. 
Effects of different set configurations on barbell velocity and
displacement during a clean pull. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 17, 95–103.
Hamada, T., Sale, D. 
G., MacDougall, J. 
D. 
& Tarnopolsky, M. 
A. 
2000. 
Postactivation
potentiation, fiber type, and twitch contraction time in human knee extensor muscles. 
J
Appl Physiol
, 88, 2131–2137.
Hardee, J. 
P., Lawrence, M. 
M., Utter, A. 
C., Triplett, N. 
T., Zwetsloot, K. 
A. 
& McBride,
J. 
M. 
2012a. 
Effect of inter-repetition rest on ratings of perceived exertion during
multiple sets of the power clean. 
Eur J Appl Physiol
, 112, 3141–3147.
Hardee, J. 
P., Lawrence, M. 
M., Zwetsloot, K. 
A., Triplett, N. 
T., Utter, A. 
C. 
& McBride,
J. 
M. 
2013. 
Effect of cluster set configurations on power clean technique. 
J Sports Sci
,
31, 488–496.
Hardee, J. 
P., Triplett, N. 
T., Utter, A. 
C., Zwetsloot, K. 
A. 
& McBride, J. 
M. 
2012b. 
Effect
of interrepetition rest on power output in the power clean. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 26, 883–
889.

Harris, G. 
R., Stone, M. 
H., O’Bryant, H. 
S., Proulx, C. 
M. 
& Johnson, R. 
L. 
2000. 
Short-
term performance effects of high power, high force, or combined weight-training
methods. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research
, 14, 14–20.
Hawley, J. 
A. 
2009. 
Molecular responses to strength and endurance training: are they
incompatible? 
Appl Physiol Nutr Metab
, 34, 355–361.
Hodgson, M., Docherty, D. 
& Robbins, D. 
2005. 
Post-activation potentiation: underlying
physiology and implications for motor performance 
Sports Med
, 35, 585–595.
Hoffman, J. 
R., Cooper, J., Wendell, M. 
& Kang, J. 
2004. 
Comparison of Olympic vs.
traditional power lifting training programs in football players. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 18,
129–135.
Hopkins, W. 
G. 
2014. 
A scale of magnitude for effect statistics
. 
Available:
http://sportsci.org/resource/stats/effectmag.html
.
Hughes, G. 
& Prescott, S. 
Effects of footwear on sagittal plane kinematics and centre of
pressure excursion during the barbell back squat. 
In: Calloud, F., Domalain, M. 
&
Monnet, T., eds. 
XXXIIIrd International Conference on Biomechanics in Sports, June
29–July 3, 2015, Poitiers, France. 
612–615.
Jo, E., Judelson, D. 
A., Brown, L. 
E., Coburn, J. 
W. 
& Dabbs, N. 
C. 
2010. 
Influence of
recovery duration after a potentiating stimulus on muscular power in recreationally
trained individuals. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 24, 343–347.
Komi, P. 
V. 
1986. 
Training of muscle strength and power: interaction of neuromotoric,
hypertrophic, and mechanical factors. 
Int J Sports Med
, 7, S10–S15.
Komi, P. 
V. 
2000. 
Stretch-shortening cycle: a powerful model to study normal and fatigued
muscle. 
J Biomech
, 33, 1197–1206.
Kraemer, W. 
J., adams, K., Cafarelli, E., Dudley, G. 
A., Dooly, C., Feigenbaum, M. 
S.,
Fleck, S. 
J., Franklin, B., Fry, A. 
C., Hoffman, J. 
R., Newton, R. 
U., Potteiger, J., Stone,
M. 
H., Ratamess, N. 
A. 
& Triplett-McBride, T. 
2002. 
American College of Sports
Medicine position stand. 
Progression models in resistance training for healthy adults.
Med Sci Sports Exerc
, 34, 364–380.
Kraemer, W. 
J., Fleck, S. 
J., Dziados, J. 
E., Harman, E. 
A., Marchitelli, L. 
J., Gordon, S.
E., Mello, R., Frykman, P. 
N., Koziris, L. 
P. 
& Triplett, N. 
T. 
1993. 
Changes in
hormonal concentrations after different heavy-resistance exercise protocols in women. 
J
Appl Physiol
, 75, 594–604.
Kraemer, W. 
J., Marchitelli, L., Gordon, S. 
E., Harman, E., Dziados, J. 
E., Mello, R.,
Frykman, P., McCurdy, D. 
& Fleck, S. 
J. 
1990. 
Hormonal and growth factor responses
to heavy resistance exercise protocols. 
J Appl Physiol
, 69, 1442–1450.
Lake, J. 
P. 
& Lauder, M. 
A. 
2012. 
Kettlebell swing training improves maximal and
explosive strength. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 26, 2228–2233.
Lake, J. 
P., Lauder, M. 
A., Smith, N. 
A. 
& Shorter, K. 
A. 
2012. 
A comparison of ballistic
and non-ballistic lower-body resistance exercise and the methods used to identify their
positive lifting phases. 
J Appl Biomech
, 28, 431–437.
Legg, H. 
S., Glaister, M., Cleather, D. 
J. 
& Goodwin, J. 
E. 
2017. 
The effect of weightlifting
shoes on the kinetics and kinematics of the back squat. 
J Sports Sci
, 35, 508–515.
Lehman, G. 
J. 
2005. 
The influence of grip width and forearm pronation/supination on

upper-body myoelectric activity during the flat bench press. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 19,
587–591.
Leslie, K. 
L. 
M. 
& Comfort, P. 
2013. 
The effect of grip width and hand orientation on
muscle activity during pull-ups and the lat pull-down. 
Strength Cond J
, 35, 75–78.
Maloney, S. 
J., Turner, A. 
N. 
& Fletcher, I. 
M. 
2014. 
Ballistic exercise as a pre-activation
stimulus: a review of the literature and practical applications. 
Sports Med
, 44, 1347–
1359.
Mann, J. 
B., Ivey, P. 
A. 
& Sayers, S. 
P. 
2015. 
Velocity-based training in football. 
Strength
Cond J
, 37, 52–57.
Masiulis, N., Skurvydas, A., Kamandulis, S., Kudirkaité, J., Sukockas, V., Valys, E.,
Jurevicˇiené, V. 
& Kamanduliené, L. 
2007. 
Post-activation potentiation and fatigue of
quadriceps muscle after continuous isometric contractions at maximal and submaximal
intensities. 
Ugdymas Küno Kultüra Sportas
, 4, 56–63.
McCaw, S. 
T. 
& Melrose, D. 
R. 
1999. 
Stance width and bar load effects on leg muscle
activity during the parallel squat. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc
, 31, 428–436.
McCurdy, K. 
W., Langford, G. 
A., Doscher, M. 
W., Wiley, L. 
P. 
& Mallard, K. 
G. 
2005.
The effects of short-term unilateral and bilateral lower-body resistance training on
measures of strength and power. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 19, 9–15.
McCurdy, K. 
W., O’Kelley, E., Kutz, M., Langford, G., Ernest, J. 
& Torres, M. 
2010.
Comparison of lower extremity EMG between the 2-leg squat and modified single-leg
squat in female athletes. 
J Sport Rehabil
, 19, 57–70.
Milanese, C., Cavedon, V., Corte, S. 
& Agostini, T. 
2017. 
The effects of two different
correction strategies on the snatch technique in weightlifting. 
J Sports Sci
, 35, 476–483.
Newton, R. 
U., Kraemer, W. 
J., Häkkinen, K., Humphries, B. 
& Murphy, A. 
J. 
1996.
Kinematics, kinetics, and muscle activation during explosive upper body movements. 
J
Appl Biomech
, 12, 31–43.
Ninos, J. 
C., Irrgang, J. 
J., Burdett, R. 
& Weiss, J. 
R. 
1997. 
Electromyographic analysis of
the squat performed in self-selected lower extremity neutral rotation and 30 of lower
extremity turn-out from the self-selected neutral position. 
J Orthop Sports Phys Ther
,
25, 307–315.
Oliver, J. 
M., Jagim, A. 
R., Sanchez, A. 
C., Mardock, M. 
A., Kelly, K. 
A., Meredith, H. 
J.,
Smith, G. 
L., Greenwood, M., Parker, J. 
L. 
& Riechman, S. 
E. 
2013. 
Greater gains in
strength and power with intraset rest intervals in hypertrophic training. 
J Strength Cond
Res
, 27, 3116–3131.
Oliver, J. 
M., Kreutzer, A., Jenke, S. 
C., Phillips, M. 
D., Mitchell, J. 
B. 
& Jones, M. 
T.
2015. 
Acute response to cluster sets in trained and untrained men. 
Eur J Appl Physiol
,
115, 2383–2393.
Oliver, J. 
M., Kreutzer, A., Jenke, S. 
C., Phillips, M. 
D., Mitchell, J. 
B. 
& Jones, M. 
T.
2016. 
Velocity drives greater power observed during back squat using cluster sets. 
J
Strength Cond Res
, 30, 235–243.
Otto III, W. 
H., Coburn, J. 
W., Brown, L. 
E. 
& Spiering, B. 
A. 
2012. 
Effects of
weightlifting vs. 
kettlebell training on vertical jump, strength, and body composition. 
J
Strength Cond Res
, 26, 1199–1202.

Painter, K. 
B., Haff, G. 
G., Ramsay, M. 
W., McBride, J., Triplett, T., Sands, W. 
A.,
Lamont, H. 
S., Stone, M. 
E. 
& Stone, M. 
H. 
2012. 
Strength gains: block versus daily
undulating periodization weight training among track and field athletes. 
Int J Sports
Physiol Perform
, 7, 161–169.
Pereira, G. 
R., Leporace, G., Das Virgens Chagas, D., Furtado, L. 
F. 
L., Praxedes, J. 
&
Batista, L. 
A. 
2010. 
Influence of hip external rotation on hip adductor and rectus femoris
myoelectric activity during a dynamic parallel squat. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 24, 2749–
2754.
Pincivero, D. 
M., Lephart, S. 
M. 
& Karunakara, R. 
G. 
1997. 
Effects of rest interval on
isokinetic strength and functional performance after short-term high intensity training.
Br J Sports Med
, 31, 229–234.
Rahimi, R., Ghaderi, M., Mirzaei, B. 
& Faraji, H. 
2010a. 
Acute IGF-1, cortisol and creatine
kinase responses to very short rest intervals between sets during resistance exercise to
failure in men. 
World Appl Sci J
, 8, 1287–1293.
Rahimi, R., Ghaderi, M., Mirzael, B., Ghaeni, S., Faraji, H., Vatani, D. 
S. 
& Rahmani-Nia,
F. 
2010b. 
Effects of very short rest periods on immunoglobulin A and cortisol responses
to resistance exercise in men. 
J Hum Sport Exerc
, 5, 146–157.
Rahimi, R., Rohani, H. 
& Ebrahimi, M. 
2011. 
Effects of very short rest periods on
testosterone to cortisol ratio during heavy resistance exercise in men. 
Apunt Med
l’Esport
, 46, 145–149.
Rassier, D. 
E. 
& MacIntosh, B. 
R. 
2000. 
Coexistence of potentiation and fatigue in skeletal
muscle. 
Braz J Med Biol Res
, 33, 499–508.
Rhea, M. 
R., Kenn, J. 
G., Peterson, M. 
D., Massey, D., Simão, R., Marin, P. 
J., Favero, M.,
Cardozo, D. 
& Krein, D. 
2016. 
Joint-angle specific strength adaptations influence
improvements in power in highly trained athletes. 
Hum Mov
, 17, 43–49.
Robinson, J. 
M., Stone, M. 
H., Johnson, R. 
L., Penland, C. 
M., Warren, B. 
J. 
& Lewis, R.
D. 
1995. 
Effects of different weight training exercise/rest intervals on strength, power,
and high intensity exercise endurance. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 9, 216–221.
Sale, D. 
G. 
2002. 
Postactivation potentiation: role in human performance. 
Exerc Sport Sci
Rev
, 30, 138–143.
Sato, K., Fortenbaugh, D. 
& Hydock, D. 
S. 
2012. 
Kinematic changes using weightlifting
shoes on barbell back squat. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 26, 28–33.
Schoenfeld, B. 
J., Pope, Z. 
K., Benik, F. 
M., Hester, G. 
M., Sellers, J., Nooner, J. 
L.,
Schnaiter, J. 
A., Bond-Williams, K. 
E., Carter, A. 
S. 
& Ross, C. 
L. 
2016. 
Longer inter-
set rest periods enhance muscle strength and hypertrophy in resistance-trained men. 
J
Strength Cond Res
, 30, 1805–1812.
Seitz, L. 
B., De Villareal, E. 
S. 
S. 
& Haff, G. 
G. 
2014. 
The temporal profile of
postactivation potentiation is related to strength level. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 28, 706–
715.
Sheppard, J. 
M. 
& Triplett, N. 
T. 
2016. 
Program design for resistance training. 
In: Haff, G.
G. 
& Triplett, N. 
T. 
(eds.) 
Essentials of Strength Training and Conditioning.
 4th ed.
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics.
Soriano, M. 
A., Suchomel, T. 
J. 
& Marin, P. 
J. 
2016. 
The optimal load for improving

maximal power production during upper-body exercises: a meta-analysis. 
Sports Med,
Epub ahead of print
.
Speirs, D. 
E., Bennett, M. 
A., Finn, C. 
V. 
& Turner, A. 
P. 
2016. 
Unilateral vs. 
bilateral
squat training for strength, sprints, and agility in academy rugby players. 
J Strength
Cond Res
, 30, 386–392.
Stone, M. 
H., Sands, W. 
A., Pierce, K. 
C., Ramsey, M. 
W. 
& Haff, G. 
G. 
2008. 
Power and
power potentiation among strength-power athletes: preliminary study. 
Int J Sports
Physiol Perform
, 3, 55–67.
Suchomel, T. 
J., Comfort, P. 
& Lake, J. 
P. 
2017. 
Enhancing the force-velocity profile of
athletes using weightlifting derivatives. 
Strength Cond J
, Epub ahead of print.
Suchomel, T. 
J., Lamont, H. 
S. 
& Moir, G. 
L. 
2016a. 
Understanding vertical jump
potentiation: a deterministic model. 
Sports Med
, 46, 809–828.
Suchomel, T. 
J., Nimphius, S. 
& Stone, M. 
H. 
2016b. 
The importance of muscular strength
in athletic performance. 
Sports Med
, 46, 1419–1449.
Suchomel, T. 
J., Sato, K., DeWeese, B. 
H., Ebben, W. 
P. 
& Stone, M. 
H. 
2016c.
Potentiation effects of half-squats performed in a ballistic or non-ballistic manner. 
J
Strength Cond Res
, 30, 1652–1660.
Suchomel, T. 
J., Sato, K., DeWeese, B. 
H., Ebben, W. 
P. 
& Stone, M. 
H. 
2016d.
Potentiation following ballistic and non-ballistic complexes: the effect of strength level.
J Strength Cond Res
, 30, 1825–1833.
Swinton, P. 
A., Stewart, A., Agouris, I., Keogh, J. 
W. 
& Lloyd, R. 
2011. 
A biomechanical
analysis of straight and hexagonal barbell deadlifts using submaximal loads. 
J Strength
Cond Res
, 25, 2000–2009.
Swinton, P. 
A., Stewart, A. 
D., Lloyd, R., Agouris, I. 
& Keogh, J. 
W. 
2012. 
Effect of load
positioning on the kinematics and kinetics of weighted vertical jumps. 
J Strength Cond
Res
, 26, 906–913.
Teo, S. 
Y., Newton, M. 
J., Newton, R. 
U., Dempsey, A. 
R. 
& Fairchild, T. 
J. 
2016.
Comparing the effectiveness of a short-term vertical jump versus weightlifting program
on athletic power development. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 30, 2741–2748.
Tillin, N. 
A. 
& Bishop, D. 
2009. 
Factors modulating post-activation potentiation and its
effect on performance of subsequent explosive activities. 
Sports Med
, 39, 147–166.
Tricoli, V., Lamas, L., Carnevale, R. 
& Ugrinowitsch, C. 
2005. 
Short-term effects on
lower-body functional power development: weightlifting vs. 
vertical jump training
programs. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 19, 433–437.
Tufano, J. 
J., Brown, L. 
E. 
& Haff, G. 
G. 
2016a. 
Theoretical and practical aspects of
different cluster set structures: a systematic review. 
J Strength Cond Res, Epub ahead of
print
.
Tufano, J. 
J., Conlon, J. 
A., Nimphius, S., Brown, L. 
E., Banyard, H. 
G., Williamson, B.
D., Bishop, L. 
G., Hopper, A. 
J. 
& Haff, G. 
G. 
2016b. 
Cluster sets permit greater
mechanical stress without decreasing relative velocity. 
Int J Sports Physiol Perform,
Epub ahead of print
, 1–24.
Tufano, J. 
J., Conlon, J. 
A., Nimphius, S., Brown, L. 
E., Seitz, L. 
B., Williamson, B. 
D. 
&
Haff, G. 
G. 
2016c. 
Cluster sets maintain velocity and power during high-volume back

squats. 
Int J Sports Physiol Perform
, 11, 885–892.
van Cutsem, M., Duchateau, J. 
& Hainaut, K. 
1998. 
Changes in single motor unit
behaviour contribute to the increase in contraction speed after dynamic training in
humans. 
J Physiol
, 513, 295–305.
Vossen, J. 
F., Kraemer, J. 
E., Burke, D. 
G. 
& Vossen, D. 
P. 
2000. 
Comparison of dynamic
push-up training and plyometric push-up training on upper-body power and strength. 
J
Strength Cond Res
, 14, 248–253.
Willardson, J. 
M. 
& Burkett, L. 
N. 
2005. 
A comparison of 3 different rest intervals on the
exercise volume completed during a workout. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 19, 23–26.
Willardson, J. 
M. 
& Burkett, L. 
N. 
2006. 
The effect of rest interval length on bench press
performance with heavy vs. 
light loads. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 20, 396–399.
Willardson, J. 
M. 
& Burkett, L. 
N. 
2008. 
The effect of different rest intervals between sets
on volume components and strength gains. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 22, 146–152.
Wilson, J. 
M., Duncan, N. 
M., Marin, P. 
J., Brown, L. 
E., Loenneke, J. 
P., Wilson, S. 
M.,
Jo, E., Lowery, R. 
P. 
& Ugrinowitsch, C. 
2013. 
Meta-analysis of postactivation
potentiation and power: effects of conditioning activity, volume, gender, rest periods,
and training status. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 27, 854–859.
Winchester, J. 
B., Porter, J. 
M. 
& McBride, J. 
M. 
2009. 
Changes in bar path kinematics and
kinetics through use of summary feedback in power snatch training. 
J Strength Cond
Res
, 23, 444–454.
Wulf, G. 
2007. 
Attention and Motor Skill Learning
, Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics.
Yavuz, H. 
U., Erdag˘, D., Amca, A. 
M. 
& Aritan, S. 
2015. 
Kinematic and EMG activities
during front and back squat variations in maximum loads. 
J Sports Sci
, 33, 1058–1066.
Zatsiorsky, V. 
1995. 
Science and Practice of Strength Training
, Champaign, IL: Human
Kinetics.

CHAPTER 15
Weightlifting for sports
performance
Timothy J. 
Suchomel and Paul Comfort
INTRODUCTION
This chapter should provide the reader with information regarding the
existing literature on weightlifting movements and the theoretical rationale as
to why they are used in athletes’ training programs (
Section 1
). 
Section 2
 will
then provide practical examples to allow the reader to implement
weightlifting movements and their derivatives using an evidence-based
approach.
The term ‘weightlifting’ refers to the sport in which competitors perform
the snatch and the clean and jerk, attempting to lift the maximum amount of
weight. 
Weightlifting in this sense is different from the general term
‘resistance training’, which refers to all other forms of training in which an
individual is moving against a resistive load. 
However, the weightlifting
movements (i.e., snatch, clean, and jerk) and their derivatives may also be
used within resistance training programs in order to train the strength and
power characteristics of athletes who are not competing in the sport of
weightlifting.

SECTION 1
THE EFFECTIVENESS OF WEIGHTLIFTING
MOVEMENTS
While both weightlifting and other forms of resistance training may improve
an athlete’s lower body strength and power, research suggests that
weightlifting movements and their derivatives may provide superior training
effects compared to other methods (Hoffman et al., 2004; Tricoli et al., 2005;
Otto III et al., 2012; Teo et al., 2016; Arabatzi and Kellis, 2012; Chaouachi et
al., 2014; Channell and Barfield, 2008). 
These findings are attributed to two
primary reasons, movement specificity and the overload that the athlete can
be subjected to.
Movement specificity
The most common movement in sports is the coordinated extension of the
hip, knee, and ankle joints (plantar flexion), termed ‘triple extension’.
Jumping, sprinting, and change of direction tasks require the completion of
the triple extension movement. 
A similar coordinated triple extension
movement takes place during the second pull phase of weightlifting
movements (see ‘
Weightlifting Technique
’), which allows these movements
to transfer to sports performance. 
Due to the similarities between the triple
extension of sports movements and the second pull of weightlifting
movements, it should come as no surprise that better performance of
weightlifting movements is related to better performance during sprinting and
jumping (Carlock et al., 2004; Hori et al., 2008).
Overload
Weightlifting exercises are coordinated movements in which an athlete
moves a moderate-heavy load with ballistic intent. 
While other resistance
training methods may be used to train lower body strength and power (e.g.,

free weights, plyometrics, kettlebells, etc.), these methods are typically not
performed in the same manner as weightlifting movements. 
For example,
training with the back squat may produce high forces but with less velocity,
whereas plyometric exercise may produce high velocities but with less force.
This is supported by previous literature that has demonstrated that the power
outputs of the snatch, and clean and jerk were superior to core exercises such
as the squat and deadlift (Garhammer, 1980; Garhammer, 1991). 
Additional
literature indicated that standard resistance training exercises resulted in
reduced force production (i.e., deceleration) during as much as 45% of the
range of motion (Newton et al., 1996).
WEIGHTLIFTING TECHNIQUE
During the snatch in a weightlifting competition, the lifter must lift the
barbell from the floor to an overhead position, receiving the weight with the
arms fully extended, in one continuous motion (
Figures 15.2
–
15.7
). 
The
clean is characterised by lifting the barbell from the floor to a resting position
across the front of the lifter’s shoulders (
Figures 15.2
–
15.7
). 
As a
continuation of the clean, the jerk is completed by lifting the barbell from the
shoulders to an overhead position, receiving the weight with the arms fully
extended (
Figures 15.8
–
15.13
). 
The technique of each lift is described below.
Snatch/clean first pull
The first pull refers to the initial movement of the barbell from the floor to a
position just above the knee. 
The starting position of each athlete will be
based on their anthropometric characteristics such as their height, body mass,
and somatotype as well as their range of motion and flexibility. 
Athletes
should position themselves so that they are centered on the bar with their feet
flat and positioned about hip-width apart and the barbell positioned over the
middle of their feet. 
The recommended grip to use with weightlifting
movements is the hook grip (
Figure 15.1
). 
Whether performing a clean or
snatch variation, the hands may be positioned more closely together or farther
apart, respectively. 
The elbows should be pointed outward to prevent excess
elbow flexion that may hinder the transfer of force to the barbell. 
The barbell
should almost be in contact with the athlete’s lower leg, their knees should be

in line with their feet, and their hips should be slightly higher than their
knees. 
The position of the upper body should include extended arms,
shoulders in front of the bar, an elevated chest, shoulder blades pulled back,
and a slightly arched (natural curve) or flat back. 
Finally, the athlete’s head
should be neutral with their eyes looking forward (
Figure 15.2
).


FIGURE 15.1
FIGURE 15.2
FIGURE 15.3
Hook grip – thumb wraps under the bar with the fingers wrapped around
the thumb and bar.
Starting position for the snatch (left) and clean (right).
The end of the first pull for the snatch (left) and clean (right).
After reaching the correct starting position, athletes should inhale to
increase their intra-abdominal pressure and remove any slack that may still
exist within their arms. 
The athlete should then begin the lift by pushing into
the ground through the centre of their feet while elevating their hips and
shoulders at the same rate and maintaining the angle of their back, shoulders
over the barbell, and fully extended arms. 
While elevating the barbell, the
knees move backward while the lower legs reach a near vertical position,
resulting in a shift of the centre of pressure from the mid-foot to the heels
(
Figure 15.3
).

FIGURE 15.4
Snatch/clean transition
The transition phase refers to the movement of the barbell from a position
just above the knee to the mid-thigh ‘power’ position in preparation for the
second pull. 
An effective transition phase requires the athlete to re-bend their
knees to a position in front of the barbell as it moves from the knee to the
mid-thigh shifting the centre of pressure from the heels to the mid-foot. 
The
athlete’s hips should move over their ankles, resulting in a vertical torso,
extended arms, and knees bent to approximately 125–135° (
Figure 15.4
).
Mid-thigh (power) position side view for the snatch (left) and oblique
view for the clean (right).
Snatch/clean second pull
Upon reaching the mid-thigh position, athletes perform the second pull
movement by pushing into the ground and rapidly extending their hips,
knees, and ankles (plantar flexion) and shrugging their shoulders (
Figure
15.5
). 
This movement causes the barbell to rise vertically and results in the
greatest force, rate of force development (RFD), velocity, and power (Enoka,
1979; Garhammer, 1980; Garhammer, 1982). 
Athletes should keep their arms
extended for as long as possible during the second pull to ensure maximum
force transfer to the barbell. 
However, the athlete’s arms will bend due to the
upward momentum of the barbell and the failure to elevate the torso any

FIGURE 15.5
higher. 
It should be noted that while the second pull results in the completion
of certain weightlifting derivatives (see 
Weightlifting Pulling Derivatives
below), others require the athlete to catch or receive the weight.
Snatch/clean catch
Following the second pull, a snatch variation requires the athlete to rotate
their hands and elbows around the barbell, moving from a vertical position
above the barbell into a position below the barbell. 
Simultaneously, the
athlete will flex their hips, knees, and ankles (dorsiflexion), drop and pull
themselves into an overhead squat position while their feet may move slightly
outward to a more stable position. 
The athlete should receive the barbell in an
overhead squat position with their elbows locked out at the same time as their
feet land flat on the ground in the desired squat depth while maintaining an
upright torso and normal lumbar curve (
Figure 15.6
). 
Figure 15.7
 displays a
power snatch catch variation.
Second pull of the snatch (left) and clean (right).
A clean variation requires the athlete to rotate their elbows around the
barbell from a position above the barbell into a horizontal position in front of
the barbell. 
The athlete will flex their hips, knees, and ankles (dorsiflexion),
drop and pull themselves into a front squat position while their feet may
move slightly outward to a more stable position. 
The athlete should receive

FIGURE 15.6
FIGURE 15.7
the barbell in a front squat position on the front of their shoulders with their
elbows pointed forward, their upper arm nearly parallel with the ground, and
a relaxed grip at the same time their feet land flat on the ground in the desired
squat depth while maintaining an upright torso and normal lumbar curve
(
Figure 15.6
). 
Figure 15.7
 displays a power clean catch variation.
Catch position of the snatch (left) and clean (right).
Power snatch (left) and power clean (right) catch positions.
Snatch/clean recovery
After becoming stable in the desired squat depth for snatch and clean
variations, the recovery phase requires the athlete to return to a standing

position maintaining the overhead or front squat position (
Figure 15.8
). 
The
athlete should maintain an upright torso while extending their hips and knees
to return to a standing position.
Jerk starting position
As a continuation of the clean exercise, or from a rack or training blocks, the
athlete should start in standing position with their feet approximately
shoulder-width apart, an upright torso, and the barbell racked across the front
of their shoulders with their upper arms nearly parallel to the floor. 
The
athlete’s eyes should be forward and their chin tucked (
Figure 15.9
). 
An
alternative variation would allow the athletes to start with the barbell resting
on their upper back, similar to a back squat.
Jerk dip
Before the athlete begins the lift, the athlete should take a deep breath in
order to elevate the rib cage, brace the other trunk musculature, and create
intra-abdominal pressure. 
Following the breath, the athlete will
simultaneously flex their hip and knee joints and descend to a quarter-squat
position where the knees are flexed to approximately 125–135° (
Figure
15.10
). 
As the athlete descends, they should keep their elbows elevated so as
to not let the barbell move away from their centre of mass. 
This common
error may result in the athlete pushing the barbell more forward rather than
vertically during the drive phase. 
The dip phase should be completed fairly
rapidly without pausing in the bottom position in order to receive the greatest
stretch-shortening cycle benefits (i.e., greater use of stored elastic energy and
less force dissipation).

FIGURE 15.8
FIGURE 15.9
Recovery position for the snatch (left) and clean (right).
Starting position for a jerk variation.


FIGURE 15.10
FIGURE 15.11
FIGURE 15.12
Completion of the dip phase of the jerk.
The drive phase of the jerk.
Split jerk receiving position.
Jerk drive
Upon reaching the bottom of the dip phase, the athlete should immediately,
without pausing, rapidly extend their hip, knee, and ankle joints in order to
drive the barbell up vertically (
Figure 15.11
). 
The triple extension movement
should cause the barbell to elevate off the athlete’s shoulders and pass in
front of their face. 
It is important to remind the athlete to tuck their chin
during the drive phase in order to prevent possible injury. 
As the barbell

FIGURE 15.13
continues to elevate, the athlete should grasp it with an overhand grip.
Simultaneously, the athlete’s feet are either beginning to split forward and
backward (split jerk) or laterally (power jerk). 
The athlete’s torso should
remain upright and rigid in preparation to receive the load overhead.
Jerk receiving positions
Depending on the variation used, split jerk or power jerk, the athlete’s feet
will continue to split forward and backward or laterally. 
Coaches should note
that the splitting of the feet should not be a jumping motion, but rather a
continuation of the drive phase. 
During the split jerk (
Figure 15.12
), the
athlete should ‘jab’ the front foot forward so that it is flat on the ground with
the pressure on the heel. 
The athlete’s front knee should flex and remain in
line with their toes. 
Simultaneously, the athlete’s back foot moves backward
and is planted on the ball of their foot with their heel off the ground. 
The
back leg should be slightly bent to allow for the absorption of force as the
load is received overhead. 
As the athlete splits their legs, they should also
continue the drive phase by pushing the barbell vertically and receiving it
overhead with their elbows in a locked position. 
The barbell should be
received with a braced torso in a position where the barbell is directly above
the back of the head (
Figure 15.12
).
Power jerk receiving position.

FIGURE 15.14
Jerk recovery.
A power jerk variation follows a similar sequence of movements through
the drive phase. 
Instead of splitting the feet forward and backward, the athlete
moves their feet slightly laterally and flexes their hips and knees into a
quarter-squat position. 
At this point, the athlete continues to drive the barbell
upward before receiving in the previously described overhead position
(
Figure 15.13
).
Jerk recovery
In order to recover from a split jerk position, the athlete should first step
backwards with their front foot until it is close to the body and then step
forward with the back foot until the legs are together all while maintaining an
upright posture and the barbell held overhead with locked arms (
Figure
15.14
). 
The movements of the legs should be completed in this order to allow
for the centre of mass to be moved backwards against a braced back leg
rather than creating forward momentum by moving towards the front leg.
Once in a stable receiving position during the power jerk, the athlete
should extend their hips and knees while maintaining an upright torso and
holding the barbell overhead with locked arms to return to a standing position
(
Figure 15.14
).
WEIGHTLIFTING DERIVATIVES

As mentioned above, the primary weightlifting movements are the snatch,
clean, and jerk. 
However, it should be noted that there are a number of partial
lifts (i.e., weightlifting derivatives) that exclude part of the full snatch, clean,
or jerk movements. 
Despite removing an aspect of the lift, weightlifting
derivatives may also be effectively implemented into resistance training
programs for athletes. 
It should be noted that weightlifting derivatives may be
further sub-divided into weightlifting catching and pulling derivatives.
Weightlifting catching derivatives
Practitioners often refer to weightlifting derivatives that include catching the
load overhead as described during a snatch derivative or across the shoulders
as performed during a clean derivative. 
In addition to producing high power
outputs during the triple extension movement, it is generally believed that the
catch phase will train an athlete to decelerate an external load. 
The ability to
decelerate a load is an important characteristic for athletes in sports such as
rugby, American football, and wrestling, and thus, the benefits of a proper
catch phase should not be discounted. 
Previous research has indicated that
weightlifting catching derivatives may be used as a training tool to improve
landing characteristics (Moolyk et al., 2013).
As with any exercise, the athlete’s technique is vital to receive the optimal
training stimulus and prevent injury. 
This is especially true when it comes to
weightlifting movements and their derivatives as they are highly complex
with regard to technique. 
A number of studies have examined factors that
may influence the proper completion of the snatch and clean and jerk
exercises. 
Researchers have examined the effect that loading has on snatch
and clean and jerk technique (Häkkinen et al., 1984), snatch technique of
weightlifters at different levels (Harbili and Alptekin, 2014; Schilling et al.,
2002; Kauhanen et al., 1984), technique changes following feedback
(Winchester et al., 2009), and the technique differences between successful
and unsuccessful snatch attempts (Gourgoulis et al., 2009; Stone et al., 1998).
These findings are beneficial in that they may help improve coaching cues
and the focus on critical aspects of each lift.
The most common snatch and clean derivatives prescribed are the power
clean/snatch and hang power clean/snatch. 
Thus, in an attempt to aid
practitioners and their programming decisions, researchers have examined

these exercises by attempting to find the load that produces the greatest
magnitude of power (i.e., the optimal load). 
This research has indicated that
loads ranging from 70–80% one repetition maximum (1RM) may provide the
optimal training load for the power clean (Comfort et al., 2012a) and hang
power clean (Kilduff et al., 2007; Kawamori et al., 2005). 
Interestingly, a
paucity of research has examined the optimal training load for snatch
catching derivatives. 
However, the information presented within the literature
surrounding the optimal training loads of weightlifting catching derivatives is
important for practitioners when it comes to prescribing loads during various
training phases. 
However, practitioners should consider the sport/event of
their athlete(s) as the optimal load may be specific to the system (athlete and
load), barbell, or joint (McBride et al., 2011). 
Thus, practitioners should
determine which magnitude of power is specific to the athlete’s sport/event.
For example, power applied to the barbell is essential for weightlifters,
whereas power applied to the system is arguably more important in terms of
assessing the development of lower body power. 
A recent review discussed
optimal loading ranges for lower body exercises and concluded that a range
of loads should be prescribed when training for maximal power output
(Soriano et al., 2015). 
Additional literature supports this notion (Haff and
Nimphius, 2012).
A third aspect of the extant literature focuses on different cluster set
configurations when it comes to implementing weightlifting catching
derivatives. 
The results of these studies indicate that the use of cluster sets
offset the increase in perceived effort (Hardee et al., 2012a), allowed for
technique to be maintained (Hardee et al., 2013), and also allowed power
output to be maintained throughout the set (Hardee et al., 2012b). 
From a
practical standpoint, it appears that 20–40 seconds of inter-repetition rest may
allow the athlete to experience a better training stimulus when training with
the clean derivatives.
Weightlifting pulling derivatives
Weightlifting pulling derivatives, as the name suggests, are weightlifting
derivatives that remove the catch phase and finish with the completion of the
second pull (
Figure 15.5
). 
Examples of weightlifting pulling derivatives
discussed within the literature include the clean/snatch mid-thigh pull, pull

from the knee, pull from the floor, countermovement shrug, hang high pull,
and jump shrug (Suchomel et al., 2017a). 
Some of the benefits of the above
derivatives include decreased exercise complexity regarding technique, a
potential decreased learning and teaching time for the movements, a potential
reduced impact on specific joints, and a greater ability to overload the triple
extension movement (Suchomel et al., 2015b). 
Due to the number of benefits
that may enhance the abilities of athletes, research has examined
weightlifting pulling derivatives in several capacities including comparisons
with weightlifting catching derivatives, loading effects, and different set
configurations.
Results of previous research have indicated that weightlifting pulling
derivatives may produce a comparable (Comfort et al., 2011b, 2011a) or
superior (Suchomel and Sole, 2017; Suchomel et al., 2014b; Kipp et al.,
2016) training stimulus compared to weightlifting catching derivatives with
regard to peak force, velocity, power, RFD, and impulse. 
Further research
indicated that the load absorption demands (work, mean force, duration) of
weightlifting pulling derivatives are similar or greater compared to
weightlifting catching derivatives (Suchomel et al., 2017b; Comfort et al.,
2016). 
It should be noted that the previous studies are cross-sectional studies,
and thus, further research is warranted to determine if longitudinal training
with catching or pulling derivatives would produce different results.
However, it is clear that practitioners must consider the potential benefits of
using weightlifting pulling derivatives when it comes to enhancing the force
production characteristics of their athletes.
Similar to weightlifting catching derivatives, much of the research that
focuses on weightlifting pulling derivatives has examined the effect that the
external load has on various kinetic and kinematic variables. 
Through
examining different loads, sport scientists and practitioners can determine
which loads provide the optimal training stimulus for athletes within the
context of each exercise. 
Furthermore, these findings may then be applied
within resistance training programs. 
For example, the goals of maximal
strength and absolute strength training blocks are to enhance the maximal
force production capacity of the athlete and to begin the initial stages of
enhancing their RFD characteristics against heavy external loads. 
Thus,
weightlifting pulling derivatives that allow for the use of heavier training
loads may aid in the development of the desired characteristics. 
Previous
research has demonstrated that the mid-thigh pull (Comfort et al., 2015;

Comfort et al., 2012b) and pull from the floor (Haff et al., 2003) may use
loads in excess of an athlete’s 1RM power clean because these derivatives do
not require athletes to drop under the barbell and catch the load. 
Specifically,
practitioners may prescribe loads up to approximately 120–140% of their
1RM power clean, as long as proper technique is maintained. 
Based on these
findings, it is clear that weightlifting pulling derivatives may enhance an
athlete’s force production characteristics. 
In fact, implementing the mid-thigh
pull and pull from the floor may result in force production gains that may not
occur if the practitioner only implements weightlifting catching derivatives as
the latter exercises cannot exceed loads beyond their 1RM.
Another example would be selecting exercises that maximise power
production during speed-strength training blocks. 
While high force
production is emphasised during maximal strength and absolute strength
training blocks, the goals of a speed-strength training block are to peak the
RFD and power characteristics of athletes prior to competition. 
Thus,
weightlifting pulling derivatives that are the most ballistic in nature may be
useful exercises that may aid in the development of these characteristics.
Previous research has examined the effect that load has on the jump shrug
(Suchomel et al., 2013) and hang high pull (Suchomel et al., 2015a). 
The
results of these loading studies indicated that the lightest loads examined (i.e.,
30 and 45% of 1RM hang power clean) produced the greatest magnitudes of
velocity and power. 
In contrast to exercises such as the mid-thigh pull and
pull from the floor, it is clear that the jump shrug and hang high pull may fall
on the opposite end of the loading spectrum, but may still be useful during
certain phases of training (Suchomel et al., 2017a).
A third area that is lacking in depth for weightlifting pulling derivatives is
research that examines different set configurations. 
For example, the
aforementioned studies may provide the practitioner with the choice of
exercise and the potential loads that coincide as an effective training stimulus,
however, only one study to date has examined different set configurations
(traditional, undulating, and cluster) when performing a weightlifting pulling
derivative (Haff et al., 2003). 
The results of this study indicated that the use
of a cluster set may result in greater barbell velocity and displacement during
the clean pull from the floor compared to a traditional set. 
From a practical
standpoint, this type of information is crucial as it may alter the training
stimulus an athlete experiences, namely the quality of work. 
However, further
research is needed in this area before concrete conclusions can be drawn.

SECTION 2 – PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS
DEVELOPING AN ATHLETE’S FORCE-VELOCITY
PROFILE
As described in 
Chapter 2
, one of the primary goals of a strength and
conditioning practitioner is to develop the force-velocity profile of their
athletes in order to enhance important force production characteristics such as
impulse, RFD, and power. 
Haff and Nimphius (2012) indicated that the most
effective way to develop an athlete’s force-velocity profile is through the use
of training methods that will develop both the force and velocity ends of the
spectrum. 
While this process can be completed using different set and
repetition schemes, warm-up and warm-down sets, and various intensities
during core exercises (squat, bench press, etc.), a sequenced progression of
weightlifting derivatives may also develop the entire force-velocity profile of
an athlete (Suchomel et al., 2017a). 
Figure 15.15
 displays the theoretical
force-velocity relationship specific to weightlifting derivatives.

FIGURE 15.15
Theoretical force-velocity (power) curve with respect to weightlifting
derivatives; modified from Suchomel et al. 
(2017a). 
1RM = one
repetition maximum, HPC = hang power clean, PC = power clean.
The previously discussed literature supports the notion that weightlifting
derivatives such as the mid-thigh pull, countermovement shrug, pull from the
knee, and pull from the floor may all be used to develop high force
production characteristics due to the decreased displacement of the load
during each movement. 
On the opposite end of the force-velocity curve are
weightlifting derivatives that are characterised by higher velocities. 
The jump
shrug, hang high pull, mid-thigh clean/snatch, and countermovement (hang)
clean/snatch are weightlifting derivatives that are highly ballistic and are
typically programmed with low-moderate loads. 
While the placement of
derivatives within 
Figure 15.15
 is supported by evidence, it should be noted
that the load prescribed may influence the position of each exercise on the
force-velocity curve. 
For example, while the mid-thigh pull enables athletes

to use the heaviest loads (i.e., 140% of 1RM power clean), power production
and velocity were maximised with the lightest load (i.e., 40% of 1RM power
clean) (Comfort et al., 2015, Comfort et al., 2012b). 
(Please see 
Table 15.1
on 
pp. 
267
–
269
.)
As discussed in 
Chapter 8
, previous literature suggests that a sequenced
progression of training phases promotes the optimal development of an
athlete’s force-velocity profile (Minetti, 2002; Zamparo et al., 2002; Stone et
al., 1982). 
Briefly, increases in work capacity and muscle cross-sectional area
produced during a strength-endurance (hypertrophy) phase enhance an
athlete’s ability to increase their muscular strength. 
From here, increases in
muscular strength will then enhance an athlete’s potential to improve their
RFD and power characteristics. 
A similar approach can be taken when
prescribing weightlifting derivatives because certain lifts place greater
emphasis on either force or velocity. 
Thus, specific weightlifting catching and
pulling derivatives may be prescribed during resistance training phases in
order to meet the goals of each phase and develop the force-velocity profile
of the athlete. 
The following will discuss the implementation of weightlifting
derivatives into various resistance training phases to promote the optimal
development of an athlete’s force-velocity profile.
Strength-endurance
The strength-endurance phase is characterised by a high volume of
repetitions (usually 8–12) in exercises that use moderately heavy loads (60–
70% 1RM). 
The purpose of this phase is to increase the athlete’s work
capacity, stimulate increases in muscle cross-sectional area, and refine
exercise technique for subsequent training phases. 
Regarding the use of
weightlifting derivatives within this phase, it is suggested that practitioners
implement the clean/snatch pull from the floor, pull to the knee, and clean
grip shoulder shrug for several reasons. 
First, the suggested derivatives serve
as foundational exercises that enable the progression to more complex
weightlifting movements. 
The inability to perform these exercises may lead
to improper exercise technique of more complex derivatives, potentially
impacting the training stimulus. 
Second, the clean/snatch pull from the floor
enables athletes to overload the triple extension movement without
experiencing the additional stress and complexity of performing the catch

phase every repetition as fatigue develops. 
While the catch phase of certain
weightlifting derivatives may enable the athlete to develop additional
performance characteristics as mentioned above, the high volume
experienced during the strength-endurance phase may lead to a deterioration
in form due to acute fatigue. 
Moreover, a decline in technique may alter catch
phase mechanics and increase the likelihood of injury or compression stress.
Finally, the suggested derivatives enable the development of important lower
and upper body musculature that will be used to enhance the force-velocity
profile during later training phases in tandem with exercises such as
squatting, pressing, and pulling movements.
It should be noted that the athletic population may dictate which
weightlifting movements are prescribed in a strength-endurance training
block. 
For example, the clean/snatch pull from the floor may only be
implemented with an athletic population whose technique is more stable and
resilient to fatigue. 
Practitioners may also consider prescribing cluster sets of
either two or five repetitions for the clean/snatch pull from the floor due to
the high volume within the strength-endurance phase. 
As discussed in
Chapter 14
, the use of cluster sets may enable the athlete to maintain their
technique, force production, and power output throughout each set leading to
high quality work, enhanced work capacity, and force production adaptations
with a high volume of repetitions. 
Moreover, the inter-repetition rest interval
may allow the coach to provide additional feedback to the athlete.
Maximal strength
A maximal strength phase is used to increase an athlete’s force production
capacity using sets of four to six repetitions and moderately heavy to heavy
loads (i.e., 80–90% 1RM, although potentially slightly higher with pulling
derivatives). 
During this phase, practitioners should shift their focus to
exercises that emphasise force production and enable the use of heavier
loads. 
With this in mind, a limitation to weightlifting catching derivatives is
that practitioners cannot prescribe loads greater than the athlete’s 1RM. 
This
however, is not the case for weightlifting pulling derivatives as exercises
such as the clean/snatch pull from the floor, pull from the knee, and mid-
thigh pull allow for loads greater than the athlete’s 1RM to be used due to the
elimination of the catch phase and decreased displacement of the load. 
The

use of these exercises combined with heavier loads will emphasise force
production and train the high force portion of the force-velocity curve.
Absolute strength
Similar to the maximal strength phase, the goals of the absolute strength
phase are to enhance the athlete’s low repetition (two to three) force
production (both magnitude and rate) characteristics using near maximal
loads (90–95% 1RM or potentially as high as 120–140% 1RM with pulling
derivatives). 
While the same exercises from the maximal strength phase may
be prescribed to retain the athlete’s capacity for high force production,
additional derivatives that include a strength-speed component should be
introduced to begin the enhancement of RFD. 
These exercises might include
the hang power clean/snatch (Suchomel et al., 2014a), power clean/snatch,
mid-thigh clean/snatch (Comfort et al., 2011b, 2011a), and the full clean and
snatch. 
The combination of high force movements and introducing high
velocity movements will ultimately contribute to the athlete’s ability to
further develop impulse, RFD, and power characteristics.
Strength-speed
The primary goals of the strength-speed phase are to further increase RFD
and power, while also maintaining or potentially increasing the athlete’s
strength. 
Because previous literature has indicated that RFD and power are
two of the most important characteristics regarding an athlete’s performance
(Stone et al., 2002; Morrissey et al., 1995), it is important to prepare the
athlete to maximise these adaptations using the previously discussed training
phases. 
Based on the phasic progression of resistance training phases,
increases in muscular strength (Suchomel et al., 2016b) and RFD (Taber et
al., 2016) from the previous training phases should, in theory, enhance the
athlete’s ability to augment their power characteristics.
Regarding the programming of weightlifting derivatives during the
strength-speed phase, RFD and power characteristics may be enhanced using
a combination of heavy and light loads. 
However, the emphasis within this
phase is to move relatively heavy loads quickly in order to enhance RFD
characteristics. 
Thus, the mid-thigh clean/snatch, countermovement

clean/snatch, and power clean/snatch from the knee (Suchomel et al., 2016a)
may be used to develop the high velocity portion of the force-velocity curve,
while the power clean, clean/snatch pulls from the floor, knee, and mid-thigh
may develop the high force end of the force-velocity curve.
Speed-strength
The goals of the speed-strength phase are to produce peak adaptations in
RFD and power prior to competition. 
In order to peak these abilities, a wide
variety of weightlifting derivatives may be prescribed. 
Many of the
previously described derivatives may be prescribed; however, the speed at
which the movement is performed, and therefore the load, must be
considered. 
For this reason, the jump shrug and hang high pull may be
highlighted during the speed-strength phase due to their ballistic nature. 
A
combined approach of prescribing heavy and light loaded derivatives should
be implemented to optimise RFD and power adaptations. 
Thus, practitioners
may prescribe a combination of the clean/snatch mid-thigh pull or pull from
the floor and the jump shrug and hang high pull to focus on training each end
of the force-velocity curve. 
Varying neurological demands will be placed on
the athlete as the above combination will simulate overcoming the inertia of
an external load from a static start (e.g., mid-thigh pull) and ustilise the
stretch-shortening cycle (e.g., jump shrug), allowing them to optimise
impulse, RFD, and power characteristics.
Another aspect to consider during the speed-strength phase is the load
implemented with each exercise. 
Previous literature has suggested training at
or near the loads that maximise power (Kawamori and Haff, 2004). 
As
discussed above, loads of approximately 70–80% 1RM may provide the
optimal training load for the power clean and hang power clean, while lighter
loads (i.e., 30–45% 1RM of hang power clean) may optimise training stimuli
for the jump shrug and hang high pull. 
Finally, additional literature has
indicated that loads of approximately 90% of an athlete’s 1RM power clean
(Haff et al., 2003) or full clean/snatch (Ermakov, 1980) may optimise the
training stimulus for the clean/snatch pull from the floor.
SPEED DEVELOPMENT

A sequenced progression of programming weightlifting derivatives may aid
in the development of an athlete’s speed characteristics (DeWeese et al.,
2016). 
Using the methods described above, specific weightlifting derivatives
may be programmed during specific strength training phases that coincide
with speed development phases (
Figure 15.16
). 
The following will discuss
the rationale of prescribing a sequenced progression of weightlifting
derivatives to enhance an athlete’s sprint speed.
General preparation phase
As displayed in 
Figure 15.10
, the general preparation phase is focused on
improving the accelerative abilities of an athlete. 
Coaches may choose to
program resisted runs (i.e., inclines and towing) at this point to develop high
propulsive forces into the ground, while in the weight room a strength-
endurance phase serves to develop the athlete’s work capacity and cross-
sectional area in order to enhance their muscular strength and power in later
training phases (Stone et al., 1982). 
As mentioned above, practitioners may
program the clean/snatch pull to knee, pull from the floor, and shoulder
shrug. 
Each of these movements can be used to strengthen the athlete’s
musculature at specific angles that relate to their posture during various
acceleration phases. 
For example, the first pull requires athletes to start from
a knee angle of approximately 90° and extend the knees to about 120°, angles
that coincide with a sprinter’s knee angles in the starting blocks (Cˇoh et al.,
1998).

FIGURE 15.16
Sequenced progressions of speed and strength-power development with
the weightlifting derivatives that may be used within each phase.
Adapted from DeWeese et al. 
(2014).
Special preparation phase
Upon entering the special preparation phase of training, the training emphasis
builds upon the enhanced acceleration characteristics from the previous phase
to build top speed characteristics. 
Coaches may program running drills such
as acceleration holds, low-load resisted runs, and longer segment
accelerations during this phase before introducing maximum velocity
sprinting drills (e.g., fly-in sprints and in-and-outs). 
Concurrently in the
weight room, the focus of training shifts to improving the athlete’s strength
characteristics. 
The clean/snatch pull from the floor, pull from the knee, and
mid-thigh pull exercises serve to develop vertical force production through
the ranges of motion experienced during the acceleration and transition to
upright running phases. 
Moreover, these movements overload the athlete in a
position that is relative to top speed mechanics (i.e., 120–140° knee angle,

tall torso, and shortened range of motion) (DeWeese et al., 2015). 
In addition,
exercises like the hang power clean/snatch, power clean/snatch, mid-thigh
clean/snatch, and the full clean and snatch may be programmed during this
phase to introduce a strength-speed component that will aid in the
development of the athlete’s RFD characteristics.
TABLE 15.1
 
Reported relative kinetic variables across power clean derivatives


Early-mid competition phase
Leading into the start of the season, coaches will typically prescribe drills that
will retain an athlete’s accelerative and top speed abilities through short
sprint work as well as training sessions specific to the sprint distances of the
athlete’s sport/event. 
Within the weight room, an early emphasis should be
placed on strength-speed. 
Thus, weightlifting derivatives that focus on
moving heavier loads quickly should be programmed. 
The suggested
exercises within this phase include the mid-thigh pull and the power
clean/snatch. 
The mid-thigh pull in this case will maintain high force
production characteristics as practitioners may program up to 140% 1RM,
while the power clean/snatch enables athletes to utilise the stretch-shortening
cycle that occurs during the double knee bend as described above. 
The latter
will allow athletes to generate large vertical forces in an upright position that
may counteract those experienced during the stance phase of sprinting.
Finally, the emphasis may shift to incorporating speed-strength exercises
which move lighter loads quickly. 
Such exercises may include the
countermovement clean/snatch, mid-thigh clean/snatch, hang high pull, and
jump shrug.
Late competition/taper phase
Upon reaching the latter stages of competition, the emphasis in weight room
training aims to emphasise speed-strength characteristics while retaining

strength-speed characteristics. 
Practitioners may elect to implement a variety
of ballistic movements such as potentiation complexes, light-weighted jump
squats, plyometrics, etc.; however, regarding weightlifting derivatives, the
countermovement clean/snatch, mid-thigh clean/snatch, hang high pull, and
jump shrug should be implemented during this phase of training. 
In addition,
practitioners may consider implementing the mid-thigh pull to continue to
retain strength-speed qualities. 
In fact, the mid-thigh pull could be
programmed prior to one of the previously mentioned exercises in order to
potentiate the power output of the latter exercise.
SUMMARY
Weightlifting movements and their derivatives are effective training tools that
may be used to enhance an athlete’s lower body ‘explosiveness’ and load
absorption capacity. 
Weightlifting catching and pulling derivatives both
provide useful training stimuli and may be programmed to meet the specific
goals of various resistance training phases. 
A sequenced progression of
weightlifting catching and pulling derivatives may be used to optimally
develop the force-velocity profile and speed of an athlete.
REFERENCES
Arabatzi, F. 
& Kellis, E. 
2012. 
Olympic weightlifting training causes different knee
muscle-coactivation adaptations compared with traditional weight training. 
J Strength
Cond Res
, 26, 2192–2201.
Carlock, J. 
M., Smith, S. 
L., Hartman, M. 
J., Morris, R. 
T., Ciroslan, D. 
A., Pierce, K. 
C.,
Newton, R. 
U., Harman, E. 
A., Sands, W. 
A. 
& Stone, M. 
H. 
2004. 
The relationship
between vertical jump power estimates and weightlifting ability: a field-test approach. 
J
Strength Cond Res
, 18, 534–539.
Channell, B. 
T. 
& Barfield, J. 
P. 
2008. 
Effect of Olympic and traditional resistance training
on vertical jump improvement in high school boys. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 22, 1522–
1527.
Chaouachi, A., Hammami, R., Kaabi, S., Chamari, K., Drinkwater, E. 
J. 
& Behm, D. 
G.
2014. 
Olympic weightlifting and plyometric training with children provides similar or
greater performance improvements than traditional resistance training. 
J Strength Cond
Res
, 28, 1483–1496.
Cˇoh, M., Jošt, B., Škof, B., Tomažin, K. 
& Dolenec, A. 
1998. 
Kinematic and kinetic

parameters of the sprint start and start acceleration model of top sprinters. 
Gymnica
, 28,
33–42.
Comfort, P., Allen, M. 
& Graham-Smith, P. 
2011a. 
Comparisons of peak ground reaction
force and rate of force development during variations of the power clean. 
J Strength
Cond Res
, 25, 1235–1239.
Comfort, P., Allen, M. 
& Graham-Smith, P. 
2011b. 
Kinetic comparisons during variations
of the power clean. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 25, 3269–3273.
Comfort, P., Fletcher, C. 
& McMahon, J. 
J. 
2012a. 
Determination of optimal loading
during the power clean, in collegiate athletes. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 26, 2970–2974.
Comfort, P., Jones, P. 
A. 
& Udall, R. 
2015. 
The effect of load and sex on kinematic and
kinetic variables during the mid-thigh clean pull. 
Sports Biomech
, 14, 139–156.
Comfort, P., Udall, R. 
& Jones, P. 
A. 
2012b. 
The effect of loading on kinematic and kinetic
variables during the midthigh clean pull. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 26, 1208–1214.
Comfort, P., Williams, R., Suchomel, T. 
J. 
& Lake, J. 
P. 
2017. 
A comparison of catch
phase force-time characteristics during clean deriatives from the knee. 
J Strength Cond
Res
, 31, 1911–1918.
DeWeese, B. 
H., Bellon, C. 
R., Magrum, E., Taber, C. 
B. 
& Suchomel, T. 
J. 
2016.
Strengthening the springs. 
Techniques
, 9, 8–20.
DeWeese, B. 
H., Sams, M. 
L., Williams, J. 
H. 
& Bellon, C. 
R. 
2015. 
The nature of speed:
enhancing sprint abilities through a short to long training approach. 
Techniques
, 8, 8–22.
Enoka, R. 
M. 
1979. 
The pull in Olympic weightlifting. 
Med Sci Sports
, 11, 131–137.
Garhammer, J. 
1980. 
Power production by Olympic weightlifters. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc
,
12, 54–60.
Garhammer, J. 
1982. 
Energy flow during Olympic weight lifting. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc
,
14, 353–360.
Garhammer, J. 
1991. 
A comparison of maximal power outputs between elite male and
female weightlifters in competition. 
Int J Sport Biomech
, 7, 3–11.
Gourgoulis, V., Aggeloussis, N., Garas, A. 
& Mavromatis, G. 
2009. 
Unsuccessful vs.
successful performance in snatch lifts: a kinematic approach. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 23,
486–494.
Haff, G. 
G. 
& Nimphius, S. 
2012. 
Training principles for power. 
Strength Cond J
, 34, 2–
12.
Haff, G. 
G., Whitley, A., McCoy, L. 
B., O’Bryant, H. 
S., Kilgore, J. 
L., Haff, E. 
E., Pierce,
K. 
& Stone, M. 
H. 
2003. 
Effects of different set configurations on barbell velocity and
displacement during a clean pull. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 17, 95–103.
Häkkinen, K., Kauhanen, H. 
& Komi, V. 
P. 
1984. 
Biomechanical changes in the Olympic
weightlifting technique of the snatch and clean and jerk from submaximal to maximal
loads. 
Scand J Sport Sci
, 6, 57–66.
Harbili, E. 
& Alpteking, A. 
2014. 
Comparative kinematic analysis of the snatch lifts in elite
male adolescent weightlifters. 
J Sports Sci Med
, 13, 417–422.
Hardee, J. 
P., Lawrence, M. 
M., Utter, A. 
C., Triplett, N. 
T., Zwetsloot, K. 
A. 
& McBride,
J. 
M. 
2012a. 
Effect of inter-repetition rest on ratings of perceived exertion during
multiple sets of the power clean. 
Eur J Appl Physiol
, 112, 3141–3147.

Hardee, J. 
P., Lawrence, M. 
M., Zwetsloot, K. 
A., Triplett, N. 
T., Utter, A. 
C. 
& McBride,
J. 
M. 
2013. 
Effect of cluster set configurations on power clean technique. 
J Sports Sci
,
31, 488–496.
Hardee, J. 
P., Triplett, N. 
T., Utter, A. 
C., Zwetsloot, K. 
A. 
& McBride, J. 
M. 
2012b. 
Effect
of interrepetition rest on power output in the power clean. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 26, 883–
889.
Hoffman, J. 
R., Cooper, J., Wendell, M. 
& Kang, J. 
2004. 
Comparison of Olympic vs.
traditional power lifting training programs in football players. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 18,
129–135.
Hori, N., Newton, R. 
U., Andrews, W. 
A., Kawamori, N., McGuigan, M. 
R. 
& Nosaka, K.
2008. 
Does performance of hang power clean differentiate performance of jumping,
sprinting, and changing of direction? 
J Strength Cond Res
, 22, 412–418.
Kauhanen, H., Häkkinen, K. 
& Komi, P. 
V. 
1984. 
A biomechanical analysis of the snatch
and clean & jerk techniques of Finnish elite and district level weightlifters. 
Scand J
Sports Sci
, 6, 47–56.
Kawamori, N., Crum, A. 
J., Blumert, P. 
A., Kulik, J. 
R., Childers, J. 
T., Wood, J. 
A., Stone,
M. 
H. 
& Haff, G. 
G. 
2005. 
Influence of different relative intensities on power output
during the hang power clean: identification of the optimal load. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 19,
698–708.
Kawamori, N. 
& Haff, G. 
G. 
2004. 
The optimal training load for the development of
muscular power. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 18, 675–684.
Kilduff, L. 
P., Bevan, H., Owen, N., Kingsley, M. 
I., Bunce, P., Bennett, M. 
&
Cunningham, D. 
2007. 
Optimal loading for peak power output during the hang power
clean in professional rugby players. 
Int J Sports Physiol Perform
, 2, 260–269.
Kipp, K., Malloy, P. 
J., Smith, J., Giordanelli, M. 
D., Kiely, M. 
T., Geiser, C. 
F. 
&
Suchomel, T. 
J. 
2016. 
Mechanical demands of the hang power clean and jump shrug: a
joint-level perspective. 
J Strength Cond Res
, Epub ahead of print.
McBride, J. 
M., Haines, T. 
L. 
& Kirby, T. 
J. 
2011. 
Effect of loading on peak power of the
bar, body, and system during power cleans, squats, and jump squats. 
J Sports Sci
, 29,
1215–1221.
Minetti, A. 
E. 
2002. 
On the mechanical power of joint extensions as affected by the change
in muscle force (or cross-sectional area), ceteris paribus. 
Eur J Appl Physiol
, 86, 363–
369.
Moolyk, A. 
N., Carey, J. 
P. 
& Chiu, L. 
Z. 
F. 
2013. 
Characteristics of lower extremity work
during the impact phase of jumping and weightlifting. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 27, 3225–
3232.
Morrissey, M. 
C., Harman, E. 
A. 
& Johnson, M. 
J. 
1995. 
Resistance training modes:
specificity and effectiveness. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc
, 27, 648–660.
Newton, R. 
U., Kraemer, W. 
J., Häkkinen, K., Humphries, B. 
& Murphy, A. 
J. 
1996.
Kinematics, kinetics, and muscle activation during explosive upper body movements. 
J
Appl Biomech
, 12, 31–43.
Otto III, W. 
H., Coburn, J. 
W., Brown, L. 
E. 
& Spiering, B. 
A. 
2012. 
Effects of
weightlifting vs. 
kettlebell training on vertical jump, strength, and body composition. 
J

Strength Cond Res
, 26, 1199–1202.
Schilling, B. 
K., Stone, M. 
H., O’Bryant, H. 
S., Fry, A. 
C., Coglianese, R. 
H. 
& Pierce, K.
C. 
2002. 
Snatch technique of collegiate national level weightlifters. 
J Strength Cond
Res
, 16, 551–555.
Soriano, M. 
A., Jiménez-Reyes, P., Rhea, M. 
R. 
& Marín, P. 
J. 
2015. 
The optimal load for
maximal power production during lower-body resistance exercises: a meta-analysis.
Sports Med
, 45, 1191–1205.
Stone, M. 
H., Moir, G., Glaister, M. 
& Sanders, R. 
2002. 
How much strength is necessary?
Phys Ther Sport
, 3, 88–96.
Stone, M. 
H., O’Bryant, H., Garhammer, J., McMillan, J. 
& Rozenek, R. 
1982. 
A
theoretical model of strength training. 
Strength Cond J
, 4, 36–39.
Stone, M. 
H., O’Bryant, H. 
S., Williams, F. 
E., Johnson, R. 
L. 
& Pierce, K. 
C. 
1998.
Analysis of bar paths during the snatch in elite male weightlifters. 
Strength Cond J
, 20,
30–38.
Suchomel, T. 
J. 
& Sole, C. 
J. 
2017. 
Force-time curve comparison between weightlifting
derivatives. 
Int J Sports Physiol Perform
, 12, 431–439.
Suchomel, T. 
J., Beckham, G. 
K. 
& Wright, G. 
A. 
2013. 
Lower body kinetics during the
jump shrug: impact of load. 
J Trainol
, 2, 19–22.
Suchomel, T. 
J., Beckham, G. 
K. 
& Wright, G. 
A. 
2014a. 
The impact of load on lower
body performance variables during the hang power clean. 
Sports Biomech
, 13, 87–95.
Suchomel, T. 
J., Beckham, G. 
K. 
& Wright, G. 
A. 
2015a. 
Effect of various loads on the
force-time characteristics of the hang high pull. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 29, 1295–1301.
Suchomel, T. 
J., Comfort, P. 
& Lake, J. 
P. 
2017a. 
Enhancing the force-velocity profile of
athletes using weightlifting derivatives. 
Strength Cond J
, 39,10–20.
Suchomel, T. 
J., Comfort, P. 
& Stone, M. 
H. 
2015b. 
Weightlifting pulling derivatives:
rationale for implementation and application. 
Sports Med
, 45, 823–839.
Suchomel, T. 
J., DeWeese, B. 
H. 
& Serrano, A. 
J. 
2016a. 
The power clean and power
snatch from the knee. 
Strength Cond J
, 38, 98–105.
Suchomel, T. 
J., Lake, J. 
P. 
& Comfort, P. 
2017b. 
Load absorption force-time
characteristics following the second pull of weightlifting derivatives. 
J Strength Cond
Res
, 31, 1644–1652.
Suchomel, T. 
J., Nimphius, S. 
& Stone, M. 
H. 
2016b. 
The importance of muscular strength
in athletic performance. 
Sports Med
, 46, 1419–1449.
Suchomel, T. 
J., Wright, G. 
A., Kernozek, T. 
W. 
& Kline, D. 
E. 
2014b. 
Kinetic comparison
of the power development between power clean variations. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 28,
350–360.
Taber, C. 
B., Bellon, C. 
R., Abbott, H. 
& Bingham, G. 
E. 
2016. 
Roles of maximal strength
and rate of force development in maximizing muscular power. 
Strength Cond J
, 38, 71–
78.
Teo, S. 
Y., Newton, M. 
J., Newton, R. 
U., Dempsey, A. 
R. 
& Fairchild, T. 
J. 
2016.
Comparing the effectiveness of a short-term vertical jump versus weightlifting program
on athletic power development. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 30, 2741–2748.
Tricoli, V., Lamas, L., Carnevale, R. 
& Ugrinowitsch, C. 
2005. 
Short-term effects on

lower-body functional power development: weightlifting vs. 
vertical jump training
programs. 
J Strength Cond Res
, 19, 433–437.
Winchester, J. 
B., Porter, J. 
M. 
& McBride, J. 
M. 
2009. 
Changes in bar path kinematics and
kinetics through use of summary feedback in power snatch training. 
J Strength Cond
Res
, 23, 444–454.
Zamparo, P., Minetti, A. 
& Di Prampero, P. 
2002. 
Interplay among the changes of muscle
strength, cross-sectional area and maximal explosive power: theory and facts. 
Eur J
Appl Physiol
, 88, 193–202.

CHAPTER 16
Plyometric training
Christopher J. 
Sole
 
 

SECTION 1
Plyometric training (PT) is a classification of strength training exercise
consisting mainly of various forms of jumping. 
These exercises are
commonly integrated into a training process to enhance impulsive qualities of
muscular performance such as speed-strength and reactive-strength.
Depending on the goal of training, PT exercises may come in various forms.
However, jumping exercises such as countermovement jumps, bounding,
drop and depth jumps are some of the more common. 
Plyometric training
however, is not limited to lower-extremity exercise, with various exercises
developed for training the upper-extremities and trunk (Wilk et al., 1993,
Potach and Chu, 2016).
Whether implemented independently or in combination with other training
methods, PT has been found to enhance a variety of components of athletic
performance such as jumping, sprinting, and change of direction ability
(Booth and Orr, 2016, Markovic and Mikulic, 2010). 
Consequently, PT has
become increasingly popular among strength and conditioning practitioners.
However, in order to effectively incorporate PT into practice, practitioners
must possess a basic understanding of the underlying science and empirical
evidence supporting this training modality. 
Therefore, the purpose of this
chapter will be to provide (1) a brief review of the mechanisms underpinning
plyometric training, (2) a brief discussion of the physiological and
performance adaptations elicited through plyometric training, and (3) an
evidence-based discussion of the programing and periodization of plyometric
training.
STRETCH-SHORTENING CYCLE
The coupling of eccentric and concentric muscle actions results in a natural
function of muscle known as a stretch-shortening cycle (SSC) (Komi, 2000,
Norman and Komi, 1979, Komi, 2008). 
During an SSC, the eccentric action
enhances subsequent concentric action resulting in increased force, power,
and efficiency, referred to as SSC potentiation. 
An SSC consists of three
distinct phases: (1) the eccentric phase, (2) the amortization phase, and (3) the

concentric phase. 
The eccentric phase is characterized by the active
lengthening or stretch of the musculotendinous unit (MTU). 
The amortization
phase represents the brief time interval between eccentric and concentric
muscle action and involves an isometric action. 
The concentric or propulsive
phase consists of concentric muscle action. 
Plyometric training has become
synonymous with an SSC (Wilt, 1978, Wilk et al., 1993), as SSC action is a
key characteristic of all PT exercises. 
Therefore, a basic understanding of the
mechanisms underpinning SSC potentiation/performance is crucial as they
form the basis of all PT.
Several mechanisms of SSC potentiation have been proposed, and can be
classified as either mechanical or neurophysiological in nature. 
The following
will provide a brief review of these mechanisms, as a basic understanding of
such is required for a complete discussion of the demands of PT. 
For an
exhaustive review of the SSC and proposed mechanisms, see 
Chapter 3
 and
Turner and Jeffreys (2010).
From a mechanical perspective, SSC potentiation is attributed to the
utilization of stored elastic energy. 
In this explanation, the MTU behaves
similarly to a damped spring (
Figure 16.1a
) (Hill, 1938). 
During the eccentric
action, or prestretch, energy is stored in the elastic components of the MTU
then utilized in the following concentric action, ultimately enhancing force
and power output. 
Multiple structures within the MTU collectively referred to
as the series elastic component (SEC) and parallel elastic component (PEC)
are capable of storing elastic energy. 
However, the SEC, namely tendon, is
believed to be the primary contributor during SSC function (Kubo et al.,
1999, Lichtwark and Wilson, 2005).
In addition to mechanical factors, several neurophysiological mechanisms
have been suggested to explain SSC potentiation. 
Involuntary nervous
processes such as the stretch reflex (
Figure 16.1b
) have been implicated in
contributing to SSC potentiation (Dietz et al., 1979, Bosco et al., 1981).
Briefly, the prestretch of the MTU initiates a reflex action via the muscle
spindles. 
When the muscle spindles detect a rapid increase in muscle length,
a neural impulse is relayed to the spinal cord via type Ia afferent fibers. 
Type
Ia afferent fibers then synapse with the alpha motor neuron resulting in a
reflexive muscle action (Kandel et al., 2000). 
If appropriately timed, it is
believed the pairing of voluntary and involuntary (reflexive) actions results in
supramaximal concentric activation of the agonist muscle.

FIGURE 16.1
(a) Mechanical and (b) neurophysiological models of stretch-shortening
cycle potentiation. 
SEC = series elastic component, CC = contractile
component, PEC = parallel elastic component. 
MS = muscle spindles, EF
= extrafusal fibers.
Additional theories have suggested that during SSC movements, the
eccentric action of the prestretch results in an increase of the active state of
the muscle (Bobbert and Casius, 2005), decreasing the time required to
produce force by shortening the electromechanical delay or time interval
between excitation and mechanical output (Cavanagh and Komi, 1979). 
This
in turn results in an increase of the working range of the muscle, where
greater force and impulse can be generated throughout the concentric phase
of the movement. 
It has also been speculated that a prestretch and subsequent
lengthening may place the muscle in a more optimal region of the length-
tension relationship (Gordon et al., 1966a, Gordon et al., 1966b) resulting in
improved force production at initiation and throughout concentric action
(Ettema et al., 1992).
Although there still exists some debate over the exact mechanism
responsible SSC potentiation, in general the potentiating effect of an SSC is
likely attributed to a combination of these mechanical and neurophysiological
properties of the neuromuscular system. 
However, the relative contributions

of each mechanism in SSC potentiation remains unknown (Potach and Chu,
2016), and is likely to vary between exercises.
Relevant to both mechanical and neurophysiological perspectives is the
time interval between prestretch and shorting, or amortization phase. 
In order
for the stored elastic energy to be utilized, concentric action must
immediately follow the stretch. 
If not, any energy stored in the elastic
components will dissipate as heat. 
Similarly, too long of an interval between
prestretch and concentric action will limit the contribution of the reflex action
in concentric performance. 
An additional consideration is the rate and
magnitude of the prestretch. 
A large and rapid stretch has been demonstrated
to result in greater SSC potentiation and improved performance (McCaulley
et al., 2007, McBride et al., 2008, Kilani et al., 1989, Váczi et al., 2013).
Therefore, altering the prestretch through modifying characteristics of the
exercise (e.g., velocity of descent, height dropped, etc.) may be viewed as
one method for manipulating both the intensity and performance outcomes of
PT exercises. 
The above consideration will be discussed in further detail in
Section 2
 as it relates to the application of PT.
ADAPTATIONS TO PLYOMETRIC TRAINING
Plyometric training interventions have been found to elicit a variety of
neuromuscular adaptations related to enhanced SSC function and
consequently enhanced athletic performance (Markovic and Mikulic, 2010).
The following will review primary physiological and performance
adaptations reported in the extant literature.
Plyometric training is most commonly associated with qualitative changes
in muscle function. 
However, some evidence exists demonstrating
quantitative improvements following PT such as whole muscle (Struminger
et al., 2013, Chelly et al., 2010, Kubo et al., 2007, Vissing et al., 2008) and
individual fiber hypertrophy (Malisoux et al., 2006a, Malisoux et al., 2006b,
Potteiger et al., 1999), albeit predominantly in untrained individuals. 
For
example, Malisoux and colleagues (2006a) reported increases in fiber
diameter of 11% in type I, 10% in type IIa, and 15% in type IIa/IIx following
a PT training intervention. 
From a qualitative standpoint, PT has been found
to alter the contractile properties of individual fibers. 
Increases in peak fiber
force of 19–35% in type I, 15–25% in type IIa, and 16–57% in type IIa/IIx

fibers have been found following PT. 
Additionally, increases in maximal
shortening velocity of 18%, 29%, and 22% were observed in type I, IIa, and
IIa/IIx, respectively (Malisoux et al., 2006a, Malisoux et al., 2006b). 
It is
important to note that the alterations in contractile properties cited above
were observed in addition to statistical improvements in lower-extremity
functional performance, namely vertical jump, leg press, and shuttle run.
Plyometric training is believed to result in a shift in muscle fiber type.
However, limited evidence (Malisoux et al., 2006a) exists supporting this
claim. 
Conversely, studies by Potteiger and colleagues (1999) and Kyröläinen
and colleagues (2005) have suggested that fiber type transitions are not
observed following PT alone.
In addition to adaptations to the muscle itself, performance improvements
following PT may be attributed, at least in part, to adaptations to the nervous
system. 
However, specific knowledge of the influence of PT on neural
adaptation is limited. 
Proposed neural adaptations following PT include
increased firing rate, motor unit recruitment, and reflex excitability, as well as
improved inter-muscular coordination (Markovic and Mikulic, 2010).
Furthermore, it is speculated that PT may reduce protective inhibitory reflex
action originating from proprioceptors such as the Golgi tendon organ,
resulting in improved performance under high-load conditions.
Muscular strength is a primary target adaptation of many training
programs as it is believed to be a key component of many aspects of athletic
performance (Suchomel et al., 2016). 
When implemented alone, PT has been
found to increase strength in a variety of populations (Saez-Saez de Villarreal
et al., 2010, Malisoux et al., 2006a, Vissing et al., 2008). 
These
improvements are believed to be attributed to a combination of both neural
and muscular adaptations (Markovic and Mikulic, 2010). 
However, as with
muscular hypertrophy, an individual’s training status may dictate the
magnitude of strength adaptations following PT. 
For example, when
examining the effect sizes reported in a metaanalysis by Saez-Saez de
Villarreal and associates (2010), strength improvements following PT appear
to be of a greater magnitude in lesser-trained individuals as compared to
studies involving trained individuals. 
Muscular strength seems to be most
affected when PT is implemented in combination with resistance training
(Saez-Saez de Villarreal et al., 2013, Adams et al., 1987, Fatouros et al.,
2000, Markovic and Mikulic, 2010, Booth and Orr, 2016). 
Although evidence
does exist citing improved muscular strength, it is likely PT more strongly

influences specific elements of strength such as reactive strength and
impulsive ability. 
For example, when comparing conventional resistance
training with PT, Vissing et al. 
(2008) reported similar improvements in
maximal strength between the two modalities; however, PT seemed to have a
stronger influence on impulsive abilities such as countermovement jump
performance and a ballistic-style leg press. 
Plyometric training and resistance
training may also be combined within a single set. 
This pairing of high-
intensity dynamic resistance training exercises with biomechanically similar
PT exercises has been termed complex training (Ebben, 2002, Docherty et al.,
2004).
Vertical jump is a fundamental athletic movement common in the
performance of many sports, and PT has been demonstrated to improve
vertical jump height in a variety of individuals across various types of
vertical jump tests (Markovic, 2007, Saez-Saez de Villarreal et al., 2009).
Previous literature, such as a meta-analysis performed by Markovic (2007),
has cited mean improvements in jump height of approximately 5% in static
and depth jumps, and up to 9% in countermovement jumps over training
periods of 8.6 ± 2.7 weeks and 8.6 ± 3.4 weeks, respectively. 
Therefore, it
seems adequate empirical evidence exists supporting the use of PT for
improving jumping ability.
In addition to improving jump height, recent meta-analyses (Saez-Saez de
Villarreal et al., 2012, Asadi et al., 2016) have provided evidence suggesting
PT may be successfully implemented to enhance performance in other key
components of sport performance such as sprinting and change of direction
(COD) movements. 
For example, according to Saez-Saez de Villarreal and
colleagues (2012), performing 80 high-intensity jumps two times per week
over ten weeks was effective in eliciting improvements in sprint performance.
Moreover, a meta-analysis performed by Asadi and colleagues (2016)
concluded that performing moderate intensity PT including multiple forms of
jumping is effective in improving COD ability over seven weeks. 
This result
provides evidence demonstrating the key role of lower-extremity
neuromuscular qualities such as SSC function (i.e., efficient coupling of
eccentric and concentric muscle actions) in COD performance.
Interestingly, in addition to adaptations in strength and impulsive ability,
PT has also demonstrated adaptations in neuromuscular efficiency such as
improved running economy. 
Several studies have observed improvements in
endurance performance following PT independent of any improvements in

aerobic fitness (Spurrs et al., 2003, Saunders et al., 2006, Turner et al., 2003).
These performance improvements may be explained by an overall improved
efficiency of the muscular system through improved eccentric-concentric
coupling as well as more effective utilization of stored elastic energy.
Therefore, performance benefits achieved through enhanced SSC
performance are not limited to strength-power athletes.
Finally, considering the primary mode of PT is variations of jumping
exercises, the bulk of the literature is focused on adaptations to the lower-
extremities. 
However, several upper-extremity PT exercises have been
developed (Wilk et al., 1993), including ballistic push-up variations,
medicine ball throws, and depth push-ups (Potach and Chu, 2016). 
Although
there is a paucity of research investigating upper-extremity PT, some
empirical evidence does exist supporting the effectiveness of upper-extremity
PT (Carter et al., 2007, Schulte-Edelmann et al., 2005).

SECTION 2: PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF
PLYOMETRIC TRAINING
As illustrated in 
Section 1
, integrating PT into an athlete’s training program
can result in the enhancement of various aspects of athletic performance
including improved jumping, sprinting, and change of direction ability.
However, for effective implementation of PT, practitioners must possess
adequate knowledge of programming including methods of appropriate
progression, variation, and overload of PT. 
Furthermore, effective
programing must take into consideration the athlete’s needs, training history,
and most importantly, how this training modality fits into the broader picture
that is the training process.
MODE AND SPECIFICITY OF PLYOMETRIC
TRAINING
An initial step in the programing of any exercise is identifying the most
appropriate mode of training. 
The mode of PT exercise must be carefully
selected based on the demands of the sport and/or player position, as well as
the needs and history of the individual athlete. 
In general, PT can be divided
into lower-extremity, upper-extremity, and trunk exercises (Potach and Chu,
2016). 
In many cases one may implement only one mode of PT (e.g., lower-
extremity), on the other hand, a practitioner may determine several modes of
PT are appropriate for their athlete(s). 
Examples of common PT exercises are
provided in 
Table 16.1
.
Specificity of training is among the most important considerations when
designing a training program, as the most specific training exercises should
result in the greatest transfer of training effect. 
Commonly, an exercise’s
specificity is determined through “face validity” or the outward appearance of
the gross mechanics of the exercise, rather than the specific adaptations that
are required. 
In order to choose the most appropriate methods of progression,
overload, and variation, practitioners must possess a thorough understanding
of the impact of specificity on PT. 
In addition to the gross mechanics of the
movement, practitioners should consider the magnitude of the forces

produced, rates at which forces are developed, velocity and acceleration
characteristics, and temporal characteristics of the exercise (Stone et al.,
2007). 
Although specificity is crucial to adaptation, overly specific training,
which is not specific to the required adaptive response, can also lead to
deleterious training stimuli. 
For example, one may sacrifice speed of
movement or rate of force development in effort to mimic a highly specific
sporting movement.
An example the role of specificity in transfer of training is provided by
Nagahara and associates (2014) who examined the relationships between
acceleration during a 60-meter sprint and various jumping tasks. 
The analysis
revealed markedly different correlation coefficients when comparing jumping
tests and acceleration across each phase of the sprint. 
For example, the static
jump was most strongly related to early acceleration phase, whereas the ankle
jump (a continuous rebound jump performed using only plantar flexion) was
most strongly related to maximum velocity sprinting. 
In other words, the
kinetic and kinematic characteristics of exercise must be carefully examined
to ensure they are in line with the mechanical characteristics of the
movements you are trying to enhance. 
Consider an additional example, a
typical ground contact time during the high jump take-off is ≈ 175 ms (Aura
and Viitasalo, 1989). 
If given the choice between a countermovement jump
and a drop jump as a training exercise, the drop jump would be the most
appropriate, as contact times for this exercise are ≈ 136–222 ms (Walsh et al.,
2004) as compared to a movement time > 250 ms (generally 400–600 ms)
experienced in the countermovement jump. 
Moreover, the characteristics of
the prestretch between these two exercises are drastically different, with a
much greater rate and magnitude of stretch experienced during the drop
jump.
An often overlooked element of specificity relates to the instructions and
coaching cues given during training. 
Motor learning research has indicated
that instructions regarding the goal and attentional focus of the exercise can
markedly influence performance outcomes (Hodges and Franks, 2004, Wulf,
2007). 
Application of this element of specificity has been recently
highlighted in a review of coaching cues for sprinting (Benz et al., 2016).
Specifically related to PT, studies have reported instructions to be a key
factor influencing the kinematic and kinetic characteristics of the several
common PT jumping exercises (Young et al., 1995, Talpey et al., 2016,
Louder et al., 2015). 
Talpey and colleagues (2016) reported that instructing

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
participants to “minimize ground contact time” as compared to “maximize
jump height” in the depth jump resulted in not only decreased ground contact
times, but also increased peak force, mean acceleration, and propulsive
impulse during the exercise. 
Consequently, ensuring proper instructions are
provided during PT should be a key specificity consideration, as it can have
an impact on the stimulus and resultant adaptation of the exercise.
TABLE 16.1
 Examples of common plyometric training exercises
Mode
Exercises
Intensity
Stationary jumps
Ankle hop (bilateral
and unilateral)
Squat jump
Countermovement
jump
Split jumps
Low
Low
Low
Low/moderate
Standing jumps
Broad jump
Static jump over
barrier
Countermovement
jump over barrier
Moderate
Moderate
Moderate
Lower-extremity
Multiple
jumps/bounding
Hops (bilateral and
unilateral)
Repeat broad jump
Alternate-leg bound
Power skip
Single-leg bound
Side skip
Zig-zag bound
(speed skaters)
Low
Low-moderate
Moderate/high
Moderate/high
High
Low/moderate
Low/moderate
Box jumps
Static jump onto a
box
Countermovement
jump onto a box
Land and stick
Moderate
Moderate
Low-moderate
High
High

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Depth jump
Drop jump
Depth jump to Box
Depth jump over
barrier
High
High
Upper-extremity
Chest pass
Underhand toss for
height
Single-arm chest
pass
Depth push-up
Moderate
Moderate
Moderate/high
Moderate/high
Trunk
Delivery toss
Chop
Sit-up throw
Moderate
Moderate
Low/moderate
FREQUENCY AND RECOVERY
Training frequency is typically expressed as the number of training sessions
per microcycle (week). 
As with all training, the frequency of PT will vary
depending on the specific phase of the training year. 
Factors influencing PT
frequency include: primary focus of the training phase, competition schedule,
and proportion of training time devoted to sport practice, among others.
Limited research exists as to optimal PT frequency. 
However, based on the
results of meta-analyses investigating jumping (Saez-Saez de Villarreal et al.,
2009), sprinting (Saez-Saez de Villarreal et al., 2012), and change of
direction (Asadi et al., 2016) totaling 106 studies, two sessions per week
appears to be a sufficient training stimulus.
In addition to the aforementioned factors, PT frequency is ultimately
determined by between-session recovery time. 
Considering the high-intensity
nature of PT, between 48 and 72 hours has been suggested as an appropriate
recovery time between sessions. 
Therefore, between two and three PT
sessions per microcycle seems to be the upper limit. 
It is important to note
that recovery time from PT sessions may be highly variable based on several
factors. 
The volume, intensity, as well as individual athlete factors such as

training status should be considered when deciding optimal recovery.
Moreover, many sports are inherently “plyometric” such as basketball,
volleyball, and netball. 
This presents a logistical problem for practitioners
attempting to appropriately program PT sessions while taking into
consideration recovery from both practice as well as previous training
sessions. 
Therefore, it is highly recommended that practitioners carefully
track volume and intensity of both training and sport practice as well as
implement monitoring interventions in order to judge recovery and ensure an
optimal training stimulus.
Recovery within the training session itself, or intraset and interset
recovery interval, is also an important programing consideration. 
When
determining the intraset and interset recovery periods, the practitioner should
again consider the volume and intensity of the training exercise. 
Although by
definition most PT exercises are high intensity, some are performed at a
lower intensity and therefore may require less recovery. 
For example, the
interset and intraset recovery when performing low-amplitude bilateral hops
would be much less than when performing a set of 40cm drop jumps
considering the marked differences in kinetic and kinematic characteristics
between the two exercises (
Figure 16.2
). 
In general, the practitioner should
keep in mind the overall goal of PT, which is to enhance impulsive and
reactive qualities. 
Therefore, each repetition should be performed in a high-
quality manner. 
General recommendations for work to rest ratios for PT
range from 1:5 to 1:10 depending on the specific exercise (Potach and Chu,
2016).

FIGURE 16.2
Illustrates the force-time histories of a bilateral ankle hop (dashed line)
and a drop jump from 40 centimeters (solid line). 
Note the differences in
rate and magnitude of force production as well as impulse (area under the
curve) between the two exercises.
VOLUME AND INTENSITY
In traditional resistance training the most commonly used measures of
training “dosage” are volume and intensity. 
Training volume refers to the
amount of work performed by the athlete during training, and can be
quantified for a set, session, week, etc. 
Several methods of quantifying PT
volume have been suggested (Potach and Chu, 2016, Chu, 1998). 
In general,
the simplest methods are usually the most practical. 
For example, in
horizontal PT exercises (e.g., alternate-leg bound, single-leg bound) volume
can be expressed as the total distance covered during the session. 
Using this
method, a set of four alternate-leg bounds performed over 25m would result
in a total volume of 100m. 
Although this method may be sufficient, it would
be difficult to equate across athletes on account of differences in limb length
and ability. 
A more effective method may be to express volume as the total
number of ground contacts, or throws/catches in upper-extremity, and trunk
exercises. 
Counting contacts or throws is also preferable considering a large
number of PT exercises are performed in place (
Table 16.1
). 
When

prescribing PT volumes, factors such as experience level and specific training
focus should be carefully considered. 
If prescribing based on experience
level, experts have suggested between 80–100, 100–120, and 120–140
contacts per session for beginners, intermediate, and advanced athletes,
respectively (Potach and Chu, 2016). 
It should be noted, however, that the
primary factor determining volume would be exercise intensity, with an
inverse relationship existing between the two training components.
Training intensity is typically indicative of the rate of work performed
during an exercise. 
However, in PT it can also be related to the mechanical
demands (rate and magnitude of loading) placed on the associated
musculature during the exercise. 
Intensity of PT can be indirectly quantified
in a variety of ways. 
In many cases intensity is inherent to the specific
exercise. 
General guidelines for determining the intensity of a specific
exercise include (1) the speed of the movement, (2) the points of contact (i.e.,
single vs. 
double leg hopping), (3) the amplitude of the movement, and (4)
the body weight of the athlete or amount of added resistance (Turner and
Jeffreys, 2010, Jeffreys, 2007). 
Approximate intensity levels are provided for
the exercise listed in 
Table 16.1
. 
Recently, with the increased availability of
technology such as force platforms, authors have suggested using the
movement’s kinetics as the most valid method for objectively quantifying
and tracking the demands of PT. 
Using this approach, variables such as peak
force and rate of force development can be used to gauge exercise intensity,
whereas impulse may be used to quantify volume (Jarvis et al., 2016).
When it comes to manipulating intensity, the practitioner can choose from
variety of options. 
Common methods for manipulating intensity include:
manipulating jump height or box height in the case of box jumps and drop
and depth jumps, the addition of an external load, or manipulating the speed
of the movement and/or rate at which work is performed (e.g., jumps/throws
per minute). 
Considering some PT exercises are inherently more intense than
others, perhaps the simplest method of manipulating exercise intensity is
changing the exercise itself. 
Careful attention should be placed on appropriate
increases in intensity, as increasing the intensity beyond a certain level may
alter the movement and training stimulus. 
In many cases, standards can be
identified and intensity can be prescribed relative to maximum or criterion
performance outcome such as peak power output (Di Giminiani and
Petricola, 2016) or maximum jump height (Chu, 1998). 
Jumping exercises
can also be performed effectively using added resistance such as a weighted

vest (Khlifa et al., 2010). 
However, there is limited evidence supporting the
effectiveness of loaded PT. 
It is important to note, however, that PT is high-
intensity in nature, thus reducing the intensity of an exercise below a specific
threshold may result in an unintended training stimulus. 
Conversely,
inappropriate increases in intensity may unintentionally alter the exercise,
such as increasing ground contact time or altering movement mechanics.
Therefore, the practitioner must exercise caution when manipulating PT
intensity and pay close attention to the quality of the movement ensuring that
it is not sacrificed as intensity increases.
PROGRESSION
Proper progression and variation of PT exercise is a key factor of effectively
implementing PT, in addition to the more commonly known rationale for
progression and variation: avoiding monotonous training and staleness. 
A
traditional approach would be to progress from more general low-intensity to
more specific high-intensity PT exercises. 
Progression plays a key role
teaching athletes effective mechanics, which is believed to influence the
safety and effectiveness of PT. 
For example, Turner and Jeffreys (2010)
suggest a specific progression for beginners focusing on first jumping then
landing and load absorption mechanics before complete SSC movements are
performed.
The general consensus is that if appropriately implemented, PT is safe for
most individuals including adolescents. 
However, due to the high-intensity
nature of PT, several training texts have outlined pre-training considerations
to be addressed prior to implementing PT, most notably learning proper
landing mechanics (Potach and Chu, 2016). 
Interestingly, several authors
have also suggested one should possess a relative strength level equivalent to
a back squat of 1.5 × bodyweight prior to initiating lower-extremity PT
(Potach and Chu, 2016). 
Although controversial, this recommendation may
be viewed as intuitive from an injury prevention standpoint (Radin, 1986).
Furthermore, evidence suggests that increasing strength may optimize PT
performance and therefore adaptation (Barr and Nolte, 2014, Suchomel et al.,
2016). 
Overall the practitioner should use their judgment in determining
whether or not the athlete is prepared to initiate PT.

PERIODIZATION OF PLYOMETRIC TRAINING
Periodization can be broadly defined as the planned distribution and variation
of training stimuli in order to maximize fitness and improve the likelihood of
competitive success. 
When considering periodization strategies for PT,
practitioners should be reminded that effective periodization involves the
integration of all training modalities into a complimentary sequence (i.e., the
training process). 
Therefore, the following will discuss basic considerations
for the proper progression and periodization of PT in context of the training
process. 
Furthermore, considering empirical data from long-term training
studies involving multiple mesocycles are scarce, much of the following
information has been deduced from multiple studies and expert intuition.
Given its high-intensity nature, focusing on PT year-round would be
inappropriate. 
Furthermore, fatigue can have profound effects on SSC
performance, negatively impacting mechanical characteristics of the
movement and likely altering the training stimulus. 
Consequently, PT may
best be implemented in training phases where overall training volume is low
and there is an emphasis on movement quality (e.g., strength, and impulsive
“explosive” phases). 
However, PT may be used in high-volume training
phases to familiarize the athlete with PT and progress technique, perhaps
through integrating low-intensity PT into elements of the training preparatory
routine, with jump training-based warm ups shown to improve lower-
extremity landing mechanics, which may reduce injury risk (Herrington,
2010, Myer et al., 2012, Herrington et al., 2015, Herrington and Comfort,
2013).
A key component of periodization is the logical and complimentary
sequencing of training phases and fitness characteristics. 
With this in mind,
information from several sources promotes emphasizing strength and
maximal strength through heavy resistance training (> 85% 1RM) prior to PT
in order to maximize the net effectiveness of this training modality. 
The
adaptations to the MTU experienced following heavy resistance should result
in optimized stiffness and force generation in subsequent PT. 
Additionally,
an increase in strength of muscle and connective tissue should reduce the
likelihood of injury.
In addition to optimizing acute performance and reducing the likelihood of
injury, evidence suggests that emphasizing strength training prior to PT may
maximize the net effectiveness of the overall training process. 
Briefly,

FIGURE 16.3
according to data provided by Minetti (2002) and Zamparo and colleauges
(2002), if impulsive ability or “explosiveness” is the target training
adaptation, this type of training (i.e., PT) should be preceded by blocks of
strength-focused training, where strength-endurance, hypertrophy, and
maximal strength are the primary training emphasis. 
In other words,
optimizing adaptation to PT can be achieved through a specific sequence of
complementary training phases (
Figure 16.3
). 
This model of training is based
on the concept of phase potentiation and has been integrated in several
periodization schemes (Stone et al., 2007, Harris et al., 2000, Bompa and
Haff, 2009).
Illustration of a generic periodization model where the target training
adaptation is impulsive ability or “explosiveness”. 
Note the emphasis on
plyometric training is greatest during periods of low-volume and high-
intensity training. 
Additionally, plyometric training is emphasized
following periods of strength and maximum strength focused training.
Collectively, we can conclude the following related to the integration of
PT in one’s periodization scheme: (1) to maximize effectiveness, PT should
be emphasized during periods of training where fatigue is low and movement
quality is emphasized, (2) based on the available evidence, it appears
performing heavy resistance training prior to PT should maximize
performance and reduce the risk of injury, and (3) if the ultimate training goal

•
•
•
•
FIGURE 16.4
is to maximizing impulsive ability or “explosiveness”, emphasizing strength
and maximal strength prior to focused PT training will likely result in the
greatest net training effect. 
Examples of how to structure PT sessions for
different mesocycles are presented in 
Figures 16.4
–
16.6
.
SUMMARY
Plyometric training is a form of explosive resistance training comprised
of various jumping and throwing exercises.
As nearly all plyometric training exercises are considered to involve a
stretch-shortening cycle, knowledge of the underlying mechanisms of
this muscle function will aid the practitioner in effectively implementing
plyometric training.
A large body of empirical evidence exists supporting the effectiveness
of plyometric training in enhancing a variety of elements of athletic
performance.
Practitioners considering adding plyometric exercises into their athlete’s
training should not only consider the basic principles of training, but
also possess an understanding of how this training modality can be
integrated into the training process as a whole.
Displays a generic example of how PT may be programed during a
general preparation or strength-endurance mesocycle(s). 
In this example,
the primary role of PT is to facilitate the learning of proper technique
through exposing the athlete to a progression of simple exercises. 
In turn,

FIGURE 16.5
FIGURE 16.6
general work capacity is established as well as a foundation for more
advanced and higher intensity PT exercises. 
Plyometric training during
this phase could be easily integrated into the warm up routine. 
Depending
on the overall goals of the training process, as well as the training history
of the athlete(s), a PT program such as this may not need to span eight
weeks.
Displays a generic example of how PT may be programed during a basic
or maximum strength mesocycle(s). 
The athlete is progressively exposed
to increased stretch and loading conditions in order to prepare for higher
intensity PT exercises aimed to fully exploit SSC potentiation. 
As force
production capacity improves, PT exercises progress from partial to more
complete SSC movements. 
Considering training volume and intensity are
typically high during strength-focused mesocycles, practitioners must
carefully plan the integration of PT into the training process.
Displays a generic example of how PT may be programed during a
mesocycle(s) where the primary training focus is developing impulsive
ability or “explosiveness”. 
In this phase the primary focus of PT is to

exploit SSC potentiation in order to provide a maximal training stimulus.
Plyometric training exercises may also be paired with other resistance
training exercises in the form of complex training. 
Intensity should remain
high throughout and volume may fluctuate depending on the training
process as well as sport practice and training schedules.
REFERENCES
Adams, T., Worley, D. 
& Throgmartin, D. 
1987. 
The effects of selected plyometric and
weight training on muscular leg power. 
Track & Field Quarterly Review
, 87, 45–47.
Asadi, A., Arazi, H., Young, W. 
& Saez, D. 
V. 
E. 
2016. 
The effects of plyometric training
on change of direction ability: A meta-analysis. 
International Journal of Sports
Physiology & Performance
, 11, 563–573.
Aura, O. 
& Viitasalo, J. 
T. 
1989. 
Biomechanical characteristics of jumping. 
International
Journal of Sport Biomechanics
, 5.
Barr, M. 
J. 
& Nolte, V. 
W. 
2014. 
The importance of maximal leg strength for female
athletes when performing drop jumps. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning
Research
, 28, 373–380.
Benz, A., Winkelman, N., Porter, J. 
& Nimphius, S. 
2016. 
Coaching Instructions and Cues
for Enhancing Sprint Performance. 
Strength & Conditioning Journal
, 38, 1–11.
Bobbert, M. 
F. 
& Casius, L. 
J. 
2005. 
Is the effect of a countermovement on jump height
due to active state development? 
Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise
, 37, 440–
446.
Bompa, T. 
O. 
& Haff, G. 
G. 
2009. 
Periodization: Theory and Methodology of Training
.
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics.
Booth, M. 
A. 
& Orr, R. 
2016. 
Effects of plyometric training on sports performance.
Strength & Conditioning Journal
, 38, 30–37.
Bosco, C., Komi, P. 
V. 
& Ito, A. 
1981. 
Prestretch potentiation of human skeletal muscle
during ballistic movement. 
Acta Physiologica Scandinavica
, 111, 135–140.
Carter, A. 
B., Kaminski, T. 
W., Douex Jr., A. 
T., Knight, C. 
A. 
& Richards, J. 
G. 
2007.
Effects of high volume upper extremity plyometric training on throwing velocity and
functional strength ratios of the shoulder rotators in collegiate baseball players. 
The
Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 21, 208–215.
Cavanagh, P. 
R. 
& Komi, P. 
V. 
1979. 
Electromechanical delay in human skeletal muscle
under concentric and eccentric contractions. 
European Journal of Applied Physiology &
Occupational Physiology
, 42, 159–163.
Chelly, M. 
S., Ghenem, M. 
A., Abid, K., Hermassi, S., Tabka, Z. 
& Shephard, R. 
J. 
2010.
Effects of in-season short-term plyometric training program on leg power, jump-and
sprint performance of soccer players. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
,
24, 2670–2676.
Chu, D. 
A. 
1998. 
Jumping into Plyometrics
. 
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics.

Di Giminiani, R. 
& Petricola, S. 
2016. 
The power output-drop height relationship to
determine the optimal dropping intensity and to monitor the training intervention. 
The
Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 30, 117–125.
Dietz, V., Schmidtbleicher, D. 
& Noth, J. 
1979. 
Neuronal mechanisms of human
locomotion. 
Journal of Neurophysiology
, 42, 1212–1222.
Docherty, D., Robbins, D. 
& Hodgson, M. 
2004. 
Complex training revisited: A review of
its current status as a viable training approach. 
Strength & Conditioning Journal
, 26,
52–57.
Ebben, W. 
2002. 
Complex training: A brief review. 
Journal of Sports Science & Medicine
,
1, 42–46.
Ettema, G. 
J., Huijing, P. 
A. 
& De Haan, A. 
1992. 
The potentiating effect of prestretch on
the contractile performance of rat gastrocnemius medialis muscle during subsequent
shortening and isometric contractions. 
Journal of Experimental Biology
, 165, 121–136.
Fatouros, I. 
G., Jamurtas, A. 
Z., Leontsini, D., Taxildaris, K., Aggelousis, N., Kostopoulos,
N. 
& Buckenmeyer, P. 
2000. 
Evaluation of plyometric exercise training, weight
training, and their combination on vertical jumping performance and leg strength. 
The
Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 14, 470–476.
Gordon, A. 
M., Huxley, A. 
F. 
& Julian, F. 
J. 
1966a. 
Tension development in highly
stretched vertebrate muscle fibres. 
The Journal of Physiology
, 184, 143–169.
Gordon, A. 
M., Huxley, A. 
F. 
& Julian, F. 
J. 
1966b. 
The variation in isometric tension with
sarcomere length in vertebrate muscle fibres. 
The Journal of Physiology
, 184, 170–192.
Harris, G. 
R., Stone, M. 
H., O’Bryant, H. 
S., Proulx, C. 
M. 
& Johnson, R. 
L. 
2000. 
Short-
term performance effects of high power, high force, or combined weight-training
methods. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 14, 14–20.
Herrington, L. 
2010. 
The effects of 4 weeks of jump training on landing knee valgus and
crossover hop performance in female basketball players. 
The Journal of Strength &
Conditioning Research
, 24, 3427–3432.
Herrington, L., Munro, A. 
& Comfort, P. 
2015. 
A preliminary study into the effect of
jumping–landing training and strength training on frontal plane projection angle.
Manual Therapy
, 20, 680–685.
Herrington, L. 
C. 
& Comfort, P. 
2013. 
Training for prevention of ACL injury:
Incorporation of progressive landing skill challenges into a program. 
Strength &
Conditioning Journal
, 35, 59–65.
Hill, A. 
1938. 
The heat of shortening and the dynamic constants of muscle. 
Proceedings of
the Royal Society of London B: Biological Sciences
, 126, 136–195.
Hodges, N. 
J. 
& Franks, I. 
M. 
2004. 
Instructions, demonstrations and the learning process.
Skill acquisition in sport: Research, theory and practice
, 145–174.
Jarvis, M. 
M., Graham-Smith, P. 
& Comfort, P. 
2016. 
A methodological approach to
quantifying plyometric intensity. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 30,
2522–2532.
Jeffreys, I. 
2007. 
Total Soccer Fitness
, Coaches Choice.
Kandel, E. 
R., Schwartz, J. 
H., Jessell, T. 
M., Siegelbaum, S. 
A. 
& Hudspeth, A. 
2000.
Principles of neural science
, New York: McGraw-Hill.

Khlifa, R., Aouadi, R., Hermassi, S., Chelly, M. 
S., Jlid, M. 
C., Hbacha, H. 
& Castagna, C.
2010. 
Effects of a plyometric training program with and without added load on jumping
ability in basketball players. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 24,
2955–2961.
Kilani, H., Palmer, S., Adrian, M. 
& Gapsis, J. 
1989. 
Block of the stretch reflex of vastus
lateralis during vertical jumps. 
Human Movement Science
, 8, 247–269.
Komi, P. 
V. 
2000. 
Stretch-shortening cycle: A powerful model to study normal and
fatigued muscle. 
Journal of Biomechanics
, 33, 1197–1206.
Komi, P. 
V. 
2008. 
Stretch-shortening cycle. 
Strength and Power in Sport
, 3, 184–202.
Kubo, K., Kawakami, Y. 
& Fukunaga, T. 
1999. 
Influence of elastic properties of tendon
structures on jump performance in humans. 
Journal of Applied Physiology
, 87, 2090–
2096.
Kubo, K., Morimoto, M., Komuro, T., Yata, H., Tsunoda, N., Kanehisa, H. 
& Fukunaga, T.
2007. 
Effects of plyometric and weight training on muscle-tendon complex and jump
performance. 
Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise
, 39, 1801–1810.
Kryöläinen, H., Avela, J., McBride, J. 
M., Koskinen, S., Andersen, J., Sipilä, S., Takala, T.
& Komi, P. 
2005. 
Effects of power training on muscle structure and neuromuscular
performance. 
Scandinavian Journal of Medicine & Science in Sports
, 15, 58–64.
Lichtwark, G. 
A. 
& Wilson, A. 
2005. 
In vivo mechanical properties of the human Achilles
tendon during one-legged hopping. 
Journal of Experimental Biology
, 208, 4715–4725.
Louder, T., Bressel, M. 
& Bressel, E. 
2015. 
The kinetic specificity of plyometric training:
Verbal cues revisited. 
Journal of Human Kinetics
, 49, 201–208.
Malisoux, L., Francaux, M., Nielens, H., Renard, P., Lebacq, J. 
& Theisen, D. 
2006a.
Calcium sensitivity of human single muscle fibers following plyometric training.
Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise
, 38, 1901–1908.
Maliscoux, L., Francaux, M., Nielens, H. 
& Theisen, D. 
2006b. 
Stretch-shortening cycle
exercises: An effective training paradigm to enhance power output of human single
muscle fibers. 
Journal of Applied Physiology
, 100, 771–779.
Markovic, G. 
2007. 
Does plyometric training improve vertical jump height? 
A meta-
analytical review. 
British Journal of Sports Medicine
, 41, 349–355.
Markovic, G. 
& Mikulic, P. 
2010. 
Neuro-musculoskeletal and performance adaptations to
lower-extremity plyometric training. 
Sports Medicine
, 40, 859–895.
McBride, J. 
M., McCaulley, G. 
O. 
& Cormie, P. 
2008. 
Influence of preactivity and
eccentric muscle activity on concentric performance during vertical jumping. 
The
Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 22, 750–757.
McCaulley, G. 
O., Cormie, P., Cavill, M. 
J., Nuzzo, J. 
L., Urbiztondo, Z. 
G. 
& McBride, J.
M. 
2007. 
Mechanical efficiency during repetitive vertical jumping. 
European Journal of
Applied Physiology
, 101, 115–123.
Minetti, A. 
E. 
2002. 
On the mechanical power of joint extensions as affected by the change
in muscle force (or cross-sectional area), ceteris paribus. 
European Journal of Applied
Physiology
, 86, 363–369.
Myer, G. 
D., Ford, K. 
R., Brent, J. 
L. 
& Hewett, T. 
E. 
2012. 
An integrated approach to
change the outcome part II: Targeted neuromuscular training techniques to reduce

identified ACL injury risk factors. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
,
26, 2272–2292.
Ngahara, R., Naito, H., Miyashiro, K., Morin, J. 
& Zushi, K. 
2014. 
Traditional and ankle-
specific vertical jumps as strength-power indicators for maximal sprint acceleration.
Journal of Sports Medicine & Physical Fitness
, 54, 691–699.
Norman, R. 
W. 
& Komi, P. 
V. 
1979. 
Electromechanical delay in skeletal muscle under
normal movement conditions. 
Acta Physiologica Scandinavica
, 106, 241–248.
Potach, D. 
H. 
& Chu, D. 
A. 
2016. 
Program design and technique for plyometric training. 
In
G. 
G. 
Haff & N. 
T. 
Triplett (Eds.), 
Essentials of strength training and conditioning
.
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 471–520.
Potteiger, J. 
A., Lockwood, R. 
H., Haub, M. 
D., Dolezal, B. 
A., Almuzaini, K. 
S.,
Schroeder, J. 
M. 
& Zebas, C. 
J. 
1999. 
Muscle power and fiber characteristics following
8 weeks of plyometric training. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 13,
275–279.
Radin, E. 
L. 
1986. 
Role of muscles in protecting athletes from injury. 
Acta Medica
Scandinavica
, 711, 143–147.
Saez-Saez de Villarreal, E., Kellis, E., Kraemer, W. 
J. 
& Izquierdo, M. 
2009. 
Determining
variables of plyometric training for improving vertical jump height performance: A
meta-analysis. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 23, 495–506.
Saez-Saez de Villarreal, E., Requena, B. 
& Cronin, J. 
B. 
2012. 
The effects of plyometric
training on sprint performance: A meta-analysis. 
The Journal of Strength &
Conditioning Research
, 26, 575–584.
Saez-Saez de Villarreal, E., Requena, B., Izquierdo, M. 
& Gonzalez-Badillo, J. 
J. 
2013.
Enhancing sprint and strength performance: Combined versus maximal power,
traditional heavy-resistance and plyometric training. 
Journal of Science & Medicine in
Sport
, 16, 146–150.
Saez-Saez de Villarreal, E., Requena, B. 
& Newton, R. 
U. 
2010. 
Does plyometric training
improve strength performance? 
A meta-analysis. 
Journal of Science & Medicine in
Sport
, 13, 513–522.
Saunders, P. 
U., Telford, R. 
D., Pyne, D. 
B., Peltola, E. 
M., Cunningham, R. 
B., Gore, C. 
J.
& Hawley, J. 
A. 
2006. 
Short-term plyometric training improves running economy in
highly trained middle and long distance runners. 
The Journal of Strength &
Conditioning Research
, 20, 947–954.
Schulte-Edelmann, J. 
A., Davies, G. 
J., Kernozek, T. 
W. 
& Gerberding, E. 
D. 
2005. 
The
effects of plyometric training of the posterior shoulder and elbow. 
The Journal of
Strength & Conditioning Research
, 19, 129–134.
Spurrs, R. 
W., Murphy, A. 
J. 
& Watsford, M. 
L. 
2003. 
The effect of plyometric training on
distance running performance. 
European Journal of Applied Physiology
, 89, 1–7.
Stone, M. 
H., Stone, M. 
E. 
& Sands, W. 
A. 
2007. 
Principles and Practice of Resistance
Training
. 
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics.
Struminger, A. 
H., Lewek, M. 
D., Goto, S., Hibberd, E. 
& Blackburn, J. 
T. 
2013.
Comparison of gluteal and hamstring activation during five commonly used plyometric
exercises. 
Clinical Biomechanics
, 28, 783–789.

Suchomel, T. 
J., Nimphius, S. 
& Stone, M. 
H. 
2016. 
The importance of muscular strength
in athletic performance. 
Sports Medicine
, 46, 1419–1449.
Talpey, S., Young, W. 
& Beseler, B. 
2016. 
Effect of instructions on selected jump squat
variables. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, Publish Ahead of Print,
10.1519/JSC.0000000000000435.
Turner, A. 
M., Owings, M. 
& Schwane, J. 
A. 
2003. 
Improvement in running economy after
6 weeks of plyometric training. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 17,
60–67.
Turner, A. 
N. 
& Jeffreys, I. 
2010. 
The stretch-shortening cycle: Proposed mechanisms and
methods for enhancement. 
Strength & Conditioning Journal
, 32, 87–99.
Váczi, M., Rácz, L., Hortobágyi, T. 
& Tihanyi, J. 
2013. 
Dynamic contractility and
efficiency impairments in stretch-shortening cycle are stretch-load-dependent after
training-induced muscle damage. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 27,
2171–2179.
Vissing, K., Brink, M., Lønbro, S., Sørensen, H., Overgaard, K., Danborg, K., Mortensen,
J., Elstrøm, O., Rosenhøj, N. 
& Ringgaard, S. 
2008. 
Muscle adaptations to plyometric
vs. 
resistance training in untrained young men. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning
Research
, 22, 1799–1810.
Walsh, M., Arampatizs, A., Schade, F. 
& Bruggemann, G.-P. 
2004. 
The effect of drop
jump starting height and contact time on power, work performed, and moment of force.
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research
, 18, 561–566.
Wilk, K. 
E., Voight, M. 
L., Keirns, M. 
A., Gambetta, V., Andrews, J. 
R. 
& Dillman, C. 
J.
1993. 
Stretch-shortening drills for the upper extremities: Theory and clinical application.
Journal of Orthopedic & Sports Physical Therapy
, 17, 225–239.
Wilt, F. 
1978. 
Plyometrics: what it is and how it works. 
Modern Athlete & Coach
, 12–19.
Wulf, G. 
2007. 
Attention and Motor Skill Learning
, Human Kinetics.
Young, W. 
B., Pryor, J. 
F. 
& Wilson, G. 
J. 
1995. 
Effect of instructions on characteristics of
countermovement and drop jump performance. 
The Journal of Strength & Conditioning
Research
, 9, 232–236.
Zamparo, P., Minetti, A. 
E. 
& Di Prampero, P. 
E. 
2002. 
Interplay among the changes of
muscle strength, cross-sectional area and maximal explosive power: Theory and facts.
European Journal of Applied Physiology
, 88, 193–202.

CHAPTER 17
Training change of direction and
agility
Sophia Nimphius
INTRODUCTION
The athletic ability demonstrated when rapidly changing direction is
considered a highly advantageous quality in an athlete, particularly but not
limited to evasion sports both on the field or court. 
However, despite the
increasing research into change of direction ability from a performance and
injury perspective, there is still little consensus on the development of this
‘elusive’ physical quality. 
However, there has been a substantial
advancement in the understanding of the biomechanical underpinnings of
changing direction and the influence of perceptual-cognitive factors that
combine for the perceptual-motor response known as agility.
This chapter aims to provide an overview of the current research and
scientific understanding of factors associated with change of direction and
agility with respect to biomechanical, physical and perceptual-cognitive
determinants (
Section 1
). 
In 
Section 2
, an applied understanding of how to
quantitatively and qualitatively evaluate change of direction ability and
agility will be examined, followed by an example of a needs-based program
in conjunction with a developmental framework designed to combine
improvements in physical capacity with skill development.

SECTION 1
DEFINITIONS
Over the last two decades, more clarity on definitions associated with change
of direction research has culminated. 
However, there is still ambiguity of
term use both in the research and applied fields. 
Therefore, the current
chapter will use the following definitions and terms in addition to their
abbreviations.
Change of direction (COD)
 – the skills and abilities needed to
change movement direction, velocity or modes (DeWeese and
Nimphius, 2016). 
Describes the 
physical event of changing
direction
 and may be used independent of the situation (e.g., ‘pre-
planned’ or ‘reactive’) as ultimately a COD still occurs. 
The COD
may be further defined as the events that occur just prior (entry), at
the ‘plant’ (occurring between entry and exit) and just following (exit)
when describing the typical ‘cutting’ COD movement. 
This will form
the focus of the biomechanical analysis of COD section of this
chapter.
Change of direction speed (CODS)
 – overarching description of any
test that proposes to examine one’s ‘pre-planned’ COD ability (e.g.,
T-test, 505, Illinois agility test, pro-agility test) that often has a large
component of straight line running.
Maneuverability
 – a further delineation of COD where the purpose
of the change in direction is to maintain velocity, therefore
eliminating a clearly defined ‘plant’ step associated with a ‘cutting’
COD and subsequently eliciting a more curvilinear path of movement.
Further, maneuverability may also be used to describe a COD when
one changes mode of travel and the purpose may be tactical
movement preference (e.g., COD into a backpedal or shuffle)
(Nimphius et al., 2017, Nimphius, 2014).

Agility
 – ‘a rapid whole-body movement with change of velocity or
direction in response to a stimulus’ (Sheppard and Young, 2006). 
As
such, an agility maneuver is predicated on a stimulus-response, but
the subsequent movement may take the form of any of the
aforementioned methods by which one changes direction.
BIOMECHANICS OF CHANGING DIRECTION
Although the biomechanics of changing direction could be considered
complex, the principles that govern human motion allow for a narrowing of
the critical factors required for rapid and efficient COD. 
Therefore, the
commonly measured variables of velocity, force, impulse, ground contact
time and momentum can provide a comprehensive understanding of the
critical factors relevant to changing direction. 
With a sound biomechanical
understanding, one has the fundamental knowledge required to better
understand the interaction of physical capacity and technical or skill
requirements that must be present in combination to maximize any COD
performance. 
To begin this discussion of the biomechanics during a COD, a
ground-up approach will be adopted, commencing with a description of
impulse and ground contact times, followed by a discussion on joint
kinematics and kinetics associated with a COD.
Understanding impulse and ground contact times
during a change of direction
The ‘plant’ phase, which as previously described, is the step that is most
unique in comparison to the mechanics associated with sprinting. 
Although
the plant step is still a stance phase, the term ‘plant’ is chosen to differentiate
it from other steps. 
Specifically, the plant phase is distinctive as it is the
instance of transition often including both a braking and propulsive
component with typically longer (and intentional) deceleration (braking)
followed by acceleration (propulsive) within the force-time (or impulse)
curve as shown in 
Figure 17.1
 in comparison to the stance phase during
sprinting. 
However, the plant phase during a COD will vary depending on the
velocity of entry (Nedergaard et al., 2014) and the angle of required change

of direction (Havens and Sigward, 2015b), which may result in an increase or
decrease in the ground contact time for which the plant phase occurs.
Therefore, as one considers the different shapes of the curves shown in
Figure 17.1
, one can also appreciate the different magnitudes and durations of
impulse which determine the subsequent change in momentum and therefore
velocity as defined by the impulse-momentum theorem. 
The height of the
impulse curve represents the amount of force produced during the plant
phase, whereas the width of the impulse curve determines the time one has to
apply this force (associated with the rate of force development within the
context of a COD). 
As such, the magnitude of force required or produced and
the time available for producing this force can subsequently be used to
understand the physical requirements to perform the COD. 
Further, the
change in momentum and subsequent velocity and actual angle of COD that
results will be a function of the direction of force application, and the
effectiveness of the produced impulse will be expected to be similar to that of
sprinting (Rabita et al., 2015). 
Examples of the time available or time
required to execute various changes of direction are described in 
Table 17.1
.
As the angle of COD increases, the ground contact time often increases,
providing differences in time available to create force that could be
considered analogous to comparing time available for a countermovement
jump versus a drop jump (Nimphius et al., 2017).

FIGURE 17.1
Example of force-time curve of the plant phase of a 45° COD and a stance
phase of a maximal velocity sprint. 
The vertical dashed lines represent the
distinction between the braking and propulsion phases as defined by the
anterior-posterior force. 
Further, notice the difference in the length of
these phases and the total ground contact time. 
The total area under each
curve is the impulse.
However, it should be understood that a proportion of the deceleration
often occurs prior to the plant step (e.g., penultimate step or prior)

(Nedergaard et al., 2014, Havens and Sigward, 2015b), explaining why the
plant step doesn’t always fully quantify the demand of greater angle
directional changes or why some directional changes can have equal or lesser
ground contact times than more shallow changes of direction. 
For example,
substantial braking in the steps prior to the plant step have been shown prior
to 135° COD (Nedergaard et al., 2014) and 180° COD (Graham-Smith et al.,
2009). 
The prior deceleration is likely a strategy to decrease the difficulty and
ground contact time spent changing direction, otherwise ground contact times
may extend as shown to occur when prior deceleration is not possible as with
a sudden response to a stimulus (Spiteri et al., 2015a) and shown in 
Table
17.1
. 
Further, additional acceleration occurs following the plant step, which
is critical to subsequent success following the COD.
TABLE 17.1
 Ground contact times during various angles of change of direction
Reference
Description of change of direction
Mean ground contact
times (s)
(Havens and Sigward,
2015b)
~ 45° COD during planned task
0.16
(Vanrenterghem et al.,
2012)
~ 45° planned task (measured
actual angles 39.5° to 25.5°) at
various velocities (between 2 m.s
–
1
 to 5 m.s
–1
); as velocity increased
angle of actual performance
decreased and ground contact time
decreased
0.20–0.45
(Spiteri et al., 2014a)
~ 45° COD during agility task
from both offensive and defensive
conditions with human stimulus
0.23–0.26
(Spiteri et al., 2015a)
~ 45° COD during agility task
with video stimulus
0.42–0.51
(Marshall et al., 2014)
~ 75° COD during planned task
0.37
(Havens and Sigward,
2015b)
~ 90° COD during planned task
0.25
(Spiteri et al., 2015a)
~ 90° COD during planned task
with transition into a shuffle
0.32–0.35
(Spiteri et al., 2015a)
~ 180° COD during planned task
0.42–0.47

One may, therefore, have to consider the steps entering, the characteristics
of the plant step and the steps exiting a COD when assessing the
biomechanics of performance, while still ensuring the assessment
appropriately isolates the biomechanics surrounding the actual COD instead
of a re-evaluation of sprint acceleration ability. 
As discussed by Havens and
Sigward (2015b), the approach step (penultimate step) and execution step
(plant step) have significantly slower velocities during a 90° COD than
during a 45° COD. 
Therefore, biomechanical factors such as velocity of entry
and angle of COD have clear implications for differences in physical
requirements for the different ranges of COD performance required in sport.
This will be discussed later in this chapter.
Although largely not discussed in research (Nimphius et al., 2017), the
mass of the athlete should be considered in addition to the aforementioned
critical factors of velocity and angle of change of direction. 
More recent
research has highlighted the consideration for calculating what is termed
‘sprint momentum’ for rugby athletes whereby the maximal velocity of an
athlete is multiplied by their body mass to determine their momentum, which
is considered influential for aspects of sport performance such as breaking
tackles (Hendricks et al., 2014, Baker and Newton, 2008). 
Therefore, within
the context of a COD, the velocity of the athlete exiting a COD or the
momentum an athlete carries into a COD (entry velocity multiplied by body
mass) are factors that practitioners should consider within the biomechanical
requirements of an individual athlete’s performance, when applicable.
Joint kinematics and kinetics during a change of
direction
The discussion of joint kinematics and kinetics during a COD with respect to
injury risk has been researched extensively in the literature (Kristianslund et
al., 2014, McLean et al., 2004, Jones et al., 2015, Imwalle et al., 2009).
However, there is acknowledgement that some joint positions that may create
unfavorable loads with respect to injury risk may also be advantageous for
performance (Jones et al., 2015) or necessary for task completion (Havens
and Sigward, 2015a), but this has yet to be fully understood. 
Further

complications arise when understanding that although expected changes in
whole body centre of mass (COM) occurs when comparing a more shallow
COD (45°) versus a more aggressive COD (90°), simultaneous increased
physical demand is not evenly evident across all joints (Havens and Sigward,
2015a). 
Of critical understanding from the research of Havens and Sigward
(2015b) is the unique finding that the deceleration demand of the 90° COD in
comparison to the 45° COD resulted in different hip functions where the hip
seemed to primarily stabilize the trunk during the 90° COD. 
Further, the
aforementioned research highlighted differences in these two COD demands
where far greater pelvis rotation occurred during the 90° COD and a trend to
larger moments and power absorption at the knee (Havens and Sigward,
2015a) also occurred, likely in response to the increased deceleration demand
and hip control requirements in handling the increased trunk lean during the
90° COD. 
Therefore, it is clear that a specific recommendation for a
representative kinematic description of ‘good change of direction’ is likely
not possible due to the vast combinations of requirements during changes of
directions at different angles that occur at multiple velocities in sport.
Additionally, the movement of the athlete during the COD must also be
described in context of the requirements of the situation and taken relative to
the position the athlete is in at the time of the COD, while also recognizing
that more recent research is moving away from the notion of an ‘ideal’
movement for success (Lee et al., 2014). 
The kinematics or ‘technique’ for
success in COD can therefore be considered vast and continually changing
with respect to the constraints of the physical, perceptual-cognitive and
tactical context of COD. 
These are analogous to the dynamical systems
theory application of constraints within physical, mental and social contexts
(Latash, 2008). 
As such, this chapter will focus on COD development
through discussions of the task and goal, instead of an overemphasis on
technique (Lee et al., 2014), in an effort to reach multiple movement
solutions (kinematics) that result in successful COD.
More broad recommendations, however, can be summarized across
research that may describe COD movements independent of velocity or
angle, with the expectation that the chosen movement will occur with respect
to muscle strength, mobility and anthropometry and therefore recommended
changes must be considered within that context as well. 
Technical guidelines
have previously been summarized across the areas of visual focus, body
positions through deceleration and acceleration, leg action and arm action

(DeWeese and Nimphius, 2016). 
These include use of the trunk during lateral
movement (Sasaki et al., 2011) or when there is greater deceleration demands
and subsequent increased change in body momentum (Havens and Sigward,
2015a, Havens and Sigward, 2015b), the orientation of the hips toward the
direction of travel (Havens and Sigward, 2015a), and good joint alignment of
the hip, knee and ankle (DeWeese and Nimphius, 2016) with consideration
that some actions, such as increased trunk lean, hip abduction and hip internal
rotation, may be necessary for successful completion of more aggressive
COD (Havens and Sigward, 2015a). 
Some of these requirements are often
seemingly contrary to suggestions of reducing frontal and transverse
movements in an effort to minimize knee adductor moments (Dempsey et al.,
2007). 
However, one must consider successful movement requires loading,
and increased capacity and minimization of extremes within these
movements are likely more applicable than recommended avoidance to
ensure the COD can be successful in the reality of a sporting context.
In conclusion, the joint positions and joint moments that are advantageous
for performance are only beneficial if the capacity of the athlete is high
enough to tolerate those joint moments without subsequent failure or injury
occurring in conjunction with successful performance. 
Further, the
description of the ground contact times required at various angles and
velocities vary in magnitude but still contain defined ranges which
individuals can use to determine subsequent training requirements. 
The
ground reaction forces (magnitude and direction) required for effective
change of momentum during a COD may be produced using multiple joint
configurations that are constantly changing due to the physical, perceptual-
cognitive and tactical considerations that must be considered.
UNDERPINNING FACTORS RELATED TO
CHANGE OF DIRECTION
Inherent to the performance of an effective and efficient COD is having the
underpinning physical capacities to perform the technical requirements of the
COD. 
As has been highlighted in the introduction of this chapter, each COD
has unique characteristics, and therefore will require varying levels of the
different physical capacities. 
Several models of agility have been proposed
(Young et al., 2002, Nimphius, 2014), but each result in different

requirements and therefore demand a different approach to physical
development. 
Therefore, the current chapter uses a different approach
whereby considerations for the types of COD as the overarching
commonality are split into different purposes (see definitions). 
With such an
approach, it is also acknowledged that when these performances occur in
response to situation or opponent, there are several perceptual-cognitive
factors that can interact with the perceptual-motor response and subsequent
successful or unsuccessful execution of the COD. 
It is the ability of the
athlete to absorb force (braking) and produce force (acceleration) while
controlling the body position between and during these phases of movement
that are critical in a COD typically performed for evasion. 
Factors already
considered critical for speed are most applicable when a COD is intended to
maintain velocity and unique movement, and ability demands influence
change of direction into a new mode of travel such as a shuffle, both termed
maneuverability in this chapter. 
If the strength capacity of the athlete is
effectively utilized and coordinated within the constraints of the activity, then
success is more likely. 
Such delineation could be described as the difference
between ability and skill. 
Therefore, the next section will focus on the
abilities, termed physical capacities, that are important to further enhance
skill development of the COD. 
The subsequent section will then discuss the
current understanding of perceptual-cognitive underpinnings of agility.
Physical capacities underpinning change of direction
While maximal strength has been commonly associated with many aspects of
sport performance including sprinting and CODS (Suchomel et al., 2016), it
should be recognized that the force applied during a COD occurs over a range
of ground contact times (see 
Table 17.1
) and over different phases: braking
and propulsion. 
Therefore, the length of time available and characteristics of
the COD (see 
Table 17.1
) lend itself to be more associated with eccentric,
isometric or concentric strength and relative to the time available (Nimphius,
2014) than just one measure of strength (e.g., a typical one-repetition
dynamic performance). 
Although it is clear that dynamic strength is largely
correlated to the specific sub-component measures of strength – isometric,
concentric and eccentric (Spiteri et al., 2014b) – the relationship is not
perfect, and therefore indicates these sub-qualities of strength can develop at

different rates or magnitudes. 
As highlighted, the required contribution of
each sub-quality of strength varies depending on the type of COD required
and current physical capacities of the athlete (Spiteri et al., 2015a).
Rate of force development, reactive strength or fast and slow stretch-
shortening cycle (SSC) activities (including drop jumps, countermovement
jumps and loaded jumps) are also important physical capacities for
enhancement of the multi-factorial physical attributes that underpin COD.
The reason for an emphasis early in the chapter on ground contact time is to
highlight that a COD, where the ground contact time is very short, is likely to
be more related to capacities related to fast SSC activities, whereas those with
longer ground contacts will benefit from improved longer SSC activities. 
For
example, in shallow cuts or those in response to stimulus where a sudden
foot-ground interaction may occur, drop jump performance or reactive
strength would be considered relevant to performance, particularly as the
increased eccentric phase muscle activity during a drop jump (McBride et al.,
2008) could be paralleled to the pre-activity of shallow angle cut agility tasks
(Spiteri et al., 2015b). 
On the other hand, when there is a greater angle of
COD, either for evasion or required due to angle, the braking involved results
in a longer ground contact, and is therefore likely to be more related to
maximal strength (Suchomel et al., 2016), specifically eccentric strength
(Jones et al., 2009), and can be improved using higher load, longer SSC
activities (McBride et al., 2002).
It is acknowledged, however, that having these physical attributes do not
guarantee enhanced COD performance, hence why the association between
strength and COD performance often only explains a portion of variance, or
can change as an athlete develops (Nimphius et al., 2010). 
Further, one must
also learn to utilize increases in strength within the context of the activity
(Suchomel et al., 2016), therefore, consideration should be made for the
expected delay or 
lag time
 between increased physical capacity and ability to
actualize the improvement in performance (Stone et al., 2003, Nimphius,
2010). 
In conclusion, there are several interacting physical capacities and
inherent anthropometric characteristics that combine during a successful
COD, and the underpinning capacities required are dependent on the type of
COD being performed.
Perceptual-cognitive factors underpinning agility

Although a motor response must occur during all COD, most agility
manoeuvres are typified by the description of a rapid stimulus-response
scenario, and such a scenario is typical of a majority of tests designed to
assess agility (Paul et al., 2016). 
The decisions that occur in response to a
defensive shift, open space or one-on-one scenario in sport require
individuals to combine perceptual-cognitive factors (visual scanning,
anticipation, pattern recognition, knowledge of situation, reaction time) with
a motor response, which in combination can be termed perceptual-motor
ability. 
As such, perceptual-cognitive skill is a function of perception and
understanding, while ultimately what one is able to perceive and do with
action is what allows for successful execution (Starkes et al., 2004). 
This
circling requirement back to motor response is why the process for
understanding and developing COD and agility has started with the motor or
physical capacities to ensure a base is present to build from. 
Such a concept is
supported by research demonstrating that although one may make a correct
decision (perpetual-motor decision), if they are less skilled they may fail to
execute this decision despite making the correct one in the context of the
situation (Bruce et al., 2012).
Although all of the described perceptual-cognitive factors can be justified
as critical to agility performance, current agility tests only allow limited use
of the knowledge of situation, visual scanning and pattern recognition, and
therefore are likely more confined to understanding one-on-one scenarios.
Skills sessions using open-ended games, varying playing space and active
defenders (Farrow and Robertson, 2016) will likely provide a better
environment to improve visual scanning, anticipation, pattern recognition and
situational knowledge, including evaluating the execution of the perceptual-
motor response. 
This is because the likelihood of their transfer to the game
would be considered environmentally and tactically specific. 
Direct one-on-
one scenario training may benefit from targeted training surrounding
identifying movement cues to predict movement (Serpell et al., 2011).
However, future developments attempting to improve the underpinning
processing speed (visual information processing speed and multifocal
attention skills) separate to the perceptual-motor response or execution may
have promise, but have only been recently evaluated in a few sports
(Mangine et al., 2014, Romeas et al., 2016).

SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH AND CURRENT APPLIED
PRACTICE
The previous sections that have provided a basis of understanding about the
biomechanics of changing direction and the physical and perceptual-
cognitive factors that underpin one’s ability to produce the kinetics and
display the kinematics associated with superior COD are limited to the
findings of research to date. 
There are strengths and weaknesses of the
methodological approaches taken thus far that leave much more to be
discovered and understood. 
As a scientist and practitioner, understanding
these limitations and placing them into context will allow you to make
informed practice decisions. 
For example, the validity of many of our CODS
and agility measurements have been called into question due to many of these
tests being focused upon a metric of ‘total time to complete’ as they measure
one’s COD ability (Nimphius et al., 2017, Nimphius et al., 2016b, Sayers,
2015).
Although a single measure of COD performance does not exist due to the
overarching fact that COD performance is angle dependent (Buchheit et al.,
2012, Hader et al., 2015) and velocity dependent (Vanrenterghem et al.,
2012), a measure more relevant to the purpose of the COD being performed
could be evaluated. 
For example, the evaluation of COD performance must
consider the entry velocity of the athletes into the COD and exit velocity out
of the COD (Spiteri et al., 2013), in addition to the time taken to actually
change direction (ground contact time of plant phase), the direction of the
velocity change for evasion and potentially even the momentum during the
COD (Nimphius et al., 2017). 
All these provide more information than the
typical ‘total time’ measure.
A valid measure of COD and agility based on their definitions should
accurately assess the change in direction, velocity or mode, and, as suggested
by Sheppard and Young (2006), should represent a distinct physical quality.
Despite this understanding, as previously noted, research has primarly used
‘total time’ without consideration of the large to very large correlations with
straight-line running speed observed in the research (Gabbett et al., 2008,
Nimphius et al., 2013, Nimphius et al., 2010). 
Although there are many other
limitations that could be discussed about current research into COD ability,
the potential to improve on the meaure that best represents this quality may

well be the most outstanding limitation to consider. 
There is some research
that has taken a potentially more valid approach to evaluating COD ability by
assessing an individual’s center of mass during a COD (Wheeler and Sayers,
2010, Sayers, 2015, Hader et al., 2015, Spiteri and Nimphius, 2013).
It is therefore possible that future research using this more direct measure
of how well a person changes direction may change or at least advance our
current knowledge on the topic. 
The primary reason for such a conclusion is
that it has been demonstrated that the chosen measure of COD performance
can influence the conclusion made. 
Specifically, previous research
conclusions have shown to be altered depending on the metric used as the
‘measure of COD ability’. 
For example, Nimphius et al. 
(2016b) compared
the use of a traditional ‘total time’ measure of performance and the COD
deficit during the 505 COD test, demonstrating that the metric chosen to
evaluate COD changed the perceived COD ability of the athlete in more than
88% of the athletes assessed. 
More relevant to the comparison of total time to
entry or exit velocity were the alternate conclusions that total time was not
sensitive enough to detect significant differences in stronger and weaker
athletes, while there was a significant difference in exit velocity of strong and
weaker athletes (Spiteri and Nimphius, 2013).
These issues hold true with agility testing as well. 
Further, agility tests still
require improvements in ecological validity, as one should acknowledge the
current tests mostly focus on one-on-one scenarios, and should consider
multiple players, alternative visual perspective and deceptive actions (Paul et
al., 2016) to allow for better evaluation of a larger number of the perceptual-
cognitive factors (see 
Figure 17.2
) of agility. 
Gathering all of this information
within a practical setting would be complex and time consuming, therefore
recommendations will be made with respect to the method of timing or
variable to represent performance, choosing a COD test and considerations
for agility tests within the context of a typical practitioner in 
Section 2
.

SECTION 2
QUANTITATIVE EVALUATION OF CHANGE OF
DIRECTION AND AGILITY PERFORMANCE
There is still more to be understood as more isolated measures become
common in both applied and scientific settings when assessing COD ability.
The complexity of COD assessment is that a COD is performed for multiple
purposes. 
Therefore the ‘metrics’ may change based on the purpose, hence
why there will likely never be a single, ideal measure of COD performance.
Practitioners drawing conclusions from research must first determine the
purpose of the knowledge they require. 
Therefore, one should determine if
they require knowledge on best evasion ability, ability to maintain velocity,
ability to tolerate the most demanding braking requirements or to assess
general physical capacity to perform a COD at various angle range(s) before
generalizing the results and conclusions. 
A recent review of the most
common CODS and agility tests with information on the length of test, angle
of COD and number of COD can be sought in existing literature (Nimphius et
al., 2017) and may be useful in addition to abbreviated information in 
Table
17.2
.
To understand how to choose an appropriate COD assessment, one should
first compare the common CODS tests or agility tests and classify them into
the more specific delineations under the larger umbrella of ‘COD’ that have
been defined in this chapter. 
Therefore, 
Table 17.2
 has been expanded upon
from previous examples of classifying different CODS and agility tests
(Nimphius, 2014, DeWeese and Nimphius, 2016). 
One can draw information
from this table on whether a test is evaluating multiple attributes, is long in
length and therefore may be confounded by anaerobic capacity if being
assessed before and after a training block and the angle changes that occur.
Such a classification can be performed on any existing or created CODS or
agility test.
With an understanding of the current CODS tests and their ‘classification’,
or different factors that influence the result, one can begin to improve or
select better metrics to identify COD performance. 
As discussed, one should

try to isolate the COD performance intended to measure. 
A simplified
approach to assessing COD performance has recently been proposed
(Nimphius et al., 2016a) where a single COD of various angles are performed
over the same distance and then a change of direction deficit can be
calculated (Nimphius et al., 2016b, Nimphius et al., 2013). 
Suggestions to
measure the COD performance over shorter distances that surround the actual
COD (Sayers, 2015), or the aforementioned COD deficit (Nimphius et al.,
2016b), are attempts to practically solve an issue whereby the measure (total
time) is not isolating or reflecting the actual performance (COD) intended to
be measured. 
When more equipment is available, it is likely the most accurate
method to assess COD performance will be to evaluate the COM of an athlete
during the COD as performed using three-dimensional motion analysis
(Havens and Sigward, 2015b, Wheeler and Sayers, 2010, Sayers, 2015) or
using laser distance meters (Hader et al., 2015). 
However, these techniques
are less readily available than timing gates, hence suggestions of more
practical methods of assessing COD performance. 
An example of an athlete’s
assessment is provided in 
Figure 17.2
 with a summary of standardized
performance (using a z-score) across several physical capacity assessments
and different measures of COD that were considered relevant for this athlete.
This information will be used in the section ‘Programming to improve change
of direction and agility’ as an exemplar of developing a program using
performance results.
TABLE 17.2
 Example classification of existing change of direction speed and agility
tests
Note:
 Data and information is modified from (Nimphius et al., 2017)

FIGURE 17.2
QUALITATIVE EVALUATION OF CHANGE OF
DIRECTION AND AGILITY PERFORMANCE
A majority of evaluation of COD is focused on quantitative measures.
However, coaches should consider evaluating the quality of the COD or the
strategy of athletes performing a COD in conjunction with the quantitative
measures. 
Of particular importance is a qualitative assessment of athletes
returning to play following an injury. 
Athletes will often find a method to
‘beat or pass a test’ lending them to focus more on the goal than the process,
and with athletes returning from injury this process may involve strategies
that are avoidant of the previously injured limb. 
If observed, it can be called
into question whether that athlete has successfully proven their ability to
withstand the loading during the chosen COD test, or whether they are
psychologically confident in the capacity of the previously injured limb, both
reasons indicating an athlete may not be ready for a full return to play.
Example assessment of COD and physical capacity. 
To demonstrate the
difference between total time and COD deficit measures, both
assessments have been provided.

FIGURE 17.3
Qualitative assessment of COD performance during a 180° COD. 
This
figure is modified from the following article, so if required, you may
reference (Nimphius et al., 2017).
An example of different observations after return to play can be seen in
Figure 17.3
 with a comparison of a 180° COD during a traditional 505 on the
right and left sides. 
The right leg of this athlete underwent an ACL
reconstruction surgery approximately two years prior to this testing.
Performance measures include: total 505 time and COD deficit (505 time –
maximal 10m sprint time). 
Further, the percentage difference between right
and left sides is shown in the table. 
This athlete is well above team mean
performance, which may have led a coach to not be overly concerned with
assessing technical differences in the COD.
However, with this athlete, technical differences provide vast information
beyond the discrete time measures. 
Notice the differences in the strategy as
they preferentially load the left leg while changing direction, the ‘right’ side
has less effective body position as a result of ineffective load absorption
(compare position at 0.64s), and the result is a less effective COD as they
would still be ‘present to be tackled’ at 1.10s when turning on the ‘right’ side.
Such a qualitative analysis would lend one to ensure the athlete has adequate
capacity building and potentially some task constraints in their drills to
ensure she loads and develops strategies for a COD on either side. 
Athletes
can avoid movement strategies in planned scenarios; however, if they present
these movement strategies in planned tests they may be at risk in scenarios
where they can’t use their preferred strategy, which is why some closed drills
with tasks and constraints are critical for athlete development and return to

play. 
This will be discussed in the next section when discussing ‘inside and
outside leg loading’ as an example of a closed drill with constraints that still
allow for movement solutions to be created, but with more targeted loading
strategies from a capacity building and accountability stand point.
CAPACITY BUILDING AND SKILL
ENHANCEMENT: A MODEL OF COD
DEVELOPMENT
The development of physical capacity should be considered in association
with skill development, and different stages of the development process will
have a greater emphasis on physical capacity development versus skill
development. 
However, as discussed in 
Figure 17.4
, the emphasis constantly
shifts, and development is never considered all physical or all skill as they are
intimately linked. 
It is suggested that coaches should utilize a constraints-led
approach (Davids et al., 2008) in an effort to increase the number of
movement solutions an athlete is required to have for the same ‘drill’. 
For
example, an athlete performing a ‘back door cut’ can load their inside or
outside leg (i.e., plant leg) to a greater degree, however, both scenarios are
common in sport (e.g., leading a defender versus reacting as a defender) even
though one will likely be the ‘faster’ performance. 
Exposing the athlete to a
range of solutions by setting constraints, e.g., touching a hurdle while
concurrently restricting how close they can get to it (forcing them to reach
and load the outside leg) allows for several solutions using the same drills
(e.g., ‘back door cut’ or 180
°
 turn). 
As a result, the focus can be on the
development of a movement solution instead of ‘learning the drill’.
This ‘repetition without repetition’ is indeed the context of the dynamical
systems approach discussed by Bernstein (1967) and highlighted in the
proposed model of COD development in 
Figure 17.4
. 
In addition, the
organization of skills practice should be considered within the context of the
skill level of the performer and purpose of the phase. 
It is also important to
ensure a shift from block to serial to random practice (Farrow and Robertson,
2016), while also considering the aspects of building capacity versus
enhancing skill. 
Furthermore, it is important to consider the appropriate
amount of time to utilize tasks and constraints to increase contextual

interference in an effort to enhance skill learning in COD. 
This holds true
during ‘pre-planned or controlled’ and ‘reactive’ environments (as
summarized in 
Figure 17.4
).
Further, actualization of training from improving physical qualities into
skilled movement can be affected by the instruction provided by the coach.
Within CODS research, it has been shown that externally focused attention,
where one provides instruction that focuses attention on the environment,
improves timed performance (Porter et al., 2010). 
However, a greater
understanding of the influence of training experience has indicated that in
sprinting (as sprint speed is a large part of the CODS tests currently utilized)
either a normal focus or external focus was beneficial in comparison to
internal focus for moderate level sprinters. 
However, as experience level
increased, the benefit of external versus internal focus declined likely due to
their highly developed implicit motor plans (Winkelman et al., 2017).
Therefore, when considering the daily training environment for COD
development, coaches should consider the purpose of the session followed by
choosing the best practice environment (e.g., blocked versus random), level
of contextual interference and the type of feedback or instruction that is most
appropriate to achieve the purpose relative to the expertise of the group being
trained.

FIGURE 17.4
Proposed change of direction development model.
PROGRAMMING TO IMPROVE CHANGE OF
DIRECTION AND AGILITY
As was originally presented in 
Figure 17.2
, the assessment of an athlete can
determine the focus of the subsequent training blocks that will follow the
conceptual model of 
Figure 17.4
. 
By assessing the athlete appropriately, one
can ensure the training is targeting an area that requires improvement. 
A
needs analysis should be performed for the sport of the athlete followed by
the strength and weakness assessment. 
Next, one will usually identify a
primary and secondary need of the athlete and then create a plan by
distributing the time available based on need. 
For this example, we will
proceed with the information provided as per 
Figure 17.5
. 
This plan outlines
the strengths and weakness of the athlete based upon the data in 
Figure 17.2
,
and then identifies the primary and secondary emphasis with a proposed time

distribution focus for the current block and how this may change over the
subsequent blocks as the athlete develops. 
Further, an example single session
is provided to demonstrate how to use the COD development model to
determine not only the long-term but also the daily training process.
SUMMARY
To effectively develop and enhance COD ability, it is critical to accurately
identify the strengths and weaknesses underpinning COD performance in
combination with understanding how well the athlete utilizes their physical
attributes within the context of the skilled performance of changing direction.
A mixed method qualitative and quantitative approach to evaluation followed
by a progressive development that aims to enhance the transfer of
underpinning physical attributes to their use in the technically demanding
aspects of changing direction is recommended. 
Through effective planning
and use of both capacity building and skill development processes, an athlete
can improve this often underdeveloped and misunderstood athletic quality.

FIGURE 17.5
Example program from needs analysis through to long-term planning for
subsequent blocks of training.
REFERENCES
Baker, D. 
G. 
& Newton, R. 
U. 
2008. 
Comparison Of Lower Body Strength, Power,
Acceleration, Speed, Agility, And Sprint Momentum To Describe And Compare
Playing Rank Among Professional Rugby League Players. 
The Journal Of Strength &
Conditioning Research, 22
, 153.
Bernstein, N. 
A. 
1967. 
The Co-Ordination And Regulation Of Movements
.
Bruce, L., Farrow, D., Raynor, A. 
& Mann, D. 
2012. 
But I Can’t Pass That Far! 
The
Influence Of Motor Skill On Decision Making. 
Psychology Of Sport And Exercise, 13
,
152–161.

Buchheit, M., Haydar, B. 
& Ahmaidi, S. 
2012. 
Repeated Sprints With Directional Changes:
Do Angles Matter? 
Journal Of Sports Sciences, 30
, 555–562.
Davids, K. 
W., Button, C. 
& Bennett, S. 
J. 
2008. 
Dynamics Of Skill Acquisition: A
Constraints-Led Approach
. 
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics.
Dempsey, A. 
R., Lloyd, D. 
G., Elliott, B. 
C., Steele, J. 
R., Munro, B. 
J. 
& Russo, K. 
A.
2007. 
The Effect Of Technique Change On Knee Loads During Sidestep Cutting.
Medicine & Science In Sports & Exercise, 39
, 1765–1773.
Deweese, B. 
& Nimphius, S. 
2016. 
Speed And Agility Program Design And Technique. 
In:
Triplett, N. 
T. 
& Haff, G. 
G. 
(Eds.) 
Essentials Of Strength And Conditioning.
 5th Ed.
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics.
Farrow, D. 
& Robertson, S. 
2016. 
Development Of A Skill Acquisition Periodisation
Framework For High-Performance Sport. 
Sports Medicine, 1
–12.
Gabbett, T. 
J., Kelly, J. 
N. 
& Sheppard, J. 
M. 
2008. 
Speed, Change Of Direction Speed,
And Reactive Agility Of Rugby League Players. 
The Journal Of Strength &
Conditioning Research, 22
, 174–181.
Graham-Smith, P., Atkinson, L., Barlow, R. 
& Jones, P. 
Braking Characteristics And Load
Distribution In 180° Turns. 
Proceedings Of The 5th Annual UK Strength And
Conditioning Association Conference, 2009.
Hader, K., Palazzi, D. 
& Buchheit, M. 
2015. 
Change Of Direction Speed In Soccer: How
Much Braking Is Enough? 
Kinesiology, 47
, 67–74.
Havens, K. 
L. 
& Sigward, S. 
M. 
2015a. 
Joint And Segmental Mechanics Differ Between
Cutting Maneuvers In Skilled Athletes. 
Gait & Posture, 41
, 33–38.
Havens, K. 
L. 
& Sigward, S. 
M. 
2015b. 
Whole Body Mechanics Differ Among Running
And Cutting Maneuvers In Skilled Athletes. 
Gait & Posture, 42
, 240–245.
Hendricks, S., Karpul, D. 
& Lambert, M. 
2014. 
Momentum And Kinetic Energy Before
The Tackle In Rugby Union. 
Journal Of Sports Science And Medicine, 13
, 557.
Imwalle, L. 
E., Myer, G. 
D., Ford, K. 
R. 
& Hewett, T. 
E. 
2009. 
Relationship Between Hip
And Knee Kinematics In Athletic Women During Cutting Maneuvers: A Possible Link
To Noncontact Anterior Cruciate Ligament Injury And Prevention. 
The Journal Of
Strength & Conditioning Research, 23
, 2223–2230.
Jones, P., Bampouras, T. 
M. 
& Marrin, K. 
2009. 
An Investigation Into The Physical
Determinants Of Change Of Direction Speed. 
Journal Of Sports Medicine And Physical
Fitness, 49
, 97–104.
Jones, P. 
A., Herrington, L. 
C. 
& Graham-Smith, P. 
2015. 
Technique Determinants Of
Knee Joint Loads During Cutting In Female Soccer Players. 
Human Movement Science,
42
, 203–211.
Kristianslund, E., Faul, O., Bahr, R., Myklebust, G. 
& Krosshaug, T. 
2014. 
Sidestep
Cutting Technique And Knee Abduction Loading: Implications For Acl Prevention
Exercises. 
British Journal Of Sports Medicine, 48
, 779–783.
Latash, M. 
L. 
2008. 
Synergy
. 
New York: Oxford University Press.
Lee, M. 
C. 
Y., Chow, J. 
Y., Komar, J., Tan, C. 
W. 
K. 
& Button, C. 
2014. 
Nonlinear
Pedagogy: An Effective Approach To Cater For Individual Differences In Learning A
Sports Skill. 
Plos One, 9
, E104744.

Mangine, G. 
T., Hoffman, J. 
R., Wells, A. 
J., Gonzalez, A. 
M., Rogowski, J. 
P., Townsend,
J. 
R., Jajtner, A. 
R., Beyer, K. 
S., Bohner, J. 
D., Pruna, G. 
J., Fragala, M. 
S. 
& Stout, J.
R. 
2014. 
Visual Tracking Speed Is Related To Basketball-Specific Measures Of
Performance In Nba Players. 
The Journal Of Strength & Conditioning Research, 28
,
2406–2414.
Marshall, B. 
M., Franklyn-Miller, A. 
D., King, E. 
A., Moran, K. 
A., Strike, S. 
C. 
& Falvey,
E. 
C. 
2014. 
Biomechanical Factors Associated With Time To Complete A Change Of
Direction Cutting Maneuver. 
The Journal Of Strength & Conditioning Research, 28
,
2845–2851.
McBride, J. 
M., Mccaulley, G. 
O. 
& Cormie, P. 
2008. 
Influence Of Preactivity And
Eccentric Muscle Activity On Concentric Performance During Vertical Jumping. 
The
Journal Of Strength & Conditioning Research, 22
, 750–757.
McBride, J. 
M., Triplett-Mcbride, T., Davie, A. 
& Newton, R. 
U. 
2002. 
The Effect Of
Heavy- Vs. 
Light-Load Jump Squats On The Development Of Strength, Power, And
Speed. 
The Journal Of Strength & Conditioning Research, 16
, 75–82.
McLean, S. 
G., Huang, X., Su, A. 
& Van Den Bogert, A. 
J. 
2004. 
Sagittal Plane
Biomechanics Cannot Injure The ACL During Sidestep Cutting. 
Clinical Biomechanics,
19
, 828–838.
Nedergaard, N. 
J., Kersting, U. 
& Lake, M. 
2014. 
Using Accelerometry To Quantify
Deceleration During A High-Intensity Soccer Turning Manoeuvre. 
Journal Of Sports
Sciences, 32
, 1897–1905.
Nimphius, S. 
2010. 
Lag Time: The Effect Of A Two Week Cessation From Resistance
Training On Force, Velocity And Power In Elite Softball Players. 
The Journal Of
Strength & Conditioning Research, 24
, Supplement 1.
Nimphius, S. 
2014. 
Agility Development. 
In: Joyce, D. 
& Lewindon, D. 
(Eds.) 
High-
Performance Training For Sports.
 Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics.
Nimphius, S., Callaghan, S. 
J., Bezodis, N. 
E. 
& Lockie, R. 
G. 
2017. 
Change Of Direction
And Agility Tests: Challenging Our Current Measures Of Performance. 
Strength &
Conditioning Journal
, Ahead Of Press.
Nimphius, S., Callaghan, S. 
J. 
& Hawser, A. 
2016a. 
Comparison Of Simplified Change Of
Direction Tests. 
The Journal Of Strength & Conditioning Research, 24
, Supplement 1.
Nimphius, S., Callaghan, S. 
J., Sptieri, T. 
& Lockie, R. 
G. 
2016b. 
Change Of Direction
Deficit: A More Isolated Measure Of Change Of Direction Performance Than Total 505
Time. 
The Journal Of Strength & Conditioning Research, 30
, 3024–3032.
Nimphius, S., Geib, G., Spiteri, T. 
& Carlisle, D. 
2013. 
“Change Of Direction Deficit”
Measurement In Division I American Football Players. 
Journal Of Australian Strength
And Conditioning, 21
, 115–117.
Nimphius, S., Mcguigan, M. 
R. 
& Newton, R. 
U. 
2010. 
Relationship Between Strength,
Power, Speed, And Change Of Direction Performance Of Female Softball Players. 
The
Journal Of Strength & Conditioning Research, 24
, 885–895.
Paul, D. 
J., Gabbett, T. 
J. 
& Nassis, G. 
P. 
2016. 
Agility In Team Sports: Testing, Training
And Factors Affecting Performance. 
Sports Medicine, 46
, 421–442.
Porter, J. 
M., Nolan, R. 
P., Ostrowski, E. 
J. 
& Wulf, G. 
2010. 
Directing Attention

Externally Enhances Agility Performance: A Qualitative And Quantitative Analysis Of
The Efficacy Of Using Verbal Instructions To Focus Attention. 
Frontiers In
Psychology, 1
.
Rabita, G., Dorel, S., Slawinski, J., Sàez-De-Villarreal, E., Couturier, A., Samozino, P. 
&
Morin, J. 
B. 
2015. 
Sprint Mechanics In World-Class Athletes: A New Insight Into The
Limits Of Human Locomotion. 
Scandinavian Journal Of Medicine & Science In Sports,
25
, 583–594.
Romeas, T., Guldner, A. 
& Faubert, J. 
2016. 
3D-Multiple Object Tracking Training Task
Improves Passing Decision-Making Accuracy In Soccer Players. 
Psychology Of Sport
And Exercise, 22
, 1–9.
Sasaki, S., Nagano, Y., Kaneko, S., Sakurai, T. 
& Fukubayashi, T. 
2011. 
The Relationship
Between Performance And Trunk Movement During Change Of Direction. 
Journal Of
Sports Science And Medicine, 10
, 112–118.
Sayers, M. 
G. 
2015. 
The Influence Of Test Distance On Change Of Direction Speed Test
Results. 
The Journal Of Strength & Conditioning Research, 29
, 2412–2416.
Serpell, B. 
G., Young, W. 
B. 
& Ford, M. 
2011. 
Are The Perceptual And Decision-Making
Components Of Agility Trainable? 
A Preliminary Investigation. 
The Journal Of
Strength & Conditioning Research, 25
, 1240–1248.
Sheppard, J. 
M. 
& Young, W. 
2006. 
Agility Literature Review: Classifications, Training
And Testing. 
Journal Of Sports Sciences, 24
, 919–932.
Spiteri, T., Cochrane, J. 
L., Hart, N. 
H., Haff, G. 
G. 
& Nimphius, S. 
2013. 
Effect Of
Strength On Plant Foot Kinetics And Kinematics During A Change Of Direction Task.
European Journal Of Sport Science, 13
, 646–652.
Spiteri, T., Hart, N. 
& Nimphius, S. 
2014a. 
Offensive And Defensive Agility: A Sex
Comparison Of Lower Body Kinematics And Ground Reaction Forces. 
Journal Of
Applied Biomechanics, 30
, 514–520.
Spiteri, T., Newton, R. 
U., Binetti, M., Hart, N. 
H., Sheppard, J. 
M. 
& Nimphius, S. 
2015a.
Mechanical Determinants Of Faster Change Of Direction And Agility Performance In
Female Basketball Athletes. 
The Journal Of Strength & Conditioning Research, 29
,
2205–2214.
Spiteri, T., Newton, R. 
U. 
& Nimphius, S. 
2015b. 
Neuromuscular Strategies Contributing
To Faster Multidirectional Agility Performance. 
Journal Of Electromyography And
Kinesiology, 25
, 629–636.
Spiteri, T. 
& Nimphius, S. 
2013. 
Relationship Between Timing Variables And Plant Foot
Kinetics During Change Of Direction Movements. 
Journal Of Australian Strength And
Conditioning, 21
, 73–77.
Spiteri, T., Nimphius, S., Hart, N. 
H., Specos, C., Sheppard, J. 
M. 
& Newton, R. 
U. 
2014b.
Contribution Of Strength Characteristics To Change Of Direction And Agility
Performance In Female Basketball Athletes. 
The Journal Of Strength & Conditioning
Research, 28
, 2415–2423.
Starkes, J. 
L., Cullen, J. 
D. 
& Macmahon, C. 
2004. 
12 A Life-Span Model Of The
Acquisition And Retention Of Expert Perceptual-Motor Performance. 
Skill Acquisition
In Sport: Research, Theory And Practice
. 
259–281.

Stone, M. 
H., O’bryant, H. 
S., Mccoy, L., Coglianese, R., Lehmkuhl, M. 
& Schilling, B.
2003. 
Power And Maximum Strength Relationships During Performance Of Dynamic
And Static Weighted Jumps. 
The Journal Of Strength & Conditioning Research, 17
,
140–147.
Suchomel, T. 
J., Nimphius, S. 
& Stone, M. 
H. 
2016. 
The Importance Of Muscular Strength
In Athletic Performance. 
Sports Medicine, 46
, 1419–1449.
Vanrenterghem, J., Venables, E., Pataky, T. 
& Robinson, M. 
A. 
2012. 
The Effect Of
Running Speed On Knee Mechanical Loading In Females During Side Cutting. 
Journal
Of Biomechanics, 45
, 2444–2449.
Wheeler, K. 
W. 
& Sayers, M. 
G. 
2010. 
Modification Of Agility Running Technique In
Reaction To A Defender In Rugby Union. 
Journal Of Sports Science And Medicine, 9
,
445–451.
Winkelman, N. 
C., Clark, K. 
P. 
& Ryan, L. 
J. 
2017. 
Experience Level Influences The
Effect Of Attentional Focus On Sprint Performance. 
Human Movement Science, 52
, 84–
95.
Young, W. 
B., James, R. 
& Montgomery, I. 
2002. 
Is Muscle Power Related To Running
Speed With Changes Of Direction? 
Journal Of Sports Medicine And Physical Fitness,
42
, 282–288.

CHAPTER 18
Speed and acceleration training
Pedro Jiménez-Reyes, Bret Contreras and
Jean-Benoît Morin
SPRINT
Sprint running is considered the fastest mode of human locomotion
(Nagahara, Matsubayashi, Matsuo, & Zushi, 2014a). 
The analysis of
sprinting is relevant to a better understanding of the muscles and forces
generating the highest levels of performance. 
Sprint running, and more
specifically sprint acceleration, is a key component and is central to
performance in many sports including football, soccer, and rugby (Cronin &
Sleivert, 2005). 
Sprint, power output, and forward acceleration are key
physical determinants of successful athletic performance and are essential
components of strength and conditioning training programs in many sports
and recreational physical activities.
Although maximal straight-line single-bout speed is the focus of many
track events, and sprint running speed is also considered a relevant parameter
for field-based team-sports (Simperingham, Cronin, & Ross, 2016), it is
important to emphasize that the ability to accelerate over short distances
should be prioritized in many sport activities rather than maximal velocity,
since maximal velocity is rarely achieved in these kinds of sports (Morin,
Slawinski, et al., 2015; Spencer, Bishop, Dawson, & Goodman, 2005).
Sprinting in field-based team-sports can vary from short (e.g., Futsal, Rugby
union forwards) (Deutsch, Kearney, & Rehrer, 2007) to long (e.g., Australian
rules football) (Veale, Pearce, & Carlson, 2007) distances. 
Acceleration is a

key factor in field-based team sports since players who accelerate more
rapidly have an advantage due to the frequent occurrence of such
accelerations (e.g., 5–20m, 2–3 seconds) during games (Schimpchen,
Skorski, Nopp, & Meyer, 2016; Spencer et al., 2005). 
Recent studies suggest
that 68% of sprints in rugby (Gabbett, 2012) and 90% of sprints in soccer
(Vigne, Gaudino, Rogowski, Alloatti, & Hautier, 2010) are shorter than 20m,
and this is not enough distance for players to reach maximum velocity. 
In
addition, such short linear sprints are used in decisive actions (Faude, Koch,
& Meyer, 2012).
Several factors influence acceleration performance, including the
magnitude of the applied force and the ability to apply the force effectively in
the forward direction (Morin, Edouard, & Samozino, 2011; Morin et al.,
2012). 
From the simple laws of dynamics, the acceleration of a body in the
forward direction is proportional to the amount of ground reaction force
produced in that direction. 
This has been experimentally confirmed in many
types of athletes, ranging from non-specialists to world-class sprinters (Morin
et al., 2011; Morin, Gimenez, et al., 2015; Morin, Slawinski, et al., 2015;
Morin et al., 2012; Rabita et al., 2015). 
Furthermore, in recent years, a new
insight into sprint acceleration mechanics has been proposed which considers
the mechanical ability to produce horizontal external force during sprinting
through the athlete’s Force-velocity (F-v) profile (Morin & Samozino, 2016;
Samozino et al., 2016). 
Recent studies (Morin et al., 2011; Morin, Slawinski,
et al., 2015; Rabita et al., 2015) have shown that the main mechanical
determinants of sprint performance are the absolute physical ability (maximal
force and power attributes) of the athlete, and the technical ability to
optimally handle this physical ability and apply the ground reaction force
effectively (i.e., with a more horizontally-oriented angle).
To date, research in this area is lacking, and most studies have focused
primarily on different training methodologies (Rumpf, Lockie, Cronin, &
Jalilvand, 2016), kinetics, kinematics, ground reaction forces, stiffness,
electromyographic (EMG) activity patterns, and transfer of heavy-weight
strength training to sprint performance (e.g., Rumpf et al., 2016; Seitz, Reyes,
Tran, de Villarreal, & Haff, 2014). 
However, research is ongoing to
determine which training modalities and exercises may be used in the field to
improve horizontal force and associated sprint acceleration performance,
including resisted and assisted sprinting as well as specific exercises for
improving technical ability during sprinting.

To enhance performance in athletes requiring high levels of acceleration,
it is crucial to understand the mechanical underpinnings of sprint
acceleration, and athletes’ subsequent training based on F-v profiling. 
In this
chapter, we will discuss some of our current work in this area, and use the
descriptive model “generate force and transmit it to the ground” to describe
exercise modalities that may improve the various components of this model
and answer the question: “Which exercises may contribute to improving
force production, and which exercises may improve mechanical effectiveness
and force transmission ability?”
Sprint: General description
Typical sprint-track running is characterized by a velocity time-curve and can
be divided into three phases; acceleration, constant velocity, and deceleration
(Mero, Komi, & Gregor, 1992). 
In recent years, sprint running has also been
divided into three phases described as early acceleration, acceleration, and
maximal velocity. 
During these phases, sprint technique is modified.
However, two phases are present during the whole sprint cycle: the stance
phase (support phase) and the flight phase (swing phase). 
Maximum speed is
relevant in track events and limited field-based team sport contexts, such as
Australian rules football (Veale et al., 2007). 
Whereas acceleration of specific
parameters is of relatively greater importance when covering only short
distances at maximal effort, as is common in many field-based team sports
(Simperingham et al., 2016). 
For instance, in team sports, first step quickness
has been considered an important parameter for acceleration; this is defined
as the first 0–5 meters and is included in the acceleration phase and
characterized by a high propulsion force (Sleivert & Taingahue, 2004).
Traditionally, several factors/parameters have been investigated concerning
acceleration and sprint performance, providing the basis for understanding
the ability to run fast. 
Some of these parameters are: stride length and
frequency; ground contact time and flight time; joint torques and joint angle
movements; ground reaction forces; stiffness; and EMG activity patterns.
Classically, it was considered that if an athlete simply moved their lower
limbs faster, thereby increasing the step frequency, they would reach higher
levels of acceleration and maximum speed. 
Weyand et al. 
(2000) were among
the first to debate this notion, concluding that it is the force production

capability of the body, resulting in greater ground reaction forces (GRFs),
that is the strongest determinant of maximal running speed in humans. 
There
is a large body of literature supporting this statement (e.g., Clark & Weyand,
2014; Weyand, Sternlight, Bellizzi, & Wright, 2000; Weyand, Sandell,
Prime, & Bundle, 2010). 
Although in recent years, research by Morin and
colleagues (Morin et al., 2011; Morin, Samozino, Bonnefoy, Edouard, &
Belli, 2010; Morin, Slawinski, et al., 2015; Morin et al., 2012) highlighted the
forward orientation of GRFs as a further determining factor of performance,
specifically in the acceleration phase of the sprint, and observed that the
vertical component of the GRF was not related to performance in that phase.
Thus, some contrasting results can be found, and it seems that examining
sprint running mechanics and force production in more depth is important to
understanding and improving sprinting performance both in track events and
field-based team sports.
The acceleration of an athlete’s center of mass during sprint running is
determined by body mass and three external forces acting on the body: (a)
ground reaction force (GRF); (b) gravitational force; and (c) air or wind
resistance (Samozino et al., 2016). 
GRF can be divided into three
components (antero-posterior, vertical, and medio-lateral) although typically
the antero-posterior (horizontal) and vertical components are the most studied
and most relevant for sprint performance (Hunter, Marshall, & McNair, 2005;
Morin et al., 2011; Rabita et al., 2015). 
The horizontal orientation of applied
force should be considered when studying GRF during the support phase
since the ability to produce and transfer greater forces may allow for shorter
ground contact times and a shorter braking phase during contact, which could
support the importance of the hip extensors and the ankle stabilizer muscles
in training.
Classically, running speed has been described as the product of stride rate
or frequency and stride length, assuming that to increase velocity it is
necessary to increase at least one, if not both (Hunter, Marshall, & McNair,
2004; Weyand et al., 2000). 
Typically, maximum stride frequency is reached
between 10m and 20m, and at this point, stride length is about 75% of the
maximum value reached during the maximum velocity phase. 
During the
acceleration phase of a sprint, greater increases in horizontal propulsion are
required to achieve high acceleration (Hunter, Marshall, & McNair, 2005;
Morin et al., 2011).
Ground-leg interaction is the major determinant in sprint running since it

is during the contact or support phase of the step cycle that segmental forces
can act on and in turn influence horizontal speed. 
Running is characterized by
support (the foot is in contact with the ground) and swing phases (the time
between when the lead foot leaves the ground and when it next makes contact
with the ground). 
During the stance (support) phase, the athlete absorbs
braking and vertical forces and then produces propulsive force to displace the
body forward, while during the swing phase the athlete repositions the limbs
in order to prepare for the next stance phase. 
Forward acceleration is key in
sprint running. 
A typical support phase can be divided into a braking phase
(backward orientation of the horizontal force vector; negative horizontal
GRF) followed by a propulsive phase (positive horizontal GRF) (e.g., Hunter
et al., 2005; Morin et al., 2011; Morin, Slawinski, et al., 2015; Rabita et al.,
2015).
Mechanical determinants of sprint and acceleration
performance: produce force and transmit it to the
ground
The aim of this section is to present evidence from existing scientific data to
provide a better understanding of the underpinnings of the muscular
determinants of sprint acceleration performance supporting our model of
“produce the force and transmit it to the ground” and the technical ability to
apply force, which will provide the basis of practical training methods to
optimize sprint acceleration performance.
Muscular determinants of sprint and acceleration in
performance
Sprint performance implies large forward acceleration, which is directly
dependent on the ability to develop and apply high levels of horizontal
external force into the ground at various speeds over the sprint acceleration
period (Morin et al., 2011). 
This is why the ability to produce GRF with a
magnitude and timing unique to each individual phase of the sprint becomes
paramount, changing from a high force at low speed in the early acceleration
phase to low force at high speed in the maximum speed phase (Morin et al.,

2012). 
Muscle roles shift within the distinct acceleration phases, suggesting
that a better understanding of “what force is happening at what speed” is very
important in order to design specific training methods and therefore enhance
muscle function during forward propulsion.
The most widely studied muscles in sprinting are the hip extensors
(hamstrings and gluteus maximus), knee extensors (quadriceps), and plantar
flexors (soleus and gastrocnemius). 
It is widely accepted that most muscles
activate at the highest levels just before or at the beginning of ground contact
(Morin, Gimenez, et al., 2015). 
It is mainly during this support phase—the
single instant when force can be applied to the ground—that the muscles
responsible for hip, knee, and ankle movements play a specific role in
acceleration performance, efficiently propelling the body forward.
When analysing sprint acceleration from a purely biomechanical
perspective, great differences/contrasts can be observed among the three
phases previously described. 
These differences provide critical information
for a better understanding of the underlying parameters responsible for this
differentiation when talking about muscles’ roles or patterns of action. 
These
variations become more evident during the very early steps, when body-
positioning force is applied. 
This phase is characterized by a greater forward
lean of the trunk (Debaere, Delecluse, Aerenhouts, Hagman, & Jonkers,
2013; Nagahara et al., 2014a and 2014b) and a longer time for the application
of force of approximately 190ms versus ±101–108ms when the maximum
velocity phase is reached (Wild, Bezodis, Blagrove, & Bezodis, 2011; Yu et
al., 2016).
In this first stage, the hip and knee extensors work alongside the soleus
and gastrocnemius to achieve a triple joint extension of the lower limb and
provide forward propulsion to the body mass. 
Although during this first
ground contact time (GCT) the relative net horizontal impulse is greater than
the vertical one (Kawamori, Nosaka, & Newton, 2013), both the calves and
the quadriceps significantly contribute to forward displacement of the center
of mass, together with the main muscle groups responsible for this function
throughout the entire race: the hip extensors (Morin, Gimenez, et al., 2015;
Schache, Brown, & Pandy, 2015). 
This is possible since the more inclined
and gathered position prevailing in this phase enables the involvement of
muscles that normally produce vertical force during concentric contraction—
the quadriceps, soleus, and gastrocnemius—acting here to provide horizontal
propulsion because the resulting vector of the applied force in this case is

mainly diagonal, not vertical (Kugler & Janshen, 2010). 
The other major
difference lies in ground contact patterns. 
Firstly, the time available to
produce this force varies since the impulse required to overcome the body’s
inertia mainly depends on the displacement velocity when body mass is
fixed. 
The second factor is the distribution of propulsive and braking roles
during each different phase (Morin, Slawinski, et al., 2015). 
During
acceleration, most of the time in the ground contact phase is spent applying
propulsive GRF (approximately 87–95% of total GCT) (Hunter et al., 2005;
Sleivert & Taingahue, 2004), which is paramount to sprinting success.
Therefore, this phase may be mechanically characterized by an involvement
of the knee and hip extensors, in addition to the calves, to provide propulsion
during the stance phase, which is distinguished by large contact times
enabling the development and application of high levels of force into the
ground, also made possible by the low displacement velocities.
The second phase is still included within the acceleration phase; however,
from a kinematic point of view this second phase is mostly characterized by a
gradual decrease in the body’s forward lean (Nagahara et al., 2014a and
2014b), the achievement of maximal stride frequency, and a marked increase
in stride length with a continuous rise in running velocity (Nagahara, Naito,
Morin, & Zushi, 2014b). 
This higher speed is also associated with shorter
ground contact time and important consequences on the kinetic patterns.
When considering muscle involvement levels during accelerated running,
forward propulsion predominantly depends on the hip extensors—i.e.,
concentric action of the gluteus and eccentric action of the hamstrings
(Morin, Gimenez, et al., 2015)—while the knee extensors and calves
progressively adopt a more focused role in the stabilization and transmission
of forces as the speed of movement is increased (Mann, Moran, &
Dougherty, 1986; Schache et al., 2015). 
It is for this reason that during this
second phase the force is applied in a different way, requiring smaller forces
than during the first steps, but applied at a considerably greater speed. 
In turn,
this reduction in available time for developing and applying force into the
ground is probably associated with the importance of explosiveness (rate of
force development) and the effectiveness of ground force application.
During the maximum speed phase, the plantar flexors (gastrocnemius,
soleus) in conjunction with the dorsiflexor (tibialis anterior) muscles have a
major influence on how effectively the forces of different body segments are
transferred to the ground. 
In fact, the gastrocnemius-soleus-achilles complex

(GSAC) has been shown to play a relevant role in horizontal propulsion
during the contact phase by storing and releasing elastic energy to aid the
body’s forward projection. 
A review of the current literature indicates that a
change of pattern is observed, since this still-significant contribution is
mostly explained not by a concentric action of the GSAC but by an eccentric
action. 
In turn, as for the GSAC, knee extensor activity is modified
throughout this last phase, changing from power generation to a function
more focused on the absorption and transmission of power (Schache et al.,
2015). 
These changes can be interpreted mainly in terms of the differences
observed in the kinetics of the body segments, where a remarkable
modification of the knee and ankle angles—which are notably greater when
compared to the first phase—can be observed at the moment of touchdown
(Nagahara et al., 2014a and 2014b). 
This action, together with a significant
reduction in ground contact time caused by considerably higher speeds,
implies a limitation of mechanical ability during force
application/development given the short period of time. 
All these
observations point to the hip extensors as the major muscles responsible for
forward propulsion during every phase of acceleration (Morin, Gimenez, et
al., 2015). 
Thus, as suggested by Morin et al. 
(2015), it is important from a
practical standpoint to reinforce hip extensor strength and knee flexion
strength (including the eccentric action mode) to improve sprint acceleration
performance.
The evidence thus points first to the possibility that the muscular strategy
chosen for the generation and transmission of forces during the acceleration
phase is shifted as running speed increases. 
These modifications seem to be
due to the mechanical differences present in every phase, which display
characteristic kinetic and kinematic features. 
It seems likely that regardless of
the observed phase, sprinting ability follows a sequential kinetic linking
pattern, displaying an energy flow in a proximal-to-distal sequence. 
From this
perspective, the muscles play two distinct roles: producing force and
transmitting it into the ground.
Effectiveness of force application onto the ground
Accelerated runs are typically characterized by a support phase, which is
mainly defined by a negative horizontal ground reaction force (GRF)—a

braking phase—followed by a positive horizontal GRF in the propulsive
phase (e.g., Hunter et al., 2004). 
Considering the possible decomposition of
the forces exerted into the ground, only the horizontal component of the GRF
will influence the forward displacement of the center of mass of an athlete
(Brughelli, Cronin, & Chaouachi, 2011; Morin et al., 2011), while the vertical
and medio-lateral components will play a less significant role during
acceleration.
Given the gravitational constraints present during an acceleration run,
most of the total (resultant) GRF is produced in a direction that is not
characteristic of the athlete’s displacement. 
This vertical force (VF) is not
directly linked/related to modification of the displacement speed. 
Even when
an increase in velocity occurs, a stabilization in VF production appears when
60% of the maximum speed is reached (Brughelli et al., 2011), however,
horizontal forces increase linearly with increasing speed.
The evidence points to the fact that during acceleration, only the
horizontal component of the total force induces body mass forward
displacement, meaning the other component (vertical) is ineffective in
producing forward acceleration, although necessary to keep moving forward
(Morin et al., 2011). 
Once top speed is reached, the importance of the vertical
component is greater (Clark & Weyand, 2014; Weyand et al., 2000; Weyand
et al., 2010).
In order to express the relative distribution of horizontal force (HF)
compared to the resultant GRF, the ratio of forces (RF) is defined as the
percentage of HF to the corresponding total GRF averaged over the support
phase (FTot). 
This is used as an appropriate index to objectively calculate the
effective force applied into the ground in order to analyse the technical
efficiency during the support phase.
This novel and simple index explains much of the mechanics underpinning
acceleration performance, adding kinetics to the conventional spatio-temporal
analysis. 
This perspective provides evidence that despite the development of
similar GRF levels in homogeneous groups of athletes, factors related to
technical ability are able to alter the RF and give rise to different sprint
acceleration performances. 
Indeed, researchers (Kawamori et al., 2013;
Kugler & Janshen, 2010; Morin et al., 2011; Morin et al., 2012; Rabita et al.,
2015; Slawinski et al., 2017) have observed that when subjects were
compared within the same level group, those who performed better in the
acceleration run (and on the overall 100m distance) did so on account of a

better orientation of the GRF and not because of a greater total amount of
GRF.
The emergence of this new analysis of the kinetics of the sprint was
accompanied by confirmation of the hypothesis that had argued that the ratio
of forces present in each of the phases (and practically at each step) varies,
showing a greater horizontal component (and therefore a higher RF) during
the first support phase. 
These data confirmed what seemed obvious; the stage
where a greater index of horizontality in the application of forces (RFmax)
occurs is located during the very first steps. 
Conditions such as the
arrangement of the body segments and the very low or null velocities of
displacement existing during these early stages of acceleration enable the
generation of large horizontal forces necessary for starting forward
propulsion. 
As these velocities increase, RF decreases as a consequence of
the inability to maintain acceleration levels and change both at the kinetic
level (i.e., shorter contact time) and the kinematic level (i.e., a more erect
body position that favours the transmission of forces rather than the
generation of them).
To describe this systematic decrease in RF with increasing speed, the same
authors developed an index of force application technique (DRF). 
Basically,
those athletes able to maintain their ability to produce horizontal force (and
thus further produce net horizontal force while accelerating) despite the
increasing velocity will produce a higher DRF value (i.e., a flat RF–speed
relationship), while those whose RF decreases to a greater extent as a result
of this increase in speed will have lower DRF values (i.e., a steeper RF–speed
relationship) (see 
Figure 18.1
). 
Typically, non-sprinters have a DRF of about
–10% whereas the best sprinters have DRF values of –4 to –6% (Morin et al.,
2012; Rabita et al., 2015).
In addition, athletes who exhibit better DRF values (which should be
considered as a “technical” parameter since it is not correlated to the amount
of force applied, i.e., “physical capability”) are better performers in sports
where maximum speed is a priority, such as the 100m sprint, since they are
able to still produce net horizontal force, and thus orient and transmit
horizontal forces while their speed of movement is increasing.
FORCE-VELOCITY PROFILE DEFINITION AND
FIELD COMPUTATION METHOD

Sprint running implies large forward acceleration and is related to the
capacity to produce and apply high power outputs in the horizontal direction
into the ground (i.e., high horizontal external forces at various velocities
during sprint acceleration). 
The overall ability to produce horizontal external
force during sprint running is well described by the inverse linear F-v and
parabolic power-velocity (P-v) relationships (Jaskólska, Goossens, Veenstra,
Jaskólski, & Skinner, 1999; Morin et al., 2011; Morin et al., 2010; Rabita et
al., 2015) through which maximal power output may be improved by
increasing the ability to generate force output at low levels of velocity (a
force-dominant profile), maximizing velocity production at low levels of
force (a velocity-dominant profile), or both (Morin et al., 2016). 
The
assessment of horizontal power and mechanical relationships during sprint
running is essential to understand the specific determinants of sprinting
performance. 
Since horizontal power and its associated determinants are
highly related to acceleration ability during sprint running (Morin, Gimenez,
et al., 2015; Rabita et al., 2015), researchers have attempted to develop
methods to assess these sport-specific determinants accurately to gain a better
understanding of running performance. 
In recent years, the inclusion of F-v
relationships and their contribution to ballistic performance has provided a
more accurate and integrative mechanical representation of the athlete’s
maximal capabilities (Samozino, Rejc, Di Prampero, Belli, & Morin, 2012),
encompassing the entire force-velocity spectrum, from the theoretical
maximal force (F0) to the theoretical velocity (v0) capabilities (Morin &
Samozino, 2016).

FIGURE 18.1
Ratio of forces (RF) and index of force orientation (DRF). 
Typical
example of the RF-speed linear relationship obtained during a six second
sprint on an instrumented sprint treadmill. 
Each point corresponds to
values of RF and running speed averaged for one contact phase. 
The DRF
index value for this subject is –0.0803. 
The dashed lines would
correspond to a better index for the black line (flatter relationship, i.e.,
more horizontal force produced as speed increases) and a worse index for
the grey line (steeper relationship, i.e., the horizontal force drops faster as
speed increases).
Since these mechanical features could previously only be measured during
sprints on an instrumented treadmill (Morin et al., 2010; Morin et al., 2012)
or on track-embedded force plate systems (Rabita et al., 2015), a simpler
method has been proposed and validated. 
This method requires simple
distance- or velocity-time data to model external horizontal force measures
and associated F-v and P-v relationships during the entire acceleration phase
of an over-ground sprint (Samozino et al., 2016). 
This method uses a
computation based on a macroscopic inverse dynamic analysis of the center-
of-mass of motion. 
Velocity-time data are fitted using an exponential
function, after which instantaneous velocity is derived to compute the net
horizontal antero-posterior ground reaction force (F), and the power output in
the horizontal direction (P). 
Individual linear force-velocity relationships are
then extrapolated to calculate theoretical maximal force (F0) and velocity

FIGURE 18.2
(v0) capabilities, and underlying maximum horizontal external power output
(Pmax). 
In this method, F and v are averaged and plotted throughout the
course of a sprint for each stance phase. 
The steps from maximal F through to
those producing maximal v are subsequently used to plot the linear F-v
relationship (Samozino et al., 2016). 
The entire F-v relationship is described
by the maximal theoretical horizontal force that the lower limbs could
produce over one contact at a null velocity (F0 expressed in N•kg
–1
) and the
theoretical maximum velocity that could be produced during a contact phase
in the absence of mechanical constraints (v0 expressed in m•s
–1
). 
A higher v0
value represents a greater ability to develop horizontal force at high
velocities. 
(see 
Figure 18.2
).
Force-velocity-power profile of Usain Bolt’s world record.
Together with F0, v0, and Pmax, the entire mechanical F-v profile also
includes the mechanical effectiveness of ground force application, which is
described with two main variables explained above: RF (i.e., the ratio of the
effective horizontal component of the GRF to the resultant GRF) and how
quickly this ratio drops as the running velocity increases (decrease in the ratio

of force, DRF). 
Therefore, determining the F-v profile is very useful in
practice since an athlete can be identified in a force and velocity context,
which determines his/her weaknesses, and training can then be aligned
accordingly on an individualized basis (Morin & Samozino, 2016). 
With this
in mind, it is worth highlighting the usefulness and strength of this approach
for estimating over-ground running sprint kinetics via a simple yet reliable
field method with almost identical values to direct measurement via a
sophisticated force-plate setup (Rabita et al., 2015; Samozino et al., 2016).
This method has been shown to be sensitive enough to differentiate
mechanical parameters between athletes with similar capabilities or playing
roles and provide practical information to aid return to play from injury in
rugby and soccer players (Cross et al., 2015; Mendiguchia et al., 2014, 2016).
Furthermore, given the simplicity of obtaining the data required for this
method, such as velocity-time measurements with an adequate sampling rate,
for training and assessment purposes this profiling method would be easily
used by strength and conditioning coaches and practitioners with timing
gates, a radar gun, or even a recently validated iPhone app (MySprint)
(Romero-Franco et al., 2016).
INDIVIDUALIZED TRAINING BASED ON F-V
PROFILING
Strength and conditioning coaches and practitioners are very interested in the
best training methods for improving sprinting performance. 
Several training
methods have been widely used, including sprinting (Rumpf et al., 2016),
technical skills (Bushnell & Hunter, 2007; Lockie, Murphy, Schultz, Knight,
& Janse de Jonge, 2012), maximal power (Delecluse et al., 1995; McBride,
Triplett-McBride, Davie, & Newton, 2002), reactive strength (plyometric
training) (Sáez de Villarreal, Requena, & Cronin, 2012), ballistic training
(Cormie, McGuigan, & Newton, 2010; Sheppard et al., 2011), and
combinations of these methods (Harris, Stone, O’Bryant, Proulx, & Johnson,
2000; Ronnestad, Kvamme, Sunde, & Raastad, 2008), although inconsistent
results have been achieved with many of them.
Strength and conditioning research has influenced the importance of
traditional strength training in improving sprint performance via the transfer
phenomenon. 
Thus, the question arises: “is classical ‘vertical’ strength work

really effective in transferring and increasing the level of horizontal force
output in trained athletes?” 
Horizontal force generation is a key factor in
many sports, and therefore specific training to improve it is essential. 
The
issue for training is that traditional strength-based resistance training may not
be the most specific way to develop the ability to apply force with a
horizontal orientation since the majority of resistance training methods focus
on working the lower limb muscles in a vertical direction. 
Although during
sprinting both the horizontal and vertical components of GRF are necessary
to the overall motion of the runner, the horizontal component has the most
influence during acceleration (Brughelli et al., 2011; Morin et al., 2011;
Morin, Slawinski, et al., 2015; Morin et al., 2012; Rabita et al., 2015).
Recently, the existence of a possible transfer of lower-body strength training
to sprint performance has been discussed, with a review of literature
supporting the idea that sprint performance can be improved through strength
gains (Seitz et al., 2014). 
However, this improvement is not systematic since
many parameters affect the magnitude of improvement. 
Little is known about
the effectiveness of a specific training program using exercises to improve
the force-velocity-power associated with the horizontal component of GRF
on sprint performance. 
It is likely that a greater transfer of resistance training
can be achieved if the conditioning program emphasizes a similar motor
pattern and contraction type (i.e., comparable mechanical properties) to the
performance movement (Young, 2006). 
The importance of strength exercises
for improving muscles having a determinant action during horizontal force
application in acceleration must be noted (Contreras et al., 2016).
In addition, since adaptations are specific to the velocity used in training,
it is worth considering this specificity over the entire F-v spectrum, which
must be covered for training purposes. 
In consequence, the concept of “what
force at what speed” emerges as a relevant factor for improving both
acceleration and maximum speed. 
For F0 improvement it is important to
produce high forces at low speeds, while for v0 improvement the application
of force at high speed is most significant. 
Thus, the fundamentals of how to
specifically and effectively train according to the F-v profile features are
based on this velocity specificity principle, taking into account the different
components of the F-v profile (F0, RF, Pmax, DRF, and v0).
The features explained above concerning F-v profiling could provide both
useful information for sport practitioners and a simple, accessible, yet
accurate method for more individualized monitoring and training of physical

•
•
and technical capabilities. 
This method can be easily implemented on a
regular basis and can therefore be used for long-term monitoring and training
processes (Morin & Samozino, 2016).
PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS: INDIVIDUAL
PROFILING AND TRAINING PROGRAM
F-v profiling and associated components could provide very useful and
practical information, allowing the selection of the most appropriate exercises
for improving sprint performance and enabling the design of better training
programs for different modalities by considering which component (F0, RF,
Pmax, DRF, and v0) should be emphasized.
Since the F-v profile can be easily measured during sprint running,
coaches could obtain valuable comparative information and guidance for
individualized training or rehabilitation prescriptions.
In practical terms, if a training program is designed to improve sprint
acceleration performance, the focus should be placed on increasing Pmax by
improving its components (F0 and v0). 
This could be done by first comparing
the relative strengths and weaknesses in each player’s profile to the rest of the
team (e.g., median or mean value) or published data for similar athletes, and
then programming the training content depending on the distance over which
sprint acceleration should be optimized.
The question for coaches is how to specifically target the different
components of the F-v profile, and, although training for Pmax could be
relevant depending on the orientation of the F-v profile towards force or
velocity, the targeted programs for individuals could differ depending on
whether a force-oriented or velocity-oriented profile dominates.
For practical purposes, it is interesting to divide exercises based on the
targeting of different parts of the entire F-v spectrum as follows:
Force side of the F-v: the focus of these exercises is the application of
high forces at low speeds, leading to an improvement in the F0 and RF
components of the F-v profile.
Power side of the F-v: the focus of these exercises is the application of
medium forces at medium speeds, resulting in an improvement in the
Pmax component of the F-v profile.

•
•
•
Velocity side of the F-v: the focus of these exercises is the application of
low forces at high speeds, resulting in an improvement in the DRF and
v0 components of the F-v profile.
The features of each of the three components discussed above, and
appropriate exercises for each, follow:
F0 and RF category:
At the beginning of an accelerated run, a high horizontal force application is
developed at a low velocity of motion. 
This early acceleration phase is
characterized by a very pronounced inclination of the trunk and overall body,
which helps in applying force in a horizontal direction. 
Thus, the main
feature of this “high-force, low-velocity” phase is that the athlete applies
much higher horizontal forces than when running faster. 
It is thus logical to
assume that an exercise or training modality that could gather these features
into a specific running pattern would be appropriate since it would target the
development of the force side of the F-v spectrum.
A training modality that could best satisfy these considerations is the
“Very Heavy Sled” (VHS) since it is an effective way of providing a good
incline while applying high horizontal force at low speed, allowing the athlete
to create and maintain conditions of high force, high forward lean, and high
muscular activity in the main propulsion muscles such as the hip extensors.
Interestingly, very recently, a study using amateur soccer players showed
the effectiveness of training with VHS (80% of body mass) over an eight
week period, which led to marked improvements in the mechanical
effectiveness of force application (F0 and RF) and in Pmax (Morin et al.,
2016).
Thus, it seems that VHS is both a cost- and time-effective way of
overloading the athlete, training both lower limb strength (i.e., general
capacity) and the technical ability to apply this force effectively onto the
ground (i.e., horizontally-oriented force).
Pmax category:
After the first steps (about two seconds of initial application of force),
maximal power is reached, which is the combination of optimal force and
velocity at medium force (F0/2) and medium velocity (V0/2). 
These “optimal

•
loading” conditions for improving sprint running performance have been
discussed (Petrakos, Morin, & Egan, 2016), particularly with regard to
resisted sprints, although the criteria for determining optimal load for
sprinting were based on non-significant alterations to technical components
(i.e., kinematics of the unloaded sprint movement via a 10% decrement with
respect to maximal velocity), rather than considering force or velocity
components from the F-v profile as a reference. 
It is important to note that
when Petrakos et al.’s criteria are applied, the features and conditions needed
to develop horizontal force at a specific velocity at this stage of an
accelerated run are limited, since with only a 10% velocity decrement the
body cannot remain in a forward-inclined position for long and the athlete is
forced to adopt a more vertical position quite quickly.
In line with this, very recently, researchers (Cross, Brughelli, Samozino,
Brown, & Morin, 2017) analysed the “optimal load” on an individualized
basis (i.e., the load which, for each individual, induces maximal power
output), and the results appear to be highly individualized, with resistances of
between 69–96% of body mass, corresponding to a velocity decrement of
~50% from maximal velocity (Cross et al., 2017). 
Technical and mechanical
F-v characteristics were also found to be highly individualized (Cross et al.,
2017).
Thus, it seems that using individualized sled resistances that lead to
individual optimal load and optimal running velocity, i.e., the velocity at
which maximal power is produced (close to V0/2 as shown by Cross et al.,
2017) can provide an effective stimulus for maximizing horizontal power
production, thereby improving the physical and technical capacities
underlying sprinting performance (Morin et al., 2011; Morin, Slawinski, et
al., 2015). 
It is also likely that increasing an athlete’s Pmax will be associated
with a better sprint acceleration performance, especially over short distances
(e.g., soccer) and in collision sports (e.g., rugby) (Cross et al., 2017).
DRF and v0 category:
As velocity increases over the acceleration phase, the conditions for force
application change. 
For early acceleration, a high force at low velocity is
required, but the athlete then needs to keep producing and applying a net
horizontal force despite increasing movement velocity. 
At high running
velocities, the body is essentially in a standing position (vertical), and the

knee is extended at touch-down and during the stance phase; in this situation,
from a functional anatomy standpoint, the only action leading to a backward
push of the foot on the ground is violent hip extension. 
This condition is a
limiting factor in the continued application of force in a horizontal direction,
and it has been shown that better sprinters tend to produce a higher RF and
thus a higher mechanical effectiveness (i.e., a more horizontally-oriented
GRF) at high velocity (Morin et al., 2012).
It is therefore reasonable to assume that an exercise modality that
emphasizes the application of force at high velocity could be appropriate
since it specifically targets the development of the velocity side of the F-v
spectrum.
Given the importance of improvement in velocity (i.e., the velocity end of
the F-v spectrum), several training modalities have been commonly used,
including free sprinting, assisted and resisted sprinting, traditional strength-
training, and plyometrics (Rumpf et al., 2016). 
The effectiveness of these
training modalities is unclear (Rumpf et al., 2016), and it could be interesting
for coaches to use more specific training based on the F-v profile, targeting
the velocity side of the F-v spectrum with potential benefit for the v0 and
DRF components of the F-v profile.
Sprinting may be the most specific type of training available to improve
sprinting speed (Rumpf et al., 2016), probably due to an increase in velocity-
specific force production with the same pattern of movement. 
However,
improvements achieved via free sprinting are higher in untrained subjects
than in trained athletes (Rumpf et al., 2016), and this issue should be
considered in order to implement the F-v profile approach for optimized
improvement in sprint velocity.
In light of the above information, and based on some preliminary results,
the exercises most likely to be appropriate should allow the athlete to apply
horizontal force in a high-velocity context. 
Taking into account that when
athletes run at high velocities the body is in a standing position (vertical),
with high activity in the hip extensors, it would be useful to reproduce
specific and similar patterns during the application of force. 
The first exercise
could be sled with light loads (about 10% of body mass) since this trains the
ability to produce horizontal force at high running velocities and is thus an
effective stimulus. 
Another possible exercise involves explosive backward
propulsion on a scooter (testing in progress). 
Together with these exercises,
other options that make sense mechanically (but are still to be tested under

controlled conditions) include over-speed training and the inclusion of a
resistance during an assisted condition. 
Finally, but no less importantly, free
sprinting would also be an effective stimulus for improving velocity
capability, since most of the distance in a 50–80m sprint is run at velocities
close to maximal velocity.
These types of exercises could therefore be an effective way to improve
the DRF and v0 components of the F-v profile via the improvement of
horizontal force production at high velocities.
CONCLUSION
Summarizing the practical details, when an athlete accelerates, the main
mechanical need is to (1) produce force and (2) to transmit it effectively to
the ground. 
These two actions must be repeated and performed at high speed.
Thus, the main focus of training should be on the core and ankle stabilizer
muscles as “transmitting” muscles, and the hip extensors as the main force
generators. 
The latter may be trained using the very specific exercises “hip
thrusts” and back extensions to strengthen these key muscles for forward
acceleration. 
This chapter has focused on the mechanical factors
underpinning sprinting performance based on the F-v approach;
understanding these fundamentals of sprinting performance may allow
coaches and practitioners to develop specific training programs to reinforce
the main muscles affecting performance in acceleration running.
The main value of this approach is that the diagnostic and subsequent
targeted training interventions are individualized, and frequent monitoring of
program-induced changes in Pmax and its mechanical determinants can make
this program more efficient and dynamic in terms of adaptation to individual
changes over time.
REFERENCES
Brughelli, M., Cronin, J., & Chaouachi, A. 
(2011). 
Effects of running velocity on running
kinetics and kinematics. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research, 25
(4), 933–
939.
Bushnell, T., & Hunter, I. 
(2007). 
Differences in technique between sprinters and distance
runners at equal and maximal speeds. 
Sports Biomechanics, 6
(3), 261–268.

Clark, K. 
P., & Weyand, P. 
G. 
(2014). 
Are running speeds maximized with simple-spring
stance mechanics? 
Journal of Applied Physiology, 117
(6), 604–615.
Contreras, B., Vigotsky, A. 
D., Schoenfeld, B. 
J., Beardsley, C., McMaster, D. 
T.,
Reyneke, J., & Cronin, J. 
(2016). 
Effects of a six-week hip thrust versus front squat
resistance training program on performance in adolescent males: A randomized-
controlled trial. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research.
Cormie, P., McGuigan, M. 
R., & Newton, R. 
U. 
(2010). 
Adaptations in athletic
performance after ballistic power versus strength training. 
Medicine and Science in
Sports and Exercise, 42
(8), 1582–1598.
Cronin, J. 
& Sleivert, G. 
(2005). 
Challenges in understanding the influence of maximal
power training on improving athletic performance. 
Sports Medicine, 35
(3), 213–234.
Cross, M. 
R., Brughelli, M., Brown, S. 
R., Samozino, P., Gill, N. 
D., Cronin, J. 
B., &
Morin, J. 
B. 
(2015). 
Mechanical properties of sprinting in elite rugby union and rugby
league. 
International Journal of Sports Physiology and Performance, 10
(6), 695–702.
Cross, M. 
R., Brughelli, M., Samozino, P., Brown, S. 
R., & Morin, J.-B. 
(2017). 
Optimal
loading for maximising power during sled-resisted sprinting. 
International Journal of
Sports Physiology and Performance
, 1–25.
Debaere, S., Delecluse, C., Aerenhouts, D., Hagman, F., & Jonkers, I. 
(2013). 
From block
clearance to sprint running: Characteristics underlying an effective transition. 
Journal of
Sports Sciences, 31
(2), 137–149.
Delecluse, C., Van Coppenolle, H., Willems, E., Van Leemputte, M., Diels, R., & Goris,
M. 
(1995). 
Influence of high-resistance and high-velocity training on sprint
performance. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 27
(8), 1203–1209.
Deutsch, M. 
U., Kearney, G. 
A., & Rehrer, N. 
J. 
(2007). 
Time – motion analysis of
professional rugby union players during match-play. 
Journal of Sports Sciences, 25
(4),
461–472.
Faude, O., Koch, T., & Meyer, T. 
(2012). 
Straight sprinting is the most frequent action in
goal situations in professional football. 
Journal of Sports Sciences, 30
(7), 625–631.
Gabbett, T. 
J. 
(2012). 
Sprinting patterns of National Rugby League competition. 
Journal of
Strength and Conditioning Research, 26
(1), 121–130.
Harris, G., Stone, M., O’Bryant, H., Proulx, C., & Johnson, R. 
(2000). 
Short term
performance effects of high speed, high force or combined weight training. 
The Journal
of Strength & Conditioning Research, 14
(1), 4–120.
Hunter, J. 
P., Marshall, R. 
N., & McNair, P. 
J. 
(2004). 
Interaction of step length and step
rate during sprint running. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 36
(2), 261–
271.
Hunter, J. 
P., Marshall, R. 
N., & McNair, P. 
J. 
(2005). 
Relationships between ground
reaction force impulse and kinematics of sprint-running acceleration. 
Journal of Applied
Biomechanics, 21
(1), 31–43.
Jaskólska, A., Goossens, P., Veenstra, B., Jaskólski, A., & Skinner, J. 
S. 
(1999).
Comparison of treadmill and cycle ergometer measurements of force-velocity
relationships and power output. 
International Journal of Sports Medicine, 20
(3), 192–
197.

Kawamori, N., Nosaka, K., & Newton, R. 
U. 
(2013). 
Relationships between ground
reaction impulse and sprint acceleration performance in team sport athletes. 
Journal of
Strength and Conditioning Research, 27
(3), 568–573.
Kugler, F. 
& Janshen, L. 
(2010). 
Body position determines propulsive forces in accelerated
running. 
Journal of Biomechanics, 43
(2), 343–348.
Lockie, R. 
G., Murphy, A. 
J., Schultz, A. 
B., Knight, T. 
J., & Janse de Jonge, X. 
A. 
K.
(2012). 
The effects of different speed training protocols on sprint acceleration
kinematics and muscle strength and power in field sport athletes. 
Journal of Strength
and Conditioning Research, 26
(6), 1539–1550.
Mann, R. 
A., Moran, G. 
T., & Dougherty, S. 
E. 
(1986). 
Comparative electromyography of
the lower extremity in jogging, running, and sprinting. 
The American Journal of Sports
Medicine, 14
(6), 501–510.
McBride, J. 
M., Triplett-McBride, T., Davie, A., & Newton, R. 
U. 
(2002). 
The effect of
heavy- vs. 
light-load jump squats on the development of strength, power, and speed.
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research, 16
(1), 75–82.
Mendiguchia, J., Edouard, P., Samozino, P., Brughelli, M., Cross, M., Ross, A., . 
. 
. 
Morin,
J. 
B. 
(2016). 
Field monitoring of sprinting power-force-velocity profile before, during
and after hamstring injury: Two case reports. 
Journal of Sports Sciences, 34
(6), 535–
541.
Mendiguchia, J., Samozino, P., Martinez-Ruiz, E., Brughelli, M., Schmikli, S., Morin, J.-
B., & Mendez-Villanueva, A. 
(2014). 
Progression of mechanical properties during on-
field sprint running after returning to sports from a hamstring muscle injury in soccer
players. 
International Journal of Sports Medicine, 35
(8), 690–695.
Mero, A., Komi, P. 
V., & Gregor, R. 
J. 
(1992). 
Biomechanics of sprint running. 
Sports
Medicine, 13
(6), 376–392.
Morin, J. 
B., Edouard, P., & Samozino, P. 
(2011). 
Technical ability of force application as
a determinant factor of sprint performance. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and
Exercise, 43
(9), 1680–1688.
Morin, J. 
B., Petrakos, G., Jimenez-Reyes, P., Brown, S. 
R., Samozino, P., & Cross, M. 
R.
(2016). 
Very-heavy sled training for improving horizontal force output in soccer
players. 
International Journal of Sports Physiology and Performance, 1
–13.
Morin, J. 
B., Bourdin, M., Edouard, P., Peyrot, N., Samozino, P., & Lacour, J. 
R. 
(2012).
Mechanical determinants of 100-m sprint running performance. 
European Journal of
Applied Physiology, 112
(11), 3921–3930.
Morin, J. 
B., Gimenez, P., Edouard, P., Arnal, P., Jiménez-Reyes, P., Samozino, P., . 
. 
.
Mendiguchia, J. 
(2015). 
Sprint acceleration mechanics: The major role of hamstrings in
horizontal force production. 
Frontiers in Physiology
, 6(DEC).
Morin, J. 
B., & Samozino, P. 
(2016). 
Interpreting power-force-velocity profiles for
individualized and specific training. 
International Journal of Sports Physiology and
Performance
.
Morin, J. 
B., Samozino, P., Bonnefoy, R., Edouard, P., & Belli, A. 
(2010). 
Direct
measurement of power during one single sprint on treadmill. 
Journal of Biomechanics,
43
(10), 1970–1975.

Morin, J. 
B., Slawinski, J., Dorel, S., de villareal, E. 
S., Couturier, A., Samozino, P., . 
. 
.
Rabita, G. 
(2015). 
Acceleration capability in elite sprinters and ground impulse: Push
more, brake less? 
Journal of Biomechanics, 48
(12), 3149–3154.
Nagahara, R., Matsubayashi, T., Matsuo, A., & Zushi, K. 
(2014a). 
100. 
Kinematics of
transition during human accelerated sprinting. 
Biology Open, 3
, 689–699.
Nagahara, R., Naito, H., Morin, J. 
B., & Zushi, K. 
(2014b). 
Association of acceleration
with spatiotemporal variables in maximal sprinting. 
International Journal of Sports
Medicine, 35
(9), 755–761.
Petrakos, G., Morin, J. 
B., & Egan, B. 
(2016). 
Resisted sled sprint training to improve
sprint performance: A systematic review. 
Sports Medicine (Auckland, N.Z.), 46
(3), 381–
400.
Rabita, G., Dorel, S., Slawinski, J., Sàez-de-Villarreal, E., Couturier, A., Samozino, P., &
Morin, J. 
B. 
(2015). 
Sprint mechanics in world-class athletes: A new insight into the
limits of human locomotion. 
Scandinavian Journal of Medicine and Science in Sports,
25
(5), 583–594.
Romero-Franco, N., Jiménez-Reyes, P., Castaño-Zambudio, A., Capelo-Ramírez, F.,
Rodríguez-Juan, J. 
J., González-Hernández, J., . 
. 
. 
Balsalobre-Fernández, C. 
(2016).
Sprint performance and mechanical outputs computed with an iPhone app: Comparison
with existing reference methods. 
European Journal of Sport Science
, 1–7.
Ronnestad, B. 
R., Kvamme, N. 
H., Sunde, A., & Raastad, T. 
(2008). 
Short-term effects of
strength and plyometric training on sprint and jump performance in professional soccer
players. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research, 22
(3), 773–780.
Rumpf, M. 
C., Lockie, R. 
G., Cronin, J. 
B., & Jalilvand, F. 
(2016). 
Effect of different sprint
training methods on sprint performance over various distances: A brief review. 
Journal
of Strength and Conditioning Research, 30
(6), 1767–1785.
Sáez de Villarreal, E., Requena, B., & Cronin, J. 
B. 
(2012). 
The effects of plyometric
training on sprint performance: A meta-analysis. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning
Research, 26
(2), 575–584.
Samozino, P., Rabita, G., Dorel, S., Slawinski, J., Peyrot, N., Saez de Villarreal, E., &
Morin, J. 
B. 
(2016). 
A simple method for measuring power, force, velocity properties,
and mechanical effectiveness in sprint running. 
Scandinavian Journal of Medicine &
Science in Sports, 26
(6), 648–658.
Samozino, P., Rejc, E., Di Prampero, P. 
E., Belli, A., & Morin, J.-B. 
(2012). 
Optimal force-
velocity profile in ballistic movements--altius: Citius or fortius?. 
Medicine and Science
in Sports and Exercise, 44
(2), 313–322.
Schache, A. 
G., Brown, N. 
A. 
T., & Pandy, M. 
G. 
(2015). 
Modulation of work and power
by the human lower-limb joints with increasing steady-state locomotion speed. 
The
Journal of Experimental Biology
, 218(Pt 15), 2472–2481.
Schimpchen, J., Skorski, S., Nopp, S., & Meyer, T. 
(2016). 
Are “classical” tests of
repeated-sprint ability in football externally valid? 
A new approach to determine in-
game sprinting behaviour in elite football players. 
Journal of Sports Sciences, 34
(6),
519–526.
Seitz, L. 
B., Reyes, A., Tran, T. 
T., de Villarreal, E. 
S., & Haff, G. 
G. 
(2014). 
Increases in

lower-body strength transfer positively to sprint performance: A systematic review with
meta-analysis. 
Sports Medicine, 44
(12), 1693–1702.
Sheppard, J. 
M., Dingley, A. 
A., Janssen, I., Spratford, W., Chapman, D. 
W., & Newton, R.
U. 
(2011). 
The effect of assisted jumping on vertical jump height in high-performance
volleyball players. 
Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport, 14
(1), 85–89.
Simperingham, K. 
D., Cronin, J. 
B., & Ross, A. 
(2016). 
Advances in sprint acceleration
profiling for field-based team-sport athletes: Utility, reliability, validity and limitations.
Sports Medicine, 46
(11), 1619–1645.
Slawinski, J., Termoz, N., Rabita, G., Guilhem, G., Dorel, S., Morin, J.-B., & Samozino, P.
(2017). 
How 100-m event analyses improve our understanding of world-class men’s and
women’s sprint performance. 
Scandinavian Journal of Medicine & Science in Sports,
27
(1), 45–54.
Sleivert, G. 
& Taingahue, M. 
(2004). 
The relationship between maximal jump-squat power
and sprint acceleration in athletes. 
European Journal of Applied Physiology, 91
(1), 46–
52.
Spencer, M., Bishop, D., Dawson, B., & Goodman, C. 
(2005). 
Physiological and metabolic
responses of repeated-sprint activities: Specific to field-based team sports. 
Sports
Medicine, 35
(12), 1025–1044.
Veale, J. 
P., Pearce, A. 
J., & Carlson, J. 
S. 
(2007). 
Player movement patterns in an elite
junior Australian rules football team: An exploratory study. 
Journal of Sports Science &
Medicine, 6
(2), 254–260.
Vigne, G., Gaudino, C., Rogowski, I., Alloatti, G., & Hautier, C. 
(2010). 
Activity profile in
elite Italian soccer team. 
International Journal of Sports Medicine, 31
(5), 304–310.
Weyand, P. 
G., Sandell, R. 
F., Prime, D. 
N. 
L., & Bundle, M. 
W. 
(2010). 
The biological
limits to running speed are imposed from the ground up. 
Journal of Applied Physiology,
108
(4), 950–961.
Weyand, P. 
G., Sternlight, D. 
B., Bellizzi, M. 
J., & Wright, S. 
(2000). 
Faster top running
speeds are achieved with greater ground forces not more rapid leg movements. 
Journal
of Applied Physiology, 89
(5), 1991–1999.
Wild, J., Bezodis, N., Blagrove, R., & Bezodis, I. 
(2011). 
A biomechanical comparison of
accelerative and maximum velocity sprinting: Specific strength training considerations.
UK Strength and Conditioning Association, 21
(21), 36.
Young, W. 
B. 
(2006). 
Transfer of strength and power training to sports performance.
International Journal of Sports Physiology and Performance, 1
(2), 74–83.
Yu, J., Sun, Y., Yang, C., Wang, D., Yin, K., Herzog, W., & Liu, Y. 
(2016).
Biomechanical insights into differences between the mid-acceleration and maximum
velocity phases of sprinting. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research, 30
(7),
1906–1916.

CHAPTER 19
Applied coaching science
Nick Winkelman
 
 
INTRODUCTION
In 1993, Jana Novotna was serving against Steffi Graf in the Wimbledon
final, just one point away from winning the championship. 
Despite leading
four sets to one, Novotna went on to conceded four straight sets, inevitably
losing 6–4 to Graf in what can only be described as one of the most public
displays of “choking” ever seen in modern sport. 
However, Novotna is not
alone, as there are many other examples of clear winners losing their nerve in
the final moments of a competition. 
Take, for example, Greg Norman, who
was six strokes ahead of Nick Faldo going into the final round of the 1996
Masters and went on to lose by four strokes by the end of Sunday. 
From a
team sport standpoint, fans will not forget the 2004 World Series where the
New York Yankees, up three games to one against the Boston Red Sox, lost
four straight games and the Commissioner’s Trophy.
While it is debatable whether the outcomes described above are examples
of “choking” or comebacks, one fact remains, there was a pivotal moment
where the winning side started underperforming and/or the losing side started
outperforming the competition. 
Whichever the case, there was a shift in
motor skill behavior and decision making that enhanced the fortune of one
competitor at the expense of the other. 
While some might chalk this up to a
bad day, poor luck, or a lack of resolve, others may question these surface

level explanations in search of underpinning reasons. 
What’s more, while the
opening examples of “choking” provide extreme instances of failure in
competition, there is the more common experience of athletes not delivering
the same level of performance in competition as they commonly do during
practice. 
It is this latter observation that sets the stage for this chapter, and in
doing so requires a fundamental question to be asked. 
How can coaches
increase the probability that the performance their athletes achieve in practice
is the one they deliver during competition?
To begin answering this question, it is important to define the difference
between practice performance and competitive performance. 
Specifically,
Soderstrom and Bjork (2015) define practice 
performance
 as “the temporary
fluctuations in [motor skill] behavior or knowledge that can be observed and
measured during or immediately after the [practice] process,” while
competitive performance or what will now be referred to as 
learning
, “refers
to the relatively permanent changes in [motor skill] behavior or knowledge
that support long-term retention and transfer to [competition].” 
Thus, as
illustrated by the examples of “choking” in sport, coaches are advised against
viewing practice performance as a proxy for learning. 
Rather, learning can
only be assessed in the absence of the stimulus that caused it (i.e., practice),
which positions competition as the single most important measure of motor
skill retention and transfer. 
In her seminal book 
Choke
, Sian Beilock provides
further support for this line of reasoning, defining “choking as suboptimal
performance, not just poor performance,” and noting that “it is performance
that is inferior to what you can do and have done in the past” (Beilock, 2010).
Thus, while “choking” is often associated with performance anxiety and
labeled as failed mental fortitude, an equally viable explanation would be the
re-contextualization of “choking” as a failure of the learning process.
To illustrate the impact of practice performance on learning, it is valuable
to review the two pathways by which learning can take place. 
Take, for
example, a child learning to ride a bike. 
At first their parents would have
given them training wheels, allowing them to get a sense of balancing on the
bike and learning how to pedal with enough speed where the training wheels
become unneeded. 
Once the parents feel the child is ready, they take the
training wheels off, and after a few falls, the child has figured out how to ride
the bike safely. 
From a motor learning standpoint, this scenario is an example
of emergent or implicit learning. 
That is, the parents were not explicitly
telling the child how to steer, pedal, maintain posture, and visually navigate

the sidewalk; rather, they likely gave them basic instructions (e.g., “pedal
faster”) that were of no consequence to the actual movement process required
to ride the bike. 
Thus, this movement pattern emerged out of the child’s
determination not to fall and their desire to ride their bike like the rest of the
neighbor kids. 
As noted, this is an example of an 
implicit learning
 pathway,
which can be defined as learning that occurs through practice that emphasizes
experience and limits explicit information, leading to a physical
understanding of rhythm, sequence, and execution that can be measured
through performance, but not through factual recall (Kleynen et al., 2014). 
In
other words, while easily able to ride their bike, the child would not have
much in the way of words to describe how they achieved this childhood feat.
In contrast to the example above, consider the same child’s experience
during Karate class. 
It is likely that the child would have an instructor,
suggesting that instruction would be used to facilitate the learning process.
For example, the choku-zuki or “straight punch” would be a fundamental
movement that the child would learn as they transition from their white belt
to their yellow belt. 
In learning this movement, the instructor would teach the
child proper body position, describe how their clenched fist should remain
palm up and just above their belt, and further describe how the punch should
be thrown in concert with the recoiling of the opposing arm. 
In this instance,
the motor learning strategy would be considered deliberate or explicit.
Specifically, the instructor would assume that the child would focus on the
movement instructions while performing the straight punch, allowing them to
learn the skill faster than had they been left to their own devices. 
What’s
more, the instructor would also assume that, in time, the child’s ability to
throw the straight punch would become more automatic, requiring less
explicit attention from the child. 
This would be particularly important if the
child was to demonstrate movement sequences or use the straight punch in a
competitive setting. 
Thus, distinct from the implicit learning, the 
explicit
learning
 pathway can be defined as learning that generates verbal knowledge
of movement performance (e.g., facts and rules), involves cognitive stages
(i.e., awareness) within the learning process, and is dependent on working
memory involvement (Kleynen et al., 2014).
Considering the examples provided above, it is necessary to highlight that,
while distinct, both implicit and explicit learning pathways are essential to the
motor learning process (Vidoni & Boyd, 2007). 
However, from a coaching
standpoint, it is important to recognize the pedagogical or coaching strategies

associated with each learning pathway, along with the mediating factors that
guide the differential use of each strategy. 
With this in mind, it is valuable to
first examine the underpinning neuroscience associated with the learning
process. 
Specifically, a coach’s awareness of the neural correlates (i.e., brain
regions) connected to implicit and explicit learning, and the general influence
of attention and memory on this process, will assist them in selecting
coaching strategies that are both task type and experience level appropriate.
NEUROSCIENCE OF IMPLICIT AND EXPLICIT
LEARNING
Before discussing how best to apply implicit and explicit learning strategies,
it is important to review the mediating role of attention and memory within
the learning process and the associated neuroscience. 
In his seminal work,
The Principles of Psychology,
 William (1890) captures the essence of
attention when he states that “My experience is what I agree to attend to.
Only those items which I notice shape my mind—without selective interest,
experience is utter chaos.” 
These words highlight the importance of attention
within the human experience, as people are only aware, and thus a product of
that on which they focus. 
The alternative would find people, upon waking,
having gained skills (e.g., playing the piano) for which they have no
recollection of ever practicing. 
While this osmosis-esque version of super-
learning may become a reality in future, for now one can be confident in
knowing that learning is a product of what one pays attention to (Gallagher,
2009). 
Extending this line of thinking, Kahneman (2011) notes that people
“dispose of a limited budget of attention that you can allocate to activities,
and if you try to go beyond your budget, you will fail” (Miller, 1994). 
Thus,
while the capacity to focus one’s attention exists, this capacity is limited and
requires people to selectively attend to the information that is deemed most
relevant for a given context. 
From this perspective, the role of the coach is to
deploy strategies that help the athlete direct their 
attentional spotlight
 in a
way that best serves the learning process.
To understand how attention influences learning, it is important to first
appreciate how what an athlete attends to impacts where the information is
stored in the brain. 
Thus, just as there are explicit and implicit learning
strategies, there are also explicit and implicit memory systems. 
Specifically,

explicit memory, also known as declarative memory, are conscious memories
of facts and rules pertaining to a motor skill, while implicit memory, also
known as procedural memory, are the sub-conscious memories associated
with the control and performance of a motor skill (Vidoni & Boyd, 2007). 
Put
simply, explicit memory is required to describe a movement, while implicit
memory is required to perform it. 
To highlight the impact coaching can have
on the way memories are formed during the learning process, consider the
following example of two baseball players being asked the same question by
a reporter: “What are the key strategies to effective batting performance?”
Athlete one
 might respond by providing rules and facts about batting, noting
the best mental cues to use during practice, while 
athlete two
, to the
reporter’s disappointment, may respond by stating that they have no idea and
pointing out that they just get up and swing. 
While fictional, these responses
are not too dissimilar to notable quotes from famed golfer, Jack Nicklaus and
Irish Rugby International, Ronan O’Gara, where Nicklaus stated that
“concentration is a fine antidote to anxiety” and O’Gara proclaimed that “[he]
knows how to kick a ball, but [has] no idea how to teach someone to kick a
ball.” 
These examples highlight how information (i.e., explicit and implicit)
about the same motor skill can be stored in distinct memory systems, and that
the ability to perform a movement is not dependent on one’s ability to
verbally describe it (e.g., Lam, Maxwell, & Masters, 2009). 
Thus, as will be
shown later on, the way information is learned and stored has a lot to do with
the robustness of the motor skill, especially when exposed to the stress of
competition.
To illustrate how memory formation influences the learning process, it is
important to now examine the distinct brain regions associated with the
explicit and implicit memory systems. 
Specifically, there are three key areas
that are involved in generating and integrating explicit memories as they
relate to motor skill learning. 
These areas include, but are not limited to, the
medial temporal lobe (hippocampus and associated cortices), the prefrontal
cortex (the “seat of conscious processing”), and the dorsolateral prefrontal
cortex (DLPFC) (Vidoni & Boyd, 2007). 
To appreciate how these brain
regions are used in explicit memory formation and integration, consider the
preceding baseball example once again. 
Specifically, re-visiting the answer of
athlete one
 to the question of how to hit a baseball, it is evident that their
coach would have used, at least in part, explicit learning strategies to teach
them how to hit. 
That is, from a neuroscience standpoint, 
athlete one’s

hippocampus and associated cortices would have been responsible for
processing any instructions or feedback provided by their coach, ensuring
that this information was readily available during batting practice or to
answer a reporter’s question about hitting performance. 
What’s more, in
applying the coach’s instructions while practicing, 
athlete one
 would have
depended on their DLPFC to integrate any explicit thoughts held in working
(short-term) memory with the visuospatial information (i.e., motion of pitcher
and ball speed) required to hit the ball (Jueptner et al., 1997; Vidoni & Boyd,
2007). 
Thus, the DLPFC plays an important role in integrating the
information contained within the explicit memory system and the motor
actions that information is meant to influence within the implicit memory
system.
The implicit memory system involves a greater number of brain regions,
which is not surprising considering its role in motor control. 
These brain
regions include, but are not limited to, the cerebellum, the basal ganglia, and
the cortical motor areas: the premotor cortex (PMC), the supplementary
motor area (SMA), and the primary motor cortex (M1). 
Again, it is helpful to
examine the function of these brain regions in the context of the baseball
example. 
Specifically, while it is evident that 
athlete one
 has more explicit
memories (i.e., facts and rules) of how to hit than 
athlete two
, likely due to
how they were coached, both athletes require the formation of implicit
memories associated with the requisite motor control needed to hit a baseball.
Thus, in learning how to hit, both athletes would have depended on their
cerebellum to tune and optimize the hitting pattern. 
That is, the cerebellum is
responsible for integrating sensory input and motor output in a way that
allows the motor system to make real-time adjustments to the movement
(Ivry, 1996; Vidoni & Boyd, 2007). 
This fine tuning of the movement is a
hallmark of implicit learning.
In addition to the cerebellum, the athletes would have depended on their
basal ganglia to integrate explicit information with the implicit motor action
and switch between motor tasks (i.e., hit the baseball, drop the bat, and run to
first base). 
It is not surprising then that the basal ganglia operates like a
“switchboard”, connecting disparate brain regions that are critical for motor
control, notably the “motor circuit” regions (i.e., putamen, thalamus, SMA,
and PMC) and the DLPFC described in the explicit memory section (Vidoni
& Boyd, 2007). 
Damage to this region of the brain has been shown to slow
the learning process and disrupt the influence of explicit information on

performance and learning (Boyd & Winstein, 2006).
Finally, the athletes would have depended on their primary motor cortex
(M1) to initiate the swing in addition to fine tuning the coordination of the
hitting motion. 
This fine tuning can be attributed to the role M1 plays in
determining direction of motion and force output during movement (Vidoni
& Boyd, 2007). 
Thus, like the cerebellum, the M1 is central to real-time
motor control and the development of the implicit motor plan (Lohse,
Wadden, Boyd, & Hodges, 2014). 
Working alongside the M1 are the PMC
and the SMA. 
The PMC, via the basal ganglia, is responsible for integrating
explicit information relating to the sequence of a motor action (Vidoni &
Boyd, 2007). 
Thus, if the coach was to give instructions around how to move
the bat in space (i.e., swing path), the PMC would play a central role in
integrating this information with the implicit motor plan for swinging a
baseball bat. 
In contrast, the athletes would have depended more on their
SMA when they were practicing without explicit information (i.e., coach
input) (Vidoni & Boyd, 2007). 
That is, the SMA would leverage task-
intrinsic feedback that could be used to modify the swing path, for example,
on subsequent repetitions. 
However, this process would function in the
absence of explicitly derived instruction or feedback. 
Interestingly, the PMC
is highly active during early stages of learning where explicitly derived
information is needed (Grafton, Hazeltine, & Ivry, 1995); however, as
learning progresses there is a reduction in activity in the PMC in favor of
increased activation of the SMA, highlighting its role in coordinating implicit
motor actions (Toni, Krams, Turner, & Passingham, 1998).
In summary, it is important to place the functional role of the disparate
memory systems (i.e., explicit and implicit) and their associated brain regions
within a practical context. 
That is, while the two systems interact,
highlighting the importance of explicit and implicit learning strategies, it is
important to understand that becoming overly reliant on explicit information
can be detrimental to learning, especially during the rigors of competition
(Baumeister, 1984; Masters, 1992). 
Specifically, research has shown that a
form of neural competition can exist between explicit memory systems and
implicit memory systems (Poldrack et al., 2001). 
Thus, while the explicit
memory system is important during early stages of learning, independent of
whether the information is explicitly derived from the coach or autogenously
from the athlete, it can become detrimental to the execution of the implicit
motor plan once learning consolidation has occurred (Song, 2009). 
That is to

say, if the athlete starts thinking about a pattern for which there is already an
implicit basis for automaticity, the thinking will disrupt the athlete’s ability to
naturally self-organize the pattern in relation to task and environmental
demands (i.e., “choking”). 
In support of this line of reasoning, Song (2009)
notes the following when discussing the interaction between the explicit and
implicit memory systems:
Motor learning may initially rely on more explicit and prefrontal
areas, but after extended practice and expertise, shift to more dorsal
areas, but thinking about the movement can shift activity back to
the less skilled explicit areas. 
Although many explanations may be
derived, one could argue that these athletes show that even when
years of practice has given the implicit system an exquisitely fine-
tuned memory for a movement, the explicit system can interfere at
the time of performance and erase all evidence of implicit memory.
Therefore, it is important that coaches understand how to place explicit and
implicit coaching strategies within the context of where the athlete is within
their learning process. 
What’s more, it is important to understand how to
deploy explicit coaching strategies in a way that supports the long-term
learning and retention of desired motor skills, but doing so in a manner that
will not thwart the expression of those skills in a competitive arena (i.e.,
choking and/or over-reliance on coaching feedback). 
To start seeding this
information into a practical framework, the next section will discuss the
integrative role of explicit and implicit coaching strategies within stage
models of motor skill learning (e.g., Anderson, 1982; Fitts, 1964).
STAGE MODELS OF MOTOR SKILL LEARNING
Stage models of motor skill learning (e.g., Anderson, 1982; Fitts, 1964)
suggest that individuals will transition from a cognitive or declarative stage
(i.e., explicit memory)—whereby explicit rules are acquired concerning goal-
relevant aspects of the motor skill, to an autonomous or procedural stage (i.e.,
implicit memory)—whereby goal-relevant aspects of the motor skill have
been consolidated (Song, 2009) and are no longer consciously attended to
during motor skill execution (Masters, 1992). 
Thus, independent of the

coaching strategies used, the athlete learning a novel skill will naturally
leverage their explicit memory system during the initial stages of the learning
process and depend more on their implicit memory system during later stages
of the learning process. 
That is to say, the athlete would naturally “pay
attention” or be aware of performing the movement at first, however, once
they lay down an implicit understanding of the movement process (e.g.,
coordinating upper and lower body in an effort to dribble a basketball) they
would naturally be able to divert their attention to more relevant features of
the environment (e.g., the approaching opponent or the teammate best suited
to receive the ball and shoot a jump shot). 
To illustrate this point, it is
instructive to examine the work of Beilock, Carr, MacMahon, and Starkes
(2002) and Castaneda and Gray (2007), who showed that experts perform
better when they focus on features of the environment (i.e., implicit learning),
while novices benefit from focusing on the motor skill itself (i.e., explicit
learning). 
In-line with these findings, Beilock et al. 
(2002) recommends that
during early stages of learning it would be “beneficial to direct performers’
attention to step-by-step components of the skill, [while] at later stages of
performance, this type of attentional control may be detrimental.”
While the conclusion of Beilock et al. 
(2002) suggests that explicit
learning strategies should be used with novices and implicit learning
strategies with experts, coaches would be ill-advised to apply such a literal
translation to their practice. 
For example, Masters (1992) identified an
interaction between the way a motor skill is learned (i.e., practice) and one’s
susceptibility to “choking” during a high-stress testing condition (i.e.,
competition). 
Specifically, one group of novices were asked to practice a golf
putt while focusing on a specific set of instructions (i.e., explicit learning
group), while a different group of novices practiced the same putt with no
instructions and a secondary-task designed to deter explicit focus on the
movement (i.e., implicit learning group). 
As one might expect, the novices in
the explicit learning group “sunk” more putts during the practice sessions
than the implicit learning group, although both groups significantly improved
over the four practice sessions. 
However, this trend inversed when the
participants were asked to putt under a high-stress test condition where they
were led to believe that they would receive a monetary reward based on the
evaluation of their performance by a golf professional. 
This illustrates two
key points. 
First, as noted in the introduction, successful performance in
practice is not necessarily indicative of an equally successful performance

under stressful conditions. 
Second, implicit learning provides a certain level
of protection over performance loss or “choking” during competition. 
Thus,
this latter point suggests that there could be some benefit to using implicit
learning strategies with a novice, especially as it relates to success in
competition.
Similarly, just as Masters (1992) has provided evidence for the benefit of
implicit learning strategies for novices, Wulf and Su (2007) and Bell and
Hardy (2009) have provided evidence that explicit learning strategies are
beneficial for experts. 
Specifically, both studies showed that focusing on the
outcome of a golf shot (e.g., club motion, club face position, or flight path of
ball) resulted in significantly better performance and learning than focusing
on the movement process (e.g., arm action or wrist position) in both novices
and experts. 
Thus, this line of inquiry suggests that it is not information, in a
general sense, that disrupts implicit motor learning, rather, it is the direction
of focus (i.e., external or environment vs. 
internal or body) encouraged by the
instruction that determines whether there is a positive or negative impact on
learning. 
What’s more, similar research on the use of analogies has shown
that instructions that highlight the movement outcome or the effect the
movement should have on the environment (e.g., Sprinting: Sprint as fast as
you can past the 10-meter cone or push away from the start line as fast as you
can) through an analogous cue (e.g., Sprinting: Drive out and away from the
start line like a jet taking off), serve to support implicit learning as opposed to
thwart it (Lam et al., 2009). 
Put simply, coaches can think of the explicit
memory system as a conductor in an orchestra, guiding the general direction
or outcome of the composition, while the implicit memory system is the
many musicians that must coordinate their playing, just as joints and muscles
must coordinate motion, generating a piece of music far more complex and
beautiful than anything that would be created in isolation. 
Therefore, just as a
conductor cannot and should not attempt to play every instrument, coaches
should avoid explicit instructions that require the athlete to focus on one
aspect of the movement at the expense of the whole, independent of whether
they are a novice or an expert.
In summary, it is important for coaches to recognize the necessary
interplay between explicit and implicit learning strategies, as it is impossible
to stop an athlete from thinking just as it is impossible to stop a coach from
coaching. 
Thus, it is not a matter of picking sides, rather, coaches need to
know when and how to apply explicit and implicit learning strategies to

steward the athlete’s journey from novice to expert. 
For this reason, the next
two sections will provide explicit and implicit coaching frameworks for
optimizing performance and learning.
EXPLICIT COACHING FRAMEWORK
The 
explicit coaching framework
 is chiefly concerned with the impact
thinking has on the motor skill learning process. 
That is, while athletes may
autogenously derive explicit thoughts concerning the movement they are
learning, especially if the new skill is similar to a movement they know, this
section is primarily concerned with the thoughts that are encouraged by the
instruction and feedback provided by the coach. 
Specifically, instruction is
used to focus an athlete’s attention on the most important characteristics of
the motor skill being learned prior to movement execution, while feedback is
used to inform the athlete of the outcomes (i.e., knowledge of results) and
performance (i.e., knowledge of performance) associated with an already
executed movement. 
Thus, instruction and feedback can be used to shape the
attentional spotlight
 and focus the athlete on the most relevant features of the
motor skill being learned. 
With this in mind, the following section will
provide strategies for optimizing instruction and feedback in the context of
the factors that mediate their influence on the learning process (e.g.,
experience level).
Instruction
Instruction can be considered any verbal information that is provided to the
athlete prior to them performing a given motor skill. 
The purpose of
instruction is to facilitate the athlete focusing their attention on the most
relevant feature of the motor skill being learned. 
For example, if a coach was
teaching an athlete how to perform a vertical jump and they noticed that the
athlete was not fully extending through their hips during the ascent of the
jump, then they may select an instruction or cue that, if focused on during the
jump, will help the athlete improve this attribute of the motor skill. 
This
example illustrates an important assumption that needs to be confirmed for
any coach interested in optimizing the effectiveness of their instructional
strategies. 
Specifically, instructional strategies are only as effective as they

are relevant to the primary motor skill errors. 
That is to say, if a coach directs
their instruction or cue at an irrelevant feature of the movement (e.g., cueing
the upper body during a sprint when the source of the error exists within the
lower body), then the end result will not be favorable, even if the substance
of the instruction is representative of the strategies to follow (Polsgrove,
Parry, & Brown, 2016). 
Thus, the first step to providing the athlete with
explicit information that will support the learning process, is to ensure that
the substance of the information is relevant to overcoming the identified
movement error. 
Both Carson and Collins (2011) and Winkelman (2017)
have provided models that suggest the importance of identifying the source of
the motor skill error as a precursor to the deployment of explicit and implicit
learning strategies.
While the conceptualization of how to instruct has been broadly
researched, the psychological domain of 
attentional focus
 has provided the
greatest level of breadth and depth concerning the optimization of instruction
and cueing (for a review, see Wulf, 2013). 
Specifically, an athlete can focus
internally on the motion of their body (i.e., movement process) or externally
on the effect their movements have on the environment (i.e., movement
outcome) (Wulf et al., 1998). 
More specifically, instruction encouraging an
internal focus will commonly direct attention towards joint motion (e.g.,
“extend your hips” or “flex your knees”) or muscle function (e.g., “squeeze
your glute” or “lengthen your hamstring”), while an external focus
encourages the athlete to focus their attention on the movement outcome
(e.g., “jump as high as you can” or “sprint towards the finish line as fast as
you can”) or the effect on the environment (e.g., “explode off the ground
during the jump” or “push the ground back during the sprint”). 
To illustrate
the application of these instructional strategies, consider the following
example of a coach teaching an athlete how to perform the Olympic lifts. 
In
one instance, the coach could provide an internal cue by telling their athlete
to “focus on explosively extending through your hips,” alternatively, the
coach could provide an external cue by telling their athlete to “focus on
explosively pushing the ground away.” 
While the instructions carry the same
message (i.e., get off the ground “explosively”), the internal cue calls
attention to the body (i.e., hips) and the external cue calls attention to the
environment (i.e., ground). 
These examples lead to an intuitive question,
under what conditions is it best to use instructions or cues that encourage an
internal focus versus an external focus? 
To answer this question, it is helpful

to briefly review the research that has contrasted the differential influence of
internal and external focus on practice performance and learning.
While attentional focus has been widely studied, the following paragraphs
will primarily focus on the literature pertinent to athletic performance (e.g.,
jumping and sprinting). 
For instance, Wulf, Zachry, Granados, and Dufek
(2007) examined the effects of attentional focus on vertical jump
performance. 
The results showed that novices jump significantly higher when
they adopt an external focus (i.e., “focus on the highest rung of the Vertec”)
compared to an internal focus (i.e., “focus on getting the tips of your fingers
as high as possible”). 
Wulf and colleagues (Wulf & Dufek, 2009; Wulf,
Dufek, Lozano, & Pettigrew, 2010) confirmed these findings and found that
underpinning improved vertical jump performance were higher lower body
impulses and joint moments and lower EMG in the lower body within the
external focus condition, which suggests that a more efficient movement
pattern is achieved (Lohse, Sherwood, & Healy, 2010; Vance, Wulf, Tollner,
McNevin, & Mercer, 2004). 
What’s more, these findings have been extended
to horizontal jumping, with all known research on the differential effects of
internal and external focus showing that adopting an external focus of
attention leads to significantly further jump distances during practice (e.g.,
Porter, Anton, & Wu, 2012; Porter, Ostrowski, Nolan, & Wu, 2010; Wu,
Porter, & Brown, 2012).
Similar to the jumping literature, the current evidence suggests that
athletes learning to sprint would be well advised to adopt an external focus of
attention. 
Specifically, Ille, Selin, Do, and Thon (2013) and Porter, Wu,
Crossley, and Knopp (2015) have provided evidence that novices exhibit
superior sprint performance over 10m and 20m when they adopt an external
focus opposed to an internal focus. 
However, both Porter and Sims (2013)
and Winkelman, Clark, and Ryan (2017) have shown that as experience
increases, so does the benefit of the athletes’ normal focus, which is
commonly referred to as the control condition within attentional focus
research. 
This finding makes sense, as one would expect that with experience
comes the development of the implicit motor plan. 
This motor plan does not
require as much explicit attention control, as the pattern has been
consolidated and now exists within automatic motor control structures (Lohse
et al., 2014). 
Thus, from a practical standpoint, it is beneficial to allow the
experienced athlete to perform an increased number of repetitions without
instructional reminders, as this will only strengthen their ability to

autonomously deploy the motor skill when instruction and feedback is not
available from a coach (e.g., competition).
Finally, it is worth noting that the vast majority of research supports the
findings presented above, showing that novices unquestionably benefit from
an external focus of attention (Wulf, 2013), and that the advantage of a
normal focus becomes evident as experience level with the motor skill
increases (e.g., Stoate & Wulf, 2011; Wulf, 2008). 
However, it is worth
noting that research has consistently shown that highly experienced
individuals still benefit from an external focus of attention (e.g., Bell &
Hardy, 2009; Ille et al., 2013; Wulf & Su, 2007). 
What’s more, in support of
these findings, research has shown that an external focus of attention
promotes greater movement velocity (e.g., Vance et al., 2004), force (e.g.,
Halperin, Williams, Martin, & Chapman, 2016), endurance (e.g., Marchant,
Greig, Bullough, & Hitchen, 2011), and efficiency (e.g., Lohse & Sherwood,
2012). 
Considering these findings, it is not surprising that an external focus
of attention has also been associated with greater cerebellar and primary
motor cortex activation than an internal focus of attention (Zentgraf et al.,
2009). 
Thus, one can argue that instruction encouraging an external focus,
while explicit in nature, supports implicit learning to a greater degree than an
internal focus. 
Moreover, this argument aligns with the 
constrained action
hypothesis
, which suggest that an internal focus “constrains the motor system
by interfering with automatic motor control processes that would ‘normally’
regulate the movement”; while an external focus allows the “motor system to
more naturally self-organize, unconstrained by the interference caused by
conscious control attempts” (Wulf, McNevin, & Shea, 2001). 
For this reason,
coaches should prioritize the use of externally focused instructions and cues,
especially as it relates to optimizing the coordination required to perform in
practice and express that performance in the context of competition (see
Winkelman, 2017 for an applied model).
Feedback
While instruction provides guidance prior to the execution of a motor skill,
feedback provides the necessary information required to help the athlete
reflect and apply new information to subsequent practice trials. 
From a
practical perspective, the feedback given after the completion of a practice

trial is often interwoven with the resultant instruction or cues meant to
influence the ensuing practice. 
Thus, feedback plays a primary role in guiding
motor skill learning by providing the substance required to continuously
refresh instructions and cues.
Two forms of feedback have been identified and will be the focus of this
section. 
First, 
knowledge of results
 (KR) provides the athlete with
information about a quantitative outcome. 
This could be how high they
jumped, how fast they covered a distance, their accuracy and thus proximity
to a fixed point, or successful attempts as represented by a percentage.
Alternatively, coaches can provide their athletes with a 
knowledge of
performance
 (KP), which directly relates to the movement process or
technique that led to a given outcome. 
This type of feedback is often
subjective and requires the expertise of a coach. 
Examples of KP can be
further broken down into 
prescriptive feedback,
 whereby the coach provides
the athlete with specific instruction around how to correct an observed
movement error (e.g., “on your next repetition, focus on getting off the
ground faster”), and 
descriptive feedback
, which simply requires the coach to
describe the error without providing any corrective instruction (e.g., “your
lower body was excessively flexed when you hit the ground”). 
Collectively,
KR and KP are both important to guide the learning process, however, the
application of these feedback strategies need to be considered in terms of the
type of skill and the experience level of the athlete.
For coaches to understand how best to apply feedback strategies, it is
important to recognize the fundamental purpose of feedback. 
Specifically, the
central role of feedback is to provide the athlete with pertinent information
that they would not otherwise be aware of if not provided externally. 
Thus,
coaches should seek to provide KR and KP that is not redundant to the task-
intrinsic information associated with a given motor skill. 
To help illustrate
this point, it is instructive to review the recommendations for providing
feedback discussed by Magill (1994).
1. 
If the skill being learned does not allow the learner to detect
critical sensory feedback information, such as when a limb’s spatial
position cannot be seen, then augmented feedback is required.
Recommendation one suggests that augmented feedback is required when
visual or proprioceptive feedback is not available to the athlete or not

associated with an established implicit motor plan. 
Thus, for an athlete just
learning how to Olympic lift or to sprint, for example, it may be important to
provide the athlete with KP on bar position in the case of the former and body
position in the case of the latter. 
However, as the athlete develops an implicit
motor plan and the associated sensory-motor representation (i.e., feel for the
movement), then this information may become redundant to the task-intrinsic
feedback now available to them.
2. 
If the skill being learned involves acquiring a new concept that is
essential for successful performance, such as understanding a unit
of measurement, then again, augmented feedback is required.
Recommendation two encourages coaches to use feedback, specifically KR,
when this information can help the athlete benchmark their performance
against a quantitative outcome. 
For example, providing an athlete information
about jump height or jump distance can help them to benchmark their current
performance against the sensory consequences of achieving that outcome.
They can then compare the 
good
 reps to the 
bad
 ones, which helps the athlete
use sensory feedback associated with the execution of the motor skill to
further refine their performance during practice.
3. 
If the skill provides the learner with all the essential feedback
information needed to learn the skill, then augmented feedback
may not be needed.
As noted earlier, feedback is only impactful when it decreases uncertainty
and provides the athlete with new information. 
Thus, coaches should be
critical to provide feedback that is not available to the athlete and prioritized
based on the most critical movement errors that, if corrected, would allow
learning to continue.
4. 
Skills for which the outcome is easy to determine but the limb
coordination requirements to produce high-level performance are
difficult to develop require knowledge of performance about limb
movement characteristics.
This final recommendation is highly specific to accuracy based tasks. 
These
tasks could include passing a rugby ball, hitting a golf or tennis ball, kicking

a field goal, or shooting a basketball. 
In all cases, there is task-intrinsic
feedback about the outcome, however, less information would be readily
available around the coordination required to achieve the desired outcome,
especially for those that are novices. 
Thus, building on the last point, the
context of the skill is often a key determinate of which type of feedback is
most appropriate.
While the preceding recommendations will guide the selection of
appropriate feedback, there is still a need to understand how often feedback
should be provided, commonly referred to as feedback schedules. 
The basis
for this latter line of inquiry dates back to Salmoni, Schmidt, and Walter
(1984), who suggested that there is a 
guidance effect
 associated with too
much feedback. 
That is, feedback “acts as guidance, with immediate reward
providing more guidance and perhaps leading to a reliance on such feedback
for performance, and hence poorer performance in a transfer test” or during
competition (Salmoni et al., 1984). 
Put simply, if feedback is provided too
often, athletes may become dependent on feedback, possibly ignoring
intrinsic sensory feedback that is important for establishing internal error-
detection mechanisms, and they may also be encouraged to make too many
explicit corrections during practice, which could make it difficult to establish
a stable motor pattern (Anderson, Magill, Sekiya, & Ryan, 2005).
From a practical standpoint, feedback should only be given as often as is
needed to provide the athlete with the information necessary to progress their
performance and learning. 
This will typically mean that more feedback is
provided when an athlete is initially learning a skill, with a progressive
reduction in feedback as the athlete gains experience. 
However, each time the
difficulty of the skill is increased (e.g., progressing from a hang clean to a
power clean), there will be a period of time where feedback is also increased.
Thus, there is an interaction between experience level, skill complexity, and
the amount of feedback required to support the learning process (Guadagnoli,
Dornier, & Tandy, 1996). 
In an effort to help coaches optimize their feedback
frequency, strategies have emerged to help overcome the negative impact of
too much feedback. 
These strategies include 
bandwidth feedback
 (e.g., Lee &
Carnahan, 1990), where feedback is only provided if the error is outside of a
preset parameter or bandwidth (e.g., KR is only provided if bar speed during
a bench press drops below a certain velocity or KP is provided only if a
certain technical error is observed); 
faded feedback
 (e.g., Winstein &
Schmidt, 1990), where feedback is systematically reduced over a given

number of practice trials (e.g., 100% feedback for first set of 10 trials, 66%
feedback for second set of 10 trials, and 33% feedback for third set of 10
trials); 
summary feedback
 (e.g., Schmidt, Lange, & Young, 1990), where
feedback is provided as a summary following a certain number of trials (e.g.,
KR about jump height is provided after five jumps have been performed or
KP about prominent technical errors is provided after three sprint repetitions
have been performed); 
average feedback
 (e.g., Young & Schmidt, 1992),
where feedback is represented as an average following a certain number of
trails (e.g., KR concerning sprint times is averaged and provided to the
athlete after three sprint efforts or KP about the most common error observed
across three repetitions of an agility drill); and 
self-controlled feedback
 (e.g.,
Chiviacowsky & Wulf, 2005; Janelle, Kim, & Singer, 1995), where the
athlete is given the option to request feedback whenever they feel it is
necessary (e.g., based on the task type and difficulty, athletes can request KR
and KP at the rate that they feel is most appropriate for them). 
Note that all of
these feedback scheduling strategies have evidence to support their efficacy,
however, as noted earlier, this is often mediated by the type of skill, the
complexity of the skill, and the experience level of the individual
(Guadagnoli et al., 1996). 
Thus, coaches are encouraged to pay close
attention to the progress within practice and the level of retention in
competition, using these observable factors as guides to support the selection
of an optimal feedback strategy.
In summary, instruction provides a basis for guiding the motor learning
process, while feedback plays a central role in refining the motor learning
process. 
This interaction creates a learning loop, ensuring that explicit
coaching strategies steward the learning process, but not at the expense of a
robust implicit motor plan. 
In-line with this conclusion is the evidence
showing that an external focus helps protect against choking under pressure
(e.g., Lawrence, Gottwald, Khan, & Kramer, 2012; Ong, Bowcock, &
Hodges, 2010). 
Thus, in light of the strategies discussed above, coaches are
advised to keep their messages brief as to not overload working memory (i.e.,
one major point per repetition), provide feedback at a frequency that guides
the learning process without creating dependence on the coach, and to ensure
the substance of the message encourages an external focus of attention when
at all possible.

IMPLICIT COACHING FRAMEWORK
The 
implicit coaching framework
 is primarily concerned with the ecological
dynamics associated with the learning process. 
Specifically, ecological
dynamics describes how behavior emerges in accordance with the interaction
of an organism, in this case the athlete, and their environment (Gibson,
1979). 
Within motor learning theory, an ecological or dynamical systems
view is often associated with a constraint-led approach to teaching (Newell,
1985; Newell, 1986). 
That is, motor behavior is said to emerge as a result of
the constraints inherent to the body, the environment, and the task. 
Thus, a
change to the body (e.g., strength or mobility), the environment (e.g., the
surface), and/or the task parameters (e.g., rules of a game) will result in a
different movement solution (Newell, 1986). 
From this perspective, a
constraint-led approach would suggest that in certain instances, a coach could
manipulate constraints to encourage one movement solution over another.
Intuitively, coaches do this all the time, however, it may be a function of
chance rather than choice. 
Therefore, the following section will focus on how
to effectively use a constraint-led approach to support learning through an
implicitly emphasized pathway.
Constraint-led approach
From a coaching perspective, it is best to consider the constraint-led approach
as a conceptual framework that can be used to design learning rich
environments. 
Specifically, coaches can systematically select constraints
within the context of practice and specific drills to encourage the formation of
adaptable “coordinative structures” (i.e., technique) (Anson, Elliott, &
Davids, 2005). 
Thus, “constraints define the boundaries within which [the]
human neuromuscular system must operate and, therefore, shape the
emergence of patterns of coordination and control” (Glazier & Davids, 2009).
This idea that movement emerges in accordance with internal and external
constraints was referred to by Bernstein (1967) as the “degrees-of-freedom
problem” (e.g., Vereijken, Emmerik, Whiting, & Newell, 1992) and is now
commonly described as the “Bernstein problem” (Turvey, 1990). 
The notion
that movements are a solution to a problem provides coaches with an
accessible metaphor for designing practice. 
That is, coaches can view

FIGURE 19.1
themselves as teachers, the athlete as their student, and movement as the
subject being taught. 
Therefore, practice is designed to pose a series of
problems (i.e., drills or tactical scenarios) that the athlete must answer by
searching for the most effective movement solution.
Newell (1986) interacting constraints model.
To illustrate this last point, consider the following examples. 
First,
imagine a coach trying teaching their athlete how to squat for the first time.
Suppose that they notice the athlete’s knees consistently going inward (i.e.,
valgus) despite providing explicit instruction to focus on vertical alignment.
In this instance, if instruction is ineffective, then the coach can use a
constraint to help the athlete self-correct. 
Specifically, a common constraint
used in this scenario would be to place an elastic mini-band around the knees
(i.e., 
task constraint
) and instruct the athlete to “keep tension through the
band” as they squat. 
This constraint provides new sensory information about
the knee position, increasing the “signal” and, thus, the salience of the error
to be corrected. 
Second, if the same coach is instructing a different athlete
how to perform a kettlebell swing and finds that they are not fully extending
their hips during the completion of the motion, then they may decide to use a
spatial constraint
. 
Specifically, the coach can have the athlete swing the
kettlebell in front of a wall. 
This limits the athlete’s ability to leave the
kettlebell too far forward, encouraging effective hip extension as to avoid
hitting the wall. 
Thus, while a change in proprioceptive sense led to the

change in the last example, in the present example, it would be the presence
of new visual information that drives the change in movement behavior.
Finally, consider a coach who has identified that their athlete tends to look
down when attempting to cut or side-step an opponent while on offense. 
In
this case, the coach can deploy 
spatial
 and 
temporal task
 constraints to
encourage the athlete to perceive and act quicker than they currently are.
Specifically, the coach can design a 5m × 5m box, marked by cones in each
corner, and have the athlete in question stand in one corner and face a
defender in the diagonal corner. 
The coach would then instruct the athlete,
ball in hand, to sprint forward and attempt to exit the upper left or right sides
of the box without being tagged by the defender. 
The box provides the spatial
constraint, limiting the amount of movement options, while the defender
provides the time constraint, limiting how much time the athlete has to make
their decision. 
This environment creates a safe and repeatable opportunity for
the player to work through the error and improve their ability to pick-up the
correct visual information, allowing them to anticipate the defender’s
movement and side-step in a game-relevant context. 
The key similarity in the
examples noted above, which qualifies why these strategies are referred to as
implicit, is that the athlete would not be aware of the specific reason for the
improvement, however, they would be quite aware that they are making
progress. 
Thus, unlike explicit learning strategies, constraint-led implicit
strategies allow learning to take place outside the athlete’s conscious
awareness of the source of improvement.
To place these examples in a broader context, it is helpful to understand
the various categories of constraints. 
Newell (1986) presented the first
theoretical model proposing how movement emerges from the interaction of
constraints that exist within the organism, environment, and task (see Fig.
19.1). 
From an organism standpoint, there are two major categories of
constraints, structural and functional (Glazier & Davids, 2009; Newell,
1986). 
Structural constraints are relatively stable over time and include
genetic (e.g., muscle fiber type) and anthropometric (e.g., height, weight, and
limb length) features (Shemmell, Tresilian, Riek, & Carson, 2004). 
However,
structural constraints can change, albeit slowly, with improvements in
strength, power, and flexibility being exemplars. 
Conversely, functional
constraints are more susceptible to rapid change and include psychological
attributes such attention, memory, intention, perception, emotion, and
decision-making (Glazier & Davids, 2009; Kelso, 1997). 
Thus, as highlighted

by the 
explicit coaching framework,
 the instruction, cues, and feedback we
use operate as informational constraints that directly influence the behavior
and movement solutions deployed by athletes.
As the name implies, environmental constraints include all constraints
external to the organism. 
This would include light, temperature, surface,
implements, and gravity (Glazier & Davids, 2009). 
As one might assume,
these constraints are more difficult to manipulate, as most coaches cannot
quickly change temperature, altitude, and/or the type of surface that they are
playing on. 
What’s more, it is for this reason that many movement behaviors
become ubiquitous in sport, as they emerge as a direct consequence of a
constant environment. 
While most environmental constraints are constant,
those that can be varied are often associated with the task itself and can be
defined as such.
Task constraints are a form of environmental constraint (Newell & Jordan,
2007) that directly relate to the desired outcomes of the movement (e.g.,
lifting the weight or making the shot). 
Specifically, task constraints include
the space the movement is being performed in, the time the movement can be
performed in, and the goals, rules, and equipment associated with the
movement behavior. 
While the sport dictates space (i.e., field size), time (i.e.,
game time), and rules at one level, the opponent, in team sports, is equally
able to further manipulate the space (e.g., pushing a player into touch in
rugby) and time (e.g., charge a player, forcing them to quickly make a
decision) an athlete has to achieve a given outcome via a specific movement
behavior. 
Thus, constraint couplings become ubiquitous in sport and typically
create the boundaries for teaching an athlete how to play a given sport;
however, it is equally viable to manipulate these constraints within the
context of practice to encourage one movement solution over another.
Therefore, whether trying to improve the accuracy with which an athlete
kicks and passes, or how that same athlete coordinates the major upper and
lower body lifts in the weight room, all movement is subject to modification
through a constraint-led approach.
In summary, movement behavior is constantly being nudged by the
constraints that exist within and outside of the human body. 
From birth,
constraints guide and influence our development (Thelen, Fisher, & Ridley-
Johnson, 1984), placing the environment front and center as the first
coach/teacher one meets in life. 
What’s more, there is a strong evolutionary
basis for implicit learning (Reber, 1992) and, thus, the importance of

constraints. 
This is not surprising considering that movement emerged long
before one had the ability to think about movement (Sugarman, 2002). 
For
this reason, coaches are encouraged to define the stable and variable
constraints that exist across the organism, the environment, and the task,
relative to their sporting context, as these constraints will impose the largest
pressure on learning. 
In identifying these constraints, coaches can prioritize
how best to manipulate their influence on the learning process. 
For example,
an athlete who lacks the requisite relative strength and power (i.e., organismic
constraints) to effectively accelerate may benefit from additional work within
the weight room, as increased sprinting on the field will not improve these
qualities to the same degree. 
Conversely, if a coach has identified a player
who needs to improve their acceleration ability, however, their relative
strength and power is already established, then it may be best to use
environmental and task constraints to encourage improvements in the
coordination associated with their acceleration. 
As illustrated by these
examples, the constraint-led approach can serve to inform an athletic profile,
providing coaches with a framework to map and prioritize where and how
time should be spent to support the development of the athlete.
CONCLUSION
The primary objective of every coach is to guide the learning process,
encouraging progressive improvements in practice performance that transfer
to the competitive environment. 
As discussed, when a gap emerges between
the performance observed in practice and competition, an athlete is often
labeled as “choking.” 
However, from a skill acquisition standpoint, this gap
is also a reflection of the quality of the learning process. 
Thus, coaches are
encouraged to actively monitor and assess learning outside of the context
with which learning is meant to take place (i.e., practice). 
From a sport
coaching perspective, this is as simple as benchmarking an athlete’s
performance in practice versus competition. 
While a gap may have to do with
susceptibility to anxiety and worry, this cannot explain all underperformance.
Thus, coaches can use this as feedback to adapt their teaching and their
approach to designing learning environments. 
Equally, a strength and
conditioning coach can benchmark their effectiveness by having their
experienced athletes perform a given lift without any initial instruction. 
This

serves to see what information has been retained and can be applied without
the explicit guidance of the coach, highlighting any implicit learning that has
taken place. 
In a way, the quality of the learning observed within the athlete
acts as a constraint on the way the coach deploys explicit and implicit
learning strategies. 
For example, an athlete that has difficulty transferring
performance in practice, when a coach is present, to the competitive
environment, where the coach is absent, may depend too much on explicit
guidance. 
Similarly, an athlete who is struggling to understand a drill or make
progress within a given lift may benefit from explicit information that
externally guides their attention towards the desired outcomes. 
Thus, while
all motor learning must find a resting place within the implicit memory
system, the pathway taken to get there will be highly individualized and
guided by the seamless integration of explicit and implicit coaching
strategies.
REFERENCES
Anderson, D.I., Magill, R.A., Sekiya, H., & Ryan, G. 
(2005). 
Support for an explanation of
the guidance effect in motor skill learning. 
Journal of Motor Behavior, 37
(3), 231–238.
Anderson, J.R. 
(1982). 
Acquisition of cognitive skill. 
Psychological Review, 89
(4), 369.
Anson, G., Elliott, D., & Davids, K. 
(2005). 
Information processing and constraints-based
views of skill acquisition: Divergent or complementary? 
Motor Control, 9
(3), 217–241.
Baumeister, R.F. 
(1984). 
Choking under pressure: Self-consciousness and paradoxical
effects of incentives on skillful performance. 
Journal of Personality and Social
Psychology, 46
(3), 610.
Beilock, S. 
(2010). 
Choke: What the Secrets of the Brain Reveal About Getting It Right
When You Have To
. 
New York, NY: Simon and Schuster.
Beilock, S.L., Carr, T.H., MacMahon, C., & Starkes, J.L. 
(2002). 
When paying attention
becomes counterproductive: Impact of divided versus skill-focused attention on novice
and experienced performance of sensorimotor skills. 
Journal of Experimental
Psychology: Applied, 8
(1), 6–16.
Bell, J.J. 
& Hardy, J. 
(2009). 
Effects of attentional focus on skilled performance in golf.
Journal of Applied Sport Psychology, 21
(2), 163–177.
Bernstein, N.A. 
(1967). 
The Co-ordination and Regulation of Movements
. 
London:
Pergamon Press.
Boyd, L.A. 
& Winstein, C.J. 
(2006). 
Explicit information interferes with implicit motor
learning of both continuous and discrete movement tasks after stroke. 
Journal of
Neurologic Physical Therapy, 30
(2), 46–57.
Carson, H.J. 
& Collins, D. 
(2011). 
Refining and regaining skills in fixation/diversification

stage performers: The Five-A Model. 
International Review of Sport and Exercise
Psychology, 4
(2), 146–167.
Castaneda, B. 
& Gray, R. 
(2007). 
Effects of focus of attention on baseball batting
performance in players of differing skill levels. 
Journal of Sport and Exercise
Psychology, 29
(1), 60–77.
Chiviacowsky, S. 
& Wulf, G. 
(2005). 
Self-controlled feedback is effective if it is based on
the learner’s performance. 
Research Quarterly for Exercise and Sport, 76
(1), 42–48.
Fitts, P.M. 
(1964). 
Categories of human learning. 
In A. 
W. 
Melton (Ed.), 
Perceptual–
Motor Skills Learning
. 
New York, NY: Academic Press.
Gallagher, W. 
(2009). 
Rapt: Attention and the Focused Life
. 
New York, NY: Penguin.
Gibson, J.J. 
(1979). 
The Ecological Approach to Visual Perception
. 
Hillsdale, NJ:
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Glazier, P.S. 
& Davids, K. 
(2009). 
Constraints on the complete optimization of human
motion. 
Sports Medicine, 39
(1), 15–28.
Grafton, S.T., Hazeltine, E., & Ivry, R. 
(1995). 
Functional mapping of sequence learning in
normal humans. 
Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 7
(4), 497–510.
Guadagnoli, M.A., Dornier, L.A., & Tandy, R.D. 
(1996). 
Optimal length for summary
knowledge of results: The influence of task-related experience and complexity.
Research Quarterly for Exercise and Sport, 67
(2), 239–248.
Halperin, I., Williams, K.J., Martin, D.T., & Chapman, D.W. 
(2016). 
The effects of
attentional focusing instructions on force production during the isometric mid-thigh pull.
The Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research, 30
(4), 919–923.
Ille, A., Selin, I., Do, M.C., & Thon, B. 
(2013). 
Attentional focus effects on sprint start
performance as a function of skill level. 
Journal of Sports Sciences, 31
(15), 1705–1712.
Ivry, R.B. 
(1996). 
The representation of temporal information in perception and motor
control. 
Current Opinion in Neurobiology, 6
(6), 851–857.
Janelle, C.M., Kim, J., & Singer, R.N. 
(1995). 
Subject-controlled performance feedback
and learning of a closed motor skill. 
Perceptual and Motor Skills, 81
(2), 627–634.
Jueptner, M., Stephan, K.M., Frith, C.D., Brooks, D.J., Frackowiak, R.S., & Passingham,
R.E. 
(1997). 
Anatomy of motor learning. 
I. 
Frontal cortex and attention to action.
Journal of Neurophysiology, 77
(3), 1313–1324.
Kahneman, D. 
(2011). 
Thinking Fast and Slow
. 
New York, NY: Farrar, Straus and Giroux.
Kelso, J.S. 
(1997). 
Dynamic Patterns: The Self-Organization of Brain and Behavior.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Kleynen, M., Braun, S.M., Bleijlevens, M.H., Lexis, M.A., Rasquin, S.M., Halfens, J.,
Wilson, M.R., Beurskens, A.J., Masters, R.S. 
(2014). 
Using a Delphi technique to seek
consensus regarding definitions, descriptions and classification of terms related to
implicit and explicit forms of motor learning. 
PLoS One, 9
(6), e100227.
Lam, W., Maxwell, J., & Masters, R. 
(2009). 
Analogy versus explicit learning of a
modified basketball shooting task: Performance and kinematic outcomes. 
Journal of
Sports Sciences, 27
(2), 179–191.
Lawrence, G.P., Gottwald, V.M., Khan, M.A., & Kramer, R.S. 
(2012). 
The movement
kinematics and learning strategies associated with adopting different foci of attention

during both acquisition and anxious performance. 
Frontiers in Psychology, 3
(468), 1–
11.
Lee, T.D. 
& Carnahan, H. 
(1990). 
Bandwidth knowledge of results and motor learning:
More than just a relative frequency effect. 
The Quarterly Journal of Experimental
Psychology, 42
(4), 777–789.
Lohse, K., Wadden, K., Boyd, L., & Hodges, N. 
(2014). 
Motor skill acquisition across
short and long time scales: A meta-analysis of neuroimaging data. 
Neuropsychologia,
59
, 130–141.
Lohse, K.R. 
& Sherwood, D.E. 
(2012). 
Thinking about muscles: The neuromuscular effects
of attentional focus on accuracy and fatigue. 
Acta Psychologica, 140
(3), 236–245.
Lohse, K.R., Sherwood, D.E., & Healy, A.F. 
(2010). 
How changing the focus of attention
affects performance, kinematics, and electromyography in dart throwing. 
Human
Movement Science, 29
(4), 542–555.
Magill, R.A. 
(1994). 
The influence of augmented feedback on skill learning depends on
characteristics of the skill and the learner. 
Quest, 46
(3), 314–327.
Marchant, D.C., Greig, M., Bullough, J., & Hitchen, D. 
(2011). 
Instructions to adopt an
external focus enhance muscular endurance. 
Research Quarterly for Exercise and Sport,
82
(3), 466–473.
Masters, R.S. 
(1992). 
Knowledge, knerves and know-how: The role of explicit versus
implicit knowledge in the breakdown of a complex motor skill under pressure. 
British
Journal of Psychology, 83
(3), 343–358.
Miller, G. 
(1994). 
The magical number seven, plus or minus two: Some limits on our
capacity for processing information. 
1956. 
Psychological Review, 101
(2), 343–352.
Newell, K. 
(1985). 
Coordination, control and skill. 
Advances in Psychology, 27
, 295–317.
Newell, K.M. 
(1986). 
Constraints on the development of coordination. 
Motor Development
in Children: Aspects of Coordination and Control, 34
, 341–360.
Newell, K.M. 
& Jordan, K. 
(2007). 
Task constraints and movement organization: A
common language. 
In W. 
E. 
Davis & G. 
D. 
Broadhead (Eds.), 
Ecological Task Analysis
and Movement.
 Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics. 
5–23.
Ong, N.T., Bowcock, A., & Hodges, N.J. 
(2010). 
Manipulations to the timing and type of
instructions to examine motor skill performance under pressure. 
Frontiers in
Psychology, 1
(196), 1–13.
Poldrack, R.A., Clark, J., Pare-Blagoev, E.J., Shohamy, D., Creso Moyano, J., Myers, C.,
& Gluck, M.A. 
(2001). 
Interactive memory systems in the human brain. 
Nature,
414
(6863), 546–550.
Polsgrove, M.J., Parry, T.E., & Brown, N.T. 
(2016). 
Poor quality of instruction leads to
poor motor performance regardless of internal or external focus of attention.
International Journal of Exercise Science, 9
(2), 10.
Porter, J.M., Anton, P.M., & Wu, W.F. 
(2012). 
Increasing the distance of an external focus
of attention enhances standing long jump performance. 
Journal of Strength and
Conditioning Research, 26
(9), 2389–2393.
Porter, J.M., Ostrowski, E.J., Nolan, R.P., & Wu, W.F. 
(2010). 
Standing long-jump
performance is enhanced when using an external focus of attention. 
Journal of Strength

and Conditioning Research, 24
(7), 1746–1750.
Porter, J.M. 
& Sims, B. 
(2013). 
Altering focus of attention influences elite athletes
sprinting performance. 
International Journal of Coaching Science, 7
(2), 41–51.
Porter, J.M., Wu, W.F.W., Crossley, R.M., & Knopp, S.W. 
(2015). 
Adopting an external
focus of attention improves sprinting performance in low-skilled sprinters. 
Journal of
Strength and Conditioning Research, 29
(4), 947–953.
Reber, A.S. 
(1992). 
The cognitive unconscious: An evolutionary perspective.
Consciousness and Cognition, 1
(2), 93–133.
Salmoni, A.W., Schmidt, R.A., & Walter, C.B. 
(1984). 
Knowledge of results and motor
learning: A review and critical reappraisal. 
Psychological Bulletin, 95
(3), 355.
Schmidt, R.A., Lange, C., & Young, D.E. 
(1990). 
Optimizing summary knowledge of
results for skill learning. 
Human Movement Science, 9
(3), 325–348.
Shemmell, J., Tresilian, J.R., Riek, S., & Carson, R.G. 
(2004). 
Musculoskeletal constraints
on the acquisition of motor skills. 
In A. 
M. 
Williams & N. 
J. 
Hodges (Eds.), 
Skill
Acquisition in Sport: Research, Theory and Practice
. 
London: Routledge. 
390–408.
Soderstrom, N.C. 
& Bjork, R.A. 
(2015). 
Learning versus performance: An integrative
review. 
Perspectives on Psychological Science, 10
(2), 176–199.
Song, S. 
(2009). 
Consciousness and the consolidation of motor learning. 
Behavioural Brain
Research, 196
(2), 180–186.
Stoate, I. 
& Wulf, G. 
(2011). 
Does the attentional focus adopted by swimmers affect their
performance? 
International Journal of Sports Science and Coaching, 6
(1), 99–108.
Sugarman, R. 
(2002). 
Evolution and executive functions: why our toolboxes are empty.
Revista Española de Neuropsicología, 4
(4), 351–377.
Thelen, E., Fisher, D.M., & Ridley-Johnson, R. 
(1984). 
The relationship between physical
growth and a newborn reflex. 
Infant Behavior and Development, 7
(4), 479–493.
Toni, I., Krams, M., Turner, R., & Passingham, R.E. 
(1998). 
The time course of changes
during motor sequence learning: A whole-brain fMRI study. 
Neuroimage, 8
(1), 50–61.
Turvey, M.T. 
(1990). 
Coordination. 
American Psychologist, 45
(8), 938–953.
Vance, J., Wulf, G., Tollner, T., McNevin, N., & Mercer, J. 
(2004). 
EMG activity as a
function of the performer’s focus of attention. 
Journal of Motor Behavior, 36
(4), 450–
459.
Vereijken, B., Emmerik, R.E.A.V., Whiting, H.T.A., & Newell, K.M. 
(1992). 
Free(z)ing
degrees of freedom in skill acquisition. 
Journal of Motor Behavior, 24
(1), 133–142.
Vidoni, E.D., & Boyd, L.A. 
(2007). 
Achieving enlightenment: What do we know about the
implicit learning system and its interaction with explicit knowledge? 
Journal of
Neurologic Physical Therapy, 31
(3), 145–154.
William, J. 
(1890). 
The Principles of Psychology.
 New York, NY: Dover Publications.
Winkelman, N.C. 
(2017). 
Attentional Focus and Cueing for Speed Development. 
Strength
and Conditioning Journal
.
Winkelman, N.C., Clark, K.P., & Ryan, L.J. 
(2017). 
Experience level influences the effect
of attentional focus on sprint performance. 
Human Movement Science, 52
, 84–95.
Winstein, C.J. 
& Schmidt, R.A. 
(1990). 
Reduced frequency of knowledge of results
enhances motor skill learning. 
Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory,

and Cognition, 16
(4), 677.
Wu, W.F., Porter, J.M., & Brown, L.E. 
(2012). 
Effect of attentional focus strategies on
peak force and performance in the standing long jump. 
Journal of Strength and
Conditioning Research, 26
(5), 1226–1231.
Wulf, G. 
(2008). 
Attentional focus effects in balance acrobats. 
Research Quarterly for
Exercise and Sport, 79
(3), 319–325.
Wulf, G. 
(2013). 
Attentional focus and motor learning: A review of 15 years. 
International
Review of Sport and Exercise Psychology, 6
(1), 77–104.
Wulf, G. 
& Dufek, J.S. 
(2009). 
Increased jump height with an external focus due to
enhanced lower extremity joint kinetics. 
Journal of Motor Behavior, 41
(5), 401–409.
Wulf, G., Dufek, J.S., Lozano, L., & Pettigrew, C. 
(2010). 
Increased jump height and
reduced EMG activity with an external focus. 
Human Movement Science, 29
(3), 440–
448.
Wulf, G., Höß, M., & Prinz, W. 
(1998). 
Instructions for motor learning: Differential effects
of internal versus external focus of attention. 
Journal of Motor Behavior, 30
(2), 169–
179.
Wulf, G., McNevin, N., & Shea, C.H. 
(2001). 
The automaticity of complex motor skill
learning as a function of attentional focus. 
The Quarterly Journal of Experimental
Psychology, 54
(4), 1143–1154.
Wulf, G. 
& Su, J. 
(2007). 
An external focus of attention enhances golf shot accuracy in
beginners and experts. 
Research Quarterly for Exercise and Sport, 78
(4), 384–389.
Wulf, G., Zachry, T., Granados, C., & Dufek, J. 
(2007). 
Increases in jump-and-reach height
through an external focus of attention. 
International Journal of Sports Science and
Coaching, 2
(3), 275–284.
Young, D.E. 
& Schmidt, R.A. 
(1992). 
Augmented kinematic feedback for motor learning.
Journal of Motor Behavior, 24
(3), 261–273.
Zentgraf, K., Lorey, B., Bischoff, M., Zimmermann, K., Stark, R., & Munzert, J. 
(2009).
Neural correlates of attentional focusing during finger movements: A fMRI study.
Journal of Motor Behavior, 41
(6), 535–541.

Index
 
 
 
Page numbers in italics refer to figures. 
Page numbers in bold refer to tables.
absolute strength phase (weightlifting) 
264
acceleration 
see
 
sprint running
accentuated eccentric training 
25
accuracy based tasks, and feedback 
338
active heat maintenance 
158
acute: chronic workload ratio 
144
–
145
, 
145
; calculation of 
146
acute training load 
144
adaptation 
118
–
122
; biological 
137
–
138
, 
137
–
138
; general adaptation
syndrome 
120
, 
121
, 
137
, 
137
; muscular 
63
, 
118
, 
276
–
277
; neural 
277
; to
plyometric training 
276
–
278
; 
vs.
 recovery 
179
–
181
; stimulus-fatigue-
recovery-adaptation theory 
120
, 
121
, 
122
adenosine monophosphate-activated kinase (AMPK) 
103
adenosine triphosphate (ATP) 
87
–
88
, 
89
, 
234
aerobic capacity 
73
, 
81
aerobic fitness 
72
–
73
; exercise intensity zones 
75
–
76
, 
76
; high-intensity
training 
77
–
79
; low-intensity/easy training 
76
; measuring 
74
–
75
;
psychological determinants of endurance performance 
73
–
74
; and
repeated-sprint ability 
91
, 
92
–
93
; role in repeated sprint activity sports
80
–
81
; small-sided games training for 
81
–
83
; strength training for 
79
–
80
;
threshold/steady training 
77
, 
77
; training 
75
–
83
, 
93
aerobic metabolism 
91
–
92
aerobic power 
73
, 
81
, 
82
after-effects of training 
122
agility: definition of 
292
; perceptual-cognitive factors underpinning 
298
–
299
;
programming to improve 
305
; qualitative evaluation of 
302
–
303
, 
303
;
quantitative evaluation of 
300
, 
301
, 
302
; testing 
300
; 
see also
 
change of
direction (COD)

air/wind resistance, in sprint running 
312
alternate-leg bounding 
156
, 
282
amortization phase (stretch-shortening cycle) 
274
–
275
5’ AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) 
180
anaerobic glycolysis 
89
–
90
; hydrogen ion flux and buffer capacity 
90
–
91
anaerobic power 
95
androgen receptors, and resistance training 
57
ankle jump 
279
ankle stiffness, and performance 
46
, 
50
anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries: Functional Movement Screen
214
–
215
; Landing Error Scoring System 
216
, 
217
; single leg hop 
221
, 
222
antioxidants (AO), for recovery 
171
–
174
attentional focus 
3
; and instruction 
334
–
335
; and learning 
329
, 
332
augmented feedback 
240
, 
337
average feedback 
338
back door cut 
304
background of athletes 
6
back squat 
27
, 
239
, 
250
; force-velocity characteristics in 
231
; load placement
in 
232
; using variable resistance with chains 
27
, 
28
ballistic exercises: complex training 
25
; and firing frequency 
19
; for muscular
power/strength 
29
; and post-activation 
potentiation 
156
–
157
; and
resistance training 
233
–
234
bandwidth feedback 
338
barbell hip thrust 
232
basal ganglia 
330
–
331
basketball players, aerobic fitness of 
80
–
81
behaviour: and cortisol 
65
–
66
; and testosterone 
58
benchmarking, and feedback 
337
bench press: ballistic 
233
; using variable resistance with elastic bands 
27
, 
28
“Bernstein problem” 
340
bilateral hops 
281
, 
282
bilateral squat 
239
bilateral training, for muscular power/strength 
26
–
27
binomial distribution 
141
biological adaptation 
137
–
138
, 
137
–
138
biomechanics 
4
, 
4
; of change of direction 
292
–
296
; of overhead squat 
207
; of

sprint acceleration 
313
–
314
block periodisation 
20
bodyweight exercise, for muscular power/strength 
22
–
23
box jumps 
283
brain regions associated with memory 
330
–
331
braking phase: change of direction 
292
, 
297
; sprint running 
312
, 
314
, 
315
;
SSC tasks 
41
, 
45
; vertical jump 
196
, 
197
breath-by-breath systems 
74
British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (BASES) 
4
buffer capacity 
90
–
91
caffeine 
152
, 
160
calisthenics 
158
carbohydrate (CHO) supplementation, for recovery 
169
–
171
cardio-respiratory development, and concurrent training 
103
–
104
cardiovascular fitness 
see
 
aerobic fitness
carnosine 
90
catch, snatch/clean 
253
–
255
, 
254
–
255
catching derivatives, weightlifting 
259
–
260
cautionary coach feedback (VCCF) 
59
, 
154
cellular stress, cold water immersion for 
174
centre of mass (COM) 
295
, 
299
, 
312
, 
315
cerebellum 
330
change of direction (COD): biomechanics of 
292
–
296
; capacity building and
skill enhancement 
304
; deficit 
299
, 
302
, 
302
, 
303
; definition of 
291
–
292
;
development model 
304
, 
305
; impulse and ground contact times during
292
–
295
, 
293
, 
294
; joint kinematics and kinetics during 
295
–
296
;
perceptual-cognitive factors underpinning agility 
298
–
299
; physical
capacities underpinning 
297
–
298
; plant phase 
292
–
294
, 
293
; and
plyometric training 
278
; programming to improve 
305
; qualitative
evaluation of 
302
–
303
, 
303
; quantitative evaluation of 
300
, 
301
, 
302
, 
302
;
return to play of athletes 
302
–
303
, 
303
; scientific research and current
applied practice 
299
–
300
; stance phase 
292
; underpinning factors related
to 
296
–
299
; 
see also
 
agility
change of direction speed (CODS): definition of 
292
; tests 
300
choking 
327
, 
328
, 
332
, 
333
, 
342
chronic training load 
144
, 
147

circadian rhythm, and testosterone release 
60
, 
152
clean (weightlifting): catch 
253
–
255
, 
254
–
255
; first pull 
250
, 
252
, 
252
,
265
–
266
; hang power clean 
239
, 
259
; recovery 
255
, 
256
; second pull 
253
,
254
, 
260
; snatch/clean transition 
252
–
253
, 
253
; 
see also
 
power clean
clothing, for maintaining heat 
157
–
158
cluster sets 
235
–
236
, 
236
; weightlifting 
259
–
260
, 
263
coach 
1
–
3
; considerations for 
6
–
8
, 
7
coaching 
7
–
8
, 
327
–
329
; analysis 
6
; constraint-led approach 
304
, 
339
–
342
;
contexts 
3
; cues 
240
; explicit coaching framework 
334
–
339
; implicit
coaching framework 
339
–
342
; neuroscience of implicit and explicit
learning 
329
–
332
; non-contact 
5
–
6
, 
7
; science of 
3
–
4
; stage models of
motor skill learning 
332
–
333
cold water immersion (CWI), for recovery 
174
–
175
, 
176
–
177
; during
endurance training 
180
–
181
; during strength training 
179
–
180
combination loading 
30
, 
231
communication 
3
–
4
competence 
3
competition: demands 
6
; pre-competition strategies to pre-training 
158
–
159
;
recovery strategies for 
181
; resistance training before 
152
competitive performance 
327
competitive phase of periodisation 
117
complex training (CT) 
277
; for muscular power/strength 
25
–
26
compression garments, for recovery 
177
–
178
concentric phase (stretch-shortening cycle) 
275
concurrent training 
79
, 
101
, 
159
; decision making process during periods of
110
; frequency, volume, and mode 
108
–
109
; intensity 
107
–
108
;
interference effect 
102
–
104
; periodisation 
104
–
105
; recovery 
106
–
107
;
session, sequencing 
105
–
106
; strategies to minimise interference 
104
–
109
confidence 
3
, 
8
conjugate sequence system 
128
–
129
, 
129
, 
129
connection 
3
, 
8
constrained action hypothesis 
336
constraint-led approach 
304
, 
339
–
342
constraints model (Newell) 
340
, 
341
contexts 
3
, 
75
control condition 
335
Cori cycle 
90

cortisol 
60
, 
64
, 
234
; and behaviour 
65
–
66
; and circadian rhythm 
152
;
concentration levels 
65
; and concurrent training sequencing 
106
;
moderating effect on testosterone 
65
–
66
; 
see also
 
testosterone
countermovement jump (CMJ) 
193
, 
279
; force-time curve 
197
countermovement shrug 
260
coupled successive system 
see
 
conjugate sequence system
creatine 
152
, 
160
creatine kinase (CK) 
169
cricket, training loads in 
144
criterion method, for data analysis 
197
critical non-essentials (CNe) 
6
cross-sectional area (CSA), muscle: and concurrent training 
102
–
103
; and
muscular power/strength 
14
–
16
, 
16
, 
17
cryotherapy, for recovery 
174
–
175
; whole body cryotherapy 
175
–
177
cueing: plyometric training 
279
, 
281
; resistance training 
240
; 
see also
feedback, coaching
; 
instruction, coaching
cyclists: cold water immersion for 
180
; recovery of 
173
data analysis 
4
; fitness testing 
196
–
198
, 
197
, 
198
; for RSA training 
96
declarative memory 
see
 
explicit memory
decrease in the ratio of force (DRF), in sprint running 
316
, 
317
, 
318
, 
322
–
323
deep squats 
215
, 
230
degrees-of-freedom problem 
see
 
Bernstein problem
demands, sport/competition 
6
depth jumps 
156
, 
283
descriptive feedback 
336
detraining 
120
dip phase, jerk 
255
–
256
, 
256
distance runners, and motor unit recruitment 
19
dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) 
330
, 
331
dose-response relationship 
78
, 
79
, 
144
Douglas bag method 
74
drop jumps (DJs) 
45
–
46
, 
279
, 
281
, 
282
, 
283
; and joint stiffness 
46
; and leg
stiffness 
46
, 
47
, 
50
dynamical systems theory 
296
dynamic strength tests 
191
–
192
; protocol standardisation for 
195

eccentric phase (stretch-shortening cycle) 
274
eccentric training, for muscular power/strength 
24
–
25
eccentric utilisation ratio (EUR) 
193
ecological dynamics of learning 
338
effectiveness, coaching 
2
, 
3
Ekblom’s soccer specific endurance circuit 
82
elbow flexion exercises, and testosterone release 
61
electromyograms (EMGs) 
102
; overhead squat assessment 
207
; single leg
squat assessment 
210
electronic timing gates 
194
, 
195
, 
319
elite athletes 
63
–
64
; aerobic fitness of 
80
; concurrent training for 
104
, 
105
;
performance, and testosterone levels 
58
, 
66
, 
152
emergent learning 
see
 
implicit learning
emotional intelligence 
2
endocrinology, and resistance training 
56
; cortisol 
64
–
66
; hormone-receptor
complex 
56
–
57
; muscle remodelling 
57
; testosterone 
57
–
64
endurance performance: and antioxidants 
172
; and periodisation 
104
; and
plyometric training 
278
; psychological determinants of 
73
–
74
endurance training 
101
; and aerobic fitness 
79
–
80
; recovery after 
181
; using
cold water immersion during 
179
–
180
; 
see also
 
concurrent training
;
resistance training
energy system, high-intensity interval training based on 
96
environmental constraints 
341
equipment selection, fitness testing 
193
–
195
exercise-induced muscle damage (EIMD) 
172
exercise-induced oxidative stress 
171
exercise intensity zones 
75
–
76
, 
76
exercise programming 
7
experienced/expert athletes 
63
–
64
; learning strategies for 
332
, 
333
;
performance, effects of attentional focus on 
335
, 
336
expertise, coaching 
3
explicit coaching framework 
334
–
339
; feedback 
336
–
339
; instruction
334
–
336
explicit learning 
328
; benefits for experts 
333
; neuroscience of 
329
–
332
explicit memory 
329
–
330
; brain regions associated with 
330
exploratory factor analysis 
215
, 
220
explosive strength training 
79
, 
80

exponential taper 
131
external focus 
335
external workload 
140
faded feedback 
338
fatigue: Fitness-Fatigue paradigm 
122
, 
123
, 
138
; non-chemical sources of 
92
;
and plyometric training 
284
; and potentiation 
237
; residual 
159
; stimulus-
fatigue-recovery-adaptation theory 
120
, 
121
, 
122
; 3:1 loading paradigm
118
, 
119
fatigue index (FI) 
96
feedback, coaching 
334
–
336
; cautionary coach feedback 
59
, 
154
; positive
coach feedback 
59
, 
154
, 
160
; pre-match/post-match video with feedback
59
; purpose of 
337
; resistance training 
240
–
241
; 
see also
 
cueing
feedback schedules 
338
female athletes, carbohydrate/protein supplementation for 
171
fibres, muscle: and plyometric training 
277
; Type II fibres 
64
, 
174
; Type II:I
fibres, ratio of 
16
field computation method 
316
–
319
firing frequency, and muscular power/strength 
19
first pull, snatch/clean 
250
, 
252
, 
265
–
266
; end of first pull 
252
; starting
position 
252
first step quickness 
311
Fitness-Fatigue paradigm 
122
, 
123
, 
138
fitness testing 
190
; data analysis 
196
–
198
, 
197
, 
198
; equipment selection
193
–
195
; order 
196
; reasons for doing 
190
; standardising protocols
195
–
196
; test selection 
191
–
193
; timing of 
190
–
191
505 COD test 
299
, 
303
flight/swing phase (sprint running) 
311
, 
312
flight time method 
194
footwear, resistance training 
238
force plates, for assessing overhead squat 
206
force platforms 
193
force production 
155
; capacity 
14
–
15
; and circadian rhythm 
60
; and firing
frequency 
19
; and ground reaction forces 
311
–
312
; and heavier loads 
30
;
and muscle tendon stiffness 
50
; and neuromuscular inhibition 
20
; vectors,
resistance training 
232
–
233
; and weightlifting 
260
–
261
, 
264
force-time data analysis 
196

force-velocity characteristics, in resistance training 
231
force-velocity (F-v) profile (sprint running) 
311
, 
316
–
319
, 
318
;
individualized training based on 
319
–
320
; individual profiling and training
program 
320
–
323
force-velocity (F-v) profile (weightlifting) 
261
–
265
, 
262
; absolute strength
phase 
264
; maximal strength phase 
264
; speed-strength phase 
265
;
strength-endurance phase 
263
; strength-speed phase 
264
forward acceleration, in sprint running 
312
, 
313
, 
316
four-by-four running method 
93
free sprinting 
322
, 
323
free weight training 
23
frequency, training 
120
; concurrent training 
108
–
109
; plyometric training
281
frontal plane projection angle (FPPA) of knee joint, during single leg squat
211
front squat 
239
; force production vectors 
232
; load placement in 
232
full squats 
241
–
242
functional constraints 
341
functional foods, for recovery 
174
–
174
Functional Movement Screen (FMS) 
205
, 
212
–
216
; injury prediction 
214
functional overreaching 
139
gastrocnemius-soleus-achilles complex (GSAC) 
314
general adaptation syndrome (GAS) 
120
, 
121
, 
137
, 
137
general physical training (GPT) 
116
–
117
gravitational force, in sprint running 
312
grip: handgrip strength 
66
; hook grip 
231
, 
250
, 
251
; resistance training
230
–
231
ground contact patterns, in sprint running 
314
ground contact time (GCT): during change of direction 
292
–
295
, 
294
,
297
–
298
; in sprint running 
313
–
314
ground-leg interaction, in sprint running 
312
ground reaction force (GRF): and change of direction 
296
; and force
production 
311
–
312
; in running 
47
; in sprint running 
311
–
312
, 
313
, 
315
,
319
growth hormone (GH) 
65
, 
234
; and hypertrophy 
62
, 
63
guidance effect (feedback) 
338

half-squats 
241
; ballistic 
233
–
234
half-time 
157
handgrip strength 
66
hang high pull 
260
, 
261
, 
265
hang power clean 
239
, 
259
hang power snatch 
259
heat gains, protection of 
155
, 
160
heat maintenance strategies 
157
–
158
heavy day/light day loading 
30
hexagonal bar jump 
232
high force training 
see
 
resistance training
high-intensity interval training (HIIT) 
77
–
79
; for aerobic fitness 
92
–
93
; based
on energy system 
96
; calculation of interval distances 
94
high jumps, and leg stiffness 
46
–
47
high velocity training 
16
hip extensors, role in sprint running 
313
–
315
‘hip hinge’ strategy 
207
hippocampus 
330
Hooke’s Law 
40
, 
40
hook grip 
231
, 
250
, 
251
hopping: bilateral hops 
281
, 
282
; and leg stiffness 
46
; single leg hop 
206
,
221
–
223
, 
223
hop tests 
221
–
223
horizontal force (HF), in sprint running 
312
, 
313
, 
315
, 
317
, 
319
horizontal jumps: and barbell hip thrust 
232
; performance, effects of
attentional focus on 
335
horizontal power, in sprint running 
316
–
317
, 
322
hormonal priming 
154
, 
163
hormone-receptor complex 
56
–
57
hormones: definition of 
56
; growth hormone 
62
, 
63
, 
65
, 
234
; 
see also
endocrinology, and resistance training
Hudl Technique 
207
, 
211
hydrogen ion flux 
90
–
91
hyperoxia, and repeated-sprint ability 
92
hypertrophy 
15
–
16
, 
18
, 
57
, 
67
; effects of low 
vs.
 high load resistance training
on 
63
; and rest intervals 
63
, 
234
; and testosterone/growth hormone 
62
, 
63

implicit coaching framework 
339
–
342
implicit learning 
328
, 
342
; benefits for novices 
333
; and external focus 
336
;
neuroscience of 
329
–
332
implicit memory 
329
–
330
, 
331
–
332
; brain regions associated with 
330
implicit motor plan 
331
, 
335
, 
337
, 
339
impulse, during change of direction 
292
–
295
impulse-momentum theorem 
293
inflammation: cold water immersion for 
175
, 
180
, 
181
–
182
; functional foods
for 
173
; and muscle remodelling 
57
injury: prevention programs 
217
; using Functional Movement Screen for
predicting 
214
–
215
; using workload information for predicting 
140
–
142
,
141
, 
142
, 
144
–
145
, 
145
, 
146
–
147
instruction, coaching 
334
–
336
; 
see also
 
cueing
insulin 
65
intensity, training 
116
, 
117
, 
118
; concurrent training 
107
–
108
; plyometric
training 
282
–
283
intensity, warm-up 
154
–
155
, 
160
interference effect 
79
, 
102
–
104
, 
159
; cardio-respiratory development
103
–
104
; 
molecular signalling 
103
; muscular development 
102
–
103
;
neural development 
102
internal focus 
334
–
335
internal workload 
140
interpersonal knowledge 
2
, 
7
inter-repetition rest intervals, resistance training 
235
–
236
inter-set rest intervals: effect on resistance exercise-induced muscle
hypertrophy 
63
; plyometric training 
281
; resistance training 
234
–
235
interval training (aerobic fitness) 
76
, 
81
; and repeated sprint activity sports
80
; 
see also
 
high-intensity interval training (HIIT)
intrapersonal knowledge 
2
, 
7
intra-set rest intervals, plyometric training 
281
introspection 
2
involution 
see
 
detraining
iPhone apps, for measuring jump height 
194
ischemic preconditioning (IPC) 
153
–
154
, 
163
; combining prior priming
exercise with 
153
, 
160
isometric strength tests 
192

jerk (weightlifting): dip 
255
–
256
, 
256
; drive 
257
, 
257
; receiving positions
257
–
258
, 
257
, 
258
; recovery 
258
, 
258
; starting position 
255
, 
256
joint kinematics/kinetics, during change of direction 
295
–
296
joint stiffness 
42
–
43
; effects of training interventions on 
48
, 
50
; influence of
joint touchdown angles on 
44
; joint moment-joint angular displacement
relationship 
43
; and performance 
46
–
47
; torsional spring model 
42
Judo 
154
jump mats 
194
jumps: ankle 
279
; box 
283
; countermovement 
193
, 
197
, 
279
; depth jump
156
, 
283
; height, measuring 
194
; hexagonal bar jump 
232
; high 
46
–
47
;
horizontal 
232
, 
335
; and leg stiffness 
46
–
47
; squat jump 
16
, 
193
; static
jump 
279
; tuck jump assessment 
219
–
221
, 
219
; 
see also
 
drop jumps (DJs)
;
plyometric training (PT)
; 
vertical jumps
jump shrug 
260
, 
261
, 
265
jump squat 
60
, 
232
; force-velocity characteristics in 
231
jump testing 
193
; movement screening in 
205
; protocol standardisation for
195
kayakers, concurrent training for 
105
, 
106
kettlebell training: for muscular power/strength 
27
–
29
; swing 
340
kinematics: joint, during change of direction 
295
–
296
; sprint running 
314
,
315
kinetics: joint, during change of direction 
295
–
296
; sprint running 
314
, 
315
,
316
knee stiffness, and performance 
46
, 
50
knee valgus: and overhead squat 
207
, 
208
; and tuck jump assessment 
220
knowledge of coach 
2
knowledge of performance (KP) 
336
–
337
knowledge of results (KR) 
336
–
337
lactate 
62
, 
234
; and anaerobic glycolysis 
90
lactate threshold (LT) 
73
, 
74
, 
76
, 
77
; and small-sided games 
81
–
82
lactate turnpoint (LTP) 
73
, 
74
, 
77
–
79
Landing Error Scoring System (LESS) 
206
, 
216
–
219
, 
223
; operational
definitions 
217
; score sheet 
218
large muscle group exercises, and testosterone release 
61
learning 
327
–
328
; and attention 
329
, 
332
; impact of practice performance on

328
; implicit/explicit, neuroscience of 
329
–
332
; and memory 
329
–
330
;
see also
 
coaching
Le Chatelier’s principle 
90
leg stiffness 
43
–
44
; effects of training interventions on 
48
, 
50
; influence of
joint touchdown angles on 
44
; and performance 
46
–
47
; spring-mass model
45
lifestyle 
see
 
performance lifestyle
Limb Symmetry Index (LSI) 
221
linear position transducers 
192
, 
195
linear taper 
131
loads, training: chronic training load 
144
, 
147
; combining heavy and light
loads 
30
; and injury likelihood 
141
, 
141
, 
144
; low 
vs.
 high loads 
63
;
monitoring 
8
; optimal 
30
; placement, resistance training 
232
; protective
effect of 
144
, 
145
; volume-equated resistance training loading strategies
63
; weightlifting 
259
lock and key theory 
56
logistic regression model 
141
logit link function 
141
long-latency response (LLR) 
41
lower limb: joint stiffness 
42
–
43
, 
42
–
43
; leg stiffness 
43
–
44
, 
45
; muscle-
tendon stiffness 
41
–
42
; stretch-shortening cycle 
39
–
40
low-intensity training (aerobic fitness) 
76
machine-based exercises 
23
macrocycles 
117
mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) 
103
; and strength training 
79
maneuverability 
292
, 
297
marathon running 
101
; recovery of runners 
173
marginal gains 
5
–
6
match-day performance, priming 
151
; heat maintenance strategies 
157
–
158
;
hormonal priming 
154
; ischemic preconditioning 
153
–
154
; modification
of warm-ups 
154
–
157
; organizing pre-match period 
162
; post-activation
potentiation 
155
–
157
, 
163
; practical applications 
159
–
160
, 
161
–
162
, 
163
;
pre-competition strategies to pre-training 
158
–
159
; prior priming exercise
152
–
153
, 
160
; sleep deprivation effects, attenuating 
151
–
152
; strategies
implemented during scheduled within-match breaks 
157
–
158
; strategies
implemented less than three hours before a match commences 
153
–
157
;

strategies implemented more than three hours before a match commences
151
–
153
; typical activities performed in 12 hours before match 
161
maximal aerobic capacity 
see
 
maximal oxygen uptake (V̇O
2
 max)
maximal aerobic speed (MAS) 
93
, 
94
maximal lactate steady state (MLSS) 
74
, 
77
–
79
maximal lower body strength, and Functional Movement Screen 
213
maximal oxygen uptake (V̇O
2
 max) 
73
, 
74
maximal sprint performance 
193
maximal strength phase (weightlifting) 
264
maximal test 
74
maximal velocity running, and injury likelihood 
145
, 
146
–
147
maximal velocity sprint, force-time curve of plant phase and stance phase
293
maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) 
172
maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) 
210
maximum horizontal external power output (Pmax), in sprint running
321
–
322
mechanical model of stretch-shortening cycle potentiation 
275
, 
275
mechanical stress 
168
medial gastrocnemius (MG) 
16
, 
45
–
46
medial knee displacement 
see
 
knee valgus
medial temporal lobe 
330
medium-latency response (MLR) 
41
memory: brain regions associated with 
330
–
331
; and learning 
329
–
330
; types
of 
329
mesocycles 
117
, 
118
metabolic stress 
168
method of amplification of error (MAE) 
240
–
241
metrics, workload 
143
microcycles 
117
; non-traditional periodisation 
130
; summated 
126
mid-thigh pull 
260
–
261
, 
262
, 
265
, 
270
milk 
169
, 
170
mode: of concurrent training 
108
–
109
; of plyometric training 
279
molecular signalling, and concurrent training 
103
monotony, training 
122
, 
124
Montmorency cherry juice, effects on recovery 
173
motion analysis of overhead squat 
205
–
206

motivation 
154
; and testosterone 
64
; and training 
59
; videos 
59
motor skill learning 
328
; and memory systems 
329
–
332
; stage models of
332
–
333
motor units: definition of 
18
; recruitment, and muscular power/strength
18
–
19
; synchronisation, and muscular power/strength 
20
movement screening 
6
, 
205
–
206
; Functional Movement Screen 
212
–
216
;
Landing Error Scoring System 
216
–
219
, 
217
, 
218
; overhead squat 
205
,
206
–
209
, 
208
–
209
; package 
222
, 
223
, 
224
; single leg squat 
209
–
212
,
211
–
212
; tuck jump assessment 
219
–
221
, 
219
movement specificity 
249
–
250
multi-faceted nature of strength and conditioning 
9
multijoint isometric strength tests 
192
Multi-Stage Fitness Test (MSFT) 
74
, 
193
muscle activation strategies 
41
, 
46
muscle architecture 
17
–
18
, 
18
muscle excitability 
92
muscle protein synthesis 
169
muscle recruitment strategies 
50
, 
92
muscle remodelling 
57
muscle stabilisers 
23
muscle-tendon stiffness (MTS) 
41
–
42
; joint 
42
–
43
, 
42
–
43
; leg 
43
–
44
, 
45
;
and performance 
45
–
48
, 
48
; and training 
48
–
51
, 
49
muscle-tendon unit (MTU) 
40
, 
41
, 
284
muscular adaptations: effects of volume-equated resistance training loading
strategies on 
63
; and periodisation 
118
; and plyometric training 
276
–
277
muscular development, and concurrent training 
102
–
103
muscular power/strength: ballistic 
vs.
 non-ballistic exercises 
29
; bodyweight
exercise 
22
–
23
; combining heavy and light loads 
30
; complex training
25
–
26
; cross-sectional area 
14
–
16
, 
16
, 
17
; definition of 
13
; eccentric
training 
24
–
25
; firing frequency 
19
; importance of 
13
–
14
; kettlebell
training 
27
–
29
; loading considerations 
29
–
30
; machine 
vs.
 free weight
training 
23
; morphological factors affecting 
14
–
18
; motor unit recruitment
18
–
19
; motor unit synchronisation 
19
–
20
; neuromuscular factors affecting
18
–
20
; neuromuscular inhibition 
20
; optimal loads 
30
; periodisation
model 
20
–
21
, 
21
; plyometric training 
24
; power output 
14
; rate of force
development 
14
, 
15
; and rest intervals 
235
; and tendon stiffness 
50
–
51
;
and testosterone 
58
, 
60
, 
64
; training considerations 
20
–
29
; training status

31
; training to failure 
29
–
30
; unilateral 
vs.
 bilateral training 
26
–
27
;
variable resistance training 
27
; weightlifting exercises 
23
–
24
muscular strength: and aerobic fitness 
80
; definition of 
232
; effects of low 
vs.
high load resistance training on 
63
; and force-velocity profile 
263
; and
plyometric training 
277
; 
see also
 
muscular power/strength
musculotendinous unit (MTU) 
274
, 
275
My Jump app 
194
MySprint app 
319
N-acetylcysteine (NAC) supplementation, effects on recovery 
172
needs analysis 
305
, 
306
neural adaptations, and plyometric training 
277
neural development, and concurrent training 
102
neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES), for recovery 
178
–
179
neuromuscular inhibition, and muscular power/strength 
20
neurophysiological model of stretch-shortening cycle potentiation 
275
, 
275
Newton’s second law 
13
non-ballistic exercises: for muscular power/strength 
29
; and resistance
training 
233
–
234
non-contact coaching 
5
–
6
, 
7
non-functional overreaching 
139
non-traditional periodisation 
129
–
130
, 
130
novice athletes 
63
–
64
; learning strategies for 
332
–
333
; performance, effects
of attentional focus on 
335
nutrition 
4
, 
4
; and recovery 
169
, 
182
, 
182
oestrogen 
170
one repetition maximum (1-RM) test 
48
, 
191
–
192
, 
259
; back squat test 
30
,
195
; power clean test 
192
onset blood lactate accumulation (OBLA) 
74
optimal loads 
30
; in sprint running 
321
–
322
optimum training dose 
137
–
140
outcomes, athlete 
2
–
3
overhead press 
240
overhead squat 
205
, 
206
–
209
, 
208
–
209
, 
223
; anterior view 
208
; arms fall
forward 
209
; assessment, instructions for 
210
; excessive forward lean 
208
;
external rotation of feet 
208
; knee valgus 
208
; lateral view 
208
; lower

back arching 
209
; lower back rounding 
209
; posterior view 
208
overload 
58
, 
250
overreaching 
139
–
140
; planned 
116
, 
120
, 
122
, 
127
overtraining 
139
–
140
overtraining syndrome 
139
oxidative phosphorylation 
73
; and repeated-sprint ability 
92
parallel elastic component (PEC) 
275
parallel squats 
230
partial squats 
230
, 
241
partial unilateral training 
see
 
unilateral training
passive heat maintenance 
155
patella-femoral pain syndrome (PFPS) 
210
, 
211
peak aerobic capacity 
see
 
peak oxygen uptake (VO
2
 peak)
peak oxygen uptake (VO
2
 peak) 
73
, 
74
pennation angle of muscle 
16
, 
16
, 
17
, 
18
perceptual-cognitive factors underpinning agility 
298
–
299
perceptual-motor ability 
298
performance: effects of attentional focus on 
335
; endurance 
73
–
74
, 
104
, 
172
,
278
; knowledge of performance 
336
–
337
; lifestyle 
5
–
6
; maintaining peak
performance for 35 weeks 
129
; maximal sprint performance 
193
; physical
performance testing 
6
; practice 
vs.
 competitive 
327
; resistance training
modifications for 
237
–
240
; and stiffness 
45
–
48
, 
48
; test, Functional
Movement Screen 
213
–
214
, 
215
; 
see also
 
match-day performance,
priming
periodisation 
7
, 
116
; advanced model of 
127
–
129
, 
127
, 
127
; application of
124
–
129
; basic model of 
124
–
126
, 
125
, 
125
; concurrent training 
104
–
105
;
defining 
116
–
118
; exercise deletion and representation 
124
; Fitness-
Fatigue paradigm 
122
, 
123
; general adaptation syndrome 
120
, 
121
;
intermediate model of 
126
, 
126
, 
127
; maintaining peak performance for 35
weeks 
129
; maintenance programmes 
129
–
130
; models 
20
–
21
, 
21
, 
67
;
non-traditional approach to 
129
–
130
, 
130
; phases of 
116
–
117
, 
117
; of
plyometric training 
284
–
285
, 
285
; recovery and adaptation 
118
–
122
;
stimulus-fatigue-recovery-adaptation theory 
120
, 
121
, 
122
; taper 
130
–
131
,
131
, 
132
, 
133
, 
133
; training monotony 
122
, 
124
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1-alpha (PGC-
1a) 
180

phase potentiation 
see
 
periodisation
phosphocreatine (PCr) 
88
–
89
, 
234
phosphofructokinase (PFK) 
89
phosphorylase 
89
Physical Activity Enjoyment Scale 
82
physical capacities underpinning change of direction 
297
–
298
, 
302
; building
304
physical performance testing 
6
physiology 
4
, 
4
planned overreaching 
116
, 
120
, 
122
, 
127
planning of coach 
7
plyometric training (PT) 
16
, 
250
, 
274
; adaptations to 
276
–
278
; exercises 
280
;
frequency and recovery 
281
, 
282
; general preparation phase 
286
;
impulsive ability/explosiveness phase 
284
, 
285
, 
285
, 
287
; mode and
specificity of 
279
, 
281
; for muscular power/strength 
24
; periodisation of
284
–
285
, 
285
; progression 
283
–
284
; push-ups 
233
; strength phase 
286
;
stretch-shortening cycle 
274
–
276
, 
275
; and tuck jump assessment 
220
;
unilateral 
vs.
 bilateral 
26
; volume and intensity 
282
–
283
positive coach feedback (VPCF) 
59
, 
154
, 
160
post-activation potentiation (PAP) 
25
, 
155
–
157
, 
163
post-match video with feedback 
59
postural screening 
6
potentiation: potentiation complex rest intervals, resistance training 
236
–
237
;
stimulus, ballistic exercises as 
233
–
234
; stretch-shortening cycle 
274
–
275
,
275
power: aerobic 
73
; anaerobic 
95
; horizontal, in sprint running 
316
–
317
, 
322
;
maximum horizontal external power output 
321
–
322
; muscular 
see
muscular power/strength
; relative power outputs of exercises 
22
; strength-
power potentiating complexes 
25
–
26
power clean 
259
, 
270
; derivatives, kinetic variables across 
267
–
269
; hang
power clean 
239
, 
259
; 1-RM power clean test 
192
; position 
255
; 
see also
clean (weightlifting)
power jerk, receiving position 
257
, 
258
, 
258
power output 
14
power snatch 
240
, 
255
, 
259
, 
270
power-velocity (P-v) relationships, in sprint running 
316
–
317
practice performance 
327
, 
333
; impact on learning 
328

prefrontal cortex 
330
prehabilitation 
7
preload stimulus volume 
156
pre-match video with feedback 
59
premotor cortex (PMC) 
330
, 
331
preparatory phase of periodisation 
116
–
117
, 
118
pre-programmed aspect of muscle activation 
41
prescriptive feedback 
336
pre-season training cycle, fitness testing during 
190
–
191
pre-training, application of pre-competition strategies to 
158
–
159
primary motor cortex (M1) 
330
principle of diminishing returns 
122
, 
124
prior priming exercise 
152
–
153
, 
160
; combining with IPC 
153
, 
160
procedural memory 
see
 
implicit memory
professional knowledge 
2
, 
7
propulsive phase: change of direction 
292
; sprint running 
312
, 
314
; SSC
tasks 
45
, 
275
; vertical jump 
196
, 
197
protein supplementation, for recovery 
169
–
171
protocols, fitness testing 
195
–
196
p70S6K 
180
psychology 
4
, 
4
pull from the floor 
260
–
261
, 
263
, 
265
pull from the knee 
260
pulling derivatives, weightlifting 
260
–
261
push-ups, plyometric 
233
pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) 
89
quarter-squats 
230
, 
241
quasi-stiffness 
43
range of motion (ROM): resistance training 
229
–
230
; specificity 
241
–
242
rate coding 
see
 
firing frequency
rate of force development (RFD) 
14
, 
15
, 
79
–
80
, 
231
, 
264
; and change of
direction 
297
; and firing frequency 
19
; speed-strength training blocks 
260
rating of perceived exertion (RPE) 
140
–
141
, 
143
ratio of forces (RF), in sprint running 
315
, 
316
, 
317
, 
318
, 
321
re-analysis 
6

recovery 
137
–
138
, 
137
–
138
, 
168
; acute carbohydrate/protein
supplementation 
169
–
171
; 
vs.
 adaptation 
179
–
181
; antioxidants and
functional foods 
171
–
174
; cold water immersion 
174
–
175
, 
179
–
181
;
compression garments 
177
–
178
; concurrent training 
106
–
107
; emerging
therapies 
175
–
179
; guidelines for practical application 
181
–
182
;
neuromuscular electrical stimulation 
178
–
179
; periodisation 
118
–
122
; and
plyometric training 
281
, 
282
; post-warm-up 
155
; practical
recommendations for 
182
, 
183
; strategies, in practice 
179
–
182
; whole
body cryotherapy 
175
–
177
reflective marker 
211
reflex aspect of muscle activation 
41
rehabilitation 
7
, 
23
, 
209
, 
221
repeated-sprint ability (RSA) 
87
; aerobic metabolism 
91
–
92
; anaerobic
glycolysis 
89
–
91
; biochemistry of 
87
–
88
; non-chemical sources of fatigue
92
; PCr 
88
–
89
; tests, reporting results from 
95
–
97
; training to improve
92
–
95
, 
93
–
94
repeated sprint activity sports 
76
; role of aerobic fitness in 
80
–
81
; using
small-sided games training for 
81
–
83
repetition maximum (RM): loads, training with 
29
; and stiffness 
48
; and
testosterone release 
61
; 
see also
 
one repetition maximum (1-RM) test
resistance training 
101
, 
229
; for aerobic fitness 
79
–
80
; ballistic and non-
ballistic exercises 
233
–
234
; combined with plyometric training 
277
, 
284
;
before competition 
152
; complex training 
25
; and cross-sectional area of
muscle 
16
; cueing 
240
; and endocrinology 
see
 
endocrinology, and
resistance training
; exercise technique 
229
–
231
; feedback 
240
–
241
;
footwear 
238
; force production vectors 
232
–
233
; force-velocity
characteristics 
231
; grip and stance variation 
230
–
231
; for improving
sprint performance 
319
; inter-set/inter-repetition rest intervals 
235
–
236
;
inter-set rest intervals 
234
–
235
; load placement 
232
; mechanical demands
of exercises 
231
–
234
; modalities, for muscular power/strength 
21
–
29
;
modifications for appropriate exercise performance 
237
–
240
; and muscle
architecture 
17
; potentiation complex rest intervals 
236
–
237
; range of
motion 
229
–
230
, 
241
–
242
; and rate of force development 
14
; recovery
after 
181
; relative power outputs of exercises 
22
; rest intervals 
234
–
237
,
235
; and stiffness 
48
, 
50
; stretch-shortening cycle 
231
–
232
; types of 
79
;
unilateral training alternatives 
239
–
240
; unilateral 
vs.
 bilateral training 
26
;
using cold water immersion during 
179
–
180
; variable 
27
; weightlifting

movements 
238
, 
239
; 
see also
 
concurrent training
resisted sprints 
321
rest intervals, resistance training 
234
–
237
rewarm-ups 
158
rugby 
101
; periodisation 
129
; prediction of injury in 
141
–
142
, 
141
, 
142
;
protection of heat gains 
155
; sleep deprivation effects in 
151
–
152
; small-
sided games 
82
; sprint momentum 
295
running: four-by-four running 
93
; ground reaction force during 
47
; and leg
stiffness 
46
, 
47
, 
50
; for maintaining heat 
158
; marathon 
101
, 
173
;
maximal velocity running 
145
, 
146
–
147
; and muscle-tendon stiffness
47
–
48
; velocity running 
46
; 
see also
 
sprint running
running economy 
73
, 
74
; and low-intensity/easy training 
76
; and plyometric
training 
278
; threshold/steady training 
77
sampling frequency capability, of fitness testing equipments 
195
science: of coaching 
3
–
4
; definition of 
4
scientist 
4
–
5
, 
4
second pull, snatch/clean 
253
, 
254
, 
260
self-controlled feedback 
338
sensory feedback 
337
, 
338
sequencing: of concurrent training sessions 
105
–
106
; of exercises, and
testosterone levels 
60
series elastic component (SEC) 
275
shoes, weightlifting 
238
short-latency response (SLR) 
41
single leg hop (SLH) 
206
, 
221
–
223
, 
223
single leg squat (SLS) 
205
, 
209
–
212
, 
211
, 
223
; assessment, instructions for
213
; hip drop 
212
; hip hike 
212
; inward trunk rotation 
212
; knee valgus
211
; outward trunk rotation 
212
situational factors of coaching 
3
skills-based conditioning games 
82
sleep: deprivation, attenuation of effects 
151
–
152
, 
160
; quality/quantity of
182
, 
182
slow-continuous method, and testosterone release 
62
small-sided games: during half-time 
158
; to improve aerobic fitness 
81
–
83
snatch (weightlifting) 
239
; catch 
253
–
255
, 
254
, 
255
; first pull 
250
, 
252
,
265
–
266
; hang power snatch 
259
; power snatch 
240
, 
255
, 
259
, 
270
;

recovery 
255
, 
256
; second pull 
253
, 
254
, 
260
; transition 
252
–
253
, 
253
soccer: and aerobic fitness 
80
; and concurrent training 
104
; maintaining peak
performance in 
129
; recovery of players 
173
; small-sided games 
81
, 
82
social environment, effects on testosterone 
59
sodium bicarbonate 
90
soft skills 
2
soreness, muscle: CHO-protein supplementation for 
169
, 
171
; cold water
immersion for 
174
, 
175
; compression garments for 
177
; neuromuscular
electrical stimulation for 
178
; whole body cryotherapy for 
175
–
176
spatial constraints 
340
spatial task constraints 
340
–
341
specificity: movement 
249
–
250
; of plyometric training 
279
, 
281
; range of
motion 
241
–
242
; sport-specificity 
117
, 
205
speed and acceleration training: force-velocity profile definition and field
computation method 
316
–
319
, 
318
; individualized training based on F-v
profiling 
319
–
320
; individual profiling and training program 
320
–
323
;
sprint running 
310
–
316
; 
see also
 
sprint running
speed development (weightlifting) 
265
, 
266
; early-mid competition phase
270
; general preparation phase 
265
–
266
; late competition/taper phase 
270
;
special preparation phase 
266
speed-strength phase (weightlifting) 
265
split jerk, receiving position 
257
, 
257
split squat 
26
, 
239
sport science 
4
–
5
sport-specificity 
117
, 
205
sport-specific physical training (SSPT) 
116
–
117
spring-mass model 
43
–
44
, 
45
sprint decrement (Sdec) 
96
sprint momentum 
295
sprint running 
310
–
312
; cueing 
240
; effectiveness of force application onto
the ground 
315
–
316
; focus in 
304
; force-velocity profile definition and
field computation method 
316
–
319
, 
318
; individualized training based on
F-v profiling 
319
–
320
; and leg stiffness 
46
; muscular determinants of
acceleration performance 
313
–
315
; performance, effects of attentional
focus on 
335
; periodisation 
129
; phases of 
311
; transfer phenomenon 
319
;
see also
 
repeated-sprint ability (RSA)
sprint testing: maximal sprint performance 
193
; measurement of timing 
194
;

protocol standardisation for 
195
squat 
340
; back 
27
, 
28
, 
231
, 
232
, 
239
, 
250
; bilateral 
239
; deep 
215
, 
230
; and
footwear 
238
; front 
232
, 
239
; full 
241
–
242
; half- 
233
–
234
, 
241
; jump 
60
,
231
, 
232
; parallel 
230
; partial 
230
, 
241
; quarter- 
230
, 
241
; split 
26
, 
239
;
variations 
230
; 
see also
 
overhead squat
; 
single leg squat (SLS)
squat jump (SJ) 
16
, 
193
stability: core 
213
–
214
; and unilateral/bilateral training 
27
, 
240
; and
weightlifting shoes 
238
stance, resistance training 
230
–
231
stance/support phase (sprint running) 
311
, 
312
, 
313
static jump 
279
steady training (aerobic fitness) 
77
, 
77
step taper 
131
stiffness 
40
–
41
; joint 
42
–
43
, 
42
–
43
; leg 
43
–
44
, 
45
; muscle-tendon stiffness
see
 
muscle-tendon stiffness (MTS)
stimulus-fatigue-recovery-adaptation (SFRA) theory 
120
, 
121
, 
122
strength-endurance phase (weightlifting) 
263
strength-power potentiating complexes (SPPCs) 
25
–
26
strength-speed phase (weightlifting) 
264
strength training 
see
 
resistance training
stress 
137
, 
138
; cellular 
174
; exercise-induced oxidative stress 
171
;
mechanical 
168
; metabolic 
168
; physiological response to 
120
, 
121
, 
168
,
179
; type and timing of 
181
–
182
, 
182
stretch reflex 
275
stretch-shortening cycle (SSC) 
39
–
40
, 
274
–
276
; and change of direction 
297
;
phases of 
274
–
275
; potentiation 
274
–
275
, 
275
; resistance training
231
–
232
; 
see also
 
muscle-tendon stiffness (MTS)
stride frequency, in sprint running 
312
stride length, in sprint running 
312
structural constraints 
341
subjective measures 
143
–
144
submaximal test 
74
, 
75
summary feedback 
338
summated microcycles 
126
supercompensation 
120
, 
122
, 
137
supplementary motor area (SMA) 
330
, 
331

tactical metabolic training 
130
take-off velocity method 
193
taper 
130
, 
131
; optimal taper strategy 
131
, 
133
, 
133
; strategies 
131
, 
132
task constraints 
340
, 
341
task-intrinsic feedback 
331
, 
337
, 
338
team briefings 
154
, 
160
, 
163
team sports 
82
, 
101
; and acceleration 
310
; competitive phase in 
117
; first step
quickness in 
311
; 
see also
 
match-day performance, priming
; 
rugby
; 
soccer
temperature: cryotherapy 
174
–
177
; heat gains, protection of 
155
, 
160
; heat
maintenance strategies 
157
–
158
temporal phase analysis 
196
–
197
, 
198
temporal task constraints 
340
–
341
tempo training (aerobic fitness) 
76
tendon 
see
 
muscle-tendon stiffness (MTS)
testosterone 
57
, 
65
, 
154
; and behaviour 
58
; and circadian rhythm 
60
, 
152
;
and concurrent training sequencing 
106
; and hypertrophy 
62
, 
63
; levels,
and athlete experience 
63
–
64
; moderating effect of cortisol on 
65
–
66
; and
muscular power/strength 
58
, 
60
; priming, via non physical interventions
59
; release, manipulating acute resistance training variables to enhance
61
–
62
; release, manipulating exercise sessions to enhance 
60
–
61
; 
see also
cortisol
theoretical maximal force (F0), sprint running 
321
three intensity zone model 
76
, 
76
3:1 loading paradigm 
118
, 
119
threshold training (aerobic fitness) 
77
, 
77
torsional-spring model 
42
, 
42
‘total time to complete’ measure 
299
touchdown, and joint stiffness 
43
, 
44
training: aerobic fitness 
75
–
83
; application of pre-competition strategies to
pre-training 
158
–
159
; frequency 
see
 
frequency, training
; intensity 
see
intensity, training
; monitoring 
137
–
140
; monotony 
122
, 
124
; optimum
training dose 
137
–
140
; overtraining 
139
–
140
; recovery strategies for 
181
;
status, of athletes 
31
; and stiffness 
48
–
51
, 
49
; -stress balance 
see
 
acute:
chronic workload ratio
; videos 
154
; volume 
see
 
volume, training
; zones,
aerobic fitness 
78
; 
see also
 
specific entries
training load (TL) 
see
 
loads, training
training to failure method 
29
–
30

transition, snatch/clean 
252
–
253
, 
253
; mid-thigh position 
253
triple extension 
249
, 
257
tuck jump assessment (TJA) 
206
, 
219
–
221
; grading criteria for 
219
two-dimensional video analysis, of single leg squat 
211
2-phase taper 
131
, 
132
ultramarathon runners, recovery of 
172
unilateral training: for muscular power/strength 
26
–
27
; resistance training
239
–
240
variable resistance training, for muscular power/strength 
27
vastus lateralis (VL) 
45
–
46
velocity at the onset of blood lactate accumulation (vOBLA) 
95
velocity at V̇O
2
 
max (V̇O
2
 max) 
74
, 
74
; and aerobic metabolism 
91
; and
high-intensity training 
78
; and repeated-sprint ability (RSA) 
93
–
95
; and
small-sided games 
81
velocity-based training 
241
velocity running: and leg stiffness 
46
; maximal velocity running, and injury
likelihood 
145
, 
146
–
147
velocity time-curve 
311
verbal persuasion 
154
vertical force (VF) 
232
, 
266
, 
270
, 
315
vertical jumps: assessment using force platform 
195
; force-time data analysis
196
, 
197
; and front squat 
232
; and kettlebell training 
28
; and leg stiffness
46
; performance, effects of attentional focus on 
335
; and plyometric
training 
24
, 
278
“Very Heavy Sled” (VHS) training 
321
Vitamin C supplementation, for recovery 
171
–
173
Vitamin E supplementation, for recovery 
171
–
173
volitional training performance, and testosterone 
58
volume, training 
116
–
117
, 
117
; concurrent training 
108
–
109
; plyometric
training 
282
–
283
volume-equated resistance training loading strategies 
63
walking, and muscle-tendon stiffness 
47
–
48
warm-ups: intensity, increasing 
154
–
155
, 
160
; post-activation potentiation
155
–
157
; protection of heat gains 
155
, 
160
; rewarm-ups 
158

weighted vests 
283
weightlifting 
101
, 
249
; catching derivatives 
259
–
260
; force-velocity profile,
developing 
261
–
265
, 
262
; jerk dip 
255
–
256
, 
256
; jerk drive 
257
, 
257
; jerk
receiving positions 
257
–
258
, 
257
, 
258
; jerk starting position 
255
, 
256
; and
motor unit recruitment 
19
; pulling derivatives 
260
–
261
; shoes 
238
;
snatch/clean catch 
253
–
255
, 
254
–
255
; snatch/clean first pull 
250
, 
252
,
252
; snatch/clean recovery 
255
, 
256
; snatch/clean second pull 
253
, 
254
,
260
; snatch/clean transition 
252
–
253
, 
253
; speed development 
265
–
270
,
266
; speed-strength training blocks 
260
; technique 
250
–
258
weightlifting movements 
238
; and ballistic exercises 
233
; effectiveness of
249
–
250
; movement specificity 
249
–
250
; for muscular power/strength
23
–
24
; overload 
250
well-being: continuum 
140
; subjective 
143
well trained athletes 
63
–
64
whole body cryotherapy (WBC) 
175
–
177
Woodward, Clive 
6
workload monitoring: external and internal workloads 
140
; facts about
144
–
145
; gold standard 
143
; overreaching and overtraining 
139
–
140
;
prediction of injury 
140
–
142
, 
141
, 
142
; subjective measures 
143
–
144
;
training monitoring and optimum training dose 
137
–
140
; well-being
continuum 
140
work to rest ratios 
120
Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test (YIRT) 
74
, 
193
z-score 
302