Advances	in	Functional	Training
	

Advanced	in	Functional	Training
Training	Techniques	for	Coaches,	Personal	Trainers	and	Athletes
	
Michael	Boyle
Introduction
Mark	Verstegen
Foreword
Alwyn	Cosgrove
On	Target	Publications
Santa	Cruz,	California

Advances	in	Functional	Training
Training	Techniques	for	Coaches,	Personal	Trainers	and	Athletes
Michael	Boyle
Introduction:	Mark	Verstegen
Foreword:	Alwyn	Cosgrove
Cover	photo:	Scott	Cronk
Cover	athlete:	Ingrid	Marcum
Copyright	©	2010,	Michael	John	Boyle
ISBN:	978-1-931046-01-5
All	rights	reserved.	Printed	in	the	United	States	of	America	using	recycled	paper.
No	part	of	this	book	may	be	reproduced	or	transmitted	in	any	form	whatsoever
without	written	permission	from	the	author	or	publisher,	with	the	exception	of
the	inclusion	of	brief	quotations	in	articles	or	reviews.
On	Target	Publications
P.	O.	Box	1335
Aptos,	CA	95001	USA
(888)	466-9185
info@ontargetpublications.net
www.ontargetpublications.net
																Library	of	Congress	Cataloging-in-Publication	Data
Boyle,	Michael,	1959-
Advances	in	functional	training	:	training	techniques	for	coaches,	personal
trainers	and	athletes	/	Michael	Boyle	;	introduction	Mark	Verstegen	;	foreword
Alwyn	Cosgrove.
							p.	cm.
			Includes	bibliographical	references	and	index.
			ISBN	978-1-931046-01-5	(pbk.)
			1.	Athletes--Training	of.	2.	Physical	education	and	training.	3.	Exercise.	I.

Title.
GV711.5.B68	2010
613.7’11--dc22
2009038240
eBooks	created	by	
www.ebookconversion.com

To	Cindy,	Michaela	and	Mark
Because	of	the	three	of	you	my	life	is	better	every	day

Table	of	Contents
	
	
Introduction
Foreword
Preface
Advances	in	Functional	Training
Reconsidering	Functional	Training
Choosing	Functional	Exercises
Mobility	and	Flexibility
The	Joint-by-Joint	Approach
Movement	Screening
The	Functional	Movement	Screen
Influence	of	the	Functional	Movement	Screen
Movement
Diagonal	Pattern
Adding	Strength	to	Dysfunction
FMS	Examples	in	Team	Settings
FMS	Case	Studies
FMS	and	the	Strength	Coach
Assessing	Strength,	Flexibility	and	Mobility
The	Bodyweight	Squat
Full	Squats
Mobility	Drills
Soft	Tissue	Therapy
Foam	Rolling
Rolling	versus	Massage
Static	Stretching
Shortened	Muscles
Active-Isolated	Stretching
Injuries

Injury	Reduction
Pain	in	Exercise
Tendinitis	or	Tendinosis
Injury	Prevention	Suggestions
Upper-Body	Injuries
Rotator	Cuff	Support
Anterior	Knee	Pain
Glute	Medius	and	Adductors	in	Knee	Pain
Single-Leg	Training	and	Knee	Pain
ACL	Injury	Prevention
Adductors	and	Sports	Hernia
Sports	Hernia	Prevention
Sports	Hernia	Rehab
The	Core
The	Approaches	in	Core	Training
Core	Stability
Core	Terminology
Anterior	Core	Training
Glute	Activation	and	the	Core
Rotational	Training
Core	Advances
Awareness	in	Rotational	Training
The	Core	Exercises
Core	Stability	Exercises
Quadruped	Progression
Supine	Progression
The	Superficial	Core
The	Hips
Understanding	the	Hips
The	Psoas	and	Iliacus
Back	Pain
TFL	Cramping
Weakness	in	the	Hip	Muscles
Hip-Dominant	Exercises
Hamstring	Group
Hip-Extension	Exercises

Cardiovascular	Training
Conditioning	for	Athletics
Fiber	Type
Work	Capacity	Model
Physiological	versus	Performance	Testing
Using	Physiological	Testing
Specific	Conditioning	for	Athletics
Off-Season	Conditioning
Preseason	Conditioning
Long	Cardio	versus	Interval	Training
Interval	Training	Programs
Interval	Training	Methods
Heart-Rate	Monitoring
Implementing	Interval	Training
Beginning	the	Program
Interval	Training	Modes	in	Detail
Running	and	the	Female	Athlete
Training	Endurance	Athletes
Pain	Site	versus	Pain	Source
The	Endurance	Athlete’s	Program
Developing	Athleticism
Power	Development	with	Olympic	Lifts
Teaching	the	O	Lifts
Cleans	versus	Snatches
Teaching	Snatch	Variations
Alternatives	to	Olympic	Lifting
Testing	Elasticity	versus	Power
Developing	Elasticity
Training	for	Speed
Sprint	Speed
Speed	or	Acceleration
Start	Tips	and	Drills
Increasing	Sprint	Speeds
Sport-Specific	Training
Balance	and	Instability	Training
Losing	Power	with	Age
Equipment	Choices

Equipment	Choices
Slideboard	Training
Medicine	Ball	Training
Sled	Training	for	Athletics
Sled	Pushing
TRX	Suspension	Training
Kettlebells
Exercises	Choices	The	Basics	and	Single-Leg	Training
Squats
Gauging	Squat	Depth
Knee	Issues	with	Squats
Front	Squats
Developing	a	Safe	Squatting	Style
Pelvic	Position	during	Squatting
Coaching	the	Bodyweight	Squat
Deadlifts
Trap-Bar	Deadlifts
Deadlift	Benefits
Pressing	Exercises
Benching	with	Chains
Training	the	Combine	Bench
Overhead	Athletes	and	Overhead	Lifts
Strength	Comparisons
The	Strength	Chart
Developing	Single-Leg	Strength
Pelvic	Stabilizers
Classifications	of	Single-Leg	Exercise
Progressive	Range	of	Motion
Single-Leg	Progressions
Posterior	Chain	Training
Determining	Weight	for	Single-Leg	Squats
Single-Leg	Exercises
Facilitating	the	Glute	Medius
Single-Leg	Strength
Program	Design
Program	Design	Basics
Program	Design	Objectives

Program	Design	Structure
Developing	Power	and	Speed
Strength	Programming
Essentials	of	a	Sound	Program
Training	and	the	Central	Nervous	System
Circuit	Training
Peripheral	Heart	Action
Hypertrophy	Training	for	Athletes
Body	Types
HIT
The	Mythology	of	Hypertrophy
Concurrent	or	Conjugated	Periodization
Choosing	a	Training	System
Periodization
Westside	System
Daily	Leg	Training
Sample	Programs
Four-Day	Workout	Programs
Three-Day	Workout	Programs
Two-Day	Workout	Programs
Low-Budget	Programming
Static	Stretching	and	Mobility	Circuits
Plate	Circuit
Ten-Rep	Circuit
Day	Three	Workout	Variations
MBSC	Summer	2007
MBSC	Summer	2008
Four-Day	Program,	Day	One
Four-Day	Programs
2009	MBSC	Program	Goals
Training	Program	Flow
Warm-Ups
Progressions
Speed	Development
Lower-Body	Strength	and	Balance	Progressions
Core	Training
Program	for	Clients	with	Back	Pain
Upper-Body	Strength	Program

In	Closing
Final	Thoughts
Terminology
Planes	of	Movement,	Sagittal,	Frontal,	Transverse
Continuing	Education

Introduction
	
	
I	was	extremely	honored	when	Michael	asked	me	to	write	the	introduction
and	to	lay	the	foundation	for	what	you	are	about	to	read	by	taking	a	look	back	at
our	first	meeting,	and	where	our	beloved	field	was	at	the	time.
In	the	early	‘90s,	I	was	a	young,	idealistic	strength	and	conditioning	coach
in	one	of	the	best	positions	in	college	sports.	I	felt	a	deep	responsibility	for	my
athletes	and	had	a	desire	to	leave	no	ethical	stone	unturned,	and	eventually	I	left
the	NCAA	setting	to	create	what	would	become	the	first	independent
performance	facility	in	the	country,	which	I	called	the	International	Performance
Institute.
As	glamorous	as	that	sounds,	I	was	alone,	in	a	sea	of	tennis	courts	and	kids
at	the	Bollettieri	Sports	Academy,	now	IMG,	in	Bradenton,	Florida.	We	had	no
facilities,	staff	or	resources	to	do	much,	and	had	to	earn	our	way,	which	is	what
fuels	a	naïve,	focused	coach	with	undeniable	determination.
In	hindsight,	these	limited	resources	were	probably	the	greatest	blessing	of
all	time,	as	this	necessitated	a	creative,	systems-based	approach.	In	time,	we
built	a	young,	eager	team,	running	an	integrated	system	of	mindset,	nutrition,
movement	and	recovery.	Over	the	course	of	four	years	we	made	do	with	what	we
had,	and	were	honored	to	support	top	performers	in	tennis,	football,	soccer,
baseball,	basketball,	from	juniors	to	professionals.
In	the	old	days	before	there	was	what’s	now	called	functional	training,	a
performance	industry,	and	yes,	before	there	was	the	internet	and	the	associated
internet	experts	providing	information	overload,	there	was	a	time	when	we	heard
or	read	—	on	paper!	—	of	someone	doing	something	special,	usually	somewhere
between	the	European	Union,	Australia,	Asia	or	the	Americas.
This	is	how	and	when	I	first	met	Michael.	He	had	seen	a	story	in	
Outside
	or
Smithsonian	Magazin
e	on	our	group,	and	convinced	his	family	to	vacation	in
Florida,	where	he	could	drop	in	and	evaluate	firsthand.	A	month	later,	we	were
busy	training	athletes	as	Michael	sat	quietly	on	the	sideline.	I	had	no	idea	what
he	was	thinking	as	he	observed	our	controlled	chaos	through	which	we	rolled
thirty	pros	and	a	few	hundred	eight-to	eighteen-yearold	kids	that	morning.
Michael	was	raised	by	wonderful	parents	who	were	educators	in	hard

Boston.	His	consistent,	striving	efforts	in	New	England	had	him	coaching	the
NHL	Bruins,	Boston	University	Hockey,	and	creating	Mike	Boyle	Strength	and
Conditioning,	pumping	out	athletes	in	factory-type	fashion	—	including	the	first
true	Combine	preparation	success	—	and	often	these	all	in	the	same	day.
So	you	can	see	how	Michael	would	be	a	hard	person	to	set	back,	but	those
were	his	words	of	description	within	the	first	thirty	seconds	of	our	talk	that	day.
What	could	have	set	him	back?	Perhaps	being	welcomed	with	open	arms	during
a	time	when	the	strength	and	conditioning	industry	was	high	on	testosterone,	ego
and	insecurity,	and	low	on	respect	and	openmindedness.
I	had	made	one	simple	request:	Would	he	present	a	talk	to	our	team	over
our	short	lunch	break?	In	retrospect,	what	surprised	him	was	probably	our
unexpected	culture,	pulling	him	in,	welcoming	him	with	open	arms,	our	desire	to
learn	from	and	share	with	him.
And	I	also	asked	him	to	give	us	a	completely	honest	evaluation	of	our
sessions.	This	set	the	tone	of	our	relationship,	and	these	are	some	of	the	values	I
hope	have	positively	influenced	our	industry	over	the	last	fifteen	years.
What	does	all	this	have	to	do	with	Michael	Boyle	and	his	second	book	on
functional	training?	Everything.
I’ve	spent	my	life	traveling	the	world	seeking	the	science	and	people	behind
successful	systems	that	drive	sustainable	performance.	This	book	is	a	great
performance	that	weaves	terrific	information	into	proven,	effective	game	plans
for	you	to	use	personally	and	with	your	clients.
If	you	want	to	be	successful,	look	deeper	at	the	biggest	takeaway	from	this
book:	It	is	the	man	and	the	mindset	behind	this	work	that	should	be	studied	and
celebrated.	Michael	Boyle’s	lifetime	of	daily	dedication	to	increasing	his
knowledge,	digesting	the	information	into	sustainable	systems	he	passionately
implements	with	his	own	hands	is	the	true	secret	to	success.
More	importantly	has	been	his	courage	to	share	his	thoughts,	often
entertaining	and	unconventional,	on	difficult	subjects	that	have	challenged	all	of
our	beliefs,	helping	to	rapidly	evolve	our	field	into	what	we	know	today.	He	will
be	the	first	person	to	stand	corrected,	and	often	does	this	himself	by	sharing	not
just	his	successes,	but	thought-stimulating	failures,	allowing	us	to	learn	in	all
ways.
In	the	fifteen	years	since	we	first	met,	we	—	you	included	—	have	created	a
performance	passion,	molding	a	cottage	industry	into	a	true	global	platform	that
reaches	outside	athletics	and	into	the	game	of	life.	Growth	itself	is	not	always
positive;	growth	with	integrity	is.	Our	society	is	plagued,	from	sedentary
adolescents	to	adults,	to	short-cutting	athletes.	The	reactive	medical	model	is
completely	broken,	and	it	has	become	obvious	the	true	solution	lies	in	proactive

options	across	mindset,	nutrition,	movement	and	recovery.
It	is	up	to	our	performance	industry	to	provide	scientific,	personalized	and
efficient	systems	to	lead	people	to	happy,	healthy	and	fulfilled	lives.	We	have	a
long	way	to	go	to	in	creating	a	valid,	reliable	and	trusted	solution.	The	only	way
to	do	this	is	together,	with	open	minds,	studying,	researching,	sharing	and
elevating	others	as	we	go.
This	is	the	culture	of	that	early	meeting	that	has	acted	as	the	foundation	and
game	plan	for	growing	this	industry	with	benevolent	leaders	like	Michael	Boyle,
Gray	Cook,	Greg	Rose,	researchers	and	the	many	others	who	meet	Chris	Poirier
of	Perform	Better’s	high	bar	to	offer	our	industry	educational	value	with	values.
I	believe	you	will	find	this	book	to	be	an	insightful,	system-based	approach
to	make	sense	of	information	overload	during	this	rapidly	evolving	time	in	our
space.	If	there	is	one	person	to	capture	this,	with	his	brash	yet	thoughtful	views
built	through	sustainable	successes,	it	is	by	a	man	at	the	absolute	top	of	his
game,	Michael	Boyle.
More	so,	I	hope	you	walk	away	with	what	makes	him	so	successful	as	a
professional.	Seek	insight	into	the	system	to	grow	professionally,	while
deepening	your	passion	and	responsibility.	Michael	follows	in	the	contagious
state	of	evolution	of	the	great	Al	Vermeil,	and	I	hope	you’ll	follow	his	footsteps
for	the	betterment	of	our	field.
Mark	Verstegen
President/Founder	Athletes’	Performance
Creator	of	the	Core	Performance	System

Foreword
	
	
In	the	world	of	cooking	the	chef	who	has	been	awarded	the	most	Michelin
stars	is	thought	to	be	the	best.
In	acting	a	multiple	Oscar	winner	is	probably	considered	number	one.
In	sports?	The	most	championships	or	gold	medals.
In	strength	and	conditioning	we	have	no	such	external	measure.	No	checks
and	balances	for	our	peers	to	mark	off.
It	doesn’t	help	that	our	field	is	subdivided	into	strength	coaching,
powerlifting,	personal	training,	functional	training	and	assessment,	all	with	their
own	ideas	as	to	who’s	right	and	who’s	wrong.
But	out	of	all	of	that	there	is	one	name	that	commands	respect	across	our
entire	field:	Michael	Boyle.
I	first	met	Michael	in	the	winter	of	‘96	or	‘97	at	a	Perform	Better	seminar	in
New	Jersey.	It	was	one	of	those	moments	in	a	young	fitness	coach’s	career	when
he	realizes	if	he	wants	to	improve,	he	needs	to	study	this	guy’s	work.
Fast	forward	ten	years	and	I’m	presenting	alongside	Michael	at	a	similar
event.	As	I	listened	to	his	talk,	
25	years	and	25	mistakes,
	it	was	one	of	those
moments	in	a	ten-yearsolder	fitness	coach’s	career	when	he	realizes	yet	again	if
he	wants	to	improve,	he	needs	to	study	this	guy.
And	then	the	final	ah-ha	moment	was	when	I	was	on	stage	that	day
presenting.	Michael	sat	in	the	audience	taking	notes;	my	first	glimpse	of	him,
pen	in	hand,	startled	me	and	I	lost	my	train	of	thought.	I	found	myself	wondering
what	a	guy	like	me	had	to	offer	him	in	terms	of	training	information…	but	that’s
not	how	he	thinks.	He	is	constantly	improving	and	elevating	his	own	standards.
So	when	you	study	his	work,	you	are	not	only	getting	the	results	of	his
more	than	twenty-five	years	at	a	very	successful	sports	training	career,	you	are
also	getting	twenty-five	years	of	Mike’s	own	education,	from	books,	seminars
and	private	conversations	with	his	peers.
It	has	been	said	you	should	seek	out	and	study	people	who	have	“been	there
and	done	that.”	I	think	that’s	a	fallacy.	It	is	better	to	study	those	who	have	been
there	and	done	that	and	are	still	doing	it!	Our	field	is	changing	so	fast	these	days
you	need	to	keep	up	with	people	who	are	still	on	the	cutting	edge.

High	performance	athletic	talents	seek	out	Michael	Boyle	to	take	them	to
new	heights.	Real	world	people	send	their	kids	to	him	because	they	know	he’s
just	as	good	at	the	other	end	of	the	spectrum.
And	coaches	like	me	go	to	visit	him	and	we	send	our	staff	to	learn	from
him.
This	book	contains	what	Michael	has	learned	and	practiced	since	the
publication	of	his	first	book	on	functional	training,	
Functional	Training	for
Sports
.	With	this	book	you	not	only	stand	on	the	knowledge	contained	herein,
but	also	on	all	the	knowledge	he	has	absorbed	in	the	last	three	decades.
Enjoy.
Alwyn	Cosgrove
Results-Fitness.com

Preface
	
	
We	often	hear	people	talk	about	standing	on	the	shoulders	of	giants.	The
true	derivation	is	dwarfs	standing	on	the	shoulders	of	giants.	There	are	numerous
historical	references	to	the	phrase,	but	it	all	comes	back	to	the	same	thing:
Dwarves	see	farther	when	they	stand	on	the	shoulders	of	giants.	The	opportunity
is	created	by	the	giant	and	the	view	is	enjoyed	by	the	dwarf.	The	view	of	the
dwarf	surpasses	that	of	the	giant	only	by	virtue	of	the	giant.
Often	there	are	times	when	I	feel	like	Steve	Martin	in	the	movie	
The	Jerk
,
ecstatic	because	I	have	been	validated	by	seeing	my	name	in	the	new	phone
book.	I	picture	Martin	running,	screaming	“The	new	phonebooks	are	in!”	Or
maybe	I’m	more	like	Sally	Field	at	the	Academy	Awards,	“You	like	me,	you
really	like	me.”
This	book	is	small	tribute	to	those	giants	who	have	taught	me	so	much.	I	am
proud	to	say	I	call	people	like	Don	Chu	and	Al	Vermeil	friends,	and	that
somehow	I	now	manage	to	get	mentioned	in	the	same	rarefied	air	they	occupied
for	me	as	a	young	strength	coach.	There	are	many	other	giants,	too	numerous	to
mention;	I	will	not	try	for	fear	of	missing	more.	Just	remember	we	are	dwarves,
and	remember	who	the	giants	are.
I	am	lucky	enough	to	be	living	a	dream.	Years	ago	I	sat	at	conferences	and
thought	how	great	it	must	be	to	hold	an	audience’s	attention	like	Al	or	Don	or
Vern	Gambetta	did.	Today	I	get	to	present	alongside	these	great	coaches	on	the
Perform	Better	tour,	living	my	dream.
Even	better,	I	get	to	do	it	in	the	company	of	family	and	friends.	My	children
often	tag	along	and	meet	a	who’s	who	of	fitness	and	strength	and	conditioning.
They	only	know	Mark	or	Alwyn	as	friends	who	sometimes	sleep	over.	They	are
blissfully	unaware	of	the	magnitude	of	their	meetings.
I	am	living	proof	an	average	guy	can	make	it	in	this	business.	I	was	not	a
great	athlete.	I	did	not	have	a	full	time	job	in	the	field	until	I	was	thirty	years	old.
I	don’t	coach	at	an	athletic	superpower.	Most	of	my	best	published	work
occurred	between	the	ages	of	forty	and	fifty.	I	fancy	myself	something	of	a	late
bloomer.	Hard,	consistent	work,	combined	with	a	lot	of	caring	produces
excellent	results	over	time.	That	I	am	sure	of.

I	am	humbled	by	readers,	email	writers	and	seminar	participants	every	day.
Books	continue	to	sell	and	websites	prosper,	all	validating	the	work	I	love.	I	am
most	humbled	by	the	many	I	taught	who	continue	in	our	profession.	There	is	no
greater	reward	for	your	work	than	to	realize	you	have	inspired	a	young	person	to
enter	your	field.
Training	is	simple.	A	friend	said	it	eloquently:	Push	something,	pull
something,	and	do	something	for	your	legs.	Add	a	few	rollouts	and	you	have	a
total	body	workout.	It’s	not	the	
what
	as	much	as	the	
how
.	How	often,	how	many?
In	many	cases,	just	plain	how.	One	leg	or	two,	bars	or	dumbbells?	The	truth	is,	if
we	keep	it	simple	and	hard	we	will	probably	be	okay.
My	life	has	been	a	journey	in	which	I	wandered	from	a	110-pound	York	set
to	powerlifting	to	something	we	called	strength	coaching.	Eventually	I	passed
through	strength	and	conditioning	on	my	way	to	becoming	a	performance
enhancement	specialist.
The	beautiful	part	of	the	journey	is	I	have	some	great	people	with	whom	I
walk.
Along	the	way	I	watched	others	follow	the	same	path.	Some	lose	their	way.
Some	stop	in	the	middle	of	the	path	and	lie	like	tired	dogs,	content	they	have
found	a	destination	when	in	fact	they	are	only	partway	through	the	journey.
Those	at	the	beginning	of	the	journey	seem	to	laugh	at	those	of	us	nearer	to	the
end.	It	is	so	easy	to	feel	brilliant	when	you	are	young	and	indestructible,	not	so
easy	when	entrusted	with	the	training	of	those	other	than	yourself.
I	love	Oscar	Wilde’s	quote,	“I	am	not	young	enough	to	know	everything.”	I
hope	young	strength	coaches	continue	to	read	my	work	and	benefit	from
someone	who	is	farther	down	the	road.	I	just	know	I	have	not	stooped	too	long	at
any	point	to	lie	down	and	I	have	no	intention	of	doing	that;	I	love	to	search	and
to	learn.
The	perfect	program	is	to	me	the	Holy	Grail.	Some	day	I	will	be	able	to
look	at	someone	and	know	exactly	what	I	want	to	do	and	why.	I	can’t	say	that
now.	These	next	pages	outline	the	last	five	years	in	the	journey	toward	that
perfect	program.
When	you	train	those	who	make	their	living	from	sport,	you	assume	a
responsibility.	You	must	now	improve	another	while	not	hurting	his	or	her
earning	potential.	When	you	train	someone’s	children	you	assume	an	even
greater	responsibility.	You	hope	to	make	better	athletes	and	better	people.	Both
jobs	require	great	thought	and	great	care.
If	you	are	reading	this,	there	is	a	good	chance	we	are	very	much	alike,	and
for	us,	like	the	perfect	wave	for	a	surfer,	the	perfect	program	is	elusive.	In	the
past	ten	years	I	have	ridden	a	roller	coaster	that	probably	makes	me	appear

confused	to	the	casual	reader.
Information	comes	at	us	at	a	rapid	pace,	and	many	of	the	self-evident	truths
not	longer	look	so	ironclad.	Stretch	more	or	stretch	less?	Squat	with	one	leg	or
two?	What	do	we	really	know?
Please	read	on	and	explore	the	continued	mystery	of	strength	and
conditioning.	I	hope	at	the	end	of	the	book,	you	feel	as	if	you	have	moved
another	step	down	the	road	to	that	perfect	program,	the	one	that	produces
tremendous	gains	with	no	injury.
Michael	Boyle
January	2010

Advances	in	Functional	Training
	
	
Reconsidering	Functional	Training
Choosing	Functional	Exercises
Upper-Body	Pulling	and	Pressing
Vertical	Pulling	Movements
Horizontal	Pulling	Movements
	
	

Reconsidering	Functional	Training
	
	
We	should	start	with	a	brief	explanation	of	my	path	to	becoming	a	believer
in	functional	training.	Every	time	I	sent	a	client	with	an	injury	to	a	physical
therapist,	the	report	that	came	back	was	short:	Most	often	the	injury	occurred
because	a	stabilizing	muscle	was	weak	and	stress	was	shifted	to	another	muscle.
Usually,	the	weak	muscles	were	stabilizers	of	the	hip,	spine	or	scapulo-thoracic
jont.
A	trend	became	obvious:	
It	always	seemed	to	be	the	same	muscles.
Therapists	frequently	pointed	at	weakness	in	the	deep	abdominal	muscles
(transverse	abdominus	and	internal	oblique),	hip	stabilizers	(gluteus	medius,
adductors	and	quadratus	lumborum	and	hip	external	rotators),	and	scapula
retractors	(lower	traps	and	rhomboids).
Each	weak	group	seemed	to	be	the	cause	of	a	different	problem.
•	Clients	with	low	back	pain	were	usually	weak	in	the	deep	abdominals.
•	Athletes	with	knee	problems	usually	had	weak	hip	stabilizers.
•	Those	with	rotator	cuff	issues	universally	had	issues	with	scapula
retractors	and	stabilizers.
Since	we	were	repeatedly	seeing	the	same	weaknesses,	why	not	address
them?	We	simply	made	a	point	of	strengthening	muscles	our	trainers	and
therapists	said	were	consistently	weak,	even	though	our	athletes	had	always
trained	with	basic	multi-joint	exercises.
I	didn’t	do	this	because	it	was	trendy,	I	did	it	because	I	wanted	results.	My
number	one	goal	is	to	reduce	my	athletes’	incidence	of	injury.	Even	performance
enhancement	comes	in	second	to	injury	reduction.
The	description	of	functional	training	in	
Functional	Training	for	Sports
	is
clear:	Functional	training	is	best	described	as	a	continuum	of	exercises	that	teach
athletes	to	handle	their	bodyweight	in	all	planes	of	movement.	The	coach	uses
bodyweight	as	resistance	and	attempts	to	employ	positions	that	make	sense	to

the	participant.
The	concept	of	functional	training	seems	so	intuitive,	I	used	to	struggle	to
find	what	could	be	objectionable	to	others,	which	it	certainly	has	been.	When	I
read	a	functional	training	description	of	Charles	Staley’s,	I	realized	why	so	many
people	are	against	the	idea.	Staley	describes	functional	training	in	his	book
Muscle	Logic
	as	“exercises	performed	on	various	devices	such	as	exercise	balls,
foam	rollers	and	wobble	boards,	designed	to	create	a	more	challenging
environment	for	the	purpose	of	involving	more	of	the	smaller	and	more	deeply
located	stabilizer	muscles.”
He	goes	on,	“Functional	training	advocates	purport	that	greater	stabilizer
involvement	is	the	key	to	enhanced	performance	and	overall	training	results.”
It	was	obvious	I	failed	in	my	first	attempt	to	describe	functional	training,
because	an	intelligent	and	well-read	man	like	Charles	did	not	see	the	basic
concept	of	functional	training	as	I	saw	it.
To	me,	function	is	essentially	purpose.	Functional	training	can	therefore	be
described	as	purposeful	training.
Functional	training	and	unstable-surface	training	are	not	synonymous.
Unstable	surface	training	is	one	aspect	of	the	larger	thought	process	that	makes
up	functional	training.	Unfortunately,	these	unstable	balance	trainers	have
become	so	synonymous	with	functional	training,	many	consider	them	one	and
the	same.
Functional	training	is	not	so	much	about	the	gadgets	used	by	physical
therapists	in	rehab,	but	about	the	knowledge	physical	therapists	have	gained
about	why	injuries	occur.	This	is	where	people	get	confused:	It’s	not	about	the
gadgets;	it’s	about	the	information.
Functional	training	shifts	the	focus	of	exercises	to	incorporate	stabilizer
muscles	because	this	is	what	physical	therapists	report	as	the	source	of	injury.
Watching	collegiate	or	professional	athletes	train	like	powerlifters,	Olympic
lifters	or	bodybuilders	began	to	make	less	and	less	sense	as	my	knowledge
expanded.	It	was	not	that	I	didn’t	appreciate	the	contributions	of	these	sports,	it
was	just	that	I	realized	there	was	so	much	more	as	I	began	to	develop	a	deeper
understanding	of	anatomy	and	of	injury	mechanisms.
What	functional	training	really	comes	down	to	is	the	application	of
functional	anatomy	to	training.	It	is	taking	what	we	know	and	using	that
information	to	select	exercises	to	reduce	the	incidence	of	injury	and	improve
performance.	Instability	is	a	potential	progression,	but	not	the	fundamental
driver.

Use	What	Works
	
When	reading	this	book	it	is	very	important	to	put	aside	any	preconceived
notions	about	the	process	of	strength	and	conditioning.	Think	about	practicing
the	art	of	common	sense.	Often	good	ideas	seem	so	basic	we	discount	them
based	only	on	their	simplicity.	As	coaches	and	personal	trainers,	we	continue	to
jump	on	and	off	the	latest	bandwagons.	Try	to	stay	with	ideas	that	work,	and	be
wary	of	anything	that	seems	too	good	to	be	true.
Speed,	movement	ability,	strength	and	power	are	all	qualities	that	can	and
should	be	improved.	Good	strength	and	conditioning	coaches	are	constantly
scrutinizing	their	programs.	Every	day	I	learn	something	that	makes	me	consider
a	change	in	the	program.	These	are	not	knee-jerk	reactions,	but	rather	the
acceptance	that	there	are	many	coaches	and	therapists	pushing	the	envelope	and
developing	better	techniques.
As	a	coach,	you	can’t	allow	yourself	to	fall	in	love	with	any	particular
exercises,	techniques	or	philosophies.	Your	job	is	to	get	results,	and	to	choose
the	methods	that	give	you	those	results.	That	means	experimenting	with
everything	that	makes	sense	to	you,	rejecting	the	things	that	don’t	make	sense	or
no	longer	make	sense,	and	keeping	whatever	works.
Occasionally	you	might	reject	popular	exercises.	Sometimes	you	stop	using
exercises	you	once	liked.	And	every	now	and	then,	you	pull	something	out	of	the
second	category	and	reincorporate	it	into	your	programs.
If	it	works,	that’s	all	that	matters.
Here	no	attempts	are	made	to	copy	the	programs	of	successful	teams	or
athletes.	Instead	I	evaluate	each	technique	or	concept	for	inclusion.	Many
coaches	duplicate	the	program	of	the	most	successful	team,	but	remember,	much
of	that	success	may	be	due	to	recruiting,	coaching	or	genetics.	Instead	of
copying	successful	teams	or	individuals,	seek	the	techniques	of	those	who
consistently	produce	great	results	in	less-than-ideal	situations.
More	is	Not	Better
	
Most	young	athletes	and	many	young	coaches	think	if	two	sets	are	good,
four	sets	must	be	better.	In	truth,	you	may	be	overtaxing	the	body	and	disrupting
the	recuperative	process.	When	you	think	of	a	strength	program,	remind	yourself
strength	training	is	a	game	of	stimulus	and	response.	The	actual	workout	is	a

stimulus.	The	response	occurs	after	the	workout.	The	response	is	affected	by	the
quality	of	the	workout	and	by	the	quality	of	the	recovery.	Rest	and	nutrition	have
as	much	to	do	with	success	as	does	the	workout	program.
The	real	key	to	a	successful	strength	program	is	injury	reduction.	I	used	to
say	injury	prevention,	but	in	reality	only	divine	intervention	can	prevent	injury.
Injury	reduction	is	a	better	representation	of	the	goal.	Semantics	aside,	statistics
don’t	lie.	If	your	injuries	decrease	and	your	wins	increase,	you’re	successful.
Wins	can	obviously	be	affected	by	talent	and	coaching,	but	in	general,	injury
trends	will	not	be	as	affected	by	these	factors.	Your	number	one	goal	is	injury
reduction,	and	after	that	comes	performance	enhancement.
During	my	fifteen	years	of	college	coaching,	I	noticed	an	interesting	trend.
As	we	evolved	from	a	traditional	power	and	Olympic	lifting	program	to	a	more
functionally	based	program,	our	strength	numbers	stayed	consistent,	and	our
injury	incidence	decreased	drastically.	Think	about	this	as	you	read.
Olympic	lifting	and	powerlifting	are	excellent	systems	that	teach	a	strong
technical	background	and	emphasize	multi-joint	lifts.	However,	much	like	the
invention	of	modern	plumbing	and	the	development	of	the	internet,	strength	and
conditioning	is	constantly	advancing.	To	be	successful	we	need	to	advance	with
it.
Functional	Training
	
Mark	Verstegen	was	one	of	the	first	to	break	out	of	the	track	mold	coaches
were	stuck	in	as	he	began	to	teach	lateral	and	multi-directional	movement	with
the	same	skill	the	track	coaches	taught	linear	movement.	This	process	was	a
quantum	leap	for	me,	and	became	a	quantum	leap	for	my	athletes.	This	was	my
first	step	from	strength	and	conditioning	coach	to	performance	enhancement
specialist.	The	key	to	this	process	was	accepting	the	fact	that	Mark	and	his	co-
workers	were	far	ahead	of	me	in	this	critical	area.
Functional	training,	core	training	and	the	proper	use	of	unstable	surfaces	are
only	a	few	of	the	examples	of	advances	that	should	be	embraced	and
incorporated	into	a	sound	program.	We	have	far	too	many	ostriches	in	our
profession,	content	to	coach	with	their	heads	in	the	sand.
Technique…	technique…	technique.	Never	compromise.	Use	bodyweight
when	possible	and	practical.	Do	lots	of	push-ups,	feet-elevated	push-ups,	one-leg
squats,	chin-ups	and	dips.	Bodyweight	exercises	are	humbling.	Use	these	early
and	often	with	beginners.	Not	only	will	athletes	learn	to	respect	their

bodyweight,	but	they	will	also	see	the	value	of	these	easy	exercises.
Techniques
	
If	you	are	going	to	use	the	squat,	teach	bodyweight	squats	first.	If	athletes
can’t	squat	bodyweight	with	perfect	form,	they	can’t	squat.	Period.	They	must	be
able	to	get	through	the	range	of	motion.	It	is	normal	to	be	able	to	squat	to	a
parallel	position.	Athletes	who	cannot	may	need	work	on	hip	mobility,	ankle
mobility	or	lateral	hamstring	stretching.
If	you	choose	to	have	your	athletes	squat,	have	them	perform	parallel	squats
without	fail.	Our	athletes	do	nothing	but	front	squats	to	a	femur-parallel	position.
We	even	use	twelve-inch	plyo	boxes	to	ensure	depth;	we	ask	athletes	to	squat	to
a	box	that	places	the	femur	parallel	to	the	floor.	Although	we	may	need	different
size	boxes	for	different	athletes,	we	arrive	at	a	point	for	each	athlete	that	defines
parallel.	These	are	not	Westside	Barbell	box	squats;	the	athlete	merely	touches
the	box	to	insure	depth.
If	you	use	the	bench	press,	no	bounce,	no	arch.	Never	compromise.	As	soon
as	you	allow	one	athlete	to	cheat	or	to	not	adhere	to	the	program,	others	will
follow.	Remember	why	athletes	cheat:	They	cheat	to	lift	more	weight.	Lifting
more	weight	feeds	their	egos.	Once	you	allow	it	to	happen,	cheating	is	very
difficult	to	stop.
To	make	your	point,	use	exercises	like	pause	bench	and	pause	front	squats.
These	exercises	can	be	very	humbling.	Canadian	strength	coach	Charles
Poliquin	has	a	principle	called	technical	failure.	Technical	failure	means	you
never	count	a	rep	after	technique	breaks	down.	This	principle	will	encourage
your	athletes	to	lift	properly.	I	consistently	tell	my	athletes	I	don’t	care	how
many	reps	they	do;	I	care	how	many	
good
	reps	they	do.
Strength	and	conditioning	coaching	may	seem	easy	in	principle,	but	it’s
difficult	in	practice.	The	key	to	a	successful	program	is	to	try	to	see	every	set	and
coach	every	athlete.	This	is	difficult,	time-consuming,	and	repetitive.	In	fact,	it	is
impossible.
At	the	end	of	a	good	day	in	the	weightroom,	you	should	be	hoarse	and	tired.
A	good	strength	coach	will	have	sore	legs	and	knees	from	a	day	spent	squatting
down	to	see	squat	depth.
	

Choosing	Functional	Exercises
	
	
We’d	like	to	assume	coaches	are	always	looking	for	the	best	programs	and
exercises	to	both	reduce	the	incidence	of	injury	and	improve	performance.
However,	when	I	see	the	programs	many	of	our	elite	athletes	are	given,	I	am
both	confused	and	disappointed.
Coaches	continue	to	prescribe	exercises	like	leg	extensions,	leg	curls	and
leg	presses,	even	when	it	appears	there	is	little	to	support	the	prescriptions.
Functional	anatomy	is	not	a	theory.	What	we	know	about	function	is	factual	and
is	based	on	science	and	research.
The	idea	that	we	need	to	isolate	a	muscle	or	that	we	need	certain	single-
joint	exercises	for	injury	prevention	has	not	been	proven.	Coaches	need	to	move
forward	in	their	programming	and	begin	to	use	exercises	that	make	sense	and
will	actually	reduce	the	potential	of	injury.
The	functional	continuum	was	first	introduced	in	
Functional	Training	for
Sports
	to	illustrate	exercise	choices	on	a	continuum	from	least	functional	to	most
functional.	Exercises	are	separated	into	lower-body	exercises,	upper-body
exercises	and	torso	or	core	strength	exercises.	The	categories	are	then	further
broken	down	into	knee-dominant,	hip-dominant,	upper-body	pushing	and	upper-
body	pulling	exercises.	The	exercises	progress	on	the	continuum	from	machine-
based	exercises	to	exercises	done	primarily	in	the	standing	position.	Exercises
also	progress	from	a	stable	system	that	does	not	stress	stabilizers	or	neutralizers,
to	exercises	designed	specifically	to	do	so.	Stabilizers	provide	stability,	while
neutralizers	prevent	unwanted	motion.
The	first	exercise	sequence	is	knee-dominant	lower-body	exercises.	The
continuum	begins	with	the	lying	leg	press,	as	this	is	the	least	functional	multi-
joint	lower	body	exercise	I	can	envision.	In	a	leg	press,	as	with	most	machine
exercises,	the	athlete	simply	functions	as	the	engine	or	force-producer.	All	of	the
stability	is	provided	by	the	machine.
The	second	exercise	on	the	continuum	would	be	a	standing	machine	squat,
progressing	up	the	functional	curve	to	a	standing	position.	The	standing	position
is	more	sport-specific	than	lying,	and	may	incorporate	additional	muscles	not
stressed	in	the	leg	press.	However,	stability	is	still	provided	by	the	machine.

The	third	step	up	the	functional	continuum	is	to	move	to	a	standing
squatting	exercise.	The	athlete	is	again	standing	as	in	the	machine	squat,	but	is
now	self-stabilizing.	This	will	obviously	stress	the	core	to	a	greater	degree.
Many	coaches	consider	squatting	to	be	a	good	core	exercise	even	though	there	is
no	unilateral	or	rotational	stress.	In	fact,	some	coaches	think	squatting	is	enough
core	exercise.	The	standing	two-leg	squat	is	the	point	where	often	even	good
strength	coaches	stop.
Many	coaches	use	ground-based	exercises,	but	neglect	to	think	a	step	or
two	further.	The	next	step	in	the	progression	should	be	to	work	on	one	leg.
From	a	functional	anatomical	standpoint,	it	is	absolutely	critical	to	be	on
one	leg.	How	many	legs	do	you	run	on	at	a	time?	Just	one.	Have	you	ever	had	an
athlete	pull	his	hamstrings	bilaterally?	Not	a	chance.	The	muscles	that	support
the	lower	leg	in	single-leg	stance	—	the	quadratus,	glute	medius	and	adductors
—	are	not	nearly	as	active	in	double-leg	exercises.
The	final	step	in	the	continuum	is	a	one-leg	squat	while	standing	on	an
unstable	surface.	Now	the	athlete	must	engage	the	prime	movers,	stabilizers	and
neutralizers	while	dealing	with	the	additional	proprioceptive	input	provided	by
instability.
We’ll	cover	each	of	the	advances	rungs	of	the	continuum	in	the	pages	that
follow
Using	Functional	Exercises
	
One	interesting	thing	about	functional	exercise	is	it	makes	some	old-school
coaches	nervous.	Opponents	of	the	concept	of	functional	training	are
consistently	trotting	out	poorly	done	studies	to	call	functional	training	a	fad.
Recently	I	was	told	functional	exercise	is	fine	for	rehab	and	will	help	restore
proprioception,	but	it	doesn’t	work	with	healthy	athletes.	My	experience	does
not	bear	this	out:	In	six	years	of	professional	or	Olympic-level	soccer,	our
athletes	had	no	ACL	tears.	This	is	obviously	anecdotal,	but	powerful
nonetheless.
The	concepts	described	in	the	functional	continuum	can	be	applied	to	any
region	of	the	body.	To	use	an	overused	cliché,	think	outside	the	box.	Don’t	do
what	you’ve	always	done.	Don’t	do	what	everyone	else	does.	Don’t	copy
powerlifters	or	weightlifters;	they	are	training	for	their	sports,	not	yours.	Many
of	the	concepts	of	powerlifting	or	Olympic-style	lifting	can	be	applied	to	a	sound
strength	program,	but	remember	those	sports	are	different	because	in	our	other

activities	we	infrequently	have	two	feet	in	contact	with	the	ground.	You	don’t
have	to	take	exercises	like	squats	or	deadlifts	out	of	your	program,	but	instead
complement	them	with	assistance	exercises	higher	on	the	functional	continuum.
This	book	will	provide	exercises	and	programs	examples,	but	to	give	you
the	basic	idea:
•	
Instead	of	leg	extensions,
	use	split	squats	or	another	single-leg	squat
variation.	Split	squats	incorporate	balance,	flexibility	and	single-leg
strength.
•	
Instead	of	leg	curls,
	use	a	single-leg	straight-leg	deadlift.	The	hamstring	is
more	of	a	hip	extensor	than	a	knee	flexor.	In	fact,	the	hamstring	is	actually	a
resistor	of	leg	extension	in	sprinting.	Leg	curls	do	not	provide	useful,	real-
world	strength.
•	
Instead	of	dumbbell	bench	press
,	try	an	alternating	dumbbell	bench	press
where	you	have	the	client	stabilize	the	dumbbell	at	the	top.	This	will
develop	core	strength,	shoulder	stability	and	single-arm	strength.
When	choosing	exercises,	ask	yourself	why	each	is	in	the	program.	If	the
reason	is	because	everyone	else	does	them	or	because	that’s	the	way	you	have
always	done	it,	think	again.
The	functionality	of	an	exercise	should	be	a	key	factor	in	choosing
exercises	for	athletic	development.	Functional	exercises	will,	by	definition,	be
specific	to	a	sport	or	activity.	Progression	from	double-leg	to	single-leg	exercises
is	important	to	most	ground-based	sports.
Upper-Body	Pulling	and	Pressing
	
In	most	strength	training	programs,	pulling	movements	such	as	chin-ups
and	rows	are	still	given	little	emphasis.	Instead,	most	coaches	and	trainers	have
their	athletes	and	clients	perform	lat	pull-downs	for	the	muscles	of	the	upper
back	under	the	mistaken	assumption	this	is	all	that	is	necessary.	In	addition,
many	programs	completely	ignore	rowing	movements.	This	type	of	program
design	leads	to	overdevelopment	of	the	pressing	muscles,	to	postural	problems,
and	eventually	to	shoulder	injury.
A	well-designed	upper-body	program	should	include	a	proportional	ratio	of

sets	of	horizontal	pulling	and	vertical	pulling	to	overhead	and	supine	pressing
exercises.	There	should	be	at	least	one	set	of	a	pulling	exercise	for	every	set	of
pushing.
A	poor	ratio	of	pulling	to	pressing	leads	to	overdevelopment	of	the
pectorals	and	underdevelopment	of	the	scapulae	retractors,	and	predisposes
athletes	to	overuse	shoulder	injuries,	especially	rotator	cuff	tendinosis.
The	incidence	of	rotator	cuff	tendinosis	among	athletes	who	perform	a	great
deal	of	bench	press	and	bench	press	variations	is	extremely	high.	Many
powerlifters	accept	shoulder	pain	as	a	part	of	their	sport	in	much	the	same	way
swimmers	or	tennis	players	do.	The	reality	is	with	a	balanced	program	very	few
athletes	should	experience	anterior	shoulder	pain.	Anterior	shoulder	pain	is	not
due	to	the	bench	press	itself,	but	more	likely	to	the	lack	of	an	appropriate	ratio	of
pulling	movements.
The	real	key	is	for	the	athlete	to	possess	a	good	ratio	of	pulling	to	pushing
strength.	This	is	best	estimated	by	comparing	an	athlete’s	maximum	number	of
pull-ups	to	his	maximum	bench	press	weight.	Consideration	must	be	given	to
bodyweight,	but	an	athlete	capable	of	bench	pressing	well	over	bodyweight
should	also	be	capable	of	pulling	his	bodyweight,	regardless	of	size.
For	example,	a	200-pound	male	athlete	who	can	bench	press	300	pounds
should	be	able	to	perform	twelve	to	fifteen	chin-ups,	and	a	300-pound	male
athlete	who	can	bench	press	400	pounds	should	be	able	to	do	five	to	eight.
Females	may	actually	perform	better	in	the	ratio	of	chin-up	to	bench	press.
We	have	found	female	athletes	capable	of	bench	pressing	their	bodyweight	can
perform	anywhere	from	five	to	ten	chin-ups.
Vertical	Pulling	Movements
	
A	well-designed	strength	program	should	include	at	least	three	sets	each	of
two	chin-up	variations	weekly,	as	well	as	a	minimum	of	three	sets	of	two	rowing
movements	per	week.	Either	the	specific	type	of	vertical	and	horizontal	pull,	or
the	number	of	repetitions	should	change	every	three	weeks;	in	some	cases,	both
should	change.

	
An	important	point	is	not	to	get	caught	in	the	trap	of	adding	chin-ups	to
your	program,	but	not	training	them	as	a	strength	exercise.	Vertical	pulling
movements	should	be	cycled	in	conjunction	with	horizontal	pressing	movements
like	the	bench	press.
If	you	are	performing	sets	of	three	in	the	bench	press,	perform	sets	of	three
in	your	vertical	pulling	movements.	If	you	are	performing	pyramids,	do	the	same
with	vertical	pulls.
Our	male	athletes	very	rapidly	gain	upper-back	strength	with	this	type	of
program.	It	is	not	unusual	for	men	to	perform	five	chin-ups	with	a	forty-
fivepound	plate	attached	to	a	dip	belt,	and	female	athletes	sets	of	three	chin-ups
with	anywhere	from	five	to	twenty-five	pounds.
Treat	vertical	pulling	as	a	strength	exercise	and	you	will	see	large	increases
in	strength,	and,	most	importantly,	decreases	in	shoulder	pain.
Horizontal	Pulling	Movements

	
Horizontal	pulling	movements	are	critical	for	two	reasons.
•	The	addition	of	rowing	motions	to	the	program	will	help	prevent	injury.
•	Rowing	exercises	are	a	true	antagonistic	movement	to	the	bench	press.
Although	chin-ups	and	their	variations	are	important,	rowing	movements
specifically	target	both	the	muscles	and	movement	patterns	that	directly
oppose	those	trained	on	the	bench	press.
Despite	their	importance,	rows	are	even	more	frequently	omitted	from
strength	programs.	Rowing	motions	are	an	area	of	functional	training	undergoing
great	change.	Recent	advances	in	athletic	training	and	physical	therapy	have
shown	the	body	is	linked	both	anteriorly	and	posteriorly	in	a	diagonal	pattern.
Force	is	transmitted	from	the	ground	through	the	leg	to	the	hip	via	the	biceps
femoris	and	the	glute	max.	The	force	is	then	transferred	across	the	sacro-iliac
joint	into	the	opposite	latissimus	dorsi.
The	key	in	this	system	of	cross-linkage	lies	not	only	in	stabilizing	the	hip,
but	in	engaging	the	muscles	used	in	the	proper	motor	pattern.
For	this	reason,	all	rowing	motions	except	the	inverted	row	and	rotational
row	are	performed	with	only	one	foot	in	contact	with	the	ground.	With	one	foot
on	the	ground	and	the	load	in	the	hand	opposite	that	foot,	the	athlete	must	now
engage	the	biceps	femoris	and	glute	to	transfer	force	from	the	ground	via	the
pelvic	stabilizers	and	the	hip	rotators.
The	hip	rotator	group	and	pelvic	stabilizers	are	of	particular	importance
because	all	force	transferred	from	the	ground	must	move	through	a	stable	hip	to
properly	transfer	to	the	upper	body.
Until	very	recently,	the	hip	rotator	group	has	been	effectively	ignored.	The
hip	rotators	are	the	“rotator	cuff”	of	the	lower	body,	but	don’t	get	the	attention
the	shoulder	rotator	cuff	muscles	of	the	upper	body	get.	All	force	originating
from	the	ground,	whether	a	golf	swing	or	a	home	run,	must	transfer	through	a
strong,	flexible	and	stable	hip	rotator	group.	The	hip	rotators	must	be	given
particular	attention	in	program	design.
We’ll	get	into	specifics	later	in	the	book,	but	first	we	need	to	cover	what	I
consider	the	biggest	change	in	training	philosophy	in	recent	years,	joint	stability
and	joint	mobility	as	a	focus	in	our	training.

Mobility	and	Flexibility
	
	
The	Joint-by-Joint	Approach
Movement	Screening
The	Functional	Movement	Screen
Assessing	Strength,	Flexibility	and	Mobility
The	Bodyweight	Squat
Mobility	Drills
Foam	Rolling
Rolling	versus	Massage
Static	Stretching
Shortened	Muscles
Active-Isolated	Stretching
	
	

The	Joint-by-Joint	Approach
	
	
If	you	are	not	yet	familiar	with	the	joint-by-joint	theory,	be	prepared	to	take
a	quantum	leap	in	thought	process.	My	good	friend,	physical	therapist	Gray
Cook,	has	a	gift	for	simplifying	complex	topics.	In	a	conversation	about	the
effect	of	training	on	the	body,	Gray	produced	one	of	the	most	lucid	ideas	I	have
ever	heard.
We	were	discussing	the	findings	of	his	Functional	Movement	Screen
(FMS),	the	needs	of	the	different	joints	of	the	body,	and	how	the	function	of	the
joints	relate	to	training.	One	beauty	of	the	FMS	is	it	allows	us	to	distinguish
between	issues	of	stability	and	those	of	mobility;	Gray’s	thoughts	led	me	to
realize	the	future	of	training	may	be	a	joint-by-joint	approach,	rather	than	a
movement-based	approach.
His	analysis	of	the	body	is	a	straightforward	one.	In	his	mind,	the	body	is	a
just	a	stack	of	joints.	Each	joint	or	series	of	joints	has	a	specific	function	and	is
prone	to	predictable	levels	of	dysfunction.	As	a	result,	each	joint	has	particular
training	needs.
This	joint-by-joint	idea	has	really	taken	on	a	life	of	its	own,	one	I	certainly
didn’t	envision.	It	seems	like	everybody’s	familiar	with	it;	it’s	become	so
common	knowledge	people	fail	to	reference	Gray	Cook	or	me	as	the	developers
of	the	idea.
The	table	in	the	next	column	looks	at	the	body	on	a	joint-by-joint	basis
from	the	bottom	up.
The	first	thing	you	should	notice	is	the	joints	alternate	between	mobility
and	stability.	The	ankle	needs	increased	mobility,	and	the	knee	needs	increased
stability.	As	we	move	up	the	body,	it	becomes	apparent	the	hip	needs	mobility.
And	so	the	process	goes	up	the	chain	—	a	basic,	alternating	series	of	joints.
	
Joint
Primary	Needs

Ankle
Mobility	(sagittal)
Knee
Stability
Hip
Mobility	(multi-planar)
Lumbar	Spine
Stability
Thoracic	Spine
Mobility
Scapula
Stability
Gleno-humeral
Mobility
	
Over	the	past	twenty	years,	we	have	progressed	from	the	approach	of
training	by	body	part	to	a	more	intelligent	approach	of	training	by	movement
pattern.	In	fact,	the	phrase	“movements,	not	muscles”	has	almost	become	an
overused	one,	and	frankly,	that’s	progress.	Most	good	coaches	and	trainers	have
given	up	on	the	old	chest-shoulder-triceps	method	and	moved	to	push-pull,	hip-
extend,	knee-extend	programs.
Still,	the	movement-not-muscles	philosophy	probably	should	have	gone	a
step	further.	Injuries	relate	closely	to	proper	joint	function,	or	more
appropriately,	to	joint	
dysfunction
.	Problems	at	one	joint	usually	show	up	as	pain
in	the	joint	above	or	below.
The	primary	illustration	is	in	the	lower	back.	It’s	clear	we	need	core
stability,	and	it’s	also	obvious	many	people	suffer	from	back	pain.	The	intriguing
part	lies	in	the	theory	behind	low	back	pain.	The	new	theory	of	the	cause:	loss	of
hip	mobility.
Loss	of	function	in	the	joint	below	—	in	the	case	of	the	lumbar	spine,	it’s
the	hips	—	seems	to	affect	the	joint	or	joints	above.	In	other	words,	if	the	hips
can’t	move,	the	lumbar	spine	will.	The	problem	is	the	hips	are	designed	for
mobility,	and	the	lumbar	spine	for	stability.	When	the	intended	mobile	joint
becomes	immobile,	the	stable	joint	is	forced	to	move	as	compensation,
becoming	less	stable	and	subsequently	painful.
The	Process	is	Simple
	
•	Lose	ankle	mobility,	get	knee	pain

•	Lose	hip	mobility,	get	low	back	pain
•	Lose	thoracic	mobility,	get	neck	and	shoulder	pain,	or	low	back	pain
Looking	at	the	body	on	a	joint-by-joint	basis	beginning	with	the	ankle,	this
makes	sense.
The	ankle	is	a	joint	that	should	be	mobile	and	when	it	becomes	immobile,
the	knee,	a	joint	that	should	be	stable,	becomes	unstable;	the	hip	is	a	joint	that
should	be	mobile	and	it	becomes	immobile,	and	this	works	its	way	up	the	body.
The	lumbar	spine	should	be	stable;	it	becomes	mobile,	and	so	on,	right	on	up
through	the	chain.
Now	take	this	idea	a	step	further:	What’s	the	primary	loss	with	an	injury	or
with	lack	of	use?	Ankles	lose	mobility;	knees	lose	stability;	hips	lose	mobility.
You	have	to	teach	your	clients	these	joints	have	a	specific	mobility	or	stability
need,	and	when	they’re	not	using	them	much	or	are	using	them	improperly,	that
immobility	is	more	than	likely	going	to	cause	a	problem	elsewhere	in	the	body.
If	somebody	comes	to	you	with	a	hip	mobility	issue	—	if	he	or	she	has	lost
hip	mobility	–	the	complaint	will	generally	be	one	of	low	back	pain.	He	(my
editor	suggests	I	can	get	away	with	the	generic	pronoun	“he”	instead	of	writing
he	or	she	and	him	or	her	throughout	the	entire	book;	I	hope	she’s	right)	won’t
come	to	you	complaining	of	a	hip	problem.	This	is	why	we	suggest	looking	at
the	joints	above	and	looking	at	the	joints	below,	and	the	fix	is	usually	increasing
the	mobility	of	the	nearby	joint.
These	are	the	results	of	joint	dysfunction:	Poor	ankle	mobility	equals	knee
pain;	poor	hip	mobility	equals	low	back	pain;	poor	t-spine	mobility,	cervical
pain.
An	immobile	ankle	causes	the	stress	of	landing	to	be	transferred	to	the	joint
above,	the	knee.	In	fact,	there	is	a	direct	connection	between	the	stiffness	of	the
basketball	shoe	and	the	amount	of	taping	and	bracing	that	correlates	with	the
high	incidence	of	patella-femoral	syndrome	in	basketball	players.	Our	desire	to
protect	the	unstable	ankle	came	with	a	high	cost.	We	have	found	many	of	our
athletes	with	knee	pain	have	corresponding	ankle	mobility	issues.	Many	times
this	follows	an	ankle	sprain	and	subsequent	bracing	and	taping.
The	exception	to	the	rule	seems	to	be	at	the	hip.	The	hip	can	be	both
immobile	and	unstable,	resulting	in	knee	pain	from	the	instability	—	a	weak	hip
will	allow	internal	rotation	and	adduction	of	the	femur	—	or	back	pain	from	the
immobility.
How	a	joint	can	be	both	immobile	and	unstable	is	an	interesting	question.
Weakness	of	the	hip	in	either	flexion	or	extension	causes	compensatory

action	at	the	lumbar	spine,	while	weakness	in	abduction,	or,	more	accurately,
prevention	of	adduction,	causes	stress	at	the	knee.
Poor	psoas	and	iliacus	strength	or	activation	will	cause	patterns	of	lumbar
flexion	as	a	substitute	for	hip	flexion.	Poor	strength	or	low	activation	of	the
glutes	will	cause	a	compensatory	extension	pattern	of	the	lumbar	spine	to	replace
the	motion	of	hip	extension.
This	fuels	a	vicious	cycle.	As	the	spine	moves	to	compensate	for	the	lack	of
strength	and	mobility	of	the	hip,	the	hip	loses	more	mobility.	Lack	of	strength	at
the	hip	leads	to	immobility,	and	immobility	in	turn	leads	to	compensatory	motion
at	the	spine.	The	end	result	is	a	kind	of	conundrum,	a	joint	that	needs	both
strength	and	mobility	in	multiple	planes.
Your	athletes	and	clients	must	learn	to	move	from	the	hips,	not	from	the
lumbar	spine.	Most	athletes	with	lower	back	pain	or	hamstring	strains	have	poor
hip	or	lumbo-pelvic	mechanics	and	as	a	result	must	extend	or	flex	the	lumbar
spine	to	make	up	for	movement	unavailable	through	the	hip.
The	lumbar	spine	is	even	more	interesting.	This	is	clearly	a	series	of	joints
in	need	of	stability,	as	evidenced	by	all	the	research	in	the	area	of	core	stability.
The	biggest	mistake	we	have	made	in	training	over	the	last	ten	years	is	an	active
attempt	to	increase	the	static	and	active	range	of	motion	of	an	area	that	requires
stability.
Most,	if	not	all,	of	the	many	rotary	exercises	done	for	the	lumbar	spine	were
misdirected.	Physical	therapist	Shirley	Sahrmann	in	
Diagnosis	and	Treatment	of
Movement	Impairment	Syndromes
	and	James	Porterfield	and	Carl	DeRosa	in
Mechanical	Low	Back	Pain:	Perspectives	in	Functional	Anatomy
	all	indicate
attempting	to	increase	lumbar	spine	range	of	motion	is	not	recommended	and	is
potentially	dangerous.	Our	lack	of	understanding	of	thoracic	mobility	caused	us
to	try	to	gain	lumbar	rotary	ROM,	and	this	was	a	huge	mistake.
The	thoracic	spine	is	the	area	about	which	we	know	the	least.	Many
physical	therapists	recommend	increasing	thoracic	mobility,	though	few	have
exercises	designed	specifically	for	it.	The	approach	seems	to	be	“We	know	you
need	it,	but	we’re	not	sure	how	to	get	it.”	Over	the	next	few	years	we	will	see	an
increase	in	exercises	designed	to	increase	thoracic	mobility.	A	leader	in	the	field,
Sahrmann	was	early	to	advocate	the	development	of	thoracic	mobility	and	the
limitation	of	lumbar	mobility.
The	gleno-humeral	joint	is	similar	to	the	hip.	The	gleno-humeral	joint	is
designed	for	mobility	and	therefore	needs	to	be	trained	for	stability.	The	need	for
stability	in	the	gleno-humeral	joint	presents	a	great	case	for	exercises	like
stability	ball	and	BOSU	push-ups,	as	well	as	unilateral	dumbbell	work.
In	the	book	
Ultra-Prevention,
	a	nutrition	book,	authors	Mark	Hyman	and

Mark	Liponis	describe	our	current	method	of	reaction	to	injury	perfectly.	Their
analogy	is	simple:	Our	response	to	injury	is	like	hearing	the	smoke	detector	go
off	and	running	to	pull	out	the	battery.	The	pain,	like	the	sound,	is	a	warning	of
some	other	problem.	Icing	a	sore	knee	without	examining	the	ankle	or	hip	is	like
pulling	the	battery	out	of	the	smoke	detector.	The	relief	is	short-lived.
Every	day,	I	learn	more	and	more	about	the	body.	What	I	learn	allows	me	to
be	a	better	coach	and	a	better	educator.	Often,	what	I	learn	contradicts	what	I
formerly	believed,	and	you	may	find	a	few	of	those	reversals	between	this	book
and	its	predecessor.
	

Movement	Screening
	
	
My	recommendation	to	all	coaches	and	personal	trainers	is	to	learn	Gray
Cook	and	Lee	Burton’s	Functional	Movement	Screen	(FMS)	and	take	a	group	of
athletes	through	the	screen.	I	guarantee	you’ll	find	things	you	would	miss
looking	at	movement.	The	reason	for	this	is	the	reason	we	need	to	be	careful
with	the	whole	functional	training	thing.	In	my	experience,	the	better	the	athlete,
the	better	the	compensation.	Elite	athletes	always	find	a	way	to	perform	a	skill
and	make	it	look	easy.	The	red	flags	don’t	disappear,	they	just	go	into	hiding.
The	only	way	to	analyze	the	motion	of	an	elite	athlete	is	to	slow	him	down
and	look	at	static	postures,	active	ranges	of	motion	and	stability.	The	red	flags
hide	until	they	become	a	full-blown	injury.	Then	we	are	forced	to	back	up	and
attempt	to	fix	what	is	now	broken.	The	approach	of	many	of	the	experts	in
strength	and	conditioning	is	if	it’s	not	broken,	don’t	fix	it.	In	other	words,	wait
until	it	breaks	and	then	ask	a	physical	therapist	to	fix	it.	With	a	tool	like	the
FMS,	we	get	to	close	a	few	barn	doors	before	the	horses	get	out.
A	coach	or	personal	trainer	who	works	with	a	wide	range	of	athletes	and
clients,	as	most	do,	can	use	this	one	simple	screening	system.	The	key	to
understanding	and	using	the	screen	lies	in	realizing	it	is	just	what	the	name
implies.	It	is	a	screen.	It	is	a	basic	tool	to	look	at	patterns	of	movement	and
bilateral	imbalances.	It	is	not	meant	to	be	a	program	design	system.
The	FMS	is	a	great	way	to	begin	a	program.	The	FMS	and	its	results	create
an	immediate	bond	between	the	client	and	trainer	or	the	athlete	and	coach.	Even
if	the	program	is	not	individualized	in	any	way,	the	athlete	or	client	feels	his
unique	concerns	are	now	being	addressed.
	

Using	the	Functional	Movement	Screen
	
	
The	Functional	Movement	Screen	(FMS)	was	developed	by	Cook	and
Burton	as	a	simple	system	for	screening	both	athletes	and	non-athletes	for
potential	injury.	The	most	common	question	I	get	in	regard	to	the	FMS	is	if	I	use
the	FMS	with	our	teams.	The	answer	is	yes,	but	probably	not	the	way	you	might
think.
To	understand	why	we	use	the	Screen	we	need	to	begin	with	why	I	like
Gray	Cook:	He	helps	me	to	achieve	my	goals.	I	want	to	get	my	athletes	better.
Gray’s	ideas	help	me	do	that.
I	have	no	financial	interest	in	the	FMS	or	any	of	Gray’s	business	ventures.
In	spite	of	that,	I	may	be	one	of	his	biggest	supporters	and	his	best	salesman.
What	this	process	really	is	about	are	results	and	best	practices.	How	can	I
get	the	best	results	for	my	athletes?	If	my	athletes	achieve,	if	my	teams	wins,	if
my	clients	are	free	of	pain,	everything	is	right	with	my	training	world.
Gray’s	advice	for	an	individual	is	clear:	Attack	the	worst	pattern.	The
process	is	simple.	Run	the	screen,	look	at	the	results,	work	on	the	problem
patterns.
In	teams	settings	we	do	the	same	thing.	My	staff	and	I	have	used	the	FMS
with	enough	athletes	to	see	trends	across	a	wide	variety	of	sports.	In	hockey	the
hip	flexion	pattern	tested	in	the	hurdle	step	assessment	tends	to	be	the	most
significant	problem.	As	a	result	we	designed	a	lot	of	our	warm-up	and	pre-hab
work	to	go	after	the	hip	flexion	pattern.
Another	weak	pattern	in	testing	our	hockey	players	was	rotary	stability.
This	meant	we	needed	to	upgrade	our	core	work.
In	addition,	we	perform	the	FMS	on	any	injured	athlete	who	comes	to	our
facility,	and	on	all	our	personal	training	clients.
	

Losing	Control	of	the	Program
	
	
One	area	many	strength	and	conditioning	coaches	get	concerned	with	is
losing	control	of	their	programs.	That	will	never	happen	unless	you	let	it.	It’s
your	program.	I	don’t	run	Gray	Cook’s	program	and	you	don’t	have	to	either.	I
don’t	agree	with	Gray	on	everything.	In	fact,	we	use	very	few	of	Gray’s
corrective	strategies	as	we	have	not	found	them	group-friendly.	However,	that
does	not	mean	I	can’t	use	the	screen	or	the	information	obtained	from	the	screen
to	help	me	improve	my	program.	The	truth	is	as	I	understand	more,	I	integrate
more.
The	real	question	is	do	Gray	Cook	and	the	screen	have	the	ability	to	make
us	better	at	our	jobs	and	help	us	improve	our	athletes?	For	me	I	absolutely	know
they	do.	The	things	I	have	learned	from	Gray	have	been	invaluable	in	my
evolution	as	a	coach.
NFL	strength	and	conditioning	coaches	like	Jon	Torine	and	Jeff	Fish	have
developed	group	corrective	strategies	they	like.	I	have	also,	but	still	use	my
favorite	corrective	exercises	as	a	general	team	warm-up.	There’s	no	harm	in	an
athlete	doing	additional	corrective	exercises	even	if	they	do	not	apply	to	his
needs.
One	solution	that	Gray	has	advocated	is	the	use	of	the	Turkish	get-up	or
parts	of	the	get-up	as	a	group’s	corrective	strategy.	If	you	analyze	the	get-up,	you
see	scapular	stability,	core	stability	and	hip	mobility,	as	well	as	single-leg
patterns.
Gray	realized	athletic	teams,	the	military	and	other	groups	who	wanted	to
use	the	FMS	would	feel	limited	by	some	of	the	corrective	suggestions.	His
solution	was	the	
Kettlebells	from	the	Ground	Up
	project	called	
The	Kalos	Shenos
—	Greek	words	that	make	up	our	word	callisthenics.	The	project	consists	of	two
DVDs	and	a	manual	that	reviews	the	movements	behind	the	kettlebell	get-up	or
the	Turkish	get-up.
One	get-up	involves	fourteen	movements	from	top	to	bottom.	It	has	a	high
neural	demand	and	challenges	both	mobility	and	stability.	In	the	manual,	each
step	has	corrective	suggestions.	The	get-up	has	a	left-right	component,	which
lends	itself	to	the	exposure	of	asymmetry,	a	fundamental	component	of	the	FMS.

In	addition,	each	part	of	the	get-up	uses	one	or	two	patterns	of	the	FMS.
The	strength	coach	familiar	with	the	FMS	will	see	many	options	for	warm-
up	and	corrective	exercises	within	the	program.	Three	to	five	get-ups	per	side
can	be	an	excellent	warm-up	and	corrective	combination.	If	a	complete	get-up	is
not	possible	for	an	athlete,	have	the	athlete	do	three	circuits	of	the	corrective
exercise	suggested	at	the	problem	segment	of	the	get-up.	Cook	states,	“If	you	did
nothing	the	FMS	suggested,	but	let	the	get-up	catch	the	problem	and	worked	on
the	difficult	parts	of	the	get-up,	you	would	witness	a	huge	improvement	in	the
FMS.”
	

Screening	or	Selling
	
	
Stop	thinking	of	the	FMS	as	an	assessment	and	start	thinking	of	it	as	the
best	tool	you	can	have	to	sell	your	athletes	on	your	program.	The	FMS	may	not
change	what	you	do,	but	it	will	change	how	your	players	perceive	what	you	do.
The	FMS	results	reinforce	good	program-design	concepts,	because	a	well-
designed	program	yields	good	FMS	scores.
Mike	Boyle	Strength	and	Conditioning	was	one	of	the	first	groups	to	use
the	Functional	Movement	Screen	after	Gray	came	to	Boston	and	taught	the
screen	to	us	in	2002.	At	the	time,	we	noticed	one	significant	thing:	Our	coaches
all	scored	very	high.	The	coaches	at	the	time	were	all	former	MBSC	athletes
who	had	spent	years	on	our	program,	and	the	results	were	clear…	what	we	did
worked.	A	program	of	functional	exercises	with	lots	of	single-leg	work	and
intense	core	work	produced	excellent	scores.
We	then	began	to	screen	groups	of	normal	athletes,	athletes	who	did
conventional	bilateral	training	and	machine	training.	The	results	were	the
opposite.	Dysfunction	was	everywhere.	The	net	result?	The	scores	of	our
coaches	reinforced	to	them	that	the	program	they	believed	in	produced	superior
results	when	tested	independently.	And	the	scores	and	obvious	inabilities
demonstrated	by	others	reinforced	what	was	lacking	in	other	training.
It’s	easy	to	sell	core	training	to	an	athlete	after	he	bombs	the	rotary	core
stability	test.	I	once	had	a	professional	athlete	tell	me	the	test	was	impossible.	I
had	to	do	it	successfully	three	times	to	get	him	to	believe	it	could	be	done.	This
guy	could	not	even	balance	in	the	two-point	position,	much	less	move,	yet	he
was	playing	in	the	NFL	as	a	receiver.	After	implementing	a	corrective	strategy,
his	improvement	was	rapid	and	his	injury	risk	decreased	substantially.
	

Influence	of	the	Functional	Movement	Screen
	
	
The	concepts	obtained	from	the	Functional	Movement	Screen	reinforced
everything	we	believed,	and	added	an	entire	level	of	thought	process	to	what	we
did.	The	knowledge	gained	from	Gray	and	from	the	screens	drove	us	to	new
levels.
When	I	first	encountered	him,	he	preached	the	idea	of	stability	before
mobility.	From	the	standpoint	of	developing	exercise	progressions,	that	was	one
of	the	smartest	things	I’d	ever	heard.	We	began	to	design	all	our	strength
progressions	to	develop	stability	first	before	progressing	to	mobility.
We	also	began	to	plan	all	our	warm-up	progressions	to	develop	mobility,
but	only	at	the	right	joints.	In	a	sense	our	approach	to	functional	training	became
in	a	way	anti-functional,	using	our	joint-by-joint	approach	to	simultaneously
pursue	stability	in	some	areas	like	knees	and	lumbar	spine,	and	mobility	in
others,	such	as	ankles,	hips	and	t-spine.
At	the	same	time	Gray	continued	to	develop	ways	to	distinguish	between
mobility	and	stability	issues.	In	simple	terms	a	consistent	problem	is	a	mobility
issue.
The	best	example	is	the	squat;	if	an	athlete	is	unable	to	perform	the
overhead	squat,	or	any	squat	for	that	matter,	but	in	a	supine	position	can	flex	the
hips	above	ninety	degrees	and	keep	a	flat	back,	the	athlete	has	a	stability	issue.
The	presence	of	mobility	in	an	unloaded	motion	coupled	with	a	loss	of	mobility
against	gravity	clearly	indicates	a	stability	problem.
The	reverse	would	be	the	true	mobility	problem.	This	is	best	illustrated	by
an	athlete	who	cannot	get	into	the	overhead	squat	position	in	standing	or	when
lying	on	the	back.
In	the	first	example	the	athlete	is	capable	of	the	range	of	motion,	but	is
incapable	of	controlling	it.	In	the	second	situation,	a	true	mobility	problem,	the
athlete	does	not	have	the	mobility	necessary	to	do	the	movement.	The	lack	of
control	ability	leads	to	an	apparent	loss	of	mobility.
This	is	the	essence	of	how	stability	affects	mobility.	The	body	does	not
allow	motion	it	cannot	control.	That	control	is	achieved	by	decreasing	range	of
motion.

An	inconsistent	problem	—	adequate	passive	ROM,	inadequate	active
ROM	—	is	a	stability	problem.	A	consistent	lack	of	ROM	is	a	pure	mobility
issue.	The	key	point	is	stability	issues	will	not	be	solved	by	mobility	work.	In
contrast	mobility	work	will	probably	enhance	stability.
Developing	Progressions
	
When	using	the	Functional	Movement	Screen,	we	take	the	information
gained	and	use	it	to	develop	exercise	progressions.	In	order	to	do	that,	we	need
to	think	about	movement	patterns	and	use	the	concept	of	stable	to	mobile.
Movement	Progressions	or	Exercise	Progressions
	
The	main	differentiation	lies	in	understanding	the	concepts	of	mobility	and
stability	and	how	these	ideas	apply	differently	to	movement	progressions	and
exercise	progressions.	For	movement,	think	about	active	range	of	motion
exercises	without	external	loads.	In	movement,	proper	mobility	must	precede	the
development	of	stability.
For	exercises	of	strength,	think	about	movements	to	which	we	intend	to	add
loads	beyond	bodyweight.	In	strength	training	exercise	progressions,	the	athlete
must	be	stable	prior	to	adding	movement	such	as	multi-planar	actions.
As	he	continued	learning,	Gray’s	philosophy	evolved,	and	he	now	uses	the
following	continuum:
Mobility	before	stability	before	movement.
	
Athletes	must	develop	proper	mobility.	When	mobile	they	can	move	into
the	positions	to	develop	stability.	Mobility	and	stability	can	then	be	added	to
movements.
The	actual	continuum	is	as	follows.
•	Mobility:	Freedom	of	movement	at	movable	segments.	The	term	broadly
includes	and	covers	both	joint	range	of	motion	and	muscle	and	tissue

flexibility.
•	Stability:	The	ability	to	control	motion	at	a	particular	segment	in	the
presence	of	force,	tension,	load,	and	movement.
Stability	is	made	up	of	two	progressive	levels	of	control:
•	
Static:
	Isometric	control	of	all	directions	while	under	load	or	tension,	such
as	the	shoulders	in	a	deadlift	or	the	hips	in	a	tall-kneeling	chop	or	lift.
•	
Dynamic:
	Control	of	joint	alignment	and	integrity	in	a	particular	direction
or	plane	of	movement,	while	movement	or	force	is	generated	in	another
direction	or	plane	of	movement.	Examples:	the	hips	in	a	deadlift	or	squat,
extension	drive	without	losing	hip	alignment;	shoulder	girdle	in	the	chop
and	lift,	although	the	humerus	moves	across	all	three	planes,	the	scapula	is
maintained	in	the	middle	third	of	its	movement.
	

Movement
	
	
Movement	is	the	combined	act	of	posture	and	control	in	the	presence	of
active	and	reactive	patterns	of	manipulation,	moving	stuff,	and	locomotion	—
moving	self.	This	is	the	point	where	controlled	mobility	and	dynamic	stability
come	together	with	the	other	attributes	of	fitness	like	power,	strength,	speed,
endurance.	Movement	equals	function.
Gray	writes,	“In	this	continuum,	mobility	comes	first	because	you	cannot
have	control	—	stability	—	if	freedom	of	movement	is	not	present.	Stiffness
could	be	confused	for	stability	if	there’s	no	freedom	of	motion.	is	not	present.
Static	stability	precedes	dynamic	stability.	Dynamic	stability	precedes
movement.”
The	key	is	to	learn	to	follow	patterns.	If	we	want	to	control	excessive
motion	in	an	exercise,	we	must	initially	eliminate	potential	sources	of	that
motion.	Cook’s	idea	is	to	use	transitional	postures.	In	other	words,	many
exercise	progressions	for	strength	exercises	begin	in	a	kneeling,	half-kneeling,	or
lunge	position.
If	you	want	an	athlete	or	client	to	develop	control	or	stability	at	a	particular
joint,	such	as	the	lumbar	spine,	it	will	be	easier	if	we	eliminate	the	knee	and
ankle	joints	and	begin	in	a	kneeling	stance.
Each	stance	has	benefits.	Tall-kneeling	on	the	knees	with	the	hips	extended
will	create	great	glute	emphasis,	as	the	muscle	is	no	longer	needed	to	control	the
knee,	only	the	hip.	Half-kneeling,	one	knee	down,	one	knee	up,	flexes	the	hip
and	as	a	result	restricts	motion	at	the	lumbar	spine.
In	our	exercise	progressions,	we	tend	to	favor	tall-kneeling	for	our	athletes
as	a	starting	point.	In	contrast,	standing	creates	the	greatest	number	of	issues,	as
there	is	the	maximum	number	of	joints	to	control.	We	always	progress	to
standing	as	our	end	goal,	but	generally	begin	a	tall-kneel,	half-kneel	or	high
split-stance.
	

Diagonal	Pattern
	
	
Let’s	look	at	the	diagonal	lifting	pattern	to	illustrate.	The	exercise
progression	initially	emphasizes	stability	and	the	progression	is	one	of	increasing
mobility.
Half-Kneeling	Stable	Lift
	
This	is	a	pull-push	pattern	done	with	a	long	bar	attachment	like	the	Cook
bar	or	Core	bar.	Motion	occurs	primarily	in	the	shoulders	and	elbows,	while	the
core	remains	stable.
Half-Kneeling	Sequential
	
In	the	half-kneeling	sequential	lift,	a	shoulder	turn	is	added	and	a	triceps
rope	replaces	the	long	bar.	The	pattern	is	still	clearly	a	push-pull,	but	with	a
shoulder	turn.	The	shoulder	turn	is	advocated	by	physical	therapist	and	educator
Shirley	Sahrmann	to	encourage	motion	at	the	thoracic	spine	rather	than	at	the
lumbar	spine.
We	call	this	a	sequential	lift	because	it	is	initially	taught	as	a	three-part
action.	Step	one	is	a	pulling	action	similar	to	a	diagonal	upright	row.	Step	two	is
a	slight	turn	of	the	shoulders.	Step	three	is	a	diagonal	press.	This	is	taught
sequentially	to	ingrain	the	pull-turn-press	action.	It	is	important	to	note	some
mobility	has	been	added	at	the	thoracic	spine	via	the	shoulder	turn.
Standing	Lift
	

The	third	exercise	in	the	progression	is	the	standing	lift.	The	standing	lift
now	takes	on	a	diagonal	squat-to-press	action.	The	exercise	moves	from	the
somewhat	mechanical	action	of	the	sequential	lift	to	a	very	fluid	movement	more
like	an	Olympic	lift.	The	thinking	is	the	pattern	of	pull-push	has	been	properly
ingrained	and	core	control	established.	The	key	again	is	added	mobility	as	the
hips	and	knees	become	a	part	of	the	action.
Step-Up	Lift
	
The	last	stage	of	the	progression	is	to	add	a	single-leg	dimension.	The
single-leg	action	adds	an	additional	pelvic	stability	component.
The	progression	moves	from	a	core	stability	exercise	to	a	dynamic	single-
leg	total-body	power	exercise.	This	is	the	beauty	of	using	the	information
obtained	from	Gray	Cook	and	the	Functional	Movement	Screen	to	develop
exercise	progressions.	The	idea	is	no	longer	about	fixing	individual	issues	with
the	screen,	but	rather	working	more	globally	to	develop	better	integrated
progressions	for	rotary	stability.
Cook	has	advocated	chops	and	lifts	as	excellent	exercises	to	correct
asymmetries	and	to	enhance	stability.	Our	job	as	coaches	is	to	develop
progressions	from	these	ideas.
	

Adding	Strength	to	Dysfunction
	
	
Another	area	where	Cook’s	thoughts	provide	insight	is	in	exercise	selection.
Gray	frequently	says,	“Don’t	add	strength	to	dysfunction.”	What	he’s	saying	in
the	simplest	sense	is	if	you	can’t	squat,	don’t	squat.	An	athlete	or	client	who
cannot	perform	the	overhead	squat	to	a	least	score	a	two	in	the	screen	should	not
be	squatting.	In	essence	if	we	allow	him	to	do	squats,	we	are	simply	adding
strength	on	top	of	dysfunction.
The	client	still	has	a	poor	movement	pattern,	but	the	poor	pattern	can	now
be	demonstrated	with	external	load.	This	is	a	common	high	school	and	college
football	mistake	and	may	be	at	the	root	of	many	athletes’	back	pain.	An	athlete
who	squats	poorly	is	encouraged	by	a	well-meaning	coach	to	get	strong.	Instead,
the	initial	emphasis	should	be	to	get	mobile	or	to	perfect	the	squat	pattern.
However,	very	few	coaches	do	this.	Instead,	they	add	strength	to	dysfunction.
Our	current	approach	is	initially	to	work	on	mobility	to	obtain	or	develop
the	squat	pattern.	The	only	modification	will	be	to	elevate	the	heels	to	improve
the	athlete’s	position.	Our	feeling	is	if	you	can’t	squat	low,	don’t	squat	heavy.
Instead,	we	work	on	mobility	and	simultaneously	work	on	single-leg	strength.
This	is	a	matter	of	risk-to-benefit	ratio.	Loading	dysfunctional	patterns	can
only	lead	to	injury	as	the	body	tries	to	manage	the	additional	stress	applied	to	a
fragile	and	flawed	system.
Gray	illustrates	this	with	the	idea	of	
difficult	versus	beneficial.
	An	exercise
can	be	difficult	and	not	be	beneficial.	In	addition,	difficult	can	often	be	unsafe.
	

The	In-Line	Lunge
	
	
There	is	one	small	area	in	which	I	disagree	with	Gray:	We	add	a	one-leg
squat	to	our	version	of	the	Functional	Movement	Screen.	Gray	cautions	against
this,	however	we	added	the	one-leg	squat	because	I	think	the	patterns	of	a
supported	single-leg	movement	—	the	split	squat	or	Cook’s	in-line	lunge	—	is
distinctively	different	than	the	one-leg	squat.	A	one-leg	squat	is	what	we	would
classify	as	a	static	unsupported	exercise.	The	pelvic	implications	of	what	we	see
in	a	split	squat	versus	a	one-leg	squat	can	be	quite	different,	so	we	do	both.
I	think	the	in-line	lunge	should	be	renamed	the	split-stance	squat.	The	in-
line	lunge	is	not	a	lunge	at	all,	it’s	a	split	squat	by	definition.	The	split	squat	is
what	we	refer	to	as	a	static	exercise.	In	other	words,	the	feet	don’t	move.	A	lunge
has	motion	and	would	be	classified	as	a	dynamic	exercise.	The	lunge	has	a
transitional	component.
I	believe	what	Gray	intended	to	look	at	is	a	single-leg	pattern	and	the	in-line
lunge	—our	split-stance	squat	—	accomplishes	that.
	

FMS	Examples	in	Team	Settings
	
	
Below	are	a	few	simple	examples	of	the	team	problems	encountered	in	the
screens	and	how	we	solved	them.
Hockey	Example
	
Problem:
	Eighteen	athletes	out	of	twenty	screened	received	a	score	of	two
on	the	hurdle	step.	This	obviously	indicated	a	dysfunctional	pattern	of	hip
flexion,	and	it	led	us	to	look	at	psoas	and	iliacus	function.	Our	players	operate	in
constant	hip	flexion	and	are	inhibited	or	inefficient	in	standing.
Solution:
	Work	on	hip	flexion	from	the	top	down	and	from	the	bottom	up	or
as	Gray	would	say,	clean	up	the	pattern.	In	this	case	we	added	hip-flexion
activation	exercises	to	our	warm-up	and	hip-flexion	strength	exercises	to	the	end
of	our	workouts.
Football	Example
	
Problem:
	Abundance	of	overhead	squat	scores	of	two	out	of	a	possible
three.	Our	problem	seemed	to	revolve	around	ankle	mobility.
Solution:
	Add	ankle	mobility	and	hip	mobility	exercises	to	the	warm-up.
These	are	two	examples	of	simple	problems	with	easy	solutions.	The	beauty
of	the	FMS	system	is	we	don’t	overanalyze,	we	just	attack	the	problem	pattern.
	

Case	Studies
	
	
Below	are	three	distinct	examples	of	how	the	results	of	the	Functional
Movement	Screen	lead	to	career-changing	solutions	for	professional	athletes.	In
all	three	cases	below,	the	athletes	had	experienced	injuries	other	sports	medicine
professionals	had	a	difficult	time	explaining.
Oblique	Strain	in	an	NBA	All-Star	Guard
	
FMS	Finding	—	a	zero	in	the	in-line	lunge	on	the	right	leg
	
A	zero	score	is	given	if	the	athlete	cannot	do	the	movement	without	pain,
and	is	obviously	a	major	red	flag.	In	this	case	the	athlete	was	unable	to
adequately	flex	the	rear	foot,	his	left,	well	enough	to	perform	a	right	leg	in-line
lunge.	When	questioned	about	the	problem,	the	athlete	revealed	a	severe	case	of
turf	toe,	a	sprain	of	the	big	toe,	he	had	not	mentioned	previously	as	he	felt	it
unrelated	to	his	abdominal	issue.
The	history	of	turf	toe	was	significant	as	the	athlete	had	also	altered	his	gait
pattern	as	a	result	of	the	painful	toe.	The	alteration	was	to	walk	on	the	outside	of
the	foot	with	the	hip	externally	rotated.
The	net	result	was	a	significant	loss	in	hip	mobility	over	a	period	of	time.
The	lack	of	hip	mobility	placed	greater	stress	on	the	core	musculature	and
resulted	in	the	oblique	strain.	Externally	rotated	hips	take	away	hip	mobility	for
spin	moves.	Spin	moves	that	should	have	occurred	at	the	hip	were	now	placing
excessive	strain	on	the	core,	eventually	resulting	in	an	oblique	strain.	Without
performing	the	screen,	we	may	never	have	discovered	the	turf	toe	or	the	change
in	gait	pattern.	The	screen	led	us	right	to	the	problem.
Chronic	Hamstring	Strains	in	an	NFL	Wide	Receiver

	
FMS	Finding	—	a	one	score	in	rotary	stability	and	a	three	in	rotary	mobility
	
This	athlete	was	in	a	potential	career-ending	situation	after	sustaining
hamstring	strains	each	of	the	previous	two	seasons,	resulting	in	significant	lost
game	time.
The	new	FMS	does	not	contain	the	older	rotary	mobility	test,	however	I
often	do	the	test	when	I	have	an	individual	who	complains	of	back	pain.	The
combination	of	poor	rotary	stability	and	excessive	rotary	mobility	is	the	perfect
storm	of	back	pain.	Athletes	who	possess	great	mobility	with	no	control	are	the
most	at	risk.
In	further	conversation	with	this	athlete,	the	plot	thickened.	Once	in	the
NFL,	the	athlete	stopped	most	strength	training	due	to	numerous	back	strains
sustained	in	a	conventional	college	strength	program.	An	athlete	like	this	should
have	never	been	spinal-loaded	in	training.	However,	discontinuing	strength
training	was	not	the	answer,	and	had	put	the	athlete	in	a	difficult	situation.
Our	solution	was	a	unilateral	strength	program	with	minimal	spinal	loading
to	develop	the	glutes.	Previous	rehab	attempts	had	centered	on	the	hamstrings.
However,	the	hamstring	issues	were	a	symptom	of	poor	glutes,	not	the	cause	of
the	strains.
In	the	absence	of	glute	strength,	hamstrings,	no	matter	how	strong,	will	fail
every	time.	Hamstrings	are	a	secondary	extensor.	This	was	a	classic	case	of	the
Shirley	Sahrmann	axiom	
any	time	a	muscle	is	injured,	look	for	a	weak	synergist.
A	program	developed	around	single-leg	squats,	bridging	and	slideboard	leg	curls
kept	this	athlete	at	the	top	of	the	NFL	receiving	lists	once	we	discovered	and
fixed	the	problem.
	

FMS	and	the	Strength	Coach
	
	
Using	the	FMS	in	team	settings	is	as	simple	as	doing	the	screen	and	looking
at	the	trends.	Look	for	trends	and	design	a	team	program	that	corrects	your
trends.
What	you	need	to	do	is	combine	your	favorite	tools	with	the	FMS	findings.
Look	at	your	problem	patterns.	Work	to	improve	your	problem	patterns	in	the
warm-up	or	in	the	workout,	or	ideally	in	both.	The	results	of	the	FMS	in	a	team
setting	may	not	allow	you	to	help	each	individual,	but	they	will	clearly	help	your
team.
Gray	Cook	sums	it	up	by	saying:
“Some	coaches	shy	away	from	the	FMS	because	they	feel	they	will	lose
some	degree	of	autonomy,	thinking	they	must	submit	to	the	FMS	suggestions
and	corrections.	They	may	also	be	aware	the	FMS	will	expose	deficiencies	in
their	programming	and	suggest	changes	in	program	design.	We	all	hate	to	take	a
shot	to	our	confidence,	but	our	confidence	rarely	correlates	to	our	level	of
effectiveness.	The	book	
Blunder,	Why	Smart	People	Make	Bad	Decisions
	by
Zachary	Shore	demonstrates	how	we	neglect	to	expose	ourselves	to	objective
feedback	either	consciously	or	unconsciously.	This	book	is	a	must	if	you	are
responsible	for	programming,	teaching	and	analyzing	data.	Protect	your	brain
from	your	ego!
“The	role	of	a	strength	coach	is	to	manage	risk,	refine	functional	movement
and	enhance	performance.	The	FMS	will	assist	with	the	first	two	and	influence
the	third	indirectly.	Movement	pattern	deficiency	correlates	with	injury	risk,	and
the	screen	offers	a	view	of	movement	against	an	objective,	reproducible
baseline.	A	strength	coach	avoiding	a	tool	like	the	FMS	is	like	a	speed	coach
avoiding	a	stopwatch.	If	a	speed	coach	is	not	scared	of	a	stopwatch,	a	good
strength	coach	should	not	be	scared	of	the	FMS.
“Mike	is	a	great	example.	The	FMS	did	not	change	much	in	his	program,
but	it	reinforced	his	good	ideas.	Mike	yielded	good	conditioning	with
respectable	movement	patterns.	This,	along	with	great	coaches	and	sound
programming,	is	probably	the	secret	behind	the	low	injury	record	Mike	managed
to	stack	up	year	after	year.

“We	can’t	be	scared	of	objective	tools	that	measure	a	variable	we	are
ultimately	responsible	for	controlling!	You	will	learn	either	way.	It	will	reinforce
your	program	or	offer	the	best	possible	improvement	you	could	make.”
Gray	was	kind	enough	to	provide	some	closing	recommendations.
•	Don’t	push	movement	when	mobility	and	stability	are	compromised.
•	Don’t	continue	programming	that	does	not	yield	clean	movement	patterns.
•	Don’t	risk	injury	when	you	can	screen	for	it	in	less	than	ten	minutes.
•	Don’t	be	scared	of	objective	appraisal	of	your	work.
•	Don’t	let	others	find	your	mistakes;	always	check	your	work.
•	Don’t	lump	movement	tests	together	with	performance	tests.	You	will
miss	the	weakest	link.
Bottom	line:	Not	using	the	FMS	is	a	major	mistake.	Get	to	a	workshop	and
learn	the	screen.	You	will	not	be	the	same	coach	or	personal	trainer	after	the
workshop,	and	I	can	promise	that	is	a	good	thing.
	

Assessing	Strength,	Flexibility	and	Mobility
	
	
Flexibility	is	range	of	motion	around	a	joint.	Mobility	is	how	well	the	joint
moves.	Range	of	motion	can	be	limited	by	both	inflexibility	and	by	poor
mobility.
This	especially	becomes	an	issue	at	the	ankle.	The	easiest	way	to	assess
ankle	mobility	versus	ankle	flexibility	is	to	look	at	the	range	of	the	athlete’s
active	and	passive	dorsiflexion.
In	order	to	fully	understand	how	this	works,	we	need	to	enter	the	world	of
assessment.	Even	if	you	don’t	use	the	movement	screen,	as	a	bare	minimum
assessment,	an	athlete	should	perform	an	overhead	squat.	If	the	athlete	can
overhead	squat	to	a	parallel	position	with	the	toes	pointed	forward,	you	can
safely	proceed	to	any	squat	variation.	Athletes	who	cannot	overhead	squat	to	a
position	with	the	thighs	parallel	to	the	floor	are	deficient	in	either	ankle,	hip	or
hamstring	flexibility.
Most	athletes	can	overhead	squat	to	the	proper	depth	by	raising	the	heels	on
a	oneby-four	board	or	a	wedge.	If	elevating	the	heels	solves	the	problem,	you
can	safely	assume	the	issue	is	in	an	ankle	or	both	ankles.
•	Elevating	the	heels	will	not	harm	the	knees	in	any	way.	The	idea	that
elevating	the	heels	increases	the	stress	on	the	knees	is	not	supported	by	any
scientific	research.
•	Athletes	in	the	sports	of	powerlifting	and	Olympic	lifting	have	been
wearing	shoes	with	a	built-up	heel	for	decades.	Lifting	shoes	were
specifically	designed	to	slightly	elevate	the	heel.
At	this	point	there	are	two	possibilities,	ankle	flexibility	or	ankle	mobility.	I
mention	both	because	we	see	more	and	more	athletes	whose	problem	is	not
flexibility	but	is	instead	mobility.
Determining	the	difference	is	easy.	Place	the	athlete	in	a	long	sitting
position	on	a	table.	Passively	dorsiflex	the	athlete’s	ankle.	If	the	ankle	range	of
motion	is	limited	but	the	athlete	does	not	report	a	stretching	in	the	gastroc,	the

issue	is	mobility,	not	flexibility.	This	athlete	will	respond	to	ankle	self-
mobilization,	rather	than	stretching.

Ankle	Self-Mobilization
	
Have	the	athlete	stand	with	the	toes	a	few	inches	away	from	the	wall	and
dorsiflex	the	ankle	so	the	heel	stays	in	contact	with	the	floor	and	the	knee
touches	the	wall.
Have	him	repeat	this	ten	times	on	each	side,	gradually	moving	the	toes
further	from	the	wall.	Pay	attention	to	symmetry;	if	one	knee	does	not	reach	the
wall	from	a	distance	the	other	reaches	easily,	continue	working	to	bring	that
ankle	up	to	par.	Don’t	allow	the	athlete	to	work	the	more	mobile	ankle	at	a
greater	distance	than	the	less	mobile	one.
Omi	Iwasaki,	director	of	physical	therapy	at	Athletes’	Performance	Los
Angeles,	was	nice	enough	to	supply	this	technique.	We	use	it	as	part	of	our	daily
mobility	drills,	described	on	page	45.
	

The	Bodyweight	Squat
	
	
Coaches	should	always	begin	lower-body	strength	training	by	teaching	an
athlete	to	perform	bodyweight	squats.	Athletes	must	be	able	to	bodyweight	squat
before	being	allowed	to	use	any	type	of	external	load.	This	is	the	strength	and
conditioning	equivalent	of	walking	before	we	run.	Watching	an	athlete	squat
bodyweight	reveals	important	information	about	strength,	flexibility	and	injury
potential.
Athletes	who	have	difficulty	keeping	the	knees	from	moving	past	the	toes
are	deficient	in	either	flexibility	or	strength.	An	understanding	of	the	importance
of	knee-dominant	squatting	versus	ankle-dominant	squatting	is	vital.
When	most	athletes	hear	the	directive	to	squat,	their	minds	tell	their	bodies
to	lower	their	hips	the	easiest	way	possible.	For	weaker	athletes,	the	easiest	way
is	often	one	that	does	not	stress	the	weak	muscles,	usually	the	quadriceps.
Weaker	athletes	or	athletes	returning	from	injury	often	attempt	to	lower	the
center	of	gravity	by	initially	driving	the	knees	forward	over	the	toes	until	the
limit	of	ankle	range	of	motion	is	reached.	Then	and	only	then	does	the
movement	begin	to	center	on	the	knee	joint.
This	type	of	ankle-dominant	squatting	leads	to	excessive	knee	flexion	in
order	to	reach	a	position	where	the	thighs	are	parallel	to	the	ground.
Rehab	patients	are	often	directed	to	squat	to	a	ninety-degree	knee	angle.	A
knee	angle	of	ninety	degrees	can	be	reached	far	before	a	parallel	squat	is
achieved.	Strength	coaches	do	not	define	squat	depth	by	knee	angle,	but	rather
by	a	parallel	relationship	of	the	
femur	to	the	floor,
	which	often	results	in	a	knee
angle	greater	than	135	degrees	if	the	athlete	is	an	ankle-dominant	squatter.
This	type	of	ankle-dominant	squatting	is	frequently	seen	in	athletes	with
knee	pain.
Teach	your	athletes	to	bodyweight	squat	in	a	manner	that	minimizes	range
of	motion	at	the	ankle	and	maximizes	range	of	motion	at	the	knee.	Once	the
athlete	has	mastered	the	technique	of	bodyweight	squatting,	the	athlete	can
progress	to	the	hands-free	front	squat.

	
	

Full	Squats
	
	
Full	front	squats	are	always	used	in	our	program.	The	full	squat	is	defined
as	one	in	which	the	top	of	the	thigh	is	parallel	to	the	floor.	Half-squats	or	quarter-
squats	should	never	be	used.	No	one	does	half-or	quarter-curls	to	save	the
elbows;	the	knees	should	be	no	different.	Partial	squats	cannot	fully	develop	the
glutes,	hamstrings	and	lower	back.	In	addition,	half-squats	and	quarter-squats
present	a	greater	risk	of	back	injury	due	to	the	heavier	weights	used	in	partial
movements.
Athletes	with	normal	flexibility	can	squat	to	a	position	with	the	thighs
parallel	to	the	floor	with	no	heel	elevation.	Less	flexible	or	less	mobile	athletes
can	use	heel	elevation	as	discussed	earlier.
Increased	strength	in	squatting	movements	is	the	first	step	in	developing
speed	and	increasing	the	vertical	jump,	and	achieving	a	full	range	of	motion
bodyweight	squat	is	the	first	step	in	the	process	for	our	athletes.
	

Mobility	Drills
	
	
These	are	eight	essential	mobility	drills	to	weave	into	your	warm-ups.	The
nice	thing	about	these	exercises	is	anyone	can	do	them.	Everyone	may	not	be
able	to	do	them	well,	but	they	can	do	them.	And	think	about	this:	The	people
who	can’t	do	these	well	need	them	the	most.
Number	One	Thoracic	Spine	Mobility
	
The	thoracic	spine	is	one	of	the	least	understood	areas	of	the	body	and	was
previously	the	realm	of	physical	therapists.	Sue	Falsone,	director	of	performance
therapy	at	Athletes’	Performance,	may	be	single-handedly	responsible	for
introducing	the	athletic	world	to	the	need	for	thoracic	mobility,	and	for	showing
a	simple	way	to	develop	it.
The	important	thing	about	t-spine	mobility	is	almost	no	one	has	enough	and
it’s	hard	to	get	too	much.	We	encourage	our	athletes	to	do	thoracic	mobility	work
every	day.
To	perform	our	primary	thoracic	mobility	drill,	all	you	need	is	two	tennis
balls	and	some	tape;	just	tape	the	two	balls	together	and	go	to	work	doing	a
series	of	crunches	beginning	with	the	balls	at	the	thoracolumbar	junction.	The
ball	peanut	sits	under	the	erectors	and	effectively	provides	an	anterior-posterior
mobilization	of	the	vertebrae	with	every	little	mini-crunch.
The	head	should	return	to	the	floor	after	every	crunch	and	the	hands	come
forward	at	a	forty-five-degree	angle.	We	do	five	reps	at	each	level	and	then	slide
down	about	a	half-roll	of	the	ball,	working	from	the	thoracolumbar	junction	up
to	the	beginning	of	the	cervical	spine.	Stay	out	of	the	cervical	and	lumbar	areas;
these	are	not	areas	that	need	mobility	work.

	
This	drill	is	done	first,	just	after	we	foam	roll,	which	will	be	described	on
page	51,	because	the	athlete	is	already	on	the	floor.	The	rest	of	the	mobility	work
is	done	standing.
Number	Two	Ankle	Mobility
	
Just	as	with	thoracic	mobility,	it	is	rare	to	find	a	person	who	doesn’t	need
ankle	mobility	work.	Whether	for	an	athlete	who	experienced	a	previous	ankle
sprain	or	a	woman	who	wears	heels	every	day,	ankle	mobility	is	step	two	in	our
warm-up.	The	first	key	to	ankle	work	is	to	understand	it	is	a	mobility	drill,	not	a
flexibility	or	a	stretching	drill.
Have	the	client	rock	the	ankle	back	and	forth,	not	holding	the	stretch,	using
Omi	Iwasaki’s	ankle	self-mobilization	drill	discussed	in	the	previous	section.
The	second	key	is	to	watch	the	heel.	It	is	essential	for	the	heel	to	stay	in
contact	with	the	floor.	Most	people	who	have	ankle	mobility	restrictions
immediately	lift	the	heel.	I	often	hold	the	heel	down	for	beginners	so	they	get	the
feel	of	what	I’m	looking	for	in	the	movement.
The	third	key	is	to	make	it	multi-planar.	I	like	fifteen	reps,	doing	five	to	the

outside	toward	the	small	toe,	five	straight,	and	five	driving	the	knee	in	past	the
big	toe.
Self-mobilizing	the	ankle	involves	a	gentle	rocking	motion.	Teach	the	client
how	to	send	that	rocking	action	into	the	joint.	That’s	the	simplest	way	to	look	at
it	is	we’re	feeding	motion	into	the	joint.
Our	mobility	work,	which	we	build	into	our	warm-ups,	starts	at	the	ankle
and	works	up.	We	do	our	sagittal-plane	ankle-rocking	drill	against	the	wall,	then
we	move	to	our	leg	swing	drill	at	the	wall	to	get	frontal-plane	ankle	mobility.
	
Number	Three	Leg	Swings
	
Leg	swings	are	an	interesting	exercise.	I	used	to	think	of	leg	swings	as	a	hip
mobility	exercise	and	a	dynamic	adductor	stretch.	This	is	another	day	for	the	PTs
to	take	a	bow.	Physical	therapist	Gary	Gray	describes	leg	swings	as	a	great
transverse	plane	mobility	exercise	for	the	ankle.	Yes…	the	ankle.	Watch	an
athlete	with	poor	ankle	mobility	do	leg	swings	and	you	will	see	the	foot	move
into	external	rotation	with	each	swing.

	
The	key	to	leg	swings	is	to	keep	the	foot	in	contact	with	the	floor	and	to
drive	rotary	motion	into	the	foot	and	ankle.	The	action	of	the	leg	swinging
creates	mobility	at	the	ankle	in	the	transverse	plane.
Numbers	Four,	Five,	Six	Split	Squats,	Lateral	Squats	and
Rotational	Squats
	
This	is	a	precursor	to	what	many	call	a	lunge	matrix.	The	lunge	matrix	is
another	Gary	Gray	concept,	but	one	with	a	small	flaw.	Athletes	must	have	proper
mobility	to	perform	a	lunge	matrix,	and	must	gradually	familiarize	themselves
with	the	movements	to	avoid	extreme	soreness.
To	avoid	soreness	and	develop	mobility,	we	perform	an	in-place	matrix	for
three	weeks	prior	to	moving	to	a	lunge	matrix.	Another	great	thing	about	an	in-
place	lunge	matrix	is	an	idea	of	strength	coach	Dan	John.	Dan	is	fond	of	saying,
“If	something	is	important,	do	it	every	day.”	We	can	do	single-leg	work	every
day,	some	for	mobility	development,	some	for	strength,	and	the	in-place	lunges
fit	into	this	mold.

	
Split	squats	are	an	in-place	precursor	to	a	lunge,	and	develop	sagittal	plane
mobility.
Lateral	squats	are	an	in-place	precursor	to	a	lateral	lunge	and	develop
frontal	plane	mobility.	This	is	an	area	where	many	people	are	restricted.	The	key
here	is	to	watch	the	feet.	In	the	lateral	squat,	the	feet	must	remain	straight
forward.	External	rotation	is	a	compensation.
	
Lateral	squats	are	a	bit	counter-intuitive.	A	wider	stance	makes	them	easier,
not	harder,	but	most	people	will	begin	narrow.	Try	to	get	the	client’s	feet	three-

and-ahalf	to	four	feet	apart.	I	use	the	lines	on	the	flooring,	usually	four-foot	rolls,
or	the	width	of	the	wood	on	the	platform	as	a	gauge.
Rotational	squats	may	be	misnamed;	these	are	not	really	rotational,	but
instead	are	the	proper	precursor	to	rotational	lunges.	Here	again,	watch	the	foot
position.	The	feet	are	at	right	angles	to	each	other	as	opposed	to	being	parallel	as
in	the	lateral	squat.
	
Most	often	we	see	a	lunge	matrix	that	is	actually	a	series	of	forward	lunges
done	in	different	directions.	Many	who	think	they	are	doing	multi-planar	lunges
are	actually	doing	panoramic	lunges;	they	do	the	same	lunge	facing	in	several
directions.
The	rotational	squat	prepares	the	trainee	for	rotational	lunges	and	continues
to	open	up	the	frontal	and	transverse	motion	of	the	hips.	Many	may	recognize
lateral	and	rotational	squats	as	groin	stretches,	and	in	fact,	they	are	nothing	more
than	a	dynamic	version	of	the	popular	groin	stretches.
The	big	limiting	factor	in	hip	mobility	is	often	flexibility	in	the	muscles
versus	the	motion	of	the	joints.	Hip	capsular	mobility	is	best	left	to	trained
therapists.

	
Number	Seven	Wall	Slides
	
I	have	to	tell	you,	I	love	wall	slides.	Talk	about	bang	for	the	buck,	these…
•	Activate	the	low	trap,	rhomboid	and	external	rotators
•	Stretch	the	pecs	and	internal	rotators
•	Decrease	the	contributions	of	the	upper	traps
The	gleno-humeral	joint	needs	to	be	mobile	and	the	scapular-thoracic	joint
needs	stability.	To	accomplish	both,	we	use	wall	slides,	another	Sahrman
exercise.	In	a	wall	slide,	we	get	rid	of	elevation,	pull	everything	down,	and	then
need	to	be	able	to	move	the	gleno-humeral	joint	in	the	presence	of	a	stable
scapula.	This	is	really	the	essence	of	shoulder	health.

	
Use	wall	slides;	you	will	be	amazed.	Many	of	your	clients	won’t	even	be
able	to	get	into	the	position.	This	is	not	unusual.	Another	thing	that	may	surprise
you	is	an	asymmetry	of	the	shoulders.	A	third	surprise	might	occur	when	they	try
to	slide	overhead.	Many	people	will	immediately	shrug,	indicating	a	dominance
of	the	upper	trap.
The	keys	to	the	wall	slide:
•	Scapulae	are	retracted	and	depressed.
•	Hands	and	wrists	are	flat	against	the	wall;	the	back	of	both	hands	must
touch	the	wall.
•	During	the	slide	up,	have	the	client	press	gently	into	the	wall	with	the
forearms.
Stop	your	client	at	the	point	of	discomfort.	The	anterior	shoulder	will
release	and	ROM	will	increase	over	time.	Don’t	allow	force.
Regression:
	Forward	wall	slide	—	Clients	who	can’t	get	full	external
rotation	should	use	the	same	exercise	facing	the	wall.
Progression:
	Have	your	clients	who	master	the	back	version	do	wall	slides
sitting	Indian-style	with	their	backs	against	the	wall.
Start	your	older	or	deconditioned	client	with	a	forward	wall	slide,	and	finish
the	slide	with	retraction.	The	shoulders	slide	up	the	wall	at	a	forty-five-degree
angle,	and	then	retract	the	shoulder	girdle	away	from	the	wall,	squeezing
posteriorly.
The	regular	wall	slide	has	the	shoulder	girdle	working	at	about	ninety

degrees.	When	shifting	to	the	forward	position,	this	is	decreased	to	between
thirty	and	forty-five.	As	the	client	gets	better,	he’ll	almost	be	doing	the	wall	slide
with	his	nose	against	the	wall,	sliding	the	forearms	directly	up	the	wall.
Somebody	who’s	not	quite	as	good	will	be	at	a	forty-five-degree	angle,	with	the
nose	maybe	six	to	eight	inches	off	the	wall.
	
If	your	client	is	completely	unable	to	stabilize	the	scapulae	during	wall
slides,	the	regression	tool	is	a	Velcro	belt	around	the	chest.
Number	Eight	Big	X	Band
	
The	Big	X	Band	is	an	improvement	of	the	original	mini-band	walk,	wherein
we	added	an	upper-body	component.	The	only	problem	was	many	people	did	not
retract	the	scapulae;	instead	they	shrugged,	activating	the	wrong	muscles.
Physical	therapist	Alex	McKechnie,	who	has	become	a	sports	hernia	rehab
expert,	uses	Theraband	to	create	the	fascial	slinging	effect	of	the	body.	I
borrowed	and	simplified	that	by	cutting	a	three-quarterinch	Superband	to	create
a	big	X	for	a	great	total-body	activation	exercise.
Have	your	client	step	on	the	band,	then	grab	the	band	by	the	hands,	crossing
over	to	create	the	X.	The	client	then	side-steps	in	the	mini-band	walk	fashion.
The	Big	X-Band	activates	the	glute	medius,	as	well	as	the	entire	posterior
chain.	It	does	it	in	an	anatomically	correct	manner	by	using	the	diagonal
relationship	of	opposite	hip	to	shoulder.
Give	these	drills	a	try	in	your	program	warm-ups.	It	will	take	your	athletes
five	or	ten	minutes,	and	in	a	short	time	they’ll	feel	better.	When	people	feel

better,	they	also	perform	better.
	

Soft	Tissue	Therapy
	
	
Soft	tissue	work	goes	by	many	names.	Physical	therapists	use	the	term	soft
tissue	mobilization.	Chiropractors	usually	use	the	acronym	ART	for	Active
Release	Technique.	Massage	therapists	just	call	it	deep	tissue	work.	The	magic	is
in	the	hands:	It’s	all	pressure	applied	to	tissue	to	deform	it	and	cause	a	chemical
reaction.
Soft	tissue	therapy,	whether	for	chronic	muscle	strains	or	for	tendon	issues,
is	like	weight	training.	Treatment	is	actually	a	stimulus.	In	effect,	what	the
therapist	is	doing	is	irritating	the	tissue	to	produce	a	chemical	response.	The
chemicals	produced	are	what	begin	the	healing	process.	This	is	why	soft	tissue
work	is	often	painful	and	can	ache	the	following	day,	similar	to	DOMS.
According	to	physical	therapist	Dr.	Donnie	Strack,	soft	tissue	mobilization
stimulates	the	formation	of	fibroblasts,	which	help	take	immature	and	randomly
aligned	Type	3	collagen	seen	in	tendinosis,	and	changes	it	back	to	a	stronger,
more	parallel	mature	Type	1	collagen.
In	other	words,	massage	changes	the	quality	of	the	muscle	fibers.
A	major	change	in	the	attitude	toward	injury	prevention	and	treatment	has
been	evidenced	by	the	awareness	of	hands-on	techniques	like	massage,	Muscle
Activation	Technique	(MAT),	and	ART,	which	can	work	wonders	on	injured
athletes.
We	appear	to	be	moving	away	from	the	injury	care	of	isokinetics	and
electronics	to	a	more	European-inspired	process	that	focuses	on	hands-on	soft
tissue	care.
Massage	fell	out	of	favor	during	the	physical	therapy	boom	of	the	1980s	not
because	it	was	ineffective,	but	because	it	was	not	cost-effective.	With	the
increase	in	use	of	modalities	like	ultrasound	and	electrical	stimulation,	athletic
trainers	and	therapists	could	treat	more	athletes,	more	rapidly.	In	Europe	and	in
elite	athlete	situations	such	as	high-level	track	and	field	and	swimming,	a	disdain
for	a	modality-based	approach	and	an	affinity	for	European-inspired	massage
held	fast.	Eventually,	the	performance	world	caught	on	to	the	idea	that
manipulation	of	the	soft	tissue	helps	athletes	to	either	stay	healthier	or	to	get
healthy	faster.

The	success	of	physical	therapists	with	soft	tissue	mobilization	and	MAT
manipulation,	and	the	number	of	chiropractors	using	ART	has	clearly	put	the
focus	back	on	the	muscle.	MAT	is	a	soft	tissue	technique	developed	by	Greg
Rospkof	using	manual	muscle	testing,	isometric	contractions	and	tissue	work
primarily	to	the	origin	and	insertion	of	the	muscle.	It	theoretically	turns	on	the
muscle	by	stimulating	the	areas	of	highest	proprioception.	I	have	had	it	done	and
it	works.
The	message	at	the	elite	level	is	to	get	better	and	healthier,	get	a	good
manual	therapist	in	your	corner.
One	thing	that’s	fundamentally	different	now	from	when	the	original
Functional	Training	for	Sports
	book	was	written	is	there	was	no	emphasis	on
tissue	quality…	tissue	work…	rolling,	stretching.	I	can’t	believe	there	was	no
reference	to	static	flexibility	and	no	reference	to	foam	rolling	just	a	few	years
ago.	We	had	no	concept	of	changing	tissue	density.
	

Foam	Rolling
	
	
Foam	rollers	are	the	poor	man’s	massage	therapist,	soft	tissue	work	for	the
masses.	As	strength	and	conditioning	coaches	and	personal	trainers	watched	elite
level	athletes	tout	their	success	with	various	soft	tissue	techniques,	the	obvious
question	arose.	How	can	we	mass-produce	soft	tissue	work	for	large	groups	of
athletes	at	a	reasonable	cost?
A	decade	ago	strength	and	conditioning	coaches,	athletic	trainers	and
physical	therapists	would	have	looked	quizzically	at	a	thirty-six-inch-long	round
piece	of	foam.	Today	nearly	every	athletic	training	room	and	most	strength	and
conditioning	facilities	contain	an	array	of	foam	rollers	in	different	lengths	and
densities.
Physical	therapist	Mike	Clark	is	credited	with	the	initial	exposure	of	the
athletic	and	physical	therapy	communities	to	the	foam	roller	and	to	what	he
called	self-myofascial	release,	another	term	for	self-massage.	In	one	of	Clark’s
early	manuals	published	as	a	pre-cursor	to	his	book	
Integrated	Training	for	the
New	Millenium
,	he	included	a	few	photos	of	self-myofascial	release	techniques
using	a	foam	roller.
The	technique	illustrated	was	nearly	self-explanatory:	Get	a	foam	roller	and
use	bodyweight	to	apply	pressure	to	sore	spots…	kind	of	a	self-accupresssure
technique.	These	photos	began	a	trend	that	is	now	probably	a	multi-million
dollar	business	in	the	manufacture	and	sale	of	these	foam	tools.
A	foam	roller	is	a	cylindrical	piece	of	extruded	hard-celled	foam.	Think
pool	noodles,	only	a	little	more	dense	and	larger	in	diameter.	These	are	available
in	a	number	of	densities	from	relatively	soft	foam,	slightly	harder	than	a	pool
noodle,	to	newer	high-density	rollers	with	a	much	more	solid	feel.	The	feel	of
the	roller	and	the	intensity	of	the	self-massage	work	must	be	properly	geared	to
the	age	and	fitness	level	of	the	client.
Clark’s	initial	recommendation	was	not	as	a	self-massage	technique,	but
more	of	an	accupressure	concept.	Athletes	or	patients	are	instructed	to	use	the
roller	to	apply	pressure	to	sensitive	areas	in	the	muscles.	Depending	on	the
orientation	of	the	therapist,	these	points	are	alternately	described	as	trigger
points,	knots,	or	areas	of	increased	muscle	density.	Regardless	of	the	name,	those

in	the	fields	of	athletics	and	rehab	are	familiar	with	the	concepts	of	sore	muscles
and	the	need	for	massage.
The	use	of	foam	rollers	has	progressed	in	many	circles	from	an
acupressure-type	approach	to	self-massage.	The	roller	is	now	used	to	apply
sweeping	strokes	to	the	long	muscle	groups	like	the	calves,	adductors	and
quadriceps,	and	small,	directed	force	to	areas	like	the	TFL,	hip	rotators	and	glute
medius.
When	you	picture	a	muscle	as	a	band	with	a	knot	in	it,	the	foam	roller	is
what	unties	the	knots.	This	is	what	allows	us	to	create	tissue	length,	and	what
allows	us	to	stretch.
Athletes	should	be	instructed	to	use	the	roller	to	search	for	tender	areas	or
trigger	points,	and	to	roll	these	areas	to	decrease	density	and	over-activity.	As	a
general	rule	of	thumb,	ten	slow	rolls	are	done	in	each	position,	although	there	are
no	hard	and	fast	rules	for	foam	rolling.	Often	athletes	or	clients	are	encouraged
to	simply	roll	until	the	pain	disappears.
Gluteal	Group	and	Hip	Rotators
	
Here	are	the	subtle	hip	areas	that	respond	well	to	the	foam	roller	and	the
techniques	we	use	to	address	them.
The	client	sits	on	the	roller	at	a	slight	tilt	and	moves	from	the	iliac	crest	to
the	hip	joint	to	hit	the	glute	max.	To	address	the	hip	rotators,	the	affected	leg	is
crossed	to	place	the	hip	rotator	group	on	stretch.
	

TFL	and	Gluteus	Medius
	
The	tensor	fascia	latae	and	gluteus	medius,	although	small	muscles,	are
significant	factors	in	anterior	knee	pain.	To	address	the	TFL,	the	athlete	begins
with	the	body	prone	and	the	edge	of	the	roller	placed	under	the	TFL,	just	below
the	iliac	crest.
After	working	the	TFL,	the	athlete	turns	ninety	degrees	to	a	side	position
and	works	from	the	hip	joint	to	the	iliac	crest	to	address	the	gluteus	medius.
	
Adductors
	
From	a	tissue	density	standpoint,	glutes	and	adductors	are	where	you’re
going	to	get	your	big	changes.	Adductors	are	a	somewhat	forgotten	bodypart.
We’re	in	a	situation	with	adductors	where	people	are	thinking	anterior	chain,
posterior	chain,	knee-dominant,	hip-dominant,	and	the	adductors	don’t	really	get
much	thought.	A	great	deal	of	time	and	energy	is	mistakenly	focused	on	the
quadriceps	and	hamstring	groups,	and	very	little	attention	paid	to	the	adductors.
There’s	a	huge	area	of	opportunity	for	the	roller	to	decrease	density	in	that
adductor	triangle.
There	are	two	methods	to	roll	the	adductors.	The	first	is	a	floor-based
technique	that	will	work	well	for	beginners.	In	the	floor	technique,	the	user
abducts	the	leg	over	the	roller	and	places	the	roller	at	about	a	sixty-degree	angle
to	the	leg.

	
The	rolling	action	should	be	done	in	three	portions	beginning	just	above	the
knee	in	the	area	of	the	vastus	medialis	and	pes	anserine.	Ten	short	rolls	should	be
done	covering	about	one	third	of	the	length	of	the	femur.	Next,	the	roller	should
be	moved	to	the	mid-point	of	the	adductor	group	and	again	rolled	ten	times	in
the	middle	third	of	the	muscle.	Finally,	the	roller	should	be	moved	high	into	the
groin	almost	to	the	pubic	symphysis	for	another	ten	rolls.
	
The	secondary	technique	for	the	adductors	should	be	used	after	the	athlete
has	acclimated	to	the	previous	technique.	This	method	requires	the	use	of	a
training	room	table	or	the	top	of	a	plyometric	box.	Sitting	with	the	leg	over	the
roller	allows	the	athlete	to	shift	significantly	more	weight	onto	the	roller	and	to
work	deeper	into	the	large	adductor	triangle.
Foot	Rolling

	
Rolling	the	plantar	fascia	daily	over	a	ball	for	a	minute	or	two	will	provide
relief	to	many	of	your	clients	who	suffer	from	foot	pain.
Regular	use	of	a	ball,	beginning	with	a	softer	ball	like	a	handball	or	tennis
ball	and	working	toward	the	size	and	density	of	a	golf	ball,	contributes	to	a
healthier	state	of	the	back	fascial	line,	which	begins	at	the	foot.
We’ll	briefly	discuss	the	fascial	lines	later,	which	I	expect	to	be	an	area	of
attention	in	our	field	in	the	coming	years.
When	to	Roll
	
Coaches	and	therapists	are	not	in	universal	agreement	over	when	to	roll,
how	often	to	roll	or	how	long,	so	only	general	guidelines	can	be	provided.
Rolling	offers	great	benefit	both	before	and	after	a	workout.	Foam	rolling
prior	to	a	workout	can	help	to	decrease	muscle	density	and	allow	for	better
warm-up.	Rolling	after	a	workout	may	help	aid	in	recovery	from	strenuous
exercise.
It	appears	rolling	can	be	done	on	a	daily	basis.	In	fact,	Clair	and	Amber
Davies,	authors	of	
The	Trigger	Point	Therapy	Workbook
,	actually	recommend
trigger	point	work	up	to	twelve	times	a	day	in	situations	of	acute	pain.
How	long	an	athlete	or	client	rolls	is	also	individual.	In	a	personal	training
setting,	we	allow	five	or	ten	minutes	for	soft	tissue	work	at	the	beginning	of	the
session	prior	to	the	warm-up,	and	with	our	athletic	team	members	in	a	group
setting	we	do	the	same.
	

Rolling	versus	Massage
	
	
Massage	therapy	is	the	best	choice	whenever	possible	because	hands	work
better	than	foam.	Hands	are	directly	connected	to	the	brain	and	can	feel	changes
in	tissue	density.	If	cost	was	not	an	issue,	we’d	have	a	team	of	massage	therapists
on	call	for	the	athletes	at	all	times.
However,	this	is	not	realistic.	Most	athletes	struggle	to	afford	the	services	of
a	qualified	coach	or	the	cost	of	a	facility	membership.	Prevention	is	generally
not	a	covered	cost	for	healthy	athletes;	with	no	ability	to	get	reimbursed,	the	cost
of	massage	therapy	alone	could	approach	or	surpass	the	cost	of	training.	The
foam	roller	can	provide	unlimited	self-massage	for	under	twenty	dollars.	You	do
the	math.
Good	massage	work	and	good	self-massage	work	may	be	uncomfortable,
much	like	stretching.	It	is	important	athletes	or	clients	learn	to	distinguish
between	a	moderate	level	of	discomfort	related	to	a	trigger	point	and	a
potentially	injurious	situation.
Foam	rolling	can	be	hard	work,	particularly	for	weaker	or	overweight
clients	because	the	arms	are	heavily	involved	in	moving	the	body.	In	addition,	it
can	border	on	painful	and	should	be	used	with	discretion	in	those	clients	with
less	muscle	density.	Foam	rolling	should	never	cause	bruising.	The	athlete	or
client	should	feel	better	after	a	brief	session	with	a	foam	roller.
The	use	of	foam	rollers	and	other	rolling	implements	has	exploded	over	the
past	ten	years	and	will	continue	to	increase.	Foam	rollers	are	a	small	investment
to	see	a	potentially	significant	decrease	in	the	number	of	soft	tissue,	non-contact
injuries,	and	offer	a	remarkable	relief	from	low-grade	body	aches	for	your	adult
personal	training	clients.
	

Static	Stretching
	
	
In	the	field	of	strength	and	conditioning	the	pendulum	always	swings.	A
classic	example	is	the	use	of	and	subsequent	disdain	for	static	stretching.	Static
stretching	has	gone	from	the	best	way	to	warm	up	to	something	no	one	should
ever	do.
Research	in	the	’80s	demonstrated	static	stretching	prior	to	exercise	could
decrease	power	outputs.	This	led	to	a	huge	overreaction,	the	elimination	of	static
stretching	and	the	birth	of	the	dynamic	warm-up.	This	was	both	a	plus	and	a
minus.	Dynamic	flexibility	work	has	been	a	huge	benefit	to	the	performance
world	as	a	warm-up	technique.
The	reality	is	static	stretching	was	a	poor	way	to	warm	up	for	exercise,	and
dynamic	flexibility	and	active	warm	up	is	superior.	However,	the	net	effect	was	a
total	disdain	for	static	stretching	at	any	time,	for	any	purpose.	The	truth	lies
somewhere	in	the	middle.
An	active	warm-up	prior	to	high	intensity	exercise	is	the	best	way	to
prevent	acute	injury.	In	other	words,	if	you	want	to	decrease	hamstring	and	groin
pulls,	you	need	to	perform	dynamic	flexibility	exercises	prior	to	practice,	games
or	lifting	sessions.
However,	there	is	also	truth	on	the	other	side	of	the	coin.	A	lack	of
flexibility	is	a	causative	factor	in	many	of	the	gradual	onset	injury	conditions
that	plague	today’s	athletes	and	aging	adults.	Overuse	problems	like	patella-
femoral	syndrome,	low	back	and	shoulder	pain	relate	strongly	to	long-term
tissue	changes	that	don’t	respond	to	dynamic	stretching.
The	fact	is	athletes	need	a	combination	of	both	active	warm-up	exercises
and	static	stretching.	For	many	coaches,	the	solution	is	active	warm-up	before
exercise	and	static	stretching	after.
Although	this	seems	reasonable,	the	process	is	somewhat	flawed.	Post-
workout	stretching	does	not	seem	to	produce	gains	in	flexibility.	The	key	may	lie
in	performing	static	stretching	near	the	beginning	of	the	workout,	followed	by	a
dynamic	warm-up.	Static	stretching	would	be	done	to	increase	flexibility	while
the	muscle	is	most	prone	to	increase	in	length.	Dynamic	warm-up	should	follow
to	prepare	the	muscles	for	exercise.

Coaches	need	to	think	about	length	changes	for	long-term	injury
prevention,	and	dynamic	warm-up	for	short-term	injury	prevention.	Both	are
critical.
Tissue	can	change	in	two	ways,	length	and	density.	We	foam	roll	to
decrease	density,	and	we	stretch	to	change	length.
I	have	consulted	the	best	physical	therapist	in	the	world	and	he	firmly
believes	to	change	tissue	length,	we	have	to	stretch	when	the	muscles	are	cold.
The	theory	is	warm	muscle	elongates	and	then	returns	to	its	normal	length.	Cold
muscle	may	actually	undergo	some	plastic	deformation	and	increase	in	length.
In	Our	Program
	
We	foam	roll	for	five	minutes	to	decrease	the	density	of	the	muscle.
Muscles	respond	to	injury	and	overuse	by	increasing	in	density.	Think	of	foam
rolling	as	ironing	for	the	muscles,	a	necessary	precursor	to	stretching.
Then	we	static	stretch.	Yes,	static	stretch,	and	yes,	before	the	workout.	Once
the	tissue	density	has	been	dealt	with,	we	work	on	changing	the	length.	Many
top	soft-tissue	experts	recommend	muscles	be	stretched	cold,	without	the	benefit
of	a	warm-up.	Simply	roll,	and	then	stretch.
Next	we	use	a	dynamic	warm-up.	This	is	done	after	rolling	and	stretching.
Any	potential	power	decreases	should	be	negated	by	the	dynamic	warm-up	that
follows	a	static	stretch.
The	process	for	our	athletes	every	day	is	the	same:.
•	Foam	roll	to	decrease	knots	and	trigger	points
•	Static	stretch	to	work	on	increasing	flexibility
•	Follow	with	a	dynamic	warm-up
Positioning	is	everything.	Be	specific	about	how	you	want	someone	to
stretch.	Most	people	don’t	stretch	well;	they	just	try	to	look	like	they’re
stretching.
Good	stretching	is	uncomfortable,	but	not	painful.	Know	the	difference.	A
little	discomfort	means	your	athlete	is	well	positioned.
•	Activate	the	antagonist

•	Do	long	statics
•	Use	active	stretches
Use	the	athlete’s	bodyweight	to	assist.	The	athlete	should	be	both
comfortable	and	uncomfortable	at	the	same	time.	Stretch	all	areas.
Carolina	Hurricanes	trainer	and	strength	coach	Peter	Freisen	has	a	theory:
He	thinks	it	is	more	dangerous	to	be	overly	flexible	in	one	muscle	group	than	to
be	tight	in	all	of	them.	Eliminate	or	abbreviate	the	stretches	your	clients	are	good
at	and	work	harder	on	the	ones	they	don’t	like.
Roll	First,	then	Stretch
	
To	consider	the	idea	of	stretching	without	rolling	first,	picture	a	band	with	a
knot	in	it,	and	as	you	stretch,	you’re	pulling	on	both	ends	of	that	band	and	the
knot	is	getting	tight.	The	roller	unknots	the	knot	before	the	stretching	begins.
When	we	have	injured	athletes,	invariably,	every	single	time,	without	fail,
we	are	told	by	the	physical	therapists	there	are	muscle	length	issues.	Almost	all
those	muscle	length	issues	also	involve	a	density	component.
If	you	take	one	thing	from	this	book,	it’s	this:	Start	rolling.	Start	stretching.
If	all	of	your	athletes	are	not	rolling	and	stretching,	you’re	five	steps	behind.
	

Shortened	Muscles
	
	
If	you	don’t	have	the	Thomas	Myers	book,	
Anatomy	Trains
,	get	it.	Myers	is
a	Rolfer,	an	original	student	of	Ida	Rolf.	In	his	book,	he	draws	on	the	physical
laws	that	govern	the	body	and	describes	the	concept	of	lengthened	muscles	being
locked	long	and	shortened	muscles	being	locked	short.	In	some	ways	this
challenges	the	Jandabased	NASM	idea	of	simply	stretching	the	short	side	and
strengthening	the	weak	or	long	side.
It	also	explains	why	this	doesn’t	seem	to	work	well	in	older	clients.	Older
clients	have	undergone	structural	change	in	both	the	bones	and	the	muscles	that
will	not	be	reversed	with	a	foam	roller,	some	stretching	and	a	few	strength
exercises.	Muscles	in	a	chronically	stretched	position	—	think	scapulae
retractors	—	become	locked	long.	In	effect	they	develop	more	collagen	and	less
elastin	in	response	to	the	constant	tension.
On	the	flip	side,	the	pecs	in	the	front	become	locked	short.	This	is	really
important	if	you’re	a	personal	trainer.	It’s	foolish	to	think	you	can	undo	years	of
soft	tissue	change	with	stretching.	It	is	also	tough	to	counter	eight	to	ten	hours	of
sitting	with	one	hour	of	standing.	Don’t	stop	trying;	just	realize	what	took	years
to	do	will	take	years	to	undo.
Bottom	line,	stretching	is	highly	underrated.	To	keep	athletes	healthy	long-
term,	add	good	old-fashioned	stretching	to	the	workout.
	

Active-Isolated	Stretching
	
	
We	do	active-isolated	stretches	during	the	rest	period	between	sets.	In	fact,
all	stretches	done	during	the	workout	are	active-isolated	stretches,	not	static
stretches.	In	active-isolated	stretching,	the	stretch	is	held	for	one	to	two	seconds,
and	there	is	a	conscious	effort	to	contract	the	antagonist	muscle.
This	type	of	stretching	can	be	done	during	the	workout	without
compromising	the	neurological	efficiency	of	the	muscle.	Aaron	Mattes	is	a
leader	in	the	area	of	active-isolated	stretching;	you	can	read	more	at
stretchingusa.com.
Using	active-isolated	stretching	has	two	significant	benefits.
•	The	rest	period	is	used	for	something	other	than	conversation.	This	allows
us	to	increase	the	total	training	effect	of	the	sessions,	as	flexibility	has	now
been	addressed	during	the	strength	or	power	session.	It	also	keeps	the	focus
on	training	with	fewer	distractions	that	come	with	down	time.
•	Stretching	the	muscles	in	use	correlates	to	a	decrease	in	soreness	from	the
workout.	This	is	not	a	research-based	concept,	but	empirically	our	athletes
have	drawn	this	conclusion	on	their	own.

Injuries
	
	
Injury	Reduction
Pain	during	Rehab
Tendinitis	or	Tendinosis
Injury	Prevention	Suggestions
Upper-Body	Injuries
Rotator	Cuff	Support
Anterior	Knee	Pain
Glute	Medius	and	Adductors	in	Knee	Pain
Single-Leg	Training	and	Knee	Pain
ACL	Injury	Prevention
Adductors	Sports	Hernia
Hip	Flexion	and	Adduction
Soft	Tissue	Therapy
Sports	Hernia	Prevention
Rehabilitation	Concepts
	
	

Injuries
	
	
Every	good	strength	and	conditioning	coach	should	be	paranoid	about
injuries.
The	key	to	injury	prevention	and	rehab	is	a	sound	understanding	of
functional	anatomy.	We	need	to	stop	repeating	the	mistakes	of	the	past	and	begin
to	realize	we	still	have	a	lot	to	learn	from	an	anatomical	and	biomechanical
perspective.	Memorize	Shirley	Sahrmann’s	statement,	“When	a	muscle	is
strained,	the	first	thing	to	do	is	look	for	a	weak	or	underactive	synergistic.”
When	we	consider	injuries,	we	know	they	happen	for	a	reason	governed	by
the	laws	of	physics	and	controlled	by	functional	anatomy.
If	you	only	understand	one	thing	about	injuries,	understand	this:	Injuries	do
not	occur	because	of	the	muscle	that’s	injured.	That’s	very,	very	rare.	Pulled
hamstrings,	pulled	quads…	anytime	you	see	a	muscle	that	hurts,	you	have	to
consider	why.	And	that	is	going	to	lead	you	to	look	at	the	synergistic	muscles
and	ask	why	this	injured	muscle	has	to	do	too	much	work.	What’s	not	doing	its
job	to	cause	this	other	muscle	to	overwork?
I	use	the	analogy	to	look	for	leaks	in	the	roof,	not	in	the	wall.	When	you	see
a	water	stream	running	down	the	wall,	your	automatic	assumption	is	the	roof	is
leaking.	You	know	you	need	to	get	outside	and	look	on	the	roof.
Our	model	of	the	body	is	clearly	not	that	way.	Our	current	therapy	is	more
like	we	see	a	water	stain	on	the	wall,	and	we	paint	over	the	stain.	That’s	our
sports	training	medical	system	in	a	nutshell:	Cover	over	the	problem.
We	really	have	to	look	deeper	to	find	the	source	of	the	problem	as	opposed
to	looking	at	the	pain	site.
	

Injury	Reduction
	
	
The	reality	is	athletes	will	get	hurt	from	time	to	time.	The	key	is	to
minimize	exposure	to	potentially	injurious	situations	and	exercises.	Strength	is
one	of	the	best	injury	prevention	tools	in	sport,	but	getting	injured	while	training
not	to	get	injured	is	as	stupid	as	it	sounds.
Although	some	might	argue	I’m	getting	caught	up	in	semantics,	we	should
use	the	term	
reduction
	instead	of	prevention	when	talking	about	injury.	No
matter	what	we	do	as	athletic	trainers,	sport	coaches	or	as	strength	and
conditioning	coaches,	we	can’t	prevent	injury,	we	can	only	reduce	the	incidence.
Using	the	word	prevention	is	giving	ourselves	too	much	credit.
Professional	sport	uses	the	avoidance	of	injury	as	the	measuring	stick	of
success	in	strength	and	conditioning.	Pro	teams	don’t	test	squats	or	deadlifts.	I
don’t	know	one	professional	sports	team	that	does	one-repmax	strength	testing.
One	of	my	early	influences	was	former	NY	Giants,	NE	Patriots	and	San
Francisco	49ers	strength	and	conditioning	coach,	Johnny	Parker.	I	remember
Johnny	saying,	“Who	needs	testing?	We	have	sixteen	tests	a	year!”	The	NFL
uses	a	statistic	called	Starters’	Games	Missed.	The	NHL	uses	a	similar	stat	called
Man	Games	Lost	to	Injury.	Success	as	a	strength	and	conditioning	coach	at	the
professional	level	is	measured	by	keeping	the	best	players	playing.
What	people	don’t	understand	is	all	training	is	about	assumption	of	risk.
How	much	risk	should	I	assume	with	this	particular	athlete	or	client?	The	way	I
train	my	college	team	is	slightly	different	than	the	way	I	train	my	younger	NHL
guys,	and	it	varies	significantly	from	how	I	train	my	veterans.	Many	of	my	older
clients	no	longer	do	conventional	squats	or	Olympic	lifts.	Their	bodies	no	longer
tolerate	it.
We	do	jump	squats,	kettlebell	swings,	and	lots	of	single-leg	stuff	with	these
trainees	because	the	objective	is	to	keep	them	playing.
My	college	athletes	do	hang	cleans,	hang	snatches,	front	squats	and	bench
presses,	a	much	more	conventional	approach.	The	key	is	finding	the	right	tool
for	the	job.
Every	day	we	make	decisions	that	affect	both	the	short-term	and	long-term
health	of	our	athletes	and	clients.	Take	that	job	seriously,	and	read	and	study

extensively.
There	are	a	lot	of	hurt	people	reading	this	book	who	got	that	way	the	same
way	I	did,	by	laying	it	on	the	line.	There	was	a	time	I	believed	everyone	should
have	a	sore	back	for	a	week	after	a	deadlift	workout,	and	that	everyone	iced	their
shoulders	and	took	Advil	after	every	pressing	workout.	I	now	know	that	isn’t
true.	I	want	my	athletes	to	have	all	the	benefits	science	and	experience	can
provide.
Technical	Failure
	
Charles	Poliquin	uses	the	term	technical	failure	to	define	the	point	where	a
set	ends	when	the	athlete	can	no	longer	do	another	correct	rep.	I’m	a	big	believer
in	the	technical	failure	concept.	The	set	ends	at	technical	failure,	not	when	you
can’t	cheat	through	another	rep.	I’d	always	rather	undertrain	than	overtrain.
Tomorrow	is	another	day.	The	healthy	trainee	returns	to	train	another	day,	while
the	hurt	guy	goes	to	physical	therapy.
I	want	my	athletes	to	lay	it	on	the	line	every	set	with	perfect	technique	and
stop	when	their	technique	fails.	I	also	want	them	to	go	all	out	during	our
conditioning	sessions.	Plenty	of	people	enjoy	the	weightroom,	but	are
remarkably	unfit.	I’m	a	strength	and	conditioning	coach,	and	I	put	a	premium	on
conditioning	as	well	as	strength.
	

Painful	Exercise
	
	
People	who	know	my	background	often	ask	for	training	advice.	Most	of	the
time	they	ignore	it	because	the	advice	does	not	contain	the	answer	they	want.
They	say,	“It	only	hurts	when	I	run,”	and	I	answer,	“Don’t	run.”
If	you	have	an	injured	athlete	and	are	wondering	whether	a	certain	exercise
is	appropriate,	ask	the	basic	question,	“Does	it	hurt?”	The	key	here	is	the
question	can	only	be	answered	yes	or	no.	If	the	answer	is	yes,	the	client	is	not
ready	for	that	exercise,	no	matter	how	much	you	want	to	use	it.
Any	equivocation	in	the	pain	question	is	a	yes.	“After	I	warm	up	it	goes
away”	is	still	a	yes	answer.
If	your	athlete	is	injured,	use	your	common	sense.	Exercise	should	not
cause	pain.	This	seems	basic,	but	athletes	ignore	pain	all	the	time;	they
rationalize.	Discomfort	is	common	at	the	end	of	a	set	in	a	strength	exercise	or	at
the	end	of	an	intense	cardiovascular	workout.	The	additional	discomfort	of
delayed	onset	muscle	soreness	(DOMS)	often	occurs	the	days	following	an
intense	session.	This	is	normal.	This	discomfort	should	only	last	two	days	and
should	be	limited	to	the	muscles,	not	felt	in	the	joints	or	tendons.
Pain	at	the	onset	of	an	exercise	is	neither	normal	nor	healthy,	and	is
indicative	of	a	problem.	Progression	in	any	strength	exercise	should	be	based	on
a	full,	pain-free	range	of	motion	that	produces	muscle	soreness	without	joint
soreness.	If	you	need	to	change	or	reduce	range	of	motion,	there’s	a	problem	that
needs	attention.
Progression	in	cardiovascular	exercise	should	also	be	pain-free	and	should
follow	the	ten-percent	rule:	Do	not	increase	time	or	distance	more	than	ten
percent	from	one	session	to	the	next.	I	have	used	these	rules	in	all	of	my	strength
and	conditioning	programs	and	have	been	able	to	keep	literally	thousands	of
athletes	healthy.
	

Tendinitis	or	Tendinosis
	
	
Most	people	who	think	they	have	tendinitis	actually	have	tendinosis.	The
difference	is	not	just	one	of	semantics;	it’s	an	issue	of	understanding.	We	can’t
have	chronic	tendinitis.	If	it’s	chronic,	it’s	probably	tendinosis.
In	tendinosis	the	tendon	undergoes	a	structural	change	in	response	to	the
chronic	stress	placed	on	it,	and	possibly	from	the	poor	initial	injury	treatment.
The	condition	is	different,	and	the	treatment	is	different.	Ice	and
antiinflammatories	do	little	for	tendinosis,	as	the	condition	is	no	longer	an
inflammatory	one.	My	good	friend	Dr.	Donnie	Strack,	makes	a	great	point:
Continued	use	of	antiinflammatories	actually	weakens	a	tendon	and	delays
healing.
In	reconditioning	an	athlete	with	a	a	tendinosis	condition,	it	may	be
necessary	to	endure	some	tendon	pain	to	produce	the	proper	remodeling	effect.
In	fact,	Dr.	Strack	points	out	it	may	not	just	be	necessary,	but	according	to	some
studies	it’s	a	must.
If	there’s	no	soreness	in	a	tendon	rehab	program,	research	shows	reps	or
external	weight	should	increase.	This	is	an	isolated	exception	to	the	no-pain	rule.
The	painful	stress	to	the	tendon	acts	much	like	soft	tissue	work	to	initiate	a
healing	response.
Acceptable	pain	is	localized	to	the	target	tissue,	and	the	tissue	is	painful	to
touch.	There	should	be	no	swelling	and	no	motion	restrictions.	The	pain	should
follow	a	DOMS-like	pattern	and	be	gone	in	two	or	three	days.
	

Injury	Prevention	Suggestions
	
	
There	are	two	basic	categories	of	injuries	we	commonly	see.	Lower-body
training	tends	to	cause	back	trauma.	Most	back	injuries	are	acute	and	are	a	result
of	a	technical	failure.	Upper-body	injuries	are	generally	overuse	in	nature	and
related	more	to	what	the	trainee	may	
not
	be	doing.
Here	are	my	basic	recommendations	to	make	training	both	safe	and
effective.
Switch	to	Front	Squats
	
Back	pain	has	three	root	causes	as	it	relates	to	lifting.	Torque	(forward
lean),	compression	(high	spinal	loads),	and	flexion	are	what	cause	most	back
injuries.	Front	squats	lessen	torque,	compression	and	flexion,	and	are	therefore
inherently	safer	than	back	squats.
Your	clients	can	probably	front	squat	badly,	but	it’s	a	lot	easier	to	back
squat	badly.	In	general,	if	a	person	front	squats	poorly,	he’ll	dump	the	bar,
sidestepping	a	back	injury.
However,	there	are	three	major	reasons	people	still	do	back	squats	instead
of	front	squats.
•	They	always	have	—	a	bad	reason,	but	people	really	hate	change.
•	They	can	lift	more	weight.	Ego	is	always	a	big	problem.
•	They	perceive	front	squats	as	difficult	due	to	poor	wrist	flexibility.
Front	squats	decrease	spinal	load	and	improve	back	position	—	two
positives	in	my	book.	My	athletes	and	clients	haven’t	done	a	back	squat	in	years
and	we	have	very	little	back	pain.	We	still	front	squat	relatively	heavy;	our
college	players	front	squat	between	300	and	350	pounds	to	a	powerlifting	depth,

at	bodyweights	of	180200	with	no	wraps.
Forget	the	Leg	Press
	
If	your	clients	can’t	squat,	please	don’t	put	them	on	a	leg	press.	I’d	like	all
of	my	athletes	and	clients	to	front	squat,	but	once	an	athlete	has	a	history	of	back
pain,	we	use	alternatives.
One	choice	we	
don’t
	use	is	the	leg	press;	we	never	leg	press.	I	haven’t	had	a
leg	press	in	one	of	my	facilities	for	over	ten	years.	The	leg	press	is	good	for	only
one	thing:	inflating	the	ego.	There	are	far	better	ways	to	work	the	lower	body	if	a
client	is	unable	to	squat;	they	just	don’t	allow	him	to	use	huge	weights.
Avoid	Knee	Wraps
	
Knee	wraps	are	not	an	injury-prevention	tool.	They’re	an	elastic	launching
pad	to	allow	more	weight	to	be	lifted.	Knee	wraps	don’t	protect	the	knee.	If	you
have	a	knee	issue	and	like	the	feel	of	something	on	your	knee,	use	Neoprene
sleeves.
I’m	a	raw	guy	all	the	way.	No	belt,	no	wraps.	For	those	who	compete	in
powerlifting,	it’s	a	different	story.	Throw	on	the	gear	in	the	last	few	weeks	to	get
ready,	but	don’t	train	with	it.
Try	Belt	Squats
	
This	is	an	old	Westside	favorite	and	is	a	great	way	to	work	the	lower	body
when	injured.	I	generally	prefer	to	work	the	lower	body	with	single-leg	exercises
if	an	athlete	can’t	squat,	but	we’ve	had	athletes	in	the	past	do	nothing	but	belt
squats	for	an	entire	season	to	rest	sore	backs	and	later	had	the	same	athletes
squat	PRs.
Belt	squats	are	particularly	good	if	the	athlete	is	a	low-bar,	forward-lean
squatter.

Use	Single-Leg	Squats
	
There	are	many	variations	of	the	single-leg	squat,	which	are	covered	in
detail	later	in	the	book.	Most	lifters	don’t	like	one-legged	squats	because	they’re
hard,	and	they	take	coordination.	However,	if	you	want	to	minimize	back	stress
and	maximize	leg	work,	make	your	clients	get	used	to	them.
We	don’t	need	a	lot	of	weight	to	get	a	great	leg	workout	because
bodyweight	immediately	becomes	a	part	of	the	load.	Our	athletes	one-leg	squat
to	a	soft	touch	on	a	twelve-or	fourteen-inch	box	and	have	used	a	hundred	pounds
of	external	load	—	a	twenty-five-pound	dumbbell	in	each	hand	and	a	fifty-pound
weight	vest.
The	additional	benefit	of	the	one-leg	squat	is	great	stabilizer	loads	on	the
abs	and	adductors.
Dump	Conventional	Deadlifts
	
I	know	this	will	anger	the	powerlifters,	but	I’m	a	former	powerlifter	and	I
don’t	like	deadlifts.	Go	to	a	powerlifting	meet	and	watch	the	entire	meet.	You’ll
see	great	squat	technique,	but	you	won’t	see	many	flat-back	deadlifts.	It	isn’t
easy	to	deadlift	well.	It’s	much	easier	to	deadlift	heavy	than	to	deadlift	well,	and
nothing	is	worse	for	a	back	than	flexion	under	load.
I	do,	however,	love	single-leg	versions	of	the	modified	straight-leg	deadlift.
With	single-leg	deadlifts,	the	hamstring	gets	all	the	load	while	the	back	gets	half.
Now	this	is	a	general	thought	about	deadlifting,	and	it’s	especially
applicable	in	situations	where	you	can’t	be	on	hand	to	supervise	every	rep.	We’ll
discuss	deadlifts	in	detail	in	the	section	on	specific	exercises.
Clean	from	the	Hang	Position
	
Hang	cleans	are	safer	than	cleans	from	the	floor.	Cleans	from	the	floor	are
easier	for	short	people;	hang	cleans	are	the	great	equalizer	because	everyone
starts	from	the	same	position.	It’s	often	difficult	for	taller	athletes	to	get	into	a
proper	start	position
for	a	clean	from	the	floor.	This	again	puts	the	low	back	at	risk	as	athletes

attempt	to	position	themselves	for	the	clean.
Teach	Dumbbell	or	Close-Grip	Snatches
	
The	snatch	is	actually	a	better	and	safer	lift	than	the	clean.	Cleans	can	be
limited	by	flexibility,	and	the	catch	position	of	the	clean	can	be	difficult	to
master.
One	reason	many	coaches	don’t	like	the	snatch	is	they’ve	never	tried	it.
•	Don’t	teach	snatches	with	a	snatch	grip.
When	I	realized	snatches	would	be	a	great	lift	for	our	athletes,	I	began	to
implement	them	into	our	programs.	Within	a	week	athletes	complained	of
shoulder	pain.	In	two	weeks	so	many	complained,	I	took	snatches	back	out	of	the
program.
It	was	not	until	I	revisited	the	snatch	with	a	clean	grip	that	I	truly	began	to
see	the	benefits.	The	only	reason	Olympic	lifters	use	a	snatch	grip	is	to	reduce
the	distance	the	bar	travels,	and	as	a	result	lift	more	weight.	Close-grip	snatches
markedly	decrease	the	external	rotation	component	and	also	increase	the
distance	traveled.	The	result	is	a	better	lift,	only	using	less	weight.
The	best	way	to	learn	to	snatch	is	to	snatch	a	dumbbell	first.	The	dumbbell
snatch	is	the	first	explosive	lift	we	teach	and	if	using	only	one	Olympic-type	lift,
we	choose	the	dumbbell	snatch.	Dumbbell	snatches	work	on	core	strength	and
unilateral	shoulder	strength,	as	well	as	hip	and	leg	power.
	

Upper-Body	Injuries
	
	
Upper-body	injuries	relate	more	to	the	exercises	we’re	not	using	than	to	the
ones	we	are.	Lack	of	pulling	strength	is	probably	the	reason	so	many	lifters	have
rotator	cuff	problems.	Most	people	are	out	of	balance	and	have	rotator	cuff
issues	because	of	it.
This	boils	down	to	two	things:	not	enough	rowing	—	horizontal	pulling	—
and	not	enough	vertical	pulling,	the	chin	variations.
Our	athletes	have	zero	incidence	of	rotator	cuff	tendinosis,	and	most	can
also	do	a	one-rep-max	chin-up	with	more	than	they	can	bench	press.
The	pull-to-push	ratio	should	be	a	minimum	of	one	to	one.	In	other	words,	a
180-pound	athlete	who	can	bench	280	should	be	able	to	perform	a	supinated-grip
chin-up	with	a	hundred	pounds.
The	chin-up	weight	is	calculated	by	adding	external	load	on	the	dip	belt	to
bodyweight.	Coach	a	supinated	grip	to	spare	the	shoulders,	and	start	from	the
bottom.	Those	who	can	do	this	rarely	have	shoulder	issues.
Treat	your	vertical	pulls	just	like	the	bench.	Cycle	them.	Do	heavy	triples.
Whatever	you	do	for	horizontal	presses,	do	the	same	for	vertical	pulls.
I	don’t	have	a	ratio	for	rows,	but	an	athlete	with	proper	pulling	strength
should	be	able	to	dumbbell	row	about	eighty	percent	of	what	he	can	dumbbell
bench.	In	other	words,	an	athlete	performing	dumbbell	bench	presses	with	one-
hundredpound	dumbbells	for	five	reps	should	be	able	to	dumbbell	row	with
eighty-pound	dumbbells	for	five.
In	addition,	all	athletes	should	eventually	be	able	to	perform	ten	to	fifteen
inverted	rows	with	the	bar	at	bench	press	height	and	the	feet	elevated	eighteen
inches.	In	the	inverted	row,	the	athlete	should	be	able	to	touch	his	chest	to	the
bar	without	cheating.
I’ve	never	seen	an	NFL	lineman	who	couldn’t	do	one	chin-up,	but	have
seen	many	who	couldn’t	do	one	quality	inverted	row.	Many	strong	bench
pressers	will	not	be	able	to	do	a	single	one	initially,	and	will	immediately	cop-
out	with	stuff	like,	“I’m	not	flexible	enough	to	do	that.”
You	need	to	remind	your	athletes	if	they	can	lower	a	bar	to	the	chest,	they
should	be	able	to	pull	the	chest	to	the	bar.	I’ve	seen	many	400-pound	bench

pressers	who	couldn’t	do	five	good	bodyweight	reps.	What	these	athletes	lack	is
true	scapulae	retraction	strength,	and	you	can	help	your	athletes	regain	it	by
horizontal	pulling.
	

Rotator	Cuff	Support
	
	
Physical	therapist	John	Pallof,	currently	practicing	at	our	facility,	has	taught
us	excellent	rotator	cuff	exercises	using	the	Keiser	functional	trainer	to	develop
posterior	cuff	strength	and	scapulae	stability.	Many	of	these	are	the	same
exercises	that	can	be	done	with	tubing	or	potentially	with	dumbbells.	However,
the	sequences	are	best	done	on	a	smooth	machine	that	allows	for	small	increases
in	resistance.	Remember,	the	rotator	cuff	is	made	up	of	small,	often	weak
muscles,	and	smaller	increases	are	required.
I	prefer	the	Keiser	equipment	to	tubing	due	to	the	issue	of	length	and
tension.	Tubing	resistance	increases	as	the	tubing	is	stretched.	In	other	words,	as
the	tubing	is	lengthened,	the	resistance	is	increasing.	This	means	we	get
maximum	resistance	at	end	range.	This	can	be	a	benefit	or	a	drawback
depending	on	what	we	are	training.

	
Dumbbells	often	present	the	reverse	problem.	As	the	client	moves	through
the	range	of	motion	with	dumbbells,	the	load	stays	constant.	As	the	leverage
advantage	increases,	dumbbells	get	too	easy.	The	Keiser	machine	provides	even,
smooth	resistance	in	one-pound	increments	throughout	the	range	of	motion,	and
this	is	critical	in	rotator	cuff	training.
Good	descriptions	of	the	rotator	cuff	muscles	use	the	term	dynamic
ligaments	when	describing	the	rotator	cuff.	Due	to	the	flimsy	nature	of	the
anterior	capsule,	the	rotator	cuff	is	the	strongest	support	structure	for	the
shoulder,	in	essence	a	series	of	dynamic	ligaments.	The	key	with	the	cuff,	as
with	all	muscles,	is	to	do	both	strength	training	and	specific	speed	training.
John’s	exercises	are	standard	cuff	exercises	done	at	90/90,	but	with	great
attention	to	detail,	such	as	allowing	no	shrug.	Some	are	for	scapular	stability,
some	for	strength.
In	addition	we	do	lots	of	overhead	throws	for	what	I	consider	specific
deceleration	work.	Multiple	functions	require	multiple	training	environments.

	
The	YTWL	shoulder	series	you	probably	already	do	is	our	phase	one
program.	These	exercises	are	done	in	a	non-functional	manner	to	teach	clients
how	to	use	the	middle	and	lower	trap	in	place	of	the	upper	trap,	and	to	help
strengthen	the	often	weak	lower	trapezius	and	rhomboids.
	
The	second	series	was	inspired	by	Michol	Dalcourt,	a	writer,	trainer	and
coach:	Move	the	YTWL	exercises	to	standing.	We	first	go	to	a	half-kneeling
position,	then	move	to	standing	YTWLs.
The	third	series	are	the	90/90	exercises	John	Pallof	recommended	for	our
overhead	athletes.	The	first	90/90	is	simply	a	horizontal	adduction	done	supine.
The	emphasis	is	maintaining	scapula	stability	and	horizontally	adducting	the
humerus.	The	second	two	are	90/90	external	rotation.	The	next	series	is	the
reverse	of	the	first,	a	resisted	scapula	adduction	and	retraction.

	

Anterior	Knee	Pain
	
	
Anterior	knee	pain	goes	by	a	number	of	names,	but	unfortunately	has	few
effective	treatments.	Names	like	chondromalacia	patella,	patella	tendinosis	and
patella-femoral	syndrome	are	all	used	to	describe	various	types	of	often-
debilitating	anterior	knee	pain.	Treatment	is	often	focused	on	the	knee	joint,	the
primary	pain	site,	and	that’s	a	large	part	of	the	problem	in	treating	knee	pain.
In	reality,	the	knee	may	be	the	repository	of	pain	that	emanates	from	issues
at	the	hip	or	the	foot.	A	knee-centered	approach	to	treatment	of	knee	pain
becomes	a	symptom-based	approach	versus	a	cause-based	approach;	treatment
often	focuses	on	eliminating	a	key	symptom	versus	trying	to	address	the	cause.
Current	research	is	leading	to	the	conclusion	many	of	the	overuse
conditions	of	the	knee	are	not	conditions	of	the	knee	at	all.	All	of	the	conditions
mentioned	in	the	opening	paragraph	may	be	related	to	poor	stability	at	the	hip,
but	present	as	knee	pain.	The	analogy	frequently	used	to	describe	why	this
occurs	is	the	rope	analogy.	If	I	put	a	noose	loosely	around	your	neck,	stood	in
front	of	you	and	pulled	on	it,	you	would	tell	me	the	back	of	your	neck	hurt.	If	I
stopped	pulling	on	the	rope,	your	neck	pain	would	disappear.	Nothing	was	ever
really	wrong	with	your	neck	—	the	neck	was	simply	the	endpoint	at	which	you
felt	the	pull.
This	is	similar	to	the	effect	of	the	glutes	pulling	on	the	IT	band,	resulting	in
pain	at	the	knee.	The	IT	band	transmits	forces	from	the	glutes	to	the	patella
tendon.	Pain	is	felt	in	the	patella	tendon	much	like	the	back	of	the	neck	feels	the
pull	from	the	rope.
Another	potential	cause	of	anterior	knee	pain	may	be	a	loss	of	ankle
mobility.	The	zeal	of	athletic	trainers	to	stabilize	the	ankle	with	shoes,	tape	and
braces	has	led	to	athletes	playing	with	ankle	joints	that	function	as	if	fused.
In	the	sport	of	basketball,	a	leading	sport	for	anterior	knee	pain,	serious
ankle	sprains	are	less	frequent,	yet	patella-femoral	pain	has	reached	near
epidemic	levels.	The	desire	to	over-stabilize	the	ankle	joint	has	led	to	a
phenomenon	we	now	call	the	high	ankle	sprain,	and	to	a	spate	of	patella	tendon
issues.	The	high	ankle	sprain	was	virtually	unknown	twenty	years	ago,	and	may
be	a	by-product	of	over-stabilizing	ankles.

Interestingly,	soccer	has	few	ankle	or	patella-femoral	problems,	yet	soccer
players	use	a	low-cut,	lightweight	shoe	on	grass.	Training	with	less	artificial
stability	at	the	ankle	joint	probably	protects	the	ankle	and	the	knee.
Over	the	past	decade,	anterior	knee	pain	has	been	blamed	on	poor	VMO
development,	poor	patella	tracking	and	numerous	other	causes.	Most	treatments
have	centered	on	trying	to	reduce	the	pain	at	the	pain	site	with	various	treatments
like	ice,	taping	and	ultrasound.
Instead,	an	aggressive	strengthening	program	aimed	from	the	hip	down,
particularly	the	eccentric	control	of	knee	flexion,	adduction	and	internal	rotation
may	be	more	effective.
According	to	a	2003	study	done	by	researchers	Ireland,	Willson,	Ballantyne
and	Davis	and	published	in	the	
Journal	of	Orthopaedic	and	Sports	Physical
Therapy,
	“Females	presenting	with	patella-femoral	pain	demonstrate	significant
hip	abduction	and	external	rotation	weakness	when	compared	to	non-
symptomatic	age-matched	controls.”
Our	lower	extremity	strengthening	done	with	emphasis	on	hip	control,	in
combination	with	a	program	of	progressive	single-leg	plyometric	training	to
address	the	eccentric	and	neural	stability	components	may	allow	many	trainees
to	experience	long-term	relief.
	

Glute	Medius	and	Adductors	in	Knee	Pain
	
	
Recent	research	has	validated	what	up	until	now	was	an	empirical	feeling.
All	athletes	training	in	our	facility	are	evaluated	for	hip	pain	via	palpation	of	the
glute	medius	if	they	complain	of	anterior	knee	pain.	We	found	nearly	a	one-
hundredpercent	correlation	between	knee	pain	and	glute	medius	tenderness.	All
of	our	athletes	with	anterior	knee	pain	had	direct	point	tenderness	in	the	glute
medius	on	the	affected	side.
Soft	tissue	work	on	the	glute	medius	caused	a	significant	reduction	in	the
pain	at	the	patella	in	almost	every	case.	Most	also	had	marked	weakness	in
manual	muscle	testing	for	the	glute	med.	The	conclusion	is	obvious:	Weak	hip
stabilizers	cause	a	lack	of	control	of	knee	and	hip	flexion	with	an	additional
component	of	adduction	and	internal	rotation.	These	control	issues	result	in	a
painful	sensation	in	the	patella-femoral	joint	or	the	patella	tendon.
Further	study	caused	us	to	look	at	the	adductors,	another	hip	stabilizer	in
the	lateral	subsystem.	In	addition	to	looking	at	lateral	hip	structures	as	a	potential
causative	factor	in	knee	pain,	we	also	began	to	look	at	the	strength	and	over-
activity	of	the	adductors.	We	found	weakness	in	the	adductor	muscle	group,	with
a	preference	to	substitute	hip	flexors,	as	well	as	obvious	tender	trigger	points	in
the	adductors.
	

Single-Leg	Training	and	Knee	Pain
	
	
The	key	from	both	a	cause	and	a	solution	standpoint	lies	in	the	modern
sagittal-plane	dominant,	double-leg-oriented	strength	training	so	prevalent	in	the
American	training	system.	It’s	clear	the	key	to	solving	anterior	knee	pain	lies	in
control	of	hip,	knee	and	foot	movement	in	the	frontal	plane,	and	single-leg
exercises	must	be	employed	in	both	strength	training	and	power	training	to
address	these	issues.
The	single-leg	strength	training	must	center	around	single-leg	
unsupported
exercises	like	one-leg	squats	and	one-leg	deadlift	variations.	Knee-dominant
single-leg	exercises	like	split	squats	and	rear-footelevated	split	squats	may
provide	adequate	stress	in	the	sagittal	plane,	but	do	not	provide	enough	work	for
the	hip	structures	in	the	frontal	or	transverse	planes.
The	athlete	must	be	standing	on	one	foot	with	the	opposite	foot	having	no
contact	with	either	the	floor	or	any	other	object,	in	other	words	a	true
unsupported	one-leg	squat.	In	essence,	the	act	of	standing	on	one	foot	and
performing	a	single-leg	squat	becomes	a	tri-planar	exercise	even	though	the
athlete	is	moving	in	only	the	sagittal	plane.
Having	only	one	foot	in	contact	with	the	ground	forces	the	hip	structures,
the	abductors	and	external	rotators,	to	stabilize	against	movement	in	both	the
frontal	and	transverse	planes.
In	these	single-leg	unsupported	exercises	we	will	allow	less	than	full	range
of	motion	to	develop	hip	control.	This	is	a	major	exception	in	our	system	of
training,	as	we	otherwise	always	use	full	ROM	exercises.	This	is	true
progressive	range	of	motion	exercise.
The	objective	is	always	to	get	to	a	full	pain-free	range	with	bodyweight
before	the	addition	of	any	external	resistance.	The	exception	will	be	the	addition
of	five-pound	dumbbells	to	allow	weight	shift	toward	the	heel.	The	progression
is	in	range	versus	load	to	cause	the	progressive	control	of	hip	motion.
The	following	treatment	program	is	suggested	for	patella-femoral	pain
syndromes.

Step	One
	
Soft	tissue	work	on	the	glute	medius	with	a	tennis	ball	and	foam	roller,	or
by	a	qualified	therapist	or	trainer	if	available	is	our	first	step.
Step	Two
	
Use	reactive	neuromuscular	training	(RNT)	for	the	hip	abductors	in
conjunction	with	a	strengthening	program	for	the	knee	and	hip	extensors,
focusing	on	single-leg	unsupported	exercises	and	progressive	range	of	motion	if
necessary.
The	term	reactive	neuromuscular	training	can	be	confusing	as	the	same
term	has	been	used	by	two	well-respected	physical	therapists	to	describe	entirely
different	ideas.	Mike	Clark	of	the	National	Academy	of	Sports	Medicine	uses	the
term	reactive	neuromuscular	training	in	place	of	the	word	plyometrics.
Physical	therapist	Gray	Cook,	on	the	other	hand,	uses	the	term	reactive
neuromuscular	training	to	apply	to	an	entirely	different	concept:	Cook’s	idea	of
RNT	involves	applying	a	stress	to	a	joint	in	opposition	to	the	action	of	the
muscles.
To	effectively	target	the	hip	abductors,	a	band	is	placed	around	the	knee	and
the	leg	is	pulled	with	an	adduction	force.	The	addition	of	the	adduction	force
will	in	effect	turn	on	the	abductors.
In	a	therapy	or	personal	training	situation,	the	adduction	force	can	be
provided	by	the	therapist	or	trainer	with	Theraband.	In	a	group	situation,	the
adduction	force	can	be	provided	by	a	piece	of	Theratube	or	a	mini-band.

	
The	glute	medius	fires	to	counter	the	adduction	force	of	the	tubing;	this	idea
comes	courtesy	of	Shad	Forsythe,	performance	specialist	at	Athletes’
Performance,	Los	Angeles,	and	will	be	covered	further	on	page	225.
Step	Three
	
In	step	three,	we	strengthen	the	hip	extensors,	to	include	three	distinctly
different	patterns.
Pattern	one	is	a	straight-leg	pattern	as	in	the	one-leg	straight-leg	deadlift,
actually	a	misnomer	as	the	knee	is	intentionally	bent	to	twenty	degrees.
Pattern	two	is	a	bent-leg	pattern	that	incorporates	the	mechanics	learned	in
the	bridging	exercises	covered	in	the	core	training	section	later	in	the	book.
Pattern	three	is	a	leg-curl	move	incorporating	the	hip-extensor	function	of
the	glutes.
Pattern	One
	
•	Reaching	single-leg	SLDL

	
•	Single-leg	SLDL
	
•	Low-pulley	or	horizontal	pulley	anterior	reach	(twenty-degree	knee
flexion,	flat	back)
	

Pattern	Two
	
•	Single-leg	bridge	variations
	
Beginning	floor-based	and	work	to	a	hip	lift	or	hip	raise	from	a	bench	or	a
twelve-inch	plyo	box.	These	are	the	best	glute	exercises	no	one	ever	does	and
the	subject	of	a	great	body	of	work	from	Coach	Bret	Contreras.
	
These	exercises	target	the	glutes	and	the	hip	rotator	group	with	the	addition
of	instability.

	
Pattern	Three
	
•	Slideboard	leg	curl	variations
	
The	key	with	the	slideboard	leg	curl	is	the	glutes	function	isometrically	to
maintain	hip	extension,	while	the	hamstrings	act	to	flex	and	extend	the	knees.
Any	flexion	of	the	hip	negates	the	effectiveness	of	this	class	of	exercises.	Even
one	degree	of	motion	at	the	hip	negates	the	glute	function.
The	best	teaching	progression	is	to	begin	in	a	bridge	with	the	glutes	and	abs
contracted,	and	eccentrically	lower	into	an	extended	position.
Step	Four

	
•	Concentric	training	of	hip	abductors
Although	many	would	argue	isolated	single-joint	training	is	not	functional,
it	is	still	necessary	to	train	the	concentric	action	of	the	hip	abductors.	This	can	be
done	with	side	leg	lifts	or	with	standing	abduction	on	a	Pilates	reformer	or
Shuttle	MVP.
Additional	Points
	
Core
	
Core	training	should	always	be	included	in	any	sound	program,	but	with
patella-femoral	pain,	both	quadruped	and	bridge	variations	should	be	used	for
emphasis	on	glute	max	and	glute	med	function.
Conditioning	and	Muscle	Endurance
	
Retro	walking	is	another	excellent	exercise	for	the	client	with	patella-
femoral	pain.	Backward	walking	provides	less	stress	to	the	knee	joint	and	is
actually	just	a	series	of	closed-chain	terminal	knee	extensions.	Backward
walking	can	begin	with	a	treadmill	program	of	intervals	at	progressively	higher
inclines	and	progress	to	walking	backward	with	a	weighted	sled.
Eccentric	Strength
	
Eccentric	strength	work	should	focus	on	single-leg	plyometrics	with
emphasis	on	landing	skills;	jumps	should	be	forward,	with	hops	done	forward,
medially	and	laterally.	The	Shuttle	MVP	can	be	used	to	develop	landing	skills

for	athletes	returning	from	injury	or	athletes	with	poor	strengthto-bodyweight
ratios.
The	key	to	battling	patella-femoral	pain	is	to	adopt	a	well-rounded
approach	that	works	on	the	source	of	the	pain	versus	the	site	of	the	pain,	and
takes	into	account	all	of	the	functions	of	the	lower	extremity.
	

ACL	Injury	Prevention
	
	
The	key	to	understanding	functional	anatomy	is	to	realize	everything
changes	when	you	stand	on	one	leg.	From	an	anatomical	standpoint,	this	is
undeniable,	and	for	knee	injury	prevention,	it’s	a	vital	consideration.
ACL	injury	prevention	programs	often	consist	more	of	packaging	than	new
concepts.	Calling	a	program	an	ACL	prevention	program	may	be	nothing	more
than	a	way	into	the	head	of	the	athletic	trainer,	physical	therapist	or	coach.
ACL	injury	prevention	is	just	good	training;	the	program	we	use	for	ACL
injury	reduction	is	actually	the	same	program	we	use	with	everyone.	As	coaches
we	have	to	realize	we	should	be	practicing	great	injury	prevention	concepts	with
all	our	athletes	and	weekend	warriors.
Because	female	athletes	are	much	more	likely	to	experience	ACL	injuries,
those	who	coach	women	tend	to	be	more	interested	in	the	protocol.	Estimates
run	to	over	100,000	ACL	tears	per	year,	about	a	third	of	these	being	high	school
female	athletes.	ACL	injury	prevention	may	be	the	thought	that	gets	the
women’s	basketball	coach	to	buy	into	your	strength	program.
When	training	the	female	athlete,	we	need	to	stop	lamenting	the	plight	of
women	and	start	doing	something	about	it.	Complaining	about	the	number	of
injuries	that	occur	in	women	will	do	nothing	to	change	the	situation.
Neither	will	studying	things	like	menstrual	cycles.	We	cannot	change
gender,	however	we	can	change	lower-body	strength	and	stability.	Certain
contributing	factors	—	Q	angle,	intercondylar	notch,	menstrual	status	—	are	all
in	the	“things	we	cannot	change”	category.
One	area	of	study	is	the	effect	of	menstrual	cycle	on	probability	of	ACL
tear.	My	question	is	what	do	we	do	when	we	know?	Will	we	see	parents	holding
their	daughters	out	of	the	big	game	because	it	is	a	risky	time	period?	Not	likely.
ACL	Injury	Reduction	Strategies
	
ACL	reduction	is	simple,	but	systematic.	We	need	to	work	on	all	of	the

items	listed	below.	This	is	not	a	menu	to	pick	from;	it’s	more	like	a	recipe.	Don’t
leave	out	a	key	ingredient.
•	Active	warm-up
•	Power	and	stability	—	eccentric	strength	equals	landing	skills
•	Strength	development	—emphasis	on	one	leg
•	Change	of	direction	concepts	—	learning	how	to	stop
•	Change	of	direction	conditioning	—	developing	conditioning
Strategy	One	Active	Warm-Up
	
A	good	warm-up	is	the	first	step	in	an	ACL	prevention	program.	Guess
what?	A	good	warm-up	is	the	first	step	in	any	program.	A	proper	warm-up
develops	single-leg	strength,	dynamic	flexibility	and	increases	proprioception.
And	the	best	active	warm-up	exercises	activate	one	muscle	while	elongating
another.
•	High-knee	walk
•	Leg	cradle
•	Walking	heel	to	butt
•	Back	lunge
Strategy	Two	Develop	Stability	and	Eccentric	Strength
	
If	active	warm-up	is	the	first	step,	the	development	of	stability	and
eccentric	strength	is	the	most	important	step.	In	many	of	the	popular	ACL
prevention	programs,	this	is	the	major	failing.	Most	programs	concentrate	too
much	on	jumping	and	not	enough	on	hopping.
Understand	this:	
A	jump	and	a	hop	are	not	the	same.
	Everything	changes

when	we	stand	on	one	leg,	and	everything	changes	when	we	
land
	on	one	leg.
The	key	to	injury	reduction	is	developing	the	ability	to	land	on	one	leg.
Eccentric	strength	is	the	ability	to	land	properly.
Understand	the	terminology:
•	Jump:	two	legs	to	two	legs	—	This	is	the	basis	for	many	programs,	but	is
not	the	mechanism	for	ACL	injury	prevention.
•	Hop:	right	leg	to	right	leg	or	vice	versa	—	Hops	are	neglected	in	most
programs,	but	are	actually	the	key	to	ACL	prevention.	Hopping	must	be
done	forward,	medially	and	laterally.
•	Bound:	right	leg	to	left	leg
•	Skip:	two	foot	contacts	per	foot
Progressing	Plyometrics
	
Plyometric	phases	should	last	a	minimum	of	three	weeks,	and	jumps	and
hops	can	be	done	twice	per	week.	In	our	system	we	do	our	plyometric	exercises
every	training	day,	but	we	don’t	repeat	the	same	exercise	twice	in	one	week.
Phase	one
	
Jump	or	hop	up	to	a	box:	This	decreases	the	effect	of	gravity	and	lowers
eccentric	forces.	Jumps	are	done	forward.	Hops	should	be	done	forward,
medially	and	laterally.
Phase	Two
	
Jump	or	hop	over	an	object:	In	phase	one	we	decrease	the	effect	of	gravity
and	the	subsequent	eccentric	force.	In	phase	two	we	reintroduce	the	acceleration

due	to	gravity	by	jumping	or	hopping	over	an	object.	The	same	idea	applies	as
above,	but	instead	of	jumping	or	hopping	onto	a	box,	the	jumps	and	hops	are
done	over	a	hurdle.	Hurdles	of	varying	sizes	from	six	inches	to	thirty	inches	can
be	used.
If	the	quality	decreases	with	the	addition	of	gravity,	strength	is	an	issue.	Do
not	proceed	to	the	next	phase.	In	fact,	return	to	the	previous	phase.
Strength	and	conditioning	legend	Al	Vermeil	makes	the	statement,	“The
bigger	or	weaker	the	athlete,	the	smaller	the	obstacle.”
Phase	Three
	
Introduction	of	elasticity:	In	phase	three,	the	same	exercises	are	used	as	in
phase	two.	The	difference	is	in	phase	three	a	bounce	is	added.
Phase	Four
	
True	plyos:	This	is	the	reactive	work	we	commonly	recognize	as
plyometrics.
Strategy	Three	Strength	Development
	
Strength	development	is	the	second	big	key.	In	ACL	prevention	the	strength
program	must	be	geared	toward	a	functional	single-leg	approach.
Keys
	
•	Handle	bodyweight	—	single-leg	progressions
•	Develop	functional	strength	—	no	machines

•	Develop	single-leg	strength	—	difference	in	hip	mechanics
•	Perform	both	knee-dominant	and	hip-dominant	single-leg	exercise
Ideally	all	athletes	should	progress	to	a	true	single-leg	squat	and	a	loaded
one-leg	straight-leg	deadlift.
Strategy	Four	Change	of	Direction	Concepts
	
The	idea	of	teaching	change	of	direction	is	a	foreign	one	to	most	coaches.
We	like	to	distinguish	between	teaching	movement	versus	timing	movement.	In
many	agility	programs,	athletes	run	from	cone	to	cone.	In	our	change	of
direction	program,	the	consideration	of	effective	movement	is	taught.
Simple	drills	are	used	to	teach	athletes	to	stop	and	to	crossover.	Many	of	the
concepts	build	on	ideas	and	landing	skills	taught	in	the	plyometric	exercises.
Strategy	Five	Change	of	Direction	Conditioning
	
The	notion	of	change	of	direction	conditioning	is	not	new.	However,	the
heavy	influence	of	track	coaches	and	technology	have	had	a	negative	effect	over
the	past	couple	of	decades.	Many	conditioning	programs	shifted	to	a	track-style
interval	program	based	around	linear	distances	like	110-,	220-and	440-yard	runs.
Even	worse,	many	athletes	began	to	condition	on	cardiovascular	equipment	like
the	stationary	bike,	elliptical	trainer	or	stairclimber.
What	is	often	missing	in	modern	conditioning	programs	is	the	planned
incorporation	of	stops	and	starts.	Injuries	occur	in	acceleration	and	deceleration.
We	need	to	incorporate	stopping	and	starting	into	the	conditioning	program	to
minimize	injuries	on	the	field	of	play.	On	the	days	we	don’t	do	change	of
direction	running,	we	incorporate	the	slideboard	for	lateral	conditioning.
As	a	strength	and	conditioning	coach,	understand	and	appreciate	your
athletic	trainer.	Develop	a	cooperative	relationship,	not	an	adversarial	one.	If	you
are	an	athletic	trainer	or	physical	therapist,	cultivate	your	strength	coach,	make
him	part	of	the	team.
A	good	cooperative	relationship	makes	the	job	easier.	Strength	coaches
need	to	become	a	part	of	the	rehab	team	and	athletic	trainers	need	to	realize	a

quality	strength	and	conditioning	program	will	decrease	workloads	in	the
training	room.
The	bottom	line	is	a	good	strength	and	conditioning	program	is	also	the	best
ACL	prevention	program.
No	ingredient	is	non-essential;	all	of	them	must	be	included.
	

Understanding	Sports	Hernia
	
	
One	area	of	increasing	interest	to	many	in	the	fields	of	performance
enhancement	and	physical	therapy	is	the	sports	hernia.	In	order	to	understand	the
concept	of	sports	hernia,	the	first	thing	we	need	to	do	is	describe	it.	In	the
technical	sense,	the	sports	hernia	is	a	tear	in	the	lower	abdominal	wall	in	the
inguinal	area.	Unlike	a	classic	inguinal	hernia,	there	is	rarely	a	significant	tear
that	results	in	a	bulge.	Instead,	there	is	a	gradual	onset	of	pain	in	the	lower
abdominal	area,	usually	beginning	as	groin	pain.
A	number	of	different	conditions	fall	under	the	umbrella	of	sports	hernia.
However,	the	most	interesting	thing	about	the	sports	hernia	is	it	almost	always
begins	as	groin	pain,	not	as	abdominal	pain.	Most	sports	hernia	sufferers	will
describe	a	groin	injury	that	gradually	progressed	into	a	painful	lower	abdomen.
This	often-overlooked	fact	may	be	the	real	key	to	solving	or	understanding	the
problem.
Sports	hernias	are	not	traumatic.	There	is	no	singular	incident,	but	rather	a
gradual	progression.	What	begins	as	groin	pain	progresses	into	abdominal	pain;
the	sports	hernia	may	be	a	secondary	injury.	Sports	hernias	may	be	the	reaction
of	the	abdominal	muscles	to	a	groin	injury,	or	more	specifically,	the	reaction	of
the	abdominal	muscles	to	a	change	in	the	mechanics	of	the	hip	joint.
To	backtrack	a	bit,	let’s	first	examine	the	word	groin	and	the	idea	of	a	groin
pull.	The	groin	area	as	commonly	described	in	sports	and	sports	medicine
includes	the	muscles	that	flex	the	hip,	the	muscles	that	adduct	the	hip	and,
surprisingly,	some	of	the	hip	extensors.	Groin	is	really	a	garbage	term,	a	catch-
all	used	to	describe	all	of	the	adductors	and	flexors	of	the	hip.
This	is	where	things	begin	to	get	interesting.	The	adductor	group	is
comprised	of	five	muscles:	adductor	magnus,	gracilis,	pectineus,	adductor
longus	and	adductor	brevis.	Because	we	are	taught	origin-insertion	anatomy,	we
visualize	these	muscles	in	their	singular,	uni-planar	role	as	adductors.	We	tend	to
adopt	a	simplified	view	of	adduction	as	a	motion	done	purely	in	the	frontal
plane.	However,	like	all	things,	nothing	is	as	simple	as	it	appears.
I	have	worked	with	athletes	with	sports	hernias	in	both	high-level	soccer
(MLS)	and	high-level	ice	hockey	(NCAA	and	NHL).	In	the	summer	of	2006,	I

participated	in	and	coordinated	the	successful	rehabilitation	of	two	athletes	who
had	sports	hernia	surgeries.	One	was	an	NHL	player,	the	other	was	an	NCAA
Division	1	hockey	player.
I	enlisted	the	assistance	of	an	outstanding	manual	therapist,	Dr.	Donnie
Strack,	DPT.	Donnie	evaluated	both	players	and	found	each	had	significant	soft
tissue	restrictions	in	the	pectineus.	They	had	both	at	some	point	experienced	a
groin	pull	or	adductor	strain	that	was	treated	conventionally	with	ice	and	rest.
Both	players	were	allowed	to	return	to	play	after	the	symptoms	subsided,
but	neither	player	received	appropriate	soft	tissue	work	to	this	critical	area.
Dr.	Strack’s	mentor,	physical	therapist	Dr.	Dan	Dyrek,	uses	the	term	benign
neglect	to	describe	such	treatment	of	injuries.	The	assumption	is	an	absence	or
decrease	in	symptoms	is	the	same	as	healing,	which	of	course	is	not	always	true.
All	of	our	adductor	muscles	have	a	secondary,	multi-planar	role.	Two	of	the
adductors	are	also	weak	hip	flexors.	The	pectineus	and	the	adductor	brevis	act	to
assist	in	hip	flexion.	In	other	words,	they	flex	and	adduct.
Hip	Flexion	and	Adduction
	
Sports	hernias	are	near	epidemic	in	two	sports,	hockey	and	soccer.	What	do
hockey	and	soccer	have	in	common?	One	very	critical	point.	The	recovery	of	the
skating	stride	in	hockey	is	a	combination	of	hip	flexion	and	adduction.	What
muscles	do	we	envision	being	overworked	and	injured?	Obviously	those	that
both	flex	and	adduct.	Striking	a	soccer	ball?	You	guessed	it,	the	flexion	and
adduction	combination.
What	do	these	adductors	and	flexors	also	have	in	common?	They	insert	just
below	the	abdominals	right	in	the	area	of	the	sports	hernia.
The	remaining	three	adductors	are	extensors	
and
	adductors.	Adductor
magnus,	adductor	longus	and	gracilis	aid	in	adduction,	but	by	virtue	of	their
position	of	insertion	on	the	pelvis,	also	aid	in	extension	of	the	hip.
Two	muscles	get	overworked,	the	pectineus	and	adductor	brevis,	and	a
strain	occurs.	Rehab	is	often	inadequate.	The	location	of	the	strain	makes	soft
tissue	work	difficult.	In	fact,	many	athletic	trainers,	particularly	if	gender	lines
are	involved,	are	reluctant	to	perform	soft	tissue	work	in	the	high	adductors.	Soft
tissue	work	can	also	be	neglected	due	to	time	or	skill	constraints.
If	rehabilitative	exercise	is	performed,	the	focus	is	on	frontal	plane
adduction,	which	does	not	directly	address	the	unique	function	of	the	injured
muscles.	In	frontal	plane	adduction,	the	long	adductors	can	substitute	and	mask

the	issue	with	the	flexor	and	adductors.
Wraps	and	elastic	devices	are	often	used	to	mask	symptoms	or	to	decrease
pain.	The	result	of	this	process	of	benign	neglect	is	an	eventual	tear	of	the
abdominal	wall	secondary	to	a	groin	strain	in	the	pectineus	or	adductor	brevis.
Soft	Tissue	Therapy
	
Here’s	where	the	athletic	trainer	and	physical	therapist	crowd	gets	mad	at
me.	Currently,	the	only	therapists	I	use	for	my	athletes	or	clients	are	manual
therapists.	I	am	lucky	enough	to	have	a	long	time	relationship	with	Dr.	Dan
Dyrek.	Dan	is	a	genius	and	a	master	of	soft	tissue.	His	entire	business	revolves
around	soft	tissue	mobilization.
If	you	are	an	athletic	trainer	or	a	physical	therapist,	develop	your	soft	tissue
evaluation	and	treatment	skills.	Most	athletic	trainers	and	physical	therapists
don’t	do	massage	in	this	country	because	it’s	too	hard	and	it’s	not	cost	effective.
This	has	to	change	to	stem	the	tide	of	sports	hernias.
If	you	have	an	athlete	with	a	lower	abdominal	issue,	find	a	good	manual
therapist.	This	is	not	easy;	they	are	few	and	far	between.	Surgery	may	help,	but	it
will	not	be	the	entire	answer.	Resolution	of	scar	tissue	is	the	final	piece	of	the
puzzle.	You	need	to	get	to	the	original	source	of	the	injury	and	deal	with	it.	This
can	only	be	done	by	a	soft	tissue	professional.
Many	in	the	medical	world	will	disagree	with	my	thoughts.	I	have
discussed	the	sports	hernia	phenomenon	with	numerous	well-respected
colleagues	and	have	gleaned	a	few	theories.	One	of	my	conversations	with	Gray
Cook	yielded	this	gem:	Cook	theorizes	most	athletes	would	do	as	well	without
surgery	as	with	surgery	if	they	would	actually	take	time	to	rehab.	The	surgery	is
almost	a	method	of	forced	rest	to	allow	healing.
Stretching
	
Another	thought	comes	from	Pete	Freisen,	athletic	trainer	for	the	Carolina
Hurricanes	of	the	NHL.	Pete	thinks	a	large	predisposing	factor	in	ice	hockey
athletes	is	many	players	stretch	the	adductors,	but	not	the	hip	flexors.	The
adductors	are	easy	to	self-stretch,	while	the	hip	flexors	require	either	great
concentration	or	the	assistance	of	a	partner.	The	result	is	often	athletes	who	have

great	frontal	plane	mobility	at	the	hip	with	limitations	in	the	sagittal	plane,
basically	one	large	degree	of	freedom	and	one	limited	one.
Consider	the	forces	on	the	hip	capsule	and	lower	abdominal	wall	when
there’s	excessive	abduction	with	a	big	block	in	extension.	If	you	think	of	this
mechanically,	it	makes	sense.	The	discrepancy	of	hip	ROM	probably	sets	these
athletes	up	for	an	abdominal	tear	and	potentially	for	labral	damage.
Freisen	said	he	would	rather	have	tight	or	loose	athletes	than	athletes	who
are	tight	in	one	plane	and	loose	in	another.	Cook	would	define	this	as	an
asymmetry.	In	Cook’s	Functional	Movement	Screen	research,	asymmetry	was	a
greater	predictor	of	injury	than	a	symmetrical	restriction.	Asymmetrical	range	of
motion	at	the	hip	may	be	another	precursor	to	sports	hernia.
Hip	Internal	Rotation
	
An	additional	area	of	concern	in	sports	hernia	is	hip	internal	rotation.	Most
of	the	athletes	who	experience	a	sports	hernia	lack	hip	internal	rotation,	a
transverse	plane	deficit.	Just	as	we	misunderstood	the	role	of	the	adductors,	our
athletes	may	be	over-lengthening	the	wrong	muscles,	the	adductors	in	the	frontal
plane,	and	leaving	other	muscles,	the	hip	flexors	and	hip	external	rotators,
critically	short.	The	result	is	a	hip	that	lacks	extension	and	internal	rotation,	but
has	great	ROM	in	conventional	frontal	plane	adduction.	This	forces	the	pelvis	to
move	in	compensation,	and	stress	to	be	shifted	to	the	lower	abdominal	wall.
The	potential	result	is	a	sports	hernia.
	

Sports	Hernia	Prevention
	
	
Prevention	of	any	injury	begins	with	appropriate	screening	techniques.	As
already	discussed,	for	screening	athletes	we	use	Gray	Cook’s	seven-part
Functional	Movement	Screen	to	predict	risk	of	injury.	It	should	be	done	in	its
entirety	on	every	athlete	at	least	once.	Of	particular	interest	in	the	sports	hernia
area	is	the	FMS	hurdle	step,	a	test	of	the	hip	flexion	pattern.
An	impaired	hip	flexion	pattern	usually	demonstrates	a	lateral	shift	of	the
pelvis	when	attempting	to	flex	the	hip.	In	the	impaired	hip	flexion	pattern,
usually	the	deep	flexors,	psoas	and	iliacus,	are	weak	or	inhibited.	This	forces	the
athlete	to	use	the	quadratus	lumborum	to	hip	hike	to	create	the	illusion	of	hip
flexion.	In	essence,	lateral	flexion	of	the	pelvis	from	the	spine	raises	the	hip.
Cook	advocates	not	focusing	on	individual	muscles,	but	rather	on	fixing	the
pattern.	To	fix	the	pattern,	we	have	adopted	a	top-down	approach	to	recruit	the
deep	hip	flexors.	For	more	on	this,	see	the	hip	flexion	section,	page	113.
In	addition	to	improving	the	hip	flexion	pattern,	prevention	of	sports
hernias	must	also	center	on	developing	proper	hip	range	of	motion	and	core
stability.	Hip	motion	and	core	stability	are	linked.	Impaired	hip	motion	leads	to
excessive	pelvic	motion,	and	excessive	pelvic	motion	may	be	why	a	groin	pull
progresses	into	a	sports	hernia.
From	a	flexibility	standpoint,	the	hip	must	be	stretched	into	extension	and
internal	rotation,	as	well	as	into	abduction.	In	many	cases	abduction	stretching
should	be	limited	while	the	rest	of	the	hip	in	effect	catches	up.
After	static	stretching,	a	program	of	multi-planar	active	mobility	and
strength	must	be	established.	Strength	emphasis	should	be	on	unilateral	strength.
Unsupported	single-leg	squats,	one-leg	straight-leg	deadlifts,	lateral	squats
progressing	to	lateral	lunges,	and	rotational	squats	progressing	to	rotational	or
transverse	plane	lunges	should	form	the	core	of	the	lower-body	program.
Plyometric	training	should	address	multi-directional	hops	and	bounds,	and
lateral	conditioning	on	a	slideboard	should	be	performed	at	least	twice	a	week.
The	slideboard	is	unique	in	that	it	supplies	eccentric	stress	to	the	adductors	and
concentric	stress	to	the	abductors.

Sequence
	
Organization	is	key.	For	overall	injury	prevention,	we	always	follow	a
sequence	of
•	Foam	roll
•	Static	stretch
•	Dynamic	warm-up
•	Strength
In	a	program	designed	for	injury	prevention,	none	of	the	factors	are
optional.	You	cannot	elect	to	foam	roll	and	omit	static	stretching	or	elect	to	static
stretch	without	rolling	prior.	Each	piece	of	the	puzzle	has	a	specific	purpose,	and
the	prevention	program	suffers	when	parts	are	omitted.
Athletes	must	be	given	time	to	roll	and	be	told	the	key	areas	in	need	of
attention,	like	the	hips,	adductors	and	t-spine.	Athletes	must	be	given	specific
stretches	to	perform	and,	more	importantly,	be	both	told	and	shown	how	to	do
each	stretch.
Most	athletes	perform	fake	stretching.	In	fake	stretching	athletes	get
improperly	positioned	and	make	an	attempt	to	look	like	everyone	else.	This	is
generally	done	to	compensate	for	a	large	deficit.	Those	who	like	to	stretch	are
generally	flexible	and	probably	don’t	need	to	stretch;	those	who	dislike	it	are
those	most	in	need.
Try	to	find	stretches	that	allow	athletes	to	use	their	bodyweight	to	help	or
that	use	props	like	boxes,	tables	or	rollers.
After	the	basic	foam	roll,	static	stretch	and	dynamic	warm-up,	the	next	step
in	prevention	is	to	perform	specific	strength	exercises	for	the	hip	flexors	and
psoas	training	above	ninety	degrees.	I	like	a	three-step	progression.
•	Step	one	—	Supine	hip	flexion
•	Step	two	—	Standing	hip	flexion
•	Step	three	—	Standing	hip	flexion,	adduction	and	prone	hip	flexion

Prevention	Keys
	
Look	for	an	excessive	abduction	and	limited	extension	pattern.	Generally
an	athlete	with	a	seated	V-type	stretch	of	greater	than	110	and	a	neutral	Thomas
position	has	an	imbalance.
Train	hip	flexion	above	ninety	degrees	to	improve	psoas	function.	This	can
be	done	as	a	warm	up	or	activation.	Think	ten-second	holds,	not	reps.
Train	hip-flexion	patterns	progressing	to	a	flexion	and	adduction	pattern.
Pay	attention	here:	Make	sure	your	athletes	use	a	flexion	and	adduction	pattern.
Those	with	issues	will	instinctively	internally	rotate	the	hip	and	in	essence
recreate	a	hip	flexion	pattern.
Things	to	Avoid
	
Avoid	the	surgeon.	Surgeons	do	surgery.	That’s	their	business.	Doctors
work	on	what	I	call	the	1-2-3	model,	the	three	Is.
•	Ingest	anti-inflammatories
•	Inject	more	anti-inflammatories
•	Incise…that	is,	to	cut
We	want	to	avoid	the	1-2-3	model.	If	your	client	returns	to	the	doctor
without	improving,	surgery	will	be	schedule,	but	surgery	should	be	the	last
resort.	And	if	the	client	has	not	really	committed	to	a	full	rehab	program,	that’s
even	more	reason	to	avoid	surgery.
If	athletes	were	willing	to	take	time	off	and	listen	to	the	trainers	and
therapists,	innumerable	surgeries	could	be	avoided.	I	have	seen	at	least	three
professional	athletes	scheduled	for	surgery	who	were	able	to	avoid	them	by
committing	to	a	proper	rehab	program	of	exercises	and	soft	tissue	work.
We	should	never	let	a	surgeon	go	in	to	take	a	look	around.	This	means	the
doctor	is	unsure,	but	wants	to	do	surgery	anyway.	Usually	this	means	he	will	go
in,	repair	any	small	tear	he	sees	and	often	“release”	the	adductors.	This	only
makes	more	scar	tissue.
My	feeling,	and	the	feeling	of	many	therapist	colleagues,	is	sports	hernia

surgery	will	be	like	the	lateral	release	in	the	patella	femoral	joint,	a	surgery	that
had	limited	success	and	thankfully	eventually	went	out	of	style.
Rehabilitation	Concepts
	
One	of	the	most	successful	methods	in	dealing	with	sports	hernias	focuses
on	decreasing	motion.	Many	current	rehab	protocols	focus	on	training	the	deep
abdominal	muscles	to	stabilize	the	pelvis.	Although	this	may	be	an	initial	part	of
the	solution,	an	approach	that	simply	emphasizes	core	stability	may	be	doomed
to	long-term	failure.
Eventually	the	tissues	must	be	re-exposed	to	high	velocity	loads	and
contractions.	If	this	is	not	done,	re-injury	is	a	predictable	result.	Every	failed
sports	hernia	rehab	fails	when	velocity	is	introduced.
Developing	core	stability	in	the	presence	of	poor	tissue	quality	only	puts	off
the	inevitable	re-injury.	Don’t	short-change	soft	tissue	attention.
Another	area	of	concern	lies	in	the	open-chain	versus	closed-chain	debate.
Many	therapists	and	coaches	have	been	misdirected	and	believe	all	lower	body
work	must	be	closed-chain.	The	recovery	stride	in	both	sprinting	and	skating	is	a
pure	open-chain	movement.	The	athlete	must	convert	from	an	explosive
abduction	and	extension	action	done	in	a	closed-chain	fashion,	to	an	explosive
flexion	and	adduction	pattern	done	in	an	open-chain	position.
It	is	possible	we	have	become	too	closed-chain	oriented	without	actually
looking	at	function.	Many	therapists	are	attempting	to	use	closed-chain	concepts
to	solve	an	open-chain	problem.	This	is	one	reason	I	like	the	slideboard	for	all
athletes	and	one	reason	we	don’t	see	a	significant	number	of	sports	hernias	in
our	athletes.	All	of	our	athletes,	regardless	of	sport,	use	the	slideboard.
The	beauty	of	the	slideboard	is	the	adductor	and	hip	flexor	muscles	are
exposed	to	eccentric,	closed-chain	loads	as	the	athletes	slide	across	the	board.
However,	in	the	transition	the	same	muscles	are	used	to	recover	the	leg	in	an
open-chain	flexion	and	adduction	action.	The	slideboard	provides	two	levels	of
essential	stress	to	the	tissues	critical	in	rehab.
The	major	problem	with	the	slideboard	is	in	mediating	or	controlling	the
stress.	This	can	initially	be	done	by	controlling	velocity	and	by	providing
adduction	assistance	to	the	adductors.
Velocity	is	controlled	by	asking	the	athlete	to	move	slowly	across	the	board.
Our	description	of	the	initial	exposure	to	the	board	is	public	skating,	a	pace	used
when	holding	hands	with	a	member	of	the	opposite	sex	on	an	iced-over	pond.

Assistance	is	provided	by	placing	a	Lifeline	lateral	resistor	on	the	athlete’s
ankles.	The	lateral	resistor,	which	you	can	get	at	Perform	Better,	functions	as	an
additional	adductor	and	acts	to	pull	the	free	leg	and	decrease	stress	on	the	target
tissues.
	

Sports	Hernia	Rehab
	
	
The	real	key	to	sports	hernia	rehab	is	a	program	of	gradually	increased
velocity.	Many	athletes	feel	fine	initially	because	the	tissue	is	not	lengthening	at
a	rapid	rate,	but	deteriorate	at	the	end	when	the	velocity	of	tissue	lengthening
increases.	In	addition,	rehab	rarely	includes	appropriate	soft	tissue	treatment	and
as	a	result	is	doomed	to	failure.
The	first	two	to	three	weeks	of	rehab	should	focus	on	wound	care	and	pain
management.	The	strength	and	conditioning	coach	should	have	little
involvement	until	the	athletic	trainer	or	physician	has	determined	the	athlete	can
begin	rehab.	Somewhere	around	week	two	or	three	post-surgery,	the	athletic
trainer,	team	doctor	and	physical	therapist	will	begin	to	allow	a	controlled
exercise	program.
Our	first	three-week	phase	of	rehab	begins	approximately	two	weeks	post-
surgery	and	focuses	on	healing.	We	get	the	athlete	working	out	again	without
forcing	stress	onto	the	groin	and	abdominal	area.	This	involves	removing
exercises	that	indirectly	apply	load	to	the	abdominals.	The	most	notable	things
we	avoid	are	pull-up	variations	and	single-leg	knee-dominant	exercises	like	split
squats	and	one-leg	squats.
Phase	One	Weeks	Two	through	Four
	
Core
	
Core	work	focuses	on	the	hips	and	glutes	with	almost	no	direct	ab	or	groin
work.	In	rehab,	we	strengthen	around	but	not	over	the	acute	area.	We	strengthen
the	abs	and	adductors	indirectly	initially	when	possible,	incorporating	one	basic
exercise	for	each	area.

All	exercises	except	the	adductor	squeezes	and	rollouts	are	done	for	three
sets	of	ten-second	isometric	holds,	increasing	by	ten	seconds	per	week.	Rollouts
and	adductor	squeezes	begin	at	two	sets	of	ten,	adding	two	reps	per	week.
Always	ask	if	an	exercise	hurts.	
This	is	a	yes	or	no	question.
•	Cook	hip	lift	—	single-leg	bridge	holds
•	Quadruped	hip	extension	—	McGill	birddogs
•	Side	bridge	—	short	lever
•	Supine	psoas	holds
•	Supine	or	side-lying	adduction	—	squeeze	an	Airex	or	Pilates	ring	if	pain-
free
•	Stability-ball	rollouts	—	the	only	direct	ab	work	and	done	only	if	pain-
free.	Larger	diameter	balls	offer	less	stress.
Lower-Body	Strength
	
Focus	again	is	on	low-stress	exercises.	Begin	at	three	sets	of	ten,	adding
two	reps	per	week	or	two	reps	per	day.
•	Bodyweight	squats	—	add	a	weight	vest,	work	up	to	bars
•	Reaching	single-leg	straight-leg	deadlift
In	addition,	mini-band	work	can	be	done	for	the	abductors	as	part	of	a
general	warm-up.
Phase	Two	Weeks	Five	through	Seven
	
In	phase	two	we	continue	to	progress	all	of	the	above	exercises	and	add	a
short-stance	split	squat	if	it	can	be	done	pain-free.
A	short-stance	split	squat	is	done	in	more	of	a	90/90	position	to	apply	less

stress	to	the	anterior	hip	and	anterior	core.	We	want	to	begin	to	move	to	lunge-
type	stances,	but	not	aggressively.	The	stance	can	be	lengthened	if	the	exercise	is
pain-free	on	both	sides.
Again,	we	follow	a	progression	of	bodyweight	to	a	weight	vest,	and
eventually	to	a	bar.	It	is	important	to	note	up	to	this	point	we	were	working	in	the
sagittal	plane.
Physical	therapist	John	Pallof	had	an	excellent	progression	concept:	John
proposed	a	progression	from	sagittal	plane	via	squats,	to	frontal	plane	by	adding
lateral	squats	and	eventually	to	transverse	plane.	We	further	modified	this	to
work	mobility	first	and	strength	second.
In	phase	two,	week	two	we	add	a	bodyweight	lateral	squat.	This	is	a	low-
velocity	frontal	plane	exercise.	Some	might	view	this	as	stretching	or	mobility
work,	which	it	is,	but	like	many	of	our	warm-up	exercises,	it	will	be	loaded	later.
It	is	critical	for	the	lateral	squat	to	precede	the	lateral	lunge.	This	maintains	the
integrity	of	our	model	of	gradually	increasing	velocity	and	tissue	stress.
In	phase	two,	week	three,	we	add	a	rotational	squat.	This	is	the	last	step	in
preparation	for	the	bodyweight	lunge	circuit	or	lunge	matrix	we	add	in	phase
three.
Hip-dominant	work	progresses	by	adding	load	to	the	single-leg	straight-leg
deadlifts,	and	by	adding	slideboard	or	stability-ball	leg	curls.	The	slideboard	leg
curl	is	an	excellent	progression	from	the	core	work,	as	it	combines	the	actions	of
bridging	into	a	concentric	and	eccentric	hamstring	exercise.
In	phase	two	of	our	velocity-based	model,	we	introduce	low-intensity
agility	ladder	work	and	begin	to	add	low-intensity	linear	box	jumps	of	twelve	to
eighteen	inches,	again	always	with	the	warning	the	exercises	should	not	produce
pain.
Core	work	and	strength	work	continue	to	progress	with	a	goal	of	returning
to	normal	strength	levels.
Lower-Body	Strength
	
Here	we	add	single-leg	knee-dominant	exercises.
Core	work	continues	to	progress	in	the	number	of	reps,	six	sets	of	ten
seconds	in	this	phase.	Mini-band	work	continues	as	part	of	a	general	warm-up.
Week	One

	
•	Short-stance	split	squat,	3x10	each	leg
•	Front	squats,	3x10,	done	after	split	squats.	This	is	a	departure	from	normal
because	it’s	rehab.
•	Single-leg	straight-leg	deadlift	using	one	dumbbell	or	kettlebell
•	Slideboard	leg	curl
Week	Two
	
•	Add	lateral	squats,	2x10	each	side
Week	Three
	
•	Add	rotational	squats,	2x10	each	side
Begin	at	three	sets	of	ten,	adding	two	reps	per	week	or	two	reps	per	day.
Phase	Three	Weeks	Eight,	Nine	and	Ten
	
In	phase	three,	we	add	increased	velocity	by	switching	from	eccentric	to
concentric	contractions	in	a	more	dynamic	manner.
In	phase	one	and	two,	we	classify	the	knee-dominant	exercises	as	static,
supported	exercises.	This	means	the	pelvis	is	supported	by	the	opposite	limb	in
contact	with	the	ground	or	a	bench,	and	the	body	is	not	moving	forward	or	back;
it’s	static.	This	is	in	comparison	to	a	lunge,	which	is	a	dynamic	exercise.	In
dynamic	exercises	gravity	and	bodyweight	begin	to	add	additional	decelerative
stress.
In	phase	three	we	also	introduce	static,	unsupported	exercises.	These	are

true	one-leg	squats	where	the	pelvis	does	not	have	the	benefit	of	an	additional
support	foot.
Plyometrics	are	progressed	adding	all	normal	phase	one	stability-based
plyos.	This	is	a	mix	of	box	jumps	(single-and	double-leg),	lateral	and	medial
hops	(right	to	right	or	left	to	left),	and	lateral	bounds	(right	to	left).
Ladder	work	will	also	progress	in	intensity.	At	this	stage,	we	begin
slideboard	work	with	lateral	resistors,	and	add	sled	pushes	and	crossovers.
We	also	move	to	phase	one	of	our	normal	straight-ahead	speed	progression,
adding	a	drill	called	LeanFall-Run.	LeanFall-Run	is	exactly	as	it	sounds.	The
athlete	stands	tall	and	literally	falls	into	a	five-or	ten-yard	sprint.
With	a	rehab	client,	the	instruction	is	three	quick	steps	and	coast.	One	set	of
five	sprints	is	done	with	a	walk-back	recovery.
Lower-Body	Strength
	
•	At	this	point,	we	add	lunges	and	one-leg	squats.
•	Core	work	stays	at	six	sets	of	ten	seconds	in	this	phase.
Split	squat,	lateral	squat	and	rotational	squat	are	now	done	for	one	set	of	ten
on	each	side	as	part	of	the	warm-up.
Day	One
	
•	Single-leg	squats,	3x10	each	side,	beginning	with	five-pound	dumbbells
•	Front	squats,	3x10.	These	are	done	after	the	single-leg	squats,	still	a
departure	from	normal	during	rehab.
•	Single-leg	straight-leg	deadlift	—	one	dumbbell	or	kettlebell,	continuing
to	progress	loads	five	or	ten	pounds	per	week.
•	Slideboard	leg	curl	—add	weight

Day	Two
	
•	Forward	lunge	replaces	the	single-leg	squat.
Phase	Four	Weeks	Eleven,	Plus
	
Here	our	in-place	squat	circuit	—	split,	lateral,	rotational	—	is	replaced	by	a
lunge	matrix	circuit.	This	is	still	a	bodyweight	multi-planar	warm-up.	The
athlete	should	now	be	able	to	train	normally	with	teammates,	but	will	be
carefully	monitored.
Plyos	and	speed	continue	to	progress.	Because	the	athlete	begins	to	add
phase	one	sprint	and	plyos	in	phase	three,	he	is	two	phases	behind	the
plyometrics.
There	is	still	much	to	learn	in	the	area	of	sports	hernia	rehab.	This	section
should	give	you	food	for	thought	and	a	base	to	build	upon	in	regard	to
prevention	and	rehabilitation.

The	Core
	
	
The	Approaches	in	Core	Training
Core	Stability
The	Science	of	the	Core
Terminology
Anterior	Core	Training
Glute	Activation	and	the	core
Rotational	Training
Core	Advances
Awareness	in	Rotational	Training
The	Core	Exercises
Core	Stability	Exercises
Supine	Progression
The	Superficial	Core
	
	

The	Approaches	in	Core	Training
	
	
My	previous	books,	
Functional	Training	for	Sports
	and	
Designing	Strength
Training	Programs	and	Facilities,
	go	into	great	detail	about	what	we	knew	about
core	training	when	they	were	written,	and	I	make	no	apologies	for	learning	and
changing	based	on	new	knowledge.
Our	core	programming	has	changed	every	year	for	the	past	seven	or	eight
years.	All	the	changes	were	and	are	based	on	the	latest	research.	We’ve	used	the
knowledge	of	Paul	Hodges,	Stuart	McGill,	Shirley	Sahrmann,	Mark	Comerford
and	others	to	improve	the	health	and	performance	of	our	athletes.
We	now	know	we	can’t	just	squat	for	core	training,	which	for	core	work
activate	primarily	back	extensors	like	longissimus	and	multifidus.	The	bottom
line	is	squats	are	great	for	developing	the	posterior	aspects	of	the	core,	but	do
little	for	the	anterior	muscles	according	to	Jeffrey	McBride’s	research	in	the
Neuromuscular	Lab	at	Appalachian	State	University.	In	fact,	push-ups	and	side
bridges	are	superior	to	squats	for	the	external	obliques
Most	of	the	better	exercises	for	the	anterior	core	—	sometimes	called	the
deep	sleeping	abdominal	muscles	—	are	more	in	what	some	consider	the	“sissy”
category.	.
Will	bilateral	exercise	of	any	type	truly	work	the	core	muscles	as	they’re
intended	to	work	in	a	unilateral	activity?	Let’s	look	at	the	research	and	try	to	use
the	information	for	the	betterment	of	our	athletes	and	clients.
	

Core	Stability
	
	
Simply	defined,	core	stability	is	the	ability	to	create	movement	in	the	legs
and	arms	without	compensatory	movement	of	the	spine	or	pelvis,	and	in	the
broadest	sense	allowing	force	to	move	from	the	ground	through	the	hips,	spine
or	scapulothoracic	joints	without	energy	leaks.
Energy	leaks	are	defined	as	points	at	which	energy	is	lost	during	the
transfer	of	force	from	the	ground,	and	are	a	result	of	the	body’s	inability	to
stabilize	a	particular	joint.	Torso	strength	encompasses	core	stability,	hip
stability	and	shoulder	stability,	and	most	importantly,	the	ability	to	move	force
from	the	ground	to	the	extremities	while	maintaining	stability	in	the
aforementioned	areas.
As	the	study	of	the	interrelationship	of	low	back	pain	and	the	training	of	the
abdominal	muscles	continues,	it’s	clear	the	paradigms	will	continue	to	shift.	One
such	shift	is	occurring	currently.
Previously	I	have	written	and	spoken	extensively	about	the	Australian
methods	of	training	the	deep	abdominal	muscles.	The	work	of	Richardson,
Hodges	and	Jull,	through	their	landmark	book,	
Therapeutic	Exercise	for	Spinal
Segmental	Stabilization	in	Low	Back	Pain,
	has	significantly	advanced	our
knowledge	of	core	anatomy	and	muscle	function.	In	actuality,	that	book	and	the
research	that	preceded	it	have	forever	changed	the	way	training	is	performed.
Some	practitioners	in	the	field	rejected	the	Australian	concepts	for	a	broad
range	of	reasons.	The	most	notable	and	credible	among	these	critics	is	the
Canadian	researcher,	Dr.	Stuart	McGill.	McGill	provides	a	sound	biomechanical
rationale	for	why	hollowing,	as	he	refers	to	the	Australian	draw-in	maneuver,
will	actually	decrease	stability.	McGill	advocates	a	technique	he	refers	to	as
bracing	in	place	of	the	hollowing	or	drawing	in	we’d	been	doing	previously.
Paul	Hodges	Australian	Core	Philosophy
	
This	approach	was	initially	based	on	the	Richardson,	Hudges	and	Jull	book.

This	was	a	landmark	work	in	1999,	and	the	research	formed	the	basis	for	the
original	core	revolution.
This	is	where	the	draw-in	idea	began,	and	is	also	the	stuff	that	aggravates
the	weightlifter	crowd.	It’s	important	to	remember	the	writers	are	therapists	who
study	low	back	pain.	The	fact	that	we	can’t	figure	out	how	to	correctly	apply
what	they	do	doesn’t	make	them	wrong.
Paul	Chek	was	the	first	in	the	US	to	embrace	these	concepts	and	brought
the	stability	ball	into	our	realm.	Like	so	many	other	theories,	the	uninformed	ran
away	with	the	idea.	My	guess	is	the	authors	feel	differently	about	some	of	their
ideas	now,	but	the	old	concepts	were	firmly	entrenched	by	people	like	Chek	and
by	Mike	Clark	at	NASM.
I	have	an	orthopedic	surgeon	friend	who	says,	“Don’t	be	the	first	guy	to	use
a	new	technique,	but	don’t	be	the	last	guy	either.”	Many	coaches	got	carried
away	with	using	a	blood	pressure	cuff	under	the	back	and	a	lot	of	the	draw-in
techniques,	but	that	doesn’t	mean	it’s	all	bad.
The	McGill	Research
	
Stuart	McGill	is	a	Canadian	researcher	who	took	the	next	step.	McGill’s
books,	
Low	Back	Disorders
	and	
Ultimate	Back	Fitness	and	Performance,
	are	the
current	state	of	the	art	in	low	back	health.
McGill	is	in	agreement	with	much	more	of	the	Australian	core	philosophy
than	he	disagrees	with,	the	major	difference	being	McGill	favors	a	technique	he
refers	to	as	“bracing”	over	the	Australian	technique	of	drawing	in.	This	has
become	a	huge	disagreement,	but	is	in	my	mind	a	tempest	in	a	teapot.
The	exercises	used	and	concepts	applied	are	very	similar.	The	difference	is
in	how	you	elect	to	stabilize	the	core.	I	use	a	little	bit	of	both	concepts,	and	I	like
Gray	Cook’s	idea	best:	Just	tell	the	client	to	get	tall	and	skinny.
Gary	Gray	and	the	Functional	Approach
	
The	functional	approach	has	no	real	connection	to	the	first	two.	In	the
functional	approach,	most	of	the	conventional	wisdom	of	core	training	is
rejected.	True	proponents	of	the	functional	approach	believe	it’s	non-functional
to	lie	on	the	ground	and	attempt	to	use	individual	muscles	or	groups	of	muscles.

All	their	core	training	is	done	standing.
I	thought	Paul	Hodges	and	the	Australians	were	right	about	the	draw-in,
sucking	in	the	gut	when	you	lift.	Now	I	think	Stuart	McGill	is	closer	to	right
with	bracing.	And	Shirley	Sahrmann	has	always	been	pretty	much	right.
None	of	this	matters	if	you	find	a	way	to	keep	the	core	stable.	For	that,
program	more	front	and	side	planks.	When	these	get	easy	for	your	clients,
progress	them.	Elevate	the	feet,	unload	a	foot,	get	the	extremities	unstable.
Forget	about	squats	and	deadlifts	being	enough	core	work.	Jeffrey	McBride’s
research	invalidates	that	thought.
The	point	is	a	number	of	really	smart	people	have	been	effectively	skinning
the	same	cat	in	very	different	ways.
	

Terminology
	
	
Drawing	in
	
The	action	of	bringing	the	rectus	abdominus	toward	the	spinal	column.
Ideally	this	is	done	by	contracting	the	transverse	abdominus	and	internal	oblique
muscles.
Hollowing
	
Another	description	of	a	drawing-in	action	that	assumes	the	action	results	in
a	decrease	of	waist	diameter.
Bracing
	
The	technique	taught	and	favored	by	McGill	involves	a	simultaneous
coactivation	of	the	transverse	abdominus,	internal	obliques,	external	obliques
and	rectus	abdominus.	In	bracing	there	is	no	attempt	to	decrease	the	diameter	of
the	waist,	only	to	activate	the	muscles.
Although	I	am	clearly	not	qualified	to	dispute	Dr.	McGill’s	research,	I	have
a	point	of	theoretical	disagreement.	McGill’s	research	shows	drawing	in	or
hollowing	can	decrease	the	base	of	support	and	stability	of	the	spine.	However,
we	teach	drawing	in	as	a	neuromuscular	awareness	exercise,	not	as	the	primary
vehicle	for	stability,	and	McGill	agrees	hollowing	may	act	as	a	motor	re-
education	exercise.
In	addition,	most	of	our	athletes	fit	the	classic	Janda	lower-crossed-body

model,	with	an	almost	protruding	abdominal	wall	and	a	significant	lumbar
lordosis.	In	these	athletes,	teaching	drawing	in	simply	brings	the	rectus	into
normal	alignment	from	a	position	of	concavity.	The	athlete	is	not	hollowing,	but
bringing	the	abdominal	wall	back	to	its	intended	position	of	stability.
In	other	words,	the	goal	is	to	bring	the	abdomen	back	to	its	normal
anatomical	alignment.	Drawing	in	for	a	lordotic	athlete	would	not	decrease	the
base	of	support	as	McGill	suggests.
Performing	draw-in	exercises	literally	sets	the	table	for	all	other	stability
exercises.	We	are	teaching	athletes	to	contract	a	muscle	they	may	not	be	capable
of	contracting	voluntarily.	Clients	unable	to	draw	in	will	not	be	able	to	properly
stabilize	in	any	other	movement	pattern;	an	athlete	who	cannot	draw	in	would
not	be	able	to	brace	as	effectively.	The	purpose	of	the	draw-in	exercises	is	not
really	to	be	exercises	in	themselves,	but	to	teach	clients	to	properly	set	the	core
musculature	in	all	activities.
Initially	the	draw-in	concept	is	applied	in	quadruped	or	bridging	exercises.
The	draw-in	is	the	foundation	on	which	all	other	stability	exercise	is	built.
Whether	you	choose	to	draw-in	or	brace,	the	execution	of	quadruped	or	bridging
exercises	remain	the	same.
	

Anterior	Core	Training
	
	
Based	on	the	work	of	Stuart	McGill	and	Shirley	Sahrmann,	we	now	know
core	function	may	be	more	about	what	you	
shouldn’t
	be	doing	than	what	you	
are
doing.	Two	terms	becoming	more	and	more	popular	in	core	training	are	anti-
rotation	and	anti-extension,	and	in	fact,	the	focus	of	our	core	training	now	is
these	main	actions.
The	strength	guys	say	to	forget	doing	abs,	just	do	heavy	squats	and
deadlifts.	Don’t	even	say	the	word	core	around	them.	The	functional	guys	say
lying	down	is	not	functional,	and	seem	to	be	against	any	core	training	not	done
standing.	If	we	proceeded	logically	we	would	see	both	groups	at	least	agree	all
good	core	training	is	done	standing.	As	is	sometimes	the	case,	I	disagree	with
both	parties.
The	function	of	the	anterior	core	is	absolutely	not	flexion.	That	is	where	I
fully	agree	with	the	functional	guys.	When	does	anyone	ever	do	anything	in	real
life	that	looks	like	a	crunch?
I	agree	with	the	functional	folks:	Lying	on	your	back	doing	abs	is	not	only	a
waste	of	time	but	probably	dangerous.	Look	at	McGill’s	method	for	causing	disk
damage	in	a	lab	setting	—	repeat	flexion.	Ideally	we	need	an	anterior	core
exercise	that	doesn’t	involve	flexion.
Function	of	the	anterior	core	is	the	prevention	of	extension.	Core	training
may	just	be	more	about	the	
prevention
	of	motion	than	about	the	
creation
	of
motion.
Everyone	needs	a	strong	core,	and	exercises	like	ab	wheel	rollouts,	which
strengthen	your	anterior	core	by	resisting	extension,	are	the	gold	standard.
The	problem	with	the	rollout	was	never	that	it	was	a	bad	exercise.	It	just
wasn’t	the	right	place	to	start.	Our	athletes	who	struggled	with	the	wheel	simply
weren’t	strong	enough	for	it,	which	is	why	I	took	it	out	of	our	programs.
It’s	best	to	start	with	stability	balls.	The	weaker	the	athlete,	the	bigger	the
ball	we	start	with.	As	you	look	at	the	ab	wheel	and	a	stability	ball,	look	at	the
difference	in	terms	of	where	the	body	angle	is	when	using	the	ab	wheel	and
using	the	ball.	There’s	really	no	difference.	Think	of	the	stability	ball	as	an
oversized	ab	wheel;	your	goal	is	to	work	down	until	your	athlete	can	use	the

regular-size	wheel	safely	and	productively.
Our	rollout	progression	goes	from	stability	balls	to	ab	wheels	to	TRX
rollouts	or	fallouts,	which	don’t	change	the	difficulty	of	the	eccentric	action,	but
add	a	whole	new	dimension	to	the	concentric.
From	the	great	strength	coach,	Dan	John:	
I	love	those	damn	five-dollar	ab
wheels.	I	loved	them	when	they	came	out	in	the	’60s;	I	loved	them	when	they
returned	with	the	advent	of	the	internet,	and	I	love	them	as	my	favorite	anterior-
chain	exercise	now.
I	agree	with	Dan.	However,	we	have	a	small	problem:	We	need	a
progression.	Ab-wheel	rollouts	are	tough.	Too	tough.	That’s	the	reason	I
abandoned	them	years	ago.	Athletes	got	exceptionally	sore	or	were	unable	to
hold	a	stable	lumbar	spine.
The	key	in	my	mind	was	to	find	a	progression	to	get	my	athletes	to	safely
do	ab-wheel	rollouts,	which	took	us	to	the	ball	rollouts.	The	stability	ball	is	a	big
wheel;	the	bigger	the	ball,	the	easier	the	exercise.	Beginners	will	use	a	seventy-
five-centimeter	ball;	with	older,	deconditioned	clients,	put	the	ball	against	the
wall	and	use	it	almost	as	a	straight-up	roller.
Phase	One	Front	Planks
	
If	your	athletes	or	clients	can’t	hold	a	perfect	plank	for	forty	seconds,	start
there.	Remember	a	perfect	plank	looks	like	the	person	horizontally	standing.	It’s
not	a	prone	crunch.
Phase	Two	Stability-Ball	Rollouts
	

	
The	stability	ball	is	like	a	big	wheel.	The	weaker	the	athlete,	the	bigger	the
ball.	It	is	essential	everyone	starts	with	stability-ball	rollouts.	I	don’t	care	how
strong	you	think	your	athletes’	abs	are,	do	yourself	a	favor	and	program	stability-
ball	rollouts	twice	a	week	for	the	first	three	weeks.	If	you	start	them	with	a
wheel,	there	is	a	good	chance	you	will	strain	a	few	abdominal	muscles.
Phase	Four	The	Wheel
	
	
If	you	have	an	ab	dolly,	you	don’t	really	need	a	wheel.	Your	athletes	will
grasp	the	sides	of	the	ab	dolly	with	their	hands	to	lengthen	the	lever.	I	like	the
wheel	better	because	we	get	better	diagonals	as	we	get	more	advanced,	but	for
phase	four	it	really	doesn’t	matter.	The	key	is	the	moving	piece	is	now	a	full
arm’s	length	away.
Phase	Three	The	Ab	Dolly

	
	
Ab	dollies	are	a	bit	pricey,	but	they	make	a	nice	transition	to	the	wheel.	I
am	all	about	progressions	that	keep	our	athletes	healthy,	and	the	ab	dolly	makes
the	transition	from	the	stability	ball	to	the	wheel	much	easier.	It’s	a	physics
thing;	the	ab	dolly	allows	the	user	to	be	on	the	elbows	first	to	get	a	short-lever
rollout.
Phase	Five	Valslide	or	Slideboard	Rollouts
	
The	Valslide	or	slideboard	now	adds	a	frictional	component.	Instead	of	the
wheel	rolling,	bodyweight	creates	a	drag.	This	again	makes	the	exercise	harder,
particularly	the	concentric	return	portion.	The	athlete	has	to	pull	the	body	back
in.
Phase	Six	TRX	Rollout
	

	
The	TRX	rollout	or	fallout	is	a	great	progression	as	the	lever	arm	is	now	the
entire	body.	You	can	play	with	the	length	of	the	TRX	or	the	foot	position	to	vary
the	difficulty.
Bodysaw
	
The	bodysaw	can	be	done	on	a	TRX	with	the	feet	in,	or	on	a	slideboard.
This	is	an	excellent	progression	from	a	rollout	as	the	full	length	of	the	body	now
comprises	the	lever	arm.
I	love	this	exercise	because	it	also	works	off	the	plank	concept.	The
bodysaw	actually	combines	the	concept	of	planks	and	rollouts.
To	perform	the	bodysaw,	the	athlete	will	begin	in	a	front	plank	with	the	feet
either	in	the	TRX	foot	cradles	or	on	a	slideboard.	The	athlete	should	then	slide
back	so	the	shoulders	move	toward	the	rear	and	are	no	longer	over	the	elbows.
The	greater	the	core	strength,	the	greater	the	ROM.

	
	
	

Glute	Activation	and	the	Core
	
	
To	really	understand	core	training	we	need	to	look	at	the	key	compensation
patterns	that	occur	when	someone	attempts	to	train	the	core.	Substituting	lumbar
extension	for	hip	extension	is	the	major	culprit	in	many	of	the	problems	we	see.
This	is	one	of	the	primary	problems	in	lower	back	pain	and	will	be	one	of	the
key	areas	we	work	to	improve	our	knowledge	and	training	experience	over	the
next	few	years.
In	discussing	this,	McGill	uses	the	term	gluteal	amnesia.	Mike	Clark	might
call	it	a	problem	of	reciprocal	inhibition	or	synergistic	dominance.	Both	are
Jandaists,	if	I	may	be	so	bold	as	to	make	up	a	word.	Dr.	Vladimir	Janda	was	one
of	the	pioneers	of	manual	medicine	in	Europe.	He	introduced	many	of	the
concepts	of	muscle	imbalance	on	which	some	of	the	concepts	of	core	training
and	functional	training	are	now	based.
Both	McGill	and	Clark	identify	the	same	problem:	Are	the	glutes	weak
because	the	psoas	is	tight,	or	is	the	psoas	tight	because	the	glutes	are	weak?	It
may	be	a	classic	interdependent,	chicken-and-egg	scenario.	Either	way,	proper
strengthening	of	the	glutes	will	be	the	best	cure.
We	may	not	even	be	strengthening,	but	instead	reeducating	the
neuromuscular	system.	In	point	of	fact,	most	early	strength	gains	are	more	neural
than	contractile.
In	order	to	remedy	poor	glute	function,	the	athlete	needs	to	be	able	to	set
the	core	and	fire	the	glutes.	Initially	this	is	best	done	in	quadruped	position	to
eliminate	hamstring	contribution.
Sahrmann	presents	another	series	of	thoughts	in	her	game-changing	book;
she	believes	anterior	hip	pain	can	be	the	result	of	poor	glute	function	and	the
resultant	synergistic	dominance	of	the	hamstrings.
Sahrmann	describes	the	biomechanical	explanation	by	citing	the	lower
insertion	point	of	the	hamstrings	on	the	femur.	If	the	hamstrings	are	consistently
called	upon	to	be	the	primary	hip	extensor,	the	result	will	be	anterior	hip	pain	in
addition	to	hamstring	strains.	The	anterior	hip	pain	is	a	result	of	the	poor	angle
of	pull	of	the	hamstrings	when	used	as	a	hip	extensor.
If	I	can	make	one	clear	statement	of	what	I	believe	now	about	training	as	it

applies	to	the	core,	it’s	this:	Glute	activation,	or,	more	importantly,	lack	of	glute
activation,	may	be	the	root	of	all	our	core	training	failures	and	the	primary
source	of	low	back	pain.
As	we	look	at	more	and	more	athletes,	both	injured	and	healthy,	the
inability	to	activate	the	gluteus	maximus	and	glute	medius	stands	out	as	the	root
cause	of	at	least	four	major	injury	syndromes.
•	Low	back	pain	relates	strongly	to	poor	glute	max	activation,	with	poor
glute	function	causing	excessive	lumbar	compensation.
•	Hamstring	strains	relate	strongly	to	poor	glute	max	activation.	Think
about	synergistic	dominance.
•	Anterior	hip	pain	relates	strongly	to	poor	glute	max	activation.	This
relates	to	the	poor	biomechanics	of	hamstrings	as	hip	extensors.
•	Anterior	knee	pain	relates	strongly	to	poor	glute	medius	strength	or
activation.
Sahrmann	makes	another	of	her	many	lucid	points:	When	assessing	the
factors	that	contribute	to	an	overuse	syndrome,	one	of	the	rules	is	to	determine
whether	one	or	more	of	the	synergists	of	the	strained	muscle	are	also	weak.
When	the	synergist	is	weak,	the	muscle	strain	is	probably	the	result	of	excessive
demands.
This	means	don’t	focus	on	the	pain	site,	focus	on	the	pain	source,	a
recurrent	them	in	my	philosophy	and	in	this	book.	In	the	bigger	picture,	coaches
should	look	at	every	non-traumatic,	non-contact	injury	as	having	a	root	cause	in
either	poor	program	design	or	weakness	of	synergists.
In	this	case,	the	source	keeps	coming	back	to	the	glutes.	We	perform	glute
activation	at	the	beginning	of	every	workout	to	attempt	to	develop	better
conscious	awareness	of	the	function	of	the	glutes	and	to	hopefully	wake	the
glutes	up	so	they	will	be	greater	contributors	to	the	workout.
The	idea	of	glute	activation	can	become	a	problem	because	you	will	be
asking	your	athletes	or	clients	to	continually	touch	their	rear	ends.	In	addition,
you	will	be	continually	touching	people’s	rear	ends.	A	word	to	the	wise:	In	our
litigious	society,	perceived	sexual	harassment	is	a	problem.	Be	careful	as	you
tread	in	dangerous	but	necessary	water.

Glute	Activation	Keys
	
•	Perform	glute	activation	as	the	first	thing	in	your	warm-up
•	Straight-leg	mini-band	or	Superband	X-walks	are	great	for	glute	medius
•	For	glute	max	use	either	quadruped	hip	extension	or	the	Cook	hip	lift
One	small	problem	to	contemplate:	When	does	glute	activation	become
resistance	training	versus	core	training?	I	must	confess	to	being	unsure	at	this
point.	There	is	a	thin	line	between	hip-dominant	exercise	and	core	training.
The	solution	may	be	to	do	your	core	work	—	stability,	quadruped	and
bridging	—	on	the	days	you	are	doing	your	hip-dominant	lower	body	exercises,
or	perhaps	to	perform	some	type	of	hip-dominant	exercise	every	day.
Let	me	be	clear:	Perform	glute	activation	prior	to	
every
	workout.
Global	Muscles
	
The	future	of	torso	or	core	training	will	be	in	combining	all	of	the
movements	necessary	without	overemphasizing	or	underemphasizing	a
particular	muscle	or	movement.
If	I	look	at	my	failings	over	the	last	few	years,	it	would	be	in	not	training
the	larger	global	muscles.	So	much	emphasis	was	placed	on	draw-in	exercises
and	on	stability,	many	of	our	athletes	could	not	perform	sit-up	exercises.
To	limit	flexion	we	are	currently	using	straight-leg	sit-up	and	Turkish	getup
progressions	in	our	core	work	instead	of	the	conventional	curl-up	and	crunches.
In	fact	we	are	encouraging	our	athletes	and	clients	to	flex	their	hips	more	and
their	spines	less.

	
My	philosophy	now	is	fast	rep	speed	for	movers	—	the	global	muscles	—
and	slow	for	stabilizers.
With	global	muscles	we’re	using	primarily	multi-joint	exercises	and	need	to
work	to	accelerate	the	load.	Therefore,	we	move	fast.
With	local	stabilizer	muscles,	a	rapid	contraction	will	quickly	override	the
small	muscles	and	kick	on	the	big	global	muscles.	Slow	is	key	for	working
stabilizers.
	

Rotational	Training
	
	
Rotational	training	is	really	the	blending	of	core	training	and	strength
training	and	is	in	fact	an	essential	part	of	both	core	training	and	proper	strength
development.
We	can	probably	trace	the	roots	of	rotary	training	probably	to	Maggie	Knott
and	Dorothy	Voss,	physical	therapists	who	expanded	on	neurophysiologist	Dr.
Herman	Kabat’s	diagonal	patterns	of	proprioceptive	neuromuscular	facilitation
(PNF)	from	the	1950s.	Although	we	now	recognize	PNF	more	as	a
neuromuscular	stretching	technique,	the	idea	was	originally	far	more	extensive.
Knott	and	Voss	advocated	diagonal	patterns	of	exercise	to	involve	both	sagittal
plane	prime	movers	and	the	muscles	responsible	for	transverse	and	frontal	plane
motion.
Physical	therapists	began	to	realize	these	diagonal	patterns	of	extension	and
rotation	were	a	vital	part	of	movement	and	started	to	use	them	to	provide	a	more
real-world	aspect	to	rehab.	Specialists	in	rehab	began	to	understand	movement	is
multi-planar,	and	the	highest	form	of	rehab	involved	diagonal	patterns	of	flexion
and	extension	combined	with	rotation.
Thomas	Myers	in	
Anatomy	Trains
	discusses	what	he	calls	the	spiral	and
functional	lines	of	the	body,	while	Janda	made	us	aware	of	the	integrated
workings	of	the	musculature	across	the	critical	junction	from	the	glutes	to	the
opposite-side	lat.	This	area,	known	as	the	thoracolumbar	fascia,	along	with	the
hip	joints,	allows	us	to	move	force	from	the	ground	to	the	extremities.
The	most	frequent	diagonal	patterns	we	use	to	address	these	lines	are	called
chopping	and	lifting	patterns.	Chopping	is	a	pattern	of	flexion	and	rotation,
probably	best	illustrated	by	the	actions	of	chopping	wood,	or,	from	an	athletic
standpoint,	throwing	a	baseball.	Lifting	is	the	pattern	of	extension	and	rotation,	a
multi-plane	pushing	action.	Mark	Verstegen	describes	lifting	patterns	as	a
rotational	push-press.
The	chop	and	the	lift	as	exercises	were	introduced	to	the	athletic	world	by
Gray	Cook.	Gray	advocated	diagonal	patterns	of	trunk	flexion	with	rotation	—
the	chop	—	and	trunk	extension	with	rotation	—	the	lift.	His	1997	article
Functional	Training	for	the	Torso
	was	a	quantum	leap	in	training,	combining	the

concepts	of	conventional	strength	training	with	the	concepts	of	rehab	to	produce
a	new	category	of	strength	exercise:	Rotational	Training.
Cook	originally	described	sequences	of	chopping	and	lifting,	moving	from
a	regular	kneeling	or	a	half-kneeling	position	with	one	knee	down,	up	to
standing.
Cook	has	since	modified	his	original	versions	so	the	chop-and-lift	exercises
are	initially	exercises	in	which	the	arms	transfer	force	in	a	diagonal	pattern
through	a	stable	torso.
In	Gray’s	view	the	initial	concept	of	rotary	training	involves	stabilizing
against	a	rotational	force	rather	than	simply	rotating.
Shirley	Sahrmann’s	thoughts	support	Cook.	She	wrote,	“During	most	daily
activities,	the	primary	role	of	the	abdominal	muscles	is	to	provide	isometric
support	and	limit	the	degree	of	rotation	of	the	trunk…	A	large	percentage	of	low
back	problems	occur	because	the	abdominal	muscles	are	not	maintaining	tight
control	over	the	rotation	between	the	pelvis	and	the	spine	at	the	L5-S1	level.”
The	initial	chopping	and	lifting	patterns	involve	movements	primarily	in	the
frontal	plane	that	force	the	athlete	to	isometrically	resist	rotation	with	the
muscles	of	the	core.
Athletes	must	be	able	to	prevent	rotation	before	we	allow	them	to	produce
it.	The	action	of	moving	through	a	chopping	or	lifting	pattern	prior	to
introducing	the	rotary	component	is	a	necessary	precursor	to	the	actual	motions
of	chopping	and	lifting.	It	is	important	to	be	able	to	isometrically	resist	the
forces	of	rotation	before	those	forces	can	be	used	in	a	propulsive	manner.
Performance	enhancement	expert	Mark	Verstegen	probably	deserves	the
credit	for	taking	Cook’s	concepts	into	the	field	through	his	work	at	Athletes’
Performance.	In	the	Athletes’	Performance	philosophy,	rotary	training	is	viewed
as	a	program	component	much	like	squatting	or	pressing.
The	chop-and-lift	exercises	presented	here	have	been	modified	from	Cook’s
original	ideas.	The	initial	exercises	challenge	trunk	stability	through	the	use	of	a
cable	column.	To	properly	perform	these	exercises,	a	special	handle	—	the	Cook
bar,	a	twenty-inch-long	bar	fitted	with	an	eyehook	—	is	needed	for	the	cable
column.	These	handles	can	be	obtained	from	Perform	Better.
In	
Functional	Training	for	Sports
	these	exercises	were	done	standing.	The
influence	of	my	work	at	Athletes’	Performance	led	me	to	alter	my	view	and	we
now	begin	with	a	half-kneel	position.
Level	One

	
Half-Kneeling	Stability	Chop
	
In	the	half-kneeling	chop,	have	the	athlete	kneel	at	the	cable	column	on	the
inside	knee	with	the	outside	knee	up.	Grasping	the	handle	with	hands
approximately	fourteen	inches	apart,	the	athlete	will	pull	to	the	waist	with	the
outside	hand,	and	press	down	with	the	inside	hand.
This	should	be	a	distinct	push	and	pull	action,	and	should	be	performed
without	altering	the	position	of	the	torso.	Watch	for	hips	shifting	right	or	left,	or
for	the	inability	to	stabilize	the	scapula.
A	big	key	in	the	half-kneeling	exercises	is	to	get	the	athlete	to	concentrate
on	firing	the	glute	on	the	inside	leg.	Firing	the	glute	and	drawing	in	the	abs	will
create	a	stable	tall-kneel.
As	this	is	a	cable-column	exercise,	three	sets	of	ten	can	be	done	and	the
weight	increased	in	week	two,	or	you	can	use	a	set	weight	and	an	8-10-12
progression,	increases	reps	each	week	from	eight	to	ten	to	twelve.	This	is	our
basic	progressive	resistance	concept.
Half-Kneeling	Stability	Lift
	
The	lift	is	the	opposite	of	the	chop.	To	do	the	lift,	the	cable	column	is
placed	in	its	lowest	position.	The	half-kneel	is	again	inside	knee	down,	grasping
the	handle	with	the	hands	fourteen	inches	apart.
The	action	is	pull	and	push,	pulling	one	hand	to	the	shoulder	and	pressing
the	opposite	hand	overhead	while	keeping	the	pulling	hand	at	shoulder	height.
Have	the	athlete	press	to	a	position	directly	overhead.	Watch	for	a	shifting	of	the
hips.
Again,	three	sets	of	ten	can	be	done	and	the	weight	increased	in	week	two,
or	you	can	use	a	set	weight	and	an	8-10-12	progression.	Both	of	these	lifts
should	be	done	with	no	more	than	twenty	to	thirty	pounds	at	first.
Level	Two

	
Half-Kneeling	Sequential	Chop
	
The	next	exercise	in	the	rotary	progression	is	a	half-kneeling	sequential
chop.	In	the	sequential	chop,	trunk	rotation	is	now	introduced	in	a	pull-turnpush
sequence.
This	is	a	logical	progression	from	the	stable	chop.	Posture	is	still
maintained	through	drawing	in	the	abdominals	and	firing	the	glute,	but	now
rotation	is	introduced.	The	handle	is	replaced	by	a	triceps	rope	to	allow	for
rotation.
•	The	athlete	grasps	the	handles	and	rotates	the	shoulders	to	face	the	cable
column.
•	A	two-handed	pulling	action	is	used	to	bring	the	hands	to	the	chest.
•	After	pulling	to	the	chest,	the	head	and	shoulders	turn	away	from	the	cable
column	and	the	athlete	executes	what	looks	like	a	diagonal	triceps	press-
down.	This	is	the	pull-turn-push	action	alluded	to	above.
A	three-part	sequence	allows	the	coach	or	trainer	to	teach	the	motion
without	fear	of	compensation.	Rotation	is	introduced,	but	in	a	very	controlled
manner.
Half-Kneeling	Sequential	Lift
	
In	this	lift,	the	action	is	now	a	pull-turnpress	action.	This	is	the	beginning	of
Mark	Verstegen’s	rotational	push-press	concept.	The	rope	handle	is	again
substituted	for	the	long	handle.	The	ropes	are	gripped	with	the	thumbs	up,	and
the	initial	action	takes	on	the	appearance	of	a	close-grip	upright	row.

	
As	above,	the	athlete	grasps	the	rope	with	the	head	and	shoulders	turned
toward	the	cable	column.	Abdominals	are	drawn	in	and	the	glute	is	fired.
The	athlete	pulls	with	both	hands	to	the	chest,	rotates	the	trunk,	and	presses
diagonally	past	the	opposite	shoulder.	The	level	three	progression	is	a	lunge-
position	chop-and-lift.
Dynamic	Chop-and-Lift
	
To	create	a	level	four	exercise,	both	the	dynamic	chop	and	the	lift	now
move	to	a	standing	position	and	truly	become	multi-joint	extension-rotation	or
flexion-rotation	exercises.	The	emphasis	is	now	on	teaching	the	athlete	to
transfer	force	from	the	ground,	through	the	trunk	and	into	the	hands	in	the
diagonal	chopping	and	lifting	patterns.	The	dynamic	standing	lift	is	one	of	the
most	sport-specific	actions	that	can	be	performed	in	the	weightroom.
Coaching	the	Dynamic	Standing	Lift
	
Have	the	client	continue	to	grasp	the	handles	with	the	thumbs	up.
Position	the	client	perpendicular	to	the	cable	column	with	feet	slightly
wider	than	shoulder-width	apart.
The	lifter	begins	in	a	squat	position	with	the	hands	outside	of	the	leg	closest

to	the	cable.
The	action	is	now	squat-rotate-press	down	in	a	rapid,	fluid	motion.

Core	Advances
	
	
We’ll	continue	to	make	advances	in	this	area	through	research	and	writings
of	people	like	Stuart	McGill,	Paul	Hodges,	Shirley	Sahrmann	and	Gray	Cook.
The	new	concept	of	the	core	is	simple:	
Core	is	anti-rotation.	Core	is	the
prevention	of	motion.
What’s	really	new	is	when	we	now	talk	about	core	strength,	we	really	mean
core	stability.	We’re	going	to	train	rectus	abdominus,	internal	oblique,	external
oblique	to	prevent	motion	of	the	lumbar	spine	with	our	rollout	progressions.
Core	training	is	at	the	center	of	the	functional	versus	non-functional	and
isolation	versus	integration	arguments.	I	have	been	on	both	sides	of	this
argument;	my	work	in	the	weightroom	over	the	past	few	years	has	totally
changed	my	opinion.	Many	athletes	cannot	properly	use	the	glutes	or	the
abdominals.	These	inabilities	are	at	the	heart	of	many	dysfunctions,	causing
problems	from	low	back	pain	to	hamstring	injuries.
Isolative	core	work	may	be	important	to	rewire	neural	patterns	and	correct
these	dysfunctions.	I	am	clearly	not	advocating	a	return	to	single-joint	exercise,
but	isolated	work	in	the	core	is	a	necessity	for	those	athletes	dealing	with	low
back	pain	or	returning	from	injury.
The	definition	of	the	core	continues	to	move	outward,	and	truly	does
encompass	the	hips	and	the	scapulo-thoracic	joints.
From	core	stability,	to	core	strength,	to	hip	stability	and	into	rotary	training,
it	is	clear	our	approach	to	training	is	changing	rapidly.	The	days	of	uni-planar,
rectusdominant	abdominal	work	are	gone,	and	are	being	replaced	by	an	ever-
evolving	series	of	exercises	that	emanate	primarily	from	the	world	of	physical
therapy.
The	type	of	attention	we	put	on	the	core	has	changed	a	great	deal	the	past
few	years.	We	had	all	been	very	Australian-influenced,	highly	influenced	by
Paul	Chek,	and	the	idea	of	draw-ins	were	really,	really	big.
There	is	very	little	in	either	of	my	earlier	books	we	still	use	for	core
training.	Those	books	were	loaded	with	crunch-type	exercises	we	just	don’t	do
anymore.
For	us,	draw-ins	are	pretty	much	out.	It’s	rare	for	our	athletes	to	do	draw-

ins,	but	we	do	use	them	with	our	rehab	people.	Spinal	rehab	clients	have	to	do
draw-ins;	you	have	to	teach	them	how	to	draw	in,	how	to	use	that	musculature
because	they	can’t	do	it	when	coming	out	of	back	pain	situations.	At	our	facility
healthy	athletes	no	longer	do	the	little	isolated	draw-ins	we’d	used	in	the	past,
but	when	someone	comes	to	me	with	a	bad	back,	I	still	use	some	of	the	draw-in
exercises.
Even	now	we	might	be	under-reacting	a	little	bit	as	we	do	no	crunching	and
no	rotation.	What’s	really	big	now	is	anti-extension	and	anti-rotation	training,
which	might	be	an	over-reaction	and	we	may	find	two	or	three	years	from	now
we’ll	be	doing	a	little	bit	of	crunching	and	a	little	bit	of	rotation.	I	don’t	think	so,
but	I	do	think	we’re	in	the	over-reaction	stage	right	now.
	

Awareness	in	Rotational	Training
	
	
Part	of	the	process	of	moving	from	a	sagittal	plane	orientation	to	an
emphasis	on	unilateral	training	and	multi-planar	training	has	been	a	huge	push
toward	developing	flexibility	in	rotation.	Athletes	competing	in	a	sport	that
requires	rotation,	like	baseball,	hockey	or	golf,	were	urged	to	develop	more
rotation	in	the	lumbar	area.
Like	many	performance	coaches,	I	fell	victim	to	this	flawed	concept.	I	was
one	of	the	lemmings,	blindly	following	the	recommendations	of	others	and	using
exercises	I	now	consider	questionable	or	even	dangerous.	As	a	back	pain
sufferer,	I	wrote	off	my	own	discomfort	as	age-related	and	continued	to	perform
rotary	stretches	and	dynamic	rotational	warm-up	exercises.
It	took	time,	but	eventually	we	eliminated	a	whole	group	of	stretches	and
dynamic	warm-up	exercises	that	were	once	staples	of	our	programs.
In	
Diagnosis	and	Treatment	of	Movement	Impairment	Syndromes,
Sahrmann	states,	“During	most	daily	activities,	the	primary	role	of	the
abdominal	muscles	is	to	provide	isometric	support	and	limit	the	degree	of
rotation	of	the	trunk	…	A	large	percentage	of	low	back	problems	occur	because
the	abdominal	muscles	are	not	maintaining	tight	control	over	the	rotation
between	the	pelvis	and	the	spine	at	the	L5-S1	level.”
Here’s	the	key:	The	lumbar	range	of	motion	we	were	trying	to	create	is
potentially	injurious.
The	ability	to	resist	or	to	prevent	rotation	is	more	important	than	the	ability
to	create	it.	Clients	must	be	able	to	prevent	rotation	before	we	should	allow	them
to	produce	it.	James	Porterfield	and	Carl	DeRosa	in	their	book	
Mechanical	Low
Back	Pain
	came	to	the	same	conclusion	as	Sahrmann.
Porterfield	and	DeRosa	wrote,	“Rather	than	considering	the	abdominals	as
flexors	and	rotators	of	the	trunk,	for	which	they	certainly	have	the	capacity,	their
function	might	be	better	viewed	as	anti-rotators	and	anti-lateral	flexors	of	the
trunk.”
Sahrmann	goes	on	to	note	a	key	fact	overlooked	in	the	performance	field:
“The	overall	range	of	lumbar	rotation	is	calculated	to	be	approximately
thirteen	degrees.	The	rotation	between	each	segment	from	T10	to	L5	is	two

degrees.	The	greatest	rotational	range	is	between	L5	and	S1,	which	is	five
degrees.
“The	thoracic	spine,	not	the	lumbar	spine,	should	be	the	site	of	greatest
amount	of	rotation	of	the	trunk.
“When	an	individual	practices	rotational	exercises,	he	or	she	should	be
instructed	to	think	about	the	motion	occurring	in	the	area	of	the	chest.”
Sahrmann	places	the	final	icing	on	the	cake	with	this:	
Rotation	of	the
lumbar	spine	is	more	dangerous	than	beneficial,	and	rotation	of	the	pelvis	and
lower	extremities	to	one	side	while	the	trunk	remains	stable	or	is	rotated	to	the
other	side	is	particularly	dangerous.
Most	people	now	do	rotational	exercises	for	thoracic	mobility.	Why	would
we	want	to	drive	thoracic	mobility	through	the	stable	core?	Why	use	the	hips	and
legs	as	a	driver	to	get	at	the	t-spine	when	we	have	to	go	through	the	lumbar
region?	If	this	area	is	weak	and	unstable,	we’re	going	to	get	stress	on	the	passive
structures	of	the	lumbar	spine	and	not	nearly	enough	rotational	stress	on	the
thoracic	spine.
It’s	very	important	to	notice	the	differences	in	rotation	movements.	For
example,	lateral	med	ball	tosses	against	a	wall	involve	hip	internal	and	external
rotation,	not	lumbar	rotation.	Stop	and	consider	your	rotational	exercises,	and
make	sure	your	choices	involve	rotation	in	the	hip	or	thoracic	joints,	and	not
through	the	lumbar	region.
With	this	in	mind,	I	have	eliminated	the	following	types	of	stretches	we
were	using	to	increase	lumbar	range	of	motion.	This	includes	seated	and	lying
trunk	rotational	stretches,	such	as	windshield	wipers.
	

	
	
We	also	eliminated	dynamic	exercises	designed	to	increase	trunk	range	of
motion,	such	as	the	dynamic	bent-leg	trunk	twists,	the	dynamic	straight-leg	trunk
twist,	and	the	scorpion.
Most	people	don’t	need	additional	trunk	range	of	motion.	The	evidence
from	the	experts	is	clear	what	we	really	need	is	the	ability	to	control	the	range
we	have.
Although	dropping	these	exercises	may	seem	extreme	to	some,	I	have	seen
a	significant	decrease	in	the	complaints	of	low	back	pain	since	removing	them
from	our	training	programs.
In	fact,	a	great	deal	of	our	emphasis	is	now	placed	on	developing	hip	range
of	motion	in	both	internal	and	external	rotation.	The	future	will	see	coaches
working	on	core	stability	and	hip	mobility,	instead	of	working	against
themselves	by	simultaneously	trying	to	develop	core	range	of	motion	and	core
stability.

It	drives	people	crazy	when	I	say	this	because	these	trunk	rotation	exercises
are	on	every	athletic	performance	DVD,	but	that’s	where	we	are	now:	We	no
longer	seek	to	increase	lumbar	range	of	motion.
	

The	Core	Exercises
	
	
In	addition	to	the	anterior	core	and	chop	and	lifts	previously	discussed,	my
favorite	exercises	work	the	core	as	anti-rotators	or	as	stabilizers.	It’s	key	we
rethink	our	ideas	about	core	training	and	begin	to	look	at	anti-rotation	as	the
main	goal.
There	are	a	lot	of	great	core	exercises.	Just	remember	the	core	is	a	cylinder.
It	has	a	back,	sides	and	a	front.	Work	all	sides	into	your	programming.
Core	Strengthening	Exercises
	
Feet-Elevated	BOSU	Ball	Push-Ups
	
This	might	be	my	favorite	core	exercise.	I	can	only	say	this:	Don’t	knock	it
‘til	you’ve	tried	it	with	your	feet	eighteen	inches	off	the	ground	and	with	a
twenty-pound	weight	vest	strapped	around	your	torso.	It’s	great	for	the	core	and
for	the	overall	shoulder	girdle.

	
	

TRX,	Jungle	Gym	orBlast	Strap	Inverted	Rows
	
All	three	of	these	strap	set-ups	function	in	a	similar	manner,	offering	an
improved	version	of	the	inverted	row	to	incorporate	the	rotator	cuff	and	the	core.
	
These	begin	supinated,	palms	up,	and	end	pronated,	palms	down.	This
incorporates	an	element	of	external	rotation	not	present	in	a	regular	inverted	row,
adding	rotator	cuff	strengthening	and	stability.
Besides	being	a	great	addition	for	the	rotator	cuff,	it’s	also	a	shoulder-saver.
Being	able	to	rotate	freely	is	great	for	shoulder	health.	Keeping	the	body	straight
as	if	shot	from	a	cannon	is	great	for	the	core,	particularly	for	the	glutes.
Landmine	Twists	Extreme	Core	Trainer
	
I	have	to	give	strength	and	conditioning	coach	Loren	Goldenburg	credit	for
turning	me	on	to	the	landmine,	what	we	now	call	the	extreme	core	trainer,	but
the	credit	for	how	to	use	it	goes	to	Stuart	McGill.	The	extreme	core	trainer	has
become	a	core	training	essential	at	our	facility.	It	allows	us	to	work	the	anti-
rotator	function	of	the	core	in	a	standing	posture.	This	is	a	device	that	really
satisfies	all	of	the	core	training	proponents.	It	doesn’t	get	much	better	than	that.

	
In	the	landmine,	we	want	to	produce	the	largest	arc	with	no	movement	of
the	core	—	anti-rotator	training.	This	is	what	McGill	has	been	talking	about.
Train	these	muscles	to	do	exactly	what	they	do:	prevent	movement.
	
McGill	often	speaks	about	sparing	the	spine,	while	Porterfield	and	DeRosa

talk	about	training	the	core	as	anti-rotators.	This	anti-rotator	concept	is	a
milestone	for	me	in	core	training.	The	core	muscles	are	stabilizers	first.	This	is
the	reason	we	see	such	great	core	activity	in	isometric	bridges.
Front	support	and	side	support	positions	provide	the	greatest	stimulus	to	the
rectus	abdominus	and	the	external	obliques.	Both	are	isometric	exercises.
The	extreme	core	trainer	is	a	great	anti-rotation	piece	that	allows	us	to
apply	a	big	rotary	load	to	the	core,	the	essence	of	what	low	back	experts	describe
as	anti-rotation	exercises.
One-Arm	Dumbbell	Snatch
	
I	love	the	one-arm	dumbbell	snatch.	It’s	great	for	core	stability	and	for
shoulder	stability.	I	love	the	fact	the	overhead	load	goes	to	one	shoulder	and	to
one	side	of	the	trunk.	The	core	effect	is	the	reason	I	like	the	lift	so	much.
Very	often	in	sports	we	need	unilateral	shoulder	stability	while	in	a	bilateral
lower	body	stance.	Imagine	the	pushing	or	pulling	done	in	so	many	sports:
Unilateral	upper	body,	combined	with	bilateral	lower	body	—	it	just	screams
one-arm	dumbbell	snatch.
Convertaball	Twists
	
The	Convertaball	twist	is	another	exercise	into	which	Stuart	McGill
breathed	new	life.	I	remember	seeing	Paul	Chek	perform	this	exercise	and
saying	to	myself,	“I	could	never	ask	a	client	to	do	that.”	The	exercise	seemed	too
dangerous.	The	idea	of	combining	explosive	trunk	rotation	with	a	abrupt	violent
ending	was	appalling	to	me.
After	listening	to	Stuart	and	reading	Porterfield	and	DeRosa’s	book,	I
realized	it	wasn’t	the	exercise	that	bothered	me,	it	was	the	way	it	was	performed.
I	went	from	thinking	never,	to	thinking	advanced	progression.
The	key	in	McGill’s	version	is	the	ball	is	moving	and	the	athlete	is	doing
everything	in	his	power	to	
not
	rotate.	Just	as	in	the	landmine,	here	we’re	training
the	anti-rotator	function	of	the	core	versus	the	rotator	function.
The	core	musculature	is	forced	to	stabilize	against	an	aggressive	rotary
force	and	collision	—	an	advanced	exercise,	but	definitely	a	beneficial	one.	As
we	reconceptualize	this	exercise,	this	exercise	becomes	a	stability	exercise.

We’re	applying	high	velocity	loads	to	stabilize	against	instead	of	going	with
them.	This	changes	the	nature	of	the	exercise.
The	problem	is	we’ve	had	the	balls	come	apart,	breaking	loose	from	the
rope,	so	until	the	manufacturer	fixes	this	issue,	we’re	no	longer	doing	this
exercise.	When	a	300-pound	lineman	is	going	real	fast,	a	break	is	not	a	real
pretty	sight.
As	much	as	I	like	the	exercise,	until	the	balls	are	redesigned,	I	caution
against	these.
Keiser	Push/Pulls
	
This	sagittal	driver	is	another	of	the	best	core	exercises	you	can	program.
It’s	also	one	of	the	more	difficult	to	teach.	It	can	be	done	on	any	functional
trainer	apparatus;	I’m	partial	to	Keiser.
	
The	big	key	is	the	core	is	used	to	stabilize	against	sagittal	plane	motions
that	are	attempting	to	produce	rotary	force.	If	the	torso	or	shoulders	turn	even
slightly,	the	core	effect	dissipates.	The	exercise	forces	the	trainee	to	use	the	core
again	in	its	primary	function	—	the	prevention	of	rotation.
It’s	almost	like	a	sawing	action,	like	those	rock-em,	sock-em	robot	toys.
Have	the	client	fire	the	glutes	and	contract	the	abs	and	don’t	allow	the	motion	to
shift.
Get	the	client	to	think	
Don’t	rotate,	don’t	let	the	shoulders	move,	don’t
rotate	the	shoulders.

Kettlebell	Slideboard	Lunges
	
A	sneaky	exercise,	I	love	slideboard	lunges.	Valslides	make	this	an
excellent	option	for	trainers	or	groups	without	access	o	slideboards.
By	loading	the	hand	opposite	the	working	leg,	a	rotary	force	is	applied	to
the	working	hip.
The	glute	is	an	external	rotator,	as	well	as	an	extensor.	The	kettlebell
provides	an	internal	rotation	force	that	stimulates	the	external	rotator	capability
of	the	glute.	A	uni-planar	exercise	becomes	multi-planar,	and	is	great	for	the
core.
	
One-Leg	Squats	andStraight-Leg	Deadlifts
	
Single-leg	squats	and	single-leg	straight-leg	deadlifts	both	stimulate	the
pelvic	stabilizers.	These	are	covered	in	detail	later	in	the	book.
	

Floor-Based	Core	Stability	Exercises
	
	
Floor-based	core	stability	exercises	may	have	been	part	of	the	core	over-
reaction.	It	does	not	appear	healthy,	symptom-free	athletes	and	clients	need	to
spend	extended	periods	performing	some	of	these	core	stability	exercises.
However,	core	isolation	exercises	can	be	incorporated	in	the	active	warm-
up	part	of	a	session.	We	now	use	these	exercises	with	our	healthy	clients	as
activation	or	warm	up,	and	focus	on	anti-extension	or	anti-rotation	exercises	as
our	core	exercises.
The	exercises	illustrated	will	form	the	basis	of	rehab	for	low	back	pain,	as
well	hip	issues.	Once	the	bridging	and	quadruped	patterns	are	taught,	transfer
that	function	into	the	single-leg	strength	exercises.
Bridging	and	quadruped	exercises	are	designed	to	promote	glute	function
and	stability.	Gray	Cook	classifies	these	exercises	as	core	stability	because	there
is	no	movement	of	the	spine.
Cook	states	the	concept	simply:	In	order	to	be	doing	a	core	stability
exercise,	there	must	be	no	movement	of	the	core.
Exercises	that	cause	the	spine	to	move	are	considered	core	strength
exercises.
	

Quadruped	Progression
	
	
Stu	McGill’s	research	has	validated	my	thoughts	relative	to	quadruped
exercise,	and	I	believe	it	is	essential	for	all	athletes	to	work	through	this
progression.
The	quadruped	exercises	are	frequently	viewed	as	rehabilitation	exercises,
and	have	largely	been	ignored	by	strength	and	conditioning	coaches	and	athletic
trainers.	Many	coaches	view	quadruped	exercise	as	boring	and	a	waste	of	time.
The	quadruped	exercises	may	not	make	sense	at	first	glance,	but	that’s	only
because	these	exercises	are	often	performed	incorrectly.	In	many	cases	the
results	of	these	exercises	done	poorly	become	the	opposite	of	what	was	intended.
Quadruped	exercises	should	teach	athletes	
how	to	recruit	the	glutes	while
maintaining	a	stable	torso
.	Instead,	athletes	often	learn	they	can	mimic	hip
extension	by	extending	or	hyper-extending	the	lumbar	spine.
The	purpose	of	this	quadruped	progression	is	to	teach	the	athlete	to	stabilize
the	torso	with	the	deep	abdominals	and	multifidus	muscles	and	to
simultaneously	use	the	hip	extensors	to	extend	the	hip.
Quadruped	refers	to	the	starting	position;	most	of	the	exercises	are	actually
done	in	a	three-point	stance.
The	multifidus	component	is	not	present	until	the	hip	or	arm	is	extended.
The	multifidi	are	incorporated	when	the	athlete	has	to	stabilize	against	the
rotational	component	produced	by	lifting	an	extremity.
The	pelvic	floor	is	a	sensitive	issue	because	coaches	are	dealing	with
discussions	of	body	areas	and	body	functions	with	athletes	who	may	not	be
mature	enough	to	understand	the	essential	nature	of	engaging	the	muscles	of	the
pelvic	floor.
When	dealing	with	adult	athletes,	core	training	will	be	drastically	improved
by	asking	the	athlete	to	engage	the	pelvic	floor	while	performing	any
stabilization	exercise	in	quadruped	or	in	a	bridge	position.	It	is	enough	to	tell	an
athlete	to	mimic	the	action	employed	when	one	realizes	he	had	to	use	a
bathroom,	but	the	line	was	very	long.	This	usually	is	enough	to	get	the	message
across.

Quadruped	Draw-In
	
This	has	become	the	position	of	choice	for	teaching	clients	how	to	fire	the
deep	abdominal	musculature.	Although	in	the	past	I	have	recommended	a	supine
position	with	visual	feedback,	the	weight	of	the	internal	organs	makes	working
in	quadruped	neuromuscularly	more	efficient.	Clients	tend	to	feel	this	exercise
more	than	any	of	the	other	positions	previously	advocated.
Start	the	client	on	all	fours,	relaxed,	allowing	the	weight	of	the	internal
organs	to	distend	the	abdominal	wall.	Kneeling	next	to	the	client,	place	one	hand
on	the	client’s	back	and	the	other	hand	on	the	now-relaxed	and	distended
abdomen.	Ask	the	client	to	lift	the	abdominal	wall	off	your	hand	without	moving
the	spine.	Have	him	hold	this	position	for	five	seconds	and	allow	the	abdominal
wall	to	again	drop	into	your	hand.	
The	key	is	to	be	able	to	lift	the	abdominal	wall
without	moving	the	spine.
Repeat	for	five	contractions	lasting	five	seconds	each.
After	the	client	has	developed	this	skill,	ask	him	to	exhale	as	he	draws	in
the	abdomen.	It	is	not	necessary	to	actually	hollow,	but	clients	must	learn	to	feel
this	draw-in,	or,	more	appropriately,	draw-
up
	action.
This	exercise	teaches	the	client	the	stable	position	necessary	to	perform	any
of	the	exercises	that	follow.
Quadruped	Hip	Extension	Over	Bench
	
This	exercise	is	done	to	eliminate	lumbar	movement	by	blocking	pelvic
shifting	using	a	bench.	This	is	not	the	least	bit	real-world,	but	will	force	the
athlete‘s	understanding	of	glute	isolation	and	glute	firing.
Don’t	use	a	stability	ball	for	this	exercise,	as	the	ball	will	deflect	and	the
surface	needs	to	be	rigid.
To	perform	the	exercise,	the	hip	bones	begin	in	contact	with	the	bench.
Have	the	client	draw	in	using	the	quadruped	draw-in	described	previously,	and
extend	the	hip	with	a	bent	leg.	The	bent	leg	eliminates	the	contribution	of	the
hamstring	and	forces	more	glute	activation.	The	bending	of	the	leg	shortens	the
hamstring,	making	it	a	less	effective	hip	extensor	and	placing	more	emphasis	on
the	glute.

	
Use	the	same	sequence	as	above	with	five	reps	held	at	the	top	for	five
seconds.
It	is	critical	the	client	concentrates	on	squeezing	with	the	glutes	for	the
entire	five	seconds.
You	should	see	no	pelvic	movement	whatsoever.	Movement	should	be
limited	to	the	hip.	Any	lumbar	extension	is	compensation	for	poor	glute
function.
Quadruped	Hip	Extension	Bent-Leg,	Dowel	Parallel
	
The	quadruped	hip	extension	exercise	progression	is	simple,	but	we	have
made	one	significant	change	to	improve	the	effectiveness	of	this	movement:	The
nonworking	leg	is	placed	on	an	Airex	pad.
This	allows	the	hip	to	be	extended	without	having	to	produce	the	small
amount	of	rotation	necessary	to	actually	get	the	knee	off	the	ground	while	in	a
quadruped	position.
The	hip	is	extended	and	held	in	the	position	for	five	seconds	before
alternating	sides	for	each	subsequent	rep.

	
Level	One
	
This	is	done	while	balancing	a	dowel	or	stick	along	the	spine.	The	objective
sounds	simple,	but	it	is	actually	difficult	to	accomplish.	Have	your	client	extend
the	hip	without	disturbing	the	dowel	or	allowing	the	lumbar	spine	to	move	away
from	it.	Any	change	in	lumbar	curve	can	easily	be	seen	as	an	increase	in	the
space	between	the	dowel	and	the	lumbar	spine.	With	proper	control	of	the
lumbar	spine	via	the	deep	abdominals	and	multifidus	muscles,	the	hip	should
extend	without	extension	of	the	lumbar	spine.
Progress	from	five	to	eight	and	then	to	ten	five-second	holds.	Again,	the	leg
is	bent	to	deliberately	shorten	the	hamstring	and	make	the	glute	the	primary	hip
extensor.
Level	Two
	
We	move	this	to	a	level	two	exercise	with	the	addition	of	two-and-a-half-
pound	ankle	weights.
Quadruped	Hip	Extension	Bent-Leg,	Dowel	Perpendicular
	

Level	Two
	
After	your	athlete	masters	the	bent-leg	version	of	the	quadruped	hip
extension	with	the	dowel	parallel	to	the	spine,	the	dowel	is	shifted	to	a	position
perpendicular	to	the	spine	over	the	hip	bones.
The	same	hip	extension	is	performed,	but	now	the	objective	is	to	eliminate
any	rotational	compensation	in	the	lumbar	spine.
Level	Three
	
Again,	the	addition	of	ankle	weights	changes	the	exercise	intensity.
Quadruped	Alternating	Arm	and	Leg
	
Level	Four
	
The	last	and	most	difficult	step	in	the	progression	is	an	alternate	arm	and
leg	action	from	the	quadruped	hip	position.	This	is	an	advanced	exercise	often
used	far	too	early	with	beginners.
All	the	preceding	exercises	are	held	for	five	seconds	and	progressed	using	a
5-8-10	rep	progression.
	

Supine	Progression
	
	
The	supine	progression	may	be	the	most	important	part	of	the	overall	torso
training	program.	The	supine	or	bridging	progression	teaches	athletes	to	fire	both
the	glutes	and	hamstrings	while	maintaining	the	core	position	with	the	deep
abdominal	muscles.
In	addition,	the	progression	now	moves	to	a	position	with	the	feet	in	contact
with	the	ground,	a	more	real-life	motor	pattern	than	quadruped.	The	supine
progression	also	targets	the	back	via	the	multifidi.
The	supine	exercises	train	or	retrain	the	multifidi	while	improving	glute
function.	The	multifidus	muscles,	along	with	the	transversus	abdominis,	have
received	much	attention	due	to	research	being	conducted	in	Australia.	This
research	has	shown	the	multifidi	and	transverse	abdominis	experience	rapid
atrophy	after	a	back	injury	and	must	be	retrained	by	anyone	who	has
experienced	back	pain.
The	multifidus	muscles	are	the	deepest	of	the	spinal	erector	group	and	act
to	resist	flexion	and	anterior	shear	during	forward	bending.	The	multifidi	are
also	responsible	for	rotational	stability	between	the	individual	vertebrae.
One	possible	way	to	exercise	the	multifidus	muscles	is	to	apply	a	rotational
stress	to	the	spine.	By	resisting	this	rotary	force,	the	multifidi	are	stimulated.
Training	or	retraining	the	multifidus	muscles	is	often	neglected	in	many	torso
and	low	back	rehabilitation	programs.
Although	great	attention	has	been	lavished	on	the	deep	abdominal
musculature,	the	ability	to	stabilize	the	spinal	column	itself	is	potentially	more
important.	The	supine	progression	teaches	the	movement	patterns	necessary	to
safely	and	correctly	perform	supine	exercises,	facilitates	the	glutes	and	targets
the	multifidi.	The	supine	progression	begins	to	transfer	the	improved	glute
function	achieved	through	the	quadruped	exercises	into	the	slightly	more
specific	bridge	position.
Cook	Hip	Lift

	
Level	One
	
This	is	an	invaluable	exercise	that	provides	a	triple	emphasis	on	the	glutes,
hamstrings	and	on	the	torso.	The	Cook	hip	lift	develops	glute	and	hamstring
strength	and	function,	and	also	teaches	the	critical	difference	between	hip	and
lumbar	spine	range	of	motion.
The	ability	to	distinguish	between	hip	motion	and	lumbar	spine	motion	is
one	of	the	most	important	goals	of	the	supine	exercise	progression.	In	many
exercises	that	target	the	hamstrings	and	glutes,	it’s	easy	to	mistakenly	use	more
range	of	motion	at	the	lumbar	spine	than	at	the	hip.	It’s	also	easy	to	extend	the
hips	with	the	hamstrings	versus	using	the	glutes.
The	Cook	hip	lift	is	both	an	exercise	and	a	test.	If	an	athlete	performs	the
Cook	hip	lift	and	experiences	cramping	in	the	hamstring,	the	athlete	has	a	weak
glute	or	glutes,	or	inhibited	glute	function.	Athletes	who	cramp	in	the	hamstrings
with	the	Cook	hip	lift	must	place	additional	emphasis	on	learning	to	fire	the
glutes.	This	is	probably	best	done	in	quadruped	in	the	initial	relearning	stages.
In	hip	extension	with	the	knee	bent,	the	hamstring	should	be	a	weak
synergist.	Due	to	its	shortened	nature,	the	hamstring	should	provide	a	small
measure	of	assistance	to	the	glutes	in	hip	extension.
However,	in	the	absence	of	good	glute	function	—	McGill’s	gluteal	amnesia
—	the	hamstrings	are	forced	to	become	the	prime	mover.	Attempting	to	be	the
prime	mover	while	shortened	causes	the	muscle	to	overwork	and	cramp.
To	perform	the	Cook	hip	lift,	have	your	client	lie	supine	in	the	hook-lying
position,	then	pull	one	knee	tightly	to	the	chest	to	limit	movement	at	the	lumbar
spine.	To	ensure	the	knee	stays	tight	against	the	chest,	place	a	tennis	ball	near	the
bottom	of	the	rib	cage	and	have	him	pull	the	thigh	up	to	hold	the	ball	in	place.
The	ball	must	not	fall	out	during	the	set.

	
The	opposite	knee	is	bent	ninety	degrees,	and	the	foot	is	placed	with	the
heel	down	and	the	toe	up.	The	action	of	pushing	through	the	heel	stimulates	the
hip	extensors.	Pushing	through	a	flat	foot	will	often	result	in	athletes	with	poor
glute	firing	using	the	quadriceps	to	substitute	for	the	hip	extensors.
Your	client	should	draw	in	the	abdominals	to	stabilize	and	extend	the	hip	by
pushing	the	heel	down	into	the	floor.	Don’t	be	surprised	if	the	range	of	motion	is
initially	limited	to	a	few	degrees.
This	exercise	serves	two	main	purposes:
•	It	teaches	the	difference	between	range	of	motion	of	the	hip	and	range	of
motion	of	the	lumbar	spine.
•	There’s	a	gain	of	additional	flexibility	in	the	psoas	due	to	the	reciprocal
nature	of	the	exercise.	It’s	not	possible	to	contract	the	glute	and	hamstring
without	relaxing	the	psoas.
Follow	the	bodyweight	progression,	three	sets	of	10,	12,	14	reps	on	each
leg.
Key	point:
	The	tennis	ball	must	not	fall	out.	If	the	athlete	extends	from	the
lumbar	spine	instead	of	the	hip,	the	ball	will	fall	to	the	floor.	What	this	means	is
the	athlete	is	inadvertently	substituting	lumbar	spine	motion	for	hip	extension.
Gray	Cook	popularized	this	exercise	to	teach	athletes	how	to	separate	the
function	of	the	hip	extensors	from	the	lumbar	extensors.
Most	athletes	are	unaware	of	how	little	range	of	motion	they	possess	in	the
hip	joint	when	the	range	of	motion	in	the	lumbar	spine	is	intentionally	limited.
You	will	quickly	realize	the	range	of	motion	in	this	exercise	is	only	two	or	three
inches.

The	range	of	motion	can	be	increased	significantly	by	relaxing	the	grip	on
the	opposite	knee,	but	this	defeats	the	purpose.	Relaxing	the	hold	on	the	leg
substitutes	lumbar	spine	extension	for	hip	extension.
Hands-Free	Cook	Hip	Lift
	
Level	Two
	
In	the	hands-free	version	of	the	Cook	hip	lift,	the	exercise	is	performed
exactly	the	same,	except	the	ball	must	now	be	held	by	the	contraction	of	the	hip
flexors.	In	this	situation,	the	glutes	must	contract	while	the	opposite-side	psoas
maintains	an	isometric	contraction.
Isometric	Supine	Bridge
	
Level	One
	
This	level-one	exercise	requires	the	athlete	to	transfer	the	knowledge	gained
about	hip	range	of	motion	from	the	Cook	hip	lift	and	from	the	quadruped
exercises	to	a	bridge	position.	Begin	with	the	athlete	in	a	hook-lying	position,
and	then	raise	the	hips	to	create	a	straight	line	from	the	knee	through	the	hip	to
the	shoulder.	You’re	looking	to	create	and	maintain	this	posture	with	the	glutes
and	hamstrings,	not	by	extending	the	lumbar	spine.	Any	drop	in	the	hips
drastically	reduces	the	effectiveness	of	the	exercise.	At	the	top	point,	have	the
athlete	draw	in	the	abdominals	and	maintain	this	position.
Before	attempting	this	exercise,	it	is	important	to	learn	the	difference
between	hip	movement	and	lumbar	spine	movement	through	an	exercise	such	as
the	Cook	hip	lift.	Athletes	who	do	not	understand	this	distinction	arch	the	back
to	attempt	to	extend	the	hip.

Program	three	thirty-second	holds.
Isometric	Single-Leg	Supine	Bridge
	
Level	Two
	
The	single-leg	supine	bridge	takes	the	concepts	learned	through	the
quadruped	draw-in,	the	double-leg	bridge	and	the	Cook	hip	lift,	and	begins	to
progress	to	a	higher	level	of	function.	At	this	point	the	exercise	moves	from	a
four-point	stability	base	to	a	three-point	base.	This	change	in	base	of	support	and
stability	will	now	begin	to	target	the	multifidi	as	rotary	stabilizers	of	the	spine	to
a	greater	degree.
To	teach	the	isometric	single-leg	supine	bridge,	have	your	client	in	a	hook-
lying	position,	draw	in	the	abdominals	to	stabilize,	perform	a	double-leg	bridge
and	then	extend	one	leg.	This	should	create	a	straight	line	from	the	knee	through
the	hip	to	the	shoulder.	This	single-leg	position	is	maintained	by	pushing	the	heel
down	and	squeezing	the	glute.	Have	the	client	squeeze	the	glutes	as	if	trying	to
make	a	hard	fist.
Have	your	client	do	three	fifteen-second	holds	on	each	side.
Bridge	with	Alternate	March
	
Level	Three
	
The	next	step	in	the	progression	is	to	add	a	small	alternate	march	action	to
the	isometric	bridge:	Alternate	lifting	one	foot	then	the	other	off	the	ground.	This
is	a	march,	not	a	leg	extension.
A	yardstick	across	the	crests	of	the	hip	bones	acts	as	a	level	to	remind	the
athlete	not	to	let	the	opposite	hip	drop	when	the	foot	is	lifted.	With	this	exercise,

the	progression	may	better	target	the	multifidi	due	to	the	rotational	stress	applied
to	the	spinal	column	as	a	result	of	moving	from	four	support	points,	the
shoulders	and	feet,	to	three	support	points,	the	shoulders	and	one	foot.
This	is	a	transitional	stability	exercise	that	will	greatly	increase	the	level	of
difficulty.	Have	the	athlete	push	through	the	heel	and	activate	the	glute	on	the
same	side	as	the	supporting	foot.
Program	one	set	of	five-second	holds,	five	on	each	leg.	Progress	this	to
eight	and	eventually	ten	holds.
The	key	to	developing	a	torso	program	is	to	properly	combine	the
movements	described	into	a	progressive	program.

The	Superficial	Core
	
	
You	can	do	a	million	sit-ups	and	crunches	and	they	will	have	no	effect	on
abdominal	definition.	When	people	ask	me	the	best	exercise	for	abs	I	tell	them
table	push-aways.	It	usually	takes	a	few	minutes	for	them	to	get	it,	but	it’s	not	a
joke;	it’s	the	truth.	If	you	want	better	abs,	eat	less	and	train	more,	but	don’t	just
train	your	abs.
The	idea	of	working	abs	to	get	abs	is	one	of	the	oldest	misconceptions	in
training.	This	goes	back	to	the	idea	of	spot	reduction.	Spot	reduction	has	never
worked	and	will	never	work.	The	research	has	been	done	over	and	over,	and	the
answer	is	always	the	same:	We	can’t	decrease	the	fat	layer	on	a	particular	area
by	working	that	area.	That	means	the	guys	doing	sit-ups	to	lose	abdominal	fat
and	the	lady	sitting	on	the	adductor	machine	are	all	wasting	their	time.	Good
total	body	work	was,	is	and	always	will	be	the	key	to	fat	loss.
Does	your	client	want	better	abdominal	definition?	Finish	every	workout
with	some	hard	interval	training	instead	of	extra	sit-ups	or	crunches.	Interval
training	is	the	real	key	to	fat	loss	and	the	resulting	definition.	Interval	training
burns	more	calories	than	steady-state	aerobic	training,	and	because	it	is	a	sprint
program,	your	client	will	get	a	sprinter’s	body.
Abdominal	training	may	reduce	the	diameter	of	the	waistline,	but	will	not
do	anything	to	reduce	bodyfat.	The	truth	is	there	are	lots	of	good	reasons	to	do
core	training.	A	strong	core	is	one	of	the	keys	in	the	prevention	of	back	pain.	A
strong	core	will	help	you	look	better	and	improve	performance	in	a	host	of
sports,	but	sit-ups	or	any	other	abdominal	exercise	will	not	reduce	bodyfat.
A	good	abdominal	or	core	program	is	a	lot	more	than	crunches.	A	great	deal
of	your	core	programming	should	be	isometric	exercises	such	as	our	quadraped
and	supines	series	just	described.
One	of	the	major	functions	of	the	core	musculature	is	the	prevention	of
motion,	meaning	the	abdominals	are	great	stabilizers.	Work	on	the	stability
function,	not	just	on	flexion	and	extension.

The	Hips
	
	
Understanding	the	Hips
Hip	Flexion
The	Psoas	and	Iliacus
Back	Pain
TFL	Cramping
Weakness	in	the	Hip	Muscles
Dysfunctional	Hip	Flexors
Hip-Dominant	Exercises
Hamstring	Group
Hip-Extension	Exercises
	
	

Understanding	the	Hips
	
	
Gray	Cook	often	makes	this	point:	Hip	mobility	is	something	we	lose.	We
are	all	born	with	exceptional,	probably	excessive	hip	mobility,	and	as	we	age,	it
goes	away.	You	won’t	find	a	single	baby	who	can’t	get	his	foot	in	his	mouth,	and
you	won’t	find	very	many	adults	who	can.
The	big	thing	with	understanding	hips	is	we	need	more	static	flexibility
work,	more	direct	hip	flexor	work,	and	more	attention	to	mobility.
In	the	standard	Janda	idea,	the	muscles	on	the	backside	were	said	to	be	long
and	weak,	and	the	muscles	on	the	front,	short	and	strong.	As	we	look	at	the	hip,
we	realize	someone	who	spends	a	lot	of	time	in	a	flexed	posture	is	going	to	have
long,	weak	glutes	and	short,	weak	hip	flexors.	The	fact	that	those	muscles	are
short	does	not	make	them	strong.
We	now	do	direct	hip	flexor	work	because	we’ve	found	we	need	to
strengthen	that	group,	and	while	we	were	doing	a	lot	of	work	above	ninety
degrees	in	hip	flexion,	we’ve	started	doing	things	from	the	bottom	up	in	addition
to	the	work	above	ninety.
In	terms	of	things	being	too	short	and	too	tight	in	the	hip,	we’ve	got	soft
tissue	mobility	and	restrictions	—	muscular	restrictions	and	capsular	restrictions.
And	then	we’ve	got	muscular	mobility	issues,	limited	active	range	of
motion	–	the	ability	of	the	iliacus	and	the	psoas	to	flex	the	hip	and	the	ability	of
the	glute	to	extend	the	hip.
There	are	two	types	of	limitations,	one	being	passive	structures,	one	being
active	structures.	We	need	static	stretching	and	activation	work	—	low-load
training,	a	term	more	applicable	than	activation,	because	muscles	don’t	actually
become	inactive.	Muscles	can’t	be	shut	down.	They	simply	have	diminished
capacity;	they’re	down-regulated.
We	need	to	stabilize	the	region	between	the	ribcage	and	the	pelvis,	and
move	at	the	hip	joints.	That’s	the	key,	getting	core	stability	while	we	gain	active
hip	mobility.
If	you	can	get	core	stability	and	active	hip	mobility	in	your	clients,	they’re
going	to	be	moving	well,	performing	better	and	on	the	way	toward	pain-free.

Hip	Flexion
	
Increased	knowledge	of	the	biomechanics	of	hip	flexion	is	one	of	the	most
valuable	things	I	have	learned	since	the	release	of	
Functional	Training	for
Sports
.	The	problem	with	understanding	hip	flexion	in	general	and	the	psoas
muscle	in	particular	is	we	use	the	term	hip	flexor	as	a	generic	term	to	apply	to
five	muscles,	four	of	which	have	distinctly	different	leverage	positions	from	the
other.
My	reading	of	the	work	of	physical	therapist	Shirley	Sahrmann	has	changed
my	understanding	of	hip	flexors,	as	it	has	about	many	other	muscle	groups.
Our	understanding	of	the	motion	of	hip	flexion	comes	from	looking	at	the
anatomical	leverages	of	the	different	muscles	involved.	The	five	muscles	capable
of	assisting	in	hip	flexion	are	the	tensor	fascia	latae	(TFL),	the	rectus	femoris
(distinct	in	that	it	is	both	a	member	of	the	quadriceps	group	and	a	hip	flexor),	the
iliacus,	the	sartorius	and	the	psoas.
Three	of	these	muscles	possess	something	in	common;	two	are	distinctly
different.	The	TFL,	rectus	femoris	and	sartorius	all	have	insertion	at	the	iliac
crest.	This	means	all	of	these	muscles	are	capable	of	hip	flexion	up	to	the	level
of	the	hip,	a	function	of	the	principles	of	mechanical	leverage.
	

The	Psoas	and	Iliacus
	
	
The	psoas	and	the	iliacus	are	different.	The	psoas	has	its	origin	from	the
length	of	the	lumbar	spine,	while	the	iliacus	originates	on	the	posterior	of	the
ilium.	This	creates	two	distinct	dissimilarities.
The	psoas	acts	directly	on	the	spine,	both	as	a	stabilizer	for	the	iliacus	and
as	a	flexor.	The	psoas	and	the	iliacus	are	the	only	hip	flexors	capable	of	bringing
the	hip	above	ninety	degrees.
In	the	case	of	a	weak	or	under-active	psoas	or	iliacus,	the	femur	may	move
above	the	level	of	the	hip,	but	it	is	not	from	the	action	of	the	psoas	and	iliacus,
but	rather	from	the	momentum	created	by	the	other	three	hip	flexors.	With	this
knowledge,	our	understanding	of	back	pain,	hip	flexor	strains	and	quad	pulls	is
drastically	expanded.
To	assess	the	function	of	the	psoas	and	iliacus,	we	use	Shirley	Sahrmann’s
simple	test:	In	a	single-leg	stance,	pull	one	knee	to	the	chest	and	release.
Inability	to	keep	the	knee	above	ninety	degrees	for	ten	or	fifteen	seconds
indicates	a	weak	psoas	or	a	weak	iliacus.
Other	signs	are:
•	a	cramp	at	the	iliac	crest	in	the	region	of	the	TFL
•	an	immediate	backward	lean	to	compensate
•	a	large	pelvic	shift	to	the	right	or	left
•	a	quick	drop	from	the	top	with	a	catch	at	the	ninety-degree	point
Any	of	these	indicate	the	client	is	attempting	to	compensate	for	the	weak	or
under-active	muscles.
If	the	tester	is	concerned	the	subject	is	a	skilled	compensator,	we	have	a
better	test	developed	by	strength	and	conditioning	coach	Karen	Wood	that	has
also	become	our	favorite	psoas	and	iliacus	exercise.	Have	the	client	stand	with
one	foot	on	a	plyo	box	to	place	the	knee	above	the	hip;	twenty-four	inches	works
well	for	most	people.

With	the	hands	overhead	or	behind	the	head,	have	the	client	attempt	to	lift
the	foot	off	the	box	and	hold	it	up	for	five	seconds.	Inability	to	lift	and	hold	is
indicative	of	a	weak	psoas	or	iliacus,	or	both.	To	add	resistance	and	use	this	test
as	an	exercise,	lateral	resistors	or	bands	can	be	used	to	increase	the	difficulty	of
the	isometric.
Any	test	of	the	psoas	originating	from	below	the	hip	is	inherently	invalid	as
the	iliac-originated	hip	flexors	are	now	at	a	leverage	advantage.
Understanding	the	unique	functional	contributions	of	the	psoas	and	iliacus
illustrates	how	a	weak	or	under-active	muscle	can	be	a	factor	in	both	back	pain
and	in	quadriceps	strains.
	

Back	Pain
	
	
You	also	need	to	realize	the	hip	and	the	lumbar	spine	are	linked.	When
talking	about	the	hip,	we’re	talking	about	the	lumbar	spine;	when	talking	about
the	lumbar	spine,	we’re	talking	about	the	hip.	We	can’t	think	of	one	without
considering	the	other.
The	reality	is	we	work	the	hip	to	protect	the	spine.	When	the	hip	doesn’t
work	properly,	when	the	hip	doesn’t	move	the	way	we	need	it	to,	either	actively
or	passively,	we’re	going	to	get	spinal	motion,	and	then	we’re	going	to	have
back	problems.
The	solution	to	low	back	pain	isn’t	found	in	the	back,	it’s	in	the	hips.
If	we	think	about	the	postures	of	an	athletic	body	or	a	deconditioned	client,
we	often	see	excessive	anterior	tilt.
Follow	the	logic:
Weak	external	obliques	allow	anterior	tilt;
Anterior	tilt	allows	the	psoas	to	shorten;
The	short	psoas	inhibits	the	glutes;
The	weak	glutes	and	tight	psoas	prevent	hip	extension.
The	result	is	lumbar	extension	substituted	for	hip	extension,	and
subsequently	low	back	or	anterior	hip	pain.
Hip	mobility	requires	the	right	muscles	moving	the	hip	joint	to	decrease	the
movement	of	the	lumbar	spine	as	a	substitute.	This	means	core	stability	is
directly	related	to	hip	mobility.	You	can’t	separate	the	two,	because	if	the	hips
don’t	move,	the	spine	will.
Often	with	back	pain,	inability	to	flex	the	hip	past	ninety	degrees	will	often
cause	many	clients	to	flex	the	lumbar	spine	to	give	the	illusion	of	flexing	the
hips.	Watch	how	many	of	your	clients	immediately	flex	the	lumbar	spine	when
asked	to	bring	the	knee	to	the	chest.	There	is	a	clear	distinction	between	bringing

the	knee	to	the	chest	and	bringing	the	chest	to	the	knee.
Attempting	to	bring	the	knee	toward	the	chest	and	above	the	level	of	the	hip
forces	the	client	to	use	the	psoas	and	iliacus.	If	they	are	unable	to	do	this,	one	or
all	of	three	things	happen.
The	athlete	will	flex	the	spine	and	bring	the	chest	to	the	knee.	At	first
observation	this	appears	the	same,	but	from	a	back	pain	perspective,	it	could	not
be	more	different.	Flexion	of	the	lumbar	spine	is	the	leading	cause	of	disk
degeneration.	Those	who	substitute	back	motion	for	hip	motion	get	back	pain,
and	perhaps	eventually	surgery.
In	the	quadraped	bent-knee	leg	raise,	we	see	a	similar	example	of	how	this
happens	with	extension,	rather	than	flexion.	If	the	hip	does	not	move	and	if	we
can’t	properly	use	the	glutes,	there’s	going	to	be	lumbar	extension	to	replace	the
lacking	hip	extension.	You	see	this	all	the	time	in	gyms,	people	moving	the
lumbar	spine	both	in	quadraped	exercises	and	in	movement.	As	you	begin	to
watch	people	who	move	inefficiently,	you’ll	be	shocked	at	how	much	they	move
the	lumbar	spine	to	avoid	moving	the	hip	or	to	make	up	for	the	inability	to	move
the	hip.
The	ability	of	the	glutes	to	work	is	critical,	because	if	the	glutes	can’t	work,
there	will	be	low	back	pain.	When	you	look	at	Stuart	McGill’s	work,	it’s	very
clear:
Weak	glutes,	bad	back.
	
Interestingly,	a	bad	back	often	means	a	strong	back,	because	the	back
extensors	are	overused.	People	with	bad	backs	tend	to	have	greater	extensor
torque	than	people	with	healthy,	pain-free	backs.	These	people	are	constantly
using	their	lumbar	erectors	as	hip	extensors	instead	of	using	the	glutes.
People	with	bad	backs	will	often	have	disappearing	glutes,	the	no-butt	look.
When	you	see	that,	you	know	the	solution.	The	solution	is	squatting.	The
solution	is	single-leg	work.	The	solution	is	to	get	those	glutes	doing	their	jobs,
get	those	hips	moving.	When	you	get	the	hips	moving	and	get	the	glutes
working,	in	most	cases	the	back	pain	will	go	away.	And	for	this	you’ll	be	real
popular	with	your	clients.
	

TFL	Cramping
	
	
People	will	also	use	the	TFL	and	the	other	ischial	hip	flexors	to	flex	the	hip.
In	this	case	your	athlete	will	complain	of	a	low-level	strain	in	the	TFL.	This	is	a
result	of	overuse	of	a	synergist,	and	will	feed	into	a	synergistic	dominance	of	the
TFL	and	further	psoas	and	iliacus	dysfunction.
A	muscle	cramps	when	attempting	to	shorten	in	a	disadvantageous	position.
With	the	hip	flexed	above	ninety,	the	TFL	is	already	shortened	and	unable	to
produce	the	necessary	force	to	hold	in	this	position	of	poor	leverage.	The	attempt
results	in	cramping,	much	like	a	hamstring	cramp	in	bridging	when	the	glutes	are
under-active.
These	same	effects	are	often	seen	when	attempting	hanging	knee-ups,	an
exercise	we	almost	never	do	as	it	teaches	compensation,	except	the	cramp	or
strain	is	in	the	rectus	femoris.
This	is	what	we	see	in	our	hockey	athletes	who	use	a	flexed	athletic
posture.	The	athlete	will	use	the	rectus	femoris	to	create	hip	flexion.	This	can
result	in	the	mysterious	quad	pull	seen	in	sprinters	or	on	forty-yard-dash	day	in
football.
The	etiology	is	the	same	as	above,	only	the	culprit	is	now	the	rectus	femoris
instead	of	the	TFL.	It	should	be	noted	most	quad	pulls	or	quad	strains	are	limited
to	the	multi-joint	rectus	femoris.	Soreness	will	generally	be	near	the	insertion
point	of	the	rectus	femoris	into	the	quadriceps,	at	about	the	halfway	point	of	the
thigh.
	

Weakness	in	the	Hip	Muscles
	
	
The	psoas	and	iliacus	are	to	the	anterior	hip	as	the	glute	is	to	the	posterior
hip.	As	seen	in	the	discussion	of	glute	activation	and	the	core,	a	weak	glute	max
will	cause	synergistic	dominance	of	the	hamstrings	and	extension	of	the	lumbar
spine	to	compensate	for	hip	extension.	This	will	lead	to	back	pain,	anterior	hip
pain	and	hamstring	strains.	On	the	opposite	side,	a	weak	or	under-active	psoas
will	cause	back	pain	from	flexion	rather	than	extension,	TFL	strain	and	rectus
femoris	strain.
Another	Sahrmann	point:	
Use	of	the	hamstring	as	the	primary	hip	extensor
changes	the	lever	arm	of	the	femur	and	can	cause	anterior	capsule	pain.
Dysfunctional	Hip	Flexors
	
The	plan	of	attack	for	a	client	with	a	weak	or	under-active	iliacus	or	psoas
is	reasonably	straightforward.	In	order	to	properly	execute	the	plan,	you	will
need	to	enlist	the	help	of	good	manual	therapist,	who	can	sometimes	be	hard	to
find.	This	may	be	a	massage	therapist,	chiropractor	or	physical	therapist,	but	the
key	is	the	ability	to	get	the	hands	into	the	tissue.	Don’t	get	hung	up	on	which
profession;	just	find	someone	with	good	hands.
The	following	is	the	protocol.
Soft	Tissue
	
Treat	the	soft	tissue,	done	by	a	good	manual	therapist	who	can	get	into	the
psoas.	This	has	to	be	done	manually.	Foam	rollers,	or	even	more	targeted	work
with	a	tennis	ball,	can’t	get	into	a	deep	area	like	the	psoas.

Stretch
	
The	Thomas	position	is	popular	for	psoas	stretching.	This	is	a	physical
therapy	test	used	to	measure	hip	flexor	length,	but	people	use	it	for	a	stretching
solution	in	addition	to	testing.
Position	the	client	on	the	table	with	one	knee	to	the	chest	and	the	sacrum	on
the	table	end.	Push	down	lightly	on	the	extended	leg.	Half-kneeling	psoas
stretches	will	also	work,	but	the	Thomas	position	works	best,	as	the	iliacus	and
psoas	can	be	difficult	to	self-stretch.
This	difficulty	is	partially	solved	by	my	new	favorite	anterior	hip	self-
stretch,	a	half-kneeling	hip	flexor	stretch	with	the	down	leg	on	an	Airex	pad	and
the	forward	leg	elevated	on	a	twelve-inch	box.
	
The	body	position	is	oriented	about	forty-five	degrees	toward	the	box;	it’s
not	straight-on.	The	athlete’s	torso	is	facing	out,	toward	the	forward-leg	side
rather	than	straight	ahead.	The	athlete	will	need	to	maintain	this	hip	rotation,
which	is	going	to	stress	the	psoas	as	the	foot	goes	up.	There’s	a	significant
amount	of	internal	rotation	created	when	the	foot	is	placed	on	the	box.
Advanced	clients	should	lift	the	stretched-side	arm	overhead.
Remember,	keep	the	lumbar	spine	stable.	The	psoas	inserts	on	the	lumbar
vertebrae.	Arching	the	back	shortens	the	psoas	the	exercise	is	designed	to
stretch.

This	is	the	best	self-psoas	stretch	we	have	found;	if	you’ve	been	spending	a
lot	of	time	wrestling	around	with	your	athletes	in	the	Thomas	position,	teach
them	this	one	instead.
Anterior	hip	mobility	is	the	most	difficult	area	to	stretch	and	an	area	we
neglect.	Don’t	skip	this	stretch.
Strengthen
	
We	do	a	seated	psoas	contraction	into	hip	flexion	with	the	hands	behind	the
back	to	maintain	lumbar	curve.	The	athlete	must	be	seated	on	something	high
enough	that	the	feet	don’t	touch	the	ground.	Begin	with	three	ten-second	holds
and	progress	to	ten	times	in	ten	seconds.
	

Hip-Dominant	Exercises
	
	
A	section	on	hip-dominant	exercise	could	actually	be	an	extension	of	the
core	chapter,	because	if	you	think	about	it,	when	does	bridging	cease	to	be	an
exercise	for	core	stability	and	glute	activation,	and	become	a	strengthening
exercise	for	the	hip	extensors?	The	line	between	core	strength	exercises	and	hip-
dominant	exercises	is	impossible	to	draw.
Many	of	our	core	stabilization	exercises	are	actually	foundational
movements	that	morph	into	hip	extension	exercises.	The	concept	of	glute
activation	created	in	the	bridging	exercises	carries	over	directly	into	all	of	the
bent-leg	hip-extension	exercises.	In	fact,	bent-leg	hip-extension	exercises	are
merely	progressions	from	bridging	done	in	a	concentric	and	eccentric	manner.
The	training	of	the	entire	posterior	chain	becomes	more	critical	as	we	begin
to	further	our	knowledge	of	functional	anatomy.	The	posterior	chain	works	in
conjunction	with	the	quadriceps	to	control	all	locomotor	movement	from
walking	to	running.
Dr.	Vladimir	Janda	referred	to	the	systems	of	the	posterior	chain	as	the	deep
longitudinal	subsystem	and	the	posterior	oblique	subsystem,	and	demonstrated
how	critical	these	muscles	are	in	transferring	force	from	the	ground	to	the	upper
body.
When	the	foot	hits	on	the	ground,	the	ankle	is	stabilized	by	the	anterior
tibialis	and	peroneals.	This	allows	force	to	be	transmitted	through	the	hamstring
into	the	glute	max.	If	we	do	not	perform	single-leg	hip-extension	exercises,	we
will	again	miss	a	critical	part	of	force	transmission	and	of	ankle	stability.	The
exercises	must	begin	at	the	ground	with	the	peroneal	group	and	anterior	tibialis,
and	proceed	up	the	chain	through	the	lateral	hamstring	and	into	the	glutes.
The	use	of	the	thoracolumbar	fascia	as	the	crossing	point	of	movement
through	the	lumbar	spine	reinforces	our	core	training	concepts,	as	both	the
transverse	abdominus	and	internal	oblique	act	on	the	same	thoracolumbar	fascia.
Movement	is	literally	linked	from	the	feet	to	the	shoulders	by	the	core	muscles
and	fascia.
The	muscles	that	extend	the	hip,	primarily	the	gluteus	maximus	and
hamstring	group,	are	often	neglected	in	training	programs.	When	we	view	the

systems	from	a	functional	anatomical	perspective,	hip-dominant	exercise	is	as
important	as	knee-dominant	exercise,	or	potentially	more	important.
Many	coaches	mistakenly	believe	squatting	is	enough	exercise	for	the	entire
lower	body.	These	programs	are	characterized	by	a	leg	day	consisting	primarily
of	squat	movements	with	a	token	single-joint	hamstring	exercise	such	as	a	leg
curl.	This	places	excessive	emphasis	on	the	knee	extensors	and	neglects	the	hip
extensors.	This	can	be	a	major	problem,	particularly	if	glute	function	is
inhibited.	Athletes	with	inhibited	glute	function	will	present	with	large
quadriceps	in	relation	to	the	glutes,	possibly	even	able	to	squat	large	amounts	of
weight.	Most	often	these	quad-dominant,	glute-deficient	athletes	will	prefer	a
narrow,	knee-dominant	squatting	style.
In	recent	years,	the	Olympic	lifting	community	has	advocated	doing
variations	of	the	straight-leg	deadlift.	This	exercise	has	been	called	the
Romanian	deadlift	and	is	a	hip-dominant	deadlift	done	with	a	limited	knee	bend.
Many	US	powerlifters	used	this	lift	for	years	prior	to	the	introduction	of	the	term
Romanian	deadlift.
While	this	exercise	addresses	the	need	for	hip-dominant	exercise,	it	does
not	address	the	need	for	unilateral	hip-dominant	exercise.	If	you	study	the
subsystems	carefully,	it’s	obvious	unilateral	exercise	is	critical	to	proper	function
of	the	posterior	chain.
	

Hamstring	Group
	
	
To	make	matters	worse,	the	hamstring	group,	a	secondary	hip	extensor,	is
still	mistakenly	trained	as	a	knee	flexor.	Although	some	anatomy	texts	describe
the	hamstring	group	as	knee	flexors,	we	now	know	the	hamstring	is	actually	the
second	most	powerful	hip	extensor,	as	well	as	a	stabilizer	of	the	knee.
Hamstrings	are	only	knee	flexors	in	nonfunctional	settings.	In	any
locomotor	activity,	the	function	of	the	hamstrings	group	is	not	to	flex	the	knee,
but	to	extend	the	hip.	As	a	result,	lying	or	standing	leg	curls	are	a	waste	of	time
for	athletes.	Exercises	like	leg	curls	train	the	muscles	in	a	pattern	never	used	in
sport	or	in	life.
The	training	and	retraining	of	the	hamstring	muscles	in	nonfunctional
patterns	may	explain	the	frequent	recurrence	of	hamstring	strains	in	athletes	who
rehabilitate	with	exercises	such	as	leg	curls,	or	through	the	use	of	isokinetic
machines	such	as	Cybex.	More	importantly,	strengthening	the	hamstrings	in	the
absence	of	proper	glute	function	is	training	a	synergist	to	do	the	job	of	a	prime
mover.
Most	hamstring	injuries	are	actually	the	result	of	poor	glute	function.	If	the
glutes	function	poorly,	the	hamstrings	become	what	Janda	called	synergistically
dominant.	In	other	words,	we	have	a	synergist	attempting	to	perform	the	task	of
a	weak	prime	mover.	Over	time	the	hamstrings	will	tire	and	eventually	strain.	If
the	solution	to	the	hamstring	strain	is	more	hamstring	strengthening,	as	is	often
the	case,	the	cycle	will	continue.	Any	time	you	see	a	hamstring	strain,	look	for	a
weak	glute.
Note	a	favorite	Shirley	Sahrmann	quote:
“When	assessing	the	factors	that	contribute	to	an	overuse	syndrome,	one	of
the	rules	is	to	determine	whether	one	or	more	of	the	synergists	of	the	strained
muscle	is	also	weak.	When	the	synergist	is	weak,	the	muscle	strain	is	probably
the	result	of	excessive	demands.”
This	may	explain	the	frequent	complaint	heard	by	athletic	trainers	and
therapists,	“I	can’t	believe	he	pulled	his	hamstring	again;	he	has	great	strength.”
The	reality	is	hamstring	weakness	was	never	the	problem.	The	problem	was
a	weak	prime	mover.	We	now	know	to	look	for	a	weakness	causing	a	strain,	and

to	strengthen	the	weak	muscle	instead	of	the	strained	muscle.
Lateral	Hamstring
	
It’s	important	to	promote	tissue	length	in	the	lateral	hamstring,	an	area
prone	to	shortening.	We	use	a	table-top	hip	opening	stretch	for	the	lateral
hamstrings.
When	we’re	teaching	our	athletes	the	table-top	lateral	hamstring	stretch
from	a	standing	position	with	one	foot	on	a	table	and	the	other	on	the	floor,	we
don’t	want	them	rotating	from	the	lumbar	spine,	we	want	them	rotating	from	the
hip.
The	bottom	foot	is	neutral	or	internally	rotated,	and	so	is	the	top	foot.
People	with	poor	hip	mobility	will	externally	rotate	the	top	foot,	and	externally
rotate	the	bottom	foot.
Be	very	particular	when	lining	up	your	athlete	on	the	table.	Make	sure	you
see	the	foot	straight	ahead	on	the	down	leg,	and	the	foot	of	the	up	leg	straight	up,
with	maybe	a	little	bit	of	internal	rotation.
The	initial	stretch	is	a	common	hamstring	stretch.	To	move	laterally,	have
the	client	rotate	in	at	the	hip,	keeping	both	feet	in	the	straight-forward	positions.
Stress	the	idea	of	turning	the	pelvis	in	and	out	and	in	and	out,	not	getting	a	lot	of
lumbar	spine	motion,	whether	it’s	lumbar	flexion	or	lumbar	rotation.	Avoid	both,
really	get	the	athlete	to	turn	at	the	hip	joint.
Thing	about	the	pelvis	as	the	attachment	point	for	the	lower	body	muscles.
Minimize	back	motion	and	concentrate	on	pelvic	motion.
We’re	trying	to	open	and	close	the	door	of	the	hip	joint.

	
	

Hip-Extension	Exercises
	
	
We	break	hip-extension	exercises	into	two	distinct	movement	patterns:
straight-leg	hip	extension	and	bent-leg	hip	extension.	Movements	from	both
categories	should	be	used	to	properly	train	the	posterior	chain	muscles.	Although
some	experts	claim	bent-leg	hip	extensions	isolate	the	glutes,	this	is	not	true	for
closed-chain	movements.
When	the	foot	is	in	contact	with	a	surface	—	ground,	slideboard	top,
stability	ball	—	both	the	glutes	and	hamstrings	work	to	some	degree.	Depending
on	the	starting	length	of	the	hamstring	group,	the	hamstring	will	emerge	as	either
the	prime	mover	or	the	synergist.
Both	straight-leg	and	bent-leg	hip	extensions	target	the	glutes	and
hamstrings.	The	difference	lies	in	the	concept	of	length	and	tension	relationships.
Length-tension	basically	dictates	muscles	will	work	best	at	normal	length.	If
they	are	shortened	or	overstretched,	they	will	not	develop	optimal	tension.
It	is	not	possible	to	truly	eliminate	one	muscle	group’s	contribution,	only	to
lessen	it.	Straight-leg	hip	extension	unquestionably	targets	the	hamstrings	to	a
greater	degree	because	the	hamstring	begins	at	normal	length,	but	all	of	the	bent-
leg	hip-extension	exercises	also	involve	the	hamstrings	as	synergists.
The	difference	with	bent-leg	hamstring	exercises	is	the	hamstring	is
deliberately	shortened	to	decrease	its	contribution	and	to	increase	the
contribution	of	the	glutes.	With	the	knee	bent,	the	length-tension	relationship	of
the	hamstring	is	now	poor,	and	the	glutes	will	be	forced	to	do	more	work.
Hamstring	cramps	during	bent-leg	hamstring	exercises	clearly	demonstrate
the	client	has	poor	glute	firing	or	activation,	because	in	spite	of	the	poor	length-
tension	relationship,	the	hamstring	is	still	attempting	to	compensate	for	the	weak
glute.	Due	to	the	shortened	state	of	the	hamstring,	the	need	to	shorten	an	already
deliberately	shortened	muscle	causes	the	muscle	to	cramp.
The	key	to	any	of	the	hip-extension	movements	is	to	instruct	the	client	or
athlete	to	think	glutes	first.	Improvement	of	glute	firing	must	be	a	conscious
effort.
Exercises	such	as	squats	and	squat	variations	affect	the	glutes	and
hamstrings	only	as	they	relate	to	knee	and	hip	extension	involved	in	achieving	a

neutral	standing	position.	In	squatting,	the	hip	never	moves	into	full	extension.
Quad-dominant	athletes	can	become	effective	squatters	with	minimal	glute
involvement,	particularly	if	they	are	allowed	to	squat	to	positions	above	parallel.
To	properly	work	the	glutes	and	the	hamstrings,	the	movement	must	be
centered	on	the	hip	and	not	on	the	knee.	To	understand	this	concept,	envision	a
front	squat.	The	hip	moves	through	approximately	ninety	degrees	range	of
motion	in	concert	with	the	knee	movement.	Generally	there	is	one	degree	of	hip
movement	for	each	degree	of	knee	movement.	The	focus	of	the	exercise	is
shared	equally	by	the	knee	and	the	hip	extensors.
In	an	exercise	such	as	the	modified	straight-leg	deadlift,	the	hip	moves
through	a	ninety-degree	range	of	motion,	but	the	glutes	are	assisted	by	the
hamstrings.	A	well-designed	program	must	include	both	straight-leg,	hip-
dominant	exercises	and	bent-leg	hip-dominant	exercises	to	balance	the	lower-
body	muscles.
Most	of	the	exercises	in	this	section	will	initially	use	the	8-10-12
bodyweight	progression,	meaning	bodyweight	is	used	for	the	first	three	weeks,
with	the	number	of	repetitions	increasing	each	week	from	eight	to	ten	to	twelve
reps.	External	resistance	may	be	used	when	appropriate,	or	obstacles	of	greater
difficulty	may	be	substituted.
Cook	Hip	Lift
	
The	Cook	hip	lift	is	covered	in	depth	in	the	core	section,	but	it	is	important
to	remind	you	to	begin	by	distinguishing	between	hip	range	and	movement	of
the	lumbar	spine.	Don’t	skip	this	step.
Foot-Elevated	Hip	Lift
	
The	foot-elevated	hip	lift	is	an	excellent	progression	from	the	Cook	hip	lift
and	has	become	a	staple	in	our	program.	The	foot-elevated	hip	lift	is	just	a
single-leg	bridge.	This	is	a	great	example	of	the	blurry	line	between	core
stabilization	and	posterior	chain	strength	—	an	exercise	that	began	as	a	core
movement	becomes	a	strength	exercise	for	the	posterior	chain.
The	foot	can	be	elevated	on	an	aerobic	step,	a	balance	board,	a	foam	roller,
or	a	medicine	ball	to	increase	the	difficulty	of	the	exercise.	Aerobic	steps	in	four-

and	six-inch	heights	allow	a	good	progression.	For	a	level-two	exercise,	a	four-
inch	step	is	used.	For	level	three,	a	six-inch	step	or	balance	board	is	used.	For
level	four,	a	foam	roller	works	well.
A	two-dimensional	unstable	surface	such	as	a	foam	roller	causes	the
hamstrings	to	be	worked	in	two	separate	and	important	functions.	The
hamstrings	assist	in	hip	extension,	while	also	working	eccentrically	to	prevent
knee	extension.
To	progress	to	level	five,	substitute	a	medicine	ball.	The	medicine	ball	is	the
most	difficult	due	to	the	three-dimensional	instability	it	introduces	at	the	hip.
The	hamstrings	must	work	at	two	joints,	while	the	hip	stabilizers	work	to	prevent
hip	adduction	and	abduction.	The	key	is	the	athlete	must	be	instructed	to	think
about	raising	the	hips	by	squeezing	the	glute	while	keeping	the	abdominals
drawn	in.
For	all	these	hip-lift	exercises,	use	the	8-10-12-rep	bodyweight	progression.
Modified	Straight-Leg	Deadlift
	
The	modified	straight-leg	deadlift	(SLDL)	is	the	predecessor	of	the	popular
Romanian	deadlift	and	ranks	with	the	squat	among	frequently	maligned,
misunderstood,	and	poorly	executed	lifts.	Squats	and	deadlifts	and	their
variations	are	often	called	unsafe	and	dangerous.	In	truth,	these	lifts	are	safe	and
beneficial	when	performed	correctly	with	an	appropriate	load.
However,	the	squat	and	the	SLDL	can	be	dangerous	when	performed
improperly	or	with	too	heavy	a	weight.	The	unfortunate	reality	is	most	athletes
perform	both	of	these	exercises	with	questionable	technique	and	too	much
weight.
I’m	not	a	fan	of	the	double-leg	versions	of	the	SLDL	or	the	Romanian
deadlift,	as	they	are	difficult	to	teach	and	difficult	to	learn.	Flexing	from	the	hips
with	the	spine	stable,	what	physical	therapists	call	a	waiter’s	bow,	is	one	of	the
most	difficult	exercises	to	teach	in	strength	and	conditioning.
As	a	result,	I	now	use	only	single-leg	options	of	these	exercises.	Single-leg
versions	impact	the	back	significantly	less,	and	impact	the	glutes	and	hamstrings
significantly	more.	In	addition,	the	muscular	systems	discussed	earlier	are
trained	far	more	effectively	in	the	single-leg	versions.	If	we	can	obtain	better
muscular	specificity	and	less	lumbar	load,	it’s	an	improvement.
The	old-school	purists	will	say,	“What,	no	deadlifts?”	I	will	always	go	back
to	the	same	point:	If	we	can	improve	performance	and	have	less	chance	of	injury,

it’s	a	good	idea.	However,	in	point	of	fact,	we	do	use	the	trap	bar	deadlift	in
some	of	our	programs.
Single-Leg	Straight-Leg	Deadlift
	
The	single-leg	SLDL	is	a	variation	that	develops	the	entire	posterior	chain,
enhances	balance	and	decreases	both	load	and	stress	on	the	back.	Beginning
loads	will	be	less	than	fifty	percent	of	the	comparable	load	of	the	two-legged
version.
This	exercise	is	far	safer	and	is	also	more	challenging.	One	of	the	obvious
benefits	is	the	tremendous	proprioceptive	work	at	the	ankle.	The	deep
longitudinal	subsystem	is	engaged	in	this	exercise,	so	the	peroneals	and	anterior
tibialis	must	both	work	extremely	hard	to	provide	stability	to	the	ankle	and
consequently	to	the	hip.	Single-leg	hamstring	work	is	more	functional	than
double-leg	hamstring	work,	and	single-leg	hamstring	work	that	challenges
balance	and	proprioception	is	the	most	beneficial.	This	is	another	exercise	that
can	be	used	as	a	part	of	the	warm-up	or	as	a	loaded	strength	exercise.
In	previous	years	our	single-leg	SLDL	was	done	with	a	perfectly	straight
leg.	Paul	Chek	said	for	years	we	need	a	ten-to	twenty-degree	knee	bend	to
effectively	recruit	the	glute,	and	we	weren’t	doing	it.	We	were	going	with	a
much	straighter	leg,	and	much	lighter	loads.	We’ve	now	switched	to	the	Chek
style,	slightly	bent	knee,	semi-straight-leg	deadlifting.
With	the	hip-dominant	pattern	we	need	that	twenty-degree	knee	bend,	and
we	need	much	heavier	loads	than	I	originally	thought.	Five	years	ago,	we	were
probably	using	fifteen-pound	dumbbells	to	do	these,	and	we	were	getting	a	lot	of
hamstring	soreness.	When	we	flex	the	knee	twenty	degrees,	we	can	use
significantly	more	load,	and	we	get	a	lot	more	glute	soreness.	The	straight	leg
really	negates	the	ability	of	the	glute	to	be	a	hip	extensor.	That	leg	being	bent	a
little	bit	was	a	huge	change	for	us,	and	has	had	a	big	impact	on	our	glute
training.
And	I	love	kettlebells	for	single-leg	SLDLs,	even	with	the	eight-pound-
jump	limitation.	Kettlebells	really	allow	a	much	better	vertical	loading	pattern.
They’re	easier	to	hold	onto,	and	in	this	situation	they’re	far	superior	to
dumbbells.
One-Leg,	Two-Arm	Straight-Leg	Deadlift

	
The	one-leg,	two-arm	SLDL	is	another	excellent	single-leg	alternative	to
the	double-leg	versions	of	the	Romanian	or	straight-leg	deadlift.
Charles	Poliquin	frequently	uses	the	idea	of	varying	the	exercise	without
changing	it.	The	one-leg,	two-arm	SLDL	is	an	excellent	example	of	allowing
some	variability	without	having	to	teach	an	entirely	new	movement	pattern.	The
essence	of	the	exercise	remains	the	same,	but	the	exercise	is	changed	enough	to
allow	different	loads	and	slightly	different	neurological	patterns.
The	one-leg,	two-arm	SLDL	moves	from	a	dumbbell	exercise	to	a	straight
bar	or	two-dumbbell	exercise,	and	alters	the	loads	at	both	the	scapulo-thoracic
joint	and	the	thoracolumbar	fascia.	It	allows	greater	loads	than	the	single-arm
version	and	will	provide	greater	stress	to	all	of	the	trunk	extensors	and	scapulae
retractors.
	
This	makes	the	exercise	an	excellent	progression	from	the	single-dumbbell
version.	From	a	functional	standpoint,	however,	the	two	dumbbells	or	the
straight	bar	may	actually	make	the	exercise	less	functional.	This	is	not	of	great
concern,	as	the	greater	loads	on	the	hip	extensors	offset	the	loss	of	the	linkage
from	glute	max	to	the	lat	across	the	thoracolumbar	fascia.
The	important	point	is	the	client	is	able	to	move	to	a	level	two	exercise	with
an	increased	load	from	the	level	one	movement.
Reaching	Single-Leg	Straight-Leg	Deadlift
	

	
One	of	the	things	we	often	struggle	to	teach	is	the	hip	hinge	action	so
essential	for	one-leg	straight-leg	deadlifts.	This	inability	led	to	the	reaching	one-
leg	straight-leg	deadlift.	This	exercise	was	already	a	part	of	our	warm-up,	but	I
had	not	considered	it	as	an	exercise	in	the	strength	program	until	recently.
The	one-arm,	one-leg	SLDL	had	been	our	primary	exercise	for	an
accumulation	or	hypertrophy	phase,	while	the	two-arm,	one-leg	SLDL	was	used
for	the	higher	loads	of	an	intensification	or	strength	phase	as	athletes	got
stronger.
The	reaching	single-leg	straight-leg	deadlift	is	more	suited	to	the	lighter
loads	of	the	accumulation	phase	and	is	an	excellent	exercise	for	beginners.
The	key	is	that	the	action	of	reaching	allows	the	coach	to	give	cues	like	“get
long.”	Our	instructions	are	to	reach	forward	with	the	hands	toward	the	front
while	reaching	back	with	the	leg.	Reaching	turns	on	the	thoracic	extensors	and
prevents	the	shoulders	from	rounding.
Athletes	can	begin	with	any	weighted	med	ball.	We	usually	begin	with	two
or	three	kilos.	Any	of	the	med	balls	with	handles	are	excellent	for	this	exercise.
The	truth	is	a	dumbbell	works	just	as	well.
Repetitions	should	remain	in	the	eight	to	ten	range	to	keep	the	loads	on	the
spine	low.
Slideboard	Leg	Curl
	
The	slideboard	leg	curl	is	an	exercise	stronger	athletes	can	use	as	a	level
one	exercise,	or	it	can	be	used	as	an	eccentric-only	exercise	for	beginners.	The
slideboard	leg	curl	has	quickly	become	a	favorite	exercise	even	though	it	seems
to	violate	the	no-single-joint	exercise	rule.	In	fact,	the	slideboard	leg	curl	is	not	a
single-joint	exercise	even	though	there	is	only	one	joint	moving.

The	slideboard	leg	curl	works	in	a	similar	manner	to	the	hip-lift	exercises.
In	the	hip-lift	exercises,	the	glute	is	the	prime	mover,	while	the	hamstring	assists
in	hip	extension.	In	the	slideboard	leg	curl,	although	only	the	knee	joint	is
moving,	the	glutes	must	act	to	keep	the	hips	in	extension	while	the	hamstring
works	to	both	eccentrically	resist	leg	extension	—	a	primary	hamstring	function
—	and	to	concentrically	produce	knee	flexion.	This	is	a	complex	and	functional
exercise	when	performed	correctly.
Some	authors	describing	leg	curls	using	a	stability	ball	make	the	exercise	a
simultaneous	hip-flexion	and	knee-flexion	exercise	by	allowing	the	hips	to	drop.
This	method	of	performance	takes	what	could	be	a	great	exercise	and	reduces	it
to	an	average	exercise.	The	key	to	the	slideboard	leg	curl	is	to	force	the	glutes
and	hamstrings	to	maintain	hip	extension,	while	also	using	the	hamstrings	as
both	eccentric	resistors	of	leg	extension	and	then	finally	concentric	knee	flexors.
Eccentric-Only	Version
	
Many	clients,	particularly	those	who	have	glute-firing	issues,	will	not	be
able	to	switch	from	the	eccentric	portion	of	the	exercise	to	the	concentric	portion
of	the	exercise	while	maintaining	the	glute	contraction.	In	this	case,	the	hips	will
drop	and	flex	during	the	concentric	portion	of	the	exercise.	If	this	happens,
program	eccentric-only	reps	to	improve	both	strength	and	function.
	
Start	your	client	with	the	toes	up	and	the	heels	on	the	board	as	in	a	double-
leg	bridge.	Have	the	client	draw	in	the	abdominals	and	place	both	hands	on	the
glutes	to	feel	the	contraction.	With	both	hands	on	the	glutes	and	the	stomach
drawn	in,	count	five	for	the	slide	out	from	the	hip-flexed	bridge	position	to	a
position	with	the	legs	out-stretched.
From	that	point,	have	the	client	relax	down,	return	to	the	bridge	position,
and	repeat	for	three	to	five	reps.

Concentric	Version
	
These	are	performed	as	above	maintaining	the	glute	contraction,	but	curling
back	to	the	start	position.	It	is	critical	there	be	no	bend	at	the	hips.
TRX	Leg	Curl
	
	
The	TRX	leg	curl	is	an	excellent	progression	from	the	slideboard	leg	curl.
The	biggest	drawback	to	the	TRX	leg	curl	is	it	may	be	too	difficult	a
progression.	The	concept	remains	the	same	as	in	the	slideboard:	The	glutes	must
stay	engaged	to	get	the	benefit	of	the	exercise.

	
This	is	an	example	of	a	TRX	exercise	I	discounted	without	trying	it.	As	I
often	say,	it	is	important	to	give	exercises	an	honest	trial	before	you	decide	they
are	not	useful.
Stability-Ball	Leg	Curl
	
The	stability-ball	leg	curl	is	a	level-three	exercise	because	it	requires	using
the	glutes	and	spinal	erectors	to	stabilize	the	torso	while	the	hamstrings	perform
a	closed-chain	leg	curl.	This	exercise	develops	torso	stability	while	also
strengthening	the	hamstrings.
Technique	Points
	
•	Heels	are	placed	on	the	ball,	and	the	body	is	held	with	the	hips	off	the
ground.
•	The	ball	is	curled	under	the	body	using	the	heels	while	the	body	is	held
straight.

Cardiovascular	Training
	
	
Conditioning	for	Athletics
Fiber	Type
Work	Capacity	Model
Physiological	versus	Performance	Testing
Using	Physiological	Testing
Specific	Conditioning	for	Athletics
Off-Season	Conditioning
Preseason	Conditioning
Long	Cardio	versus	Interval	Training
Interval	Training	Research
Interval	Training	Programs
Interval	Training	Methods
Work	versus	Rest
Heart	Rate
Karvonen	Formula
Implementing	Interval	Training
Beginning	the	Program
Interval	Training	Modes
Running	and	the	Female	Athlete
Training	Endurance	Athletes
Pain	Site	versus	Pain	Source
The	Endurance	Athlete’s	Program
	
	

Conditioning	for	Athletics
	
	
Even	though	most	sports	are	not	aerobic	in	nature,	aerobic	capacity	for
players	is	stressed	because	people	believe	an	efficient	aerobic	system	promotes
faster	recovery.
An	efficient	aerobic	system	
will
	facilitate	faster	recovery,	but	are	we
enhancing	the	recovery	ability	of	an	athlete	we	have	made	slower?	At	what	cost
are	we	developing	the	aerobic	system	and	how	are	we	going	to	do	it?
Physiological	principles	tell	us	muscle	fiber	responds	to	training.	Are	we
taking	explosive	anaerobic	athletes	and	making	them	slower	in	our	zeal	to
enhance	their	recovery	ability?
Aerobic	training	is	it	is	easy	to	perform	and	implement,	particularly	when
compared	with	training	for	speed	and	power.	It	is	much	easier	to	demand	volume
and	effort	than	for	coaches	to	learn	the	finer	points	of	speed	and	power
development.
Most	team	sports	have	a	highly	anaerobic	component	that	puts	a
tremendous	stress	on	the	adenosine	triphosphate	(ATP),	phosphate	creatine
(ATP-PC)	and	lactic	acid	(LA)	systems.	During	most	games,	players	perform	a
series	of	three-to	five-second	sprints.	Very	rarely	is	a	player	actually	running	at	a
steady	pace	for	any	length	of	time.
It	would	appear	the	aerobic	demand	of	the	previously	described	sequence
would	be	fairly	low.	However,	the	demands	on	the	athlete’s	speed,	speed
endurance	and	acceleration	would	be	high.
	

Fiber	Type
	
	
One	of	the	major	drawbacks	of	slow	aerobic	training	is	it	may	compromise
speed	at	the	cellular	level.	The	adaptation	of	the	muscle	to	aerobic	training	is	in
direct	opposition	to	the	primary	needs	of	most	athletes.	Charlie	Francis,	in	his
book	
Training	for	Speed,
	makes	a	number	of	thought-provoking	points	regarding
the	training	of	the	sprinter,	and	it’s	my	contention	all	team	sport	athletes	are
really	sprinters.
He	wrote,	“Enough	power-related	work	must	be	done	during	the	early
years,	ages	thirteen	to	seventeen,	to	maintain	genetically	determined	levels	of
white	or	power-related	muscle	fiber	and	promote	the	shift	of	transitional	or
intermediate	fiber	to	white,	power-related	muscle	fiber.”
Francis	further	states,	“Endurance	work	must	be	carefully	limited	to	light	or
light	to	medium	volumes	to	prevent	the	conversion	of	transitional	or
intermediate	muscle	fiber	to	red	endurance	muscle	fiber.”
This	may	be	one	of	the	most	important	statements	about	the	training	of	an
athlete	you	will	ever	read.	These	concepts	have	formed	the	essence	of	my
cardiovascular	philosophy	for	the	last	fifteen	years,	and	are	key	to	the	long-term
development	of	athletes	both	young	and	old.
For	many	players,	particularly	young	developing	players,	any	emphasis	on
aerobic	conditioning	through	steady-state	exercise	is	counterproductive.
Here’s	the	key	to	making	a	kid	lousy	at	sports:	early	endurance	training.	If
you	want	a	child	to	be	slow,	start	endurance	training	as	soon	as	you	finish
reading	this.	Older	players,	too,	may	be	training	themselves	out	of	their	sports	by
adhering	to	the	aerobically	oriented	off-season	programs	of	many	sports’
coaches.
A	highly	skilled	player	may	not	be	as	adversely	affected	as	a	marginal	one.
Marginal	players	at	most	levels	generally	have	lower	vertical	jumps	and	lower
anaerobic	power	than	their	more	skilled	counterparts.	These	players	are	already
at	a	disadvantage	that	will	only	be	magnified	by	an	aerobically	oriented	training
program.
We	understand	muscles	are	made	up	basically	of	three	types	of	fibers:	fast-
twitch	anaerobic,	slow-twitch	aerobic	and	intermediate.	The	ratio	of	fast-twitch

fibers	to	slow-twitch	fibers	is	one	of	the	primary	determinants	of	success	in	most
sports.	The	best	way	to	estimate	fast-twitch	capability	is	through	vertical	jump
testing	and	ten-yard-dash	testing.
Francis	notes,	“Young	athletes	who	do	not	achieve	high	levels	of	oxygen
uptake	during	a	treadmill	test	but	who	perform	well	over	ten-to	forty-meter
sprints	probably	have	inherited	a	high	proportion	of	white	power-related	muscle
fiber.”
Current	theory	leads	coaches	to	assume	athletes	with	low	maximum	oxygen
consumption	(Max	VO2)	values	are	out	of	shape.	In	fact,	these	athletes	probably
possess	the	exact	quality	coaches	are	looking	for.	At	Boston	University,	many	of
our	talented	hockey	players	who	went	on	to	long	NHL	careers	were	the	worst
performers	in	tests	used	to	evaluate	aerobic	capacity.
An	athlete	with	a	high	vertical	jump	and	poor	aerobic	capacity	will	be	a
better	prospect	for	team	sports	than	one	with	great	aerobic	capacity	and	poor
explosive	power.	Athletes	with	predominantly	fast-twitch	fiber	will	excel	in
sprint-oriented	sports,	but	will	struggle	in	aerobic	activities.	Those	with
predominantly	slow-twitch	fiber	will	excel	at	endurance-oriented	sports.
What	happens	to	the	intermediate	fibers	is	a	result	of	the	training	program
chosen,	
and	a	program	emphasizing	long	aerobic	workouts	will	cause	the
intermediate	fibers	to	adapt	to	the	characteristics	of	slow	twitch.
One	emphasizing	interval	sprints	from	five	to	sixty	seconds	with	longer
recovery	will	promote	the	movement	of	intermediate	fibers	toward	the
anaerobic,	fast-twitch	fiber.
Conventional	aerobic	training	—	long,	slow	distance	—	should	be	done
only	as	frequently	as	is	absolutely	necessary.	Instead,	the	aerobic	system	should
be	developed	as	a	by-product	of	anaerobic	training.	Anaerobic	interval	training
will	generally	keep	the	recovery	heart	rate	in	the	aerobic	range	of	over	120	BPM
if	the	intervals	are	done	intensely	enough.
This	type	of	training	will	develop	aerobic	capacity,	but	as	a	by-product	of
the	anaerobic	work.	This	is	obviously	a	more	sport-specific	method	of	training
the	aerobic	capabilities	of	an	anaerobic	athlete.
	

Work	Capacity	Model
	
	
The	conventional	model	of	training	espouses	the	development	of
conditioning	in	a	pyramidal	concept.	Many	experts	in	the	fields	of	training
believe	the	peak	of	conditioning	can	only	be	as	high	as	the	base	allows.	The	base
in	theory	is	the	development	of	a	level	of	aerobic	capacity	onto	which	a	series	of
anaerobic	blocks	could	be	placed.	This	is	an	architectural	model	based	on	a
mechanical	system	that	probably	does	not	apply	to	exercise.
In	all	of	my	programming	since	the	early	’80s	I	have	indicated	the	concept
of	aerobic	base	is	flawed	and	the	development	of	an	aerobic	base	is
counterproductive.	Numerous	studies	have	proven	this	over	the	past	ten	years,
yet	many	continue	to	advocate	a	period	of	general	aerobic	training	to	develop	the
aerobic	base.
What	I	propose	is	an	inverted	pyramid	based	on	a	work-capacity	model.	If
our	goal	is	to	be	able	to	go	at	a	hard	pace	for	thirty	seconds,	the	model	that
makes	sense	is	shown	below.	Although	times	could	be	changed	to	forty-five	or
sixty	seconds,	the	concept	would	not	change.	It	is	far	better	to	start	small	and
develop	conditioning	than	to	endure	the	potential	overuse	injuries	and	negative
fiber-type	adaptations	associated	with	endurance	training.
It	is	significantly	easier	to	get	an	explosive	athlete	in	shape	than	it	is	to
make	an	in-shape	athlete	explosive.	The	first	will	take	weeks,	the	second	may
take	years.	Think	about	this	statement	as	you	design	your	conditioning
programs.
Mark	Verstegen	likes	to	refer	to	conditioning	as	energy	system	development
or	ESD.	In	energy	system	development,	we	see	the	beginning	of	sport-specific
training.	When	it	comes	to	conditioning,	training	truly	should	be	as	sport-
specific	as	possible.	At	a	bare	minimum,	conditioning	should	at	least	be	specific
to	groups	of	sports.	When	developing	sport-specific	conditioning	programs,	the
key	is	to	look	at	the	field,	the	substitution	patterns	and	the	energetics	of	the
game.	It’s	not	how	far	athletes	run	in	a	game,	but	at	what	pace	and	over	what
time	period.

	

Physiological	versus	Performance	Testing
	
	
The	unfortunate	consensus	in	much	of	the	sports	world	assumes	the	overall
fitness	of	an	athlete	is	based	on	his	Max	VO2.	MVO2	is	a	standard	measure	of
aerobic	capacity	originally	intended	to	evaluate	the	condition	of	athletes
involved	in	endurance	sports.	In	the	areas	of	conditioning	and	fitness	testing,	the
influence	of	exercise	physiologists	is	heavy,	and	this	information	tends	to	trickle
down	to	all	levels	of	sport.
There	is	at	least	one	fatal	flaw	in	using	physiological	data	to	evaluate	the
performance	of	athletes.	Physiological	data	like	MVO2	or	various	thresholds	are
measures	of	physiological	variables,	
not	performance	variables.
	Physiological
testing	tells	us	something	about	the	inner	workings	of	the	athlete,	but	not	nearly
enough.
Energy	systems	expert	Paul	Robbins,	also	of	Athletes’	Performance,	refers
to	MVO2	as	a	measure	of	what	someone	
might
	do.	In	sports	conditioning	and	in
the	testing	of	conditioning,	success	is	as	much	mental	as	it	is	physical.	Our	most
aerobically	fit	athletes	don’t	get	the	highest	scores	on	performance	tests.	This
means	whether	we	use	the	yo-yo	test,	the	300-yard	shuttle	run	or	a	two-mile	run,
we	do	not	see	any	correlation	to	the	physiological	variables.
All	testing	should	be	performance-based	for	athletes	because	we	want	to
see	what	they	are	capable	of	in	head-to-head	competition.	I	don’t	care	if	one
athlete	can	use	more	oxygen	or	accumulate	less	lactate	than	another	athlete;	I
want	to	see	who	will	come	in	first	when	we	line	them	up	and	test	them.	Athletes
find	physiological	testing	both	frustrating	and	confusing	because	it	rewards
physiology	over	performance.	If	you	are	going	to	evaluate	athletes,	give	them	a
chance	to	do	what	they	do	best,	which	is	to	compete.
In	a	physiological	testing	of	our	2004	Boston	University	hockey	players,
the	athlete	who	lasted	the	longest	in	the	treadmill	VO2	test	scored	a	fifty-two.
There	were	athletes	who	ran	half	as	long	and	scored	in	the	sixties.	Do	I	tell	the
first	athlete	he	is	in	poor	shape	when	he	watched	the	test	and	saw	he	ran	twice	as
long	as	the	guy	who	tested	in	better	shape?

	
You	may	think	I	believe	physiological	testing	to	be	a	complete	waste	of
time.	On	the	contrary,	we	use	the	oxygen	analyzer	to	perform	VO2	testing	on	all
our	athletes.	The	better	VO2	testing	units	on	the	market	will	provide	an
indication	of	anaerobic,	lactate	and	ventilatory	threshold,	plus	an	actual
maximum	heart	rate.
The	entire	concept	of	lactate	as	a	factor	in	fatigue	is	very	much	in	flux.
Many	top	physiologists	are	unsure	if	what	we	see	at	threshold	is	actually	the
onset	of	anaerobic	metabolism.	In	any	case,	we	do	know	a	ventilatory	threshold
occurs	and	this	threshold	signals	some	type	of	metabolic	change.
Physiological	testing	has	value,	just	not	to	evaluate	fitness.	The	key	seems
to	be	not	a	high	VO2	max,	but	rather	a	high	threshold.	This	is	a	measure	of
efficiency.	The	question	is	not	how	much	aerobic	capability	exists,	but	rather
how	much	
usable
	aerobic	capability.
That	evaluation	is	left	to	competitive	testing	in	which	the	success	or	failure
is	obvious.	The	person	who	comes	in	first	is	in	the	best	shape.
The	case	study	on	the	previous	page	is	an	excellent	illustration	of	my	point.
This	is	an	illustration	of	how	VO2	stats	can	be	misleading.	Player	one	is
clearly	significantly	more	fit	than	player	two,	even	though	player	two	has	a
higher	Peak	VO2.
If	we	just	looked	at	the	Peak	VO2	number,	we	would	conclude	player	one
was	less	fit	than	player	two.	However,	player	one	is	93%	efficient,	while	player

two	is	only	77%	efficient.	Player	one	recovered	fifty	beats	per	minute	in	the	first
minute	following	the	conclusion	of	the	test,	while	player	two	recovered	only
twenty-five	beats	per	minute.
This	physiological	data	prompts	a	lot	of	questions.	When	asked,	player	two
acknowledged	doing	a	great	deal	of	long	steady-state	training	to	raise	his	VO2
and	lower	his	bodyfat.	Player	one	trained	cardio	almost	exclusively	via	interval
training.	The	results	in	terms	of	thresholds	and	recovery	speak	for	themselves.
	

Using	Physiological	Testing
	
	
Physiological	testing,	provided	it	is	actual	gas	analysis,	yields	excellent	data
that	can	be	used	to	help	the	athlete	understand	the	cause	and	effect	of	training,
and	to	design	better	training	programs.	It	just	should	not	be	used	as	the	measure
of	how	fit	or	prepared	an	athlete	is	to	play	a	sport.
The	common	target	heart	rate	concept	uses	yet	another	flawed	physiological
assumption.	For	my	eighteen-to	twenty-two-year-old	collegians,	a	theoretical
target	heart	rate	would	be	a	max	of	198-202.	Our	true	range	when	tested	was
180-211.	When	we	do	heart-rate-oriented	training,	the	formulaic	assumption	of
220	minus	age	would	result	in	overtraining	for	some	and	undertraining	for
others,	a	variance	of	up	to	twenty-two	beats	per	minute.	This	is	detailed	more	in
the	interval	section	on	page	142.
Another	trendy	idea	is	to	do	blood	lactate	values.	This	also	is	a
physiological	measure	and	not	a	performance	measurement.	Athletes	become
frustrated	when	they	perform	well	on	performance	testing	and	are	then	told	they
are	out	of	shape	based	on	a	physiologist’s	analysis	of	data.
The	key	to	your	programming	is	to	look	at	the	demands	of	the	sport	and	not
just	do	what	everyone	else	is	doing,	but	to	envision	what	would	be	the	best	test
for	your	athletes	at	their	levels.	If	you	are	working	with	young	athletes,	be	even
more	careful	because	of	the	intermediate	fiber	type	characteristics	discussed
earlier.
A	final	problem	with	testing	of	any	type:	
Athletes	will	train	for	the	test.
	If
you	want	your	athletes	to	train	for	speed	and	power	but	you	test	for	aerobic
capacity,	you	can	rest	assured	your	athletes	will	be	training	for	aerobic	capacity
and	not	speed.
	

Specific	Conditioning	for	Athletics
	
	
The	areas	of	conditioning	that	need	to	be	emphasized	are	muscular
specificity	and	movement	specificity,	however	very	few	programs	address
changes	of	direction	as	a	vital	component	of	sport	conditioning.	Most	of	the
programs	detailed	in	this	section	address	change	of	direction	as	a	key	component
of	conditioning.
The	ability	to	tolerate	the	muscular	forces	generated	by	accelerating	and
decelerating,	and	the	ability	to	adapt	to	the	additional	metabolic	stress	caused	by
acceleration	and	deceleration	are	the	real	keys	to	conditioning.	Deficiencies	in
these	components	are	often	why	athletes	feel	they’re	not	in	game	shape.
Many	athletes	train	by	running	or	worse,	riding	a	stationary	bike	a	set
distance	in	a	set	amount	of	time	with	no	thought	to	the	additional	stresses
provided	by	the	need	to	speed	up	and	slow	down.	These	are	old-fashioned
conditioning	programs	that	operate	on	the	oversimplified	assumption	that	thirty
seconds	of	exercise	is	always	the	same.	Ask	any	athlete	to	perform	a	linear
interval	like	a	220-yard	run	and	a	150-yard	shuttle	run	on	a	twenty-five-yard
course.	Then	ask	the	athlete	to	compare	the	feeling.	Most	athletes	will	describe
the	shuttle	run	as	being	much	more	difficult.
Conditioning	Injuries
	
Athletes	are	frequently	injured	in	training	camp	settings	even	after
following	the	coach’s	prescribed	pre-camp	conditioning	program	to	the	letter.
This	is	usually	due	to	a	program	that	ignores	the	three	vital	components	of
the	conditioning	process.
•	Acceleration
•	Deceleration

•	Change	of	direction
Programs	that	force	athletes	to	increase	speed,	decrease	speed	and	change
direction	drastically	reduce	the	incidence	of	early-season	groin	and	hamstring
injuries,	and	better	prepare	the	athletes	for	the	demands	of	an	actual	game	or
event.
	

Off-Season	Conditioning
	
	
Tempo	Runs
	
Begin	an	off-season	running	program	with	tempo	runs.	I	have	our	athletes
run	110	yards	—	the	length	of	a	football	field	from	the	end	line	to	the	opposite
goal	line	—	and	then	walk	the	width	of	the	field.	When	the	athletes	reach	the
opposite	sideline,	they	run	the	110	yards	back.
In	tempo	runs	we	expect	them	to	run	at	seventy-five	to	eighty	percent	of	the
pace	they	would	use	if	sprinting	110	yards.	This	pace	would	be	about	eighteen	to
twenty	seconds	for	a	hundred	yards.
Over	a	three-week	base	phase,	we	begin	at	ten	times	110	and	work	up	to
fourteen.	Tempo	runs	get	the	body	ready	for	the	more	aggressive	intervals	to
follow.	Running	is	essential	in	the	off-season	to	counteract	the	negative	postural
changes	of	a	full	season	spent	bent	over	and	forward	flexed	in	many	sports
positions.	Stationary	cycling,	on	the	other	hand,	reinforces	the	negative	changes
of	the	sports	season	by	keeping	the	body	in	a	flexed	posture	and	not	allowing	the
hips	to	extend.
Shuttle	Intervals
	
Next	in	the	off-season	conditioning	program	is	the	progression	to	shuttle
runs.	The	fundamental	difference	between	tempo	runs	and	shuttle	runs	is	we
begin	to	increase	the	muscular	effect.	Shuttle	runs	involve	three	key	injury-
prevention	features:	acceleration,	deceleration	and	direction	change.
One	of	the	failures	of	track-based	interval	programs	like	220s	and	440s	is
these	do	not	incorporate	two	of	those	three	injury-prevention	features.	Injuries
are	most	often	associated	with	the	muscular	stresses	caused	by	speeding	up,

slowing	down	or	changing	direction.	Shuttle	runs	add	a	muscular	component	to
the	energy	system	program.
Begin	with:
•	150	yards	at	twenty-five	or	thirty	seconds,	followed	by	a	sixty-second	rest.
This	can	be	done	on	either	a	twenty-five-or	fifty-yard	course.	A	twenty-
five-yard	course	is	more	difficult,	as	it	doubles	the	direction	changes	and
the	resulting	acceleration	and	deceleration.
•	Progress	to	300	yards	done	in	less	than	sixty	seconds.
Bike	Training
	
Interval	training	on	the	bike	can	be	effective	for	older	players	who	are
unable	to	run	due	to	wear	and	tear.	Younger	athletes	tolerate	running	well,	while
older	players’	bodies	are	less	conducive	to	running.	Running	will	always	be	the
preferred	method,	but	the	bike	can	be	an	adequate	substitute.
Our	athletes	ride	for	twice	the	time	interval	as	running.	If	the	workout	calls
for	six	150-yard	sprints,	approximately	six	thirty-second	intervals,	we	substitute
a	bike	program	of	six	times	one	minute.	In	our	case,	we	use	Schwinn	Airdynes
to	capitalize	on	the	dual-action	of	upper	and	lower	body,	and	ride	half-miles.
	

Preseason	Conditioning
	
	
Although	I	am	generally	opposed	to	training	on	a	stationary	bike	in	the	off-
season,	my	opinion	changes	in	the	preseason	period.	This	may	seem	like	a	bit	of
a	flip-flop,	but	in	actuality	it’s	logical.	In	preseason,	the	concern	shifts	to
avoidance	of	muscle	strains	and	overuse	injuries.	At	this	point,	additional	work
may	best	be	done	on	a	stationary	bike	if	the	athletes	are	also	training	on	the	field,
ice	or	on	the	court.
The	rationale	for	not	using	a	bike,	or	any	incomplete	hip-extension
apparatus,	is	the	hip	extensors	and	flexors	are	not	properly	prepared	for	the
rigors	of	high	level	movement	such	as	running.	Very	often	athletes	who	train	on
a	bike,	stairclimber	or	elliptical	trainer	will	have	the	energy	system	ability	to
finish	a	session,	but	not	the	muscular	ability.	Most	exercise	machines	do	not
require	or	even	allow	hip	extension	past	neutral,	and	athletes	who	do	not	run
don’t	properly	develop	the	hip	flexors	or	extensors.
On	the	opposite	side,	most	of	the	recovery	of	the	swing	leg	in	biking	is	of	a
passive	nature.	The	result	of	off-season	training	centered	around	a	piece	of
exercise	equipment	instead	of	running	is	often	a	groin	or	hamstring	strain	during
play.	The	muscles	are	simply	not	properly	prepared	for	the	stresses	placed	on
them.
The	same	concept	holds	true	with	patella	tendon	issues	in	basketball.	Most
basketball	players	flirt	with	patella	tendon	or	patella–femoral	pain	throughout
the	year.	Additional	running	will	aggravate	these	conditions.	When	levels	of
stress	are	high	for	either	muscles	or	joints,	as	in	preseason,	additional
conditioning	may	best	be	done	on	an	alternative	piece	of	equipment.
When	training	in	the	off-season,	the	opposite	is	true;	training	should	center
around	running	whenever	possible.
Slideboard	Training
	
The	slideboard	as	a	training	tool	was	made	popular	in	the	1980s	by

Olympic	speedskater	and	current	USA	Hockey	orthopedic	surgeon,	Eric	Heiden.
Speedskaters	have	been	using	the	slideboard	for	a	number	of	years	to	develop
skate-specific	conditioning	and	mechanics	when	ice	surfaces	are	unavailable.	In
the	past	ten	years,	hockey	players	and	other	athletes	began	to	use	the	slideboard
as	part	of	their	off-season	and	preseason	training.
All	of	our	athletes,	regardless	of	sport,	perform	lateral	conditioning	on	the
slideboard	two	times	per	week	during	a	four-day	work	week.
The	real	use	of	the	slideboard	is	to	provide	an	excellent	anaerobic
endurance	workout.	You	should	manipulate	the	workto-rest	ratios	to	meet	your
athletes’	needs.
Suggested	Guidelines
	
Work	interval:	
15-30	seconds
Number	of	intervals:	
Begin	with	five
Rest	interval:	
45	seconds	to	1:30	minutes
Length	of	workout:	
10-50	minutes
Work	intervals	longer	than	thirty	seconds	usually	result	in	loss	of	technique
and	are	recommended	only	for	advanced	athletes	with	great	leg	strength.	Rest
intervals	should	be	two	or	three	times	the	work	interval.
We	generally	increase	the	number	of	work	intervals	or	decrease	the	rest
time	rather	than	lengthen	the	time	interval.	A	simple	two	day	per	week
slideboard	program	is	illustrated	on	the	next	page,	and	you’ll	find	more	detail	in
the	slideboard	training	section	on	page	181.

	
Dual-Action	Bikes
	
For	additional	in-season	conditioning	work,	I	like	the	dual-action	bikes
from	Schwinn	or	Ross	for	the	following	reasons.
•	Dual-action	bikes	are	excellent	as	they	tend	to	mimic	the	combined	arm
and	leg	action	of	running	or	skating.
•	The	combination	of	arm	and	leg	action	produces	a	higher	heart	rate	than
pedaling	alone.
Dual-action	bikes	provide	directly	accommodating	resistance.	This	is
another	often	overlooked	aspect	of	the	dual-action	bike.	The	fan	system	delivers
an	equal	and	opposite	reaction	to	the	effort	of	the	rider.	There	is	no	need	to
tighten	a	screw	or	to	adjust	the	workload	of	the	bike.	The	bike	simply	responds
to	the	effort	of	the	rider	with	greater	air	resistance.
The	dual-action	bike	tells	the	rider	not	only	how	long	he	has	ridden,	but
also	how	far.	This	allows	for	competitive	opportunity	in	a	team	or	small-group
setting.

Twenty-Percent	Rule
	
Conventional	long,	slow	distance	aerobic	training	may	be	done	once	or
twice	per	week	as	an	easy	alternative	to	the	more	strenuous	interval	work.	Time
should	not	exceed	forty	minutes	on	these	days.	This	is	an	excellent	opportunity
for	athletes	with	joint	problems	to	substitute	the	bike	for	a	run.	As	has	been
clearly	stated,	do	not	spend	extensive	time	periods	developing	the	aerobic	base.
Training	time	and	recovery	ability	is	short,	and	most	athletics	are	interval
activities,	not	aerobic	sports.
Coaches	must	look	at	the	demands	of	the	sport	and	the	fitness	of	their
players	when	implementing	a	conditioning	program.	We	can’t	make	blanket
recommendations;	training	for	athletics	should	be	adjusted	to	prepare	each
player	for	the	demands	of	the	specific	game.
One	final	thought	when	developing	conditioning	programs:	Do	not	increase
the	total	time	or	total	distance	run	by	more	than	twenty	percent	from	week	to
week.	A	twenty-percent	increase	will	keep	your	athletes	continuing	to	improve
conditioning	without	an	increased	risk	of	injury.	In	order	to	monitor	this,	it	is
important	to	calculate	both	total	distance	and	total	time.
Example
5	x150-yard	shuttle	run	=	750	yards
	
Total	time	is	approximately	2:30	of	actual	work	time	based	on	an	estimate
of	thirty	seconds	per	150-yard	shuttle.
In	order	to	stay	within	the	twenty-percent	rule,	the	distance	cannot	increase
by	more	than	150	yards,	and	the	time	by	more	than	thirty	seconds.	This	means
you	could	either	add	an	additional	150-yard	shuttle	or	have	your	athlete	perform
one	300-yard	sprint	and	four	150s.	This	would	give	a	total	time	of	three	minutes
and	a	total	distance	of	900	yards.
This	twenty-percent	rule	is	the	key	to	injury	prevention	when	designing
conditioning	programs.
	

Long	Cardio	versus	Interval	Training
	
	
Long,	slow	distance	sounds	like	a	torture	method,	“You’ve	been	sentenced
to	one	year	of	long	slow	distance.”	I	despise	long,	slow	distance	aerobic	training.
It	is	bad	for	women	and	it’s	bad	for	almost	all	athletes	other	than	those	who	race
for	long	periods	of	time	or	over	long	distances.
Most	running	injuries	are	of	the	overuse	nature.	Very	little	trauma	occurs	in
the	endurance	world	save	the	infrequent	untimely	meeting	of	runner	and
motorized	vehicle.	And	when	overuse	is	the	problem,	less	is	always	the	answer.
Conventional	aerobic	training	is	only	good	to	get	a	person	fit	enough	to
tolerate	interval	training,	or	to	serve	as	a	break	from	interval	sessions.	Steady-
state	aerobics	may	be	nothing	more	than	the	necessary	precursor	to	any	interval
program.
Does	that	mean	we’ve	been	lied	to	all	these	years?	I	think	unintentionally,
yes.	The	whole	aerobic	craze	was	a	mistake.	Long	aerobic	training	is	popular
because	it	is	easy	to	implement	and	because	the	media	glorified	it.
Interval	training	is	hard.	Interval	training	is	uncomfortable.	
Interval
training	is	superior.
Interval	training	develops	aerobic	capacity	better	than	aerobic	training.	The
fastest	way	to	raise	VO2	max,	our	standard	measure	of	aerobic	fitness,	is
through	interval	training.	Look	at	the	research;	ask	a	physiologist:	If	you	want	to
be	more	aerobically	fit,	steady-state	aerobics	is	not	the	best	way	to	get	there.
Another	benefit	to	interval	training	is	the	positive	changes	in	the	body	that
come	about	from	interval	work.	Bottom	line,	sprinters	have	leaner	bodies	with	a
more	aesthetically	pleasing	appearance	than	those	who	only	do	steady-state
aerobic	training.	Those	engaged	in	interval	sports	almost	inadvertently	develop	a
better	body.	In	fact,	sprinters	generally	have	less	bodyfat	than	the	thinner
distance	athletes.
If	that’s	true,	why	would	anyone	do	long	aerobic	training?	The	truth	is,	I
have	no	idea.	I	can’t	see	the	benefit,	and	that	is	why	my	athletes	and	clients
almost	never	do	aerobic	training.

Interval	Training	Research
	
A	recent	study	done	on	strength	training	showed	resistance	exercise
reversed	the	genetic	fingerprint	of	elderly	people.	“The	genetic	fingerprint	was
reversed	to	that	of	younger	people	—	not	entirely,	but	enough	to	say	their	genetic
profile	was	more	like	that	of	young	people	than	old	people,”	wrote	Simon
Melov,	director	of	genomics	at	the	Buck	Institute	in	Novato,	California.
Although	this	study	actually	looked	at	strength	training,	the	concept	could	also
apply	to	interval	training.	Interval	training	stresses	not	only	the	energy	system,
but	also	the	muscular	system.
Another	study	known	as	the	Tabata	study	again	demonstrated	the	benefits
of	interval	training.	Dr.	Izumi	Tabata	compared	moderate	intensity	endurance
training	at	about	seventy	percent	of	VO2	max	to	high	intensity	intervals	done	at
170	percent	of	VO2	max.	Dr.	Tabata	used	a	unique	protocol	of	twenty	seconds
work	to	ten	seconds	rest,	done	in	seven	or	eight	bouts.	This	was	basically	a
series	of	twenty-second	intervals	performed	during	a	four-minute	span.
Again,	the	results	were	nothing	short	of	amazing.	The	20/10	protocol
improved	the	VO2	max	and	the	anaerobic	capabilities	more	than	the	steady-state
program.
Further	evidence	for	the	superiority	of	higher	intensity	work	can	be	found
in	the	September/October	2006	issue	of	the	
ACSM	Journal,
	wherein	at	the
conclusion	of	his	research	Dr.	David	Swain	stated:
“Running	burns	twice	as	many	calories	as	walking.”
	
Do	the	math.	Swain	says	a	136-pound	person	will	burn	fifty	calories
walking	a	mile,	and	proportionally	more	as	the	subject’s	weight	increases.	In
other	words,	a	163-pound	person	—	weighing	twenty	percent	more	—	would
burn	twenty	percent	more	calories;	the	expenditure	goes	from	fifty	to	sixty
calories,	a	twenty-percent	increase.
Swain	goes	on	to	explain	that	running	at	seven	miles	per	hour	burns	twice
as	many	calories	as	walking	at	four	mph.	This	means	a	runner	burns	a	hundred
calories	in	roughly	eight-and-a-half	minutes,	or	about	eleven	calories	a	minute.
The	walker	at	four	miles	per	hour	burns	fifty	calories	in	fifteen	minutes,	the	time
it	takes	to	walk	a	mile	at	four	miles	per	hour.	That’s	less	than	four	calories	per
minute	of	exercise.
Canadian	researcher	and	sport	scientist	Martin	Gibala,	Associate	Professor
of	Kinesiology	at	McMaster	University	in	Canada,	published	a	study	in	the

Journal	of	Physiology
	comparing	interval	training	to	steady-state	training.	The
study,	although	conducted	over	only	a	two-week	period,	looked	at	a	twenty-
minute	interval	program	versus	steady-state	work	ranging	from	90	to	120
minutes.	The	interval	work	consisted	of	thirty-second	sprints	followed	by	four
minutes	of	slow	pedaling.
This	would	amount	to	two	to	two-andhalf	minutes	of	high-intensity	work
during	a	twenty-minute	session	as	compared	to	90-120	minutes	in	the	heart	rate
zone	for	the	distance	group.	The	remarkable	result:	Subjects	got	the	same
improvement	in	oxygen	utilization	from	both	programs.	What	is	amazing	is	the
twenty-minute	program	only	requires	about	two	minutes	and	thirty	seconds	of
actual	work.
The	study	concluded	both	methods	showed	roughly	the	same	improvement
in	the	chosen	marker	of	oxygen	utilization.	Each	group	worked	out	three	times	a
week;	the	interval	group	exercised	for	a	total	elapsed	time	of	one	hour	per	week
with	six	to	seven-and-a-half	minutes	of	intense	exercise	during	that	hour.	The
steady-state	group	exercised	between	four-and-ahalf	and	six	hours	a	week,	yet
the	aerobic	benefits	were	the	same.
If	time	is	an	issue,	interval	training	is	the	answer.	The	Gibala	study	only
looked	at	aerobic	capacity	and	not	caloric	expenditure	or	weight	loss,	but	it’s
another	huge	boost	for	those	who	believe	in	the	superiority	of	interval	training.
Athletes	have	known	this	for	years;	unfortunately,	the	fitness	and	medical
communities	continue	to	beat	the	long,	slow	distance	drum.
	

Interval	Training	Programs
	
	
In	the	simplest	sense,	interval	training	is	nothing	more	than	a	method	of
conditioning	using	alternating	periods	of	work	and	rest.	The	complicated	part	of
interval	training	is	figuring	out	the	rest	and	work	ratios	for	individual	athletes.
Athletes	in	team	sports	have	used	interval	training	for	years	to	prepare	for
their	sports,	while	the	rest	of	the	fitness	world	embraced	conventional	steady-
state	aerobic	training.	Savvy	personal	trainers	are	using	concepts	previously
reserved	for	athletes	to	improve	results	in	their	fitness	clients.	Every	day	more
people	discover	they	don’t	need	thirty	or	forty	minutes	a	day	on	a	piece	of
aerobic	equipment	to	get	lean	or	to	get	fit.	Even	better,	the	data	actually	shows
less	is	more.
The	popularity	of	interval	training	has	even	given	it	a	new	name	in	the
literature,	often	referring	to	as	High	Intensity	Interval	Training	(HIIT),	and	it	is
now	the	darling	of	the	fat-loss	and	conditioning	worlds.
Many	modern	fat-loss	articles	espouse	the	value	of	interval	training	for	fat
loss.	In	my	normal	process	of	professional	reading,	I	read	both	Alwyn
Cosgrove’s	
Afterburn
	and	Craig	Ballantyne’s	
Turbo	Training
.	What	struck	me
immediately	was	what	these	experts	were	recommending	for	fat	loss	looked
remarkably	like	the	programs	we	use	for	conditioning.
At	the	time	I	was	reading	these	programs,	I	was	also	training	members	of
the	US	Women’s	Olympic	ice	hockey	team.	All	of	the	female	athletes	I	worked
with	used	steady-state	cardio	work	as	a	weight-loss	or	weight-maintenance
vehicle.	was	diametrically	opposed	to	this	idea	because	steady-state
cardiovascular	work	undermined	the	strength	and	power	work	we	were	doing	in
the	weightroom.	My	policy	became	if	they	wanted	to	do	extra	work	it	would	be
only	intervals,	not	as	a	fat-loss	strategy,	but	rather	as	a	slowness-prevention
strategy.
A	funny	thing	happened:	The	female	athletes	we	prevented	from	doing
steady-state	cardiovascular	work	also	began	to	get	remarkably	leaner.	I	didn’t
put	two	and	two	together	until	I	read	the	Cosgrove	and	Ballantyne	manuals	and
realized	we	were	doing	exactly	what	the	fat-loss	experts	recommended:	We	had
the	women	on	a	vigorous	strength	program,	and	they	were	doing	lots	of

intervals.
The	biggest	side	benefit	of	interval	training	is	there’s	a	tremendous	aerobic
workout	without	the	boredom	of	long,	steady-state	bouts	of	exercise.	We	see
superior	results	in	both	fitness	and	fat	loss	by	incorporating	interval	training.
If	the	heart	rate	is	maintained	above	the	theoretical	sixty-percent	threshold
proposed	for	aerobic	training,	the	entire	session	is	both	aerobic	and	anaerobic.
This	is	why	we	do	almost	no	conventional	aerobic	training.	All	of	our	aerobic
work	is	a	by-product	of	our	anaerobic	work.
My	clients	get	their	heart	rates	in	the	recommended	aerobic	range	for
fifteen	to	twenty	minutes,	yet	in	some	cases	they	do	only	five	to	seven	minutes
of	actual	work.
There	are	three	major	reasons	people	don’t	interval	train.
•	One,	the	media	has	drastically	oversold	the	benefits	of	aerobic	training	in
the	same	way	they	oversold	the	highcarb,	low-fat	diet.
•	Two,	intervals	are	hard.	Aerobic	training	may	be	long	and	boring,	but	you
don’t	end	up	lying	on	the	floor	panting	for	air.
•	Three,	people	don’t	know	where	to	begin	with	interval	training.
Numbers	two	and	three	present	the	greatest	problem	even	if	we	can
overcome	number	one.	The	data	on	interval	training	sells	interval	training	over
aerobic	training	if	anyone	bothers	to	look.	It’s	getting	people	to	realize	interval
training	doesn’t	initially	have	to	be	devastatingly	hard,	and	describing	how	to
construct	an	interval	program	that’s	difficult.
To	understand	how	to	perform	HIIT	in	our	programs,	we	need	to	understand
exactly	what	interval	training	is.	In	the	simplest	sense,	interval	training	is
nothing	more	than	a	method	of	exercise	that	uses	alternating	periods	of	work	and
rest.
How	much	work	do	we	do?	How	hard	should	we	do	it?	How	long	should
we	rest	before	we	do	it	again?
The	field	of	exercise	science	is	in	a	state	of	flux	unlike	anything	we	have
seen	in	the	last	thirty	years.	There	is	a	distinct	lack	of	clarity	in	the	former
bedrock	of	exercise	physiology.	In	the	past,	we	had	firm	belief	in	concepts	like
anaerobic	threshold	and	lactate	threshold.	But	now,	it	seems	the	more	we	know,
the	more	we	don’t	know.	The	fact	is	we	still	know	very	little	about	exercise
physiology.
	

Heart-Rate	Elevation
	
	
Here	are	some	things	I	do	know	that	will	help	you	with	designing	interval
programs.
Shorter	intervals	produce	less	heart	rate	elevation,	yet	can	feel	as	difficult	as
longer	intervals.	In	other	words,	it’s	not	simply	about	HR	elevation.
Intervals	of	less	than	a	minute	don’t	elevate	HR	as	significantly	as	longer
intervals.	This	does	not	mean	they	are	not	beneficial,	it	only	means	the	heart
needs	time	to	elevate.
Strangely	enough,	your	athlete	may	not	recover	as	rapidly	from	a	shorter
interval	as	from	a	longer	interval	when	the	recovery	is	viewed	as	a	multiple	of
the	work	interval.	In	other	words,	a	thirty-second	sprint	may	require	a	one-
minute	recovery	(2:1	rest	to	work)	where	a	one-minute	sprint	might	only	require
an	additional	thirty	seconds	(1.5:1	rest	to	work).
Shorter	intervals	of	fifteen	to	sixty	seconds	have	a	higher	muscular	demand
and	a	lower	perceived	cardiovascular	demand.	The	cardiovascular	demand	may
be	perceived	to	be	lower	based	on	less	elevation	in	heart	rate.
Even	though	I	am	recommending	heart	rate	as	the	best	way	to	dictate
interval	training,	heart	rate	may	not	tell	the	whole	story.
	

Interval	Training	Methods
	
	
There	are	two	primary	methods	of	performing	interval	training.	The	first	is
the	conventional	work-to-rest	method,	and	the	second	is	heart-rate	based	using	a
monitor.
Work	versus	Rest
	
This	technique	uses	a	set	time	for	work	and	a	set	time	for	rest.	Ratios	are
determined,	and	the	athlete	rests	for	generally	one,	two	or	three	times	the	length
of	the	work	interval	before	repeating	the	next	bout.	The	big	drawback	to	the
work-to-rest	method	is	time	is	arbitrary.	We	have	no	idea	what	is	actually
happening	inside	the	body;	we	simply	guess.
Rest-to-Work	Ratio
	
The	longer	the	interval,	the	shorter	the	rest	as	a	percentage	of	the	interval.
In	other	words,	short	intervals	with	a	high	muscular	demand	will	require	longer
rests	when	viewed	as	a	percentage	of	the	interval.	Fifteen-second	intervals	will
need	at	least	a	two	to	one	(2:1)	rest-to-work	ratio.	Three	to	one	(3:1)	will	work
better	for	beginners.
Interval	rest	recommendations	are	as	follows:
•	Fifteen	seconds	work	—	Beginners	rest	at	least	forty-five	seconds	(3:1),
more	advanced	rest	thirty	seconds	(2:1)
•	Thirty	seconds	work	—	Rest	one	to	one-and-a-half	minutes	(2:1	or	3:1)
•	Sixty	seconds	work	—	Rest	one	to	two	minutes	(1:1	or	2:1)

As	the	intervals	get	longer,	the	recovery	time	does	not	need	to	be	as	long	as
it	relates	to	the	interval.	In	other	words,	a	two-minute	interval	may	only	need	to
be	followed	by	a	two-minute	rest.
Heart	Rate
	
With	the	mass	production	of	heart	rate	monitors,	we	are	no	longer	required
to	guess.	The	future	of	interval	training	lies	with	accurate,	low-cost	heart	rate
monitors.	We	don’t	look	at	time	as	a	measure	of	recovery	as	we	formerly	did	in
our	rest-to-work	ratios;	we	are	now	looking	at	physiology.
It’s	important	to	understand	the	close	relationship	between	heart	rate	and
intensity.	Although	heart	rate	is	not	a	direct	and	flawless	measure	of	either
intensity	or	recovery	status,	it	is	far	better	than	simply	choosing	a	time	interval
to	rest.
To	use	the	heart	rate	method,	we	select	an	appropriate	recovery	heart	rate.
In	our	case,	we	use	sixty	percent	of	theoretical	max	heart	rate	using	the
Karvonen	method.
There’s	a	big	problem	with	the	commonly	used	220-minus-age	maximum
heart	rate	formula:	At	least	seventy	percent	of	the	population	does	not	fit	into	our
theoretical	calculations.	Older	athletes	are	even	less	inclined	to	fit	the	formula.
It’s	not	unusual	to	see	our	thirty-five-year-old	athletes	work	in	excess	of	185
beats	per	minute.	Assumptions	based	on	the	old	formula	can	create	significant
program	design	issues	if	used	to	create	conditioning	programs.
The	old	formula	doesn’t	fit	a	significant	portion	of	the	population,	and	it	is
not	based	on	research.	Even	the	developer	of	the	famous	formula	says	his
thoughts	were	taken	out	of	context.
The	more	accurate	method	is	known	as	the	Heart	Rate	Reserve	Method,
also	called	the	Karvonen	formula.
Karvonen	Formula
	
The	Karvonen	formula	looks	at	larger	measures	of	fitness	by	incorporating
the	resting	heart	rate	and	is	therefore	less	arbitrary.	It	looks	like	this:
Maximum	heart	rate	minus	resting	heart	rate	times	percent,	plus	resting

heart	rate	(RHR)	equals	theoretical	heart	rate	(THR)
Example:	(200-60)	x.8	+60	=	172
	
After	a	work	interval	of	a	predetermined	time	is	completed,	the	recovery	is
set	by	the	time	it	takes	to	return	to	the	recovery	heart	rate.
When	using	heart	rate	response,	the	whole	picture	changes.	Initial	recovery
in	well-conditioned	athletes	and	clients	is	often	rapid.	In	fact,	rest-to-work	ratios
may	be	less	than	1:1	in	the	initial	intervals.	An	example	of	a	typical	workout	for
a	well-conditioned	athlete	is	shown	below.
Interval	1
Work	60	seconds,	rest	45	seconds
	
Interval	2
Work	60	seconds,	rest	60	seconds
	
Interval	3
Work	60	seconds,	rest	75	seconds
	
Interval	4
Work	60	seconds,	rest	90	seconds
	
	
In	a	conventional	2:1	ratio	time-based	program,	the	rest	would	have	been
too	long	for	the	first	three	intervals,	rendering	them	less	effective.	The	reverse
may	be	true	in	a	deconditioned	client.	I	have	seen	young,	deconditioned	athletes
need	rest	periods	up	to	eight	times	as	long	as	the	work	interval.	I’ve	seen	clients
who	needed	two	minutes	rest	after	a	fifteen-second	interval.
	

Implementing	Interval	Training
	
	
Most	people	visualize	interval	training	as	a	track	concept,	but	our	preferred
method	of	interval	training	is	the	stationary	bike.	Although	running	is	the
theoretical	best	mode	of	interval	training,	the	facts	are	clear:	Most	adults	are	not
fit	enough	to	run.
In	fact,	statistics	estimate	sixty	percent	of	those	who	begin	a	running
program	will	be	injured.	In	a	fitness	or	personal	training	setting,	that	is	entirely
unacceptable.	Women,	based	on	the	structure	of	the	female	body	—	wider	hips,
narrower	knees	—	are	potentially	at	even	greater	risk.	Physical	therapist	Diane
Lee	says	it	best	in	her	statement,	“You	can’t	run	to	get	fit.	You	need	to	be	fit	to
run.”
Interval	training	can	be	done	on	any	piece	of	cardio	equipment.	However,
the	most	expeditious	choice	is	a	dual-action	bike	like	the	Schwinn	Airdyne.	An
athlete	can	work	really	hard	and	not	be	injured	on	a	stationary	bike.
Fit	individuals	can	choose	any	training	mode,	however	the	bike	is	the	safest
choice.	In	my	mind,	the	worst	choice	might	be	elliptical	trainers.	Charles	Staley
has	a	concept	he	calls	the	180	Principle:	Staley	advocates	doing	exactly	the
opposite	of	what	you	see	everyone	else	doing.	Walking	on	a	treadmill	and	using
an	elliptical	trainer	seem	to	be	the	two	most	popular	modes	of	training	in	a	gym;
my	conclusion,	supported	by	Staley’s	180	Principle,	is	neither	is	of	much	use.
Many	athletes	avoid	running	due	to	knee	problems.	However,	most	knee
pain	is	caused	by	distance	running,	not	interval	training.	Interval	work	is	usually
tougher	on	the	muscles	and	mind	than	on	the	joints.	Many	athletes	who	can
interval	train	with	no	knee	pain	find	the	repeated	foot	strikes	of	jogging
problematic.	If	for	some	reason	the	program	calls	for	a	steady-state	run,	which	it
rarely	should,	athletes	with	patella-femoral	pain	would	be	allowed	to	ride	a
stationary	bike	or	use	an	elliptical	trainer.
Although	heart	rate	recovery	is	an	excellent	way	to	gauge	fitness,	recovery
is	clearly	a	variable	based	on	intensity.	Recovery	is	fairly	consistent	regardless	of
the	length	of	interval	if	the	interval	is	done	at	the	same	relative	intensity.
Shorter,	more	intense	intervals	provide	a	greater	stress	to	the	recovery
system	while	providing	an	apparently	lower	stress	level	to	the	cardiovascular

system.
For	shorter	intervals	heart	rate	is	a	somewhat	imperfect	indicator	of
intensity.	The	heart	rate	takes	time	to	elevate,	and	a	thirty-second	sprint	is	not
sufficient	to	push	the	heart	rate	of	a	trained	individual	to	maximal	levels.
This	does	not	mean	these	intervals	do	not	have	value,	only	that	the	effect	on
the	cardiovascular	system	may	be	different.	Shorter	intervals	produce	lower
heart	rates,	yet	seem	to	require	a	greater	recovery	period.	This	is	an	area	that
needs	further	study	as	we	learn	more	about	heart	rate	training.
Our	knowledge	of	interval	training,	particularly	as	it	applies	to	team	sports,
is	in	its	infancy.	We	need	to	do	additional	work	with	heart	rate	monitors	to	begin
to	develop	better	interval	protocols.
However,	some	simple	recommendations	can	be	made.
Resting	time	should	increase	slightly	after	each	interval.	A	simple	system
would	be	to	select	a	theoretical	rest-to-work	ratio	and	work	up	to	it.	A	workout
previously	done	with	a	time-based	rest-to-work	of	two	to	one	(2:1)	would
theoretically	be	as	follows.
Interval	1
1:1	(30-second	sprint,	30-second	rest)
	
Interval	2
1:1.25	(30-second	sprint,	38-second	rest)
	
Interval	3
1:1.5	(30-second	sprint,	45-second	rest)
	
Interval	4
1:1.75	(30-second	print,	53-second	rest)
	
Interval	5
1:2	(30-second	sprint,	60-second	rest)
	

	
It	is	obvious	this	would	not	be	practical.
A	practical	modification	would	be:
Interval	1
30-second	sprint,	30-second	rest
	
Intervals	2	and	3
30-second	sprint,	45-second	rest
	
Intervals	4	and	5
30-second	sprint,	60-second	rest
	
	
	

Beginning	the	Program
	
	
Deconditioned	clients	may	need	three	weeks	to	a	month	of	steady	work	to
get	ready	for	intervals.	This	is	okay;	plan	for	it	and	don’t	wipe	out	a	beginner
with	interval	training.	Begin	with	a	quality	strength	program	and	some	steady-
state	cardiovascular	work.	This	is	a	good	use	for	steady-state	work,	preparing	an
athlete	or	client	for	the	intervals	to	come.
For	most	sports,	the	majority	of	conditioning	should	be	interval	training
done	on	a	field,	a	slideboard,	or	for	athletes	with	injury	problems,	a	bike.
Conditioning	program	effectiveness	is	tremendously	increased	if	a	heart	rate
monitor	is	used.
For	our	hockey	players,	we	have	gone	to	a	system	of	self-paced	interval
training	based	on	individual	heart	rate	response.
The	athletes	are	told:
•	How	many	intervals	to	perform
•	Whether	or	not	they	are	attempting	to	train	above	their	anaerobic
threshold,	as	determined	during	their	VO2	test
•	How	many	beats	of	recovery	heart	rate	they	are	to	use
For	an	athlete	with	a	threshold	in	the	160-to	170-beat-per-minute	range,	we
recommend	a	forty-beat-per-minute	recovery.	For	athletes	with	thresholds	above
170,	we	recommend	a	fifty-beat-per-minute	recovery	period.	Each	athlete
recovers	at	his	own	ability	based	on	the	reaction	of	his	heart	to	training.	This
means	some	athletes	may	perform	the	majority	of	the	workout	at	a	1:1	rest-to-
work	ratio,	while	others	will	be	2:1	or	even	3:1.
Each	athlete	performs	a	self-paced	workout,	but	cannot	cheat	due	to	the
presence	of	the	heart	rate	monitor.	This	insures	we	will	not	overtrain	unfit
athletes	or	undertrain	fit	athletes.
Think	about	an	old-fashioned	interval	workout.	Everyone	would	be	told	the
distance	to	run,	the	time	to	run	the	distance,	and	the	rest	time.	This	is	incredibly

arbitrary.	The	assumption	is	the	time	of	the	work	interval	is	all	that	matters.
In	reality,	the	more	fit	athletes	may	be	having	an	easy	day,	while	the	less	fit
athlete	is	actually	working	too	hard.	Basing	the	workout	on	actual	recovery
versus	an	arbitrary	ratio	of	rest	to	work	is	more	logical.
	

Interval	Training	Modes	in	Detail
	
	
Running
	
Running	is	the	most	effective,	but	is	also	the	most	likely	to	cause	injury.
A	combination	of	shuttle	running	(intensive)	and	tempo	running	(extensive)
are	best.	Both	can	be	done	in	standard	restto-work	format	or	with	a	heart	rate
monitor.
Shuttle	runs	have	both	high	muscular	demand	because	of	acceleration	and
deceleration,	and	they	also	have	a	high	metabolic	demand.
Running	is	relative.	Running	straight	ahead	for	thirty	seconds	is
significantly	easier	than	a	thirty-second	shuttle	run.
Treadmill	Running
	
The	treadmill	is	a	close	second	to	ground-based	running	in	both
effectiveness	and	injury	potential.
Getting	on	and	off	a	moving	treadmill	is	an	athletic	skill	and	an	error	can
result	in	serious	injury.	Treadmill	interval	running	is	probably	not	for	the	average
personal	training	client.
Treadmill	speeds	are	deceiving.	For	example,	ten	miles	per	hour	is	only	a
six-minute	mile,	yet	can	feel	very	fast	on	a	treadmill.	However,	ten	MPH	is	not	a
difficult	pace	of	intervals	for	a	well-conditioned	athlete.
•	High-quality	interval	treadmills	should	go	to	fifteen	MPH.
•	Lack	of	true	active	hip	extension	may	undertrain	the	hamstrings.

In	treadmill	running,	the	belt	moves,	while	the	athlete	just	stays	airborne.
Treadmill	times	do	not	translate	well	to	running	on	the	ground.	This	may	be	due
to	lack	of	ground-contact	time.
Time-based:
	Try	fifteen	seconds	on,	with	forty-five	seconds	off	at	seven
MPH	on	a	five-percent	incline.	When	safety	is	a	concern,	decrease	the	speed	and
increase	the	incline.
Heart-rate	based:
	(max	HR	of	200	used	for	example)	—	Use	a	fifteen-
second	sprint	and	rest	until	the	heart	rate	returns	to	120	beats	per	minute.
Rest	is	rest;	don’t	allow	the	athlete	to	walk	or	jog,	or	the	heart	rate	will
lower	more	slowly.
Non-Motorized	Treadmills
	
Another	alternative	is	the	non-motorized	treadmill,	like	the	new	Woodway
Speedboard.	The	concept	of	a	treadmill	that	has	no	motor	is	not	new,	but	the	idea
is	gradually	gaining	acceptance	in	the	performance	world.
A	company	called	Sprint	manufactured	a	line	of	non-motorized	treadmills
that	were	well	before	their	time;	the	Speedboard	may	still	be	before	its	time,
however	intelligent	coaches	will	immediately	see	the	value	in	non-motorized
treadmills.
The	non-motorized	treadmill	takes	the	major	flaw	out	of	treadmill	running.
The	runner	must	now	actively	extend	the	hip	to	move	the	belt.	This	is	a	big	leap
forward	for	those	in	the	Northeast	who	are	forced	indoors	during	tough	winter
weather.
Stationary	Bike
	
•	Probably	the	best	safe	tool
•	Requires	limited	skill,	low	potential	for	overuse	injury
Dual-action	bikes	like	the	Schwinn	Airdyne	produce	a	higher	heart	rate	due
to	the	combined	action	of	the	arms	and	legs.	There	is	no	better	affordable	option
than	the	Airdyne.	Although	they	require	periodic	maintenance,	these	are	the

perfect	interval	tools	as	they	do	not	need	adjustments	to	belts	or	knobs	during
training.	The	fan	is	an	accommodating	resistance	device,	meaning	the	harder	the
push,	the	more	resistance	in	return.
If	you	have	large-fan	Airdynes,	purchase	and	install	windscreens.	Most
athletes	dislike	the	large-fan	Airdynes	as	they	are	unable	to	work	up	a	sweat
without	the	optional	windscreen.
Use	the	same	time	recommendations	as	for	the	treadmill.	Do	not	go	all-out
because	this	will	seriously	undermine	the	ability	to	repeat	additional	intervals.
Levels	should	be	adjusted	down	for	fitness	level	and	up	for	body	size.	Larger
athletes	will	find	the	bike	easier.
Large-fan	Airdynes	will	have	slightly	different	work	levels	than	the	newer,
smaller-fan	models.
Slideboard
	
The	slideboard	is	the	best	bang	for	the	buck	after	the	Airdyne.	Some
question	the	effect	of	the	slideboard	on	the	knees,	however	there	is	nothing	more
than	the	anecdotal	reports	of	a	few	writers	to	support	this	as	an	issue.
In	a	fitness	setting	there	is	a	skill	requirement.	Clients	must	be	warned	they
may	fall	and	potentially	be	injured.	This	may	sound	stupid,	but	be	sure	to	inform
the	client	the	board	is	slippery.
The	slideboard	provides	the	added	benefits	of	a	standing	position	and	hip
abductor	and	adductor	work.
Slideboards	are	also	great	for	groups.	No	adjustments	between	athletes	are
needed;	you	just	need	extra	booties.	We	order	four	pair	for	every	board.
Climbers	and	Ellipticals
	
The	key	to	using	any	climbing	device	is	to	keep	the	hands	and	arms	off	of
the	equipment	rails.	This	is	critical:	Put	a	heart	rate	monitor	on	your	client,	keep
the	hands	off	the	rails	and	watch	the	heart	rate	skyrocket.	If	the	client	complains
about	lack	of	balance,	slow	the	machine	down	and	develop	balance,	but	don’t
allow	the	client	to	hold	on.
The	StepMill	is	the	least	popular,	and	is	the	most	effective.	Conventional
stairclimbers	are	easier	to	abuse	than	the	StepMill.	Many	users	ramp	up	the

speed	while	allowing	the	arms	to	hold	much	of	the	bodyweight.
The	elliptical	machine	is	the	most	popular	because	it	is	easiest.	This	is
nothing	more	than	human	nature	at	work.	Discourage	your	client	from	using	an
elliptical	trainer.
	

Running	and	the	Female	Athlete
	
	
Women	who	run	successfully	for	long	periods	of	time	are	structured	to	run.
They	look	very	much	like	male	runners;	good	female	runners	generally	do	not
look	like	plus-size	models	and	they	are	usually	not	tall.	It’s	not	a	question	of
cause	and	effect;	it’s	a	question	of	natural	selection.	You	can’t	run	to	get	a
runner’s	body.	It’s	actually	the	reverse:	You	have	to	have	a	runner’s	body	to
survive	running.
This	is	simple	anatomy	and	physics.	No	matter	how	hard	you	try	or	how
well	you	eat,	you	can’t	change	your	skeleton.	The	problem	with	most	women
and	the	activity	of	running	comes	down	to	the	Q	angle,	which	boils	down	to	this:
Wider	hips	make	for	narrowness	at	the	knees.	Q	angle	looks	at	the	inclination	of
the	femur	relative	to	the	pelvis.	The	increased	Q	angle	seen	in	most	female
athletes	predisposes	them	to	issues	not	found	in	male	athletes.	IT	band	issues,
patella-femoral	problems	and	problems	with	the	plantar	fascia	can	all	be
magnified	by	an	increased	Q	angle.
This	angle	of	hip	to	knee	creates	problems,	and	those	are	magnified	by	the
number	of	steps	taken.	The	average	person	gets	about	1,500	foot	strikes	per
mile;	do	the	math	on	a	five-mile	run.	Running	produces	forces	in	the	area	of	two
to	five	times	bodyweight	per	foot	contact.	Do	we	need	more	math	than	that?
Let’s	go	back	to	our	elite	female	runner.	Look	at	her	body.	You	will
generally	see	two	things:	She	has	narrow	hips	and	she	has	small	breasts.	There
may	be	exceptions,	but	at	the	elite	level	I	doubt	it.	One	thought	process	may	be,
“Great,	my	hips	and	breasts	will	decrease	in	size	if	I	run.”	The	other	view	is
more	logical:	Women	with	larger	breasts	and	wider	hips	don’t	make	good
runners.	It’s	the	same	reason	there	are	no	large	gymnasts	or	figure	skaters…
physics.	Bigger	people	rotate	slower.	Natural	selection	rules.
What	happens	when	a	normal-sized	woman	begins	to	run?	She	becomes	a
statistic.	She	becomes	a	physical	therapy	client	as	she	tries	to	shovel	you-know-
what	against	the	tide.	Her	wider	hips	cause	her	to	develop	foot	or	knee	problems.
Her	larger	bodyweight	causes	greater	ground	reaction	forces.	Greater	ground
reaction	forces	stress	muscle	and	breast	tissue.	The	end	result	might	be	hurt	and
saggy	instead	of	lean.

This	is	not	a	popular	position,	but	the	bottom	line	is	distance	running	is	not
good	for	most	women.	If	your	female	clients	want	higher	intensity	exercise,	give
them	intervals	on	a	stationary	bike.	Schedule	them	for	a	spin	class,	put	them	on
rowers	or	stairclimbers,	but	don’t	send	them	out	for	a	run.
The	reality	is	in	women	
or
	men,	endurance	training	can	lead	to	overuse
injury.	My	point	is	the	female	bodytype	puts	women	at	greater	risk.
Research	has	shown	that	six	out	of	ten	females	who	begin	a	distance
running	program	will	eventually	be	injured.
A	study	of	Army	recruits	suggests	greater	amounts	of	running	not	only
results	in	greater	risks	of	injury,	but	in	some	instances	may	also	impart	no
additional	increase	in	fitness,	a	finding	consistent	with	an	earlier	study	of
civilian	runners.
On	a	typical	women’s	basketball	team,	this	translates	to	nine	out	of	fifteen
athletes	potentially	injured	by	a	program	of	distance	running.	Factor	in	the	size
and	weight	of	the	typical	female	collegiate	basketball	player	and	we	can	safely
assume	this	number	goes	up,	not	down.
It	is	tough	to	look	at	something	you	enjoy	and	realize	it	may	not	be	good	for
you.	As	you	have	this	conversation	with	some	of	your	female	athletes,	they	may
not	be	happy	to	hear	it.	The	purpose	of	this	section	is	to	promote	a	cautious,
thoughtful	attitude,	not	to	stop	those	who	are	running	pain-free	from	continuing
the	activity.
However,	it	is	clear	the	majority	of	the	women	who	take	up	running	do	so
as	a	weight-loss	or	weight-control	method.	Running	may	be	a	poor	exercise
choice	for	weight	loss	as	a	participant	and	even	worse,	a	poor	recommendation
for	your	client	if	you	are	a	trainer.
	

Training	Endurance	Athletes
	
	
Training	endurance	athletes	can	be	a	gold	mine	for	personal	trainers	and
strength	coaches	if	they	understand	the	mentality.	Endurance	athletes	have	a	lot
of	qualities	that	make	them	desirable	clients.	They	are	generally	motivated,	in
need	of	help	and	often	affluent.	In	addition,	triathletes,	runners	and	rowers	far
outnumber	team	sport	athletes	in	the	adult	population.
The	first	question	you	need	to	ask	yourself	in	order	to	understand	the
endurance	athlete	is	why	the	client	is	an	endurance	athlete	in	the	first	place.	The
answer	generally	comes	in	one	of	four	parts.
•	Genetic	predisposition,	always	been	good	at	endurance	activity
•	Mental	predisposition,	always	been	a	Type	A	personality
•	Endurance	training	provides	a	competitive	outlet	for	adults
•	A	combination	of	the	above
This	matters	because	personality	characteristics	and	genetic	predisposition
are	at	first	a	positive	factor,	but	can	rapidly	become	a	negative.	High	levels	of
motivation	and	drive	can	initially	produce	great	results.	However,	often	they	also
produce	injuries.
Endurance	training	isn’t	good	for	adults,	but	no	endurance	athlete	wants	to
hear	that.	This	is	what	they	do,	and	they	are	not	about	to	change	because	you
think	the	risk	of	injury	is	too	high.	If	you	can’t	change	them,	you	might	as	well
help	them.
In	order	to	train	endurance	athletes,	you	need	to	understand	how	they	think.
This	involves	something	I	call	
The	Endurance	Cycle.
The	Endurance	Cycle

	
Train…	Injury…	Rehab/PT…
Train…	Injury…	Rehab/PT…
Train…	Injury…	Rehab/PT…
Train…	Injury…	Rehab/PT…
The	cycle	is	simple.	Train	hard	until	you	get	hurt.	Call	your	physical
therapist,	who	by	now	is	a	family	friend,	rest	and	repeat.	This	is	so	prevalent	I
have	coined	another	term,	The	Endurance	Conversation.	This	is	a	typical
conversation	overheard	between	two	endurance	athletes.
Endurance	Athlete	One:
“Are	you	training	or	injured?”
Endurance	Athlete	Two:
“Well,	I	just	got	over	____itis,	and	I’ve	being	running	in	the	pool.”
This	may	seem	like	a	strange	conversation,	but	between	two	endurance
athletes,	this	is	as	common	as	others	talking	about	the	weather.	Endurance
athletes	view	injury	as	a	reasonable	expectation,	and	are	not	surprised	when	it
happens.
The	entire	physical	therapy	profession	owes	a	great	debt	to	the	early	aerobic
proponents	of	the	’70s.	As	a	kid	growing	up	and	playing	sports,	I	had	never
heard	of	a	physical	therapist.	Physical	therapists	were	put	on	the	map	by
endurance	athletes	and	their	conditions	ending	in	‘
itis
,	what	we	now	recognize	as
the	chronic	use	injuries	of	‘
osis
.	Endurance	athletes	fueled	the	physical	therapy
boom,	and	today	they	continue	to	be	some	of	the	physical	therapist’s	most
regular	patients.
	

Injury	Progression,	The	Three
	
Is
	
	
•	
Ingestion
—	Oral	anti-inflammatories	(no	change	in	training)
•	
Injection
	—	Anti-inflammatories	like	cortisone	(no	change	in	training)
•	
Incision
	—	Surgery,	the	“let’s	take	a	look”	option	(followed	by	a
mandatory	long	layoff)
When	dealing	with	endurance	athletes,	the	truth	may	be	hard	to	say	and
even	harder	for	them	to	hear:	All	non-traumatic	injuries	are	training-related.	All
‘
osis
	conditions	are	caused	by	overuse.	If	you	didn’t	fall	off	something	or	get	hit
by	something,	you	did	something	wrong	in	training.
Ask	an	endurance	athlete,	and	rarely	will	one	admit	he	just	did	too	much,
too	soon.	Instead,	blames	goes	on	the	shoes	or	some	other	inanimate	object.
	

Pain	Site	versus	Pain	Source
	
	
The	way	our	medical	system	is	structured	makes	dealing	with	overuse
injuries	very	difficult.	Most	doctors	are	trained	in	what	could	be	called	the
trauma	model.	They	repair	a	dislocated	shoulder	or	reconstruct	a	damaged	knee.
Injuries	like	these	are	generally	the	result	of	an	outside	trauma	impacting	the
joint.
With	the	endurance	athlete,	the	pain	develops	over	time,	often	as	a	result	of
a	problem	far	removed	from	the	site	of	the	pain.	Our	current	sports	medicine
system	is	still	attempting	to	apply	the	trauma	model	to	the	overuse	injury,	with
limited	success.
In	the	trauma	model,	we	use	the	three	
Is
	to	attack	the	pain	site.	This	results
in	lots	of	preventable	knee,	hip	and	back	surgeries.
With	endurance	athletes,	you	need	to	understand	pain	is	often	felt	at	the
attachment	points	like	the	patellar	tendon	and	Achilles	tendon,	but	the	stress	may
be	coming	from	somewhere	else.
The	solution	for	most	endurance	athletes	is	usually	far	removed	from	the
point	of	pain.	Poor	glute	function	can	make	the	front	of	the	hip	hurt.	Foot	and
ankle	problems	can	cause	knee,	back	and	hip	problems.
As	described	more	fully	in	the	previous	joint-by-joint	section,	we	illustrate
this	for	our	athletes	with	a	simple	band	example.	Place	a	long	elastic	band
around	the	athlete’s	neck	and	pull	gently.	Ask	the	athlete	what	he	feels.	What	he
feels	will	be	pressure	on	the	back	of	the	neck.	Now	release	the	band.	
Voilà!
	The
pain	is	gone.	A	pain	in	the	neck	disappears	by	letting	go	of	a	band	being	pulled
from	the	front.
This	example	demonstrates	why	we	should	treat	the	pain	
source
	instead	of
the	pain	site.	The	big	key	in	training	an	endurance	athlete	is	to	discover	where
the	pain	is	coming	from.	Where	it	hurts	is	obvious,	but	if	the	athlete	did	not	get
hit,	chances	are	the	pain	site	and	the	pain	source	are	separated	by	at	least	a	foot’s
distance.
Reality	Therapy

	
Reality	therapy	for	an	endurance	athlete	is	tough	but	necessary.	The	first
thing	I	say	to	an	injured	endurance	athlete	is	the	answer	to	the	question	
Does	it
hurt?
	is	yes	or	no.	Any	answer	other	than	no	is	a	yes.	
It	loosens	up	after	a	while
,
Not	if	I	warm	up	properly
,	or	
Only	at	the	end	of	my	run/bike/	swim
	are	all	yes
answers	and	are	indications	something	is	wrong.
An	endurance	athlete	will	never	get	better	if	he	runs	or	bikes	or	swims	with
pain.	This	is	the	reality	therapy	so	necessary	with	endurance	athletes.	
If	it	hurts,
don’t	do	it.
You	will	never	change	an	endurance	athlete’s	personality,	but	you	may	be
able	to	change	the	method	of	training.
Time	and	Money
	
A	very	wise	man	once	told	me	you	are	going	to	spend	time	and	money	on
your	health.	What	endurance	athletes	need	to	understand	is	it’s	up	to	them	to
decide	how	and	when.	An	endurance	athlete	can	pay	for	a	strength	coach	or
personal	trainer	to	develop	a	training	program,	or	pay	for	physical	therapy	after
the	injury.	The	athlete	can	take	a	small	layoff	before	something	becomes	a	major
issue,	or	take	six	weeks	off	after	surgery.	Healthy	or	hurt,	the	athlete	gets	to
decide.
Speed	limping	is	done	at	a	price	of	both	time	and	money.
	

The	Endurance	Athlete’s	Program
	
	
If	I	could	make	one	change	in	every	endurance	athlete’s	training	program,	it
would	be	to	add	more	interval	training.	Endurance	athletes	love	long,	slow
distance	work.	However,	as	discussed	in	depth	earlier,	interval	training	develops
aerobic	capacity	better	than	long	aerobic	training.
The	unfortunate	truth	is	too	much	steady-state	work	yields	too	little	benefit
and	too	many	injuries.
In	endurance	training,	the	emphasis	is	usually	high	on	the	quantity	side	and
low	on	the	quality	side.	This	is	the	main	mistake	of	endurance	athletes	in
training.
With	this	being	the	case,	why	do	endurance	athletes	continue	to	do	large
volumes	of	steady-state	work?	There	are	three	basic	reasons:
•	They’re	good	at	it.
•	It’s	easy	to	do.
•	They’ve	always	been	told	they	need	to	build	an	aerobic	base.
Many	endurance	athletes	avoid	interval	training	because	it	is	much	harder.
It’s	easy	to	throw	on	the	shoes	and	do	the	same	run	done	a	hundred	times	before,
or	jump	on	the	bike	for	the	same	ride.	That	does	not	make	it	the	best	way	to
train.
If	I	could	make	more	changes,	I	would	get	my	endurance	athletes	to	buy	a
foam	roller	to	work	on	tissue	quality.	Most	endurance	athletes’	bodies	are	a	mess
of	trigger	points	and	other	overuse	injuries	just	waiting	to	arise.	Regular	soft
tissue	work	followed	by	regular	stretching	would	be	time	much	better	spent	than
logging	more	and	more	miles.
As	noted	in	the	soft	tissue	section,	the	key	to	understanding	foam	rolling
and	stretching	is	understanding	the	qualities	of	muscle	tissue.	Muscle	tissue	does
not	just	get	short,	it	also	gets	dense.	Dense	tissue	must	be	manipulated	by	rolling
or	massage	prior	to	stretching	to	get	the	maximum	effect.	In	fact,	stretching

without	rolling	is	like	pulling	on	a	knot	in	a	shoelace.	It	only	gets	tighter.
The	last,	and	maybe	the	most	critical	change,	would	be	to	get	the	endurance
athlete	on	a	strength	program.	For	an	endurance	athlete,	two	days	a	week	on
well-designed	strength	work	can	be	life-changing.
Vital	for	a	strength	coach	or	personal	trainer	is	to	realize	the	endurance
athletes	view	strength	training	much	like	going	to	the	dentist:	They	do	not	look
forward	to	it.
Keep	the	program	brief	and	basic.	Think	about	what	you	read	earlier	in	the
joint	mobility	section;	create	mobile	ankles,	hips	and	thoracic	spine	through
mobility	work	in	the	pre-workout	warm-up.	Work	to	stabilize	the	knees	and
lumbar	spine	through	a	good	core	and	lower-body	program.	Keep	strength	work
specific.	Work	on	single-leg	exercises	primarily.
Lower-body	lifting	is	key.	Don’t	fall	into	the	
running	is	enough	for	the
lower	body
	trap.	This	could	not	be	further	from	the	truth.	In	strength	training,	I
would	rather	see	an	endurance	athlete	neglect	the	upper	body	than	the	lower
body.
A	word	of	caution:	
Make	changes	slowly.
•	Replace	one	weekly	endurance	session	with	an	interval	training	session
•	Get	the	athlete	on	a	roller
•	Add	some	stretching
•	Start	a	strength	program
Think	about	time	spent	versus	potential	benefit.	Don’t	work	on	strengths.
Think	about	volume	versus	intensity,	quantity	versus	quality.
Final	point:	If	you	work	with	endurance	athletes	and	haven’t	read
Christopher	McDougal’s	
Born	to	Run
,	you	really	need	to	get	a	copy.	If	nothing
else,	it’ll	get	you	to	pull	your	athletes	out	of	their	shoes.

Developing	Athleticism
	
	
Power	Development	with	Olympic	Lifts
Technique	Points
Coaching	the	Olympic	Lifts
Cleans	versus	Snatches
Teaching	Snatch	Variations
Alternatives	to	Olympic	Lifting
Testing	Elasticity	versus	Power
Developing	Elasticity
Training	for	Speed
Sprint	Speed
Accuracy	in	Sprint	Times
Speed	or	Acceleration?
Start	Tips	and	Drills
Increasing	Sprint	Speeds
Sport-Specific	Training
Balance	and	Instability	Training
Losing	Power	with	Age
	
	

Power	Development	with	Olympic	Lifts
	
	
Coaches	are	always	looking	for	the	best	and	safest	method	to	develop
power	in	their	athletes.	Power	translates	into	faster,	more	explosive	athletes.
Meanwhile,	evidence	continues	to	mount	showing	the	Olympic	lifts	are	an
effective	way	for	athletes	to	rapidly	improve	power	output.
Unfortunately,	while	growing	numbers	of	coaches	and	athletes	want	to	use
the	Olympic	lifts	or	their	variations,	very	few	have	the	expertise	necessary	to
teach	or	do	the	lifts	well.
Teaching	the	Olympic	Lifts
	
As	strength	and	conditioning	coaches	working	with	high	school,	college
and	professional	athletes,	my	associates	and	I	use	the	Olympic	variations	almost
every	day	with	most	athletes	over	the	age	of	fourteen.	When	speaking	at	clinics
for	athletic	trainers	or	high	school	coaches,	we	always	start	with	one	simple
concept:	Before	adding	any	Olympic	movements	to	your	program,	learn	to
perform	the	movements	yourself,	and	then	learn	to	teach	them.
If	you	can’t	teach	and	supervise	the	Olympic	lifts,	don’t	use	them.	Just
because	the	Olympic	lifts	are	popular	doesn’t	mean	you	should	blindly	insert
cleans,	snatches	and	push	presses	into	your	program.	Instead,	get	your	high-
velocity	training	from	medicine	balls	and	plyometrics.
Although	the	Olympic	lifts	will	result	in	impressive	development	of	the
musculature,	this	is	not	the	primary	objective.	The	Olympic	lifts	are	most
effective	when	used	to	train	the	nervous	system	to	ultimately	produce	faster
contractions,	in	addition	to	training	the	muscular	system.
The	objective	is	not	just	to	move	weight,	but	to	move	weight	in	a	fluid	and
powerful	manner.	Don’t	just	pile	on	weight,	focus	on	technique.
The	physiological	characteristics	that	make	great	Olympic	weightlifters	—
good	lever	system,	mesomorphic	body	type,	great	hip	flexibility	—	are	not
present	in	many	of	the	athletes	we	deal	with	on	a	regular	basis.

Your	objective	as	a	coach	is	to	develop	better	athletes,	not	to	develop
Olympic	lifters.	Olympic	weightlifting	should	be	a	means	to	an	end,	not	an	end
in	itself.	Don’t	get	caught	up	in	designing	a	program	for	Olympic	weightlifters;
design	a	program	in	which	athletes	utilize	Olympic	lifts	and	their	variations	for
power	development.
Technique	Points
	
Technique	always	comes	first.	When	in	doubt,	reduce	the	weight,	move	a
step	back	in	the	progression	or	select	a	simpler	exercise.
Remember,	if	the	back	is	flat,	nothing	bad	can	happen.	Either	too	much
rounding	or	too	much	arch	can	be	a	problem.
You	are	in	charge;	you	select	the	weights,	you	terminate	sets	when	exercises
are	done	poorly.
Always	stop	at	technical	failure.	This	is	not	the	point	at	which	another	rep
cannot	be	done,	but	rather	the	point	at	which	another	perfect	rep	cannot	be	done.
Be	picky:	Require	perfect	form.	An	athlete	lifting	the	proper	amount	of
weight	should	have	perfect	form.
If	you	are	unfamiliar	with	an	athlete,	start	with	a	weight	that	can	be	done
easily.	It’s	easy	to	get	athletes	to	go	up	in	weight,	hard	to	get	them	to	take	a	step
back.	If	you	are	going	to	make	a	mistake,	make	a	conservative	one.
For	athletes	who	lack	good	postural	musculature,	first	attend	to	technical
development.
Watch	for	failure	of	stabilizers.	Stabilizers	will	frequently	fail	before	prime
movers.	Common	mistakes	are	the	loss	of	back	position	in	squatting	and	the
inability	to	return	a	cleaned	weight	to	the	hang	position.
There	is	a	thin	line	between	conservative	coaching	and	holding	athletes
back.	Some	athletes,	usually	men,	will	dislike	being	told	to	terminate	a	set	at
technical	failure.	Ingrain	this	concept	early.	Hold	back	in	areas	like	squats	and
hang	cleans	that	have	large	potential	negative	repercussions.
The	key	is	to	pick	a	weight	heavy	enough	to	require	hip	action,	but	light
enough	so	the	athlete	doesn’t	muscle	it.	It	really	is	a	learned	art.
Understand	the	difference	between	acts	of	omission	versus	those	of
commission.	An	act	of	omission	is	something	you	don’t	do;	an	act	of
commission	is	something	you	do.	In	exercises	like	squats	and	hang	cleans,	we
don’t	want	to	commit	errors.	There	is	limited	opportunity	to	correct	a	back
injured	by	poor	technique	or	poor	weight	selection.

Our	progressions	are	based	on	time,	with	an	understanding	of	mastery.
Athletes	or	clients	do	not	move	forward	without	mastery.
Coaching	the	Olympic	Lifts
	
These	are	logistical	points	to	improve	your	ability	to	coach	on	the	floor.
Always	coach	from	behind	the	athlete	when	coaching	Olympic	lifts.	If	you
are	behind	the	athlete,	you	can	reposition	him	with	your	hands	and	not	be	in
danger	of	getting	hit	by	the	bar.
I	like	our	coaches	to	be	behind	the	lifter	on	the	right-hand	side,	and	to	use
their	hands	to	draw	the	shoulders	back,	to	reinforce	lower	back	arch	or	to	push
the	athlete	forward	to	get	the	shoulders	over	the	bar.
Coach	squats	from	the	side.	This	will	allow	you	to	see	depth	and	back
position,	the	two	major	keys	in	squatting.
Correct	small	errors.	Be	attentive	to	the	details.	Watch	how	the	athlete	picks
up	the	bar	or	returns	the	bar	to	the	blocks	or	the	rack.	Often	a	good	set	is	spoiled
by	the	athlete	losing	back	position	when	returning	the	bar.
Reinforce	constantly.
For	explosive	exercises,	athletes	should	start	and	land	in	the	same	position.
Inability	to	land	in	the	start	position	indicates	the	exercise	is	too	difficult,	or	the
athlete	lacks	eccentric	strength,	or	both.
Teaching	Guidelines
	
Think	safety	first.	Training	plates	and	light	bars	make	teaching	the	Olympic
lifts	easy.
Practice	proper	technique.	This	is	basic:	If	it	doesn’t	look	right,	it	probably
isn’t.	The	objective	is	not	just	to	move	the	bar	from	point	A	to	point	B.	The
objective	is	to	move	the	bar	from	point	A	to	point	B	in	a	technically	correct
manner.	Compromising	this	point	could	compromise	the	safety	of	your	athletes.
Emphasize	speed	of	movement	over	the	weight	on	the	bar.	Most	of	the
technical	mistakes	made	in	teaching	and	learning	the	Olympic	lifts	are	the	result
of	one	thing:	too	much	weight.	The	battle	between	ego	and	common	sense	must
be	refereed	by	the	trainer.	Your	best	correction	is	often	the	most	obvious:	Reduce
the	weight.

Anyone	can	teach	Olympic	weightlifting	if	they	possess	common	sense	and
the	ability	to	recognize	the	fundamental	positions.	To	be	a	good	teacher	of
Olympic	lifting,	you	must	provide	daily	feedback	in	a	positive	manner,	and	you
must	be	willing	to	consistently	ask	people	to	continue	to	improve	their
technique.
If	you	can’t	teach	a	lift,	don’t	use	it	in	your	programs.
	This	applies	to	all
areas	of	your	program,	but	particularly	to	Olympic	lifting.	If	you	can’t	teach	the
Olympic	lifts,	don’t	use	them.	Period.	Work	with	your	athletes	on	developing
great	technique	and	great	bar	speed	and	put	less	emphasis	on	the	amount	of
weight	lifted.
Using	lifts	you	are	not	able	to	successfully	teach	is	a	classic	coaching
mistake.	The	reason	many	sports	medicine	professionals	and	many	sport	coaches
think	the	Olympic	lifts	are	unsafe	is	because	coaches	frequently	place	these
exercises	in	the	program	without	proper	instruction	and	without	constant
supervision.
Get	your	high-velocity	hip-extension	training	from	medicine	balls	and
plyometrics	if	you	cannot	teach	and	supervise	your	athletes	in	the	Olympic	lifts.
Learn	to	balance	theoretical	benefit	with	practicality	and	safety.	Before	adding
any	explosive	movements	to	your	program,	learn	to	teach	the	movements.	Don’t
worry	about	weight,	worry	about	technique.
Many	coaches	encourage	athletes	to	Olympic	lift	or	squat	in	an
unsupervised	environment,	and	athletes	get	injured.	The	squat	or	the	clean	is	no
more	responsible	for	an	injury	than	a	car	is	for	a	car	crash.	Cars	are	safe	when
driven	as	directed;	squats,	cleans	and	snatches	are	safe	when	done	as	prescribed.
The	problem	always	lies	in	the	instructions	and	implementation,	not	the
exercises.
Olympic	lifting	requires	constant	supervision.	Even	if	you	are	capable	of
teaching	the	Olympic	lifts,	ask	yourself	how	much	time	you	can	spend	in	the
weightroom	teaching.	If	you	are	prepared	and	have	the	time	to	teach,	by	all
means	add	Olympic	movements	to	the	program.
Your	athletes	will	see	great	gains	in	power	and	will	probably	learn	to	enjoy
the	athleticism	of	Olympic	lifting	more	than	they	enjoy	conventional	strength
work.
	

Cleans	versus	Snatches
	
	
My	opinion	on	teaching	the	Olympic	lifts	has	changed	significantly	over
the	past	few	years.	Although	I	am	a	big	proponent	of	the	hang	clean,	we	see
more	and	more	athletes	at	the	college	and	pro	levels	who	do	not	have	enough
upper-body	flexibility	to	properly	rack	the	bar	in	the	clean	position.	This	results
in	very	sloppy	attempts	to	perform	the	hang	clean	and	clean	variations.
One	solution	proposed	by	some	strength	and	conditioning	coaches	is	to	use
dumbbell	cleans	for	athletes	who	do	not	possess	the	flexibility	to	properly	rack
or	catch	the	clean.	My	position	is	dumbbell	cleans	don’t	allow	an	athlete	to
handle	the	appropriate	amount	of	weight.	In	addition,	a	dumbbell	clean	teaches	a
reverse-curl	bar	path	not	desirable	in	quality	Olympic	lifting.
Instead,	we	often	use	the	dumbbell	and	barbell	close-grip	snatch	with
greater	frequency	for	athletes	who	are	inflexible	through	the	wrists	and
shoulders.
Many	coaches	are	afraid	of	the	snatch	because	they	have	never	performed	it
and	have	only	seen	it	performed	by	Olympic	weightlifters.	When	performed	with
a	wide	grip,	the	snatch	can	place	the	athlete’s	shoulder	joint	in	an	abducted	and
externally	rotated	position	that	could	be	compromising.
For	this	reason,	I	am	an	advocate	of	a	modification	of	the	classical	snatch:
Our	athletes	initially	learn	a	one-arm	dumbbell	snatch	and	then	a	close-grip
snatch,	and	we	have	never	experienced	shoulder	problems	from	them.
The	one-arm	dumbbell	snatch	is	actually	an	exceptional	exercise	to	prevent
shoulder	injury.	It	develops	unilateral	shoulder	stability	as	well	as	trunk	stability,
and	it	is	probably	the	easiest	of	the	Olympic	lifts	to	teach	and	learn.
Many	coaches	disagree	with	the	idea	it’s	easier	to	teach	athletes	to	snatch
than	clean.	The	coaches	who	disagree	have	often	never	tried	to	teach	their
athletes	to	snatch,	and	don’t	use	snatches	in	their	program.
Many	athletes,	particularly	those	who	have	been	on	a	mirror-oriented
program,	will	have	decreased	flexibility	in	the	shoulder,	elbow	and	wrist.	To
perform	the	close-grip	snatch,	they	don’t	need	to	be	very	flexible	in	the
shoulders,	elbows	or	wrists;	they	simply	need	to	be	able	to	get	their	arms
overhead.

When	I	encounter	an	athlete	who	cannot	get	into	the	proper	catch	position
for	the	clean,	I	go	right	to	teaching	the	snatch	and	forget	about	the	clean.
Often	if	I	have	athletes	who	have	experienced	low	back	pain,	I	only	use
snatches	for	power	work.	Snatches	will	generally	use	loads	of	fifty	to	sixty
percent	of	the	athlete’s	hang	clean,	and	as	a	result	will	place	much	less	stress	on
the	low	back.
For	many	athletes	the	finish	position	of	the	snatch	places	less	stress	on	the
low	back	than	the	stress	placed	on	a	tight	athlete	trying	to	raise	the	elbows	into
the	proper	position	to	catch	the	clean.
	

Teaching	the	One-Arm	Dumbbell	Snatch
	
	
	
Step	One
	
The	start	position	for	the	dumbbell	snatch	is	the	basic	pulling	position.	The
athlete	stands	with	the	feet	slightly	wider	than	shoulder-width	apart,	knees
slightly	bent.	The	dumbbell	is	between	the	knees,	chest	over	the	dumbbell.	Wrist
is	curled	under,	arm	straight,	and	the	elbow	is	turned	out.
Step	Two
	
From	the	start	position	with	the	dumbbell	between	the	knees,	have	the
athlete	jump,	shrug	and	catch	the	dumbbell	in	the	overhead	support	position.	It’s

helpful	to	cue	the	athlete	with	the	instructions	
Try	to	hit	the	ceiling	with	the
dumbbell
	and	
Pull	it	as	if	you	were	going	to	let	go
.
	

Teaching	the	Close-Grip	Barbell	Snatch
	
	
The	close-grip	barbell	snatch	uses	a	grip	identical	to	that	of	the	hang	clean.
The	wide	grip	generally	taught	for	the	snatch	is	discouraged,	as	its	only	true
purpose	is	to	allow	the	athlete	to	lift	more	weight.
Have	your	athlete	practice	the	overhead	support	position	with	a	shoulder-
width	grip.	Keep	the	bar	over	the	back	of	the	head,	knees	bent	and	back	arched.
While	executing	the	snatch,	again	have	the	athlete	visualize	trying	to	pull	the	bar
up	to	hit	the	ceiling.
Begin	by	teaching	the	one-arm	dumbbell	snatch	and	proceed	to	the	close-
grip	snatch	with	the	bar,	and	you’ll	be	amazed	at	how	proficient	your	athletes
will	become	at	a	lift	you	may	have	initially	felt	was	too	difficult.
The	easiest	way	to	teach	the	Olympic	lifts	is	from	a	hang	position,	with	the
bar	above	the	knees.	This	position	eliminates	a	great	deal	of	the	lower	back
stress	often	associated	with	the	Olympic	lifts.	Many	athletes	have	difficulty
learning	the	lifts	from	the	floor,	but	any	athlete	can	become	a	great	technician
from	the	hang	position.
	

The	Hang	Clean	and	Close-Grip	Snatch
	
	
The	hang	clean	and	close-grip	snatch	are	the	easiest	variations	of	the	two
true	Olympic	lifts	to	learn.	Other	similar	maneuvers	are	variations	of	these	two
basic	lifts	and	can	easily	be	taught	after	these	have	been	perfected.
Before	proceeding,	first	review	with	the	athlete	how	to	properly	pick	up	and
put	down	the	bar.	Most	importantly,	the	back	should	be	arched	and	tight.	Then
review	the	basic	positions	of	the	hand	and	overhead	positions	and	put	it	all
together.
Now	the	athlete	is	ready	to	perform	the	hang	clean.	To	move	into	the	hang
clean	from	the	start	position,	have	the	athlete	slide	the	bar	down	the	thighs,
stressing	trunk	flexion,	not	knee	flexion.	Next,	instruct	the	jump,	shrug	and
catch,	with	the	bar	ending	in	the	front	squat	position.
The	final	exercise	is	the	close-grip	snatch.	By	this	point,	the	athlete	should
have	an	excellent	sense	of	the	overhead	support	position.	To	execute	the	snatch,
have	the	athlete	envision	trying	to	throw	the	bar	up	to	hit	the	ceiling.	Completing
the	move,	the	athlete	should	keep	the	bar	over	the	back	of	the	head	with	a
shoulder-width	grip,	knees	bent	and	back	arched.
Finally,	work	with	the	athlete	on	returning	the	bar	properly	to	the	floor	or
blocks.	Make	sure	the	back	is	arched	when	putting	the	bar	down.	The	lift	doesn’t
end	until	the	bar	is	on	the	floor.;	we	regularly	stress	this	important	point.
Hang	Clean	to	Bodyweight	Relationship	in	Men
	
	
Hang	Snatch	to	Bodyweight	Relationship	in	Men
	

	
These	numbers	may	be	less	accurate	for	larger	athletes	like	football
linemen.	Football	linemen	generally	do	not	have	great	strength-to-bodyweight
ratios	or	power-to-bodyweight	ratios.	Another	area	to	consider	is	the	strength-to-
power	ratio.	Many	athletes	will	have	a	large	strength	focus	and	a	poor	strength-
to-power	ratio.
Strength	to	Power	Ratio	(Hang	Clean	to	Front	Squat)
	
	

Alternatives	to	Olympic	Lifting
	
	
Many	coaches	are	not	comfortable	teaching	their	athletes	to	Olympic	lift,
but	athletes	need	increases	in	hip	and	leg	power.	For	these	coaches,	jump	squats
may	be	an	answer.	Jump	squats	have	been	popular	for	years	with	European
track-andfield	athletes.	They	provide	a	great	deal	of	the	hip	power	many	athletes
seek	from	Olympic	lifting,	and	are	perfect	for	coaches	who	have	reservations
about	technique	or	for	athletes	with	shoulder	or	back	problems	that	prevent	them
from	Olympic	lifting.
The	jump	squat	is	simply	a	jump	from	a	position	slightly	above	full	squat
depth.	Beginners	can	land	and	stabilize	between	jumps,	and	advanced	athletes
can	utilize	a	plyometric	response	off	the	floor.
	
The	most	important	issue	for	jump	squats	is	load	selection.	Authors	and
researchers	have	recommended	using	a	percentage	of	the	back	squat	one-rep
max	as	a	load,	most	often	twenty-five	percent.
However,	this	method	of	loading	is	potentially	dangerous	as	it	does	not	take
into	account	the	athlete’s	bodyweight.	The	following	example	illustrates	this
point.
If	one	athlete	has	a	one-rep	max	in	the	back	squat	of	500	pounds	and	a

second	athlete	also	has	a	one-rep	max	of	500	pounds,	both	would	use	125
pounds	for	jumps	squats	using	the	guideline	of	twenty-five	percent	of	the	back
squat	max.
Now	assume	athlete	one	weighs	200	pounds	and	athlete	two	weighs	350
pounds.	Obviously,	athlete	one	has	a	strength–to–body	weight	ratio	far	superior
to	that	of	athlete	two.	Loading	athlete	one	with	125	pounds	may	be	reasonable,
but	athlete	two,	who	weighs	350	pounds,	would	probably	have	difficulty
executing	a	technically	sound	jump	squat	with	an	additional	load	of	125	pounds.
Athlete	two	may	even	have	difficulty	performing	jump	squats	with	just
bodyweight	due	to	his	strength–to–bodyweight	ratio.
Instead	of	a	one-rep	max	percentage,	use	the	following	formula.
Squat	plus	bodyweight	times	.4,	minus	bodyweight	equals	jump	squat
weight
Athlete	one:
	[(500	+	200)	x	.4	]	–	200	=	80
Athlete	two:
	[(500	+	350)	x	.4]	–	350	=	–10
The	example	shows	the	350-pound	athlete	gets	sufficient	loading	from
performing	jump	squats	with	bodyweight,	but	would	be	overloaded	by	the	125
pounds	of	the	one-rep-max	percentage	guideline.	For	athlete	one,	a	load	of
eighty	pounds	is	sufficient.
Consider	the	total	weight	an	athlete	can	squat	as	the	combination	of	his
bodyweight	plus	the	weight	on	the	bar,	and	use	this	number	to	calculate	the	load
for	jump	squats.	This	guideline	can	be	used	by	both	weaker	athletes	looking	to
develop	power	and	by	larger	athletes	who	have	strengthto-bodyweight	issues.
Whether	you	choose	to	develop	leg	power	through	Olympic	lifting	or	by
performing	jump	squats,	the	use	of	external	loads	to	train	the	legs	and	hips	can
be	the	fastest	way	to	achieve	gains	in	speed	or	jumping	ability.	The	beauty	of
Olympic	lifts	and	jump	squats	is	the	athlete	can	develop	power	without
necessarily	developing	large	amounts	of	muscle.	The	emphasis	is	on	the	nervous
system,	not	the	muscular	system,	making	this	an	excellent	training	method	for	all
athletes.
Many	athletes	and	coaches	have	the	mistaken	impression	explosive	lifting
is	for	football	players	only.	This	could	not	be	further	from	the	truth.	Olympic
lifting	and	its	variations	are	suitable	for	athletes	in	all	sports	and	of	all	sizes,	and
are	of	particular	interest	to	athletes	looking	for	total-body	strength	without
increases	in	size.
Olympic	lifting	is	fun,	safe	and	challenging	when	done	correctly	and

supervised	aggressively.	Work	on	developing	great	technicians.	This	will	lead	to
improvements	in	power	and	athleticism	you	may	not	have	guessed	were
possible.
	

Testing	Elasticity	versus	Power
	
	
What	I’m	about	to	describe	has	changed	the	design	of	my	training	programs
with	regard	to	the	elasticity	and	power	elements	vital	in	athletics.
In	evaluating	power	in	athletes,	an	article	about	five-jump	testing	led	me	to
look	at	the	information	that	came	with	my	Just	Jump	vertical	jump	testing
device.	The	Just	Jump	is	a	force	platform	of	sorts	that	measures	time	in	the	air
and	converts	the	time	figure	to	a	vertical	jump	number.	The	longer	the	time
between	the	two	contacts,	the	higher	the	athlete	went	vertically;	there	is	complex
math	involved	of	which	I	am	blissfully	unaware.
I	like	the	Just	Jump	more	than	the	Vertec,	another	commonly	used	vertical
jump	testing	device,	primarily	because	it	is	faster	and	easier	to	use.	However,	the
Just	Jump,	like	the	Vertec,	has	its	drawbacks.	Athletes	will	quickly	learn	to	cheat
on	the	Just	Jump,	just	as	they	do	on	the	Vertec.	Still,	it’s	a	relatively	valid	and
reliable	tool	when	used	correctly.
Although	the	article	referenced	five	jumps,	the	software	in	the	Just	Jump
only	includes	a	four-jump	test,	which	provides	three	pieces	of	data.	The	first	is	a
measure	of	contact	time,	how	long	the	athlete	is	on	the	mat.	The	second	is	what
the	manufacturer	calls	the	ELPF,	or	Explosive	Leg	Power	Factor.	This	is	a
measure	of	the	athlete’s	power	output.
The	third	piece	of	data	is	the	average	jump	over	the	four	trials.	The	power
factor	is	calculated	by	dividing	the	time	spent	on	the	mat	by	the	time	spent	in	the
air.	The	shorter	the	contact	time	and	the	higher	the	jump,	the	higher	the	power
output.
I	tested	my	athletes	with	no	real	expectations,	but	with	the	hope	the	data
would	lead	to	some	useful	information.	Instead,	the	information	obtained	made
me	rethink	how	we	train	for	power	and	will	greatly	impact	the	future	training	of
our	athletes.	This	became	what	I	now	believe	will	be	another	quantum	leap	in
athletic	training.
To	supply	some	background,	the	athletes	tested	were	Division	1	hockey
players.	The	average	vertical	jump	in	the	group	was	approximately	twenty-five
inches.	I	was	curious	why	some	of	our	best	players	and	best	skaters,	athletes	who
were	explosive	on-ice,	were	below	average	in	the	vertical	jump.

One	player,	who	in	my	mind	was	one	of	our	most	talented,	had	a	season-
ending	vertical	jump	of	twenty-one-point-eight	inches,	not	exactly	Division	1
material	at	first	glance.	This	is	where	the	data	gets	interesting.	One	of	the	things
I	hoped	I	would	see	from	a	four-jump	test	was	an	explanation	of	why	some	of
these	athletes	with	what	seemed	to	be	poor	power	outputs	could	still	be
exceptional	performers.
Example	Athlete
	
Vertical	jump,	21.8
	
Four-jump	average,	19.5
	
Elasticity	rating,	.89%
	
I	divided	the	athletes’	vertical	jumps	by	the	average	jump	score	of	the	four-
jump	test	to	get	an	elasticity	rating,	basically	a	measure	of	efficiency.	What	I	am
calling	the	elasticity	rating	is	a	measure	of	how	well	an	athlete	uses	explosive
power.
Due	to	equipment	and	testing	constraints,	we	have	been	forced	to	estimate
power	in	sports	that	feature	multiple	ground	reactions	by	measuring	one	ground
reaction.
We	then	surmised	this	power	output	—	basically	a	vertical	jump	or	standing
long	jump	—	was	indicative	of	reactivity	as	well	as	power.
Mark	Verstegen	uses	the	term	elasticity	to	describe	what	I	previously	called
power.	When	I	think	elastic	in	an	athletic	sense,	I	think	of	an	explosive	athlete.	I
then	assume	a	high	vertical	jump,	the	assumption	being	an	athlete	with	a	high
vertical	jump	is	both	explosive	and	elastic.
Our	new	data	seemed	to	indicate	otherwise.	Some	of	the	athletes	were
explosive,	but	not	elastic.	These	athletes	were	able	to	produce	a	single	powerful
explosive	contraction	when	given	an	unlimited	amount	of	time	to	produce	force.
Surprisingly,	this	did	not	necessarily	transfer	well	to	a	multi-jump,	multiple-
ground-reaction	situation.	Other	athletes	were	not	as	explosive,	but	were	far
more	elastic.	The	athlete	I	described	above	as	athlete	one	was	not	powerful,	but
was	elastic.	He	was	able	to	store	and	release	his	somewhat	limited	power	with
great	effectiveness.

Much	like	a	ball	bouncing,	this	athlete	was	able	to	react	positively	to	the
ground	in	a	repeated	fashion.
	

Developing	Elasticity
	
	
The	take-away	point	of	that	Just	Jump	testing	is	we	must	simultaneously
train	for	both	power	and	elasticity,	because	power	does	not	equal	elasticity.
Obviously,	those	with	greater	power	have	more	capacity	for	producing	greater
elastic	response,	but	in	keeping	with	our	specificity	concept,	these	are	related	but
not	synonymous.
The	key	is	to	meld	the	training	we	use	to	develop	power	with	the	need	to
learn	and	practice	elasticity.
The	solution	for	us	is	to	use	the	Just	Jump	as	a	training	tool	as	well	as	a
testing	tool.	I	purchased	three	additional	units;	twice	a	week	in	addition	to	our
plyometric	progressions,	we	now	do	elasticity	work	with	instantaneous	feedback
provided	by	the	jump	tester.
Prior	to	obtaining	this	data,	our	athletes	performed	an	Olympic	movement
for	power	development	every	day.	We	now	perform	our	Olympic	exercises	twice
each	week,	and	twice	weekly	we	train	by	in	effect	taking	the	four-jump	test.
The	athletes	are	encouraged	to	work	to	increase	the	ELPF	—	the	explosive
leg	power	factor	—	and	to	improve	elasticity	as	well	as	power.	In	essence	we
now	have	two	power	days	and	two	elasticity	days.
We	do	this	for	the	first	two	phases	of	our	off-season	program.	This	is	done
because	the	primary	emphasis	of	our	first	two	plyometric	phases	is	on	eccentric
control	in	jumping.
My	goal	is	to	have	the	athletes	better	prepared	for	phases	three	and	four	of
plyometric	training	by	developing	elasticity	with	the	four-jump	test.	In	phase
three	and	four	of	our	plyometric	program,	we	begin	to	train	for	elasticity.
Bottom	line:	Test	some	athletes.	Take	a	look	at	those	who	are	succeeding
with	what	you	might	consider	limited	explosive	power	based	on	numbers	like
vertical	jump	or	one-rep-max	Olympic	lifts.	Then	check	the	elasticity	of	these
athletes	and	see	if	they	are	more	elastic	than	explosive.	You	will	be	convinced
we	need	to	train	for	power	and	elasticity	as	separate	but	related	concepts.
	

Training	for	Speed
	
	
At	our	facility,	when	we	test	speed,	regardless	of	sport,	we	test	the	ten-yard
dash.	To	be	specific,	what	we	really	evaluate	with	tests	like	the	forty-yard	dash	is
acceleration.	The	best	sprinters	in	the	world	accelerate	for	up	to	sixty	meters.
This	means	in	a	world-class	sprint	race,	each	ten-yard	split	continues	to	get
lower	up	to	sixty	meters.	A	forty-yard	dash	is	a	test	of	acceleration	ability	not
speed	if	we	want	to	get	our	physics	right.
Our	only	athletes	who	ever	run	a	forty-yard	dash	are	NFL	Combine	or	Pro
Day	athletes.	Even	these	athletes	only	run	the	forty	at	the	actual	events.	We
never	run	a	forty	in	training.	In	fact,	over	eighty	percent	of	our	training	is	done
for	ten	yards,	working	to	increase	power	and	decrease	steps.	Less	than	twenty
percent	is	done	for	fifteen	or	twenty	yards.
In	over	twenty	years	of	training	athletes	for	the	Combine,	I	have	never	had
an	athlete	run	a	forty-yard	dash	prior	to	being	tested	by	a	pro	scout.	In	spite	of
this,	or	perhaps	because	of	it,	my	athletes	have	routinely	tested	well	at	the
Combine,	and	many	years	we	have	had	the	fastest	athlete	at	a	given	position.	My
hesitance	to	run	a	forty	prior	to	the	Combine	or	the	Pro	day	was	based	on	a
simple	concept:	If	an	athlete	is	injured,	he	can’t	run	the	forty	on	the	day	it	really
matters.	In	the	NFL	evaluation	process,	injuries	at	the	wrong	time	can	be	career-
killers.
One	problem	arises	with	this	philosophy.	Athletes	want	to	know	what	they
will	run	in	the	forty.	In	order	to	increase	the	ability	to	project	forty-yard-dash
times	from	ten-yard-dash	times,	I	studied	the	segmental	breakdowns	of	the	forty
from	past	NFL	Combines	to	see	if	there	was	discernible	pattern,	analyzing	the
data	to	see	if	there	was	a	consistent	formula	to	apply.
The	results	were	surprising.
Initially	the	ten-yard	dash	was	the	focus	of	our	training	primarily	because
the	most	frequent	injury	seen	in	athletes	doing	Combine	or	Pro	Day	prep	work	is
a	hamstring	strain.	In	fact,	hamstring	strains	are	the	most	consistent	injury	seen
in	all	sprinters.	These	hamstring	strains	are	almost	always	the	result	of	running
repeat	forty-yard	dashes	in	preparation	for	the	testing.	I	have	never	seen	a	strain
occur	in	a	ten-yard	dash;	the	ten-yard	dash	is	a	great	test	and	close	to	one-

hundred-percent	safe.
In	addition	to	the	injury	reduction	angle,	we	have	always	concentrated	on
the	ten-yard	dash	for	the	simple	reason	the	first	ten-yard	segment	—	the	start,	if
you	will	—	is	the	easiest	area	to	improve.	The	first	ten-yard	segment,	although
equal	in	length	to	each	following	ten-yard	segment,	takes	more	than	one-and-a-
half	times	as	long	to	run.
This	may	seem	obvious	as	this	is	the	zeroto-sixty	phase	of	the	vaunted
forty-yard	dash.	To	really	understand	the	significance,	it	is	important	to	look	at
some	data.
Below	is	a	comparison	of	two	athletes	from	the	2003	NFL	Combine	in	the
forty-yard	dash.	Athlete	one	is	188	pounds	and	ran	a	very	respectable	4.59.
Athlete	two	is	236	pounds	and	ran	a	4.70,	also	a	respectable	time	for	a	236-
pound	athlete.
2003	NFL	Combine
	
	
The	data	gets	significantly	more	interesting	when	broken	down	into	ten-
yard	segments,	doesn’t	it?
When	looking	at	the	data,	one	thing	immediately	jumps	out.	Both	athletes
ran	from	ten	to	twenty,	twenty	to	forty	and	ten	to	forty	in	nearly	identical	times.
Athlete	one	obtained	the	entire	differential	in	the	times	—	eleven	tenths	—
during	the	first	ten-yard	segment.	Athlete	one	may	not	be	faster;	he	simply
accelerates	better.	His	speed	is	no	greater;	however,	his	initial	acceleration	is
significantly	better.
This	graphically	demonstrates	how	critical	the	initial	rate	of	acceleration
was	in	the	race.	Athlete	one	obviously	has	less	inertia	to	overcome	and	as	a
result	accelerates	faster,	but	this	faster	initial	acceleration	corresponds	exactly	to

the	difference	in	forty-yard-dash	times.
This	definitely	reinforces	my	feeling	about	the	importance	of	the	start	and
of	the	first	ten-yard	segment,	and	the	result	reinforces	the	importance	of	strength
development	in	improving	forty-yard-dash	performance.
You	may	think	this	is	a	generalization,	and	it	is,	but	it’s	a	generalization
based	on	common	sense.	Smaller	athletes	with	exceptional	acceleration	have	run
as	low	as	2.8	from	ten	to	forty,	while	exceptionally	large	athletes,	those	above
300	pounds,	were	shown	to	run	as	high	as	3.4.	However,	these	were	extreme
cases.
In	general,	to	estimate	forty-yarddash	times	from	ten-yard	times,	you	can
calculate	it	as	follows.
•	For	athletes	under	200	pounds,	assume	a	low	of	2.8	seconds	and	a	high	of
3.0	seconds	added	to	the	ten-yard	time.
•	For	athletes	from	200-250,	add	3.0	to	3.2	seconds	to	the	ten.
•	For	athletes	250-350,	add	3.0	to	3.4	seconds	to	the	ten.
In	any	case,	the	data	clearly	shows	working	on	the	initial	ten-yard	segment
of	the	forty-yard	dash	is	both	the	safest	and	the	fastest	route	to	lowering	the	forty
time.
	

Sprint	Speed
	
	
Speed	is	the	stuff	of	urban	legend.	Deion	Sanders	supposedly	showed	up	at
the	NFL	Combine,	ran	a	4.2	and	went	home.	We	routinely	hear	of	high	school
kids	who	purportedly	run	4.3s	and	4.4s.	The	stories	of	reported	speed	have
gotten	out	of	control.	This	would	not	be	a	problem	in	and	of	itself.	Most	of	us
could	look	at	it	and	say,	“So	what?	People	lie	or	embellish.	“
The	real	problem	is	the	lies	seem	to	be	setting	the	standards.	One	of	the
reasons	I	don’t	like	to	train	athletes	for	the	NFL	Combine	is	the	unrealistic
expectations	of	athletes	and	agents	based	on	these	stories,	or	resulting	from	the
occasional	freakish	performance	like	Vernon	Davis.
Davis	measured	6'3"	weighing	263	pounds,	and	ran	a	4.38	forty	and	vertical
jumped	forty	inches.	Those	are	insane	stats.
Every	year	it	seems	there	is	some	freakish	performance	by	an	athlete	who
raises	the	bar	of	expectation.	I	would	have	less	of	a	problem	if	these	expectations
were	not	trickling	down	to	high	school	kids.	My	intention	is	to	set	the	record
straight	with	facts.	In	order	to	prove	this,	I	pored	over	the	NFL	Combine	results
for	the	six	years	I	had	on	file.	The	statistics	on	the	following	page	are	taken
directly	from	Combine	results.
Although	the	Combine	times	are	considered	electronic,	they	are	closer	to
handheld	than	electronic.	This	is	an	important	factor	in	the	speed	legend	stories.
There	are	three	potential	timing	options.
Electronic	Start,	Electronic	Finish
	
This	should	be	the	standard,	but	unfortunately	it’s	not.	The	start	is	done
with	a	touch	pad	and	the	finish	with	a	photocell.	This	is	the	most	accurate,	and	as
a	result	yields	the	slowest	times.	An	electronic	start,	electronic	finish	time	has
been	shown	to	be	twenty-two	tenths	of	a	second	slower	than	a	handheld	forty-
yard	dash.

Hand	Start,	Electronic	Finish
	
This	is	a	system	used	uniquely	at	the	NFL	Combine.	A	hand	start,	electronic
finish	will	be	approximately	a	tenth	of	a	second	slower	than	a	handheld	forty-
yard	dash.	In	the	Combine,	the	use	of	a	hand	start	will	be	particularly	evident	in
the	faster	ten-yard-dash	times.
Athletes	will	run	ten-yard	times	much	closer	to	a	handheld,	but	times	at
each	following	split	will	be	closer	to	the	electronic	time.
Hand	Start,	Hand	Finish
	
This	results	in	the	fastest	and	least	accurate	times.	Handheld	times	are
clearly	more	prone	to	human	error.	Many	of	the	legendary	times	were	handheld
timing,	combined	with	human	error	or	human	expectation.
Accuracy	in	Sprint	Times
	
At	the	NFL	Combine	in	1996-1998,	2001,	2003	and	2006,	no	one	ran	a	4.2.
No	one.	Not	one	person.
In	2001	Ladainian	Tomlinson	ran	one	4.36,	and	five	in	the	4.4s.	2003	was	a
fast	year,	yet	still	produced	no	4.2s.	Ten	athletes	ran	4.3s	in	2003.	The	heaviest
was	a	223-pound	running	back.	The	Combine	track	is	always	said	to	be	slow,	but
the	truth	is	it	is	simply	accurate.	All	of	the	supposed	fast	times	seem	to	be	run	at
times	when	no	independent	verification	is	available.	Seems	a	bit	curious,	doesn’t
it?
Here’s	another	angle	on	the	whole	speed	thing.	Ben	Johnson	and	Carl
Lewis	ran	split	times	of	4.67	for	forty	meters.	The	split	times	are	below.
1.84	Ten	meters
2.86	Twenty	meters	(1.02	split)
3.8	Thirty	meters	(.94	split)

4.67	Forty	meters	(.87	split)
Forty	meters	is	43.74	yards.	This	would	make	the	distance	approximately
ten	percent	farther.	We	could	reduce	the	time	by	approximately	thirty-six	tenths
to	account	for	the	additional	3.7	yards.	This	would	mean	in	constant	acceleration
mode	the	best	sprinters	in	the	history	of	the	world	—	
using	blocks
	—	ran	4.31
for	forty	yards.
Does	it	seem	plausible	high	school	football	players	can	run	faster	times
without	blocks?
In	2006	of	nineteen	running	backs	listed	in	the	unofficial	internet	Combine
report,	Maurice	Drew	of	UCLA	had	the	only	4.3	and	he	ran	a	4.39.	In	other
words,	one	running	back	ran	under	4.4,	and	he	did	it	by	one	one-hundredth.	Four
wide	receivers	out	of	thirty-one	ran	under	4.4;	in	fact,	five	ran	over	4.6.	This
means	more	wide	receivers	ran	over	4.6	than	under	4.4.
2006	was	an	exceptional	year	for	defensive	backs	with	nine	sub-4.4s.	The
key,	again	in	2006,	was	there	were	no	4.2s	in	the	results	I	saw.	In	2005	I	believe
one	athlete	actually	ran	a	4.2,	although	I	did	not	have	those	stats	available.	One
athlete	in	a	decade.
As	coaches,	we	need	to	stop	perpetuating	the	myths.	We	need	to	tell	our
athletes	what	the	average	at	the	NFL	Combine	was	and	not	what	the	best	freak
times	were.	We	need	to	further	explain	to	them	it	is	unrealistic	to	expect	to	even
meet	the	NFL	averages.	As	with	everything	in	our	society,	we	have	raised	the	bar
unrealistically	high.	Let’s	be	honest	with	ourselves	and	with	our	athletes.
The	reality	is	most	athletes	are	looking	to	reduce	the	forty-yard-dash	time
by	as	little	as	one-or	two-tenths	of	a	second.
In	an	elite-level	race	that	takes	from	4.3	to	5.3	seconds	to	complete,	the	first
ten-yard	segment	takes	the	longest	time	and	by	default	is	the	easiest	to	impact.
Ten-yard	dash	times	range	from	one-and-ahalf	to	two	seconds,	each	proceeding
ten-yard	segment	taking	roughly	one	to	onepoint-one	second	to	complete.	By
simply	improving	performance	in	the	initial	ten-yards,	we	can	easily	take	off	the
elusive	tenth	of	a	second	from	our	athletes’	times.
First	Step	or	First	Push
	
The	forty-yard	dash	should	be	run	in	approximately	seventeen	steps.
Simple.	An	athlete	with	a	normal	stride	length	will	measure	out	at	about	seven-
and-a-half	feet.	This	means	a	reasonably	good	sprinter	will	cover	fifteen	feet,	or

five	yards,	every	two	steps.
The	big	key	to	the	forty-yard	dash	is	to	get	the	athlete	to	develop	stride
length	in	the	first	ten-yard	segment	by	pushing,	not	overreaching.	The	first	five-
yard	segment	should	take	three	steps;	the	remaining	seven	segments	would	take
two	steps	each	for	a	total	of	seventeen	steps.	Is	seventeen	the	magic	number?
No.	The	key	is	to	teach	athletes	to	push,	not	reach,	and	to	minimize	stutter	steps.
	

Speed	or	Acceleration
	
	
In	the	year	2000,	
The	Journal	of	Applied	Physiology
	published	research	in
an	article	called	
Mechanical	Basis	of	Human	Running	Speed
.	The	article
synopsis	begins	with	the	line,	“Faster	top	running	speeds	are	achieved	with
greater	ground	forces,	not	more	rapid	leg	movements.”	This	became	known	as
the	Weyland	study	after	the	lead	researcher,	Peter	Weyland.
To	further	validate	Weyland’s	work,	think	about	the	term	“having	a	great
first	step.”	In	reality	it	should	be	
has	a	great	first	push.
Get	yourself	in	a	starting	position.	Take	a	step.	Don’t	push,	just	step.	Do
you	really	go	anywhere?
First	step	is	really	a	function	of	first	push,	not	vice	versa.	This	is	nothing
more	than	physics.	Those	who	can	produce	the	greatest	force	into	the	ground	—
the	action	—	will	yield	the	greatest	benefit	from	the	ground	—	the	reaction.
Weyland’s	research	clearly	indicates	front-side	mechanics	and	what	many
work	on	with	high-knee	drills	are	not	nearly	as	relevant	as	what	happens	behind
the	body	as	force	is	transmitted	into	the	ground.
•	We	try	to	get	our	athletes	to	master	three	steps	for	five	yards	and	five	steps
for	ten	yards,	and	to	do	it	without	a	reaching	action.
•	We	continue	to	emphasize	stride	length	as	a	function	of	back-side	action-
reaction	and	not	front-side	reach.
•	We	teach	push,	with	no	emphasis	on	stride	length	from	the	front-side
mechanics.
•	We	never	do	B-skip-type	drills,	as	these	teach	improper	mechanics	and	are
not	appropriate	for	forty-yard	sprinters.
Most	track	coaches	and	unfortunately,	many	performance	coaches,	spend	an
inordinate	amount	of	time	on	A	and	B	drills.	We	use	these	strictly	as	warm-ups
and	have	really	minimized	the	time	spent	on	mechanics.	I	have	replaced	the
block	of	time	usually	spent	on	trying	to	teach	pretty	running	with	really	heavy

sled	work,	which	we	refer	to	as	a	sport-specific	leg	press.
I	have	seen	lots	of	slow	people	with	great	sprint	mechanics	who	do	not	have
the	capability	of	putting	force	into	the	ground.	There	is	a	reason	for	the	strong
correlation	between	vertical	jump	and	sprint	speed:	
Both	are	a	function	of	force
into	the	ground.
	A	strong	athlete	with	poor	mechanics	will	usually	beat	a	weak
athlete	with	great	form.
Here	are	the	keys	to	the	first	ten	yards.
Is	the	athlete	moving	quickly	or	does	he	look	like	he’s	moving	quickly?
	
Many	athletes	come	out	of	the	start	with	great	turnover	and	go	nowhere.
Often	these	athletes	look	fast	and	run	slow.	Generally	these	are	fast-twitch
athletes	who	do	not	like	the	weightroom.
The	great	accelerators	often	look	slow	coming	out	because	they	are
producing	great	force	and	minimized	steps.	Running	is	all	about	action	and
reaction.	Force	placed	into	the	ground	produces	forward	motion,	very	simple.
The	start	is	clearly	not	about	turnover	or	frequency,	but	about	force	into	the
ground.
This	is	the	reason	there	is	such	a	strong	correlation	between	the	vertical
jump	and	forty-yard-dash	times.	When	an	athlete	applies	force	into	the	ground,
the	ground	returns	force	back	in	an	equal	and	opposite	manner.	More	force,	more
vertical	displacement.
Have	you	timed	your	athletes	for	a	ten-and	twenty-yard	dash?
	
Try	being	objective	versus	subjective.	Time	your	athletes	not	just	in	the
forty,	but	also	in	the	ten	and	twenty.	One-and-a-half	seconds	handheld	is	fast	for
adult	men.	One-point-eight	is	average	for	a	ten.
Next,	video	the	ten-yard	dash	and	the	twenty-yard	dash.
	
See	how	many	steps	it	takes	the	athlete	to	run	ten	and	twenty	yards.	This
will	tell	you	if	you	have	an	athlete	who	is	moving	the	feet	but	not	applying	any
force.	A	good	sprinter	will	run	the	ten	in	five	or	six	steps	and	the	twenty	in	nine
or	ten	steps.	Don’t	tell	the	athlete	to	cut	down	steps;	telling	an	athlete	you	are

counting	steps	will	cause	over-striding.	Tell	the	athlete	to	push	the	ground	as
hard	as	possible.
Look	at	the	video	and	analyze	the	first	step.
	
Does	the	athlete	gain	ground?	Here’s	a	good	indicator	of	a	powerful	start:
The	foot	taking	the	second	step	does	not	touch	the	ground	while	the	front	foot	is
still	on	the	line.
In	other	words,	after	step	one	you	should	not	see	two	feet	in	contact	with
the	ground.
You	will	be	amazed	at	how	many	athletes	
step	out
	of	the	start	instead	of
pushing	out
	of	the	start.	Just	as	we	confuse	speed	and	acceleration,	we	often
confuse	first	step	and	first	push.	A	quick	first	step	does	nothing;	it	is	the	push
that	creates	the	action-reaction,	not	the	step.	What	you	want	is	great	push,	not	a
great	step.
This	also	relates	to	stride	length.	Stride	length	is	accomplished	by	great
forces	placed	into	the	ground,	not	by	things	like	knee	lift.
Another	indicator	the	athlete	is	beginning	to	understand	powerful	starts	is
the	appearance	of	falling	forward	out	of	the	start,	almost	out	of	control.	I	tell	my
athletes	to	drive	themselves	out	of	the	start	so	aggressively	they	almost	fall	flat
on	their	faces.	I	cheer	if	they	look	like	they	are	about	to	fall,	as	it	shows	me	an
aggressive	push.
Time	each	test	three	times.
	
Either	average	all	three	or	take	the	middle,	throwing	out	the	high	and	low.
You	don’t	want	to	record	a	mistake.
Electronic	timers	don’t	make	mistakes	unless	there	is	a	malfunction.	Throw
out	scores	that	are	obviously	wrong.
	

Start	Tips
	
	
•	The	weight	is	on	the	front	hand	and	foot.	This	is	not	track.	There	is	no
block.	The	back	foot	is	minimally	helpful.
•	The	hips	are	low;	don’t	let	the	athlete	raise	the	butt.	It’s	not	possible	to
push	out	from	straight	legs.
•	Never	take	instructions	from	a	track	coach	on	forty	technique.	They	use
blocks,	and	your	non-track	athletes	don’t	have	them.
•	Eyes	are	between	the	hand	and	the	foot.	Make	sure	the	athlete	doesn’t
look	up.	The	head	should	be	in	a	normal	anatomical	position.
•	Weight	should	be	so	far	forward	that	if	the	athlete	doesn’t	run,	he’d	fall.
	

Start	Drills
	
	
These	drills	will	improve	what	you	already	have.	They	are	teaching	drills.
The	real	key	to	speed	lies	in	increasing	force	production.	To	really	improve
speed,	these	drills	and	cues	must	be	combined	with	a	lower-body	strength	and
power	program	that	emphasizes	maximal	strength.	Don’t	underestimate	the
value	of	force	production	in	the	forty.
Dive	Starts
	
Have	the	athlete	dive	into	a	crash	pad	from	the	start	position.	This	is	a	great
drill	for	teaching	first-push	power.
Timed	Tens
	
I	love	timed	tens.	I	try	to	watch	the	start	and	count	the	steps.	We	use	a
Speed	Trap	timer	and	don’t	watch	the	clock.	We	time	every	week,	sometimes
twice	a	week.
A	Few	Rules
	
•	Tell	the	athlete	only	three	attempts	per	day.	This	leaves	time	for	the	athlete
to	ask	for	one	more	at	least	twice.	I	really	want	to	time	five	sprints,	but
always	say	three.
•	Try	to	get	the	athlete	to	forget	about	the	timer	and	concentrate	on	the

technical	things:	big	push	out	of	the	start,	great	hip	extension.
•	The	use	of	a	timer	is	an	excellent	way	to	reduce	anxiety	about	being
timed.	My	athletes	are	very	comfortable	about	being	timed	by	the	time	the
Combine	or	Pro	Day	comes	around.
Athletes	will	choke	and	revert	to	old	patterns	as	soon	as	a	timing	device	is
present.	Timing	early	and	often	allows	the	athlete	to	see	the	changes	in	patterns
like	stepping	out	of	the	start	or	stuttering.	The	timer	also	demonstrates	these
behaviors	result	in	slower	times,	not	faster.
Frequent	use	of	the	timer	does	what	the	book	
The	One	Minute	Manager
calls	catching	someone	doing	something	right.	We	focus	on	execution,	not	time.
Great	execution	will	lead	to	better	times,	which	will	ingrain	proper	habits.
Three	for	Five,	Five	for	Ten
	
This	is	a	tough	drill	as	you	constantly	have	to	emphasize	stride	length
coming	from	push,	not	reach.	The	goal	of	the	drill	is	to	get	the	first	five	yards	in
three	steps,	eventually	progressing	to	getting	ten	yards	in	five	steps	—	three	for
five;	five	for	ten.	Be	careful	with	this	drill;	I	view	it	as	an	advanced	drill,	and
one	that	must	be	monitored	constantly.	Success	is	not	accomplished	as	much	by
the	number	of	steps	or	strides,	but	by	the	quality	of	strides.	Overstriding	defeats
the	purpose.
One-Leg	Starts
	
This	is	another	great	drill	to	teach	the	athlete	how	to	use	the	front	foot	in	the
start.	Simply	ask	for	a	series	of	timed	tens	from	only	the	front	foot.	This	will
teach	the	athlete	how	to	focus	on	exploding	off	the	front	leg.	Often	our	athletes
will	move	from	abysmal	at	this	drill	to	being	able	to	run	as	fast	as	from	a	three-
point	start.
	

Increasing	Sprint	Speeds
	
	
Great	sprint	coaches	are	few	and	far	between.	I	still	find	myself	almost
twenty	years	later	quoting	Charlie	Francis.	It’s	been	a	long	time	since	I’ve	read	a
fresh	take	on	speed.	I	have	watched	track	coaches	spend	countless	hours	making
pretty	runners	using	neuromuscular	drills,	while	totally	neglecting	strength	and
power	capabilities.	I	have	watched	track	coaches	try	to	develop	an	aerobic	base
with	their	sprinters,	what	I	consider	more	foolishness.
The	end	result	in	track	is	failure,	failure	the	leads	to	a	common	solution	—
longer	races.	When	track	coaches	fail	to	make	an	athlete	faster,	they	move	the
sprinter	up	a	distance.	Can’t	improve	your	400-meter	time,	try	the	800.	We	know
we	can	work	on	maintaining	your	apparently	unimprovable	speed	over	longer
distances	with	more	work.
Speed	development	takes	effort	and	thought.	Aerobic	and	anaerobic
capacities	take	primarily	effort.	It	takes	years	to	make	an	athlete	fast,	and	months
to	make	him	fit.
Gary	Winckler,	head	women’s	track	and	field	coach	at	the	University	of
Illinois	has	said,	“Sending	sprinters	on	long	runs	is	a	death	march.”
Ask	yourself	how	many	times	you	have	heard	a	track	coach	talk	about
putting	in	miles	to	develop	a	base.	Any	talk	of	aerobic	base	is	misguided,
particularly	if	you	are	trying	to	develop	speed.
To	succeed	in	increasing	sprint	speed,	an	athlete	needs	to	get	stronger	and
more	powerful.
Mass	is	a	necessary	and	desirable	by-product	of	training	in	most	team
sports,	particularly	those	that	involve	contact	or	collisions.
My	areas	of	interest	tend	to	be	ice	hockey	and	football.	Both	of	these	sports
most	often	require	increases	in	speed	concurrent	with	increases	in	size.	The	key
is	to	develop	mass	that	either	creates	speed,	prevents	injury	through	collision
tolerance	or	allows	for	more	powerful	collisions.
In	other	words,	we	need	to	develop	what	I	classify	as	propulsive	mass.	We
train	with	weights	to	develop	strength	and	power,	and	I	really	think	in	the	sports
environment	we	train	for	strength	only	so	we	can	develop	more	power.

The	ideal	result	of	a	training	period:
	increased	lean	body	mass,	an
increase	in	vertical	jump	and	a	decreased	ten-yarddash	time.	This	would
mean	we	have	developed	more	mass	and	can	move	that	mass	with	greater
speed.
A	good	result	of	a	training	period:
	increased	lean	body	mass	while
maintaining	the	same	vertical	jump	and	ten-yarddash	time.	In	this	case,	the
physics	are	still	favorable.	If	momentum	equals	mass	times	velocity,	this
outcome	still	produces	more	momentum.	We	have	a	better	athlete	as	the
athlete	moves	greater	mass	with	the	same	speed.
A	poor	result:
	increased	lean	body	mass	with	a	decrease	in	vertical	jump	or
speed.	This	is	the	worst-case	scenario,	but	is	not	always	fatal.	For	smaller
athletes	who	tend	to	get	pushed	around,	a	small	loss	of	relative	speed	and
power	may	not	be	a	poor	trade.
In	football	we	have	used	the	Lewis	Power	Formula	to	determine	if	athletes
who	gained	significant	amounts	of	bodyweight	lost	or	gained	power.	Remember,
with	linemen,	inertia	matters.	Size	is	a	necessary	evil	for	offensive	and	defensive
linemen,	even	when	it	is	non-propulsive.
	

Sport-Specific	Training
	
	
Strength	training	is	and	always	will	be	a	major	part	of	the	conditioning
process	for	athletes.	Nothing	helps	sports	performance	more	than	the
development	of	strength	and	power.	This	is	great	news	for	those	of	us	who	have
made	a	career	of	helping	athletes	reach	those	goals.
Even	though	we	all	agree	about	the	importance	of	strength	training,	and
even	though	there’s	general	consensus	of	the	best	ways	to	improve	athletic
strength	and	power,	debates	rage	about	the	specifics.	One	particularly
contentious	debate	is	over	the	very	idea	there	are	specifics	for	training	players	in
individual	sports.
Athletes	and	their	parents	or	coaches	love	to	hear	a	particular	exercise	is
good	for	a	specific	sport.	It	makes	strength	and	conditioning	specialists	sound
like	we	know	what	we’re	talking	about,	and	it	gives	athletes	confidence	in	our
abilities	to	help	them	with	their	individual	needs.
It’s	in	my	best	interest	to	tell	people	sport-specific	training	and	sport-
specific	exercises	actually	exist.	But	is	it	true?
Say	I’m	training	two	high	school	kids.	One’s	a	cornerback	on	the	football
team,	and	one’s	a	centerfielder	on	the	baseball	team.	Both	are	fast	and	would
benefit	by	being	even	faster.	Both	would	benefit	by	being	stronger	and
developing	more	power.	Both	want	to	add	some	muscular	size,	but	not	at	the
expense	of	speed	or	agility.	Do	I	train	them	differently,	even	though	their	goals
are	basically	the	same?
In	the	most	fundamental	sense,	the	answer	is	no.	The	best	methods	to
develop	speed	and	power	are	somewhat	universal.
However,	there	is	a	catch.	Although	it’s	dubious	to	say	certain	exercises	are
better	for	certain	sports,	it’s	fair	to	say	some	exercises	are	worse	for	athletes	who
play	particular	sports.
Those	in	the	hard-core	crowd	love	to	bang	square	pegs	into	round	holes,
one	size	fits	all.	If	the	squat	is	a	great	exercise,	it	must	be	great	for	every	athlete
in	every	situation.	I	was	one	of	those	guys	for	years,	forcing	my	basketball
players	to	squat,	and	searching	endlessly	for	ways	to	help	them	learn	the	right
technique.

Then	I	figured	something	out:	There’s	a	limiting	factor	in	squatting	we	call
segmental	proportion.	Athletes	with	long	femurs	relative	to	the	length	of	the
torso	will	be	lousy	squatters.	These	guys	were	almost	always	forwards	or
centers,	six-feetfive	or	taller.
But	it’s	not	just	about	height	—	some	tall	basketball	players	are	actually
very	good	squatters.
The	problem	is	an	athlete	with	these	proportions	needs	an	extreme	forward
lean	when	squatting,	making	it	look	like	he’s	doing	a	good	morning.	This	athlete
will	generally	be	frustrated	with	the	inability	to	do	the	exercise	correctly,	and
may	even	suffer	back	pain.
Eventually	I	could	identify	these	athletes	before	we	got	anywhere	near	the
squat	rack.	Basketball	players	with	exceptionally	long	femurs	always	look	short
sitting	down.	I	remember	sitting	next	to	a	player	and	realizing	that	despite	the
fact	he	was	eight	inches	taller	than	me,	we	were	eye-to-eye	when	seated	in
chairs.
My	advice	to	fellow	coaches:	If	an	athlete	is	built	proportionally	and	can
squat	with	good	form,	go	for	it.	If	the	athlete	is	all	legs,	be	careful:	You’re
looking	at	a	square	peg.
The	problem	of	segmental	proportions	isn’t	exclusive	to	basketball	players.
In	the	past	five	or	six	years	I’ve	seen	a	growing	number	of	offensive	linemen	in
football	who	have	what	I	call	basketball	builds.	They	tend	to	be	6'5"	or	taller,
with	long	legs	and	relatively	short	torsos.
Everyone	believes	football	players	in	general,	and	linemen	in	particular,
should	squat	early	and	often.	But	this	square	peg,	round	hole	training
methodology	leaves	a	lot	of	the	taller	linemen	with	back	and	knee	problems.
Good	Solutions	for	Bad	Leverage
	
Physics	rule	in	all	sports.	The	reason	there	are	so	few	short	NBA	players	is
the	same	reason	there	are	so	few	tall	Olympic	lifters.	It’s	much	easier	for	a	short
person	to	do	an	Olympic	lift	from	the	floor	than	it	is	for	a	tall	person.	Keep	this
in	mind	if	you	train	tall	athletes.
The	diameter	of	a	plate	is	constant;	it	gives	short	athletes	good	leverage	and
puts	tall	ones	at	a	disadvantage.
To	offset	leverage,	try	these	options:

•	For	strength,	use	front	squats,	belt	squats,	single-leg	squats,	single-leg
squats	with	the	rear	foot	elevated	(Bulgarian	split	squats)	or	trap-bar
deadlifts.
•	For	power,	try	Olympic	lifts	from	the	hang	position	above	the	knees,
along	with	Vertimax	jumps.
	

Balance	and	Instability	Training
	
	
Over	the	past	few	years,	my	training	philosophy	has	changed	in	regard	to
the	number	of	times	per	week	we	perform	a	lift.	The	old	philosophy	was	a
heavy–light	system	in	which	a	specific	lift,	such	as	the	front	squat,	was	done
twice	per	week,	once	with	a	heavy	load	and	once	with	light	load.	Light	days
were	difficult	to	enforce	and	regulate.	Now	instead	of	light	days	I	often	opt	for
unstable	days	or	unilateral	days.
Unstable	days	serve	two	purposes.
•	Unstable-surface	training	forces	the	athlete	to	lift	lighter,	while	also
developing	balance	and	proprioception.
•	The	unstable	surface	also	requires	the	athlete	to	concentrate	on	technique
and	weight	distribution	to	be	successful.
Unstable-surface	training	has	become	controversial	over	the	past	few	years
with	the	explosion	of	stability-ball	training	and	the	use	of	other	unstable
environments.
Opponents	of	unstable-surface	training	tend	to	be	old-school	powerlifters	or
Olympic	lifters	who	feel	the	old	ways	are	the	best	ways.	The	advocates	of
unstable-surface	training	believe	it	adds	additional	proprioceptive	demand	to	the
exercise,	a	long-held	position	of	rehab	specialists.
The	science	here	is	undeniable.	Physical	therapists	have	designed	exercises
to	increase	proprioceptive	demand	in	a	rehab	setting,	and	would	never	think	of
discontinuing	this	practice.	The	application	of	this	concept	to	healthy	athletes	as
a	preventative	measure	is	sensible.
The	opponents	of	unstable-surface	work	frequently	cite	studies	indicating	it
does	not	cause	additional	activation	of	the	prime	movers,	and	they	may	be	right.
However,	those	of	us	who	advocate	unstable	surface	training	are	not	doing
it	to	add	additional	stress	to	the	prime	movers,	but	rather	to	add	additional	stress
to	stabilizers	and	neutralizers.

Unstable	surface	training	is	actually	used	in	our	programs	to	decrease	the
stress	on	a	prime	mover,	while	increasing	the	stress	on	that	prime	mover’s
synergists.
Many	of	the	opponents	of	unstable	surface	training	are	denying	the	concept
without	actually	understanding	its	purpose.
	

Losing	Power	with	Age
	
	
Training	older	clients	for	power	is	not	just	good	idea,	it’s	essential.	Check
out	these	stats	lifted	straight	from	Professor	Joe	Signorile’s	presentation	at	the
NSCA	Caribbean	Clinic	in	2003:	
Between	the	ages	of	65	and	89,	explosive
lower-limb	extensor	power	has	been	reported	to	decline	at	3.5	percent	per	year
compared	to	a	one	to	two	percent	per	year	decrease	in	strength.
This	means	even	though	we	are	losing	strength	as	we	age,	we	are	losing
power	almost	twice	as	fast.	Interpretation:	We’re	really	screwed	if	we	need	to
move	fast.
In	elderly	men,	maximal	anaerobic	power	has	been	reported	to	decline	8.3
percent	per	decade	from	age	twenty	to	age	seventy.
Note:	
That	said	anaerobic,	not	aerobic.
Loss	of	power	is	a	huge	issue.	Power	is	one	of	the	major	performance
variables	associated	with	independence,	fall	prevention	and	rehabilitation
following	injury.
Research	has	confirmed	training	is	speed-specific,	and	therefore	increases
in	power	and	speed	of	movement	require	both	strength	and	contractile	speed	be
addressed.	This	means	your	older	clients	who	train	for	power	will	be	more
independent,	fall	less	often,	and	get	better	faster	after	an	injury.
We	need	to	set	aside	our	primary	focus	on	safety	in	our	older	clients,	and
start	to	figure	out	how	to	train	all	of	our	clients	for	power.
Does	this	mean	cleans	and	plyometrics	for	Grandma	and	Grandpa?
Probably	not.	What	it	does	mean	is	we	must	introduce	a	velocity	component	to
our	training	not	just	for	athletes,	but	for	all	of	our	clients.	The	big	question	is	not
if	we	should,	but	
how
	we	train	adults	for	power.
There	is	no	better	way	to	train	for	power	than	to	use	equipment	specifically
designed	for	power	development.	The	Keiser	equipment	line	was	created	by
Dennis	Keiser	to	allow	training	at	speed	with	complete	safety.
The	Total	Gym	and	the	Shuttle	MVP	both	allow	for	elements	of	power
training,	as	does	an	old	staple,	the	medicine	ball.	The	med	ball	may	be	the	least
expensive	tool	for	power	training,	with	a	huge	return	on	investment.	Med	ball
training	is	covered	in	the	next	section.

Power	is	relative.	What	constitutes	a	power	exercise	for	an	athlete	is	an
exercise	in	insanity	for	the	average	adult.	The	converse	is	also	true:	What	might
be	a	power	exercise	for	an	older	client	could	be	a	dynamic	warm-up	for	the
athlete.
The	important	point	is	we	need	to	train	as	fast	as	our	clients	are	physically
capable	of	going	if	we	want	to	delay	the	loss	of	power	so	prevalent	throughout
our	aging	process.

Equipment	Choices
	
	
Equipment	Choices
Slideboard	Training
Slideboard	Technique
Setting	Up	Workouts
Off-Season	Training
Medicine	Ball	Training
Rotation	Progression
Sled	Training	for	Athletics
Sled	Pushing
TRX	Suspension	Training
Kettlebells
Suitcase	Carry
Bottoms-Up	Kettlebell	Walk
Get-Up
	

Equipment	Choices
	
	
Manufacturers	will	continue	to	try,	but	no	one	will	ever	build	a	machine
that	works	better	than	a	free	weight.	Free	weights	always	have	been	and	always
will	be	better	than	machines.	The	only	machines	we	need	are	cable	pieces	that
allow	us	to	perform	exercises	we	can’t	do	with	a	bar	or	dumbbell.
The	one	exception	might	be	the	new	Keiser	units	that	give	power	outputs.
Keiser	may	revolutionize	training	with	this	equipment.	If	you’re	a	powerlifter,
see	if	you	can	test	the	Keiser	Power	Rack	and	try	your	dynamic	effort	work	like
Westside	bands	and	chains	with	an	air	system.
Other	than	that,	we	don’t	use	a	lot	of	equipment	or	tools	in	our	facility.	The
few	we	use	in	addition	to	free	weight	are	described	in	this	section.
	

Slideboard	Training
	
	
The	slideboard	may	be	the	best,	most	cost	effective	conditioning	mode
available	for	athletes	exclusive	of	actually	running.	No	other	piece	of	equipment
can	do	all	of	the	following:
•	Place	the	athlete	in	a	sport-specific	position,	almost	regardless	of	sport
•	Positively	stress	the	abductor	and	adductor	muscles
•	Allow	athletes	to	work	in	groups	of	three	to	four	on	one	piece	of
equipment
•	Provide	work	capacity	training	in	an	interval	format	with	no	adjustments,
all	for	under	$600
Think	about	all	the	sports	that	put	athletes	through	lateral	movement	of	the
lower	extremities;	there	are	very	few	sports	that	do	not	include	such	lateral
motion.	Now	think	about	training	devices	that	accurately	mimic	lateral	motion
and	positively	stress	the	muscles	involved	—	few,	if	any.
A	slideboard	has	a	smooth,	flat	surface	about	twenty-four	inches	wide,
ranging	in	length	from	seven	to	nine	feet.	Commercial	slideboards	come	with
special	slippers	athletes	use	while	training,	and	the	only	maintenance	required	is
the	occasional	application	of	no-wax	furniture	polish	to	the	slideboard	surface.
It’s	a	rare	device	that	accurately	addresses	the	specific	lateral	movements
for	sports	such	as	ice	hockey,	field	hockey,	football,	soccer	and	baseball.
Strength	and	conditioning	coaches	who	deal	with	multiple	sports	can	easily
tailor	each	slideboard	workout	to	specific	sports	and	to	specific	positions	within
a	sport.
For	example,	when	we	are	training	ice	hockey	players,	we	put	the	forwards
and	defensemen	on	a	slideboard	adjusted	to	nine	feet,	or	about	one-and-a-half
times	the	athlete’s	height.	This	one-and-a-half	height	rule	applies	to	all	but	a	few
positions.	For	hockey	goalies,	we	work	with	a	shorter,	seven-foot	board	to	reflect
the	fact	the	net	is	only	six	feet	wide	on	a	standard	hockey	rink.

The	realistic	movements	produced	by	slideboard	exercises	reduce	a	player’s
chance	of	incurring	a	groin	injury	during	pre-season	workouts	and	drills.	This	is
because	the	motion	of	the	slideboard	positively	stresses	the	abductor,	adductor
and	hip	flexor	muscles,	which	is	something	that	does	not	occur	on	a	bike	or	on	a
commercial	climber.	Consequently,	the	specific	muscle	groups	used	in	lateral
movements	can	be	conditioned	before	the	stresses	and	strains	of	the	actual	in-
season	sport	come	into	play.
From	a	budgeting	perspective,	top	quality	commercial-grade	lubricant-free
boards	cost	less	than	$600,	and	several	athletes	can	share	a	single	slideboard.
Since	the	most	effective	training	intervals	include	generous	rest	periods,
groups	of	three	or	four	athletes	take	turns	using	the	slideboard	without
interrupting	a	workout.
Technique
	
The	basic	movement	on	a	slideboard	is	a	push-glide	motion	similar	to
skating	down	a	rink.	On	a	slideboard,	an	athlete	pushes	the	inside	leg	from	one
side	of	the	board	to	the	other	by	pushing	off	with	the	outside	leg.	When	working
out	on	a	slideboard,	athletes	should	maintain	a	knee	bend	ranging	from	120	to
130	degrees	and	work	to	eventually	perform	one	push-off	per	second.
Emphasis	should	be	placed	on	extension	of	the	ankle,	knee	and	hip	joints.
When	the	athlete	reaches	the	end	of	the	board,	the	knee	of	the	pushing	leg	should
touch	the	calf	of	the	leg	that	has	just	arrived	at	the	bumper.
The	hips	should	stay	at	the	same	level	the	entire	time	the	athlete	is	on	the
board.	We	tell	our	athletes	if	they	could	plot	the	position	of	their	hips	on	a	graph,
it	would	ideally	be	a	straight	line.
Athletes	are	also	instructed	to	not	bring	their	non-weighted	foot	behind
their	bodies	when	pushing	off.
Setting	Up	Workouts
	
Begin	with	five	work	intervals,	making	each	one	five	to	thirty	seconds	long,
depending	on	the	conditioning	and	conditioning	requirements	of	the	athlete.	Use
rest	intervals	lasting	fifteen	to	ninety	seconds	between	each	work	interval.	The
entire	workout	should	last	ten	to	twenty	minutes.

Note:	All	of	the	rest	intervals	are	longer	than	the	work	intervals.	The	longer
rest	intervals	are	due	to	the	intensity	of	working	out	on	a	slideboard.
When	creating	a	slideboard	workout	for	your	athletes,	consider	that	work
intervals	longer	than	thirty	seconds	will	quickly	exhaust	an	athlete	and	usually
will	result	in	a	loss	of	technique.	As	your	athletes	become	better-conditioned,	try
to	increase	the	number	of	work	intervals	or	decrease	the	rest	times	rather	than
increasing	the	length	of	time	for	each	work	interval.
All	of	our	athletes,	regardless	of	sport,	perform	lateral	conditioning	on	the
slideboard	two	times	per	week	during	a	four-day	work	week.
Our	athletes	condition	every	day.	The	difference	is	in	a	four-day	offseason
program,	our	athletes	will	do	lateral-movement	conditioning	twice	and	linear
conditioning	on	the	other	two	days.
For	three-day	programs,	we	simply	alternate	linear	and	lateral.	This	means
we	get	three	linear	days	and	three	lateral	days	every	two	weeks.
When	combined	with	a	program	of	plyometrics	and	land	sprints,	the
slideboard	can	become	a	major	part	of	improving	the	lateral	movements	of	any
sport.	Try	adding	a	slideboard	workout	to	your	offseason	or	summer	program.
Your	players	will	see	and	feel	the	difference	at	the	start	of	their	competitive
seasons.
OffSeason	Training
	
It	is	important	to	emphasize	the	slideboard	should	be	used	only	for
offseason	workouts,	not	for	workouts	during	the	competitive	season.	We	avoid
slideboard	training	during	the	competitive	season	because	the	intensity	of	a	good
slideboard	workout	can	result	in	overuse	injuries.	During	the	competitive	season,
we	must	be	careful	to	avoid	creating	stresses	on	the	hip	flexors,	adductors	and
abductors	beyond	what	an	athlete	receives	in	normal	practice	and	play.
Slideboard	training	programs	can	be	developed	using	typical	interval-
training	concepts.	Athletes	should	begin	a	slideboard	program	with	some
introductory	workouts	in	which	rest	intervals	last	three	times	as	long	as	work
intervals.
For	example,	to	familiarize	an	athlete	with	the	concepts	of	interval	training
on	the	slideboard,	the	athlete	begins	by	working	on	the	board	for	fifteen	seconds
followed	by	a	forty-five-second	rest	interval,	with	eight	to	ten	repeats.	This
generally	results	in	heart	rates	of	160	to	190	beats	per	minute.	Such	a	program
provides	an	aerobic	benefit	as	long	as	the	heart	rate	is	maintained	above	120

beats	per	minute	during	the	recovery	period.
However,	the	main	purpose	of	the	slideboard	is	to	provide	an	excellent
anaerobic	endurance	workout.	The	anaerobic	and	aerobic	emphasis	of	a
slideboard	workout	can	be	changed	by	the	manipulation	of	the	work-to-rest
ratios	as	described	in	the	section	on	interval	training.
A	high	work-to-rest	ratio	of	1:2	would	be	useful	for	an	athlete	who	needs	to
increase	anaerobic	conditioning.	Conversely,	a	low	work-to-rest	ratio	of	1:1
would	provide	more	aerobic	and	endurance	benefits	and	would	be	a	typical
slideboard	exercise	for	a	sport	such	as	soccer,	where	the	player	is	constantly
running.
By	changing	work-to-rest	ratios	and	altering	the	length	of	work	and	rest
periods,	a	coach	can	create	specific	lateral-movement	workouts	for	individual
players	and	positions	in	sports.
A	good	example	is	to	compare	a	slideboard	lateral	conditioning	workout	for
a	hockey	forward	with	that	of	a	baseball	shortstop.	Both	the	shortstop	and	the
forward	need	anaerobic	conditioning	for	speed,	and	we	might	create	a	high
work-torest	ratio	of	1:3	for	both	athletes.
However,	the	hockey	forward	requires	a	much	higher	level	of	conditioning
than	the	baseball	shortstop.	As	a	result,	both	athletes	would	get	a	work-to-rest
ratio	of	1:3,	but	the	length	of	the	intervals	would	be	different:	The	shortstop
would	work	fifteen	seconds	and	rest	forty-five,	while	the	forward	would	work
thirty	seconds,	then	rest	ninety.
Review	the	interval	training	program	design	beginning	on	page	136	for	the
specific	lateral	work	setup	we	use	at	MBSC.
	

Medicine	Ball	Training
	
	
Medicine	balls	can	be	a	great	tool	for	power	development	in	clients	who
lack	the	confidence	or	desire	to	Olympic	lift.	In	addition,	medicine	balls	are
really	one	of	the	only	tools	available	to	develop	torso	power	for	striking	sports
like	golf	or	tennis.
A	medicine	ball	is	simply	a	weight	until	you	throw	it.	The	reality	is	you	can
lunge	or	step	up	with	any	object	that	has	mass	and	get	the	same	effect.	The
uniqueness	of	the	medicine	ball	is	in	the	user’s	ability	to	develop	specific	power
by	throwing	it,	and	more	importantly	to	take	advantage	of	the	eccentric	or
concentric	development	gained	by	throwing	toward	a	wall.
Medicine	ball	training	has	become	an	integral	part	of	training	for	any
athlete	interested	in	power	development.	The	development	of	a	wide	range	of
both	elastic	and	nonelastic	medicine	balls	has	re-popularized	this	long-lost
technique.
The	opportunity	to	develop	rotational	power	is	one	of	the	primary	benefits
of	med	ball	training.	In	both	plyometrics	and	Olympic	lifting,	power
development	is	traditionally	uni-planar	with	no	trunk	focus.	Medicine	balls
become	a	tool	like	Olympic	lifting	and	plyometrics	for	the	trunk	musculature,
sort	of	like	Olympic	lifting	for	the	core.
Med	balls	provide	a	safe	method	to	train	for	power	for	almost	all	ages	and
levels	of	training.	In	fact,	no	other	training	mode	provides	the	specific	strength
and	power	potential	of	the	medicine	ball.
The	new	rubber	medicine	balls	and	a	masonry	wall	are	excellent	for	these
applications	due	to	the	elasticity	of	the	ball.	The	older-style	nonelastic	balls	are
excellent	to	develop	the	concentric	power	of	the	throws.
For	years	I	was	fascinated	by	the	ability	to	perform	medicine	ball	drills	off
the	wall	with	a	rubber	ball.	Later	I	discovered	I	could	really	improve	the
concentric	force	production	of	our	athletes	by	switching	to	a	nonelastic	ball	like
the	Dynamax.	Non-bouncing	balls	force	the	thrower	to	create	far	more
concentric	force	to	produce	any	rebound	off	the	wall.
For	overhead	athletes	like	pitchers,	tennis	players	and	swimmers,	the	med
ball	provides	great	eccentric	training	for	the	rotator	cuff	while	developing	power

in	the	core	muscles.
Total-body	power	in	all	athletes	can	be	developed	through	throws	with
heavy	balls.	Total-body	throws	should	be	done	in	a	large	open	area	and	are	great
to	simulate	the	actions	of	the	Olympic	lifts.	These	are	particularly	useful	for
athletes	who	are	unfamiliar	with	Olympic	lifts	or	have	injuries	that	prevent	them
from	performing	exercises	like	cleans	or	snatches.
These	throws	also	allow	coaches	uncomfortable	with	teaching	the	Olympic
lifts	to	get	hip	and	leg	power	work	in	a	resisted	situation.
Balls	like	the	Dynamax	ball	and	the	D-Balls	are	excellent	for	these
applications	because	they	don’t	bounce.	Dynamax	is	closer	to	leather	and	has	a
little	more	bounce	than	the	D-Ball.	Both	are	nonelastic.
The	Dynamax	balls	are	also	great	for	exercises	like	medicine	ball	bench
presses.	Medicine	ball	bench	presses	are	excellent	for	upper-body	power	for
larger	athletes	since	they	do	not	stress	the	rotator	cuff	and	shoulder	like
plyometric	push-ups	and	other	bodyweight	upper-body	plyometrics.	The
Dynamax	balls	can	also	be	caught	with	minimal	stresses	on	the	wrists	due	to	its
soft	density.
Some	suggested	throws	for	total-body	power	are	from	a	squat	position
forward,	a	scoop-type	throw	from	a	squat	position,	and	throws	from	the	lunge
position.	The	limit	to	the	uses	of	the	medicine	ball	is	really	the	coach’s
imagination.
Athletes	should	not	attempt	to	catch	a	dense	medicine	ball	thrown	by	a
partner.	Catching	heavy	medicine	balls	can	be	dangerous	to	both	the	shoulders
and	fingers	of	the	athletes.
Medicine	ball	throws	should	be	treated	like	any	other	strength	and	power
exercise.	Twenty	to	thirty	of	each	type	of	throw	in	two	or	three	sets	of	ten	can	be
done	twice	a	week.	As	the	athlete	moves	from	kneeling	to	half-kneeling,	and
eventually	to	standing,	the	link	between	the	hips	and	hands	will	show	rapid
improvement.
Keep	volumes	low	to	moderate	and	tell	the	athlete	to	throw	the	ball
aggressively,	as	if	to	break	it.
Rotational	medicine	ball	throws	are	the	key	to	developing	torso	power	for
athletes	involved	in	just	about	any	sport.
For	rotational	throws	it’s	best	to	find	an	area	with	a	masonry	wall.	In
rotational	throws	the	athlete	can	throw	as	hard	as	possible	against	the	wall	with
balls	in	the	four-or	five-kilo	range	to	develop	true	power	in	the	core	and	hips.
Excellent	imitative	drills	for	throwers	can	be	developed	once	the	athletes	master
the	basics.
The	rotational	progression	begins	with	the	athlete	in	a	half-kneeling

position.	Half-kneeling	is	a	position	with	the	athlete	kneeling	on	one	knee	with
the	hip	extended.	Beginning	in	a	kneeling	position	eliminates	the	ankle-and
knee-joint	movements	and	exposes	weaknesses	and	compensation	patterns	that
may	not	be	visible	in	standing	throws.	Half-kneeling	also	teaches	the	athlete	to
use	the	glutes.
Rotation	Progression
	
•	Half-kneeling	side	twist,	ninety	degrees	to	the	wall,	two	or	three	feet	away
from	the	wall
•	Standing,	front	and	side
•	Standing	with	step
•	Single-leg
In	addition	to	developing	rotary	power,	the	same	progression	of	positions
can	be	used	for	overhead	throws.	Overhead	throws	should	be	done	with	two-or
three-kilo	balls,	as	care	must	be	taken	when	providing	stress	to	the	rotator	cuff.
Throwers	should	perform	rotational	throws	a	minimum	of	two	days	per
week	and	a	maximum	of	three.	For	throwers,	the	medicine	ball	may	be	our	most
underrated	tool	to	develop	rotational	power.
	

Sled	Training	for	Athletics
	
	
Sport	is	about	acceleration,	not	speed.	Coaches	consistently	use	the	wrong
term	when	discussing	the	quality	they	covet	most.	As	coaches,	our	interest	is	not
in	top	speed,	but	rather	in	acceleration,	the	zero	to	sixty	of	the	auto	world.	How
rapidly	an	athlete	accelerates,	not	the	athlete’s	absolute	speed,	will	determine
success	in	team	sports.	This	idea	was	developed	in	the	section	on	developing
speed	on	page	167.
A	great	deal	of	the	research	on	speed	development	focuses	on	speed	in	the
track	and	field	context	and	not	in	a	sport	context.	In	track	the	shortest	event	is
the	fifty-five	meters;	in	sport	the	long	event	is	a	forty-yard	dash,	although
baseball	goes	to	sixty.	The	track	influence	may	have	limited	application	in	sport
due	to	sports’	frequent	use	of	acceleration	mechanics	versus	speed	mechanics.
In	training	for	track,	running	coaches	reference	pulling	and	work	on	drills
to	develop	a	pawing	action	against	the	ground.	In	sport	the	action	is	primarily
pushing,	with	the	center	of	gravity	slightly	ahead	of	the	feet,	kind	of	a	reverse
Michael	Johnson.	This	may	mean	much	of	what	we	currently	view	as	speed
development	may	have	limited	application	to	team	sport	athletes.
Numerous	studies	have	discredited	the	weighted	sled	as	a	tool	for	speed
development,	citing	the	sled’s	limited	effect	on	top	speed.	The	evidence	that
weighted	sleds	may	not	improve	top	speed	running	does	not	apply	to
acceleration	and	may	have	led	us	to	undervalue	a	potentially	important	piece	of
equipment.	Many	authors	who	said	the	weighted	sled	did	not	improve	speed
indicate	it	will	improve	acceleration.	Our	problem	has	been	we	misinterpreted
the	results	of	the	research.
Most	coaches	spend	time	working	on	running	form	and	technique	to
improve	speed.	These	same	coaches	also	include	lower-body	workouts	to
improve	strength.	Although	these	are	both	important,	there	may	be	a	missing
link:	the	development	of	specific	strength.
How	often	do	we	see	athletes	who	run	pretty,	but	are	not	fast?	Many
coaches	attempting	to	develop	speed	spend	far	too	much	time	on	technique	drills
and	far	too	little	time	developing	the	specific	power	and	strength	necessary	to
run	faster.

Weighted	sled	drills	target	the	specific	muscles	used	in	sprinting	and	help
bridge	the	gap	between	form	running	drills	and	weightroom	exercises	like	squats
and	Olympic	lifts.
Many	athletes	can	squat	large	amounts	of	weight;	far	fewer	athletes	are	able
to	run	fast.	Any	student	of	speed	will	tell	you	many	of	the	strength	exercises
commonly	recommended	for	speed	development	work	hip	extension,	but	not	hip
hyperextension.	In	running	speed,	all	of	the	force	production	is	from	hip
hyperextension.	The	ability	to	apply	force	to	the	ground	and	create	forward
movement	can	only	occur	when	the	foot	is	placed	under	the	center	of	mass	and
pushed	back.
Although	squats	will	train	the	muscles	involved,	the	training	is	not	specific
to	the	act	of	sprinting.	This	may	be	one	reason	we	see	a	higher	correlation	to
vertical	jump	improvement	than	to	speed	improvement	through	strength	training.
A	weighted	sled	teaches	strong	athletes	how	to	produce	the	type	of	force
that	moves	them	forward.	Sports	scientists	like	to	break	this	down	into	special
strength	and	specific	strength.	Although	minimal,	it	is	important	to	understand
the	difference	between	the	two	qualities.
Special	strength
	refers	to	movements	with	resistance	that	incorporate	the
joint	dynamics	of	the	skill.	Sled	marching	would	fall	into	the	special	strength
category.	Sled	marching	may	even	be	the	best	tool	available	for	speed
development.	An	athlete’s	inability	to	produce	force	in	the	action	of	sprinting
becomes	glaringly	obvious	in	sled	marching.
Specific	strength
	means	movements	with	resistance	imitative	of	the	joint
action.	Sled	running	would	be	placed	in	the	specific	strength	category.
Coaches	have	suggested	resisted	speed	development	work	should	not	slow
the	athlete	down	more	than	ten	percent	and	should	not	involve	more	than	ten
percent	of	the	athlete’s	bodyweight.	These	recommendations	seem	to	be	based
on	motor	learning	research	that	indicates	excessive	loads	would	alter	the	motor
patterns	of	activities	like	sprinting	or	throwing.
I	have	always	felt	there	was	a	missing	link	in	speed	development,	but	until
a	few	years	ago	this	ten-percent	rule	kept	me	from	aggressively	pursuing	my	gut
feeling.	I	currently	think	loads	up	to	and	exceeding	the	athlete’s	bodyweight	can
be	used	for	special	strength	work	as	long	as	the	athlete	exhibits	a	similar	motor
pattern.
Think	of	sled	marching	as	a	special	type	of	leg	press.	Athletes	incorporate
the	joint	dynamics	of	sprinting	through	hip	hyperextension	against	resistance.
This	can	be	an	extremely	heavy	movement	as	long	as	we	get	a	technically	sound
march	action	with	perfect	posture.
With	sled	running,	the	approach	moves	toward	specific	strength.	In	sled

running	the	loads	will	obviously	be	lighter,	but	we	still	don’t	follow	the	ten-
percent	rule.	The	main	variable	in	sled	training	is	not	the	weight	on	the	sled,	but
the	motor	pattern.
If	an	athlete	can	hold	an	acceleration	position	and	run	without	altering
mechanics,	this	is	a	specific	strength	exercise	for	sprinting.
Why	should	we	be	limited	by	arbitrary	guidelines	like	a	ten-percent	load	or
a	ten-percent	decrease	in	speed?	Over	twenty	yards,	ten	percent	is	two	one-
hundredths	of	a	second.
The	key	should	be	to	look	at	the	athlete’s	posture	and	motor	pattern.	If	the
athlete	has	to	alter	the	mechanics	to	produce	the	desired	action,	the	load	is	too
heavy.
Another	obvious	but	overlooked	variable	that	alters	the	ten-percent	rule	is
the	running	surface.	Loads	placed	on	the	sled	will	be	lighter	on	grass	and	heavier
on	AstroTurf;	this	relates	to	the	coefficient	of	friction.	Less	weight	produces	a
larger	amount	of	friction	as	the	sled	moves	through	grass.	On	Astroturf	or	a
similar	surface,	the	same	weight	would	be	too	light.
Another	variable	is	a	flat	sled	versus	a	double-runner	sled.	A	flat	sled	will
again	produce	greater	friction	and	as	a	result	will	necessitate	a	lighter	load	on	the
sled	to	get	a	similar	effect	as	that	using	a	sled	with	runners.
	

Sled	Pushing
	
	
If	I	could	only	choose	one	exercise	for	athletes,	I	think	it	would	be	to	push	a
heavy	sled.	
Push,
	not	drag,	and	heavy.
As	I	watch	someone	push	a	sled,	I	see	a	sport-specific,	unilateral	leg	press.	I
also	see	the	perfect	acceleration	position	for	running.	Each	push	is	really	a
closed-chain,	single-leg	hip	extension	—	great	for	the	glutes,	as	well	as	the
entire	posterior	chain,	and	great	for	rehab	with	a	lot	of	the	benefits	of	squats	and
deadlifts.
Sled	pushing	uses	tremendous	core	stability	fed	from	a	unilateral	base.	I
hate	the	idea	of	squatting	and	deadlifting	for	core	development;	no	bilateral
exercise	is	particularly	good	for	core	development.	It’s	just	not	the	way	the
muscles	work.	Simply	holding	a	load	while	on	two	legs	doesn’t	activate	the	core
muscles	in	the	way	they’re	used	in	life	or	in	sport.	However,	when	you	push	a
sled,	the	base	of	support	changes	from	side	to	side.
Sled	pushing	is	also	a	superb	upper	body	stability	workout.	Pushing	works
the	entire	shoulder	girdle.
And	then	there’s	the	energy	system	component.	GPP,	work	capacity	or
conditioning:	Any	way	you	slice	it,	pushing	a	heavy	sled	is	hard	work.	And	hard
work	is	good	for	your	athletes.
We	use	the	Perform	Better	Drive	Sled.	It’s	a	great	multi-function	sled,
lightweight	and	breaks	down	to	two	pieces.	However,	it’s	not	as	sturdy	as	the
Prowler.	You	need	to	take	care	of	it.
If	you	don’t	have	a	push	sled,	pile	as	many	plates	as	possible	on	a	regular
pull	sled	and	have	your	athletes	go	for	it.
The	reality	is	we	may	have	misinterpreted	the	message	when	it	comes	to
resistance	training	for	sprints.	Although	research	shows	sled	training	may	not
improve	the	athlete’s	ability	to	run	at	top	speed,	it	certainly	will	help	the	athlete
get	faster.
Sport	is	about	acceleration,	not	top	speed.	Very	few	team	sport	athletes	ever
get	to	what	track	coaches	call	absolute	speed	mechanics.	The	weighted	sled	may
be	the	most	underrated	tool	for	speed	development	due	to	our	misinterpretation
and	misunderstanding	of	the	research	and	terminology	surrounding	speed

development.
	
	

TRX	Suspension	Training
	
	
I	thought	the	TRX	suspension	strap	unit	was	a	silly	gimmick,	a	one-trick
pony	that	was	oversold.	Now	I	think	it	might	be	the	best	$149	piece	of
equipment	on	the	market.
	
I	loved	the	TRX	rows	and	thought	the	equipment	was	worth	the	price	for
the	“seated	row	machine”	use	alone.	Actually	it’s	sort	of	a	standing	horizontal
row,	and	the	TRX	eliminates	the	need	for	any	sort	of	weight	stack	cable	row
apparatus,	eliminating	a	$3000	piece	for	$149.	That	should	be	enough;	this	just
saved	you	nearly	three	thousand	dollars	if	you	own	your	own	facility.
Most	people	use	the	Smith	machine	or	a	barbell	set	low	in	a	squat	rack	for
inverted	rows.	Today	I	prefer	the	TRX	suspension	straps	to	allow	the	shoulder
joints	to	move	through	their	normal	spiral-diagonal	patterns.	Using	these
implements,	we	also	do	rotational	inverted	rows,	pulling	up	with	one	arm	at	a

time.
This	turns	out	to	be	the	perfect	product,	inexpensive	with	multiple	uses.
Almost	all	the	exercises	I	thought	were	gimmicky	are	actually	excellent
variations	or	progressions.	Rear-foot-elevated	single-leg	squats,	leg	curls	and
rollouts	are	all	outstanding	on	the	TRX.
	
On	Alwyn	Cosgrove’s	recommendation,	I	scheduled	two	hours	of	training
for	our	staff	members	with	Chris	Frankel	of	Fitness	Anywhere,	the	company	that
manufactures	the	TRX.	To	say	we	were	all	excited	with	the	exercise	possibilities
of	these	straps	is	clearly	an	understatement.
You’ll	notice	in	some	of	the	photos	throughout	the	book	we’re	beginning	to
use	the	TRX	in	a	variety	of	positions.	I	need	to	spend	more	time	playing	to
figure	out	more	cool	progressions,	but	trust	me	when	I	tell	you	to	order	a	TRX
and	get	to	a	TRX	trainer	workshop	or	schedule	a	TRX	expert	to	train	your	staff
on	the	variety	of	its	uses.
	

Kettlebells
	
	
I	have	kettlebells,	and	I	like	them	for	certain	exercises	in	which	they’re
more	user-friendly	than	dumbbells.	For	example,	I	love	kettlebell	swings.	I	think
they’re	a	great	power	exercise	for	beginners	and	older	athletic	clients	who	can’t
handle	the	wrist	stress	of	the	Olympic	lifts.
I	just	don’t	like	them	for	cleans	and	snatches	because	they	hurt	our	athletes.
Look	at	it	from	my	point	of	view.
A	fourteen-year-old	athlete	goes	home	from	our	facility	night	after	night
with	bruised	and	battered	forearms.	His	mom	and	dad,	who	are	paying	good
money	to	have	me	train	their	young	athlete,	ask	why	his	arms	look	like	melted
crayons.	He	tells	them	how	Mr.	Boyle	has	him	fling	around	these	cannonball
thingies,	which	on	a	couple	of	exercises	slam	into	his	forearms…	over	and	over
and	over	again.
Then	he	tells	them,	“Mr.	Boyle	says	we	should	get	the	hang	of	it	after	a	few
more	workouts.”
Do	you	think	Mom	and	Dad	will	wait	to	see	if	Junior	gets	used	to	it?	Or	do
you	think	they’ll	immediately	get	on	the	phone	with	Mr.	Boyle	to	inquire	about
his	innovative	training	techniques?
The	same	goes	with	our	professional	athletes:	Do	I	try	to	explain	to	a	guy
who	makes	$9	million	a	year	he’ll	eventually	enjoy	the	exercise…	after	it	stops
beating	up	his	forearms?	Or	to	keep	that	athlete	in	my	facility,	do	I	find	another
exercise	that	offers	the	same	benefits	without	the	contusions?
Kettlebells	are	good	tools,	but	not	all	popular	kettlebell	exercises	are
appropriate	in	our	training	environments.

	
Suitcase	Carry
	
The	suitcase	carry	is	an	example	of	a	kettlebell	exercise	that	in	my	mind
went	from	a	waste	of	time	and	energy	to	a	great	idea	over	the	course	of	an	hour.
At	a	recent	lecture,	Stuart	McGill	espoused	the	benefits	of	farmer	walks	for	hip
stability.
Previously	farmer	walks	had	been	viewed	as	a	finisher,	a	mental	toughness
exercise	and	a	grip	strength	exercise.	Because	of	this,	I	never	had	much	use	for
them.	Suddenly,	through	the	eyes	of	Stuart	I	see	an	exercise,	or	in	fact	a	whole
series	of	exercises,	in	a	whole	different	light.
As	I	thought	of	farmer	walks	as	a	hip	stability	exercise,	I	realized	Dan
John’s	suitcase	carry	becomes	a	standing,	moving	side	plank.	Instead	of	an
exercise	I	had	no	use	for,	I	suddenly	had	my	next	plank	progression.

Bottoms-Up	Kettlebell	Walk
	
The	same	applies	with	the	bottoms-up	kettlebell	walk.	During	the	short
span	of	a	few	months,	both	Stuart	and	Gray	Cook	espoused	the	benefits.	Stuart
likes	it	for	core	work;	Gray	for	shoulders.
In	either	case,	when	guys	like	Gray	and	Stuart	talk,	copycats	like	me	listen.
I	immediately	experimented	and	quickly	realized,	as	usual,	they	were	right.
The	bottoms-up	kettlebell	walk	is	another	great	lateral	core	progression	to
add	to	your	arsenal.
	
Getup	for	Core
	
And	of	course	we	use	a	kettlebell	in	the	half-getup	for	core	work.
Kettelbell	expert	Brett	Jones	has	called	the	getup	one	of	the	best	exercise
you	aren’t	doing,	and	Gray	Cook	dedicated	an	entire	two-disc	DVD	set	to	it.

	
The	getup	is	an	interesting	exercise	that	will	become	a	bigger	and	bigger
part	of	our	program	over	the	coming	months	as	we	discover	its	subtle	benefits.
The	half-getup	is	our	phase-three	exercise	on	the	way	to	the	full	getup.	We
can	progress	our	straight-leg	sit-up	into	a	single-leg	flat-foot	sit-up	and	then	into
a	half-getup.
This	progression	allows	us	to	teach	getups	to	larger	groups.

Exercises	Choices	The	Basics	and	Single-Leg	Training
	
	
Squats
Gauging	Depth
Knee	Issues	with	Squats
Front	Squats
Developing	a	Safe	Squatting	Style
Pelvic	Position	during	Squatting
Deadlifts
Trap-Bar	Deadlifts
Pressing	Exercises
Chain	Bench	Presses
Training	the	Combine	Bench
Overhead	Athletes	and	Overhead	Lifts
Strength	Comparisons
Strength	Charts
Developing	Single-Leg	Strength
Pelvic	Stabilizers
Classifications	of	Single-Leg	Exercise
Progressive	Range	of	Motion
Accelerative	and	Decelerative	Patterns

Posterior	Chain	Training
Determining	Weight	for	Single-Leg	Squats
Facilitating	the	Glute	Medius
Single-Leg	Exercises
Single-Leg	Stability
Single-Leg	Strength
	
	

Squats
	
	
To	examine	learning	to	squat,	we	must	first	examine	the	psychology	of
lifting	weights.	There	is	a	macho	aspect,	particularly	with	young	men,	that
makes	learning	exercises	very	difficult.	No	one	wants	to	go	through	the	motions
with	an	unloaded	bar	to	groove	the	motor	pattern	or	develop	mobility.
Athletes	want	to	lift	and	want	to	be	challenged.	This	presents	glaring
challenges	when	teaching	the	squat.
In	the	words	of	Gray	Cook,	what	we	are	often	doing	is	adding	strength	to
dysfunction.	What	he’s	saying	in	the	simplest	sense	is	if	you	can’t	squat,	don’t
squat.	In	other	words,	an	athlete	or	client	who	cannot	perform	the	bodyweight
overhead	squat	fairly	well	should	not	be	squatting.	In	essence	if	we	allow	the
athlete	with	poor	technique	to	squat,	we	are	adding	strength	on	top	of
dysfunction.	The	athlete	or	client	still	has	a	poor	pattern,	but	now	the	poor
pattern	is	demonstrated	with	external	load.
This	is	a	common	high	school	and	college	football	mistake	and	may	be	at
the	root	of	many	athletes’	back	pain.	An	athlete	who	squats	poorly	is	often
encouraged	by	a	well-meaning	coach	to	get	strong.	Instead,	the	initial	emphasis
should	be	to	get	mobile	and	perfect	the	squat	pattern.	However,	very	few
coaches	do	this.	Instead,	they	add	strength	to	dysfunction.
Our	current	approach	is	to	work	initially	on	mobility	to	obtain	or	develop
the	squat	pattern.	This	is	now	done	in	our	mobility	warm-up.	The	athlete	is	not
in	the	weightroom	wondering	how	much	weight	is	on	the	bar	and	if	anyone	is
watching.	From	a	psychological	standpoint,	we	have	removed	the	barrier	to
success	in	learning	to	squat.
The	desire	to	continually	add	external	load	in	the	weightroom	forces	the
athlete	into	faulty	movement	patterns.	Working	on	squat	mobility	as	part	of
warm-up	does	the	opposite.	While	we	work	on	squat	mobility	in	our	warm-ups,
we	simultaneously	work	on	single-leg	strength.
Many	people	think	they	squat	to	parallel,	but	aren’t	even	close.	It’s	like
grade	inflation	in	school.	We	get	so	numbers-oriented,	we	throw	technique	out
the	window.	A	double-bodyweight	back	squat	done	to	powerlifting	depth
without	gear	is	actually	a	pretty	good	lift.	We’ve	got	number	inflation	from	suits

and	wraps	that	make	everyone	shoot	for	the	sky.
Whether	you’re	a	front	squat	guy	like	me	or	prefer	the	back	squat,	there’s
only	one	acceptable	depth:	powerlifting	depth.	Three	white	lights.	Period.	No
parallel,	no	hamstring	parallel,	and	definitely	don’t	tell	me	you	squat	to	ninety.
This	is	all	lame,	put	forth	by	bad	squatters	who	want	to	get	more	weight	on
the	bar,	or	excuses	put	forth	by	those	who	don’t	want	to	work	on	flexibility	and
mobility.
When	I	was	a	college	football	strength	coach,	I’d	tell	our	football	coaches
when	they	were	recruiting	a	kid	to	divide	his	squat	by	two.	A	high	school	kid
who	claimed	to	squat	500	pounds	would	usually	get	a	little	more	than	half	that
on	test	day.
All	of	the	descriptions,	parallel,	hamstring	parallel	and	ninety	degrees,	are
euphemisms	for	lousy	squats	made	by	lousy	squatters	or,	worse	yet,	by	their
coaches.	I’ve	had	strength	coaches	tell	me,	“My	guys	have	trouble	getting	that
low.”	Well,	fix	your	guys.
Just	take	weight	off	the	bar	and	do	it	right.	Squatting	isn’t	an	ability	you
gain;	it’s	an	ability	you	lose.	Check	out	a	baby	picking	something	up	off	the
floor.	Picture-perfect	mobility,	perfect	squats.
Parallel	really	means	the	femur	is	parallel	to	the	floor.	Visualize	your
client’s	femur	and	see	if	it’s	parallel	to	the	floor.	The	difference	between	the
femur	parallel	to	the	floor	and	the	bottom	of	the	thigh	parallel	to	the	floor	is
about	a	hundred	pounds	in	my	experience.	That	means	a	500-pound	hamstring-
parallel	squatter	is	a	400-pound	full-squatter.	It	also	means	a	reduction	in
mobility	and	a	hundred	pounds	more	compressive	load	on	the	spine.
Gauging	Depth
	
To	eliminate	this,	we	perform	a	box	squat	of	sorts,	used	to	gauge	depth.	We
squat	to	a	light	touch	on	the	box.	No	rebound	off	the	box,	no	sitting.	This	is
clearly	not	a	Westside	squat;	it’s	just	a	consistent	depth	gauge.	I	suggest	using	a
twelve-inch	box	for	most	athletes.
We	have	pads	to	adjust	the	box	up	for	our	taller	athletes,	but	twelve	inches
works	surprisingly	well	for	most	of	my	5'8"	to	6'	athletes.	We	make	small
adjustments	for	shorter	or	taller	athletes.	You’d	be	surprised	how	many	will	be	at
a	true	full	squat	at	twelve	inches.

	
There’s	more	similarity	in	tibia	length	than	femur	length	in	most	athletes.
Tibia	length	really	determines	the	distance	needed	in	the	descent,	and	it	actually
only	varies	about	two	inches	from	a	short	to	a	tall	person.
Another	thing	the	box	does	is	encourage	sitting	down	and	back.	After
adding	the	box	technique,	I	was	amazed	at	how	many	athletes	changed	the
weight	distribution	during	a	set.	As	fatigue	sets	in,	athletes	shift	weight	onto	the
balls	of	the	feet,	and	as	a	result	squat	higher.
One	nice	thing	about	our	box	squats:	There	are	no	arguments.	Either	they
touch	the	box	or	they	don’t.
Box	Squat	History
	
Box	squats	were	first	popularized	in	the	1960s	by	Olympic	hammer	thrower
and	powerlifter,	George	Frenn.	I	read	about	them	in	an	article	on	squat	training
in	
Powerlifting	USA
,	back	when	they	were	called	rocking	box	squats.	The	idea
was	to	generate	power	by	rocking	back	slightly	to	drive	off	a	box	or	bench.
They	were	re-popularized	in	recent	years	by	the	works	of	Louie	Simmons	at
Westside	Barbell,	which	is	why	most	readers	know	of	them	today.
My	experiments	with	box	squats	go	back	to	the	late	1970s	and	early	’80s,
and	thirty	years	later	I	still	have	the	back	pain	to	show	for	it.	That’s	why	I’ve
never	used	regular	box	squats	with	my	athletes.
That	said,	we	now	use	the	technique	inspired	by	box	squats	to	help	the

athletes	get	the	proper	range	of	motion	in	their	squats.	It’s	not	a	true	box	squat,
since	the	athletes	don’t	come	to	a	full	stop	on	the	box,	resting	their	weight	on	it
to	push	back	off.
It’s	just	a	touch	to	ensure	they’ve	gone	as	deep	as	they	need	to	go.
	

Knee	Issues	with	Squats
	
	
Anyone	who	tells	you	he	can’t	squat	because	he	has	bad	knees	is	more	than
likely	full	of	it.	All	knee	rehab	now	centers	around	squats	or	something	that
looks	like	a	squat.
What	he’s	really	saying	is,	“I	was	never	a	good	squatter.	I	always	did	them
wrong	and	as	a	result,	my	knees	hurt.”	We	hear	of	doctors	who	say,	“No	more
squats,	just	lunges.”	How	is	a	lunge	different	than	a	squat?	Knee	range	of	motion
is	knee	range	of	motion.
Is	there	really	any	evidence	squats	are	bad	for	knees?	No,	none	that	I’ve
seen.	There’s	actually	more	evidence	for	increased	patella-femoral	compression
from	leg	extensions	than	there	is	for	danger	in	squatting.
The	idea	squats	are	bad	for	the	knees	started	with	a	1969	book	called	
The
Knee	in	Sports,
	by	Karl	Klein	and	Fred	Allman.	Many	squat	critics	say	this	book
contains	strong	evidence	for	squats	damaging	the	knee	joint.	You	know	why	they
think	this?	Because	they	never	read	the	book!	I	have	an	original	copy	of	it	right
here	beside	me	and	here’s	what	it	says:
“If	squat	type	exercises	are	to	be	used,	the	weight	should	be	kept	in	front.
Even	though	it	may	not	be	possible	to	use	as	much	weight,	the	exercise	is	safer
and	puts	much	less	strain	on	the	back.”
The	authors	continue:
“The	depth	in	the	squat	should	be	controlled,	with	the	thighs	just	breaking
the	parallel	position.”
The	accompanying	photo	in	the	text	shows	a	nice	powerlifting-depth	squat.
They	conclude:
“Much	beyond	this	point,	the	reaction	between	the	hamstrings	and	calf
muscle	begins	to	act	as	a	pry	to	force	the	joint	apart,	stretching	the	ligaments.”
In	other	words,	Klein	and	Allman	recommended	full	squats,	but	didn’t
advocate	breaking	parallel.	What	they	cautioned	against	were	what	they
described	as	deep	squats.	Deep	squats	are	squats	below	parallel	as	might	be	seen
in	the	catch	portion	of	the	clean	and	jerk	or	snatch	in	Olympic	lifting.
This	produced	a	massive	overreaction.	Those	who	didn’t	take	the	time	to
read	the	book	or	even	look	at	the	pictures	went	on	to	badmouth	squatting,	saying

it	was	dangerous	and	bad	for	the	knees.	Some	commercial	gyms	actually	went	so
far	as	to	ban	full	squats.
The	bottom	line,	although	some	will	disagree,	is	there’s	no	evidence	a
powerlifting-depth	full	squat	is	bad	for	the	knees,	but	there’s	some	evidence
squatting	below	parallel	—	what	many	like	to	describe	as	ATG,	ass	to	grass	—
could	be	harmful	to	the	collateral	ligaments	or	to	the	posterior	horn	of	the
meniscus.
Does	this	matter?	Very	little.	Most	people	never	approach	the	knee	danger-
zone	in	depth	anyway.
With	my	athletes,	I’m	more	concerned	with	lumbar	stress	under	the	bar	than
with	knee	stress.	We’ll	develop	that	thought	more	as	we	cover	my	reasons	for
switching	to	single-leg	training	programs.
Heavy	squats	and	deadlifts	may	not	be	good	long	term.	Key	point:	
long-
term.
	People	who	are	able	to	lift	heavy	for	a	long	period	of	time	are	gifted	with	a
good	skeleton	and	good	connective	tissue	and	great	technique.
Be	careful.	If	you	have	your	clients	squat	heavy,	cycle	in	belt	squats	and
one-leg	squats.
	

Front	Squats
	
	
Nearly	a	decade	ago,	I	came	to	a	conclusion:	Athletes	I	trained	would	no
longer	perform	the	back	squat.	As	a	former	powerlifter,	this	was	heresy,	but	I
was	tired	of	constantly	asking	our	athletes	to	keep	their	heads	up	and	to	use	their
legs,	not	their	backs.
The	emphasis	of	the	back	squat	is	always	on	increasing	weight.
Unfortunately	this	is	often	done	by	altering	technique	to	improve	leverage,	not
by	actually	increasing	the	strength	of	the	muscles	so	necessary	to	run	or	jump.
The	decision	to	discontinue	back	squats	was	based	on	logic	that	was
unfortunately	a	long	time	overdue:	
Front	squats	are	safer	than	back	squats.
Whenever	one	of	our	athletes	sustained	a	back	injury,	he	was	reintroduced
to	squatting	via	the	front	squat	prior	to	the	back	squat	for	a	number	of	reasons.
•	The	front	squat	keeps	the	torso	upright	and	decreases	the	torque	that
causes	problems	with	the	SI	joint.
•	The	nature	of	the	front	squat	forces	the	athlete	to	use	a	lighter	weight	than
the	back	squat.	This	is	particularly	true	with	beginners,	although	our
athletes	can	now	front	squat	nearly	a	hundred	percent	of	their	previous	best
back	squats.
•	The	front	squat	places	greater	stress	on	the	knee	extensors	and	less	on	the
hip	extensors.	This	might	seem	like	a	negative,	but	it	actually	allows	us	to
perform	hip-dominant	movements	the	day	after	squatting	with	less	overlap.
The	reintroduction	to	squatting	via	the	front	squat	was	always	a	huge
success	physically.	Mentally,	athletes	would	begin	front	squatting,	but	would
always	be	itching	to	back	squat	with	everyone	else.	At	this	point	we	would	cave
in	to	the	pressure	and	allow	the	athlete	to	perform	the	back	squat	again.	This
process	began	the	vicious	circle	of	back	pain…	front	squat…	back	squat…	back
pain.
Often	we	hear	coaches	disparage	a	form	of	training	or	a	particular	lift	as

injury-producing.	My	experience	has	shown	the	solution	may	not	be	to	eliminate
lifts	entirely,	but	to	change	to	variations	that	avoid	positions	of	higher	stress.
This	is	why	the	front	squat	makes	sense.	The	front	squat	produces	a	better
body	position	by	the	nature	of	the	exercise.	An	athlete	has	a	difficult	time	front
squatting	poorly.	The	athlete	either	front	squats	well,	or	drops	the	bar.	There	is
very	little	middle	ground.
Conversely,	in	the	back	squat	athletes	can	squat	poorly	for	weeks,	months
or	years,	eventually	sustaining	an	injury.
Knee-Dominant
	
Another	advantage	of	performing	front	squats	is	exercises	like	straight-leg
deadlifts	and	other	hip-extension	movements	can	be	done	the	day	after	with	little
fear	of	overtraining	the	posterior	chain	because	front	squats	are	much	more
knee-dominant.
This	allows	our	athletes	to	in	effect	train	their	lower	body	every	workout	in
a	four-day	program.	Athletes	can	do	knee-extension	movements	like	front	squats
on	one	day,	and	follow	up	with	hip-dominant	movements	like	straight-leg
deadlifts	the	next	day.
Something	to	think	about:	If	the	only	reason	you	won’t	switch	to	front
squats	is	because	the	athletes	will	lift	less	weight,	you	really	should	reconsider.
Flexibility
	
One	of	the	chief	complaints	about	switching	to	front	squats	is	athletes	have
trouble	with	upper-body	flexibility.	The	use	of	lifting	straps	in	the	front	squat
alleviates	what	is	often	the	primary	complaint	with	most	athletes.

	
More	often	than	not,	athletes	use	upper-body	flexibility	more	as	an	excuse.
That’s	why	I	love	the	straps:	No	more	excuses.
	
	

Developing	a	Safe	Squatting	Style
	
	
The	following	steps	are	critical	for	developing	a	technically	correct	and	safe
squatting	style.
Hands-Free	Bodyweight	Squat
	
For	the	hands-free	bodyweight	squat,	start	your	client	with	the	arms
extended	in	front	of	the	body	at	shoulder	height.
The	key	to	learning	to	squat	is	learning	to	recruit	the	glutes.	When	teaching
the	squat,	place	a	twenty-inch	band	or	piece	of	Theratube	or	a	green	mini-band
just	below	the	knee.	Tell	the	athlete	to	stretch	the	band.	This	really	recruits	the
glutes	and	forces	the	athlete	out	of	a	valgus	squat.
The	chest	should	be	up,	and	the	upper	and	lower	back	should	be	arched	and
tight.	Feet	should	be	approximately	shoulder-width	apart	and	slightly	turned	out,
about	ten	to	fifteen	degrees.	The	stance	may	be	widened	to	obtain	proper	depth	if
flexibility	is	a	problem.
A	one-by-four	board,	a	ten-pound	plate,	or	a	wedge	may	be	placed	under
the	heels	if	the	athlete	tends	to	lean	forward	during	the	descent,	if	the	heels	lose
contact	with	the	ground,	or	if	the	pelvis	rotates	posteriorly	in	the	descent.
Although	many	authorities	caution	against	an	object	under	the	heels,
athletes	at	our	training	facility	have	experienced	great	success	and	no	knee	pain
when	using	this	method.
Pelvic	Position	during	Squatting
	
Many	coaches	describe	a	posterior	pelvic	rotation	as	the	butt	tucking	under.
When	an	athlete	squats	while	maintaining	a	slight	anterior	pelvic	tilt,	the
hamstrings	actually	lengthen	during	the	descent.

Athletes	with	tight	lateral	hamstrings	will	reach	the	end	of	their	hamstring
range	of	motion	before	they	reach	full	squat	depth.	As	the	descent	continues	and
the	athlete	attempts	to	get	the	femur	parallel	to	the	floor,	the	short	lateral
hamstring	will	begin	to	force	the	pelvis	to	rotate	posteriorly.
Athletes	who	tuck	under	should	not	be	loaded	until	they	have	developed
enough	flexibility	to	prevent	the	posterior	rotation.	Our	favorite	lateral	hamstring
stretch	is	found	on	page	120.
Loading	a	spine	that	is	moving	into	flexion	is	a	prescription	for	disaster.
Loading	in	a	posterior	tilt	can	be	dangerous.
The	spine	is	meant	to	be	loaded	in	a	lordotic	position	with	a	slight	anterior
tilt.
	

Coaching	the	Bodyweight	Squat
	
	
•	Prior	to	descending	into	a	squat,	have	the	client	inhale	deeply	to	fully
inflate	the	lungs.	Fully	inflated	lungs	brace	the	upper	and	lower	back.
•	When	descending	into	the	squat,	cue	the	client	to	sit	back,	placing	the
weight	on	the	heels.	Bodyweight	on	the	midfoot	or	toes	causes	an
undesirable	forward	lean.
•	The	client	should	not	let	the	breath	out,	and	the	hands	should	stay	level
with	the	shoulders.
•	Instruct	him	to	descend	slowly	until	the	femurs	are	parallel	with	the	floor.
Insist	on	the	proper	depth	with	light	weights	for	better	results.
•	In	the	descent,	the	knees	should	be	pushed	out	against	the	band	in	a
conscious	abduction	action.	This	abduction	push	recruits	the	glutes	and	will
quickly	turn	bad	squatters	into	good	squatters.	Have	the	client	push	the
knees	laterally	over	the	toes.
This	is	the	key	to	teaching	squatting.	An	abduction	force	turns	on	the
muscles	that	control	the	femur.	Very	often	athletes	who	have	experienced	knee
pain	during	squatting	will	no	longer	experience	pain	with	this	technique.
Teaching	squatting	with	a	band	to	facilitate	abduction	turns	on	the	femoral
control	mechanism.	Many	athletes	squat	using	primarily	the	wrong	muscles.
This	ties	in	with	our	discussion	of	glute	activation	found	in	the	core	section
on	page	91.
•	In	the	ascent,	have	the	client	concentrate	on	driving	upward	with	the	chest
out,	bringing	the	hips	up	and	forward.
•	Tell	the	client	to	drive	the	heels	into	the	floor,	and	to	maintain	the
abduction	pressure	on	the	band.

•	He	should	exhale	slowly,	letting	the	air	hiss	out	of	the	lungs	like	a
punctured	a	tire.
The	squat	is	a	safe	movement	when	done	properly.	Start	with	bodyweight	to
develop	proper	technique	and	progress	to	higher	weights	after	technique	is
perfect.	Injuries	occur	only	when	athletes	fail	to	adhere	to	proper	technique.
Hands-Free	Front	Squat
	
Again	with	the	arms	extended	in	front	of	the	body,	the	hands	at	shoulder
height,	place	a	bar	across	the	client’s	front	deltoids.	The	bar	should	be	in	contact
with	the	throat,	and	should	be	making	the	squatter	uncomfortable,	but	not	unable
to	breathe.
The	hands	deliberately	do	not	touch	the	bar.	This	teaches	athletes	to	carry
the	bar	on	the	shoulders,	not	on	the	wrists.	Learning	to	carry	the	bar	with	the
shoulders	will	make	better	squatters	and	better	Olympic	lifters.	Do	not	neglect
this	important	point.
Follow	the	descent	and	ascent	instructions	for	the	hands-free	bodyweight
squat	on	the	previous	page.
Clean-Grip	Front	Squat
	
Do	not	allow	a	crossover	grip	in	the	front	squat.	Athletes	must	be	able	to
execute	a	good	front	squat	to	be	able	to	clean	properly.	The	front	squat	start
position	is	used	for	the	clean	catch,	the	push	jerk	and	the	push	press.
Even	if	you	elect	to	use	the	back	squat	as	your	primary	lower-body
exercise,	the	front	squat	is	still	an	excellent	way	to	teach	the	squat.
•	Front	squats	require	perfect	body	position.
•	Front	squats	develop	shoulder	flexibility,	which	is	a	big	plus	in	the	bench
press–dominated	world	of	strength	training.	Flexibility	is	enhanced	if	a
clean	grip	is	used.
Front	squats	require	less	weight	and	put	less	pressure	on	the	ego;	no	one

seems	to	beg	for	more	weight	in	the	front	squat.
If	you	are	having	trouble	developing	proper	squat	technique	with	your
athletes,	you	are	attempting	to	use	too	much	weight	too	soon,	or	your	athletes
have	inadequate	flexibility	or	mobility	in	the	hips	and	ankles.
The	optimal	way	to	stretch	for	the	squat	is	to	sit	in	the	full-squat	position,
with	the	elbows	on	the	inner	sides	of	the	knees,	pushing	the	knees	out	over	the
toes	while	arching	the	back.
Make	the	time	for	your	athletes	to	master	the	technique	over	the	first	month
if	necessary,	and	work	hard	on	the	single-leg	exercises	after	your	squat
workouts.
	

Deadlifts
	
	
Competitive	deadlifts	are	universally	ugly.	The	goal	of	the	competitive
deadlifter	is	only	to	get	the	weight	from	point	A	to	point	B.	There	are	no	style
points	or	technique	requirements.	Get	the	weight	from	the	floor	to	waist	level
without	a	hitch	and	you	get	the	lift.	Flexed	spines	throughout	the	lift	are	the	rule,
not	the	exception.	Unfortunately,	my	experiences	in	competitive	powerlifting
soured	me	on	a	potentially	valuable	exercise	for	nearly	thirty	years.
It	took	an	article	by	track	coach	Barry	Ross	and	some	experience	with	de-
conditioned	personal	training	clients	to	change	my	thought	process.	Ross’s	point
was	simple:	The	deadlift	provides	more	demand	and	return	than	the	squat
because	the	weight	is	in	the	hands.	The	muscles	of	the	upper	back	are	forced	to
work	in	a	way	that	cannot	be	imitated	in	a	squat.	It	was	a	point	that	was	hard	to
disagree	with,	and	it	forced	me	to	revisit	my	impression	of	this	valuable
exercise.
My	argument	against	deadlifts	in	our	weightroom	was	always	“You	can’t
deadlift	heavy	and	deadlift	well.”	However,	I’m	in	control	of	technique;	in	our
weightroom	technique	breaks	are	my	problems	as	a	coach.	If	we	can	do	squats,
we	should	be	able	to	do	deadlifts.	Both	require	a	great	deal	of	teaching	and
attention	to	detail	on	both	the	coach	and	the	athlete’s	part.
The	ah-ha	moment	for	me	was	realizing	how	easy	a	kettlebell	sumo	deadlift
is	to	teach	compared	with	how	hard	it	is	to	get	someone	to	squat	well.
Deconditioned	clients	and	adults	in	general	don’t	become	great	squatters	right
off	the	bat.	However,	they	all	seem	to	easily	conceptualize	the	sumo	deadlift.
	

Trap-Bar	Deadlifts
	
	
In	the	summer	of	2007,	we	inserted	trap	bar	deadlifts	in	our	program	as	a
priority	lower-body	strength	movement	and	the	results	were	fantastic.	Athletes
liked	the	lift	and	were	able	to	learn	faster	and	to	quickly	achieve	higher	loads.
With	the	squat,	loading	is	more	limited	by	technique	concerns,	as	well	as	ankle
and	hip	mobility.	The	trap	bar	deadlift	eliminates	most	of	these	issues.	The
athlete	can	use	higher	loads,	and	the	intentional	forward	lean	of	the	trunk	makes
it	easy	for	any	athlete	to	get	in	proper	position.
I	like	the	trap	bar	or	hex	bar	much	more	than	the	conventional	straight	bar.
The	trap	bar	deadlift	is	a	great	equalizer;	in	effect	the	bar	is	running	through	the
body.	The	load	stays	centered,	and	the	movement	is	very	much	like	squatting
with	a	weight	in	the	hands.
	
	

Deadlift	Benefits
	
	
Another	benefit	of	deadlifts	is	they	are	not	as	limited	by	rules.	We	don’t
have	to	worry	about	depth	in	the	deadlift.	Everyone	begins	at	the	ground	and
comes	up.	As	long	as	the	back	remains	flat,	injury	is	no	greater	a	concern	than	in
the	squat,	and	in	my	mind	the	concern	is	actually	decreased.
With	squatting	there	are	two	back	concerns,	flexion	and	extension.	A	loss	of
position	can	cause	a	round	back	and	a	potential	strain	on	the	erectors	or	a
disruption	at	the	SI	joint.
This	is	the	same	problem	in	the	deadlift,	however	in	the	squat,	the	load	on
the	shoulders	and	the	arched	position	of	the	back	at	the	start	also	predisposes	the
lifter	to	extension-based	disorders.	In	essence,	the	squat	is	a	battle	between
extension	and	flexion.
In	the	deadlift	the	load	in	the	hands	clearly	produces	a	flexion	force	that
must	be	countered	by	an	extension	force.	And	in	the	deadlift,	the	load	is
positioned	at	the	center	of	mass	rather	than	near	the	cervical	spine	the	way	it	is
in	the	squat.	The	balancing	act	is	in	effect	eliminated.
When	I	look	at	a	squat	and	a	deadlift	through	the	eyes	of	a	biomechanist,
the	deadlift	actually	comes	out	ahead.
The	deadlift	is	a	better	total-body	exercise	with	more	carryover	to	sprinting
and	can	be	done	faster,	in	a	concentric-only	manner	and	with	less	equipment.
How	wonderfully	and	refreshingly	simple.
	

Pressing	Exercises
	
	
It	really	doesn’t	matter	how	much	we	can	bench,	however	many	athletes
and	coaches	have	been	fooled	into	believing	the	bench	press	is	the	measure	of
success	or	failure	of	an	athlete’s	off-season	workouts.	Frequently	I	see	players
who	are	making	tremendous	progress	in	conditioning	and	in	lower-body
strength,	but	who	are	fixated	on	the	bench	because	their	team	coach	wants	them
up	to	two	hundred	on	the	bench.
The	logic	that	bench	press	increases	correlate	with	improvement	of	sport
skill	is	flawed	at	best.	The	bench	press	is	an	indicator	of	one	type	of	upper-body
strength,	a	type	that	matters	little	in	most	sports.
However,	this	is	a	book	covering	strength	programs,	and	if	I	didn’t	give	the
bench	press	some	attention,	the	critics	would	howl.	Just	remember,	there	are
many	exercises	and	many	movement	patterns	that	develop	strength;	don’t	judge
an	athlete’s	success	or	failure	based	on	bench	press	results.
Coaches	place	such	emphasis	on	the	bench	press	because	it’s	an	easy
exercise	to	do	and	an	easy	exercise	to	test,	much	easier	in	both	categories	than
the	front	squat	or	the	hang	clean.	Bench	press	testing	can	be	done	rapidly,	and
with	very	little	teaching.	However,	increases	in	the	front	squat	or	hang	clean	will
have	a	far	greater	bearing	on	performance	enhancement.
Most	athletes	like	the	bench	press	and	are	willing	to	work	at	it,	but	they
generally	like	the	bench	press	for	all	the	wrong	reasons.	They	like	it	because
there	are	rapid	improvements;	the	reason	we	see	such	rapid	change	in	the	pecs
from	bench	pressing	is	we	literally	wake	up	muscles	that	don’t	get	used	much.
We	go	from	atrophy	to	pecs	in	a	few	weeks.	Coaches	like	this	instant
gratification.	They	like	it	when	players	look	better.
Many	coaches	still	have	a	limited	knowledge	of	strength	and	conditioning
and	assume	we	measure	strength	by	how	much	an	athlete	can	bench.	Have	a
conversation	with	many	trainers	or	coaches	and	any	layman	about	training	and
the	bench	question	invariably	comes	up.
Unfortunately,	the	truly	beneficial	exercises	in	strength	training,	like	the
front	squat	and	hang	clean,	are	not	as	easy	to	learn	and	take	time,	patience	and
coaching.	Testing	is	difficult	and	potentially	dangerous,	but	not	impossible.

Coaches	should	at	least	test	performance-related	factors	like	the	ten-yard
dash	and	the	vertical	jump,	which	are	readily	improved	by	proper	lower-body
training.	Remember,	athletes	will	train	for	tests.	Make	the	bench	press	the	big
test	and	you	will	have	athletes	with	big	upper	bodies	and	potentially	no
improvement	in	the	ability	to	play	their	sports.
One	thing	I	can	state	clearly:	Improvements	in	the	ten-yard	dash	and	the
vertical	jump	will	correlate	strongly	with	improvements	in	performance,	and
bench	press	increases	will	not.
Coaches	should	start	their	teams	on	strength	programs	that	emphasize
lower-body	and	abdominal	strength	and	forget	the	bench.	Put	your	emphasis	and
your	influence	in	the	correct	place.
In	spite	of	the	above	points,	clients	and	coaches	still	want	to	know	about
upper	body	strength,	in	particular	bench	pressing.
Considerations
	
Horizontal	pressing	exercises	like	the	bench	press	and	its	variations	present
a	few	interesting	dilemmas.	Many	young	athletes	initially	experience	a	rapid
strength	gain	from	a	bench	press	program	often	done	three	times	a	week.	Due	to
the	lack	of	use	the	muscle	group	gets,	progress	is	rapid	and	some	hypertrophy
occurs	quickly.
This	creates	a	fundamental	problem.	The	athlete	or	client	associates	the
success	with	the	frequency	and	intensity	of	workouts,	not	with	the	concept	of
awakening	a	long-dormant	muscle	group.	As	a	result,	the	trainee	assumes	a
cause-effect	relationship	between	training	frequency	and	strength	gain.	This
unfortunately	leads	to	a	long-term	plateau	and	frustration	on	the	part	of	the
trainee	when	he’s	unable	to	continue	to	produce	rapid	results.
As	a	competitive	powerlifter,	I	tried	every	program	possible	to	improve	my
bench	press.	It	was	not	until	I	realized	there	was	no	relationship	between	training
volume	and	strength	gain	that	I	began	to	make	progress.
In	fact,	the	only	relationship	I	found	between	volume	and	strength	gain	was
negative.	Most	average	trainees	will	gain	more	on	a	reduced-volume	program.
My	search	for	strength	led	me	initially	to	the	same	sort	of	“written	by	guys	on
drugs	for	other	guys	on	drugs”	programming,	the	standard	fare	of	the	muscle
magazines.
After	realizing	this	training	wasn’t	working	for	me,	I	began	to	read	the
writings	of	guys	like	Dr.	Ken	Leistner	and,	later,	Stuart	McRobert.	Both	of	these

authors	advocate	a	hybrid	philosophy.	Both	espouse	abbreviated	workouts	along
the	lines	of	the	high-intensity,	one-set-tofailure	school	of	thought.
However,	both	are	also	proponents	of	basic,	multi-joint	free-weight
exercises.	McRobert	has	written	extensively	about	strength	and	size
development	for	what	he	refers	to	as	hardgainers.	Reading	the	work	of	guys	like
McRobert	and	Leistner	and	combining	it	with	what	we	know	about	exercise
physiology	and	human	nature	led	me	to	the	following	points.
Keys	to	Bench	Pressing
	
Schedule	the	bench	press	only	once	per	week.	When	you	analyze	the
workout	of	the	great	bench	pressers,	you’ll	see	most	perform	the	actual	lift	only
once	a	week.
Use	only	two	upper-body	pressing	workouts	per	week.	We	rarely	see
strength	athletes	who	still	perform	three	weekly	upper-body	pressing	workouts.
For	athletes	who	bench	press	less	than	two	hundred	pounds,	buy	a	set	of
Olympic	one-and-a-quarter	plates.	As	the	athletes	progress,	the	five-pound
jumps	necessitated	by	larger	plates	will	be	too	great.	Those	who	bench	press
over	two	hundred	can	still	get	away	with	five-pound	jumps,	but	half	that	would
be	better.
Work	the	assistance	exercises	hard.	Very	often	plateaus	in	the	bench	press
can	be	broken	by	increasing	the	strength	in	the	incline	bench	press	or	in	the
close-grip	bench	press.
The	rules	on	the	bench	are	simple:	
It’s	a	touch-and-go	lift.
	The	bar	is
lowered	under	control,	must	touch	the	chest	and	return	to	the	rack	with	no
assistance.	Any	touching	of	the	bar	invalidates	the	lift.	Period.	No	questions,	no
discussions.
The	reason	athletes	fail	to	improve	their	bench	press	after	year	one	is	they
don’t	follow	the	above	rules.	It	is	very	difficult	to	get	an	athlete	or	client	to	stop
doing	what	has	provided	success,	but	in	strength	training	less	is	clearly	more	as
the	trainee	becomes	more	experienced.
Push-ups	are	good	for	your	clients,	and	in	fact	they	may	be	better	than
bench	pressing.
Get	a	set	of	push-up	handles	to	save	their	wrists,	and	a	weight	vest	to	add
resistance.

When	an	athlete	can	do	twenty	with	the	vest	without	looking	like	a	seal,
elevate	his	feet.	You’ll	even	train	the	core	muscles	and	the	lats	and	serratus.
Remember,	if	your	client	looks	like	a	seal,	he’s	doing	them	wrong.	Coach
tight	abs	and	nose	to	the	floor.
Chain	Bench	Presses
	
My	initial	exposure	to	the	use	of	chains	came	in	the	late	’90s.	I’d	read	about
Louie	Simmons	using	them	at	Westside	and	since	I	love	to	try	new	ideas,	I	went
through	the	arduous	process	of	putting	together	my	own	equipment,	which
wasn’t	easy	in	1998.	I	had	to	find	a	marine	supply	company	to	supply	the	heavy
chains,	and	then	I	needed	to	get	lighter	chains	to	attach	the	heavy	chains	to	the
bars.
My	hope	was	this	dynamic	work	would	add	pounds	to	my	athletes’	bench
presses.	Alas,	we	never	really	saw	significant	changes,	and	I	abandoned	the	idea
soon	after.	Those	old	homemade	chains	are	still	in	the	weightroom	at	Boston
University.
Of	course,	as	a	coach,	I	need	to	do	more	than	increase	athletes’	strength.
Athletics	is	more	about	power,	especially	acceleration.
Fast	forward	to	2007	when	I	realized	with	chains	I	could	introduce	a
velocity	component	to	free-weight	exercises,	and	do	it	with	maximum	safety.
The	bar	could	be	accelerated	at	the	bottom,	and	the	increasing	load	of	the	chain
coming	off	the	ground	would	produce	a	natural	brake.
Thus,	in	the	context	of	a	different	goal	—	power	production	versus	one-
repmax	strength	—	chains	proved	to	be	an	excellent	tool.	They	allow	us	to
employ	a	higher	speed	component	in	conventional	strength	exercises.
And,	thanks	to	the	increased	popularity	of	Westside	training	methods,
chains	are	a	lot	easier	to	buy	and	use.

	
	

Training	the	Combine	Bench
	
	
I	can	say	one	thing	with	confidence	about	training	an	athlete	to	bench	225
for	reps:	
Throw	your	coaching	techniques	out	the	window.
For	most	athletes	training	for	a	Combine-type	test,	the	225-bench	press	test
is	an	endurance	test,	not	a	strength	test.
The	relationship	between	strength	and	endurance	changes	as	the	number	of
reps	increases.	I	have	seen	athletes	who	can	bench	400	pounds	do	225	for	twenty
reps,	and	I	have	seen	athletes	who	bench	press	350	do	the	same	number	of	reps.
The	key	point:	If	you	want	your	athletes	to	get	better	at	reps,	have	them	do
reps.
The	other	reality	is	up	to	a	certain	point	we	need	to	develop	max	strength.
In	the	short	run,	more	strength	leads	to	more	endurance.	If	a	guy’s	maximum
bench	press	is	245,	the	athlete	will	be	lucky	to	bench	225	for	two.	A	400-pound
bencher	has	a	far	greater	chance	of	doing	thirty	reps	at	225	than	a	300	bencher.
We	need	to	work	both	ends	of	the	spectrum.	To	get	better	at	the	225-rep
test,	we	must	train	for	both	endurance	and	strength.
The	max	bench	press	number	determines	what	the	athlete	should	be	capable
of.	The	high-rep	practice	converts	strength	to	usable	endurance.	Usually	on	our
first	pressing	day,	we	work	on	max	strength	and	finish	with	one	endurance	set;
on	the	second	pressing	day	we	work	solely	on	endurance.
But	your	athletes	won’t	get	better	at	the	225	test	by	just	lifting	heavy.	For
the	six	to	eight	weeks	prior	to	the	Combine,	we	performed	a	set	of	225	for	max
reps	at	the	end	of	our	first	pressing	day.	The	goal	was	to	try	to	get	one	more	rep
each	week.
Technique	matters,	but	not	the	technique	you’re	used	to.
•	I	tell	our	athletes	to	control	the	weight	at	all	times…	except	when
benching	225	for	a	Combine-type	test.	When	benching	225,	they	go	as	fast
as	possible.
•	Our	athletes	lock	out	every	rep…	except	when	repping	225.	When
benching	225	for	reps,	you	want	your	athlete	to	
appear
	to	lock	out	the

elbows	after	each	rep	without	actually	doing	so,	a	soft	lockout.
•	Instruct	the	athlete	to	switch	from	concentric	to	eccentric	as	fast	as
possible.	In	the	process	of	switching,	instruct	him	to	go	up	as	fast	as
possible,	allow	the	elbows	to	extend	almost	to	full	extension	and
immediately	reverse	the	action	and	get	the	bar	back	to	the	chest.	Bringing
the	bar	back	to	the	chest	is	less	of	a	controlled	eccentric	and	more	of	a
controlled	drop.	The	bar	should	descend	rapidly,	using	as	little	eccentric
energy	as	possible,	but	not	bouncing	off	the	chest.
There	are	lots	of	contradictions	here,	but	this	a	specific	event	having
nothing	in	common	with	anything	else	we	teach	athletes	about	strength	training.
In	the	Combine	bench,	we	want	the	athlete	to	do	as	many	reps	as	possible,	as	fast
as	possible,	with	technique	that	is	at	best	borderline.	At	no	other	time	in	training
is	this	acceptable,	but	the	reality	is	the	best	performances	in	this	test	are	done	in
this	style.
Pro	scouts	will	not	count	reps	done	with	a	big	bounce,	an	arch,	or	an	action
that	comes	well	short	of	lockout.	However,	the	judging	of	this	test	is	entirely
subjective	and	the	best	performances	are	always	borderline	acceptable.	The
athlete	needs	to	learn	to	walk	the	line.	This	means	fast	reps	with	just	a	hint	of	a
bounce,	extending	the	arms	almost	to	a	fully	locked	position,	but	not	locking	out
until	he	needs	a	rest.
Warm-Up	Strategies
	
Heavier	Loads
	
Some	coaches	advocate	a	warm-up	set	at	a	weight	greater	than	225	for	one
rep	to	get	greater	neural	excitation.	This	may	work	for	athletes	anticipating	more
than	twenty	reps,	but	may	be	too	taxing	for	those	anticipating	less	than	twenty.
Lighter	Loads

	
I	advocate	a	strategy	based	on	my	powerlifting	experience	—	two	warm-up
sets:	135	for	five	and	185	for	two,	and	then	go	for	it.
Training	Suggestions
	
Lactic	acid	tolerance	is	a	big	factor.	Coaches	have	had	success	with	various
forms	of	endurance	training.	Some	coaches	will	have	athletes	train	with	lighter
loads	like	185	and	205	pounds.	Some	coaches	will	have	athletes	practice	max
reps	at	235,	so	225	will	feel	lighter	on	test	day.	I	personally	like	drop	sets	on	day
two.
Endurance	Bench	Workout
	
Up	to	a	point,	endurance	is	proportional	to	strength.	You	need	to	get	the
athlete	as	strong	as	possible.	At	the	same	time,	endurance	is	a	skill.	You	need	to
work	on	his	endurance.	Work	on	strength,	endurance,	and	the	specific	skill	of	the
test.
Understand	the	athlete	is	training	to	impress	a	scout,	not	you.	You’ll	allow
technical	flaws	not	acceptable	at	any	other	time	or	with	any	other	group.	Our	job
is	to	help	our	athletes	safely	perform	well	and	make	the	best	impression	possible.
Here’s	an	example	of	an	endurance	bench	routine	for	a	400-pound	bencher
who’s	current	max	at	225	is	twenty	reps.
Week	One
	
Day	One	—	Bench
135x5
225x3
275x1
315x1

340x5
300x10
225x	max
	
Day	Two	—	Incline
135x5
185x3
225x5
	
Bench	Drop-Set
225xMax
185xmax
135xmax
	
	
	

Overhead	Athletes	and	Overhead	Lifts
	
	
Swimmers,	baseball	players,	football	quarterbacks	and	tennis	and	volleyball
players	would	seem	to	have	little	in	common	as	athletes.	But	when	you	work
with	enough	of	these	overhead	athletes	as	a	strength	coach,	you	notice	a
common	predisposition	to	shoulder	injuries,	particularly	rotator	cuff	tendonosis.
These	sports	require	repetitive	activities	with	the	athletes’	hands	above	their
heads.	The	simple	and	logical	fix	is	to	avoid	most	overhead	exercises.	It’s	not
that	the	athletes	can’t	do	them;	the	problem	is	the	amount	of	time	they	already
spend	with	their	arms	above	their	shoulders.	Overuse	is	the	enemy	of	the
overhead	athlete.
That	said,	not	all	overhead	exercises	are	equally	damaging.	We’ll	do
shoulder	presses	with	dumbbells,	but	not	with	a	barbell.	We	also	avoid	snatches
and	overhead	squats,	along	with	behind-the-neck	exercises,	which	we	don’t	do
with	anyone.
This	is	old	news:	The	behind-the-neck	position	involves	extreme	abduction
and	external	rotation	and	isn’t	safe	for	any	type	of	athlete.	It’s	especially
dangerous	for	people	whose	sports	involve	serving,	spiking	or	pitching.
Barbells	in	an	overhead	lift	are	not	especially	conducive	to	good	shoulder
health,	either.	Because	they	don’t	bend	or	rotate,	the	bar	determines	the
mechanics	of	the	shoulder	joint,	something	you	never	want	an	unyielding	hunk
of	iron	to	control.	Ten	years	ago	we	didn’t	have	many	choices,	and	we	used	bars
for	overhead	athletes	out	of	necessity.	Today	some	people	just	use	bars	out	of
habit,	despite	the	fact	there	are	now	many	alternatives.
A	lot	of	cable	machines	now	have	dual	handles	for	pull-downs	and	rows	—
a	much	better	option	than	straight	bars	for	overhead	athletes,	which	are	outdated
for	pulling	exercises	and	should	be	even	used	sparingly	for	pressing.	Dumbbell
bench	presses	—	flat	or	incline	—	get	the	job	done.
For	power,	I	like	kettlebell	overhead	swings,	since	there’s	no	catch	phase	to
bang	up	the	forearms	and	lots	of	eccentric	challenge	for	the	muscles	of	the	upper
back.
I	also	like	the	hang	clean	for	the	overhead	athlete,	assuming	there’s	enough
time	to	teach	proper	technique.

Another	great	tool	for	the	overhead	athlete	is	the	medicine	ball.	We	use	it
with	all	our	players	to	varying	degrees,	but	it’s	essential	for	the	overhead
athletes.	Overhead	throws	with	the	med	ball	are	one	of	the	best	power	exercises,
helping	them	develop	the	core	power	so	vital	to	effective	throwing.	As	a	bonus,
these	offer	terrific	eccentric	work	for	the	rotator	cuff.
Overhead	athletes	almost	always	need	to	focus	on	shoulder	flexibility.	The
side-lying	external-rotation	stretch,	also	called	the	sleeper	stretch,	is	a	good
choice.	I	also	like	wall	slides,	as	noted	earlier.	In	fact,	I	like	wall	slides	for
everyone.
	
Smart	and	experienced	trainers	like	to	remind	gym	rats	there’s	no	such
thing	as	a	best	workout.	That’s	true	if	we’re	talking	about	building	bigger
muscles	or	improving	body	composition.	But	when	it	comes	to	training	athletes
with	the	goal	of	increasing	their	speed,	strength	and	power,	the	opposite	is	true.
There	really	
is
	a	best	way	to	do	it.
The	problem	is	what	works	for	most	athletes	isn’t	a	good	choice	for	every
athlete.	That’s	when	you	have	to	make	specific	adjustments	for	individual
players	or	types	of	players.
Sometimes	this	means	adding	targeted	exercises	to	address	imbalances	and
help	prevent	injuries.
But	more	often,	training	specificity	is	defined	by	what	you	
shouldn’t
	do	in
those	special	cases	—	avoiding	exercises	and	movement	patterns	that	create
problems,	or	that	make	existing	problems	worse.	This	is	the	case	with	overhead
work	in	athletes	whose	sports	predispose	them	to	rotator	cuff	overuse.
	

Strength	Comparisons
	
	
Ideally,	athletes	should	have	the	same	or	similar	bench	press	and	clean
numbers.	If	you	don’t	see	this	relationship,	your	athletes	are	spending	too	much
time	benching	and	not	enough	time	on	power	movements.
I	also	like	to	see	the	total	weight	for	a	chin-up	—	bodyweight	plus	external
load	—	be	equal	to	or	greater	than	an	athlete’s	bench	press	one-rep	max.	In	other
words,	a	280-pound	bench	presser	who	weighs	180	pounds	should	be	able	to	do
a	chin-up	with	a	hundred	pounds	external	load.
Another	area	in	which	we	evaluate	strength	is	by	comparing	related
exercises.	It’s	amazing	how	many	groove	lifters	or	specialists	we	see.	Strength
isn’t	about	how	much	done	in	a	particular	lift,	but	rather	the	ability	to	reflect	that
strength	at	numerous	angles.
With	this	in	mind,	we	developed	the	following	relationships.	Please	note
this	is	in	many	ways	old-fashioned	trial	and	error,	developed	over	the	last	decade
with	our	MBSC	athletes.
Bench	Press	=	100%
using	an	example	of	a
300-pound	one-rep	max
	
Incline	Bench	Press
80%	of	bench	press
or	a	240-pound	one-rep	max
	
Dumbbell	Overhead	Press
40	to	50%	of	bench	press
or	a	pair	of	60-to	75-pound	dumbbells
	

	
Overhead	pressing	is	a	lost	art.	It’s	startling	to	see	the	disparity	in	overhead
pressing	strength	as	it	relates	to	bench-press	strength.	Most	trainees	are	capable
of	much	more	in	the	overhead	press,	yet	no	one	does	the	move	anymore.	This
has	been	a	prominent	area	of	emphasis	with	our	athletes.
We	also	use	the	following	formula	for	any	dumbbell	variations:
Dumbbell	Weight
80%	of	bar	weight	divided	in	half
	
So,	continuing	with	the	300-pound	bench	press	example:
•	80%	(or	a	six-or	seven-rep	max)	would	be	240	pounds
•	A	dumbbell	bench	press	six-rep	max	would	be	eighty	percent	of	240
pounds	divided	in	half,	or	ninety-five	pounds.
In	other	words,	a	300-pound	bench	presser	should	be	able	to	dumbbell
bench	press	a	pair	of	ninety-five-pound	dumbbells	six	times.
For	the	incline	bench	press,	we	again	use	our	eighty-percent	rule.	To
determine	a	dumbbell	incline	six-rep	max	for	the	300-pound	bench	presser,	we
take	fifty	percent	of	the	one-rep	max	divided	in	half,	or	seventy-five	pounds.
Another	method	is	to	take	eighty	percent	of	the	flat	dumbbell	bench	press
weight.
Our	theoretical	300-pound	bencher	should	be	able	to	dumbbell	press	ninety-
five	pounds	for	six	reps.	He	should	also	be	capable	of	a	dumbbell	incline	of
seventy-five	pounds	for	six	reps.
If	we	continue	the	trend	and	take	eighty	percent	of	seventy-five	pounds,	he
should	also	be	lifting	sixty-pound	dumbbells	in	the	overhead	press,	as	indicated
above.
Overhead	Pressing
	

The	overhead	press	is	where	things	typically	fall	off.	Most	athletes	today
need	a	lot	of	work	on	overhead	movements.	Watch	athletes	overhead	press;
many	will	make	a	concerted	effort	to	turn	any	overhead	exercise	into	an	incline
press.	This	allows	the	clavicular	head	of	the	pectorals	to	take	over	for	the
deltoids	in	the	pressing	action.
To	offset	this,	we	use	seated	dumbbell	overhead	presses	to	control	hip
motion	better	in	our	beginners.	We	progress	from	seated,	to	half-kneeling,	to
standing	to	force	athletes	to	learn	to	use	the	shoulders	instead	of	the	chest.
If	you	want	to	develop	shoulder	strength,	don’t	allow	your	athletes	or
clients	to	use	a	bench	with	a	back.	They	can	sit	in	place	on	one,	but	leaning	back
isn’t	an	option.	As	soon	as	they	lean	back,	they’ll	shift	to	a	clavicular-pectoral
version	of	an	incline	bench	press.
For	athletes,	strength	must	exist	on	one-leg	and	must	be	demonstrated	in
more	than	just	the	bench	press.	The	key	is	well-rounded	strength,	not	an
impressive	performance	on	a	pet	lift.	Whenever	I	have	an	athlete	who	arrives	at
our	facility	as	a	good	bench	presser,	I	immediately	shift	the	focus	to	the	hips	and
lower	body.
If	our	athletes	are	going	to	do	poorly	at	one	of	our	test	lifts,	I	hope	it’s	the
bench	press.	If	they’re	going	to	be	good	at	just	one,	let’s	hope	it’s	the	hang	clean.
I’ll	take	hip	power	over	prone	strength	any	day.
	

The	Strength	Chart
	
	
The	following	chart	represents	what	constitutes	strong	in	some	basic
exercises	for	drug-free	adult	men.
Bench	Press
1.25	to	1.5	x	bodyweight
250	to	300	pounds	for	a	200-pound	athlete
	
Clean
1.25	to	1.5	x	bodyweight
Same	as	above
	
Front	Squat
1.5	to	1.75	x	bodyweight
300	to	350	pounds	for	a	200-pound	athlete
	
One-Leg	Squat
0.5	x	bodyweight	for	five	reps
	
Chin-Up
0.5	x	bodyweight	for	a	single	rep
	
	

As	we	use	mostly	single-leg	exercises	and	there	are	no	industry	standards	to
compare,	I	wanted	to	determine	what	might	be	considered	strong	in	these
exercises.	We	estimated	single-leg	squat	strength,	then	we	had	to	actually	test
our	athletes.	I	found	the	results	surprising.
Jay	Pandolfo,	then	assistant	captain	for	the	New	Jersey	Devils,	did	ninety-
five	pounds	for	eleven	reps	on	each	leg.	Our	Boston	University	hockey	captain
did	110	pounds	—	a	fifty-pound	vest	with	thirty-pound	dumbbells	—	for	five
reps	on	each	leg.	The	average	for	our	hockey	team	was	eighty	pounds	for	five
reps.
Now	when	someone	asks	me	to	give	them	a	parameter	for	single-leg
strength,	I	can	tell	them	eighty	pounds	for	five	reps	is	good	for	a	one-leg	squat.
Excellent	would	be	five	reps	with	110	pounds.
The	same	situation	applies	to	upper-back	strength	and	chin-ups.	If	someone
asks	me	what’s	strong	for	a	man,	I	say	135	pounds	added	to	bodyweight	for	three
reps.
When	asked	about	female	athletes,	I’d	say	forty-five	pounds	for	three	reps.
Ask	a	strength	coach	what	a	good	bench	press	is	for	a	200-pound	male	and
chances	are	you’ll	get	a	reasonable	answer.	Maybe	everyone	won’t	be	in
agreement,	but	surely	they’ll	all	have	an	opinion.
Now,	try	asking	a	reputable	strength	coach	what	constitutes	superior	single-
leg	strength	or	first-class	vertical	pulling	strength.	Good	luck	finding	the	same
level	of	agreement,	if	you	get	an	answer	at	all.
What	are	the	limits	of	single-leg	and	upper	back	strength?	If	you’re	going
to	train,	you	need	a	goal.	If	we’re	going	to	train	for	strength,	we	need	to	know
what	strong	actually	
is.
The	four-minute	mile	is	a	great	example	of	breaking	down	athletic	barriers.
In	1957,	Roger	Bannister	became	the	first	to	run	a	mile	in	under	four	minutes.
On	that	day,	he	broke	a	twelve-year-old	record.	By	the	end	of	1957	sixteen	other
runners	had	added	their	names	to	the	list.	It’s	amazing	what	someone	will	do
once	they’ve	seen	what’s	possible.
My	goal	is	to	raise	the	bar	on	both	single-leg	strength	and	upper-back
strength	by	telling	the	strength	and	conditioning	world	exactly	what	is	strong.
	

Developing	Single-Leg	Strength
	
	
Why	We	Train	on	One	Leg
	
Running	is	a	single-leg	action,	really	a	series	of	bounds.	This	is	why
vertical	jumps	correlate	so	highly	to	speed.	Running	is	simply	a	series	of
horizontal	bounds.	Very	little	in	life	or	sport	is	done	with	two	feet	on	the	ground.
In	fact,	rowing	is	the	only	sport	where	both	legs	work	simultaneously.	In	life,	it
rarely	happens.
In	the	early	1990s	when	people	like	Vern	Gambetta	and	Gary	Gray	began	to
point	out	simple	anatomical	lessons,	all	I	could	do	was	listen.	Guys	like	Gray
and	Gambetta	basically	said	our	approach	of	conventional	double-leg	training
was	flawed,	that	our	sagittal-plane-dominated	world	wasn’t	realistic.
Strength	training	has	been	and	still	is	primarily	sagittal	plane	and	double-
limb.	However,	we’ve	used	single-limb	training	for	upper	body	for	years	and
raved	about	its	superiority:	
We	call	it	dumbbell	training.
	Dumbbell	bench	presses
and	incline	presses	are	widely	accepted,	as	are	dumbbell	rows.	However,
unilateral	lower	body	training	was	frowned	upon.	Step-ups?	Lunges?
My	reaction	then	was,	“What	do	you	mean,	do	single-leg	exercises?	What
about	squats	and	deadlifts?”	That	single-leg	squats	or	lunges	done	with	only
bodyweight	might	be	beneficial	to	athletes	or	to	those	looking	to	gain	more
muscle	mass	was	initially	as	foreign	to	me	as	it	was	or	is	to	many	readers.
Training	really	comes	down	to	two	things:	anatomy	and	physics.	Our
knowledge	of	physics	hasn’t	changed	greatly	over	the	last	few	decades,	but	our
knowledge	of	what	we	now	call	functional	anatomy	has	definitely	advanced.	The
concepts	presented	in	functional	anatomy	are	what	led	me	to	functional	training.
Single-limb	training	is	a	logical	outgrowth	of	this	new	knowledge.	It’ll
promote	greater	muscle	growth	and	greater	muscle	strength	because	it	works
more	muscles.	Knowing	the	way	the	body	works	allows	us	to	develop	and	use
exercises	that	work	not	just	prime	movers,	but	also	the	stabilizers	and

neutralizers.
My	athletes	perform	Olympic	lifts	at	least	twice	a	week	and	still	generally
perform	front	squats	and	deadlifts	at	least	once	a	week.	However,	I	see	a	future
that	may	not	include	bilateral	squats	of	any	kind.
That	doesn’t	negate	the	case	for	single-leg	exercise	either	for	performance
or	for	muscle	gain.	The	anatomical	evidence	for	single-leg	exercise	is
overwhelming.	As	a	result,	our	athletes	and	personal	training	clients	do	lots	of
single-leg	exercises.
When	looking	at	the	anterior	chain	we	see	the	lateral	subsystem.	The	lateral
subsystem	consists	of	the	gluteus	medius,	the	adductors	and	the	quadratus
lumborum.	When	we	stand	on	one	leg,	as	in	a	one-leg	squat,	we	engage	these
three	muscles	we	don’t	use	much	in	a	two-leg	squat.
The	key	to	the	lateral	subsystem	is	to	engage	these	additional	muscles	in
their	normal	role	of	stabilizers,	not	as	movers.	In	a	conventional	squat,	we
strengthen	the	prime	movers	and	neglect	the	stabilizers.
You	may	think,	“We’ve	trained	this	way	for	decades	and	it	worked.”	Here’s
where	I	disagree:	We’ve	done	it	this	way	for	years,	but	I’m	not	so	sure	it’s	been
working.	If	what	we	were	doing	worked	so	well,	why	do	we	have	so	many	ACL
tears	and	so	many	bad	backs?	I	truly	believe	single-leg	training	is	the	best	way	to
prevent	knee	injuries	and	the	best	way	to	train	around	a	back	problem.	Double-
leg	training	may	create	double-leg	strength,	but	it	doesn’t	have	the	additional
preventative	value	of	single-leg	training.
The	other	problem:	Double-leg	strength	doesn’t	correlate	to	single-leg
strength.	I	can’t	tell	you	how	many	athletes	I’ve	seen	who	can	squat	in	excess	of
500	pounds,	yet	can’t	do	one	single-leg	squat	because	they	lack	the	functional
strength.
Single-leg	strength	is	a	quality	frequently	ignored	in	strength	programs,	but
it’s	essential	in	the	improvement	of	speed	and	the	reduction	of	injuries.	Single-
leg	strength	and	stability	is	the	essence	of	lower-body	strength,	and	is	the	most
important	quality	in	performance	training.
Eliminating	double-leg	squatting	may	sound	extreme	to	some,	but	it
emphasizes	the	importance	of	single-leg	exercise	in	any	strength	program.
Unfortunately,	most	strength	programs	focus	solely	on	conventional	double-leg
exercises	such	as	squats,	leg	presses	or	the	unequivocally	nonfunctional	leg
exercises	like	extensions	and	curls.
Pelvic	Stabilizers

	
The	actions	of	the	pelvic	stabilizers	are	different	in	a	single-leg	stance	than
in	a	double-leg	stance.	Single-leg	exercises	force	the	gluteus	medius,	quadratus
lumborum	and	the	adductor	group	to	operate	as	stabilizers	and	neutralizers,
which	are	vital	in	sport	skills.
The	benefits	of	single-leg	strength	development	are	reinforced	when	we
understand	the	importance	of	the	adductor	magnus	as	both	synergist	and
stabilizer	for	the	glute	max	in	hip	extension.	Unilateral	exercise	forces	the
adductors	to	balance	the	abduction	and	external	rotation	component	of	the	glute
max.
Single-leg	training	is	simply	the	logical	process	of	using	what	we	now
understand	about	functional	anatomy	and	applying	it	to	training.	The	diagram	to
the	upper	right	illustrates	the	muscular	differences	between	double-leg	training
and	single-leg	training.	The	key	stabilizers	of	the	pelvis,	so	necessary	in	any
running	or	jumping	activity,	receive	little	stress	in	conventional	double-leg
exercise.
	
Single-leg	strength	is	beginning	to	be	recognized	as	a	key	in	injury
reduction,	and	is	becoming	a	staple	of	most	reconditioning	and	knee-injury
prevention	programs.

Training	one	leg	at	a	time	is	merely	the	application	of	functional	anatomy	to
training.	Almost	everything	in	sports	is	done	in	a	split	stance,	or	by	pushing	off
one	leg	from	a	parallel	stance;	it	just	makes	sense	to	train	the	body	that	way.
With	single-leg	work,	you	can	get	more	stress	to	your	athlete’s	legs,	build
more	usable	strength,	and	potentially	add	more	size	by	working	around	your
client’s	back,	which	is	often	the	weak	link	in	bilateral	exercises	like	squats.
When	the	goal	is	to	build	bigger,	stronger	legs,	it’s	always	a	good	idea	to
target	those	muscles	without	placing	heavy	loads	on	the	spine.
Challenging	Single-Leg	Strength
	
When	I	wrote	
Functional	Training	for	Sports,
	I	thought	it	was	great	we	had
athletes	who	could	do	a	one-leg	squat.	I	was	an	early	proponent	of	unilateral
training,	and	pushed	both	my	male	and	female	athletes	to	perform	these
exercises.
Eventually	I	noticed	a	sense	of	complacency	among	my	athletes.	They	were
just	like	me;	they	were	happy	they	could	do	a	one-leg	squat	with	some	level	of
external	resistance.	Some	were	actually	getting	pretty	strong,	routinely	using
twenty-or	twenty-five-pound	dumbbells.
Over	time,	the	dumbbells	became	too	heavy	to	properly	lift	into	position,
and	the	weight	vests	we	used	at	the	time	only	went	up	to	a	whopping	twenty
pounds.	This	meant	the	top	weight	we	were	comfortably	able	to	add	was	about
sixty	pounds.	To	solve	the	loading	problem,	we	purchased	X-Vests.	X-Vests	can,
in	theory,	be	loaded	up	to	eighty	pounds;	we	made	up	forty-and	fifty-pound
vests.
The	other	problem	we	encountered	was	the	same	issue	many	coaches
encounter	in	two-leg	squats.	As	the	load	increased,	the	depth	decreased.
To	solve	the	depth	problem,	we	began	to	use	the	same	method	we	used	to
insure	depth	on	our	two-leg	front	squats.	We	placed	a	box	behind	the	athlete	and
asked	him	to	touch	it.	Now	we	could	both	dictate	depth	and	increase	the	load.
The	pistol	version	we	used	initially	caused	low	back	pain	in	some	athletes,
particularly	those	with	long	femurs.	We	solved	that	by	using	two	boxes,	one	to
stand	on	and	one	to	use	as	a	depth	gauge.
Using	a	box	to	stand	on	allows	a	hip	bend	with	the	non-working	leg
dropping	straight	down.	This	eliminates	the	possible	issues	of	hamstring
flexibility	in	the	non-working	leg	and	a	problem	of	deficient	t-spine	mobility.
Now	were	able	to	concentrate	on	pure	single-leg	strength	with	fewer	barriers	to

performance.
	
	

Classifications	of	Single-Leg	Exercise
	
	
One	of	the	major	changes	of	the	last	decade	in	the	fields	of	strength	and
conditioning	and	personal	training	has	been	an	increased	emphasis	on	exercises
considered	both	functional	and	multi-planar.	Where	many	strength	coaches	and
trainers	previously	relied	on	bilateral	exercises	like	squats	and	leg	presses,	we
now	regularly	use	exercises	like	lunges	and	one-leg	squats.
We’ll	next	look	at	the	menu	of	single-leg	exercises	to	classify	the	relative
differences	and	benefits	of	each	exercise,	and	evaluate	where	these	exercises
might	best	fit	into	our	programs.
As	we	use	more	and	more	single-leg	exercises	with	our	athletes,	we’ve
broken	these	exercises	into	categories	and	placed	the	exercises	in	progressions.
One	of	the	drawbacks	of	having	a	broad	range	of	exercises	available	is
determining	which	exercise	is	appropriate	for	which	individual,	and	at	what
point	in	training	should	each	be	used.
We	often	see	an	advanced	exercise	like	lunges	capable	of	producing
extreme	soreness	recommended	as	a	cure-all	for	nearly	every	lower-body	issue.
The	current	thought	in	some	circles	seems	to	be	when	in	doubt,	lunge.	Yet
prescribing	an	advanced	single-leg	exercise	for	a	beginner	can	be	a	crippling
introduction	to	the	world	of	unilateral	training.	Using	lunges	initially	can	make
sports	practice	difficult	for	the	next	few	days.
When	looking	at	single-leg	exercises,	it’s	apparent	they	can	be	broken	into
knee-dominant	exercises,	variations	of	a	squatting	movement,	and	hip-dominant
exercises,	or	those	that	prioritize	the	glutes	and	hamstrings	and	are	variations	of
straight-leg	deadlifts	or	bridging	exercises.
Further	investigation	of	the	demands	of	single-leg	exercises	makes	it
necessary	to	break	single-leg	knee-dominant	exercises	into	static	exercises	like
one-leg	squats,	and	dynamic	exercises	such	as	lunges	and	slideboard	lunges.
In	static	single-leg	exercises,	there	is	no	movement	of	the	feet.	One	or	both
feet	stay	in	contact	with	the	ground.	The	body	moves	up	and	down	in	the	sagittal
plane	or	potentially	side	to	side	in	the	frontal	plane,	as	in	a	lateral	squat.
Static	knee-dominant	exercise	can	further	be	broken	into	either	static
unsupported	or	static	supported	exercises.

Static	Supported	Exercises
	
Single-leg	supported	exercises	describe	a	one-leg	exercise	done	with	some
support	from	the	remaining	leg.	The	non-working	leg	could	either	be	in	contact
with	the	floor	as	in	a	split	squat	or	on	a	bench.	These	are	not	dynamic	exercises
as	they	lack	translation.	The	center	of	mass	stays	in	the	confines	of	the	base	of
support	and	the	feet	do	not	move.
A	split	squat	is	what	we	call	a	single-leg,	static,	supported	exercise.	It’s
static:	We’re	not	moving.	It’s	not	a	lunge.	There	is	no	step.	It’s	supported:	We
have	the	back	foot	in	contact	with	the	ground,	a	box,	bench,	or	something	else.
Other	examples	would	include	the	one-leg	bench	squat,	the	lateral	squat	and	the
rotational	squat.
The	rear-foot-elevated	split	squat,	while	harder,	is	still	a	static,	supported
exercise.	All	we’ve	done	is	shifted	the	load	more	onto	the	front	leg.	This	is	a
harder	exercise	than	the	split	squat,	and	probably	a	better	exercise	for	the	more
advanced	athlete.	This	is	a	really	important	single-leg	strength	exercise,	but	it’s
still	static.
The	pelvic	implications	of	supported	exercises	are	very	different	from	the
pelvic	implications	found	in	single-leg	squatting,	or	other	unsupported	exercises.
It’s	very	different	in	terms	of	what	it’s	asking	the	pelvis	to	do.
Single-leg	supported	exercises	are	a	great	introduction	to	single-leg	training
and	should	always	precede	the	dynamic	variations.
An	additional	benefit	of	single-leg	supported	exercise	is	these	exercises	are
excellent	for	flexibility.
Static	Unsupported	Exercises
	
Static	unsupported	single-leg	exercises	consist	of	single-leg	movements
done	on	one	leg	only.	The	non-working	extremity	is	not	allowed	to	touch	the
ground	or	any	other	object	such	as	a	bench.	The	only	true	static	unsupported
exercises	are	variations	of	one-leg	squats.	These	may	be	referred	to	as	one-leg
squats,	balance	squats	or	step-downs	in	various	texts.
The	single-leg	squat	is	an	excellent	example	of	knee	stability.	We	won’t
find	an	example	better	than	that.	As	we	look	at	a	single-leg	squat,	we	should
think	knee	stability;	this	is	the	ability	to	exist	in	what	we	would	call	a	single-leg,
unsupported	environment.

Many	of	the	single-leg	unsupported	exercises	are	frequently	used	as
dynamic	warm-up	exercises,	and	are	excellent	for	more	experienced	trainees	in
that	function.
Carryover	Limitations
	
Until	recently,	I	did	not	distinguish	between	static	unsupported	and	static
supported	exercise.	Strength	and	conditioning	coach	Karen	Wood	convinced	me
otherwise.	Wood’s	rational	is	the	limited	functional	carryover	from	the	single-leg
supported	category	to	the	single-leg	unsupported	category.	In	other	words,
performance	of	exercises	like	splits	squats	or	rear-foot-elevated	split	squats	did
not	carryover	to	performance	in	a	true	one-leg	squat.
In	static	supported	exercises,	the	hip	rotators,	adductors	and	glute	medius
do	not	take	as	active	a	role	in	stabilizing	the	femur.	In	true	static	unsupported
exercises,	the	hip	rotators,	adductors	and	glute	medius	must	actively	work	to
prevent	internal	rotation	of	the	femur.
Static	unsupported	exercises	are	essentially	tri-planar,	as	the	movement	may
be	sagittal,	but	the	stabilizers	must	also	prevent	movement	in	the	frontal	and
transverse	planes.
A	static	unsupported	exercise	becomes	a	tri-planar	movement	automatically
as	the	stabilizers	work	as	anti-rotators.	Wood’s	thought	process	has	caused	me	to
program	exercises	in	a	manner	we	now	define	as	progressive	range	of	motion.
	

Progressive	Range	of	Motion
	
	
Earlier	in	my	career	I	would	have	scoffed	at	the	idea	of	using	partial
movements.	However,	as	I	became	involved	in	the	rehabilitation	of	athletes	with
patella-femoral	problems,	I	came	to	realize	range	of	motion	in	the	lower	body
needs	to	take	a	back	seat	to	femoral	control.	Often	in	static	supported	exercises
like	a	split	squat	or	a	one-leg	bench	squat,	the	athlete	can	move	through	a	full
range	of	motion,	perhaps	with	significant	loads,	but	still	be	unable	to	control	the
motion	of	the	femur	in	an	unsupported	environment.	In	this	case,	lower-body
strength	is	wasted	because	it	does	not	fulfill	its	obligation	to	control	the	motion
of	the	femur.
To	illustrate	the	concept,	in	our	facility,	a	single-leg	squat	will	be	done	only
to	a	pain-free	range	that	demonstrates	control	of	the	femur	relative	to	adduction
and	internal	rotation.
In	other	words,	it	is	not	enough	to	squat	low.	The	trainee	must	squat	low
while	maintaining	control	of	the	femur	from	the	hip	musculature.
In	progressive	range	of	motion	training,	the	bodyweight	load	remains
constant,	while	the	range	of	motion	is	progressively	increased.	Once	the	trainee
demonstrates	full,	controlled	range	of	motion,	the	programming	reverts	back	to
basic	progressive	resistance	concepts.
In	the	same	program	or	in	the	same	workout,	we	may	simultaneously	be
using	a	single-leg	unsupported	exercise	with	progressive	range	of	motion	as	in
partial	one-leg	squats,	followed	by	a	single-leg	supported	exercise	done	through
a	full	range	of	motion.
Progressions
	
Split	squats	should	precede	lunges;	lateral	squats	should	precede	lateral
lunges;	and	rotational	squats	should	precede	rotational	or	transverse	lunges.
Failure	to	do	this	will	result	in	exceptional	soreness,	possible	disruption	of	the
training	program,	and	often	a	loss	of	confidence	in	the	coach	or	trainer	by	the

athlete	or	client.
	
The	reason	for	the	exceptional	soreness	lies	in	the	sagittal	emphasis	of	most
training	programs.	Many	times	range	of	motion	is	consistently	gained	in	the
same	plane	of	motion;	motion	out	of	the	sagittal	plane	involves	muscle	fibers
and	action	not	previously	encountered.
Athletes	often	report	unusual	levels	of	soreness	in	an	area	that	appears	to	be
the	adductors	or	the	medial	hamstrings	and	it	sometimes	seems	even	worse	with
lunges.	Rolfer	and	author	Thomas	Myers	describes	the	adductor	magnus	as	the
fourth	hamstring,	and	in	fact	the	adductor	magnus	is	the	third	most	powerful	hip
extensor.
Adductor	magnus	assists	in	hip	extension	by	providing	a	counterbalance	to
the	external	rotator	capability	of	the	glute	max,	the	most	powerful	hip	extensor.
The	combination	of	extreme	knee	and	hip	flexion	in	a	single-leg	exercise
stresses	the	anti-rotator	and	extensor	capabilities	of	the	adductor	magnus	in	a
way	completely	unfamiliar.	This	causes	unusual	soreness	that	can	be	injurious	or
even	confused	with	an	actual	groin	strain.
Many	athletes	don’t	use	the	adductor	magnus	as	a	hip	extensor	until	they
begin	to	squat	low	or	begin	performing	walking	lunges.	When	they	do	these
exercises,	they	activate	the	adductor	magnus.	The	response	is	usually	a	painful
one.
The	adductors,	primarily	the	adductor	magnus,	plays	a	critical	role	in
sprinting,	acting	as	both	a	powerful	hip	extensor	and	a	counterbalance	to	the
external	rotating	capability	of	the	glute	max.

Dynamic	Unsupported	Single-Leg	Exercise
	
The	remaining	single-leg	exercises	would	be	classified	as	dynamic
exercises.	In	dynamic	single-leg	exercises,	the	body	is	translated	in	either	the
sagittal	plane	(lunge,	slideboard	lunge,	Valslide	lunge,	TRX	lunge	or	walking
lunge),	frontal	plane	(lateral	lunge),	or	transverse	plane	(rotational	lunge).
Dynamic	single-leg	exercises	are	among	the	most	significant	soreness
producers	in	the	coach’s	toolbox,	and	should	be	implemented	with	great	care.
A	static	supported	version	of	the	exercise	should	precede	the	dynamic
version	for	a	three-week	period.	Lunges	should	not	be	used	until	the	trainee	has
done	at	least	three	weeks	of	split	squats.
Accelerative	and	Decelerative	Patterns
	
It	is	further	necessary	to	categorize	dynamic	single-leg	exercises	into
accelerative	and	decelerative	patterns.
Accelerative	patterns	would	be	walking	lunges	and	slideboard	lunges.
Accelerative	exercises	are	pulling	actions	that	mimic	the	mechanics	of	an	athlete
accelerating	toward	an	object.	These	have	high	transfer	capability	to	running.
Decelerative	patterns	would	include	conventional	lunges,	lateral	lunges	or
any	multi-planar,	transverse	or	rotational	version.	The	decelerative	patterns	have
more	application	to	braking	and	direction-change	skills.
Decelerative	exercises	are	excellent	for	injury	prevention,	whereas
accelerative	exercises	will	greatly	enhance	movement	capability.	Both	types	are
necessary,	but	they	should	not	be	viewed	as	either	strongly	related	or
interchangeable	since	they	are	markedly	different.
The	accelerative	dynamic	single-leg	exercises	have	been	inappropriately
named	and	misclassified.	Walking	lunges,	Valslide	lunges	and	slideboard	lunges
are	actually	hip-dominant	exercises	that	look	knee-dominant.
Although	the	action	in	a	walking	lunge	or	slideboard	lunge	appears	to	be
the	identical	movement	to	a	conventional	push-back	lunge,	the	muscle	actions
are	entirely	different.	Conventional	lunges	are	knee-dominant	and	quadriceps-
oriented	and	don’t	produce	unusual	soreness.	Any	of	the	walking,	slideboard	and
Valslide	variations	will	produce	exceptional	soreness,	particularly	in	the	long
adductors	as	noted	above.
Effectively	programming	single-leg	exercises	takes	on	an	entirely	new

dimension	in	light	of	this.	In	our	programming,	I	have	relied	far	too	heavily	on
the	static	versions	and	have	not	used	enough	of	the	dynamic.	In	fact,	the
accelerative	options	may	be	the	best	one-size-fits-all	choice.
	

Single-Leg	Progressions
	
	
Dynamic	Warm-Up
	
Incorporate	static	supported	exercises	in	the	warm-up,	focus	on	double-leg
exercises	like	bodyweight	squats,	and	single-leg	unsupported	versions	with	more
advanced	athletes.	A	dynamic	single-leg	warm-up	may	be	the	most	intense	leg
workout	your	client	has	ever	done.	It’s	advisable	in	week	one	to	use	only	one	or
two	basic	double-leg	exercises	during	the	actual	strength	session.
If	a	moving	dynamic	warm-up	is	used,	only	back	lunge	walks	should	be
programmed	for	the	first	three	weeks.	This	will	avoid	the	extreme	adductor
soreness	often	caused	by	forward	lunge	walks.
Weeks	1-3
	
Split	squat,	1x3-4-5,	
add	one	rep	per	week
	Lateral	squat,	1x3-4-5
Rotational	squat,	1x	3-4-5
Weeks	4-6
	
Single-leg	strength	Bring	in	dynamic	versions	of	the	static	unsupported
exercises,	one	exercise	per	workout	beginning	with	lunges	and	progressing	to
lateral	lunges	and	eventually	to	rotational	or	transverse	lunges.	This	progression
of	sagittal	plane,	to	frontal	plane,	and	eventually	to	the	transverse	plane	was	first
proposed	by	physical	therapist	John	Pallof.
	

Posterior	Chain	Training
	
	
After	we	eliminated	back	squats	from	our	training	programs,	the	results
were	a	big	reduction	in	back	pain.	We	do	a	limited	amount	of	double-leg
deadlifting,	a	maximum	of	once	per	week,	and	never	utilize	a	two-leg	Romanian
or	straight-leg	deadlift.	Once	I	can	better	calculate	single-leg	loads	in	the	squat,
we	may	stop	all	our	squatting	and	just	use	the	single-leg	versions.
I’ve	already	done	this	with	our	modified	straight-leg	deadlift.	We	use	only
the	single-leg	version	and	base	loads	off	the	hang	clean	one-rep	max,	a	lift	we’ll
never	stop	doing.	We	progress	from	a	reaching	one-leg	straight-leg	deadlift	to	a
single-dumbbell	modified	one-leg	straight-leg	deadlift,	abbreviated	as	1L	SLDL.
When	the	dumbbells	get	too	heavy	to	hold	in	one	hand,	we	switch	to	a	two-
dumbbell	version	or	to	a	straight	bar.	The	one-dumbbell	version	is	more
functional,	but	somewhere	around	eighty	pounds	the	dumbbell	gets	too	heavy	to
hold	in	one	hand.	When	you	suddenly	switch	from	one	eighty-pound	dumbbell
to	two	forty-fives,	the	load	on	the	posterior	chain	increases	by	ten	pounds,	but	it
feels	significantly	lighter.
The	problems	we	initially	ran	into	when	switching	from	conventional
straight-leg	deadlifts	to	the	single-leg	versions	involved	technique	and	load
selection.	We	made	two	critical	mistakes.
•	The	leg	was	too	straight
•	The	load	was	too	light
The	solution	to	the	first	mistake	came	by	way	of	Paul	Chek.	Chek	contends
an	extended-knee	straight	leg	over-recruits	the	hamstrings.	Many	athletes	are
weak	in	the	glutes	and	synergistically	dominant	in	the	hamstrings,	and	this	leads
to	hamstring	problems.	I	modified	our	technique	as	specified	by	Chek	and	
voilà
,
glute	soreness.	Chek	recommends	a	consistent	twenty-degree	knee	bend,	and	I
concur.
The	second	problem	related	to	load.	How	heavy	is	heavy?	Because	we
don’t	do	conventional	deadlifts,	I	needed	another	parameter	on	which	to	base	the

formula.	Since	we	test	the	hang	clean,	I	decided	to	use	a	percentage	of	hang
clean	one-rep	max	as	a	starting	point	because	the	hang	clean	should	give	a
reasonable	estimate	of	the	strength	and	power	of	the	hip	and	back	extensors.
We	began	with	twenty	percent	of	the	athlete’s	hang	clean	max,	which
proved	to	be	light,	and	we	progressed	rapidly.	Most	athletes	will	be	able	to
handle	eighty	to	a	hundred	pounds	in	one	hand	in	a	one-leg	SLDL	if	pushed.
We	had	to	progress	to	a	straight	bar	or	a	two-dumbbell	version	because	one
dumbbell	became	too	difficult.	Athletes	will	easily	be	able	to	work	up	to	fifty
percent	of	their	hang	clean	max	with	a	bar	or	two	dumbbells,	a	pair	of	seventies
for	a	theoretical	275-max	hang	clean.
	

Determining	Weight	for	Single-Leg	Squats
	
	
True	single-leg	exercise	must	take	into	account	both	the	athlete’s
bodyweight	and	the	external	load.	In	single-leg	exercise,	bodyweight	functions
as	the	majority	of	the	load.	Because	of	this,	many	coaches	find	it	difficult	to
determine	loads	for	one-leg	squats.	We	have	found	it	useful	to	follow	the	same
process	we	use	for	jump	squats	using	different	percentages.	In	order	to	determine
an	athlete’s	load,	we	calculate	total	system	weight.
Total	system	weight	equals	bodyweight	plus	front	squat	max
	
Example:	A	200-pound	athlete	capable	of	a	400-pound	front	squat	would
have	a	total	system	weight	of	600	pounds.	We	generally	begin	at	forty	percent	of
total	system	weight,	then	subtract	bodyweight	and	divide	by	two	to	get	a
dumbbell	weight.
In	others	words,	forty	percent	of	600	is
240.	(240-200)/2=	20	or	240	less	bodyweight	of	200,	divided	by	two
equaling	20.	This	athlete	would	use	twenty-pound	dumbbells	for	sets	of	five
reps.
The	reason	this	matters	is	again	illustrated	by	the	example	of	the	300-pound
athlete	capable	of	front	squatting	300	pounds.	This	athlete	has	the	same	total
system	weight,	but	would	struggle	with	single-leg	squats.	In	fact,	the	formula
produces	a	negative	number.
BW	+	FS	=	(TSWx.4)	–	BW=
300+	300=	600x.4=	240	–	300=	-60
	
Any	athlete	with	a	negative	number	will	struggle	with	single-leg	squats
even	without	load.	We	still	use	five-pound	dumbbells	because	they	provide	an
effective	counterbalance	and	actually	make	the	movement	easier.	This	is
paradox;	single-leg	squats	are	easier	with	five	pounds	in	each	hand,	but	harder
with	ten.

Large	loads	for	athletes	with	great	strength-to-bodyweight	ratios	—
generally	above	two	times	their	bodyweight	in	the	front	squat	—	are	best
achieved	by	combining	weight	vests	and	dumbbells.
Progressions
	
Weeks	1-3
Reaching	One-leg
Straight-leg	Deadlift
	
The	reaching	action	recruits	the	thoracic	extensors	while	the	action	of
reaching	with	the	hands	reinforces	the	lengthening	of	the	back	leg.
Weeks	4-6
Single-dumbbell	One-leg
Straight-leg	Deadlift
	
As	the	load	increases,	the	load	is	now	moved	closer	to	the	point	of	rotation.
This	results	in	less	back	stress	and	works	great	up	to	approximately	eighty
pounds.
Weeks	7-9
Double-dumbbell	One-leg
Straight-leg	Deadlift
	
We’re	now	using	loads	of	eighty	pounds	and	up.
	

Single-Leg	Exercises
	
	
The	single-leg	strength	exercises	we	use	are	classified	as	levels	one,	two
and	three.	All	athletes,	regardless	of	training	stage,	should	begin	with	a	level	one
exercise	for	the	first	three	weeks	of	training.	Almost	all	level	two	exercises	can
be	done	with	external	load	by	more	advanced	athletes,	but	athletes	should
progress	only	after	they	have	mastered	an	exercise.	After	athletes	have	mastered
a	level	one	single-leg	strength	exercise,	we	progress	them	to	level	two.
•	Half-foam	roller,	round	side	up
•	Half-foam	roller,	round	side	down
•	Airex	pad
•	Half-foam	roller,	placed	on	an	exercise	bench	—	unstable	on	top	of
unstable
Most	of	the	single-leg	exercises	fit	into	the	bodyweight	progression.	The
athlete	uses	bodyweight	only,	with	no	external	load	for	the	first	three	weeks,	but
increases	reps	each	week	from	eight	to	ten	to	twelve	per	leg.	This	is	our	basic
progressive	resistance	concept.
More	advanced	athletes	can	begin	with	external	load,	such	as	a	bar,
dumbbells	or	a	weight	vest,	but	this	should	be	discouraged	initially	if	the	athletes
do	not	have	experience	with	single-leg	training,	or	are	larger	or	weaker.
Heavier,	taller	or	younger	athletes	will	frequently	struggle	with	single-leg
exercise	in	the	initial	stages.	Resist	the	temptation	to	rush	into	more	difficult
single-leg	exercises	if	your	population	includes	athletes	with	poor	leverage	or
poor	strength-to-bodyweight	ratios.	Almost	all	young	athletes	will	fall	into	that
category.	As	athletes	become	more	advanced,	any	single-leg	exercise	can	be
added	to	the	program	as	long	as	the	athlete	is	able	to	do	at	least	five	quality	reps.

Posterior	Chain	Hip-Dominant	Single-Leg	Training
	
The	interesting	thing	about	hip-dominant	single-leg	training	is	it	is	not	only
single-limb,	but	also	single-joint.	For	years	we	have	thought	single-joint	exercise
a	waste	of	time.	Over	time,	I’ve	realized	it’s	not	about	how	many	joints	work	as
it	is	about	how	many	
muscles
	work.	The	“no	single-joint	exercise”	mantra	may
be	an	oversimplification.	I	may	dislike	a	lateral	raise	or	a	leg	extension	because
it	isolates	a	single	muscle	in	a	non-functional	manner,	but	I	love	one-leg	straight-
leg	deadlifts.
The	one-leg	straight-leg	deadlift	is	a	single-joint	exercise.	The	number	of
muscles	working	is	what	makes	it	better	than	a	leg	extension	or	a	leg	curl.	It’s
not	about	the	number	of	joints	moving,	it’s	about	the	combined	action	of	moving
a	joint	in	one	plane,	while	stabilizing	in	two	other	planes.
In	the	one-leg	straight-leg	deadlift,	the	action	is	a	sagittal	plane	hip-hinge.
However,	the	spinal	erectors,	lower	traps	and	rhomboids	must	work	to	stabilize
the	spine	and	the	scapulae.	The	hip	rotators	and	pelvic	stabilizers	work	to	keep
the	pelvis	moving	in	the	sagittal	plane.	What	appears	to	be	a	relatively	simple
single-joint	exercise	is	actually	an	extremely	complex	exercise	in	muscle
synergy	that	incorporates	a	huge	amount	of	muscle.	In	addition,	single-leg
straight-leg	deadlifts	provide	great	stress	to	the	glutes	and	hamstrings,	while
providing	fifty	percent	less	back	stress	than	the	two-leg	counterpart.
The	same	can	be	said	for	the	slideboard	leg	curl,	where	once	again	we	have
a	single-joint	action.	Biomechanically	some	would	claim	it	is	the	same	action	as
a	prone	machine	leg	curl.	Upon	further	review	the	slideboard	leg	curl	becomes	a
far	superior	exercise	because	the	glutes	and	hamstrings	must	work	together	to
hold	the	hip	in	extension	while	the	hamstring	works	alone	to	flex	the	knee.	The
slideboard	leg	curl	in	effect	forces	the	hamstring	to	work	from	both	ends	in	its
two-joint	function	as	a	synergist	of	hip	extension	and	a	prime	mover	in	knee
flexion.
It’s	clearly	not	as	simple	as	single-joint	is	bad,	multi-joint	is	good.	If	you
train	athletes	to	improve	performance	or	reduce	the	risk	of	injury	potential,	or
bodybuilders	looking	to	stress	some	little-used	muscles,	give	one-leg	squats,
one-leg	straight-leg	deadlifts	and	slideboard	leg	curls	a	trial	in	your	program.
Ponder	this	to	increase	your	awareness	of	the	myriad	of	options	available	to
the	strength	and	conditioning	coach	or	personal	trainer	for	knee-dominant	single-
leg	exercise	and	the	potential	uses	and	progressions	available.

Single-Leg	Stability	Training
	
The	development	of	single-leg	stability	is	potentially	the	cure-all	for	many
of	the	chronic	lower-extremity	problems	seen	in	athletes	today.	Numerous
athletes	suffer	from	knee	problems	such	as	chondromalacia	patellae,	patella
tendinosis,	or	other	patella-femoral	syndromes.
Often	these	problems	are	attributed	to	problems	with	the	knee	joint	itself	or
with	the	patella.	Frequently	trainers	and	therapists	will	describe	these	problems
as	patella	tracking	issues	and	recommend	limited-range	strengthening	for	the
quadriceps.	Although	this	is	an	outdated	concept,	many	trainers	and	therapists
still	cling	to	these	ideas.
Most	athletes	suffering	from	chronic	knee	pain	generally	share	a	common
difficulty	in	stabilizing	the	lower	extremity	while	performing	a	single-leg	squat.
This	inability	to	stabilize	is	actually	a	hip	dysfunction	related	to	an	inability	to
properly	fire	the	glute	medius,	meaning	it’s	a	neuromuscular	control	issue,	or	a
weakness	in	the	glute	medius.
A	2003	study	done	by	Ireland,	Willson,	Ballantyne	and	Davis,	described	on
page	66,	concluded,	“In	the	absence	of	sufficient	proximal	strength,	the	femur
may	adduct	or	internally	rotate,	further	increasing	lateral	patellar	contact
pressure.	Repetitive	activities	with	this	malalignment	may	eventually	lead	to
retropatellar	articular	cartilage	damage	generally	associated	with	this	syndrome.”
Ireland,	et	al,	concluded	healthy	subjects	had	normal	strength,	while	the
subjects	with	patella-femoral	pain	had	significant	weakness.	Although	all
subjects	in	Ireland’s	study	where	women,	I	believe	the	same	results	would	be
seen	in	men	with	patella-femoral	pain.
Eccentric	Single-Leg	Squat
	
The	eccentric	single-leg	squat	begins	to	bridge	the	gap	from	isolated
exercise	to	multi-joint	exercise.	Eccentric	single-leg	squats	are	excellent	for	any
patella-femoral	pain	client.	Clients	suffering	from	patella-femoral	pain	often
experience	difficulty	during	the	transition	from	the	eccentric	to	the	concentric
contraction.	Initially,	the	eccentric	single-leg	squat	is	done	through	a	limited
range	of	motion	with	no	concentric	contraction.	The	client	lowers	for	the
prescribed	time	and	then	stands	up	using	both	legs.
This	is	the	pure	eccentric-only	version.	Eccentric	single-leg	squats	should

begin	with	a	short,	pain-free	range	of	motion	and	a	long	eccentric	contraction	of
five	or	six	seconds.
This	exercise	literally	teaches	the	glute	medius	and	glute	max	how	to	re-
establish	control	of	the	femur.	Remember,	knees	don’t	usually	go	bad.	Instead,
hips	fail	to	properly	and	adequately	control	the	knees.
With	the	eccentric-only	single-leg	squat,	we’re	using	a	single-leg	exercise
to	relearn	femoral	control.
	

Facilitating	the	Glute	Medius
	
	
In	some	athletes,	the	muscles	that	control	the	hip	are	either	too	weak	to
perform	their	functions	or	are	not	neurologically	activated.	As	a	result,	instead	of
the	gluteus	medius,	the	support	structures	of	the	knee	are	forced	to	provide
stability.	This	may	mean	pain	in	the	iliotibial	band,	in	the	patellar	tendon,	or
under	the	kneecap.
The	gluteus	medius	is	an	often-neglected	muscle	of	the	hip;	the	primary
function	is	to	stabilize	the	lower	extremity	in	single-leg	activities	such	as
running,	jumping	or	squatting.	Knee	problems	were	previously	blamed	on	poor
quadriceps	strength,	and	doctors	and	therapists	prescribed	nonfunctional	exercise
like	leg	extensions	to	solve	the	problem.	Recently	therapists	and	athletic	trainers
have	begun	to	recognize	the	role	of	the	gluteus	medius	in	these	knee	conditions.
If	an	athlete	seems	to	have	the	leg	strength	to	perform	a	one-leg	squat,	but
struggles	with	stability,	we	use	a	technique	Gray	Cook	refers	to	as	reactive
neuromuscular	training,	or	RNT.	These	athletes	will	easily	perform	the	one-leg
squat,	but	will	be	unable	to	keep	the	knee	from	moving	into	an	adducted
position.	Although	we	would	describe	this	as	the	knee	falling	in,	the	reality	is
this	is	a	hip	issue,	specifically	a	glute	medius	issue.	In	many	cases	simply
facilitating	the	glute	medius	will	solve	the	problem.
	

We	found	ourselves	trying	to	verbally	instruct	the	athlete	to	not	let	the	knee
fall	in.	Very	often	this	is	a	waste	of	time	as	the	athlete	is	unable	to	make	the
connection	between	the	instruction	and	the	action.	Shad	Forsythe,	performance
specialist	at	Athletes’	Performance	in	Los	Angeles,	came	up	with	the	following
solution,	also	discussed	on	page	68.
Take	a	twenty-inch	piece	of	Theratube	or	similar	material	and	place	it
around	both	legs	just	below	the	knees.	The	tube	should	be	light	and	easy	to
stretch.	Have	the	athlete	perform	the	squat	with	the	legs	connected.	The	action	of
the	Theratube	due	to	the	pull	into	adduction	gives	a	small	neural	stimulus	to	the
abductors,	particularly	the	gluteus	medius.
We	use	this	technique	with	both	single-and	double-leg	squat	patterns.
This	is	representative	of	Cook’s	reactive	neuromuscular	training	concept.	A
low-level	stress	is	applied	to	the	muscle,	in	this	case	the	glute	medius,	to	cause
the	muscle	to	contract	and	contribute	its	proper	level	of	stability.	I	really	like	this
concept	and	we	use	it	in	a	number	of	areas.
Once	we’ve	facilitated	the	glute	medius,	we	use	single-joint	isolation
exercises	to	teach	athletes	how	to	use	the	gluteus	medius	and	to	promote
strengthening.
Two	simple	exercises,	the	bent-leg	hip	abduction	and	the	straight-leg	hip
abduction,	are	used	for	this	purpose.	These	exercises	were	proposed	by	physical
therapist	Shirley	Sahrmann	in	
Diagnosis	and	Treatment	of	Movement
Impairment	Syndromes.
Bent-Leg	Hip	Abduction
	
To	perform	a	bent-leg	hip	abduction,	have	the	client	side-lying	with	the
knees	bent	ninety	degrees	and	the	hips	flexed	to	forty-five.	The	soles	of	the	feet
should	be	in	line	with	the	spine.	This	position	is	like	the	hook-lying	position,
lying	on	the	back	with	the	feet	flat	on	the	floor	and	both	the	hips	and	knees
flexed,	only	on	the	side.	The	top	shoulder	and	hip	should	be	positioned	slightly
ahead	of,	or	in	front	of,	the	bottom	hip	and	shoulder.
Have	the	client	abduct	the	leg,	keeping	the	feet	together	with	no	rotation	at
the	lumbar	spine.	The	hips	and	shoulders	should	remain	in	line	one	over	the
other,	and	all	the	motion	should	come	from	the	hip.	Generally,	sets	of	ten	reps
are	done	in	week	one,	and	two	reps	per	week	should	be	added.
Most	athletes	with	hip	weakness	will	erroneously	make	this	a	trunk	rotation
exercise.	Athletes	must	abduct	the	thigh	with	no	rotation	at	the	lumbar	spine.

In	order	to	facilitate	this,	the	athlete	can	be	placed	against	the	wall,	or	the
trainer	can	stand	behind	the	client	with	the	lateral	shin	placed	against	the	glute
max.	Whether	the	trainer	uses	his	own	leg	or	the	wall,	the	instruction	must	be	to
abduct	without	pressing	into	the	wall	or	leg.	I	prefer	to	use	my	leg	initially	as
both	the	client	and	I	can	feel	when	the	client	presses.
The	key	is	to	make	the	motion	one	of	abduction	and	external	rotation,	not
lumbar	rotation.	In	order	to	do	that,	the	cue	must	be	to	lift	the	knee	as	high	as
possible	without	pressing	against	the	leg	or	wall	behind.
	
Straight-Leg	Hip	Abduction
	
Straight-leg	hip	abduction	is	another	exercise	to	facilitate	and	strengthen	the
glute	medius.	This	isolates	the	muscle	so	it	will	function	better	in	its	role	as	a	hip
stabilizer.
Mark	Verstegen	likes	to	call	this	process	isolation	for	innervation.	This	idea
reflects	the	debate	of	single-joint	exercise	versus	multi-joint	exercise.	Many	in
the	field	of	functional	training	think	only	multi-joint	exercise	is	appropriate,	but
I	believe	isolation	is	fine	for	joints	with	high	degrees	of	freedom	like	the	hip	or
shoulder,	or	for	joints	that	need	high	degrees	of	stability	like	the	hip,	shoulder	or
spine.

	
To	instruct	straight-leg	hip	abduction,	have	the	athlete	side-lying	with	both
legs	extended	and	the	body	in	a	straight	line.	Place	a	half	foam	roller	under	the
athlete,	just	above	the	iliac	crest.	This	will	prevent	the	athlete	from	using	the
quadratus	lumborum	muscle	to	fake	abduction	via	lateral	flexion.
Wrap	a	five-foot	piece	of	Theraband	over	the	heel,	to	be	grasped	behind	the
leg.	This	serves	as	a	stimulus	for	extension	of	the	leg,	and	prevents	the	use	of	the
hip	flexors.
Have	the	athlete	fire	the	glute	max	on	the	top	leg	to	slightly	extend	at	the
hip,	and	keep	the	femur	in	slight	internal	rotation.	From	this	position,	the	athlete
will	lift	the	leg	to	the	side.
Another	benefit	to	the	straight-leg	hip	abduction	exercise	is	it	also	recruits
the	lateral	fibers	of	the	external	oblique	muscle.
These	exercises	are	valuable	in	helping	clients	learn	to	isolate	and	activate
the	gluteus	medius,	but	attention	to	detail	is	critical.	People	will	instinctively
find	ways	to	cheat	on	these	subtle	exercises.
Straight-Leg	Mini-Band	Walks
	
Straight-leg	mini-band	walks	may	be	one	of	the	most	underrated	exercises
in	the	functional	training	world.	This	is	a	classic	innervation	exercise.	Many	of
the	functional	purists	criticize	this	exercise	because	we	never	walk	with	our	legs
straight,	but	try	the	exercise	before	you	dismiss	it.	Isolation	exercises	for	joints
with	significant	mobility	or	for	joints	that	need	additional	stability	are	not	only
acceptable,	they’re	desirable,	and	the	hip	joint	meets	the	criteria.	When	done
correctly,	the	glute	medius	is	directly	affected	as	in	no	other	exercise.

To	correctly	perform	straight-leg	mini-band	walks,	have	the	athlete:
•	Begin	with	the	abdominal	muscles	drawn	in;	the	cue	is	tall	and	thin.
•	The	knees	are	slightly	bent	to	about	five	degrees.
•	Steps	should	be	about	six	inches.
If	possible,	have	the	client	watch	in	a	mirror	to	avoid	any	motion	except
abduction	at	the	hips.	The	appearance	of	the	client	should	be	one	of	gliding
across	the	floor.
The	shoulders	should	stay	over	the	hips,	avoiding	a	see-saw	action	from	the
ground.
Straight-leg	mini-band	walks	should	be	viewed	as	a	strength	exercise.	Work
the	client	up	to	the	Perform	Better	gray	bands	for	significantly	greater	function
in	the	hip	abductors.
Superband	X-Walks
	
Superbands	from	Perform	Better	can	provide	an	even	greater	stress	to	the
hip	abductors,	while	also	activating	the	retractors	and	depressors	of	the	scapulae.
This	exercise	borrows	a	concept	from	physical	therapist	Alex	McKechnie.
McKechnie	uses	Theraband	to	activate	the	diagonal	slings	of	the	body.	The
thought	is	the	body	functions	in	diagonal	connections.	The	cross-point	of	this
connection	is	the	lower	back,	where	tissue	known	as	the	thoracolumbar	fascia
acts	as	a	connector	from	the	lower	body	to	the	opposite	side	of	the	upper	body.
To	perform	the	X-Walks,	have	the	client	stand	on	the	Superband	and	grasp
the	right	side	of	the	band	with	the	left	hand	and	the	left	side	with	the	right	hand,
creating	an	X.
Instruct	the	client	to	pull	the	shoulder	blades	down	and	back,	and	to	proceed
as	in	the	mini-band	walk.	The	X	creates	an	adduction	force	that	must	be	fought
against	while	also	activating	the	scapulae	retractors	and	depressors.

	
	

Single-Leg	Strength
	
	
Level	One
Split	Squat
	
The	split	squat	is	a	great	exercise	for	developing	single-leg	strength.	This
exercise	is	usually	step	one	in	our	single-leg	progression.	With	older,	more
experienced	athletes,	we	jump	right	to	a	bodyweight	version	of	the	rear-foot-
elevated	split	squat,	a	level	two	exercise.
Dumbbells	or	a	bar	can	be	added	in	the	front-squat	or	back-squat	positions.
In	fact,	front	split	squats	have	become	an	excellent	alternative	strength	exercise
for	any	of	our	athletes	with	a	history	of	back	pain.
Tell	your	clients	to	think	about	contracting	the	glute	of	the	back	leg	to
properly	stabilize.
Level	Two	Rear-Foot-Elevated	Split	Squat	(RFESS)
	
The	one-leg	bench	squat	goes	by	several	names.	Bulgarian	Angel	Spassov
referred	to	the	exercise	as	a	Spassov	Squat	in	the	’80s,	and	questionably
attributed	many	Eastern	European	successes	to	its	performance.	We	call	it	a	rear-
foot-elevated	split	squat.	Terminology	isn’t	important;	execution	is	key,	and	this
is	one	of	our	foundational	exercises.
To	coach	the	RFE	split	squat,	have	your	athlete	in	a	position	similar	to	that
of	a	traditional	split	squat,	except	with	the	back	foot	on	a	bench.

	
At	this	point	there	is	one	stable	point	of	support	on	the	floor	and	one
somewhat	less	stable	point	on	the	bench.	This	is	a	slight	decrease	in	stability
from	the	traditional	split	squat	and	an	increase	in	difficulty	because	the	back	leg
can	provide	less	assistance.
The	exercise	is	more	difficult	for	two	reasons.
•	More	of	the	bodyweight	is	on	the	front	foot
•	Stability	is	decreased	by	the	back	foot	position
The	athlete	descends	until	the	front	thigh	is	parallel	to	the	floor	and	the
back	knee	is	nearly	touching	the	floor.	Like	the	split	squat,	this	exercise	is	done
with	no	foot	movement	and	can	improve	the	dynamic	flexibility	of	the	hip	flexor
muscles	if	performed	correctly.
The	athlete	must	continue	to	think	about	firing	the	glutes	and	keeping	the
abdominals	tight	or	the	additional	motion	will	come	from	lumbar	compensation
rather	than	hip	motion.
Another	excellent	way	to	teach	the	RFESS	or	split	squat	is	what	strength
and	conditioning	coach	Brad	Kaczmarski	refers	to	as	the	bottom-up	approach.
If	an	athlete	struggles	with	body	position,	start	the	exercise	in	a	perfect
bottom	position	with	the	knee	on	the	Airex	mat	and	come	up.	Each	rep	involves
a	reset	at	the	bottom.	This	takes	the	Gray	Cook	bottom-up	squat	concept	and
applies	it	to	single-leg	training	This	exercise	can	be	done	as	a	bodyweight
exercise,	following	the	8-10-12	bodyweight	progression,	or	as	a	strength
exercise	with	dumbbells	or	a	bar	for	as	few	as	five	reps,	or	perhaps	three	sets	of

five	reps	per	leg.
Beginners	will	develop	balance	and	hip	flexibility,	along	with	strength,	size,
and	the	all-important	ability	to	endure	a	high	level	of	discomfort	while	training.
But	the	really	dramatic	results	come	when	more	advanced	lifters	load	up	the
exercise.	You	can	apply	huge	weights	to	your	athletes’	leg	muscles	with	limited
spinal	compression.
In	fact,	the	loading	capability	of	the	RFE	split	squats	is	unmatched	by	any
other	exercise	that	primarily	targets	the	leg	extensors,	including	the	squat.	When
we	started	using	heavy	RFESS	as	the	primary	lower-body	exercise	for	our
athletes,	we	found	they	couldn’t	work	both	legs	without	taking	a	break	between
sides.
This	might	be	our	new	squat	down	the	road.	We’re	moving	completely
away	from	the	idea	of	double-leg	squatting	and	there	may	come	a	time	soon
when	all	we’re	doing	is	rear-foot-elevated	split	squats	on	one	day,	and	a	static,
unsupported	single-leg	squat	on	the	other.
In	all	honesty,	I’m	hesitant	to	take	the	plunge	of	dropping	double-leg
squats,	but	when	I	see	over	and	over	the	primary	problem	is	the	back,	all	the
time…	the	back,	the	back,	the	back.	And	when	I	look	at	a	guy	doing	225	in	a
form	of	single-leg,	foot-elevated	squat,	I	have	to	wonder,	do	we	ever	need	to
load	him	with	450	pounds	to	get	the	effect	we	just	got	from	225?
Mark	Verstegen	lectures	about	logic	training,	and	that’s	where	I	am	with
this.	When	we	think	logically,	the	only	reason	we	continue	double-leg	squats	is
others	saying,	“That’s	the	way	we	always	did	it.”	I	don’t	think	that’s	enough.
These	unsupported	exercises	are	going	to	allow	significant	loads,	but
nowhere	near	what	we	might	see	in	the	static,	supported	environment.	The	most
we’ve	seen	unsupported	is	about	125,	about	half	what	we’ve	seen	in	a	rear-foot-
elevated	split	squat.	This	becomes	a	really	good	strength	exercise,	and	this	is	a
big	change	for	us	in	recent	years.	When	we	can	get	these	great	single-leg	loads
without	having	to	put	a	massive	amount	of	weight	through	the	spine,	it’s	a	really
big	benefit.
One	of	the	arguments	against	dropping	double-leg	squatting	is	the	idea	of
the	anabolic	effects	of	really	heavy	loads.	The	RFE	split	squat	allows	us	to	get
that	effect,	or	at	least	a	greater	effect	than	if	we	just	did	the	one-leg	squats.
Technique	Points
	

•	An	exercise	bench	works	as	the	rear-foot	platform	for	most,	but	if	you
find	the	stretch	to	the	quads	and	hip	flexors	of	your	athlete’s	elevated	leg	is
too	extreme	or	uncomfortable,	switch	to	a	lower	box	or	step.	We	find	this
necessary	for	some	of	our	shorter	lifters.
•	The	start	of	the	exercise	is	a	lot	like	a	back	squat:	Have	the	client	position
the	bar	on	the	shoulders	in	a	squat	rack,	lift	it	off	the	supports,	and	take	a
step	back.	From	there,	have	your	client	lift	one	foot	and	place	it	on	the
bench	behind.	The	top	of	the	foot	rests	on	the	bench;	this	may	be
uncomfortable	if	he’s	used	to	doing	this	exercise	with	the	toe	on	the	bench.
It	may	be	easier	to	do	it	that	way	with	lighter	loads,	but	with	heavier	loads
it’s	not	—	the	range	of	motion	is	longer,	and	your	athlete’s	balance	will	be
worse.	Break	the	habit	early.
•	We	place	an	Airex	pad	or	mat	on	the	floor	under	the	rear	knee,	and	tell	the
athlete	to	touch	the	pad	with	the	knee	each	rep.	This	creates	consistent
depth,	and	also	serves	to	cushion	the	knee.	This	is	especially	helpful	when
we’re	testing	our	athletes’	strength	on	this	exercise.
•	As	you	would	in	a	back	squat	or	barbell	lunge,	you	must	have	your	athlete
keep	the	core	tight	and	chest	up.	Core	control	is	especially	critical	in	the
RFESS,	as	the	elevated	rear	foot	can	create	a	back	arch.
Testing	the	RFESS
	
Recently	I	performed	a	little	experiment	on	our	hockey	players,	a	very
compliant	group	of	athletes.	It	wasn’t	research	since	we	had	no	control	group,
but	the	results	were	so	startling	I	think	they	would	stand	up	under	true	scientific
scrutiny.
For	most	of	our	postseason	training	sessions,	we	did	RFE	split	squats
instead	of	traditional	front	or	back	squats.	My	goal	initially	was	to	test	a
hypothesis	about	back	stress	and	injury,	but	the	conclusion	went	way	beyond
that.
After	approximately	six	weeks,	we	did	a	repetition-max	test.	Each	athlete
took	fifty	percent	of	his	one-rep	max	on	the	back	squat	and	did	as	many	RFESS
reps	as	possible	with	each	leg.	Since	we	don’t	do	back	squats	in	our	program,	we
estimated	each	athlete’s	max	by	adding	fifteen	percent	to	his	one-rep	max	in	the

front	squat.	We	then	used	fifty	percent	of	that	number.
The	estimated	one-rep	maxes	for	the	back	squat	ranged	from	290	to	460
pounds,	so	our	test	weights	ranged	from	145	to	230.	The	strongest	athlete	lifted
230	pounds	fourteen	times	with	each	leg.	The	weakest	did	fourteen	reps	on	each
leg	with	145.
Another	very	interesting	thing	happened	as	I	crunched	the	numbers.	In
order	to	project	loads	for	upcoming	workouts,	I	had	to	try	to	come	up	with	a	max
for	the	RFESS.	I	did	this	by	taking	a	rep-max	chart	and	projecting	out	maxes.
However,	the	results	were	bizarre.	Almost	every	athlete’s	projected	RFESS	max
was	within	ten	percent	of	his	best	front	squat.	Yes,	you	are	reading	this	correctly:
The	projected	maxes	corresponded	almost	exactly	with	the	one-rep-max	front
squat.
I	drew	two	immediate	conclusions.
First,	if	we	had	spent	six	weeks	working	on	our	back	or	front	squats	with
equal	focus	and	intensity,	there’s	no	way	any	of	these	athletes	could	have	lifted
his	estimated	one-rep	max	fourteen	times.
The	strongest	guy	had	a	very	respectable	one-rep	max	of	405	in	the	front
squat.	That’s	the	number	we	used	to	extrapolate	a	max	back	squat	of	460	pounds.
Is	there	any	drug-free	training	program	on	earth	that	could	increase	his	strength
to	the	point	he	could	lift	either	weight	—	his	true	one-rep	max	in	the	front	squat
or	estimated	max	in	the	back	squat	—	fourteen	times?	And	to	make	it
comparable,	he’d	need	to	do	two	sets	of	fourteen	reps,	since	he	did	fourteen
RFESS	reps	with	230	pounds	
with	each	leg.
If	he	got	to	the	point	where	he	could	back	squat	460	for	fourteen	reps,	it
would	imply	a	one-rep	max	of	around	675	pounds.	Nothing’s	impossible,	but
this	scenario	comes	pretty	close.
That	brings	us	to	point	number	two,	which	is	far	more	important:	The
experiment	showed	the	athletes’	legs	could	handle	far	more	weight	than	their
backs	were	capable	of	transmitting.	This	suggests,	yet	again,	the	back	is	the
weak	link	in	squatting.	Bypass	the	back,	and	the	legs	can	handle	much	heavier
weights.
The	results	of	the	experiment	make	intuitive	sense.	What	gets	injured	most
often	in	squatting?	The	back.	We	now	train	legs	with	heavier	loads,	with	the	goal
of	increasing	strength	and	size	by	bypassing	the	back.
Why	isn’t	this	conclusion	completely	obvious	and	uncontroversial?	For
starters,	old-school	gym	culture	puts	the	back	squat	on	a	pedestal.	You	can’t
convince	traditionalists	there’s	a	more	effective	way	to	train	the	lower	body	for
strength	and	size.
Second,	the	RFESS	had	a	specific	niche	in	older	training	programs:	It	was

an	exercise	formerly	done	for	fat	loss,	or	for	muscular	conditioning,	usually
while	holding	dumbbells	at	arm’s	length.	I	can’t	recall	any	popular	book	or
magazine	recommending	the	exercise	with	a	barbell,	using	heavy	weights	for
low	reps.
Third,	the	exercise	is	awkward	enough	to	discourage	lifters	from	pushing
themselves	to	better	performance.	Lifters	who’ve	spent	years	mastering	the	back
squat,	and	months	or	years	with	the	front	squat	don’t	want	to	spend	a	few	weeks
getting	comfortable	with	elevated	split	squats.
Finally,	it’s	difficult	for	the	guy	who’s	worked	like	a	slave	to	build	bilateral
strength	in	the	squat	to	work	with	half	his	max	in	a	single-leg	exercise.	I	can
relate;	I	wouldn’t	have	considered	it	back	in	my	powerlifting	days.	Since	my
only	goal	now	is	to	help	our	athletes	get	bigger	and	stronger	for	their	sports,	it’s
a	lot	easier	to	be	open-minded	about	better	ways	to	accomplish	that	goal.
Level	Two	Slideboard	Back	Lunge
	
The	slideboard	back	lunge	is	rapidly	becoming	one	of	my	favorite	single-
leg	exercises,	an	excellent	exercise	combining	single-leg	strength,	dynamic
flexibility	and	moderate	instability.	In	fact,	my	affinity	for	this	exercise	led	me	to
convince	Ultraslide	to	develop	and	market	a	five-foot	version	not	appropriate	for
conditioning,	but	specifically	made	for	exercises	like	slideboard	lunges	and	leg
curls.
One	of	the	unique	benefits	of	the	slideboard	back	lunge	is	it	looks	like	a
knee-dominant	exercise,	but	it’s	really	a	hip-dominant	exercise.	I’ve	taken	to
using	the	comparison	of	horses	and	zebras.	Although	they	look	remarkably	alike,
they	are	not	from	the	same	family.
Craig	Freidman	of	Athletes’	Performance	has	argued	the	movement	pattern
of	the	front	leg	is	more	of	a	pulling	action	as	the	sliding	foot	moves	forward.
This	pulling	action	may	stress	the	hip	extensors	to	a	greater	degree	than	the	knee
extensors.
Begin	by	using	a	bodyweight	progression	with	this	exercise	because	of	the
additional	stretch	and	instability	component.
The	addition	of	a	single	kettlebell	in	the	hand	opposite	the	working	leg
makes	this	an	even	better	glute	exercise.	The	kettlebell	produces	an	internal
rotation	force	that	increases	glute	max	activity.
Much	like	the	one-leg	straight-leg	deadlift,	I	like	to	load	these
asymmetrically	until	the	load	becomes	too	heavy	for	the	hands.	At	that	point	we

can	switch	to	two	kettlebells	or	two	dumbbells.	Our	athletes	have	worked	up	to
thirty-two	kilo	kettlebells	and	eighty-pound	dumbbells.
Slideboard	lunges	have	become	my	favorite	exercise	if	forced	to	choose
one	lower	body	strength	movement.
Level	Three	One-Leg	Box	Squat	or	Balance	Squat
	
The	one-leg	box	squat	is	the	king	of	single-leg	exercises.	Some	coaches
refer	to	these	as	balance	squats	because	the	support	of	the	back	leg	is	now
eliminated.	It	is	the	most	difficult,	and	is	also	the	most	beneficial	of	all	the
single-leg	exercises.
The	one-leg	box	squat	requires	the	use	of	a	single	leg	without	any
contribution	to	balance	or	stability	from	the	opposite	leg.	The	pelvic	muscles
must	function	as	stabilizers	without	the	benefit	of	the	non-working	foot	touching
the	ground	or	a	support	bench.	The	stance	leg	must	produce	force	without	any
assistance	from	the	swing	leg.
	
The	importance	of	this	training	cannot	be	overstated,	as	pelvic	muscle
stabilization	is	needed	in	all	sprinting	actions.
Do	not	become	discouraged	if	your	athletes	are	initially	unable	to	perform
this	exercise.	Most	athletes	feel	unsteady	or	clumsy	the	first	few	times.	One	of
the	major	benefits	of	single-leg	squats	is	the	balance	and	proprioception
developed.

This	may	be	the	only	case	of	an	exercise	being	easier	with	weight	than
without.	The	counterbalance	will	allow	a	client	to	keep	the	bodyweight	back
toward	the	heel.	Strangely,	five	pounds	in	each	hand	helps,	but	ten	pounds	will
increase	the	difficulty.
Another	method	to	increase	resistance	for	stronger	athletes	is	to	combine	a
weight	vest	with	dumbbells.	Stronger	athletes	find	they	are	limited	by	their
ability	to	lift	the	dumbbells	to	shoulder	height	as	the	weight	increases.	To
counter	this,	we	add	a	weight	vest	instead	of	increasing	the	weight	of	the
dumbbells.
If	the	formula	calls	for	seventy	pounds,	a	twenty-pound	vest	can	be
combined	with	a	pair	of	twenty-five-pound	dumbbells.	Strong	athletes	can	work
up	to	over	a	hundred	pounds	of	external	load,	but	in	order	do	this	you	must
purchase	weight	vests	that	allow	loads	over	twenty	pounds.
Level	Three	Walking	Lunge
	
The	walking	lunge	is	another	great	single-leg	exercise	and	is	mistakenly
considered	by	many	to	be	an	easy	alternative	to	the	squat.	In	actuality,	the	lunge
is	a	very	productive	addition	to	the	program.
The	key	benefit	of	the	lunge	and	the	reason	it	is	an	advanced	exercise	is	the
leg	muscles	must	cause	deceleration	as	the	body	moves	forward.	We	consider	it
a	level	three	exercise	because	the	body	must	be	prepared	for	the	deceleration
component.
Lunges	are	an	excellent	dynamic	stretching	movement	for	the	hip	area,	and
should	be	included	in	strength	training	and	warm-up	routines	for	this	reason
alone.	Athletes	who	have	had	groin	or	hip	flexor	problems	will	find	the	lunge	a
very	beneficial	exercise.
Lunges	are	not	used	by	more	coaches	due	to	space	issues	than	for	a
negative	reason.	The	need	for	a	bar	and	room	to	walk	make	walking	lunges
impractical.	The	advent	of	the	portable	mini-slideboard	allows	coaches	and
athletes	to	gain	the	benefits	of	walking	lunges	in	a	limited	space	through
slideboard	lunges.
The	creation	of	the	Valslide	by	celebrity	trainer	Valerie	Waters	has	made	the
slideboard	lunge	a	staple	of	our	programs.	The	Valslide	allows	this	exercise	to	be
done	on	almost	any	surface	safely	and	efficiently.	If	you	don’t	have	room	for
walking	lunges,	substitute	with	slideboard	or	Valside	lunges.

Levels	One	through	Three	Single-Leg	Pause	Squats
	
The	single-leg	pause	squat	is	an	exercise	that	works	wonders	for	athletes
with	patella	tendinosis	or	any	patella-femoral	syndrome.	The	exercise	is	listed	as
level	one	through	three	because	it	has	so	many	potential	applications.
The	exercise	may	be	a	level	one	exercise	due	to	its	strong	effect	on	femoral
control.	The	single-leg	pause	squat	can	be	used	as	a	variation	of	the	one-leg
squat	with	a	pause	on	the	box	or	bench,	or	as	an	eccentric-only	exercise.	In
either	case,	the	single-leg	pause	squat	is	an	excellent	way	to	develop	femoral
control.
The	eccentric	version	is	a	great	way	to	begin	pain-free	training	for	athletes
suffering	from	patella	tendinosis.	In	the	eccentric	version,	range	of	motion	is
limited	to	a	range	that	is	pain-free	and	can	be	controlled.	Athletes	with	patella-
femoral	issues	may	initially	only	be	able	to	control	a	quarter-squat	or	less.
If	the	athlete	free	falls	to	the	bench	or	box,	raise	the	height	of	the	box.	To
raise	the	height	of	the	box,	Airex	pads	can	be	stacked	or	stackable	steps	can	be
used.
In	order	to	facilitate	better	control	of	the	femur	by	the	glute	medius,	a	mini-
band	or	Theratube	can	be	placed	around	the	knees	as	detailed	earlier.	The	non-
squatting	leg	acts	as	an	anchor	and	allows	the	glute	medius	of	the	squatting	leg
to	exert	an	abduction	force.

Program	Design
	
	
Program	Design	Basics
Prevent	Injuries	in	Training
Reduce	Performance	Injuries
Improve	Performance
Program	Structure
Developing	Power	and	Speed
Strength	Programming
Explosive	Movements
Rep	Range
Tempo
Time	Under	Tension
Essentials	of	a	Sound	Program
Ratio	of	Exercises
Training	and	the	Central	Nervous	System
Circuit	Training
Order	of	Exercises
Circuit	Training	Results
Peripheral	Heart	Action
Hypertrophy	Training	for	Athletes
Body	Types
High	Volume	Training	(HIT)
The	Mythology	of	Hypertrophy
Concurrent	or	Conjugated	Periodization
Choosing	a	Training	System

Periodization
Westside	System
Efficient	and	Effective	Workouts
Daily	Leg	Training
Four-Day	Training	Programs
Three-Day	Workout	Programs
Two-Day	Workout	Programs
Low	Budget	Programming
Sample	Programs	from	MBSC
	
	

Program	Design	Basics
	
	
Program	design	and	exercise	selection	are	simple	concepts	we	make	more
complex	than	necessary.	You	don’t	need	to	be	trendy	or	cute	in	your	exercise
selection.	In	my	thirty	years	of	training	and	coaching,	the	basics	have	not
changed	much.	What	has	changed	is	we	now	have	a	better	understanding	of	why
exercises	have	stood	the	test	of	time.	Concepts	like	closedkinetic-chain	exercise
and	functional	training	only	serve	to	validate	what	some	of	the	early	geniuses	of
strength	and	conditioning	like	Bill	Starr,	Fred	Hatfield	and	Ken	Leistner	already
knew.
Because	of	the	success	of	
Functional	Training	for	Sports
	many	people
expect	to	find	our	athletes	doing	all	sorts	of	outlandish	exercises.	Most	coaches
who	visit	are	surprised	to	see	our	athletes	performing	front	squats,	hang	cleans
and	press	variations.	The	reality	is	our	athletes	don’t	stray	far	from	the	basics,
and	when	they	do	it	is	for	a	good	reason.
When	I	talk	with	trainers	about	programming,	the	conversation	often	goes
something	like	this,	“I	use	a	little	of	your	stuff,	a	little	of	Mark	Verstegen’s	stuff
and	mix	in	a	little	of	…”
In	trying	to	describe	how	this	works	or	potentially	doesn’t	work,	a	food
analogy	may	be	the	best	route.	Some	people	can	really	cook,	others	need
cookbooks	and	recipes;	some	people	write	cookbooks,	others	read	cookbooks.	In
the	restaurant	world,	there	are	cooks	and	there	are	chefs.	Cooks	follow	the
recipes,	chefs	create	the	recipes.	The	key	is	to	figure	out	if	you	are	a	cook	or	a
chef.
Basic	Guidelines
	
If	you	are	creating	your	first	program,	you	are	probably	a	cook.	You	should
find	a	recipe	and	follow	it	exactly.	Think	about	it	this	way.	If	you	were	making
something	for	the	first	time,	would	you	take	two	recipes	from	two	different
cookbooks	and	combine	them?	Would	you	add	ingredients	from	one	of	the

recipes,	while	subtracting	ingredients	from	the	other?	Everyone	knows	this	is
foolish	in	the	kitchen.
Unfortunately,	when	it	comes	to	program	design	this	is	exactly	what	many
coaches	and	personal	trainers	do.	I	occasionally	hear	from	athletes	who	trained
with	me	who	became	coaches	themselves.	Instead	of	using	a	program	that	was
successful	in	their	training,	they	alter	it.	Then	they	email	me	the	program	and	ask
me	to	look	it	over.	Invariably	the	program	is	a	little	of	mine	and	a	little	of	theirs,
with	maybe	a	touch	of	third	party,	a	combination	of	recipes	if	you	will.	Also
invariably,	the	program	is	poor.	These	are	not	experienced	chefs,	yet	they	have
chosen	to	alter	the	recipe	to	suit	their	tastes.	The	better	choice	is	to	choose	a
recipe	designed	by	a	chef,	and	do	a	great	job	of	making	the	meal.
In	other	words,	
coach	the	heck	out	of	the	program.
If	you	have	been	writing	programs	for	few	years,	perhaps	you	are	a	sous-
chef.	The	sous-chef	is	the	second	in	command	in	the	kitchen.	Many	third-and
fourth-year	coaches	are	sous-chefs.	They	have	developed	the	ability	to	alter	the
recipe	without	spoiling	the	meal.	They	understand	ingredients	can	be	altered,	but
there	should	be	a	plan	to	be	followed.	The	sous-chef	also	understands	the	ratio	of
ingredients	matters,	and	he	knows	he	can’t	yet	cook	to	his	own	taste.
After	five	years	of	successful	program	design,	you	might	now	qualify	as	a
chef.	At	this	point	you	can	contemplate	bold	changes	to	the	recipe	because	you
have	extensive	experience	cooking.	Vern	Gambetta	used	to	say,	“It’s	okay	to
break	the	rules;	just	make	sure	you	understand	them	first.”
After	five	years	you	should	no	longer	be	watching	a	popular	new	DVD,
only	to	abandon	your	whole	program.	Like	chefs	who	don’t	abandon	their
chosen	cooking	style	after	watching	an	episode	of	
Hell’s	Kitchen
,	you	would
only	be	making	small	changes	to	what	should	be	a	system.
Figure	out	if	you	are	a	cook	or	a	chef.	Don’t	be	afraid	to	copy	if	you	are	a
beginner.	In	fact,	I	encourage	you	to	copy	rather	than	mix.	It’s	a	mistake	to
blindly	copy	programs.	It	is	a	mistake	to	copy	bad	programs.	However,	it’s
beneficial	to	copy	good	programs.	If	you	are	not	confident	in	your	ability	to
create	a	program,	feel	free	to	copy.
The	idea	is	eventually	we	all	become	chefs,	but	we	all	start	out	as	cooks.
The	real	key	to	program	design	is	not	to	adopt	someone	else’s	philosophy,
but	to	develop	your	own.	Coaches	need	to	do	what’s	best,	not	what’s	trendy,	and
should	not	simply	copy	someone	else’s	system.	In	order	for	a	coach	to	succeed	at
this,	they	need	to	do	three	very	important	things.
Think:	
What	will	work	best	for	my	athletes?
Question:	
Ask	yourself	why	this	exercise	is	in	the	program.

Analyze:	
Look	for	programs	that	get	the	type	of	results	you	want.
To	create	a	great	program,	it	is	important	to	have	some	underlying	goals	or
objectives.	Your	objectives	should	reflect	your	fundamental	beliefs.
	

Objective	One	Prevent	Injuries	in	Training
	
	
Injury	reduction	is	so	basic	it	should	not	need	to	be	mentioned.	However,
the	proliferation	of	programs	that	flirt	with	or	cross	the	line	between	safe	and
unsafe	clarifies	the	need	for	this	to	be	stated	clearly.
In	order	to	prevent	injuries	in	the	actual	training	process,	we	need	to
minimize	risk.	This	does	not	mean	eliminate	risk,	only	minimize	it.	Everything
you	want	to	include	in	the	program	must	be	analyzed	in	terms	of	risk-to-benefit
ratio.	Is	the	benefit	worth	the	risk	inherent	in	the	exercise?	This	ratio	of	risk	to
benefit	changes	with	age	and	with	levels	of	experience.	Things	like	squats,
deadlifts	and	Olympics	lifts,	although	excellent	exercise	choices,	are	not	for
everyone.
There	are	two	things	we	need	to	accept	to	become	better	coaches.
•	Injuries	in	training	are	our	fault.
•	No	one	should	be	injured	while	training.
Speaking	at	a	seminar	nearly	fifteen	years	ago,	Vern	Gambetta	demanded
coaches	accept	responsibility	for	injuries	in	programs	they	design.	That
statement	was	a	turning	point	for	me	—	until	that	day	I	was	just	another
meathead	strength	coach	who	thought	real	lifters	should	have	sore	shoulders	and
sore	backs,	a	by-product	of	training	hard.	Upon	leaving	that	seminar,	I	took	my
first	step	toward	becoming	a	real	coach.	I	made	a	conscious	decision	to	make	my
athletes	better	on	the	field,	and	keep	them	healthy	in	training.
Does	this	mean	we	train	with	machines	and	take	no	risks?	No,	it	means	we
constantly	balance	risk-to-benefit	ratios.	What	I	do	with	a	young	healthy
twentyyear-old	is	different	than	what	I	do	with	my	thirty-five-year-old	NHL
clients.	What	I	do	with	my	thirty-five-year-old	NHL	clients	is	different	than	what
I	do	with	my	fiftyfive-year-old	personal	training	clients.	One	size	does	not	fit	all,
and	neither	does	one	exercise	or	one	training	program.
Risk	ratio	is	the	reason	we	do	front	squats	versus	back	squats,	and	why	we
never	use	box	squats.	It	is	the	same	reason	we	do	our	Olympic	lifting	from	a

hang	position	above	the	knees	rather	than	from	the	floor.
As	coaches	and	personal	trainers,	we	must	constantly	make	choices	to
balance	the	risk-to-benefit	ratio.
Objective	Two	Reduce	Performance	Injuries
	
The	second	objective	of	a	quality	strength	program	is	to	reduce	the
incidence	of	injury	in	performance.	Notice	I	wrote	reduce	instead	of	prevent;	no
coach	will	prevent	injury	—	injuries	will	happen.	However,	it	is	critical	to
realize	our	primary	goals	are	to	reduce	injury,	not	to	improve	performance.
In	both	the	NFL	and	the	NHL,	the	strength	and	conditioning	program’s
success	is	measured	by	the	ability	to	keep	players	in	competition.	In	the	world	of
sports,	coaches	take	injury	very	seriously	and	strength	and	conditioning	coaches
who	encourage	their	athletes	to	lay	it	on	the	line	in	training	end	up	in	a	different
line…	the	unemployment	line.
The	biggest	take-away	point	is	improved	performance	is	not	the	primary
objective.	First,	we	need	to	keep	training	as	safe	as	possible.	Then	we	need	to
work	to	reduce	injury	potential	during	competition.
Objective	Three	Improve	Performance
	
Finally,	we	get	improved	performance.
There	needs	to	be	balance.	A	vanilla,	machine-based	program	with	no	risk
will	not	reduce	the	incidence	of	performance-related	injury,	and	it	won’t	improve
performance.	The	key	is	developing	the	ability	to	balance	risk-to-benefit	ratio.
The	ideal	program	is	designed	with	those	three	goals	in	mind.	It	works	on
all	aspects	of	training,	but	in	a	progressive	manner	to	minimize	exposure	to
undue	stress.	Of	primary	importance,	the	program	improves	performance,	but
never	at	the	expense	of	health.
	

Program	Design	Points
	
	
Consistency
	
A	bad	workout	is	better	than	a	missed	workout.	It	is	still	better	to	go
through	the	motions	than	to	miss	a	training	day.
Structure
	
Coaches	need	to	figure	out	how	to	divide	up	the	training	time	they	are
given.	Figure	out	how	much	time	you	have	and	go	for	maximum	results.
Density
	
Density	is	really	a	measure	of	work	per	unit	of	time.	How	much	work	can
we	fit	into	the	time	allotted?	Good	program	structure	leads	to	density.
The	best	way	to	achieve	density	is	to	pair	exercises.	This	is	a	concept
everyone	should	be	using.	Doing	multiple	sets	of	an	exercise	with	two-to	five-
minute	rests	between	sets	should	be	done	only	by	competitive	lifters.	Those	who
train	athletes	from	other	sports	or	who	train	non-competitive	clients	should	be
pairing	exercises.
The	next	best	way	to	achieve	density	is	to	use	rest	time	for	something	other
than	rest.	All	of	our	core	work	and	half	of	our	stretching	is	done	between	sets
while	our	athletes	are	resting	from	other	exercises.

Program	Structure
	
Structure	is	essential.	The	pre-workout	process	must	include:
•	Tissue	density	—	foam	roll
•	Tissue	length	—	stretching
•	Tissue	readiness	—	activation
Now	think	time:	How	many	minutes	can	we	devote	to	the	above?	This
should	be	ten	to	twenty	percent	of	training	time	for	young	healthy	athletes,	six	to
twelve	minutes	out	of	an	hour.
With	your	older	clients,	expect	to	increase	the	preparation	time	as	tissue
density,	length	and	readiness	issues	increase	with	age.
In	the	beginning	of	the	workout	we	are	preparing	the	muscles.	In	the	next
step	we	are	preparing	the	athlete.	A	good	dynamic	warm-up	can	be	done	in	five
or	six	minutes	and	will	be	particularly	successful	once	the	tissue	is	prepared.
	

Developing	Power	and	Speed
	
	
Once	the	muscles	are	prepared,	the	next	step	is	power	and	speed
development.	After	a	good	warm-up,	we	do	plyometric	exercises	using
bodyweight	power	and	light	implement	work	such	as	medicine	ball	throws.
This	is	also	the	time	to	add	short	sprints	and	sprint	drills.	Many	of	the	sprint
drills	will	have	been	done	as	part	of	the	dynamic	warm-up,	but	the	actual	sprints
occur	later.	From	a	training	density	standpoint,	I	prefer	to	pair	jumps	and	throws.
One	set	of	a	plyometric	drill	is	followed	by	a	set	of	medicine	ball	throws;	three
sets	are	done	in	alternating	fashion.
This	allows	adequate	rest	between	sets	of	plyos	without	wasted	rest	time.
The	nice	thing	about	plyometric	exercises	and	medicine	ball	exercises	is
they	also	provide	an	increased	level	of	preparation	for	the	nervous	system.
The	last	thing	done	before	entering	the	weightroom	are	sprints.	We	use	a
low	volume	of	sprinting	before	our	strength	work,	usually	only	five	or	six	sprints
of	five	to	twenty	yards.
For	a	young	healthy	athlete,	power	development	in	the	weightroom
revolves	around	the	Olympic	lifts.	Older	athletes	may	perform	additional
plyometric	exercises	like	jump	squats	or	Shuttle	MVP	jumps.	Based	on	the	age
and	health	of	the	trainee,	resisted	exercises	are	selected	to	develop	lower-body
power.
We	perform	hang	cleans,	close-grip	hang	snatches,	dumbbell	snatches,	or	in
the	case	of	younger	or	older	athletes,	kettlebell	swings	to	develop	total-body
power.
These	will	generally	be	done	in	a	triset	combined	with	a	core	exercise	and
an	active	stretch	or	mobility	exercise.	Instead	of	resting,	the	athlete	will	do	core
work	and	mobility	work	during	the	rest	time.
The	tri-set	for	an	explosive	lift	will	look	like	this:
•	Explosive	lift
•	Core	exercise

•	Mobility	work
Trisets	are	used	for	power	exercises	so	the	focus	remains	on	the	power
exercise,	and	so	the	nervous	system	is	not	overstressed.
	

Strength	Programming
	
	
The	strength	program	looks	similar	to	the	power	program,	except	we	often
move	from	tri-sets	to	quad-sets.	In	strength	work,	exercises	are	paired	with	other
noncompeting	strength	exercises,	and	the	rest	time	is	again	filled	with	core	and
mobility	work.
The	most	important	thing	to	understand	in	program	design	is	this:	Time
should	never	be	wasted.	To	create	a	great	program,	first	create	a	great
preparation	sequence.	Then	choose	exercises	appropriate	for	your	population.
Finally,	use	time	as	a	precious	commodity	not	to	be	wasted.
In	the	simplest	terms,	use	the	lifts	that	teach	or	force	your	athletes	to	do
what	you	want	them	to	do.	Look	at	what	you	feel	are	the	common	errors	of	your
clients,	and	design	a	program	to	include	exercises	that	correct	those	errors.
For	example,	consider	this	list:
•	Bodyweight	lower-body	exercises
•	Front	squats
•	Box	front	squats	—	not	the	sit-down	variation
•	Pause	or	slow-eccentric	bench
These	exercises	are	important	because	they	all	represent	an	exercise
variation	to	correct	a	critical	flaw.
Bodyweight	lower-body	exercises	get	people	on	their	feet.	That’s	where	life
is.
Front	squats	virtually	eliminate	the	back	stress	and	technique	flaws	of
squatting.
Box	squats	force	depth,	create	hip	mobility	and	actually	reduce	the	load	on
the	spine	in	terms	of	compression	and	torque.
Pause	bench	presses	or	eccentric-emphasis	bench	presses	eliminate
bouncing	and	arching.

Good	exercise	selection	is	purposeful	and	is	designed	to	eliminate	mistakes
and	correct	errors.
Obviously,	there	are	other	criteria	for	exercise	selection.	I	like	Coach	Mike
Burgener’s	
Yes	to	the	Fourth	Power
	idea:
Is	it	done	standing?
Is	it	multi-joint?
Is	it	done	with	free	weights?
Is	it	characteristic	of	explosive	sports?
You	can’t	always	adhere	to	Coach	Burgener’s	philosophy,	but	it’s	a	great
place	to	start.
Often	coaches	and	trainers	violate	the	most	basic	rules	of	program	design.
The	information	that	follows	represents	a	consensus	of	most	successful	strength
coaches.	In	program	design,	certain	rules	must	be	followed	to	achieve	success.
Explosive	Movements	First
	
If	you	are	using	Olympic	lifts,	they	should	always	be	done	first	in	the
program.	Exercises	with	high	technical	and	neural	demand	must	be	done	at	the
beginning	of	a	strength	training	session.	I	judge	programs	initially	based	on	this
one	point.	If	an	athlete	asks	me	to	look	at	a	program	and	I	see	the	program	calls
for	him	to	perform	an	Olympic	lift	after	he	benches	or	squats,	I	automatically
disregard	the	rest	of	the	program.	This	may	be	an	overreaction	on	my	part,	but
these	are	the	basics.
Exercises	that	stress	the	nervous	system	—	like	the	Olympic	lifts	—	must
be	done	when	both	the	muscular	and	nervous	systems	are	fresh.	This	not	only
insures	the	effectiveness	of	the	lifts,	but	makes	them	safer.	The	Olympic	lifts
require	a	high	degree	of	skill	and	coordination,	and	athletes	must	be	as	fresh	as
possible	when	performing	these	exercises.
Multi-Joint	Exercises	Second

	
This	concept	has	been	stated	over	and	over	and	will	be	stated	one	more	time
for	emphasis.	Most	coaches	get	this	part	right;	very	rarely	will	you	see	a
program	that	prioritizes	single-joint	exercise	over	multi-joint	exercise.
Forget	Single-Joint	Exercise
	
The	common	single-joint	exercises	are	a	waste	of	time.	There	are	some
exceptions,	as	we’ve	covered	in	earlier	sections	like	hip	abduction	and	adduction
and	scapulothoracic	work.	However,	exercises	like	leg	extensions,	leg	curls	and
triceps	press-downs	have	little	value	to	athletes.	The	time	wasted	on	these
exercises	could	have	been	used	for	exercises	that	have	the	same	goal,	but	with
far	greater	benefit.
Single-joint	exercises	for	hinge	joints	like	the	knee	and	the	elbow	are	a
waste	of	time.	Don’t	let	anyone	sell	you	on	the	injury-prevention	angle.	A	good
single-leg	progression	and	some	bridging	will	prevent	or	reduce	injury	incidence
far	better	than	single-joint	machines.
Limit	Machine	Use
	
The	only	machines	necessary	in	an	athletic	strength	and	conditioning
program	are	adjustable	cable	columns	or	functional	trainers.	Adjustable	cable
columns	allow	rotary	training	—	chopping	and	lifting	actions	—	as	well	as
standing	row	movements.
Every	other	exercise	can	be	done	better	with	a	weight	than	with	a	machine.
The	silliest	trend	in	machines	is	those	that	mimic	conventional	free-weight
exercises.	The	most	important	thing	to	have	for	a	great	program	is	space,	and
machines	rob	you	of	space.
Keep	the	Reps	Low
	
No	one	gets	strong	doing	reps.	I	almost	never	let	my	trainees	do	more	than
eight	reps.	If	size	is	the	goal,	it’s	a	different	story,	but	if	you	want	your	athletes

strong,	stay	under	eight	most	of	the	year.	And	we	never	do	more	than	three	sets
of	an	exercise,	even	for	beginners.
One	thing	for	sure,	most	trainees	would	do	better	training	harder	and	not
longer.	In	my	early	days	I	attempted	to	bomb	and	blitz	my	way	to	larger	muscles
as	the	magazines	instructed,	and	failed	miserably.
Later,	Ken	Leistner’s	thoughts	on	training	made	sense	and	helped	me
become	a	better-than-average	lifter.	Often	I	would	come	to	the	gym,	warm	up,
do	one	heavy	set	of	squats	and	leave.	In	the	process,	I	got	very	strong.	The
process	was	simple.	Have	a	goal	for	the	day.	Attain	the	goal.	Go	home.
One	mistake	I	made	over	my	career	is	spending	too	much	time	on
foundational,	hypertrophy-type	exercise.	Athletes	need	to	lift	heavy	weights	and
have	great	variety	in	programming.	However,	if	the	objective	is	strength,	they
need	to	lift	heavy.	My	proposed	solution	is	to	do	hypertrophy-type	work,	but	in	a
5-10-20-rep	format	to	get	some	low-rep	emphasis.	This	is	a	variation	of	Charles
Poliquin’s	6-12-24	program.	This	means	even	in	the	high-rep	phases,	the	athlete
is	still	doing	a	heavy	set	of	five	reps.
We	generally	do:
5	reps	at	82	percent
10	reps	at	70	percent
20	reps	at	58	percent
These	sets	are	done	in	descending	order.	This	means	the	heavy	set	is	done
first.	You’ll	notice	I	break	my	own	rule	in	this	phase.	The	twenty-rep	set	is	for
endurance	and	targets	a	different	type	of	muscle	fiber.	The	important	part	of	this
sequence	is	it	hits	all	ends	of	the	spectrum.	Strength	is	maintained	with	the	five-
rep	set,	and	endurance	and	hypertrophy	addressed	with	the	ten	and	twenty.	Do
this	for	only	one	multi-joint	exercise	per	day,	or	you	will	overtrain	your	athletes.
We	select	the	weights	by	subtracting	twelve	percent	from	the	five-rep	set
for	the	ten-repper,	and	again	for	the	twenty.
Bench	Press	Example
	
200	x5	(-	24)	=	175x10	(	-21	lbs)	=	155x20
The	weights	are	rounded	to	the	lower	number.
	

Use	Heavier	Weights
	
The	idea	of	light	weights	and	lots	of	reps	for	athletes	who	don’t	want	to
build	size	is	one	of	the	biggest	lies	in	the	training	and	coaching	world.	Use	less
weight	and	more	reps	and	you	won’t	get	big?	Bodybuilders	have	been	doing	the
exact	opposite	for	years	with	great	success;	volume	builds	hypertrophy.
Remember	volume,	not	weight,	builds	size.
Know	the	Workout	Duration
	
Be	realistic.	I	can’t	tell	you	the	number	of	programs	I	have	read	that	don’t
add	up.	Look	at	the	time	each	set	will	take,	and	look	at	the	rest	time	allotted.	Do
the	math.	I’ve	seen	programs	that	if	done	as	indicated	would	have	taken	three
hours.
Twenty	sets	is	a	good	guideline	for	an	hour	workout.	When	you	design	a
program,	take	the	time	to	do	the	math,	then	to	try	the	program	to	make	sure	your
estimates	are	accurate.
Allow	one	minute	for	each	set	and	at	least	one	minute	between	sets;	even
this	is	fast.	At	this	pace	you	could	get	in	twenty	sets	in	forty	minutes.
Understand	and	Use	Tempo
	
Tempo	is	a	measure	of	the	time	a	repetition	takes.	Tempo	is	usually
described	with	three	numbers.
•	The	first	indicating	the	eccentric	portion	of	the	lift;
•	The	second	indicating	the	time	to	pause	at	the	midpoint,	zero	indicating	a
touch-and-go	rep;
•	The	last	number	is	the	concentric	phase.
In	other	words,	if	I	did	a	normal	rep,	I	would	exhibit	a	1-0-1	tempo.	I	have	a
few	opinions	on	tempo.

•	Normal	tempo	is	1-0-1.	I	have	watched	and	timed	many	lifters	and	even	a
normal	controlled	rep	was	clearly	1-0-1.
•	Most	athletes	have	difficulty	holding	a	tight	position	during	the	pause.
•	I	don’t	favor	slow	concentric	movements.
I	find	myself	using	tempo	less	and	less,	and	instead,	what	we	do	is	vary	the
contraction	type.	Our	only	real	use	of	tempo	is	in	an	eccentric	emphasis	phase	or
in	an	isometric	phase.	Often	we	combine	the	two	in	one	phase	where	we	do	one
exercise	for	each	major	movement	with	an	eccentric	emphasis	or	an	isometric
emphasis.
Examples
	
•	Eccentric	bench	—
																		Five-second	lowers
•	Eccentric	chins	—
																		Five	second	lowers
•	5-5-5	RFESS	—
																		Five	seconds	at	the	top,	five	at	the	middle,	and	five	at	the	bottom
•	Eccentric	or	negative-emphasis	glute	hams
Jay	Schroeder	has	re-popularized	isometric	exercise	with	holds,	and	the
excellent	work	of	Canadian	strength	coach	Christian	Thibedeau	made	eccentric
training	much	easier	to	implement.	Both	of	these	systems	rely	heavily	on	tempo.
I	tried	eccentric	training	in	the	past	with	little	success	and	the	primary
reason	was	I	believed	what	I	read.	Research	tells	us	a	lifter	should	be	able	to
handle	more	weight	eccentrically	than	concentrically.	Some	estimates	have	run
up	to	a	hundred-andtwenty	percent	of	concentric	max.	If	you	believe	this,	you
are	doomed	to	failure.
Most	athletes	cannot	do	an	actual	controlled	eccentric	with	even	a	hundred
percent	of	their	max.	If	your	athlete	can	bench	300	pounds,	have	him	try
lowering	360	pounds	under	control.	What	you	would	actually	see	is	a	yielding

isometric	where	the	athlete	merely	
attempted
	to	control	the	descent.
An	athlete	may	eventually	be	able	to	lower	more	weight	than	he	can	raise,
but	the	athletes	I	coach	are	not	even	close.	I	don’t	know	where	the	studies	were
done	that	imply	athletes	can	lower	more	weight	than	they	can	raise,	but	it	doesn’t
appear	to	be	true.
Most	athletes	are	not	used	to	lowering	the	bar	with	control	and	instead	lift
via	elasticity.	As	a	result,	they	are	not	able	to	lower	the	bar	with	control.
Thibedeau	came	up	with	some	excellent	guidelines	for	eccentric	training.
To	develop	eccentric	strength,	which	will	enhance	concentric	strength,	he
recommends	the	following:
75%	8	seconds	lowering
								2	reps	per	set
80%	6	seconds	lowering
								1	rep	per	set
85%	4	seconds	lowering
								1	rep	per	set
One	way	to	look	at	eccentric	training	is	the	number	of	seconds	of	controlled
eccentric	contraction	should	be	roughly	equal	to	the	number	of	concentric	reps
the	athlete	is	able	to	do.	In	other	words,	if	your	athlete	bench	presses	225	for	five
reps,	he	should	be	able	to	lower	225	for	five	seconds.
Charles	Poliquin	recommends	thirty	to	seventy	seconds	of	time	under
tension	for	hypertrophy.	The	concept	of	tempo	ties	closely	into	the	concept	of
time	under	tension.
Time	Under	Tension
	
Time	under	tension	is	the	total	amount	of	time	a	set	takes	from	start	to
finish.	Ten	reps	at	a	1-0-1	tempo	would	yield	twenty	seconds	of	time	under
tension.
Time	under	tension	may	have	been	one	of	the	big	overreactions	of	the	last
ten	years.	I	have	found	time	under	tension,	except	in	an	eccentric	sense,	made
very	little	difference	in	our	workouts.
The	theory	was	most	hypertrophy	workouts	didn’t	include	enough	time

under	tension	to	truly	stimulate	hypertrophy.	The	thought	was	that	for
hypertrophy,	sets	needed	to	last	at	least	thirty	seconds,	so	a	ten-rep	set	would
need	to	be	done	at	a	2-01	tempo	at	the	bare	minimum	to	produce	significant
hypertrophy.	An	eight-rep	set	would	need	to	be	done	at	3-0-1	if	we	adhered	to
this	concept.
However,	my	thoughts	on	hypertrophy	have	changed	and	I	no	longer	think
time	under	tension	is	such	a	big	issue.	I	think	hypertrophy	has	as	much	to	do
with	genetics	and	diet	as	training	stimulus.
	

Essentials	of	a	Sound	Program
	
	
A	sound	strength	program	must	contain	all	of	the	qualities	that	follow.
Omission	of	any	one	component	sets	the	athlete	up	for	imbalances,	and	may	lead
to	injury	or	increased	risk	of	injury.
Australian	trainer	Ian	King	developed	some	of	these	concepts	in	the	late
‘90s,	and	they’ve	since	become	universally	used	in	modern	training	programs.
Core	Strength
	
•	You	can	call	it	pillar	or	anything	you	want,	but	understand	it	and	make
sure	it	gets	done.
Power	Training
	
•	Power	exercises,	meaning	Olympic	lifts	if	you	are	comfortable	coaching
them,	but	equipment	like	the	Vertimax,	and	exercises	like	jump	squats	or
medicine	ball	throws	all	develop	total	body	power.
Knee	Dominant
	
•	Knee-dominant	exercise	is	a	group	of	basically	single-and	double-leg
squats;	these	can	also	be	classified	as	lower-body	pushing	exercises.

Hip	Dominant
	
•	Hip-dominant	exercises	include	straight-leg	deadlifts	and	single-leg
variations.	Hip-dominant	also	encompasses	bridging	movements.
•	The	difference	between	hip-dominant	and	knee-dominant	is	best
illustrated	by	the	difference	between	the	front	squat	and	straight-leg
deadlift.	These	exercises	could	be	called	lower-body	pulling	exercises.
Horizontal	Press
	
•	Horizontal	pressing	movements	—	bench	press	and	pressing	variations
Vertical	Press
	
•	Vertical	pressing	movements	—	overhead	presses
Horizontal	Pull
	
•	Horizontal	pulling	movements	—	rowing	motions
Vertical	Pull
	
•	Vertical	pulling	movements	—	chin-ups

Ratio	of	Exercises
	
Ignoring	the	essentials	is	one	of	the	great	failings	of	modern	strength	and
conditioning	coaches.
To	evaluate	whether	your	current	program	is	hitting	all	of	these	critical
areas,	take	your	first	phase	of	training	and	categorize	each	exercise.	See	if	you
have	covered	all	of	the	categories	at	least	once	during	the	week	and	preferably
twice.
Look	at	the	ratio	of	horizontal	presses	to	vertical	or	horizontal	pulls,	and	the
ratio	of	knee-dominant	exercises	to	hip-dominant	exercises.	If	these	are	not	in	a
one-to-one	relationship,	you’re	using	an	unbalanced	program	that	can	potentially
set	your	athletes	up	for	injury.
An	imbalance	of	horizontal	presses	to	horizontal	and	vertical	pulls	will
almost	always	lead	to	rotator	cuff	problems.	An	imbalance	of	knee-dominant
exercises	to	hip-dominant	exercises	will	lead	to	hamstring	problems.	Review	this
evaluation	and	compare	it	to	your	injury	stats.
At	the	conclusion	of	every	season,	I	look	at	the	number	and	type	of	injuries
and	ask	myself	if	I	did	everything	possible	to	reduce	the	incidence	of	injury.	This
is	how	I	came	to	many	of	the	above	conclusions.
I	still	remember	a	year	in	the	early	’90s	when	we	had	twenty	football
players	with	some	level	of	rotator	cuff	tendinosis.	When	I	looked	at	our	program,
I	saw	a	typical	strength	program:	lots	of	pushing,	very	little	pulling.	Most	of	the
linemen	could	easily	bench	press	their	bodyweight,	but	few	could	do	even	one
chin-up.	It	wasn’t	hard	to	find	the	problem.
After	forcing	our	athletes	to	perform	chin-ups	and	assisted	chin-ups,	our
upper-back	strength	increased	and	their	rotator	cuff	problems	disappeared.
Program	design	is	simple	if	you	follow	the	rules.	Coaches	get	into	trouble
when	they	program	to	their	own	likes	or	biases.	Remember	the	purpose	of	the
program	is	to	reduce	injuries	and	improve	performance.	We	are	not	trying	to
create	powerlifters,	Olympic	lifters,	bodybuilders	or	strongmen.	We	are	trying	to
create	athletes.	Strength	training	is	simply	a	means	to	an	end.
	

Training	and	the	Central	Nervous	System
	
	
Any	good	strength	coach	knows	it’s	more	difficult	for	athletes	with	higher
training	ages	to	make	consistent	gains.	How	many	years	an	athlete	has	been	in
the	weightroom	is	reflected	in	his	rate	of	strength	gains.	However,	it’s	a	mistake
to	accept	this	slowdown	in	progress	as	a	fact	of	life.	We	all	know	beginners
progress	more	rapidly	than	advanced	athletes.	The	question	is	why.
An	athlete	can	work	all	year	to	increase	his	bench	press	by	a	mere	five
pounds.	We’ve	all	been	there;	if	you	haven’t,	you	haven’t	really	coached.	A	year
of	training	to	go	from	400	to	405,	a	lousy	one-percent	increase.
The	higher	the	training	age,	the	less	frequently	the	athlete	is	able	to	lift
heavy.	Training	age	is	simply	the	number	of	years	of	serious	training.
One	problem	with	strength	training	is	in	the	early	stages	athletes	can	bench
three	times	a	week	and	get	strong.	This	is	why	high	school	kids	have	so	much
trouble	accepting	the	idea	that	less	is	more.
Each	athlete	will	have	a	period	of	free-strength	development.	Novice
trainees	will	progress	in	an	almost	linear	fashion	with	little	effort.	Any	college
strength	coach	will	tell	you	the	greatest	gains	come	in	the	freshman	year	during
this	free-strength	period.	Gains	past	this	point	are	always	a	struggle.
This	latent	period	of	strength	gain	appears	to	be	highest	in	fast-twitch
athletes.	Fast-twitch	novices	will	make	progress	above	and	beyond	their	peers
often	without	expending	equal	effort.	Two	athletes	can	follow	the	same	program,
but	the	athlete	with	more	fast-twitch	fiber	will	certainly	make	greater	gains.
The	difference	is	the	untrained,	fast-twitch	athlete	can	make	tremendous
gains	during	this	time,	while	the	slow-twitch	athlete	will	make	more	moderate
gains.	Don’t	assume	what	occurs	with	genetically	gifted	athletes	will	happen
with	everyone.
Unique	Characteristics	of	Beginners
	
Rarely	have	beginners	been	on	an	organized	program.	Most	beginners,	if

they	have	trained	at	all,	use	a	haphazard	program	that	tends	to	develop	the	bench
press	and	little	else.	Often	beginners	will	bench	press	up	to	three	times	a	week.
Beginners	have	usually	never	been	on	an	organized	in-season	program.	Just
the	implementation	of	in-season	training	stops	the	roller	coaster	of	strength	gain
to	strength	loss.
Most	beginners	have	never	taken	advantage	of	simple	nutritional	structure
like	pre-or	post-workout	nutrition.	When	we	add	the	good	nutrition	element,	it
seems	like	magic	happens.
In	the	college-age	environment,	we	get	approximately	two	years	of	free
strength.	Free	strength	is	the	wonderful	progress	provided	by	good	program
design	and	good	nutrition.	We’re	just	organizing	the	training	and	forcing	the
trainees	to	adhere	to	a	schedule	in	which	they	can’t	haphazardly	choose	what
they	do.	Progress	may	be	due	as	much	to	general	organizational	factors	as	to	the
actual	programming.
What	appears	to	happen	is	the	athlete	rises	to	the	level	his	fast-twitch	fiber
dictates,	and	then	stagnates.	When	the	athlete	stagnates,	we	begin	to	pressure
him	about	nutrition	and	rest	and	supplements	to	attempt	to	squeeze	out	more
progress.
The	problems	usually	begin	in	year	three	as	progress	grinds	to	a	halt	or
moves	at	a	crawl.	Now	the	athlete	who	has	always	improved	in	all	test	areas
begins	to	experience	periods	of	stagnation	in	certain	lifts,	usually	the	bench	press
as	this	lift	often	has	the	highest	training	age.
We	have	three	problems	here:
•	First,	in	these	relative	beginners	the	bench	press	is	probably	the	only	lift
with	a	training	age	greater	than	two;	therefore,	it’ll	be	the	first	to	stall.
•	Second,	the	bench	press	targets	much	less	muscle	mass	than	an	exercise
like	the	squat.
•	Third,	the	body	may	have	genetic	limits	for	certain	lifts,	much	like
bodyfat	set-points.	The	bottom	line:	Not	everyone	is	capable	of	a
doublebodyweight	bench	press.
Sports	performance	training	has	an	inherent	problem.	In	preparing	for	a
season,	we	need	concurrent	improvement	in	all	quantities.	We	can’t	make
strength	a	priority	and	not	work	conditioning;	our	athletes	will	be	out	of	shape.
We	can’t	make	conditioning	a	priority	and	forget	about	strength;	the	players	will

get	injured	and	pushed	around.	It’s	a	little	bit	of	a	catch-22.
Here	are	some	of	strength	and	conditioning	coach	Jason	Ferrugia’s
thoughts.
•	Move	to	a	three-day	lifting	program	instead	of	four	—	Initially	I	thought	I
could	never	do	this,	but	I	have	done	it	with	my	Boston	University	athletes
for	the	past	three	summers.	I	would	only	consider	this	for	highly	trained
athletes	who	train	year-round.	In	my	training	business	and	with	my
professional	clients,	we	still	stay	with	a	four-day	program.
•	Group	CNS-intensive	work	on	two	days.	My	previous	goal	was	to	spread
work	over	four	days.	What	Jason	suggests	is	more	of	a	classic,	old-school
upper-lower	split.	I	compromised	with	some	changes	I	think	will	work.	The
end	result	is	my	day	two	and	day	four	workouts	will	be	brief,	and	will	only
involve	pressing,	with	all	other	work	done	on	days	one	and	three.
•	Use	one	lower-body	day	per	week.	In	our	system,	we	were	really	doing
what	amounted	to	four	lower-body	workouts	a	week.	The	program	called
for	knee-dominant	exercises	on	days	one	and	three,	and	hip-dominant
exercises	on	days	two	and	four.	The	new	program	will	keep	all	lower-body
work	on	the	same	day.
This	is	the	most	significant	change	in	our	entire	program	design	structure,
and	as	with	everything,	it’s	still	a	work	in	progress.	What	this	change	means	in
our	case	is	instead	of	hitting	each	pattern	twice,	we	hit	each	pattern	once.
Here’s	the	program	design	background.	Before,	our	program	centered
around	splits	as	follows:
Monday	and	Wednesday
	
Explosive	lift	—	Snatch
Vertical	pulls
Knee-dominant	—	Double-leg
Horizontal	pulls
Knee-dominant	—	Single-leg

Tuesday	and	Thursday
	
Explosive	lift	—	Clean
Horizontal	press
Hip-dominant	—	Straight-leg
Vertical	press
Hip-dominant	—	Bent-leg
In	this	system,	each	of	the	major	patterns	is	hit	twice	per	week.	After
considering	Ferrugia’s	recommendations,	I	realized	we	might	be	better	off
hitting	each	of	the	lower-body	patterns	once	a	week	instead	of	twice.	My
original	thought	was	legs	can	handle	more	volume;	Jason’s	response	was	in
effect	the	opposite.	He	thought	we	should	hit	each	upper-body	pattern	twice	per
week,	but	needed	to	decrease	the	volume	of	lower-body	work	As	I	thought	about
it,	I	began	to	agree.
What	I’d	failed	to	factor	in	was	all	the	CNS-intensive	lower-body	training
the	athletes	perform.
•	Olympic	lifts
•	Squats
•	Single-leg	squats
•	Deadlift	variations
These	are	all	exercises	in	the	weightroom	that	tax	the	CNS	to	some	degree.
Now	let’s	make	a	list	of	the	other	work	considered	CNS-intensive.
•	Sprints
•	Plyometric	drills
•	Sled	pulls	and	pushes
•	Interval	conditioning
The	upper	body	wasn’t	getting	near	the	CNS	stress	the	lower	body	got.

Twenty	years	ago	in	my	competitive	lifting	years,	the	only	CNS-intensive
work	we	performed	were	squats,	deadlifts,	and	possibly	some	running	for
conditioning.
Now	look	at	the	list:	Olympic	lifts,	plyos,	sled	work,	single-leg	work.
We’ve	continued	to	pile	on	the	CNS-intensive	lower-body	work,	while	doing	the
same	old	upper-body	stuff	we’d	always	done.
As	we	return	to	a	four-day	program,	this	is	what	the	workouts	would	look
like.
Monday	and	Wednesday
	
Explosive	lift	—	
Jump	squat	Monday;
Hang	clean	Wednesday
Vertical	pulls
Knee-dominant	—	
Double-leg	Monday;
Single-leg	Wednesday
Horizontal	pulls
Hip-dominant	—	
Straight-leg	Monday;
Bent-leg	Wednesday
Tuesday	and	Thursday
	
Explosive	lift	—	None
Horizontal	press
Core	stability	exercise
Vertical	press
Rotary	stability	exercise
Triceps	exercise
Shoulder	prehab	exercise
We	train	four	consecutive	days	in	the	summer	—	all	lower	body	is	done	on

Monday	and	Wednesday	and	only	on	Mondays	would	we	actually	compress	the
spine.	Wednesday	is	a	heavy	hang	clean	day,	followed	by	single-leg	knee-
dominant	work.
We	have	come	full	circle	in	our	under-reaction/overreaction	world.	Our
workouts	now	look	like	—	dare	I	say?	—	old-school	legs	and	back	and	chest-
shoulder-arm	splits.	I	shudder	when	I	think	about	it.
	

Circuit	Training
	
	
Many	coaches	tout	the	value	of	the	work	capacity	developed	in	circuit
training,	but	we	don’t	want	work	capacity	at	the	expense	of	technique,
particularly	in	a	beginner.	Most	athletes	need	a	huge	amount	of	supervision,	and
supervision	is	difficult	in	circuit	training.	We	have	at	least	ten	athletes,	and	often
over	twenty-five,	working	in	a	circuit	at	one	time.
This	is	very	difficult	to	coach.	In	fact,	it	is	next	to	impossible	to	get	a
reasonable	amount	of	coaching	done	in	a	group	working	a	circuit.	The	coach	or
coaches	must	manage	time,	traffic	flow,	effort	and	often	injury	adjustments.	This
leaves	very	little	time	for	technical	coaching.
In	addition,	circuits	have	a	two	major	built-in	drawbacks:
•	Inability	to	do	power	exercises
•	Olympic	lifts	are	difficult	to	include	in	circuits
The	fatigue	generated	in	circuits	makes	Olympic	lifting	a	poor	choice	for
inclusion.	We	don’t	want	an	athlete	doing	a	set	of	power	cleans	as	the	tenth
exercise	in	a	circuit.	As	a	result,	we	can’t	include	Olympic	lifts.
Order	of	Exercises
	
In	a	circuit,	there	really	is	no	exercise	order.	There	is	a	sequence,	but	no
order.	Some	athletes	will	overhead	press	before	bench	pressing.	One	athlete	will
do	front	squats	as	the	first	exercise,	another	will	do	it	as	the	last.	If	you	believe
order	of	exercise	performance	matters,	you	have	another	strong	reason	to	dislike
circuit	training.
The	reason	we	do	circuits	is	simple,	yet	requires	some	explanation.	I	began
doing	circuit	training	with	my	athletes	two	years	ago,	primarily	for	team-
building	purposes.

We	were	coming	off	a	season	that	was	not	up	to	our	expectations.	Our
greatest	shortcoming	was	not	that	we	weren’t	fast	enough	or	strong	enough,	but
we	were	not	a	team;	in	many	ways	this	was	a	group	of	individuals	who	lacked	a
common	goal.	My	thoughts	began	to	shift	toward	teamwork	and	team-building
ideas	and	I	got	stuck	on	the	idea	we	needed	to	work	harder	and	we	needed	to
work	together.
An	old	thought	came	to	mind	based	loosely	on	an	idea	originated	by	Mike
Arthur	at	the	University	of	Nebraska	in	the	’80s.	Nebraska	experimented	with
circuit	protocols	they	dubbed	the	Survivor	Circuit.	In	the	early	’90s,	I
experimented	with	a	basic	adaptation	of	the	Survivor	Circuit	consisting	of	ten
basic	strength	exercises	arranged	in	a	sequence	of	lower	body,	upper	pull,	upper
push,	core	and	back	to	lower	body.
At	the	time	Arthur	developed	the	program,	research	showed	a	circuit	of
major	muscle	group	exercises	performed	for	sets	of	ten	repetitions	produced	a
huge	increase	in	growth	hormone	production.	However,	what	I	remembered
most	was	these	circuits	were	hard	and	the	athletes	vomited.	What	I	wanted	to	see
was	our	athletes	working	as	a	unit	against	a	clock,	pushing	each	other.	I	paired
guys	who	worked	hard	with	those	who	were	underachieving,	and	off	we	went.
The	first	circuit	we	used	is	described	next.
Modified	Survivor	Circuit	The	Ten-Rep	Circuit
	
Weights	used	were	approximately	sixty	percent	of	one-rep	max
	
Station	1
Trap	Bar	Deadlift,	10	reps
	
Station	2
TRX	Inverted	Row,	10	reps
	
Station	3
Alternate	Dumbbell	Press,	10	reps

	
Station	4
Ab	Wheel	Rollout,	20	reps
	
Station	5
Front	Squat,	10	reps
	
Station	6
Chin-up,	10	reps
	
Station	7
Close-grip	Bench	Press,	10	reps
	
Station	8
Single-leg	Straight-leg	Deadlift,	10	reps
	
Station	9
Bench	Press,	10	reps
	
Station	10
Front	Plank,	30	seconds
	
	
	

Circuit	Training	Results
	
	
The	sequence	was	not	perfect,	but	we	were	able	to	cover	all	of	the	major
areas	of	the	body.	I	had	been	obsessed	with	trying	to	design	the	perfect	program,
a	perfect	balance	of	sets	and	reps.	What	our	athletes	hadn’t	been	getting	were	the
effects	of	peer	pressure.	Athletes	pushing	each	other	through	a	circuit	was
causing	an	overall	increase	in	effort.
It’s	easy	to	get	caught	up	in	minutia.	How	CNS-intensive	is	the	training,
how	much	rest	between	sets?	What	is	the	sequence	of	exercises?	What	happens
to	the	guy	who	squats	first	versus	last?
When	we	overanalyze,	what	we	often	miss	is	the	human	element.	When	I
think	of	many	of	the	coaches	I	know	who	are	having	great	success	with	strength
increases,	one	thing	they	all	have	in	common	is	the	emphasis	on	effort	and
environment.
As	we	progressed	through	our	first	few	weeks	of	circuits,	some	very	strange
things	happened.	In	spite	of	doing	a	workout	that	theoretically	would	not	provide
great	strength	increases,	we	were	getting	exceptional	strength	increases.	I	was
dumbfounded.	We	were	doing	a	program	that	should	not	produce	strength	gains,
but	the	athletes	were	getting	stronger.
I	called	Alwyn	Cosgrove	and	told	him	of	the	discovery.	Alwyn	summed	it
up	simply	as	he	always	does,	“Psychology	trumps	physiology	every	time.”	It	is
far	too	easy	to	get	caught	up	in	the	science,	and	forget	young	athletes	will
respond	under	pressure.
Another	phenomenon	occurred	that	was	even	stranger:	The	athletes	loved
the	circuits.	They	felt	like	a	team;	everyone	was	equal,	and	no	one	could	hide	or
skip	a	set.
The	intention	was	to	do	these	circuits	for	a	few	weeks	and	return	to	our
traditional	programming,	but	our	captains	intervened	and	asked	that	everything
be	done	as	a	group	in	circuit-style.
My	first	thought	was	it	was	impossible.
My	second:	How	are	we	going	to	do	this?
I	began	to	develop	power	circuits	to	get	our	med	ball	and	plyo	work	done,
and	muscle	endurance	circuits	for	our	endurance	days.	The	program	quickly

morphed	from	a	typical	Boyle	program	into	something	much	different.
Later,	we	experimented	with	a	combination	of	modified	HIT	training,
circuits	and	more	peer	pressure.	In	order	to	get	more	strength	emphasis	in	the
front	squat,	bench	press	and	hang	clean,	we	did	a	test	almost	every	day	before
our	circuits.	If	we	were	Westside	athletes,	this	would	have	been	our	max-effort
work.
For	most	of	the	summer	we	did	a	max	effort	every	day	we	trained.	Tests
might	be	a	one-,	five-or	ten-rep	max	on	any	lift,	but	what	the	tests	all	had	in
common	was	an	attempt	to	get	as	many	perfect	reps	as	possible	with	all	the
teammates	watching.
	

Peripheral	Heart	Action
	
	
The	use	of	circuit	training	the	past	few	summers	led	me	to	try	to	explain	the
science	behind	the	circuits	and	why	they	may	work	from	a	physiological
perspective.	One	concept	is	called	Peripheral	Heart	Action	(PHA)	training.	The
idea	of	PHA	training	was	originally	developed	by	Dr.	Arthur	Steinhaus	in	the
1940s.	Steinhaus	was	a	man	way	ahead	of	his	time;	his	thoughts	could	have
easily	been	written	last	week,	instead	of	fifty	years	ago.
The	person	who	brought	Steinhaus’	work	to	the	forefront	was	a	former	Mr.
America	named	Bob	Gadja.	In	the	’60s	Gadja	developed	a	world-class	physique
by	ignoring	the	pump-oriented	training	popular	at	the	time	and	instead	used
Peripheral	Heart	Action.
The	idea	of	PHA	is	to	use	circuits	that	cause	continuous	circulation	of	blood
from	the	upper	body	to	the	lower	body.	Gadja	avoided	the	pump	style	of	training
that	focused	on	a	particular	muscle	group	and	focused	on	a	total-body	approach
to	deliberately	move	the	blood	from	the	lower	body	to	the	upper	body	via
peripheral	heart	action	circuits.	He	called	it	the	anti-pump.	Gadja	was	viewed	as
a	non-conformist,	but	his	physique	was	not.
Fred	Hatfield	discussed	Peripheral	Heart	Action	in	
Powerlifting:	A
Scientific	Approach
	in	1981,	and	as	mentioned	previously,	Mike	Arthur
resurrected	a	form	of	circuit	training	in	the	’80s	at	the	University	of	Nebraska.
Still,	overall	circuit	training	has	been	viewed	with	skepticism	by	the	strength
community.
In	the	HIT	world	—	Nautilus,	Hammer,	one	set	to	failure	—	athletes	often
obtained	excellent	results	with	circuit-like	one-set	programs.	The	circuits	moved
from	big	multi-joint	exercises	to	small	bodypart	exercises.	What	distinguished
HIT	training	was	a	different	definition	of	the	word	intensity.
To	a	strength	athlete,	intensity	means	weight	on	the	bar.	What	intensity	a	set
would	be	meant	at	what	percentage	of	the	one-rep	max	the	work	was	done.
Intensity	is	entirely	different	from	the	HIT	perspective:	Intensity	means
working	hard.	A	set	of	twenty	reps	might	be	considered	low	intensity	in	the
conventional	strength	world	and	high	intensity	in	the	HIT	world.
We	won	a	National	Championship	training	in	very	un-Boyle-like	fashion,

and	intensity	played	a	major	part.	To	be	clear:	I	do	this	with	my	Boston
University	Hockey	team	and	with	no	one	else.	I	do	not	do	this	with	my	NFL
clients,	my	NHL	clients	or	my	sports-performance	clients.	If	you	don’t	have	a
group	like	mine,	I	strongly	caution	against	this	type	of	work	and	instead	advise
the	strength	programming	as	described	in	this	book.
If	you	have	a	group	of	athletes	with	solid	technique	and	want	to	change	the
intensity,	give	circuits	a	try.

Hypertrophy	Training	for	Athletes
	
	
I	train	a	lot	of	young	athletes.	These	high	school	and	college	kids	almost
always	need	to	gain	solid	weight	in	order	to	compete	at	a	higher	level.	In	the
world	of	sports,	hardly	anyone	is	big	enough.
And	yet	I	never	train	athletes	with	the	goal	of	producing	muscle
hypertrophy.	That	is,	I	never	use	bodybuilding	methodology	to	make	athletes
bigger.	We	want	propulsive	muscle	mass,	muscle	that	can	contribute	to	the
higher	goal	of	more	explosive	movement	capability.	We	want	bigger	legs,	a
bigger	back,	and	thicker	spinal	erectors.
In	other	words,	I	want	bigger	athletes,	but	only	if	the	new	size	is	functional,
and	only	if	it	comes	with	minimal	gains	in	bodyfat.
Why	would	I	avoid	bodybuilding	techniques	if	these	would	make	our
athletes	bigger?	Aren’t	bodybuilders	pretty	much	the	gold	standard	for	their
ability	to	gain	lean	mass	with	minimal	bodyfat?	The	answers	are	interesting	and
surprisingly	counterintuitive.	Hypertrophy	training	for	athletes	isn’t	as	simple	as
it	seems.
I’ll	never	forget	watching	the	Senior	National	Weightlifting	Championships
in	Seekonk,	Massachusetts,	in	the	early	’80s.	At	the	time	I	was	a	powerlifter	as
well	as	a	strength	coach,	and	as	an	all-around	musclehead,	I’d	been	to	more
bodybuilding	shows	and	powerlifting	meets	than	I	can	recall.	But	this	was	the
first	time	I’d	seen	Olympic	weightlifting	up	close,	and	I	was	hooked.
What	stuck	in	my	mind	were	the	physiques.	They	were	developed	exactly
the	way	I	wanted	to	develop	my	athletes	—	massive	through	the	upper	back,
lower	back	and	legs.	And,	aside	from	the	super-heavyweights,	they’d	developed
this	mass	with	very	low	bodyfat.
To	my	eyes,	it	was	evidence	that	form	follows	function.
Body	Types
	
Over	time	I	learned	an	even	more	valuable	lesson:	The	process	of	building

a	functionally	bigger	and	stronger	athlete	depends	on	the	athlete.	We	can’t	train
them	all	the	same	and	expect	the	same	results.
Let’s	start	with	the	mesomorph,	the	guy	who	gains	muscle	the	easiest.	It
seems	the	mesomorph	can	get	bigger	and	stronger	just	by	looking	at	a	weight.
Put	him	on	a	bodybuilding	program	and	he	gains.	Put	him	on	a	Westside
program	and	he	gains.	Give	him	a	steady	dose	of	Olympic	lifts	and	he	gains.
His	training	response	in	many	ways	is	a	false	positive.	A	trainer	who
succeeds	in	putting	muscle	on	a	mesomorph	is	convinced	his	methods	are
uniquely	effective,	even	though	the	reality	is	the	athlete	is	genetically
predisposed	to	hypertrophy.	That	can	cause	problems	for	the	other	athletes	the
coach	trains,	because	they	won’t	respond	the	same.
Another	false	positive	comes	when	a	novice	lifter	starts	training.	We	could
call	this	the	honeymoon	period	of	training,	when	little-used	muscles	like	the
pecs,	lats,	biceps,	quads	and	glutes	spring	to	life,	straining	the	seams	on	T-shirts
and	forcing	him	to	give	up	his	Levi	501s	for	relaxed-fit	jeans	that	offer	more
room	to	grow.
When	previously	untrained,	those	muscles	grow	on	just	about	any	program
you	give	them…	until	the	body	adapts	to	the	program	and	stops	growing.	That’s
when	the	coach	has	to	look	carefully	at	the	issue	of	stimulus	and	response.
If	your	athletes	aren’t	getting	the	response	you	want	from	your	training
programs,	the	problem	could	be:
•	too	little	stimulus
•	too	much	stimulus
•	too	little	recovery
If	a	coach	is	working	from	a	template	that	succeeded	with	mesomorphs,	he
may	not	be	able	to	detect	which	of	these	problems	is	in	play	when	dealing	with
other	skinny	or	stocky	athletes.
Particularly	perplexing	are	the	ectomorphs	—	thin,	bony	guys,	the	true
hardgainers.	The	ectomorph	seems	to	be	doing	everything	right.	That	is,	he’s
doing	what	worked	for	his	more	genetically	gifted	peers,	but	fails	to	gain	size	or
strength.	He	sees	his	friends	or	teammates	succeeding	with	volume-based
programs,	so	he	turns	into	a	copycat,	assuming	he	needs	the	same…	and	more.
The	result	is	years	of	frustration	because	the	ectomorph	doesn’t	tolerate	or
respond	to	stimulus	like	the	mesomorph.
I	can	certainly	relate.	I	was	something	of	a	hardgainer	myself,	and	found	I

did	best	with	HIT-like	programs	from	guys	like	Ken	Leistner	and	Stuart
McRobert.	When	I’m	training	a	tall,	skinny	basketball	player,	we’ll	achieve
hypertrophy	with	a	high-intensity,	low-volume	workout	program	combined	with
a	hypercaloric	diet.
At	the	opposite	extreme	is	the	pure	endomorph,	like	the	collegiate	linemen
with	thirty-percent	bodyfat.	No	matter	how	we	train	him,	any	muscle	he	gains	is
going	to	be	accompanied	by	some	fat.	The	fat	he	gains	isn’t	functional,	but	it
doesn’t	encumber	him	the	way	it	would	on	a	running	back,	shortstop	or	point
guard.	We’ll	give	him	a	moderate-volume	training	program,	and	try	to	reduce	his
bodyfat	level	with	a	high-protein,	limited-carb	diet.
High	Volume	Training	(HIT)
	
This	brings	us	to	a	much	larger	question:	Is	conventional	hypertrophy
training	based	on	high-volume	bombing	and	blitzing	of	individual	muscle	groups
a	mythical	effect	produced	by	drugs?	Or	is	it	an	actual	response	to	volume?
The	way	we	train	athletes	today	isn’t	all	that	different	from	the	way
bodybuilders	trained	through	the	1970s	when	I	started	lifting.	Back	then,	the
physique-training	guidelines	still	focused	on	mastering	basic	exercises	like	the
squat	and	deadlift.	Even	the	bodybuilders	who	came	up	in	the	dawn	of	the
steroid	era	were	extremely	strong	in	the	major	lifts.
By	the	time	the	super-high-volume	training	protocols	were	ubiquitous,	it
was	hard	to	know	if	they	worked	for	drug-free	lifters.	The	bodybuilders	who
promoted	them	in	magazines	were	all	using	steroids.	If	a	drug-free	bodybuilder
had	success	with	such	high	volume,	he	was	probably	a	mesomorph	who
would’ve	had	success	with	lots	of	different	programs.
Hardgainers	like	me	just	got	smaller	and	weaker	when	we	tried	bombing
and	blitzing	individual	muscle	groups.	Stuart	McRobert	described	the	problem
succinctly:	
If	you	aren’t	getting	bigger	or	stronger,	your	program	doesn’t	work.
You	can’t	stray	too	far	from	progressive	resistance	and	expect	to	get	results	with
drug-free	training,	whether	you’re	talking	about	hypertrophy	or	athletic
performance.
Classic	linear	periodization	includes	a	hypertrophy	stage	in	which	athletes
do	higher-volume,	lower-intensity	workouts	“to	increase	lean	body	mass	and
develop	an	endurance	(muscular	and	metabolic)	base	for	more	intense	training	in
later	phases	and	periods.”	That’s	a	direct	quote	from	
Essentials	of	Strength
Training	and	Conditioning,
	the	textbook	of	the	National	Strength	and

Conditioning	Association.
Even	when	I	have	my	athletes	use	higher-volume	workouts,	the	focus	is
never	on	hypertrophy.	There’s	no	correlation	between	muscle	size	and
performance,	but	there	seems	to	be	a	direct	correlation	between	muscle	strength
and	fundamental	athletic	skills	like	the	vertical	jump	and	short-distance	sprints.
If	my	training	programs	produce	athletes	who	jump	higher	and	run	faster,	I’m
doing	my	job	and	earning	my	pay.
Putting	size	on	our	athletes	is	an	ongoing	concern,	but	we	pursue	it	with
basic	exercises	—	squats,	deadlifts,	presses,	rows,	chins	—	and	the	proper	diet
for	the	individual	athlete.
If	we	choose	to	focus	on	particular	muscles	like	isolated	shoulder	training,
it’s	to	maintain	balance	and	prevent	injury.	Beyond	that,	you	will	never	see	our
athletes	doing	anything	that	reminds	you	of	conventional	bodybuilding,	unless
the	exercises	mentioned	above	are	your	idea	of	conventional	bodybuilding.
There’s	another	reason	why	I	push	back	against	bodybuilding-style	training
for	athletes:	In	my	experience,	it	takes	their	focus	off	our	goal	of	training,	which
is	performance.	If	my	athletes	have	extra	time	to	spend	in	the	weightroom,	I
want	them	working	on	their	weaknesses,	not	pumping	up	their	biceps	to	improve
appearance.
Athletes,	male	and	female,	who	worry	more	about	appearance	than
performance	have	come	to	a	crossroads.	It’s	time	to	make	a	choice.	If	they’re
interested	in	modeling,	they	should	by	all	means	pursue	it.	But	if	they	want	to
play	sports,	they	need	to	train	like	athletes.
A	lot	of	our	athletes	are	going	to	develop	a	muscular	look,	but	it’s	not
because	we’re	trying	to	achieve	it.	They’re	natural	mesomorphs	and	their
training	produces	rapid	rewards.	Some	of	these	guys	can	train	poorly	and	eat
wrong	and	still	look	like	they’re	doing	everything	right.	These	are	the	outliers
who	constantly	confuse	the	rest	of	us.
On	the	other	hand,	some	of	our	hardest-working	athletes	look	like	they
hardly	train.	As	long	as	their	performance	reflects	the	time	and	effort	they’ve	put
in,	I’m	happy.
The	bottom	line	is	this:	I	don’t	want	our	athletes	to	train	to	look	better.	I
want	them	to	look	better	because	they	train.
	

The	Mythology	of	Hypertrophy
	
	
In	personal	training,	we	encounter	two	types	of	clients.	We	have	the	clients,
usually	men,	who	desire	hypertrophy,	and	we	have	the	clients,	usually	women,
who	view	hypertrophy	as	a	disease.	In	order	to	effectively	and	honestly	develop
training	programs	for	both	types	of	clients,	it	is	important	to	revisit	what	we
think	we	know	about	the	development	of	hypertrophy.
As	a	result	of	performing	some	eccentric	emphasis	strength	work,	I	began
to	question	what	I	had	always	taken	for	granted	about	hypertrophy.	I	began	to
look	at	some	of	the	accepted	ideas	about	training	in	general,	and	about
hypertrophy	in	particular,	that	many	of	us	in	the	fields	of	strength	and
conditioning	and	personal	training	accept	as	facts.
Let’s	take	a	look	at	some	of	these	myths	about	hypertrophy.
Myth:	A	good,	controlled	rep	takes	four	seconds	to	complete
	
This	is	the	number	one	problem	in	the	myth	of	hypertrophy	training.	If	a
well-performed	repetition	takes	four	seconds	to	complete,	trainees	should	do
eight	to	twelve	reps	for	hypertrophy,	correct?	Many	of	today’s	leading	strength
and	conditioning	coaches	are	big	proponents	of	tempo	emphasis	in	program
design.	Let’s	examine	this	concept	a	bit	further.
A	recent	article	stated	eight	to	twelve	reps	would	take	thirty-two	to	forty-
eight	seconds,	and	therefore	would	fall	in	the	hypertrophy	range	of	thirty	to
seventy	seconds	time	under	tension.	In	my	experience,	this	is	one	of	the	most
basic	misconceptions	in	training	for	hypertrophy.
At	our	facility,	we	performed	a	little	informal	research	with	a	metronome.
We	made	a	metronome	CD	—	one	beep	tone	per	second	—	and	had	it	play	while
our	athletes	trained.	The	purpose	of	this	tempo	CD	was	to	force	our	athletes	to
slow	down	the	eccentric	portion	of	the	lift	by	consciously	trying	to	lower	the	bar
for	five	seconds.	The	by-product	of	this	experiment	was	I	was	able	to	watch
many	people	lift	with	a	loud	metronome	beat	in	the	background.

What	I	observed	surprised	me.	Good	controlled	lifting	in	my	gym	was	at
best	1-0-1	tempo.	I	observed	this	over	and	over,	and	realized	our	conventionally
performed	eight-to	twelve-rep	sets	were	taking	from	sixteen	to	twenty-four
seconds	to	complete.	In	order	to	produce	hypertrophy,	it	would	be	necessary	to
consciously	slow	down	the	reps	to	break	the	thirty-second	barrier.
Test	this	yourself.	Have	your	client	lift	as	he	normally	would	and	time	the
set.	I’ll	bet	ten	reps	will	take	ten	to	twenty	seconds.	Normal	or	natural	tempo	is
much	closer	to	1-0-1	than	2-0-2.	This	alone	throws	off	our	entire	concept	of
training	or	not	training	for	hypertrophy.	My	long-held	erroneous	belief	in	the
assumption	of	how	long	a	rep	should	take,	and	consequently	how	long	a	set
takes,	is	probably	why	some	of	my	athletes	have	had	some	difficulty	gaining
size.	Believing	what	I	read	and	not	challenging	assumptions	may	have	caused
some	athletes	and	clients	to	progress	at	a	slower	rate.
How	do	we	train	for	hypertrophy	if	that	is	the	goal?	I	don’t	like	deliberate
slow	concentric	motion.	This	means	in	order	to	produce	hypertrophy,	we	would
need	to	slow	the	eccentric	portion	of	a	ten-rep	set	down	to	two	seconds.
This	2-0-1	tempo	will	just	reach	the	thirty-second	mark,	thought	to	be	the
bottom	end	of	the	range	for	hypertrophy.	This	type	of	approach	—	slow
eccentric,	fast	concentric	—	should	also	produce	more	functional	hypertrophy
than	deliberately	attempting	to	perform	the	concentric	portion	of	the	rep	more
slowly,	and	it	will	certainly	allow	the	use	of	a	higher	load.
Myth:	Use	free	weights	for	hypertrophy
	
Do	muscles	have	the	capability	to	recognize	types	of	resistance?	Can	a
muscle	tell	the	difference	between	a	weight,	a	band	or	a	spring?	I	don’t	think	so.
One	of	my	favorite	lines	of	miscommunication	is,	“This	will	give	you	long,	lean
muscles	like	a	dancer.”	This	is	akin	to	telling	people	you	can	turn	an	apple	into
an	orange	right	before	their	eyes.	You	can	no	more	help	a	short,	stocky	client
create	long,	lean	muscles	than	you	can	make	him	taller.
Exercise	will	remove	subcutaneous	bodyfat	and	reduce	intramuscular	fat
stores,	but	changing	the	source	of	resistance	in	a	resistance-based	exercise	will
not	produce	a	muscle	that	looks	different.	Muscles	can’t	discern	the	difference
between	resistance	generated	by	bodyweight,	a	piece	of	iron	or	a	piece	of	rubber.
We	may	need	to	produce	a	resistance	that	will	cause	fatigue	to	occur	at	the
thirty-second	point	or	later	to	induce	hypertrophy.
If	weight	training	had	to	be	done	with	a	free	weight	to	produce	hypertrophy,

lat	pull-downs	would	be	a	better	exercise	than	chin-ups	for	upper-back
development.	Thousands	of	bodybuilding	articles	tell	us	the	opposite,	but	the
resistance	in	a	chin-up	is	“only”	bodyweight.
If	you	want	hypertrophy,	program	light	weights	and	more	reps.	The
common	prescription	for	female	trainees	—	light	weights,	lots	of	reps	—	leans
more	toward	a	bodybuilding,	mass-producing	prescription	than	away	from	it.
For	less	hypertrophy,	stay	in	the	five-to	six-rep	range	with	higher	loads	to
generate	less	time	under	tension,	and	do	fewer	sets.	The	result:	less	time	under
tension,	less	volume	and	less	hypertrophy.
The	fact	is,	training	is	about	time	under	tension	and	the	point	of	fatigue.	We
can	produce	hypertrophy	with	weights	or	without.
Myth:	Lift	light	weights,	do	more	reps
	
Light	weight	is	an	oxymoron.	Why	would	anyone	lift	light	weights?	I	often
talk	to	trainees,	particularly	women,	and	hear	some	variation	of	
I	have	eight-
pound	dumbbells,	and	I	do	the	same	routine	three	times	a	week.
	When	I	ask	why
one	would	train	with	such	light	weights,	the	response	is	usually,	“I	don’t	want	to
get	too	big.”
This	is	based	on	a	major	misperception.	Ask	a	natural	bodybuilder	how
much	time	and	effort	goes	into	gaining	ten	pounds	of	quality	muscle.	Most	male
natural	bodybuilders	will	tell	you	it	takes	about	a	year.	For	a	woman,	it	could	be
two	years.	Our	eight-pound-dumbbell-waving	client	need	not	be	concerned
about	too	much	hypertrophy.
Hypertrophy	may	be	more	about	diet	and	genetics	than	anything	else.
The	Truth	about	Hypertrophy
	
Hypertrophy	may	be	the	goal	for	some	clients	and	considered	an	unwanted
by-product	of	training	by	others.	In	either	case,	it	should	not	be	a	great	concern.
The	reality	is,	hypertrophy	for	most	nonanabolic-using	clients	is	very	hard	to
come	by.	And	one	unfortunate	problem	with	hypertrophy	training	is	our	concept
of	how	to	train	for	hypertrophy	has	also	been	heavily	influenced	by	steroid	users.
Hypertrophy	may	in	fact	be	a	function	of	diet	and	bodytype	and	really	have
very	little	to	do	with	training	style.	However,	that	does	not	negate	the	facts

previously	stated;	we	need	to	at	least	understand	tempo	and	have	a	realistic	view
of	how	long	a	set	takes.
In	either	case,	I	would	still	avoid	the	conventional	three	to	four	exercises
per	body	part	favored	by	bodybuilders.	Instead,	program	one	or	two	exercises	for
each	movement	pattern,	and	if	hypertrophy	is	the	desired	result,	emphasize
slower	eccentric	contractions.
Another	common	misconception	is	single-joint	exercise	is	better	for
hypertrophy.	Instead,	with	a	client	interested	in	hypertrophy,	stay	with	basic
multi-joint	exercises	like	bench	presses,	front	squats	and	chin-ups.	It	is	amazing
to	watch	people	waste	time	with	lateral	raises	and	other	single-joint	exercises
when	they	have	not	performed	a	single	overhead	pressing	movement.
The	bottom	line	is	the	exercises	most	beneficial	are	often	the	most	difficult
to	do.	The	body	doesn’t	always	like	a	good	taste	of	hard	work.	Sometimes,	at
least	at	first,	it	hurts.
The	public	is	uninformed,	and	often	as	trainers	we’re	just	playing	along.	We
talk	to	clients	about	tone	and	about	changing	muscle	structure	to	long	dancer’s
muscles.	People	in	our	industry	need	to	see	this	is	as	salesmanship	and	not
science.	Why	not	tell	our	clients	the	truth?
	

Concurrent	or	Conjugated	Periodization
	
	
As	we	struggle	with	the	concepts	of	periodization,	much	of	the	confusion
comes	from	the	fascination	of	many	in	our	industry	with	the	Westside	Barbell
philosophy.	Westside	advocates	conjugate	periodization,	a	term	many	trainers
don’t	understand.
The	large	differentiating	factor	to	remember	is	training	athletes	is	not	like
training	powerlifters;	this	is	the	basic	problem.	Powerlifters	are	athletes,	but
athletes	are	not	powerlifters.	Trying	to	integrate	the	concepts	used	by	elite
powerlifters	into	the	training	of	athletes	is	difficult.
Physical	therapist	Bill	Hartman	clarifies:
“Concurrent	is	training	multiple	qualities	simultaneously.	Conjugated
means	linked.	Conjugate	periodization	is	variant	of	concurrent	programming	and
still	trains	multiple	qualities,	but	with	an	emphasis	on	one	aspect	while
maintaining	the	others	with	limited	volume	in	each	training	block.
“The	point	a	lot	of	folks	miss	is	each	preceding	training	block	of	emphasis
is	designed	to	enhance	the	following	block,	which	makes	it	conjugated	or	linked.
“For	example,	if	a	high-level	athlete	requires	greater	power	output,	a	block
emphasizing	increased	volume	of	maximal	strength	while	maintaining	power,
followed	by	a	reduction	in	volume	of	maximal	strength	work	and	an	increased
emphasis	and	volume	of	power	should	raise	power	to	a	higher	level	than	if	both
are	worked	equally	in	consecutive	training	blocks.”
Think	about	Hartman’s	definitions	and	you’ll	see	the	confusion.	In	a	sports-
training	setting,	we	are	always	concurrent	and	sometimes	conjugate.	Out	of
necessity,	we	constantly	train	multiple	qualities,	but	unlike	powerlifters,	we	train
more	than	strength	qualities.
The	powerlifter’s	end	goal	is	always	strength.	He	may	add	dynamic	days	to
develop	explosiveness,	but	at	the	end	of	the	day,	the	goal	is	simply	to	lift	more
weight.
As	you	understand	the	concepts	better,	you’ll	see	training	athletes	is	always
concurrent	and	sometimes	conjugate.	Our	programs	were	conjugate	or
concurrent	periodization	for	twenty	years;	I	just	didn’t	realize	it.
In	the	offseason	we	train	for	power	at	least	three	different	ways.	Olympic

lifts	use	heavy	loads	to	train	for	power,	while	plyometrics	use	primarily
bodyweight.	Medicine	balls	use	small	external	loads	in	comparison	to	the
significant	loads	used	in	Olympic	lifting.
While	I	am	training	an	athlete	for	power,	I	am	concurrently	training	him	for
strength.	At	certain	times,	notably	preseason,	we	decrease	the	strength	and
power	emphasis	and	have	a	greater	energy	system	emphasis.
Along	the	same	lines,	I	listened	to	Al	Vermeil	on	the	Strength	Coach
podcast	on	my	way	to	work	one	day.	Al	is	a	wise	man,	and	he	said,	“Keep	a
thread	of	everything	in	your	program.”	As	soon	as	he	said	it,	I	stopped	my	car
and	wrote	it	in	my	ever-present	notebook.
Take	your	pick,	concurrent	or	conjugate.	The	bottom	line	in	sports	training
is	we	never	train	just	for	strength	or	just	for	power	or	just	for	speed.	We	need	to
train	concurrently	for	all	of	the	above	in	the	offseason,	and	keep	at	least	a	thread
of	all	of	it	in	the	program	year-round.
	

Choosing	a	Training	System
	
	
Most	coaches	do	not	choose	a	system	of	training;	it	chooses	them.	Coaches
tend	to	either	follow	the	crowd,	or	follow	their	own	training	preference.	We’ll
look	at	the	evolution	of	training	systems	to	provide	insights	into	the	pros	and
cons	of	each.	The	key	is	to	take	pieces	where	applicable	to	form	a	workable
system	for	each	client’s	needs.
Set	and	Rep	Schemes
	
For	beginners,	too	much	has	been	said	about	sets	and	reps.	Programming	is
not	nearly	as	important	as	execution.	Many	high	school	and	college	coaches
have	excellent	sets	and	rep	schemes	implemented	with	poor	attention	to
technique.	This	is	a	mistake.	KISS:	Keep	It	Simple,	Stupid.
We	should	be	strength	and	conditioning	coaches,	not	computer	geeks.	I	love
Excel	spreadsheets	as	much	as	anyone,	but	the	continuing	trend	of	good
programming	done	poorly	is	disturbing.
You	are	only	as	good	as	the	technical	proficiency	of	your	athletes.
Progressive	Resistance	Exercise
	
The	easiest	method	of	progression	for	beginners	is	to	add	five	pounds	per
week	to	the	bar	as	long	as	the	athlete	can	perform	the	exercises	with	perfect
technique.	For	more	experienced	lifters,	add	two-and-ahalf	pounds	per	week	to
the	heaviest	set.
This	system	is	called	Progressive	Resistance	Exercise	(PRE)	advocated	by
Stuart	McRobert’s	hardgainer	crowd.	Many	big-time	strength	coaches	reject	this
type	of	program	as	too	simple,	but	the	PRE	program	formed	the	basis	of	almost
all	of	the	training	for	our	college	freshmen	athletes.	Periodization	was	minimal

and	we	employed	PRE	almost	exclusively.
The	advantages	of	a	progressive	exercise	program	are	evident.
•	The	system	works	extremely	well	with	beginners,	and	may	be	all	many
athletes	need.
•	PRE	can	be	combined	with	other	methods	for	a	simple	periodized
program.
Have	your	client	perform	two	or	three	sets	per	exercise	after	the	warm-up
sets.	The	sequence	is	as	follows:	warm-up	set	first,	heavy	set	second,	heavy	set
plus	or	minus	five	to	ten	pounds	third.	With	the	third	set,	decide	whether	the
athlete	should	go	up,	go	down	or	stay	at	the	same	weight.
By	following	a	program	of	progressive	resistance	exercise,	your	athletes
could	improve	260	pounds	per	year	with	this	method.	No	athlete	will	make	five-
pound	increases	for	an	entire	year,	but	most	athletes	will	be	happy	with	much
smaller	gains	in	any	lift.	In	theory,	an	athlete	able	to	front	squat	an	unloaded
forty-five-pound	bar	for	ten	reps	would	be	squatting	ninety-five	pounds	for	ten
reps	by	week	ten.	By	week	twenty,	he	would	be	squatting	145	for	ten	reps.	Some
of	our	female	athletes	have	become	incredibly	strong	by	using	this	system.
By	the	end	of	the	first	training	year,	this	system	must	be	replaced	by	a
periodized	system,	but	because	of	the	rapid	gains	in	strength	in	year	one,	we
found	a	more	structured	percentage-based	system	actually	resulted	in	holding
back	some	of	our	beginning	athletes.

Twenty-Rep	Tests
	
One	method	we	often	use	after	the	first	three	weeks	of	training	to	determine
whether	we	are	using	appropriate	loads	is	what	we	call	a	twenty-rep	test.	In
week	three	of	the	program,	we	take	the	set	two	weight	—	the	heaviest	set	—	and
tell	the	athlete	to	do	twenty	reps	in	as	few	sets	as	possible.

	
This	weight	should	correspond	to	a	ten-rep-max	load,	but	we	want	to	know
the	actual	numbers.	Ideally	the	athlete	should	take	this	set	to	technical	failure,
the	point	at	which	he	can’t	complete	reps	with	proper	technique.
Loads	for	the	next	week	would	then	be	recalculated	based	on	the	number	of
reps	done.	The	chart	on	the	previous	page	illustrates	how	this	is	done.
Use	200	pounds	in	the	far	left	column	as	the	example	weight.	If	your	athlete
does	200	pounds	for	fourteen	reps	instead	of	the	expected	ten,	the	weight	for	the
next	week	would	be	adjusted	to	225	for	ten	reps	instead	of	205	pounds.	This

system	allows	us	to	insure	no	athlete	is	drastically	underachieving	in	a	situation
where	we	are	not	prepared	for	actual	max	testing.	This	is	a	repetition-max	test
used	to	adjust	weight.
Linear	Periodization
	
Periodization	is	a	European	concept	practiced	in	the	US	for	most	of	the	’80s
and	’90s,	and	at	the	time	it	was	introduced,	it	represented	a	significant
improvement	over	methods	previously	used.
Linear	periodization	takes	our	PRE	scheme	and	adds	linear	repetition
variation	over	a	series	of	weeks.	It	builds	a	system	of	gradually	decreasing
volume	usually	measured	by	total	number	of	reps	done	on	the	major	lifts,	and
increases	intensity	measured	by	the	weight	on	the	bar	over	the	length	of	the
training	cycle.
Linear	periodization	was	made	popular	in	the	strength	and	conditioning
community	through	Mike	Stone’s	
NSCA	Journal
	article,	
The	Theoretical	Model
of	Strength	Training.
	Mike	Stone	and	John	Garhammer	were	instrumental	in	the
’80s	in	bringing	advanced	concepts	to	strength	and	conditioning	through	their
work	with	the	NSCA.	This	system	was	once	considered	advanced,	but	may	even
be	too	simple	for	the	experienced	athlete.	Phases	in	linear	periodization	were
generally	four	weeks	long,	consisting	of	three	heavy	weeks	followed	by	an
unload	week.	A	basic	periodization	diagram	appears	below.
One	of	the	drawbacks	of	any	form	of	periodization	with	beginners	is	the
percentages	used	are	basically	guesswork.	The	athletes	usually	have	not	been
tested,	and	even	if	tested,	the	athlete	generally	progresses	so	rapidly	in	the	early
weeks	that	percentage	projections	quickly	become	inaccurate.
For	this	reason	we	use	PRE	for	all	of	our	beginner	programs,	and	use	a
twenty-rep	test	at	the	end	of	week	three.	We	can	then	see	if	the	prescribed	loads
have	been	too	light	and	make	adjustments.
Bodybuilding	Method
	
The	bodybuilding	method	has	rapidly	fallen	out	of	favor	over	the	last
decade	as	education	in	the	field	of	strength	and	conditioning	has	progressed.
Generally	coaches	using	a	bodybuilding	method	to	train	their	athletes	are	ex-

bodybuilders	simply	using	what	they	learned	in	their	own	training.	This	is	an
extremely	inefficient	method	for	athletes	since	bodybuilding,	like	powerlifting
and	Olympic	lifting,	is	a	sport	more	than	an	actual	training	system.
	
Bodybuilding	is	characterized	by	high-volume	workouts	generally	broken
down	by	body	part,	has	very	little	athletic	application	and	is	often	time-
consuming	due	to	a	multi-angular	approach.	This	style	of	training	frequently
results	in	misplaced	emphasis,	as	the	aim	of	a	competitive	bodybuilder	is
improved	appearance,	not	improved	performance.
Bodybuilding	can	also	be	extremely	counterproductive	in	those	looking	to
lose	weight,	because	high-volume	workouts	will	result	in	muscle	hypertrophy.
However,	high	volume	may	be	helpful	to	athletes	who	need	to	gain	additional
mass.
Undulating	Periodization
	
Undulating	periodization	was	popularized	in	the	’80s	by	Canadian	strength
coach,	Charles	Poliquin.	Poliquin	wrote	the	article	
Five	Steps	to	Improving	Your
Football	Strength	Program
	published	in	the	
NSCA	Journal
,	and	it	quickly
established	him	as	an	expert	in	the	area	of	periodization	of	training.
The	program	described	by	Poliquin	took	the	Stone	model	one	step	further.
In	the	Stone	model	of	linear	periodization,	volume	decreased	in	a	linear	fashion,
while	intensity	increased.	In	the	method	Charles	advocated,	volume	and	intensity
undulates	over	the	course	of	the	training	cycle.	The	phases	are	either	an
accumulation	phase	—	an	accumulation	of	volume	or	time	under	tension	—	or
an	intensification	phase,	an	increase	in	load.
•	The	intensification	phase	generally	consists	of	more	sets,	fewer	exercises,

and	reps	in	the	single	to	triple	range.
•	The	accumulation	phase	has	more	emphasis	on	variety	and	tempo.
•	As	a	rule	of	thumb,	athletes	perform	no	more	than	six	exercises	per	day,
done	in	three	pairs.
•	Workouts	are	designed	to	be	done	in	one	hour	or	less	to	limit	cortisol
buildup.
•	This	undulating	periodization	is	characterized	by	three-week	phases	with
no	unload	weeks.
Poliquin	was	also	the	first	strength	coach	in	the	US	to	popularize	the
concept	of	exercise	tempo.	He	brought	this	concept	from	Australian	writer	Ian
King,	as	he	wrote	extensively	about	the	theories	of	tempo	and	time	under
tension,	particularly	as	these	related	to	the	accumulation	phase.	Charles	stated	a
ten-rep	set	could	be	done	in	twenty	seconds	using	a	one-second	eccentric
contraction	and	a	one-second	concentric	contraction.	This	would	mean	the	set
generated	twenty	seconds	of	time	under	tension	for	the	muscle,	time	under
tension	being	a	measure	of	how	long	the	set	lasts.
This	would	be	described	as	ten	reps	at	a	1-0-1	tempo.	One	second	down,
one	second	up	with	no	pause.	Poliquin	postulated	that	any	set	could	be	made	to
produce	hypertrophic	response.	In	other	words,	five	reps	done	at	a	2-0-2	tempo
would	produce	the	same	hypertrophy	result	as	ten	reps	done	at	1-0-1.
These	articles	were	the	first	time	ideas	like	undulating	periodization,	tempo
and	time	under	tension	were	introduced	to	American	strength	and	conditioning
coaches.
Even	if	time	under	tension	is	not	the	key,	varying	the	contraction	type	and
including	isometric	work	and	eccentric	work	may	have	been	an	underlying
message	that	was	missed.
Four-Phase	Undulating	Periodization
	
When	contemplating	the	concept	of	paired	exercises,	the	conclusion	is
obvious:	Paired	exercise	sequences	make	better	use	of	time.
In	the	Poliquin	method,	practicality	becomes	an	issue	due	to	equipment

availability.	Care	must	be	taken	to	make	sure	athletes	are	pairing	the	correct
exercises.
	
The	Westside	System
	
In	the	current	strength	and	conditioning	world,	the	favored	system	of	the
masses	is	a	Louie	Simmons’	Westside	Barbell	approach,	which	is	centered
around	powerlifting-style	training.	Although	Simmons	has	made	some
wonderful	contributions	to	the	field,	I	cannot	advocate	most	of	the	methods.
•	Although	Simmons	presents	his	training	as	evidence-and	results-based,	it
may	in	fact	be	neither.	There	is	no	independent	research	I	have	seen
validating	the	training	concepts	advocated	by	Westside.
•	Most	of	the	results	demonstrated	are	colored	by	the	use	of	performance-
enhancing	drugs.
•	The	Westside	system	is	designed	to	produce	powerlifters,	not	athletes.
Powerlifting	is	a	sport	consisting	of	three	lifts:	the	squat,	bench	press	and
deadlift.

The	essence	of	the	Westside	system	revolves	around	improving	these	three
lifts.	The	not-so-logical	conclusion	is	improvement	in	the	three	powerlifts	leads
to	improved	sports	performance.	Although	in	a	simplistic	sense	the	improvement
of	force	production	will	lead	to	some	changes,	our	knowledge	of	functional
anatomy	leads	us	to	conclude	that	training	for	sport	must	be	more	specific	and
improve	strength	qualities	unique	to	the	single-leg	nature	of	most	sports.
On	the	other	hand,	Simmons,	like	Stone	and	Poliquin,	must	be	recognized
for	pushing	the	envelope	and	redefining	the	sport	of	powerlifting.	Simmons’
ideas	about	speed	of	movement	and	variable	resistance	were	the	first	advances	in
training	for	strength	in	a	long	time.
My	objection	to	the	variable	resistance	methods	lies	in	practical	concerns	in
our	group	setting.	Simmons’	two	most	significant	contributions	are	in	the	use	of
bands	and	chains	for	variable	resistance.
Heavy	chains	are	attached	to	the	bar,	and	as	the	bar	is	lowered,	the	chain
gathers	on	the	floor;	the	weight	is	reduced	by	the	amount	of	chain	accumulating
on	the	floor.	As	the	bar	is	raised,	the	weight	increases	as	the	chain	comes	off	the
floor.	This	is	an	ingenious	concept	of	applying	variable	resistance	in	a	free-
weight	environment.	The	load	more	closely	matches	the	strength	curve	and
allows	the	lifter	to	accelerate	the	bar.	However,	as	discussed	on	page	206,	for
groups	this	used	to	be	expensive	and	impractical	until	companies	began	to
commercially	produce	lifting	chains.
Another	Simmons	innovation	is	the	use	of	heavy	elastic	bands	to	provide
resistance	similar	to	the	chain	idea.	Bands	are	anchored	to	the	power	rack	and
placed	around	the	ends	of	the	bar.	As	the	load	is	lowered,	the	bands	decrease	in
elastic	energy	and	the	load	becomes	lighter.	As	the	lifter	raises	the	bar,	the	load
increases	due	to	the	tension	placed	on	the	bands,	again	a	free	weight	being	used
in	a	variable-resistance	environment.	This	is	a	stroke	of	genius,	but	does	require
a	coach	to	purchase	bands	and	to	monitor	the	condition	of	the	bands.	A	broken
band	in	this	situation	could	be	disastrous.
Simmons’	methods	are	brilliant,	but	besides	being	empirical	in	nature,	they
can	be	costly,	time-consuming	and,	in	the	case	of	bands,	potentially	dangerous.
This	does	not	discount	Simmons’	ingenuity,	but	in	a	group	setting	such	as	ours,
makes	these	methods	somewhat	questionable	from	a	practicality	standpoint.
The	idea	of	using	one	sport	like	powerlifting	or	Olympic	lifting	to	train	for
any	other	sport	is	a	well-intentioned	idea,	but	not	a	sound	concept.
Coaches	may	take	some	concepts	from	the	Westside	Barbell	school	of
thought	to	help	an	athlete	improve	in	the	bench	press,	and	may	use	ideas	from
the	training	of	Olympic	lifters	to	help	an	athlete	improve	in	the	hang	clean,	but
to	succeed,	we	must	eventually	help	the	athlete	produce	and	reduce	force	on	one

leg.
Olympic	Lifting
	
Much	like	the	Westside	system,	some	coaches	have	adopted	a	philosophy
based	on	the	sport	of	Olympic	weightlifting.	Athletes	are	again	trained	for
another	sport	to	hopefully	improve	ability	in	their	sport.	Olympic	lifting	is	a
sport,	and	attempting	to	train	athletes	like	Olympic	weightlifters	is	often	like
putting	a	square	peg	in	a	round	hole.	What	makes	a	good	Olympic	weightlifter
from	a	lever-system	standpoint	may	not	make	a	great	lineman	or	power	forward.
A	program	of	Olympic	weightlifting	or	powerlifting	will	not	provide	the
proper	musculo-skeletal	stresses	necessary	to	truly	improve	sport	performance.
Athletes	need	to	work	in	single-leg	environments	to	most	efficiently	and
effectively	improve	sport	performance.	Lifts	like	the	squat,	bench	press	and	hang
clean	are	part	of	the	solution,	but	must	be	complemented	with	specific	exercises
to	develop	the	single-leg	extension	patterns	of	the	hip	and	knee.
High	Intensity	Training	(HIT)
	
High	intensity	training	or	HIT,	as	it	has	come	to	be	called,	was	the
brainchild	of	the	Nautilus	inventor,	Arthur	Jones,	and	is	an	extremely	interesting
phenomenon	in	the	world	of	strength	and	conditioning.	Although	the	system
appears	to	have	a	limited	basis	in	exercise	physiology,	high	intensity	training	has
a	long	history	and	a	very	loyal	and	dedicated	following.
There	are	a	few	varieties	of	HIT;	proponents	range	from	professional
strength	and	conditioning	coaches	who	believe	strongly	in	the	original	Nautilus
philosophy	of	one	set	to	momentary	muscular	failure	done	on	a	circuit	of
machines,	to	guys	like	Ken	Leistner	and	Stuart	McRobert,	who	advocate	a
similar	philosophy	based	around	basic	free-weight	movements.	What	all	of	the
proponents	of	HIT	share	is	the	belief	that	less	is	more.	The	proponents	of	HIT
believe	in	very	hard,	very	brief	work.
One	big	problem	with	this	type	of	system	is	a	zeal	bordering	on	fanaticism.
HIT	is	a	small	but	interesting	splinter	group	in	the	world	of	strength	that	should
be	investigated	before	it	is	discounted.
There	is	clearly	a	mental	benefit	to	asking	athletes	to	work	to	complete

failure.	The	HIT	system	will	work	well	in	team	sports	settings	where	intrinsic
motivation	is	an	issue.	My	major	point	of	disagreement	with	the	proponents	of
HIT	lies	in	their	stance	on	power	development.	In	HIT,	no	power	work	is
performed.	Most	proponents	believe	moving	a	load	with	speed	is	inherently
dangerous.	As	a	result,	neither	plyometrics	or	Olympic	lifts	are	used.
The	work	of	exercise	physiologists	in	the	area	of	the	stretch-shortening
cycle	and	the	force	velocity	curve	make	this	stance	difficult	to	defend.
Proponents	of	HIT	believe	we	lift	for	strength	and	separately	practice	sport
skills,	and	there	is	no	neurological	midground.	Some	proponents	of	HIT	are
beginning	to	use	plyometrics	to	develop	the	stretch-shortening	cycle,	although
many	of	the	early	proponents	saw	no	need	for	such	exercises.
Combination	Approach
	
The	reality	is	no	single	system	provides	all	the	answers.	A	sound	training
program	will	take	strength	ideas	from	powerlifting,	power	ideas	from	Olympic
lifting,	speed	ideas	from	track,	and	injury-prevention	concepts	from	physical
therapy.	The	integration	of	all	these	disciplines	will	lead	to	the	ultimate	program.
In	any	case	the	most	important	point	in	program	design	is	to	choose	a
system	you	understand,	and	choose	exercises	you	are	comfortable	teaching.
Efficient	and	Effective	Workouts
	
Having	training	knowledge	is	one	thing.	Being	able	to	take	that	knowledge
and	use	it	to	design	a	program	is	another	thing	entirely.	The	key	to	being	able	to
design	great	programs	is	being	able	to	filter	information.	You	can’t	make	a
change	every	time	a	new	idea	comes	across	your	desk.	You	need	to	look	at	new
information	and	filter	out	the	hype.
The	more	time	you	spend	with	your	athletes,	the	better	your	results	will	be.
For	this	reason,	I	am	a	proponent	of	four-dayper-week	training	programs.	Some
coaches	prefer	three	sessions	per	week,	but	program	design	is	easiest	and	most
efficient	in	a	four-day	program.
	

Daily	Leg	Training
	
	
Until	three	years	ago,	daily	leg	training	was	a	staple	of	our	program,	and	in
our	three-day	programs	we	still	do	lower	body	work	every	day.	The	emphasis
used	to	switch	from	knee-dominant	exercises	on	days	one	and	three	to	hip-
dominant	exercises	on	days	two	and	four.	Our	observation	had	been	this	was	not
a	problem.	The	key	we	believed	was	in	alternating	the	dominant	joint	from	day
to	day.
Although	the	glutes	and	hamstrings	are	obviously	used	in	squatting
exercises	on	days	one	and	three,	there	did	not	seem	to	be	a	detrimental	effect	in
focusing	on	the	glutes	and	hamstrings	on	days	two	and	four.	We	successfully
used	this	system	for	close	to	ten	years	and	had	done	so	without	any	real
difficulty.	In	our	summer	training	programs	we	train	on	a	Monday	through
Thursday	schedule,	but	still	did	not	seem	to	have	issues	with	overtraining	or
injury	even	when	training	four	consecutive	days.
As	noted	in	the	section	on	the	CNS-intensive	training	on	page	248,	Jason
Ferrugia	gave	me	food	for	thought	and	experimentation	with	regard	to	the	four-
day	schedules,	and	as	a	result,	we	made	some	drastic	changes.
The	second	portion	of	the	strength	and	power	program	consists	of	a	pair	of
major	multi-joint	exercises,	again	complemented	by	a	stretch	for	one	of	the	two
muscles	or	muscle	groups	worked.
On	days	one	and	three,	squat	variations	or	deadlift	variations	are	paired	are
with	a	vertical	pulling	movement.	A	stretch	for	the	hips	is	generally	done
between	sets	of	lower	body	and	whatever	variety	of	pulling	movement	is
scheduled.
On	days	two	and	four,	the	bench	press,	incline	bench	press	or	some
variation	(formerly	paired	with	a	straight-leg	hip-extension	exercise	like	a
single-leg	straight-leg	deadlift)	are	done.	These	are	now	trisetted	with	a	core
exercise	and	stretch	for	the	upper	back	region.
The	third	portion	of	the	strength	and	power	workout	is	a	tri-set,	or	in	some
cases	a	quad-set.	Three	or	four	exercises	are	done,	sometimes	in	conjunction
with	a	stretch.	Without	using	a	tri-set	or	quad-set,	it	is	difficult	to	address	all	that
must	be	done	in	the	program.

This	is	a	compromise,	but	keeps	the	workout	to	approximately	one	hour.
Research	indicates	strength	workouts	longer	than	an	hour	can	result	in
significant	cortisol	build-up.	Adding	a	third	pair	of	exercises	would	add	ten	to
fifteen	minutes	to	the	workout,	whereas	making	the	second	pair	into	a	tri-set	or
quad-set	results	in	very	little	additional	time.
The	third	portion	of	the	program	will	vary	depending	on	the	specific	phase
of	the	program,	but	generally	will	include	an	overhead	or	vertical	press,	a	rotary
exercise,	and	some	type	of	rehabilitative	or	specialty	work	for	the	hips	or
shoulders.
On	days	one	and	three,	some	type	of	rotary	stretch	for	the	low	back	is
included.	On	days	two	and	four,	a	stretch	for	the	hamstrings	is	performed.	These
stretches	are	always	active-isolated	stretches.
The	following	section	includes	worksheets	for	each	variation	of	the
program	to	facilitate	your	program	design.

Four-Day	Workout	Programs
	
	
Training	four	times	a	week	is	the	gold	standard	in	training	programs.	The
following	chart	takes	the	components	discussed	previously	and	demonstrates
how	these	qualities	fit	into	a	four-day	workout.
This	table	is	the	key	to	programming.	Once	you	understand	the	concept,	the
table	is	like	a	fill-in-the-blank	template	for	workouts.
As	you	can	see,	torso	or	core	work	is	done	every	day,	and	med	ball	training
is	done	twice	a	week.	Two	days	focus	on	the	core	strength	and	stability	exercises
described	in	the	core	strength	chapter,	and	two	days	are	power	days	with	the
medicine	ball.
In	the	next	portion	of	the	workout,	the	focus	is	again	on	power	development
through	Olympic	lifting.
Olympic	lifts	are	done	on	lower	body	days	to	concentrate	the	CNS	load.
Snatches	are	done	on	Mondays	in	conjunction	with	a	heavier	leg	day.	Hang
cleans	are	done	on	the	second	lower	body	day	—	Wednesdays	for	us,	Thursdays
for	most	M-T-Th-F	routines	—	in	conjunction	with	more	single-leg	lower	body
work.
On	days	two	and	four	we	do	upper	body	strength	training.
This	is	the	basic	template	for	a	healthy	athlete,	but	not	for	every	athlete.	For
athletes	with	injury	problems	who	are	unable	to	Olympic	lift,	we	may	substitute
jump	squats,	jumps	on	the	Vertimax,	or	jumps	on	the	Shuttle	MVP.	The
important	thing	is	to	get	some	explosive,	resisted	hip	extension,	not	to	force
everyone	to	Olympic	lift.
Olympic	movements	should	not	be	paired	with	other	exercises.	Exercises
with	a	high	neural	and	technical	demand	should	not	be	coupled.	The	explosive,
total	body	nature	of	these	exercises	is	not	conducive	to	combinations.

	

	

Three-Day	Workout	Programs
	
	
Three-day	workouts	may	follow	a	few	different	patterns	depending	on	the
situation.	If	the	workout	is	a	Monday,	Wednesday	and	Friday	pattern,	each
workout	is	total-body.	This	is	the	plan	illustrated	in	the	sample	program	and
worksheet	on	the	following	pages.
In	a	school	setting,	three-day	programs	can	also	be	done	Monday,	Tuesday
and	Thursday,	or	Tuesday,	Thursday	and	Friday	to	increase	time	utilization	in	the
weightroom.	The	difference	here	is	we	would	have	two	consecutive	days	and
one	non-consecutive	day.
The	two	consecutive	days	would	be	performed	like	the	four-day	split	—	use
the	four-day	worksheet	—	with	the	non-consecutive	day	being	a	total-body
workout.
In	other	words	for	a	Monday,	Tuesday	and	Thursday	program	use	day	one
and	day	two	from	the	four-day	program	and	on	Thursday	do	a	total-body
workout.
Three-day	programs	include	numerous	compromises.	It	is	no	longer
possible	to	work	each	specific	area	two	times	during	the	week.	Vertical	pressing
and	hip-dominant	exercises	might	only	be	done	once	a	week,	while	double-leg
knee-dominant	exercises	and	horizontal	pressing	may	be	done	twice	per	week.
If	you	fill	in	the	blanks	with	the	exercises	of	your	choosing	for	a	three-day
program,	you	have	twenty-five	percent	fewer	blanks	to	fill	in	than	in	a	four-day
program.	As	a	result,	compromises	must	be	made,	and	the	overall	effectiveness
of	the	workout	is	potentially	decreased	by	the	same	twenty-five	percent.
Three-day	workouts	aren’t	inherently	bad,	but	you	have	to	realize	it	is	more
difficult	to	put	the	pieces	together	in	a	three-day	program.

	

	

Two-Day	Workout	Programs
	
	
Two-day	workout	schedules	really	force	us	to	modify	some	of	the	initial
recommendations.	All	of	the	necessary	exercise	categories	are	clearly	more
difficult	to	address	in	a	two-day	program.
In	reality	each	category	is	addressed	once	per	week.	Each	day	features	a
knee-dominant	exercise,	a	hip-dominant	exercise,	a	pushing	exercise	and	a
pulling	exercise.
A	good	solution	for	two-day	programming	is	to	use	combination	explosive
movements	like	the	clean,	front	squat	and	push-press,	or	the	snatch,	back	squat
and	push-press.
Still	another	possibility	is	to	use	exercises	like	the	high	incline	press	(a
combination	of	vertical	and	horizontal	press),	dumbbell	curl	and	press	(a	vertical
press	plus	elbow	flexion),	dips,	V-handle	pull-ups	with	the	nose	to	the	bar	(a
combination	of	chin-up	and	row	functions),	or	chin-ups	to	the	sternum,	a
combination	of	chin-up	and	row.	These	exercises	fall	in	the	in-between	category,
and	as	a	result	are	more	useful	in	two-day	programs.
Two-day	programs	should	be	reserved	for	in-season	lifting	or	for	endurance
athletes	who	do	not	have	the	time	or	physical	energy	and	recovery	to	strength
train	three	or	four	times	per	week.

	

Low-Budget	Programming
	
	
Recently	I	was	approached	by	one	of	my	former	athletes,	a	two-time
Olympian,	now	coaching	women’s	high	school	hockey.	As	a	former	Olympic
team	member,	the	coach	is	well	aware	of	the	need	for	training,	but	faced	the
same	hurdles	so	many	high	school	coaches	face:	how	to	get	these	young	women
to	train	with	no	equipment	and	no	facility.
We	had	three	main	issues:
•	To	be	effective	this	program	had	to	be	done	at	the	rink	immediately	after
practice.	If	not,	attendance	would	be	a	problem.
•	The	program	would	have	to	be	done	in	a	narrow	area	in	front	of	the
bleachers	with	twenty	women	at	a	time.
•	The	program	had	to	be	implemented	with	no	budget.
I	thought	back	to	my	early	
NSCA	Journal
	days	and	the	excellent	articles
written	by	Istvan	Javorek	about	the	innovative	training	he	had	done	at	his
community	college	in	Kansas.	Then	I	thought	about	Dan	John’s	outstanding
work	with	complexes,	and	the	solution	became	obvious:	bodyweight	and
dumbbells	in	combinations.
Armed	with	a	limited	selection	of	dumbbells	and	the	knowledge	we	had
bleachers,	a	progressive	program	began	to	take	shape.
Initially	the	program	would	be	done	primarily	with	bodyweight.	The
dumbbells	would	only	be	used	for	two	exercises,	a	dumbbell	row	and	a
combination	of	half-squat,	hammer	curl	and	overhead	press.
This	would	make	the	workout:
•	Simple
•	Time	effective

•	Muscularly	effective
We	chose	one	exercise	for	each	area:
Power
Squat	jumps,	3x5
	
Upper	Push
Push-up,	2x	max,	up	to	10
	
Knee	Dominant
Bodyweight	split	squat,	2x10
	
Hip	Dominant
Forward-reaching	single-leg	straight-leg	deadlift
	
Upper	Pull
Dumbbell	row
	
In	addition,	we	added	the	half-squat,	hammer	curl	and	overhead	press
segment	to	give	an	introduction	to	total-body	combinations	and	hopefully	form
the	basis	for	future	explosive	combos.
Progressions	were	easy.	For	split	squats	we	added	dumbbells	in	week	two
and	moved	to	a	rear-foot-elevated	split	squat	in	week	four.	For	push-up
progressions,	we	elevated	the	feet	on	the	bleachers.
For	the	dumbbell	row,	the	plan	was	to	try	to	procure	dumbbells	of
increasingly	larger	sizes	as	strength	increased.	Upper-body	pulling	exercises	are
the	most	difficult	to	replicate	without	equipment.
We	changed	the	reaching	single-leg	straight-leg	deadlift	to	a	single-
dumbbell	version	when	we	felt	the	athletes	were	ready	—	technique	was	the
greatest	issue	—	and	eventually	to	two	dumbbells.
The	idea	was	to	gradually	increase	the	complex	to	a	squat,	cheat	curl	and
push	press	combination	if	the	girls	continued	to	gain	technical	proficiency.
To	begin	we	had	two	goals:

•	To	be	consistent	and	train	three	days	a	week
•	To	become	technically	sound
If	we	became	consistent	and	technically	sound,	the	wonders	of	progressive
resistance	exercise	would	do	its	magic.	Split	squats	would	become	rear-foot-
elevated	split	squats,	initially	with	bodyweight	and	eventually,	like	the	initial
split	squat,	done	with	dumbbells.	Eventually,	we	might	get	to	real	single-leg
squats.
Total	time	for	the	first	workout	was	about	twelve	minutes.	We	introduced
the	workout	and	let	the	players	perform	it.
Squat	jumps	were	done	first,	followed	by	paired	push-ups	and	split	squats.
Reaching	single-leg	straight-leg	deadlifts	were	paired	with	dumbbell	rows,	while
the	squat-curlpress	was	the	finisher.
Workout	one	was	a	little	ugly	as	we	struggled	to	teach	seventeen	total
beginners	out	of	a	group	of	twenty.	Workout	two	went	much	more	smoothly	as
they	started	to	understand	the	process.	Workout	three	began	to	look	like	a	team
lift.
We	received	odd	looks	from	the	collection	of	parents,	siblings	and	figure
skaters	in	the	rink,	but	slowly	those	switched	to	looks	of	respect	as	they	saw	the
team	work.
Dumbbell	rows	and	overhead	presses	were	a	work	in	progress,	but	the
overall	progress	was	nothing	short	of	amazing.	Over	a	period	of	a	few	weeks,	a
group	of	young	women,	most	of	whom	had	never	lifted	a	weight	began	to	grasp
the	basic	concept	of	progressive	resistance	exercise.
The	key	to	this	program	is	that	it	is	balanced,	simple	and	cheap.	This	is
exactly	what	a	high	school	coach	needs.	Stop	making	excuses	if	your	equipment
is	limited.	Take	some	time	to	ask	yourself	how	to	get	the	job	done.
Then	start	rounding	up	some	old	dumbbells	and	get	your	program	started.
	

Static	Stretching	and	Mobility	Circuits
	
	
Our	Boston	University	Hockey	Team	mobility	program	begins	with	a	foam
roll,	followed	by	a	ten-station	static	stretch	circuit	and	a	ten-station	mobility
circuit	prior	to	each	workout.	We	also	use	
Workout	Muse	50-10
	tapes.	The	tapes
are	made	for	fitness	bootcamp	training,	but	are	perfect	for	this	application.	The
recordings	let	us	focus	on	coaching.	The	actual	exercises	are	listed	below.
	
	
Stretch
Switch	Every	Minute
1
Right	Hamstring,	Left	Hamstring
2
Right	Hip	Flexor,	Left	Hip	Flexor
3
Table	Hip	Rotator	Right,	Table	Hip	Rotator	Left
4
Table	Groin	Right,	Table	Groin	Left
5
Box	Hip	Flexor	Right,	Box	Hip	Flexor	Left
6
Stretchmate	Lat	(Side	to	side,	switch	at	30	seconds)
7
TrueStretch	Pec
8
Wall	Hip	Rotator	Right,	Wall	Hip	Rotator	Left
9
Wall	Rectus	Right,	Wall	Rectus	Left
10
Tennis	Ball	T-Spine
Mobility
	
1
Lateral	Squat
2
Split	Squat
3
Rotational	Squat
4
Single-Leg	Straight-leg	Deadlift

5
Valslide	Hip	Flexion
6
Stability	Ball	Internal	Rotational
7
Half-kneeling	Ankle	Mobility
8
Seated	T-Spine
9
Wall	Slides
10
Push-up
	

Plate	Circuit
	
	
The	Plate	Circuit	is	a	thirty-on,	thirty-off	circuit	done	with	a	partner.	For
athletic	adult	men,	use	a	thirty-five-pound	plate;	adjust	accordingly	for	younger
or	female	athletes.	Partner	one	performs	the	exercise	listed	and	passes	the	plate
to	partner	two.	For	these	circuits	we	use	
Workout	Muse	30-5-30
	tracks.	The
exercises	are	arranged	in	a	Peripheral	Heart	Action	sequence	of	lower	body,
upper	push,	upper	pull,	core.	In	this	circuit	we	want	to	work	for	a	full	thirty
seconds	focusing	on	getting	as	many	reps	as	possible	with	good	technique.
	
	
35-Pound	Plate	Circuit
Low	Plate	Squat
Weighted	Push-up
One-Arm	Row
Plate	Crunch
Wheelbarrow
Overhead	Lunge	Walk
Staggered	Push-up
One-Arm	Row
Plank	Circuit,	R-F-L,	ten-second	holds
Single-leg	Straight-leg	Deadlift
Neider	Press
Lateral	Squat
Snatch
Car

Diagonal	Plate	Raise
	

Ten-Rep	Circuit
	
	
The	ten-rep	circuit	is	a	physically	demanding	workout	based	on	Mike
Arthur’s	Nebraska	Football	Survivor	Circuit.	Exercises	are	done	with	a	partner
in	a	“you	go,	I	go”	format.	We	try	to	pair	athletes	of	contrasting	ability,	like	a
hard	worker	paired	with	an	underachiever.	We	stay	on	a	one-minute	clock	using
Workout	Muse	50-10
	tracks.	The	exercises	are	arranged	in	Peripheral	Heart
Action	sequence	of	upper	push,	core,	lower,	upper	pull	in	order	to	stress	but	not
overstress.	Individual	muscle	groups	may	get	up	three	or	four	minutes	to	recover,
however	the	systemic	stress	remains	strong.	Focus	here	is	on	ten	reps,	only	with
heavier	loads.	This	is	not	intended	to	be	a	muscle	endurance	workout.
	
Ten-Rep	Circuit
Dumbbell	Bench
Plank	Row
Trap	Bar	Deadlift
Dumbbell	Row
Dumbbell	Press
Single-leg	Straight-leg	Deadlift
Dumbbell	Incline
Bar	Rollout
Rear-foot-elevated	Split	Squat
Chin-up
	
	

Day	Three	Workout	Variations
	
	
There	are	three	variations	of	the	day	three	workout.	The	first	is	an	Olympic
workout	followed	by	a	series	of	dumbbell	complexes	loosely	based	on	the	work
of	Istvan	Javorek.	The	dumbbell	complex	is	done	without	putting	the	dumbbells
down.	The	complexes	take	over	a	minute	to	perform	and	consist	of	basic
bilateral	exercises.	Rows	are	done	second	in	the	complex	as	they	tend	to	be	the
most	difficult	exercises	to	perform	with	proper	technique.	Athletes	here	are
grouped	three	or	four	to	a	platform	for	work-rest	purposes.	Dumbbell	weights
are	thirty	percent	of	hang	clean	max,	divided	by	two.	This	means	an	athlete	with
a	three-hundred-pound	hang	clean	would	use	forty-five-pound	dumbbells.
Variation	One
	

	

Variation	Two
	
	
This	second	option	includes	a	hang	clean,	followed	by	a	bodyweight	circuit.
The	bodyweight	circuits	are	based	on	Craig	Ballantyne’s	turbulence	training
work.
	

Variation	Three
	
	
Variation	three	is	what	we	call	our	functional	circuit.	The	functional	circuit
allows	us	to	incorporate	all	of	our	diagonal	pattern	exercises	on	the	Keiser
equipment.	It	is	done	in	the	same	fashion	as	our	ten-rep	circuit.	Ten	reps	of	each
exercise	are	done	with	a	partner	on	a	50-10	clock.
	
	
Station	1
Half-kneel	Chop
Station	2
Half-kneel	Lift
Station	3
Anterior	Reach	with	Cable
Station	4
Keiser	Squat
Station	5
Extreme	Core	Trainer
Station	6
Cross-arm	Keiser	Pull-down
Station	7
Kneeling	Push-Pull
Station	8
Vibraflex	Squat	Hold
Station	9
Powerplate	Push-up
Station	10
Powerplate	Split	Squat
	
	

MBSC	Summer	2007
	
	
	
	
Phase	One
Foam	Roll	5
Minutes
Glutes	and	Hip	Rotators,	Lower	and	Upper	Back,	Posterior
Shoulder,	Adductors
Stretch	5-10
Minutes
Lateral	Ham	3D,	Hip	Rotator	3D,	Table	Adductor,	Table	Quad,
Table	Hip	Flexor
Mobility
Warm-up	15-
20	Minutes
Seated	T-Spine,	Half-Kneeling	Ankle	Mobility,	Leg	Swings
Band	Pull-apart	Series	X-Band,	Split	Squat	x5,	Lateral	Squat
x5,	Rotational	Squat	x5
Active	Warm-
up	20-25
Minutes
Single-leg	SLDL	w/reach,	x10	each,	Lateral	Skip,	Cross-
behind	Skip,	Cross	in-front	Skip,	Shuffle,	Carioca,	Lateral
Crawl
Ladder	25-30
Minutes
Shuffle	Wide	+	Stick	F/B,	Cross	in	Front,	F/B,	Cross	Behind
F/B	In-In-Out-Out,	F/R/L,	Scissors	R/L
Plyos
Medicine	Ball
30-35	Minutes
Day	2:
Single-leg	Box	Hop,	3x	3	R/L
Day	4:
Lateral	Bound	+	Stick,	3x5	each
Med	Ball:
Standing	Overhead,	2x10
Half-kneel	Side	Twist,	2x10
Drills	35-40
Minutes
Superband	Shuffle,	1x5	yards	each
1-2	Stick	(2	hoops),	3x3	each
Hand	to	Knee	Drill,	x5	each

Crossover	+	Stick,	2x3	each	side
Conditioning
Slideboard,	Intervals	x30	seconds
Week	1	=	6x;	Week	2	=	7x,	Week	3	=	8x
	
	

MBSC	Summer	2008
	
	
	
Phase	One
Foam	Roll	5	Minutes
Glutes	and	Hip	Rotators,	Lower	and	Upper	Back,
Posterior	Shoulder,	Adductors
Stretch	5-10	Minutes
Roller	Groin,	Roller	Split,	Roller	Hip	Flexor,
Roller	Heel	to	Butt,	Spiderman,	Hip	Rotator
Activation	10-15
Minutes
Hip	Left	Psoas	Combo,	3-5x10	seconds
Exterior	Rotation,	3-5x10	seconds
AD/ABductor	Isos,	3-5x10	seconds
Elbow	Push-ups,	3x8,10,12
Active	Warm-up	15-
25	Minutes
Knee	to	Chest,	Leg	Cradle,	Heel	to	Butt,	Heel	to	Butt
with	Lean,
Single-leg	SLDL	with	Reach,	Overhead	Back	Lunge	to
Hamstring,
Spiderman,	High-knee	Skip,	High-knee	Run,
Heel-ups,	SL	Walk,	SL	Skip,	Back	Pedal,	Backward
Run
Power	25-30	Minutes
Plyo
Day	One:
	Box	Jump,	3x5
Day	Three:
	Single-leg	Box	Jump,	3x5
Med	Ball,	Kneeling	Chest	(on	turf	with	partner),	2x10
Speed	30-35	Minutes
Lean/Fall/Run,	x3	Right	and	Left
Resisted:
Sled	March,	Week	One	x5;	Week	Two	x6;	Week	Three
x7
Sled	Crossover,	Week	One	x4;	Week	Two	x5;	Week
Three	x6

Conditioning
Days	One	and	Three:
Tempo	Week	One	x10;	Week	Two	x12;	Week	Three
x14
	
	

	

	

	

2009	MBSC	Program	Goals
	
	
My	thanks	to	Sam	Leahey	for	compiling	this	material.
	
•	Reduce	the	potential	for	injury	during	activity	(training	&	competition)
•	Increase	explosive	power	and	strength
•	Improve	linear	and	lateral	speed,	agility	and	quickness
•	Provide	an	environment	that	promotes	self	confidence	as	well	as
individual	and	athletic	improvement
Program	Design	Principles
	
Learn	basic	bodyweight	exercises	first,	including	squat,	push-up	and	chin-
up.
Begin	with	bodyweight	progressions.
Week	1:	3	sets	of	8	reps
Week	2:	3	sets	of	10	reps
Week	3:	3	sets	of	12	reps
Week	4:	Begin	external	loading,	five	pounds	per	week.	If	unable	to	add
weight,	use	machines	or	elastic	assistance.
Progress	from	simple	to	complex
Level	1	to	4	or	5
	

•	Explosive	movements	first
•	Multi-joint	second
•	Volume	and	intensity	progression
•	Bodyweight:	8	reps,	10	reps,	12	reps,	then	external	load	and/or	instability,
generally	no	less	than	5	reps
•	Externally	loaded	—	linear	PRE-based	periodization	for	beginners,
undulating	program	for	more	advanced	athletes
Strength	Program	Components
	
Double-Leg	Knee-Dominant
Single-Leg	Knee-Dominant
Straight-Leg	Hip-Dominant	Extensions
Single-and	Double-Leg
Bent-Leg	Hip-Dominant	Extensions
Single-and	Double-Leg
Midsection	Strength	—	Core
Horizontal	Press
Vertical	Press
Horizontal	Pull
Vertical	Pull
Explosive	Power	Development
	

Conditioning	Program
Done	primarily	after	resistance
training	but	sometimes	before
Linear
	
Tempo	Runs
Outside	or	treadmill,	bike	if	injured
or
Shuttle	Runs
25-to	50-yard	intervals
	
Lateral
Slideboard	Intervals,	twice	per	week
	

	

Training	Program	Flow
	
	
Pre-Workout	Self-Myofascial	Release
Static	Stretching
Table	or	roller	sequence
Hip	Flexors,	Lateral	Hamstrings,	Hip	Rotators,	Other
Activation
Glute	Max,	Glute	Medius,	Psoas,	Scapula	Retractors,	Scapula	Depressors
Warm-up	(15	minutes)
Every	session	(linear,	multi-directional,	lateral)
Plyometrics	2-4	x	per	week
Balance	between	linear	and	lateral	days
Medicine	Ball	Throws
Paired	with	plyos	for	rest	to	work	ratio
Speed	Development
Explosive	Training
3-4	minutes	rest	between	sets
Olympic	lifts	or	jump	squats
Teaching	progression	is	hang	clean	progression,
one-arm	dumbbell	snatch,	close-grip	hang	snatch
One	or	two	pairs	of	exercises,
then	one	tri-set	of	three	different	exercises,
60	to	90	seconds	rest	between	sets
Core	Training

Every	session,	alternating
Core	strength,	anti-extension,	anti-rotation,	hip	stability,	lateral	stability
Joint	Mobilization	on	Lateral	Days
Tennis	ball	peanut	t-spine,	seated	twist	with	t-spine	bend,	ankle	mobility	wall
drill,	leg	swings,	split	squats,	lateral	squat,	rotational	squat,	wall	slides
Lower-Body	Strength	Program
2	x	per	week
Double-leg	knee	dominant,	single-leg	knee	dominant
and	hip	dominant,	straight	leg	and	bent	leg
Upper	Body	Strength	and	Balance	Program
Pushing	and	pulling
Sled	Pushes	or	Pulls
Post-Workout	Static	Stretching	and	Self-Myofascial	Release
	

Warm-Ups
	
	
Develops	single-leg	strength,	dynamic	flexibility	and	increases
proprioception.
Linear	Day	Warm-up
15	minutes
	
High	knee	walk
High	knee	skip
High	knee	run
Heel-ups
Straight-leg	skip
Straight-leg	deadlift	walk
Backward	run
Backpedal
Backward	lunge	walk,	begin	in	week	two
Forward	lunge	walk,	begin	in	week	four
Linear	Day	Warm-up
Emphasis	on	Flexibility
15	minutes
	
Heel-up	with	internal	rotation
Walking	heel-up
Walking	heel-up	with
SLDL

Overhead	lunge	walk
Backward	lunge	walk	with	twist
SLDL	walk	forward
SLDL	walk	backward
Straight-leg	crossover
	
Lateral	Day	Warm-up
8	minutes	of	agility	ladder
5	minutes	of	lateral	dynamic	flexibility
	
Lateral	Squat
Stationary	Spiderman
	
	

Progressions
	
	
Plyometric	Training
	
Linear	(three	to	five	sets	of	five	jumps)
Lateral	(three	sets	of	five	landings	on	each	leg)
These	are	paired	with	medicine	ball	throws.
Phase	1
Single	Response,	Stabilization
Box	Jump,	Box	Hop,	Lateral	Box	Hop
Six	landings,	three	on	each	leg
Phase	2
Multiple	Response,	Stabilization
Hurdle	Jump	and	Stick,	Hurdle	Hop	and	Stick,
Heiden	and	Stick,	Zigzag	Bound	and	Stick
Phase	3
Multiple	Jumps,	Introduction	of	Elastic	Component
Hurdle	Jump	with	Bounce,	Hurdle	Hop	with	Bounce,	Zigzag	Bound	With
Bounce
Phase	4
Multiple	Jumps,	Elastic	Response
Hurdle	Jumps	and	Hops	(linear	and	lateral),	Power	Skip,	Lateral	Bound,
Crossover	Bound,	Cross-Behind	Bound

Medicine	Ball	Progressions
	
Three	sets	are	done	while	paired	with	the	above	plyometrics.
We	often	do	these	from	kneeling,	standing	parallel,	split	stance,	or	with	a	step.
	
Overhead	Throw	with	Step
Single-Leg	Front	Twist	Throw
Staggered	Overhead	Throw
Standing	Overhead	Throw
Standing	Side	Twist	Throw
Standing	Side	Twist	Throw	with	Step
	

Speed	Development
	
	
Linear	Speed	Development
	
Phase	I
Weeks	1-3
Noncompetitive	Speed
Lean,	Fall,	Run	Drill	
or
	90-Degree	Lean,	Fall,	Run	Drill,	6	x	10	yards
Phase	II
Weeks	4-6
Short	Competitive	Speed
Ball-Drop	Drill,	dropped	from	shoulder	height,	5-7	yards
Phase	III
Weeks	7-9
Long	Competitive	Speed,	increase	intensity	or	volume,	never	both
Against	partner	with	10-to	20-yard	tag	zone
Chase	sprints	or	break-away	belt	sprints	from	standing	or	lying	positions
Lateral	Speed	Development
	
Agility	Progression
Level	1
(first	three	weeks)
One-Two	Stick

Level	2
One-Two	Cut
Level	3
Assisted	One-Two	Cut
Level	4
45-Degree	One-Two	Cut
	
Speed	Progression
	
Level	1
(first	three	weeks)
Lateral	Hoop	Run	and	Stick,	Three	Hoops
Level	2
Lateral	Hoop	Run	and	Stick,	Five	Hoops
Level	3
Lateral	Hoop	Run	and	Stick,	Seven	Hoops
Level	4
Lateral	Hoop	Run	with	Return,	Two	Hoops
	

Lower-Body	Strength	and	Balance	Progressions
	
	
Knee-Dominant	Exercises
	
Double-Leg	Strength
Progress	from	one	level	to	next	or	unstable	surface
Front	Squats,	Kettlebell	Sumo	Deadlift,	Trap-Bar	Deadlift
Front	split	squat	for	back	pain	clients
Single-Leg	Strength
Progression	from	one	level	to	next	or	unstable	surface
Static	Supported
Level	1:
	Split	Squat
Level	2:
	One-Leg	Bench	Squat,	Lateral	Squat,	Rotational	Squat
Static	Unsupported
Level	3:
	One-Leg	Box	Squat	Variations
Progressive	Range	of	Motion	Exercise
Single-Leg	Pause	Squats	for	Patella-Femoral	Conditions
Dynamic
Decelerative
Conventional	Lunge,	Lateral	Lunge
Any	Multi-Planar	Version	—	Transverse	or	Rotational
Accelerative,	Hip-Dominant
Level	1:
	Valslide	Lunge,	Slideboard	Lunge
Level	2:
	Foot-Elevated	Slideboard	Lunge

	

Lower-Body	Strength	Continued
	
	
Hip-Dominant	Exercises
	
Level	1:
First	three	weeks
Cook	Hip	Lift,	Slideboard	Leg	Curl	
(eccentric	only)
,	Hyperextension,
Hyperextension	Hold
Level	2:
Foot-Elevated	Hip	Lift,	Modified	Straight-Leg	Deadlift,
One-Leg	Straight-Leg	Deadlift	(Progressions)
Level	3:
One-Leg	Hyperextension,	One-Leg	Good	Morning,
Slideboard	and	Stability-Ball	Hip	Extension	Variations
Level	3:
Slideboard	Leg	Curl	(eccentric	and	concentric	phase),	Stability-Ball	Leg	Curl
Level	4:
One-Leg	Stability-Ball	Leg	Curl
Accelerative	Dynamic	Single-Leg	Exercises
Level	1:
Walking	Lunge,	Valslide	Lunge,	Slideboard	Lunge
Level	2:
Foot-Elevated	Slideboard	Lunge

Hybrid	Exercises	for	Knee	and	Hip
Level	3:
One-Leg	Squat	and	Touch
	
	

Core	Training
	
	
Core	Strength
	
Sahrman’s	Straight-Leg	Sit-up	Progression,	arms	straight,	then	folded	in	front
Turkish	Get-up	Progression
	
Anti-Extension
Front	Plank
Stability	Ball	Rollout	(Phase	1)
Abby	Dolly	Rollout	–	Forearms	Down	(Phase	2)
The	Wheel	or	Abby	Dolly	Rollout	–	Forearms	Up	with	Hands	Only	(Phase	3)
Valslide/Slideboard	Rollout	(Phase	4)
Barbell	Rollout	(Phase	5)
	
Anti-Lateral	Flexion
Side	Plank	Short	Lever
Side	Plank	Long	Lever
Side	Plank	with	Feet	Elevated
Side	Flexion
	
Anti-Rotary
Level	1:
Half-Kneeling	Stability	Chop,	Half-Kneeling	Stability	Lift	(slow	and	controlled)
Level	2:
Half-Kneeling	Sequential	Chop,	Half-Kneeling	Sequential	Lift	(speed	increases)

Level	3:
Standing	Dynamic	Chop	and	Lift	(squat,	rotate,	press/pull);	Lift	progresses	to
one	leg
	
Rotary
Anti-Rotation	Holds
Landmine
Kieser	Push/Pull
Convertaball	Twists
	
Hip	Stability
Bodyweight	Squat	with	Theratube,	Single-Leg	Squat	with	Theratube,	Bent-Leg
Hip
Abduction,	Straight-Leg	Hip	Abduction,	Straight-Leg	Mini-Band	Walks,
Superband	X	Walks
	
Not	direct	core	exercises,
these	use	deep	abdominal	muscles	as	anti-rotators:
One-Leg	Squat,	One-Leg	Straight-Leg	Deadlift,	Kettlebell	Slideboard	Lunge,
One-Arm
Dumbbell	Snatch,	Feet-Elevated	BOSU	Push-ups,	TRX	Inverted	Rows
	
	

Program	for	Clients	with	Back	Pain
	
	
Core	Stability
Quadruped,	Supine	Bridging,	Lateral	Bridge	Exercises
	
Quadruped	Progression
Quadruped	Hip	Extension	Over	Bench	(5	reps	of	5-second	holds)
	
Quadruped	Hip	Extension
Bent-Leg,	Dowel-Parallel	Progression	with	Knee	on	Airex	Pad
Level	1:
Bent-Leg,	Dowel-Parallel	(5,	8,	10	reps	of	5-second	holds)
Level	2:
Add	2.5	pound	ankle	weights
	
Quadruped	Hip	Extension
Bent-Leg,	Dowel-Perpendicular	Progression	with	Knee	on	Airex	Pad
Level	2:
Bent-Leg,	Dowel-Perpendicular	Progression	(5,	8,	10	reps	of	5-second	holds)
Level	3:
Add	2.5-pound	ankle	weights
Level	4:
Alternating	Arm	and	Leg	(5,	8,	10	reps	of	5-second	holds)
	

Supine	Progression
Level	1:
Cook	Hip	Lift	(3	sets	of	10,	12,	14	reps	each	leg)
Level	2:
Hands-Free	Cook	Hip	Lift
	
Isometric	Supine	Bridge	Progression
Level	1:
Isometric	Supine	Bridge	(3	x	30-second	holds)
Level	2:
Isometric	Single-Leg	Supine	Bridge	(3	x	15-second	hold	each	leg)
Level	3:
Bridge	with	Alternate	March	(5,	8,	10	x	5-second	hold	each	leg)
	

Upper-Body	Strength	Program
	
	
Vertical	Pulling	and	Pushing,	Horizontal	Pulling	and	Pushing,	Scapulo-thoracic
Training
	
Vertical	Pulling	Movements
Chin-up,	Neutral-Grip	Pull-up,	Pull-up,
Alternate-Grip	Pull-up,	Sternum	Chin-up
	
Horizontal	Pulling	Movements
All	done	with	one	foot	in	contact	with	the	ground,	except	the	inverted	and
rotational	rows
Level	1:
Dumbbell	Row,	Inverted	Row,	One-Arm	One-Leg	Row	(static	hip),
One-Leg	Squat	and	Pull
	
Inverted	row	progression	if	needed:	Knees	bent	feet	on	floor,	knees	straight	feet
on	floor,	knees	straight	feet	on	bench,	add	weight	vest	or	knees	straight	feet	on
stability	ball
Level	2:
One	Arm	One-Leg	Dumbbell	Row	(opposite	or	same	side	hand),	One-Arm	One-
Leg	Row	(Dynamic	Cable),	One-Arm	Two-Leg	Rotational	Row,	Squat	and	Pull
	
Pressing	Exercises
Progression:

Feet-Elevated,	Weight	Vest,	Unstable	Surface	(feet	or	hands),	Unstable	Surface
with	Feet
Elevated,	Unstable	Surface	with	Feet	Elevated	and	a	Weight	Vest
Barbell	Bench	Press,	Dumbbell	Bench	Press,	Alternate	Dumbbell	Bench	Press,
Incline	Dumbbell	Bench	Press,	Alternate	Incline	Dumbbell	Bench	Press,
Push-up,	Feet-Elevated	Push-up,	Core	Board	Rotational	Push-up,	Dumbbell
Rotational	Push-up,	Stability-Ball	Push-up
	
Prone	Shoulder	Circuit
Y,	T,	W,	L
Progression:	Two	sets	of	eight	reps	in	each	position	with	no	weight	and	no	rest
between	positions,	then	add	to	reps	per	week	up	to	sixteen	reps	in	each	position,
then	go	back	to	eight	reps	with	very	light	dumbbells.
	

In	Closing
	
	
Final	Thoughts
Terminology
Planes	of	Movement
Continuing	Education
	
	

Final	Thoughts
	
	
The	questions	I	get	in	the	Strength	Coach	forum	and	at	conferences	are	as
likely	to	be	about	my	work	life	as	they	are	about	specific	training	problems.	I’d
like	to	close	with	a	little	advice	to	the	young	coaches	and	trainers	about	our
working	lives	in	the	training	business.
We’ve	learned	much	the	past	decade	that	will	have	a	huge	impact	on	how
you	train	your	athletes	and	clients,	and	our	industry	will	continue	to	change	and
grow.	As	I	noted	throughout	the	book,	it’s	vital	not	to	get	caught	in	the	trap	of
believing	so	intently	in	your	training	philosophy	you’re	unable	to	recognize	the
value	of	new	thinking.
Your	favorite	writers	and	coaches	will	be	wrong	from	time	to	time,	myself
included.	I’m	becoming	famous	for	changing	my	mind,	and	these	days	I	think
that’s	a	good	thing.	In	fact,	things	in	this	book	will	be	adapted	to	new
information,	and	perhaps	even	soon.
Keep	reading,	keep	watching	DVDs,	and	get	to	live	seminars.	In	reality,	it’s
best	to	reverse	those	in	priority,	because	in	a	live	seminar	you’re	getting	the
presenter’s	thoughts	as	of	that	day.	Production	time	for	a	DVD	presentation	is
usually	only	two	or	three	months.	Books	are	great	and	thorough	references,	but
they	take	most	of	a	year	or	more	to	write,	and	often	another	year	to	publish.
That’s	a	long	time	in	our	changing	field.
Another	good	alternative	for	continuing	education	are	the	electronic
podcasts	and	webinars…	current,	live	information	without	the	travel.
Conferences	are	better	for	a	variety	of	reasons,	and	I	encourage	you	to	make	an
annual	conference	a	priority,	but	today’s	electronic	options	such	as
strengthcoachpodcast.com
	and	
scwebinars.com
	help	bridge	the	gap	when
budgets	and	schedules	are	tight.
Keep	a	mix	of	all	formats	in	your	continuing	education,	but	don’t	let	up	on
learning.	That’s	the	main	thing.
The	activity	of	building	a	training	business	and	becoming	productive	is	a
process,	a	process	of	time	and	energy.	The	number	one	thing	you	can	do	for
productivity	is	get	up	early.	Successful	people	don’t	hit	the	snooze	button.	I
heard	a	great	tip	once	about	waking	up:

When	the	alarm	goes	off,	get	your	feet	on	the	ground.
I	have	lived	by	this	for	at	least	twenty	years	and	now	rarely	need	an	alarm.
Years	ago	I	read	the	advice	to	get	out	of	bed	instead	of	rolling	over	at	first
wake-up.	The	concept	is	related	to	sleep	quality	and	I	have	found	it	to	be	true:
Fifteen	extra	minutes	of	sleep	usually	leaves	me	more	tired.	If	I	wake	up	within
thirty	minutes	of	when	I	am	supposed	to,	I	get	my	feet	on	the	ground.
People	notice	they	get	email	from	me	at	4:45	a.m.	because	I	get	up,	go	to
my	computer,	and	check	my	email.	I	love	to	get	my	day	started	and	accomplish
things	on	my	list	before	daylight.	It	makes	me	feel	more	productive,	and	sets	the
day	on	a	good	roll.
I	read	another	efficiency	hint	once:	If	you	can	respond	to	an	email	in	under
a	minute,	do	it	immediately.	I	have	adopted	that	policy	as	best	I	can	and	it	has
really	helped.	I	can	interact	with	about	a	hundred	people	a	day	and	do	most	of	it
before	my	family	gets	out	of	bed.	This	also	allows	me	to	help	my	wife	by
throwing	in	a	load	of	laundry,	and	I	get	to	spend	time	with	my	children	in	the
morning	when	they	get	up.
I	also	make	a	point	to	write	everything	down.	I	keep	a	notebook	with	me	at
all	times	for	article	ideas,	program	ideas,	notes	and	to-do	lists.	It’s	much	too	easy
to	forget;	I	can’t	trust	my	memory	for	the	little	things.
Another	trick	I’ve	found	helpful	in	this	business	is	not	doing	paperwork	at
work.	This	sounds	silly	—	no	paperwork	at	work	—	but	I	try	to	coach,	observe
and	interact	with	my	coaches	and	clients	at	work.	I	do	paperwork	at	home	in	the
morning.
To	save	time	and	increase	work	productivity,	avoid	going	out	to	lunch.
What	a	waste	of	time;	the	lunch	hour	is	for	“normal”	people	who	don’t	like	their
jobs	and	need	an	hour	away	from	it.	Those	who	want	to	succeed	never	waste
even	a	half-hour	sitting	and	eating.	Lunch	takes	me	all	of	five	minutes.
Another	benefit	of	an	in-facility	lunch	is	it	helps	with	weight	control.	I	can’t
go	into	a	sandwich	shop	and	not	walk	out	with	a	bag	of	chips,	and	often	I’ve
eaten	the	bag	before	I	even	get	the	sandwich.	Instead	of	going	out	to	eat,	I	keep
protein	shakes	handy,	and	eat	every	three	hours	while	I	work.
Dinner	is	a	different	story.	Dinner	is	family	time.	I	bank	my	lunch	hour	so	I
can	use	it	at	dinner	with	my	family.
In	learning	and	time	usage,	I	have	a	tip	from	the	great	Zig	Ziglar.	He	calls
this	one	Joining	Automobile	University,	using	the	commute	time	to	learn	and	to
be	more	productive.	I	often	spend	two	hours	a	day	in	the	car,	when	I	make	all	my
phone	calls	for	the	day	and	record	my	podcast	interviews.	Audiobooks,	podcasts
and	electronic	recordings	abound	to	greatly	increase	your	business	and	training
knowledge;	when	the	workday	is	done,	it’s	time	for	Automobile	University.

As	a	coach	or	professional	trainer,	there	comes	a	point	when	you	realize
your	gym	time	is	no	longer	all	about	you.	Learn	to	do	brief	workouts.	If	you	are
a	busy	trainer,	you	don’t	have	time	to	lift	for	two	hours.	Try	to	do	four	or	five
high	intensity	cardiovascular	workouts	a	week.	For	me	these	are	either	twelve-to
fourteen-minute	threshold	rides,	usually	a	five-mile	Airdyne	ride	done	for	time,
or	a	series	of	distances	for	time.	My	favorites	are	timed	miles	or	half-miles	with
a	planned	heart	rate	recovery.	These	workouts	take	a	maximum	of	twenty
minutes.
In	addition,	I	love	Craig	Ballantyne’s	
Bodyweight	100
	program.	It	currently
takes	me	less	than	four	minutes	to	get	a	full	body	lift.	I	try	to	lift	twice	a	week,
but	probably	average	one	workout	every	five	days.
As	I	have	said	over	and	over,	the	secret	is	there	is	no	secret.	Read	about
how	to	save	time	and	how	to	be	more	productive.	Read	
The	One	Minute
Manager.
	That’s	a	great	start.
Pick	up	little	tricks.	Success	is	really	is	about	getting	up	and	being
organized.	I	find	time	to	personal	train	ten	to	fifteen	hours	a	week,	work	as	a
college	strength	and	conditioning	coach,	and	coach	pro	athletes	eight	hours	a
week,	all	the	while	keeping	up	with	writing	projects,	email	questions,	the
strengthcoach.com
	website	and	
strengthcoachblog.com
	posts.
I	love	the	idea	of	the	
ready-fire-aim
	approach.	I	would	rather	have
accomplished	one	thing	than	thought	about	three.
Here’s	another	great	tip,	and	I	wish	I	could	remember	who	to	credit	for	it:
Be	a	ninety-percent	person.	If	a	success-oriented	person	strives	to	do	a	hundred
percent,	he’ll	rarely	complete	anything.	That	last	ten	percent	kills	you,	and	it
stalls	you.	I	don’t	worry	about	making	every	article	or	DVD	perfect.	I	always
want	to	deliver	a	quality	product,	but	I	don’t	obsess	over	it	anymore.	Don’t	over-
plan	or	over-think,	just	strive	to	get	a	lot	done.	Make	a	list	and	start	checking
stuff	off.
I	hope	you	find	this	book	to	be	a	great	ninety-percent	effort.	Just	remember,
for	a	true	hundred-percent	person,	a	ninety-percent	effort	still	gets	an	A.
	

Terminology
	
	
Prone	vs	supine
Prone	is	lying	face	down;	supine	(spine	down)	is	face	up.
Superior	vs	inferior
Superior	means	closer	to	the	head;	inferior	means	closer	to	the	feet.
Medial	vs	lateral
Medial	refers	to	nearer	to	the	center;	lateral	refers	to	farther	from	the	center.
Posterior	vs	anterior
Posterior	is	toward	the	back;	anterior	is	toward	the	front.
Distal	vs	proximal
Distal	means	farther	from	the	torso;	proximal	means	closer	to	the	trunk.
Extension	vs	flexion
Extension	straightens	a	joint;	flexion	bends	the	joint.
Supination	vs	pronation
Supination	and	pronation	are	used	to	describe	action	at	the	feet	or	forearm.
In	the	feet,	supination	refers	to	excessive	outward	action;	pronation	refers	to	the
ankle	turning	in.	With	the	forearm,	supination	refers	to	turning	the	palm	up;
pronation	refers	to	turning	the	palm	down.
Medial	vs	lateral	rotation
Medial	rotation	turns	toward	the	center	of	the	body	as	in	internal	rotation;
lateral	rotation	turns	away	from	the	body	externally.
Inversion	vs	eversion
Inversion	turns	the	foot	or	hand	in;	eversion	turns	out.
Elevation	vs	depression

Elevation	means	upward;	depression	means	downward.	These	terms	are
most	often	used	to	describe	faulty	scapula	position,	too	high	or	too	low.
Protraction	vs	retraction
Protraction	moves	a	joint	forward;	retraction	moves	it	backward.
Adduction	vs	abduction
Adduction	brings	the	limb	in	toward	the	body;	abduction	moves	it	away.
Dorsiflexion	vs	plantar	flexion
Dorsiflexion	at	the	ankle	is	to	bring	the	toes	toward	the	shin;	plantar	flexion
points	the	toes	away.
Joint	mobility	vs	flexibility
Joint	mobility	encompasses	the	ability	of	the	joint	to	move	through	it’s	full
range	of	motion;	flexibility	is	about	muscles,	not	joints,	and	is	about
lengthening.
Stability	vs	mobility
Stability	is	the	muscle,	tendon	and	ligament	action	needed	to	hold	a	joint	in
position;	mobility	requires	the	correct	muscle	action	on	one	side	of	a	joint	and
the	necessary	muscular	flexibility	on	the	other	to	produce	full	movement	through
a	joint’s	range	of	motion.
Activation	vs	dormant
Activation	means	an	action	to	trigger	a	muscle	to	fire	well;	dormant	refers
to	an	inactive	muscle	group,	at	varying	levels	from	fully	inactive	to	fully
engaged.
Tendons,	ligaments,	fascia,	myofascia
	Tendons	connect	muscles	to	bones;
ligaments	connect	bone	to	bone;	fascia	is	connective	tissue	that	covers	soft	tissue
from	head	to	toe,	superficial	to	deep;	myofascia	is	fascia	covering	muscle.
Lordotic	vs	kyphotic	vs	lordosis	vs	kyphosis
	Lordotic	is	the	curve	of	the
spine	bending	to	the	front;	kyphotic	bends	toward	the	rear;	lordosis	describes	too
much	lumbar	curve;	kyphosis	describes	too	much	bend	at	the	thoracic	spine	(to
the	rear).
Bilateral	vs	unilateral
Bilateral	refers	to	both	sides	of	the	body	working	together;	unilateral	is	one

side	working	alone.
Concentric	vs	eccentric
Concentric	shortens	the	muscle;	eccentric	lengthens,	ie	in	biceps	curls	the
concentric	action	brings	the	wrist	toward	the	shoulder;	eccentric	returns	the	wrist
to	the	side.
Isometric	vs	isotonic
Isometric	changes	the	muscle	tension	without	changing	the	length;	isotonic
changes	the	muscle	tension	while	changing	the	length.
Origin	vs	insertion
Origin	of	a	muscle	is	the	stationary	attachment	site	of	muscle	to	bone;
insertion	is	the	mobile	attachment	end	site.
Primer	mover,	synergist,	antagonist
Prime	mover	is	the	main	muscle	that	carries	out	an	action;	synergist	assists
the	prime	mover;	antagonist	performs	the	opposite	action.
	

Planes	of	Movement
Sagittal,	Frontal,	Transverse
	
	
Sagittal	refers	to	forward	or	backward;	frontal	(aka	coronal)	refers	to	side	to
side;	transverse	refers	to	rotational.
Sagittal	plane	motion	would	include	forward	and	backward	motions,	like
sit-ups,	back	extensions	or	biceps	curls.	The	sagittal	plane	cuts	through	the
center	of	the	body,	so	the	motion	is	front	to	back	or	back	to	front,	including
straight	forward	running.	Squats	involve	flexion	(forward	motion)	and	extension
(backwards	on	the	way	up),	so	would	fit	mostly	into	the	sagittal	plane.
Frontal	plane	motion	would	include	leaning	from	left	to	right	as	in
sidebends	and	lateral	raises.	Picture	jumping	jacks	for	a	good	image	of
movement	along	the	frontal	plane.
Transverse	plane	motion	is	the	hardest	to	comprehend	because	the	plane	is
horizontal	as	it	divides	the	top	from	the	bottom.	It’s	hard	to	get	our	heads	around
it	being	a	rotating	action.	The	main	thing	to	remember	is	rotation.
An	example	of	a	transverse	plane	exercise	would	be	floor	to	overhead
diagonals	with	a	medicine	ball,	and	a	transverse	activity	might	be	swinging	a
golf	club.
	

Continuing	Education
	
	
Books
	
Anatomy	Trains
Thomas	Myers,	Leon	Chaitow,	D.	Juhan
Athletic	Body	in	Balance
Gray	Cook
Bigger	Faster	Stronger
Greg	Shepard
Brawn
Stuart	McRobert
Core	Performance
Mark	Verstegen
Diagnosis	and	Treatment	of	Movement
Impairment	Syndrom
es
Shirley	Sahrmann
Goals!
Brian	Tracey
How	to	Win	Friends	and	Influence	People
Dale	Carnegie
Low	Back	Disorders,	Second	Edition
Stuart	McGill

Mechanical	Low	Back	Pain
James	A.	Porterfield,	Carl	Derosa
Muscles
Testing	and	Function	with	Posture	and	Pain
Florence	Peterson	Kendall,	et	al
Physical	Examination	of	the	Spine	and	Extremities
Stanley	Hoppenfeld
Seven	Habits	of	Highly	Effective	People,	The
Stephen	R.	Covey
	
Starting	Strength,	Second	Edition
Mark	Rippetoe,	Lon	Kilgore
Strongest	Shall	Survive,	The
Bill	Starr
Trail	Guide	to	the	Body,	Third	Edition
Andrew	R.	Biel
The	Trigger	Point	Therapy	Workbook,	Second	Edition
Clair	Davies,	Amber	Davies
Ultimate	Back	Fitness	and	Performance
Stuart	McGill
Ultra-prevention,	The	6-week	Plan	That
Will	Make	You	Healthy	for	Life
Mark	Hyman,	Mark	Liponis
	
DVD	Training
	

Functional	Strength	Coach	3.0	DVD	Series
A	Joint	by	Joint	Approach	to	Training
Michael	Boyle
Visit	Perform	Better	for	details
Online	Webinars
	
Strength	and	conditioning	webinars	from	a	variety	of	presenters
Visit	strengthandconditioningwebinars.com
Continuing	Education	Seminars
	
MBSC	Mentorship
See	bodybyboyle.com
Perform	Better	One-day	Workshops
Perform	Better	Summits
Gray	Cook’s	Functional	Movement	Screen	Course
See	
performbetter.com
	for	the	above
For	regular	updates	as	our	thinking	evolves,	new	insights,	photos,	videos
and	explanations	of	anything	in	the	book	that	may	have	been	confusing,	and
for	quick	suggestions	to	your	most	complicated	programming	questions,
join	your	peers	at	StrengthCoach.com.