Breakthrough
Swimming
Cecil Colwin

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Colwin, Cecil.
Breakthrough swimming / Cecil M. Colwin.
p. cm.
Includes bibliographical references and index.
ISBN 0-7360-3777-21. Swimming--History.  I. Title.
GV836.4 .C65  2002
797.2'1'09--dc21
2001039994
ISBN-10: 0-7360-3777-2ISBN-13: 978-0-7360-3777-8
Copyright © 2002 by Cecil M. ColwinAll rights reserved.  Except for use in a review, the reproduction or utilization of this work in any form or by any electronic ,
mechanical, or other means, now known or hereafter invented, including xerography, photocopying, and recording, and
in any information storage and retrieval system, is forbidden without the written permission of the publisher.
Portions of this work are based on the book Swimming Into the 21st Century  (1992), authored by Cecil M. Colwin and
published by Human Kinetics.Developmental Editor:  Cynthia McEntire; Assistant Editor:  Scott Hawkins; Copyeditor:  John Wentworth; Proof-
reader:  Erin Cler; Indexer:  Margaret Colwin; Permission Manager:  Toni Harte; Graphic Designer: Nancy Rasmus;
Graphic Artist:  Francine Hamerski; Photo Manager:  Clark Brooks; Cover Designer:  Robert Reuther; Photographer
(cover):  Darren England/ALLSPORT; Photographers (interior):  See credit notices on page ix; Art Manager:  Craig
Newsom; Line Drawings:  Cecil M. Colwin; figure 6.1 by Robert B. Colwin; Mac Illustrations:  Interactive
Composition Corporation; Printer:  Versa Press
Human Kinetics books are available at special discounts for bulk purchase.  Special editions or book excerpts can also
be created to specification.  For details, contact the Special Sales Manager at Human Kinetics.
Printed in the United States of America 10  9  8  7  6Human Kinetics
Web site: www.HumanKinetics.com
Australia:  Human Kinetics
57A Price AvenueLower Mitcham, South Australia 506208 8372 0999e-mail: liaw@hkaustralia.com
New Zealand:  Human Kinetics
Division of Sports Distributors NZ Ltd.
P.O. Box 300 226 AlbanyNorth Shore CityAuckland0064 9 448 1207e-mail: info@humankinetics.co.nzUnited States:  Human Kinetics
P.O. Box 5076Champaign, IL 61825-5076800-747-4457e-mail: humank@hkusa.com
Canada:  Human Kinetics
475 Devonshire Road Unit 100
Windsor, ON N8Y 2L5800-465-7301 (in Canada only)e-mail: orders@hkcanada.com
Europe:  Human Kinetics
107 Bradford Road
StanningleyLeeds LS28 6AT, United Kingdom+44 (0) 113 255 5665e-mail: hk@hkeurope.com

To Margaret, my wife and best friend these many years

vContents
Acknowledgments vii
Credits ix
Introduction xi
Part I Development of Stroke Fundamentals
Chapter 1 History of the Swimming Strokes 3
Chapter 2 Breakthroughs in Stroke Techniques 33
Chapter 3 Strokes, Starts, and Turns 49
Part II Movement Through Water
Chapter 4 Understanding Hydrodynamics 75
Chapter 5 Propulsive Mechanisms of Speed Swimming 91
Chapter 6 Coaching the Feel of the Water 107
Part III Advances in Training
Chapter 7 Progression of Training Methods 123
Chapter 8 Principles of Modern Training 137
Chapter 9 Physiological Research and Applications 151
Chapter 10 Development of a Training Program 167
Part IV Past, Present, and Future of the Sport
Chapter 11 Evolution of Competitive Swimming 185
Chapter 12 Doping, Testing, and Modern Efforts to Gain an Edge 207
Chapter 13 Looking Back, Looking Ahead 217
Appendix A 400-Year Bibliography of the Historical
Development of the Swimming Strokes 229
References 233
Index 239
About the Author 247

viiAcknowledgments
This book was made possible through the di-
rect and indirect help of a great number of
people. I wish to express my most sincere
thanks to all of them, although their numberprecludes my naming more than a few.
Colleagues and Contributors
Edward Atraghji, formerly of the CanadianAeronautical Establishment, taught me aboutflow visualization and provided helpful sug-
gestions on the treatment of the fluid dynamic
content of this text.
Dr. David Pyne, Physiologist, Australian In-
stitute of Sport, contributed chapter 9 on thephysiology of swimming training and sharedhis unique experience in day-to-day practical
work with some of the world’s greatest swim-
mers.
William “Buck” Dawson wrote on the his-
tory of American swimming in chapter 11.
Nort Thornton, head swimming coach of the
University of California at Berkeley, gave per-
mission to use material from his excellent ar-
ticle, “A Few Thoughts on Training,” from theASCA magazine.
Thomas Kirk Cureton gave permission to
use materials from chapter 4 of How to TeachSwimming and Diving  (1934), published by As-
sociation Press, New York, and to use the chap-ter footnotes as a framework in compiling mychronological bibliography of the history of the
swimming strokes.
Resource Specialists
I am particularly grateful to those who guided
me to valuable sources of information that I
otherwise would have missed.
Liana Van der Bellen, chief of the Rare Books
Division, National Library of Canada, gave meinvaluable assistance in researching the works
of Thevenot (1620–1692) and Olaus Magnus(1490–1557) and even placed before me origi-nal books by the two, both in pristine condition.
Dave Kelly of the Library of Congress in
Washington, D.C. and Harry McKown, refer-ence associate of the North Carolina Collection,
Wilson Library, the University of North Caro-
lina at Chapel Hill, went to great lengths toprovide references on the early development of
American swimming. I express my deepest
appreciation to both for their courtesy andcooperation.
Sasha Orivi of the State Library of Victoria in
Melbourne conducted a search for, and pro-vided the first detailed account of, the first
swimming race in Australia.
Mardyth Hewitt of the National Library of
Canada and Michelle Robichaud of the Libraryof Parliament provided expertise in locating
William Byrd’s diary.
Robert Schleihauf granted permission to pre-
pare and publish drawings adapted from illus-trations in “Swimming Propulsion: A Hydro-dynamic Analysis” (1977).
Cornell University Press, Ithaca, New York,
gave permission to use the extract from 1stcentury Roman poet, Manilius, as contained in
Sport in Greece and Rome.
Dr. Kare I. Birkeland and Dr. Peter Hem-
mersbach, both of the Hormone Laboratory,Aker Hospital, Oslo, Norway, and the publish-
ers of Sports Medicine,  Adle International, gave
permission to use information from their ar-
ticle “The Future of Doping Control in Ath-
letes.”
Dr. Brent Rushall gave permission to reprint
the list of positive drug tests by swimmer bycountry as it appeared in Swimming’s Hall of
Shame  published by Sports Science Associates.
Karin Helmstaedt gave permission to re-
print from her coverage of the German drugtrials as reported in Swimnews,  July 2000, and
also to Swimnews  for permission to reprint this
article.

viiiAcknowledgments
Professor Steven Vogel gave permission to
reprint from his book Cat’s Paws and Catapults.
John Leonard, executive director of the
American Swimming Coaches Association,
gave permission to adapt from his articles oncoaching certification and his report on the
FINA Conference on Doping Control, Hong
Kong, March 2000.
Betty Armbruster gave permission to reprint
from the work of her late father, David A.Armbruster, Competitive Swimming and Diving
(1942), four sets of sequence drawings (namely
of the freestyle stroke, backstroke, breaststroke-
butterfly, and butterfly-breaststroke).
Dr. Phillip Whitten, editor in chief of Sports
Publications, Inc., gave permission to reprintfrom “A Century of Change,” an article writtenby the author that originally appeared in Swim-
ming World , December 1999, as well as the
ranking lists of the top male and female swim-mers of the 20th century.
N. J. Thierry, editor and publisher of
Swimnews  magazine and secretary of the Inter-
national Swimming Statisticians’ Association,
gave general permission to use extracts from
Swimnews  and prepared the graphs of progres-
sion of long-course and short-course world
records on pages 195 and 196.
Fred Wilt, Olympic runner, Sullivan Award
winner, and acknowledged authority on tracktraining, kindly reviewed the information about
the influence of track training on swimmingand checked it for accuracy.
Gilmore Reproductions of 61 Queen Street,
Ottawa, provided photocopying services andthe use of advanced technologies in making
copies of text and artwork. Their help and
kindness in the preparation of three books overthe years have been invaluable.I am grateful to Colin Trewavas, Municipal
Research and Merseyside Records Office,Liverpool, England, for his courtesy and kind-
ness in providing access to records and photo-
graphs of milestones in the history ofLiverpool’s bath and washhouses, which were
among the first pools built in England.
Whatever else a book may be, it is ulti-
mately an offering to its potential readers, andit must be presented to them in a form that is
accessible and attractive. A vast symbolic dis-tance often separates the head of an author
from the eyes of a reader, and those who seek
to bridge that gulf, or at least to narrow it, beara weighty responsibility . It can only succeed
in the hands of men and women who revere
books and their making. Of these there aregreater and lesser, which is why an author
published under the imprimatur and imprint
of Human Kinetics must never forget his goodfortune. In this regard, I express my deep
appreciation to my publisher, Rainer Mar-
tens; acquisitions editor, Ted Miller; and de-velopmental editor, Cynthia McEntire, whose
advice and expertise were invaluable. I also
appreciate very much the advice of art direc-tor Craig Newsom and the expert efforts of
sales director Charles Walters and marketing
manager Kelley Halliburton. Thanks are ex-tended to assistant editor Scott Hawkins who
ensured the book’s smooth progress through
the final production stages.
Last, but by no means least, I owe a special
debt of gratitude to my wife, Margaret, for herhard work and assistance in preparing the finaldraft of this book. Her encouragement, wise
counsel, patience, and untiring efforts eased
the task.

ixCredits
Photos
Photo of Janet Evans on page 3 © Rob Tringali Jr./
SportsChrome USA.
Photo of Lenny Krayzelburg on page 33 © Bongarts/
SportsChrome USA.
Photo of Krisztina Egerszegi on page 49 © Bongarts/
SportsChrome USA.
Photo of Kristy Kowal on page 75 © Michael Zito/
SportsChrome USA.
Photo of Lenny Krayzelburg on page 91 © Michael
Zito/SportsChrome USA.
Photo of Jenny Thompson on page 107 © Rob Tringali
Jr./SportsChrome USA.
Photo of Ashley Chandler on page 123 © Rob Tringali
Jr./SportsChrome USA.
Photo of Yana Klochkova on page 137 © Marco Chiesa.
Photo of Amy Van Dyken on page 151 © Rob Tringali
Jr./SportsChrome USA.
Photo on page 156 © Cecil Colwin.Photo of Alexander Popov on page 167 © Bongarts/
SportsChrome USA.
Photo of Mark Spitz on page 185 © Gjuljano
Bevilacqua/SportsChrome USA.
Photo on page 207 © Tony Demin/International Stock.Photo of Ian Thorpe on page 217 © Marco Chiesa.Figures
Figure 9.1  Reprinted, by permission, from B.E. Counsil-
man and J.E. Counsilman, 1991, “The residual effects
of training” Journal of Swimming Research  7:5-12.
Figure 10.2  from “Constructing workouts with energy
system considerations” by E.W. Maglischo in American
Swimming Coaches Association World Clinic Yearbook1985 (62) by T. Welsh (ed.), 1985, Fort Lauderdale, FL:
American Swimming Coaches Association. Reprinted
by permission of American Swimming Coaches Asso-ciation and E.W. Maglischo.
Figure 10.3 Reprinted, by permission, from T.O. Bompa,
1985, Theory and methodology of training  (Dubuque, IA:
Kendall/Hunt).
Figure 10.4  Reprinted, by permission, from T.O. Bompa,
1985, Theory and methodology of training  (Dubuque, IA:
Kendall/Hunt).
Tables
Table 10.1 Reprinted, by permission, from J.E. Counsilman,
1975, “Hypoxic and other methods of training evalu-
ated” Swimming Technique  12(1).
Table 10.2  Reprinted, by permission, from J.E. Counsilman,
1975, “Hypoxic and other methods of training evalu-ated” Swimming Technique  12(1).
Table 10.3 Adapted, by permission, from T. Absaliamov,
1984, “Controlling the training of top level swimmers”in How to develop  Olympic level swimmers  edited by J.L.
Cramer (Finland: International Sports Media) and
adapted, by permission, from D.B. Pyne and R.D.Telford, 1988, “Classification of training sessions” Ex-
cel 5(2).

xiThis book is about the evolution of competi-
tive swimming in all its major disciplines,
from its birth in early 19th-century England tothe present era.
Almost every era of competitive swimming
brought new ideas and breakthrough swim-mers, who with scant regard for the record
books, reached undreamed of heights. But
never have there been such spectacular break-throughs as those seen at the 2000 Sydney
Olympic Games and the 2001 World Champion-
ships in Fukuoka.
Breakthrough Swimming  focusses on the meth-
ods and the innovative thinking behind thesuccess of these modern swimming giants whohave literally destroyed seemingly unassail-
able marks, and brought the sport to a new high
level of performance.
Portions of this book are based on my earlier
work, Swimming Into the 21st Century  which
was published in 1992, after six years of prepa-ration, but I could not have foreseen a need so
soon for an expanded and almost completely
re-written edition. The tumultuous events ofthe last decade of the 20th century dictated
otherwise. Without doubt, no other period in
the history of swimming has presented greaterchallenge or change.
The so-called velvet revolutions of the late
1980s that overturned Communism and even-tually the Soviet Empire had an enormous im-
pact on every aspect of modern life, including
sport. The breakup of the Soviet Union sawseveral new independent states join the ranks
of FINA (the international swimming federa-
tion), with a resultant increase in the number ofswimmers competing in major international
meets such as the Olympics and the World
Championships.
With the reunification of Germany on Octo-
ber 2, 1990, literally thousands of East Germansport administrators, coaches, and sport scien-tists suddenly became unemployed. It is un-
known to what extent they became part of the
new Germany, although some of their coachesfound employment in other parts of the world.
What they contributed to swimming in other
countries is unknown, but at least one of theirnumber spent some time in China, conducting
clinics in that country. The appearance of
performance-enhancing drugs in Chineseswimming seemed to have coincided with the
fall of the East German regime.
It is rare that one is given the chance to tackle
a job a second time, and this carefully researchednew edition is but a modest attempt to bring
past, present, and future into unison. However,we should not view the evolution of competi-
tive swimming as a continuing linear process
because the pioneers of the sport proceededdown many dead ends and also frequently
failed to develop potentially valuable ideas.
The gold was there but often thrown away to beretrieved by others years later.
The process of change consisted of long peri-
ods of normal development in which there werefew deviations from the paradigms of existing
ideas. Then would follow a shorter period of
pronounced change, as rival ideas fought totake the place of a dominant framework that
was beginning to decay through lack of progress.
The first part of the book introduces the
reader to the ingenuity of the great coach-educators and how their restless inventiveness
and persistence gradually built the technicalfoundations of a great sport. The evolution of
the swimming strokes is described and illus-
trated in detail, from the start of formal compe-tition in the early 1830s through the advanced
techniques of today.
The 19th century saw experiments with dif-
ferent versions of the sidestroke, followed laterby the trudgen stroke. Then, as if to celebrate
the start of the 20th century, came an entirelyIntroduction

xiiIntroduction
new way of swimming, the surprisingly fast
crawl stroke. But it took most of the 20th cen-tury for the crawl stroke to be improved and
refined until it became the beautiful, smooth-
flowing action exhibited by Pieter van denHoogenband, Ian Thorpe, Alexander Popov,
and Susie O’Neill at the 2000 Sydney Olympic
Games, where they brought the understandingof crawl-stroke swimming into a new millenium
and a new paradigm.
Over the years, during all the experiment-
ing with new stroke mechanics, the questionwas often asked, “But what happens to the
water when a swimmer exerts effort againstit?” The answer is that we don’t exactly know,
but it seems obvious that if swimming and
swimmers are to continue to improve we willneed to become far more adept at manipulat-
ing the reacting flow with ever increasing
efficiency. Then we ask other questions: Howmuch effort should a swimmer exert against
the water? Do we apply more effort than nec-
essary? Here again, we don’t rightly know.Suffice it to say that the text breaks new ground
in describing how by studying the flow reac-
tions created by the swimming stroke, certainfluid dynamic principles can be used to un-
derstand, analyze, and improve stroke me-
chanics.
The discussion on the evolution of training
methods commences with the methods usedby the 19th-century pioneers then progressesthrough the 20th century to the state-of-the-art
scientific training methods used by the world’s
best swimmers in preparing for the 2000 Olym-pic Games.
The doughty champions of Victorian En-
gland pursued training methods characterizedby ignorance and superstition. The old style
regimen of reducing a man to a living skeleton
by physicking, purgings, sweatings, andbleedings, to build him up afresh was stupid as
well as cruel.
At the beginning of the 20th century, track
athletes were already experimenting with in-terval training, but this form of training wasn’t
adapted to competitive swimming until 50 yearslater in the mid-1950s. Before this time, swim-
mers were too preoccupied with perfecting
techniques and had no idea of how much stressthe human body could tolerate. The watch-word was “train but do not strain!”
The chapters on training describe how, in the
1950s, Yale and U.S. Olympic coach RobertKiphuth introduced a method called wind-sprints, which consisted of 50-meter sprints
interspersed with one-minute rest periods. Later
interval training methods used on the runningtrack were successfully adapted to swimming
by the Australians who combined them with
Kiphuth’s earlier model. Not surprisingly, theywent on to win the majority of the swimming
medals in the 1956 Olympics. In the 1960s, Dr.
James Counsilman developed the first clearoutline of how different work-to-rest ratios
used in swimming training produced specific
physiological effects. As a direct result of hisemphasis on empirical research and useful ap-
plication, this era saw one of the greatest for-
ward surges in swimming history.
Included in the discussion on training meth-
ods is a brilliant contributing chapter by Dr.David Pyne, physiologist to the Australian In-stitute of Sport and to the successful Australian
National Swimming Team. Dr. Pyne covers the
physiology of modern swimming training andthe preparation of swimming teams for top-
flight international competition. In this state-
of-the-art presentation, Dr. Pyne presents in-sightful views on future directions for the
successful application of scientific training.
The last part of this book traces the history of
competitive swimming, examines the currentproblems facing the sport, and looks ahead to
future innovations. The colorful story of thegrowth of organized competitive swimming is
covered in depth. This chapter spans the entire
panorama of competitive swimming, from itsstart in 1837 as a professional sport to its reign
as an amateur sport for the next 100 years and
then its insidious return to professionalism inthe late 20th century. The text describes the
growth of international swimming and the birth
of FINA as the international governing body ofswimming, a development largely brought
about by prominent British officials who based
the FINA constitution on that of the AmateurSwimming Association of Great Britain.
The development of the great Australian tra-
dition in swimming is covered in depth, begin-

Introduction xiii
ning with the construction of the first swim-
ming pool in the 1870s and continuing to thereorganization of their national swimming pro-
gram in the late 20th century , which led to the
notable successes of Australian swimmers atthe Sydney Olympics. Following the Austra-
lians is an account of the outstanding record
and great contribution to world swimming bythe United States, the giant of world swimming
in terms of technical knowledge, coaching ex-
perience, excellence, and a long roster of bril-liant Olympic champions that continued to in-
crease at the Sydney Olympics. The growth of
the national program concept and the suddenand remarkable rise to supremacy by the Japa-
nese swimmers in the 1930s is also covered.
The chapter on the doping plague in swim-
ming discusses the so-called success of theformer state-sponsored East German program,
which was based on the illegal administrationof performance-enhancing drugs to athletes
under the charge of state officials, and the
subsequent trials of the officials involved. Thereis also a detailed account of the current doping
problem in Chinese swimming, whose athletes
have tested positive far more frequently thanthose of other countries. In the past 30 years, the
scourge of doping has gradually reached a
crisis point where the survival of competitiveswimming now lies in the balance. The most
astute minds of our sport, almost without ex-
ception, agree on this point.
The last 10 years have seen the abandonment
of the once holy grail of amateurism and thegrowing influence of large corporate sponsors,warmly welcomed by officialdom as partners
in the sport. The availability of prize money
and large endorsement fees tempt the use ofperformance-enhancing drugs, a problem that
shows no sign of diminishing, despite attempts
to fight it.
With these changes has come a growing
disregard, in some quarters, for the integrityof the sport and the educational values inher-ent in hard work and honest effort, not tomention the thrill and challenge of fair compe-tition. As swimming moves into the new mil-
lennium, it is clear to keen observers that the
sport is in danger of losing its connection tothe traditions and values on which it was built.
Unfortunately, people who abhor these trends
often feel powerless, inadequate, and drainedin the face of the attendant subterfuge and
dissimulation.
In many countries, faceless bureaucratic sys-
tems control all levels of sport, and politics hasbecome almost a vocation within their national
offices, a job for professional administratorsand pragmatists rather than the idealists and
innovators of the past. The centralization of
power in national headquarters and nationalsport centers, to a large extent, leads to a denial
of individuality.
Swimming needs enlightened and coura-
geous leadership to help meet these internaltransformations. Instead, the love of power
and personal prestige has become a preoccupa-tion for many, and the old boys’ network re-
mains a constituent part of the so-called Olym-
pic family.
There exists also the anomaly of an osten-
sible amateur body conducting a professionalsport. Many are convinced of the need for arevised FINA constitution that would reflect
the changed nature of the sport, as well as
address the need for a more equitable votingsystem that recognizes the contribution of
FINA’s founding nations and the generations
of outstanding coaches whose knowledge andexperience have led to so much progress.
By giving special attention to the connective
tissue that binds each phase of the sport’s de-velopment, it may still be possible to take the
best from the past and add it to the present to
make a better future. With renewed pride in thetraditions of our sport, we may yet be able to
tackle the future with confidence, purpose, and
resolve.

PART I
Development
of StrokeFundamentals

3Chapter 1
History of the
Swimming Strokes
From the sparse descriptions on
record, early attempts at swimming
probably consisted of random arm
and leg movements with no spe-
cific techniques; otherwise, we
know little of the early history of
human swimming. Before or ga-
nized competitive swimming
started in England, about 170 years
ago, there was little need to develop
methods beyond those that camenaturally to each individual.
The technical development of
swimming didn’t start until the mid-
19th century with the building of
swimming pools, the invention ofthe stopwatch, and the beginning
of competitive swimming as a for-
mal sport.
The first competitive swimmers
were more intent on developing
good style rather than speed. Grace-
ful and elegant movements, with a
minimum of splashing, were con-
sidered the hallmarks of style by
the early exponents of the sport.
This was evident in 1844, when
English swimmers saw the swim-ming methods of visiting North
American Indians in London. Be-
cause the Indians’ more advancedoverarm strokes were characterized
by wild splashing, their methodswere dismissed by the English as
unworthy of imitating.

4Breakthrough Swimming
Neither did the English know that across the
broad expanses of the Pacific Ocean, the inhabit-
ants of Polynesia and Melanesia had been swim-ming with overarm strokes for more than a thou-
sand years. And along the coasts of South
America, Africa, and India, versions of thetrudgen stroke, another technique more advanced
than those that existed in Western culture, had
been swum naturally for time immemorial.
Swimming in the Ancient World
Archaeologists know that humans developed
watercraft by 40,000 years ago, and so it’s rea-
sonable to assume people were swimming bythat time (Nemecek 2000). Many of these early
swimming activities seem to have been part of
religious rituals, recreation, or military maneu-vers.
Swimming is one of the oldest arts, if we are to
form an opinion from the fact that no trace of its
origin, discovery, invention or improvement isto be found in any of the ancient writings.
—William Wilson (1883)The first human swimmers most likely lived
by the sea or near warm rivers. Five thousand
years ago humans learned to divert rivers suchas the Nile, the Euphrates, and the Indus, and
it’s likely that people living in these regions
were at home in the water and swam fre-quently.
In the ancient world, diverting rivers to
protect city–states led to swimming for mili-tary purposes. Bas-reliefs housed in the Brit-
ish Museum show a river crossing by Assur-
nasir-pal, King of Assyria, and his army. Whenthese reliefs were found in the ruins of the
royal palace at Nimroud, students of swim-
ming techniques were excited because here, atlast, they expected to find evidence of swim-
ming skills used in ancient times. Nineteenth-
century observers thought the reliefs showedsoldiers swimming either sidestroke or the
trudgen stroke, while 20th-century observers
concluded that the Assyrians were actuallyswimming the crawl stroke! And so, as al-
ways, conclusions are drawn from one’s own
vantage point.
The Baths of Caracalla and other baths built
by the Romans were enormous, but the swim-ming tanks set aside for actual swimming were
very small. Those at Pompeii were only 13 feet
Descriptions in Ancient Literature
A nobleman of the Middle Kingdom of Egypt (2160–1780 B.C.) proudly recorded that his
children took swimming lessons with the king’s children, but no mention is made of skills
being taught (Cureton 1934).
A few references to swimming are found in the Old Testament, but they, too, do not
elaborate on swimming skills possessed by ancient peoples. The following Biblical excerptsmust rank among the earliest references to swimming: “. . . he that swimmeth, spreadeth
forth his hands to swim” Isaiah 25:11 (approximately 760 
B.C.) and “. . . a river that I could
not pass over: for the waters were risen, waters to swim in, a river that could not be passed
over . . .” Ezekiel 47:5. (Ezekiel was exiled to Babylon in 597 B.C.)
Cursory references to swimming have been made over the centuries by the Egyptians,
Israelites, Accadians, Sumerians, Babylonians, Hittites, Greeks, Romans, and other ancientnations. Much has been made of the fact that the Romans were said to have considered no
branch of education more important than swimming, but like the other accounts from
ancient times, they left few descriptions of methods they used.
Translations from Greece and Rome speak of swimmers using alternating overarm
motions, and it’s possible that a type of overarm stroke may have been in common use longago. But this must remain pure conjecture because, as literate as the ancient Greeks andRomans were, their writings give few descriptions of actual swimming techniques.

History of the Swimming Strokes 5
wide, and Cicero complained that he needed a
wider pool to avoid hurting his hands against
the wall. However, the baths of Mohenjo-Dario
in the Indus valley (in today’s West Pakistan)
were somewhat larger. They measured 39 feet
long and 23 feet wide and were said to havebeen the birthplace of a form of synchronized
swimming that served a religious function
(Cottrell 1960).
In the Middle Ages, swimming became un-
popular throughout Europe because peoplebelieved water helped spread plague and othercommon epidemics. When people did swim,
they preferred a form of breaststroke that kept
their faces out of the water. Not until the secondhalf of the 19th century was prejudice against
swimming largely overcome.
Swimming in the Western World
In 16th- and 17th-century Europe, the breast-stroke was performed with the head held high
and completely out of the water (Thevenot1699). Instead of using a frog kick, propulsion
was applied with the insteps and not the soles
of the feet (Muths 1798).
Early in the 19th century, breaststroke swim-
mers adopted a frog kick in which the ankleswere dorsi-flexed and propulsion developedby pressing the soles of the feet against thewater (Counsilman 1968). As the stroke tech-nique developed, so did the drills used by
swimmers, although some of these drills were
strange (figure 1.1). Debate followed on whether
using the soles of the feet in the frog kick
yielded more propulsion than spreading thelegs and then straightening them before clos-
ing in a tight wedge, such as the kick shown in
figure 1.2 (Thomas 1904).
However, one rare and beautifully written passage was left to us by Manilius, a 1st-
century Roman poet, who waxes lyrical on the pleasures of swimming:
For just as the dolphin glides through the water on swift fins,now rising above the surface and now sinking to the depths,
and piles up waves and sends them off in circles, just so will
each person born under the sign of the Dolphin fly throughthe waves, raising one arm and then the other in slow arcs.
(Marcus Manilius (circa 14 
A.D.), from Astronomica , an unfinished poem on
astronomy and astrology.)
One can envision the scene 2,000 years ago: a balmy day, a buoyant sea, and a skilled
swimmer performing, yes, a type of overarm stroke. Across the centuries, a fellow enthusiast
conveys with words his love of the water and his fascination with swimming propulsion. His
reference to dolphin swimming was prophetic in the extreme, as imitating the dolphin actionis the most successful adaptation humans have made from nature to their own swimming
propulsion. And he must have had sharp eyes, for he describes not only technique but even
the reacting vortex flows in the water, an unusual observation even today.
Figure 1.1 In the 19th century, breaststroke drills
were weird and wonderful. From Dalton 1899.
Such discussions on the most efficient use of
the legs in the breaststroke kick marked thebeginning of technical thinking and a growing
interest in improving propulsion. Understand-
ing the positive effect that could be achieved bya slight change of technique was (and is) sig-
nificant; this ability later was to prove an im-
portant characteristic of a capable coach.

6Breakthrough Swimming
takes to a great extent account for the too often
unsuccessful efforts made by those who wish toteach themselves.” Wilson said that the major
propulsion should be obtained from the leg kick
because it is “easier to push the body forward
than to pull it through or along. The legs are
stronger than the arms, therefore it is economicalto obtain all the power possible from the lower
limbs” (p. 35). He added that learners tended to
use the arms with all the power possible, andthus pulled the body along (figure 1.4).Charles Steedman (1867) was probably the
first to caution against drawing the kneesforward under the body when swimming
breaststroke (figure 1.3). He said that this nega-
tive or retarding action caused resistance and
retarded the progress of the swimmer. He said
that by “bending the knees laterally, ratherthan under the body the draught of the latter
is decreased, or, in other words, the whole of
the body remains nearer the surface of thewater, and consequently the resistance to its
progress is much less” (p. 93).
Figure 1.4 Breaststroke arm action in the 1920s.
From Bachrach 1924.
Figure 1.2 The wedge kick style of breaststroke used in the 19th century. From Wilson 1883.
Figure 1.3 Breaststroke in the 19th century. Pulling
with straight arms and drawing the knees under the
body were common faults. From Sachs 1912.
William Wilson (1883) said that “another mis-
taken idea is that the propelling part of the kickis obtained from the soles of the feet; these mis-

History of the Swimming Strokes 7
Descriptions in Western Literature
Only in the last 400 years have references to swimming techniques appeared in books. Early
examples say little, mainly because stroke analysis was still in its infancy and underwaterobservation nonexistent.
Although Nicolaus Wynman wrote the first book on swimming, Colymbetes, sive de arte
natandi et festivus et iucundus lectu  (published in 1538 by H. Steiner of the University of
Ingolstadt, Augsburg, Swabia), an earlier book, The boke named the governour  by Sir Thomas
Elyot (published in 1531 by Thomas Berthelet in London), briefly discussed swimming as animportant part of the education of gentlemen. (Copies of The boke named the governour, 258folios, are housed in Cambridge University Library and the British Museum.)
But it was Wynman’s book, Colymbetes , that first instructed Europeans that the human
stroke was the stroke “which all must learn as the scientific stroke.” Colymbetes is a little
book in crabbed Latin, full of abbreviations and mistakes or misprints. Wynman, a German
Swiss professor at Ingolstadt University, mentioned that the cogent reason for not learning
to swim had been the mistaken belief that the souls who are confined to hell have to crossthe river Styx by swimming. If they cannot swim, how would they cross?
Within the next 50 years, two more books of note followed. Historia de gentibus
septentrionalibus Romae (History of the Northern People ) by Olaus Magnus was published in
Rome by Magno Gotho in 1555 and discussed swimming among the other leading customs
of northern people. The other book was De arte natandi (The Art of Swimming ) by Sir Everard
Digby, published in England in 1587 but written in Latin because it was considered vulgar in
certain quarters to write in English. Both books advocated breaststroke in preference to the
more primitive forms of swimming that existed at the time (Cureton 1934).
Had Digby written in his own language, as Elyot did, his book would have sold better and
also been too well known to have been so readily plagiarized or translated without
permission. As it was, Digby’s work was translated three times: twice into English and onceinto French. The French edition was translated into German, Spanish, and Italian. An
abbreviated translation of Digby’s work was published in 1595 by Middleton. Another,
published in 1658, professing to be original, was an almost literal translation by Percey, whoclaimed it to be his own work.
Next, Melchisedec Thevenot translated Digby’s original Latin work, De arte natandi , into
French, and it was published by T. Moette in Paris under the title of L ’art de nager in 1696,
four years after Thevenot’s death. In 1699, The Art of Swimming , translated back into English
from L ’art de nager , was published in London, the translator never suspecting that Thevenot
was not the original author (Thomas 1904). Thus Digby’s work was the only one known forcenturies to French and English swimmers, but few, if any, could have known that Digby had
been the original author because Thevenot was always given the credit for it. Even that great
scholar Benjamin Franklin, who got to the root of most things he touched, quotes Thevenotwithout the slightest suspicion that the original author was English.
Thevenot described swimming “as an old sport which hitherto had not received the
investigation necessary to improve in efficiency.” During Thevenot’s time, breaststroke wasstill considered the scientific stroke in Europe (Cureton 1934). Thevenot’s book was
regarded as the authoritative work on “scientific swimming,” as it was called then, and was
reprinted in 1764 and 1772.
In recognition of Thevenot’s perceived preeminence among swimming authors during a
century when swimming was considered a health hazard, Thevenot was inducted into theInternational Swimming Hall of Fame in 1990, nearly 300 years after his translation of Digby’s
(continued)

8Breakthrough Swimming
From Breaststroke to Sidestroke
Although humans are not ideally endowed by
nature to be highly proficient swimmers, they
eventually discovered that improved technique
could produce surprisingly facile and dexter-
ous propulsion. This fact explains the almost
obsessive fascination with stroke techniques inthe early years of swimming development.
For many, the improvement of swimming
skill became an interesting and fascinating in-tellectual exercise as well as a test of physical
ability. More often than not, clues leading to
improved methods were observed in the tech-niques of great natural athletes. The term natu-
ral athlete  is worth proper understanding.
Broadly stated, it means an athlete who doesthe right thing naturally, as part of his or her
true nature. Yet the progress of many a natural
athlete was stifled by the imposition of tech-niques that interfered with the swimmer’s natu-
ral movement inclination. Of course, much was
heard about their coaches’ successes but littleabout their failures.
When organized competitive swimming
started in the early 19th century , the sidestrokebecame the standard racing style. Both arms
remained submerged throughout, and the legs
performed a wide scissors kick with openingand closing movements that resembled walk-
ing. Swimmers eventually found they couldreduce resistance by recovering one arm over
the water instead of underwater as in the breast-
stroke. This stroke became known as the English
overarm sidestroke, and descriptions by theexperts of the day were belabored with numer-
ous fastidious points of technique (figure 1.5).
Figure 1.5 Early chart showing the mechanics
of the sidestroke. From Sinclair and Henry 1903,
p. 81.work had been published. Although Thevenot was a recognized scholar in many fields, astronger case can be made for Digby’s inclusion in the International Swimming Hall of Fame.
Although Ralph Thomas (1904) claimed that Thevenot in his famous book had plagiarized
Digby’s work, written a century before, the prestigious British Library Catalogue simply states
that Thevenot’s book was “adapted” from Digby’s De arte natandi . Another point for
consideration is that Thevenot’s book was published four years after his death, and it is more
than likely that Thevenot only translated Digby’s work for his own scholarly satisfaction,
without intent to publish it. The latter explanations would appear to be more plausible,particularly as Thevenot was a minor celebrity of his day, a highly respected and distin-
guished Oriental scholar, and a founder of the French Academy of Sciences. As librarian of
the Royal Library (from 1684), he collected many valuable books and manuscripts.Nevertheless, he never went out of Europe, and he did not know how to swim.
The more recent evolution of swimming in Western culture is ably recorded by several
outstanding authorities, and especially so in the classic descriptions by Steedman (1867),Wilson (1883), Sinclair and Henry (1903), Thomas (1904), Cureton (1934), and Carlile (1963).(continued)

History of the Swimming Strokes 9
With the start of widely organized swim-
ming championships in England in 1871, the
quest for speed encouraged even more swim-mers to improve their stroke efficiency (Sinclair
and Henry 1903). This desire for technical im-
provement was increased by the fact that until1906, there were no separate events for differ-
ent strokes. Except for the breaststroke, which
was sometimes swum as a novelty item, swim-mers competing in a single race used any stroke
they liked (Counsilman 1968).
Realizing the superior speed of the English
overarm sidestroke (figure 1.7), racers aban-doned the underarm stroke and recovered one
arm over the water (Cureton 1934). Sinclair andJ.A. Jarvis won many English champion-
ships with the use of what came to be known asthe “Jarvis kick.“ Jarvis was the “first to dis-
cover that certain movements of the feet were
of definite assistance in giving power to theEnglish side-overarm stroke and of improving
its speed“ (Sachs 1912, pp. 139-140).
H.D. Faith of the Otter Club describes Jarvis’s
kick in a small brochure titled The Over-Arm
Side Stroke  (1912):
The swinging forward of the top leg makes
the water around the leg wash forward inthe direction the leg is swinging. In the case
of the under leg a back wash is created. As
the legs are whipped together the top leg,coming back, meets and grips the water
which is still being washed forward, and
the under leg, coming forward, meets thewash going backward, the screw-like action
of the legs giving a continuous grip of the
water and making the stroke a continuationof screw and wedge (Sachs 1912, p. 140).
It’s easy to imagine how the sidestroke
evolved from the breaststroke. In effect, theearly underarm sidestroke was really the breast-stroke swum with the body turned on its side.
Swimmers found that by turning onto their
side they encountered less water resistance.Sachs (1912) says, “It is necessary to cleave the
water with the head or shoulder in order to
avoid undue resistance” (p. 133). At first, thesidestroke was swum with both arms in the
water during both pull and recovery; this was
known as the underarm sidestroke (figure 1.6).
Figure 1.6 “A figure swimming on the side, but
it is intended for the sidestroke.” From Reichel
1897 .
Figure 1.7 The English overarm sidestroke. From
Sachs 1912, p. 134.Figure 1.8 The Jarvis kick. From Sinclair and
Henry 1903, p. 83.Henry (1903) diagrammed overarm sidestroke
technique and wrote that the great exponents
of the art of swimming were the EnglishmenNuttall and Tyers, and no other nation had
swimmers capable of extending them. The kick
of the improved stroke that these swimmersused was a marvelous screw-like leg kick (scis-
sors kick), which also gained J.A. Jarvis marked
supremacy in England (figure 1.8).

10Breakthrough Swimming
Faith’s description indicates how advanced
the skill of lucid stroke analysis had become. Of
even greater interest is that Faith gives one ofthe few references to the flow reactions of the
water that exist in the historical literature.
The adoption of the English overarm side-
stroke showed a growing awareness of theimportance of decreasing resistance in propor-
tion to speed. The emphasis on the leg actionwas carried over from breaststroke swimming,
and the indications are that at this stage, a full
appreciation of the arms’ potential for propul-sion still did not exist. Nor did there appear to
be much concern about developing a more
continuous mode of progression, other thanthe fact that sidestroke swimmers were in-
clined to insert an extra tiny wedge (Jarvis) or
flutter kick (Nuttall) into the closing phase oftheir leg actions.
In his classic work The Swimming Instruc-
tor (1883), William Wilson describes the method
of the improved English overarm sidestroke.
The stroke’s popularity was apparent, and a
number of swimmers laid claim to having been
the first to use it. Harry Gurr—called the “Pocket
Hercules“ because of his short stature, healthyred skin, fair hair, and neat physique—and
Harry Gardner of Woolwich were the first who
won any races of importance by lifting onehand out of the water and carrying it in the air
beyond the head.
The influence of the dominant leg kick of
traditional breaststroke was hard to shake off.As a result, the pioneers were slow to appreci-
ate the potential power of the arms. Sachs(1912) describes how the double overarm stroke
was taught:
In the double overarm stroke, the left arm
is brought as far forward as it will go—the
head being immersed and even turned
slightly on to its left side in order to givethe arm full stretch. As the left arm is
pulled back towards the body, this ten-
dency towards turning on the left side willbe increased, and the right arm has thus
the opportunity of coming clear of the
water. The arm is then stretched ahead asfar as possible, and the body rolls back on
its right side again. It is necessary to ob-
serve here that this roll is very slight in-deed, and is confined to the head and
shoulders. It is mentioned only to assure
those who try this stroke that they cannotdo without it even to a modified extent
(Sachs 1912, pp. 142-143).
History shows the double overarm sidestroke
to have been a cul-de-sac in the development of
swimming. Because of the constant change in
body position and the consequent lack of con-
tinuity, the stroke was not very successful.
The Trudgen Stroke
John Trudgen was born at Poplar, London, onMay 3, 1852, and went to Buenos Aires with hisparents in 1863. While in Buenos Aires, he
learned the South American Indian stroke from
the natives, which was later named the trudgenstroke (figure 1.9) after his first appearance in a
swimming race in England on August 11, 1873.
English spectators were startled when
Trudgen won his first race, the English 160-
yard handicap, with a most unusual stroke.The idea for a double overarm stroke came
from observing his unusual technique, which
later was to become the basic arm stroke of thecrawl. (Keep in mind that the typical alternate,
overarm windmill stroke of the Pacific Island-
ers had been swum for hundreds of years.Only when this action became part of Western
swimming culture, after its rediscovery by the
Australians, did it receive its present name ofcrawl stroke. See pp. 15 and 16 for more infor-
mation.)
The difficulty with the trudgen stroke was
that it lacked continuity; in fact, it was veryjerky because it timed one breaststroke kick to
every two arm strokes. An attempt was madeFigure 1.9 The trudgen stroke.

History of the Swimming Strokes 11
to overcome this handicap by combining the
scissors kick of the sidestroke with the trudgen
arm action. The kick, originally performed withconsiderable knee-bend, was narrowed and
the legs were held straighter, but the timing of
the side scissors kick still prevented a perfectlycontinuous arm action (figure 1.10).According to Sinclair and Henry (1903, p.
87), Trudgen’s championship swim was de-scribed in the Swimming Record (August 12,
1873) by the editor, R.P . Watson:
His time was very fast, particularly forone who appears to know but little ofswimming, and should he become more
finished in style, we shall expect to see
him take a position almost second to noneas a swimmer.
I question, indeed, if the swimming
world ever saw a more peculiar strokesustained throughout a 160 yards race.
Here we had a man swimming apparently
easy, turning very badly, and when fin-ished, appearing as though he could have
gone at least another 80 yards at the same
pace. His action reminds an observer of astyle peculiar to the Indians; both arms are
thrown partly sideways, but very slov-
enly, and the head kept completely abovewater.
Sinclair and Henry (1903) agreed that
Watson’s opinion was well borne out, for
Trudgen afterward became one of the speediest
sprint swimmers of his time, and his peculiaraction became known as the trudgen stroke.
Trudgen swam high out of the water, thrusting
both arms in front of him with his chest andhead well raised but practically in the same
position as a breaststroke swimmer.
As a result of Trudgen’s influence, consider-
able experimentation followed with doubleoverarm swimming. Many swimmers still
wished to remain on their sides, however, be-cause they feared that swimming in a flat posi-
tion on the chest would cause too much frontal
resistance, so they developed a stroke in whichthey turned from side to side to enable an
alternate recovery of each arm.
There was no mention of a regular breathing
method within the rhythm of the trudgen stroke.One can only guess how this important aspect
of swimming technique evolved. Perhaps, asoften happens, it was by chance; as a double
overarm swimmer was turning from one side
to the other, the swimmer may have noticedbubbles escaping from the mouth while the
face was submerged. Of course, the next step
a
b
Figure 1.10 (a) Trudgen leg action. (b) Trudgen
arm action and body roll. From Bachrach 1924.

12Breakthrough Swimming
would have been to learn to breathe in a regular
rhythm with face-out-of-water inhalation fol-
lowed by steady exhalation again as the facesubmerged.
Trudgen’s hand-over-hand stroke was said
to be common to the ancients and the aborigi-nes of America and Africa. When the British
first tried it, they could not continue it for any
length of time. In the late 19th century manyforms of the trudgen stroke came to be swum
by sprint swimmers and water polo players.
Because the stroke was so fatiguing, few swim-mers could maintain it for over 200 yards,
although in short races it won preference over
the English side overarm stroke.
R. Thomas (1904) reported R.P. Watson as
saying, “imitation of the trudgen or Indianstroke had completely demoralized London-ers as swimmers.” The endeavor “to imitate
Trudgen, together with short distance handi-
caps, ranging from 80 to 90 yards have degen-erated Londoners to the level of mediocrity.
However, the stroke or a modification of it has
been taken up by water polo players with the
most undoubted advantage. The swimmer
appears to go much faster than with otherstrokes.”
Swimming in the New World
Back in time, to the dawn of history , primitivepeoples used the dog paddle, a stroke thatnaturally involves the principle of continu-
ous propulsion. With the addition of a breath-
ing technique, only one step is needed for thetransition from dog paddle to an overarm
stroke, but somehow making this slight
change never occurred to these early swim-mers. Today dog paddle is used only as a
temporary expedient in teaching beginners
to swim.
Around the 17th century, European swim-
mers started to copy the swimming move-ments of the frog, and from this came the stop-start action of the breaststroke, the first formal
type of swimming in Western culture (see
p. 5).
But recent research suggests a scattering ef-
fect that shows that the evolution of the swim-ming strokes did not follow a precise sequenceof events, such as that contained in the litera-
ture of Western civilization. To say that the
study of swimming was always an intellectualexercise would be incorrect because a veritable
hodgepodge of swimming strokes, completely
out of sync with the assumed traditional se-quence, were swum in various parts of the
world. In fact, the evolution of the swimming
strokes provides a fine example of how historycan take one body of evidence and turn it
around.
Most accounts of the history of the swim-
ming strokes have led us to believe that therehad been but one pure line of ancestry—a se-
quence from dog paddle, also called the humanstroke, to breaststroke, sidestroke, then trudgen,
and finally to our greatest creation, the crawl
stroke. In fact, this was not so because theprinciple of continuous propulsion, a deriva-
tive of the sport of ocean surfing, had already
been observed for thousands of years in theoverarm swimming strokes of the Polynesian
peoples.
Long before Magellan, Balboa, da Gama,
and Cook had broken out of the traditional
confines of European waters to pursue theirvoyages of discovery, the peoples of Polynesia
were naturally swimming the powerful over-
arm ocean stroke that later became known asthe crawl. While Europeans pursued their la-
borious methods of swimming, the indigenous
peoples of the South Seas had long been swim-ming the more facile overarm stroke that pro-
vided continuous propulsion instead of a stop-
start progression through the water.
In 1849, Sidney Howard, an American, pub-
lished The Science of Swimming as Taught and
Practiced in Civilized and Savage Countries , in
which he referred to de la Perouse’s trip around
the world in 1785. Captain de la Perouse said
that the Indians, or natives, of Easter Island(one of the South Sea Islands) were remarkable
swimmers using overhand strokes.
Not until the late 19th century did the self-
termed sophisticated swimmers of Europedeign to dispense with their quiet, graceful,
nonsplashing strokes and experiment with thenewfangled, hand-over-hand action displayed
to them with telling effect by visitors from
overseas.

History of the Swimming Strokes 13
How would the Pacific Islanders have viewed
the swimming of the 19th-century Europeans?
A raised hand would politely have coveredtheir smiles at the sight of the awkward stop-
start movements of the breaststroke, sidestroke,
and trudgen, and the theoretical explanationsthat accompanied their performance.
Let no one be mistaken: speed swimming
started in the majestic, thundering surf of thePacific Islands and not in the streams of the
bucolic European countryside. In contrast, the
400-year literature of European swimmingshows a more studied, tedious, and slower
development of the sport than that which ex-
isted naturally for thousands of years amongthe Polynesians. (See “Descriptions in Western
Literature,” p. 7.)
The carefully preserved (by word of mouth)
legends and mythology of the Polynesianpeoples tell us that they swam their powerful
oceanic overarm stroke long before it enteredWestern culture to become the racing crawl
stroke, a masterpiece of human ingenuity and
adaptation. Speed swimming found its origins
hundreds of years ago on the warm-water surf
beaches of the Pacific where surfing and swim-ming were the natural sports of the islanders.
In the traditional surfing skill, known as the
huki, they used a rapid overarm windmill stroke
combined with a flutter kick to catch the gath-
ering momentum of a cresting wave.
The huki was performed either on a surf-
board or while lying prone on top of a wave asit began to break. This basic movement, de-
signed to match the tremendous speed of apowerful incoming wave, was also the natural
swimming method of the islanders when swim-
ming in still water. In fact, there is distribu-tional evidence to show that throughout
Oceania, children were taught to swim with
this method while lying on a short surfboard.
Many writers have described the thrill and
excitement of speed as the essence of swim-ming in the surf. Jack London (1911) on his visitto Hawaii drew a vivid picture of how he
paddled the windmill stroke to catch a big fast-
moving wave. Born in the surf out of the sheernecessity to quickly generate speed, the huki,
or the crawl, as it became known when it spread
to Australia and other swimming nations, waslater to revolutionize the sport of speed swim-
ming.
When Duke Kahanamoku, the great Hawai-
ian swimmer, gave an exhibition of surfboardriding at Long Beach, California, on July 30,
1922, he also unintentionally showed the esti-mated crowd of 5,000 spectators how the an-
cient Hawaiian huki technique of paddling
and flutter kicking was used for mounting acresting wave. On July 31, 1922, the Long Beach
Daily Telegram  described it this way:
Duke Kahanamoku, Olympic championand in his prime the world’s greatest swim-mer, gave an exhibition of surf board riding
in front of the Hotel Virginia yesterday.
Lying face down on the board with thelegs protruding into the water, the swim-
mer would begin a thrash with the legs
such as is used in swimming the crawlstroke. At the same time, he would paddle
with his hands furiously. This work was
started just before the surf break. The rush-ing waters would lift the board and carry
it along at a terrific pace. As soon as the
board was going well, the surfer would
pull himself up to a kneeling position and
then gradually rise to his feet.
For more information and early descriptions,
see King (1778), Ellis (1831), Thrum (1896),
London (1911), Twain (1872), and Finney and
Houston (1996).
The Advanced Styles
of the North American Indians
There is every indication that for centuries
Native Americans swam in great numbers witha superior overarm stroke, while the so-called
civilized world persisted with breaststroke and
sidestroke.
Unfortunately, early organized swimming
in North America copied the European swim-ming style, particularly the methods broughtto America by the colonial English. This was a
pity because more advanced styles already ex-
isted in North America, as noted in 1739 in thediary of the English colonial William Byrd,
founder of Richmond, Virginia, and a planter,
satirist, and writer of diaries (Byrd 1928).

14Breakthrough Swimming
Writing on September 30, 1739, Byrd noted:
This being Sunday, we were glad to rest
from our labors; and, to help restore our
vigor, several of us plunged into the river,not withstanding it was a frosty morning.
One of our Indians went in along with us,
and taught us their way of swimming.They strike not out both hands together
but alternately one after another, whereby
they are able to swim both farther andfaster than we do (Byrd 1928).
Even when the better American style was
exported to England 100 years later in an 1844
London exhibition by two Native Americansfrom the Ojibbeway Nation—Flying Gull (We-
nish-ka-wen-bee) and Tobacco (Sah-ma)—the
English paid little attention and refused tochange, despite the obvious superiority of the
Native American swimming style. This fore-
runner of the modern crawl stroke was de-scribed in The London Times  (April 22, 1844) as
being totally “un-European,” declaring thatthe Indians thrashed the water violently with
their arms like sails of a windmill and beat
downward with their feet blowing with forceand performing grotesque antics.
The Mandan Indians
In his A Manual of Swimming  (1867), Charles
Steedman quoted George Catlin’s memoirs onthe habits of the Mandan Indians. Catlin de-
scribed a place half a mile or so from the village
where the women and girls went every sum-mer morning to bathe in the river. All the
people learned to swim well; even the worst
swimmer would fearlessly enter the rushingcurrent of the Missouri River, crossing the
river with ease.
According to Catlin, all American Indians
knew how to swim; they learned and taught itwell. Many tribes spent their entire lives on the
shores of lakes and rivers, paddling acrossthem in fragile bark canoes that were prone to
accidents, “which often throw the Indian upon
his natural resources for the preservation of hislife.” Also in times of war, the Indians had to
plunge into and swim across wild streams and
rivers when they had no canoes or boats.The mode of swimming the Mandans and
most of the other tribes used was quite differentfrom the swimming in other parts of the worldthat Catlin had visited. Catlin described the
method:
The Indian, instead of parting his handssimultaneously, under the chin, and mak-
ing the stroke outward, in a horizontaldirection, causing thereby a serious strain
upon the chest, throws his body alter-
nately upon the left and the right side,raising one arm entirely above the water
and reaching as far forward as he can, to
dip it, whilst his whole weight and forceare spent upon the one that is passing
under him, and like a paddle propelling
him along; whilst the arm is making ahalf-circle, and is being raised out of the
water behind him, the opposite arm is
describing a similar arch in the air over hishead, to be dipped in the water as far as he
can reach before him, with the hand turned
under, forming a sort of bucket, to actmost effectively as it passes in its turn
underneath him.
Catlin called it a “bold and powerful mode
of swimming” though lacking in grace. Still
Catlin noted that the stroke used by the Mandan
people helped them avoid much of the fatigue
and strain inherent in other strokes, preservingtheir strength. (Adapted from Steedman 1867,
pp. 192–193).
The Crawl Stroke
Because organized competitive swimming first
started in England in the late 19th century, itwas natural that English swimming methods,
such as the overarm sidestroke and the trudgen
stroke, would spread to the rest of Europe andbe copied there, although more advanced
double overarm methods actually existed in
the Pacific Islands and other warm maritimecountries. In fact, there can be no doubt that
from time immemorial, overarm swimming
strokes had existed in countries bordering onwarm tropical seas. This was particularly true
of the Pacific where the natives had swum a
type of overarm stroke that was later to be

History of the Swimming Strokes 15
known as the crawl stroke (figure 1.11). But,
because no international governing body of
swimming existed at that time, there were novisits with swimmers from countries outside of
Europe.won. Then Cavill and Davis raced again, onlythis time Cavill’s legs were untied. Davis won
the second race.
Dick Cavill, Tums’s brother, couldn’t believe
what he saw. After a few private time trials,Dick was convinced that his brother really couldsprint faster without using his legs. Dick rea-
soned that when properly applied every ounce
of power must increase speed; therefore, thescissors kick was radically wrong. The ques-
tion was to find the right kick.
Then Dick remembered seeing Alick
Wickham, a Rubiana sprinter, use an oddstraight-legged kick, learned from the natives
at Colombo, Ceylon. He experimented with itand was surprised by the results. The kick
proved speedy from the very first trial.
Now he had the kick, but finding a harmoni-
ous arm action bothered him considerably. Bythe time Dick found it, the 100-yards champi-
onship was only a few days away. He enteredthe race anyway, anxious to publicly test his
new stroke. Dick started at a terrific pace and
reached the 50-yard mark five yards ahead of
the nearest competitor. However, due to his
imperfect mastery of the new stroke, he waspassed by the speedy Bishop.
Even though Cavill was defeated, this race
gave coaches an idea of the value of this newstroke. (The peculiar action of the stroke earned
it the name “the crawl.”). They immediately
embraced the new stroke and formed classes toteach it. The success was marvelous. Men who
had been indifferent swimmers gained in apti-
tude, good men improved, and soon the worldwas ringing with the news of the crawlers. At
Rubiana, Al Wickham used the crawl to swim
50 yards in 24 seconds. Then Dick Cavill swama phenomenal 100 yards in 58 seconds. Soon
the stroke invaded Europe, eventually reach-
ing America in 1904 (Sullivan 1928, pp. 37–38).
Duke Kahanamoku (see also p. 13), the first
great Hawaiian Olympic swimmer, assuredquestioners in 1912 that the crawl stroke “hadalways been natural to the Hawaiians,” while
Alick Wickham, a Solomon Islander who lived
in Sydney at the beginning of the 20th century,and who once held the world’s 50-yard record
for a fairly long period, said that all children in
these islands swam a form of crawl stroke.
Figure 1.11 The crawl stroke. From Sachs 1912,
p. 145.
However, the turning point in the develop-
ment of the crawl stroke came when Dick Cavill,a member of the famous Australian swimmingfamily that had originally emigrated to Austra-
lia from England, realized that the side scissors
kick actually retarded continuous propulsion.
The probable sequence of events, as recon-
structed by historians, was as follows: Accord-ing to Carlile (1963), Fred Cavill, an English-
man, settled in Australia in 1879 and started a
swimming bath at Lavender Bay in SydneyHarbor. Fred Cavill had six sons, three of
whom—Syd, Arthur (“Tums“), and Dick—
played an important part in the crawl’s devel-opment.
In 1914, Syd Cavill wrote in the Sydney
Referee  that while on a visit to Apia in Samoa,
he raced a woman swimmer who gave him the
hardest race of his life. Syd noted with amaze-
ment that she swam an overarm stroke but didnot kick at all. After watching her intently, Syd
tied his legs and found that he could swim as
quickly with his legs tied as he could with hislegs free using any other stroke. Then he wrote
home and told Tums about it. The rest is history
(Carlile 1963, p. 133).
Sullivan (1928) relates how the original crawl
stroke evolved in Australia, thus the name“Australian crawl stroke.” Sullivan retells thestory told by Louis de B. Handley, an American
authority on swimming. Tums Cavill raced
Syd Davis over 33 yards with his legs tied and

16Breakthrough Swimming
Wickham claimed that even before 1900 one of
his brothers, who was being educated in Sydney,
swam the crawl there on numerous occasionsbut, possibly because he was not a speedy or
polished demonstrator, no particular notice was
taken of him. Paradoxical as it may seem, AlickWickham swam a perfect six-beat crawl stroke,
but mainly because he was usually finished by
75 yards, his stroke was not copied in its en-tirety. However, a two-beat, heavy, muscular
leg beat evolved, becoming known as the Aus-
tralian crawl (Kiphuth 1942).
The Origin of the Term
Crawl Stroke
Carlile (1963) gives two versions on how theterm crawl stroke may have originated:
1. When Alick Wickham, a boy from the
Solomon Islands, was first seen swimming his
strange continuous overarm stroke in Australia
in a 66 yards under-10 years handicap, GeorgeFarmer, a prominent Sydney coach, excitedly
exclaimed, “Look at that kid crawling.”
2. The second version of the origin of the
term is that 15-year-old Dick Cavill, the stroke’s
first great exponent, burrowed his head sodeep below the water’s surface while swim-
ming the new stroke that he persistently swam
over his rivals who complained that youngCavill was “crawling all over me.”
However, in his benchmark book A Manual
of Swimming (1867), Charles Steedman gives
evidence of a much earlier origin of the term:“An easy method for a person to learn to swim
without the aid of a teacher is first to acquire
what is commonly termed the crawl or dogstroke” (p. 78).
Steedman then describes the action of the
dog paddle, a stroke still in use today for teach-ing beginners. It is possible that the term crawl
strok e may have long been in common use to
describe the dog paddle and that GeorgeFarmer’s use of the term crawling  in reference
to Wickham’s spectacular method of swim-ming might have inferred that Wickham wascrawling, or dog paddling, so fast that his arms
were actually coming out of the water, insteadof reaching forward underwater as in the con-ventional dog paddle action.
The Development of Fundamentals
It should not be thought that the crawl, the newwonder stroke, was accepted everywhere with
acclaim. To the contrary, some thought it wasinelegant and others regarded it as very tiring.
Sinclair and Henry (1903) described the stroke
like this:
The swimmer appears to be crawling overthe water instead of being in it, hence
there is much splashing. It cannot be said
that the action is graceful, but it certainlyis particularly speedy, as Cavill has swum
a 100 yards in a 44 yards’ bath in the
remarkable time of 58 3/5 seconds (p. 23).
The early crawl stroke was a difficult stroke
to swim because it was born without a breath-
ing technique. The first crawl swimmers swam
as far as they could on one breath, before liftingthe head forward out of the water to take an-
other breath. A workable method of breathing
came later.
The new method could be used only for
short distances because it consumed energyrapidly. The first swimmers to use the crawl
were mainly those who had grown up doing
the trudgen stroke, and few could use it tocomplete the 100-yard racing distance. They
swam trudgen for most of the distance before
switching to the crawl to perform a spectaculargrandstand finish.
The early crawl swimmers bore little resem-
blance to the polished technicians of modernswimming. They burrowed their heads in the
water, mouths shut tight and lungs starved for
air, and they let their arms fly round and roundin a flurry of wild splashing, while the legs
kicked once for each arm pull, using a deep
knee-bend that caused each foot to hit the sur-face with a resounding whack.
Despite all the excitement about the new
crawl stroke and its superior speed, closer ex-amination would have revealed that crawl
swimming, as it existed then, was no more than
a rough concept that worked, but it was by nomeans a finely honed technique.

History of the Swimming Strokes 17
Two Influential Coaches
The son of American parents, Louis de Breda Handley  (1874–1956) was born in Rome,
where he was educated in the liberal arts and became adept in five different languages. He
came to America at the age of 22 to work as an importer. He coached the New York Athletic
Club and, with Charlotte Epstein, founded the Women’s Swimming Association of New York(WSA), where he coached as a volunteer for 40 years and helped Charlotte Epstein put
women’s swimming on the map. Between them they produced a chain of great champions
such as Charlotte Boyle, Helen Wainwright, Gertrude Ederle, Aileen Riggen, Alice Lord,Helen Meany, Eleanor Holm, and many others. He developed from novicehood 6 of the 12
girl stars who represented the United States in the Antwerp Olympic Games in 1920. One
of the most innovative stroke technicians in the history of the sport (his innovations includeddeveloping the freestyle flutter kick), he became coach-educator to the world and
swimming’s first great communicator. When he died of a heart attack in New York at the age
of 82, his lifetime contributions had transformed the sport of swimming (Colwin 1998).
William “Big Bill” Bachrach  (1879–1959) weighed 350 pounds and was probably one
of the most colorful coaches in the history of swimming. Together with Handley, Bachrachset American and world swimming on course into the 20th century. He was head coach ofthe Illinois Athletic Club in Chicago, as well as head coach of the 1924 and 1928 United
States Olympic teams. His men and women swimmers captured 12 gold medals in Paris in
1924 and 10 gold medals at the 1928 Amsterdam Olympics. He was most famous as thementor of Johnny Weissmuller, who was voted the greatest swimmer of the first 50 years of
the 20th century and second-best swimmer (behind Mark Spitz) of the entire 20th century.
His psychological handling of his swimmers was far in advance of his time, and he was also
among the first with the ability to develop each swimmer’s best individual style of swimming.
His development of Weissmuller’s crawl stroke established several fundamental principles—for example the pull-push arm action—that became part of the stroke in use for many years
to come.
Bachrach developed four gold medalists at the 1924 Games: Johnny Weissmuller (100-
and 200-meter freestyles and 800-meter relay), Bob Skelton (200-meter breaststroke), EthelLackie (100-meter freestyle and 400-meter relay), and Sybil Bauer (100-meter backstroke).
Weissmuller also won two gold medals at the 1928 Olympics in the 100-meter freestyle andthe 800-meter relay.
Nevertheless, the arrival of the crawl stroke
in Western culture was an important technical
development. It was the fastest stroke ever
developed, and it highlighted the fact that aswimmer must produce continuous propul-
sion to maintain an even velocity.
In an age before underwater motion picture
analysis and before the advent of underwaterobservation windows, the first crawl stroke
pioneers learned the importance of streamlin-ing, that we swim faster by reducing drag.
Keen observation resulted in the develop-
ment of even more basic principles in the effi-cient performance of the crawl stroke. It quicklybecame apparent that coordination was mostimportant, especially in reference to maintain-
ing continuous propulsion.
As more people learned the crawl stroke, the
various descriptions of the stroke needed to bemore clearly defined. Research of the literature
shows that the following were the main ques-tions asked during the early development of
the crawl as well as the other swimming strokes:
1. Where and how should the hand(s) en-
ter the water?
2. Should the arm(s) be bent or straight
during the pull?

18Breakthrough Swimming
3. What should be the path of the arm(s)
during the pull?
4. Should the stroke be long and slow or
short and fast?
5. How should the arm(s) be recovered to
start the next stroke?
6. What should be the timing of one arm in
relation to the other?
7. What should be the timing of the legs in
relation to the arms?
8. When and how should inhalation and
exhalation of air be timed into the rhythm
of the stroke cycle?
Thanks to trial and error and research in biome-
chanics, we can now answer these questions
with far greater certainty.
During the first 30 years of the 20th century,
a synthesis of crawl stroke fundamentals gradu-ally emerged, the process greatly aided bycoaches Louis de B. Handley, William Bachrach,
and Frank Sullivan, and swimmers such as
Charles Daniels, Duke Kahanamoku, JohnnyWeissmuller, and many others. They devel-
oped the first great exponents of the stroke, and
their techniques became examples for others to
follow. These coach-swimmer teams laid the
foundations of modern American swimming,and as the 20th century progressed, their better
understanding of fundamentals led to the in-
vention of two new strokes, the back crawl andthe butterfly, as well as the modernizing of the
centuries-old breaststroke.
The Development
of the American Crawl
Charles M. Daniels (1887–1973), the first of the
great American swimmers, invented the Ameri-can crawl. His career spanned the years 1903 to
1910, and when he retired he had almost com-
pletely rewritten the world-record book. Danielsstood 6 feet 3 inches and had the lithe, lean,
symmetrical physique that was to become the
prototype of nearly all the great crawl champi-ons of the 20th century.
Although Daniels was a fine all-round ath-
lete who excelled at many other sports, hedecided to specialize in swimming. Only a year
after starting his career as a member of the New
York Athletic Club, Daniels had won two titlesat the St. Louis Olympic Games and became the
first American to win an Olympic swimming
medal. He went on to win more Olympic titlesin Athens in 1906 and in London in 1908.
Daniels started his career as a trudgen swim-
mer. But in 1905, after meeting the great Austra-lian swimmer Barney Kieran during a tour of
England, he decided to master the art of crawl
swimming. Although Kieran was a trudgen swim-mer, he was able to show Daniels how to swim
the new crawl stroke. Daniels tried the two-beat
rhythm of the Australian crawl (figure 1.12) but
found that his legs tended to sink. Then it dawned
on him that this was because the Australian stylehad been invented in buoyant sea water and that
a faster kick was needed for freshwater swim-
ming to prevent the feet from sinking.
Daniels added another two beats to his action
with the result that he was now swimmingwhat came to be known as a four-beat crawl.However, when swimming at top speed, Daniels
found that he possessed the dexterity to slip
two more beats into his leg action, and so wasborn the six-beat American crawl (figure 1.13).
Daniels did not consciously time his six-beat
kick with his arm action but allowed the legs towork independently. This was in contrast with
Figure 1.12 Annette Kellermann demonstrates the Australian crawl. From Kellermann 1918.

History of the Swimming Strokes 19
the rhythm of two major beats combined with
four minor beats that was practiced by theother early exponents of the American crawl.
(The tendency to prescribe a precise rhythm
between the actions of the arms and legs was acarryover from the way breaststroke and side-
stroke were swum in the old traditional styles.)
In Search of a Breathing Technique
Coaches realized the need to improve the effi-
ciency of the crawl to enable its use for longer
distances. The ability to breathe easily and
regularly was the big problem. Cecil Healy,one of the great early Australian swimmers,
developed the idea of turning the face side-
ways out of the water to inhale before return-ing it to the center position to exhale underwa-
ter. Some swimmers inhaled once every two
strokes, while others breathed every threestrokes, once to each side (also known as bilat-
eral breathing ). However, most of the short-
distance swimmers breathed only when theyneeded a breath.
Healy said that a style of crawl swimming
had long been indigenous to the South Seasand that he had seen this breathing method
used naturally by all the native swimmers of
Hawaii, who turned the head to inhale withevery stroke of the right or left arm, according
to which side suited them best. This was done
by flicking the face sideways just as the for-ward hand entered the water (figure 1.14).
Figure 1.13 The American crawl, the beginning of stroke analysis. From Sullivan 1928, p. 42.
Figure 1.14 Crawl stroke breathing. From
Bachrach 1924.
In stating the importance of correct breath-
ing, Handley (1918) added that not only didbody position, balance, and rhythm rely largelyon efficient head-turning mechanics while
breathing but that the ability to swim longer
distances relied on a regular supply of oxygento the working muscles.
Describing head-turning mechanics, Handley
said, “The head is twisted toward the uppershoulder to facilitate the intake of air, but the
swimmer should make sure it is a twist only, for
if the head is raised the feet will unavoidablysink and break the balance of the body.”

20Breakthrough Swimming
The addition of improved breathing tech-
niques to the American crawl soon enabled
swimmers to establish records over the longerdistances. This was particularly true of swim-
mers who, as school children, learned the crawl
as their first stroke.
Experiments With the Crawl Kick
The first crawl swimmers were quick to noticethat the stroke was very flexible and open tomany variations. To make the stroke more suit-
able for distance swimming, Frank Sullivan,
one of Chicago’s leading instructors, conceivedthe idea of combining the crawl with features of
the trudgen stroke. Sullivan’s trudgen-crawl
was characterized by the insertion of a smallstraight-legged scissors kick with a narrow
spread as the swimmer turned the head to
breathe (Cureton 1934, p. 98).
Continuing Sullivan’s idea of a more sub-
dued leg action, H.J. Handy, also of Chicago,introduced a legless crawl, which as its nameimplies involved not kicking at all. Although
Handy was successful using this method, this
idea did not survive long.
Discussing the leg kick, Charles Daniels (1919)
said, “The relative timing of the arms and legsin the American crawl can best be determined
by the individual or his coach; one with strong
arms and weak legs can adopt a rapid armmotion and a slow kick; one with strong legs
can do the contrary. This is one of the stroke’s
best features, for it can be fitted to each person.”
Handley (1918) said that the width of the leg
action should not exceed 14 inches between theheels. A greater opening would cause the feet torise above the surface, and energy would be
wasted. Handley said that the most successful
crawl swimmers used a very narrow leg action,seldom more than 8 or 10 inches in scope.
Handley described a leg action in which the
legs were held straight but not rigid, whip-ping up and down alternately, while “closely
imitating the movements one makes in walk-
ing on tip toe with mincing steps.”
Handley believed that the speed of the kick
should be adjusted to the individual. He saidthat most swimmers appeared to find the four-or six-beat action to be the most effective.Some swimmers placed too strong an em-
phasis on synchronizing the kick with the armstroke. In those early years, this forced timingmust have limited the success of many talented
swimmers. Modern swimmers allow their legs
to work in a natural cadence, independent oftheir arms.
The Crawl Stroke Body Position
Handley said that in crawl swimming the bodyshould be held as in standing upright on tiptoe,
so that it formed a straight line, with the head
erect, back slightly arched, legs together, andfeet pointed. Resting on the water there should
be a gentle downward slant from head to feet.
Handley (1918) added that when a
swimmer’s speed made it “possible to hydro-plane more effectively, the slant of the body
should be more pronounced, but it must lessengradually as the pace is decreased to cover
lengthening courses” (p. 28). Handley’s idea
that a swimmer could actually begin to hydro-plane as speed increased was perhaps subcon-
sciously inspired by the then-recent invention
of the motorized hydroplane. However, hydro-
planing becomes possible only when a craft is
moving quickly enough to allow the bow waveto come under the boat. The enthusiasm for this
misconception must have caused many tal-
ented swimmers to fall far short of their realpotential.
It should be noted that it is generally be-
lieved that William Bachrach, in his coaching ofthe great Weissmuller, originated the incorrect
concept of humans being able to hydroplane.
However, it was Handley, not Bachrach, whowas first to mention this topic, long before
Bachrach ever saw Weissmuller. It was not
until Bachrach had published The Outline of
Swimming  (1924) that he mentioned how he
had taught Weissmuller “the hydroplane prin-ciple,” as he called it (pp. 123–124). This ac-count is a good example of how the pioneers of
swimming often incorrectly rationalized the
acceptance of new techniques.
Handley advocated a slight side-to-side roll
“to facilitate inhaling and to permit a cleanrecovery of the arms. Excessive bending at theneck, waist, knees or ankles should be avoided.”

History of the Swimming Strokes 21
The Crawl Stroke Arm Action
Handley (1918) said that the arms should work
alternately, one propelling while the other re-covered, each performing the same cycle of
movement, although the arm opposite the
breathing side dipped a little deeper due to theheavier roll of the body toward it (figure 1.15).better clear the surface, then moved out and
forward, simultaneously turning palm down,
so that by the time it passes the shoulder linethe whole arm is in the prescribed position for
another entry” (pp. 28–29).
Bachrach (1924) said that, during the pull,
the elbow should bend until it reaches anangle of 45 degrees. The arm is bent so that
more surface area of the forearm is offered tothe water. The pull ends at the hip where the
muscles relax as the arm is brought out of the
water. The forearm and wrist stay relaxedduring recovery as the arm is carried out of the
water to the forward position. The action of
the right arm is similar. As the left arm comesout, the right arm starts its pull from the
forward position, the hands at all times being
equidistant. The motion is a continuous rota-tion; there is no break between one complete
revolution of the arms and the one that fol-
lows.
Crawl Stroke Timing
Handley stressed that proper timing of armand leg movements was essential to good swim-
ming despite “the belief that seems rather
prevalent that in the crawl the arms and legsmay work independently. Whatever number
of leg drives made per stroke, the wanted
rhythm is attained by performing one of thebeats of each leg at the end of the pull on that
side of the body, and this establishes perfect
coordination.” This comment on the key to thetiming of arms and legs was an astute observa-
tion, made long before the advent of underwa-
ter observation windows. (It was not until1977, when Dr. James E. “Doc” Counsilman
published photographs of this timing in his
Competitive Swimming Manual (1977, p. 164)
that this point was mentioned again in the
literature. Counsilman said that all types of
crawl stroke had this timing in common.) Withgreat foresight, Handley commented that
“speed and endurance could only be gained by
accurate inter-timing of all movements.” How-ever, modern swimmers are not taught to time
their leg kicks with the arm stroke, but rather
to allow their legs to find their own naturalcounterbalancing action.
He added that each arm should enter the
water with the elbow slightly raised, forearm
and hand aligned, palm down, fingers and
thumb close together. The hand should cut thesurface just before attaining full reach beyond
the head, and dip down to its own side of an
imaginary line drawn between the eyes andthrough the middle of the body. Then the arm
pressed forward underwater, so that by the
time it was comfortably extended it was slantedslightly downward at a sufficient angle to effec-
tively apply power.
Handley said, “After catching smartly the
arm sweeps backward, following a course par-allel to the center line of progression and main-
taining strong pressure on the water until thehand nears the thigh. Here the muscles are
relaxed, the elbow is lifted and the arm drawn
up and out. As the hand emerges from thewater it is bent back from the wrist, palm up, toFigure 1.15 Weissmuller demonstrates the crawl
stroke arm action. From Bachrach 1924.

22Breakthrough Swimming
The Japanese Crawl
in the 1930s
The victorious Japanese at the 1932 and 1936
Olympic Games introduced a method of crawl
swimming eminently suited to their shorterstature, flexible bodies, short arms, and natu-
rally strong leg drives. This new style was the
result of filming in great detail the styles ofJohnny Weissmuller, the 1928 Olympic 100-
meter champion, and Arne Borg of Sweden, the
1928 Olympic 1,500-meter champion.
The Japanese freestyle stroke was an adapta-
tion of the Weissmuller stroke and the ArneBorg stroke. Borg swam higher thanWeissmuller and had a faster, shorter arm ac-
tion. The Japanese stroke fell somewhere be-
tween the strokes of these two great interna-tional stars. The Japanese swam with their
shoulders fairly high and their legs quite low in
the water, using more knee-bend in the kickthan Weissmuller.
The theory behind the Japanese arm stroke
was that the middle arc of the 180-degrees from
full reach in front of the body to the finish at the
thighs was the most effective range in the pull.The idea was to get to the point 45 degrees short
of the full reach as quickly as possible and to
recover after a 90-degree pull, or 45 degreesshort of the complete pull-through.Basically, the Japanese stroke consisted of a
rapid arm recovery that enabled the swimmerto overlap both arms submerged in front of thebody. As each arm entered the water, it an-
chored there in a stationary position while the
other arm, which had been waiting in front ofthe body for the entry of its opposite member,
commenced the drive.
The stroke was successful for the Japanese
but had the disadvantage of causing a deadspot in propulsion. This occurred while one
arm was recovering in the air and the oppositearm was submerged and stationary in front of
the body. This threw the burden of ensuring
continuous propulsion onto the leg drive. Un-less the swimmer had a powerful kick, this
resulted in lack of continuity to the overall
stroke. The Japanese style of crawl swimming,in modified form, was adopted by swimmers
of other countries without much success.
The American Crawl
in the 1940s and 1950s
Bob Kiphuth (1942) recommended a perfectly
flat body position, with the head and chestfairly high, the water level just above the eyes,
the shoulders level with the water surface, and
the horizontal axis through the shoulders atright angles to the long axis of the body. He
Japanese Contributions
Swimming history holds many examples of the old adage, “Be right too soon and your word
will be ignored; be right too late and everyone is bored.” For example, rolling the body in crawl
swimming was considered a fault for more than 50 years until it was given credit for part ofthe Australian 1956 world dominance. Actually, the victorious Japanese crawl swimmers at
the 1932 Olympics had used considerable body roll. But Western swimmers attributed the
Japanese ability to roll without setting up resistance to streamlined shoulders, which theyclaimed were a characteristic of the Japanese physique. They argued a Japanese swimmer
could use body roll with impunity, but a Westerner who copied it would do so at peril.
Another classic example was the failure to heed another important principle discovered
by the Japanese. Back in the 1930s, Japanese swimmers had realized that it was moreefficient to swim with long strokes at a high tempo. Today, “distance per stroke” is considered
to be an important index of swimming efficiency.
History abounds with stories of how people came close to discovering important new
truths about swimming but were slow to follow up. For a long time, the pursuit of swimmingknowledge followed this desultory approach before scientific methods were used to analyzestroke mechanics.

History of the Swimming Strokes 23
advocated not dipping the shoulders or rolling
the body and said there should be no lunging or
hunching of one shoulder before the other.Although the arms move in the shoulder joint,
the shoulder should be fixed, with the body
moving over the arms–literally crawling.
Kiphuth said that there should be decided
pressure on the water at all times and that thearm stroke was a working phase of catch, press,pull, and push (figure 1.16). The catch was to be
in a line forward of the shoulder, with the arm
extended as far as a high elbow and wrist willpermit. The elbow should be flexed enough to
give a strong set to the arm so that when thecatch is made, strong pressure can immediatelybe exerted on the water. This means that there
can be no stretching or overreaching of the arm.Kiphuth advocated that the direction of the
arm be slightly toward the middle line of the
body, and after passing the vertical there is apush straight through at the end of the stroke
out past the thigh. There is no gliding of the arm
on the catch, and a full stroke is taken with noattempt to finish short. The maximum amount
of water must be engaged by the hand and
forearm throughout the stroke with as littleslide slip of the arm as possible. The broadest
aspect of the hand and forearm should engage
the water at all times. A working phase of press,pull, push indicates the necessity of such action
(Kiphuth 1942).
The Australian Crawl
in the 1950s
Circa 1954, the Australians, after their early in-
troduction of the crawl at the turn of the 20thcentury, once more took to speculating on ways
to improve swimming speed. They sought to
eliminate the tiring effects of overkicking, par-
ticularly at middle and long distances, and to
eliminate the stilting effect on the arm strokecaused by swimming too flat and trying to pull
by merely rotating the arms in the shoulder joint.
In the new Australian technique, the hands
obtained a longer purchase on the water byentering through the bow wave that precedes
the swimmer. The shoulders were not held flaton the surface, as with Bob Kiphuth’s Ameri-
can crawl, but were allowed to roll with the
rhythm of the arm action. The resultant rota-tion of the torso brought the powerful large
trunk muscles into action. As one arm finished
stroking, the other was already propelling, andthey likened their timing to the “split second
coordination of a paddle-wheel steamer.” The
action of the legs was subdued but could bespeeded up quite noticeably in sprinting.
Continuing the Australian trend, James
Counsilman was one of the developers of thebroken tempo style of crawl swimming with
emphasis on the arm action and the relegation
of the kick to that of stabilizing agent. Togetherwith the Australian coaches, Sam Herford and
Figure 1.16 One version of the American crawl
in the 1940s was characterized by an overlapping
arm action and a wide kick like riding a bicycle.
From Armbruster 1942.

24Breakthrough Swimming
Frank Guthrie, Counsilman experimented with
dragging or resting the legs during the arm
action without affecting the continuous actionof the arms (Colwin 1969).
The Backstroke
In Colymbetes , Wynman (1538), author of the
first book in the world on swimming, gives the
first reference to swimming on the back:
He adds a tale of a man on his back pre-
tending to be a corpse: “but move yourhands with swift movements as if shaking
them like the birds do their wings, move
them like the blade of a ploughshare whenyou sharpen it on a grindstone, or as if you
were cutting smooth water. Keep as much
breath as you can and blow through thenose (p. 45).
After this early description of swimming on
the back, several centuries followed during
which there were no significant developmentsin this form of swimming other than a back-
stroke developed by the Europeans that was
really nothing more than an inverted breast-
stroke, consisting of a double-overarm recov-
ery and an upside-down breaststroke kick, per-formed in the same rhythm as breaststroke.
Then in the early 20th century , H.J. Handy of
Chicago introduced a trudgen backstroke, inwhich the arms stroked alternately . As the right
arm reached forward behind the shoulder to the
entry with the palm turned outward, the otherarm was allowed to drift in the water next to the
hip. The right arm then pulled outward and
downward in a full sweep that ended at the hip.While the right arm was pulling, the swimmer
recovered the left arm overhead with a relaxed
elbow and wrist. Until this stage had beenreached, the legs trailed close together, straight
but relaxed. Then, as the left arm started its
sweep, the legs opened and performed a scis-sors kick that ended just as the left arm com-
pleted its sweep. As in the trudgen stroke, there
was a short glide before the next stroke started.
The Origin of the Backcrawl
Harry Hebner invented the crawl backstrokeby converting crawl stroke principles to swim-ming on the back (figure 1.17). He rotated his
arms continuously as in the prone crawl and
did a straight up-and-down leg thrash, withthe action starting from the hip. The knees were
relaxed, partly bent, and the loose ankles per-
mitted a whiplash kick. His face remained clearof the water while he inhaled through the mouth
and out through the nose.
Figure 1.17 Backcrawl as swum by pioneer
swimmer Harry Hebner. He used a bent-arm
recovery and a straight-arm pull. From Bachrach
1924.
Hebner made his international debut in 1908
as a 17-year-old member of the 1908 Olympic
team. Four years later, in Sweden, he won a
gold medal in the 100-meter backstroke and a
silver medal on the 800-meter freestyle relayteam. A quaint comment on Hebner’s back-
stroke appeared in the Swedish official report
of the Games: “Hebner swam alternately witharm stroke and leg crawl.”
The greatest female backstroke swimmer of
the 1920s era was another Chicagoan, Sybil Bauer,also of the Illinois Athletic Club, and she brought
the backstroke to a new level of development,
her times at one stage being faster than the men’srecords. She swam with her head tilted forward
and chin close to the chest. She flexed her knees
slightly as she kicked, and the depth of her legdrive depended on whether she was sprinting or
swimming at middle-distance pace. She rolled
very little, using her arms independently of the

History of the Swimming Strokes 25
body. Her body position was very low, with her
shoulders seldom appearing on the surface. Each
hand, palm turned outward, entered behind thehead, just wide of the shoulder line. The hand
then pressed downward and completed its pull
at the thigh. Here the palm turned outward andthe elbow led the recovery, almost like an upside-
down crawl recovery. As the elbow passed the
shoulder the forearm was raised above it, ex-tending the arm for the next entry.
The Kiefer Style
In 1935, Adolph Kiefer, a Chicago school boy,swam the backstroke 100 yards in 57.6 seconds,
and then went on to win the 1936 Olympic 100-
meter backstroke title. His technique, describedby Armbruster (1942), became known around
the world as the “Kiefer style” (figure 1.18) andhad three unique features: Kiefer recovered hisarms, elbows held straight, with a low lateral
swing over the water. He entered each armwide of the shoulder and instead of using the
customary deep pull, he pulled with a straight
arm just below the surface. Kiefer’s style wasuniversally accepted for many years, although
some swimmers recovered the arms with a
bent elbow and introduced a slight bend at theelbow during the pull.
The Bent Arm Backstroke Pull
For the first time in the literature, Kiphuth andBurke (1951) described a bent arm pull in thebackstroke. The swimmer appearing in the
accompanying motion pictures was Allan
Stack, the 1948 Olympic backstroke champion.Kiphuth and Burke described the backstroke
as an alternate overarm action, synchronized
with an alternate up-and-down beat of thelegs, six kicks to a full cycle of the arms. The
arm stroke started with the arm extended at
full length behind the head and slightly out-side the shoulder.
The hand slices the water, with the little
finger entering first. The catch is made
with a straight arm, but as the arm ap-proaches the side horizontal the elbow
bends to enable the hand and broad sur-
face of the forearm to drive as much wateras possible backward to the finish of the
stroke at the thighs. The recovery is made
out of water with either a straight or bentarm (p. 101).
The Breaststroke
Frank Sachs (1912) advised beginners that “it is
to the leg stroke that the swimmer must chiefly
depend for success.” However, althoughSteedman (1867) had advised against it nearly 50
years earlier, Sachs incorrectly spoke about draw-
ing the legs up under the body. Sachs then con-tinued as follows: “The legs are straightened and
as wide apart as possible, before bringing them
together very smartly and to as nearly as pos-sible make them touch” (p. 20). This technique,
known as the wedge kick, became extinct later in
the century to be replaced by the whip kick, in
Figure 1.18 The Kiefer backstroke. From
Armbruster 1942.


26Breakthrough Swimming
which the swimmer propelled with the soles of
the feet rather than by a closing of the legs.
William Bachrach (1924, p. 106) advocated
learning the breaststroke first because if a per-son learned a faster stroke first, the chances
were that there would be no interest in laterlearning this slower method of swimming.
Bachrach did not agree with the usual frog
kick taught at that time. Bachrach said, “I don’tknow why it is called the frog kick because if we
really kicked like a frog we would get nowhere.
Recall the size of the frog’s foot and the lengthof his leg in relation to the rest of his body. He
gets almost as good a push against the water as
you would get jumping on dry land. The hu-man foot is a small thing in relation to the rest
of the body, and compared to the relationship
of the frog’s foot to his body.”
Bachrach’s method of breaststroke kicking
was to spread the legs to a wide straddle posi-tion, with the knees bent and turned out side-ways, an action that required especially supple
joints. From the full spread position, Bachrach
advocated giving the legs a vigorous slap in-
ward. Bachrach said, “It is really one motion,
reaching the starting position and slappingback, like the snapping of a whip. Instead of
resembling the frog’s kick, it is like the flapping
of two fishes tails.” This was, in effect, yetanother version of the now-obsolete wedge
kick, which had the negative effect of merely
washing the water sideways over the legs in-stead of directly backward.
Handley’s Improved Style
Handley (1918) took the lead in coaching animproved form of breaststroke swimming, in
which the arms were no longer swept back
close to the surface until at right angles to thebody, a method that had been incorrectly used
for the best part of a century. Instead, Handley
taught swimmers to take a shorter stroke andpull down as well as outward. Also, the arms
and legs did not drive and recover together but
alternately. The benefit derived from the alter-nate timing of arms and legs resulted in a moreeven distribution of effort, constant propul-
sion, and less stoppage between arm and leg
movements.
The outward and downward pull lifted the
upper body higher, enabling the swimmer toinhale freely and deeply. The shorter pull re-duced the inward and forward movements of
the arm recovery, thus minimizing resistance
and providing a more powerful backward com-ponent to the stroke.
The legs were set in motion as the arms
finished their pull. The knees were loweredand opened easily, without separating the heels;
then the feet moved slowly apart until, finally,
with a combined movement, the legs werekicked out vigorously and snapped strongly
together.
For the stroke to be perfectly timed, the
closing of the legs was timed to occur as thearms attained full reach ahead so that the body
shot forward on the momentum imparted bythe kick. Air was inhaled through the mouth
during the drive of the arms and exhaled
through the nostrils while the arms were re-
covering.
Tempo and Timing
Gilbert Collins (1934) advocated that tall swim-mers with long legs should reduce the width of
the kick, while short swimmers should use awider kick. He compared the actions of the two
leading male swimmers in the 1928 Olympics
in Amsterdam, where Tsuruta (Japan) defeatedRademacher (Germany) by using a quicker
stroke. The Japanese swimmer was 5 feet 4
inches tall, while Rademacher stood 6 feet. Hesaid that the big German swimmer, with his
long limbs and wide sweep, could not match
the stroke speed of his smaller rival.
David Armbruster (1942) said that breast-
stroke swimming speed could be increased byshifting from a wide lateral arm movement to amore downward movement to get the arms
under the body (figure 1.19). He said that “speed
being the chief objective in competitive swim-ming, not only must the stroke be streamlined

History of the Swimming Strokes 27
to overcome resistance but power must also be
developed” (p. 176).
Armbruster discussed various types of arm
and leg actions for individual body types. Histext describes, for the first time in the literature,
the differences in timing with the total strokewhen using a wide knee-spread kick, as well as
the timing to be used in the narrow knee-
spread kick.
Mid-20th-Century European Style
Bela Rajki (1956) described a fully stretchedbody position that formed a slight angle withthe water surface. The head controlled body
position, and care was taken to avoid too low a
head position, which would bring the feet uptoo high and spoil the effectiveness of the leg
drive; conversely, if the feet sank too low the
body angle would cause resistance.
Rajki advocated a wide arm action with the
arms moving sideways, down, and back simul-taneously. The wrists were bent slightly and thehands cupped to engage the water and pull the
body forward. As the outward phase of the pull
ended in line with the shoulders, a gradual bend-
ing of the elbows changed the action into a push
or inward sculling motion at the end of which thehands, palms turned inward, came under the
chest with forceful pressure applied to the water.
The arms were thrust forward, level with thechin, and shoulders hunched to reduce water
resistance and help the body slide forward.
In the leg action, the legs were drawn up,
with the soles turned slightly inward facingeach other, the knees spreading farther and
farther apart as the movement progressed.When the knees reached maximum bend the
feet, now quite close to the hips, were turned
outward with extreme dorsi-flexion. The kickwas performed “with an outward circular
thrust moving quickly and forcefully back-
wards and downwards,” finishing with astraightening of the knees and closing of the
thighs. The feet were rotated inward, with the
soles pressing the water with the greatest pos-sible pressure.
Figure 1.19 Breaststroke in the 1930s featured
a more downward arm movement. Influenced bythe way the breaststroke kick was used in the newbutterfly-breaststroke, the kick also became
narrower when swimming the orthodox
breaststroke. From Armbruster 1942.

28Breakthrough Swimming
The result of this ruling was a spectacle that
the breaststroke traditionalists could not have
imagined! A new trend rapidly developed in
which swimmers, particularly the Japaneseswimmers, took to swimming long distances
underwater with a resultant long pull through
to the hips. They would surface for a breath,then off they would go on their underwater
journey.
Figure 1.20 The now-extinct hybrid butterfly-
breaststroke in which the breaststroke kick was
combined with the butterfly arm action. FromArmbruster 1942.The leg and arm actions followed one an-
other, with the legs being drawn up as thehands reached the level of the shoulders andcontinued until the hands came under the chin,
from which position the kick joined in the
forward movement of the body, brought aboutby the arm action. Inhalation took place as the
arm action ended. Rajki mentioned that the
several variations of the breaststroke differedin style and coordination according to indi-
vidual physique.
The Butterfly-Breaststroke
Breaststroke has undergone many changes as a
competitive swimming style. During the 1930sthe breaststroke had to withstand the onslaught
of the butterfly-breaststroke swimmers. Butter-
fly-breaststroke was a hybrid stroke that com-bined the butterfly arm action with the breast-
stroke kick (figure 1.20), and it came about when
swimmers found a loophole in the breaststrokerules as they existed at that time, namely in that
the law made no stipulation about the need to
recover the arms forward from the breast.
The butterfly-breaststroke (butterfly arm
action with orthodox breaststroke kick) veryquickly became the fastest method of compet-
ing in breaststroke races. The orthodox breast-
stroke swimmer, using the traditional action,became a rarity in competition because the
International Olympic Committee (IOC) was
not in favor of adding an extra event to theOlympic program to accommodate the two
vastly different styles of swimming. In fact, at
one stage, the breaststroke was almost in dan-ger of becoming extinct as a racing stroke.
A saga of legalistic wrangling ensued for 20
years as swimming administrators attemptedto sort out the muddle of their own making. It
was not until the Melbourne Olympic Games
in 1956 that reason prevailed and butterflybecame a separate event and breaststroke was
swum as breaststroke—not butterfly. (The
hands had to be recovered forward from thebreast, at least when swimming on the surface.
While swimming underwater, the swimmer
was permitted to use a full length pull throughto the hips.)

History of the Swimming Strokes 29
In February 1957, in response to this devel-
opment, the FINA International Swimming
Technical Committee (ISTC) recommended toCongress that no underwater swimming be
allowed in breaststroke and butterfly events.
Breaststroke was then legislated to surfaceswimming with only one underwater pull and
one kick allowed after the pushoff from the
wall at the turn and an underwater glide al-lowed after the starting dive (Colwin 1998).
Apparently a big problem facing FINA’s
rule makers was the semantics—as well astranslation difficulties between several lan-
guages—of describing when a swimmer’s head
was or was not submerged under the surface.First, it was ruled that part of the head should
always break the surface of the water. This
resulted not only in a stilted action but in theswimmers having to hold their heads too high
thus reducing the body’s streamlining. Some
swimmers were even ridiculously disquali-fied when their heads disappeared under their
own bow waves.
The result was a big debate as to when a
swimmer’s head was “above the general water
level.” This rather nebulous description waslater changed to read that the head should
always break the surface of the water. In 1980
the FINA Congress in Moscow thought it wouldbe able to solve this problem by adopting the
recommendation of the ISTC to read that part
of the head should break the surface of thewater during each complete stroke. Instead the
Congress decided that part of the head shall
break the surface of the water throughout therace, a decision that really was no different
from the old rule (Colwin 1998).
Thierry (1981) was concerned with the word-
ing of the new rule, writing that the swimmingpublic had been led to believe that a “relaxed
interpretation of the rule was to be made thatallowed the head to submerge, provided the
head broke the water level once on each arm
cycle” (p. 2). This did not happen, and inThierry’s opinion, the new wording made the
problems facing the stroke and turn judges
worse than before.
Salvation came when Howard Hanson, an
Australian coach, writing in The InternationalSwimmer , said that the remedy suggested by
FINA in Moscow “was worse than the originalcomplaint.” He offered the following solution:a part of the head or body shall be above the
general surface of the water at least once dur-
ing each arm stroke. This would effectivelyprevent underwater swimming and make judg-
ing possible. FINA finally got it right on Febru-
ary 15, 1987, when, using wording not muchdifferent than that suggested by Coach Hanson,
they changed the breaststroke head rule to
read: “During each complete cycle of one armstroke and one leg kick, some part of the head
of the swimmer shall break the surface of the
water” (Colwin 1998).
Breaststroke Development
in the 1960s
After breaststroke once more became a sepa-
rate stroke, its evolution was characterized byan increased attention to streamlining the stroke,
while also adapting it to different body types.
In the process, variations in body build and
stature, length of limb, muscularity, and indi-
vidual buoyancy became important factors.
In the Australian and the American versions
of the stroke, the aim was to try to avoidexcessive up-and-down movement of theshoulders while trying to keep the entire body
as flat and as high as possible. The heels were
to be kept high enough so that they workedvery close to the surface, both in recovery and
during the kick.
On the other hand, the Europeans—particu-
larly the Russians—permitted and even en-couraged the shoulders and torso to rise and
fall in the natural rhythm of the stroke. Therewas also a distinct difference between the leg
actions advocated by the two schools of thought.
While Westerners preferred an ultraflat andalmost static body position in which the legs
were drawn up prior to the kick with a deep
knee-bend and hip flexion to preserve this po-sition, the Russians in particular allowed the
entire body to rise and fall while keeping an
almost straight line down the front of the bodyto the knees, as the feet were recovered over the
knees prior to delivering the kick.

30Breakthrough Swimming
During this period the emphasis on a down-
ward and backward arm movement became
more pronounced. At the same time, the widthof the pull became narrower than it had been
before. The aim in the shorter, narrower arm
pull was not only to increase streamlining butalso to achieve a more effective application of
muscular strength and power while increas-
ing the quickness of the movement. The sameprinciple of quick movement was applied to
the leg kick, which also became narrower and
faster. It became apparent to coaches and swim-mers alike that the narrower and quicker the
pull and the kick, the faster the swimmer
could go.
The Dolphin Butterfly Stroke
Henry Myers of the Brooklyn Dragon SwimClub is generally credited with developing thebutterfly stroke. In 1933, while swimming
breaststroke in practice, as a novelty diversion
he tried pulling his arms through to his hipsand recovering them over the water like a
double freestyle arm recovery. He was amazed
to find he could beat his club’s best breast-
stroke swimmers in short practice swims by
combining his new double overarm action withhis usual breaststroke kick.
It seems unlikely that Myers had intended to
invent a new stroke because only the kick re-sembled breaststroke. However, he and his
coach W.W. Robertson looked up the rules and
found to their surprise that the new stroke didnot contradict the rules in any way. They de-
cided that Myers should try out the stroke in
the 150-yard medley event at the BrooklynYMCA swim meet in December 1933 (Colwin
1998).
To everyone’s surprise, Myers beat the fa-
vorite, Wallace Spence, the American medleychampion. At first the odd-looking stroke took
the officials by surprise, but after Robertsonshowed the rule book to the officials, Myers
was not disqualified, and this set the precedent
for future use of the stroke (figure 1.21).
Note: In 1927 the German swimmer Erich
Rademacher, during a tour of the United States,gained considerable advantage by bringing his
Figure 1.21 The early dolphin butterfly stroke,
as performed by its pioneers, was swum with an
almost straight arm action, an excessive undulation
of the hips, and a very wide leg action. The legskicked twice for every arm stroke cycle. The stroke
was not permitted in competition until 1954. From
Armbruster 1942.

History of the Swimming Strokes 31
arms over the water in a double overarm recov-
ery as he approached the turn and also when he
touched at the end of a race. Rademacher in-sisted, even at that early date, that this in no
way infringed the rules of breaststroke swim-
ming (Colwin 1998).
From here the butterfly rapidly grew in popu-
larity in school, college, and national competi-tion in the United States. People began to takeit seriously and some even claimed to have
originated it. The early outstanding exponents
were Lester Kaplan and Paul Friesel.
In December 1954, the IOC finally agreed to
the inclusion of separate butterfly events, start-ing with the 1956 Olympics in Melbourne,Australia. However, in June 1956, it was an-
nounced that entries for the breaststroke and
butterfly events at the Olympics were to belimited by the IOC to only three competitors in
breaststroke and butterfly together. This state-
ment showed that even after 20 years, the IOCstill did not understand that the butterfly and
breaststroke were essentially different strokes
that should have been separated long ago. The
truth is that the IOC had been too concerned
with its own priorities to consider, let aloneunderstand, the developmental needs of one
particular stroke (Colwin 1998).
Development of the Dolphin Kick
In 1935, Jack Sieg, a University of Iowa swim-
mer, developed the skill of swimming on his
side while moving his legs in unison similar to
the action of a fish’s tail. He tried the same legaction while swimming face down on the sur-
face and eventually developed a perfectly timedcombination of arm and leg action using twoleg beats to each arm pull. He showed the
stroke’s speed potential by swimming 100 yardsin 60.2 seconds (Armbruster 1942, p. 24). How-
ever, the dolphin kick was ruled illegal because
the legs moved in the vertical plane. Not until1956 was the butterfly stroke allowed in Olym-
pic competition, simply because the IOC re-
fused to add new competitions to the Olympicprogram. Thus, for 21 years, the world of swim-
ming had a new stroke with great potential but
with no event in which it could be legallyswum—a sad reflection on FINA and the IOC.
Use of the Dolphin Kick
in Starting and Turning
FINA Rule SW 8.5 states: “At the start and at
turns, a swimmer is permitted one or more leg
kicks and one arm pull under the water, whichmust bring him to the surface. It shall be per-
missible for a swimmer to be completely sub-
merged for a distance of not more than 15meters after the start and after each turn. By
that point, the head must have broken the
surface. The swimmer must remain on the sur-
face until the next turn or finish.”
The dolphin kick is much faster when swum
under the surface after the starting dive andwhen pushing off from the wall after the turn.
This is because swimming below the disturbedsurface water eliminates wave drag that consti-
tutes about 80 percent of the overall drag acting
on the body. (Friction drag, the result of thewater being in contact with the body, is only
about 20 to 30 percent of the total drag acting on
the body when swimming.)

33Chapter 2
Breakthroughs in
Stroke Techniques
Biomechanics  refers to the applica-
tion of laws governing all forms of
human motion. These laws deal with
forces and their resultant motions.
The laws concerned with the mo-
tion of b odies are comm only divided
into two branches: kinematics and
kinetics. Kinematics  involves aspects
of the motions  of bodies, such as
speed, velocity, and acceleration,
without reference to what causes
them. Kinetics  is concerned with the
effects  that forces have on these mo-
tions.
During the second half of the 20th
century, the biomechanical researchconducted by James “Doc” Counsil-
man and Robert Schleihauf contrib-uted to a better understanding ofhuman swimming propulsion, par-
ticularly to the changing interactions
between lift and drag forces, two
terms they introduced into the swim-
ming lexicon.
Counsilman showed why the
pull in all swimming strokes doesnot follow a straight line (1969; 1971;
Counsilman and Brown 1970). Be-
fore Counsilman began his experi-ments, many talented swimmers
naturally changed the direction ofthe pull as the hand moved in a
curved path across the line of theswimmer’s forward movement. Adetailed underwater photographic
study of the familiar curvilinear
pattern of the butterfl y stro
 ke
prompted Counsilman to question

34Breakthrough Swimming
Counsilman’s presentation revealed that
when a swimmer’s hand moves in a curved-
line path across the line of the body’s forwardmotion, it at times produces forward lift (fig-
ure 2.4).
Basically, the swimmer uses the resistance
caused by lift on the palm of the hand to applythrust. The action can be likened to walking up
a sandy slope, with every step up pushing thesand down. Both examples obey Newton’s third
law of motion.
The action-reaction principle mentioned ear-
lier in the description of the straight-line pullstill applies, but when lift propulsion predomi-
nates in a swimming stroke, the reaction iscreated by a different mechanism. Instead ofthe validity of the prevailing concept (whichCounsilman himself advocated at the time) ofteaching swimmers to pull directly backward
in a straight line in order to go directly for-
ward. (This concept was in accordance withNewton’s third law of motion: for every action
there is a reaction, equal and opposite.)
Schleihauf, by accurate measurement of hand
placements and use of vector analysis, showedthe range of propulsive forces developed in the
four swimming styles (1974; 1977; 1979).
The Lift Principle
Formulated by the Swiss mathematician DanielBernoulli (1700–1782), the law known as theBernoulli principle states that as the velocity of
a fluid increases, the pressure it exerts de-
creases.
When a stream of fluid passes around a
foil—such as a swimmer’s hand—the flow overthe convex upper surface has a greater velocityand, following Bernoulli’s principle, a lower
pressure than that on the under surface; the
difference in pressure between the two streamscreates a force called lift (figure 2.1).
Lift, also known as side thrust, always acts in
a direction perpendicular to the direction of
motion. In the case of an airplane wing in level
flight, lift is directed upward at a right angle tothe direction of motion (figure 2.2).
Figure 2.1 The difference in pressure between
the low-pressure and high-pressure streamscreates a lift force.
Figure 2.2 Lift always acts in a direction
perpendicular to the direction of motion.
Figure 2.3 A propeller is like a wing and also
generates lift.A propeller is like a wing in that it also
generates lift, but the lift, acting at right angles
to the blade’s motion, is directed forward (fig-
ure 2.3).

Breakthroughs in Stroke Techniques 35
Figure 2.4 A swimmer’s hand moves in a
curvilinear path to produce forward lift: (a) front
view and (b) side view.
Adapted from Counsilman 1977 .a
b
pushing directly backward in a straight line
with the palm of the hand, the hand moves in a
curved path, splitting the water with the edgeof the hand to create a pressure resistance on
the palm of the hand against which thrust is
applied (figure 2.5).
Counsilman’s findings suggested a different
approach to swimming efficiency in all thestrokes. The hand should not always be pulleddirectly backward in a straight line (paddling)
but, at times, and in certain strokes, should
follow a curvilinear path (sculling), duringwhich the angle of the hand (pitch) relative to
the body’s forward motion should be continu-
ously adjusted to achieve the maximum liftpropulsion (figure 2.6).
In recent years, freeze-frame underwater
videography, taken with new robotic under-water cameras, has thrown an interesting light
on the nature of a swimmer’s supposedly self-
Figure 2.5 Lift propulsion is created by the
hand moving in a curvilinear path (underneath
view).
Adapted from Counsilman 1977 .
Figure 2.6 The pitch of the hand is continuously
adjusted to achieve maximum lift propulsion.
Adapted from Counsilman 1977 .

36Breakthrough Swimming
moving through a fluid, human swimming
propulsion results from neither lift nor dragforces acting in isolation but rather from a
constant interaction between the two during
the changing sequences of a swimming stroke(1974; 1977; 1979).
Schleihauf created an exact plastic resin rep-
lica of a hand, which he dipped into a flowchannel through which fluid moved at a known
speed. The hand was mounted on a rod that
measured the total range of forces, both lift anddrag, produced by the hand in varying flow
conditions and at different angles of pitch
(Schleihauf 1977).
Lift Coefficient
Schleihauf then compared the lifting character-istics of the hand with the characteristics of acommonly used airfoil of similar profile (NACA
airfoil 0012) and found that the hand’s maxi-
mum lift coefficient was 20 percent less than thewing’s. He attributed this minor difference to
the hand’s slightly more irregular shape.
The term lift coefficient  refers to the relation-
ship between the amount of lift on an airfoiland its angle of pitch. The lift component, or
amount of lift on an airfoil or human hand,increases or decreases relative to the size of the
angle of pitch. According to Schleihauf, the lift
coefficient on a swimmer’s hand increases upto an angle of pitch (also known as angle of
attack) of about 40 degrees and then decreases
(figure 2.7; Schleihauf 1977).created sculling motions. These movement se-quences were taken during actual racing con-ditions, when swimmers were traveling at
speed and applying arm leverage to develop
maximum force. Instead of deliberately at-tempting to use so-called sculling motions in a
conscious attempt to scull in a curvilinear path,
the sequences show that in the freestyle stroke,lateral deviations from the intended direct
straight-back movements of the hands are
caused naturally by the body’s rotation on itslong axis.
Interaction of Lift
and Drag Forces
It is difficult to understand why biomechanistshave divided into separate camps concerningthe dominant use of either drag or lift force
propulsion in swimming. Almost any elemen-
tary text on fluid dynamics will include withinits first one or two pages a statement such as the
following typical extract on the basic interac-
tion between lift and drag forces:
The force acting on a body moving througha fluid is usually resolved into two com-
ponents: one called lift normal to the di-
rection in the body, and the other calleddrag, in a direction opposed to that of
motion (Karamcheti 1966).
Schleihauf, a swimming coach and also a
trained engineer, pointed out that like any body
Figure 2.7 Coefficient of lift curve. From Schleihauf 1977 , p. 51. Adapted by permission.

Breakthroughs in Stroke Techniques 37
Resultant Propulsive Force
The next stage of Schleihauf’s studies involved
filming champion swimmers from directly be-
low and at right angles to their forward direc-
tion. Before filming, Schleihauf placed four smalllights on each swimmer’s hands, which enabled
Schleihauf to determine the hands’ paths as well
as their changing speeds and angles of attack inall four styles of swimming. Schleihauf then
combined the data collected from his film stud-
ies of leading swimmers with the informationobtained in the fluid laboratory (Schleihauf 1977).
By this method, Schleihauf determined the
direction and magnitude of the lift and dragforces created by the hands at key points in the
stroke. Using vector analysis of this information,
he estimated the instantaneous direction andmagnitude of the resultant propulsive force—
that is, the net effect of the interaction between
the lift and drag forces. Schleihauf then mea-sured the resultant forces developed during the
stroke at selected angles of hand pitch (figure
2.9). His work set the scene for the first compre-hensive analysis of stroke mechanics and has
since been followed by several other studies.
Angle of Attack
The angle at which a body meets the flowstream,or angle of attack, is a crucial factor. The angle
of attack has nothing to do with the horizontal(parallel to the ground) angle but is instead the
angle at which the object meets the flowstream.
In the example of the thin plate (see figure 2.10),we know that there is minimum flow resistance
when the plate is held with its edge to the
stream and maximum drag when held at aright angle. But what happens when the lead-
ing edge is inclined at a slight angle?
The fluid pressure is now greater under-
neath the plate than on the top surface, a liftingforce, or side thrust, acting at right angles to the
oncoming flowstream. But whenever lift is gen-erated, drag is also created. Drag acts in the
direction opposite to the motion of the object.
Whereas lift acts at right angles to theflowstream, drag acts parallel to the flowstream.
The net result is that the total force on the plate
is backward as well as upward (figure 2.11).Drag Coefficient
Similarly, the term drag coefficient  refers to the
relationship between the drag component on an
airfoil or hand and its angle of attack. The drag
coefficient also increases or decreases in relationto the size of the angle of attack. Schleihauf’s
measurements show that the drag coefficient on
a swimmer’s hand increases as the angle ofattack increases to 90 degrees (Schleihauf 1977).
With a diminishing angle of attack, the drag
coefficient decreases. There is an almost equalcontribution of lift and drag forces at an angle of
approximately 45 degrees, and drag forces pre-
dominate when the hand reaches angles greaterthan 45 degrees (figure 2.8).
Figure 2.8 Lift-drag interaction: (a) less than 45
degrees; (b) 45 degrees; (c) greater than 45
degrees. From Schleihauf 1977 , p. 53. Adapted bypermission.a
b
c

38Breakthrough Swimming
Important Contributions
of Biomechanic Research
Ernest Maglischo (1983) used three-dimensional
motion picture photography and digitizingtechniques to show distinct periods of accelera-
tion and deceleration of forward speed during
a stroke cycle. Maglischo posed the importantquestion: “When are these periods of decelera-
tion normal, and when do they indicate stroke
defects?”
Following Maglischo’s study, David Costill
(1987) conceived a video-computer system thatprovided instant analysis of a swimmer’s ve-locity at different points in the stroke. The
system combines the use of a video camera
with the swim meter invented by Albert Craigand David Pendergast (1979). (The mechanical
parts of the swim meter were designed and
built by Gerald F. Harris.) A computer syn-chronizes the video image with a velocity graph
and superimposes the two on a video display.
This information eventually may help swim-mers time their strokes with greater accuracy,
particularly when they know the relationship
between the propulsive forces they developand the fluctuating velocities within the stroke
cycle. At present, we remain in comparative
ignorance about this important practical as-pect of swimming propulsion. The continuing
challenge will be to reduce often complex sci-
entific information to a simple, easily taughtformat.
Further complicating the new perspective
was the realization that not only does the hand
Figure 2.10 Thin plate inclined to the flowstream
to form an angle of attack.
Figure 2.11 Lift and drag forces act on a thin
plate inclined at an angle of attack.
Figure 2.9 Resultant force production: (a) pitch
equals 20 degrees, velocity equals 12.0 fps;(b) pitch equals 45 degrees, velocity equals 11.2
fps; (c) pitch equals 90 degrees, velocity equals
10.0 fps. From Schleihauf 1977 , p. 53. Adapted bypermission.a
b
c

Breakthroughs in Stroke Techniques 39
propel by moving in a curvilinear path but that
this path is three-dimensional (figure 2.12). Thehand moves simultaneously in three dimen-
sions—the lateral, vertical, and horizontal
planes.minimize resistance. By rotating the body toeach side within the natural rhythm of thestroke, smaller changes in the curvature of the
flow lines result. In butterfly and breaststroke,
the momentary submerging of the body be-neath the surface greatly reduces surface wave
drag.
Form drag (or skin friction) is caused by
water resistance on the swimmer’s skin, a resis-tance generally considered to have little nega-
tive effect on propulsion. However, the prac-tice of shaving body hair (“shaving down”) has
been shown to enhance swimming speed (Sharp
and Costill 1989).
Eddy resistance or separation (also known
as tail suction) is caused by water pressure at agiven region insufficient to force the waterlaterally inward and make it follow closely
along the body, especially toward the body’s
tapering aft end. Water is dragged in frombehind the swimmer to fill the gap left because
the flow has not closed in from the sides. Resis-
tance is generated by the forward accelerationof water that otherwise would flow backward
and be left behind.
Prolonged Momentum
Some swimmers naturally prolong their mo-
mentum past the point where it would nor-
mally start to diminish. A stroke cycle well
coordinated with each propulsive impulseoccurring in ideal sequence can avoid ex-
treme fluctuations of acceleration and decel-
eration. The more constant the momentum,the better the index of efficient technique
(Colwin 1984b).
The ability to prolong momentum allows a
swimmer to take fewer strokes to cover a setdistance, an indication of proficiency. Measure-
ment against a grid shows that a skilled crawlswimmer is able to complete a swimming stroke
with the hand leaving the water ahead of the
point at which it entered (Schleihauf 1977). Atfirst, this phenomenon was thought to result
from lift force causing the hand to move for-
ward as it stroked. However, the real reason isthat, as one hand enters the water, the body is
propelled forward by the other hand. In
Lateralx
y
zHorizontal
Vertical
Figure 2.12 The three-dimensional aspect (x, y,
z axes) of the pull. From Schleihauf 1977 , p. 50.
Adapted by permission.
Counsilman and Wasilak (1982), studying
hand speed and hand-acceleration patterns in
swimming strokes, found that the hand fol-
lows a velocity pattern in which the three-dimensional speed continuously increases ex-
cept for a deceleration point in midstroke, a
finding that confirms Schleihauf’s study(1974).
The main impediments to a swimmer’s for-
ward motion are frontal resistance, form drag,and eddy resistance. Frontal resistance is caused
by wave-making drag. The swimmer’s for-
ward momentum causes a buildup of movingpressure disturbances in the water in front of
the body, which results in frontal resistance.
Lifting the head and shoulders too far from thehorizontal plane lowers the hips and legs to set
up increased frontal resistance.
In freestyle and backstroke, the strokes in
which the body rolls or rotates on its long axis,the use of gradually curved surfaces along the
general paths followed by the water flow will

40Breakthrough Swimming
Kinetic Streamlining
Kinetic streamlining  refers to the synchroniza-
tion of body and limb alignments aimed at
reducing drag during the impulses of force and
the resulting propulsion (Colwin 1984b). Mostcompetent swimmers naturally assume stream-
lined body alignments. However, the presence
of bilateral body alignments in the crawl andbackstroke, for example, will not necessarily
result in prolonged momentum. The timing of
the changing alignment sequences is the keyfactor.
When the body rotates on its long axis in
freestyle and backstroke, the water flowssmoothly around the body with reduced
changes to the curvature of the flow lines. The
rotation lowers resistance because the rotatingaction results in a smaller surface area of the
body being presented to the water. To maxi-
mize this effect in crawl and backstroke, askilled swimmer spends most of the stroke
cycle with the body tipped equally to one side
or the other rather than in the flat, centralposture that produces increased resistance.
Transitional Phases
of the Swimming Strokes
The body roll on its long axis in freestyle and
backstroke results from the rotation of the arms
as they alternately pull and recover over thewater. The entire body—shoulders, hips, and
legs—rotates at once. The total amount of roll
varies from 70 to 90 degrees, or 35 to 45 degreeson each side of the body’s long axis, in both the
freestyle and backstroke.
The direction and speed of the body’s rota-
tion is controlled by the arms throughout thestroke cycle rather than by the swimmer con-
sciously rotating the hips from side to side,using the so-called core muscles. (Core swim-
ming was a popular catchphrase in the late 20th
century, used mainly by purveyors of expen-sive exercise equipment designed to strengthen
the large muscles of the trunk.) During each
arm recovery, the shifting mass of the shoulderand upper arm causes the body to roll gradu-
ally to the other side. The directional change ofFigure 2.13 Skilled swimmers prolong
momentum by accurately timing their arm strokesand streamlining their body alignments throughout
stroke sequence. Observing the entry (E) and exit(X) points of a swimmer against a poolside grid
creates a visual impression of the swimmer’s
stroking efficiency. If a swimmer’s hand exits thewater at the same point where it entered, it shows
that there has been no “slip” in the stroke. As
shown here, highly skilled swimmers exit theirhands ahead  of the entry point, the distance
between “X” and “E” indicating the extent to whichthey are able to prolong momentum. This indicatestheir ability to swim with fewer strokes per lap.figure 2.13, the right arm enters in a stream-lined posture that permits water to flow underthe arm and torso, enabling the body to pro-
long the momentum developed by the left arm
as it accelerates through its pull.
Other factors also result in prolonged mo-
mentum, such as having a streamlined andbuoyant body and having the ability to acceler-ate the arm stroke to overcome resistance drag
(Colwin 1984b).
E
E
E
E
> E X <

Breakthroughs in Stroke Techniques 41
the body roll is synchronized with the other
arm as it starts its pull. This transition from theend of one stroke to the start of the next is
critical to maintain momentum. It requires
smooth streamlining of changing body align-ments and split-second timing of one arm with
the other to ensure the swimmer’s prolonged
momentum.
Some swimmers, because of their physical
characteristics, are unable to roll quickly enoughto synchronize the body rotation with the armaction. It is likely that each swimmer has an
individual “rolling time,” the time taken for the
total of roll from one side to the other. Thismight be related to height, the average width of
the body, buoyancy, and so on.
Usually, swimmers who are broad and stocky
have a slow rolling time from one side to theother. Conversely, tall, light-boned, and buoy-
ant female swimmers are able to roll quickly,thus avoiding excessive resistance by not stay-
ing too long in the central position.
Stroke Length and Stroke
Frequency
Stroke length (distance per stroke) and stroke
frequency (stroke rate) govern a swimmer’s
average speed. Should a swimmer use long,slow strokes or short, fast strokes? Actually,
skilled swimmers tend to use long, fast strokes.
When they increase their speed, better swim-mers usually try to take even longer strokes
and turn over the longer stroke more quickly.
Though the concept of taking long strokes is
not a new idea, it took hold only gradually.Most competitors in the early years of the sport
thought speed was to be achieved by fast andfurious stroking. However, Louis de B. Handley
(1928), one of the pioneers of women’s com-
petitive swimming and a prolific writer onaquatic subjects, observed that a swift stroke is
not conducive to fast swimming.
Ron Johnson (1982) delivered an address on
tempo awareness training at the American Swim-ming Coaches’ Association’s World Clinic, in
which he outlined methods for timing stroketempo with a 1/100-second stopwatch or a com-
puter that depended on the stroke being swum.For freestyle, Johnson timed the stroke from
the right-hand entry through at least two stroke
cycles to the next right-hand entry , obtaining the
tempo by halving the time for two cycles. Johnson
said that in freestyle a typical tempo for a middle-distance collegiate swimmer is around 1.30 to
1.35 seconds. For a good college male sprinter, a
typical tempo is around .95 second, and femaleswimmers at the elite level are approximately
.05 second faster than men per stroke cycle.
Backstroke tempo, on the other hand, is
slower than freestyle by about .2 to .3 secondper stroke revolution. Johnson said that
backstrokers take about the same number ofstrokes per length as freestylers do, but because
of the more limited mechanics of the stroke,
backstrokers cannot stroke as quickly.
Johnson suggested two ways for measuring
breaststroke tempo. First, measure from thetime the feet close until they close again in onestroke cycle. Second, measure from when the
chin breaks the surface as the swimmer breathes
until the next time the chin breaks the water. Hesaid that breaststroke swimmers on average
stroke about .10 to .15 second faster than
freestylers of similar expertise.
In butterfly, the stroke is measured from the
time the hands enter the water until they enteragain for the next stroke. Johnson said that thestroke revolutions in butterfly are similar to
freestyle. A good collegiate male 100-yard but-
terfly swimmer is typically in the 1.05- to 1.15-second range, whereas females in the same
category vary between 1.00 and 1.05 seconds.
With the exception of those swimming the
butterfly stroke, skilled swimmers usually in-crease their stroke length as the distance of the
race increases. However, probably because ofthe accumulative effects of fatigue, a swimmer’s
stroke frequency may decrease, and so will
average speed (Pai, Hay, and Wilson 1984; Craigand Pendergast 1979; Craig et al. 1985).
Researchers report no consistent pattern re-
garding stroke frequency during a swimmingrace. Stroke frequency may often remain con-
stant throughout a race, or it may either de-
crease or increase (Craig et al. 1985; Curry 1975;Hay, Guimaraes, and Grimston 1983; Pai, Hay,
and Wilson 1984).

42Breakthrough Swimming
Researchers agree, however, that stroke
length rather than stroke frequency is the deter-
mining factor in a swimmer’s average speed.
They also agree that in freestyle, butterfly, and
breaststroke, stroke frequency is very similar.However, probably because of the mechanical
disadvantage of the body in the dorsal posi-
tion, backstroke usually has a much slowerstroke frequency and greater stroke length than
the other strokes.
Male swimmers attain greater speed than
female swimmers because they swim with agreater stroke length. However, the two sexes
have very similar stroke frequencies (Craig andPendergast 1979; East 1970; Pai, Hay, and Wil-
son 1984).
Olympic Stars Break Through
to a New Paradigm
At the 2000 Sydney Olympics, the advanced
swimming styles of freestyle champions Pieter
van den Hoogenband, Ian Thorpe, Gary Hall Jr .,
and Alexander Popov were seen as a break-through to a new paradigm of stroke mechanics.
Based on the skilled use of the principle of
momentum, their easy gliding action drewmuch attention and comment. These four ath-
letes showed the world of swimming that accu-
rate timing and efficient streamlining producesmomentum in the most efficient way to over-
come resistance.
Accurate Timing and Momentum
The naturally accurate timing of the freestylechampions’ arm movements and their con-
stantly changing body alignments produced acontinuous momentum and a steady, effortless
application of power. The uncanny subtlety of
their strokes was in marked contrast to most ofthe other swimmers, who often seemed to exert
too much energy by powering their way
through the water.
The techniques of the first Olympic champi-
ons of the new millennium were a completebreakout from the previously dominant frame-work of the specious lift versus drag argu-
ments, pursued with pedantic obsession for 30
years.How does the use of the principle of mo-
mentum influence the efficiency of the overallswimming stroke? Momentum affects the
amount of power the swimmer must apply to
keep moving forward with a minimum ofbody deceleration. For example, when a
freestyle swimmer smacks the surface water
with the arm at the entry, or starts the pull toopowerfully before the other hand has finished
the power phase of its stroke, the momentum
created by the opposite arm is severely re-duced. To overcome the inertia caused by poor
timing of the arms, a greater amount of effort
must be applied to maintain the swimmer’smomentum.
Skill
Skill is that element of performance that en-
ables the swimmer to accomplish a large amount
of work with a relatively small amount of ef-fort. Put the other way around, performance
accomplished with the least waste of effort
produces the highest standard of skill.
Visible effort is a sign of unproductive effort,
and poor performance is usually characterizedby the type of wasteful muscular activity de-scribed previously—using forceful motions
when only light ones are required.
Swimming skill is acquired mainly through
a refined coordination of the various majorelements of the overall swimming action. The
motor impulses from the central nervous sys-tem arrive at the muscles in such numbers and
with such split-second timing as to result in a
correct sequence of integrated propulsive andstreamlining movements.
The principles involved include the follow-
ing:
• Momentum should be employed to over-
come resistance.
• Work arranged to permit an easy and
natural rhythm—correct timing—is con-
ducive to smooth and automatic perfor-
mance.
• Hesitation or the temporary and often
cessation of motion should be eliminated
from the performance.

Breakthroughs in Stroke Techniques 43
Subtle Differences
Among Individuals
The tall, lean swimmer appears to have the
advantage of being able to apply force against
the resistance of the water through a greaterrange of movement. Today’s top male swim-
mers are rarely under 6 feet 2 inches tall, while
most of the top female swimmers stand 5 feet 8inches or taller.
Swimmers vary in mechanical adaptability,
including flexibility; the surface area of theirpropelling members; the entire body surface
area related to resistance; the floating ability of
the body; and the power of the propellingfactors such as the leverage developed by the
arms and the thrust or balance provided by the
legs.
Similarly, body proportions; height; armspan
relative to height; shoulder width; hip width;the length, shape, and girth of the torso; andeven the shape of the head determine the type
of surface wave a swimmer will make in the
water, as well as the amount of skin-water fric-tion presented below the surface line. Equally
important are the relative dimensions of vari-
ous parts of the swimmer’s body—particularlylimbs and extremities—to the whole physique,
as these vary as widely as physical contours.
Theoretically, a strong, lean, tall swimmer
with good buoyancy has the best body type forspeed swimming. On the other hand, squarely
built female swimmers of average height whodo not glide well but are unusually buoyant are
often able to develop great speed with a high-
revving, continuous arm stroke, particularlyover longer distances.
Hand Size and Surface Area
The importance of hand size and hand surfacearea has been overlooked in considering the
efficiency of various types of stroke patterns.
The wide range of hand sizes and surface areasin different swimmers also has not been con-
sidered. These differences can be easily mea-
sured by drawing the outline of each swimmer’shand on graph paper then measuring the total
surface area by counting the number of squares
within the outline of the hand.These measurements can quickly highlight
the differences among swimmers, particularlybetween average and elite swimmers. When
biomechanists report studies said to measure
the forces developed by the model of an eliteswimmer’s hand in a moving flow, no refer-
ence is made to the size and area of the hand of
the swimmer or whose hand it is.
A large difference in propulsion can result
from only a small increase in surface area. Agood example of this is the difference measuredwhen a swimmer uses a hand paddle versus
when he does not. Sometimes a swimmer with
a small hand finds it difficult to effectively usea direct backward pull and has to use a more
transverse sculling action to propel. When the
same swimmer wears a hand paddle, whichapplies a few more square inches against the
resistance of the water, he finds the direct back-
ward paddling action much easier.
Next time you see Thorpe or Hackett grip-
ping the water at the start of the stroke with ahooked wrist and a hand planed directly back-ward, note the size of their hands. It will be
clear why this technique is better suited to a
swimmer blessed with super-sized hands thatpresent at least 30 square inches of propelling
surface to the water with each stroke.
Despite variations in individual strengths
and weaknesses, unlike yachts of different de-sign, differently designed swimmers compete
in the same race and not in races designated forpeople of particular physical characteristics. In
each of the eight lanes will be a swimmer with
basically two arm propellers and two leg pro-pellers. Each set of propellers varies in design
regarding length, shape, and surface area; con-
sequently, each swimmer will use slightly dif-ferent propelling mechanisms.
Need for Descriptive Research
We will never be able to design more efficientswimmers (in the way that racing yachts aremade to measure by naval architects), but it‘s
reasonable to assume that better methods of
talent selection that measure all the complexphysical and mechanical attributes that con-
tribute to speed will one day become possible.
These measurements may include mathemati-

44Breakthrough Swimming
cally constructing a prototype of the ideal swim-
ming physique—perhaps by measuring upswimmers such as Van Hoogenband, Thorpe,
Hall, and Popov, for example—to develop a
model of ideal composite factors.
Stroke Mechanics
Swimmers have the choice of using the hands
and forearms predominantly as paddles or as
foils. Different limb shapes and sizes affect themechanics used by each swimmer in applying
propulsive leverage on the water. In the water,
swimmers often look different from each othereven while employing the same basic funda-
mentals of propulsion.
Buoyancy and balance, the split-second tim-
ing between each arm, and the continuouslychanging body alignments throughout the
stroke are contributing factors that enable aswimmer to produce continuing momentum
throughout the stroke.
Wave-Making Resistance
Applied to Human Swimming
In 1969, in a discussion of power-weight ratio
and streamlining, it was said:
The effects of a swimmer’s shape and
physical proportions on reducing resis-
tance is largely governed by certain fac-tors. The ratio of height to width is prob-
ably the most important single factor in
reducing resistance. The more slender theswimmer, the less will be the underwater
volume compared to his height or length
in the water. If he has a gradually taperingphysique, this will allow water to flow
past more easily. (Colwin 1969, pp. 88–89)
Vast differences exist between human swim-
mers and ships specially designed to displace
water efficiently, so comparisons of the two are
not always applicable. For one thing, a ship’sbow cleanly parts the waters and keeps the
resulting wave closely encased around the hull,
whereas a human swimmer diverts the flowsideways, both at the bow wave created by the
head and with the transverse flow created at
the hips. Some water does flow under theswimmer’s body and is diverted sideways be-fore it reaches the hip bones.
An important point is that water pressure
wants to go from high-pressure areas to low-pressure areas and, as a result, can’t suddenlychange direction. This fact is not appreciated
by some theorists who draw fanciful lines along
a swimmer’s contours to indicate that the flowstrictly observes these particular shapes. To the
contrary, a flow approaching a submerged
shoulder, for example, will not go right along tothe shoulder to follow its particular contour
but will start changing its direction well before
it arrives at the shoulder.
It can be seen that a surface ship faces a
practical speed limit, called its hull speed. Oncepast its hull speed, the ship’s drag increasessuddenly and severely. Since hull speed de-
pends on hull length, a larger ship can go faster
before hitting that limit. (Generally, this is calledthe limiting Froude number.) Basically, the
speed at which any boat can move is equal to
the speed at which a wave, whose length isequal to the length of that boat, travels. This can
be calculated as a function of water depth and
wave length. For all displacement craft, thislimit is hard to exceed. It can be exceeded
slightly but not by much, as doing so would
require a large increase in power.
Despite the stated disadvantages that face
human swimmers, athletes such as MistyHyman, David Berkoff, and Daichi Suzuki,with their dolphin-kicking, underwater tech-
niques, have come closest to achieving some
semblance of a perfect streamlining system forhuman swimmers. Olympic butterfly cham-
pion Misty Hyman in particular, using her
novel fish-tail technique while lying on herside underwater with arms extended forward,
creates pressure waves that increase in ampli-
tude as they move aft, using her whole body asan integrated propulsive unit.
Problems in Human Swimming
The alternate kick of crawl and backstroke
swimming prevents the flow of water from
closing around the swimmer and leaving asmooth wake. The kick and recovery move-
ment of the breaststroke leg action has the same
effect. However, the butterfly leg action, in

Breakthroughs in Stroke Techniques 45
direct contrast to the other strokes, is the only
leg action that permits the flow to close aroundthe swimmer’s aft end.
Rolling the body on its long axis in freestyle
and backstroke causes transverse flows to formagainst a swimmer’s line of forward progres-
sion. These transverse flows disturb the main
flow trying to move aftward. However, themore buoyant female swimmer appears able to
roll the body without disrupting rearward wave
flow, probably because she displaces less waterthan her male counterpart does.
Biomechanists tend to be most concerned
with measuring the resistance presented by aswimmer’s surface area and sometimes ignore
the important effect of shape in maintaining
streamlining. But a principle of hydrodynam-ics is that gradually curved surfaces along the
general paths followed by the water flow will
minimize resistance.
Hydrodynamicists say that swimmers, es-
pecially when moving at speed, present moreform drag  than friction drag.  Resistance presented
against the surface water in wave making is
approximately 70 percent, whereas the amount
of skin friction against water accounts for about30 percent of resistance. The rough surface
presented is very much like a ship hindered by
a bunch of protuberances (referring to the knees,ankle joints, hip bones, and changing muscle
shapes) extending from its hull that set up
numerous pressure waves radiating from it.
The motion of the body as the arms pull and
recover, together with trunk rotation, createslateral pressure disturbances, waves, vortices,and general turbulence. In addition, the break-
ing up of the flow caused by the leg actions in
three of the racing styles prevents the flow fromclosing behind the swimmer.
In the freestyle and backstroke, a bow wave
forms around the head. Contrary to descrip-tions in some of the swimming literature, flow
is not deflected in two directions in a sharp V-
shape, as around the bow of a ship. The firstpart of the body to meet the oncoming flow is
the top of the head, not the shoulders, which
are sometimes described as helping the bodypenetrate the water. The bow wave is rounded
by the shape of the head and forms a divergent
arc-shaped—not V-shaped—flow that spreadsout wider than the shoulders.Each entry of the arms in freestyle and but-
terfly causes a repetitive, abrupt splitting of thebow wave. We don’t know what effect this has
on keeping a smooth wave-flow encased around
the body. In freestyle, this splitting or deforma-tion of the bow wave occurs as the body rolls to
the side of the entry arm. Not only is the bow
wave broken with each arm entry, but wateroften is thrown vigorously forward as the arms
come over to start each new stroke. This effect
is more pronounced in male swimmers than infemales.
The question is whether the speed of the
entry arm should be faster or slower than thespeed of the body to effect a more controlled
entry and preserve the momentum of the body.
It is possible that even the shape of a
swimmer’s head may influence the shape ofthe bow wave produced. Some swimmers have
round-shaped heads (bracycephalic), and oth-ers have long heads (dolicocephalic). A round
head may cause a bow wave that is more
rounded in front, while a swimmer with a headof narrower width may produce a bow wave
with a sharper front.
Female swimmers because of generally
smaller body size, greater buoyancy, and morerounded contours, produce narrower and
smaller bow waves than their more angularmale counterparts, but they still in no way split
the water in the manner of a ship’s bow.
Observation of the flow patterns developed
in the various strokes indicates a smootherflow around the body in the backstroke, prob-
ably due to the more gradual curvature of theback compared with the more irregular shape
of the front trunk. In addition, there appears to
be less interference with the bow wave at eacharm entry. This may be caused by the shallower
entry of the arm and a more careful control of
the arm as the hand enters the water.
Tall Swimmers and Wave Making
Most swimmers lengthen the bow wave as theyincrease their speed. This is particularly notice-
able in tall swimmers such as Popov (6 feet
7 inches), Thorpe (6 feet 5 inches), Hall (6 feet6 inches), and van den Hoogenband (6 feet
4 inches). Each swimmer creates one long, close-
fitting wave along the length of his body.

46Breakthrough Swimming
Any object moving through surface water
generates waves. At low speeds, the objectgenerates very short waves, but with in-
creasing speed the object creates a pair of
waves separated by roughly its own wa-terline length—the so-called bow wave
and stern wave. The waterline length (hull
length) thus sets the distance betweenwaves (wavelength). Waves always move,
and their wave lengths set their speeds.
The waves get longer and longer the fasterthe object goes, until eventually reaching
the point where the wave equals the length
of the object, more or less. It has a crest atthe bow and another one near the stern.
Trouble arises because an ordinary float-
ing ship finds it hard to go faster than itswaves. As has been known for at least a
century, wave speed increases with the
square root of wavelength; double thewavelength, and you increase the wave
speed about 1.4 times. By making waves
of longer length, the bigger boat makeswaves that travel faster. If the boat tries to
go faster, a hill of water faces it, and the
boat must either cut its way through or goperpetually uphill—up the down escala-
tor as it were (Vogel 1998).
Videotaping swimmers of all levels of ability
in all strokes and of different body types at
varying rates of speed is a valuable, interesting,and thought-provoking exercise. These record-
ings should be made from all angles, including
high above the swimmers from a diving toweror similar height, as well as at the waterline to
determine wave height.
Exerting Natural Leverage
As stated earlier, much discussion has taken
place over the years about whether swimmers
should use predominant lift or predominant
drag mechanisms in their arm strokes.
Biomechanists often present an idealized
case analysis of the hand and the arm of anindividual swimmer that does not considerthe entire picture of a swimmer’s limb being
connected to a body. The limb’s movement is
not done in isolation. It is connected to thebody’s total movement, consisting of a com-plex set of continuous and interacting sequen-tial actions. In the short term, an academic
analysis of the forces acting on a single arm at
a particular instant in which the hand is frozenin the water will not lead to real advances
because the arm is never rigid but moves
continuously.
The argument over whether swimmers
should use predominant lift or predominantdrag propulsion has become a drawn-out, spe-cious, academic argument that long ago en-
tered a cul-de-sac. Among practical and suc-
cessful pool deck coaches, the lift-dragargument became a nonissue long ago, if in fact
it ever existed. If biomechanists have had to
perform scientific experiments to determine ifswimmers use predominant lift or drag forces,
how much more difficult is it for the coach
practitioner to readily determine these factorsfrom the pool deck?
Furthermore, how is the coach to teach the
desired stroke pattern and know with certaintythat it has been established? How will the coach
know which mechanism is best suited to the
individual swimmer? And, as Stix and Fischettiask in Scientific American  (2000), “Does it mat-
ter?” Surely it is enough for a swimmer todevelop the most efficient propulsive leverageon the water based on what flows naturally
from individual physical characteristics with-
out considering whether lift or drag forcespredominate. There is a difference between
faulty technique and idiosyncrasy, and in this
process the coach should not start out with anyparticular idea of what specific type of tech-
nique a swimmer should use, thereby trying to
force all swimmers into a Procrustean bed ofuniformity.
During a long experience in coaching, I have
seen only one freestyle swimmer whose strok-ing pattern exactly duplicated that of another
swimmer. Each swimmer is born with an indi-
vidual neuromuscular pattern, and there is notmuch a coach can do to change it. Experienced
coaches find that the most significant advances
are made through intuition—either the natu-ral feel of the swimmer or the intuition of a
skilled coach, prompting each swimmer into
his or her natural movement inclination.

Breakthroughs in Stroke Techniques 47
Applying Effective Propulsive
Leverage
Differences in individual physique affect the
way each swimmer applies leverage against
the water’s resistance. So how should a coachinstruct a swimmer on the ideal placement of
the hand through the changing sequences of a
swimming stroke?
The phrase “changing sequence” is used in
contrast to a biomechanical analysis of a singlearm position that will not help to establish themost effective moving stroke pattern for the
individual swimmer.
As a coach, I discovered, quite by accident,
that by wearing a weight belt most swimmerswill automatically exert maximum leverage on
the water and, in the process, find the strokepattern best suited to his or her own body build
or, to phrase it colloquially, his or her own
individual set of levers.
Practicing the stroke while wearing a weight
belt works well in all four styles of swimming.A breaststroke swimmer, for example, who pullsor kicks too wide will naturally groove both the
arm stroke and leg kick into a narrower action,while noting at the same time that improved
force application on the water has resulted.
Freestyle swimmers find that wearing a
weight belt has a positive effect on their abilityto place the stroke exactly where the strongestleverage results. The freestyle swimmer auto-
matically adjusts the entry point of the hands to
a position where he or she naturally feels thestrongest resistance of the water during the
pull, even after the weight belt is removed.
The coach should concentrate on teaching
stroke mechanics based on the efficient use ofthe major muscle groups involved. In all the
strokes except breaststroke, the swimmer pullsthe body forward over the hands and then, in
smooth transition, pushes the body forward
past the hands. During the pull-push action,the arm is pulled down and back by three main
muscle groups: pectoralis major, latissimus
dorsi, and teres major.
Two key arm postures are common to all the
strokes (figure 2.14):
1. the high elbow position during the ini-
tial pulling phase of the stroke; and
2. the adduction of the upper arm or arms
during the second phase of the stroke.
Figure 2.14 Two arm postures are common to all strokes. The left column shows the pull phase, and
the right column shows the push phase.

48Breakthrough Swimming
In the pull phase of all the strokes (shown in
the left column of figure 2.14), the upper arm is
medially rotated, and the elbow is flexed so
that the arm assumes an elbow-up position.
This action also occurs in the backstroke, butupside-down. During the pull phase, the arm is
kept elbow-up to provide the most efficient
application of power. A simple way to achievethis high elbow position is to keep the armpit
open and point the elbow out to the side. This
action will increase the power the swimmer isable to exert during the pull.
In freestyle, butterfly, and breaststroke, the
second phase of the stroke, the push phase, ismarked by the powerful adduction of the upper
arm (drawing the upper arm toward the side of
the body; see the right column of figure 2.14). Inbreaststroke, however, once the arms are ad-
ducted they are moved forward to full extension
in front of the body. Adduction, the act of movingthe arm to the side, is one of the most powerful
actions of the arm, involving some of the largest
muscles of the trunk. The principle part is playedby the latissimus dorsi and pectoralis major
muscles (figure 2.15). From its wide attachment
to the pelvis, spine, and ribs, the latissimus dorsiacts on all the joints concerned. The pectoralis
major acts from the anterior chest wall while the
movement of the scapular is assisted by therhomboid and levator scapulae muscles.
Swimmers should pay particular attention
to strengthening the muscle groups respon-sible for the movement of the arms in the shoul-
Tere
s m
ajor
Latissimus dorsiPectoralis major
der joint, specifically, the muscles that originatein the shoulder and insert into the upper arm,the muscles that originate on the trunk and
insert on the shoulder blade, and the muscles
that originate on the trunk and insert on thearms. A wide range of exercise routines exist for
this purpose, for example, Nautilus and uni-
versal machine work, exercises that use stretchcords (either in or out of the water), weight
training, free exercises, medicine ball training,
rope climbing, chin-ups, or exercises on a swimbench.Figure 2.15 The three major muscle groups
involved in the pull-push action of a swimming
stroke.

49Chapter 3
Strokes, Starts,
and Turns
Long before the invention of under-
water observation facilities, earlyattempts to view underwater ac-
tion were made difficult by dirty or
muddy water and the fact that theobserver was usually standing next
to a river, lake, or canal.
Starting with the earliest books
on swimming until the mid-19th
century, stroke descriptions in swim-
ming books were accompanied by
line drawings made without the aid
of underwater observation. These
drawings and descriptions pur-
ported to show how swimming tech-
niques should be performed, but, inreality, they were almost always
based on the writer ’s subjective
opinion of what the stroke shouldlook like. Sometimes, probably toimpress the reader, the drawings
were annotated with comments that
said “drawn from life” or “taken
from life.”
In the late 19th century, these line
drawings were replaced by photo-
graphs. The Badminton Book of Swim-
ming  (1885) by Sinclair and Henry

50Breakthrough Swimming
was the first swimming book to contain photo-
graphs, followed by Swimming  by Ralph Tho-
mas in 1904. Swimming and Watermanship  (1918)
by L. de B. Handley had still photographsshowing swimmers demonstrating sequencesof the swimming strokes while perched on
rocky ledges or banked-up beach sand.
Motion picture sequences were used for the
first time in The Outline of Swimming  (1924) by
William Bachrach. Bachrach’s book contained
abovewater motion picture sequences of hisstar pupil, the great Johnny Weissmuller, the
first motion picture sequences to appear in a
swimming book. The Science of Swimming (1928)
by Frank J. Sullivan, swimming instructor at
Princeton University, was the second book to
contain motion film sequences (also ofWeissmuller). Swimming the American Crawl
(1930) by Johnny Weissmuller was the thirdbook showing movie picture frames of swim-ming technique, with Weissmuller demonstrat-
ing the crawl.
A Quick Way to Better Swimming  (1939) by
Steve Forsyth, with photography by MoffatStudios and Mort Walton, marked the first time
that underwater motion picture sequenceframes of the swimming strokes appeared in a
swimming book. Competitive Swimming and
Diving (1942) by David A. Armbruster featured
expert drawings by Lee Allen, a medical illus-trator at the University of Iowa hospital, copied
from underwater motion films by Lee W.Cochran, supervisor of visual instruction at the
University of Iowa. This work records swim-
ming techniques as they existed in the 1940s.
Basic Swimming  (1951) by Yale University
coach Robert J.H. Kiphuth and his longtimeassistant Harry M. Burke includes strokes,starts, and turns filmed by Grantland Rice Sports
Pictures Corporation. The book includes Jam
Handy’s historic 61-frame stroboscopic under-water sequence of the great Japanese swimmer,
Hironoshin Furuhashi.
The Technique of Competitive Swimming  (1956)
by Bela Rajki of Hungary contains the firstdetailed underwater sequences of leading Eu-
ropean swimmers. The sequences of the butter-fly dolphin stroke are a valuable historical
record of this stroke’s early development. In
1963 Forbes Carlile published Forbes Carlile onSwimming , which shows underwater still pho-
tographs of the techniques of mid-20th centuryworld champions from Australia.
Over a 40-year period, James “Doc” Counsil-
man of Indiana University filmed the under-water techniques of most of the world’s lead-
ing swimmers. Counsilman used flashing lights
attached to the swimmer’s hands to accuratelymeasure the three-dimensional path of the
swimming strokes, an important turning point
in understanding swimming techniques.Counsilman designed a grid system on the
wall of the pool as a reference for stroke analy-
sis and invented a “roll-around” method forfilming swimmers from directly below. He pro-
duced several instructional films of high artis-
tic standard. In 1977 Counsilman privatelypublished the Competitive Swimming Manual,
which contained a section on stroke techniquesthat preserves the most complete and outstand-ing collection of photographic studies of cham-
pion swimmers ever published.
The Technique
of the Crawl Stroke
The 20th century saw the invention of a com-pletely new form of human locomotion in the
development of the crawl stroke. The smooth,flowing action of the crawl is a far cry from the
almost painful efforts of the pioneers and a
tribute to human ingenuity. The style is charac-terized by split-second timing of the arms and
smooth transitions from one phase of the stroke
to the next. Throughout the changing sequencesof the stroke, the body assumes streamlined
alignments that reduce resistance and prolong
the momentum developed by each successivestroke.
Side View
Split-second timing is shown during the transi-tion phase of the arm stroke (figure 3.1a). Theupper arms form an approximately 45-degree
angle to each other as the left arm enters the
water. The elbow-up position of the right armplaces the hand at an efficient angle to push the
water backward as the arm begins the power
phase of the stroke.

Strokes, Starts, and Turns 51
Note the marked acceleration of the right
arm in comparison to the slower left arm, now
completely entered into the water (figure 3.1b).
The left arm’s slower movement helps retain
the body’s momentum. The left arm and shoul-der gradually extend forward in a movement
that will eventually tip the body onto its left
side. The right angle formed by the arms at thisstage indicates accurate stroke timing of one
arm with the other.
The swimmer’s body weight starts to shift
over the left arm as the arm starts to pull withthe hand flexed at the wrist, applying pressure
on the water (figure 3.1c). The right arm isdrawn inward to the side of the body (ad-
ducted) as the right hand and forearm com-
plete the thrust in what can best be described asa “duck foot” action. The face turns sideways in
time with the backward thrust of the right arm.
The swimmer inhales as the entire body,
from top of the head to tips of the toes, turnsnaturally on its long axis (figure 3.1d). The
recovery of the right arm is made with theshoulder and elbow leading the action. Note
that the swimmer has not lifted the head to
inhale; the water level remains constant at thetop of the head. The face will return to the water
at a speed slightly faster  than the recovery of the
right arm, enabling the swimmer to see the
right arm underwater as it enters.
The right hand and forearm move forward
to the entry (figure 3.1e). As the right handenters, the split-second timing of the arms is
repeated, giving the stroke perfect symmetry
(refer to figure 3.1a). The left arm, hand planedbackward, is about to change its action from a
pull to a strong backward thrust. The face is
forward as the hand enters the water, and theswimmer should see the hand as it enters.
The right arm has completely entered the
water (figure 3.1f). The head remains centeredin the long axis of the body. Note the right-angle
timing of the arms in relation to each other. The
swimmer’s body position is streamlined andbalanced—head down, buttocks at the surface,
leg action inside the body line. Note also the left
hand’s marked acceleration in comparison tothe slower movement of the right hand, which
reaches slowly forward, ready to tilt the body
over onto its right side (figure 3.1g).
Figure 3.1 The crawl stroke, side view.a
b
hgfedc
i
j

52Breakthrough Swimming
As the left arm completes its stroke and recov-
ers smoothly , the body moves onto its right side
(figure 3.1h). In this transition phase, the weight
of the recovery arm and shift in body balance
provide powerful assistance to the start of theright arm pull. Note the posture of the right
arm—elbow up, hand flexed at the wrist. The
right hand grips the water as the swimmer feelsstrong water pressure on the palm of the hand.
The left arm, elbow higher than the wrist, reaches
forward to the entry as the right arm moves intothe pull (figure 3.1i). The body retains perfect
balance as the entire cycle is repeated in continu-
ous rhythm. The right arm is now pulling pow-erfully and is well into the pull. A complete cycle
of both arms is completed as the left arm enters
and the right arm commences the power phaseof its stroke (figure 3.1j).
Front View
The arm stroke is a working phase of pull thenpush. Throughout the stroke, the posture of the
arm, elbow, and hand constantly changes (fig-
ure 3.2). These smoothly made adjustments givethe swimmer leverage to apply muscular power.
The hand enters the water fingertips first
and the elbow set higher than the hand. Theentry is on an imaginary line forward of the
armpit. The arm slides forward until almost
fully extended. The hand moves backward intothe pull, and the elbow bends progressively
until maximum flexion (approximately 90 de-
grees) is reached. Throughout the pull, theelbow is kept higher than the hand and pointed
sideways (elbow-up position), which gives
maximum leverage and reduces water slip-ping off the hand. The maximum elbow bend is
reached halfway through the stroke. From here,
a smooth transition is made into the push phaseback to the hips. The stroke finishes with the
arm not quite extended.
Although the swimmer tries to pull in a direct
backward plane, the rotation of the body on itslong axis causes the hand and forearm to move
laterally inward and outward under the torso.This action produces a natural sculling effect as
the hand pitches inward across the body and
then outward to round out the stroke at the sideof the body with the palm facing the body .
The arm is relaxed to enable the momentum
created during the stroke to carry the arm intothe recovery with minimal muscular effort.
Although the arm stroke has been described as
a series of part movements, the stroke is per-formed smoothly, with each movement flow-
ing smoothly into the next. Complete fluency is
achieved when a swimmer can repeat correctpatterns continuously for stroke after stroke.
Key Points on the Crawl
• Body balance, correct timing, and mo-
mentum are important factors. Only whenthe body is balanced equally on both sides ofits long axis during the swimming stroke can
there be efficient timing between one arm
and the other. When the body is balancedand each arm is timed with the other with
split-second efficiency, the swimmer can
maintain an overall momentum throughouteach complete stroke cycle. The result is that
the swimmer has an easy run through the
water that produces a ghostlike glide. As onehand finishes stroking, the other is already Figure 3.2 The crawl stroke, front view.a
b
c
de
f
g
h

Strokes, Starts, and Turns 53
stabilizes body balance and assists adequate
respiration without interfering with propul-sion. The head should remain in the long axis
of the body. Moving the head out of the long
axis will distort body alignment.
• Synchronize the movement of the head
with the arm action. All movements of thehead should be made slowly and smoothly,and the water level should remain constant.
The head should be forward in line with the
long axis of the body as each arm enters. Thehead turns smoothly to breathe a split-
second after one arm enters. The turn of the
head is made during the natural roll of thebody. Inhalation is through the mouth. Ex-
halation commences immediately after the
mouth returns to the water and continuesthrough the mouth until the lips return to
the surface for the next inhalation. The out-
ward breath should flow out, not be blown
out, except for a final puff of air through the
mouth as it clears the surface. Lips should
curl outward to prevent accidental inhala-tion of water. Should you gulp in water,
shape your tongue as if you’re pronouncing
the letter K; this should prevent you fromgagging.
• Special attention should be given to the
changing postures of the elbow during theunderwater stroke. Freestyle swimmersshould attempt to keep the elbow in a high
position during the initial stage of the pull.
The high elbow posture is an important strokefundamental and is easily achieved by point-
ing the elbow out to the side while keeping
the armpit open. Although this is only afleeting phase of the total action, a high
elbow enables the swimmer to combine the
strength of the arm rotators with that of thearm depressors as the body is levered for-
ward using the shoulder as the fulcrum. The
hand and forearm keep planing backwarduntil they are almost perpendicular to the
water surface. At this stage, the elbow and
upper arm are drawn inward toward thetorso in a powerful motion as the swimmer
completes the stroke. Throughout the change
in elbow posture, the swimmer must retainthe pressure of the water on the palm of the
hand by keeping it planed backward.propelling so that no time lag interrupts the
continuous rhythmic flow of the arm stroke.
• The slow forward reach of the arm and
shoulder at the entry performs three func-tions simultaneously:
1. Extending the entry arm forward
slowly helps preserve the momen-
tum being developed by the pull of
the opposite arm.
2. The forward extension of each arm
as it enters causes the body to rollonto its side, a motion that bringsinto play the large trunk muscles to
aid the power phase of the stroke.
3. The forward extension also places
the body in a streamlined alignment.
• Hand-wrist posture is important. Note
how the posture of the hand on the wrist is
constantly adjusted to keep the hand planeddirectly backward. Particularly at the end of
the stroke, pulling upward would depress
the hips and cause resistance. Relaxing thewrist keeps water pressure on the hand,
which keeps the hand planing directly back-
ward instead of upward.
• To avoid retarding momentum, a
smooth recovery of each arm should be madeat approximately the same speed as the body.Bring the hand forward in the recovery—
don’t snatch it forward as if you’re swim-
ming in glue! The face should be forward aseach hand enters the water, and the swim-
mer should see each hand as it enters; this is
a stroke fundamental.
• Be aware of head position as the hand
enters. Many swimmers lose their timing byincorrectly turning their head to breathe be-
fore the forward hand has entered the water.
Even top swimmers, try as they will, some-times can’t get the stroke into its normal
rhythm. Often, the difficulty is caused by
turning the head too soon to inhale. When aswimmer’s stroke seems off balance or off
timing, tell the swimmer to make sure to see
the hand enter before turning the head tobreathe.
• Head-turning mechanics and general
posture of the head are important. The head

54Breakthrough Swimming
• Talented swimmers use several differ-
ent kicking patterns, even during a single
race. The principle involved in broken-tempo
kicking, as it is called, is that the legs mayfollow any pattern, as long as rhythm andbalance are not affected. Modern swimming
greats are not as style regimented as those
from previous swimming generations. Theyoften shift naturally from one cadence to
another without thinking about it. A swim-
mer may switch from a reduced, very lightkick to a six-beat, depending on whether he
or she is trying to conserve energy or sprint
to meet a rival’s challenge.
In distance swimming, one of history’s
greatest breakthrough swimmers, Australia’sGrant Hackett, 2000 Olympic and 2001 World1500 meter champion, (his world mark set in
Fukuoka in 2001, is an amazing 14:34.56)
reduces the tiring effects of overkicking byusing a subdued kick when swimming the
middle and long distances. A growing theory
in modern swimming is that whether a two-beat or six-beat kick is used, as long as the
kick is easy and at an aerobic level of inten-
sity, it helps remove lactate.
• Loose ankles increase propulsion. The
key to easy and efficient kicking is to keepthe ankles and feet loose and flexible. Feel-ing the water passing between the toes of
both feet is an indication that the ankles are
loose and the feet are performing a supple,weaving action. At speed, this motion be-
comes a powerful whiplash that provides
counterbalance and thrust directly insidethe body line.
Swimmers should keep the ankles
stretched by doing stretching exercises. Oneeffective exercise is to sit on the floor, cross-
ing the right leg over the left. With the left
hand, grasp the toes of the right foot withthe palm placed along the sole of the foot.
With the right hand, grasp the leg above the
ankle to steady the foot. The left hand nowturns the right foot in a rotary motion. Pull
the top of the toes down to fully extend the
ankle and foot. Repeat the exercise on theleft foot.
The Crawl Stroke Start
The grab start is shown in figure 3.3. In figure3.3a, note that feet are positioned with toes
gripping the front of the block. The hands
lightly grasp the block with one hand on eitherside of the feet.
a b
c
d
e
f
g

Strokes, Starts, and Turns 55
At the starting signal, the swimmer pulls the
body downward until the heels lift to tip the
swimmer’s center of balance forward over the
front of the block (figure 3.3b). The arms are
thrown forward as the legs extend vigorously(figure 3.3c). The swimmer’s body is fully ex-
tended as it reaches the peak of its trajectory
(figure 3.3d). As the head tucks down below thearms, the hips are piked to help the swimmer
achieve an ideal angle of entry (figures 3.3e and
3.3f). The entire body enters through the samehole in the water. As soon as the body is com-
pletely submerged, the swimmer arches the
back to bring the body horizontal to the surface(figure 3.3g).
Most swimmers perform the dolphin kick
before starting the flutter kick prior to surfac-ing (figures 3.3h and 3.3i). The first arm stroke
brings the swimmer to the surface, while the
other arm remains extended forward (figures3.3j and 3.3k). As soon as the head breaks the
surface, both arms take up the rhythm of the
full stroke (figure 3.3l). No matter what dis-tance is being swum, the swimmer should notturn the head to breathe until he or she hastaken about six strokes after surfacing and is
well into the stroke rhythm.
The rules restrict the swimmer to 15 meters
(16.4 yards) underwater after the start and turn.At this point, the head should appear above the
surface.
The Crawl Stroke Turn
The crawl stroke turn is really a gymnasticevent in which the swimmer performs a for-ward somersault with a half-twist. The
swimmer’s forward momentum is first arrested
and then developed in the opposite direction. Ifthe head stops at any stage of the turn, momen-
tum is lost, and so is speed.
On the approach to the wall, the swimmer
uses incoming forward momentum to providethe initial rotating movement of the turn (fig-
ure 3.4a). The head and forward arm dive be-low the surface. A quick dolphin kick adds
momentum and lifts the hips.
Figure 3.3 The crawl stroke grab start.
h
i
j
k
l
Figure 3.4 The crawl stroke turn.a
b
c
d

56Breakthrough Swimming
To achieve and maintain the desired high hip
position, a butterfly swimmer depends on ac-
curate timing of the head movement, arm stroke,
and leg action. The face must come out of the
water before the hands leave the water, then re-enter the water a split second before the hands.
The upper arms should be drawn toward the
body (adducted) as the initial rounded phase ofthe arm stroke is completed. This action brings
into play the powerful muscles of the trunk and
the shoulder girdle for the final backward thrustof the stroke.
There are two downward leg beats for each
arm stroke. The first beat occurs as the armsenter the water, and the second beat is timed as
the hands push backward to end the stroke.
Side View
In figure 3.5a, the hips have reached their high-est point in the stroke cycle as the preceding
downward leg beat ends. (The preceding ac-tion is shown in figures 3.5h, 3.5i, and 3.5j.) The
head is kept down between the arms, and the
chest is pushed forward.
The hands are turned outward as the pull
starts (figure 3.5b). The upper arms remainclose and almost parallel to the surface. Theelbows bend as the arms spread outward from
the shoulder line. The spreading of the arms
allows the body to continue its forward-slidingmomentum as the torso is pressed downward
between the outspread arms.
The hands and forearms are now angled
directly backward, with the elbows still highand close to the surface (figure 3.5c). The
rounded action of the arms gives the feet timeto recover in preparation for the next down-
ward beat. The swimmer remains below the
surface as the hands and forearms round out tocomplete the first lateral phase of the pull. The
head starts to lift to prevent the body from
sinking too low. The high elbow position pro-vides strong leverage and effective hydrody-
namic shaping of the arms.
The pull remains shallow as the upper arms
move back and in toward the sides of the body(figure 3.5d). The elbows remain high and in
line. The hands come closer together under theshoulders while the forearms move to a posi-The head continues through the turn with-
out stopping (figure 3.4b). In fact, the wholebody moves continuously. The swimmer’s back
is thrown toward the wall as the hips pike and
the knees are brought into the chest. As theswimmer approaches the wall, the forward
hand continues through without hesitation,
while the pulling arm completes a half-strokeand flexes at the elbow to join in a backward
sculling motion with the forward arm, which is
also now bent.
In the continuing action of the turn the body
performs a half-twist (figure 3.4c), almost like ajujitsu artist performing a break fall and land-ing on the point of the shoulder. As the hips
pass over the head, the head continues through
and the feet are placed on the wall. (Note thatthe rules do not require the hands to touch the
wall at the turn but that some part of the body
must touch the wall.) Without hesitation, theleg thrust commences, with the swimmer thrust-
ing from the wall using the toes only and not a
flat placement of the heels. Simultaneously, thearms extend forward as the swimmer’s body
once more assumes a prone position. At this
point, the body should be deep enough toavoid pushing off into disturbed surface water.
Note that as of March 6, 1998, a FINA rule limits
the swimmer to an underwater pushoff nogreater than 15 meters (16.4 yards), by which
point the head must have broken the surface.
As the swimmer planes gradually to the
surface before taking the first stroke (figure3.4d), he or she may use either a dolphin kick
or a flutter kick. Six strokes should be takenbefore the swimmer resumes a regular breath-
ing pattern.
The Technique
of the Butterfly Stroke
In the butterfly stroke, the swimmer’s body
moves through a rapidly changing range of
different shapes, during which the hips, acting
as a fulcrum, always ride high in the water. Thecomplete stroke cycle is characterized by a
teeter-totter motion of the body, which contin-
ues throughout the stroke cycle with the ful-crum centered just below the hips.

Strokes, Starts, and Turns 57
3.5e). The pull rapidly accelerates as the hands
and forearms thrust backward to complete thestroke. The combined forces developed by the
final arm thrust and the second downward
kick lift the head and shoulders above thesurface. With face downward, the mouth clears
the water just before the hands exit. The swim-
mer inhales a split second before the handsleave the water.
The hands, palms facing the body, continue
through to clear the water’s surface as thearms, rotating in the shoulder joints, recover
laterally over the water (figure 3.5f). Note that
the arms do not straighten completely at theend of the stroke.
The body is at its highest point in the stroke
cycle. The arms recover with elbows slightly bent(figure 3.5g). The head will start to drop as the
arms reach a line with the shoulders (figure 3.5h).
Figure 3.5i shows a key phase in the timing of
the overall stroke. The head submerges quicklybefore the arms enter; the hands and forearms
submerge last. The feet rise as they prepare tokick downward.
The legs complete their first downward kick
and pause for a split-second to allow the bodyto continue its run before the next arm stroke
(figure 3.5j). In this ultrastreamlined position,
the body’s momentum continues as it slipsforward smoothly under the surface. The hands
are bladed outward as they compress the on-
coming flow of water along the palms beforethe start of the next stroke.
Front View
The head submerges before  the arms enter
(figure 3.6a). The arms are almost straight as
they enter just wide of their respective shoul-
ders. The arms, medially rotated, are almoststraight and parallel to the surface. The arms
are slightly wider than the shoulders, the hands
turned outward at an approximately 45-degreeangle.
An initial outward scull is performed as
the elbows bend and the arms spread out-ward and downward (figure 3.6b). The hands
blade outward as the rounded first part of the
pull commences. The shoulders are sub-merged. Note the high position of the upperFigure 3.5 The butterfly stroke, side view.
tion vertical to the surface. The knees are flexed
as the legs start the second downward beat.
Unlike the first downward beat, which natu-rally results from the hips being pushed up-
ward as the arms enter (see figures 3.5h, 3.5i,
and 3.5j), the second downward beat is con-sciously directed by the swimmer.
The swimmer rapidly draws the upper arms
inward toward the side of the body until theelbows face backward toward the feet (figurea
b
c
d
e
f
g
h
i
j

58Breakthrough Swimming
arms and elbows. This position of the upper
arms helps the swimmer develop powerfulleverage and marks the difference between
swimming efficiently and struggling with
brute strength.
As the elbow bend increases, the hands cut
inward in a rounded action that brings themclose together under the body (figure 3.6c). Theelbows reach their maximum bend (approxi-
mately 90 degrees) as the hands come closer
together under the waist to complete therounded first part of the stroke.
The action changes from a pull to a back-
ward thrust as the upper arms move in towardthe sides of the body and the forearms and
hands push directly backward (figure 3.6d).
Note how the chin is gradually eased forwardas the stroke progresses until the mouth clears
the surface for inhalation just as the hands
complete their backward thrust.
The stroke finishes, and the hands turn palm-
inward at the thighs (figure 3.6e). This actionhelps the swimmer recover the arms with bentelbows leading the action, as in the crawl stroke.
The swimmer inhales just before the hands
round out past the thighs to exit the water. Asthe shoulders clear the surface of the water, the
arms start their recovery with elbows bent
(figure 3.6f).
The body is in the high sailing position that
results from correct timing (figure 3.6g). Theelbow bend increases as the forearms swingloosely forward in preparation for the entry.
The degree of elbow bend depends on the
flexibility and strength of the swimmer. A bent-elbow recovery reduces the radius of the recov-
ery action, thereby improving stroke accuracy
and reducing strain on the upper arm and backmuscles. The head and torso drop under the
surface a split-second before  the arms enter
(figure 3.6h). Finally, as shown in figure 3.6i, the
swimmer returns to the position shown in fig-
ure 3.6a.
Figure 3.6 The butterfly stroke, front view.
a
b
c
de
f
g
h
i


Strokes, Starts, and Turns 59
Key Points on Butterfly
• Correct head-timing mechanics are vi-
tally important to the rhythm of the total
action. Remember two important points:
1. After the swimmer has inhaled,
the face should return to the watera split-second before the handsenter.
2. The face should clear the water to
inhale a split-second before thehands come out.
• Inhalation is through the mouth only.
Exhalation is through the mouth only orthrough the mouth and nose simultaneously.
• Once the hands enter the water, the
swimmer starts to exhale slowly. Through-out the arm stroke, exhalation gradually in-
creases in intensity and finishes with a force-
ful puff of air a moment before the mouthclears the water. The inward breath is taken
through the mouth in the final stage of the
arm push.
• The swimmer should start easing the
chin forward at the beginning of the stroke,then lifting the head gradually in time withthe arm stroke. As the hands come close to-
gether in the middle of the stroke, the shoul-
ders and head are rising in the water. Fromthis position, the swimmer has strong lever-
age to clear the face from the water in time to
inhale. As the push of the arms takes place,the swimmer should see the surface water
beneath the face before inhaling. The lips are
curled outward so that water does not enterthe mouth.
• Inhalation should be completed as the
arms pass the head during recovery. The faceshould return to the water a split-second
before the hands enter. Novices may be taught
to breathe once every arm cycle or onceevery two strokes, depending on which pat-
tern results in the quickest learning process.
In breathing once every two strokes, thebreath is held throughout the first arm cycle.
Exhalation and inhalation occur during the
second arm cycle. The ideal breathing rhythmis a matter of individual preference and alsomay depend on the length of the race. Theswimmer may need to breathe more fre-quently the farther the distance covered.
• There are two downward beats of the
legs to each arm stroke. The first downwardbeat occurs as the arms enter. The second
downward beat occurs as the hands thrust
backward into the push phase of the stroke.
• Timing the two downward beats has
three important functions:
1. to ensure continuous propulsion,
2. to maintain body streamlining, and
3. to aid head mechanics.
• The first downward beat is made soon
after the hands have entered the water. This
timing is critical because the body has decel-
erated during the arm recovery. If the firstbeat did not take place at this point, speed
would slacken more before the arms started
the next stroke. Timing the first beat at thisstage also keeps the hips high and the body
streamlined as the arm stroke starts. The
second downward beat counters the drop ofthe hips caused by the hands pushing up to
the surface. When the second beat is cor-
rectly timed, the swimmer is more easilyable to raise the head for inhalation.
The Butterfly Start
The grab start is shown in figure 3.7. In figure
3.7a, the feet are positioned with toes gripping
the front of the block. The hands lightly graspthe block with one hand on either side of the feet.
At the starting signal, the swimmer pulls the
body downward until heels lift to tip theswimmer’s center of balance forward over the
front of the block (figure 3.7b). The arms are
thrown forward as the legs extend vigorously(figure 3.7c). The swimmer’s body is fully ex-
tended as it reaches the peak of its trajectory
(figure 3.7d).
As the head tucks down below the arms, the
swimmer pikes at the hips to achieve a steepentry, with the entire body plunging throughthe same hole in the water (figures 3.7e and
3.7f). The lower back is arched to keep the body
moving directly forward and parallel to thesurface (figure 3.7g).

60Breakthrough Swimming
Figure 3.7 The butterfly start.
ab
c
d
e
f
g
h
i
jkl
m
n
o
p
The rules permit swimmers to be completely
submerged for 15 meters (16.4 yards) after the
start and turn. By that point, the head must
have broken the surface. While underwater,
one or more kicks are permitted (figures 3.7h,3.7i, 3.7j, 3.7k, and 3.7l), but only one pull is
allowed, which must bring the swimmer to the
surface (figures 3.7m, 3.7n, 3.7o, and 3.7p).
The Butterfly Turn
The swimmer uses the body’s momentum tobring the body toward the wall. Then, by keep-
ing head and shoulders moving out again, the
swimmer redirects the momentum in the op-posite direction.
The swimmer allows momentum to bring the
body toward the wall, but the body should notcome too close to the wall at the touch (figure
3.8a). The rules of butterfly swimming state that
both hands must touch the wall simultaneouslyat, above, or below the water’s surface.

Strokes, Starts, and Turns 61
After touching the wall, the arm on the side
to which the body will turn is pulled back from
the wall with the elbow bent (figure 3.8b). The
opposite hand pushes against the wall to move
the head and shoulders away from the wall(figure 3.8c). As this happens, the knees bend
and tuck under the body. The touching hand is
removed from the wall and joins with the freehand to prepare for the outward thrust from
the wall. The feet are placed on the wall, and the
swimmer thrusts out into the pushoff withbody streamlined and arms and legs extended
(figures 3.8d and 3.8e).
The rules restrict swimmers from being com-
pletely submerged for a distance greater than15 meters (16.4 yards) after the start and after
each turn. The swimmer is allowed one or moreleg kicks and one arm pull under the water,
which must bring him or her to the surface. By
that point, the head must have broken thesurface. The swimmer must remain on the sur-
face until the next turn or finish.
The FINA rule on the butterfly turn is that at
each turn the swimmer’s body should be on thebreast. The touch should be made with both
hands simultaneously at, above, or below thewater’s surface. Once the touch has been made,
the swimmer may turn in any manner desired.
The shoulders must be at or past the verticaltoward the breast when the swimmer leaves
the wall.
The Technique of the Backstroke
The fundamentals of the back crawl stroke, orbackstroke, are similar to those of the front
crawl with two significant exceptions:
1. The face is not submerged in the back
crawl, so there’s no need for head-turn-
ing mechanics.
2. The back crawl stroke is performed with
the arms out to the side of the body.
The lateral arm pull of the back crawl is less
efficient than that of the crawl stroke because
the arms are at a mechanical disadvantagewhen they cannot pull directly under the body
and thus develop their full potential power. For
all swimmers, except those highly talented,this limitation also inhibits ideal stroke fre-
quency.
Side View
In figure 3.9a, the right arm has entered thewater a split-second before the left arm has
completed its stroke; this ensures continuouspropulsion.
The right elbow bends as the arm starts to
pull (figure 3.9b). The roll of the body towardthe pulling arm brings the powerful large
trunk muscles into the action. The left arm,
with the shoulder leading, is about to leave thewater.Figure 3.8 The butterfly turn.
a
b
c
d
e

62Breakthrough Swimming
The right elbow bend increases as the left
arm recovers in the vertical plane (figure 3.9c).
The head is centered in the long axis of the body
to ensure perfect balance and prevent excessive
sideways movement of the body.
The right elbow reaches maximum bend,
causing the right hand to come close to thesurface (figure 3.9d); however, the roll of thebody to that side prevents the hand from
breaking out of the water. The right hand and
forearm are at an approximately 90-degreeangle to the surface. The left hand moves
slightly faster than the right, ensuring the
necessary slight overlap in the timing of thearms.
The recovery arm, still in the vertical plane,
accelerates as it reaches forward to the entry(figure 3.9e). The hand will enter little finger
first. The right hand and forearm, nearing the
end of the push phase of the stroke, acceleraterapidly. The upper right arm is drawn toward
the swimmer’s side as the elbow extends, and
the hand—relaxed at the wrist—thrusts di-rectly backward.
The left arm enters the water (figure 3.9f),
and the split-second timing of the arms isrepeated, giving the stroke perfect symmetry
(compare with figure 3.9a). The left arm enters
deep below the surface in line with the back,an action that keeps the hips high and reduces
resistance. The hand, palm-down, finishes the
stroke by pressing down below the hip.
With the shoulder leading, the right arm
moves smoothly into the recovery withoutwaiting at the hips (figure 3.9g). The body rollbrings the large trunk muscles into play and
allows the swimmer to synchronize the pull of
the left arm with the vertical recovery of theright arm (figure 3.9h). The right arm, still
recovering vertically, moves to the entry slightly
faster than the left hand, which is completingits stroke (figure 3.9i). Note the high position of
the hips. Finally, the cycle is completed (figure
3.9j). Figure 3.9 The backstroke, side view.
a
b
c
d
e
f
g
h
i
j

Strokes, Starts, and Turns 63
Without pausing, the entry arm presses down
deep to a line with the back. Then the elbow
starts to bend, and the body rolls toward the
pulling arm (figure 3.10b). The opposite arm,
with shoulder leading, leaves the water (figure3.10c). The recovery arm, with elbow straight,
recovers in the vertical plane in a trajectory
aimed directly over the shoulder. The body rollstarts to reverse direction. The elbow of the
pulling arm continues to bend to a maximum of
90 degrees (figure 3.10d).
The recovery arm, without deviation from
the vertical, accelerates slightly as it passesback over the shoulder (figure 3.10e). This ac-celeration will cause a slight overlap in the
stroke as the arm enters the water. The pulling
arm with the upper arm drawn to the side of thebody is now set to thrust backward to the end
of the stroke (figures 3.10f through 3.10j). The
same sequence of pull and recovery is repeatedon the other side of the body.
Key Points on Backstroke
• Ideal body position is essential if the
stroke is to be made with maximum effi-
ciency. All other phases of the complete stroke
depend on this basic fundamental. The swim-mer should imagine lying flat on the back
without a pillow. The body should be bal-
anced on the back of the shoulders with thefront of the hip bones touching the water’s
surface. There is no break at the hips that
would cause the broad surface of the back toset up resistance to the water, with the hand
finishing the stroke too deep to exit easily. At
speed, ideal body position can be checked bylooking for the waterline at the waist.
• The arms are recovered from the water
without any deviation from the vertical planefrom the moment the arms leave the water
until they enter again behind the shoulders.
Any lateral motion of the arm in recovery
Figure 3.10 The backstroke, front view.Front View
The arm enters the water behind the shoul-der, elbow straight, little finger first (figure
3.10a). The opposite arm, palm down, com-
pletes its pull with a vigorous thrust belowthe hip. For a brief moment both arms are
completely submerged, ensuring continuous
propulsion.
a
b
c
d
ef
g
h
i
j


64Breakthrough Swimming
will throw the body off balance and affect
the propulsive action of the opposite arm.Permitting the arm to drop out of the verti-
cal plane after it has passed over the shoul-
der will result in water resistance against theupper arm and shoulder. Furthermore, the
hand will enter too wide of the shoulder and
tend to slice the water instead of making afirm grip at the start of the pull.
• The entry is the most important phase
of backstroke timing. Some swimmers crashthe hand into the water or commence the
pull when part of the hand and/or forearm is
not completely submerged. These faults usu-ally occur in swimmers who have poor shoul-
der flexibility or incorrect body position. At
the arm entry, the arm should form an imagi-nary straight line from the fingertips to the
lower aspect of the shoulder blade. This
position is attained by keeping the shoulderblades slightly drawn together (adducted)
to keep the back flat, enabling the entire arm
to enter the water easily.
• As the hand approaches the entry, it
should speed up slightly so that both arms
overlap slightly, and for a split second both
arms are submerged beneath the surface,thus preserving the momentum of the stroke.
The hand should make a deft quickening
movement as it enters the water—almostlike a pickpocket in action—and feel the
pressure of the water immediately. Without
any preliminary riding action out front, thehand moves straight into the stroke.
• As the hand and forearm push back-
ward, the upper arm is drawn strongly in-ward (adducted) toward the side of the body
to bring into action the strong muscles of the
chest and back. During this quick transition,the swimmer should retain strong pressure
of the water on the palm of the hand.
• The recovery arm reaches up to the
entry slightly faster than the hand complet-
ing the pull. As the recovery hand enters, the
opposite hand completes a pronating (palm
turned downward) action. At this stage,water pressure should be felt on the palm of
the entry hand as well as the hand of the
finishing arm. This is the swimmer’s checkthat the timing has been correctly handled.At no stage of the entire arm cycle do thehands pause in their continuous action and
especially not when the hands reach the side
of the body at the end of the pull. As thehands complete the stroke, the rhythm of the
stroke is preserved by the swimmer thinking
ahead of the movement and making the armgo around and out past the hips into the air,
without stopping.
• The swimmer should find the fastest
arm tempo possible without losing control
of the movement, cutting or slicing the wateropen, or upsetting rhythm. The closer the
swimmer can emulate the tempo of his or her
crawl stroke arm action, the more efficientthe backstroke rhythm will become. It is
more common for backstrokers to stroke too
slowly than too quickly. There is a balancebetween the amount of purchase the swim-
mer obtains and the tempo of the stroke. Too
much purchase may cause the swimmer tobog down, while too little may cause useless
rapid turnover and cavitation—like an
automobile’s wheels revolving in mud.
• Lenny Krayzelburg of the United States,
the backstroke champion at the 2000 SydneyOlympic Games, is a rarity amongbackstrokers in that his backstroke turnover
is faster than his freestyle turnover. He once
told me that he works a great deal on histempo. Using stretch cords, he practices swim-
ming out to the middle of the pool and tries
to hold a certain tempo for 30 seconds and 50seconds. As a result, he is able to maintain a
tempo of over 50 strokes per minute over the
100-meter distance in competition; over the200-meter distance, his tempo is more than
40 strokes per minute (Colwin 2000).
• For many reasons, it is important to keep
the kick inside the body line. This keeps the
power source from the kick directly behindthe swimmer’s body and permits the water to
flow smoothly along the legs to preserve
streamlining. Dropping the lower legs willcause resistance by increasing the tendency to
pull the hips down to a sitting position in the
water which, in turn, will interfere with ob-taining a clean arm entry . Too wide a kick will

Strokes, Starts, and Turns 65
slow down the desired high tempo of the
arms. Swimmers should try to make the kickstart from the hips, then flex the knees slightly
as the movement passes down the legs in a
wavelike motion, finishing in a whiplash ac-tion of the ankles and feet. If the swimmer
feels the water passing between the toes
throughout the kick, the swimmer’s leg ac-tion is working well inside the body line.
• A point often overlooked by novice
backstrokers is the importance of correctbreathing technique. Inhalation and exhala-
tion should take place through the mouth. A
point to remember is that if the swimmerbreathes too slowly and leisurely, the tempo
of the arm action may also become too slow.
The swimmer should experiment to find abreathing rhythm that is neither too slow nor
too fast.
The Backstroke Start
Prior to the starting signal, the swimmer holdssteady by gripping the handles and placing one
foot below the other against the wall to avoidslipping (figure 3.11a). A spring is created by
exerting pressure on the fingers and toes. The
eyes are directed forward, and the head is helderect.
Figure 3.11 The backstroke start.a
b
cd
e
f
g
h
i
j
k
l

66Breakthrough Swimming
At the starting signal, the swimmer pulls
strongly on the handles and pushes hard with
the legs in a movement that will start to lift the
body clear of the water (figure 3.11b). The hands
release the handles, and the legs thrust power-fully against the wall (figure 3.11c). The hips
lift, and the swimmer starts to move out over
the water.
The swimmer drops the hands toward the
water surface (figure 3.11d), which lifts the hipsclear of the water. The head is aligned with thespine. Further momentum is added as feet and
ankles extend to give a final powerful thrust
against the wall. The arms are thrown vigor-ously out sideways and forward as the body
launches into a shallow dive over the water
(figure 3.11e). The swimmer enters the water ina shallow trajectory without landing flat on the
back, which would cause tremendous resis-
tance (figure 3.11f).
Before starting to kick, the swimmer takes a
short glide. The arms are fully extended withhead kept well back between the arms to en-sure good streamlining. Most modern back-
stroke swimmers will do several underwater
dolphin kicks. Some, such as Olympic cham-pion Lenny Krayzelberg, manage to do as many
as 13 dolphin kicks before surfacing. A swim-
mer may do either a dolphin kick (figures3.11g, 3.11h, and 3.11i) or a flutter kick (figures
3.11j, 3.11k, and 3.11l), depending on individual
aptitude.
Why is the underwater dolphin kick faster
than the full stroke on the surface? Becausethere is no wave drag underwater. Wave drag isa considerable component of the overall drag
in surface swimming.
Note that the rules limit the swimmer to 15
meters (16.4 yards) underwater after the startand turn. By that point, the head must have
broken the surface. The swimmer commencesthe stroking action by pulling with the stron-
gest arm first. (In this particular case, the swim-
mer is lefthanded.) The swimmer must takecare to keep the opposite arm submerged and
well behind the head as the first stroke is taken,
or he or she may either come out from underthe surface too suddenly or swim across the
lane at a tangent.The first arm stroke should be close to the
body. This action, combined with the stream-
lined position of the submerged forward arm,
will keep the swimmer moving straight ahead
during the breakout into the surface. Once onthe surface, the swimmer should not inhale for
the first six strokes, which allows him or her to
immediately work into a fast tempo instead ofa gradual buildup to speed with each succes-
sive stroke.
The Backstroke Turn
At the approach to the wall, the swimmer looks
toward the forward arm and starts to roll the
entire body in the same direction (figure 3.12a).
The head keeps turning until the swimmer is
facing the bottom of the pool (figure 3.12b). Atthe same time, the forward arm does a reverse
sculling motion, which causes the shouldersand hips to roll over. The left arm and left leg
cross over the body’s long axis to assist the
body’s continuing roll to the prone position.
The head keeps moving as it leads the body
into a forward somersault aided by a dolphinkick that lifts the hips as the body pikes, andthe back is thrown over toward the wall. Both
hands assist in pulling the body forward and
over (figures 3.12c and 3.12d). Now the handsjoin together as they quickly reverse direction
to help the body maintain its continuing roll
(figure 3.12e). The legs swing over the head,and the feet are placed lightly on the wall
without the heels touching the wall (figure
3.12f).
Once again on the back, the swimmer pushes
off with arms and legs extended and the entirebody in a streamlined posture (figure 3.12g). Theswimmer will use either a dolphin kick or flutter
kick before starting the arm stroke. The rules
restrict the swimmer to 15 meters (16.4 yards)underwater after the start and turn. By that
point, the head must have broken the surface.
The FINA rule on the backstroke turn says,
“Upon completion of each length, some partof the swimmer must touch the wall. During
the turn, shoulders may turn past the verticaltoward the breast. If the swimmer turns past
the vertical, such motion must be part of a

Strokes, Starts, and Turns 67
Figure 3.12 The backstroke turn.continuous turning action and the swimmer
must return to a position on the back beforethe feet leave the wall.”
The Technique of the Wave
Action Breaststroke
Unlike the conventional breaststroke in whichthe shoulders remain submerged throughout
the stroke, the technique of the wave action
breaststroke is designed to reduce water resis-tance by making the shoulders follow the line
of an imaginary wave that rises and falls in
perfect symmetry.
Side View
The body is in a streamlined posture withabdominal muscles drawn in, lower back flat-tened. The arms and legs are fully extended,
and feet are pointed. The head is between the
arms, and the swimmer looks straight down atthe bottom of the pool (figure 3.13a). This is the
basic position at the start of the stroke and will
be repeated (figure 3.13i) when the strokecycle ends.
As the pull starts, the entire body posture
remains as in figure 3.13a, except that palmsturn outward as the hands plane slightly up-
ward to meet the oncoming flow of water (fig-
ure 3.13b).
With elbows up and in line with the shoul-
ders, the swimmer completes an initial circularmotion, at the end of which the hands areplaned directly backward (figure 3.13c). Now,
the hands and forearms are ready to change
direction inward. The swimmer focuses onpulling the body forward, not upward. The
front thighs remain lined up with the body. The
swimmer begins to hollow the back, thus pre-serving the planing action of the body. Stream-
lining is maintained as the heels lift gently and
the knees spread slightly sideways.
The head, shoulders, and front chest clear
the surface (figure 3.13d). This phase is wherethe wave breaststroke differs fundamentallyfrom the conventional breaststroke, in which
the shoulders, the widest part of the body, are
kept submerged. With the upper body stilla
b
c
d
e
f
g


68Breakthrough Swimming
clear of the surface, the swimmer concentrates
on moving forward, not upward. The swim-
mer inhales as the mouth clears the surface. The
hands sweep down under the shoulders andcontinue forward with the forearms following.
The feet do not hang down to cause resistance;
both feet are kept in line with the shins.The swimmer performs “the lunge,” the
unique feature of the wave breaststroke thatenables the swimmer to follow the wave (fig-
ure 3.13e). In a radical break from the tradi-
tional pull-kick rhythm of the conventionalbreaststroke, the lunge phase takes place be-
tween the pull and the kick so that the rhythmbecomes pull-lunge-kick. In this action, thehands and forearms are thrust forward on and
parallel to the surface of the water; the swim-
mer literally throws the body forward over thewater. The body continues to slide forward
with the back still hollowed. The front thighs
are kept in line with the torso to permit asmooth passage of water under the body. The
heels rise in preparation for the kick, which will
start when the lunge is about three quartersthrough. The kick does not start the lunge but
rather serves to maintain the lunge and keep
the swimmer on the surface.
The upper arms do not come close to the side
of the chest but follow the hands in front of thechest to reduce frontal resistance (figure 3.13f).The posture of the back quickly changes from its
arched shape (concave) to an exactly opposite
rounded (or convex) shape. As the kick starts,the degree of hip-joint flexion is approximately
35 degrees, with the lower leg at almost 90
degrees to the surface. The feet, close below thesurface, are dorsi-flexed (everted, or turned out-
ward) at approximately 90 degrees to the shin to
catch the water efficiently. Lowering the hipsslightly helps the swimmer accommodate this
changing posture of the legs, thighs, and torso.
The humped dolphin-like posture of the back
and a powerful, directly backward kick help theswimmer keep moving over the water with
shoulders and arms at the surface (figure 3.13g).The feet remain turned outward (everted) until
just before the kick closes, at which point the
ankles and feet extend to provide a final snap tothe kick that thrusts the water directly backward
(figure 3.13h). The swimmer maintains stream-
lining by looking at the bottom of the poolduring this powerful phase of the overall action.
The swimmer slides forward under the sur-
face with body in streamlined alignment (figure3.13i). The swimmer must not let the legs drop,
as a judge may consider this a dolphin kick, for
which the swimmer could be disqualified.Figure 3.13 The wave action breaststroke, side
view.
a
bc
d
e
f
g
h
i

Strokes, Starts, and Turns 69
Figure 3.14 The wave action breaststroke, front
view.a
b
cd
ef
gFront View
The body glides forward with shoulders and
hips aligned and arms, legs, and feet extended
(figure 3.14a). The shoulders reach forward as
far as possible, and the upper arms press againstthe ears to further streamline the oncoming
flow of water along the body. As shown in
figures 3.14b and 3.14c, the first stage of the armpull closely resembles the start of the butterfly
pull.
The elbow bend continues as the hands sweep
down and inward (figure 3.14d). The elbowsare kept away from the side trunk as the hands
join. The head, shoulders, and front chest
h
iemerge from the water as the swimmer inhales
(figure 3.14e). Two important points in stream-lining: the shoulders are clear of the surface,
and arms are in front of the chest. The swimmer
starts the forward “lunge” of the arms (figure3.14f).
The kick is directly backward and occurs
three quarters into the lunge (figure 3.14g),thus helping the swimmer maintain the mo-
mentum of the lunge. The head is down as the
legs close to complete their powerful backwardthrust. The arms and shoulders reach forward
as far as possible (figure 3.14h). With arms and
legs outstretched, the body, once more sub-merged in streamlined alignment, slides for-
ward parallel to the surface (figure 3.14i).
Key Points on Wave Action
Breaststroke
• As stated earlier, the technique of the
wave action breaststroke is designed to re-
duce water resistance by making the shoul-
ders follow the line of an imaginary wave
that rises and falls in perfect symmetry.
• Get the shoulders up. In marked con-
trast to the conventional breaststroke, dur-ing the wave action breaststroke the shoul-ders clear the surface as the swimmer
continues to slide forward. To further im-
prove streamlining, the shoulders hunch untilthey almost touch the ears.
• In raising the head and upper body, the
change in the posture of the back is impor-tant. First the swimmer arches the back, and
at the same time,  sweeps the arms in quickly
and powerfully to bring the head and torso
high out of the water. The arching of the back
brings the whole resistant part of the body
out of the water and leaves almost only theswimsuit and legs below the surface. Impor-
tant: The swimmer waits until the last mo-
ment to lift the head. The head is kept downuntil the hands have finished the insweep
and are about to lunge forward.
• The lunge is the unique feature of the
wave breaststroke, occurring between theend of the pull and the start of the kick; the

70Breakthrough Swimming
hands and forearms are thrust forward on
and parallel to the surface of the water. Ac-cording to Mike Barrowman, the leading
exponent of the wave breaststroke, the swim-
mer literally throws the body forward andover into the lunge (Colwin 1999, p. 54).
• Unlike the pull-kick rhythm of the con-
ventional breaststroke, the wave strokerhythm is pull-lunge-kick. The timing of the
kick is critical—it should start only when the
lunge is about three quarters through. If thekick comes too late, the shoulders will drop
abruptly, creating a sudden trough in the
imaginary symmetrical line. The kick shouldcome in at the right time to maintain the
upper body’s forward surge over the water.
This is the big difference between the con-ventional breaststroke and the wave action
breaststroke. At this point, the posture of the
back will rapidly change from arched orconcave to humped or convex. The convex
back posture further improves streamlining
and when properly coordinated with thekick, enables the swimmer to apply great
force during the lunge. The kick should be
made directly backward, with no downwardcomponent at all.
• It’s important to minimize up and down
movements of the hips during the stroke; ifthe hips move too much, the center of gravity
moves, thus creating extra work to over-
come drag.
The Breaststroke Start
The grab start is shown in figure 3.15. The feetare positioned with toes gripping the front ofthe block. The hands lightly grasp the block
with one hand on either side of the feet (figure
3.15a).
At the starting signal, the swimmer pulls the
body downward until the heels lift to tip theswimmer’s center of balance forward over thefront of the block (figure 3.15b). The arms are
thrown forward as legs extend vigorously (fig-
ure 3.15c). The swimmer’s body is fully ex-tended as it reaches the peak of its trajectory
(figure 3.15d).As the head tucks down below the arms, the
swimmer pikes at the hips to achieve a steep
entry with the entire body plunging through
the same hole in the water (figures 3.15e and
3.15f). The lower back is arched to keep thebody moving directly forward and parallel to
the surface (figure 3.15g).
The underwater swimming phase, after
start or turn, begins with a short preliminaryglide with the body outstretched and stream-
lined (figure 3.15h). Then follows a long pullthrough to the hips with another short glide
with the arms close to the body (figures 3.15i
and 3.15j).
The hands are turned palms-up as the arms,
with the elbows and forearms kept close to thebody in streamlined fashion, are extendedforward (figure 3.15k). As the legs kick, the
back of the head is tucked down in line with
the upper surface of the arms to ensure goodstreamlining (figure 3.15l). The head breaks
the surface as the swimmer starts the arm
stroke (figure 3.15m). (The swimmer shownhere has lifted the head from the surface well
before the arms have separated to start the
stroke and so is safely within the confines ofthe rule.)
ab
c

Strokes, Starts, and Turns 71
After a start or turn, the rules permit a swim-
mer to take one stroke completely back to the
legs and one kick while wholly submerged.
The head must break the surface of the water
before the hands turn inward at the widest partof the second stroke.
The full sequence of entry-glide, pull-glide,
kick-glide, breakout, is shown here. Note thatsome controversy exists about the ideal timing
for each sequence of the underwater swim. A
final decision is usually based on what pro-duces the best results for the individual swim-
mer. The approach described here still appears
to be sound coaching practice for every phaseof swimming.
The Breaststroke Turn
The FINA rules of breaststroke swimming arethat both hands must touch simultaneouslyat, above, or below the water’s surface (see
figure 3.16). Once the touch is made, the swim-
mer may turn in any manner desired. Theshoulders must be at or past the vertical to-
ward the breast when the swimmer leaves the
wall.
The swimmer uses the body’s momentum to
bring the body in toward the wall. Then, bykeeping head and shoulders moving out again,redirects the momentum in the opposite direc-
tion.
The swimmer allows momentum to bring
the body in toward the wall. At the touch, theswimmer should not allow the body to come
too close to the wall (figure 3.16a).
After touching the wall, the arm, on the side
to which the body will turn, is pulled back fromthe wall with elbow bent (figure 3.16b). Theopposite hand pushes against the wall to move
the swimmer’s head and shoulders away from
the wall (figure 3.16c). As this happens, theknees are bent and tucked under the body.
During this motion, the swimmer inhales in
preparation for the pushoff and ensuing un-derwater swim. The touching hand is removed
from the wall and joins with the free hand to
prepare for the outward thrust from the wall.Note the sculling motion of the right hand,
Figure 3.15 The breaststroke start.md
e
f
g
h
i
j
k
l

72Breakthrough Swimming
Figure 3.16 The breaststroke turn.a
b
c
d
ewhich increases the speed of the body’s rota-
tion and helps set the swimmer at an idealdepth below the surface.
The feet are placed on the wall, and the
swimmer thrusts out into the pushoff withbody streamlined and arms and legs extended
(figure 3.16d). In the pushoff from the wall, the
body remains streamlined, with arms and legsextended and head beneath the arms and bal-
anced evenly on the breast (figure 3.16e).
The FINA rule states, “After the start and
each turn the swimmer may take one armstroke completely back to the legs and one leg
kick while wholly submerged. The head mustbreak the surface of the water before the hands
turn inward at the widest part of the second
stroke.”

Part II
Movement
ThroughWater

75Chapter 4
Understanding
Hydrodynamics
A moving fluid has very different
properties from a static fluid, for as
soon as a swimmer’s hand and the
water start moving in relation toeach other, another force begins toexert its influence. This force is so
familiar that we accept it without
second thought, yet all propulsion
through a fluid, whether mechani-
cal or natural, depends on it. Theforce in question is resistance , or more
precisely, the fluid’s resistance to
motion.
It’s curious that swimming pro-
pulsion has rarely been analyzed inreference to the r esistance of the
water and its resulting flow reac-
tions. Most biomechanical studies
have been based on the convenientassumption of essentially still wa-ter, but this treatment is incomplete
because it assumes that swimmers
perform their strokes in negativespace or dry water. Because water
moves under the action of forces,however, we need to understandthe relative velocities of the hand
and water during swimming. Ide-
ally, the effectiveness of swimmingstrokes should be analyzed from
both the biomechanical and fluiddynamic perspectives.

76Breakthrough Swimming
I have conducted several studies aimed at
explaining what happens to the water during
the swimming action. In the course of these
studies, I have observed the flow reactions
produced by the stroke mechanics of world-class swimmers and applied fluid dynamic
principles to a methodical analysis of under-
water movies, videos, and still photographs.The flow reactions in the water produced re-
markably similar patterns, and it was soon
evident that fluid dynamic principles couldprovide a new basis for analyzing stroke effi-
ciency (Colwin 1984a).
Understanding fluid dynamics as applied to
swimming yields three practical benefits:
1. Understanding propulsion: learning
how water reacts to the forces developed by
different propulsive mechanisms—for example,
pulling straight backward versus pulling in a
curved-line path. Each mechanism producesits own distinctive pattern of flow reactions in
the water (Colwin 1985b).
2. Analyzing propulsion: learning to ob-
serve and analyze the flow reactions caused by
the swimming stroke. An observer can relate
flow reactions to the efficiency of the actual
stroke mechanics by assessing the size, shape,and placement of the vortex patterns (rotating
flows) left in the flow field; when the flow reac-
tions are clearly visible, the trained observer cananalyze the net effect of an entire stroke almost
at a glance (Colwin 1985a). It is not yet possible,
however, to provide detailed and accurate mea-surements of the flow reactions to the swim-
ming stroke—as fluid dynamicists do whenanalyzing the flows around ships and air-
planes—because we lack a safe and reliablemethod of making the flow visible.
3. Improving propulsion: learning to rec-
ognize through the sense of touch the idealflow reactions necessary to produce efficient
propulsion. This involves a new and unique
method of coaching stroke mechanics by hav-ing a swimmer associate the feel of the moving
water with key phases of the swimming stroke
(Colwin 1987). This method is described indepth in chapter 6.
Understanding Basic Concepts
The preliminary explanations in this chapterare essential to an understanding of the propul-
sive mechanisms used in swimming. They out-
line in simple terms the ideas that lie behind themathematical theory of fluid dynamics, the
branch of science dealing with the application
of propulsive forces in fluids. Indeed, a firstrequirement for the following account is famil-
iarity with the basic concepts and terms used in
fluid dynamics.
It will be necessary, for example, for the
reader to know how streamlines are used toform the patterns that show the direction, ve-locity, and pressure differences in the flow.
These three factors always have an important
effect on propulsion. In particular, a flow pat-tern reveals whether propulsion is taking place
in steady or unsteady flow, a distinction I’ll
explain later. I’ll also explain why airfoil-typelift propulsion cannot occur in unsteady flow.
Science and Swimming
Even at the end of the 20th century, many coaches had not yet realized that to obtain the
full benefit of the new scientific concepts, an entirely different approach to the teaching of
stroke mechanics was required. This is especially true of the interaction between theswimming stroke and the water.
If we are to develop more effective propulsive mechanisms than those based on present
concepts, we must eventually employ fluid dynamic principles. We have only just begun totoy with the beginnings of this science as it applies to human swimming. A strong foundation
for future progress will be laid only when biomechanical and fluid dynamic research
proceed in tandem.

Understanding Hydrodynamics 77
When we combine this knowledge with the fact
that human swimming propulsion takes placemostly in unsteady flow, it becomes apparent
that top exponents must use a propulsive
mechanism other than the airfoil-type methodpreviously thought to predominate.
Flow patterns show us that skilled human
swimmers can develop propulsive forces inunsteady flow conditions via a comparatively
unorthodox mechanism that does not require
the hand to be presented at all times at an idealangle of attack. In fact, propulsion in an un-
steady flow is a common aspect of fluid dy-
namic propulsion in nature and is dependenton establishing a flow circulation around a
propelling surface. Later I’ll explain in detail
this important principle of circulation as it ap-plies under various sets of circumstances.
It is necessary, then, to proceed step by step
through a sequence of simple explanations ofimportant fluid dynamic principles, whose sig-
nificance to human swimming, especially in
developing new teaching and coaching meth-ods, will gradually become apparent. (Refer
also to chapter 6.)
Using Streamlines to Judge
How Water Reacts Under
the Action of Forces
Like all fluids, water changes shape under theaction of forces. These changes are known as
deformation and appear as flow and elasticity
(caused by viscosity ). Flow increases continu-
ously without limit under the action of forces,however small. A given force produces elastic-ity, which vanishes if the force is removed.
Flow and elasticity are the two characteristic
qualities of moving water a skilled swimmerfeels and recognizes.
Direction and Velocity of the Flow
Streamlines indicate the direction and velocity
of the flow. Fluid dynamics makes consider-
able use of the concept of streamlines, or linesimagined drawn in the fluid to indicate the
direction of flow at any point. A streamline is
defined as a curve that is always tangential tothe flow so that fluid cannot cross a streamlinebut only flow along it. We can thus imagineadjacent streamlines to form a series of tubes
through which the flow is passing.
The picture of flow given by the pattern of
streamlines is, however, much more than achart of flow direction. It is at the same time a
map of the velocity field, one that is quiteeasily read because of the simple rule that fluid
velocity is high where streamlines are close
together and low where they are widely sepa-rated. This is exactly what would be expected
if the streamlines indicated the position of real
tubes because in a fluid of constant density,wherever a tube narrows, the velocity must
increase if the same mass of fluid is to pass in
a given time.
Steady and Nonsteady Flow
When streamlines retain the same shape at alltimes, the flow is said to be steady. It is farsimpler to analyze a pattern of steady flow than
unsteady flow because the appearance and
velocity of an unsteady flow at any fixed pointvary from instant to instant.
Flow Patterns
The pattern of flow around a submerged object
can be represented on a diagram by means of a
selection of streamlines. When the fluid veloc-ity at a given point depends on the position of
the point and on the time, the streamlines alter
from instant to instant. The aggregate of all the
streamlines at a given instant constitutes the
flow pattern at that instant.
A flow pattern can be indicated by selecting
streamlines that show the direction of flow atvarious points in the pattern. Of the infinite
number of possible streamlines, a few are cho-sen, usually from 5 to 10, in such a way as to
divide the flow into a number of channels, all
carrying the same quantity of water per sec-ond. Given that a reduction in width corre-
sponds to an increase in velocity, a flow pattern
can be used to give not only the direction offlow but, from the spacing of the streamlines,
the velocity of flow at any point (figure 4.1).
With a knowledge of the velocities, fluid

78Breakthrough Swimming
the side of the jar, and the intermediate honey
suffers a distorting motion to which it objectsand so resists. The faster the motion, the greater
the resistance.
When a piece of rubber is bent or compressed
it exerts a resisting force that disappears onlywhen the rubber is allowed to return to its
undistorted shape. In the case of honey, how-ever, the resistance is to the distorting motion,
not to the distortion itself, for when the motion
ceases, the viscous drag force disappears—thespoon is not pulled back into the jar, as it would
be if the honey behaved like rubber. In this
sense, viscous resistance is different from elas-tic resistance.
Viscous drag effects are always present in
the movement of air or water past solid bound-aries, though they are less pronounced than
those produced by thicker, stickier honey. Again,
you can readily detect viscous drag effects byholding your hand out the window of a mov-
ing automobile or trailing it in the water over
the side of a speedboat.
Viscosity plays a leading role in any state of
fluid motion and is of particular importance inthe process of fluid deformation. Fluids do notsimply slip over solid surfaces, whether they
are rough or smooth or, in the case of a swim-
mer, shaven or unshaven. In fact, right at thesolid’s surface, velocity is zero.
The major part of a viscous deformation is
confined to what is known as the boundary layer,dynamicists are able to use a flow pattern toestimate the pressure forces on the boundariesof the flow.
Viscosity
Water does not accelerate to infinite speed be-cause of its viscosity, or more simply, a sticki-ness or elasticity. If water had no viscosity, the
world’s rivers, moving down valleys under the
action of gravity, would flow with ever-in-creasing speed, reaching hundreds of miles per
hour with disastrous results. A swimmer is able
to grip the water only because viscosity pro-duces separation of the flow. Flow separation
causes a difference in the pattern of pressure
around the hand. Under certain conditions,this pressure differential provides the resis-
tance against which propulsion can be applied.
Paradoxically, although it helps a swimmer
propel, viscosity also results in the form dragthat resists the body’s forward motion. Because
of viscosity, when a body moves through afluid the elements of that fluid in contact with
the solid boundary stick to it. They do not slide
along it as one might expect. The elements closeto the boundary move past their clinging neigh-
bors. This relative movement brings into play
viscous drag forces that oppose motion andcause friction or shearing. The reader can easily
detect this viscous drag force by pulling a spoon
out of a jar of honey. Part of the honey clings to
Figure 4.1 Flow pattern around an airfoil showing the direction and velocity of the flow. Smaller spaces
between streamlines show where velocity of the flow is highest.

Understanding Hydrodynamics 79
What Happens to the Water?
James “Doc” Counsilman pioneered the use of the motion camera as a scientific instrument
in the search for a better understanding of the swimming strokes. Counsilman’s studies, and
later those of Robert Schleihauf, brought the knowledge of stroke mechanics to a new and
far more advanced level.
But one question remained: What happens to the water when a swimmer applies force
to it? This was a question that had puzzled me for many years, and I wasn’t helped by thefact that there was almost nothing in the literature on the subject. It was almost as thoughpropulsion occurred in negative space.
Observing swimmers underwater, all I could see were air bubbles entrapped either by the
arms as they entered the water at speed or by the feet whenever they broke the air-waterboundary at the surface of the water. It took me some time to realize that these air bubbles
left definite patterns in the water, and it took me even longer to finally realize what these
patterns meant.
The thought occurred to me that by trying to relate these flow patterns to the swimming
strokes, some light could be thrown on the topic. From the start, it was clear that the answer,if any, could be hidden somewhere in the flow field, the surrounding water affected by themovements of the swimmer’s stroke mechanics.
Then, one day, quite by chance, I was studying some photo slides given to me by Ernie
Maglischo that showed the underwater action of Dave Bottom, a top Californian backstrokerwhen, among the usual trails of air bubbles, I noted interesting patterns of rotating flows.
Did these flow reactions reveal anything about swimming propulsion? Then I remembered
having seen similar patterns in photographs in Bela Rajki’s book The Technique of
Competitive Swimming . They were among some of the first-ever underwater movie shots of
world-class swimmers and showed a leading Hungarian swimmer, Laslo Magyar, taken 30years before. It was amazing to note that the flow reactions to the stroke mechanics of thetwo swimmers were almost identical, even though the Hungarian was filmed before Bottom
was born.
The similarity between these two sets of flow reactions prompted me to seek further
evidence of common flow reactions in the techniques of world-class swimmers. I alsorealized that air entrapment in a swimming stroke is a bonus for the observer because it often
enables flow reactions to be seen. In fact, aeration of the flow field is an acceptedvisualization technique used by hydrodynamicists in experimental observation.
The circular patterns in the flow field showed a rotating flow or, in other words, a vortex
circulation. The presence of these definite patterns of rotating flow seemed to show, onceand for all, that air bubbles are not merely haphazard indications of the path taken by the
swimming stroke, as most coaches appear to think.
I now started to look for specific patterns not only in still photos but also in underwater
movies. Rotating flows or vortex effects consistently appeared in the flow field. Gradually,it became clear that the vortex patterns were definitely a reaction to the propulsive impulses
made by the swimming stroke and, moreover, were not necessarily indicating the path takenby the stroke.
It was also significant that skilled swimmers uniformly produced symmetrical vortices,
beautiful well-rounded rings that could be described as artistic patterns in the water, whileless competent swimmers tended to have flow reactions in which the vortex rings were
irregularly spaced and distorted.
(continued)

80Breakthrough Swimming
a relatively thin zone immediately adjoining
the surface of a body moving through a fluid,
such as air or water. The German mathemati-
cian Ludwig Prandtl gave to the world the termboundary layer  (Grenzschicht) and thereby in-
troduced a concept now so familiar that itwould be difficult to find many papers on fluiddynamics in which the term does not occur.
The boundary layer, which is actually com-
posed of a number of very thin layers, alwaysholds a velocity gradient; this means that each
successive layer moves at a greater speed than
the previous one. At the surface, velocity iszero because the first layer sticks to the skin
and each successive layer flows a little moreeasily until free flow results (figures 4.2a and
4.2b).
Whenever a fluid flows past a stationary
obstacle or a solid body moves through a fluid,molecular attraction prevents any relative mo-
tion between the fluid and the body at the
surface itself. Thus, no matter how rapidly afluid is forced through a pipe or a flow channel,
its speed is exactly zero at the wall. When an
aircraft or an artillery shell rushes through theatmosphere, the velocity of the air immediately
adjacent to the surface of the body is, at any
instant, exactly equal to that of the movingbody, although a fraction of an inch away,
outside the boundary layer, it is quite different.What I observed was so simple that initially I found it difficult to believe the evidence. So,
for a while I had my doubts, but despite myself, I remained fascinated by the regular and
often beautiful vortex patterns I noticed while observing swimmers underwater. I studiedmany leading swimmers underwater, especially in the midst of competition when rapid
stroking usually entrapped enough air to make flow reactions more easily visible. It was
soon clear that vortex patterns were not a transient phenomenon because they were tooconsistently similar for that to be the case. Gradually it was possible to form a synthesis of
the flow reactions that could be anticipated during key phases of propulsion (Colwin
1984a).(continued)
Figure 4.2 Velocity gradient at the boundary layer. (a) Viscosity at the boundary layer causes a velocity
gradient in the passing flow. Flow decreases speed toward the surface. At A the flow is static and at Bit is moving at full speed. (b) The nature of flow over a foil is the result of viscosity (or stickiness) of the
fluid. The first layer actually sticks to the foil surface, not moving at all, but each successive tier of the flowmoves a little faster and gradually builds up to free-stream velocity.ab

Understanding Hydrodynamics 81
The Role of Airfoils
in Creating Lift
Heavier-than-air flight is a frequently cited
example of lift. Lift, or the force that pushes a
wing upward, results from a difference in pres-sure between the wing’s top and bottom sur-faces. Although it is possible for a flat object to
function as a simple wing—for example, the
thin, balsa wood wings of toy gliders—shapingand streamlining a wing in a certain way can
dramatically improve its aerodynamic and lift-
ing qualities.
An airfoil is a body (in this case, a wing)
designed to present a surface rounded andangled to the flowstream, creating maximumdownwash and lift with minimum turbulence
and drag. The gradual curvature of the airfoil
produces a faster flow over its more roundedupper surface that does not break away and
form eddies.
The wing’s shape—slightly cambered, with
a blunt leading edge and a sharp trailing edge—causes faster air flow over the top than across
the bottom. This creates a lower average airpressure on top, producing enough lift to keep
an airplane aloft or, for that matter, a bird. This
is how the airfoil scores over a flatter wing.Unlike a flat plate, an airfoil, with its humped
upper surface, produces lift even when the
angle of attack is zero degrees. Further lift isgained by increasing the angle of attack so that
the air meets the under surface at a steeper
angle. A propeller works exactly as a wingdoes by making use of the lift-producing prop-
erty of an airfoil but with this exception: an
airfoil used as a wing should produce themaximum force at right angles to the direction
of motion, but one used as a propeller should
deliver a maximum force in the direction ofmotion.
The thrust of the propeller is obtained by
giving a backward velocity to the fluid withwhich it comes in contact; to do this effec-
tively, the propeller blades are given first anairfoil shape and then a twist. The airfoil
contour combined with a twist is a shapecommon in nature, and in fact, these shapes
originally were borrowed from nature. Un-
like the mechanical propeller, however, birdsand fish can change the shapes of their propel-
ling surfaces according to the needs of pro-
pulsion: high-speed bursts, cruising, soaring,and so on.
The motion of an airplane propeller through
a fluid is composed of a rotation about its axistogether with the forward motion of the air-
craft so that the blades move forward on
spirals. This spiral, or helicoidal, path is com-mon in locomotion in nature. The spiral-like
action has a distinct application to human
swimming propulsion, especially in butterflyand breaststroke swimming during transi-
tional phases when the hands change direc-
tion.
Reference has been made to the unique quali-
ties of the airfoil, a version of which is thepropeller, but what is its application to swim-ming? James Counsilman (1971) cites the Ber-
noulli principle to show that during certain
phases of the stroke, swimmers propel by usingtheir hands and feet as foils to produce pre-
dominant lift. Counsilman’s landmark presen-
tation was followed by numerous papers byother observers contending that lift is produced
by using hands and feet like propellers.
Fluid dynamic principles suggest, however,
that although human swimmers sometimesuse foil-like actions to propel, it is unlikely that
the mechanism used is exactly like that of amechanical propeller or any other form of con-
ventional airfoil. Studies of the flow reactions
produced by skilled swimmers indicate insteadthe use of unconventional mechanisms that
albeit to a limited and modest extent, are basi-
cally similar in principle to those observed innature. Before I develop this argument, how-
ever, the reader must understand the role of
flow circulation and why circulation is neces-sary to produce propulsion.

82Breakthrough Swimming
The Role of Flow Circulation
in Lift Propulsion
When a stream of fluid passes around a foil, the
flow over the convex upper surface has a greatervelocity and, following the Bernoulli principle,
a lower pressure than that on the under surface;
the difference in pressure between the twocreates lift (figure 4.3).
Figure 4.4 Bound vortex forms around a rotating
cylinder in a still fluid.
If a horizontal flow were now to stream from
right to left, the combination of the counter-clockwise rotating fluid of the bound vortexand the horizontal flow would cause an in-
crease in the speed of the fluid above and a
decrease below. The net result would be adecrease in pressure above and an increase
below—the usual Bernoulli effect—together
with an upwash in front and a downwashbehind. In effect, the spinning cylinder would
be subjected to lift in the same way as an airfoil
(figure 4.5). This phenomenon is known as theMagnus effect. The resulting pressure differ-
ential causes the cylinder to move upward. It is
important to understand that without the rota-tional flow of fluid (bound vortex) and its
superimposition on the flowstream there would
be no lifting force. A difference in pressuretransverse to the direction of motion alwaysThe Bernoulli principle can be demonstrated
simply by lightly dangling a tablespoon be-
tween finger and thumb and directing a jet of
tap water along its convex surface. Instead ofpushing the spoon away, the water draws it
into the jet. This experiment illustrates the drop
in pressure that occurs when the speed of waterincreases. The shape of the spoon shows a
marked similarity to the wing of a bird or
airplane, and in fact, all three behave like foils.
Understanding Circulation
Circulation is a fundamental concept in fluiddynamics. Even a stone thrown through the airhas a circulation associated with it. Circulation
in the form of a bound vortex around a propel-
ling member must exist before lift propulsioncan take place. The principle of circulation is
not only the basis of airfoil design, but is valid
for bodies other than airfoils and applies to fishpropulsion, bird flight, and human swimming.
In the case of a human swimmer, a bound
vortex appears as a rotating flow in circulationaround a hand, foot, or limb (Colwin 1984a).The Magnus Effect
The Magnus effect is the example commonlyused in fluid dynamics to explain how lift is
created when circulation exists around a rotat-
ing body in a uniform flowstream. If we couldsee a stream of fluid (air or water) flowing past
a lifting foil, it would appear as if the fluid were
actually circulating around it. Consider, forexample, a horizontal revolving cylinder. When
the cylinder is immersed in a fluid and spun
counterclockwise around its axis, the surround-ing fluid is set in motion and rotates with the
cylinder. This is called a bound vortex (figure
4.4).
Figure 4.3 Differences in flow pressure around
a foil create a lift force.

Understanding Hydrodynamics 83
exists, as we have seen, when a cylinder or
sphere rotates in a flow and so introducescirculation into a uniform stream. The Magnus
effect also explains the flight of a cut tennis ball
or the swerving flight of a golf ball.
Figure 4.5 Lift generated by a rotating cylinder
in horizontally moving flow.with circulation even though the airfoil doesnot rotate.
This assumption must have seemed very
dubious at the time, but we now know that anykind of body must have circulation around it todevelop lift in a flowstream. Unless the body is
specially shaped, however, the circulation is
very feeble, and there is no lift. As I mentionedearlier, an airfoil has a specially designed shape
that when the airfoil is propelled through a
fluid, generates a strong circulation withoutcausing a large drag. It is just this property that
enables propulsion without rotating surfaces
to create lift.
How an Airfoil Creates Circulation
We can now study airfoils as specially designeddevices that do not need to rotate but are stillable to create and maintain circulation. If we
could move with an undisturbed flowstream
and watch the fluid moving over an airfoil, thefluid would seem to circulate. The fluid mov-
ing upward and over the top of the airfoil flows
more quickly then the main flowstream,whereas the fluid underneath flows more
slowly; relatively speaking, the flow appears to
move in a circle.
The idea of relative flow around an airfoil is
a different perception of circulation. In thiscase, the bound vortex is a mathematical con-cept represented by the surface of the airfoil
itself and not actually visible. The bound vor-
tex around an airfoil is usually denoted asshown in figure 4.6.Flow Circulation
and the Human Swimmer
Although human limbs cannot develop lift pro-
pulsion in exactly the same manner as a revolv-
ing cylinder, this basic example of the Magnuseffect shows that lift depends on the presence
of a bound vortex around a propelling member
that is superimposed on a flow.
Later in this chapter, I’ll show how human
swimmers often generate lift during certainphases of the swimming stroke by using thismechanism. The necessary flow circulation is
developed mainly by directional changes of
the foil-shaped hand aided by a significantdegree of hand-forearm rotation particularly in
the arm actions of the butterfly and breastroke.
However, we first need to enlarge on the sub-ject of circulation with specific reference to the
profile of the propelling member.
Lanchester’s Theory of Circulation
In the case of an airfoil, there is no source of
mechanical rotation so it is not obvious at firstsight how it develops lift by creating circula-
tion. F.W. Lanchester (1907), with what proved
to be amazing insight, took the bold step ofassuming that an airfoil’s lift is associated
Figure 4.6 A bound vortex around an airfoil is
a mathematical concept represented by the
profile of the airfoil itself and is not actually
visible.

84Breakthrough Swimming
How a Starting Vortex Creates
Circulation in the Form
of a Bound Vortex
To see what happens when a foil starts to move
through a stationary fluid, hold a piece of in-clined cardboard in smoke and move it from rest.
You’ll see an eddy shed from its trailing edge
(figure 4.7). This is called a starting vortex, which
is generated every time a foil starts its move-
ment. A starting vortex is also generated when
the hand or foot of a skilled swimmer starts apropulsive impulse in a particular direction.Experiments with a revolving cylinder in a
flow channel show the reappearance of thestarting vortex once the flow is switched off
and circulation has ceased. Right at the end, the
starting vortex appears, almost like a movieplayed in reverse. In the strict technical sense,
however, this vortex is known as the finishing,
or shed, vortex.
It is provable mathematically that because a
flow does not contain a circulation at the start ofa movement through it, it cannot contain acirculation at the end of the movement. This
same principle applies to lift propulsion in
human swimming. The shed vortex at the endof each propulsive impulse within a swimming
stroke indicates that the propulsive effort in
that particular direction has ended.
From the preceding it can be seen that any
lift-producing mechanism comprises the fol-lowing three phases of vortex action:
1. The starting vortex
2. The bound vortex3. The finishing vortex (also termed the
shed, or free, vortex)
Tip, or Trailing, Vortex
As well as providing lift, the difference in pres-
sure between the lower and upper surfaces of a
foil causes a related effect known as tip vortex,
or trailing vortex. Explained simply, tip vortexresults from the tendency of any fluid to flow
from high to low pressure. As there is no barrier
at the foil tips separating the high from the lowpressure areas, the fluid leaks from underneath
the foil to the top surface (figure 4.9). This flow,
or leakage, deflects the fluid on the top surfaceslightly inward and that on the bottom surface
outward, introducing a third dimension to the
flow around the foil (figure 4.10).
The streams meeting at the foil’s trailing
edges cross one another to form a series ofsmall trailing vortices that join into one largevortex at each foil tip. The energy used in the
formation of the vortex trail appears as the
induced drag. Obviously, to increase speed,extra thrust is needed to overcome the resis-
tance caused by induced drag (figure 4.11).
Even on a foil of finite span in steady motion,
Figure 4.7 Eddies shed from the trailing edge of
a moving foil.
Figure 4.8 Starting vortex and the production
of its countervortex, the bound vortex.One of the rules of fluid dynamics is that a
vortex cannot be created without the produc-tion of a countervortex of equal strength circu-
lating in the opposite direction (the principle of
conservation of angular momentum). In thecase of an airfoil, the countervortex is in fact the
bound vortex, responsible for circulation and
the production of lift, and it owes its continuingexistence to the shearing forces over the sur-
faces of the foil (figure 4.8).

Understanding Hydrodynamics 85
Figure 4.9 As there is no barrier at the foil tips,
the fluid leaks from the high-pressure area beneath
the foil to the low-pressure area on the top surface.Figure 4.10 Foil tip leakage introduces a third
dimension to the flow around the foil.
Figure 4.11 High- and low-pressure streams meet to form a vortex trail.
Figure 4.12 Trailing (tip) vortices are often shed from a swimmer’s hands in the early stages of the
crawl, butterfly, and backstroke pull.ure 4.12). In these instances we know that lift isthe predominant force acting on the swimmer’shand at the start of the stroke. However, if a
swimmer’s hand enters the water and immedi-
ately pulls directly backward, a predominantdrag force is created, and instead of tip vortices,
a typical loop (elongated) vortex is shed from
the hand early in the stroke.however, induced drag cannot be eliminated,for it is a necessary adjunct of lift. Similarly, aswimmer propelling with lift force predomi-
nating always produces induced drag. Acci-
dental flow aeration (entrapment of air in thewater) often produces visible evidence of trail-
ing vortices on a swimmer’s hands in the early
stages of crawl, butterfly, and backstroke (fig-

86Breakthrough Swimming
The Organized Vortex System
The term organized vortex system refers to pro-
pulsion developed by foil-type lift with a bound
vortex in place and trailing vortices springing
from the tip of the foil. As mentioned earlier, apropeller is a rotating foil or wing. When lift is
uniformly distributed along its blade span, an
organized vortex system exists. Similarly, whenswimmers use the hand like an airfoil, an orga-
nized vortex system will exist.
Foil-Type Propulsion
in Steady Flow Conditions
The use of foil-type lift propulsion, in the strict-
est sense of the term, is limited to steady flowconditions in which the flow pattern does not
change over time. Such is the case for a conven-
tional airfoil lift-producing mechanism. Thismeans that the foil must be positioned at an
angle of attack that results in a steady circulat-
ing flow over its surface.
If the foil’s angle of attack becomes too large,
the flow detaches from it, breaks up, and be-comes unsteady, causing a loss of the vortexcirculation necessary for creating lift. This phe-
nomenon is called stall.
Airfoils are designed to create the steady
flow circulation that causes constant lift pro-pulsion. Lift may be generated in any direction.
A swimmer’s arm can be used as a swimmingfoil, if angled properly (figure 4.13); for ex-
ample, as a crawl swimmer’s arm enters the
water with the elbow set higher than the wrist,its cambered upper surface causes the oncom-
ing flow to move more quickly over the upper
surface of the arm and more slowly along thelower surface. The different flow velocities over
the upper and lower arm produce the pressuredifferential necessary for lift. In this case, the lift
is upward, causing a high position of the upperbody in the water but not contributing directly
to propulsion.
As the hand moves further into the stroke it
assumes an angle favorable to producing for-ward-inclined lift. This position lasts only a
short while, however. Most skilled swimmersestablish steady flow propulsion (with an orga-
nized vortex system) at the beginning of the
stroke. But subsequent directional changes ofhand and limb cause increased angles of attack
that quickly lead to quasisteady, then nonsteady,
flow. In crawl, butterfly, and backstroke, it soonbecomes difficult to continue developing lift
circulation by means of the conventional airfoil
lift-producing mechanism because the chang-ing postures of the hand cause too large an
angle of attack.
The hand and forearm action in swimming
propulsion has been likened to that of a propel-ler blade. But the 360-degree rotation around an
axis of a mechanical propeller is anatomicallyimpossible for a hand. An airfoil can maintain
an angle of attack that produces continuous
steady flow circulation. But photographs takenin a wind tunnel show what happens to the flow
reaction around a cranked plate (a type of foil)
as the angle of attack is changed. The flowchanges from steady to quasisteady and then to
unsteady. Under unsteady flow conditions, ideal
foil-type lift becomes impossible.
The onset of unsteady flow conditions is
marked by the tendency of the vortex trail toswell and start to burst. If the foil’s angle ofattack continues to increase, the vortex trail
detaches from the foil, indicating that circula-
tion has been lost and that an organized vortexsystem is no longer in place. Foil-type propul-
sion, in its accepted sense, has terminated. Simi-
larly, when a swimmer’s hand approaches toolarge an angle of attack, conventional foil-type
propulsion is no longer possible.
The illustrations of an Olympic butterfly
champion show reactions similar to those arounda cranked plate in the wind tunnel (figure 4.14).
This is not a unique observation, for the flowreactions produced by skilled swimmers consis-
tently indicate that human swimming propul-
sion takes place in conditions of unsteady flow .
 Figure 4.13 Different flow velocities over the
upper and lower arm produce a pressure
differential.

Understanding Hydrodynamics 87
Propulsion in Nonsteady Flow
The essential problem, hitherto ignored in ana-
lytical studies of human swimming, is thatswimming propulsion occurs mainly in un-
steady flow. There can be no doubt about this;
the stroke mechanics of even the most skilledswimmers consistently produce unsteady flow
reactions because a swimmer’s hand, as it trav-
els through a wide range of movement, quicklyassumes too large an angle of attack for steady
flow to continue. Although an airfoil, which is
specifically designed for the purpose, can main-tain the ideal angle of attack to produce the
steady flow necessary for constant lift propul-
sion, a swimmer cannot use the hand like aconventional foil throughout a swimming
stroke. The action of the hand in the swimming
strokes simply cannot be compared with steadystate aerodynamics.
Another important reason why the hand does
not operate as a conventional airfoil is that at thestart of an airfoil’s movement (for example, an
airplane at takeoff), the net lift around the airfoilis very small. The smooth characteristics and
lift of steady flow are established only after theairfoil has moved about ten chords (a chord is
the width of the foil from leading edge to trail-
ing edge) from its starting point. The interactionbetween opposing currents of air (or fluid) that
delays the creation of steady lift is called the
Wagner effect and contributes an unavoidablenonsteady phase in the action of normal air-
foils. A swimmer’s hand is not in the water at an
ideal angle of attack long enough to obtainconstant lift in the manner of an airfoil.
The question, then, is whether lift-force pro-
pulsion can be developed in unsteady flowconditions. It can, but the lift-producing mecha-
nism is an unconventional one that does not
require the propelling member to be placed atan ideal angle of attack.
The lift force generated by a foil is directly
proportional to the foil’s surface area and thedensity of the fluid in which it is moving.
Given that the density of water is 800 times the
density of air, the human hand moving inwater generates a force equal to that generated
by a surface 800 times its size moving in air at
the same speed. Because the lift force gener-ated by a foil is directly proportional to the
square of its speed through the fluid, a 40
percent increase in the speed of the hand whenemployed as a foil can almost double the pro-
pulsive force generated.
In swimming, lift-force propulsion is devel-
oped in unsteady flow primarily by the direc-tional changes of the foil-shaped hand as it
moves through the stroke. The gradual rota-tion of the hand and forearm as a unit as the
stroke progresses is an important part of this
lift-producing mechanism. In all the styles ofswimming, the stroke commences with the palm
facing outward (to lesser or greater degrees,
depending on the flexibility of the individualswimmer). As the arm reaches midstroke, the
elbow reaches maximum flexion at plus or
minus 90 degrees, thus indicating a consider-able amount of hand-forearm rotation since the
stroke commenced.
As stated, it is the rotating hand-forearm
unit, moving laterally or transversely acrossthe line of the body’s forward movement, that
generates lift. This action causes a pressure
Figure 4.14 Butterfly stroke, quasisteady flow
(right hand) and steady flow (left hand). Adapted
from photos courtesy of James E. Counsilman.Right hand is pitched at
too large an angle of
attack, causing trailing
vortex to swell and start
to burst. Trailing vortexis about to detach from
hand, indicating foil-
type lift is ending (seeinset figure).Left hand is pitched at
ideal angle of attack.Thin trailing vortices are
characteristic of steady
flow. Vortex sheet isseen as dark area
between trailing
vortices.

88Breakthrough Swimming
differential in the flow, which in turn sets up the
flow circulation around the hand and forearmnecessary for lift to occur. As the arm bends and
the hand and forearm gradually rotate, the
flow is swirled or wrapped around the handand forearm. This swirling flow constitutes the
bound vortex, or circulation, whose superim-
position on the general flow is necessary for lift.As the arm extends again and the final propel-
ling thrust of the stroke is applied, this circulat-
ing flow is gradually unswirled or unwrappedfrom the arm in the form of a shed vortex.
As already explained, directional changes of
the hand combine with a significant range ofhand-forearm rotation to set up the mechanism
necessary for creating flow circulation. These
flows are readily visible in shadowgram testsconducted at low speeds, when the flow is not
too compressed to be easily seen.
You may conduct similar tests by simply
moving a spoon or any other suitable foil-shaped object through the appropriate direc-
tions in a container of water. If you have astrong overhead light and the bottom of the
tank is white, you’ll see the shadow cast by the
resulting vortex on the bottom of the tank andbe able to note the different flow reactions
produced by rectilinear and curvilinear move-
ments. This simple test shows distinct differ-ences between the flow reactions set up by
drag propulsion (pulling directly backward),
the conventional airfoil mechanism, and a cur-vilinear pulling pattern (figures 4.15a, 4.15b,
and 4.15c).
Vortex Reactions in Producing Lift
Essentially, fluid dynamics as applied to lift-
force propulsion in swimming comprises a
three-fold sequence of events:
1. At the start of a propulsive impulse, a
starting vortex produces a bound vortexaround a hand, foot, or limb.
2. The bound vortex is then manipulated
in such a way as to enable lift force to be
applied.
3. When circulation (in the form of a bound
vortex) can no longer be produced andmaintained, a vortex is shed, indicatingthat the propulsive impulse has ended.The Significance of the Shed Vortex
A vortex is shed whenever a propulsive im-
pulse ends. The analysis of these vortex pat-
terns produced by each swimming stroke pro-vides a new perspective from which to view
swimming efficiency. The pattern of shed vor-
tices a swimmer leaves in the water provides aninstant history of the swimming stroke, be-
cause each propulsive impulse within the over-
all stroke produces a distinctive type of vortexas its signature.
Recognizable patterns reveal how individual
swimmers apply their power. By its size, shape,direction, velocity, and placement in the flow
field in relation to the swimming stroke, the
shed vortex reveals the type of propulsivemechanism the swimmer has used and the net
effectiveness of the propulsive impulse just
completed.
Kinetic Energy
A shed vortex represents a form of kineticenergy, or in other words, the energy of motion.We know that energy cannot be created or
Figure 4.15 Typical flow reactions: (a)  drag
propulsion (pulling directly backward);(b) conventional airfoil method; and (c) outward
and inward sculling (curvilinear pulling patterns,especially in butterfly and breaststroke). In theinward and outward scull, there are always leading
edge and trailing edge vortices around the hand.a
b
c

Understanding Hydrodynamics 89
destroyed, but it can be transferred from one
type to another. Energy is transferred from theswimmer to the water in the form of kinetic
energy whenever a vortex is shed. (In fact,
energy is being changed from one form intoanother whenever work is done or energy ex-
pended.) Vortices shed at random and not at
the end of a propulsive impulse indicate wastedenergy that a swimmer is not applying to the
water in the most effective manner.
Studying Flow Reactions
to the Swimming Stroke
I conducted a study that sought to identify flow
reactions common to the stroke mechanics of
world-class swimmers. A methodical analysis
of underwater movies, slides, and photographsconsistently revealed similar patterns of vortic-
ity (Colwin 1984a).
By correlating commonly observed flow re-
actions with established fluid dynamic prin-ciples—particularly those concerning lift pro-
pulsion—I attempted to establish a basis forfurther study. The flow visibility was not al-
ways complete because observation depended
largely on accidental air entrapment (aeration)in the swimming stroke; nevertheless, it waspossible to form a synthesis of the flow reac-tions that could be anticipated during key
phases of propulsion. More recently, I have
noted the advantages of underwater video re-cordings of swimmers during actual competi-
tion. When swimming at speed, most swim-
mers accidentally entrap enough air into thewater to make the flow reactions almost con-
tinuously visible.
I systematically compared these observa-
tions with fluid dynamic theory as well as withthe theory that relates to lift propulsion in
nature. I was especially interested in seekingreasons for what initially appeared to be un-
usual vortex formations that indicated propul-
sion was taking place in nonsteady flow.
Although airfoils are designed to develop
steady flow, human swimming propulsion,because of anatomical restrictions, must em-ploy directional changes of the limbs that cause
nonsteady flow. I believe that skilled human
swimmers, like birds, fish, and certain flyinginsects, are able to turn nonsteady flow to ad-
vantage by using dexterous movements that
establish the necessary flow circulation throughthe rapid generation and shedding of vortices.

91Chapter 5
Propulsive
Mechanismsof Speed Swimming
The dynamics of all the swimming
strokes cause fluctuating flow con-
ditions because the continual direc-
tional changes of the hands are notconducive to maintaining steady
flow. Although most skilled swim-mers establish steady state propul-sion with organized vortex systems
at the beginning of a stroke, subse-
quent hand and limb directional
changes quickly lead to a sequence
of quasisteady to nonsteady peri-
ods. These changes are often diffi-
cult for some swimmers to accom-
plish without losing pr opulsion.
However, underwater photogra phy
of skilled swimmers indicates thatthe shedding of large separate vor-
tices occurs at approximately the
same time as the hand’s directional
change.
In this chapter, we learn that pro-
pulsion in fluids is not limited to
propellers and other purely me-
chanical means. To this end, we com-
pare human swimming propulsion
with the quick generating and shed-
ding of vortices used by birds, fly-ing insects, and marine animals in
order to propel, and we find thathuman hands and feet function as

92Breakthrough Swimming
swim foils using mechanisms similar to those
common in nature. This information is applieddirectly to coaching a swimmer to use the react-
ing pressure resistance in the flow to generate
quick propulsion through the water.
The Hand as a Swim Foil
A shed vortex indicates that a propulsive im-
pulse in a particular direction has ended. World-
ranked swimmers are invariably observed toshed a large vortex during a change of hand
direction; these great athletes may be showing
the ideal way to propel. Acceleration to top swim-ming speed requires sharp directional changes of
the hand instead of the smooth, rounded transi-
tions seen at slower speeds. However, vortexshedding before a propulsive impulse has ended
is often a sign of inefficient technique.
Common causes of prematurely shed vortices
are holding the hand too rigidly on the wrist ortoo sudden a directional change combined with
excessive acceleration and application of force.In high-speed swimming every stroke consists
of distinct impulses that accelerate with each
change of hand direction. After a vortex is shedat the end of an impulse, a new vortex is quickly
generated around the hand as it changes direc-
tion. Proof of this can often be seen in the subse-quent shedding of the new vortex—albeit a some-what smaller one—at the end of the stroke.
An Alternative Lift-Generating
Mechanism
The quick generating and shedding of vortices
just described is a propulsive mechanism preva-lent in nature. This alternative lift-generating
mechanism, unlike that of the conventional
airfoil, is independent of foil shape and theexistence of an ideal angle of attack. Instead, lift
is established when a circulation (bound vor-
tex) around the propelling member is superim-posed on the general flow. (The role of flow
circulation in lift propulsion is discussed exten-
sively in chapter 4.)
Careful study reveals different types of vor-
tex patterns in the flow field (figure 5.1). Thevortex pattern developed depends on the natu-ral aptitude of the swimmer and the speed at
which the swimmer is moving. Drawings
adapted from films confirm that an organizedvortex system is longer at slower swimming
speeds (figure 5.2).
High-speed swimming may cause sharp
changes in hand direction with shedding ofring vortices at the end of each propulsive
impulse (figure 5.2a). A large ring vortex is
Figure 5.1 Different vortex patterns.


Propulsive Mechanisms of Speed Swimming 93
made to the articulation of the hand on the
wrist. A swimmer who possesses a natural feel
of the water uses the hand to perform a dual
function by directing and channeling the flowcirculation while also applying propulsive
thrust. In fact, the dexterous functioning of the
entire arm in an undulating fashion, almost inthe manner of an elongated flipper, is quite
noticeable. Talented swimmers show unusual
dexterity, particularly during transitionalphases of the stroke, and create remarkably
consistent vortex patterns in the flow field.
Comparing Swimming
to Propulsion in Nature
Comparisons between human swimming and
fluid dynamic propulsion in nature are appro-priate because the two share similar difficulties
in coping with nonsteady flow. In fact, the
similarities observed among the most diversephenomena of fluid motion are not accidental
but constitute a universal law of nature. Thus,
it makes sense to compare examples from na-ture with human swimming propulsion.
Comparisons With Bird Flight
Lift-force propulsion is based on aerodynamicprinciples that originated in Lilienthal’s (1889)intensive observations of bird flight. Similarly,
it’s highly probable that skilled swimmers use
methods of developing lift (in conjunction with
Figure 5.2 Vortex shedding reveals the effects of different stroke patterns.
shed as the hand changes direction in midstroke.The trailing vortices detach from the hand,
indicating that the organized vortex system
has ceased and that propulsion is no longer byfoil-type lift. The remaining vorticity in circula-
tion around the hand is shed at the end of the
stroke by the fling-ring mechanism.
Smoother and rounder directional changes
are achieved more easily at submaximal handspeed (figure 5.2b). Single-impulse propulsionand smooth hand acceleration help maintain an
organized vortex system for most of the stroke.
In the final stage of the stroke, the vortex tailbecomes unsteady and starts to burst as a single
vortex ring is shed by the fling-ring mechanism.
By applying excessive power or accelerating
the hand too rapidly, even top swimmers mayshed random vortices (figure 5.2c). Spasmodic
vortex shedding represents kinetic energy lostto the water and is also characteristic of poor
directional control of the hand. Excessive vor-
tex shedding is common, which suggests thatoverapplying propulsive force and failing to
accelerate the hand smoothly are more preva-
lent faults than generally recognized. Thesehabits may account for subpar performance
even when an athlete feels strong and powerful.
The Dual Function of the Hand
Although the literature contains frequent dis-
cussions of the elbow’s changing posture dur-
ing the swimming stroke, little reference isab c

94Breakthrough Swimming
Until recently, standard aerodynamics had
failed to explain how birds and insects over-
come these handicaps. But, with the help of
high-speed photography, the mystery is now
near a solution.
The Rapid Generating
and Shedding of Vortices
Birds and insects apparently employ mecha-
nisms that swiftly establish air circulation
around their wings, entailing the rapid gener-
ating and shedding of vortices. By so doing,they are able to generate lift more quickly than
would be possible in steady airflow. This dis-
covery cast an entirely new light on the prob-lems that had long perplexed observers of bird
and insect flight. The examples of aerodynamic
propulsion in nature provide valid compari-sons with human swimming propulsion, which
also has to cope with the problem of propelling
in nonsteady flow.
Unsteady Flow in Nature
Most of our present knowledge of the flyingcharacteristics of birds and flying insects hasbeen gained by direct observation, aided by
slow-motion photography. Their motion bears
an interesting comparison to some phases ofhuman swimming propulsion, most notably
the butterfly arm action, which uses directional
changes of the hands in a path transverse to theswimmer’s forward direction. When this type
of arm action is accompanied by a marked
degree of hand-forearm rotation, it is probablethat the necessary flow circulation is produced
for predominant lift-force propulsion to occur.
When observing propulsion in unsteady flowin nature, it is important to note that the neces-
sary bound vortex is created by mechanisms
that operate intermittently in timing with thedirections of the oscillating wing. As each pro-
pulsive impulse ends, a vortex is shed.
An expert swimmer propels by means of
directional changes of the hands, which causethe rapid generating and shedding of vortices.
In butterfly and breaststroke, this mechanismis probably similar in principle to the oscillat-
ing wing but only to the extent that the quick
changes of hand direction generate the flowcirculation necessary to produce lift-force pro-drag) during nonsteady periods of propulsionsimilar to those that occur in nature.
Aircraft and the majority of flying creatures
fly in what might be called a standard way,using well-understood aerodynamic principles.But small birds and flying insects fly in a man-
ner that can’t be explained in simple aerody-
namic terms. We know that aircraft depend onairfoils that move through the air steadily.
Nonsteady flows around aircraft wings must
be minimized because they reduce flight effi-ciency. In contrast, nonsteady aerodynamics
are an inherent feature of natural flapping flight.
The subtleties of oscillating, or flapping, wing
movement are still not fully understood, butbird flight in its simplest form—gliding or soar-
ing—does not require flapping or the consump-tion of muscle power. Simply by stretching out
the wing, the outer part merges with the arm
section to form a continuous plane so that thebird flies in a manner similar to a fixed-wing
aircraft. This use of steady flow is similar to the
way in which a swimmer spreads the armssideways during the beginning phase of the
butterfly and breaststroke arm actions.
The spreading of the arms is one of the most
economical movements in swimming, particu-larly in the butterfly stroke. It’s also a remark-
able simulation of natural flight. In fact, I like toinstruct young swimmers to imagine they are
giant condors with wings outstretched, launch-
ing themselves from a high cliff into an oncom-ing sea breeze. When the start of the butterfly
arm stroke is properly timed, this form of sub-
aqueous flying  (a term sometimes used to de-
scribe sea-lion propulsion) develops high bodyvelocity and is aided by the momentum devel-
oped a split-second earlier from the downwardthrust of the dolphin kick, another derivation
from nature.
This steady flow phase of the arm action is
present at the beginning of all four swimmingstyles. During this phase, an organized vortex
system is in place, as shown by the presence oftip vortices coming off the hands. As the stroke
changes direction, however, it becomes difficult
to maintain steady flow and to continue to usethe hand in an airfoil fashion. This is also true of
the flapping (oscillating) wing. Because of ana-
tomical structure, birds and insects are unableto maintain a constant production of lift.

Propulsive Mechanisms of Speed Swimming 95
borne. Their unique lift-generating mechanisms
instead depend on means different from thoseof ordinary foils; the actual shape of the foil is
of little importance. What is needed is an elon-
gated body that carries a bound vortex and ismoved relative to the stationary fluid. It does
not involve refined adjustments of the angle of
attack but does require rapid control of the flowover the tip of the foil.
The Clap-Fling-Ring Mechanism
Some flying insects use a clap-fling-ring actionof their wings, which circulates air to form a
vortex on each wing tip (figure 5.3). At the end
of the downstroke these two vortices are shedpulsion. But, there the similarity to bird flightends. Apart from possessing a basically similarskeletal structure, the human arm bears not
even a remote resemblance to a bird’s wing, nor
does it flap while it propels.
Comparisons With Propulsion
of Marine Animals
Marine animals, fish, and birds are highly spe-cialized for propulsion in their respective fluidmediums. At the outset, we may find it difficult
to imagine how the human swimmer could
possibly adopt any examples at all from nature,but consider the dolphin kick used in the but-
terfly stroke, developed in 1935 by Jack Sieg
and his coach David Armbruster. Based on themovement of the dolphin’s tail, the dolphin
kick represents the most effective attempt so
far by humans to adopt a swimming techniquefrom nature. Yet, despite the natural ease with
which the dolphin kick fits in with the butterfly
arm action, certain limitations in the humanphysique prevent the butterfly swimmer from
completely emulating the harmonious loco-
motion displayed by the dolphin.
The main difference between the natural
action of the dolphin and the acquired dolphinkick of the human swimmer is that the dolphincan perform the upbeat of its fluke, or tail, more
quickly than the downbeat. The upbeat of the
dolphin fluke is also faster than the upbeat of aswimmer’s feet at equal movement frequen-
cies. This is because the dolphin’s musculature
is more suited to producing a stronger move-ment on the upstroke of its fluke. The traces of
the dolphin’s fluke appear to be more sym-
metrical than those of human swimmers(Ungerechts 1983).
Comparisons With the Flight
of Flying Insects
The most fascinating aerodynamic discovery
of recent times has a counterpart in nonsteady
swimming propulsion. It concerns the novellift-generating mechanism used by some flying
insects (Lighthill 1973). Aerodynamic calcula-
tions have shown that some insects are unableto generate enough foil-type lift to remain air-
Figure 5.3 Clap-fling-ring mechanism of
butterfly flight.

96Breakthrough Swimming
in a flinging action and combine to form one
large vortex ring directly beneath the insect.The force needed to create the ring sustains the
insect’s weight.
The difference between a normal airfoil and
the nonsteady fling-ring mechanism is that thevortex patterns leading to circulation are cre-
ated prior to and independent of the movementof the foil through the fluid (Weis-Fogh 1973).
The Fling-Ring Mechanism
in the Dolphin Kick
Obviously it is impossible for human swim-
mers to perform the clap phase that precedes
the fling-ring mechanism. However, they mayuse similar mechanisms during nonsteady
swimming propulsion. A typical example can
be seen in the power dolphin kick when used atmaximum effort. (The kick in the following
description should not be confused with the
gentler action of the soft dolphin kick, oftenused in the 200-meter event, which is more like
a foil operating in steady flow.)
The power dolphin kick requires a rapidly
established vortex circulation, in this casearound the feet, prior to commencing the pro-
pulsive impulse. This is accomplished in amanner slightly different from the clap-fling-
ring mechanism used by some flying insects.
In the absence of the preliminary clap phase
of the mechanism, the soles of the feet set up thenecessary preliminary circulation as they touch
the surface of the water prior to the feet startingdownward. The contact by the soles with the
surface water sets up a surface tension caused
by molecular attraction between the two fluids,water and air. As the feet thrust downward, a
bound vortex forms around each foot. These
vortices combine to form one large vortex ringthat is shed in the vertical plane as the feet
complete a powerful downward thrust (figure
5.4). The large size of the ring indicates that alarge mass of water has been acted on, whereas
the velocity of the water has remained rela-
tively low. One indication of the dolphin kick’seffectiveness is the distance between the regu-
larly spaced vortices: The greater the distance
between each shed vortex ring, the more effec-tive the kick. I have often asked butterfly swim-mers to swim a few strokes and then stop andlook back underwater at their still-visible vor-
tex trails. They were fascinated that they could
actually see the result of their propulsion.
Figure 5.4 The fling-ring propulsive mechanism
in the power dolphin kick.
Sometimes, when a swimmer’s feet have
spread too far apart during the downwardthrust, two smaller vortices, one from eachfoot, will be shed. The effectiveness of this
action is not as great as when a large single
vortex is shed.
The use of the fling-ring lift effect in the
power dolphin kick depends largely on aswimmer’s ability to hyperextend the anklesand feet quickly to establish surface tension.
Circulation results from the impulsive force
created by the feet as they separate the air-water boundary.
The Fling-Ring Mechanism
in the Two-Beat Crawl Kick
and the Breaststroke Kick
Crawl swimmers using a power-producing
two-beat kick also employ the fling-ring

Propulsive Mechanisms of Speed Swimming 97
mechanism. Shed vortices of a smaller size can
often be observed in the vertical plane behindeach foot as it completes its downward thrust.
For instance, this effect can be seen in the
women’s 1,500-meter event, in which the useof the two-beat kick usually predominates.
Each swimmer in the race often leaves a lad-
der of small separate vortices trailing in thelane behind her.
Underwater movies of breaststroke swim-
mers show that the essential preliminary flowcirculation is set up by the dorsi-flexion of the
feet, combined with their change of direction,
as they move from recovery into the propul-sive phase. That the breaststroke kick uses the
fling-ring lift mechanism can be seen when a
breaststroke swimmer misjudges the depth ofa push off from a turn and inadvertently intro-
duces air into the kick. The resultant aeration
of the flow reveals vortex rings behind eachfoot as the first kick off the wall is completed,
a clear demonstration that the kick uses the
fling-ring mechanism.
Practical Application of Flow
Analysis as a Coaching Tool
The following discussion is couched in questionand answer format. I am frequently asked thesequestions in conversation and correspondence.
What is a vortex?
A vortex is a mass of fluid that rotates about an
axis. The axis of the vortex may be in almost any
plane from vertical to horizontal.
What causes a vortex to be shed
at the end of a propulsive impulse?
The presence of a bound vortex is essential forlift to occur. When a starting vortex is formed,it causes a bound vortex to be closed around
a foil. Because a flow does not contain any
circulation at the beginning of a stroke, it mustnot contain any circulation at the end of a
stroke.
For example, experiments with a rotating
cylinder in a flow channel show the reappear-ance of the starting vortex, now rotating in the
opposite direction, once the flow is switchedoff and circulation has ceased. Right at the end,the starting vortex reappears, almost like amovie film played in reverse.
Similarly, it can be seen that a vortex must be
shed if the hand is brought to a complete stopwith respect to the local flow because there is
no longer a mechanism producing and main-
taining circulation. So, during a swimmingstroke, when the hand stops or completes a
propulsive impulse in a certain direction, what-
ever circulation is bound on it is shed to form avortex ring.
The reader can easily demonstrate these
phenomena. Stand in shallow water, dip yourhand into the water, and move your hand; the
rapidly formed starting vortex appears. Now
end the movement by stopping the hand sud-denly, which causes a shed vortex visibly whirl-
ing away rapidly from the hand.
What is the ideal shape of a shed vortex?
A shed vortex should be circular rather than
elongated because a circular vortex acts on a
larger area or mass of fluid. Its velocity isslower than that of an elongated vortex, which
acts on a smaller area and a smaller mass.
Although an elongated vortex (long loop) pro-duces a flow causing forward thrust, this is not
the most efficient mode of propulsion, for the
reason just stated. The elongated vortex usu-ally results from predominant drag propulsion
when the hand is pulled straight backward like
a paddle instead of in a curved path like a foil(figure 5.5). The vortex is shed from both sides
of the hand and arm and appears early in the
stroke.
What should be the ideal plane
of a shed vortex?
Refer to the example of the circular vortex and
assume, for the time being, that we have aswimmer who can produce this perfectly
shaped circular vortex. Again, a vortex is a
mass of fluid rotating about an axis that may bein almost any plane. Let us orient the plane of
this circular vortex at different angles, from
vertical to horizontal.
When the plane of this circular vortex is
vertical and its axis is horizontal, all the fluid

98Breakthrough Swimming
particles the vortex acts on will be moved in the
stream direction (the horizontal direction),which results in ideal direct forward propul-
sion. When the plane of the vortex is horizon-
tal, or lying parallel to the surface of the water,all the fluid particles that this vortex acts on
will be directed downward, meaning that the
net force created by the swimmer is upwardrather than forward.
The conclusion is that if a swimmer’s stroke
is efficient, the plane of the shed vortex tends tobe vertical or nearly vertical. The more vertical
the vortex plane, the more likely the propulsive
impulse has generated near maximum forwardthrust.
What do different size vortices in the flow
field tell us?
Counsilman (1971) states that it’s better to move
a large mass of water a short distance than to
move a small mass of water a long way . In terms
of propeller theory, this idea could be expressedas “it’s better to move a large mass of water
slowly than to move a small mass quickly .”
Stated thus, the principles of propeller theoryapply directly to swimming propulsion.
In another of his prominent studies, Counsil-
man (1980) showed that skilled swimmers pro-duce marked hand acceleration in the latter
phase of the crawl, a finding borne out by
analysis of the flow reaction. A smaller vortexappears after the end of the stroke, whereas a
larger vortex appears during the stroke, when
the first propulsive impulse of the stroke iscompleted (as the elbow reaches maximum
flexion). The smaller vortex at the end of the
stroke shows an increase in the flow velocitycaused by the hand’s acceleration.
It may be that the first, larger vortex creates
a new flow direction and the hand may have tomove faster to make maximum use of the new
flow velocity. The skilled swimmer may be
aware of this—albeit subconsciously—and ad-just the hand accordingly.
Figure 5.5 Predominant drag propulsion: flow
reactions. (a) The flow reaction shows drag force
propulsion resulting from pulling directlybackward. All organized vorticity is shed very early
in the stroke. (b) The typical lasso-type vortex
consists of a short vortex trail attached to a large
ring. The stroke is completed with wake turbulence
behind the hand. Sometimes this action is shown
by early detachment of the trailing vortex withoutthe presence of a ring.ab


Propulsive Mechanisms of Speed Swimming 99
What does the presence of excessive
vorticity mean?
A coach can learn a great deal from a swimmer’s
subjective comments, especially immediately
after a race. Sometimes, when a swimmer hasturned in a particularly fine performance, the
swimmer may say, “I felt so good that I could
have gone faster,” or, conversely, a swimmermay express disappointment at a recorded time
by saying, “I felt so strong and powerful—I
can’t understand why my time wasn’t faster.”
As has been observed underwater, very pow-
erful swimmers often shed vortices in themiddle of a propulsive impulse, which showsthey are exerting more power than necessary.
In contrast, the swimmer who finishes with
power in reserve, feeling it was possible to gofaster, perhaps instinctively has not overapplied
power.
There could be another reason for excessive
vortex shedding, however. As the hand ex-ceeds the ideal angle of attack (in terms of the
conventional airfoil mechanism), the flow sepa-rates, destroying the circulation. At this stage a
swimmer will start to use unconventional pro-
pulsive mechanisms to propel in the resultingunsteady flow. One reason for excessive vortex
activity, then, could be that the swimmer can no
longer adjust the hand incidence so as to main-tain airfoil-type propulsion and thus has to
shed the existing flow circulation to establish a
new flow around the hand.
Why is it not always possible to see the
swimmer’s flow reactions in the water?
The presence of visible flow reactions depends
on accidental air entrapment. Aeration is arecognized visualization technique used by
fluid dynamicists. Although most swimmers
produce a visible flow reaction when swim-ming at speed, no procedure ensures regular
visualization of the surrounding flow field.
Several flow visualization methods are used toanalyze the flow around models in flow chan-
nels and wind tunnels, but the use of dyes,
lasers, smoke, and so on could pose a safetyhazard for swimmers. Up to now, photogra-
phy, especially shadow photography, has pro-
vided promising results.The flow patterns of great swimmers at key
phases of propulsion are remarkably predict-able. When observing these top performers, it’s
not difficult to form a synthesis of the flow
patterns that can be anticipated. Nevertheless,we lack a sophisticated method of flow visual-
ization that enables vortex reactions to be mea-
sured accurately against a grid. Ideally, such amethod would require front- and side-view
photography of swimmers at racing speed. The
side views should be photographed by an un-derwater camera moving on a track and
kept constantly abreast of the swimmer; where
access to a swimming flume is available, theswimmer could be filmed while tethered in an
oncoming flow. Comparing the results pro-
duced by the two approaches would add an-other dimension to flow analysis.
Should swimmers entrap air into their
strokes to make the flow reactions visible?
Intentional aeration is not a good idea because
under certain conditions, air entrapment can
cause bursting bubbles that may increase drag.Although air entrapment should not be en-
couraged, the introduction of a bubble can
improve efficiency sometimes, when a bubbleattaches to the upper surface of a foil, causing
a modified contour that prevents massive sepa-
ration of the flow.
Shaping the Flow
Little is known about the effects of body shapeon a swimmer’s efficiency. The bulky, squatbody type has not been as prevalent in competi-
tive swimming as it once was. Most of the
leading swimmers, irrespective of their events,are tall and lithe, with a lean physique like a
basketball player’s. Their muscles tend to be
long rather than short and heavy like aweightlifter’s.
The effects of a swimmer’s shape and physi-
cal proportions on speed and efficiency aregoverned by the ratio of height to bulk, among
other important factors. The more slender the
swimmer, the less the underwater volume com-pared to the swimmer’s height, or length, in the
water. If a swimmer has a gradually tapering

100 Breakthrough Swimming
physique, water will flow past more easily.
Other variables include buoyancy, body com-position, flexibility, neuromuscular patterns,
and individual aptitude.
However, the shapes of certain human body
types (somatotypes) are at a distinct disadvan-tage in speed swimming. Observation of the
water’s flow reactions around individual swim-mers confirms this.
Some swimmers have extreme difficulty con-
trolling the oncoming flow of water along theentering arm(s) with sufficient continuity to
obtain the best timing of the stroke. The more
successful swimmers appear to be favorablyendowed by nature with streamlined body pro-
files and functional limb shapes that enable
them to continuously control the oncomingflow between one stroke and the next.
In all four styles of swimming, the arms at
the start of the stroke should act much like thebow of a ship, channeling the oncoming flow
along each arm and around the body.
The crawl permits a skilled swimmer to
smoothly control the oncoming flow as onestroke ends and the next one commences. The
overlapping arm action of the crawl strokeallows a swimmer to feel the oncoming flow of
water advance along the entry arm at the same
time as the opposite arm is unswirling the flowfrom the hand and forearm at the finish of its
stroke. The expert crawl swimmer is thus able
to control simultaneously two separate flowreactions during this fleeting but critical timing
phase of the arm stroke.
Compared to the crawl, the other three swim-
ming styles—backstroke, butterfly, and breast-stroke—produce oncoming flows a swimmer
cannot so easily intercept and translate intosmooth continuous propulsion.
In the back crawl, the arms remain almost
the same distance from each other during thecomplete stroke cycle and do not overlap as
much as in the crawl stroke. So, unless a back-
stroke swimmer has a tall, lean body and anarm reach long enough to control the oncoming
flow efficiently at entry, accurate timing be-
tween the entry arm and the finishing arm ismore difficult than in the crawl.In efficient crawl and backstroke swimming,
the alternating action of the arms ensures thatat nearly every stage of the stroke cycle one arm
extends forward at entry to intercept and
smoothly channel the oncoming flow while theother arm completes its stroke. In butterfly and
breaststroke, however, because the arms move
simultaneously, such nearly constant intercep-tion of the oncoming flow at entry is not pos-
sible. Moreover, some butterfly and breaststroke
swimmers have difficulty controlling the on-coming flow around the arms at the beginning
of each stroke because the momentum neces-
sary to produce this oncoming flow dependson accurate timing between the arm and leg
actions.
Exploiting Examples
From Nature
I have described how humans developed their
admittedly limited swimming ability. Throughconsiderable invention and the gradual acqui-
sition of increasing skill, we learned to adapt
our comparatively awkward land-living bod-ies for efficient use in water.
Earlier, I made a comparison between hu-
man swimming and similar propulsive mecha-nisms in nature. Is it possible to improve the
efficiency of human swimming by seeking out
and adopting further examples from nature?Can we learn to use propulsive mechanisms
and postural shapes derived from nature to
provide a more facile, dexterous, and efficientmode of swimming?
Although probably no further adaptation
from nature will have the same dramatic ef-fect on the sport as the development of the
dolphin kick, we can learn much by studying
fish and birds, their natural shapes, and thechanging shapes they adopt during various
phases of propulsion. Much of their efficiency
can be attributed to their skill in makingsmooth transitions from the end of one pro-
pulsive impulse to the start of the next. Unfor-
tunately, the subject of transitional phases ofthe stroke in human swimming has yet to
studied.

Propulsive Mechanisms of Speed Swimming 101
Ideal Postures and Shapes
The literature contains little mention of the
possibility of ideal postures or shapes of the
hand in relation to the wrist as the arm moves
through the changing phases of a swimmingstroke.
A better understanding of how to shape the
hand-wrist posture during the arm stroke couldimprove swimming efficiency. This applies to
the postures assumed by the hand and wrist in
relation to each other during the propulsiveimpulse, at the end of the propulsive impulse,
and during the transitional phase between the
end of one propulsive impulse and the start ofanother.
Birds and fish exhibit shapes adapted to
their function, and they are able to change theirbody forms somewhat to alter the flow reac-
tions around their bodies. A study of the shapes
and changing forms adopted by fish and birdsmay have beneficial applications for human
swimming.
Careful study of the arm posture of an ex-
pert butterfly swimmer during the inwardsweep of the stroke (figure 5.6) indicates that
the swimmer, probably without knowing it,has adopted two characteristic shapes com-
mon in nature:
1. The projecting thumbs each act like an
alula, or small extra wing.
Figure 5.6 Arm posture of expert butterfly swimmer.2. The hand and forearm, from the tip of
the little finger to the point of the elbow,
assume a lunate, or crescent-shaped,
configuration.
Both shapes are concerned with lift enhance-
ment in that they help keep the flow attached to
the hands and forearms. Some butterfly swim-
mers who keep their thumbs pressed in and
their hands in a straight line with their fore-arms encounter flow separation very early in
the stroke. The vortex patterns set up by the
swimmer in figure 5.6 show that she has keptthe flow attached to her hands and forearms
even though her hands have already changed
direction from their initial outward sweep andare well into the inward phase of the stroke.
The only visible signs of pending flow separa-
tion are slight swellings in the vortex trails nearthe fingertips.
The Alula Effect in Smoothing Out
the Flow
In bird flight, the alula, sometimes referred to
as the bastard wing, is an interesting refine-ment that acts as a subsidiary airfoil in front of
the leading edge of the main wing. Under
normal flight conditions, the alula is foldedback out of the way. As the bird approaches
stalling speed, however, and the airflow over
the upper wing surface becomes turbulent, the


102 Breakthrough Swimming
alula is spread forward to form a slot through
which air rushes, restoring a smooth, fast air-stream and curtailing stall (figure 5.7). In simi-
lar fashion, when a swimmer’s hand is inclined
at too large an angle of attack to keep the flowattached to the hand, the thumb, when held
away from the hand, produces a throttle effect
through which the speed of the flow increases,creating a low-pressure area on the knuckle
side of the hand that produces more lift and a
smoother flow around the hand.The Efficiency of Lunate,
or Crescent-Shaped, Contours
The wings of seagoing birds such as shearwa-
ters and albatrosses, which spend an enormous
amount of time in the air, are swept backward.Even the limbs of species adapted to propul-
sion through water (a fluid, just as air is, and
thus subject to many of the same physical laws)show the same crescent shape, particularly the
tail fins of fish such as marlin and tuna and
marine mammals such as dolphins and whales(van Dam 1988; figure 5.8).
Figure 5.8 The ulnar-flexion of the wrist in the
human swimmer resembles various lunate shapes
in nature.
Does the crescent shape bestow some special
advantage? Only recently, with the developmentof computerized modeling techniques that faith-
fully represent the dynamics of vortex wakes,was it discovered that the most aerodynamically
efficient shape is not the conventional flattened
ellipse. A half-moon planform, like that of awhale’s tail, with a curved leading edge and a
straight trailing edge is superior, and a crescent
planform, in which both edges curve backwardlike a swift’s wing, is more effective still.
These shapes enhance performance because
the vortices that form at the trailing edge of theinboard section of a curved wing or fin wash
downward (sideways for a fin) ahead of those
further along the limb, producing updrafts andsidedrafts that like miniature hurricanes, agi-
tate nearby fluid particles.
The tip of a wing or fin acts in turn like a sail,
converting some of the kinetic energy of thesespiraling streams into forward thrust. In this
manner, a crescent planform generates at least 10
Figure 5.7 Use of alula mechanism to create
steady flow. (a) Foil in steady flow. (b) Steep angle
of attack produces unsteady flow. (c) Alula restores
steady flow. (d) The thumb used as an alula.
a
b
c
d

Propulsive Mechanisms of Speed Swimming 103
percent less induced drag than an elliptical one,
a reduction that grows in significance as the timean animal spends flying or swimming increases.
In the human swimmer, the ulnar-flexion of
the wrist in relation to the forearm creates acrescent-shaped contour that keeps the flow
attached around the hand and forearm. This is
important because if the flow were to separatefrom forearm and hand, drag would increase.
In fact, some swimmers who changed to an
ulnar-flexion of the wrist during the inwardsweep of the arm reported increased ease in
this phase of the stroke without experiencing
loss of propulsion (figure 5.9).them in flow channels, it should be possible toanalyze the exact effects these shaping tech-niques have on the surrounding flow field. It
would also be possible to measure at what
angles of attack flow separation (and conse-quent vortex shedding) takes place.
Figure 5.9 Ulnar wrist flexion on inward sweep
of the hand.
Figure 5.10 Outward arm sweep of champion
butterfly swimmer Mary T. Meagher. The fingertips
appear to be the highest point of the entire arm.
Adapted from instructional film by Maglischo andGambril, produced by First Essex Productions.
The discussion so far has centered on the
effect of ulnar wrist flexion during the inward
sweep of a swimming stroke, but what are we to
make of the ulnar wrist flexion sometimes seenduring the outward sweep of a swimming
stroke? In addition to assuming the crescent-
shaped contour of the lower arm, some swim-mers also incline the hand slightly upward
during the outward sweep so that the fingertips
appear to be the highest part of the entire arm.
The outward arm sweep of champion but-
terfly swimmer Mary T. Meagher is a goodexample of this action (figure 5.10). The slightupward tilt of her hands is not unlike that of a
large soaring bird turning up its wingtip pri-
mary feathers to reduce drag induction. Inother swimmers, the elbows are pronouncedly
higher than the hands, which in turn are set at
a sharp angle from the wrists to shape thewhole arm remarkably like a cantilevered hy-
drofoil. By making models of the functional
arm shapes of talented swimmers and testingMidstroke Transitions
Even at topflight swim meets it’s common tosee swimmers whose techniques are based too
much on tugging, pulling, and pushing, which
are essentially land-type concepts. Many swim-mers try to pull directly through the hard part
of the stroke instead of adopting transitional
postures of the hand that would enable them tomore easily control the oncoming flow.
We might possibly learn something from
observing the transitional shapes adopted bycertain reef fish when maneuvering. Their fins
move through a very flat angle as they fan
around to a new posture in a helicoidal path.Fish do not waste energy by trying to overcome
a developing or increasing resistance such as
that encountered by a human swimmer as theelbow reaches maximum bend in midstroke
and the hand reaches an angle almost perpen-
dicular to the line of forward progression. Thespiraling fin of the reef fish simply goes around
the obstacle of increased resistance.
Perhaps the human swimmer could copy
this action, when swimming crawl, for example.In midstroke the forearm is medially rotated so
that the hand is turned slightly, as shown in

104 Breakthrough Swimming
figure 5.11. The transition is made with a quick,
deft movement. The palm of the hand is turnedto face slightly forward, almost like turning a
vertical slat in a venetian blind. The motion
quickly presents the hand at a more acute anglewith less drag as the hand and forearm round
out to finish the stroke with a fanlike action
(figure 5.12). A biomechanical study of thissuggested midstroke transitional maneuver,
performed by a skilled swimmer, could prove
interesting and enlightening.
Figure 5.11 Midstroke transition showing four
views of medially rotated hands in the crawl
stroke: (a) top right view, (b) bottom right view,
(c) top left view, and (d) bottom left view.a
bc
dFunctional Shaping
as a New Approach
to Stroke Technique
The purpose of this chapter has not been to
recommend dramatic new changes in tech-nique but rather to show how efficient propul-
sion depends on adroit manipulation of the
reacting flow.
Underwater photography shows that tal-
ented swimmers use a variety of hand, finger,and thumb configurations during the chang-ing phases of a swimming stroke (figure 5.13).
It is highly unlikely that any one swimmer
could incorporate all these principles withinan individual stroke pattern, nor is it recom-
mended that a swimmer attempt to do so. How
should a coach approach teaching the variousshaping techniques such as the alula effect, the
ulnar wrist flexion, hand cupping, and so on?
Each person should experiment to find whichof these techniques can be comfortably used
within his or her personal swimming style. For
example, whereas one swimmer may feel anadvantage is gained by assuming a lunate
shape between hand and forearm, another
swimmer may feel more comfortable keepingthe hand aligned with the forearm. The coach’s
role will not be to enforce these finer embellish-
ments on a swimmer but to recognize theirvalue and not intervene when a swimmer uses
them naturally.
Traditional coaching methods have focused
on establishing desired stroke patterns but haveneglected to provide the swimmer with ad-
equate feedback on the efficiency of perfor-mance. Children should be taught flow recog-
nition and manipulation from an early age.
They should be made aware of functional shap-ing of the hand and arm as important aspects of
technique. Learning to create, feel, and recog-
nize the ideal reacting flow of the water givesswimmers instant feedback on the efficiency of
their swimming strokes.
Figure 5.12 Fanning to avoid drag in midstroke
transition, side view.

Propulsive Mechanisms of Speed Swimming 105
Figure 5.13 Various hand-digit postures used by talented swimmers.


107Chapter 6
Coaching the Feel
of the Water
The feel of the water  refers to a
swimmer’s intuitive ability to feel
and effectively handle the water. Itis generally believed that feel of the
water is an elusive quality unique to
the talented athlete; swimmers of
only average ability cannot hope to
emulate the acute sensory percep-
tion of the talented motor genius.Nevertheless, I intend to show that
by heightening the sense of touch
and learning how to interpret sensa-
tions of moving pr essur e, swimmers
of average ability can acquire the
subtleties of advanced stroke tech-
nique. Talented swimmers coached
in this method will likewise achieve
greater expertise.
A more apt title to this chapter
may well be “Coaching the Feel of
the Flow.” Water flows when a forceacts on it; a swimmer’s hand always
propels against the pressure of mov-
ing water. The force exerted by a
skilled swimming stroke causes the
water to flow in a distinct pattern(Colwin 1984a). The method in thischapter shows swimmers how to feel
for the ideal flow reaction to theirstroke mechanics and thus receiveinstant feedback on their efficiency.
This new appr oach teaches  swim-
mers to anticipate, control, and ma-nipulate the flow of the water. They
learn that the arm functions not onlyas a propelling instrument but also
as a skilled and sensitive shaper of
the flow.

108 Breakthrough Swimming
Ideal Flow Reactions
The first step is to explain how the flow behaves
during each phase of an efficient swimming
stroke. The flow directions that can be antici-pated in the different swimming strokes can be
described simply. The oncoming flow—which
in the crawl-stroke hand entry moves from thefingertips to the wrist and along the arm—is
known as distal  in its direction. A flow that
moves toward the radial bone (or from thumb
to little finger) is termed radial,  for example, the
flow produced when the elbows bend to bringthe hands under the body in the crawl, butterfly ,and breaststroke. An ulnar  flow moves toward
the ulnar bone or from little finger to thumb, forexample, the flow produced as the arms extendand the stroke rounds out to the hips in the
crawl and butterfly. A flow is proximal  when it
moves from the wrist toward the fingertips, as
happens in the backstroke as the arm straight-
ens at the end of the stroke (Schleihauf 1979).
The Importance of Hand-Forearm
Rotation
Swimmers are shown how flow behavior is
related to an important aspect of stroke mechan-
ics: emphasizing hand-forearm rotation withincomfortable limits for each individual swim-
mer. This is the mechanism that sets up the ideal
flow around the hand and forearm in all thestrokes. The practical application of this mecha-
nism for swimmers of all strokes is simple: Start
the stroke with the palm(s) facing outward andgradually rotate your hand-forearm unit
throughout the stroke, with particular emphasis
on achieving the maximum amount of elbowbend in midstroke that is comfortable. Find the
amount of hand-forearm rotation and elbow
bend that develops the strongest pressure on themoving flow but still feels comfortable.
New Terminology Related to
Feedback on Flow Reactions
Introduce a new terminology. Short descrip-
tive phrases such as “trap, wrap, unwrap” tell
a swimmer how to handle the flow correctlyduring the split-second action of a swimming
stroke. This differs from previous methods thatdescribe only the mechanics of the stroke. In
addition, the new terminology relates to ob-
taining feedback by feeling the flow on thehand and forearm. These verbal cues are im-
portant to the effectiveness of the method and
are valuable as rehearsal techniques to enhancesubsequent performance. Later in this chapter,
I will discuss appropriate descriptions of what
pressure sensations a swimmer should feel.
Flow-Shaping Skills
The swimmers are taught flow-shaping skillsby which they create and detect specific flows
in the water. These flow shapers,  as they are
called, have a beneficial two-way effect, in that
a swimmer’s efforts to shape the flow cause a
reciprocal shaping effect on the limb itself. The
feedback received from the flow reaction causesthe proprioceptors in the muscles to respond
by adjusting the posture and attitude of the
propelling arm. Flow shapers produce positiveand even exciting results because they instantly
groove the hand and arm in accurate stroke
patterns. Even the skeptics become convincedthat this is a unique and effective way to teach
efficient stroke mechanics. The essence of the
method is: the feel of the flow shows a swim-mer exactly where to place each moving se-
quence of the swimming stroke.
Sensitizing Procedures
Special sensitizing procedures are introduced
to sensitize the sensory nerve endings to the
moving pressure of the water (or, more pre-
cisely, transient pressure induced by motion).The propelling surfaces of the hands and fore-
arms are also sensitized to simulate specific
flow reactions. The method is simple. Sensitiv-ity to the flow increases at once. Swimmers of
average ability learn to regulate a smooth and
efficient stroke.
Although these techniques quickly stimu-
late the sensory nerve endings, this is of littlevalue unless the swimmer makes an associa-tion between the feel of the moving water and
the particular phase of the swimming stroke.

Coaching the Feel of the Water 109
Only then can meaning be given to the sense of
touch and an intelligent concept formed of thedesired stroke mechanics.
Connecting Sensory Information
With Stroke Effectiveness
The method short circuits the motor-learning
process and renders the complex more simple.
The deliberate intention is to cause an immedi-ate connection between sensory information
and stroke effectiveness. By giving instant
meaning to the sense of touch, the procedureadds a new perspective to traditional methods,
so it is used even in the early stages of learning.
Young swimmers rapidly improve their abilityto seek out and recognize ideal flow reactions.
It is unnecessary to burden a swimmer with
academic considerations—valid though theymay be—such as lift, drag, ideal angles of at-
tack, and which movement planes to empha-
size. Talented swimmers, when exposed to themethod, develop unusual dexterity in direct-
ing and channeling the flow efficiently. Even
accomplished swimmers improve their tech-niques when made aware of the exact flow
reactions they can anticipate; in fact, they be-
come enthusiastic and keen to learn more aboutthe process.
The Goal of the Method
The goal of this method is to coach the feel ofthe water by showing swimmers how to use
their sense of touch to interpret and improve
stroke effectiveness. The method encompassesthe following tasks:
1. Describe and explain the flow reactions
that can be anticipated during each phaseof a skilled swimming stroke.
2. Demonstrate and explain hand-forearm
rotation and elbow bending and howthese mechanisms set up the ideal flowaround the hand and forearm in all the
swimming strokes.
3. Demonstrate flow-shaper skills and ex-
plain how they shape ideal stroke pat-terns for the individual swimmer.4. Demonstrate sensitizing procedures and
explain how they can be used to simu-
late specific flow reactions.
5. Emphasize the importance of regular
practice. Ensure constant repetition byswimmers of all the procedures out-
lined in the preceding tasks.
Using Appropriate Descriptions
What sensations of touch should a swimmer
experience when manipulating water effi-
ciently? How should they be described? Little
thought has been given to this aspect of coach-ing, which is not surprising when even ac-
knowledged stroke technicians have used such
descriptions of water as “fickle substance.” Wehave all been guilty of inadequately describing
how the water should feel to a correctly strok-
ing swimmer.
For years, one of my favorite descriptions
was “Enter your hand and feel the pressure ofthe water on your palm. Try to make the pres-sure progressively harder as you drive
through.” Although this may have been as
good a description as possible at the time, itdoes not describe the desired feel accurately
enough in the context of existing knowledge.
A once popular and comparatively apt de-
scription of the feel of the water likened it to thefeeling of pulling through soft mud. More re-
cently, however, a “fixed point of resistance”description has become popular. (This prob-
ably resulted from biomechanical studies based
on the convenient assumption of essentiallystill water.) To convey the concept of a force
acting on a mass of water, the act of propulsion
has been variously described as feeling forundisturbed water, anchoring the hand on a
fixed spot in the water and pulling the body
past it, pulling along an imaginary knottedrope, and other similar descriptions.
These descriptions, strictly speaking, are in-
appropriate because the propulsive force is notapplied against a solid or rigid resistance.
Coaches should use carefully chosen words
when instructing a swimmer. Many of our well-worn coaching terms may not produce the
reactions we desire.

110 Breakthrough Swimming
When the edges of the hand are used to split
or separate the flow, the hand is used as a foil,
causing a fine, thin, shearing separation at the
trailing edge rather than the broad, blunt, ex-
cessively turbulent separation that results fromthe straight backward paddle action.
To avoid pulling straight backward, the hand
is moved in a slightly curved path across theline of forward progress (Counsilman 1971).
Another way of describing this action is to say
that the hand is moved in the lateral, or trans-verse, plane. (Of course, the path of the hand
actually moves in three planes simultaneously,
namely, the lateral, vertical, and horizontal.) Bymoving the hand along a curved path a swim-
mer will be able to tilt its leading edge slightly
upward, thus creating a foil-like effect that willincrease the pressure resistance on the palm of
the hand. In this manner, a swimmer can feel
the pressure of the flow on the palm of the handwithout pulling directly backward.
Pressure Sensations Caused by
Different Propulsive Mechanisms
The obvious question at this point is what the
differences are in the feel of the water betweenusing the hand as a foil and using it as a paddle.
When the hand is used as a foil, pressure resis-
tance is felt on the palm of the hand and theflow is felt on the backs of the hands and
fingers, particularly on the skin over the knuck-
les. The water is also flowing over the palm ofthe hand, but its presence is felt as pressure
resistance, not flow, because the water flows
more slowly over the palm of the hand thanover the knuckle side, thus creating an area of
higher pressure. The swimmer feels this pres-
sure instead of the flow.
When the hand is used as a paddle, the
pressure resistance is also felt on the palm of thehand, but there is no sensation at all on theknuckle side because the flow separates around
both edges of the hand, not one edge only (the
trailing edge) as in the foil-type method. Pull-ing the hand like a paddle causes excessive
drag turbulence on the hand and results in
wasted energy when compared with the moreefficient foil-type method. Obviously, the pre-
viously cited descriptions are inadequate toUnderstanding the Concept
of Relative Flow
A good example of a potentially misleading
term is the word “catch,” which has been usedsince the early days of swimming to describe
how a swimming stroke should begin. The old
idea of feeling for the catch point is incorrect,however. Fluid dynamic principles contradict
the popular notion that the hand attaches to a
fixed point in the water and levers the bodypast it. Instead, one should feel the oncoming,
or relative, flow advance over the palm of the
hand and along the forearm. The hand alwaysencounters an oncoming flow of water.
The instant the fingertips enter the water
there is a reacting flow that continues through-out the stroke. Like all fluids, water responds
immediately to any movement through it; like
all fluids, water changes shape under the ac-tion of forces. These changes are known as
deformation and appear as elasticity and flow.
When a swimmer propels efficiently, the flowand the elasticity of the water will be felt as a
stretching effect.
Correct Manipulation
of the Hand
Swimming skill is dramatically increased bylearning the simple act of splitting the flow
with the fingers and hand throughout the stroke.Flow separation causes different patterns of
pressure to form around the hand. There is
always flow from an area of high pressure toone of lower pressure in a correctly performed
stroke. This causes a bound circulation of water
around the hand that generates the propulsiveforce. All one needs to do is to continue split-
ting the flow to maintain this propulsive force.
The contour of the hand and the angle at
which it is held while splitting the flow willaffect the amount of propulsive pressure pro-
duced. This is based on sound principles offluid dynamics. It is more efficient to split the
flow with the edges (either the fingertips or
sides) of the hand than to use the hand like apaddle and pull with the palm of the hand flat
against the pressure resistance of the water.

Coaching the Feel of the Water 111
entry of a talented swimmer often seems al-
most leisurely. The swimmer feels for the mov-ing pressure of the oncoming flow and gradu-
ally starts to apply force against it. The hand of
the talented swimmer possesses a complex sen-sitivity (or, more accurately, a sensibility) that
almost seems to give it sight.
The talented swimmer appears to possess an
innate awareness of not only the exact speed atwhich to enter the hand but also how to time
the start of the stroke effectively. The handneither slows to a stop out in front of the
swimmer nor starts the stroke too soon, before
the oncoming flow has been accepted andtrapped under the arm.
The hand’s first contact with the water at
entry is critically important. Coaches often cor-rect the middle part of a stroke before checking
to see if the entry has been made efficiently. If
the oncoming flow has not been engaged ini-tially, there is no sense in correcting a subse-
quent phase of the stroke.
Anticipating the Oncoming Flow
Most faulty handling of the flow originatesfrom incorrect technique at entry. The entry
hand’s forward motion into the water pro-duces an oncoming flow. If this flow is broken
up or disturbed at entry, the swimmer will have
difficulty manipulating the water during thelater phases of the stroke. A swimmer should
know in advance the nature of the pressure
sensation that will be experienced when thehand enters. In this way a swimmer can antici-
pate the oncoming flow and handle it effec-
tively. The aim is to insert the hand smoothlyinto the oncoming flow and immediately feel
the flow move along the palm and under the
forearm and upper arm.
As mentioned earlier, the arm enters the
water with elbow up and hand pitched diago-nally outward. It is easy to imagine the handand arm in this position as being shaped simi-
larly to the side of a ship, which gradually
slopes backward from the bow and bulges atthe waist. By imagining this portion of a ship
moving forward under the water, cutting the
water sharply at the bow and channeling itbackward around and slightly under the hull, aconvey the tactile sensations (“feel”) of modernstroke mechanics.
Describing Flow Manipulation
Assuming a swimmer has been taught thefunction of hand-forearm rotation and elbowbending in manipulating the flow, the swim-
ming stroke should be taught as a working
sequence of “trap, wrap, and unwrap theflow.” This helps relate each important phase
of the stroke with the relative flow reaction. In
the crawl stroke this sequence works as fol-lows:
1. The trap occurs as the arm enters the
water with elbow up and hand pitched diago-nally outward. The swimmer feels an oncom-ing flow of water advance along the entire
undersurface of the arm from the palm of the
hand to the armpit. At this point the flow isconsidered to be trapped under the arm.
2. The wrap  occurs as the flow is wrapped
around the hand and forearm as they rotateinward after a short downward press. The wrap
is completed when the elbow reaches maxi-
mum bend (approximately 90 degrees) and thehand has moved across under the body.
3. The unwrap  occurs as the elbow extends
and the arm straightens. At the end of thestroke the flow is finally unwrapped from the
forearm and hand as the stroke rounds out past
the hip joint.
The entire sequence of trap, wrap, and un-
wrap occurs within a fraction of a second. The
swimmer is taught to think of the sequence as
a very quick passage of events. Each successivephase happens with increasing speed to pro-
duce the desired stroke acceleration (Counsil-
man and Wasilak 1982). The precise applica-tion of the trap, wrap, unwrap concept of flow
manipulation varies with each swimming
stroke.
Manipulating the Flow
at the Hand Entry
The way a swimmer controls the hand at entry
is usually a first indication of talent. The hand

112Breakthrough Swimming
swimmer will form a good concept of the func-
tion of the hand at entry: The hand, pitcheddiagonally outward as it enters, performs much
the same function as the bow of a ship.
As stated before, the entry is the preliminary
phase of the stroke—the trap phase—duringwhich the flow is allowed to advance along the
undersurface of the arm as the swimmer ma-neuvers it into position for the wrap phase.
Entry Errors
Unfortunately, a swimmer can easily commitseveral errors at the hand entry that diminish
the efficiency of the stroke and cause the swim-
mer to muscle through the water in a futileattempt to gain purchase on it. Probably the
most harmful error is to crash the hand into the
entry, attempting to start the stroke before sub-tly accepting the oncoming flow.
The effect of this error can be understood by
imagining a fast naval destroyer equippedwith a guillotine-like device fixed to the bow
at a right angle to the oncoming flow. At
intervals, this guillotine suddenly drops intothe water and disturbs the flow. The effect is to
continually interrupt the vessel’s forward mo-
mentum.
A similar effect, surprisingly enough, can
frequently be seen in competitive swimmers—even talented world-class ones—particularlydistance swimmers using an inertial type of
stroke. As the stroke starts with what used to be
called a dig-pull  or chop-catch,  the bow wave
drops, or splutters, indicating sudden interfer-
ence with the body’s momentum.
The rationale behind the inertial type of hand
entry may be based on a technique used inathletics and rowing. At the start of a stride, a
runner’s foot is already moving backward tomaintain the runner’s momentum and prevent
jarring the foot on the ground. Similarly, a
rower’s blade travels backward before it entersthe water.
If the dig-pull is based on this principle, it
cannot be applied successfully to swimming.The body is not favorably positioned in the
water to perform such a technique; moreover, a
swimmer cannot generate sufficient speed toachieve this effect.Detecting the Stretching Effect
in the Oncoming Flow
Great emphasis and attention should be given
to adequate coaching of the entry phase of the
stroke. Engaging the water correctly at entry iscrucial to an effective stroke. The ship drill,
which will be explained presently, is designed
specifically to simulate the posture of the handand arm at entry and to teach a swimmer to feel
the moving pressure sensation of the oncoming
flow.
The ship drill is perhaps the most valuable
drill I’ve ever used in coaching. It is extremelyeffective in helping a swimmer form a conceptof the entry phase of the stroke. As proficiency
in discerning the sensation of moving pressure
increases, it becomes possible for a swimmer todetect the stretching effect in the oncoming
flow. A swimmer learns to relate the amount of
stretch in the flow with swimming speed andcorrect timing of the arms.
The Role of Touch
in Motor Learning
Skilled swimmers create a fast output of high-quality movements. Yet even when swimming
at high speed, they frequently give the impres-
sion of being unhurried. The expert seems tohave all the time in the world when compared
with the novice, whose forward progress is
more like a series of emergencies.
In skilled performance no surprises occur.
The swimmer is always ready for each chang-ing sequence of the stroke. Exact timing is anobvious element of skill, which largely involves
the predictable repetition of many successive
movements in accurate and precise patterns.
How are the components of each sequence
coordinated and organized? We tend to thinkof skill mainly in terms of movement. In de-scribing a swimming stroke, we focus on what
is done. The analysis usually breaks the action
down into detailed units of movement. Thisrepresents the swimmer’s output, but we tend
to ignore the input, partly because it is taken for
granted and partly because it is difficult orimpossible to observe directly.

Coaching the Feel of the Water 113
I have often witnessed over an hour of stroke
instruction without hearing any reference to
the water or what a swimmer should feel.
Many otherwise excellent technical articles
make little or no reference to the water. Mostdescriptions of swimming technique neglect to
mention the role played by the water, the very
medium in which the activity takes place.
Many highly skilled swimmers cannot ex-
plain why they perform as they do. They maybe unaware of the particular sensory input thatcontrols their activity, which may be why a
skilled swimmer is not always a particularly
good teacher. Usually, a skill is taught by dem-onstrating how the desired movement should
look rather than by explaining how it should
feel.
The more purposeful or skilled the move-
ment, the more it depends on sensory impulses,which in swimming are primarily those associ-ated with vision and touch. In learning the
more precise movements of swimming, visual
information is essential while the degree ofmuscle tension and amount of muscle contrac-
tion are being delicately adjusted to the task, a
point we easily appreciate if we try to learn anyprecise movement with eyes shut.
Voluntary movements are modified by sen-
sory stimuli received from the skin, muscles,and joints. Sensory impulses act at all times to
guide muscular contractions. The muscles are
under the direct and perfect control of themotor neurons; these neurons never stimulate
the muscles to action except when influenced
to do so by other neurons.
Water pressure on the sensory nerve end-
ings, the sense of balance, and the relationshipof the limbs help to produce a smoothly coordi-nated stroke. Attention may be divided be-
tween different kinds of sensory messages.
Confronted with a mass of available informa-tion, a swimmer learns to notice only some of it
and ignore much that is irrelevant to the imme-
diate task. Via the process of facilitation at thesynapses, repetition causes special pathways
to be slowly laid down so that the skilled move-
ments become more accurate.
Muscular movements are driven by a servo-
mechanism similar in many respects to theautomated feedback systems used in modernaircraft to control various mechanisms. All thesemechanisms have devices (sensors, we maycall them) that measure some physical variable
and use this feedback information to control
the mechanisms that assist the pilot.
Modern aircraft controls are linked by
servomechanisms to either electric or hydrau-lic actuators that automatically maintain theaircraft at the chosen altitude and speed.
Servomechanisms sense an error (e.g., depar-
ture from the intended course) and apply acorrection to the relevant control. Signals from
the sensor, called the misalignment detector,
activate a small servomotor (from the Latinservus,  meaning slave), which turns the control
surface in the direction necessary to correct themisalignment. Thus, the procedures are per-formed without the pilot’s intervention.
The point is that these devices function auto-
matically to help the pilot. Similarly, in coach-ing the feel of the water, the aim is to allow a
swimmer to rely on only a minimum number of
consciously perceived cues and let automaticfeedback systems control other functions of the
stroke without too much conscious effort.
The Use of Simultaneous
Visual and Tactile
Impressions
The traditional emphasis when teaching a stroke
pattern to a novice has been on the visual. I, too,
long believed that the sense of touch was usu-
ally too imprecise to be the source of form andshape in the early stages of learning. Further-
more, though some people learn more by means
of tactile feedback whereas others receive morebeneficial information visually, it is difficult to
know whether this difference in perceptual
capacity among individuals is significant.
Over a period of about six years, I experi-
mented with developing a method of coachingstroke technique that would involve using si-multaneous visual and tactile impressions. I
had long before become uncomfortable with
merely explaining the shape, form, and patternof a desired movement without being able to
relate its effect on the water. The aim of my
method is to teach a swimmer to relate each

114 Breakthrough Swimming
ample, they help the swimmer position the arm
correctly at entry, correct a dropped elbow, or,for a butterfly swimmer, know whether to pull
wider or narrower. Most important, the flow
shaper helps a swimmer find the stroke patternthat accords naturally with the characteristics
of individual physique. Some examples of flow
shapers follow.
The Ship Drill
This important exercise teaches swimmers howto insert their hands into the oncoming flowprior to starting the swimming stroke. The
swimmer pushes off from the wall with body
outstretched and hands back to back and touch-ing, forming a shape akin to the prow of a ship.
The swimmer will feel the oncoming flow pro-
duced by the pushoff as it advances along thepalms of the hands and under the forearms and
upper arms to the armpits. The pressure sensa-
tion of the oncoming flow can be prolonged bycontinuing momentum with the dolphin kick
or by using fins (figure 6.1).phase of a swimming stroke with the feel of the
flow and thus obtain instant feedback on strokeefficiency.
This method allows a certain amount of indi-
viduality. At first, the learner is shown a fewsample flow-shaper skills and left alone to play
around with them in the water.
After a week or so, some instruction is be-
gun, usually individual. Not everyone is giventhe same instruction because each learner is
directed to a particular phase of the stroke thatappears to need attention. This is generally
how the method is applied—not so much on
items of technique but on particular movementphases of the stroke.
Using visual and tactile impressions simul-
taneously from the start in a definite teachingformat causes noted changes in the sensitivity
of the learner to particular features of the swim-
ming stroke and its effect on the water.
Tactile perception can be developed to where
a swimmer can receive continuous feedback onpropulsive effectiveness. This information helpsthe swimmer to keep adjusting and refining the
stroke at the delivery end to maintain effi-
ciency. For example, the link between seeingthe hand entering the water and bringing the
hand into contact with it is somehow obvious.
The hand just seems to move in the right way.If the swimmer’s hand is alive and sensitive to
the feel of the water, it acts as a sensing device
that transforms the incoming signal into ap-propriate action. Equally important is that the
swimmer has been taught not only to antici-
pate the oncoming relative flow but also tohandle it in the most effective way.
The following sections contain descriptions
of the flow-shaping skills and sensitizing tech-niques used in this conceptualizing process.
Flow Shapers
A flow shaper is an exercise that teaches swim-mers to create and detect specific flows in the
water. It operates in much the same way as the
aircraft servomechanisms already described.
Flow shapers are remarkably effective in
helping a swimmer automatically find the mosteffective path, posture, and attitude of the handand arm during a swimming stroke; for ex-
Figure 6.1 The ship drill: (a) ship drill posture
and (b) action of the ship’s prow.a
b

Coaching the Feel of the Water 115
The ship drill should be performed daily. It is
more valuable than any other procedure in
teaching a swimmer to feel and recognize the
oncoming flow.
Beginning in the ship-drill position, the
freestyle stroke should be started with elbowup, palm turned outward and pressing down-
ward in a curved, diagonal motion. The palmgradually rotates inward as the hand moves
inward in the lateral plane toward the center
line of the body. During this motion the handand forearm rotate as a unit. This motion
changes the direction of the oncoming flow as
it is wrapped around the hand and forearm ina strong swirl.
The swimmer should concentrate on bend-
ing the elbow to approximately 90 degrees or asmuch as feels comfortable. As the elbow bend
increases, some swimmers may turn the palm
of the hand slightly upward toward the chest toobtain maximum forearm rotation, but such
extreme rotation may feel comfortable only to
tall, lean swimmers.
Destroyer–Ocean Liner–Barge Drill
Practice ship drills with hands in the three dif-ferent positions shown in figure 6.2. These drillsshow swimmers how the changing postures of
the hands and arms cause a transition from
streamlined flow to turbulent (resistive) flow. Infigure 6.2a there is a free movement of the on-
coming flow felt on the palms of the out-turned
hands and along the forearms. In figures 6.2band 6.2c, the flow gradually becomes more re-
sistive as the hand and forearm posture changes.Half-Ship Drill
Use this drill to enhance feel of the flow at hand
entry, especially for swimmers who experience
difficulty in feeling the flow. The swimmer
kicks while wearing fins and holding one armout front simulating the entry posture. The
hand should be pitched diagonally outward
and the elbow up; the other arm is held at theside. The swimmer should feel for the oncom-
ing flow.
Tunnel Flow, or A-OK
Press the thumb against the forefinger toform a tunnel through which the flow is
channeled as the hand changes direction inthe stroke (figure 6.3). This exercise effec-
tively teaches flow recognition and how to
angle the hands efficiently; in fact, it oftenwill groove a stroke pattern automatically. If
a butterfly swimmer’s pull is too wide or
narrow, for example, this exercise will directthe swimmer accordingly.
Figure 6.2 Ship drill variations: (a) destroyer;
(b) ocean liner; (c) barge.
Figure 6.3 Tunnel flow, or A-OK.
This exercise also indicates if a crawl swim-
mer is allowing the elbow to drop during thepull because, if so, the flow will not pass throughthe tunnel. In fact, this drill should be used in
all strokes. Swimmers may try forming the
tunnel with one hand while keeping the otherhand closed. When both hands are opened and
used in the normal fashion, however, the hand
that was closed will be found also to haveimproved its feel.
ab
c

116 Breakthrough Swimming
Piano Playing
In this exercise the swimmer pretends to play
the piano by using individual finger move-
ments while swimming. This helps the swim-
mer feel how separate finger movements influ-ence flow channeling (figure 6.4).Using this distinction, I experimented with
sensitizing techniques for swimming that al-ternate the application of transient and static
pressures. I found that such techniques as ap-
plying different pressures (including static andtransient pressures), rubbing the hands and
forearms in the desired flow directions, using a
loofah as a sensitizing device, and several otherprocedures quickly stimulated the sensory
nerve endings.
Interestingly, sensitivity to the water ap-
pears to decrease as a workout progresses,even for talented swimmers. There also ap-
pear to be day-to-day variations. I can onlyguess at the reason for this—perhaps fatigue
or overstimulation of the sensory nerve end-
ings.
Although swimmers have little or no diffi-
culty in learning to recognize the oncoming(distal) flow at hand entry, some encounterdifficulty in recognizing the subsequent flows
(radial, ulnar, and proximal) set up by the hand
and forearm as they move through the swim-ming stroke. This can be overcome by teaching
swimmers to rub the hand and forearm in the
direction of the appropriate flow.
I borrowed from the biomechanists another
very effective procedure. Instead of videotap-ing swimmers underwater after  they have
learned their stroke mechanics, I videotape
them while  they are learning. Instead of the old
method of practicing on land in front of a
mirror, they practice—still on land—in front of
video monitors while they are being video-
taped simultaneously from front and side. Threelarge electric fans (kept well away from the
water for safety) are placed around the swim-
mer to simulate the reacting flows of the waterthat occur during the various stages of the
swimming stroke. Should a swimmer have dif-
ficulty in sensing the flow, the palm of the handand forearm are wiped with a damp cloth to
heighten the sense of touch.
A swimmer can thus simultaneously see
front and side views of the stroke on the moni-tors and feel a simulation of the reacting flow.
In addition, the swimmer can receive instruc-tion while this is happening. The three stages
of visualize, verbalize, and feel (Counsilman
1968) can occur almost simultaneously.
Figure 6.4 Piano playing.
Sensitizing the Sensory
Nerve Endings
In developing this method I soon realized that
there’s no difficulty in increasing the sensibility
of the nerve endings. There are many methodsto achieve this, including the rehabilitative tech-
niques used after hand surgery, the touch
method for learning to type, and the methodsused to learn to read Braille. The heightened
tactile sensibility must be related to the various
sequences of the swimming stroke, however.The swimmer should be able to recognize and
interpret the feel of moving pressure against
the hand and forearm during every phase ofthe swimming stroke.
A vast literature exists on the complex neuro-
logical functions of the human hand, which, aswe know, is a truly remarkable instrument. Be-
cause of the complexity of the subject, I decided
to concentrate on a few aspects that I thoughtmost germane to my purpose. I found the ex-
periments of A. Lee Dellon (Dellon, Curtis, and
Edgerton 1974) particularly valuable. As late as1972, Dellon showed that the sense of touch
could be divided into two main areas: moving
(transient) touch and constant (or static) touch.

Coaching the Feel of the Water 117
Sensitizing procedures dramatically enhance
a swimmer’s feel of the water and should be an
everyday feature of the workout. Great empha-
sis should be placed on sensitizing the hands to
the feel of the water, and the hands shouldremain sensitized throughout the workout.
When questioned, even talented swimmers
admit that their feel of the water tends to di-minish as they progress through a workout,
however. Whenever sensitivity to the water
seems to lessen, a swimmer should resensitizethe hands so that the sense of touch becomes
more acute as the workout continues.
Fist Clenching
The nerve endings on the palms quickly be-
come highly sensitized when subjected to con-trasts between static and transient pressures.
Thus, if a swimmer clenches the fists tightly for
two or three minutes before starting a swim,the sensory nerve endings overcompensate in
reaction to the static pressure. When the hands
are opened again, they are particularly sensi-tive to the pressure of the moving flow.
Swimmers should sensitize the hands at the
beginning of every workout by swimming thefirst 200 meters with their fists tightly clenched.
Because they will feel that they are slipping the
water, they should pull a little more slowlywhile doing this exercise, concentrating on
keeping tightly clenched fists. The swimmer
should start the stroke with wrist turned out-ward, thumb down, and emphasize hand-fore-
arm rotation throughout the stroke while bend-
ing the elbow to approximately 90 degrees inmidstroke.
Fist swimming was named by the great stroke
technician Howard Firby. Firby recommendedfist swimming to develop “the feel of pulling
not only with the hands but with the forearms
as well” and to correct dropped elbows andinduce the “over the barrel” feeling of the pull
(Firby 1975, page 15).
My rediscovery of fist swimming resulted
from reading Dellon’s reports and from mydesire to develop as a sensitizing procedure a
method of applying contrasting static and tran-sient pressures on the sensory nerve endings of
the hand. Clenching and then opening the hand
was a natural choice. I also use fist swimmingto show how hand-forearm rotation developsflow circulation. My personal belief, however,is that the greatest value of fist swimming is as
a sensitizing procedure for stimulating the sen-
sory nerve endings of the palms of the hands.
An effective exercise for sensitizing the hands
and feet is to swim a set distance by alternatingfist swimming and overkicking (kicking withmore force than necessary) on successive laps of
the pool. This can also be a demanding workout.
Another variation is to swim with one handclenched while keeping the other hand open.
This contrasts the static pressure on the closed
hand with the transient pressure on the openhand, increasing the swimmer’s awareness of
the water’s flow reactions.
The breaststroke and butterfly should fre-
quently be swum with fists clenched. Whilepulling in the breaststroke, the swimmer should
use a slight dolphin kick for counterbalance.Emphasis should be on hand-forearm rotation
and elbow bending because this action devel-
ops the flow circulation necessary for propul-sion. This drill highlights the surprising amount
of propulsion this mechanism can develop even
when the hands are not open to provide asmuch propulsion as possible. Although the
forearms do not provide a great amount of
propulsion, their rotation is necessary and sig-nificant in setting up the desired flow circula-
tion. When the hand is open, the hand and
forearm work as a unit. The hand is capable ofdeveloping more efficient circulation than the
forearm because it has a more favorable shape
and can be manipulated on the wrist with moredexterity and through a larger range of move-
ment. When the hand and forearm are used as
a unit, they form a most effective mechanismfor setting up flow circulation.
Fingertip Pressing
These exercises sensitize the fingertips to theoncoming flow as the hands enter the water.
1. Press each fingertip in turn against the
thumb (figure 6.5).
2. Now use both hands. Press the finger-
tips of one hand against those of the
other. Press hard and repeat frequently.

118 Breakthrough Swimming
3. Now press each fingertip of one hand
separately against its counterpart on the
other hand. This develops dexterity.
4. Press the fingertips hard against the pool
deck while waiting for the start of nexttraining set.Simultaneous Sensitization to
Static and Transient Pressure
The hand can be held in a variety of posturesduring swimming to sensitize fingers, indi-vidually or in groups, to the sensation of mov-
ing pressure. Keeping the palm closed sensi-
tizes it via static pressure. These exercises greatlysensitize the hands to the feeling of moving
pressure once normal swimming is resumed
(figure 6.6).
Figure 6.5 Fingertip pressing.
Figure 6.6 Simultaneous sensitization to static
and transient pressure.

Coaching the Feel of the Water 119
Hand-Rubbing Exercises
Swimmers find hand-rubbing exercises very
effective in sensitizing the hands to recognize
precise flow reactions. Rubbing one hand
against the other can simulate a desired flowdirection, which helps make each phase of the
stroke consistently efficient.
1. Rub one hand against the other from
the fingertips along the palm to the
wrist and forearm. This teaches the
feel of the oncoming flow as the hand
enters the water and is inserted intothe oncoming flow at the start of the
stroke.
2. Rub one hand across the other hand in
the desired direction to simulate trans-
verse (lateral) flows as they occur ineither an inward or outward pitch of the
hands.
3. Rub one hand along the other down the
palm to the fingertips to simulate the
finish of the stroke.
The Use of a Loofah
as a Sensitizing Device
A highly effective method of sensitizing the
entire body to the flow of the water is to scrub
the skin lightly with a dry loofah immediately
before every practice or competition. (A loo-fah, or luffa, resembles an elongated sponge
and is coarse and fibrous. It is the fruit of a
herbaceous plant, luffa cylindrica .) The swim-
mer should scrub the entire body and, in par-
ticular, perform a routine in which one arm is
held overhead while the loofah is rubbed fromthe fingertips down the palm of the hand,
along the undersurface of the arm, and down
the side of the trunk to the hips; the procedureshould be repeated on the other side of the
body. This exercise will sensitize the hand,
arm, and trunk side to the oncoming flow ofthe water. After several days of using a loofah
this way, most swimmers experience a noted
improvement in their sensitivity to the flow ofthe water.Daily Application of the Method
In applying the method to daily practice, focus
on three areas: flow manipulation, stroke tim-
ing, and flow-shaper drills and sensitization.
For flow manipulation, swimmers should be
taught always to feel they are inserting thehands into the oncoming flow instead of at-tacking the water and trying to push it directly
backward. After feeling the oncoming flow,
swimmers should be told to wrap, or swirl, theflow around the arm by gradually rotating the
hand and forearm. The elbow at maximum
bend should reach approximately 90 degreesand be comfortable to the swimmer; if it is not
comfortable, adjust the amount of elbow bend
to suit the swimmer.
After some practice, swimmers will improve
in stroke efficiency and be able to recognizeweak spots in the stroke through tactile feed-back from the flow reaction. They can eliminate
weak spots by experimenting with the amount
of hand-forearm rotation and the degree ofelbow bend they perform.
The timing of the stroke depends greatly on
the desired speed. Swimmers should be toldthat the entry hand, palm turned outward, acts
as a sensor, or radar, as it accepts the oncoming
relative flow and helps them know exactlywhen to start applying force at the beginning of
the stroke. The amount of oncoming flow to
accept before starting the stroke depends onthe pace and stroke length each swimmer wishes
to establish.
Feeling the differences in pressure on the
entry hand at various speeds helps the swim-mers learn pacing. Feeling the oncoming flow
is an important element in learning split-sec-ond timing. The swimmers should be taught to
think momentum. By feeling the amount of
stretch in the flow, each swimmer learns tojudge the body’s momentum and know when
to start the stroke. For example, in a short race,
the stroke may be started after allowing theflow to move along only as far as the wrist.
Over a longer distance and at a slower speed, a
swimmer may let the oncoming flow movealong the forearm before starting into the stroke.

120 Breakthrough Swimming
Swimmers should do flow-shaper drills and
sensitizing procedures every day as part of the
regular workout. Fist swimming should be
done in all strokes at slow and fast speeds.
Swimmers should always start the stroke withthe hand turned outward. The fists should be
tightly clenched throughout. Fist swimming in
the breaststroke and butterfly is particularlyeffective for coaching effective hand-forearm
rotation and elbow flexion and also has a posi-
tive transfer to the other strokes.
Swimmers should be aware that sensitivity
to flow will vary from day to day. Every work-out should start with skin sensitization—handrubbing, the use of a loofah, fist swimming,
tunnel flow (A-OK), and fingertip-pressing
exercises. Every now and then during the work-out, swimmers should push off from the poolside using the ship-drill posture instead of theconventional locked hands. These occasional
ship pushoffs enable swimmers to test hand
sensitivity to the pressure of the oncomingflow.
Swimmers should resensitize their hands
during the workout, especially during themiddle stages of the workout or at the onset of
fatigue. If this is done, swimmers will complete
the workout with a greater feel for the water.The coach should not permit swimmers to re-
gard these procedures as a passing fad because
over the weeks and months, most swimmerswill experience a pronounced improvement in
technique resulting from their enhanced ability
to feel and manipulate the flow of the water.

Part III
Advances
in Training

123Chapter 7
Progression of
Training Methods
Even talented swimmers need years
of training under well-integrated
controls to produce superior per-
formance. The outstanding feats ofgreat swimmers attest to the prodi-
gious internal adjustments the hu-
man body can make. Their achieve-
ments are the result of programsdesigned to progressively train the
body’s energy systems so that even-
tually a swimmer can cover racingdistances at maximum capacity.
Although organized competition
in track and swimming started about
150 years ago, training methods ad-
vanced more rapidly in track than in
swimming, pr obably because swim-
mers found they could swim faster
merely by improving their stroke
mechanics. This approach proved
so rewarding to swimmers that they
either did very little training or none
at all. In addition, the opinion pre-vailed in many quarters that train-
ing too hard would cause burnout.
In this chapter, we will examine
how training evolved fr om the
primitive methods of Charles
Steedman to the scientific pr ograms
of today. Developments in track
training gradually influenced swim-
ming coaches, and land-based train-
ing supplemented swimming laps,creating athletes with superior
muscle tone and aerobic and anaero-
bic adaptation.

124 Breakthrough Swimming
Training in the 19th Century
The first detailed account of training methods
in the swimming literature was contained inCharles Steedman’s A Manual of Swimming ,
published in 1867, 13 years after Steedmanemigrated from England to the Australiancolony of Victoria. Steedman was the profes-
sional swimming champion of England, then
the world’s leading swimming nation, whenhe left for Australia, where he became cham-
pion of Victoria. Steedman’s book, colloquially
known as “the manual,” contained vivid ac-counts of tough training methods used by great
professionals of the day and raised consider-
able interest in England and Australia.
Steedman described how it was customary
to commence training with “a course of medi-cine.” To “free the stomach and bowels fromany injurious accumulation that may be ob-
structing those organs,” it was sometimes nec-
essary to take two, or even three, purges atintervals from four to six days. The athlete
began by taking an emetic, consisting of 20
grains of ipecacuanha in a wineglass of water.That was followed in a couple of days by “a
mild purge,” induced by taking a pill contain-
ing two grains of calomel and five grains ofcompound extract colocynth. Steedman men-
tioned that some athletes preferred to purge
themselves by taking Glauber’s salts, “an ouncegenerally sufficing for a dose.”
The Effects of Judicious Training
Steedman said that the effects of judicious train-ing were “beneficial, and evident from the fol-
lowing changes that take place in the person
who submits to the necessary discipline:”
The appetite becomes keener, the processof digestion is easier, the sleep is sounder,
less disturbed, and more refreshing. The
condition of the lungs is improved; he isenabled to draw a deeper inspiration, to
retain his breath longer, and recover it
sooner after it is lost; in other words, his“wind” is improved. He feels light and
cheerful; technically, “corky.” His stom-
ach is reduced in size, yet the skin, owingto its newly-acquired elasticity, does nothang loosely over the diminished surface.Fat is lost, and muscle is gained; his headbecomes clearer, his bones larger, harder,
and tougher, his sinews stronger. The
whole contour of his body is improved. Inshort, the change for the better in his
strength and appearance will both sur-
prise and delight him who has just com-pleted his first course of close training (pp.
223–224).
A Daily Training Schedule
In his A Manual of Swimming , Steedman (1867)
emphasized the role of the trainer to the athlete:
“A cheerful, yet firm, companion in the trainer isindispensable.” Steedman provided the follow-
ing daily schedule for a swimmer in training:
5:00 A.M.Rise. Either plunge at once into cold
water or have a sponge bath; be wellrubbed down with a dry, coarse
towel; dress quickly and eat a hard
biscuit or small piece of stale bread.
5:30 Walk a mile briskly then run uphillfor half-a-mile as rapidly as pos-sible; afterward walk for four miles
at a moderate pace.
7:00 Breakfast. Rump steak or mutton
chop, underdone, without fat, and
stale bread. Note: rest, or take very
gentle exercise with dumbbells forthe remainder of two hours.
9:00 Walk two miles at a moderate pace;swim sharply for a quarter-of-an-
hour or 20 minutes; quickly and thor-
oughly dry with a coarse towel; dressand walk three or four miles at a
moderate speed.
12:00 
P.M.Undress and lie down in bed for
half-an-hour. On rising, take a glass
of old ale or sound sherry and eat a
hard biscuit.
1:00 Walk four miles.
2:00 For one hour and a half occupy one-self with athletic exercises calculated
to develop the muscles of the arms
and the trunk.
3:30 Rest for half-an-hour.

Progression of Training Methods 125
4:00 Dinner. Rump steak or mutton chop
or a slice or two from a joint of beefor mutton, underdone, free from fat;
stale bread, one or two mealy pota-
toes, and a little greens; no pastry orcheese.
4:30 Rest till five.
5:00 Walk a mile sharply; run half-a-mile
at top speed; walk four miles at a
moderate rate.
7:00 A half-pint of old ale or wineglass ofsherry and hard biscuit. Gymnasticsfor the arms and chest till eight.
8:00 Rest and amusing conversation orlight reading till nine.
9:00 Body to be well rubbed down withcoarse towels, then bed till five nextmorning.
This schedule, according to Steedman, was
“based in all essential particulars on the sys-tem so successfully pursued by the celebrated
Captain Barclay” and would “if so modified
as to suit age, locality, and previous mode oflife, fairly indicate the method to be adopted
by one who wishes to attain for any specific
purpose a maximum condition of health andstrength.” Steedman recommended follow-
ing the schedule for no more than four months.
He made further claims for his program:“Slightly altered, so as not to interfere with
one’s business avocations, and persisted in
with regularity throughout the year, it wouldensure a good state of health, and, except in
special circumstances, materially aid in pro-
longing a man’s life.”
Steedman’s nutritional advice was strange
based on current knowledge but at the timewas state of the art. He insisted that swimmerseat ordinary, well-baked water biscuits and
drink a little cold water if thirsty. However,
“All the liquids . . . taken in any one day shouldnot together exceed three pints.” Tobacco and
“spirits” were absolutely prohibited.
As a variation to the usual morning sched-
ule, Steedman advocated what he called “thesweating process,” which had grown in favor
with trainers and their athletes. Steedman’splan called for swimmers to run four miles“well clothed in flannel at full speed.” Afterfinishing the run, swimmers drank whatSteedman called “the sweating liquor.” This
precursor to sports drinks included “one ounce
of caraway seed, half-an-ounce of corianderseed, one ounce of root liquorice, and half-an-
ounce of sugar candy, mixed with two quarts of
cider, and boiled down to one quart. To thissome add one drachm of sweet spirits of nitre.”
After drinking the “sweating liquor,” the
athlete was to be “put to bed in fresh flannels”and “covered up with half-a-dozen pairs of
blankets; sometimes even a feather bed in addi-
tion is placed over him.” After spending abouthalf-an-hour in bed, the athlete was to be “taken
out and rubbed perfectly dry.” Then, after be-
ing dressed in a great coat, the athlete gentlywalked two miles, then returned to a breakfast
of roast fowl instead of beef. The rest of the day
he followed the usual schedule. Although sometrainers in his day had their athletes use the
sweating process once a week until seven or
eight days before the contest, Steedman andother trainers felt it weakened the athlete, and
therefore rarely used it, “except to jockeys, with
whom reduction of weight is of greater impor-tance than increase of strength.”
Training in the Early
20th Century
Andrew “Boy” Charlton, the great Australian
swimmer of the 1920s, is known to have trained
for only four weeks before a big race, averaginga half mile a day. Another famous Australian,
Noel Ryan, Empire Champion and 1932 Olym-
pic finalist, told me that the most he ever swamin a day was 1,000 yards—this was when he
was preparing for the 1932 Olympic Games in
Los Angeles. When he arrived at the Olympicvenue, he reduced his training distance to 440
yards for fear of burning out.
Ryan said that he used to sit back at the
Olympic pool and watch the Japanese teamcover up to five miles daily. According to Ryan,
the Japanese dominance in 1932 and again atthe Berlin Olympics in 1936 prompted several
theories: that the Japanese had the ideal build
for swimming; that they had developed a newstroke; and that they were using drugs. The

126 Breakthrough Swimming
coaches, Frank Guthrie, who spearheaded the
Australian revival and coached Lorraine Crappto become the first woman to beat the then
magic five-minute mark for 400 meters, said
that the Australians had received the idea fromthe Americans.
Guthrie’s statement may have been partially
correct. Sydney University professor FrankCotton and his understudy Forbes Carlile had
read about interval training in track magazines
and research papers. It is also likely that theyhad discussed the method with world-class
Australian track athletes, who were already
using the method.
In 1954, British track athlete Roger Bannister
ran the first sub four-minute mile under theguidance of Franz Stampfl, who advocated acombination of fartlek (speed play), interval,
and repetition training. Bannister’s feat cap-
tured the imagination of followers of manysports, causing great interest in Stampfl’s train-
ing concepts.
Stampfl’s book Franz Stampfl on Running
(1955) and Bannister’s First Four Minutes  (1955)
were instant bestsellers and were intently stud-
ied by forward-thinking coaches in swimmingas well as track. Bannister described the pro-
cess through which he had attacked the four-
minute barrier for the mile run. In December1953, he had started an intensive training pro-
gram in which he ran a series of 10 consecutive
quarter miles, each in 66 seconds, with two-minute rest intervals between them. Gradually,
through January and February, he stepped up
the pace until by April he could manage theseries in an average time of 60 seconds while
keeping to the two-minute rest intervals.
Information on interval training thus prob-
ably reached Australian swimming coachesfrom several sources. Nevertheless, the Austra-
lians were the first to establish a protocol forusing interval training as an accepted and regu-
lar method of training competitive swimmers.
In the 1950s, Australian swimming coaches,
in conjunction with physiologist Frank Cotton,began a methodical study of the interval train-
ing method used in running since the late 1930sand applied the method to swimming. In a
manner similar to Woldemar Gerschler’s early
research on interval training for track, the Aus-main reason for the Japanese dominance, how-ever, was that they trained harder than anyother team. Few people showed a desire to
copy the Japanese methods; in fact, the Japa-
nese effort was dismissed by many as fanati-cism. Either through laziness, jealousy, or genu-
ine belief, people asked, “Who wants to go to
such lengths to succeed?” The truth was thatthe Japanese idea of strenuous training was too
far ahead of its time.
Shortly thereafter, World War II produced a
brief hiatus in competitive swimming. As inter-est in competitive swimming revived in the
immediate postwar period, swimmers beganto realize the importance of improved condi-
tioning. Kiphuth had pioneered supplemen-
tary land training for swimmers back in 1917,but a few swimmers now tentatively began to
experiment with weight training. At Ohio State
University, champion swimmer Dick Cleve-land practiced weight training five days a week
under the guidance of Fraysher Ferguson at his
gymnasium in Columbus. Al Wiggens wasanother Ohio State swimmer who achieved
good results under Ferguson’s tutelage, setting
world butterfly and medley records. In 1952Walter Schlueter pioneered weight training for
women swimmers with his world-record relay
team at the Town Club of Chicago (Murray andKarpovich 1956).
Some swimmers now trained as far as three
miles daily. But others, attempting to relievesome of the inevitable boredom of swimming
long stretches at a comparatively easy pace,
introduced periods of intermittent faster activ-ity, which can best be described as a form of
interval training. However, by no stretch of
imagination can these procedures be construedas the first structured and formal application of
interval training. Nevertheless, during this
period there were isolated accounts of notedcoaches and swimmers inadvertently using
what can be termed a form of rudimentary
interval training.
John Marshall, in his letters home to Austra-
lia, described the form of interval training usedat Yale University. Some accounts creditMarshall’s letters with giving Australian coaches
the idea from which they developed interval
training. In 1956 one of the leading Australian

Progression of Training Methods 127
tralians attempted to relate heart rate to re-
corded swimming times at different work-to-rest ratios. Some coaches used heart rate checks
in establishing interval training as a formal
conditioning method for swimmers.
Coincidental or not, with the use of interval
training, swimming took one of its rare quan-tum leaps forward. Within a matter of monthsin 1956, the Australians almost completely re-
wrote the world-record books for both men
and women. The Australian swimmers, train-ing under six highly innovative coaches—
Forbes Carlile, Arthur Cusack, Gus Frohlich,
Harry Gallagher, Frank Guthrie, and SamHerford—made an almost complete sweep of
the 1956 Olympic swimming events.
In the first 10 years or so that interval train-
ing was used in swimming, several phasesoccurred during which the concept, still incom-
pletely understood, was misapplied. The totaltraining load was often too great, mainly be-
cause in an attempt to strive for even more
speed, coaches tended to demand too great apace for the repeat swims. The result, recog-
nized by only a few at the time, was often an
inability by swimmers to recover from whatCarlile termed “failing adaptation,” a condi-
tion that requires either a marked reduction in
the intensity of the workload or complete rest.
Although training methods in swimming
developed later than in track, the develop-ment, when it came, followed a similar evolu-tionary pattern. In both sports, continued de-
bate marked the search for the ideal balance
between the volume and intensity of theworkload. The issue remains alive in swim-
ming as we enter the 21st century.
The Influence of Track Training
The training methods of swimming share anorigin with those used on the running track.
The basic training principles used by moderncompetitive swimmers were first developed by
great track athletes working with renowned
coaches and physiologists such as Holmer, vanAaken, and Gerschler.
Obvious differences exist in the physiologi-
cal effects of running and swimming, but bylooking at problems that beset early develop-ment of track methods, we gain insight intosimilar difficulties encountered in swimming.There may be some as yet overlooked aspects
of track training that can be beneficially adapted
to swimming.
Competitive running started with competi-
tions between England’s Oxford and Cam-bridge universities. For most of the first 100years, training emphasized developing endur-
ance, but as time passed, it became evident that
speed was also important.
Gosta Holmer and the Fartlek Method
Gosta Holmer (1893–1972), the famous Swed-ish track coach, developed a naturalistic methodof training he called fartlek (speed play), which
consists of running both quickly and slowly. To
some extent, fartlek is an informal type of train-ing in which the athlete jogs, walks, runs, or
sprints as he or she wishes. This was particu-
larly true of its use in early-season training, forwhich the method established informal fast
and slow cross-country running as a funda-
mental form of endurance training.
Possibly because the term means “speed
play,” many people in swimming had the mis-taken impression that fartlek was nothing morethan an informal and almost inconsequential
type of training serving little purpose other
than to produce some basic early-season fit-ness. On the track, however, fartlek became a
more strenuous and demanding form of train-
ing as the season progressed.
The application of fartlek to swimming ap-
pears to have been neither properly under-stood nor taken seriously enough. Perhaps themethod has been mistakenly interpreted by
some as a subterfuge for relieving boredom
while accumulating early-season mileage. Infact, this kind of training is often termed bulk
mileage or garbage,  implying a certain mindless
approach to the essential task of establishing anextensive aerobic endurance foundation to sea-
sonal activity.
Variation of Pace
The main feature of the fartlek method of train-
ing is that the pace varies frequently fromshort, sharp sprints to long, easy jog-trots, with

128 Breakthrough Swimming
occasional fast quarter miles and sustained
efforts over distances from a half mile to a mile.The emphasis on pace variation served as an
introduction to the more exacting interval train-
ing on the track that came later. In swimmingin the 1960s, Don Gambril, one of America’s
all-time great coaches, laid much emphasis on
the principle of varying the pace, notably intraining such fine swimmers as Patti Carretto,
Gunnar Larsen, and Hans Fassnacht.
The Importance of Individual Coaching
A defining characteristic of the fartlek method
is that it emphasizes the importance of coach-ing the athlete as an individual. Although the
method involves more structure as the season
progresses, it provides some opportunity forself-knowledge, producing an athlete who may
be better at judging the effects of exercise
through subjective observation. I believe thatwe have tended to neglect this aspect in recent
years when training competitive swimmers.
The dictum, “Man, know thyself,” is as perti-nent to competitive swimming as to any other
endeavor.
Lactate testing, whatever its value may be in
some quarters, may have been overstressed tothe exclusion of a more important coaching
task—showing swimmers how to recognize,on their own, the intensity of effort at different
set paces. Learning to know one’s self is the
most important thing a coach can teach anathlete who wishes to compete successfully.
Relating Stride to Running Speed
The early-season application of fartlek to swim-
ming training has followed formats mostly
concerned with developing basic condition-ing, but swimming coaches may have neglected
the additional pace and tempo teaching possi-
bilities the method presents.
Gosta Holmer began to recognize the impor-
tance of always relating pace to the trainingeffort between 1921 and 1925 when he lived inFinland, where he had ample opportunity to
observe Paavo Nurmi, one of the greatest run-
ners in track history.
Holmer correctly believed that a runner
learned technique only by running long dis-tances (also true of swimming technique).Holmer always stressed the importance of re-lating a runner’s stride to the runner’s speed.
Properly adapted to swimming training, this
approach can be used as a challenging andeffective training tool. Coaches and swimmers
should be aware of the need to relate stroke
length and stroke frequency to swimming timeand, as conditioning improves, to assess effi-
ciency by relating these factors to heart rate.
The Development of the Will
to Overcome Fatigue
Holmer recognized that the will to overcome
fatigue is an additional important factor in
athletic success. Athletes who use the fartlekmethod are allowed to determine how far and
how fast they wish to run, which teaches them
to tolerate fatigue under a variety of physi-ological stresses.
Similarly, Counsilman recognized the need
to motivate swimmers to withstand fatigue.Therefore, he created his “hurt-pain-agony”
scale to assist sensory perception of fatigue at
different levels of work intensity—or, as hisswimmers would say, “at different levels of
suffering.” Counsilman also devised a “hurt-
pain-agony” chart (Counsilman 1968, p. 338)that showed the differences in effort expended
by hard workers and comfort swimmers dur-
ing practice. Comfort swimmers rarely ven-tured out of the comfort zone and into the pain
zone. But the dedicated, hard workers typi-
cally swam straight through the hurt zone,into the pain zone, and finally into the agony
zone.
Fartlek and the Concept of Tempo Training
Holmer (1972) believed that twice a week arunner should alternate between one-quarter
and one-half racing tempo and during the lastmonth of training use one-half to three-quarter
tempo. Holmer estimated the various tempos
as follows: suppose a runner’s full tempo is anaverage speed of 20 seconds per 100 meters for
one hour. Decreasing this tempo by 2.5 percent,
5 percent, and 7.5 percent produces one-fourth,one-half, and three-fourths tempos, respectively
(see table 7.1).

Progression of Training Methods 129
The Use of Tempo Training in Swimming
In the early years of interval training in the
pool, swimmers used a variation of Holmer’slong-distance tempo method. To determine the
speed and intensity of effort for an interval
series, swimmers calculated a percentage oftheir fastest time for a particular distance—for
example, 70 percent, 80 percent, or 90 percent.
To assess fitness, swimmers often comparedpulse rate with the recorded time. They also
predicted performance by plotting recorded
time against a total of the heart rates taken at 10-second intervals during the first half minute
after exercise (Carlile 1956).
The late 1950s and early 1960s were marked
by trial and error—mostly error—in the applica-tion of interval training to swimming. Because
swimmers tended to do interval training at toohigh a percentage of maximum effort, many
teams often had disappointing results. Coaches
such as Peter Daland, Sherman Chavoor, NortThornton, Forbes Carlile, Don Gambril, George
Haines, and “Doc” Counsilman gradually came
to appreciate the need for varying the pace andintervals according to the physiological effects
they wished their swimmers to achieve.
Ernst van Aaken’s Speed Through
Endurance Method
Ernst van Aaken was a general practitioner in
the small German town of Waldniel. He devel-
oped the pure endurance method of training
after seeing Paavo Nurmi break the worldrecord in 1928 for the one-hour run, but he did
not make his methods public until 1947, whenhe wrote an article for Sport und Gymnastik
(reprinted in English in van Aaken and Berben1971). The adherents of his methods were
known as “The Waldniel School” after the townwhere he lived.
During the 1970s, Australian coach Forbes
Carlile adapted van Aaken’s endurance methodwith great success. Carlile showed that the
concept of speed through endurance very much
applied to his proteges Karen Moras, ShaneGould, and Jenny Turrell, world-record hold-
ers, at distances from 400 meters to 1,500 meters
and for Gould at all distances from 100 metersupward (Carlile 1976).
The Concept of Training for Pure Endurance
According to van Aaken, Emil Zatopek, who
ran long distances with rhythmical changes of
speed, exemplified the Waldniel method orclassical form of interval training. This method
enabled Zatopek to win Olympic supremacy in
1948. The method introduced the importantnew concept of training for pure endurance,
van Aaken said.
Zatopek covered distances at relatively slow
speeds. He daily performed 400-meter runsbroken by 200-meter jogs at sub-racing speed
over distances between 36 and 50 kilometers.Occasionally, he would run 400 meters at in-
creased speed.
According to van Aaken, critics of the
Zatopek method claimed that it took too muchtime and did not sufficiently overload the body.
Thus they increased the quality of work byintroducing breaks and reducing the distances
run under stress to 100 and 200 meters. ThisTable 7 .1 Training Tempos
Distance
Tempo 100 m 1,000 m 5,000 m 10,000 m 15,000 m
1/1 20.0 3:20.0 16:40.0 32:20.0 49:00.0
3/4 20.5 3:25.0 17:05.0 34:10.0 51:15.0
1/2 21.0 3:30.0 17:30.0 35:00.0 52:30.0
1/4 21.5 3:35.0 17:55.0 35:50.0 53:45.0
From Holmer 1972. Reprinted by permission.

130 Breakthrough Swimming
Summary of Holmer’s Fartlek Method
The gradual seasonal progression used in the Holmer method can be easily adapted to the
training of competitive swimmers. Above all, the method is simple. All too often a swimming
training program begins to look more like a detailed thesis or an exposé of a coach’s
knowledge of exercise physiology rather than a plan whose purpose is plain and can beeasily followed. The importance of simplicity in program planning is often overlooked,
which is particularly a problem when coaching the younger swimmer, who should be able
to recognize at a glance the purpose of each phase of a program as well as the progressmade.
Study of Holmer’s plan for a training season shows an initial concentration on building
a broad and well-planned endurance base by means of fartlek training. Later, precise pacesand tempos are gradually introduced. At first, paced work is done at one-fourth tempo. Then,
as the athlete’s fitness increases, the speed increases to one-half tempo. Finally, speed work
is done at three-fourths tempo over almost the full racing distance. Thus there is a subtlechange in the specificity of the training program as it moves from the development of
general aerobic conditioning to establishing the peak season’s final race pace. The work is
applied in cyclic phases, however, depending on each athlete’s individual reactions fromsession to session, day to day, and week to week.
Holmer’s program is all-embracing yet notable for the simplicity of its application; indeed,
it would have been surprising had outstanding outcomes not resulted from a program soclearly modeled on everyday common sense. Most coaches who have produced top world
athletes and swimmers will confirm that their most successful seasonal programs were
those characterized by an essential simplicity that nevertheless took into account a fewbasic principles of exercise physiology.
work was done in a long series of repetitions.They believed this method would develop
greater endurance, speed, and strength. They
maintained that for middle- and long-distanceracing, it ensured a very quick and effective
increase in heart size and also improved so-
called muscle endurance.
Criticism of Interval Training
In an article that was published in Swimming
Technique,  van Aaken said that the whole con-
cept of interval training was based on becomingused to oxygen debt by doing mainly anaerobicwork (van Aaken and Berben 1971). According
to van Aaken, this “improved” interval work—
developed, propagated, and made obligatoryin Germany—only showed what acute stresses
athletes were capable of bearing.
Marathon runners training with the interval
method performed 200-meter runs 170 times in33 seconds each, van Aaken reported. He
claimed that the interval training method de-veloped the capacity for recovery after heavystress, but this capacity was not specific to
performance. He added that it was incorrect to
assume that increasing total intermittentstresses necessarily resulted in increased ca-
pacity to withstand the continuous and accu-
mulative stress that occurred when coveringfull distance at racing speed.
Even Herbert Reindell, one of the develop-
ers of interval training, showed interval train-ing over short and middle distances caused
only moderate increases in heart size, van Aaken
said. He pointed out that marathon runners, aswell as long-distance cyclists and rowers, were
found to have the largest hearts. He expressed
doubt as to how a long series of short, fast runscould bring about the necessary long-lasting
endurance effects.
Steady State Training
The pure endurance training developed by van
Aaken involves daily training at a steady state

Progression of Training Methods 131
with the most favorable respiratory conditions,
without an increase of initial oxygen debt andformation of lactic acid and with an average
pulse rate of 130 beats per minute. To achieve
this, the athlete performs long runs, initiallywith short breaks, after the principle of interval
training. Later, the athlete runs continuous dis-
tances of 6 to 50 miles. This training methodwas used for the marathon distance. At the end
of the daily run, the method requires a fast run
at not faster than race pace over part of theracing distance.
The Use of Part Distances
for Tempo Training
The ratio set by van Aaken of long unbroken
runs to shorter distances covered at pace
(tempo) is 20:1. The mileage is shortened or
extended according to an athlete’s preferredracing distance. The pace is determined by the
runner’s best time.
A 5,000-meter runner capable of 15 minutes
would frequently be asked to do five 1,000-meter runs in three minutes each. An 800-meter
runner capable of 1:44.0 would be asked to dosix 200-meter runs in 26 seconds, and so on.
After some practice, the tempo for the partdistances will be set by instinct instead of a
stopwatch. In addition, all athletes train for thenext event above their racing distance
(overdistance); an 800-meter runner is expected
to be able to achieve a reasonable time over1,500 meters.
The longest distance to be covered in train-
ing was many times longer than the racingdistance. Runs over these distances were sched-
uled at either the beginning or the end of the
week. The 800-meter specialist ran at least 12 to15 miles; the marathoners, 36, 40, even 48 miles,
to build the foundation to last through 26 miles
at racing speed. During the first years of suchtraining, the distances were covered in seg-
ments of two to three miles interspersed with
walking recovery breaks.
Speed Through Endurance Training
Applied to Swimming
Carlile (1971) believed that swimmers should
also train over long distances and that if thedistance is reduced and the quality element
becomes too intense, a swimmer very easily
will go into failing adaptation. In fact, almostall of Carlile’s work in physiology was oriented
to avoiding too much high-pressure training.
Summary of van Aaken’s Speed Through Endurance
Method
In the speed through endurance method, athletes learn running mainly by running. Track
running is mainly learned by training on level ground.
The most important factor in training for middle and long distances is endurance, which
is a function of maximum oxygen intake capacity, low body weight, and economicalapplication of the laws of leverage. Endurance is mainly acquired by endurance exercisesat medium speed. This speed is determined by personal endurance limit; during training the
athlete should always perform below this limit. Only occasionally should the endurance
capacity be tested at racing speed.
Continually practicing at speeds faster than race pace is uneconomical and leads to a
decrease of reserves. Speed runs are best practiced at race pace but only over part of theracing distance. The number of repetitions and breaks and the length of the breaks aredetermined by the recovery period.
The interval principle in endurance training is used only to enable the athlete to cover
more distance without fatigue.
All relatively severe anaerobic stresses (e.g., speed runs) should be preceded and
followed by aerobic functions (e.g., light jogging). That is, the athlete should warm up beforespeed work and cool down after it.

132 Breakthrough Swimming
Carlile believed there to be a limit to the
amount of training that should be done at high
speed. Carlile’s methods were instead based
largely on the simple concept of keeping a
constant duration for the twice-daily trainingsessions (approximately two hours per ses-
sion) and encouraging swimmers to gradually
increase the distances they were capable ofcovering within that fixed time.
In the 1960s, Sherman Chavoor, one of the
most highly successful coaches in the history ofAmerican swimming, was an early advocate of
training swimmers along the lines van Aaken
suggested for track athletes (Chavoor 1967).Chavoor trained all youngsters for distance
swimming. He felt that once they could suc-
cessfully cover long distances, they could workback to 400s, 200s, and 100s. Chavoor would
point out to those youngsters who initially did
not like doing 1,500-meter swims in trainingthat swimmers such as Don Schollander, Mark
Spitz, Carl Robie, and Roy Saari could swim
fast at all distances from 100 to 1,500 meters. Headded that there were very few swimmers who
were just sprinters.
Woldemar Gerschler’s Interval
Training Method
Woldemar Gerschler (Gerschler, Rosskamm,
and Reindell 1964) said that he developed in-terval training through trial and error. He
claimed that interval training produced greater
endurance than running long unbroken dis-tances—and in a shorter time. When interval
training was first introduced it was a radical
departure from traditional endurance training,yet it often brought dramatic results. Gerschler
attributed this to a greater control over the
training overload.
Using interval training, Gerschler’s protege
Rudolf Harbig set world records before WorldWar II for the 400-meter (46.0), 800-meter(1:46.6), and 1,000-meter events (2:21.5) that
were far in advance of the existing standards.
When Gerschler died in 1982, he was acknowl-edged as “Gerschler: The Innovator” (Horwill
1982), recognized as being 30 years ahead of his
time when he pioneered his interval trainingmethods in 1932.Pulse Rate as a Guide to Training Intensity
Departing from the general trend of his time,Gerschler shortened the distance of the longer
training runs. Simultaneously, he increased the
speed for these reduced distances. His formulafor interval training was to have the athlete run
100 or 200 meters at a pace three and six sec-
onds slower, respectively, than the athlete’sbest time for the distance. This gives a pulse
rate of 170, plus or minus 10. After the pulse
drops to 120 beats per minute within a 1-1/2-minute rest period, the athlete runs again.
This routine continues until the heart rate
fails to recover to 120 beats within 1-1/2 min-utes. Gerschler, Rosskamm, and Reindell (1964)
claimed the daily repetition of this routine for
21 days could increase the heart volume byone-fifth. Gerschler said that it was the recov-
ery period that strengthened the heart, that is,
while the pulse returns from 180 beats to 120.
Counsilman (1967) described how he talked
to Gerschler, who told him that swimmingcoaches did not apply the interval trainingmethod properly because they did not make
swimmers wait until the heart rate dropped
from 180 to 120 beats per minute. Counsilmanexplained to Gerschler that swimmers work-
ing to develop endurance rested for 10 seconds,
those working for both speed and endurancerested for 30 seconds, and those working for
top speed rested from 1-1/2 to 2 minutes.
Gerschler adamantly maintained that the
heart rate must return to 120. In reply toGerschler, Counsilman posed hypothetical cases
of two different athletes, one with a restingpulse rate of 50 and the other with a pulse rate
of 70 and asked whether both should try to
attain a 180 pulse rate and wait for it to return to120. Gerschler replied that this was just a norm.
Counsilman went on to point out to Gerschler
that heart rate targets must always be specific tothe individual and that pulse rates will vary
according to the work-to-rest ratio and the con-
ditioning effect the swimmer wishes to achieve.
The Merits of Different Types of Training
In the 1980s, the Russians Viru and Urgensteinconfirmed Gerschler’s findings, which werebased on checking 3,000 athletes (Horwill 1982).

Progression of Training Methods 133
Over a three-month period, groups of athletes
were given hill training, interval training, steadyrunning, and sprinting. The hill runners im-
proved most, followed by the interval trainers.
Few runners today do only one type of train-ing, but though they do not regard interval
training as the only method to use, it remains
an important part of their training schedules.
Gerschler’s Views on the Benefits
of Interval Training
Gerschler, Rosskamm, and Reindell (1964)
stated that interval training was more advanta-geous than continuous training because it was
more intensive and therefore more powerfully
stimulated the musculature, and because itprovided the opportunity to control more pre-
cisely the duration of the effort and the inten-
sity of the stimulus.
Gerschler objected to long, slow, uninter-
rupted running because he felt the trainingrequired to obtain the necessary stimulus wasexcessively long. He believed that the monotony
of running for hours on end, day after day, was
more tiring than the running itself and that thestimulus provided by long, uninterrupted runsproduced neither high enough oxygen debtlevels nor a demand sufficient to improve thecondition of the muscles. According to
Gerschler, interval training provided a balance
of both requirements.
Gerschler referred to Reindell’s findings,
saying that deep breathing during the intervalcaused venous blood to return to the heart ingreater quantity; the tension diminished and
the systolic volume increased, resulting in an
active stimulus for increasing heart volume.(This is now generally known as Reindell’s heart
expansion stimulus. )
Basic Elements of Gerschler’s Interval
Training Method
According to Gerschler, the speed at which a
distance should be covered depends on the
recovery of the heartbeat. The character of in-terval training changes when training for sprints
because longer rests are needed for higher
speeds. As for the number of times a trainingrun should be repeated, Gerschler said that
there was no fixed answer because the number
of repetitions increased with an athlete’s adap-tation to training.
Summary of Gerschler’s Interval Training Method
Having conducted several studies on the heart rate recovery that occurs between intervaltraining repetitions, Gerschler, Rosskamm, and Reindell (1964) claimed to have obtainedpositive fixed numbers that put “for the first time in the history of training, exact values at
the disposal of the coach” (p. 31).
Gerschler timed the recovery interval, which he defined as the time necessary for the
heart rate to fall from 180 to 140 to 120 beats per minute. Trained runners who joggedbetween efforts required 90 to 45 seconds recovery, whereas those who rested passively
needed 70 to 30 seconds.
Gerschler felt that applying interval training to adolescents required considerable care
because young persons in full development are subject to the inexorable demands of growthand maturation. Comparisons were needed between the postexercise resting heart rates ofyoung people and those of well-trained adults.
According to Gerschler, interval training was superior to long-distance running for
increasing endurance because interval training takes less time than any other method,interval training can be dosed precisely and measured accordingly, and interval training
provides more stimulus than long-distance running by itself. Gerschler said these claims
were substantiated by research on endurance and interval training conducted in the formerEast Germany (Schleusing, Rebentisch, and Schippel 1964).

134 Breakthrough Swimming
Gerschler and his colleagues (1964) regarded
the duration of the rest interval as an important
factor. The recovery interval is based on the
time the heart takes to recover. Using five-
second pulse rate counts, he conducted a one-year study in which he tested the cardiac fre-
quency of hundreds of specialist runners of all
distances, ranging from world-class perform-ers to relatively unknown athletes.
Gerschler concluded that the stimulus re-
sulting from a correct combination of distance,speed, and rest interval produced pulse rates
around 180 beats per minute. According to
Gerschler, these findings compared favorablywith the continuous clinical controls established
by Reindell (Gerschler, Rosskamm, and Reindell
1964). He thus claims that the elements of inter-val training are effectively proportioned when
the heart rate is around 180.
A Comparative Appraisal
of Track Training Methods
Track authorities have conducted a long-last-ing and sometimes even acrimonious debate
concerning the most effective training meth-ods, some promoting continuous long-distance
running with occasional speed bursts—as ad-
vocated by Holmer, van Aaken, and Lydiard—and others favoring the classic interval training
of the Gerschler method, also known as the
Freiburg School.
In fact, a detailed look at the training meth-
ods used by the different schools of thoughtshows that they all used a mix of distancerunning and interval speed work. Although
this speed training did not always include ac-
tual breaks between runs, the interval wasmarked by a period of easy jogging or walking
also known as active rest .
Apparently, a tendency by popular writers
to play up the more obvious characteristics of aparticular method to the exclusion of other
components left many with a less-than-com-plete understanding of the total programs. For
example, the mention of Holmer instantly pro-
duced the notion of fartlek, or speed play, vanAaken’s name became synonymous with mile-
age mania, and Arthur Lydiard’s with mara-thon training for middle-distance athletes. In
spite of this, their programs were in fact muchbroader and heterogeneous than cursory study
would first indicate.
The Search for an Ideal Training
Format
Many authorities doubt that a selective method
for applying the training program will ever be
found. When interval training was first intro-duced, many advocates emphasized that it
enabled more work to be done in much less
time than did prolonged long-distance train-ing. A survey of the writings and presentations
at major international conferences by the origi-
nators of interval training leaves little doubtthat by “more work” they meant a greater
stimulation of the heart as well as a more
immediate and intensive overload of the work-ing muscles.
At the Duisberg Congress on Running,
Gerschler, Rosskamm, and Reindell (1964) pre-sented a paper titled “Das Interval Training”
(Interval Training) setting out the principles of
the Freiburg method. At this conference, HerbertReindell, one of the founders of the interval
training method, sounded a note of warning to
those who would mercilessly and too liberallyapply it.
Possible Adverse Effects
of Interval Training
Reindell expressed concern that interval train-
ing, with its potential for producing severeanaerobic metabolism, could easily have re-
sults other than expected, if incorrectly ap-
plied. He said that although heart volume in-creases quickly through interval training,
performances often remain static or even re-
gress.
Many athletes trained in this method had
quickly become expert at interval training butlittle more. They had developed a specific ca-pacity for quick recovery between heavy
workloads, but though this may have indi-
cated superior physiological conditioning, thereoften was not a corresponding improvement
when racing. Obviously, either something was

Progression of Training Methods 135
wrong in the seasonal application of training
methods, the workload was incorrectly ap-plied in the actual interval training sessions, or
both.
Learning From Practical Experience
As mentioned earlier, advocates of the fartlek
and speed through endurance training meth-ods were not slow to criticize interval training
using the previous arguments.
Proponents of interval training returned the
volley by saying that long-distance aerobictraining makes for expert joggers and expert
conversationalists because of the ease with
which athletes can talk while running at suchslow paces. They said that to run distancesfrom 400 to 1,500 meters requires more than adaily training base of steady state running with
no oxygen debt and an average pulse rate of 120
to 130 beats per minute.
Most of the popular systems in use on the
track were improved by learning from practi-cal experience, especially from the experiencesof talented athletes. Knowledge probably ad-
vances best in this way because scientific expla-
nation can hardly be expected to keep pacewith the successful methods discovered in prac-
tice—it nearly always follows later. Track
coaches nevertheless took caution in extollingthe virtues of any particular approach to the
exclusion of new ideas.

137Chapter 8
Principles of
Modern Training
In a trained athlete, the physiologi-
cal mechanisms of exercise appear
to function more eff ectively. Al-
though the details of this process of
adaptation are not fully understood,
many specific effects are now well
substantiated. Broadly stated, theseinclude increased cardiac output
and r educed pulse rates for any
given workload, increased muscu-lar capillarization and more effec-tive oxygen utilization and energy
expenditure mechanisms, increased
local (skeletal) muscular strengthand endurance, and improved neu-
romuscular coor dination and
greater mechanical ef ficiency for any
given workload.
In this chapter, we look at some
principles guiding modern trainingprograms, such as the principle of
overload, over distance training, and
periodization. Interval training
(which includes sprint training, r ep-
etition training, fast interval train-
ing, and slow interval training) was
a major breakthrough in preparing
swimmers for competition, for it al-
lowed a swimmer to train under
heavier but controlled workloads.
Tapering, the concept of planning
rest periods during training, alsorevolutionized training by allowing
swimmers to recover prior to im-portant competitions.

138 Breakthrough Swimming
The Overload Principle
The overload principle accounts for the general
phenomenon of adaptation to stress. Overload
refers to a workload greater than that to whichthe body is accustomed, or more precisely, one
for which the oxygen intake is inadequate to
supply the needs of the body. The overloadprinciple states that increases in muscle size
(hypertrophy), strength, and endurance result
from an increase in work intensity within agiven time unit (see page 154).
Hypertrophy occurs only when a muscle
performs work at an intensity greater thanusual. An increase in the work duration with-
out a corresponding increase in intensity pro-
duces no effect. In general, training effects arespecific to the workload. For example, an in-
creased training effect cannot be obtained
merely by prolonging the activity; the speed ofthe activity must also be increased to produce
a training effect.
Progressive overload  is the gradual and pro-
gressive increase in workload in accordancewith the body’s capacity to resist stress. To
improve performance, training should aim atprogression but always within the individual
athlete’s fund of adaptive energy.
Adaptation  is the gradual process of the body
overcompensating to overload stresses, duringwhich the body undergoes functional and con-
stitutional changes. In adjusting to increasedstress, the body draws on its fund of adaptation
energy.
Failing adaptation  is the body’s inability to
cope with overload stress and can result fromseveral causes, particularly a too-rapid increase
in the training workload based on a seriouslymisjudged ideal balance between volume and
intensity. But failing adaptation can also rise
from such hidden stresses as inadequate rest ornutrition, emotional stress, or the inexorable
demands of growth.
The body makes certain adjustments and
changes in adapting itself to prolonged stress.Coaches must be able to recognize differences
among individuals in this respect. Applyingthe proper volume and intensity of exercise
stress will produce the optimal amount of spe-
cific adaptation for each person.Failing adaptation may be countered by re-
ducing the workload—by swimming at a slowerpace, increasing the amount of rest, or reducing
the distance swum in training. Excessive local
stress should be diverted, but excessive totalstress requires complete rest (Selye 1956). Di-
version can consist of varying the format of the
training schedule and the strokes swum intraining. In extreme cases where diversion is
inadequate to counter failing adaptation to
stress, the athlete may require complete restfrom training and unnecessary daily activities.
Some swimmers have been shown to benefit
from bed rest immediately before a big meet,but an intelligently planned training program
will not require such extreme measures.
Specificity of training is a fundamental prin-
ciple of training but was only vaguely under-stood in the early days of formal training pro-
grams. People realized that to be able to swimfast, athletes should practice swimming fast
and that to have endurance, they should prac-
tice swimming long distances; but the principleof specificity is far more complex than merely
following these two concepts.
Training effects are specific to the type of
workload placed on the body. Brouha (1945)studied this concept of training and reports
that athletes in one sport require time to adaptto and reach maximum efficiency in another
sport, even when equally skilled in both activi-
ties. Indeed, specificity applies between sportsand between events within sports; it applies
both to learning the precise skills and paces ofa sport and to conditioning the body to performat maximum capacity in the different events
within a sport.
According to Selye (1956), specificity refers
to a few units within a system, implying thattraining should be planned according to a pur-
pose, whether the purpose is to establish de-sired physiological effects through training the
appropriate energy systems of the body, to
form skills, to swim a race at a certain speed, orto use certain strategies and paces in competi-
tion. Within a single daily workout, appropri-
ate time should be allocated for training spe-cific aspects of the body. As the season
progresses, emphasis given to specific physi-
ological requirements should gradually change

Principles of Modern Training 139
according to the swimmer’s improving fitness
and the event(s) to be swum in competition.Each event of the competitive swimming pro-
gram requires a certain balance between speed
and endurance, which naturally varies amongindividuals.
Specificity does not refer merely to prepar-
ing for a particular competitive event, nor is theestablishment of general physiological fitness
the only requirement; rather, specificity takes
the form of the particular quality being empha-sized during any phase of seasonal activity,
whether it’s endurance training or specialized
training for the season’s important competi-tions. Thus, a swimmer should first build a
broad base of endurance. Once the endurance
base is established, the program graduallychanges in format to include a carefully planned
balance of duration and intensity of effort. These
considerations are vital, as training at too higha level of intensity can easily result in failing
adaptation to the exercise stress; in fact, train-
ing at very high levels of intensity should formonly a small percentage of the seasonal activity.
Different types of work produce different
physiological effects. The different systems ofthe body do not adapt to training at the same
speed. An increase in capillarization, for ex-
ample, may occur within days, whereas heartmuscle takes years to condition properly. The
establishment of effect  is a loose term used to
describe specific adaptation resulting from
training.
Training has a cumulative effect. The posi-
tive effects of training do not appear the verynext day after a workload has been applied.
Adaptation to the stress of training is a gradual
process and requires time to produce the de-sired biological changes.
Interval Training
Interval training  superseded the older type of
training in which swimmers did long continu-ous distances at a comparatively slower pace.
The originators of interval training found that
by breaking up the training into comparativelyshorter periods of activity, with intervening
rest periods of varying duration, it was pos-
sible to place a greater training overload on theswimmer. Swimmers were found capable ofwithstanding much greater workloads thanpreviously believed possible.
Interval training involves swimming fixed
distances at a fixed pace with fixed rest inter-vals, thus providing control of the duration
and intensity of effort. Increased quality of
effort should result when a longer rest period isprovided between swims. Generally speaking,
the higher the quality of a set of interval swims,
the fewer the repetitions that can be accom-plished.
Conversely, it’s possible to produce a greater
quantity of work when shorter rest periods areset between longer sets of interval swims. The
prolonged activity reduces the intensity of ef-
fort.
In summary, the two options are as follows:
1.Quality swimming involves long rest pe-
riods, which permit high-speed activity,
the intensity of which limits the dura-tion of the activity.
2.Quantity swimming  involves short rest
periods, which permits only submaximalspeeds to be maintained. The reduced
speed enables the activity to be pro-
longed, thereby enhancing developmentof endurance.
This is a sketch of the ideal criteria for pro-
ducing specific training effects, but the humanfactor—the swimmer’s level of motivation,drive, and dedication—will contribute to the
success or failure of the activity.
Types of Interval Training
Various training effects can be achieved byapplying different work-to-rest ratios. There
are four basic types of interval training:
1. sprint training,
2. repetition training,
3. fast interval training, and
4. slow interval training.
Sprint Training
Sprint training consists of short distances swum
at top speed. Although speed starts to slow

140 Breakthrough Swimming
should not exceed 250 to 300 meters. Because
high-intensity repeat swimming can be verystressful and send a swimmer into failing adap-
tation, the training set should not exceed a total
distance of 1,000 meters or be presented morethan twice a week in the workout schedule.
Here are basic examples of repetition train-
ing sets:
15 /H11003 50 (3 minutes rest)
10 /H11003 100 (5 minutes rest)
6 /H11003 150 (5 to 10 minutes rest; the last two 150-
meter swims should be faster than theswimmer’s 150 split recorded on the
swimmer’s fastest 200-meter swim)
4 /H11003 250 (10 minutes rest; the last two 250
repeats should be faster than the swimmer’s
250 split recorded on the swimmer’s best
time for 400 meters. The swimmer’s time atthe 200 mark will usually accord with the
200-meter pace recommended to the swim-
mer by physiologists for the purpose of high-lactate training.)
Note.  Applying the last two sets twice weekly
during the hard training season can be particu-
larly effective in improving a swimmer’s timesfor the 200- and 400-meter events, respectively,
possibly because a swimmer becomes accus-
tomed to tolerating the higher levels of lactatethat probably start to accumulate around the
150 mark in the 200 and the 250 mark in the 400.
Fast Interval Training
Fast interval training consists of work-to-rest
ratios of about 1:1, permitting the swimmer todevelop speeds approximately 80 percent of
best pace. At least theoretically, this ratio en-
ables the equal development of speed and en-durance.
Fast interval training introduces a signifi-
cant element of speed to any prolonged activ-ity. It simulates to a high degree the type of
stress experienced in racing events, which
makes great demands on aerobic and anaero-bic endurance. In fast interval training, the
heart rate after each swim will be around 160 to
190. The heart rate should be permitted torecover to approximately 120 to 130 before the
next swim.after about 50 meters, distances up to 100 meters
are commonly called sprints and are treated assuch for the purpose of speed training. Sprint
training is usually done in multiples of 25-, 50-,
or 100-meter sets. The heart rate should beallowed to recover to 100 beats per minute or
below after each swim.
Work-to-rest ratios from 1:5 to 1:10 should
permit adequate rest to enable training to em-phasize speed. The ratio chosen depends on
what percentage of top speed the swimmerwishes to attain. In sprint training the swim-
mer on occasion may try to swim at 100 percent
of best time, especially over 25s and 50s. Sprinttraining attempts to develop speed and muscu-
lar strength and power as well as the ability to
tolerate oxygen debt.
Here are some basic examples of sprint train-
ing sets:
8 /H11003 25 (2 minutes rest)
4 /H11003 50 (5 minutes rest)
4 /H11003 100 (10 minutes rest)
Repetition Training
Repetition training consists of simulating therace pace by swimming distances shorter thanthe racing distance at a pace faster than the pace
of the total racing distance. However, any kind
of training in which the heart rate is permittedto recover to approximately 110 to 100 before
the next swim may be classified as repetition
training.
When performed at high enough speeds,
repetition training accustoms the swimmer toanaerobic exercise in that there is an increase ofoxygen debt and an accumulation of higher
levels of lactate in the working muscles. Repeti-
tion training also increases speed and muscu-lar strength and power.
The work-to-rest ratio should be at least 1:3
to permit speeds approximately 90 to 95 per-cent of a swimmer’s racing speed. To develop a
high level of blood lactate, the swimmer needs
to exert close to 100 percent effort. The heartrate also should reach maximum, somewhere
in the range of 190 to 200.
So that the swimmer can maintain a high
enough level of work intensity, the distancesused in high-lactate repeat swimming ideally

Principles of Modern Training 141
Straight Sets
A straight set is a series of swims done at near
constant speed—for example, 16 /H11003 100 (each
100 in 62 seconds) with 30 seconds rest.
Descending Sets
A descending set is a series of repeat swims in
which each subsequent swim is done progres-
sively faster—for example, 20 /H11003 50 (30 seconds
rest) descending (first 50 in 35 seconds, twenti-
eth 50 in 28 seconds).
A variation of this method is to post the
workout item on the board as 20 /H11003 50 (30
seconds rest), 1-4 descending. This means the
swimmer will decrease the time over the first
four 50s and repeat the process four more timesuntil 20 swims have been completed.
Yet another variation of descending sets is to
decrease the average time for each set of repeatswims by starting each subsequent set with a
faster first 50 than in the preceding set and then
continuing to decrease the second, third, andfourth 50 accordingly.
In this type of training, however, the first
repeats in a set are sometimes swum too slowlyto warrant intervening rest periods. In the pre-
vious example, namely, 20 /H11003  50 for a total
distance of 1,000 meters (or yards), it might be
better to swim the first half of each set continu-
ously without rest intervals and then complete
the second half of the distance as a descendingset of equal multiples.
For example, the athlete would perform a
250 continuous swim at a fast pace followedimmediately by 5 /H11003 50 descending (30 seconds
rest), repeating the set for a total of 1,000 meters.
Broken Sets
A broken set is a series of swims in which the
total distance is broken into sectors with short
rest intervals between them, for example, 400meters broken at each 100 with 10 seconds rest.
At the end of the swim, deduct 30 seconds (the
total amount of rest) from the gross time toobtain actual swimming time.
Broken swims are highly motivating and can
be used to break up all training distances. Sev-eral broken swims can be used to form a train-
ing set by providing a long rest after each swim,Although the rest period in fast interval train-
ing is shorter than that permitted in sprint and
repetition training, it is much longer than in
slow interval training. Fast interval training
develops heart muscle and the ability of skel-etal muscle to tolerate oxygen debt.
Here are basic examples of fast interval train-
ing sets:
30 /H11003 50 (30 to 60 seconds rest)
15 /H11003 100 (30 to 120 seconds rest)
8 /H11003 200 (30 to 120 seconds rest)
8 /H11003 400 (1 to 3 minutes rest)
4 /H11003 800 (3 to 5 minutes rest)
Slow Interval Training
Slow interval training, which consists of rela-
tively slow activity designed to improve aero-
bic endurance, is based on the endurance de-velopment principle of prolonging the activity
and gradually trying to increase the speed of
the prolonged activity as the season progresses.Slow interval training involves swimming at
speeds of approximately 60 to 70 percent of
best pace for the distance. Speed of the swimsis limited by the short rest periods. Activity
continues for at least 20 minutes to ensure that
the intensity of effort is kept primarily at theaerobic level. Activity may continue for one to
two hours when used to lay the early-season
endurance foundation. The heart rate after eachswim will be approximately 160 to 170, but the
recovery rate will be in the range of 150 to 160.
Here are basic examples of slow interval
training sets:
30 /H11003 50 (10 to 15 seconds rest)
15 /H11003 100 (10 to 15 seconds rest)
8 /H11003 200 (10 to 20 seconds rest)
8 /H11003 400 (15 to 30 seconds rest)
4 /H11003 800 (15 to 30 seconds rest)
Various Applications of Interval
Training
Interval training can be applied in many ways,
including straight sets, descending sets, bro-ken sets, pyramids, permutations, simulators,
and negative splits.

142 Breakthrough Swimming
thus combining repetition training and inter-
val training. Another interesting variation is toperform a set of broken swims in a descending
series, reducing the gross time for each subse-
quent swim.
Here are some further examples:
8 /H11003 400 broken at the 50 with 10 seconds rest
and 5 minutes rest after each 400
8 /H11003 200 individual medley broken at the 50
with 10 seconds rest and 3 minutes rest after
each 200 medley
2 /H11003 150 going straight through into 2 /H11003 50 (a
broken 400 with 10 seconds rest between
each sector) and 5 minutes rest after each 400
8 /H11003 100 with 10 seconds rest after each 100, 5
minutes rest after each set, and sets 1 through
4 descending
Pyramids
The pyramid format is a set of swims divided
into irregular distance sectors and rest periods.
The swimmer may keep the same pace in each
swim or vary the pace by going faster on theshorter sectors. Three examples follow.
Example 1
Swim 50, rest 10 seconds
Swim 100, rest 20 seconds
Swim 200, rest 40 seconds
Swim 400, rest 1 minuteSwim 200, rest 40 seconds
Swim 100, rest 20 seconds
Swim 50
Example 2
Swim 400, rest 3 minutes
Swim 2 /H11003 200, rest 2 minutes
Swim 2 /H11003 100, rest 1 minute
Swim 2 /H11003 50, rest 30 seconds
Example 3
(Individual medley in 25-meter pool)
Swim 400 medley, rest 5 minutesSwim 200 medley, rest 3 minutes
Swim 100 medley, rest 1 minuteSwim 200 medley, rest 3 minutes
Swim 400 medley
Permutations
Permutations are swims broken at irregular
sectors of the total distance. The following are
examples of permutations of 400 meters in a 50-
meter pool (eight lengths of the pool to com-plete 400 meters). The workout items are posted
on the board as 4 /H11003 400 meters (perm) (5
minutes rest after each 400).
2-2-2-2 (10 seconds rest)
4-2-1-1 (10 seconds rest)
1-2-3-2 (10 seconds rest)
4-1-1-1-1 (10 seconds rest)
The pace is kept constant on three- or four-
length segments but increased on one- and
two-length segments.
I developed and used this method and found
it effective for developing a swimmer’s abilityto change pace or accelerate tactically at any
stage of a race; alternatively, the pace can beheld constant for all sectors. The method can
also be used for teaching negative splitting (see
Negative Splits, p. 143). Whatever procedure isused, permutations (“perms”) provide an op-
portunity to practice a variety of paces.
Simulators
The simulator is a method used to replicate thedesired pace of a specific racing distance
(Counsilman 1968). Basically, the procedure isto cover half the racing distance at the desired
pace before stopping for a short rest that per-
mits the heart rate only a slight recovery. Theswimmer then covers half the amount of dis-
tance already covered before stopping for an-
other short rest. The pattern continues untilsome arbitrarily small segment remains for the
total to equal the racing distance.
For example, suppose the racing distance
being practiced is 400 meters. The trainingschedule would look like this:
Swim 200 meters, rest 10 seconds
Swim 100 meters, rest 5 seconds
Swim 50 meters, rest 5 seconds

Principles of Modern Training 143
Swim 25 meters, rest 5 seconds
Swim 25 meters
Note.  The rest interval is reduced in this
example from 10 to 5 seconds before the shorter
segments of the racing distance.
Negative Splits
Swimming the second half of a racing distance
faster than the first half (usually two to threeseconds faster) is known as a negative split.  Its
purposes are to delay the onset of oxygen debtand to teach evenly paced swimming. In asense, the negative split also pays back the
momentum of the starting dive in the first half
of a racing distance.
Other Types of Training
Many of the following options provide uniquetraining benefits and add variety to the trainingschedule.
Broadly stated, overdistance swims  are twice
as long as the distance for which a swimmer istraining. For example, a swimmer whose spe-
cialty is the 100-meter event practices
overdistance swimming by doing 200-meterswims. (A 1,500-meter swimmer would also
be doing overdistance training when swim-
ming 3,000 meters continuously, althoughthere’s no 3,000-meter event in the competi-
tive program.)
Locomotives  provide pace variations over dif-
ferent segments of a total nonstop swim. Theyare an excellent early-season conditioning exer-
cise and a useful diversion during the stress ofhard midseason training. Here is one example:
Swim 1 lap fast, 1 lap slow
Swim 2 laps fast, 2 laps slow
Swim 3 laps fast, 3 laps slowSwim 4 laps fast, 4 laps slow
Swim 3 laps fast, 3 laps slow
Swim 2 laps fast, 2 laps slowSwim 1 lap fast, 1 lap slow
Time swimming , an effective method of
developing increased endurance, is basically
increasing the distance a swimmer can coverwithin a prescribed time, which, after all, iswhat speed swimming is about.
Fartlek  (see chapter 7) was adopted by swim-
mers as an informal early-season conditioningexercise. Used this way, most of the distance iscovered at an easy pace, with intermittent bursts
of speed using such devices as changing stroke
and pace after a certain number of lengths.Chapter 7 describes how to use fartlek training
to greater purpose and effect by setting more
definite requirements.
Tethered Swimming,
or Sprint-Resisted Training
Tethered swimming (also known as sprint-re-sisted training) was first used 50 years ago atthe Chicago Towers Club when Stan Brauninger,
coach to 1936 Olympic backstroke champion
Adolph Kiefer, attached canvas belts with longelastic bands around the midriffs of his swim-
mers. In the 1940s, coach Harold Minto of the
Firestone Country Club, Akron, Ohio, trainedthe first postwar Olympic 1,500-meter cham-
pion, James McLane, in a canvas harness con-
nected to several yards of elastic aircraft shockabsorber cord. In the 1940s, Robert Kiphuth
suspended scores of elastic stretch bands from
the balcony of the Yale University pool for hisswimmers to use in the water below (Kiphuth
1942). In similar vein, Santa Clara’s George
Haines had his swimmers use latex surgicaltubing (type 202) for stretch cord exercises on
land.
In the late 1950s and the 1960s, the use of
tethered swimming became sporadic, but itwas revived in the mid-1970s by Randy Reese,
the renowned University of Florida coach. Reeseexperimented with several new in-water drills
using 1/8-inch thick surgical tubing that had a
3/32-inch inside diameter and was cut intosections of 18 to 22 feet. He repopularized the
use of tethered swimming throughout the world
(Colwin 1984c).
Tethered swimming was used originally to
improve the muscular power necessary forsprint swimming, but research suggested thatswimming against an increased resistance actu-
ally slowed muscle speed instead of increasing

144 Breakthrough Swimming
work should not be planned more than one
week in advance; even then a coach may decideto change the intensity of a workout based on
on-the-spot observation of a swimmer’s reac-
tion to a previous workload. Workouts aremonitored by means of measuring blood lac-
tate in only a few teams, and for most pro-
grams, this phase of coaching remains an artinstead of a science. When a program is under
the direction of an experienced coach, how-
ever, it’s often remarkable how a well-balancedpattern of easy, moderate, and strenuous ses-
sions appears consistently over a period of
many weeks.
Several researchers, notably Kindermann
(1978), Matveyev (1981), Harre (1982), andBerger (1982), have studied the periodizationof the training program. As a result, it is com-
mon in Eastern Europe for training preparation
to be viewed in the context of three distinctcycles—microcycles of one week duration,
mesocycles of three to seven weeks duration,
and macrocycles, one to four per year up to fouryears.
During the 1960s and 1970s several leading
programs, mainly in Europe, adopted a newterminology to describe the various phases of
seasonal training. For example, Igor Koshkin
(1985), coach of the great Soviet 1,500-meterworld-record holder Vladimir Salnikov, de-
scribed a typical training year as being divided
into five spirals, each having a duration of 8 to12 weeks and ending with a one- to three-week
competition period.
Each spiral comprises two-week develop-
ment stages called mesocycles. Each mesocycleconcentrates on developing specific qualities
in the swimmer. During the last mesocycle—the preparation for major competition—the
aim is to integrate all the specific qualities
developed in the four or five precedingmesocycles.
Search for a
Selective Method of Applying
the Training Workload
The erstwhile East German sports regime de-veloped a method of blood lactate analysis.it (Maglischo 1982). In light of this, Counsilman(1986) used the method for aerobic training ofdistance swimmers only. He prescribed selected
periods of activity such as three five-minute
segments with one-minute rest intervals andcut rubber stretch cord to approximately one-
third the length of the pool, with allowances for
size and strength of the swimmer and elasticityof the cord.
Like so many other swimming training meth-
ods, the concept behind speed-assisted trainingcame from track—in this case, the use of such
methods as towing, downhill running, and
treadmill running at accelerated speed. ErnestMaglischo (1982) referred to a variation of the
use of tethered swimming for improving sprint
swimming speed. He described how leadingcoaches Randy Reese and Nort Thornton used
the method in their programs. The swimmer
first swam down the pool, stretching the tub-ing, and then allowed it to snap back on the
return, thus assisting the swimmer to swim at a
faster speed than normally possible. Counsil-man (1986) developed a system of anaerobic
lactate training by having the swimmers use
repeat swims such as 10 /H11003 50 on two to three
minutes or 5 /H11003 100 on three to five minutes
while attached to stretch cords. He instructedthe swimmers to swim diagonally across thepool to avoid becoming entangled in the cords
when returning down the pool. The method
was not practical in a 50-meter pool because thecords would not stretch tightly enough, and the
course was too long for sprinting.
Counsilman (1986) devised another varia-
tion of the method wherein sprinters pulledthemselves along the lane markers to the other
end of the pool and then rested before allowingthe taut stretch cord to snap back and give them
a speed-assisted sprint back to the starting
point.
Periodization of the Training
Program
Varying the intensity and duration of workouts
from day to day and week to week results in a
long-term cyclic application of the training pro-gram. The days of easy, moderate, and hard

Principles of Modern Training 145
One method for determining the lactate/
ventilatory threshold* involves timing evenlypaced swims at 200 or 300 meters, some of
which are done at an easy pace. The pace is then
slightly increased to a moderate intensity justabove the lactate/ventilatory threshold. Finally,
much faster swims at almost 100 percent of
maximum effort are performed.
As few as two blood lactate concentrations
are plotted against the velocities of the test swims,and the lines joining them are extrapolated tocut the 4 mmol/L blood lactate level. The esti-
mated velocity at 4 mmol/L is read off to predict
the exercise intensity for each individualswimmer’s lactate/ventilatory threshold.
East German coaches regularly used the 10
/H11003 200 anaerobic test on their swimmers. Study-
ing the nature of the lactate velocity curve
helped them assess at regular intervals the
changing aerobic and anaerobic capacities ofindividual swimmers throughout the training
season. In addition, they were able to deter-
mine a swimmer’s ability to reach a high lactatelevel with a maximum-effort performance. The
purpose of the procedure was to test a
swimmer’s mobilization capacity, or the high-est level of blood lactate the swimmer is able to
generate. The East Germans maintained that
this scientific approach to training enabled themto make very accurate judgments concerning
the training condition of a swimmer right
through the season, up to and including thefinal precompetition tapering-off period.
Tapering for Competition
In the early years of competitive swimming,
swimmers took little if any extra rest prior to a
major competition other than retiring earlieron the previous night. It was not uncommon
for training, such as it was, to be continued up
to the day before a meet.
In the early 1950s, swimmers began to in-
crease distances covered in training. As thequantity of work increased, they found theycould swim faster. At this time, the tendencywas to swim long, unbroken mileage with windsprints—usually a series of 50s interspersedwith rest periods—performed at the end of a
workout to introduce an element of speed.
Some thought that if a lot of mileage gave
good results, then more would give even better.Of course, this was not always true. What they
found was that swimmers often carried consid-erable residual fatigue over long periods. They
saw that they needed an adjustment to the
training regimen that would enable swimmersto produce their best performances in impor-
tant competitions.
The introduction of alternating easy and hard
training days was an attempt to permit a mea-sure of adaptation in the midst of strenuous
training, but swimmers still did not obtainsufficient rest to perform at their best. Never-
theless, the idea of alternating days of easier
and harder work was to lead to experimentswith even longer rests.
Basic Concept of the Taper
Carlile’s interest in Selye’s concepts of stress
(Selye 1956) combined with his own studies of
failing adaptation to stress (Carlile 1963)prompted him to provide his swimmers with
far more rest before competition than was pre-
viously thought necessary. This period of re-duced activity became known as the taper. The
beneficial effects of tapering on performance
became clear to coaches once they learned totaper swimmers skillfully.
During the 1970s and 1980s, the tapering
process grew more complex for several rea-sons, one of them being the increased fre-
quency of top international competition. Of-
ten, radical changes had to be made to alreadybusy regional and national schedules. Prepar-
ing swimmers to compete successfully in a
series of topflight competitions became a fineart—and only partially a science. Many swim-
mers chose to swim through (either not taper
or use a reduced taper) for some meets andthen taper completely to swim at a higher level
* Note.  Once again following the lead of track and field athletics, swimming scientists are beginning to replace the term anaerobic threshold
with lactate/ventilatory threshold.  The former term refers nonspecifically to the upper limits of aerobic work, whereas the latter refers to
measurable levels of blood lactate and ventilatory capacity.

146 Breakthrough Swimming
in others. In addition, many lower-ranked
swimmers tapered in midseason, attemptingto meet required qualifying times for entries to
championship and major meets.
Principle Considerations
in Tapering
Before a major competition, swimmers gradu-
ally reduce their heavy workload and increase
their rest. This period is known as the taper
(Carlile 1963) or tapering off. The transition toeasier work causes the adaptive processes of
the body to overcompensate as the swimmer
prepares for maximum effort. The word taper —
diminishing toward the end—aptly describes
the process. Its use in training was coined by
Frank Cotton, professor of physiology at theUniversity of Sydney, Australia, and his under-
study at the time, Forbes Carlile, now the dean
of Australian swimming coaches.
These two pioneers discovered that for physi-
ological adaptation to occur, arduous trainingmust be tempered with adequate rest. The con-cept of tapering is based on this realization, and
over a period of more than 30 years, it has
proved to be one of the most significant contri-butions to the progress of competitive swim-
ming. Tapering was first described in the litera-
ture—and in detail—by Carlile (1963). Both theconcept and the term were quickly accepted
and employed worldwide.
A successful taper results from good judg-
ment and careful planning. The taper should beplanned carefully for each swimmer. It’s rare
for a swimmer to taper in exactly the same wayevery time. Variations in the taper arise from
different factors that have acted on the swim-
mer during the period preceding an importantmeet, several of which must be considered on
every occasion. Planning an effective taper re-
quires the coach to have technical skill andacute insight into the state of individual swim-
mers, particularly their reaction to
precompetition anxiety.
The taper should be relevant to the work
done in the preceding months. Its duration andthe amount of rest it provides should allowcomplete recovery from accumulated fatigue.The body then overcompensates in its adapta-tion to stress, enabling a superior performance.
During the taper, attention should be given
to every aspect of preparation—mental as wellas physical—including mental attitude, physi-cal conditioning, stroke technique, pace, and
strategy. Finally, the effects of rest on adapta-
tion should be understood. Rest is a vital deter-minant of performance and just as important as
an ideal balance among different levels of work
intensity.
A note of caution: for young swimmers, ex-
cess energy levels that result from tapering oftencause a tendency to indulge in horseplay . Thecoach should forewarn the team against wild or
unruly behavior, calling it “excessive exuber-
ance,” that could cause injury and the conse-quent waste of a whole season of preparation.
The entire season should be mapped out in
advance and major and minor meets decided.The program design should include the dura-
tion and emphasis of each training cycle with
adequate time for the final taper.
Typical Questions on Tapering
Here are some typical questions a coach oftenencounters during the taper phase of the sea-son:
How long should each swimmer taper?
Should all swimmers taper the same length
of time?
Should all swimmers perform the same
preparation items, irrespective of the eventsin which they will compete?
Should there be a difference between the
taper for a swimmer who is competing only
on the fourth day of a meet and, for example,
one who is competing on the first day andprobably on other days, too?
What is the swimmer’s capacity for recovery
from hard work?
What allowances should be made for indi-
vidual temperament?
Has enough time been built into a tapering
period to counter any possible errors of judg-
ment?

Principles of Modern Training 147
None of these questions is purely hypotheti-
cal. On the contrary, they enter into nearly
every planning of a taper period. They consti-
tute only a few examples of possible circum-
stances that may arise. Experience teaches acoach that these circumstances appear to be
unlimited.
General Guidelines on Tapering
What worked last season may not work as
well—or at all—this season. Any number ofchanges in conditions can cause this, including
alterations in the annual program of competi-
tive events, the available time for workouts,absenteeism, conditioning emphasis, swim-
mers’ levels of development, temperament, and
many other factors. Although a coach mayrecognize recurring situations, it is wise to be
alert for new sets of circumstances likely to
influence tapering decisions.
Before I identify situations that need special
attention in making tapering decisions, it maybe helpful to provide a few general guidelines.
1. The shorter the race, the longer the taper;
conversely, the longer the race, the shorter the
taper. Distance swimmers and sprinters need
different tapers.
2. The more races to be contested, the
shorter the taper.
3. The younger the swimmer, the shorter
the taper. Younger swimmers have a higherlevel of vital energy; moreover, they tend tolose the feel of the water quickly if they taper
too soon. Conversely, an older swimmer may
need a longer taper. Swimmers who have com-peted for many years appear to need a longer
taper with each successive season.
4. Nervous athletes need a shorter taper.
5. Large, well-muscled athletes generally
need a longer taper.
6. Swimmers with an adequate back-
ground of hard work usually obtain good re-
sults if tapered fairly early. Those who have
been overstressed in training show dramatic
adaptation and recovery from accumulativefatigue after a long, well-planned taper.7. Swimmers who have done only a mod-
erate amount of work through the season oftenwill not show great improvement when ta-
pered because they lack the background train-
ing.
8. Seasonal goals should be established at
the start of the training program when thecoach first meets the swimmers. At this time,the coach should identify and outline to the
swimmers the type of work and the duration of
each training cycle necessary to achieve thesegoals. Early on, the coach should decide which
meets the swimmer will enter and the level of
importance to be accorded each competition.More important meets require more complete
tapers (major taper).
The importance of the meet and the stage of
the season determines whether to use major,minor, or mini tapers. A meet may be used to
check the progress of the team as a wholetoward its established goals or to provide op-
portunities for individual members. In particu-
lar, the coach may decide to rest a swimmerwho lacks confidence so that he or she can
record a morale-boosting fast time. It is some-
times necessary for an up-and-coming young-ster to record a fast swim to encourage contin-
ued dedication to a demanding program of
hard work.
9. An ideal psychological climate should
be nurtured and every effort made to foster a
positive team spirit. Physiological and psycho-
logical preparation should keep pace with eachother throughout the season and into the taper-
ing period, resulting in a well-conditioned ath-
lete with a strong, positive mental attitude.
10. An ideal taper, from the physiological
standpoint, is when a swimmer has had just theright amount of rest. Sometimes a swimmerappears unaffected by the taper and shows no
improvement in speed. There’s not much to do
in this situation but be patient and wait for thetaper to take effect.
It is just as possible to have too much rest as
to have too little. Usually, a swimmer who hashad too much rest lacks the conditioning to
finish a race strongly; conversely, the swimmer
who has had too little rest may not have sharp

148 Breakthrough Swimming
speed initially but may still be able to finish a
race strongly. If competing in a three- to four-day meet, for example, the underrested swim-
mer may improve over the subsequent days as
a result of having more rest. The outlook for theoverrested and underworked swimmer will
not be as optimistic, however, as there obvi-
ously would be insufficient time to becomeconditioned.
Preparing a Basic Plan
for the Taper
A basic plan for the tapering period should be
mapped out at the beginning of the season
when the number of training days and compe-titions leading to the major meets first become
known. The plan should include an outline of
each phase of the season together with theduration of each training cycle, as well as ad-
equate time for the tapering period.
Nearly all coaches agree that tapering is a
complex phase of the season—in fact, the word“complex” seems most readily to spring to
mind in any frank discussion of the topic. Thechallenge, then, is for the coach to ensure clear
communication on all the important aspects
of the planned taper with individual swim-mers and the team as a whole. Team meetings
and clearly drawn charts help explain the
tapering plan to swimmers at all levels. Notleast of all, the coach should warn the swim-
mers about overeating and becoming over-
weight as a result of the reduced energy de-mands placed on the body. The importance of
early bedtimes and adequate sleep should
also be stressed.
Super-Adaptation
At some stages of the season, many swimmerswork so hard that they are unable to approachtheir best times in training or competition be-
fore they taper for the season’s most important
meets. Counsilman (1968) calls this phase oftraining “the valley of fatigue” and considers it
necessary for what he terms super-adaptation.
The reasoning behind its use is that when theworkload is finally reduced in the taper pe-
riod, the body’s adaptive mechanisms con-tinue to overcompensate at the same high level
even though the unusual stress of the hardtraining period has suddenly been removed. If
the taper is well planned, a superior perfor-
mance results.
The Warm-Up
Here is a list of the benefits of warming up:
• The resultant increase in body tempera-
ture and pulse rate, combined with dila-
tion of blood vessels in the muscles, takes
the body from its resting state to thephysiological level needed for the com-
petitive event.
• It loosens the muscles and increases flex-
ibility.
• It familiarizes the swimmer with the
pool conditions in which the competi-
tion takes place.
• The swimmer gets into stroke rhythm
and feels out the required pace of therace.
• Muscle fatigue occurs later in the race
after adequate warm-up.
• A muscle that is warmed and stretched
prior to maximum exertion is less likelyto sustain injury.
• The warm-up induces a sense of well-
being.
During the workouts of the hard training
season, a swimmer should cultivate a sense forhow much swimming is sufficient for warm-up. This sense significantly aids a swimmer in
tapering and warming up before meets.
In some teams, the amount of swimming
needed to warm up in daily training sessions isthe amount of swimming used in each session
during the taper period. The swimmer doesjust enough work to be able to swim at pace.
This is usually followed by some short, sharp
work, a loosen-down swim, and practice instarts and turns.
Warm-up procedures vary according to a
swimmer’s racing events. Short-distance swim-mers and sprinters include some short speed
work—mostly 25-meter and 50-meter efforts—

Principles of Modern Training 149
whereas distance swimmers establish their race
pace by covering a few 100-meter sections.
The warm-up should last 20 to 45 minutes,
and the swimmer should be out of the water atleast 20 minutes before the meet starts. A swim-mer preparing for morning competition may
need more warm-up time to wake up. In the
evenings, before swimming in the finals, ashorter warm-up is usually enough because of
the swimming done earlier in the day.
After warming up, a swimmer should don
warm, dry clothing, gloves, socks, and shoes.The swimmer should stand up and become
active just before the race starts by walkingaround and doing mild stretching exercises.
As the season progresses, each swimmer
should determine his or her best basic warm-up. Every competitive session should be pre-
ceded by a warm-up and followed by a loosen-
down; this helps eliminate stiff or soreshoulders, hips, knees, and ankles.
Effects of Massage
A benefit of massage is its effect on the circula-tion of the area treated. By improving the circu-lation of blood and lymph, it facilitates the
removal of deleterious substances formed in
excess by injury or liberated by movement.Superficial light massage affects only the
skin circulation, specifically, the skin capillar-ies, superficial veins, and lymphatics. The first
two, however, hold so much blood that mas-
sage in the direction of their flow materiallyincreases the return of blood to the heart and
produces an effect rather like exercise without
the more exhausting effects of fatigue. Becausethe superficial veins draw blood from the
muscles as well as the skin, the muscles of the
massaged area will drain somewhat. Massageof the lymphatics increases the flow of lymph
and removal of tissue fluid, the accumulation
of which causes pain and stiffness. In injury,this fluid contains an abnormally large amount
of protein, and if it is allowed to remain station-
ary it may be converted into fibrous tissue andcause permanent stiffness. Merely rubbing the
skin also sends a vast number of beneficial
impulses into the nervous system.
Deeper massage hastens circulation through
the muscles and the soft tissues because eachcompression tends to drive the blood towardthe veins where the pressure is least. Similarly,
deep massage facilitates the dispersal of accu-
mulated lymph or blood in the deeper parts. Itcannot be overemphasized, however, that loos-
ening movements, either on land or in the
water, best stimulate the circulation.

151Chapter 9
Physiological
Research andApplications
David Pyne, PhD
Sports Physiologist,
Australian Institute of Sport
In high-level competitive swim-
ming, coaches and swimmers need
to understand the energy demands
involved in successful performance.
The same requirements hold true in
learning the neur omuscular pat-
terns involved in performing effi-
cient stroke mechanics. When prop-
erly master ed, muscles contract,
extend, or remain static in length in
perfect sequence, even when swim-
ming at high speed.
These processes require the inte-
gration of neural signals from thecerebral motor cortex (nervous sys-tem) to the muscles. In turn, a chain
of biochemical reactions within themuscle transforms potential chemi-cal energy to mechanical energy for
use in the working muscles. The
improved level of fitness that train-
ing provides enhances the body’s
ability to perform more work with
less fatigue.

152 Breakthrough Swimming
Energy Metabolism
Energy metabolism is based on the relation
between fuel availability and its use. These fuelsources rely, in turn, on the contribution of
different energy systems to the activities in-
volved.
There are four basic energy compounds. The
primary energy compound is adenosine tri-phosphate (ATP). The three secondary energycompounds are creatine phosphate (CP), gly-
cogen (carbohydrate), and fat. ATP is the cur-
rency (energy) that powers all cellular func-tions, including muscular contraction.
However, there is only sufficient ATP in muscle
to sustain a short burst (a few seconds) ofmuscular effort. Even in the 50-meter freestyle,
the shortest competitive swimming event, ATP
must be constantly replenished from othersources within the muscle. The additionalsources of energy are derived from the dietary
intake of carbohydrate, fat, and protein.
A fundamental principle of energy metabo-
lism is that all three energy systems are activethroughout exercise. Their relative contribu-
tion in swimming is determined by the dura-tion and intensity of the event. Short explosive
sprints such as the 50-meter events are pre-
dominantly anaerobic in nature. Middle-dis-tance events (100 to 400 meters) require a com-
bination of anaerobic and aerobic energy.
Long-distance events such as the 800 and 1,500meters and open-water swimming are predomi-
nantly aerobic in nature.
Table 9.1 shows the relative contribution of
the three energy systems to various swimmingevents. Modern swimming training should in-
clude a full range of training speeds. The needAbout Dr. David Pyne
Dr. David Pyne holds a PhD in biochemistry and molecular biology from the AustralianNational University, Canberra, and was awarded the Australian Sports Medal in 2000 for his
contribution to swimming in Australia. Since 1987 , Dr. Pyne has worked as a sports
physiologist at the Australian Institute of Sport (AIS), specializing in swimming. Dr. Pyneworks with both the AIS swimming team and the Australian national team and was the
physiologist to the 2000 Australian Olympic swimming team. Dr. Pyne travels extensively
with the AIS and Australian teams to national- and international-level competitions andtraining camps. His research interests include the applied physiology of swimming;
exercise, training, and immune system research; and environmental physiology. Dr. Pyne is
the secretary to the Australian Swimming Sports Science Advisory Group and writescoaching/scientific articles for Swimming in Australia , other coaching publications, and
scientific journals.
Table 9.1 Estimated Contribution of Energy Systems to Different
Swimming Events
Event ATP-CP (%) Anaerobic glycolysis (%) Aerobic (%)
50 m 55 40 5
100 m 15 50 35
200 m 10 30 60
400 m 5 25 70
1,500 m 0 15 85

Physiological Research and Applications 153
to combine different speeds with the different
strokes (freestyle, backstroke, butterfly, breast-stroke) provides great opportunities for the
innovative coach. The challenge for the coach
and swimmer in the 100-meter, 200-meter, and400-meter events is to blend endurance and
speed in ideal proportions to produce a win-
ning performance.
Endurance Training
Two questions are often posed:
1. If the majority of competitive swimming
events are primarily power based, whyis training largely endurance based?
2. Do swimmers need high-mileage train-
ing, and does this violate the principle ofspecificity of training?
Several factors support a traditional high-
mileage training program. First, the duration
of most events, from the 100 meter to the 1,500
meter (50 seconds to 16 minutes), has a sub-stantial aerobic requirement. Low-volume,
high-intensity training has its proponents, but
most coaches recognize that endurance fitnessis needed to maximize anaerobic and speed
development.
A swimmer’s buoyancy permits a greater
training volume than weight-bearing exercisesuch as running. Endurance training facilitates
stroke correction by constant repetition of agreater number of movements, whereas sprint
swimming may serve merely to perpetuate
faults. Stroke faults are often hidden at highspeeds but are magnified at slower speeds,thus enabling earlier detection.
Basic Training Principles
Applied to Swimming
Several basic training principles can be appliedto the preparation of competitive swimmers.
These have evolved over time from the hard-
earned practical experience of coaches andswimmers alike, as well as from the results of
scientific investigation. Careful application of
these principles is a key step in preparing aneffective training program. The details of train-
ing programs vary significantly according to
the age, skill level, and training history of swim-mers and the availability of facilities and equip-
ment. Figure 9.1 shows a hierarchy of training
adaptations.
Specificity
The principle of specificity states that the maxi-mum benefit of training is obtained by replica-tion of the movement patterns and energetic
demands of swimming. Specificity of move-
ment patterns is a key aspect of swimming, andtraining drills and sets should include each of
the four major swimming strokes (freestyle,
butterfly, backstroke, and breaststroke).
The development of efficient technique at
different speeds is the foundation of all high-level training programs. In practice, freestyleand backstroke constitute the major propor-
tion of training for swimmers of all strokes.
Anaerobic Weeks
Aerobic Months
Strength Years
Skill
System Time for development
and detrainingDecades
Figure 9.1 Hierarchy of training adaptations. From Counsilman and Counsilman 1991.

154 Breakthrough Swimming
ever, the increasing fragmentation of the inter-
national swimming calendar has resulted in agreater focus on shorter macro- and microcycles
to prepare swimmers (especially sprint swim-
mers) for several long-course (50-meter) andshort- course (25-meter) competitions each year.
Individuality
Swimmers and coaches should recognize thatthe principle of individuality is one of the most
important aspects of training. Tolerance of train-
ing loads, the rate of recovery from high-inten-sity training and competition, preferences in
pool and dry-land training, and the need for
rest and recovery vary from swimmer to swim-mer. Most coaches appreciate the need to orga-
nize their training squads by age, ability, and
event and within those groups, to individual-ize training where appropriate. Training loads
can be modified in terms of the number of
sessions completed each week, the length (vol-ume) of training sessions and sets, and the
intensity of different intervals.
Reversibility
The principle of reversibility, or detraining,suggests that skill and strength require the
longest time to develop (years) and aerobic andanaerobic fitness the shortest time to develop
(weeks and months). The principle is elegantly
illustrated in Counsilman’s Hierarchy of Train-
ing Adaptations (Counsilman and Counsilman
1991; see figure 9.1). The rate of detraininglargely mirrors the rate of training improve-ments, with fitness starting to decline within a
few weeks of detraining (Coyle, Hemmert, and
Coggan 1986).
The loss of competitive fitness relates to
changes in cardiorespiratory, metabolic andbiochemical parameters, and neuromuscularcontrol. Studies of elite athletes show that fit-
ness can be maintained on 30 to 50 percent of
previous training levels for several weeks. Thishas implications for taper and when returning
from illness and injury. Swimmers and coaches
should be encouraged that short breaks in train-ing do not necessarily cause a reduction in
fitness, and in some cases the reduction in
residual fatigue actually enhances performance.Butterfly swimmers in particular complete onlya small proportion of training using their mainstroke. Medley swimmers need to train all the
different strokes, both in isolation and combi-
nation with IM switching sets.
Overload
The principle of progressive overload is basedon a process of stimulus, response, and adapta-tion (Bompa 1983).
A combined pool and dry-land training pro-
gram provides the stimulus to various physi-ological systems (i.e., cardiovascular, muscu-
lar, skeletal, nervous, and hormonal systems).
A swimmer’s short-term response to training isseen in the daily cycling of fatigue and recov-
ery, but several weeks of a gradually increased
training workload are required for significantadaptations to occur.
Adaptation to the judiciously applied stress
of training is evident in improvements in car-diovascular fitness, lean muscle mass, muscle
composition and function, and the hormonal
and nervous systems. The extent of improve-ment is influenced by individual genetic limits,
specificity of physiological responses, accumu-
lated fatigue, and the nature of the trainingstimulus itself.
Periodization
Periodization involves division of the annualtraining plan into smaller, more manageable
parts. A mesocycle normally covers the entire
summer or winter season plan. A macrocyclerefers to specific three- or four-week training
phases or blocks with different emphases.
Macrocycles can take the form of general orspecific preparation, taper, competition, or re-
covery. A microcycle refers to the standard
seven-day training week (Monday to Sunday)that forms the basis of most swimming pro-
grams.
In the 1970s and 1980s, training for
international-level swimmers was generallybased on single or two-peak annual cycles.
Swimmers were prepared for their nationalchampionships and the major international
competitions (e.g., Olympic Games, World
Championships) in each calendar year. How-

Physiological Research and Applications 155
ized in the coming decades. Greater recogni-
tion is also being given to the importance ofrace pace training (Anderson 1999).
Physiological
and Biomechanical Testing
of Swimmers
Testing of swimmers can be broken down intotwo primary categories: training analysis and
competition analysis. Both kinds of evaluation
are important in preparing, training, andstrengthening swimmers.
Physiological testing is largely directed to-
ward assessing the fitness of swimmers. Test-ing generally involves measuring physiologi-
cal attributes of elite swimmers and the way
training affects performance. There are severalreasons to undertake fitness testing in highly
trained swimmers. Testing helps to
• monitor progress in fitness levels (adap-
tation);
• develop training zones (prescription);
• assess training responses to different sets
and drills (evaluation);
• identify individual strengths and weak-
nesses (evaluation); and
• predict performances (prediction).
Fitness tests should be relevant to swim-
ming, valid and reliable, and easy to adminis-
ter. A worldwide trend is to conduct more
specific pool-based testing rather than generallaboratory testing. Pool-based testing is more
readily acceptable to coaches and swimmers
and eliminates the difficulties in transferringresults from the laboratory to the pool.
Competition Analysis
Comprehensive race analysis has been con-ducted at international meets for over a de-cade. Competition analysis involves overhead
video filming and computer-based analysis of
swimmers during each event. Dr. Bruce Ma-son, a biomechanist with the Australian swim-
ming team, has been at the forefront of these
developments. With his system, the camera isEvolution of
Interval Training Programs
What combination of training volume and in-tensity is necessary for competitive success?The evolution of modern swimming training
methodology has been largely based on the
periodization of training volume and intensity.
Despite general acceptance by coaches for an
organized and systematic approach to train-ing, no common training theory exists thatdescribes the type, quantity, or pattern of a
particular training program that guarantees a
given result (Steinacker et al. 1998). There are asmany training programs as there are swim-
ming coaches.
In swimming, as in other endurance-based
cyclic or repetitive sports (e.g., running, cy-cling, rowing), the consensus among most
coaches is that training and performance arerelated by a dose-response relationship (Banis-
ter, Morton, and Clarke 1997). Improvements
in swimming performance are achieved ini-tially through a sequential increase in the vol-
ume and intensity of training.
A common trend in world swimming has
been a gradual shift away from distance eventsand training to more sprint-based programs.
This has been fueled by increasing commercial-ization of swimming with an upsurge in short-
course swimming and in the number of com-
petitive events in the calendar. These changesappear to have had a significant impact on the
type of training programs at two levels.
The traditional one or two peaks per year has
given way to a more fragmented and congestedtraining plan with a greater number of
macrocycles (short two- or three-week trainingblocks). Second, the design of individual train-
ing sessions also appears to be more fragmented,
with combination-type workouts preferred overthe older-style simple workouts.
These changes may partly explain the pla-
teau and even decline in the standard of dis-tance swimming, while times in sprint events
and short-course swimming continue to im-
prove. Although concerns for traditional train-ing have been expressed for some time
(Thornton 1987), it is inevitable that interval
training programs will become further special-

156 Breakthrough Swimming
positioned so that all swimmers in a race are
analyzed for split times, start, turn and finishtimes, and stroke characteristics such as rate,
length, and efficiency (figure 9.2).The other phases are denoted as free swim-
ming. In the report sheet, these times are also
reported as swimming velocity. The information
provided for the free-swimming phases includes
stroke length in meters, stroke frequency instrokes per minute, swim velocity in meters per
second, and the derived efficiency index.
Multiplying the stroke frequency in strokes
per second and the stroke length in meters perstroke provides the swim velocity in meters per
second.
At the base of the spreadsheet, the average
information and total time for each aspect ofthe race is provided. During the meet, the com-petition analysis results for a session are given
to the coaches before the next session begins.
Stroke characteristics are also presented in
graphic form to assist the coach. Access to avideo monitor is often arranged, and a copy of
the tape is given to the coach for subsequentanalysis. Newer video systems overlay the digi-
tal analysis information on top of the video film
of the race.
Monitoring
Swimming Training
Workloads in Practice
Modeling of swimming training in its simplest
form defines training load as the product of
training volume and intensity. Training vol-ume in swimming is relatively easy to quantify.
Multiples of 25-meter and 50-meter laps can be
easily added to determine the total distancecovered in a single set, session, or training
week. Most coaches and swimmers are com-
fortable with the notion and terminology relat-ing, for example, to a 2,000-meter set (e.g., 20 /H11003
100 meters), a 6,000-meter session, or a 40-kilometer week.
High-level training involving planning for
longer periods also necessitates the calculationof training volumes. For example, coaches canplan a two-week training camp (e.g., 160 kilo-
meters in a 14-day camp), a complete prepara-
tion or training macrocycle (e.g., 500 kilometersfor a 12-week cycle), or a full training year (e.g.,
2,000 kilometers in 46 weeks). Although these
calculations can be time consuming, they areFigure 9.2 Camera setup for competition
analysis.
This process provides a clear and concise
summary of each swimmer’s performance
during the event. The spreadsheet output of
the competition analysis permits a simplecomparison between swimmers in a particular
race. Analysis of results over a number of cham-
pionships has revealed that starts, turns, andfinishes are as important as free-swimming
speed in determining the final results (Mason
and Fowlie 1997). A typical set of competitionanalysis results is shown in table 9.2.
The measurements made are start time (time
from the starting signal to 15 meters), turn time(time in and out from a distance of 7.5 meters
off the wall), and finish time (time from 5
meters from the finishing wall until hand touch).

Physiological Research and Applications 157
very instructive during the planning and re-
view processes.
A central issue in swimming relates to the
relative potency (and paradoxically, the rela-tive danger) of substantial increases in training
volume and intensity. Although high-training
volumes and periodic doses of high-intensitytraining are a fundamental part of training, the
problems associated with excessive training
are well known.
Coaching experience and the results of sci-
entific research collectively suggest that exces-sive training volume and training intensity caninduce fatigue, overtraining, injury, and ill-
ness. Distance swimmers generally require
higher training volumes (approximately 20 to25 percent higher) to develop the background
necessary for success in events ranging from
400 to 1,500 meters.Substantial increases in either training vol-
ume or intensity during early season to
midseason place considerable physical de-
mands and stress on the body. In the competi-tive phase, some swimmers exhibit fatigue and
poor performance when required to race fre-
quently over a short period.
Training Intensity
In contrast to training volume, training inten-
sity is much more difficult to quantify. Coaches
must employ a systematic approach for effec-tive planning and monitoring of training inten-
sity. The most common approach involves the
use of a training classification system that givesrise to different training intensities.
In the past, most of these training systems
have relied on relatively subjective descriptorsTable 9.2 Competition Race Analysis: Typical Results From a Men’s
50-Meter Freestyle Race
Swimmer A Swimmer B Swimmer C
(1st) (2nd) (3rd)
First 25-m lap
Start time 15 m (sec) 5.91 5.77 6.04
Stroke length (m) 2.14 2.14 1.88
Stroke frequency (strokes/m) 58.80 59.70 67 .90
Velocity (m/sec) 2.34 2.34 2.33
Index (m /H11003 m/sec) 5.00 5.00 4.38
25-m split time (sec) 10.68 10.68 10.74
Second 25-m lap
Stroke length (m) 2.14 2.09 1.81
Stroke frequency (strokes/m) 57 .50 58.00 66.70
Velocity (m/sec) 2.08 2.02 2.03
Index (m /H11003 m/sec) 4.45 4.22 3.67
25-m split time (sec) 12.03 12.36 12.33
50-m lap time (sec) 22.71 23.04 23.07
Finish time (sec) 2.30 2.45 2.41
Results (sec) 22.71 23.04 23.07

158 Breakthrough Swimming
anaerobic threshold training an IC of 3. Maxi-
mal oxygen uptake training is intensive andexhausting and consequently has an IC with
the greater weighting of 5. Sprint training, which
can be the most physiologically demanding, isgiven the highest IC of 8. Other training sys-
tems used in swimming employ a similar sys-
tem of weighting coefficients (Mujika et al.1996).
The total training load equals the number of
kilometers swum at each training intensitymultiplied by the appropriate training inten-
sity coefficient. The resulting training load is
reported in arbitrary units, but these are repro-ducible and comparable with repeated calcula-
tions.
Training Load, Monotony,
and Strain
Training load cannot be fully described by train-
ing volume, training intensity, or a combina-tion of the two. There are many subtleties in the
prescription of training, and it is not just a
simple process of preparing training sets withof intensity, which gave rise to a wide range ofterminology (e.g., moderate intensity aerobic,aerobic threshold, anaerobic threshold, lactate
tolerance, onset of blood lactate accumulation,
maximal alactic anaerobic, etc.) that is difficultto quantify and examine objectively (Counsil-
man and Counsilman 1993). To overcome this
deficiency, various systems have been devisedwhere different intensities of swimming are
given a particular weighting or physiological
stress coefficient. This process is based on bloodlactate concentration, which is assumed to re-
flect the physiological demands of different
exercise intensities.
The most important feature of these systems
is that the degree of physiological stress expe-rienced by the swimmer increases exponen-tially above the level of the anaerobic thresh-
old. To account for this, greater weighting
coefficients are given to the higher trainingintensity levels.
Table 9.3 shows a typical system where low-
and moderate-intensity aerobic swimming havean intensity coefficient (IC) of 1, moderate in-
tensity aerobic development an IC of 2, and
Table 9.3 Training Weeks
In training week A, aerobic-based training was completed with a total training load of 98 units. Training week B had
a total load of 103 units.
Week A Week B
Intensity coefficient Volume Load Volume Load
Zone (IC) (km) (IC /H11003 km) (km) (IC /H11003 km)
A1 1 27 27 20 20
A2 1 15 15 5 5
A3 2 10 20 5 10
AT 3 5 15 8 24
MVO251 5 4 2 0
SP 8 2 16 3 24
             Training load      60 km 98 units 45 km 103 units
A1 = low-intensity aerobic swimming
A2 = moderate-intensity aerobic swimming
A3 = moderate-intensity aerobic developmentAT = anaerobic threshold training
MVO
2 = maximal oxygen uptake training
SP = sprint training

Physiological Research and Applications 159
differing volumes and intensities. Recent ad-
vancements in training (Foster 1998) have fo-cused on additional descriptors of training
stress, including training load (an average of
the previous six weeks’ training), training mo-notony (daily mean/standard deviation), and
training strain (product of training load and
training monotony). Inclusion of these trainingindices gives the coach up to five variables in
the planning process: volume, intensity, load,
monotony, and strain.
Training loads generally increase during a
competitive preparation. Loads should be in-creased gradually and combined with suffi-cient rest and recovery. Short recovery periods
of active or complete rest (24 to 48 hours) are
unlikely to have a significant effect on long-term fitness.
Training monotony represents the degree of
variation or fluctuation in training loads overtime. Reducing training monotony is achieved
by varying training volumes. For example, ses-
sion volumes should range from 3.0 to 9.0kilometers rather than repeating the same vol-
ume (e.g., 4.0 to 6.0 kilometers) session after
session. Another strategy is to vary the patternof the number of training sessions per day.
All three derived training indices (training
load, monotony, and strain) can be plotted toshow changes over time. Thresholds can be
established for different swimmers, permitting
the coach to tailor training programs to suitindividual needs. Simple methods of monitor-
ing the characteristics of training can help to
minimize fatigue, injury, and illness.
Support Networks in
Sport Science and Medicine
The national team programs of leading swim-ming nations are using a range of sport scienceand sports medicine personnel during training
and competition. Physiologists  administer a range
of pool- and laboratory-based tests to monitor
changes in fitness through a training season.
They also assist the coach in planning and re-
viewing specific training sessions and programs.Psychologists  work with individual coaches and
athletes and contribute to overall team manage-ment.  Physical and massage therapists  provide
support in the areas of injury prevention, treat-ment and rehabilitation, and pre- and postrace
massage during competition. Dietitians  work
with catering staff in the planning and schedul-
ing of meals, conduct individual counseling and
dietary reviews, and provide advice on nutri-
tional supplements and ergogenic aids.Biomechanists  conduct extensive filming of
swimmer’s skills and technique during trainingand provide full race analysis during majorcompetition. The team physician  coordinates
medical care for team members involving medi-cal screening and examination, treatment andmanagement of illness and injury , and educa-
tion, and also oversees compliance to drugs-in-
sport regulations.
The increasing involvement of sports sci-
ence and sports medicine support has been afeature of international swimming through the1990s. Although experimental research in swim-
ming is conducted in many countries, direct
and extensive involvement of scientific staffwith national team programs has been limited
to a few of the leading swimming nations.
Political and societal changes have seen a de-cline in the domination of swimming by two or
three nations, and the emergence of many
smaller and former middle-ranking nationsfrom all parts of the world. In a fashion similar
to the international coaching community, swim-
ming scientists from many of the different coun-tries engage in dialogue with their colleagues
to share information and experiences.
Physiological Testing at the
Australian Institute of Sport
The Australian Institute of Sport (AIS) is oneof the major centers for swimming in Austra-
lia and provides approximately one-third ofthe swimmers for the Australian swimming
team. Testing of swimmers at the AIS has
evolved over 20 years on the basis of practicalexperience, empirical evidence, and applied
research.
The AIS uses several testing protocols to
assess various components of fitness in inter-national-level swimmers. For reasons of

160 Breakthrough Swimming
specificity and practicality, their tests are usu-
ally done in the pool. Physiological testing isdone throughout the year but is concentrated
primarily during the preparation for the major
championships in each calendar year. In nor-mal circumstances, there are two competitive
cycles each year for international-level Austra-
lian swimmers. Training through the Austra-lian summer (November to March) prepares
swimmers for the national championships held
in March or April each year. The winter season(May to August) prepares swimmers for the
major international swimming championships
usually conducted in July and August (sum-mer in the Northern Hemisphere). The testing
dates are made in conjunction with the coach-
ing staff and follow the competition scheduleand training program.
Testing at the AIS has focused on three areas:
pool-based assessment of aerobic and anaero-bic fitness, measurement of body composition,
and routine blood and saliva testing (Pyne1999b). The 7 /H11003 200-meter step test (Pyne, Maw,
and Goldsmith 2000) is useful in monitoring
changes in discrete aspects of endurance fit-
ness during a season (figure 9.3).
Physiological details obtained during
submaximal and maximal testing provide criti-cal information for the coach to determine
training loads and monitor performance im-provements with training (Pyne, Maw, and
Goldsmith 2000). Routine blood lactate and
heart rate testing is conducted on demand toassess the responses to various training sets,
particularly in the final few weeks of a prepa-
ration. Body composition measures includestanding height, body mass, and sum of
skinfolds, and a derived body mass to sum of
skinfolds ratio (figure 9.4).
Blood testing is done during medical screen-
ing and to assess the impact of training anddietary interventions. Saliva testing is used toassess a swimmer’s risk of upper respiratory
illness during training (Gleeson et al. 1999).
220
200
180
160
140
120
100
78 74 70
Time per 100 mHeart rate (bpm)
66 62 58 54June 1, 1999
Aug. 10, 1999Nov. 11, 1999Feb. 15, 2000
Figure 9.3 Typical result showing heart rate-velocity curves derived from the 7 /H11003 200-meter step test.

Physiological Research and Applications 161
Physiological Research
in International Swimming
International physiological research regarding
swimming focuses on many areas, but two of
the most important are metabolism and over-
training and fatigue.
Metabolism
One of the enduring lines of research in swim-ming is determining the metabolic require-ments of different swimming events and how
this information can be used in training (Lavoie
and Montpetit 1986). Metabolic measurementsof oxygen uptake often prove difficult in swim-
ming. The mouthpiece and ventilation mask
worn by the swimmer can be uncomfortableand may affect the ability of the athlete to
perform optimally and with maximal efficiency.
Several research groups in Europe and North
America have conducted extensive researchinto the metabolism of highly trained swim-
mers (Lavoie and Montpetit 1986; Troup 1999).Estimates of aerobic capacity (maximal oxygen
uptake or V·O
2max) and anaerobic capacity
(maximal accumulated oxygen deficit orMAOD) can be made. The results of testing
generally show that elite swimmers have largeranaerobic and aerobic capacities than moder-
ately trained swimmers.
A recent study of the energetics of swim-
ming confirms the long-held belief that at com-petition speeds, freestyle is the most economic
stroke, with the technical limitations of breast-stroke and butterfly increasing the energy cost
of those strokes (Capelli, Pendergast, and
Termin 1998).
Overtraining and Fatigue
A prolonged state of fatigue that does not re-
cede with rest and recovery can lead to over-
training, which is typically characterized bypoor training and racing. A distinction needs to
be made between overreaching and overtrain-
ing (Keast and Morton 1992).
Overreaching  refers to the normal daily fa-
tigue that is a fundamental part of high-levelswimming training. Swimmers should be en-couraged to see fatigue as a feature of training
to be respected and not necessarily feared.
Overtraining  refers to poor training and racing
over an extended period of time that doesn’t, at
least initially, respond to rest and recovery.
Careful management of training loads and suf-ficient rest and recovery maximize the benefits
obtained from training and minimize the risk
of overtraining.
Indicators of overreaching and overtraining
include poor performance, recurrent illness,injury, elevated heart rate, muscle sorenessduring recovery, acute localized fatigue during
exercise, faster onset of fatigue, and higher
ratings of perceived exertion (Rowbottom,Keast, and Morton 1998).
Physiological parameters that have been
studied as possible markers of overtraininginclude resting and postexercise heart rate and
blood pressure; resting and exercise oxygen
consumption; and blood levels of proteins, en-zymes, and hormones. Despite a large amount
of research, the results of these tests have proved
inconsistent. Self-reported ratings of well-be-ing may provide a better means of monitoring
overtraining and recovery in highly trained
swimmers (Hooper et al. 1995). The systemrequires swimmers to record subjective ratings1.20
1.10
1.00
0.90
0.80
0.70
0.60
April 11, 1996
Nov. 26, 1996
Feb. 12, 1997
Mar. 20, 1997
June 23, 1996
Aug. 18, 1997
Nov. 3, 1997
Mar. 5, 1998
April 16, 1998
Aug. 20, 1998
Feb. 18, 1999
June 24, 1999
Oct. 4, 1999
Jan. 24, 20000.50
Figure 9.4 Coefficient of body composition
(calculated as the ratio of body mass in kilograms/
sum of skinfolds in millimeters) in a male swimmer
over a four-year period. The trend line is a fittedpolynomial curve showing the long-term trends in
body composition.

162 Breakthrough Swimming
of quality of sleep, fatigue, stress, and muscle
soreness on a scale of 1 to 7, from very, very low,or good (point 1) to very, very high, or bad
(point 7).
Fatigue and recovery occur more quickly in
simple tasks such as swimming. Drills andactivities with higher skill levels tend to cause
fatigue more slowly. The nature of the recoveryactivity influences its effectiveness, and this is
best illustrated by the widespread practice of
active recovery (low- to moderate-intensityswimming) during training sessions and after
racing.
Other recovery strategies include rest; the
use of flotation devices and equipment, such asthe pull buoy and kickboard; fluid replacement
and dietary considerations; remedial massage;and alternating hot and cold water treatments
using a spa, shower, or bath. Training volume
and intensity should be managed carefully.
Altitude Training
Should coaches use altitude training to preparetheir swimmers for competition? Swimmersfrom many nations have trained at altitude
(1,300 to 2,500 meters) for varying lengths of
time to prepare for competition at altitude or,more commonly, to accelerate the normal rate
of physiological adaptation that occurs at sea
level.
Despite its relative popularity, the scientific
community is still largely divided on whethersignificant physiological and performance ben-efits are obtained (Stray-Gundersen and Levine
1999). However, a number of coaches and swim-
mers report substantial improvements in per-formance after altitude training and continue
to use this form of preparation.
High-altitude exposure imposes significant
physiological stress on the human body, andcare needs to be exercised when training at race
pace. Much of the knowledge of altitude train-ing was accumulated during the 1970s and
1980s after the Mexico City Olympic Games in
1968. Many of the leading swimming nations(including the United States, China, Germany,
Australia, Great Britain, Italy, Canada, France,
and Japan) have some swimmers using alti-tude training.A typical 21-day altitude training program is
normally divided into three phases: an initialacclimatization phase (days 1 through 3), the
main training phases (days 4 through 18), and
a final recovery phase (days 19 through 21). Themain training phase can consist of up to four
microcycles, each three to four days in duration
(figure 9.5). Within each day, swimmers cantrain up to three times in the pool with supple-
mentary dry-land training.
Training volumes can reach 16 kilometers
per day, with a total of 140 to 210 kilometersover a three-week camp for sprint and distance
swimmers. Training of this type elicited mod-est but significant improvements in Australian
national team swimmers in their 200-meter
maximal swimming time at altitude and onreturn to sea level (Pyne 1998).
The timing of competition after altitude train-
ing is widely debated. On return to sea level,most swimmers would compete within 10 to 28
days after altitude. Experienced coaches have a
preferred altitude-competition schedule, al-though these are generally based on opinion
rather than objective experimental data. Con-
siderable individual variation exists amongathletes in their response to altitude training;
this is partly related to the adequacy of iron
stores (Chapman, Stray-Gundersen, and Levine1998).
Illness and Immunity
in Swimmers
Many swimmers and coaches have expressed
concern that high-level training leads to in-
creased risk of illness and infection. Despite theinterest in the area and many experimental
studies, it remains unclear if the immune sys-
tem and overall health are significantly com-promised by high-level training.
Critical assessment of the relevant studies
shows that the incidence of illness is only likelyto be increased in two specific groups of ath-
letes. Swimmers undertaking longer competi-
tive events (distance and open-water swim-mers) or those suffering from the consequences
of excessive training volume and intensity
coupled with inadequate recovery may be atrisk (Pyne and Gleeson 1998).

163Training I Training IITraining III Training IVFinal
Off
Initial
Microcycle 1Microcycle 2 Microcycle 3Microcycle 4 Microcycle 5Microcycle 6
A.M.1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1 01 11 21 31 41 51 61 71 81 92 02 1
DayMon. Tue. Wed. Thu. Fri. Sat. Sun. Mon. Tue. Wed. Thu. Fri. Sat. Sun. Mon. Tue. Wed. Thu. Fri. Sat. Sun.Off Off
Microcycle 1Microcycle 2 Microcycle 3Microcycle 4 Microcycle 5Microcycle 6 25.0
25.035.040.040.035.0
Total (km)200.0
25.060.0100.0140.0175.0
7.0
4.05.0 5.0 6.06.05.0
5.0
7.0
Volume5.0 4.0
5.06.06.04.0
P.M.OffOffOffOff
Sessions3
233 3 3 33
322
22 22 22
2
Volume5.0
5.0 4.0 5.05.05.0
5.0 5.0
5.0
4.05.05.05.0 5.0
3.0
Volume3.0
5.03.0 3.0 3.03.03.0
3.0
3.04.0 3.0
5.04.0
4.0
Total9.013.0 12.0 14.0 15.014.013.0
13.0
15.09.0 7.0
9.010.011.011.09.0 9.0
7.0
NoonOffOff
Off
Figure 9.5Schematic diagram showing the structure of a typical 21-day altitude training program undertaken by international-
level swimmers. The program is divided into six 3-day microcycles, with three complete rest days. The total volume is 200 kilometers.

164 Breakthrough Swimming
A recent study in Australia showed that
highly trained swimmers have no more illness
than sedentary or moderately trained age- and
sex-matched individuals (table 9.4). The swim-
mers had an average of 2.9 upper respiratorytract illnesses (e.g., common cold), which com-
pared favorably with the general population
mean of 3.0 illnesses per year (Fricker et al.2000).
Management of swimmers with a history of
illness is based on maintaining a healthy im-mune system and minimizing exposure to in-
fected individuals (Pyne et al. 2000). The im-
mune system is influenced by a wide range ofphysical, environmental, psychological, and
behavioral factors that collectively form the
basis of the recommended intervention strate-gies (Pyne et al. 2000). Reducing the risk of
illness requires the cooperation of athletes,
coaches, and team staff (table 9.5). Swimmerssuffering respiratory illness during the finalfew weeks before competition are likely toexperience a decrement in performance (Pyne
et al. 2001).
Coaches are responsible for training loads,
which directly influence immune function.Moderate-intensity training can boost immu-
nity, but high-intensity training can cause tem-porary suppression of immunity in some swim-
mers. Team management members are
responsible for the provision of suitable accom-modation, transportation, and training facili-
ties. Medical staff are responsible for screening
team members and providing medical care andmedication to treat illness. Most important, the
behavioral and self-management skills of swim-
mers play a significant role in reducing the riskof illness. Swimmers should be educated and
reminded of the importance of hygiene, ad-
equate sleep, diet, and other lifestyle factors.
Table 9.5 Strategies to Limit the Risk of Illness in Highly Trained Swimmers
Strategy Recommendations
Training Carefully manage training volume and intensity, and make provision for adequate rest
and recovery periods.
Environmental Limit initial exposure when training or competing in adverse environmental conditions
(heat, humidity, altitude, air pollution, etc.).
Psychological Teach swimmers self-management and coping skills. Monitor swimmers’ responses to
individual and team stresses of high-level training and competition.
Behavioral Adopt a well-balanced diet with adequate intake of macro- and micronutrients. Limit
transmission of contagious illnesses by reducing exposure to common infections,
airborne pathogens, and physical contact with infected individuals.
Clinical Liaise with team or family doctor. Organize medical screening prior to travel or major
competition. Check immunization and vaccination schedules.Table 9.4 Incidence of Upper Respiratory and Gastrointestinal Illness
in 97 Swimming Scholarship Holders at the Australian Institute
of Sport (1988–1998)
Average age % URI/year % of four or % GITI/year
Group (range) (range) more URI/year (range)
Male (n = 56) 19 (16–25) 2.5 (0–8) 15 0.4 (0–2)
Female (n = 41) 17 (14–33) 3.1 (0–10) 22 0.7 (0–3)
URI = upper respiratory illness
GITI = gastrointestinal tract illness

Physiological Research and Applications 165
Practical Guidelines
and Recommendations
Application of training principles, experience,
and the results of scientific investigation giverise to several practical suggestions to maxi-
mize the benefits from training (Pyne 1999a).
Quality of training should be emphasized oversheer effort. While the need for swimmers to
tough out their workouts cannot be discounted,
it’s preferable for swimmers to reach desiredspeeds.
One-pace training should be limited. Swim-
mers should be encouraged to become profi-cient through a full range of swimming speeds.
Sprint swimmers should develop speed on a
foundation of endurance fitness; middle-distance swimmers need to blend speed and
endurance; distance swimmers should focus
on developing the various aspects of endur-ance fitness. Muscular strength and endurance
are important for all events and should be
developed in both pool and dry-land training.Fitness should be maintained throughout the
year rather than relying on a big preparation
for major competitions.
Individual variability in recovery potential,
exercise capacity, and tolerance to stress ex-plains the range of vulnerability among swim-mers under similar training regimes. Part of the
reason for these differences is that most swim-
mers are able to train with very high loads,provided the program includes strategies de-
vised to control the overall strain and stress.
Swimmers should be encouraged to undertakeintensive training programs in the knowledge
that variations in performance and fatigue are
to be expected and are not necessarily prob-lems to overcome.
In accordance with these concepts, it is rec-
ommended that a swimmer should:
• start training with a program of low to
moderate volume and intensity;
• employ a gradual periodized increase in
training volumes and loads;
• use a variety of training volumes and
intensities to avoid monotony and stress;
• avoid excessive mileage that could lead
to exhaustion, illness, or injury;• include some nonspecific cross training
to offset staleness; and
• include sufficient rest and recovery.
Science and Swimming:
Future Directions
Research in the sport and exercise sciences
expands at an ever-increasing rate. In the pe-
riod from 1950 to the early 1970s, the focus ofmost scientific work was primarily at the organ
and whole-body level. Many studies showed
the importance of cardiorespiratory fitness,body size, flexibility, muscle strength, and
power, illustrating how these attributes could
be improved through athletic training.
In the 1980s and 1990s, advancements in
medical instrumentation and technologyshifted focus to examining the effects of exer-cise and training at the cellular level (Baldwin
2000). This period saw a great deal of interest in
using emerging medical technologies to studymuscle and blood. This situation persists to-
day, where highly trained swimmers are rou-
tinely tested for parameters such as heart rateand blood lactate.
The next few decades of the 21st century will
see application of molecular biology tools insports science research (Baldwin 2000). The
new molecular tools center on gene cloning
and sequencing technology and molecularprobing to identify different cells and cellular
structures.
At present, most attention is directed toward
solving the medical complexities of heart dis-ease, diabetes, obesity, aging, and cancer. Fu-
ture work in the exercise and sport sciences willtarget such issues as identification of geneti-
cally gifted athletes, optimization of training
programs, enhanced injury treatment, and im-proved detection of fatigue.
Advancements in the different scientific dis-
ciplines will continue to shape the evolution ofswim training and performance. Ultimately,
improvements will come from a deeper under-
standing of the primary factors contributing toswim performance. Scientists will continue to
work with coaches and swimmers in their quest
to improve training and competition perfor-mance.

167Chapter 10
Development of a
Training Program
Planning a successful season train-
ing program entails more than de-
signing a series of workouts thatbring a team to peak form at the
championship season. A systematic
approach should consider all theother factors that may influence per-
formance.
These factors include the type of
meets in which the team intends tocompete, the particular league or
conference and the specific events
for which the swimmers need to
prepare, the dates of major competi-
tions, the amount of pool time avail-able for training, and the training
background of each swimmer onthe team. To provide motivation forpurposeful ef fort throughout the
season, team as well as individual
goals should be established soonafter the team has gathered to begin
training.
In this chapter, we examine the
methods of developing an effective
training pr ogram based on each
swimmer ’s characteristics. Each
training method produces specific
effects so the coach must know
which training format will provide
the best results for each swimmer.
For example, a swimmer in a college
program will need to balance train-ing with academic responsibilities.
Therefore, the most effective train-ing method that
  produces maximum

168 Breakthrough Swimming
results within the confines of the athlete’s sched-
ule should be used.
The Individual Swimmer
Because there is no average person, you cannot
uniformly apply a single method. What is good
for one may not be good for another. AlbertEinstein, just before he died, said that one of the
few things that he felt sure about was that the
individual is unique. And the individualchanges with time—no person is the same per-
son today as last year. We cannot successfully
train swimmers with canned, cut-and-dried,overstandardized methods. A swimmer’s de-
velopment, or any human development for
that matter, can never be an assembly-line orstamping-machine process.
The coach should know the training history
of every swimmer. This knowledge lets thecoach carefully plan workloads in accordance
with each swimmer’s capacity. To set a training
program that is beyond a swimmer’s abilityinvites failure, but a program that is too easy
does not offer a realistic challenge.
Swimmers react differently to the same train-
ing workload, and they have different poten-tials for improvement. Genetic factors set limi-
tations, physiological and psychological, onone’s level of achievement. It also appears that
not too much can be done to change tempera-
ment. A coach may encounter a wide range oftemperaments among swimmers on a team,
from unstable neuroticism to the spontaneous
cheerfulness that is so often characteristic of thephysiologically robust.
A coach can usually expect different re-
sponses from athletes at various levels of matu-rity, especially in their reactions to stress and
their abilities to handle the training workload.
The coach should recognize and respect thesedifferences and avoid treating younger ath-
letes as miniature adults.
The importance of good nutrition as a major
factor in performance should not be overlooked.And for athletes to maintain improvement
within a regimen of hard training, adequaterest is a prime essential. Many athletes, trying
to keep pace in modern urban society, tend to
neglect the importance of rest, at night andbetween twice-daily workouts. Quality rest al-lows for regeneration of the body and adapta-tion to stress. In fact, rest can be regarded as
unseen training.
A coach should observe each swimmer’s
reactions to training, particularly during themost demanding phase of the season, to plan
workouts compatible with the individual’s abil-ity to tolerate stress. The coach should assess
the accumulative stress placed on the swimmer
and use this knowledge to plan the taperingperiod as carefully as possible.
Individual Capacity for Training
It is not understood what makes a great athlete
different from a mediocre one of similar phy-
sique; skill, economy of movement, and tenac-ity must all play a part. It is difficult enough to
find out how any muscle works—subtle differ-
ences among individuals are still beyond ourmeans. It is thus a mistake for swimmers to
slavishly copy the training methods of champi-
ons. Many years of conditioning are necessarybefore a swimmer can hope to emulate their
workloads.
The coach should understand the athlete’s
present state of training; the fitter the athlete,the less improvement that can be expected.
Effective coaching requires that the trainingoverload be applied carefully until the coach
knows how an athlete reacts to stress. Another
reason coaches should study and understandindividual reactions is that athletes differ in
their reactions to stress and to training formats.
The constitutional limitations of the indi-
vidual constrain the rate of improvement andthe amount of training that can be absorbed. A
coach who knows the maximal capacity of anathlete can carefully plan the intensity and
duration of the training effort. If the athlete
does not appear to be adapting to the trainingworkload after about two weeks, the coach
should reassess the type of stress placed on the
athlete. Although physiological monitoring—particularly blood lactate measurement—may
indicate a swimmer’s reaction to training, most
teams lack ready access to facilities for it.Counsilman’s three basic tests for assessing a
swimmer’s progress are easily applied, how-
ever, and provide an effective measure, espe-

Development of a Training Program 169
cially in that the results can be readily com-
pared with a swimmer’s previous workoutsusing the same repeat sets (Counsilman 1968).
Counsilman’s three tests are the average time
for a set of repeat swims; the pulse rate afterexercise; and the swimmer’s stroke rate counted
on the last length of every second, third, or
fourth repeat swim.
The Individual Swimmer
in the Team Setting
Should practices be scheduled for the team or
for its individual members? This simple ques-
tion may elicit further questions that touch on
the training policies of different teams and onimportant aspects of the philosophy of swim-
ming. Non-state controlled programs have
tended to skirt this important issue. The largesize of many teams, often an economic neces-
sity, and the consequent wide range of indi-
vidual ability often present a formidable chal-lenge to the coaching staff.
It is important to remember that competitive
swimming is ultimately an individual sport.Particularly at the higher levels of competition
where really talented athletes are involved, it
has become absolutely necessary to know agreat deal about the individual athlete to fully
develop that person’s potential. We need to
know more about each swimmer and to sched-ule training along individual lines, yet this
does not happen in most teams. Although many
coaches think this is their approach, close scru-tiny often reveals it is not.
In fact, most schedules take form either
around the requirements of a few championathletes or, at the other extreme, where a team
has no outstanding swimmers, around the av-
erage needs of the group, which is at best ashotgun method.
During the development of the novice com-
petitor, the shotgun method may produce im-provement for a while. But regardless of a
swimmer’s level of maturity, it will not pro-
duce the best possible results; rather, it createsswimmers cast in the same mold with little
regard for their individuality.
In this type of program, it is common to hear
much about the success of a few outstandingswimmers but little about those who fail. Thepity is that youngsters seldom learn to enjoy
and fully appreciate the subtle challenges ofthe sport. Many young swimmers do not flour-
ish as they should because they are in a pro-
gram with little if any instruction in stroketechniques or the whys and wherefores of train-
ing, paces, strategies, and so on.
The first pitfall for a coach is thus the stan-
dardized workout in which an entire group issubjected to the same schedule. The standard-
ization of workouts has become traditional inmany teams at all levels, from local to interna-
tional. The coach walks on deck and writes the
workout on the board for the whole team.Nevertheless, the idea that what is good for the
champions is good for everyone is not neces-
sarily true.
Training Formats
Although the formats of most top-level train-ing programs often have a distinct similarity,
differences in planning arise from the specific
requirements of each team. Other modifica-tions may occur as a coach tries out new ideas.
Many considerations affect the design of a
training program. For example, when coachingcollege athletes an effort must be made to help
them effectively balance their available time
between academic obligations and the demandsof training. Older athletes have no time to
waste on training items of doubtful value. It is
especially important that each of their work-outs be as specific as possible with no extrane-
ous items.
A well-planned conditioning program
should enable a swimmer gradually to im-prove the physiological qualities necessary to
produce peak performances in the season’smajor meets. Effective training consists of cycles
of varied activity, each aimed at a specific pur-
pose.
Weight Training
Weight training is done for a half hour everyday for the first 8 to 12 weeks of the season.
Later in the season the frequency is reduced to
three days a week. Some type of weight train-ing should continue to within 14 days of the

170 Breakthrough Swimming
do pulling drills with their feet immobilized in
a tube or to use paddles and the pull buoy. Hesays that these methods are a form of resistance
training and as such fit his definition of weight
training.
The Biokinetic Swim Bench
Counsilman (1979) refers to biokinetics as the
ultimate exercise, in that it permits a swimmer
to accelerate the simulated swimming strokewhile recruiting muscle fibers in the same se-
quence as actual swimming. The biokinetic
machine is said to be the only exercise machinecapable of measuring work done in terms of
force, time, and distance.
Counsilman reports that swimmers at Indi-
ana University were tested once a week toassess the total amount of work that they could
create in 10 seconds, 30 seconds, and 90 sec-onds. He found that sprinters had the best
scores for work done in 10 and 30 seconds, and
the middle- distance swimmers performed bestover 90 seconds. When tested over five-minute
periods, the distance swimmers had the best
results.
Efficient Stroke Mechanics
Much emphasis should be given to establish-
ing efficient stroke mechanics in the early sea-
son. (See also chapters 3 and 6.) Neglectingstroke technique partially defeats the purpose
of training. A foundation of effective technique
should be laid during the early season. It isgood policy to include practices aimed at im-
proving a swimmer’s ability to feel and control
the flow of the water. This should be doneduring warm-up and throughout the work-
out.
Emphasis should be placed on taking fewer
strokes per length of the pool at a given speed.In other words, keep the speed constant and
reduce the number of strokes per length. As theseason progresses, speed should increase while
the number of strokes either remains the same
or is reduced. Ability to reduce stroke frequencywhile increasing speed is a reliable indication
of a swimmer’s improving fitness and effi-
ciency.national championships or whatever majormeet the team may enter. It is important thatstrength work continue as late as possible into
the season to retain strength gains.
Stretching exercises to keep the joints flex-
ible should always be an integral part of anyweight-training program. Nort Thornton (1979),
one of the pioneers of weight training for swim-ming when coaching world-record breaker
Steve Clarke in 1961, stresses that strength train-
ing and flexibility work should always be donetogether and that it is a big mistake to do one
without the other.
Swimmers on Thornton’s team at the Uni-
versity of California at Berkeley lift very heavyweights three days per week, on Monday ,
Wednesday, and Friday. The other days—Tuesday , Thursday, and Saturday—are de-
voted to work done on the biokinetic swim
bench and geared toward developing speedand strength.
Ron Johnson (1978), another expert condi-
tioner of swimmers and a renowned masterswimmer, also insists that deck training must
include exercises for the development of
strength, endurance, and flexibility. He saysthat though not all teams can afford expensive
and often elaborately equipped exercise ma-
chines, it is possible to do effective strengthtraining with free weights. Johnson maintains
that most strength programs for swimming do
not provide enough sets or repetitions, and hepoints out that emphasis should be changed
from one muscle group to another after a par-
ticular muscle group has been broken downthrough strenuous exercise.
Not all leading coaches have used weight
training to the same extent, however. For ex-ample, Jochums (1982) expresses the view that
weight training provides only psychological
benefits and uses it with his sprint swimmers,who look at their arms in a mirror and believe
they have become stronger and thus will swim
faster.
Jochums believes weight training transfers
only a very slight gain to swimming but prob-ably enough to make a difference. He adds thatwomen swimmers may need weight training,
but his personal preference is for swimmers to

Development of a Training Program 171
that the two types of training could not be
combined for optimal results over a long pe-riod of time because improvement in base
conditioning requires a large reserve of adap-
tation energy. (Adaptation energy permits thebody to respond favorably to increased stress
overload.) This reserve is quickly depleted by
the fast swimming needed for sharpening work.Base training is like money in the bank, but
sharpening, when done properly, is like taking
out the accumulated interest. When done im-properly, sharpening is like draining one’s fi-
nancial reserves. Thornton outlines the follow-
ing characteristics of base training andsharpening training.
The swimmer’s base conditioning can be
measured by the performance he or she canproduce without specific muscular adaptation
for an event. This is best achieved through
long, controlled swimming. The base has thefollowing features:
• It can be improved continuously, even
over many years.
• It can only be developed at a slow rate—
in fact, much more slowly than the ob-served improvement from sharpeningtraining.
• Its effects are long lasting and not easily
destroyed. Swimmers who have takenthe time to build a good base often ob-
serve that competitive performance re-
mains essentially the same even after aconsiderable reduction in training.
• The slow pace used in its development
and the requirement of freshness reducethe likelihood of injury or illness.
Sharpening adds muscular and neuromus-
cular efficiency to the circulatory efficiencygained from the swimmer’s base training.
Sharpening training involves numerous rep-
etitions of a short distance at a racing pace orfaster. The essential features of sharpening are
as follows:
• Its effects are short-lived and at times
appear volatile. The high performancelevel that results rarely lasts longer than
three months.The Two Main Aspects
of Training
Most descriptions of training routines refer todifferences between duration and intensity of
exercise. Nort Thornton, one of America’s most
consistently successful coaches over a 30-yearperiod, brought these two terms into a more
practical focus by referring to them as base
training  and sharpening training, adding that a
correct combination of the two gives a swim-mer an overall capacity to swim a race in the
most effective way (Thornton 1987).
Thornton describes base training as the inner
basic strength of the athlete that results fromyears of training and produces a performancewithout specific muscle adaptation for that
event. Such a base is usually best built through
long, slow-distance training at a pace well withinone’s capacity for a long period of time.
For sharpening work, Thornton recom-
mended training techniques that produce effi-cient muscular coordination for a chosen event.
He believed that pace work, such as broken
swims or ideal pace rehearsal swims, conditionthe reflexes for peak efficiency at speed. Sharp-
ening work is basically muscular and neuro-
logical in nature, whereas base training condi-tions primarily the circulatory system.
Thornton also said that a swimmer’s future
capacity to perform well in a given race de-pends on ideal proportions of base work and
sharpening. Too many swimmers were con-
stantly sharpening and devoting little time todeveloping the essential base conditioning. It
was important that enough time be devoted to
building the ideal base of aerobic endurancenecessary for world-class performance.
Thornton added that any good engineer
could gauge the approximate height and size ofa new building by looking at the size (depth
and width) of the new foundation. A skyscraper
cannot be built without a large enough founda-tion; nor can you expect to achieve world-class
performance without an adequate base.
Thornton pointed out that although base
training and sharpening training are neces-sary for best results, they are in many ways
opposite from each other. His experience was

172 Breakthrough Swimming
• When done properly, astonishing im-
provement can be observed within just
six weeks.
• Special care is necessary when attempt-
ing this type of conditioning, for if notdone properly it can result in perfor-
mances inferior to the athlete’s base.
• The faster pace of this training more
easily provokes injury and illness, whichthus must be consciously avoided.
• Sharpening training can drive the ath-
lete into a slump if continued too long. Itmust be terminated after about three
months or when symptoms of energydepletion are first noticed.
In his classic presentation, Thornton (1987)
outlines three hypothetical case histories inwhich swimmer A, swimmer B, and swimmerC use different combinations of base training
and sharpening training while training for the
same event.
Swimmer A trained only at race pace or
faster using successive short-distance repeti-tions. Swimmer A’s performances, which wereerratic and sometimes totally unpredictable,
showed little basic improvement from the fresh-
man through senior year.
Swimmer B wisely used a combination of
various forms of interval training throughoutthe year but did not swim as hard or as fastwhile training as swimmer A did. Swimmer B
did not swim to depletion and maintained a
wise balance of stress and recovery. Swimmer Balso did not experience the extreme slumps
swimmer A did. Swimmer B’s base level im-
proved significantly over four years and, whencombined with sharpening, resulted in greatly
improved performance in the senior year.
Swimmer C used the type of training that
produces optimal results over many years be-cause it most dramatically improves the base
level of the swimmer. Swimmer C did sharpen-ing training only before the most important
races. The rest of the year, swimmer C trained
at a slower pace to improve the base level.Although swimmer C spent much of the year
training at base level, this swimmer performed
better in the senior year than swimmer A orswimmer B because swimmer C’s base levelwas higher than either of the other two. Whensharpening was added, optimal performancewas attained.
Thornton summarizes his three hypotheti-
cal case histories by saying that the swimmerwho conditioned first with long, slow-distance
training is like a builder who lays a strong and
deep foundation for a skyscraper. Swimmer A,who began with speed work, is like a builder
who lays a weak foundation to get the first few
stories of the structure up quickly. Swimmer Ashowed the fastest initial improvement. How-
ever, just as the weak foundation severely lim-
its the height to which the builder can build, sotoo inadequate conditioning limits the hasty
swimmer’s future performances. Swimmer B,
who combines base training and sharpeningtraining throughout the year, eventually builds
to greatly improved performance in the senior
year. However, swimmer C, who did sharpen-ing training only before the most important
races, was more successful than swimmer A
and swimmer B. Swimmer C started slowlyand eventually surpassed the others because
this swimmer’s larger foundation provided
the base from which higher and higher perfor-mances could be launched.
The Good and Bad Effects
of Three Types of Training
No one form of training suits every situation.
Knowing the pros and cons of each regimen
helps coaches maximize the training effect.
Long, slow-distance training  involves long
swims at a steady pace, well within the capac-ity of the swimmer yet still requiring a realswimming effort (such as 1:00 to 1:15 per 100
yards). Usually, the swimmer stops long before
becoming exhausted. Long, slow-distance train-ing conditions the cardiovascular system, helps
develop robust health, helps prevent injuries,
produces continuous improvement (althoughat a very slow rate), develops a swimmer’s base
level, and has a desharpening effect, thus per-
mitting the swimmer to conserve adaptationenergy. Unfortunately, long, slow-distance
training also has little effect on muscle strength
and thus does not prepare a swimmer for fastracing, does not develop efficiency and coordi-

Development of a Training Program 173
nation for swimming at race pace, and has a
desharpening effect, resulting in slower racingtimes during midseason.
Distances covered in race pace training  should
be about three-fourths of the racing distance.This is perhaps the most taxing of all training
techniques. Race pace training develops a keen
sense of race pace and teaches the swimmer torelax at actual racing pace and to master effi-
ciency of movement. On the bad side, it also is
very taxing to the swimmer, will quickly breakthe swimmer down if done frequently, and
increases the likelihood of illness and injury by
producing greater fatigue than usual.
Interval speed training, also known as repeti-
tion training (see chapter 7), refers to frequentrepetitions of a short distance at a speed fasterthan race pace. Interval speed training teaches
the swimmer to relax when swimming at speed,
helps the swimmer to learn efficient coordina-tion when swimming at speed, develops muscle
strength, has a fast sharpening effect, and often
results in astonishingly rapid improvement.Two bad effects of interval speed training are
that it robs the swimmer of adaptation energy
and thus, if continued, could cause illness,injury, or poor performances, and that it places
a great strain on the tendons because of its fast
pace and can easily result in injury. It can drawa swimmer into a slump quickly if done im-
properly. Thus, great care must be exercised to
see that interval speed training is effectivelyperformed, as it can improve a swimmer who
uses it well (Thornton 1987, p. 11).
The Energy Continuum
ATP (adenosine triphosphate) is a nucleotide
compound found in all cells but chiefly in
striated muscle. It is the energy source of the
muscles and is supplied to them in three ways.In two of these ways, oxygen is not a prerequi-
site in producing ATP; these two methods are
called anaerobic , meaning “without oxygen.” In
the third method, oxygen is a prime ingredient
in manufacturing ATP; this method is called
aerobic , meaning “with oxygen.”
The body’s three chemical systems for pro-
ducing ATP are the ATP-CP system (anaero-bic); the lactic acid, or LA, system (anaerobic);and the oxygen system (aerobic). The durationof a swimming event determines which of thesethree methods comes into effect during the
activity. Most swimming events engage at least
two of the energy systems. Swimming eventsof approximately one minute involve all three
systems. No matter what the duration, one
system usually dominates the other systemsduring any one event. Thus, if the energy sys-
tem predominant in an event is improved
through specific training, the swimmer’s per-formance in that event will also improve.
Let’s first look at the ATP-CP system. Creat-
ine phosphate (CP) and ATP are stored in themuscles in relatively small quantities. Energy
can be supplied by this system for a short time
only, for example, a 25-yard sprint. If all-outeffort is continued for longer than approxi-
mately 10 seconds, energy is drawn increas-
ingly from the LA system.
After ATP-CP has been depleted, the pro-
duction of ATP depends on energy in the formof sugar (glucose) stored in the muscles. Thefocus shifts to the lactic acid (LA) system. When
the supply of oxygen is inadequate, glucose is
broken down to lactic acid, allowing ATP to beproduced. The accumulation of lactic acid and
oxygen debt become limiting factors to perfor-
mance and are associated with painful fatigue.All-out swimming for periods of one to three
minutes draws energy primarily from the LA
system.
ATP is manufactured most efficiently and
abundantly in the presence of oxygen (aero-bic). Lactic acid and glycogen are resynthe-sized by the supply of oxygen. The aerobic
system dominates in work over two minutes
long.
Chemical Changes in Muscle
The primary chemical change in a contracting
muscle is the oxidation (burning) of the carbon
and hydrogen in the carbohydrate glycogenand the production of carbon dioxide and wa-
ter as in any other engine. In the case of a
muscle, however, energy is stored in advanceof combustion in a readily available form, just
as an automobile battery is charged so that
electricity is immediately available for starting.

174 Breakthrough Swimming
exercise, before oxygen supply has been in-
creased by circulatory and respiratory adjust-ments. Second, it is used during exercise inten-
sity in which all the energy cannot be supplied
by aerobic metabolism.
During oxygen deficiency, the body makes a
little high-energy phosphate as a result of theanaerobic breakdown of carbohydrate to lacticacid, which accumulates in the blood as lac-
tate. This waste of combustible lactate is un-
economical, but it makes the body more ca-pable of withstanding a physical emergency.
Figure 10.1 diagrams the chemical changes
that take place.The substance stored in the muscle is ad-
enosine triphosphate. Through its two mol-ecules of high-energy phosphate, ATP liberates
much more energy when split up than any
other phosphate. Applying ATP to threads ofactomyosin (the sliding filaments in muscle
fiber) causes them to contract. ATP is made
fairly rapidly from ADP (adenosine diphos-phate) and from creatine phosphate, both of
which have high-energy phosphorus.
Storing energy as organic compounds of
phosphorus enables a muscle to continue con-tracting in the absence of oxygen for a long
time—indeed, until all its creatine phosphatehas been converted into creatine. It cannot,
however, recover without oxygen, for this is
necessary to recharge creatine and adenosinewith high-energy phosphate. The muscle may
therefore accumulate considerable oxygen debt.
Although a swimmer may take in a largeamount of oxygen during a race, it may not be
nearly enough to recharge the chemical sys-
tem. The swimmer must pay off the oxygendebt by taking in a large amount of oxygen after
the race is over, which is often indicated by
continued breathlessness, for example, after a100-meter swim.
Anaerobic Metabolism
When the oxygen supply is insufficient to pro-
vide all the needed energy from aerobic me-
tabolism, the balance of the energy requirementis derived from anaerobic metabolism. Con-
tracting muscles produce lactic acid when their
supply of oxygen is inadequate to meet energyrequirements. Pyruvic acid is formed by glyco-
lysis and converted to lactic acid. This action
regenerates one of the factors (NAD+) requiredto maintain glycolysis. The rise in the concen-
tration of lactic acid in the blood indicates the
amount of anaerobic metabolism involved.
The disadvantages of anaerobic metabolism
are the low yield of ATP (two molecules permolecule of glucose utilized) and the forma-tion of lactic acid. A further disadvantage un-
der some conditions is that only carbohydrate
can be used in anaerobic metabolism. In spite ofthese drawbacks, anaerobic metabolism is in-
dispensable in two circumstances. First, it is an
immediate source of energy at the beginning ofThe machineThe fuel
(carbohydrates)
AdenineRecoveryActomyosin Glucose (of blood)
(by insulin)
E
ATP
ADP
CP
CreatineP Glycogen (of muscle)
Hexose phosphates Contraction Intermediate phosphates
Pyruvates
Air
Lactates
CO2 /H11001 H 2OOxygen/H33360P( 1m )
/H33360P( 4
m)
/H33360P( 3 6m )Liver
Figure 10.1 The chemistry of muscle contraction.
The Lactate/Ventilatory Threshold
The more arduous the exercise, the more lactic
acid accumulates in the muscle cells and dif-
fuses into the bloodstream. Performance de-clines once the amount of blood lactate reaches
a certain level.
By measuring heart rate and blood lactate we
can assess a swimmer’s response to different

Development of a Training Program 175
workloads. Pyne and Telford (1989), who did
continuing research work on the pool deck foreight years with Australia’s leading international
swimmers, confirmed that although lactate mea-
surements have contributed to a better under-standing of the physiology of swimming train-
ing, coaches without access to lactate testing find
that simply measuring heart rate provides veryuseful information in training classifications.
The exercise rate at which an athlete’s blood
lactate level, although elevated, will not con-tinue to rise is known as the lactate/ventilatory,
or anaerobic, threshold. The average value is
3.5 to 4.0 millimoles per liter and up for allswimming distances, although Pyne and
Telford mention that this threshold can vary
from 3 to 6 millimoles in well-conditioned,middle-distance swimmers.
Some physiologists maintain that 80 to 90
percent of training should be done at this level.Improved speed over longer distance results
from being able to swim faster while retaining
a lactate level equal to or lower than that previ-ously produced at lower speeds. Years ago, I
coined a saying in this connection: “The anaero-
bic work of today is the aerobic work of tomor-row.” A good example of this is that there was
a time when beating 60 seconds for the 100-
meter crawl was considered a notable feat for amale swimmer and also was one that put him
into severe anaerobic distress. Top swimmers
now regularly average well under 60 secondsfor each 100 meters over 400 meters, and swim-
mers such as Kieren Perkins, Grant Hackett,
Daniel Kowalski, Glen Houseman, VladimirSalnikov, Chris Thompson, Alexi Filipets,
Emiliano Brembilla, Erik Vendt, and Stefan
Pfieffer have accomplished this feat over 1,500meters.
The lactate/ventilatory threshold is not re-
ally a new concept but merely a new term forwhat physiologists used to call “maximum
steady state work” (Morehouse and Miller 1971)
and what some coaches still term “fastest com-fortable pace.” Morehouse and Miller (1971)
say that a constant level of oxygen intake dur-
ing exercise is not sufficient evidence of a steadystate. The oxygen consumption may be con-
stant simply because the athlete has reached
the maximal level of oxygen intake, yet lacticacid may be accumulating.According to Morehouse and Miller, the
maximum rate of sustained work describes aperson’s ability to maintain steady state activ-
ity at high levels of exertion. The aim of such
training is to improve the athlete’s physicalcondition so that the organs can sustain a physi-
ological equilibrium at increasingly higher lev-
els of activity. In the process, a swimmer learnsto recognize the maximum rate that can be
maintained in a physiological steady state.
Pyne and Telford (1989) make the important
observation that swimmers who swam so-calledthreshold sets often did not achieve their lac-
tate and heart rate targets. They emphasize thatswimmers need to swim very fast when doing
threshold workouts, adding that well-
conditioned swimmers should attain heart ratesof 180 to 190 beats per minute because when
swimmers improve their aerobic fitness, higher
speeds and heart rates can be achieved beforethe lactate/ventilatory threshold is reached.
Work Time at Maximal Effort
(Approximate Distance)
According to Counsilman (1975), work is mostly
anaerobic in events less than two minutes long
(approximately 200 meters). After two min-
utes, the swimmer’s aerobic ability becomesmore important. For a 1,500-meter swim, the
oxygen system provides approximately 90 per-
cent of the energy used. Therefore training toimprove the transportation and utilization of
oxygen at the cellular level should be the focus
of a swimmer training for this event. Trainingexamples include overdistance training and
short-rest interval training (table 10.1).
Counsilman pointed out that most literature
confirmed that up to a pulse rate of 150 beatsper minute, the energy source was aerobic. At
a higher pulse rate, the body’s focus shifted toan anaerobic source of ATP. Counsilman
stressed, however, that pulse rate depends on
many factors. Thus factors such as emotion,age, individual differences, the time since eat-
ing, and the time since drinking coffee should
be considered. For coaches and swimmers whowanted to use pulse rate to determine when the
swimmer was performing aerobically and when
the swimmer was performing anaerobically,Counsilman provided the data in table 10.2.

176 Breakthrough Swimming
Counsilman warned, “In short sprints, this
table [table 10.2] has little validity. For example,
in a sprint [25 yards] the work is almost com-
pletely anaerobic, but there is little increase inpulse rate.”
Aerobic, Anaerobic,
and Sprint Training
There are three main types of training, the
effects of which combine in proportion to the
specific energy demands of the different swim-ming events. These three types of training are
aerobic, anaerobic, and sprint training. Aerobic
training enables a swimmer to maintain a fasterrate of speed through the middle stages of a
race. Anaerobic training helps a swimmer bet-
ter withstand the accumulative effects of fa-tigue. Sprint training assists a swimmer in
developing faster initial speed.
Aerobic training is performed at submaximal
levels of intensity. The primary aim of aerobictraining is to build endurance—that is, to en-
able the athlete to swim farther and faster be-
fore lactate buildup in the muscles, with its
consequent lowering of the pH level. Thegradual improvement in aerobic fitness even-
tually enables a swimmer to achieve a higher
percentage of race speed before reaching thelactate/ventilatory threshold, at which point
the body begins to experience difficulty in sup-
plying energy to the muscles by means of aero-bic metabolism.
The modern theory of endurance training is
based on the belief that much of the workshould be performed at or slightly below the
lactate/ventilatory threshold. This is commonly
believed to occur when the blood lactate hasreached approximately 4 millimoles per liter.
This type of training is known as threshold
training, and its aim is eventually to produceless lactate at higher rates of speed.
Training at the lactate/ventilatory thresh-
old is intended to improve aerobic functionTable 10.1 Work Time at Maximal Effort (Approximate Distance)
Anaerobic work Aerobic work
(%) (%)
10 sec/25 m 85 15
60 sec/100 m 60–70 30–35
2 min/200 m 50 50
4 min/400 m 30 70
20 min/1,500 m 10 90
120 min/6,000 m 1 99
From Counsilman 1975. Reprinted by permission.
Table 10.2 Pulse Rate Related to Aerobic/Anaerobic Work
Pulse rate Aerobic work Anaerobic work
(bpm) (%) (%)
Under 120 Probably 100 * See note
120–150 90–95 5–10
150–165 65–85 15–35
165–180 50–65 35–50
Over 180 Depends on anaerobic Over 50
* Little or no benefit will be derived for developing the anaerobic systems.
From Counsilman 1975. Adapted by permission.

Development of a Training Program 177
and will not improve a swimmer’s anaerobic
capacity. An improvement in aerobic fitnessis indicated by faster swimming times ac-
companied by lower blood lactate levels and
heart rates. The development of improvedaerobic capacity requires a carefully devised
long-term plan based on gradual progres-
sion, year in and year out; by the same token,the resulting adaptation will be retained for a
long time.
Whereas the aim of aerobic training is to
produce less lactate, anaerobic training aims toproduce more lactate by having the athlete
perform work at greatly increased levels ofintensity, with the deliberate purpose of build-
ing a high accumulation of lactic acid in the
muscles. The goal is to enable the muscle totolerate a high level of lactic acid and to im-
prove its capacity to buffer the accumulating
lactic acid effectively while also stemming tosome extent a decrease in pH. Work performed
at this higher level of intensity is often referred
to as lactate training.
The chemical changes resulting from severe
anaerobic training occur more quickly thanthe changes associated with aerobic training,but the effects are lost just as quickly, with a
subsequent reduction in training. The inten-
sity of the anaerobic workload should be care-fully monitored. This type of training shouldbe introduced in the training schedule at theappropriate stage of the season, and even then
it should not be used in more than two work-
outs a week because of its highly stressfulnature.
Sprint training is anaerobic and uses ATP
and creatine phosphate, which are stored in themuscles in relatively small quantities. Only
very short distances, for instance 12-1/2 to 25
meters, should be used in sprint training be-cause energy is drawn increasingly from the
lactic acid system if all-out effort continues for
more than approximately 10 seconds, and theresulting fatigue disables the swimmer from
maintaining top speed. For the same reason,
the intervals between swims should be longenough to ensure that the swimmer is able to
continue working at maximum speed.
Effects of
Varying Training Intensities
Although the preceding sections outline differ-ences among the three main forms of training,
research has enabled further delineationsamong relative levels of training intensity (table
10.3).
Table 10.3 Effects of Varying Training Intensities
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Stage 5
Type of training Low intensity Aerobic Anaerobic Race pace Short sprints
endurance endurance simulation (10–25 m)
(maximalequilibrium)
Energy source Aerobic Aerobic Aerobic/ Anaerobic Anerobic
anaerobic lactic
Heart rate (bpm) 120–150 160–170 160–190 190–200 160–180
Maximal blood
lactate (mmol/L) 1–3 2–4 6–10 8–12 3–5
Effort (%) 80 85–95 90–95 100 100
Perceived exertion Comfortable Somewhat Hard work Hurtful Fast but
uncomfortable comfortable
Adapted from Absaliamov 1984 and Pyne and Telford 1988.

178 Breakthrough Swimming
Low Intensity
Easy swimming—a comparatively relaxing
activity—can be used as a warm-up, as active
rest immediately after completing a race, or as
partial recuperation between high-intensitylactate swims. The heart rate may vary from
120 to 150 during the activity.
Aerobic Endurance
(Maximal Equilibrium)
Swimming at a high, steady pace provides a
level of intensity just below or at the lactate/ventilatory threshold. The heart rate may vary
from 160 to 170. The following sets are some
examples:
30 /H11003 50 (10 to 15 seconds rest)
20 /H11003 100 (10 to 15 seconds rest)
8 /H11003 200 (10 to 20 seconds rest)
8 /H11003 400 (15 to 30 seconds rest; any stroke)
4 /H11003 800 (15 to 30 seconds rest)
8 /H11003 200 individual medley (20 seconds rest)
1,500 meters freestyle (after the first 250meters, overkick and fist swim on alternate
laps)
4 /H11003 1,500 freestyle (30 seconds rest)
2 /H11003 3,000 freestyle (2 minutes rest)
3,000 swim (first 1,400 meters freestyle, last
1,600 meters individual medley in reverseorder with continuous 400 on each stroke)
10 /H11003 100 kick (20 seconds rest; choice of
specialty)
10 /H11003 100 pull (20 seconds rest; choice of
specialty)
To ensure that the muscle fibers used in the
other strokes are also mobilized, aerobic train-
ing should not be done entirely in freestyle.
Anaerobic Endurance
Anaerobic endurance training consists of fastswimming, in which the energy demands are
met aerobically and anaerobically. The heart
rate will be between 160 and 190, depending onthe individual and the level of fitness. This typeof training may produce blood lactate concen-trations of 6 to 10 millimoles per liter. Thefollowing sets are some examples:
30 /H11003 50 (30 to 60 seconds rest)
15 /H11003 100 (30 to 120 seconds rest)
8 /H11003 200 (30 to 120 seconds rest)
8 /H11003 400 (1 to 3 minutes rest)
4 /H11003 800 (3 to 5 minutes rest)
5 /H11003 300 (8 minutes rest; faster than 400
pace)
8 /H11003 150 (7 minutes rest; 4 /H11003 150 on specialty,
4 /H11003 150 in freestyle)
8 /H11003 200 specialty (last 50 of each 200 on
butterfly; 2 minutes rest; 1 to 4 descend)
8 /H11003 200 individual medley (1 minute rest; 1
to 4 descend)
4 /H11003 500 freestyle (3 minutes rest; 1 to 2
descend)
8 /H11003 200 (2 minutes rest; alternate 200 freestyle,
200 specialty)
Race Pace Simulation
Race pace simulation involves swimming sec-
tions nearly as long as the racing distances at
race speed or faster. This type of work producessevere anaerobic metabolism. The heart rate,
and probably the lactate concentration as well,
reaches maximum. The heart rate will be in therange of 190 to 200, again depending on the
individual and level of fitness. The lactate con-
centration reaches levels of 8 to 12 millimolesper liter.
All swims should start from a dive and be
accurately timed for future comparison againstother race pace simulations. A swimmer’s av-
erage time per set indicates progress or lack
thereof, so great importance should be placedon this type of training, which should be under-
taken only when a coach feels reasonably sure
that the swimmer is motivated to the task. Thefollowing sets are some examples.
For Sprinters
15 /H11003 50 (3 minutes rest)
10 /H11003 75 (3-1/2 minutes rest)

Development of a Training Program 179
10 /H11003 75 specialty with 25 freestyle easy swim-
back after each swim as active rest (sets 1 to
5 descend; on each fifth repeat try to improve
on the 75 split recorded on swimmer’s best-
ever 100 swim)
6 /H11003 100 (5 minutes rest)
5 /H11003 150 (5 to 10 minutes rest; last two 150
swims should be faster than the 150 split
recorded on the swimmer’s best 200 swim)
4 /H11003 200 (5 to 10 minutes rest)
For Middle-Distance Swimmers
20 /H11003 50 (2-1/2 to 3 minutes rest)
14 /H11003 75 (3-1/2 minutes rest)
10 /H11003 100 (5 minutes rest)
7 /H11003 150 (4 to 5 minutes rest)
5 /H11003 200 (5 to 6 minutes rest)
For Long-Distance Swimmers
10 /H11003 200 (3 minutes rest)
8 /H11003 250 (3-1/2 minutes rest)
7 /H11003 300 (3-1/2 minutes rest)
5 /H11003 400 (5 minutes rest)
4 /H11003 500 (6 minutes rest)
Short Sprints
Short sprints are short bursts at maximum speed
over distances of 10 to 25 meters but no farther.Depending on the swimmer and the stroke, a
swim seldom lasts longer than 10 to 15 seconds.
This type of work develops speed and is notexceptionally fatiguing unless carried out for a
long time. All swims start from a dive. The
following sets provide some examples:
32 /H11003 12-1/2 (2 minutes rest)
16 /H11003 25 (2 to 3 minutes rest)
16 /H11003 25 (3 minutes rest; alternate 25 freestyle
with 25 specialty; start from a dive and finisheach 25 with a turn and complete pushoff)
Shorter sprints, such as 12-1/2 meters and 25
meters, are more effective than 50s and 100s for
developing pure speed and the ability to swimwithout a buildup of blood lactate. Because
creatine phosphate in the muscles tends to lastfor only 1/4 minute at most, the intervening
rest intervals, even for these very short swims,should be about 2 to 3 minutes to permit CP
replacement.
Proportions for the Training Season
The percentage of varying training intensitieswhen averaged out in terms of a total seasonal
training program is approximately as follows(see table 10.3, p. 177):
Stages 1 and 2 (aerobic training): 50 to 60
percent
Stage 3 (aerobic/anaerobic training): 20 to 25
percent
Stage 4 (anaerobic training): 3 to 5 percent
only
Stage 5 (anaerobic lactic): 5 to 10 percent
Heart rate provides useful information when
access to lactate testing is unavailable.
Outline of the
Annual Training Program
The annual training program (macrocycle) is
built on a series of microcycles (one-week peri-
ods), which in turn form mesocycles (blocks ofseveral weeks) devoted to distinct phases of
preparation. Each phase should exhibit an ideal
balance between the volume and intensity oftraining specific to the development of desired
physiological qualities. An excellent model of
ideal daily, weekly, and seasonal planning de-signed by Ernest Maglischo (1985) is shown in
figure 10.2.
Realize that figure 10.2 represents an ideal;
much depends on a coach’s skill, feel, and plaincommon sense in correctly proportioning the
workload and controlling the subtle transitionsfrom one phase of the season to the next. In
addition, as the program enters its competitive
phase, the requirements of preparing for spe-cific events need to be considered. The transi-
tions from one phase of preparation to the next
are reflected in the size of the general workload,as well as the volume and intensity of work,
and are shown in figure 10.3 (Bompa 1985).

180Figure 10.2 Outline of an annual training program. From Maglischo 1985, p. 62. Reprinted by
permission.
General preparatory
stage
Special preparatory
stage
Precompetition stage
Competition stage
Unloading stage
Direct preparation stage
Major competition stage
Transitional period
Preparatory
periodCompetition periodMost
important
competition
Volume of workGeneral workload
Intensity of work
Figure 10.3 Major training cycle: basic year-round training plan. From Bompa 1985.Planning the Season
1. Adjustment phase—2 to 4 weeks 2. Endurance phase—8 to 10 weeks
3. Competitive phase—4 to 6 weeks 4. Taper phase—1 to 3 weeks
Transition to competitive phase—1 to 2 weeks Transition to taper phase—1 to 2 weeks
Weekly Planning
Endurance phase
Mornings
Emphasis on aerobic endurance
1. Stroke drills
2. Aerobic training3. Occasional short sprints
4. Occasional long sprintsAfternoons
Monday, Wednesday, Friday
1. Long aerobic sets at optimal
pace—mix kicking, pulling,
and swimming
2. Short sprint sets3. Occasional long sprint setsAfternoons
Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
1. Stroke drills and aerobic
endurance sets at a slowerpace
2. Major sprint sets3. Occasional long sprint sets
Competitive phase
Mornings—
same as endurance phase
Afternoons
Monday and Wednesday
1. Major anaerobic sets2. Aerobic sets at optimal pace
3. Some short sprintsAfternoons
Tuesday and Thursday
1. Stroke drills
2. Aerobic sets at slower pace
3. Pace work4. Some short sprintsAfternoons
Friday or Saturday
1. Major sprint sets
2. Stroke drills
3. Aerobic sets at slower speed
Daily Planning
1. Warm-up 5. Major aerobic, anaerobic, race pace, or sprint set
2. Short sprints 6. Recovery set
3. Major aerobic set or minor aerobic set 7. Sprints, relays, fun sets
4. Recovery set—pulling, kicking, or stroke drill 8. Cool-down

Development of a Training Program 181
The Need for Interspersed
Regenerative Periods
One of the problems with designing charts and
ideal training configurations is that we cannot
rely on swimmers to perform like clockworkmachines. Consequently, we can neither syn-
thesize training methods mechanically nor put
them into neat pigeonholes to be used willynilly, irrespective of situational needs. Most
experienced coaches develop a natural feel for
changing moods among the members of a teamand may alter a planned workout simply as a
result of this type of empathy. This approach is
not witchcraft but merely the application ofeveryday common sense.
Paul Bergen (1985) says that some coaches
fail to address the need for recovery and re-generation time within the training program.
He suggests that microcycles be grouped in
periods of three building weeks followed byone regeneration week. This method can be
varied as a season progresses—for example,
four weeks of building followed by one weekof regeneration, then 3–1, 4–2, 2–2, and 1–1 as
the major competition of the season ap-
proaches.
The Number of Training Sessions
in a Week
Bergen (1985) draws attention to the work of
Tudor Bompa (1985) in classifying frequencies
of training sessions within a one-week
microcycle (figure 10.4).
The first chart in the figure shows eight
workouts in a microcycle with only one dayMon.
TTTTTTTTTue. Wed. Thu. Fri. Sat. Sun.
A.M.
P.M.
Mon.
TTTTT T TT TTue. Wed. Thu. Fri. Sat. Sun.
A.M.
P.M.
Mon.
TTTT
TT
TTT TTue. Wed. Thu. Fri. Sat. Sun.
A.M.
P.M.
Figure 10.4 The classification of microcycles,
the number of training lessons: (top)  microcycle
with eight training lessons; (middle)  microcycle
with a 3 + 1 structure; (bottom)  microcycle with a
5 + 1 structure. From Bompa 1985.
containing two sessions. Although there is no
complete day off, the absence of morning ses-
sions during the week enables the swimmers tosleep a little later before leaving for school. The
second chart depicts three workouts and one
off. This means that there is one day of twoworkouts followed by a day with only one
workout. Then the swimmers have a complete
day off at the end of the week. The third chartshows five training sessions followed by one
off. This pattern is repeated and then followed
by one day off. There are several other permu-tations for applying the number of workouts in
a microcycle.

Part IV
Past,
Present,and Futureof the Sport

185Chapter 11
Evolution of
CompetitiveSwimming
The early 19th century saw a new
type of sporting encounter in which
two skilled swimmers would com-
pete for money in a staged chal-
lenge match. These match races,
usually swum in the sea, a canal, or
a river, marked the beginning of the
modern sport of competitive swim-
ming.
In a manner similar to the prize-
fighting ring, the swimmers com-
peted for a champion’s belt and a
money purse collected by specta-
tors who placed large bets and wa-
gers on the outcome. Because the
stopwatch had not been invented,
there were no times to be beaten or
used for comparison. The vagaries
of wind and tide had to be taken
into account, and a swimmer’s
knowledge of pr evailing condi-
tions could contribute to the out-come.
The people involved with these
match races were colorful but notalways the most savory members of
society. Many of the swimmers, and
those who bet on them, were well-
known regulars at the horse-racing
tracks and prize-fighting rings. It
was not unknown for a match race
to be fixed or roped in collaboration
with accomplices who made largewagers on the race.

186 Breakthrough Swimming
Early Races
Swimming in Japanese schools became an or-
ganized sport by Imperial edict as early as 1603,
and Japanese interschool competitive swim-
ming has continued to the present time(Oppenheim 1970). Probably because of the
isolated nature of Japanese culture for many
centuries, Japan’s early start did not influenceother countries to follow suit.
Although Japan held a giant three-day swim
meet in 1810, competitive swimming was notorganized on a regular basis until John Strachan,
a London wine merchant, formed the National
Swimming Society in 1837. He later changedthe name to the British Swimming Society, in
the belief that this would be more comprehen-
sive than national.
Until the start of the National Swimming
Society, newspapers hadn’t mentioned swim-ming. Then a report of a swimming match inthe Serpentine River appeared in Bell’s Life , a
sporting newspaper, on August 6, 1837. Fromthat time, swimming was regularly reported inthe press, and the sport grew in popularity.
While Strachan was said to have done an
enormous amount for the advancement ofswimming, like many officials in the history of
the sport, he was a master of the art of self-
aggrandizement. When the National Swim-ming Society issued a medal to commemorate
its foundation, John Strachan was not above
having his own portrait, with the words “JohnStrachan of Perthshire, born 7th of January
1806” appear on one side, while the obverse
side said “National Swimming Society foundedby John Strachan, 30th of June 1837” (Thomas
1904). Commenting on this, Thomas said,
Though not on record, there can be little
doubt that, like many a greater man, hepaid for these things himself. It is impos-sible for the present generation, accus-tomed to orderly galas graced by the pres-ence of ladies to imagine the degraded
condition of swimming in those days, and
for many years after. Any swimming en-tertainment was the resort of low classcharacters, who chiefly went to the bathfor betting purposes (Thomas 1904, p. 249).Nevertheless, the society’s efforts resulted in
many clubs being formed in London.
Organized Matches
On August 26, 1838, instead of merely staging
the usual race between two swimmers, theNational Swimming Society held the first an-
nual grand match between 12 swimmers in the
Serpentine River. The first prize was a silvermedal of exquisite workmanship and one
guinea in money. Second prize was a bronze
medal from the same die and a half-guinea.Third prize was a metal medal. Much money
was lost and won by gentlemen betting on the
competitors.
On August 4, 1839, it was announced that a
gold medal and chain, valued at 20 guineas,would be competed for in London by the 12yearly champions, each from a different town
or place. (This was the first time that the word
champion  was used in the sport of swimming.)
The gold medal and chain were to become the
property of the swimmer—the champion of
champions—who won it for four successiveseasons.
The Need for Public
Swimming Pools
At the beginning of the 19th century, publicswimming pools, as we know them today, did
not exist. People swam in the sea or wherever
there was a suitable and safe stretch of watersuch as a canal, a local pond, or a lake.
Many of the leading schools in England en-
couraged their pupils to learn to swim. Races ina nearby river or pond became part of the
school sports curriculum. But, for the working
classes, the industrial revolution had made theproblems of urban life acute and pressing, and
whole families, including children, were in-
volved in industrial labor. People in large townsand cities had little access to places suitable for
swimming. Indeed, their time was mainly oc-
cupied by coping with the harsh conditions inwhich they lived. Few of them had the chance
to learn to swim, and drownings were almost a

Evolution of Competitive Swimming 187
daily occurrence, as confirmed by newspapers
of the period.
Fast-growing populations caused great con-
gestion, and early-century epidemics of chol-era with heavy mortality often swept throughcities and towns. Control of disease depended
on the development of a higher standard of
living with clean water supplies and efficientand hygienic sewage disposal.
The Baths and Wash-Houses Act
In 1834, barrister Edwin Chadwick showedthat expenditure on the poor and the preven-
tion of disease were two sides of a single coin.
Most people had no running water in theirhomes, and Chadwick’s measures to reform
the poor law included provision of increased
water supplies and improved sanitation.
In August 1842, the British Swimming Soci-
ety presented a petition signed by 322 personsin favor of extra bathing places. The petitionstated that over 2,000 people drowned annu-
ally, 350 in London alone, mainly attributable
to the neglect of the art of swimming (Thomas1904).
The Baths and Wash-Houses Act, which re-
ceived Royal Assent on August 26, 1846, en-abled local authorities to provide swimming
baths and wash houses. The Whitechapel Baths,
then under construction, were regarded as amodel to be copied. By 1852, seven more such
establishments existed, estimated to have been
used by 800,000 bathers.
The building of these first baths were events
of immense social and political significance.Usually situated in areas of great deprivation,they improved the lives of many thousands of
people. With the provision of copious hot wa-
ter and steam, they also represented a triumphof early Victorian engineering.
Many people in the middle and upper classes
contributed large sums of money to these bath-building projects not only because they had
social consciences, but because they regarded
the urban poor as sources of disease and poten-tial troublemakers requiring moral improve-
ment. As The London Times  for May 12, 1847, put
it in its report on the Whitechapel Baths, “therewill [now] be no excuse for bodily filth in the
neighbourhood.”
Engineering to the Rescue
The Act provided for indoor and outdoorswimming baths, warm or cold slipper baths,vapor and shower baths, and wash houses for
laundry. The growing popularity of swim-
ming, due mainly to the energy of swimmingclubs, made the actual swimming pool a re-
munerative feature of the new public bath
houses. In locations where population sizewarranted it, it was usual to construct three
types of swimming pools: the first-class bath,
100 feet by 40 feet; the second-class bath, 120feet by 40 feet; and the women’s bath, 60 feet
by 40 feet.
It was compulsory to provide a shower and
soap-hole for laborers coming from dirty workto use before entering the swimming bath
(Sinclair and Henry 1903). It became a noveltyfor people to have a good wash and scrub down
before they entered the pool to try their skill at
the new sport of swimming, often under theinstruction of an ever-growing number of so-
called swimming professors.
Before electricity was invented, the effective
heating of water in the new swimming bathswas a problem because of unnecessary waste of
water and fuel. Water was expensive, costingfrom four-pence to one shilling per 1,000 gal-
lons. A simple but noisy system of circulating
warm water into the pool was to inject jets oflive steam through a perforated pipe directly
into the bottom of the deep end. The pipe had
to be insulated to prevent bathers from beingscalded.
The water was constantly circulated,
warmed, aerated, and purified, then forciblyreturned through patent spreaders placed at
equal distances over the floor of the bath. This
method was said to heat the water uniformly,thereby eliminating the cold patches of water
frequently found in baths heated by other sys-
tems. The cost of heating was reduced to aminimum as cold water did not need to be
introduced into the bath so frequently (Sinclair
and Henry 1903).

188 Breakthrough Swimming
tional level, it was to be a long time before
competitions were held over standard distances.Some 28 years passed after the revival of the
Olympic Games at Athens in 1896 before the
Olympic swimming events were conducted inthe 50-meter course we know today.
It is difficult to imagine competition without
regulation-size pools, standardized distances,and precise time measurements, yet these chal-
lenges faced the organizers of the first swim-
ming competitions. More often than not, thesize of the course governed the length of the
race. The first swimming races bore no resem-
blance to modern swim meets in which eightswimmers, each in an assigned lane, compete
over a set distance in a measured course, at the
end of which their times and placings, elec-tronically recorded, are displayed on a large
board at the end of the pool.
Variations in racing distances even affected
the swimming events at the Olympics in Ath-ens, Paris, and St. Louis, and made a uniform
list of records impossible. One of the mainobjectives of the Amateur Swimming Associa-
tion (ASA) was to stimulate public opinion in
favor of building swimming pools. The ASApublished a list of 800 bathing places in 460
towns. Of these, almost 600 contained swim-
ming baths. According to Sachs (1912), althougha number of baths were built, most were totally
inadequate for the purpose of competitive
swimming.
The Royal Life Saving Society
During the Victorian period, swimming was
encouraged in most English public schools.
Although a growing appreciation existed ofthe health benefits of the sport, the main con-
sideration was safety. Death from drowning
was common because most of the populationcould not swim.
The Royal Life Saving Society encouraged
the teaching of swimming because it viewedswimming as a way to save life, which it held
should be the main objective of the activity. It
promoted competitive swimming because thespeed and endurance developed by racing
would enable a rescuer to reach a drowning
person fast. The ability to swim quickly wasThe Need for Standardized
Distances
There grew a need for standardized racing dis-tances, but it was to be a long time before theauthorities constructed pools of standard di-
mensions to ensure uniform racing conditions.
Racing distances were regulated according tothe size of the pool. Even when such facilities
were built, architects often failed to consult with
the potential users, resulting in the omission offeatures necessary for competitive swimming.
Most races held in inland towns were over
short distances in measured swimming pools.Long-distance races were the exception; these
were staged in canals, lakes, and reservoirs. At
the coast, long-distance competitions were usu-ally held in the sea between piers or breakwaters.
Officials would have preferred to see more
long-distance racing in the open sea and inswimming pools. However, short-distance
events were financially more successful. For a
short race they could easily secure over 100entries, while for a long race an entry list of 20
swimmers was considered good. In open water,
220 yards and 500 yards were the best racingdistances; but for swimming pools any race
over 100 yards would not be well supported.
Apart from irregular pool dimensions, other
criticisms included impractical and inconve-nient location of spectator and dressing room
space, inadequate facilities for the growingnumber of female swimmers, uncomfortable
water temperature, and lack of lane lines on the
floor of the pool. An uninterrupted view couldrarely be obtained “without fear of splashings
and drenchings” (Sachs 1912, p. 242). Dirt and
grit were carried into the baths by people wear-ing muddy boots. The entrance was often a
large door, opening directly onto the pool deck,
through which icy blasts caused swimmersextreme discomfort.
Competitive swimming in its present form
resulted largely from the evolution of the artifi-cial environment of the measured pool. The
modern swimming complex is a far cry from the
first public bath halls and washing houses oreven the first public swimming baths, divided
as they were according to social class and sex
and built in a diversity of sizes. At the interna-

Evolution of Competitive Swimming 189
encouraged by holding school swimming sports
at set times of the year.
The first swimming promoters realized that
the future of the sport depended on introduc-ing swimming to school children. Reports ofthe time suggest a certain social tinge to the
developing structure of the sport; “the records
of the Public Schools gives assurance that thefuture at any rate of one class of Englishmen as
swimmers is secure” (Sachs 1912, p. 39). Not all
parents encouraged their children to swim;many withheld permission because of super-
stition concerning imagined ill effects of pro-
longed immersion and physical strain, and therisk of contracting disease from water. Accord-
ing to Brasch (1970), as late as 1880 a rhyme of
unknown authorship was popularly quoted:
Mother, may I go out to swim?
Yes, my darling daughter;
Hang your clothes on a hickory limb,
But don’t go near the water.
The common fear of swimming prompted
the Southern Counties Branch of the ASA to
publish a small pamphlet titled Can You Swim?,
containing articles by eminent doctors on thebenefits of swimming.
Professors of Swimming
Old-time coaches— swimming masters  or profes-
sors of swimming , as they sometimes called them-
selves—often exuded an aura of secrecy. “Comeand be coached by me and I’ll teach you tech-nique,” they would say. “You see, swimming is
really nothing more than pulling and kicking,
but it’s done in this certain way and that is . . .technique!” But eventually, intelligent swim-
mers expected to be told why they were being
advised to use a particular method. They be-came tired of the clichés, the old hand-me-
downs, the platitudes and folklore that had
become part of the repertoire of many a so-called swimming professor.
Wilson (1883) said that it was a mistake to
suppose that a man who was a good swimmerand a successful competitor would also be a
good teacher. Many really good swimmers
could not tell, and really did not know, whythey traveled so fast through the water, andthey were ignorant of the peculiarity of actionthat gave them such power over their rivals.
Many professional swimmers used movements
that were
. . . completely the reverse of being correct,or in accordance with any rule, or recog-
nized law governing the swimming mo-
tions, but whose very ignorance accountednot only for their own egotism, but was
the cause of oft-repeated mistakes and
distorted ideas of swimming. To be a suc-cessful teacher of the art of swimming
requires almost as much thought, applica-
tion, hard work, and constant practice asalmost any branch of education or science
(Wilson 1883, pp. 24–25).
According to Thomas (1904), the system of
teaching advocated by Professor Stevens, who
claimed that he had taught upward of 12,000 to
swim in 10 years, was “all humbug and his
instruction is not good.” For example, Thomassaid that Stevens had given out such advice as
the need to always keep ones eyes open when
diving because so many people had drownedby keeping their eyes shut!
Wilson said that he hoped to see the day
when the title of professor would mean some-thing different. He also wanted to see would-be
professors pass an examination to prove them-
selves qualified for the title. In similar vein,Sinclair and Henry (1903) said that a code of
fixed principles should be laid down so that the
profession could be built on a sound founda-tion, but that attempts to institute certificate
examinations had been foiled by those who
would chiefly benefit by them.
Thomas (1904) criticized the common prac-
tice of publishing a work under the name of awell-known professional swimmer to gain cred-ibility, even if the swimmer was not a writer.
Thomas pointed out the poor quality of the
materials swimmers endorsed, probably forfinancial consideration. Thomas said that many
swimming books were nothing more than mis-
erable pieces of ignorant scissors-and-pastecompilation.
In the late 19th century, a swimmer could not
lay claim to being an expert unless he could do

190 Breakthrough Swimming
scientific and trick swimming. There were varia-
tions on this theme, such as fancy swimming andacrobatic swimming, which were probably the
ancestors of modern synchronized swimming.
These feats required much painstaking practice,and any swimmer who attempted them in pub-
lic before attaining perfection risked appearing
ludicrous and absurd. But the leading profes-sionals were very popular attractions at swim-
ming galas where they gave great entertainment
and interest to their patrons and earned largepurses in doing so (Sinclair and Henry 1903).
The Advent of the Stopwatch
The stopwatch was to competitive swimmingwhat the wheel was to civilization. Greateremphasis was placed on speed and not only
who placed first, second, or third. The efficiency
of the evolving speed strokes—overarm side-stroke, trudgen, and crawl—could be tested
more accurately and scientifically. An additional
benefit was the possibility of comparing perfor-mances recorded in different towns and even
countries, provided they were recorded over
the same distances and in the same size pools.
Pocket watches were first used to discover
how long it took to perform some action; ageneral term for these is stopwatches. Some-times they are called chronographs, but since
this implies a written record of the time, the
term is not correct. The stopwatch was a cheaperversion of the chronograph developed by E.D.Johnson in 1855, but it was not until 20 yearslater that an affordable stopwatch became gen-
erally available for timing sporting events.
When horse racing became popular in the mid-1850s, a wide variety of timing devices were
patented but none came into general use. In
1859, the American Watch Company ofWaltham, Massachusetts, patented the
chronodrometer for timing horses. However,
the sweep hand was not the fly-back type weknow today and had to be constantly reset.
The first stopwatches had a lever that liter-
ally stopped the watch by interfering with thetrain. This was obviously an unsatisfactory
method for obtaining elapsed time since the
starting time was arbitrary and the stoppingcaused the watch to be wrong as a timepiece. To
overcome this problem, some watches used
two trains: one for the conventional timepieceand one that could be stopped and started at
will, which drove a separate second hand. The
hand sometimes moved in one-second jumps.
This type of watch was an improvement but
still lacked two vital ingredients of the modernconcept of a stopwatch—the ability to countelapsed times of greater duration than a minute,
which necessitated a minute counter to be suc-
cessful, and the convenience of starting thecounting hand from zero each time to avoid the
need for arithmetic, which necessitated a reset
device. These two functions were achieved inRalph Thomas, Swimming’s First Historian
Ralph Thomas, a little-known man who seemed to have shunned the limelight, wasswimming’s first historian. With great dedication, he researched everything written or
illustrated on swimming, from antiquity to the end of the 19th century. Thomas was born in
1840 and was a lawyer by profession. His book Swimming  (1904) is recognized as the most
important bibliography of swimming. Archibald Sinclair, a noted English authority on
swimming, said in the Swimming Magazine , January 1915, “This book is a mine of wealth for
it contains a record of every known book on the subject up to 1904 (Cureton 1934, p. 86). ”
Thomas lists all the important works on swimming published in English, German, French,
and other European languages. It is a remarkable biography, history, and annotated
bibliography, with upwards of 100 illustrations. Thomas published a much shorter versionof the book in 1868, but after 36 years (1904) the author, now in failing health and not
satisfied with his first effort, published the second edition (488 pages), which over the years,
has become the much-prized gem for the rare-book collector.

Evolution of Competitive Swimming 191
the mid-19th century. In 1842, Nicole patented
a reset system for a second hand that could beindependently stopped and started; and in 1862
the now-familiar three-press button system was
patented (Cutmore 1985). In the 1860s, Swisswatchmakers successfully tackled the problem
and succeeded in making cheaper watches.
According to records, the first timed swim-
ming race was the English one-mile champion-ship of 1869 swum in the River Thames, from
Putney Aqueduct to Hammersmith Bridge. Asfar as can be ascertained, the winner of that
event, T. Morris, was the first champion ever to
be timed (27 minutes 18 seconds).
Official lists of records were soon published.
The first official swimming record belonged toWinston Cole, who in 1871 swam 100 yards in1 minute 15 seconds. His time was ratified by
the recently formed Metropolitan Swimming
Club Association.
Later, the building of swimming pools of
measured length made handicap races popularin the 19th century . The idea behind handicapraces was to even out the competition and give
slower swimmers an opportunity to excel. The
handicapping system also provided spectatorexcitement at a time when there were few fast
swimmers. Handicapping probably also pro-
vided leeway for people wishing to covertlyplace bets or stakes on the outcome of a race.
The slowest swimmers started first, and then
the handicapper walked behind each waitingswimmer, shouting out the time off the ticking
stopwatch. As each swimmer’s handicap time
was called, that swimmer started and chasedafter the swimmers who had already taken off.
There was an objection to accepting records set
in handicap races because of the unfair advan-tage gained by having a pacemaker.
Swim Meets in the
Late 19th Century
The London Swimming Club did much to pro-mote swimming in its early days. There was
still very little difference between profession-
als and amateurs. In those days, if the glovewas thrown down, anyone could pick it up. At
all the chief events, betting was widespread
and of more importance than the swimming.The general management of swimming
meets, especially those held in what were calledbaths, improved vastly during the last 10 years
of the 19th century. Organizers first had to
obtain a permit from the Amateur SwimmingAssociation (ASA) before holding a meet be-
cause amateurs put their amateur status in
jeopardy if they competed in an unsanctionedmeet (Sinclair and Henry 1903).
Where competitions were held in open wa-
ter, the tides had to be considered before fixinga date for the competition. In addition, care had
to be taken to avoid clashing with another meet
in the same district, as otherwise both could berun at a loss.
The ASA advised organizers of swim meets
to do everything possible for the comfort of thecompetitors; otherwise swimmers would ab-
stain from entering the next season. They ad-
vised that it was bad policy to ask competitorsto undress in a wretched, ill-ventilated room in
order to accommodate more spectators. Ar-
rangements made for competitors at some open-water meetings, particularly in the sea, were
perhaps the worst. Sometimes competitors were
required to undress in small cabins, the floorsof which were often wet and filthy, so that their
clothes could not be put down. Organizers
didn’t have to provide a drawing room, but adecent dressing room added greatly to the popu-
larity of any club’s annual gala (Sinclair and
Henry 1903).
Accounts of three different swimming meets,
two of them for amateurs and one for profes-sional swimmers, described in The London Times
of September 18, 1899, provide a good idea of
what these late-19th-century competitions were
like.
The first race described, the Ulph Annual
Challenge Cup Competition for Amateurs, washeld in the sea at Yarmouth. The London Timesdescribed the course:
The course was, as usual, between the
Britannia and the Wellington Piers, a dis-
tance of about 1,000 yards, with the tide,and, though a stiff breeze was blowing off
the land, the sea was pleasantly calm and
the conditions favourable, as was provedby the fact that the winner accomplished
the record time of 9 min. 8 sec.

192 Breakthrough Swimming
The winner, J.A. Jarvis, had the outside sta-
tion at the beginning of the race but shifted his
course seaward to take advantage of the faster
tide. Jarvis’s strategy was copied by two of his
competitors, Sharp and Pugh. At the halfwaymark, Jarvis led by about 20 yards, Sharp was
second, and Arnold, another competitor, was
third. The swimmers finished in that order;Jarvis finished about 50 yards ahead of Sharp
with a winning time of 9 minutes, 8 seconds.
Arnold was third. Pugh finished in fifth place.
The London Times  went on to describe the 100
yards Amateur Championship of 1899. In thisrace, eight swimmers competed in three trialheats. The three trial winners competed against
each other. J.H. Derbyshire of the Manchester
Osborne Swimming Club, who won the samerace in 1898, led throughout the race and fin-
ished two yards ahead of F.C.V . Lane of East
Sydney, the Australian champion. Lane fin-ished half a yard ahead of W.H. Lister of the
Manchester Osborne Swimming Club.
Derbyshire won with a time of 60-2/5 seconds,“one-fifth of a second slower than the record he
established when he won last year.”
The record referred to by The London Times
was, in effect, the official world record. Thus,since this was Derbyshire’s last championship
appearance of the 19th century, he can justly belabeled the fastest swimmer of the 19th cen-
tury.
Finally, The London Times  recounted the
County of London Long-Distance ProfessionalChampionship that had been held the day
before on September 17, 1899. Swimmers com-peted for the 60-guinea challenge cup on a
course 5 miles, 60 yards long, from Kew to
Putney. Although six entries were received,only three swimmers—Titchener of Putney ,
Harrison of Raynes Park, and Charles Ball of
Battersea—competed in the race. Tide andweather conditions delayed the start for over
an hour. At about 5:00, the men dived into
very cold water. Titchener and Harrison even-tually withdrew from the competition, leav-
ing Ball to finish the race alone. Ball’s final
time was 1 hour, 35 minutes, and 59 seconds,“which, although slow time, was a good per-
formance under the bad conditions that pre-
vailed.”Early Professional Swimmers
As the popularity of competitive swimming
grew, professional swimmers began to emerge.
One of the first notable professional swim-mers was Charles Steedman. Steedman
learned to swim in 1843 at the age of 13, and by
the age of 15 was a professional swimmerwho already had won the then princely sum
of 10 pounds in a race over 400 yards, the
longest distance swum in those days. At 19, hewon the Championship of England from
George Pewters, a master of the sidestroke,
the new racing style of the day . In 1852 and1853, Steedman beat Frederick Edward
Beckwith, nine years his senior, for the Surrey
Club Championship, the event commonlyregarded as the Championship of England.
Thomas (1904) said that after this defeat,
Beckwith declined to swim against Steedmanagain. Steedman took the prize belt with him
when he emigrated to Australia in 1854, where
he kept it as a prized possession until the endof his life.
The champion of England in 1844 was George
Pewters (then about 17), who swam againstSamuel Hounslow (then about 38) of Oxford
for 50 pounds on September 2 in the Serpentine
at 7:00 in the morning. Pewters gained thebeach 20 yards ahead of his competitor; never
was there such a feat of dexterity. George Pew-
ters is generally credited with introducing thesidestroke. Thomas (1904) gives further infor-
mation about Pewters in his published corre-
spondence with Charles Steedman who hademigrated to Australia.
On September 25, 1842, in winning the 1842
championship, Pewters swam across the Ser-pentine and back in 6-3/4 minutes. In 1839 and
1840 he joined other champions of the National
Swimming Society—Kenworthy of London andHounslow of Oxford—with Charles Lewis, the
London champion, in the first great contests of
the kind of swift, long, and fancy swimming forspeed, distance, scientific swimming, and in-
deed tricks of all descriptions. In 1848 Pewters
competed in a number of challenge races, onewith Fred Edward Beckwith of the Lambeth
Bath and others with Professor Stevens and
Harold Kenworthy.

Evolution of Competitive Swimming 193
Samuel Hounslow was a shoemaker in
Holywell Street, Oxford, as well as a teacher of
swimming. He won the National Swimming
Society medal for completing 400 yards in 7
minutes, 9 seconds, swimming in the Thamesat Oxford. While teaching swimming, he could
stay in the water for 5 or 6 hours a day.
Henry Gurr, known as the Pocket Hercules,
was originally a shoeblack at Endell Street Baths,London. Occasionally in recognition for his
assistance to the attendant, George Dunham,Gurr was allowed to swim in the pool, an
opportunity he often used, staying in the water
for hours at a time. On July 22, 1863, Gurr wonthe Fraser gold medal in the Serpentine. He
was also a talented trapeze artist, and in 1870 he
left England with the Hanlon Acrobats.
Professional versus Amateur
The Professional Swimming Association wasformed on July 6, 1881, as a result of a decisionof the Swimming Association of Great Britain.
However, it collapsed within a few years
(Sinclair and Henry 1903). The ProfessionalSwimming Association became the wealthiest
swimming institution in England or elsewhere,
and it might have gone on prospering if itsfinancial stability had not been wrecked, but
ultimately the members killed it (Watson 1873).
What Is an Amateur?
Thomas Arnold’s introduction of sports as regu-lar extracurricular activity in English public
schools spurred a great development of sportsduring the late Victorian age. This athletic re-
vival of the 19th century led to the restoration
of the ancient Olympic Games at Athens in1896 and also revived what was said to be the
classical ideal of amateurism.
For a long time the future of the ASA was in
jeopardy because often for profitable reasons,not everyone wanted to be an amateur. Only
after its membership spread sufficiently didthe ASA finally have the power to enforce its
amateur laws. This caused much friction be-
tween the amateur southern counties and theprofessional swimmers of the north of England,
many of whom were the fastest in the world at
all distances.The northerners, who earned their living as
professional swimmers, rose to combat the in-roads—in the form of suspensions—made by
the interfering southerners. Enforcing the ama-
teur rules throughout the country became adifficult task, especially as many local corpora-
tions held out the temptations of money and
value prizes at their regattas.
The ASA eventually won the day but not
before such fine swimmers as T. Cairns,J. Nuttall, W. Evans, S.W. Greasely, J.H. Tyers,and D. Billington had been declared profes-
sionals. Among them they had shared most of
the championships, from 100 yards to 1 mile.
Every year attempts were made to separate
amateurs from professionals in all contests butwithout success, with the result that the strictlyamateur clubs would not join the new Swim-
ming Association of Great Britain.
Earlier in 1880 the Amateur Athletic Asso-
ciation (track and field) had adopted a defini-tion of an amateur at their inaugural meeting.
When the ASA was finally able to hold a meet-ing on June 28, 1880, Dr. Hunter Barron (Otter
Club), Horace Davenport (Ilex Club), H. Ben-
jamin (Cygnus Club), H.H. Griffen (LondonAthletic Club), and a number of other well-
known supporters proposed the adoption of
the Amateur Athletic Association’s definitionof an amateur.
By 1881 the ASA was receiving steady sup-
port, but the growing amount of office workbecame difficult to handle, and the govern-
ment of amateur swimming became chaotic. A
swimmer who had been declared a profes-sional at one meeting would be declared an
amateur at the next. On April 7, 1884, the Otter
Club and eight or nine other clubs resignedtheir membership in the association over the
lax administration of the new amateur laws
and formed a new body named the AmateurSwimming Union (ASU). A feud commenced
between the Swimming Association of Great
Britain and the newly formed ASU.
For two years the struggle for supremacy
continued until finally, in 1886, Mr. H. Ben-jamin of the Cygnus Club managed to bring theleaders together to sort out their differences
and form a new body, the Amateur Swimming
Association, with a revised set of rules.

194 Breakthrough Swimming
Open Revolt Against Amateur Laws
In 1889 the enforcement of these rules and the
consequent suspension of some Manchester
swimmers led to an open revolt in the north.
Representatives from the south went toManchester to address a crowded meeting of
swimmers who had been worked up to a spirit
of antagonism by writers in the press.
After a long discussion it was resolved, on
the casting vote of the chairman, that the schemebrought forward by the southerners be acceptedas a basis of settlement. The ASA removed the
suspensions that had created the difficulty and
agreed to recognize the jurisdiction of the north-ern counties’ ASA over all swimming matters
north of 53 degrees latitude.
The first general meeting under the new
constitution took place in London on April 12,1890. The new association now consisted of 135
clubs from all over England. (A New ZealandAmateur Swimming Association was formed
in 1890 by R. St. Clair of Auckland, with a
constitution similar to that of the English asso-ciation.)
The Question of Open Betting
in Amateur Sport
The continuing problem of open betting at race
meetings resulted in a gathering of the govern-
ing bodies of athletics, cycling, and swimmingin London on March 29, 1889, to discuss the
situation, which prevented the more respect-
able members of the community from takingpart or interest in many competitions.
They decided to try to detect competitors in
any way in league with bookmakers becausethey believed that this was the direct cause of
roping and other malpractice. (A swimmer was
said to “rope” when he did not exert himself tothe utmost to hide his true ability, thereby
drawing better odds for betting purposes
(Sinclair and Henry 1903).)
The Growth
of International Swimming
and the Birth of FINA
After January 7, 1869, when competitive swim-ming was first placed on an organized basis ata meeting in the German Gymnasium in Lon-don, England, the sport spread gradually toother countries. Initially, the two big centers
were England and Australia, and it is interest-
ing to note the influence of the one on the other,even though separated by thousands of miles.
Each new country to adopt competitive
swimming inevitably followed the constitu-tional formula designed by the officials of En-
glish swimming. They also applied the defini-
tion of amateurism, which was apparentlybased in large measure not on altruism but on
the prevailing class consciousness in Great Brit-
ain. With the rebirth of the so-called Olympicmovement, it became clear that universally
accepted rules would be necessary if competi-
tion was to be conducted on a consistent basis.
In 1908, at the Olympic Games in London,
George Hearn, president of the English Swim-ming Association, was asked to establish anOlympic swimming code. He was assisted in
his deliberations by Englishman William Henry,
Max Ritter of the United States, and HjalmarJohnson of Sweden. Hearn realized that a more
farsighted policy would be to establish rules
that could be applied on a permanent basis andnot only for the Olympic Games.
To achieve this aim, George Hearn decided to
use the opportunity of the Olympic meeting inLondon to form an international swimming
association. Because representatives from 10
nations (England, Germany, Denmark, Swe-den, France, Ireland, Finland, Hungary, Bel-
gium, and Wales) were participating in the Lon-
don Olympic Games, Hearn called a meeting toset up an international governing body of swim-
ming with a set body of laws. On July 19, 1908,
at the Manchester Hotel in London, the Federa-tion Internationale de Natation Amateur (FINA)
was formed. The swimming code of FINA was
based on the model of the English ASA.
In addition to its swimmers competing in the
Olympic Games, FINA introduced the WorldLong-Course Swimming Championships in1972. The inaugural meet was held in Belgrade
in 1973. In 1992, FINA introduced the World
Short-Course Swimming Championships. Theinaugural championships were held in Majorca
in 1993. Figures 11.1 and 11.2 show the total
number of long-course and short-course recordsset per year.

195200019991957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
01 0 2 0 3 0
Total recordsYear
40 50 60
Figure 11.1 World long-course records, 1957–2000. Graph provided by Nick Thierry.

196 Breakthrough Swimming
Champions of the
Late 19th Century
It was remarkable that most of the great swim-
mers of the 19th century came from the inlandtowns of Lancashire. Their methods revolu-
tionized the sport and resulted in a great in-
crease in speed. For many years, the swimmersfrom the north of England were the fastest in
the world. Much of the success of the Lancashire
swimmers was due to the fact that teacherswith proper credentials were employed to
watch and guide the younger swimmers, and
they carried out their duties in an efficientmanner, with the results already described.
In the last 20 years of the 19th century, a
succession of champion swimmers greatly re-duced the times for the various racing dis-
tances. In the English Championships, the win-
ning time for the 100-yard race was reduced by15 seconds, the time for the 220-yard race was
reduced by 35 seconds, the time for the 500-
yard race was reduced by 62 seconds, and thetime for the mile was reduced by 5 minutes.
Particularly notable in this era were the cham-
pions J. Nuttall, J.H. Tyers, J.H. Derbyshire, andJ.A. Jarvis. These men, in their individual eras,
made a habit of retaining their championship
titles year after year.As an amateur, Joseph Nuttall was the 100-
yard champion from 1886 to 1888 and the 220-
yard champion from 1886 to 1888. Nuttall later
entered the professional ranks, where he wasrecognized as the fastest professional swim-
mer of his time. All Nuttall’s amateur records
were exceeded by John Jarvis.
Jarvis was the 500-yard champion from 1898
to 1901, the half-mile champion from 1898 to1901, and the one-mile champion from 1897 to1902. He was champion of England and won
championship races in France, Germany, Aus-
tria, and Italy, racing against the best-knownand fastest swimmers in these countries and
beating them in their own waters.
J.H. Tyers was the 100-yard champion from
1892 to 1897, the 220-yard champion from 1892to 1897, the 440-yard champion from 1893 to
1896, the 500-yard champion from 1893 to 1896,the half-mile champion from 1893 to 1896, and
the one-mile champion from 1893 to 1896. J.H.
Derbyshire was the 100-yard champion from1898 to 1901 and again in 1903 and 1904.
Competitive Swimming
in the 20th Century
By the mid-20th century, swimming knowl-edge had spread worldwide, with the result19921991
1993
1994Year1995
1996
1998
1999
2000
0 5 10 15 20
Total records25 30 351997
Figure 11.2 World short-course records, 1991–2000. Graph provided by Nick Thierry.

Evolution of Competitive Swimming 197
that international champions could now be
expected to come from almost any country. The
rise of countries such as Romania, Yugoslavia,
France, Brazil, Spain, Mexico, West Germany,Switzerland, and the Soviet Union showed that
no one nation owned swimming expertise.
The dominant nations in 20th-century swim-
ming were the United States, Australia, Japan,Hungary, and Holland. Other occasionally suc-
cessful nations were Germany (up to 1939), theSoviet Union, Great Britain, Denmark, France,
Sweden, West Germany, and South Africa.*
Three countries—Australia, the United
States, and Japan—established a particularlyfine tradition of success in international swim-
ming, each rising to pre-eminence at varioustimes during the 20th century. Although their
programs were distinctly different, each coun-
try contributed to the growing concept of build-ing a nation’s swimming strength through a
definite preconceived plan. It is appropriate to
examine the contributions made in their timeby each of these three countries.
Swimming in Australia
From the start of the first European settle-ments, swimming was a popular sport in Aus-tralia. The warm climate and numerous beaches,
rivers, and waterways naturally attracted
people to the water for recreation. But fewknew how to swim and many drowned until
swimming instruction became available androck pools were built and other areas enclosed
to provide safer facilities. With the passage of
time came the first swimming races and the
eventual forming of clubs and interclub com-petitions.
First Swimming Race in Australia
The first swimming race in Australia was heldin Sydney Harbor (then called Sydney Bay) inthe vicinity of Robinson’s Baths alongside the
Sydney Domain, in February 1846. The event
was won by W. Redman, who swam the 440-yard race in 8 minutes, 43 seconds.
Bell’s Life in Sydney and Sporting Review  (1846)
reported this historic event. The match wasopen to anyone in the colony, but only six
swimmers, all subscribers to the local baths,
competed: W. Redman Jr., Alister Maclean,J. Redman Sr., G. Thornton, a Mr. Green, and a
Mr. Whitbread. The champion won a silver
cup, valued at eight pounds, eight shillings,and the privilege of wearing a championship
swimming belt for the next year.
At 7:00, the swimmers appeared stripped
and wearing different swimming caps to dis-tinguish one from the other. At 7:15, the race
began. As described by Bell’s Life in Sydney and
Sporting Review , it was a well-swum race, “but
especially the contest for the first and secondplace was most gallant.” Redman Jr., hadanointed himself with oil in preparation for the
event, as the ancient Romans had. Due to theMatthew Webb, Swimming’s First Popular Figure
Captain Matthew Webb was not a competitive swimmer, but he popularized swimming
worldwide when he became the first person to swim the English Channel in 1875. Born at
Irongate in Shropshire, Webb was 27 years old when he swam the Channel. Webb learned
to swim at 7 , and when on board the Conway training ship, saved the life of a comrade indanger of drowning. After leading a seafaring life for some years, he returned to England
able to swim a good breaststroke, but he was not a fast swimmer. When he started for the
Channel swim he was 5 feet 8 inches high, measured 43 inches around the chest, andweighed about 203 pounds.
* East Germany has been excluded from this list because it has been proven in German courts that throughout the 1970s and 1980s, the
Olympic and World Championship successes of East German female swimmers were the result of performance-enhancing drugs
administered by officials in charge of their state-controlled program.

198 Breakthrough Swimming
cold and the rough waters of Sydney Bay, this
probably gave him an advantage.
Maclean led for the first 220 yards, followed
by Redman Jr., then Redman Sr. As he roundedthe southern buoy, Maclean led by about alength, but as they rounded the northern buoy,
Redman Jr. turned sharply and was able to
close the gap and catch up to Maclean. RedmanJr. continued to swim strongly and eventually
gained about 10 yards on Maclean, which is
how they finished the race, “the struggle beingmost gallantly maintained by Mr. Maclean to
the end of the very long distance, upwards of a
quarter of a mile.” Redman Sr. finished third.Thornton and Green finished together, but early
in the race Thornton had taken time to assist
Whitbread, “who suffered from the boisterousstate of the Bay, and was exhausted, but wasquickly picked up by one of the boats in atten-dance.”
The final times were 8 minutes, 43 seconds
for Redman Jr. and 8 minutes, 49 seconds forMaclean, “which, considering the state of theweather, was very excellent.”
Early British Influence
on Swimming in Australia
The early British influence on Australian swim-
ming centers around two key individuals:
Charles Steedman and Professor Fred Cavill.
Professor Fred Cavill, who emigrated to
Australia in 1879, is generally credited withbeing the chief pioneer of Australian swim-
ming. But it is little known that an equallyfamous figure in British swimming, Charles
Charles Steedman: Swimming’s First Internationalist
Charles Steedman was born in London, England in 1830 and died in Victoria, Australia in
1901. He was swimming’s first internationalist, champion of England and later champion of
Victoria, Australia. For good measure, he wrote the world’s first text on competitiveswimming, published it in Melbourne, and later published it in London.
Steedman was an internationalist in the true sense of the word. When Steedman was
champion, England was the world’s leading swimming country. He took England’s advancedknowledge of the sport to Australia and shared it with his new countrymen. Steedman’s
arrival in Australia caused considerable interest. At the age of 24, Steedman was already an
accomplished, knowledgeable, and articulate man who passed on to local enthusiastsdetailed accounts of swimming techniques in his native land. In January 1858, Steedman
competed in the first World Swimming Championship in Captain Kenney’s Ship Baths at St.
Kilda, Melbourne. The race, held over 100 yards, was won by John Bennett of Sydney.
Steedman was not only a top professional swimmer, but almost as soon as he arrived, he
earned a good living as a skilled pianoforte maker. Always seeking to advance himself,Steedman learned Latin and Greek and became a schoolmaster as well as a journalist.
In 1867 , Steedman published A Manual of Swimming , the first important swimming book
of the modern era. Unlike previous texts, Steedman’s book was the first ever written on thesport of competitive swimming. The practical value of the book was enhanced by the factthat it was actually written with the authority of experience by one of the great competitive
swimmers of the era. The book was later reprinted in 1873 in Steedman’s native London at
the price of three shillings and sixpence, quite a hefty sum in those days. It is safe to say thatCharles Steedman was the first notable contributor to the development of competitive
swimming as a recognized sport, and his seminal work set the stage for the beginning of
the modern era of swimming later in the 19th century.
In recognition of his contribution to swimming, Charles Steedman was inducted into the
International Swimming Hall of Fame in 2000, nearly 100 years after his death.

Evolution of Competitive Swimming 199
Steedman (1830–1901), the reigning English
Champion emigrated to Australia in July 1854.With him, Steedman brought the Champion-
ship belt of England as proof of his eminent
status.
Steedman settled in Melbourne, then a small
provincial town of about 23,000 people. Sydney,on the other hand, was already a bustling citywith a population of 100,000, so it is more than
likely that Steedman’s name was not immedi-
ately known to the growing number of swim-ming enthusiasts in Sydney. However, word
eventually leaked out that Steedman, the Cham-
pion of England, the world’s leading swim-ming nation at the time, was living in
Melbourne. Not long after, Captain Kenney
staged the First World Championship at St.Kilda, Melbourne, in January 1858 between
Steedman and John Bennett, Sydney’s leading
swimmer. The race was over 100 yards. Bennettbeat the veteran Steedman, who had swum his
first race 15 years earlier in 1843.
Professor Fred Cavill (1839–1927) was born
in London on July 16, 1839, and settled inSydney in 1879 with his wife, four sons, and
three daughters. (He later had two more sons.)Cavill learned to swim in the Serpentine in
London at the age of 10, went to sea at 13,
served in the Crimean War and Indian rebel-lion, and held silver and bronze medals from
the Royal Humane Society and the Australian
Humane Society. He first attempted to swimthe English Channel in 1876, a feat he practi-
cally accomplished a year later, when he almost
swam from France to England on August 20,1877. However, 50 yards from the English shore,
the boatman following Cavill refused to allow
the boat to go any farther because of the strongtide flowing to the shore and because of the
rocky nature of the coast (Thomas 1904).
On his arrival in Sydney, Cavill built a swim-
ming bath at Rushcutters Bay in Sydney Har-bor. He later built another pool at Lavender
Bay, where he guaranteed to teach people toswim for one guinea. He moved yet again to
open an elegant natatorium built on floats in
Farm Cove near the Botanic Gardens, whichbecame one of the wonders of the town
(Clarkson 1990). Cavill retired at the age of 70after a storm ripped the pool enclosure from its
moorings and dashed it on the rocks. He died in1927 at the age of 88 (Dawson 1987).
Professor Cavill’s family were all remark-
able swimmers. His sons Charles and Arthur(nicknamed Tums) swam across the entrance
to San Francisco Harbor. His youngest son,
Dick, won 18 Australian and 22 New SouthWales titles, and was the first man to break 60
seconds for 100 yards. His son Percy won the
440-yard championship and 5-mile champion-ship of the world in 1897. His son Sydney won
the Australian 220-yard championship at the
age of 16. Later Sydney was appointed swim-ming coach to the Olympic Club in San Fran-
cisco and with his brother Arthur, helped in-
troduce the Australian crawl to America(Clarkson 1990).
Australia Challenges England
By the end of the 19th century, J.H. Derbyshirehad established himself as the fastest swimmerin the world, having recorded a time of 1 minute,
2/5 of a second for the 100 yards. In 1899 after
a three-month sea voyage, Freddie Lane, a wiryyoung Australian, competed in the English
220-yard championship and won, beating
Derbyshire in 2 minutes, 38-1/5 seconds.
In May 1902, Lane was back in England with
Dick Cavill and other Australian swimmers.Again they competed against Derbyshire, thistime in the 100 yards. Lane beat Derbyshire and
Cavill, becoming the first swimmer to cover
100 yards in 1 minute, a new world record.
Two weeks later, Cavill regained his form to
reduce Lane’s record to 58.8 seconds, a recordthat wasn’t recognized because it was recordedin a handicap race. Later that year in Leicester,
Lane officially became the first to break 1 minute
for the 100 yards, with a time of 59.6 seconds.During their English tour, Cavill and Lane each
won two national titles: Lane for 100 and 220
yards, Cavill for 440 and 880 yards. Cavill’scrawl stroke was completely new to the En-
glish experts and captured the admiration of
everyone present. Australian swimming hadarrived on the world scene. (For further details
of Cavill’s stroke, see chapter 1.)

200 Breakthrough Swimming
Australia at the Olympics
Australian swimmers such as Lane, Dick Cavill,
Barney Kieran, Frank Beaurepaire, and Cecil
Healy and women swimmers Fanny Durack
and Mona Wylie were the prominent swim-mers from the start of the 20th century to the
beginning of World War I.
The 1920s saw Andrew Boy Charlton be-
come an Australian national hero for his fight-ing spirit and fine sportsmanship in his famous
duels with Johnny Weissmuller of the UnitedStates and Arne Borg of Sweden. Charlton won
the 1,500-meter race in Paris in 1924, thus start-
ing Australia’s long tradition in this event.
At the 1932 Olympics in Los Angeles, Claire
Dennis won Australia’s only medal when shewon the 200-meter breaststroke. For 16 years,Australian swimming went into a slump. In the
first postwar Olympics in London, 1948, Judy
Joy Davies, Nancy Lyons, and John Marshallwon place medals. After the Olympics, Marshall
went on to Yale University, where he trained
under Bob Kiphuth. In 1951, in a never-before-seen spate of record breaking, Marshall broke
every world mark from the 200-meter to the
1,500-meter freestyle. In 1952 John Davies, abutterfly-breaststroke swimmer and a student
at Michigan University, won the only gold medal
for Australia in the 200-meter breaststroke.
After training hard for several months in
tropical Queensland, the Australians reestab-lished their long-lost supremacy before wildlycheering home crowds at the 1956 Melbourne
Olympics. They won six individual gold med-
als, several minor placings, and two relay cham-pionships. Their success was attributed mainly
to the pioneering use of interval training and
the introduction of radically improved stroketechniques. (Refer to chapter 1 for more details.)
After any great success, maintaining the mo-
mentum can be difficult, especially after theOlympics have been staged in one’s own coun-
try with all the accompanying public support.
However, to the Australians’ credit, they held asteady individual gold medal count at the next
four sets of Olympic Games (Rome, Tokyo,
Mexico City, and Munich) before what had be-come known as the Second Golden Age of Aus-tralian swimming suddenly collapsed, duelargely to lack of depth. There were to be eight
lean years before Australian swimming started
the long climb back to pre-eminence on the worldscene at Sydney (2000) and Fukuoka (2001).
The Olympic successes recorded by Austra-
lian swimmers are a remarkable achievementfor a nation with a population of only 17 million.
From 1900 to 2000, Australian swimmers have
won 39 individual Olympic gold medals.
Swimming in America*
The Montreal Swimming Association organizedthe first competitive swimming meets in North
America in 1876, and the New York Athletic
Club organized the first meets in the UnitedStates one year later. The first municipal swim-
ming pool in the United States was built in
Brookline, Massachusetts in 1896, but an evenolder pool, the Detroit Natatorium, had existed
since 1816; its dimensions were 16 feet by 33 feet.
The first YMCA swimming bath in the United
States was built in Brooklyn, New York in 1885.It measured 14 feet by 45 feet. By 1909, when the
YMCA officially launched its National Swim-ming Campaign, there were 293 pools in
YMCAs. Around 1905, a swimming mission-
ary named George Corson introduced massswimming classes throughout eastern North
America. Corson was a horticulture professor
at the University of Toronto. A showman, pub-licist, and traveling teacher, Corson is generally
credited with increasing the number of swim-
mers throughout the YMCA movement in east-ern North America.
After a late start, American swimming en-
joyed rapid progress from the beginning of the20th century, mainly because of the elevation of
the swimming coach’s status from that of bath
house attendant to that of professional teacher,the vast number of competitions, the continual
improvement in swimming techniques and
training methods, the institutional backing ofsecondary school and university competitions,
and the use of administrative methods of the
English ASA.
* Parts of this section were contributed by William “Buck” Dawson, First Executive Director, International Swimming Hall of Fame. Used
by permission of Buck Dawson.

Evolution of Competitive Swimming 201
American Domination
of World Swimming
America’s eventual dominance of world swim-
ming, highlighted by world records and Olym-pic performances (see table 11.1) of such all-
time greats as John Weissmuller, Mark Spitz
(seven gold medals at the 1972 Olympics), andmany other illustrious American swimmers,
began hesitantly with world records by
Schaeffer (1899) and LeMoyne (1903) but reallytook off with Charles Daniels (1906) and the
swimming of Duke Kahanamoku in the 1912
Olympics. The United States took charge at the1920 Olympics and dominated in 1924 and
1928 but dipped to second, as the very young
Japanese swimmers took over in 1932 and 1936.The United States resurfaced as number one in
1948 and 1952 but lost to the interval-training
and shoulder-rolling Australians in 1956.
In the 1960s, the United States accumulated
80 individual medals at the three OlympicGames (Rome 1960, Tokyo 1964, and MexicoCity 1968); other nations claimed the remain-
ing 61 medals (Thierry 1972). At the Montreal
Olympics in 1976, the U.S. men’s team, underhead coach James Counsilman, won 12 of 13
gold medals, the first time in Olympic swim-
ming history that this had been accomplished.
At the Sydney Olympic Games in 2000, the
U.S. Olympic team won a total of 97 medals; 38medals were gold. The U.S. swimming teamaccounted for 34 percent of the total medalswon and 37 percent of the gold medals. In the32 swimming events, the U.S. team won 33medals out of a potential 58 medal opportuni-
ties (an efficiency rating of 57 percent). The U.S.
women’s team took home 16 medals; the men’steam 17. There were only seven events in which
the U.S. team did not win a single medal: men’s
200-meter freestyle (4th), men’s 200-meterbreaststroke (6th), men’s 100-meter butterfly
(4th), women’s 400-meter individual medley
(4th), women’s 100-meter backstroke (6th),women’s 200-meter backstroke (5th), and
women’s 200-meter freestyle (12th). (Data cour-
tesy of N. Thierry.)
The lessons of American dominance largely
have been misunderstood. U.S. success is due tothe coaching free market that exists in America.The United States has the largest body of knowl-
edgeable professional swimming coaches in the
world, coaches who are highly motivated anddedicated to success. Other nations in the free
world have missed the importance of this model
and have centralized decision making whileretaining tight control of national programs
through appointed national coaches.
Over the years, through personal contacts
and lecture clinic visits, American swimmingcoaches traveled overseas to make their expe-
rience and expertise available to all countries,irrespective of their forms of government or
political affiliations. In particular, for more than
a quarter century the American SwimmingCoaches Association (ASCA) has provided
Table 11.1 U.S. Swimming Olympic Medals, 1972–2000
Gold Silver Bronze Total
1972 Munich 17 14 12 43
1976 Montreal 12 14 7 33
1980 Moscow* N/A N/A N/A N/A
1984 Los Angeles 20 12 1 33
1988 Seoul 8 6 4** 18
1992 Barcelona 11 9** 7 27
1996 Atlanta 13 12 2 27
2000 Sydney 14 8 11 33
* The United States did not compete at the 1980 Moscow Games to protest the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
** Additional medals were awarded as the result of ties.
Table provided by Nick Thierry.

202 Breakthrough Swimming
leadership and coaching education in the
United States and worldwide by conductingits well-attended annual world swim clinics
and making membership open to coaches from
all countries. In any given year, about 10 per-cent of the coaches attending the ASCA Annual
World Clinic are not U.S. citizens. Similarly, in
any given year, foreign membership of ASCAnumbered about 350 coaches, mainly from
Europe and undeveloped countries.
United States
Swimming Programs
American competitive swimming was domi-
nated first by the East Coast, then by Chicago
and the Midwest, and finally by California. TheHawaiian influence was strong from 1911 to
1956. There is no longer one area that dominates
United States swimming, however. Good coach-ing has spread nationwide and good programs
spring up wherever good coaching exists.
Similarly, United States collegiate swimming,
which started with a Yale, Pennsylvania, andColumbia meet in 1896, went through a long
period—1924 to 1958—during which six uni-versities dominated the scene: Navy, North-
western, Rutgers, Michigan, Ohio State, and
Yale. It is now becoming more balanced afterrecent dominance by Sunbelt schools. The totalUnited States swimming picture was domi-nated by the urban, private-membership ath-letic clubs from 1875 to 1940 and by the colleges
from 1936 to 1960.
High school swimming in the United States
became a major development program, as didthe YMCA and the Boys and Girls Clubs of
America. More recently, community recreationswim clubs have played a big part in America’s
learn-to-swim program, which continues
through to the structured high school and col-lege programs and ultimately to USA Swim-
ming (formerly AAU), the FINA-recognized
governing body of American senior swim-ming.
Americans also originated age-group swim-
ming, an exposure and developmental pro-gram begun in the 1950s through Carl Bauer at
the Missouri Athletic Club in St. Louis and
developed by Beth Kaufman in California. Theimpact of United States age-group swimming
was so great in the 1960s that swimming be-
came a kindergarten sport, with world-recordholders as young as 12 years old and Olympic
champions in their teens.
The development of age-group swimming
was the biggest single factor in the tremendousgrowth of American swimming in the post–
World War II years. Peter Daland, coach of theUniversity of Southern California and one of
Charlotte “Eppy” Epstein (1885–1938)
Charlotte “Eppy” Epstein, the mother of American women’s swimming, established women’sswimming as a recognized sport in the United States and was responsible for its inclusionat the 1920 Antwerp Olympic Games. During her 22 years with the New York Women’s
Swimming Association (NYWSA), the club’s swimmers set 51 world records and registered
31 National (USA) Champion relay teams. Within months of the NYWSA’s establishment,Eppy persuaded the Amateur Athletic Union to permit women swimmers to register as
athletes with the AAU for the first time.
By profession a court stenographer, Epstein led the United States lady swimmers to the
1920, 1924, and 1932 Olympiads. During this time, American female swimmers dominatedthe Games, and those considered her proteges were champions: Claire Galligan, Gertrude
Ederle, Aileen Riggen, Helen Wainwright, and Eleanor Holm.
When Epstein was named assistant manager of the 1932 U.S. Women’s Olympic Swim
Team, she became the first woman to be appointed to such a position. Four years later, shewas invited to coach the 1936 U.S. Women’s Olympic Team in Berlin but declined andresigned from the U.S. Olympic Committee in protest against Nazi Germany’s policies.

Evolution of Competitive Swimming 203
the prime movers in American swimming dur-
ing the second half of the 20th century, told methat the first result of the new program showed
up at the Melbourne Olympic Games in 1956,
when Sylvia Ruuska, an age-group product,won the bronze medal in the 400-meter
freestyle.
According to Daland, the first results of real
depth from the new age-group program wereat the Rome Olympics in 1960. The United
States had seen a great upsurge of swimming,particularly in California. Daland coached at
the University of Southern California, and at
the Los Angeles Athletic Club (with co-coachDon Gambril), while George Haines at Santa
Clara, developed the most successful home-
spun team of all time.
The Santa Clara swim club, coached by
George Haines, achieved the remarkable tallyof 43 national titles, 55 Olympians, and 51Olympic medals (33 gold, 11 silver, and 7
bronze)—an achievement rivaled only by coach
Mark Schubert during his 13-year tenure atMission Viejo, California, where Schubert’s
swimmers won 44 national titles.
During the years 1957 to 1959, a number of
age-groupers began to break world records.The age-group program spread across the
United States, causing a great influx of youngswimmers. The large increase in numbers
was not without attendant difficulties, par-
ticularly in administration and coachingdevelopment. The swimming population of
America multiplied about ten-fold between
1956 and 1964. What had been small meetsbecame huge meets. For example, in southern
California, a senior meet that at one time had
1 heat, sometimes 2, but rarely 3, soon came tohave 10 or 12 heats, even with set-qualifying
times.
Although Carl Bauer, Beth Kaufman, Peter
Daland, and Dave Beaver are generally ac-knowledged as the pioneers of the age-group
movement, its expansion largely resulted fromdevelopment by the local swimming commit-
tees in Sunbelt states such as Texas, Florida,
and California. It was promoted mainly by age-group parents, upper-middle class people who
had taken over the leadership role in swim-
ming administration.American University Swimming
As the age-group youngsters grew up, an in-
flux of swimmers entered American university
swimming programs. It was not long beforeuniversity swimming benefited from the dy-
namic age-group program that had taken shape
beneath it. Soon, many hard-working formerage-group swimmers were participating in the
college ranks, causing a revolution in the size of
college teams, the size of competitions, and thenumber of good swimmers.
Athletic scholarships were offered to induce
swimmers to compete while pursuing theirdegrees. According to Daland (1984), athletic
scholarships existed for 50 to 60 years but be-
came more numerous in the 1950s and 1960s. Inthe mid-1970s, however, the financial crisis
that developed in American colleges caused
severe cutbacks. The National Collegiate Ath-letic Association (NCAA) removed 40 percent
of the aid in nonrevenue sports. However, there
always has been a high percentage ofnonscholarship swimmers in American uni-
versities—a majority, in fact.
Collegiate swimming programs for women
really grew when the federal governmentpassed Title IX, which mandated all programs
in schools, colleges, or universities that receivefunds from the federal government have equal
opportunity for women. Before Title IX, female
swimmers tended to drop out of the sportearlier than male swimmers. But increased
opportunities in athletic programs provide a
strong incentive for women to remain longer inthe sport.
In the years since Title IX was passed, how-
ever, the face of American college campuseshas changed. Nationwide, there are now more
female undergraduate students than male; on
some campuses, the difference can be as muchas 55 percent to 45 percent female to male
population. Because one of the goals of Title IX
was to make participation and scholarship lev-els approximate the relative percentages in the
student population, athletic administrators
have felt increasing pressure to cut programsand scholarships for male student-athletes to
comply with Title IX. Since big-ticket men’s
sports such as football require many of the

204 Breakthrough Swimming
resources available (a typical Division I foot-
ball program is allowed 85 scholarships, pluswalk-ons), it has become exceedingly difficult
to maintain balance between men’s and
women’s athletic programs without droppingsome of the less visible men’s programs, such
as swimming.
Although Title IX has caused great problems
for male swimming programs at the collegiatelevel, it has provided huge opportunities on the
women’s side. This has contributed to the de-velopment of the dominant U.S. women’s swim-
ming program. The ratio of female to male
swimmers overall in USA Swimming is 60 per-cent to 40 percent. Within a few years, two-
thirds of American swimmers registered with
USA Swimming could be female. This is indi-rectly related to Title IX; parents put their kids
in sports that they perceive provide the greatest
opportunities.
The current federal administration is likely
to reexamine the way Title IX is administered.This may or may not impact male swimmingprograms. Several legislators, including Con-
gressman Dennis Hastert (R-Illinois), a former
wrestling coach, are leading the charge to makecompliance to Title IX live up to the word of the
legislation, changing the way it has been ap-
plied to provide more opportunities for womenwithout sacrificing opportunities for men
(Neuburger 2001).
The Professional Development
of American Swimming Coaches*
Begun in 1985, the American Swimming
Coaches Association certification program is avoluntary system designed to identify profes-
sionally prepared swimming coaches. By Janu-
ary of 2000, 6,050 coaches had applied for cer-tification and over 5,200 had been granted
certification.
The program grew steadily, with the upper-
level coaches (3, 4, and 5) generally coming intothe program first, as might be expected, fol-
lowed by the newer coaches in subsequentyears. The statistics are revealing. In 1985, over74 percent of the coaches certified were level 3or higher. By 1987, this percentage had droppedto 39 percent, and in 1988 and 1989, over 80
percent of the coaches certified were at levels 1
and 2. In 1999, the percentages were 64 percentat levels 1 and 2, 21 percent at level 3, 9 percent
at level 4, and 6 percent at level 5.
This indicates that the program has received
considerable acceptance by the coaching com-munity. The ASCA certification program was
accepted by every organized coaching group inthe United States, beginning with National In-
terscholastic Coaches Association (NISCA) and
followed by masters coaches, YMCA coaches,and college coaches’ associations.
The Golden Era of Japanese
Swimming
Swimming has been an organized sport in Japa-
nese schools since 1603. Japanese interschool
competitive swimming programs have contin-ued to the present time (Oppenheim 1970).
From 1932 to 1936, Japan reigned supreme in
world swimming, but after World War II—with the exception of great swimmers such as
Furuhashi, Hashizume, Yamanaka, Taguchi,
Tanaka, Suzuki, and a few others—Japan neverregained its former depth in world swimming.
The dramatic rise of the Japanese to world
supremacy at the Los Angeles Olympics in1932 marked the first occasion that a single
country had put into effect a definite national
plan with the aim of achieving complete mas-tery. It also was the first time that the motion
picture camera was used as a scientific device
for improving swimming technique on a na-tional scale. The Japanese made extensive mo-
tion film studies of leading American and Eu-
ropean champions from above and below water.The films were then shown to schoolchildren
throughout Japan to give them a visual idea of
good technique.
These children were carefully nurtured in
sound stroke technique from an early age. TheAmerican crawl was cleverly adapted to the
*“The Professional Development of American Swimming Coaches” was contributed by John Leonard, Executive Director, American
Swimming Coaches Association. Used by permission of John Leonard.

Evolution of Competitive Swimming 205
shorter Japanese physique, but the Japanese
crawl, as it came to be called, was not fundamen-tally different from the American style. The Japa-
nese youngsters were taught well from an early
age, and they trained harder than swimmers hadever done before. Good technique and strenuous
training were consistently applied. The results
of this first conscientious application of a na-tional development plan were outstanding.
In the Amsterdam Olympics in 1928, the breast-
stroke swimmer Tsuruta was the only Japaneseto win a title. His success inspired all of Japan.
Four years later, Japan brought a team of young
teenagers to the 1932 Los Angeles Olympic Gamesand shook the world of swimming, winning
every event but the 400 meters, which was won
by Clarence “Buster” Crabbe, an American.
The American team coach, Bob Kiphuth,
was reportedly pleased by the fact that in prac-tice, the 1932 American Olympic team hadbeaten the 800-meter relay record by over 15
seconds. This improvement was not enough to
beat the Japanese team, which eclipsed the oldrelay record by more than 37 seconds to estab-
lish an undreamed-of mark (Cureton 1934). In
all, the Japanese accumulated 86 points, whilethe Americans earned 33. Japanese swimmers
won first and second in every race but one; in
that race they placed third, fourth, and fifth.These results showed a Japanese team of un-
usual mass strength (Cureton 1934).
An amazing feature of the great Japanese
rise to victory was that it happened withoutwarning between the Games of 1928 and 1932.
The Japanese success in the 1930s was the firstexample in competitive swimming of what can
be achieved by careful planning and special-
ized training that works purposefully ratherthan hopefully toward a set goal. They didn’t
know it at the time, but the Japanese developed
what would prove to be a basic recipe fornational success in international sport.
The Development of
Multilevel National Programs
Growth of the sport and the desire to excel ledto the development of multilevel national pro-
grams and the employment of professional
administrators, often university trained in sportleadership. Assisting these professionals werelay volunteers, prominent people in commerce,industry, and other professions. In more ad-
vanced countries, the better-organized lay vol-
unteers contributed their expertise and guid-ance, supplanting the old part-time amateur
hobbyist. In a sense, swimming administration
was taken off the kitchen table and put into theboard room.
In some countries, competitive swimming,
like all sports, was organized and centrallycontrolled by the state. Elsewhere, governments
directly involved in funding national programs
tried to give an impression of remaining atarm’s length, but often it was apparent that
whoever paid the piper called the tune.
The Need for Motivators
and Innovators
Many beginning coaches, unsure of what infor-mation to accept and what to discard, really
didn’t know how to start coaching. They cameto expect more from science than science could
provide. In the late 20th century, young coaches
had grown up in the sport expecting that sci-ence would supply them with all the answers
instead of trying to become more competent
and self-sufficient by testing new ideas as partof their daily practical coaching.
As competitive swimming entered the 21st
century, some penetrating questions were be-ing asked. Had modern coaches been caught
between two approaches, the pool-deck em-
pirical and the scientific? Had modern coacheslost the ability to innovate? Did young coaches
in particular rely too much on scientific re-
search papers and not enough on developingan ability to innovate?
A trust in science does not imply the aban-
donment of hunch and intuition. On the con-trary, the history of science itself is studded
with cases of important discoveries made
through chance, hunch, serendipity—evendreams. Most coaches who use their hunches
well also seem to possess a high level of knowl-
edge and understanding about their activities.So, the question is not when to apply science
and when to rely on intuition but rather how to
combine the two effectively.

206 Breakthrough Swimming
William Wilson, Swimming’s First Innovator
William Wilson was an important swimming pioneer, a skilled and lucid writer, a visionary,
and an innovator. He was born in London on November 13, 1844, to Scottish parents and
moved to Glasgow when he was a child. Had he been born 100 years later, there’s little doubt
that his thinking would still have been in the vanguard of swimming progress.
Wilson stressed the need for scientific study of swimming, holding that a successful
swimming teacher ought to devote as much thought, application, hard work, and constantpractice as instructors did in almost any branch of education or science. Wilson was aswimmer, a swimming instructor, and the sport’s first regular newspaper journalist. He
studied the sport carefully and concluded that swimming had undergone very little
improvement “during its many years’ practice.” With great foresight, he announced thathumans should be able to use their superior intellect to move through water at a much faster
rate than they had so far attained.
Wilson had many firsts. He was the first to describe and illustrate the racing start and turn,
the first in the literature to advocate an overarm recovery for the sidestroke, and the first todevelop a life-saving drill. He created the idea of water polo. He pioneered land- and water-
training methods. With the early shortage of swimming pools, he promoted year-round cold-water swimming in the sea.
In 1883, Wilson published The Swimming Instructor , one of the 19th century’s three
landmark books on swimming. Along with Charles Steedman’s A Manual of Swimming ,
Wilson’s work was considered a great advance on the literature of the time. Wilson, far ahead
of his time, said that there was a need to invent and introduce some method, or methods,
whereby the body would move through water faster than the present rate.
Wilson thought it was necessary to acknowledge our helplessness regarding swimming
and consider how best to improve the present state of the art. His references to resistanceversus propulsion, made nearly 120 years ago, still form the fundamental basis on whichpresent-day discussions on stroke mechanics evolve. (Several times Wilson mentioned
momentum, an aspect of human swimming propulsion that remains a much-neglected
study.)

207Chapter 12
Doping, Testing,
and Modern Effortsto Gain an Edge
For most of 20 years, powerful East Ger-
man females ruled women’s swimming.Though suspected of taking performance-
enhancing drugs and despite drug testingat the Olympics, not one positive result wasrecorded during these years.
The truth emerged after the fall of the
East German state in 1989. Starting in the
1970s, the officials of the German Demo-
cratic Republic’s elite state-contr olled sports
schools r outinely gave performance-
enhancing drugs to swimmers under thepretense that they were merely taking vita-
mins. In reality, they were ingesting the
now notorious little blue pills (oral
turinabol), a powerful performance-
enhancing drug capable of producing dam-aging side effects.
Although athletes from West Germany,
the United States, and Canada also useddrugs, they did so of their own volition.
What was specifically different about drug
cheating in East Germany was that it was
a state-ordered policy aimed at improving
athletic performance with dr ugs (State Plan
14.25 of 1974), forged by a group of offi-
cials and doctors, including Dr. Ewald and
Dr. Hoeppner, and implemented on a large
scale. This fact, in itself,
 ensured that the
plan was highly researched, controlled,
and specialized.

208 Breakthrough Swimming
Never before in the history of sport had
such a depraved, cynical, and shameful act
been systematically perpetrated on young-
sters entrusted to the care of adults. At the
bottom of it were qualified medical doctors,who had taken a professional oath to practice
medicine and cause no intentional harm to
those in their care.
Only after the East German state ceased to
exist did the world learn that the long-heldsuspicions were true. The doping trials thatbegan in Berlin in March 1998 revealed that the
former East German sporting regime, under
State Plan 14.25 of 1974, had made it a statepolicy to improve athletic performance through
performance-enhancing drugs. There was no
out-of-competition testing at that time, butwhen the story of the cheating East German
regime finally emerged, it was understood that
East German swimmers had either been givendiuretic-masking agents before the Games
started or that the steroids had naturally passed
through their systems long before they came tothe Olympics. The great coach-educators of the
early 20th century could never have foreseen
how their concepts of good sportsmanship andfair play would be trampled on in the interests
of political ideology.
By taking anabolic steroids to increase muscle
mass and strength, an athlete can undertakemuch higher levels of work than normally pos-
sible; of course, doing so starkly contrasts theold ideal of striving for success through honest
effort. East Germany and other totalitarian
countries, with their cold, impersonal, statesystems of sport preparation, had no such tra-
ditions. For two decades, East German officials
insisted they were winning fairly because of asuperior system, but, in fact, they had not the
slightest compunction about administering
performance-enhancing drugs to athletes with-out the athletes’ knowledge.
I will abstain from all intentional wrongdoing
and harm, especially from abusing the bodies
of man or woman.
From the Hippocratic OathThe East German Doping
Regime
The last decade of the 20th century produced
incontrovertible proof of drug cheating by ath-letes under the East German regime. The dis-
covery of secret police (Stasi) files confirmed
that thousands of athletes, including swim-mers, were involved in systematic state-con-
trolled cheating between 1972 and 1989. The
German Democratic Republic’s much vauntedscientific sports program was spearheaded by
doped female swimmers who swept the boards
in Olympic, World, and European Champion-ships. The Stasi files also revealed that Russia
was involved in state-controlled doping in sport,
as were most of the Eastern Bloc countries.
Most of the athletes given the drugs were
under the age of 16 (some were as young as 10),and they had no idea what they were given.Younger athletes were not informed about the
drugs or their consequences and were usually
kept away from their parents to avoid the dis-covery of this interference with their children’s
well-being. Athletes over 18 had to sign an oath
of secrecy.
The indelible fact is that for 20 years the
performances of the East German swimmersresulted from the ingestion of performance-enhancing drugs, administered covertly by the
officers of the state. For 20 years FINA, the
international governing body of swimming,failed to catch the East Germans, who were
experts at pretesting their athletes to ensure
that they were clear before allowing them tocompete. Out-of-competition testing was non-
existent at that time, and since testing was
conducted only during competitions, not oneEast German tested positive.
The world records set by East German swim-
mers were allowed to remain in the FINA recordbooks, and the athletes still have their Olympic
medals. Neither FINA nor the IOC have seen fit
to retroactively award medals and other honorsto those dispossessed of what is rightfully theirs.
A large section of the swimming world, particu-
larly those who still cherish achievement byhonest effort, still carry considerable resentment
that these injustices have yet to be set right.

Doping, Testing, and Modern Efforts to Gain an Edge 209
At the 2000 Olympics, the German Olympic
Committee’s media guide book included the
results of GDR swimmers as part of Germany’s
Olympic history. This was done despite the fact
that their judicial system prosecuted the formerGDR officials responsible for state-sponsored
cheating.
East German Doping Trials*
The historic East German doping trials beganin March 1998, nearly nine years after the fall of
the Berlin Wall, with the so-called “pilot trial”of doctors and swimming coaches from the
former SC Dynamo Club (East Berlin). This
was the first of a series of trials that would lastuntil October 2, 2000, the statute of limitations.
It is difficult to determine if they would ever
have taken place without the relentless effortsof a Heidelberg molecular biologist Professor
Dr. Werner Franke and his wife, Brigitte
Berendonk. The first to uncover and publishmuch of the East German doping history, they
also provided valuable documentation and
support to investigating and prosecuting au-thorities, not to mention former athletes who
had been doped.A special division of the criminal police, the
Central Investigations Office for Government
and Reunification Crimes (ZERV), was charged
with investigating doping crimes. Charges
ranged from bodily harm to assisting in bodilyharm, and in the complicated amalgamation of
Eastern and West law, courts were obliged to
operate with the milder form of punishment(East or West accordingly). The Dynamo trial
saw a great deal of denial, and sometimes
refusal, by former athletes to denounce theircoaches and their personal achievements by
admitting to doping. As the top East German
officials came to trial, more victims came for-ward to testify, and at this point, they stopped
being pariahs and found a greater degree of
support from their respective communities.
Effects of Doping on Athletes
Women like Birgit Matz and Carola Beraktchjan,former swimmers for Berlin’s Dynamo Club,testified against their coaches in 1998. Both
have permanently deepened voices, and Matz
has noticeable facial hair.
Rica Reinisch, a triple Olympic champion in
1980, has had five miscarriages and suffers
* Reprinted by permission of Karin Helmstaedt, a freelance journalist and author who followed the doping trials in Berlin. Reprinted
by permission of Swimnews , July 2000.
Chronology of German Doping Trials and Verdicts
March 18, 1998.  First trial of systematic doping in the former East Germany opens. Four
swimming coaches and two doctors from Berlin’s Dynamo Club are accused of bodily harm
for distributing anabolic steroids to underage female swimmers.
August 18, 1998.  Second trial of doping perpetrators opens in Berlin. Three swimming
coaches from Berlin’s TSC club—Klaus Klemenz, Peter Mattonet, and Bernd Christochowitz—
and two doctors—Dr. Dorit Rösler and Dr. Ulrich Sünder—are charged with bodily harm.
August 24, 1998.  TSC trial ends with all five defendants found guilty of bodily harm. Fines
range from 7 ,000 to 27 ,000 DM (approximately $3,200 to $12,500 U.S.).August 31, 1998.  First verdicts handed down in the Dynamo trial. Former Olympic
swimming coach Rolf Gläser confesses to charges and is fined 7 ,200 DM (approximately
$3,300). Dr. Dieter Binus also confesses and is fined 9,000 DM (approximately $4,100).
(continued)

210 Breakthrough Swimming
September 14, 1998.  Former Dynamo swim coach Volker Frischke is fined 5,000 DM
(approximately $2,300). Shortly afterward, his colleague Dieter Lindemann, former coach of
world record-holder Franziska van Almsick, gets off with 4,000 DM (approximately $1,800).
Dieter Krause is fined 3,000 DM (approximately $1,400).
December 7 , 1998.  After 42 days of proceedings, a final verdict is handed down in the
Dynamo trial. Dr. Bernd Pansold is fined 14,400 DM (approximately $6,700). His appeal is
denied.
April 12, 1999.  Dietrich Hannemann, former director of East Germany’s Sports Medicine
Services, receives a fine of 45,000 DM (approximately $20,900).June 21, 1999.  The first suspended prison sentence is handed down to a former doper. Dr.
Dietbert Freiberg from Sports Medicine Services is given a six-month suspended sentence.
October 22, 1999.  Horst Röder, former vice president of the East German Sports and
Gymnastics Union (DTSB), gets a one-year suspended sentence.
November 1999.  Uwe Neumann, former coach of triple Olympic champion Rica Reinisch,
is fined 8,000 DM in Dresden (approximately $3,700).December 22, 1999.  Egon Müller, former general secretary of East Germany’s swimming
federation, and Wolfgang Richter and Jürgen Tanneberger, former men’s and women’s
national team coaches, receive one-year suspended sentences and fines of 5,000 DM
(approximately $2,300).
January 12, 2000.  Dr. Lothar Kipke, 72, former Swimming Federation doctor, receives a
suspended sentence of one year and three months, plus a fine of 7 ,500 DM (approximately
$3,400), the heaviest sentence at this point.
March 26, 2000.  Sport doctor Jochen Neubauer from Potsdam is fined 9,000 DM
(approximately $4,100) and dismissed from his position as a physician at Potsdam’s Olympic
Training Centre, though he still has his position as team doctor for Tennis Borussia Football.
April 11, 2000.  In the state of Thüringia, prosecutors wrap up all doping-related cases. Five
doctors and one coach are fined 2,500 to 11,700 DM (approximately $1,100 to $5,400). Fifty-
three investigations are officially closed. Also in April, swimming coach Bernd Hennebergis fined 5,000 DM (approximately $2,300) for his doping activities in the city of Halle.
April 13, 2000.  In Leipzig court, Stefan Hetzer, former coach of East Germany’s most
successful swimmer ever, six-time Olympic gold medallist Kristin Otto, is charged with bodily
harm and is fined 15,000 DM (approximately $7 ,000) after he admits to doping Otto and eight
other swimmers.
July 18, 2000.  Most significant doping trial comes to an end in Berlin. Manfred Ewald,
former president of the DTSB and leader of the country’s medals-at-any-price policy, is
given a 22-month suspended jail term. Dr. Manfred Hoeppner, the doctor in charge of
overseeing the system, gets 18 months, also suspended. Both are convicted of contributingto bodily harm in 20 cases through their leading roles in the doping system.
July 25, 2000.  Council for Manfred Ewald announces it will appeal the Berlin court’s
decision to Germany’s Federal Court of Justice in Leipzig. Victims’ lawyer Michael Lehner
will also appeal both senior officials’ sentences.
Reprinted by permission of Karin Helmstaedt, a freelance journalist and author who followed the doping trials in Berlin, and by permission of Swimnews,
July 2000.(continued)

Doping, Testing, and Modern Efforts to Gain an Edge 211
Although the sudden upsurge in Chinese
swimming was reminiscent of the 20 years ofdrug cheating by the former East German
regime, some fair-minded people initially
wanted to give the Chinese the benefit of thedoubt. In the first edition of this book, I com-
mented
Chinese swimmers, competing in their
first Olympics at Seoul, reached severalfinals and served notice that China could
well achieve a rapid rise to world promi-
nence even before the end of the 20thcentury (Colwin 1992, p. 182).
But no one could have guessed that in 1991,
at the World Swimming Championships in
Perth, the Chinese swimmers would come awaywith six medals—four gold, one silver, and one
bronze—and that at the 1994 World Champi-
onships in Rome, the Chinese women wouldastound the world by winning 12 of the 16 gold
medals at stake, setting five world records in
the process (see table 12.1).
Not only because the Chinese girls came
from nowhere to sweep these events, but alsotheir incredible muscularity and other typicalsigns of steroid abuse caused immediate suspi-
cion among experienced coaches from several
countries, having the memory of 20 years ofEast German cheating still fresh in their minds.
Moreover, several world-renowned endocri-
nologists concluded that Chinese female swim-mers had been subjected to testosterone medi-
cation. Throughout the meet, simmering
resentment grew to downright anger thatfrom recurring ovarian cysts. CatherineMenschner, who received male hormones fromthe age of 10, suffers from permanent damage
to her spine and reproductive organs.
Jutta Gottschalk, a former swimmer from
Magdeburg, gave birth to a daughter who isblind in one eye. Her teammate Martina
Gottschalt has a 15-year old son who was bornwith severe club feet.
Shot and discus throwers Brigitte Michel
and Birgit Boese both had great difficultiesconceiving; as a young woman wanting to get
pregnant, Michel was told by a gynecologist
she would have to give up sport because herreproductive organs were like those of a 10-
year-old girl.
Perhaps the most grotesque story of all came
from Andreas Krieger, formerly Europeanchampion shot-putter Heidi Krieger. She was
so physically changed by the drugs she re-ceived that she finally underwent a sex change
in 1997, suffering great emotional trauma and
contemplating suicide along the way.
The Chinese Doping Problem
In 1992, as if from nowhere, the number of
Chinese swimmers ranked in the top 25 world
rankings soared from a plateau of less than 30to 98. Furthermore, all but 4 of the 98 swimmers
were female, and their improvement rate was
much greater than could be expected as a resultof normal growth and development.
This huge change led to a growing suspi-
cion that Chinese swimmers were being doped.
Table 12.1 Chinese Olympic and World Swimming Medals, 1988–2000
Gold Silver Bronze Total
1988 Seoul Olympic Games 0314
1991 Perth World Championships 4116
1992 Barcelona Olympic Games 4509
1994 Rome World Championships 12 6 1 19
1996 Atlanta Olympic Games 1326
1998 Perth World Championships 3227
2000 Sydney Olympic Games 0000
Data courtesy of Nick Thierry.

212 Breakthrough Swimming
and their tests proved positive. At this point,
the number of Chinese positive tests hadreached a total of 11. The drug detected in
Hiroshima was a relatively new and very
powerful dehydrotestosterone (DHT), firstseen in the pharmacopoeia in 1991 and 1992.
The new DHT combined with any kind of
base and thus could be used as a massagecream that was quickly absorbed through the
skin.
In the wake of this startling news, the China
Swimming Association (CSA) could not, orwould not, give any explanation of the large
number of positive tests accumulated by theirswimmers, who, at the time, were far more
than the rest of the world put together.
First FINA Delegation to China,
March 2–6, 1995
On February 15, 1995, FINA appointed a del-
egation to visit China to investigate the back-ground behind the many positive drug tests in
1994.
During this first meeting with the Chinese,
Gunner Werner, secretary of FINA, to his credit,told the Chinese that 11 positive tests in 1994
was an unacceptably high number from anyone country and that the purpose of the FINA
visit was to investigate the background to these
events.
Without going into all the specifics of the
copious FINA reports, certain distinct conclu-sions resulted from the FINA investigation:
• Whereas the East German motivation for
cheating had been to boost the so-calledbenefits of their political system, it would
seem that money was the main motiva-
tion for Chinese swimmers and theircoaches to cheat.
• CSA had suspended several coaches from
domestic and international competitionbecause of positive tests found in their
swimmers.
• The FINA delegation was unable to find
proof of systematic doping.
• The CSA promised to institute a number
of measures and reforms, including out-
of-competition doping tests.reached a flash point on the final day of thechampionships. Dave Johnson, the Canadianhead coach, called a news conference at which
he produced a petition signed by representa-
tives from 18 countries urging FINA to intro-duce a more rigorous program of drug testing.
While the petition did not refer specifically
to China, there was no mistaking the tersemessage it contained: the apparent reemer-
gence of the extensive use of performance-
enhancing drugs, especially in women’s com-petition, constitutes the single greatest threat to
the progress and integrity of the sport.
Subsequent events proved that the Chinese
girls used a very sophisticated skin-applied(topical) testosterone derivative. But the Chi-
nese continued to maintain that their dramaticimprovement resulted from traditional Chi-
nese medicine and the use of various Chinese
herbs. They insisted that their swimmers weregirls of strong peasant stock who descended
from people accustomed to hard work, harder
than any Westerner could ever have done, andthis was why they were so successful. Western
coaches were accused of being racist and jeal-
ous of Chinese success.
After the sudden, unbelievable performances
of Chinese swimmers at the 1994 World Cham-pionships in Rome, the world of swimmingwas in turmoil. After 20 years of undetected
East German doping, FINA’s ability to identify
and punish major drug offenders came to bestrongly questioned, particularly among the
major swimming nations. The thought of the
sport enduring another long period of uninter-rupted drug cheating caused a great deal of
anger. A call went out to FINA to deal deci-
sively with this new and very obvious drugthreat to the sport.
Despite the dissimulating and evasive state-
ments made by prominent Chinese coaches,the early suspicions about the Chinese swim-
ming team were confirmed at the Asian Games
in Hiroshima, October 1994, when seven Chi-nese swimmers—including Yang Aihua and
Lu Binn, the world champions from the Rome
World Championships earlier that sameyear—were tested soon after stepping off their
plane. Caught by surprise, they had no time to
use diuretics to mask the presence of steroids,

Doping, Testing, and Modern Efforts to Gain an Edge 213
Second FINA Delegation to China,
February 1998
On January 8, 1998, a few days before the start
of the World Championships in Perth, WestAustralia, customs officers at the Sydney air-
port discovered human growth hormone (HGH)
in the baggage of Chinese swimmer Yuan Yuan,placed there by her coach Zhou Zhewen.
Six days later, it was announced that tests in
Perth showed the presence of the diuretic-mask-ing agent triamterine—a banned substance—
in the urine samples of four Chinese swim-
mers, Wang Luna, Yi Zhang, Huijue Cai, andWei Wang. (The swimmers were later each
suspended from competition for two years,
while three coaches associated with the swim-mers— Zhi Cheng, Hiuqin Xu, and Zhi Cheng—
were each suspended for three months.)
The world of swimming could not have imag-
ined the vast media coverage resulting fromthese discoveries. The Australian media, from
the most conservative to the tabloids, ran pageafter page on the developing story, usually on
the front page and several inside pages as well.
In Europe and much of Asia, the story wasfeatured in big metropolitan newspapers. To
the dismay of the organizers, the World Cham-
pionships in Perth were becoming a fiasco evenbefore the meet started. Never before had com-
petitive swimming received so much public-
ity—most of it adverse. Following the world-wide media uproar, and concerned about the
discovery of HGH at the Sydney airport, FINA
immediately announced that they would senda second delegation to China to examine and
study measures to eliminate doping.
A FINA delegation arrived in China the fol-
lowing month on February 16, 1998, and metwith leading officials of the CSA, including the
swimmers who had tested positive and theircoaches. At the meeting, the CSA made a reas-
suring Eleven Points Declaration outlining in
detail how it proposed to tackle the dopingproblem in Chinese swimming. The main points
centered on increased testing, severe punish-
ment for swimmers and coaches, improvedantidoping regulations, registration of swim-
mers, limitation of cash awards, and several
other positive steps.Third FINA Delegation to China,
December 1–4, 1999
FINA’s third visit to China was held in Shang-
hai to meet with members of the Shanghai
Swimming Association as well as the CSA.
On the positive side, more funding had
ensured a great increase in the number of out-of-competition tests. As promised, CSA con-
ducted exactly 600 tests in 1998 (162 in compe-tition, 15 at the FINA World Cup, and 423 out
of competition), with 4 positive (3 for DHT, 1
for testosterone/epitestosterone ratio). Eachof the four swimmers who tested positive was
suspended for four years, the FINA minimum.
For the first 10 months of 1999, 646 tests wereconducted (217 in competition, 429 out of com-
petition), with no positives.
In its Eleven Points Declaration, the CSA
assured FINA that it would ban for life anyswimmer violating the rules against the use of
steroids or similar substances. But it had notbeen able to do so, saying that it was difficult
dealing with other groups, including coaches
and public officials, who opposed a life ban.However, the CSA seemed to have been work-
ing with state authorities regarding criminal
penalties for doping but without result.
Disappointing Progress
One of the main reasons for the FINAdelegation’s second visit to Beijing (February
1998) had been to hear and discuss the CSA’s
report on the incident at the Sydney airportbefore the 1998 World Championships. The
third FINA delegation found the progress made
by CSA since its second visit disappointing.The only attempt at investigating the incident
had been the interrogation of the principals,
who continued to deny knowledge of anywrongdoing.
Educational sessions had been held in
Baoding (May 1998) and in Daqing (April 1999),at the time of the national championships in
those cities, to discuss antidoping issues with
swimmers, coaches, and team leaders, andtranslations of FINA’s latest doping rules had
been distributed by the CSA to all clubs.
The CSA had registered by computer all its
approximately 1,200 elite swimmers, and the

214 Breakthrough Swimming
swimmers had signed a Letter of Guarantee
pledging to follow the doping rules. Registeredswimmers were to receive ID cards to assist
their identification by FINA’s sampling agents.
The CSA advised the delegation that it was
testing blood drawn from swimmers, not todetermine the presence of banned substances,
but to see whether blood doping was occurring.
The CSA’s promise that coaches of swim-
mers who test positive will be severely sanc-tioned seems to have been adhered to. Thecoach of the three swimmers who tested posi-
tive for DHT in November 1998 was suspended
for four years and fined Y10,000, while thecoach of the four swimmers who tested posi-
tive for a diuretic in Perth, January 1998, was
suspended from coaching for eight years.
In addition, Chinese labor authorities prohib-
ited the total withholding of prize money untilafter retirement. As a result, CSA now pays one-fifth of all prize money won to the swimmer
within a year of competition and the remainder
after four years but only if no doping offenseshave occurred. The FINA delegation expressed
understanding with this compromise but wanted
to be told of changes as soon as implemented.
Regarding the CSA’s stated intention to an-
nounce all sanctions immediately to the public,the delegation expressed concern that it hadtaken 10 months to advise FINA of the three
DHT positives in November 1998.
Despite the CSA being able to register all of
its 1,200 members, it was still experiencingdifficulties in maintaining proper registration
procedures throughout such a large country, aproblem compounded by the fact that the great
majority of Chinese swimmers were not regis-
tered members of CSA. This gives the CSA noauthority over these swimmers when it comes
to out-of-competition testing and other regula-
tory measures.
In particular there had been an incident in
1998 in which a FINA sampling agent hadsought to test a Chinese swimmer who the CSAclaimed was not registered with CSA, even
though he was training with other CSA-regis-
tered swimmers in Shanghai. It appears thatCSA only controls the elite swimmers in China,
while the provincial swimming organizations
such as the Shanghai Swimming Associationregistered the bulk of the grass-roots and opengroup level swimmers.
CSA was trying to develop a national regis-
tration system to cover all new swimmers de-veloped in China and stated that it wouldemploy a full-time person responsible for dop-
ing control. This person would communicate
results and ensure that accurate identities ofswimmers in the top 50 lists be communicated
to the FINA office in Lausanne.
The Shanghai Swimming Association
The SSA has about 30,000 swimmers, many of
whom are novices or just learning to swim. Thebetter age-group swimmers number about
3,200, of whom it was estimated only 60 to 100
are registered. While the SSA seems to do thesame kind of education and dissemination of
antidoping information that the CSA does, it
does not conduct out-of-competition testing.
During FINA’s third visit to China, SSA rep-
resentatives appeared exceedingly naive. Theyseemed quick to accept excuses by swimmersthat positive doping tests were the result of
ingesting food or food supplements, even when
such explanations made no sense at all (e.g.,that two swimmers tested positive for the di-
uretic triamterine after eating pig liver).
SSA representatives admitted the SSA lacked
control over swimmers. Even when a swimmerwas suspended for a doping violation, that
swimmer could continue to train and receive astipend from his or her club. However, such a
swimmer did lose financial benefits in the way
of prizes and sponsorships (Leonard 2000).
When asked why there was such a high
incidence of positive doping tests in Shanghai,the answer was that more good swimmerslived in Shanghai than in other provinces so
more testing occurred.
By the end of FINA’s third visit to China in
December 1999, it was clear that this policytoward China was meeting with mixed results.
The FINA delegation did not recommend an-other visit by a similar FINA delegation. They
believed that as much had been accomplished
by such visits as could be hoped for and thatFINA rather should assist those in responsible
positions within the CSA to continue the fight
against doping.

Doping, Testing, and Modern Efforts to Gain an Edge 215
dishonest competitors and their handlers. In
poorer countries, the less sophisticated drugsappear to be the more common choice. One can
imagine the distracting effect on a clean swim-
mer about to start a race, wondering whetherthe ensuing competition will be against some-
one whose prowess is prompted by honest
effort or by pill or needle.
The pioneers of our sport would have found
it extremely difficult to understand the vastlychanged character of competitive swimmingas it exists today. They just would not have
understood the biochemical manipulation of
athletes and all the associated quarrels, debate,rhetoric, and legal loopholes that have beset
the sport as a result. They wouldn’t have begun
to understand the problems associated withtrying to keep the sport clean for those athletes
who still believe in fair play, least of all the often
unfounded suspicions that attend any athlete’spronounced and sudden improvement,
whether by natural means or not. The sad fact
is that today’s sport is permeated with suspi-cion at almost any indication of sudden im-
provement, not to mention the odd occasion
when swimmers glare at each other across thelanes at the end of a race and make personal
comments that are more than innuendo.
There is a growing appreciation by the gen-
eral swimming public that they have not beenlistening to the voices of crackpots, eccentrics,FINA Extraordinary Congress
on Doping, Hong Kong,
March 31, 1999
The sole purpose of the FINA ExtraordinaryCongress on Doping was to improve the FINA
doping rules. To this end, FINA appointed aworking group of medical and legal personnel
to rewrite the FINA doping rules.
According to Leonard (1999), the working
group did an excellent job on the rewrite, and,combined with subsequent revisions, they pro-
vided a solid groundwork for taking the pro-cess even further. The current edition of the
FINA Rule Book includes the new legislation.
Toward a Level Playing Field
During the past 30 years, the scourge of dopinghas reached a crisis point where the survival of
our sport, as we once knew it, now lies in thebalance. Many people are deeply concerned
about the rampant doping in many countries.
In wealthy populations, the use of anabolicsteroids is rapidly becoming passé in favor of
human growth hormone and EPO (erythropoi-
etin). Although athletes are not yet being thor-oughly tested for HGH and EPO, the growing
consensus is that these powerful—and highly
dangerous—drugs are now the prime choice ofPositive Drug Tests by Swimmers by Country
1. China—38 total, with two swimmers caught twice
2. Russia/USSR—8 total, with one swimmer caught twice
3. United States, Great Britain—74. Spain—6
5. Austria, Australia—4
6. Belgium, Poland, Brazil, France—3
7 . Canada, Germany, New Zealand, South Africa—2
8. Tunisia, Egypt, Argentina, Indonesia, Finland, Ukraine, Ireland, Mexico, Lithuania,
Slovenia, Ecuador, Italy, Slovakia, Singapore—1
9. Excused (no sanction): Netherlands—one swimmer twice; Greece—1
10. Not counted: United States—1, swimmer retired
Reprinted by permission from Swimming’s Hall of Shame  by B.S. Rushall (2000).

216 Breakthrough Swimming
crisis caused by renewed drug cheating in
swimming. However, for the first time in the
history of swimming, coaches from around
the world banded together to give interna-tional leadership to the sport. Memories of
many talented swimmers, with world-beat-
ing potential, who were ousted by druggedEast German swimmers continued to haunt
and anger them. The World Swimming
Coaches Association, the American SwimmingCoaches Association, and the Australian Swim-
ming Coaches Association led the way in ral-
lying support for stringent penalties againstcheating swimmers and their coaches, rang-
ing from temporary suspension to outright
expulsion.The Future of Doping Control
In their article “The Future of Doping Control in Athletes,” Birkeland and Hemmersbach(1999) state that sport cannot maintain its standards and reputation in society without
methods to detect modern doping agents like peptide hormones. Such methods probably
will rely on blood sample analysis. A secondary advantage of blood sampling is that DNAtechnology identifies the donor. However, sport organizations and society in general must
answer legal and ethical questions before blood sampling becomes part of routine doping
control.
When antidoping programs were first developed, anabolic steroids and stimulants were
the most frequently used doping agents. These were easily detected in urine samples withgas chromatography and mass spectrometry. In recent years, many athletes have turned toother means to improve performance, including blood doping, erythropoietin, and human
growth hormone, all of which are not easily detected in urine. Therefore, additional
strategies must be developed, probably including the analysis of blood samples.
Nonautologic blood doping is an admixture of self and foreign red blood cells. Methods
are available to detect this form of doping in blood tests.
Erythropoietin use can be detected by finding an elevated level of soluble transferrin
receptor in serum. (Transferrin receptors are responsible for the transfer of iron and its
transport protein into the cell.) Erythropoietin use also can be detected by an abnormal
spectrum of erythropoietin isoforms, showing recombinant (synthetic) erythropoietin.
or people with a hidden self-serving agendabut to the voices of people, many of whom have
given a lifetime of service to the sport and are
deeply concerned. A great deal of attentionfocuses on methods of drug control, on how
tests are conducted, even sham testing that
denigrates the whole system, not to mentionthe fine line between target testing and random
testing.
A new development prior to the start of the
Sydney Olympics was the pretesting of na-tional teams immediately prior to their depar-
ture to the Olympic Games.
In the last decade of the 20th century, the
leaders of most national swimming federa-tions were caught off guard by the sudden

217Chapter 13
Looking Back,
Looking Ahead
At the start of the 20th century, few
swimmers did any training or had
any idea what training meant. Nor
had they any idea what constituted
good stroke mechanics. A hundred
years ago, the sport was in its in-fancy, and conditions were simple
and primitive.
When Dick Cavill and Freddie
Lane traveled fr om Australia to com-
pete in the 1902 English champion-
ships—where they both broke the
world record of 60- 1/5 seconds for
the 100-yard freestyle—their return
sea voyage took over three months!Today’s air travel takes a matter of
hours. Modern swimmers con-
stantly travel worldwide to com-
pete on the World Cup circuit and
other major meets. Their speed and
technical efficiency would simply
baffle the champions of yesteryear,
and the intensity and extent of their
training methods would be likewiseunbelievable.
In many parts of the world, de-
signing a beautiful and practical
modern swimming stadium became
an advanced art. Swimming pools
designed for speed with wave-re-ducing lane markers significantly
impr oved standar ds. The giant mod-
ern swimming stadiums—complete
with thousands of comfortable the-ater-type seats banked tier upon tier
high into the air; separate pools for
diving and warm-ups; and  all
 the

218 Breakthrough Swimming
accoutrements of advanced technology, an en-
vironment totally dedicated to produce inspiredswimming—would have left them awestruck.
Rapid communications, television, and other
mass media spread technical knowledge aroundthe world and popularized swimming to the
extent that by the mid-20th century countries
with no previous record of success were pro-ducing world-class swimmers.
But contrasts do not end there. Today’s male
and female swimmers could easily beat theturn-of-the-century 100-yard freestyle record.
In fact, even young children today are swim-
ming faster than the champions of only a fewdecades ago!
Throughout the 20th century, psychological
barriers continued to fall as swimmers gainedin confidence and raised their levels of aspira-
tion. Their coaches concentrated on reducing
their swimmers’ weaknesses rather than merelydeveloping their strong points. Swimmers
learned the importance of relaxation and con-
centration under pressure and were helped tothis end through mastering various visualiza-
tion techniques.
Supplementary land training was introduced
early in the second decade of the 20th centuryby Yale coach Bob Kiphuth, who claimed that
free exercises, pulley weights, and medicineball work helped swimmers improve muscular
strength and power quicker than equivalent
time spent in the water. Kiphuth’s exercisesaimed to develop the big muscles of the trunk
with special emphasis on the latissimus, pecto-
ral, and teres major muscles as well as the longback muscles and those of the abdominal wall
and legs. The exercises mainly were specific to
swimming and involved the propulsive move-ments of arms and legs and the muscles that
maintain good body position in the water.
Workouts included rapid movements of thebig muscle groups, which greatly stimulated
circulation and respiration. To maintain swim-
mers’ interest, Kiphuth varied the exercises.Kiphuth included stretching for the shoulder
to enable an easy arm recovery and pelvic
rolling, lower back flattening, and overheadarm stretching to achieve a streamlined body
position in the racing dive and the glide follow-
ing turns (Kiphuth 1942, 1950).The successes of Olympic star Johnny
Weissmuller in the 1920s were said to havemotivated thousands to become swimmers,
and the introduction of age-group swimming
in the late 1940s saw an even greater increasein participants as the sport spread world-
wide. The start of a formal age-group pro-
gram in the United States led to similar pro-grams in many other countries, causing a
dramatic worldwide surge in participation.
Competitive swimming annually attractedthousands of children generally too young to
be recruited by other sports. Important incen-
tives included fun, challenge, travel, athleticscholarships, and public recognition. Because
of the youth of the participants, swimming
became a family activity . Many parents gavevaluable support by assisting with club ad-
ministration.
Improvements in Stroke
Mechanics
Imagine discovering a new swimming stroke
faster than any other ever known. That’s ex-actly what happened in Sydney, Australia, at
the start of the 20th century. The crawl stroke,
as it became known, was based on the powerfulocean stroke used by the Polynesians for over
1,000 years. The stroke quickly proved far su-
perior to the retarding stop-start actions of thetraditional English side-overarm stroke and
the trudgen.
But the early crawl stroke was a difficult
stroke to swim and bore little resemblance tothe polished techniques of modern swimming.
Few could use the stroke to complete the 100-yard racing distance. Poor arm-stroke mechan-
ics and the lack of a breathing technique suited
to the welter of rapidly spinning arms causedpremature fatigue.
For the first half of the century, swimmers
and coaches experimented with all kinds ofdifferent techniques. Only after decades of in-
tense technical analysis and experimentation
did the crawl stroke evolve into the facile andfluent racing stroke that is today a masterpiece
of human ingenuity and adaptation. Even
young children can swim it for miles, and theyoften do so as easily as they can walk.

Looking Back, Looking Ahead 219
And so it went also with the other strokes of
swimming. Backstroke was first swum in com-
petition in the form of an inverted breaststroke
with a double overarm recovery. Around 1902,
backstroke was first swum with an invertedreverse crawl action while using an inverted
flutter kick. In 1912 the back crawl became an
official event, and swimmers such as HarryHebner and Adolph Kiefer were among the
great pioneers of the stroke. Kiefer swam with
a shallow straight-arm pull and a very lowlateral straight-arm recovery.
The butterfly stroke was invented in 1933 by
swimmer Henry Myers and subsequently im-proved by other outstanding swimmers. Origi-
nally the butterfly complied with the rules of
breaststroke swimming as they existed. But in1935, Jack Sieg, a University of Iowa swimmer,
developed the skill of swimming on his side
and beating his legs in unison similar to theaction of a fish’s tail.
[Sieg] tried the same leg action while swim-
ming face down. Sieg synchronized his
leg action with the butterfly arm actionusing two leg beats to each arm pull. Siegshowed the stroke’s speed potential byswimming 100 yards in 60.2 seconds, but
the dolphin kick was ruled illegal because
the legs moved in the vertical plane(Armbruster 1942, p. 24).
Not until 1956 was the butterfly stroke al-
lowed in Olympic competition, simply because
the IOC refused to add new competitions to theOlympic program. Thus for 21 years, the world
of swimming had a new stroke with great
potential but with no event in which it could be
legally swum—a sad reflection on FINA and
the IOC.
For hundreds of years, breaststroke had been
the traditional swimming stroke. When firstswum in competition, the stroke was usually
performed to a sedate and carefully timedrhythm of pull-kick-glide, using a wide arm-
pull and kick. Today, of course, skilled swim-
mers try to keep their rhythm as continuous aspossible.
For years, progress in breaststroke swim-
ming was hindered by rulemakers ignorant of
Stroke Technicians and Innovators
Canadian coach Howard Firby (1924–1991) is regarded as one of the greatest stroketeachers ever. Like Counsilman, Firby was a World War II pilot. While Counsilman applied
his knowledge of aerodynamics to the science of swimming, Firby applied his to the art of
coaching. Firby coached Vancouver’s Canadian Dolphins Club, where he produced a longline of great swimmers. As a full-time commercial artist, Firby used his drawing expertise
to revolutionize the art of coaching swimming. His unique drawings and ability to illustrate
the strokes from a variety of angles clearly showed how crawl swimmers and backstrokersnaturally roll their bodies on the long axis, while butterfly and breaststroke swimmers rotate
their bodies up and down on the short axis like airplanes taking off and landing. Firby
illustrated his book Howard Firby on Swimming  (1975) himself. The book became a classic
and a collector’s item. In the 1990s, Firby’s writings and unique descriptive terminology have
been frequently copied.
Walter Schlueter (1910–1987), U.S. Olympic and Pan American Games coach, was
another great stroke technician and innovator of the 20th century. He originated the short-rest broken swim training method for learning the pace of a race. As coach of the Arizona
Desert Rats in Phoenix (where he was popularly known as the “Pied Piper”), Schlueterdeveloped many of the popular stroke drills still in vogue today. He later became technique
coach to California’s highly successful Mission Viejo team under coach Mark Schubert,
where he is said to have done his finest work honing the strokes of dozens of America’s bestswimmers. Schubert said he had never seen a coach with so quick an eye for detecting the
flaws in a swimmer’s technique.

220 Breakthrough Swimming
faster. Where coach and scientist cooperated at
training venue and competition site, however,more positive results were achieved; this ap-
proach gradually became common in several
countries.
Most technical improvement resulted from
practical coaches and talented athletes learn-ing through trial and error. It became clear frompast achievements that when the need was
imperative, progress could not wait for the
development of theory. More often than not,the search for theory was inspired by practical
success.
Continuing improvements were imple-
mented by coaches who were inspirational andinnovative leaders and often natural practical
psychologists. They encouraged their swim-mers to believe that possibilities for improve-
ment had no limits. This intrinsic quality—the
striving by the human spirit to excel, to surpassprevious achievements, and to seek new hori-
zons—has been the most important factor in
the remarkable progress of the sport.
After Counsilman’s innovative work had
revolutionized the technical approach to swim-ming and showed how science, useful  science,
could be beneficially applied, a spate of scien-
tific papers followed from many sources. Nov-
ice coaches apparently were dazzled by thevolume of scientific results and evidence placed
before them. They didn’t realize that most re-
search is a progress report rather than a conclu-sion. Perhaps the classic quote of the 20th cen-
tury on the subject of the information explosion
came from a Canadian coach, Alain Lefebvre:“Years ago there was a desert of information.
Now it is a jungle. The question is how to get
through it” (Young 1990).
The Evolution of the Modern
Swimming Stadium
The modern swimming stadium is a far cryfrom the first public bath halls and wash housesor even the first public swimming baths. Most
pools were totally inadequate for competitive
swimming, and some were so filthy and lack-ing in good hygiene that one observer com-
mented that they were “better suited for ratting
expeditions.”the basic nature of the stroke. Consequently therules they set were easily circumvented byswimmers using deviations such as butterfly-
breaststroke and prolonged underwater swim-
ming. In order to prevent underwater swim-ming, the rules required that part of the head
remain visible above the surface, but this stifled
the natural flow of the stroke. Eventually pro-gressive rules were made that permitted a swim-
mer to submerge for part of each stroke cycle,
an improvement that resulted in a more fluentoverall action.
Improvements in Training
Methods
Most of the training methods used in swim-ming originated on the running track. At the
turn of the century, track athletes were already
experimenting with interval training, but thisform of training was not adapted to competi-
tive swimming until the mid-1950s. Before then,
swimmers were preoccupied with perfectingtechniques and had no idea how much stress
the human body could endure.
In the 1960s, the work of coaches such as
Forbes Carlile, Sherman Chavoor, Dr. JamesCounsilman, Peter Daland, Harry Gallagher,
Don Gambril, George Haines, and Don Talbotshowed how subtle variations of work-to-rest
ratios could be applied to produce speed or
endurance effects, or both. Training programswere set according to individual needs—train-
ing for short-, middle-, or long-distance events.
These formats included ascending or descend-ing series, reverse IMs, and endless other such
permutations. As the century progressed, many
other items were included in the typical sea-sonal training format, such as cyclic training,
negative splits, pace training, and balancing
distance per stroke with stroke rate.
Scientific Research
Scientific research assisted some programs de-
spite a tendency to cause confusion through
information overload and lack of simple com-munication. Most research, however, had little
or no use in actual practice because its primary
aim generally was not to help swimmers go

Looking Back, Looking Ahead 221
Top Swimmers of the 20th Century
The seven judges who compiled these rankings are all long-time students of the sport: Cecil
Colwin; Peter Daland, historian and U.S. Olympic Coach; Buck Dawson, first director of the
International Swimming Hall of Fame; Bob Duenkel, current director of the Hall; Bob
Ingram, an editor of Swimming World and Junior Swimmer for 27 years; Craig Lord of The
London Times  and senior European correspondent of Swimming World and Junior Swimmer ;
and Dr. Phillip Whitten, editor in chief of Swimming World and Junior Swimmer. Among the
selection criteria set by Dr. Phillip Whitten and used by the judges were
1. dominance;
2. number and quality of world records;
3. Olympic and other major titles, bearing in mind that the number of meets and the
number of events at each meet has expanded greatly in the last few decades, and
bearing in mind the impact of the two world wars, boycotts, and doping;
4. longevity in the sport;
5. longevity of the swimmer’s records;6. impact of the swimmer on the sport and on the wider society; and
7 . other factors such as training conditions, overcoming various obstacles, etc.
Table 13.1 Top Male Swimmers of the 20th Century
Rank Swimmer Points Rank Swimmer Points
1 Mark Spitz, USA (4) 172
2 Johnny Weissmuller, USA (3) 163
3 Matt Biondi, USA 128
4 Murray Rose, AUS 123
5 Duke Kahanamoku, USA 1166 Kieren Perkins, AUS 107
7 Don Schollander, USA 103
8 Alexander Popov, RUS 102
9 Vladimir Salnikov, RUS 99
10 Adolph Kiefer, USA 86
11 John Naber, USA 85
12 Michael Gross, GER 73
13 Charlie Daniels, USA 60
First-place votes are in parentheses.
Others receiving votes: Barney Kieran, AUS (24); Grant Hackett, AUS (24); Buster Crabbe, USA (23); John Hencken, USA (23); Davi d
Theile, AUS (19); Steve Clark, USA (17); Charlie Hickox, USA (16); Pablo Morales, USA (16); Andrew Charlton, AUS (12); Brian Go odell,
USA (12); Alex Baumann, CAN (12); Fred Lane, AUS (12); Warren Kealoha, USA (11); David Wilkie, GBR (11); Gary Hall Sr., USA (11 );
Tom Jager, USA (11); Evgeni Sadovyi, RUS (11); Richard Cavill, AUS (11); Tedford Cann, USA (10); John Devitt, AUS (8); Jeff Rouse, USA
(7); Jonty Skinner, RSA (7); Rowdy Gaines, USA (7); Walter Bathe, GER (6); Gunnar Larsson, SWE (5); Kevin Berry, AUS (4); George
Hodgson, CAN (4); Jim Montgomery, USA (4); Henry Taylor, GBR (3); George Kojac, USA (2); Danyon Loader, NZ (1); Sir Frank Beaur epaire,
AUS (1); Michael Wenden, AUS (1).Mike Barrowman, USA 60
15 Arne Borg, SWE 56
16 Mike Burton, USA 55
Roland Mathes, GDR 55
18 Eric Rademacher, GER 44
19 Ian Thorpe, AUS 41
20 Hironoshin Furuhashi, JPN 37
21 Tim Shaw, USA 34
22 Tamas Darnyi, HUN 33
23 Yoshiyuki Tsuruta, JPN 28
24 Jon Konrads, AUS 25
Denis Pankratov, RUS 25
(continued)

222 Breakthrough Swimming
reported times and placings to the recorder,
who then gave them to the official announcer.
Training Aids and Equipment
The introduction of the pace clock and thehumble swimming goggle may well have beenamong the most important items of technical
equipment introduced in the 20th century. The
pace clock, for the first time, freed the coachfrom the need to carry a stopwatch. Swimmers
were able to time themselves, and the use of the
built-in time interval enabled each swimmer towork to a specific work-to-rest ratio. The swim-
ming goggle protected the eyes from chemical
irritation and contributed significantly to im-proved standards, as swimmers could increase
distances swum in training.At the international level, it was a long time
before competitions were held over standarddistances. Some 28 years passed after the re-
vival of the Olympic Games at Athens in 1896before the Olympic swimming events were
conducted in the 50-meter course we know
today.
The modern swimming pool is designed for
speed, with constant depth and overflow gut-ters to dampen turbulence. The early rope lanemarkers, supported by wooden or cork floats,
gave way to continuous antiturbulence plastic
lanes. For the first 60 years of the century,before electronic timing and judging systems,
swimmers were timed by handheld watches
and were subject to the vagaries of human errorin timing and judging. Delays resulted at the
end of each race while timekeepers and judges(continued)
Table 13.2 Top Female Swimmers of the 20th Century
Rank Swimmer Points Rank Swimmer Points
1 Dawn Fraser, AUS (4) 171
2 Janet Evans, USA 151
3 Tracy Caulkins, USA 145
4 Shane Gould, AUS 138
5 Mary T. Meagher, USA (1) 137
6 Debbie Meyer, USA 103
7 Ragnhild Hveger, DEN (1) 918 Shirley Babashoff, USA 80
9 Kristina Egerszegi, HUN 78
10 Claudia Kolb, USA 76
11 Helene Madison, USA 74
Lorraine Crapp, AUS 74
13 Ethelda Bleibtrey, USA 73
First-place votes are in parentheses.
Others receiving votes: Sharon Stouder, USA (26); Martha Norelius, USA (25); Robyn Johnson, USA (24); Ada Kok, NED (24); Cor Kint,
NED (22); Katherine Rawls, USA (20); Eleanor Holm, USA (17); Claudia Poll, CRC (16); Chris Von Saltza, USA (16); Franziska Van Almsick,GER (16); Melissa Belote, USA (14); Catie Ball, USA (13); Greta Andersen, DEN (11); Willemijntje den Ouden, NED (11); Cynthia
Woodhead, USA (9); Karen Harup, DEN (9); Nancy Garapick, CAN (9); Summer Sanders, USA (9); Ilsa Konrads, AUS (9); Jan Henne, US A
(7); Susie O’Neill, AUS (7); Katalin Szoke, HUN (7); Catherine Plewinski, FRA (3); Elaine Tanner, CAN (2); Maria Braun, NED (1).
The rankings of the top male and female swimmers of the 20th century first appeared in Swimming World and Junior Swimmer , December 1999, and are
reprinted here by permission of the editor, Dr. Phillip Whitten, and the publisher, Sports Publications, Inc.14 Sybil Bauer, USA 66
15 Penny Heyns, RSA 61
16 Donna de Varona, USA (1) 58
17 Ann Curtis, USA 51
18 Tracey Wickham, AUS 50
19 Karen Muir, RSA 43
Amy Van Dyken, USA 43
21 Jenny Thompson, USA 41
22 Hendrika Mastenbroek, NED 40
23 Galina Prozumenshikova, RUS 3824 Fanny Durack, AUS 36
25 Gertrude Ederle, USA 29

Looking Back, Looking Ahead 223
The list of equipment and other training aids
grew throughout the century. First, the wooden
kickboard appeared (now replaced by a plastic
one), then inflated tubes to raise the hips (now
replaced by plastic pull buoys). Then came awhole array of new devices—big flippers, small
flippers, racing flippers, monofins for dolphin
kicking, fist gloves for improving feel of thewater, resistance cords and surgical tubing of
all types, friction-resistance exercisers such as
the Exergenie, velocity meters, the isokineticswim bench, Universal and Nautilus machines,
pulley weight machines, free weights, and
medicine balls.
Viewing windows that enabled underwater
stroke analysis were at once a novelty and avaluable coaching aid. In the latter half of the20th century, the former East German regime
operated six swimming flumes, or specially
designed tanks, in which tethered swimmersswam against a regulated flow of water to have
their stroke techniques analyzed. In the 1990s,
a whole new opportunity for learning openedup with the advent of the robotic underwater
camcorder that can move around the pool while
clearly recording everything swimmers dowhile racing.
Swimming Suits
Annette Kellermann, an early pioneer ofwomen’s swimming, complained bitterly about
the voluminous water overcoats that threat-
ened to drown early women swimmers. Thencame the era of heavy woolen suits for both
men and women, with shoulder straps and
frontal skirts to preserve modesty. The evolu-tion of the swimsuit was marked by sleeker
and sleeker—and lighter—suits specially de-
signed for racing. Gradually the skirts gaveway to suits that were gradually, and even
fashionably, scalloped away to reveal more
and more of the lower torso, while remainingpassably modest.
Natural Swimming Versus
Equipment Swimming
Controversy arose with the advent of bizarre-
looking, full-length body suits for racing, withlong sleeves and leggings down to the ankles.
The accompanying advertising encouragedswimmers to “swim out of your skin,” then
added the somewhat disconcerting comment
that the “water won’t even know you’re there.”
According to one manufacturer’s advertis-
ing, the suit had gripper fabric to grip and feelthe water and was designed to provide anoptimal silhouette, to control the flow of water,
and to reduce drag. In effect, the swimmer is
encased in a racing shell that sloughs off waterresistance, while the special grippers on the
medial surfaces enable him or her to grip the
water, much like using a swim paddle. In lightof the apparent advantages afforded by the
suit, it came as a surprise to many that on
October 8, 1999, FINA ruled that the suitscould be worn at international meets because
FINA did not consider them a “device” (a
device that aids swimming is clearly prohib-ited in their rules).
Many observers thought FINA had made a
big mistake in approving the use of body suits,saying that the FINA bureau had ignored its
own rule SW 10.7, namely that “No swimmer
shall be permitted to use or wear  any device that
may aid his speed, buoyancy or endurance
during a competition” (my italics) and, further-more, that the “etc.” in the examples of devicesgiven therein, “gloves, flippers, fins, etc.” should
logically be taken to include all equipment or
devices worn around  the body.
The Natural Evolution Argument
The manufacturers argued that the long suits
reflected progress into the space age and that
such suits represented a natural progression
from wool to cotton, silk, Nylon, and Lycra.This argument was not strictly accurate, as it
overlooked the greatly increased amount of
material used in the body suit.
Prior to the advent of the new suits, the
amount of fabric used in manufacturing thetraditional racing suit was limited to coveringthe torso within the confines of modesty, and it
was reasonable and defensible to attempt to
reduce drag in the choice and design of thislimited amount of fabric. But many thought the
swimsuit manufacturers had taken too much

224 Breakthrough Swimming
upon themselves in attempting to alter the
concept of natural swimming by using high-tech fabrics that cover a large percentage of the
body—that is, everything but the head, hands,
and feet—and are designed to reduce naturalskin-to-water drag and, as reported, perhaps
even increase buoyancy and natural propul-
sive effort.
The suits were considered to be too expen-
sive for what hitherto has been regarded as apopular sport within the reach of all. And,furthermore, even if they weren’t performance
enhancing and too expensive for the wider
swimming population, more often than not,unless personally measured, they don’t fit most
swimmers properly. Contrary to the claims made
by manufacturers, it’s impossible to provideperfectly fitting suits for the wide variety of
human body shapes, bearing in mind that shape
is only partially related to height and weight.Poorly fitting suits purchased off the rack could
actually prove to be performance retarding.
Interference With Natural Sensory
Perception
Apart from legalistic arguments, there’s no
escaping the fact that wearing a full-length
body suit changes the whole character of com-petitive swimming, from a natural sport, in
which the human body interfaces directly with
the water, into an implement sport, in whichthe body suit intervenes between the body and
its natural contact with the water.
Under normal circumstances, human swim-
ming movements are modified by sensorystimuli received from the skin, muscles, and
joints, and these sensory impulses act at alltimes to guide muscular contractions. The sense
of balance in the water and the pressure of the
water against the sensory surfaces of the hands,legs, and other parts of the body must aid
tremendously in regulating a smooth and ef-
fective stroke. The development of this sensi-tivity to the proprioceptive and afferent nerve
currents is largely the difference between an
expert and a mediocre swimmer.Many swimmers and coaches protest that
the body suit is an aberration and that if youcan’t feel the water on your body, then you’re
not really swimming. However, there may be
one real plus to wearing a body suit. Whenworn as a practice suit, the suit in effect blinds
the sensory nerve endings to the feel of the
water. Thus, when the suit is taken off, thenerve endings overcompensate by becoming
extra sensitive to the feel of the transient (mov-
ing) flow of the water on the limbs. When theswimmer reverts to swimming in a normal,
traditional swimsuit, he or she finds that feel of
the water has been almost miraculously en-hanced.* The little exercise mentioned here
seems to lend weight to the opinion that wear-
ing a body suit is not a natural way of swim-ming because it takes away a swimmer’s gen-
eral feel of the water!
Speed Enhancing or Not
At this point, the jury is still out on whether the
body suits actually aid performance, even whenworn by great athletes receiving huge endorse-
ment fees. So far, no tangible proof or guarantee
exists that these new suits achieve anythingnew or spectacular in the way of increased
performance that can definitely be attributed to
scientific advances. Independently conducted,scientific hydrodynamic testing is needed to
prove (1) that the suits really work and (2) that
they are the worth the money . If the suits areproved to help performance, then surely they
should be banned from competition. Conversely,
if the suits do not improve performance, thenwhat’s the point of all the extra material and the
extra financial cost to the swimmer?
At the Sydney Olympics, swimmers wore a
variety of body suits made by different manu-facturers. A few wore suits that covered the
arms and legs entirely, while others reached tothe knees only. Some swimmers still preferred
to wear traditional style suits without sleeves
or leggings. But even these suits are now madeof a new material that appears to be water
repellent and perhaps even designed to in-
crease buoyancy.
* The physiological basis/explanation of these observations on increased skin sensitivity after wearing the body suit are based on
scientific fact, especially in the work of Dr. A. Lee Dellon, in rehabilitating sensory perception after hand surgery. See chapter 6, page 116.

Looking Back, Looking Ahead 225
The FINA World Cup meets are held in dif-
ferent geographical zones—Europe, the Ameri-
cas, the Far East (Asia), and Australia. The
program of events is the same at each meet, and
in recent years, all World Cup meets have beenheld in the short course, 25-meter course.
The amount of available prize money is mini-
mal and not really comparable with that of-fered in most other professional sports. In fact,
prize money amounts to far less than the aver-
age cost of traveling to meets on other conti-nents. For example, a swimmer wanting to
travel to every World Cup meet would prob-
ably face expenses totaling about $10,000.
The prize money and bonuses for breaking
world records are still relatively small. Theaverage prize money for winning a series isonly $4,000. Many leading American swim-
mers say that they can earn more money stay-
ing at home and conducting clinics and campsthan they can make on the World Cup circuit.
If a nation is hosting a World Cup meet, it is
compulsory to send a minimum of four com-petitors to each of the other meets, and there is
a financial penalty for failing to comply with
this rule.
The big money is to be made through spon-
sorship by a big company, such as a communi-cations firm or a swimwear manufacturer, orthrough bonuses from sponsors for breaking
records. The earnings of most so-called profes-
sional swimmers are said to be merely at subsis-tence levels and cannot begin to be compared
with those of millionaire basketball players, for
example. The cream of the crop in swimmingmight make a few hundred thousand dollars,
whereas an NFL football player recently signed
a $55 million contract. Swimming is not in thatleague, and it probably never will be.
As far as FINA’s annual World Cup circuit is
concerned, spectator interest is not particu-larly keen, although there are notable excep-
tions at some venues. For example, the stands
are always filled at Australian meets and some-times also in Germany and Sweden, where TV
coverage is particularly good and meets are
often spectacularly staged, with attractiveprizes offered. By contrast, in Hong Kong and
Shanghai, World Cup meets are sparsely at-
tended.Some freestyle swimmers cut the sleeves off
their body suits because they said the sleeveshampered the recovery of their arms from the
water, a claim also made by some backstroke
swimmers. Breaststroke swimmers preferrednot to wear body suits at all, saying that the suits
caused their legs to rise too high in the water, an
awkward position that made an efficient kickdifficult to perform. On the other hand, some
butterfly swimmers felt an increase in buoy-
ancy that they say made their strokes feel easier,if not faster. One of the world’s greatest swim-
mers, Alexander Popov, Olympic 100-meter
freestyle champion in 1992 and 1996, however,continued to swim in a standard pair of trunks,
saying, “I like my own skin best,” thus confirm-
ing the opinion of at least one hydrodynamacist.Time will tell whether the controversial suits
will win general acceptance.
While these ultraexpensive suits may repre-
sent a bonanza in the form of increased profitsfor racing swim suit manufacturers, the cost of
participation has increased by hundreds ofdollars a year for thousands of swimmers
around the world. This large expense instantly
changes swimming from a popular sport, inwhich the price of equipment was minimal,
into yet another high-tech sport. Swimming is
now part of a general trend by manufacturersof most sports equipment to use the Olympic
Games as a quadrennial showcase for their
increasingly expensive products.
The FINA World Cup Circuit
As predicted in the first edition of this book(but not expected so soon), a new elite tier of
swimmers has risen. Of these full-time profes-
sionals, two or three are already reputed to bemillionaires—largely through corporate spon-
sorship and endorsement fees rather than
through prize money at swim meets.
Between this group and the groups at the
grass-roots levels, a large gap has been forgedin the sport’s organizational pyramid. In fact,the new structure closely resembles that of the
former East German swimming regime, where
the grass-roots level formed a convenient nurs-ery from which the plums were picked for
specialized training in centralized schools.

226 Breakthrough Swimming
The overall impression is that interest in the
World Cup seems to hold a greater attraction for
European followers of the sport, probably be-
cause of the shorter traveling distances. Citing
the meager prize money, the preponderance of50-meter events, and that the meets are held in
the short course, many people in North America
and Australia question the need for a World Cupcircuit. It appears the Australians attended mainly
because they had a little extra funding available
after staging the Olympics in their own country.On the other hand, although the leading swim-
mers do not always compete in the World Cup,
some people believe that if the World Cup disap-peared completely, media exposure and spon-
sorship for the sport would diminish.
Critics of the World Cup circuit are not slow
to point out that not all the meets on the circuitcan be said to be truly world-class meets, in
which world-class swimmers compete againsteach other. Although some meets are billed as
“World Cup Meets,” the entry often consists
mainly of local swimmers with few, if any,entries of world-class stature. Furthermore,
world-class swimmers prefer long-course
swimming, which they consider a better test ofswimming ability, compared with short-course
racing, which they view as more like gymnastic
events consisting mainly of turning and a greatdeal of underwater kicking. These swimmers
regard competing in the occasional short-course
meet as a useful sharpening-up exercise inpreparation for the more prestigious long-
course competition. (A passing thought: even
the Olympic Games would soon lose their lus-ter if they were held every week. Rarity is what
makes them so special.) According to Dennis
Pursley, national team director of US Swim-ming, most of the 2000 Olympic swimming
medalists were “very selective” in participat-
ing in the international competition circuit priorto the Olympics. Only 18 percent of the Olym-
pic medalists had medaled in the Short Course
World Championships (Pursley 2000).
A growing perception is that the World Cup
circuit tends to attract a cluster of athletes,about a hundred in number, who tour the worldlike a little circus group. Although the federa-
tions fund their travel costs and the athletes get
to keep whatever prize money they win, it isnot unlikely that one day, the federations maynot be able to afford this game, and they mayhave to ask themselves, “Is it really worth our
while to spend thousands of dollars in travel on
meets of inconsistent quality?”
The question also arises whether the lower
levels of grass-roots competitors—the amateurs,for want of a better term—may not also belosing out somewhere along the line. Their
subscription fees, in effect, are sponsoring the
continuous overseas travel of a so-called elitetier of professionals.
History As It Happens
For at least two years before the Sydney Olym-
pics, swimming enthusiasts around the world
debated whether Kieren Perkins, the greatAustralian 1,500-meter swimmer and long-time
world-record holder in the event, would suc-
cessfully defend his Olympic title for the thirdtime, this time against Grant Hackett, his coun-
tryman and a fast-rising star.
Finally, on September 23, 2000, the big day
came. But there was one big snag. AlthoughNBC, the official Olympic Games network, had
broadcast a record 441 hours of Games cover-age, not one second of it had been broadcast
live. Because of the 15-hour time difference
between Sydney and New York, NBC had de-cided to wait until prime time the following day
before showing the hot-ticket sports, including
swimming, track and field, and gymnastics.
But, as the exciting 1,500-meter duel between
Kieren Perkins and Grant Hackett rapidly un-folded, a journalist on the Sydney MorningHerald, watching the event in the Olympic Sta-
dium, made history by tapping out a live stroke-
for-stroke report from his pool-side laptop di-rect to the Worldwide Web.
Sport Science
and the Information Explosion
We have seen how the nature and character of
competitive swimming changed over the last
100 years. But progress was slow and gradual,with the greatest improvements in swimming
knowledge coming from imaginative coaches
working with talented swimmers. Progressive

Looking Back, Looking Ahead 227
Professional Olympic Athletes
In the July 17 , 2000, issue of the Financial Post,  Paul Gaines reported that Mr. Pound, the vice
president of the Olympic Committee, said that . . .
. . . athletes indirectly get support. They don’t have to pay their way to the Olympics
or pay for their accommodation and food. And their federations get money for
coaching and for qualifying competitions. They don’t get money in their pocket, andI don’t see that happening in the future.
However, already some of the world’s leading swimmers and their agents are asking why
the IOC should not share some of the billions of dollars of sponsorship and advertisingmoney with the athletes, who have always performed at the Olympics free of charge. Timesare changing, and it might not be long before the world’s top swimmers and track athletes
seek large fees for competing in the Olympics before billions of TV watchers around the
world.
Even before the 2000 Sydney Olympics had ended, postmortems were being held in
several countries, attempting to assess why their athletes had not done better thanexpected. Canada, a country that relies heavily on direct government funding, finished 24thoverall in all sports, with only three gold medals. The immediate reaction, on national TV
programs and in the printed media, was to call for more money to be thrown at the problem.
The media compared funding and rewards offered in Canada (population 31 million) withthose offered in Australia (population 19 million), a country that finished 4th overall in all
sports with 15 gold medals (behind the United States, Russia, and China). Australia spent
$280 million on Olympic sports compared to Canada’s budget of $62 million (Deacon 2000).
All the political parties were immediately in favor of such a solution, especially with signs
of a general election in the offing. However, others suggested that taxpayer money shouldno longer fund professional athletes without requesting that such funding be paid backeventually in the same manner as loans paid to university students learning a profession.
Another suggestion was that individual sports should be reorganized along the lines of
the very popular sport of Formula One motor racing, with different multinational corpora-tions instead of governments sponsoring their own national teams of leading professional
swimmers, athletes, and gymnasts. Furthermore, an essential part of the contractual
agreements between the parties concerned would include regular out-of-competition drugtesting, with salary refund penalties and suspensions for those testing positive.
coaches accepted or rejected new ideas and
methods and intuitively modified and devel-
oped them with the conscious goal of makingswimmers faster. Thus, the world of swimming
was offered an ever-expanding range and vari-
ety of inspiration for its future development.
Coaches and swimmers have been the great-
est innovators and contributors to swimmingknowledge, despite claims that may be madeon behalf of formal scientific research. And it is
important to note that when science did have
an impact on swimming methods, the mostsignificant contributions were made by scien-
tists who were coaches, swimmers, or both.
These intuitive coach-swimmer-scientists un-derstood the needs of the sport, and thus their
research was aimed at providing specific infor-
mation essential to progress.
Increased quantities of scientific research and
the information explosion were expected tointensify and accelerate the processes of change.Contrary to expectation, technical progress
became trapped amid a great logjam of diverse
junk information. The purpose and potential

228 Breakthrough Swimming
usefulness of this information was not always
clear, but it was certainly not always aimeddirectly at solving practical problems.
Although science has acquired a rich heri-
tage of ideas from coaches and swimmers fromwhich to work, the specific problems that face
the coaching practitioner have not always been
fully recognized nor adequately addressed.And, although science has developed many
ways of acquiring new knowledge and invented
increasingly flexible and efficient instrumentsfor using it, it is still far from being used in the
most effective and practical manner.
For years, many swimming coaches have
had an aversion to working with scientists,mainly because they perceived many scientists
to be patronizing or condescending and gener-ally more keen on acquiring academic credits
than helping the sport to progress. Whether
true or not, scientists often have been viewed ascold, emotionless people living in a remote
world of their own.
While scientific literature must be clear on
what the scientist means when describing aparticular study, scientists may have built a
barrier to understanding between themselvesand laypersons by using esoteric scientific lan-
guage instead of the simple everyday English
that practical pool-deck coaches can readilyunderstand and put into practice. These coaches
prefer the easy-to-understand communication
like that used by James “Doc” Counsilman inhis heyday.
The Role of the Professional
Swimming Coach
Although when it was inaugurated FINA hadstipulated only who could and who could not
compete as an amateur, the amateur laws were
applied in such a way as to purposefully ex-clude paid coaches and instructors from offi-
cial positions within the governing bodies of
swimming. In fact, until recently, paid coacheswere often treated in many countries as pariahs
and lesser breeds without the law.
Professional coaches, as they were quaintly
termed, were excluded from the governing bod-ies of the sport and from official coaching as-
signments with international teams, despite thatmuch of the progress in the sport and the develop-ment of leading swimmers was attributable totheir efforts. It is to the credit of many of thesecoaches that throughout their careers, they often
traveled to national and international meets at
their own expense to assist their swimmers.
The history of swimming has shown time
and again that the leadership of capable andinspired coaches, the people who possess thereal practical knowledge of the sport, can help
a country consistently produce elite swimming
teams despite a mediocre or even self-servingadministration at the helm. In some countries,
discrimination against career coaches must have
had a retarding effect on the development ofswimming, especially when compared with
the giant strides made in the United States,
where career coaches were officially recognizedas a welcome and integral part of the swim-
ming organization. Particularly significant ex-
amples of these advances were the appoint-ments of leading coaches Ray Essick and Don
Talbot to the positions of executive director of
United States Swimming, Inc., and executivedirector of Canadian Swimming, respectively.
The career of Terry Gathercole (1935-2001) is
further evidence that the future of swimmingdepends on the coaches. Gathercole rose
through the ranks, first as an Olympic swim-
mer and prolific world-record breaker thenlater as a successful national coach, president
of the Australian Swim Coaches Association,
and president of Australian Swimming duringthe 2000 Olympics. In addition to many other
notable contributions to the sport, Gathercole
played a leading role in the fight against perfor-mance enhancing drugs. Gathercole’s career
proved that professional coaches can make great
contributions at all levels, suggesting thatFINA’s existing legislation should be changed
to include professionals in every facet of its
organization, not just as token members ofcertain commissions.
In any country, the future starts with the
coaches—not administrators or scientists, butinspirational coaches working with talented
swimmers. This is the first essential: the future
starts on the pool deck. Only afterward comethe administrators who plan the programs and
the possible assistance that science can pro-
vide. The future of swimming depends on thecoaches.

229Appendix
A 400-Year
Bibliographyof the HistoricalDevelopment of theSwimming Strokes
Grateful thanks are extended to Thomas K.
Cureton, a pioneer of scientific research in swim-
ming, for giving me permission to use as a
framework for this bibliography the footnotesoriginally contained in Cureton’s classic How to
Teach Swimming and Diving , volumes 1 and 2
(1934).
These materials were then arranged in chro-
nological order, and other titles were added. Thematerials shown in brackets following a num-ber of the entries are the results of further re-
search—including additions, verifications, re-
visions, and annotations—conducted by me inthe records of the Library of Congress; the Brit-
ish Library Catalogue; the National Union Cata-
log; the Rare Books Division of the NationalLibrary of Canada; the Library of Parliament,
Canada; and the North Carolina Collection of
the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
The bracketed notes point out items of infor-
mation that might prove interesting to sporthistorians and scientists (and anyone else inter-ested in swimming). Also, note that the bibliog-
raphy covers the 400 years from 1531 to 1930. To
be sure, modern definitive texts on swimmingappear after these years, but the bibliography ismeant to provide historical rather than state-of-the-art resources.
Elyot, Sir Thomas. 1531. The boke named the governour.
London: Thomas Berthelet.
[This book on the training of gentlemen included a
section on swimming. The popularity of the volume is
evidenced in a string of subsequent editions in 1537,1544, 1546, 1553, 1557, 1565, and 1580. Near the end of
the 19th century, scholars began a set of reprints—1880,
1906, 1962, and 1970—with translations into Germanand Italian in the 1930s.]
Wynman, Nicolaus. 1538. Colymbetes, sive de arte natandi
dialogus et festivus et iucundus lectu.  (Dutch Copy).
Ingolstadt, Bavaria: H. Steiner.
[Wynman’s very early text experienced many reincar-
nations, including three Latin reprints in 1623, 1638,and 1644, and even an 1889 extract in a German publi-
cation titled Heidelberg .]
Magnus, Olaus. 1555. Historia de gentibus septentrionalibus.
Rome: Magno Gotho.
[Magnus’s History of the Nordic Folk  told of swimming
practices in Scandinavia among many other things.
Magnus, Archbishop of Upsala, went into voluntary
exile in Rome after the Swedish Reformation. In 1546 he
represented Pope Paul III to the Council of Trent. Thefirst complete Italian translation of his history appeared
in 1565, some seven years after his death.]

230 Appendix
Dygbeio (Digby), Everardo (Everard). 1587. De arte natandi
libri duo, quorum prior regulas ipsius artis, posterior vero
praxin demonstrationemque continet.  London: (s.n.).
[Digby’s De arte natandi was translated into French
from Latin by Melchisedec Thevenot under the titleL’Art de nager a century later. An interesting bibliogra-
phy of Everard Digby, MA, fellow of St. John’s college,
Cambridge, can be found in the Dictionary of National
Bibliography . He was a different person from Sir Everard
Digby, who was not born until 1578 and was executedfor his infamous role in Guy Fawkes’ Gunpowder Plot
of 1606. However, Mr. Digby , the swimming author, got
into much trouble through his eccentric conduct, whichincluded his “habit of blowing a hunting horn and
hallooing in the college, most unseemly conduct for a
clergyman”(Thomas 1904, page 177).]
Middleton, Christopher. 1595. A short introduction for to
learne to swimme gathered out of Master Digbie’s booke of theart of swimming (trans .). Translated into English for the
better instruction of those who understand not the
Latine tongue. With wooden cuts of persons swim-
ming. London: (s.n.).
Percey, William. 1658. The compleat swimmer, or The art of
swimming.  London: J.C. for H. Fletcher. About 90 pages
with preface.
Thevenot, Melchisedec. 1696. L’art de nager.  Paris: T. Moette,
rue de la Boucherie. Avec privilege du Roi.
[This was a direct translation of the Latin book De Arte
Natandi  (Digby 1587) and was published four years
after Thevenot’s death in 1692. In 1699, the book was
translated back into English by an unknown translatorand published in London by Dan Brown, D. Midurnter,
T. Leigh, and Robert Knaplock. (Digby’s work was
translated three times, twice into English and once intoFrench. The French edition was translated into Spanish
and Italian.) Contrary to general opinion, Thevenot
was not the orginator of the work but merely thetranslator.]
M’Iver, J. 1764. The art of swimming, with advice for bathing
(Thevenot, trans.). London: John Lever.
Bernardi, de Oronzio. 1797. Vollstandiger Lehrbegriff der
Schwimmkunst, auf neue Versuche uber die spezifischeSchwere des menschlichen Korpers gegrundet.  Weimar:
(s.n.).
Muths, Guts. 1798. Kleines lehrbuch der Schwimmkunst zum
selbstunterrichte (Manual for self-instruction in the art ofswimming).  Weimar: (s.n.).
Strutt, Joseph. 1801. Glig-gamena angel-deod, or The sports
and pastimes of the people of England.  London: White.
[This oft-quoted work gives only one page (p. 66) on
swimming. This work outlasted three authors, five
publishers, and the whole 19th century, with 10 edi-tions spanning 1801 to 1903. Of course it dealt with
more than swimming, but the swimming discussionprovides some insight into this ancient island nation’s
perception of swimming.]
Bernardi, de Oronzio. 1807. Arte de Nadar Compendiada del
que Escribio en Italiano.  Madrid: (s.n.).
Frost, J. 1816. Scientific swimming. A series of practical
illustrations on an original and progressive plan, by whichthe art of swimming may be readily attained, with everyadvantage of power in the water; accompanied with 12
copper-plate engravings, comprising 26 appropriate figures.
London: Darton, Harvey and Darton, GracechurchStreet. 8 volumes, 12 plates.
[Frost, many years teacher of the art of swimming at
Nottingham, sought to approach swimming scientifi-cally. His Scientific Swimming was described as a series
of scientific instructions that facilitated the attainmentof the art of swimming.]
Frost, J. 1818. The art of swimming . New York: P .W. Gallaudet.
Clias, Peter H. 1825. An elementary course of gymnastic
exercises and a new and complete treatise on the art ofswimming with the report made to the medical faculty of
Paris on the subject  (4th ed.). London: Sherwood, Gilbert
and Piper.
Mason, James, and Payne, A.M. 1839 and 1840. Prize essays
of the national, now the British society on the art of swim-
ming.  London: (s.n.).
Howar
d, Sydney (pseudonym). 1849. The science of swim-
ming as taught and practiced in civilized and savage coun-tries.  New York: Fowler and Wells.
Richardson, B.C. 1857. Instructions on the art of swimming.
London: James Ridgeway.
Forrest, George (pseudonym for Rev. John George Wood).
1858. A handbook of swimming and skating.  London:
Routledge and Sons.
Forrest, George (pseudonym for Rev. John George Wood).
1863. A handbook of swimming.  London: Routledge and
Sons.
Steedman, Charles. 1867. A manual of swimming, including
bathing, plunging, diving, floating, scientific swimming,
training, drowning and rescuing.  Melbourne, Australia:
Henry Tolman Dwight.
[The illustrations are good and mark a distinct advance
in the method of delineating the correct movements in
swimming.]
Steedman, C. 1873. A manual of swimming, including bath-
ing, plunging, diving, floating, scientific swimming, train-ing, drowning and rescuing  (English edition). London:
Lockwood and Co.
[Steedman’s book was first published in Melbourne in
1867 and again in London in 1873. Full references aregiven below, including the names of collections where
copies of this rare book are housed.]

Appendix 231
Steedman, Charles. A manual of swimming, including bath-
ing, plunging, diving, floating, scientific swimming, train-
ing, drowning and rescuing  by Charles Steedman
Melbourne: H.T. Dwight, 1867. vxi, 270 p. front, plates
16”.
257687A. I. Swimming
NYPL December 14, 1924.NS 0883329 NN RPB
New York Public Library
Brown University, ProvidenceThe State Library of Victoria, Melbourne, Australia
Steedman, Charles. A manual of swimming, including bath-
ing, plunging, diving, floating, scientific swimming andtraining, with a chapter on drowning, rescuing, and resusci-
tation . London, Lockwood and Co., 1873. xvl, 270 p. IX
pl. (incl. front.) 16.5cm. 1. swimming
NS 0883330 CtY PU MdBP
Yale University
University of PennsylvaniaPeabody Institute, Baltimore
Henning Library, ISHOF, Fort Lauderdale
Thomas, Ralph. 1868. A Bibliographical List of Works on
Swimming.  London: s.n.
[Only 125 copies printed. This publication is of invalu-
able service to any student of swimming lore.]
Beadle. 1869. Dime guide to swimming . New York: (s.n.).
Wilson, William. 1876. The swimming instructor . Glasgow:
(s.n.).
Wilson, W. 1883. The swimming instructor . London: Horace
Cox, The Field Office 346, Strand, London.
[Wilson was also author of Swimming and Diving, and
How to Save Life, The Bather’s Manual,  etc. Swimming as
a science, training, the teaching of swimming, and the
rescue of life from drowning are the principal mattersdealt with. The records and championship performances
to date are included.]
Andrews, Capt. W.D. 1889. Swimming and Life-saving.
Toronto: s.n.
[Much of the work was written after blindness had
come upon the author and is largely of an autobio-graphical character. 136 pages. Numerous illustrations.]
Sinclair, A., and Henry, W. 1893. Swimming . London:
Longmans, Green.
[By 1912, this volume was in its seventh impression,
with four new editions and three reprinted editions.
Sinclair and Henry were honorary secretaries of theRoyal Life-Saving Society, and Henry was one of the
founders of FINA, the international governing body of
swimming.]Riley, Tom. 1903. Swimming . New York: (s.n.).
Douglas, W.G. 1903. How to swim . New York: American
Sports.
Sterrett, James H. 1903. How to swim. New York: American
Sports.
[As well as covering the by-now standard topics of
swimming with various strokes, diving, and floating,Sterrett’s book contains a chapter on modern life-sav-
ing and one for women and girl swimmers. Sterrett was
known as “The Father of American Swimming.”]
Thomas, Ralph. 1904. Swimming . London: Sampson Low,
Marston.
[The nonspecific title hides the uniqueness of Thomas’s
book—a bibliography of swimming books in English,
German, French, and other European languages. The
book also discusses swimming and resuscitation andincludes a history of swimming and biographies of
persons important in the field. Under the pseudonym
of Hamst Olphar, Thomas also wrote The Handbook of
Fictitious Names (1868).]
Fountain, P . 1904. The swimming powers of animals . Lon-
don: (s.n.).
Daniels, C.M., Johnson, H., and Sinclair, A. 1907. How to
swim and save life (Spalding’s Athletic Library, no. 21).
London: British Sports.
Sinclair, Archibald. 1909. Swimming . London: Routledge
and Son.
Sachs, Frank. 1912. The complete swimmer . London:
Methuen.
Daniels, C.M. 1919. Speed swimming . New 
York: American
Sports.
Handley, Louis de B. 1920. Swimming and watermanship .
New York: MacMillan.
Bachrach, William. 1924. The outline of swimming . Chicago:
Author.
Handley, Louis de B. 1927. Swimming for women . New
York: American Sports.
Sullivan, Frank. 1927. The science of swimming . New York:
American Sports.
Cureton, T.K. 1929. Outline of Pageant. Evolution of swim-
ming. Philadelphia: P . Blakison’s Son.
Handley, Louis de B., and Howcroft, W.J. 1929. Crawl-
stroke swimming . London: E.J. Larby.
Weissmuller, John, and Bush, Clarence. 1930. Swimming
the American crawl . Boston: Houghton.

233References
Absaliamov, T. 1984. Controlling the training of top level
swimmers. In J.L. Cramer (ed.) How to develop Olympic
level swimmers.  Finland: International Sports Media.
Anderson, O. 1999. A critical survey of the latest thinking
about the ins and outs of training. Peak Performance
126:1-4.
Armbruster, D.A. 1942. Competitive swimming and diving.
St. Louis: Mosby.
Bachrach, W. 1924. The outline of swimming.  Chicago:
Author.
Baldwin, K.M. 2000. Research in the exercise sciences:
Where do we go from here? Journal of Applied Physiol-
ogy 88:332-336.
Banister, E.W., Morton, R.H., and Clarke, J.R. 1997. Clini-
cal dose-response effects of exercise. In J.M. Steinackerand S.A. Ward (eds.) The physiology and pathophysiology
of exercise tolerance.  New York: Plenum. 297-309.
Bannister, R. 1955. First four minutes.  London: Putnam.
Bell’s Life in Sydney and Sporting Review.  1846. First swim-
ming race in Australia 3:32.
Bergen, P . 1985. Executing a year training program. In T.
Welsh (ed.) American Swimming Coaches Association
world clinic yearbook 1985 . Fort Lauderdale, FL: Ameri-
can Swimming Coaches Association. 195-204.
Berger, J. 1982. Die zyklische Gestaltung des Trainings
prozesses unter besonderer Beruecksichtigung der
Periodiserung des Trainingsjahres (The cyclic estab-
lishment of the training process in special consider-
ation of a cyclic subdivision of the training year).Medizin und Sport  22:282-286.
Birkeland, Kare I., and Hemmersbach, Peter. 1999. The
future of doping control in athletes. Sports Medicine
28(1):25-33.
Bompa, T.O. 1983. Theory and methodology of training: The
key to athletic performance.  Dubuque, IA: Kendall Hunt.
Bompa, T.O. 1985. Theory and methodology of training.
Dubuque, IA: Kendall Hunt.
Brasch, T. 1970. How did sports begin? A look at the origins of
man at play.  New York: David McKay.
Brouha, L. 1945. Speficite de l’entrainement au travail
musculaire. Revue Canadienne Biologie  4:144.
Byrd, W. 1928. A journey to the Land of Eden and other papers.
Edited by Mark van Doren. New York: Macy-Masius.
Capelli, C., Pendergast, D.R., and Termin, B. 1998. Ener-
getics of swimming at maximal speeds in humans.
European Journal of Applied Physiology  78:385-393.Carlile, F. 1956. The use of post-exercise heart rate counts
in the prediction of maximum performance and as-
sessing the progress of the swimmer in training. Re-
port of the World Congress on Physical Education.
Melbourne: W.J. Barr. 102-104.
Carlile, F. 1963. Forbes Carlile on swimming.  London: Pelham.
Carlile, F. 1971. Where do we go from here? American
Swimming Coaches Association’s first world clinic,Montreal, 1971. Swimming Technique  8(4):98-100, 119.
Carlile, F. 1976. The philosophy of speed through endur-
ance. International Swimmer  12(7):7-12.
Chapman, R.F., Stray-Gundersen, J., and Levine, B.J. 1998.
Individual variation in response to altitude training.Journal of Applied Physiology  85:1448-1456.
Chavoor, S. 1967. Sherm Chavoor speaks out on training.
Swimming World  8(10):5.
Clarkson, A. 1990. Lanes of gold.  Sydney, Australia: Lester-
Townsend.
Collins, G. 1934. The new magic of swimming.  London:
William Heinemann.
Colwin, C. 1969. Cecil Colwin on swimming.  London: Pelham
Books.
Colwin, C. 1984a. Fluid dynamics: V
ortex circulation in
swimming propulsion. In T.F. Welsh (ed.) American
Swimming Coaches Association world clinic yearbook 1984 .
Fort Lauderdale, FL: American Swimming Coaches
Association. 38-46.
Colwin, C. 1984b. Kinetic streamlining and the phenom-
enon of prolonged momentum in the crawl swimmingstroke. Swim Canada 11(1):12-15.
Colwin, C. 1984c. Tethered swimming. Swim Canada
11(3):20-21.
Colwin, C. 1985a. Essential fluid dynamics of swimming
propulsion. American Swimming Coaches Association
Magazine 4:22-27.
Colwin, C. 1985b. Practical application of flow analysis as
a coaching tool. American Swimming Coaches Associa-
tion Magazine  5:5-8.
Colwin, C. 1987. Coaching the “feel of the water.” In T.F.
Welsh (ed.), American Swimming Coaches Association
world clinic yearbook 1987 . Fort Lauderdale, FL: Ameri-
can Swimming Coaches Association. 87-98.
Colwin, C. 1992. Swimming into the 21st century.
Champaign, IL: Leisure Press.
Colwin, C. 1998. The wave action breaststroke. Swimming
Technique  25(2):12.

234 References
Colwin, C. 1999. Swimming dynamics: Winning techniques
and strategies.  Chicago: Contemporary Press.
Colwin, C. 2000. From Red Army Team to Californian
golden boy. Swimnews  27(7):20-21.
Costill, D.I. 1987. Building a better mousetrap. Swimming
Technique  24(3):34-36.
Cottrell, L. (ed.). 1960. The concise encyclopaedia of archaeol-
ogy. London: Hutchinson.
Counsilman, J.E. 1967. Problems: “Dirt” in interval train-
ing. Swimming Technique  3(4):112-113.
Counsilman, J.E. 1968. The science of swimming. Englewood
Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall.
Counsilman, J.E. 1969. The role of sculling movements in
the arm pull. Swimming World  10(12):6-7, 43.
Counsilman, J.E. 1971. The application of Bernoulli’s
principle to human propulsion in water. In L. Lewillie
and J.P. Clarys (eds.) Proceedings: First international
symposium on biomechanics in swimming, waterpolo anddiving . Bruxelles: Universite Libre de Bruxelles
Laboratoire de l’effort. 59-71.
Counsilman, J.E. 1975. Hypoxic and other methods of
training evaluated. Swimming Technique  12(1):19-26.
Counsilman, J.E. 1977. Competitive swimming manual.
Bloomington, IN: Author.
Counsilman, J.E. 1979. Biokinetics, the ultimate exercise.
In R.M. Ousley (ed.) American Swimming Coaches Asso-
ciation world clinic yearbook 1979 . Fort Lauderdale, FL:
American Swimming Coaches Association. 29-36.
Counsilman, J.E. 1980. Hand acceleration patterns in
swimming strokes. Big Ten Biomechanics Conference.Bloomington: Indiana University.
Counsilman, J.E. 1986. Strength training, sprint training
and speed assisted training for sprint swimmers. InSwim 86 yearbook . Brisbane: Australian Swimming,
Inc. and Australian Swimming Coaches Association.
1-16.
Counsilman, J.E., and Brown, R.M. 1970. The role of lift in
propelling the swimmer. In J.M. Cooper (ed.) Selected
topics on biomechanics: Proceedings of the C.I.C. sympo-
sium on biomechanics . Chicago: Athletic Institute. 179-
188.
Counsilman, B.E., and Counsilman, J.E. 1991. The re-
sidual effects of training. Journal of Swimming Research
7:5-12.
Counsilman, B.E., and Counsilman, J.E. 1993. Problems
with the physiological classification of endurance loads.American Swimming Magazine  Dec.-Jan.:4-20.
Counsilman, J.E., and Wasilak, J.M. 1982. The importance
of hand speed and acceleration in swimming the crawlstroke. Swimming Technique  18(1):22-26.
Coyle, E.F., Hemmert, M.K., and Coggan, A.R. 1986. Ef-
fects of detraining on cardiovascular responses to ex-ercise: Role of blood volume. Journal of Applied Physiol-
ogy 60:95-99.Craig, A.B., and Pendergast, D.R. 1979. Relationships of
stroke rate, distance per stroke, and velocity in com-petitive swimming. Medicine and Science in Sports  11:278-
283.
Craig, A.B., Skeehan, P .L., Pawelczyk, J.A., and Boomer,
W.L. 1985. Velocity, stroke rate and distance per stroke
during elite swimming competition. Medicine and Sci-
ence in Sports and Exercise  17(6):625-634.
Cureton, T.K. 1934. How to teach swimming and diving  (vol.
1). New York: Association Press.
Curry, I. 1975. Stroke length, stroke frequency and perfor-
mance. Swimming Technique 12(3):88, 91.
Cutmore, M. 1985. The pocket watch handbook . New York:
Arco Publishing.
Daland, P. 1984. Personal communication. June 12.
Dalton, D. 1899. How to swim . New York: G.P . Putnam.
Daniels, C.M. 1919. Speed swimming . New York: American
Sports.
Dawson B. 1987. Weissmuller to Spitz . Fort Lauderdale, FL:
International Swimming Hall of Fame.
Deacon, J. 2000. Upsets down under. Maclean’s  113(40):35.
Dellon, A., Curtis, R., and Edgerton, M. 1974. Re-educa-
tion of sensation in the hand after nerve surgery and
repair. Plastic Reconstruction Surgery  53:297-305.
Digby [Dygbeio], E. 1587. De arte natandi libri duo, quorum
prior regulas ipsius artis, posterior vero praxindemonstrationemque continet.  London: (s.n.).
East, D.E. 1970. Swimming: An analysis of stroke fre-
quency, stroke length and performance. New Zealand
Journal of Health, Physical Education and Recreation  3:6-
27.
Ellis, W. 1831. Hawaiian surfing in the 1820s: Polynesian
researches  (volume 3). London: Fisher, Son, and Jack-
son.
Elyot, T. 1531. The boke named the governour . London:
Thomas Berthelet.
Faith, H.D. 1912. The over-arm side stroke. Quoted in The
complete swimmer by F. Sachs. London: Metheun. 140.
Finney, B., and Houston, J.D. 1996. Surfing: A history of the
ancient Hawaiian sport . Rohnert Park, CA: Pomegran-
ate Artbooks.
Firby, H. 1975. Howard Firby on swimming . London: Pelham
Books.
Forsyth, S. 1939. A quick way to better swimming . (s.l):
Sundial Pr
ess.
Foster, C. 1998. Monitoring training in athletes with refer-
ence to overtraining syndrome. Medical Science in Sports
and Exercise  30:1164-1168.
Fricker, P .A., McDonald, W.A., Gleeson, M.G., Flanagan,
A., Pyne, D.B., and Clancy, R.L. 2000. A clinical snap-shot: Do elite swimmers experience more upper respi-
ratory illness than non-athletes? Journal of Clinical Ex-
ercise Physiology 2(3):155-158.

References 235
Gaines, P . 2000. Olympic advertising going for the gold.
Financial Post  July 17.
Gerschler, Rosskamm, and Reindell. 1964. Das Interval
Training [Interval Training]. Congress on running.
Duisberg: Deutscher Leichtatletiek. March.
Gleeson, M., McDonald, W.A., Pyne, D.B., Cripps, A.W.,
and Francis, J.L. et al. 1999. Salivary IgA levels andinfection risk in elite swimmers. Medicine and Science in
Sports and Exercise  31:67-73.
Handley, L. de B. 1918. Swimming and watermanship . New
York: Macmillan.
Handley, L. de B. 1928. Swimming for women . New York:
American Sports Publishing.
Harre, D. 1982. Principles of sports training . Berlin: Sport
Verlag. 58.
Hay, J.G., Guimaraes, A.C.S., and Grimston, S.K. 1983. A
quantitative look at swimming biomechanics. Swim-
ming Technique  20(2):11-17.
Helmstaedt, K. 2000a. German drug trials: The story told
in court defies imagination. Swimnews  No. 259, 27(6):20.
Helmstaedt, K. 2000b. Two men who distorted the course
of sporting history. Swimnews  No. 259, 27(6):21.
Holmer, G. 1972. Development in running. Track Tech-
nique  50:1584-1585.
Hooper, S.L., Mackinnon, L.T., Howard, A., Gordon, R.D.,
and Bachmann A.W. 1995. Markers for monitoring
overtraining and recovery. Medicine and Science in Sports
and Exercise  27:106-112.
Horwill, F. 1982. Gerschler: The innovator. He was 30
years ahead of his time. Athletics Weekly  36(38):33.
Howard, S. 1849. The science of swimming as taught and
practiced in civilized and savage countries . New York:
(s.n.).
Jochums, D. 1982. The dissident’s view of distance freestyle
training. In R.M. Ousley (ed.) American Swimming
Coaches Association world clinic yearbook 1982.  Fort Lau-
derdale, FL: American Swimming Coaches Associa-
tion. 139-151.
Johnson, R. 1978. Organizing a season program. In R.M.
Ousley (ed.) American Swimming Coaches Association
world clinic yearbook 1978 . Fort Lauderdale, FL: Ameri-
can Swimming Coaches Association. 129-143.
Johnson, R. 1982. Tempo awareness training. In R.M.
Ousley (ed.) American Swimming Coaches Association
world clinic yearbook 1982 . Fort Lauderdale, FL: Ameri-
can Swimming Coaches Association. 39-54.
Karamcheti, K. 1966. Principles of ideal-fluid aerodynamics.
New York: Wiley.
Keast, D., and Morton, A.R. 1992. Long-term exercise and
immune function. In R.R. Watson and M. Eisinger
(eds.) Exercise and disease . Boca Raton: CRC Press.
Kellermann, A. 1918. How to swim.  New York: George H.
Doran Company.Kindermann, W. 1978. Regeneration und trainings Prozess
in den Ausdauer—Sportarten aus medizinischer Sicht.Leistungsport 4:354-357.
King, James. 1778. First description of surfing. (unedited
log). In J.C. Beaglehole (ed.) The voyage of the Resolu-
tion and the Discovery, 1776-1780, vols. 1 and 2, 1967.Cambridge: Hakluyt Society.
Kiphuth, R.J.H. 1942. Swimming . New York: Barnes.
Kiphuth, R.J.H. 1950. How to be fit.  London: Nicholas
Kaye.
Kiphuth, R.J.H., and Burke, H.M. 1951. Basic swimming .
New Haven, CT
: Yale University Press.
Koshkin, I. 1985. The system and methods of Vladimir
Salnikov’s development, 1980-1984. In T. Welsh (ed.)American Swimming Coaches Association world clinic
yearbook 1983 . Fort Lauderdale, FL: American Swim-
ming Coaches Association. 5-8.
Lanchester, F.W. 1907. Aerodynamics: Constituting the first
volume of a complete work on aerial flight.  London: Con-
stable.
Lavoie, J-M., and Montpetit, R.R. 1986. Applied physiol-
ogy of swimming. Sports Medicine  3:165-189.
Leonard, J. 1999. FINA Extraordinary Congress on Dop-
ing, Hong Kong, March 31. ASCA Newsletter  2000(8):22.
Leonard, J. 2000. FINA’s third visit to China. ASCA News-
letter  2000(2):2, 4.
Lighthill, M.J. 1973. On the Weis-Fogh mechanism of lift
generation. Journal of Fluid Dynamics 60(pt. 1):1-17.
Lilienthal, O. 1889. Der Vogelflug als Grundlage der
Fliegekunst . Berlin: Ouldenberg.
London, J. 1911. The cruise of the Snark . New York:
Macmillan.
London Times.  1844. The “Flying Gull” and “Tobacco.”
April 22.
London Times.  1847. Report on Whitechapel baths. May 12.
London Times.  1899. Championship of 1899. September 18.
London Times.  1899. County of London long-distance pro-
fessional championship. September 18.
London Times.  1899. Ulph annual challenge cup competi-
tion for amateurs held in the sea at Yarmouth. Septem-
ber 18.
Long Beach Daily Telegram.  1922. Duke Kahanamoku, fa-
mous swimming champion gives exhibition on surfboard. July 31.
Maglischo, E.W. 1982. Swimming faster . Palo Alto, CA:
Mayfield.
Maglischo, E.W. 1983. A three-dimensional
cinematographical analysis of competitive swimming
strokes. In R.M. Ousley (ed.) American Swimming
Coaches Association world clinic yearbook 1983 . Fort Lau-
derdale, FL: American Swimming Coaches Associa-tion. 1-14.

236 References
Maglischo, E.W. 1985. Constructing workouts with en-
ergy system considerations. In T. Welsh (ed.) American
Swimming Coaches Association world clinic yearbook 1985 .
Fort Lauderdale, FL: American Swimming Coaches
Association. 56-62.
Magnus, O. 1555. Historia de gentibus septentrionalibus
Romae [History of the northern people] Rome: Magno
Gotho.
Mason, B.R., and Fowlie, J.K. 1997. Competition analysis
for high performance swimming. Australian-OceanSwimming Professionals Convention. Broadbeach,
QLD. 65-70.
Matveyev, L. 1981. Fundamentals of sports training . Mos-
cow: Progress Publishers. 55-58.
Morehouse, L.E., and Miller, A.T. 1971. Physiology of exer-
cise. St. Louis: Mosby.
Mujika, I., Busso, T., Lacoste, L., Barale, F., and Geyssant,
A. et al. 1996. Modeled responses to training and taper
in competitive swimmers. Medical Science in Sports and
Exercise  28:251-258.
Murray, J., and Karpovich, P.V . 1956. Weight training in
athletics.  Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall. 141-
144.
Muths, G. 1798. Kleines lehrbuch der Schwimmkunst zum
selbstunterrichte (Manual for self-instruction in the art ofswimming). Weimar: (s.n.).
Nemecek, S. 2000. Who were the first Americans? Scien-
tific American  283(3):80-87.
Neuburger, D. 2001. Personal communication. March 15.
Oppenheim, F. 1970. The history of swimming . North Hol-
lywood, CA: Swimming World.
Pai, Y-C., Hay, J.G., and Wilson, B.D. 1984. Stroking tech-
niques of elite swimmers. Journal of Sports Science
2(3):225-239.
Pursley, D. 2000. Observations from the 2000 Olympic
games. American Swimmer  2000(6):16.
Pyne, D.B. 1998. Performance and physiological changes
in elite swimmers during altitude training. Coaching
and Sports Science Journal  3:42-48.
Pyne, D.B. 1999a. Endurance training: How much huff
and puff? Swimming Technique  35:16-20.
Pyne, D.B. 1999b. Physiological testing of elite Australian
swimmers. In F. Fu (ed.) Aquatic Sports Medicine in the
New Century . Hong Kong: Association of Sports Medi-
cine and Sports Science. 109-126.
Pyne, D.B., and Gleeson, M. 1998. Effects of intensive
exercise training on immunity in athletes. International
Journal of Sports Medicine  19:S183-S194.
Pyne, D.B., Gleeson, M., McDonald, W.A., Perry, C., Clancy,
R.L., and Fricker, P .A. 2000. Training strategies to main-
tain immunocompetence in athletes. International Jour-
nal of Sports Medicine  21(suppl. 1):S51-S60.
Pyne, D.B., Maw, G.J., and Goldsmith, W.M. 2000. Proto-
cols for the physiological assessment of swimmers. InC. Gore (ed.) Physiological tests for the elite athlete .
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics. 372-382.
Pyne, D.B., McDonald, W.A., Gleeson, M., Flanagan, A.,
Clancy, R.L., and Fricker, P.A. 2001. Mucosal immu-
nity, illness and competition performance in swim-
mers. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise
33(3):348-353.
Pyne, D.B., and Telford, R.D. 1988. Classification of train-
ing sessions. Excel  5(2):9-12.
Pyne, D.B., and Telford, R.D. 1989. Classification of swim-
ming training sessions by blood lactate and heart rateresponses. American Swimming Coaches Association
Magazine February:7-9.
Rajki, B. 1956. The technique of competitive swimming .
Budapest: Covina.
Reichel, A. 1897. Swimming in two movements and its
superiority over the Pfuel and D’Argy methods withthree. In Myers Konversations-lexicon  (vol. 15). Leipzig:
(s.n.). 16.
Rowbottom, D.G., Keast, D., and Morton, A.R. 1998.
Monitoring and preventing of overreaching and over-
training in endurance athletes. In R.B. Kreider, A.C.Fry, and M.L. O’Toole (eds.) Overtraining in sport .
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics. 47-66.
Rushall, B.S. 2000. Swimming’s hall of shame . Spring Valley,
CA: Sports Science Associates.
Sachs, F. 1912. The complete swimmer . London: Methuen.
Schleihauf, R.E. 1974. A biomechanical analysis of freestyle.
Swimming Technique  11(3):89-96.
Schleihauf, R.E. 1977. Swimming propulsion: A hydrody-
namic analysis. In R. Ousley (ed.) American Swimming
Coaches Association world clinic yearbook 1977 . Fort Lau-
derdale, FL: American Swimming Coaches Associa-tion. 49-81.
Schleihauf, R.E. 1979. A hydrodynamic analysis of swim-
ming pr
opulsion. In J. Terauds and E.W. Bedingfield
(eds.) International symposium of biomechanics. Volume 8:
Swimming III . Baltimore: University Park Press. 70-
109.
Schleusing, G., Rebentisch, J., and Schippel, C. 1964.
Research on endurance and interval training. Medicine
and sport (books I and II). Berlin: Verlag Volk and
Gesundheit, V .E.B.
Selye, H. 1956. The stress of life.  New York: McGraw-Hill.
Sharp, R.L., and Costill, D.L. 1989. Shaving a little time.
Swimming Technique  26(3):10-13.
Sinclair, A., and Henry, W. 1885. The badminton book of
swimming.  London: Longmans, Green, and Co.
Sinclair, A., and Henry, W. 1903. Swimming . London:
Longmans, Green, and Co.
Stampfl, F. 1955. Franz Stampfl on running . London: Jenkins.
Steedman, C. 1867. A manual of swimming, including bath-
ing, plunging, diving, floating, scientific swimming, train-
ing, drowning and rescuing.  Melbourne, Australia: (s.n.).

References 237
Steinacker, J.M., Lormes, W., Lehmann, M., and
Alternburg, D. 1998. Training of rowers before world
championships. Medical Science and Sports Medicine
30:1158-1163.
Stix, G., and Fischetti, M. 2000. Game theory. Scientific
American  11(3):6-9.
Stray-Gundersen, J., and Levine, B.D. 1999. “Living high
and training low” can improve sea level performancein endurance athletes. British Journal of Sports Medicine
33:150-151.
Sullivan, F.J. 1928. The science of swimming . New York:
American Sports Publishing.
Thevenot, M. 1696. L’art de nager . Paris: T. Moette.
Thevenot, M. 1699. The art of swimming . London: D. Brown,
D. Midurnter, T. Leigh, and R. Knaplock.
Thierry, N. 1972. The world scene. Swimming Technique
9(1):2-3, 10.
Thierry, N. 1981. The breaststroke saga. AIPS Bulletin
10(1):2.
Thomas, R. 1904. Swimming . London: Sampson Low,
Marston.
Thornton, N. 1979. The Berkeley program. In R.M. Ousley
(ed.) American Swimming Coaches Association world clinic
yearbook 1979 . Fort Lauderdale, FL: American Swim-
ming Coaches Association. 1-15.
Thornton, N. 1987. A few thoughts on training, or a closer
look at the path U.S. swimming seems to be currently
following. American Swimming Coaches Association
Magazine Jan.-Feb.:11-14.
Thrum, T.G. (ed.). 1896. Hawaiian surf riding. From Thrums
Hawaiian annual 1896 . 106-113.Troup, J.P. 1999. The physiology and biomechanics of
competitive swimming. Aquatic Sports Injuries and Re-
habilitation  18:267-285.
Twain, M. 1872. Roughing it . Chicago: F.G. Gilman.
Ungerechts, B.E. 1983. A comparison of the movements of
the rear parts of dolphins and butterfly-swimmers. InA.P . Hollander, P. Huijing, and G. de Groot (eds.)International series on sports sciences. Volume 14: Biome-
chanics and medicine in swimming . Champaign, IL: Hu-
man Kinetics. 215-221.
van Aaken, E., and Berben, D. 1971. Speed through endur-
ance. Swimming Technique January: 108-113.
van Dam, C.P . 1988. In wind and water. The Sciences
28(1):37-39.
Vogel, S. 1998. Cats’ paws and catapults: Mechanical worlds of
nature and people . New York: Norton. 224-225.
Watson, R.P . 1873. Memoirs. Encyclopedia Britannica
22:772.
Weis-Fogh, T. 1973. Quick estimates of flight fitness in
hovering animals including novel mechanisms for liftpropulsion. Journal of Experimental Biology  59(1):169-
230.
Weissmuller, J. 1930. Swimming the American crawl . Lon-
don: Putnam.
Wilson, W. 1883. The swimming instructor . London:
Horace.
Wynman, N. 1538. Colymbetes, sive de arte natandi et festivus
et iucundus lectu  (Dutch Copy). Ingolstadt, Bavaria:
(s.n.).
Young, P . 1990. Education is the key. Swim Canada 17(1):6-
7.

239Index
A
adaptation to stress 138, 154
adduction of upper arm 47adenosine triphosphate (ATP) 152age group swimming  202-203
caused upsurge in swimming worldwide  218
airfoil mechanism 76, 81, 83, 88, 94altitude training 162-163amateur athlete, definition of 193American crawl 18-23American Swimming  200–204American Swimming Coaches Association
(ASCA)  201-201, 216
certification program  204World Clinic  41
anabolic steroids  208, 212, 215, 216anaerobic metabolism  145, 152-153, 174anaerobic threshold. See lactate ventilatory
threshold
ancient civilizations and swimming  4–5angle of attack  36, 37, 86, 95, 99angle of pitch. See angle of attack
Armbruster, David  26, 95Art of Swimming, The   7
Asian Games, Hiroshima, (1994)  212athletic scholarships  203Australian crawl
in 1900s  15, 16in 1950s  23
Australian Institute of sport  xii,159–160Australian swimming
at the Olympic Games  200Cavill family, the  5, 16, 198, 199, 217early British influence and  198–199first organized swimming race  197
B
Bachrach, William  17, 18, 26back crawl. See backstroke
backstroke  18, 24–25, 219
Bauer style of  17, 24–25Hebner style of  219key points of  63–65Kiefer style of  25modern technique of  61–65start  65–66turn  66–67with trudgen kick  24
Bannister, Roger  126Barrowman, Mike  70, 221Bath and Wash-Houses Act (1846)  187Bauer, Carl  202, 203Bauer, Sybil  17, 24-25, 222Beaurepaire, Sir Frank  200, 221Beaver, Dave  203Beckworth, Frederick Edward  192Benjamin, H.  193Bennett, John  198Berendonk,  Brigette  209Berkoff, David  44betting on swimming races  185, 191, 194Billington, David  193biochemical reactions, within the muscle  151biokinetic swim bench  170biomechanics  33–48birds and insects, flying characteristics of  94–95Birkeland, Kare I.  216blood doping  214, 216body balance  52, 44body proportions  43body roll, the  41, 45body shape and streamlining  99–100Borg, Arne  22, 221boundary layer  78, 80Boyle, Charlotte  17breaststroke  67–69
in 16th and 17th century  5in 19th century  5–6, 25in early 20th century  6, 10, 25–28,in mid 20th century  27-30, 219–220underwater swimming and  28–29wave technique and 67–69
buoyancy,  43, 44, 45butterfly
invention and development of  18, 30–31key points of  59modern technique  56–58start  59–60turn  60–61
butterfly-breaststroke  28Byrd, William  13

240 Index
C
Cairns, T.  193
Carlile, Forbes
on failing adaptation  127on interval training  126, 129, 220on speed through endurance  129, 131–132on the taper  146
Catlin, George  14Cavill, Arthur (“Tums”)  199Cavill, Fred  (“Professor”)  15, 198,Cavill, Percy  199Cavill, Richard (“Dick”)  15, 16, 199, 200, 217, 221Cavill, Sydney  15, 199Chadwick, Edwin  187Charlton, Andrew (“Boy”)  200, 221Chavoor, Sherman
interval training  129training methods  220
China and performance enhancing drugs  212–215Chinese Olympic and World Swimming Medals
211
Chinese  Swimming Association (CSA)  212clap-fling-ring mechanism  95–96Cleveland, Dick  126Cole, Winston  191Collins, Gilbert  26Colymbetes  7, 24
commercialization, effect on distance training
155. See also  sponsorship
competition analysis  155–157concept formation
tactile and visual impressions in  113
concentration under pressure  218continuous propulsion, concept of  12, 15, 17Corson, George  200Costill, David  38Cotton, Professor Frank,  126, 146Crabbe, Clarence (“ Buster”)  205, 221Craig, Albert  38crawl stroke, the
body rotation and  22, 36breathing and head turning in  14, 53changing position of the elbow, in  53key points of  52kick  18, 23, 54modern technique of  50-52new paradigms  42Polynesian origin of  13–14, 218start  54, 55timing in  52-53turn  55
Counsilman, James E.
Bernoulli’s principle  34, 81, 82broken tempo swimming  23biokinetic swim bench  170curvilinear path of pull observed by  33, 34–35hand speed and acceleration  39interval training  129lift propulsion and  33, 34super-adaptation tapering method  148use of the camera as a scientific instrument  79
creatine phosphate (CP)  152Cusack, Arthur  27cyclic training  220
D
Daland, Peter  221
age-group program  202–203interval training  129training methods  220
Daniels, Charles M.  18, 201, 221Davenport, Horace  193Davis, Syd  15De Arte natandi   7, 8
de la Perouse, Captain  12dehydrotestosterone (DTH)  212, 214Dellon, A. Lee  224Dennis, Clare  200Derbyshire, J. H.  192, 199Digby, Everard  7–8diuretic masking agents  203, 212
triamterine 213
distance per stroke,  22, 41, 220. See also  tempo
awareness
dolphin kick  31, 94, 95, 100, 219dolphin-butterfly stroke  30doping control, future of  215doping trials, Berlin  208, 209–210doping. See drugs, performance enhancing
double overarm stroke. See trudgen stroke
drag
coefficient of  37forces  78form  39, 45friction  39, 45induced  84–85interaction with lift  33, 34, 35, 36, 37propulsion  88, 96wave  31, 39
drownings  186-187drug tests positive by country  215drugs, performance enhancing  xi, xiii, 207-216.
See also  China; East Germany
Dunham, George  193Durack, Fanny  200, 2

Index 241
E
East Germany
drugs, performance enhancing  207, 208, 211–
212
Ederle, Gertrude  17, 202, 222
eddy resistance. See separation of flow
Elyot, Thomas  7energy
basic compounds of  152, 153demands, met by specific training methods  153metabolism  152–153systems, relative contribution to various events
152–153
Epstein, Charlotte (“Eppy”)  17, 202erythropoietin (EPO)  215, 216Essick, Ray  228Evans, Janet  222Evans, W.  193Ewald, Manfred  207exercise, duration and intensity of  171–172
F
Faith, H. D.  9–10Farmer, George  16fat, as an energy compound  152fatigue  161–162
accumulated and reduction of  154
feel of the water, the
descriptions used in teaching  109enhanced when swimmer reverts to traditional
swimsuit  224
sensitizing nerve endings  116–120specific drills in learning  115
Federation Internationale de Natation Amateur.
See FINA
Ferguson, Fraysher  126FINA
amateur law  228birth of  xii, 194delegations to China  213–216drugs and  208, 212–216East German world records and  208Extraordinary Congress on Doping Hong
Kong, March 1999  215
International Swimming Technical Committee
(ISTC)  29
rules and
breaststroke  29, 219–220butterfly  219dolphin kick  31swimming suits  223underwater pushoff  56Fartlek training  127–129Firby, Howard  219fish tail swimming  31, 44fitness, loss of competitive  154flexibility  43flight
flapping (or oscillating)  94heavier-than-air  81
fling-ring mechanism  93, 96–97flow shapers, the use of  108,114flow (hydrodynmics)
around a swimmer’s body  44circulation  77, 81–84, 88, 94nonsteady in nature  89, 93, 94–95oncoming  45, 100reactions  75–89resistance  37, 45separation  78, 99, 101steady and nonsteady  76, 77, 86, 87velocity  77, 86
flow, the (in teaching the feel of the water)
analysis as coaching tool  97–99anticipation, control and mastery of  107 116–
120
manipulation  of  99–100, 107, 109, 111, 116–120shaping of  99–100, 101
flutter kick  10, 13, 17, 219foil type lift  93Frank, Werner,  209Franklin, Benjamin  7Friesel, Paul  31frog kick  5, 12, 26Frolich, Gus  127frontal resistance  39Froude number  44functional shaping of hand and arm  104–105
G
Gaines, Paul  227Gallagher, Harry  127, 220Galligan, Claire  202Gambril, Don  220Gardner, Harry  10gas chromatography  216Gathercole, Terry  228genetic factors, athletic improvement limited by
154
German Democratic Republic. See East Germany
Gerschler, Woldemar  126-127, 132–133glycogen  152Gould, Shane,  129, 222government funding of athletes  227grass roots level swimmers  225

242 Index
Greasely, S. W.  193
Griffen, H. H.  193Gurr, Henry (Harry)  10, 193Guthrie, Frank  24, 126, 127
H
Hackett, Grant  xi, 43, 54, 226Haines, George  203
interval training and  129training methods and  220
Hall Jr., Gary  42,44hand, the
dual function of  93entry  111, 112
common errors in  112ship drill and  100, 114as a foil  92, 110
hand-forearm rotation  88, 94, 108hand-wrist posture in crawl  52, 101–105Handley, Louis de Breda  15, 17, 18, 20, 21, 41Handy, H. J. (“Jam”)  20, 24Hanson, Howard  29Harris, Gerald F.  38Hashizume, Shiro  204Hastert, Dennis  204head, the
position of  53shape influences bow-wave  45turning mechanism  of 53
Healy, Cecil  19, 200Hearn, George  194Hebner, Harry  219Helmstaedt, Karen  209, 210,Hemmersbach, Peter  216Herford, Sam  23high elbow  47, 48, 53history of competitive swimming  xii, 3-30Hoeppner, Manfred  207Holm, Eleanor  17, 202, 222Holmer, Gosta  127–129, 130Hounslow, Samuel  192, 193Howard, Sidney  12huki, the  13human growth hormone (HGH)  215
human swimming and propulsion in nature
93–96, 100–101
hydroplaning  20Hyman, Misty  44
I
individual swimmer, training of  154, 160injury and training concerns  154
International Olympic Committee (IOC)  28,
31, 208, 219, 227
interval training  xii, 139, 155, 220
1950s and  126, 129criticism of  130fast method of  137, 139–140, 141, 176–177Gerschler’s method  of 132–133possible adverse effects of 134–135slow method of  137, 139, 140various applications of  141
iron and transport serum  216
J
Japanese
body roll  20, 21crawl  22, 205swimming  204–205swimming schools  186swimming success of the  205
Jarvis, J. A.  192Jochums, Dick  170Johnson, Dave  212Johnson, E. D.  190Johnson,  Ron  41, 170
K
Kahanamoku, Duke  13, 15,18,201, 221Kaplan, Lester  31Kaufman, Beth  202, 203Kellermann, Annette  18, 223Kenworthy, Harold  192Kiefer, Adolph  25, 219, 221Kieran, Barney  18, 200, 221kinetic energy  89, 93, 102Kiphuth, Robert J. H.  xii, 22-23, 205, 218Krayzelburg, Lenny  64
L
Lackie, Ethel  17lactate ventilatory threshold  145, 174–175Lane,  Fred (“Freddy”) 199,  200, 217, 221Lavender Bay, Sydney, Australia  15, 199Le Moyne, Harry  201leg action, in early crawl stroke  6, 10, 15letter of guarantee signed by Chinese swimmers
pledging to follow doping rules  213-214
leverage against water resistance  47Lewis, Charles  192lift  33, 34
coefficient  36

Index 243
generating mechanisms in nature  89, 95
heavier-than-air flight  81–83, 86interaction with drag  33, 34, 35, 36, 37
Lister, W. H.  192London Swimming Club  191long-course swimming  226long-distance races  188Lord, Alice  17lunate or crescent shape  101, 102–103Lyons, Nancy  200
M
Maclean, Alister  197macrocycles, in training  154Maglischo, Ernest  38Magnus effect  82–83Magnus, Olaus  7Marshall, John  126, 200Mason, Bruce  155massage, effects of  149Manual of Swimming, The  14, 16, 124, 198, 206
mass spectrometry  216Meany, Helen  17mesocycles in training  154metabolism of energy  152–153metabolism  161microcycles in training  154momentum  42, 44, 52, 53, 100, 206
prolonged  39–40
Moras, Karen  129Morris, T.  191motion picture camera  79, 204motor learning, the role of touch in  112multilevel national programs  205muscular contraction, chemistry of  152, 174Myers, Henry  30, 219
N
Naber, John,  221National Swimming Society (1837)  186, 192
national swimming program concept  xii, 201,
204
neuromuscular patterns  151New York Athletic Club  17, 18, 200
New York Women’s Swimming Association
(NYWSA)  200
New Zealand Amateur Swimming Association
194
nonautologic blood doping  216Nurmi, Paavo  129nutrition, importance of in training  168Nuttall, J.  9, 193O
oath of secrecy, signed by East German athletes  208ocean surfing  12Olympic Games
Amsterdam 1928  17, 26Antwerp 1920  17Berlin 1936  25London 1908  24Los Angeles 1932  200Melbourne 1956  xii, 28, 31, 200Paris 1924  17revival of, in Athens, (1869)  222Sydney 2000  42, 200, 226, 209
O’Neill, Susie,  xi, 222oral turinabol  207oscillating wing flight. See flapping flight
out of competition testing of athletes  208outward sweep of arms in swimming strokes  103overload, based on stimulus, response and
adaptation  154
P
pace clock  222pace of the race, training for  178–179pace, variation of  127penalties for doping  216Pendergast, David  38peptide hormones  216periodization  154, 156Perkins, Kieren  221, 226Pewters, George  192photography used to study swimming strokes
49–50
physical differences between athletes  43–44physiological research, in international swimming
161
physiological responses, specificity of  154physiological testing  159–160Popov, Alex  xi, 42, 44, 45, 221, 225Pound, Richard  227power-weight ratio  44pressure
interpreting sensations of moving  107, 116–120differences  76patterns, how the hand creates  110
primitive cultures and swimming
Ceylon, in  15Easter Island, in  12Mandans  13–14Pacific Islands, in  10, 13, 14, 15, 16Solomon Islands, in  15, 16South America, in  4, 10

244 Index
prize money  214, 225, 226
professional swimmers  192, 193, 225
corporate endorsement and sponsorship  226
professionalism  192professors of swimming  189propellers  34, 81, 86propelling instrument, the arm as a  107propulsion
basic concepts of  75–77circulation and  81–82lift and drag interaction  36–38nature and
bird flight  93–94fish and marine animals  95insects  94, 95–96
unorthodox  77, 81, 95–97
psychological barriers  218public schools in England and swimming  188, 189public swimming pools  186–188Pursley, Dennis  226Pyne, David  xii, 151,-165
Q
questions asked by stroke pioneers  17–18
R
race pace, simulation in training  178–179racing distances standardized  188Rademacher, Erich  26, 30, 221Rajki, Bela  27–28Redman, J. Sr  197Redman, W. Jr  197regenerative periods in training, need for  181Reindell, Herbert  130relaxation  218resistance  10, 45, 75, 78Riggen, Aileen  17, 202Robertson, W. W.  30Robinson’s Baths  197Royal Humane Society  199Royal Life Saving Society 188–189Rushcutters Bay , Sydney Harbor  218
S
Sachs, Frank  10, 25Schaeffer, E. Carroll  201Schleihauf,  Robert  33, 34, 36Schlueter, Walter  126, 219Schubert, Mark  203, 219science
intuition and  205future directions in swimming  165scientific research  220, 227scissors kick  9, 11, 15, 20selective method of applying the workload,
search for  144–145
sense of touch, heightening of  107, 108, 116–120sensory perception  107
interference with  224
separation of the flow  99Serpentine River, London  186, 192, 199Shadowgram,  88Shanghai Swimming Association (SSA)  213, 214Shaving down  39short course swimming (25 meters)  225side thrust. See lift
sidestroke  xi, 4, 8–10, 13
English overarm  9–10, 12, 14underarm  9
Sieg, Jack  31, 95, 219Skelton, Bob  17skill  42soaring and gliding flight  94, 103specificity, of training  138, 153speed through endurance  131–132Spence, Walter  30Spitz, Mark  17, 201, 221sponsorship  227sport science and medicine, support networks
involved in  159
Stack, Allan 25Stampfl, Franz  126standardization of racing distances  188, 222Stasi files  208steroid abuse, signs of  211Statute of Limitations  209Steedman, Charles  5, 8, 14, 192, 198–199Stevens , “Professor”  189, 192stimulants  216stopwatch, history of the  3, 185, 190–191, 222Strachan, John  186streamlines  76, 77streamlining  41, 44, 53stroke correction, facilitated by slow endurance
training  153
stroke effectiveness, associating ideal flow
reactions with  109
stroke length and frequency 41. See also  tempo
awareness
stroke mechanics, gradual development of  218subdued kicking, in long distance races  54supplementary land training  126, 218Suzuki, Daichi  44, 204swimmers of the 20th century. See top swimmers,
20th century, male and female
Swimming Association of Great Britain  193–194

Index 245
Swimming Into the 21st Century  xi
Swimming Instructor, The  10, 206
swimming and track training methods,
comparative appraisal of  134
swimming flume  223
swimming match, first  186swimming pools, evolution of  xii, 3, 188, 217, 220swimming reports, first  186, 187, 191–192swimming suits, natural versus equipment suits
223–225
Sydney Morning Herald, report from pool direct
to the worldwide web  226
Sydney Referee  15
T
tactile and visual impressions in teaching  113Taguchi, Nobutaka  204Talbot, Don  220, 228talent selection  43–44tall swimmers
advantages of  43bow wave and  45
taper, the. See training
television coverage  218, 225, 227tempo awareness  41testing, of swimmers  155testosterone/epitestosterone ratio  213tethered swimming  223Thevenot, Melchisedec  7–8Thierry, N. J.  29Thomas, Ralph 8,  190Thornton, G.  197Thornton, Nort  129, 170–173Thorpe, Ian  xi, 42, 43, 44, 45, 221thrust. See propulsion
Title IX  203–204top swimmers, 20th century, male and female
221, 222
track athletes, training of  126–132
influence on swimming training  127–134
training, specific methods
aerobic and anaerobic  170–173alternating easy and hard training days  145formats to produce specific effects  169periodization of  137, 144practicing negative splits  143pyramid formats  142repetition  137, 139, 140reversed individual medley  220sets
broken  141, 142descending  141permutation  142straight  141sprint  170–173steady state  130taper, the  145–148tethered or sprint-resisted  143–144
training, planning a program
annual cycles, number of  154basic taper plan  148chemical changes in muscle  173–174development of program  167intensity of  157monitoring training workloads  156monotony and strain, effects of  158muscle hypertrophy  138need for regenerative periods  181number of sessions per week  181outline of annual program  179–180overtraining, effects of  161–162principle considerations of  146, 153progressive overload principle in  137, 138reversibility of  154specificity of 138varying training intensities  177–178work time at maximal effort  175–176
training aids and equipment  222-223transferrin receptors 216transitional phases of the stroke  100, 101, 103-104trudgen stroke  xi, 4, 10–12, 14trudgen-crawl  20Tsuruta, Yoshiyuki  205, 221Turrell, Jenny  129Tyers, J. H.  9, 193
U
ulnar-flexion of the wrist  102-103underwater observation of swimmers  223underwater swimming  44. See also  fishtail
swimming
unsteady flow. See nonsteady flow
United States
collegiate swimming  202high school swimming  202Olympic swimming medals (1972–2000)  201professional coaches integral part of swimming
program  228
university swimming  203-204
United States Swimming (formerly AAU)  202
V
van Aaken, Ernst  129-132van den Hoogenbrand, Pieter  xi, 42, 44videography, underwater  35, 46, 116viscosity  78, 80Victorian England champion swimmers  xii

246 Index
velocity  76, 81
gradient  80
visualization  79, 218
Vortex, and flow reactions
bound  82, 83, 85, 94, 95description of  97–98significance of  97–99trailing  or tip 84, 85, 88,  98
vortex organized system  86vortices, generating and shedding of  92–-93, 94,
97, 99
W
Wagner effect  87Wainwright, Helen  17, 202Waldniel School of training  129warm up, the  148-149water, under the action of forces  xi, xii, 10
water pressure, associated with phase of the
stroke  108, 116-120
Watson, R. P .  11, 12wake turbulence  98wave making  45-46
resistance to human swimming  44
Webb, Matthew  197Weissmuller, John  17, 18, 200, 218, 221weight belt, use of  47weight training for swimmers  126, 169Werner, Gunner  212Wickham, Alick  15,16Whitechapel Baths  187Wiggens, Al  126Wilson, William  10, 206windsprints  xiiWomen’s swimming
weight training and  126Title IX and  203Antwerp Olympics (1920) and  202
Women’s Swimming Association (WSA) work-to-
rest ratio  xii, 220, 222
World Championships  xiWorld Cup Circuit  225, 226world long-course records 1957–2000  195World Long-Course Swimming Championships,
1st, Belgrade, (1973)  194
World Short-Course Swimming Championships,
1st, Majorca (1993)  194
World Swimming Championships, 1st (pre-FINA)
St. Kilda, Melbourne (1858)  198
World Swimming Coaches Association  216world short-course swimming records (1991–
2000)  196
Wylie, Mona  200Wynman, Nicolaus  7
Y
Yamanaka, Tsuyoshi  204YMCA  200, 202
Z
Zatopek, Emil  129
ZERV Central Investigations Office for Govern-
ment and Reunification Crimes  29

247About the Author
Cecil M. Colwin  is a legend among swimming
coaches. He has had a distinguished interna-
tional coaching career in which he developed
Olympic medalists, world-record holders, andnational champions. Colwin is also acknowl-
edged as one of the swimming world’s most
influential coach educators and historians. Hisindelible mark on the sport spans from pio-
neering swim training in South Africa to coach-
ing South African national and internationalcompetitors. Colwin is acknowledged as a dy-
namic lecture-room and pool-deck clinician
with a gift for vivid imagery and the ability toanalyze and simplify complex techniques.
A former national technical director of Cana-
dian swimming, Colwin was instrumental inresearching, designing, and implementing Ca-
nadian Swimming’s National Play for the 1976
Montreal Olympic Games as well as the Cana-dian National Apprenticeship Program for
training coaches in all sports. Colwin has also
designed and conducted coaching certificationcourses for Level III coaches in the United
States and Australia. In 1985 and 1986, he re-
ceived the American Swimming CoachesAssociation’s (ASCA) certificate of excellence
for outstanding coaching achievement in theUnited States. In 1993 he was inducted into the
International Swimming Hall of Fame. In 2002
Colwin was awarded the Palagon Award.
Colwin has authored hundreds of articles,
papers, and books on competitive swimming,and he continues to serve as a consultant to
administrators, coaches, and swimmers world-wide. He is a regular contributor to several
swimming magazines, including Swimnews,
Swimming World, Swimming Technique,  and The
American Swimmer.  Known as one of the swim-
ming world’s most inspirational lecturers, he
has addressed the World Swimming Coaches’Conference on several occasions and has given
hundreds of lectures and clinic presentations
worldwide. Since 1995 Colwin has served as amember of the World Swimming Coaches’
Association’s Anti-Doping Committee. He is
also the founder of Cecil Colwin’s Interna-tional Swim Camps, a leading stroke clinic and
training experience for swimmers and coaches
from many countries.
Colwin and his wife, Margaret, live in Ottawa,
Ontario, where he pursues a variety of interestsincluding portrait painting, videography,cartooning, reading, weight training, and lis-
tening to music.


You’ll find
other outstanding
swimming resources at
www.humankinetics.com
HUMAN KINETICS
The Premier Publisher for Sports & Fitness
P.O. Box 5076 • Champaign, IL  61825-5076 USA1-800-747-4457
Australia ..................................... 08 8372 0999
Canada........................................800-465-7301Europe ........................... +44 (0) 113 255 5665New Zealand ......................... 0064 9 448 1207In the U.S. call