1
1
SPORTS TRAINING—DEFINITIONS,
AIMS, FUNCTIONS AND
CHARACTERISTICS
In general the word training is commonly used term
in human language but in broad sense training may be
define as an organised and systematic instructional
process which aim is to improve the individual's physical,
psychological and intellectual performance capacity.
In sports the term training is often used by the
players, coaches and scientists but there are some
disagreement among the coaches and scientists regarding
the exact meaning of this term, because the experts those
who belong to sports medicine are in the opinion that
sports training is simply a doing of physical exercise,
Where as some other experts understood the meaning of
the word in the form of interval training, strength training,
technical training and tactical training.
In the light of the various concepts, meaning of the
term and nature of the training, it is essential to study
the some of the important definitions given by the various
experts in the field of sports.
DEFINITIONS OF SPORTS TRAINING AND COACHING
1. Sports training is the basic forms of preparation of
sportsmen.
—Matveyev
2. Sports training, based on scientific knowledge, is
a pedagogical process of sports perfection through which
systematic effect on psycho-physical performance ability
and performance readiness aims at leading the sportsman
to high and the highest performance.
—Harre

Complete Guide to Sports Training 2
3. Sports training is a scientifically based and
pedagogically organised process through planned and
systematic, effect on the performance ability and
performance readiness aims at sports perfection and
performance improvement as well as at the contest in
sports competition.
— Schnabel
COACHING: -  Coaching may be define as the technical
skill which involve coordination of factors like time,
sequence, action, movement and speed
 4. Sports training is the process of preparation of
sportsman based on scientific and pedagogical principles
aims at improving and maintenance of higher
performance capacity.
AIMS OF SPORTS TRAINING
The main aim of sports training is to prepare a
sportsman for a highest possible performance in a main
competition in a particular sport / event.
Besides this following should be considered as the
aims of sports training:-
i.Improvement of physical fitness.
ii.Acquisition of motor skills.
iii.Improvement of tactical efficiency.
iv. Education and improvement of mental capabilities.
I- Improvement of physical fitness:-  The
performance in sports generally depends upon the
physical fitness of a sportsman, hence the improvement
of various components of physical fitness or motor abilities
is the prime aim of sports Tanning. Every sports activity
needs specific types of physical fitness but in this view
the development of physical fitness should not be ignore
because specific fitness is depends on the general fitness.
II- Acquisition of motor skills: - Every sports
activity needs certain movement procedure to tackle a
particular task which refers to the technique when this

3
technique is learn and perfect it is called as skill. When,
ever sportsmen indulge in technical training aim of which
is to acquire skills of particular sports. Technique training
is differ from sports to sports if we take the example of
Gymnastic & Diving which requires greater amount of
technical training where as track events needs very less
amount of technique to be learnt.
III-Improvement of tactical efficiency: -  Tactical
training in sports competition helps the sportsmen in such
a way where he/she makes the best use of his abilities,
skills and all external factors which are beneficial to attain
high level of performance and hinder the opponent to do
so. Tactical training includes knowledge of rules, tactical
abilities and technical training, therefore improvement
of tactical efficiency is considered to be the important
aim of sports training.
IV- Education and improvement of mental
capabilities: -  Performance in any sport/event up to some
extent depend on the personality of a sportsmen, therefore
education and improvement of mental capabilities is also
considered as one of the aim of sports training. Education
in sports includes:
-Development of positive attitude towards
competition.
-Dedication and devotion towards particular sports/
event.
-Sincerity and honesty.
-Self confidence and optimum level of aspiration and
Formation of good habits.
Keeping all these things in mind it is the moral duty
of every physical education teacher, instructor and coach
to educate the sportsmen through sports training.
FUNCTIONS OF SPORTS TRAINING
The performance of an individual depends upon the
performance capacity of a sportsperson; this capacity is

Complete Guide to Sports Training 4
complex in nature and depends upon certain factors like
speed, strength, flexibility, endurance and coordinative
abilities. If we take the physique into an account which
is moreover genetic and it cannot be trained by means of
training but other factors are trainable to some extent.
To achieve these following tasks of the sports training
should be considered:
I-Development of Sports Personality:- Personality
of sportsman is observed in the form of habit, behavior
and attitude towards the requirement of training of
competitive sports/events. It is quite clear that the
personality is influenced in the process of tackling the
task involved. Hence the personality of the sportsman
can be develops through systematic & logical guidance
during regular participation in sports activity. To ensure
the improvement and achieve high level of performance
it is worthwhile to develop the physical, mental, and social
aspect of a sportsman. The sportsmen are required to
develop the specific personality characteristics. The
specific personality characteristics which are more
suitable to attain high level of sports performance in
particular sports.
II- Performance Efficiency:-  The rate at which
performance efficiency is develops during the sports
training is largely depend upon the amount of training
and competition. It has the decisive bearing on the
improvement of performance efficiency and performance
ability. The performance efficiency is also depend on the
amount of training load is given during sports training.
But the quality of the way of training is organised will
also be crucial for changing high load into higher
performance capacity.
III-Physical Training:-  Physical training of sportsman
is refers to the speed, strength, endurance, flexibility and
coordinative ability. These qualities are performance
prerequisites of any sports. Requirement of these qualities
vary from sports to sports because some sports require

5
single ability whereas other requires combination of two.
To improve these abilities sportsman should regular
participate in general, specific and competitive sports
activity demanded for a particular sports.
IV- Technical Training:- Technical training enables
the sportsman to make the optimum and best use of the
physical abilities during the sports competition. The
technical training helps to achieve the skill of particular
sport which is directly related to the sports performance
because higher the level of technical skill higher will be
the performance. In order to acquire mastery over the
skill one should regular participate in technical training
because it ensures the perfection of skill which helps to
attain high performance in sports competition. Technical
mastery over the skill also ensures the proper application
of motor abilities which reduce the efforts energy
consumption during the competition.
V- Tactical Training:-  The use of correct tactics
enables the sportsman to make the best possible use of
physical and psychological capacity of sportsman. The
tactical training helps in understanding the strength and
weakness of the opponent's and also develop the ability
to overcome these types of situations during competition.
Gradually   increasing   of   tactical   efficiency helps the
athlete to win the top level events in national and
international competition. Keeping all these facts in mind
all sort of skills and abilities should acquire during
training which are normally put into practice to win any
sports/events. Hence tactical training must be considered
as the important part of sports training.
VI- Mental Training/Intellectual Training:-
Intellectual training refers to the higher demand put on
the mental faculty of a sportsman. When sportsmen
engage in training of competitive sports he should
encouraged understanding the latest technical and
tactical aspects of a game and how to develop these by
modern means and methods of training. It is also desirous

Complete Guide to Sports Training 6
to develop good habits, positive attitude and tactical ideas
with good imagination which helps to develop the new
technique and help in planning and analyzing the daily
schedule. By doing so sportsman systematically develops
the mental faculty which continuously, helps to improve
the theoretical knowledge of sports training. Thus mental
training is considered to be the important part of sports
training.
CHARACTERISTICS OF SPORTS TRAINING
Sports’ training is not merely concerned with physical
activities which involve the physical movements. The
various activities like dance, play and various fields i.e.
industries and factories also involve physical movements.
Those activities or areas can not be considered the sports
training because sports' training has some essential
features which are observed in all kinds of physical
culture and which are particularly more prominent in
competitive Sports training.
Some of the important features / characteristics
which are more common are as follows:-
1)Sports training aim is to achieve high performance
in a competition.
2)Sports training concerned with individual matter
3)Sports training is a planned and systematic.
4)Sports’ training is a scientific process.
5)In sports training coach has the dominating role
6)Optimum development of physical and
psychological level of sportsman.
7)Sports training control’s daily schedule of a
sportsman.
8)Sports training is a educational process
9)Sports’ training is a process of perfection.
10) Sports’ training is a process of development of
hidden talent.
1. Sports training aim is to achieve high
performance in a competition: -  The important feature
of sports training is to achieve the highest possible

7
performance in any of the sports competition and to
maintain it for a longer period of time. The great talent of
a sportsman can not longer afford to train to achieve high
level of performance in various sports competition. Sports'
training is not a simple play or recreational activity but it
is a serious activity which helps to attain high
performance in a competition.
2. Sports training concerned with individual
matter: -  Performance in any sports is the sum of various
factor which are differ from individual to individual. If we
take up the example of sprint event where as at high
level of International competition, there is slight difference
in cm / fraction of seconds which decides performance
record, victory or defeat. For that vary reason it is
necessary to identify the individual potentialities during
the training because one might having the good reaction
time whereas other may have good acceleration ability
and loco motor speed and so on. Therefore it is an urge /
need to emphasize on the individual matter during the
training.
3. Sports Training is Planned and Systematic: -  It
has been observed that sports training is planned in the
form of training plan / training cycle according to the
time and duration of the competition and as per the
requirement of particular sports / event. The sports
training is organised on the basis of logical facts which
are practically designed to improve in performance
systematically.
 4. Sports Training as a Scientific Process: - Now-
a-days this is the era of science and technology because
performance of human being are advancing due to the
science and modern technology. The performance in
sports is highly influenced by the scientific method of
equipments, facilities and modern theories of sports
training. So as to attain high level of performance in sports
competition it is necessary to incorporate the science in
the process of sports training.

Complete Guide to Sports Training 8
(5) In Sports Training Coach has Dominating Role:
- Sports training is planned, organised and evaluated by
the coach/trainer / PET who controls each and every
things of a sportsman. The coach is not only responsible
for the coaching of the sports person but his dominant
role should be understood in a broad sense. In addition
to his direct role with the young sports person in sports
training he should also have the close association with
scientist and other person who helps in uplifting the
performance of sportsman. The coach should stimulate
and encouraged not only to train well the sportsperson
but also to learn them all kinds of education. The
dominant role of the coach should not be considered as
treatment of the sportsman as children because the
highest performance in a competition is depend upon
the good imagination and successful participation in an
event.
(6) Optimum development of Physical and
Psychological level of Sportsman: -  To achieve the
optimum Physical and psychological development of a
sportsman maximum training load should be given but
increase in the load should be in a way so that the
sportsman adapt as per the requirements of a game/
sports. Adaptations of load by a sportsman always
improve the performance most effectively. Hence the
sports Training become an important part of the life of a
sportsman.
(7) Sports training controls daily schedule of a
sportsman:-  Sports training is not a fun and enjoyment
which can be treated as recreational activity .To continue
with a regular training with its best effect the sports
training become a tough task because the sports man
has to adjust his other activities as per the daily schedule
of a training so that training can run smoothly once/
twice a day. When we look into its vital feature of sports
training we always realize that sportsman must possess
high degree of discipline, sincerity and honesty as these

9
are the qualities of a champion sportsman’s.
 (8) Sports training is a educational process:- As it
is quite clear that Sports Training is a educational and
pedagogical process  which helps to develop the over all
personality of a sportsman without developing the
personality the higher performance is impossible or in
other words development of the sports personality is
directly proportional to the performance improvement of
the sportsman through Sports training.
(9) Sports Training is a process of Perfection:-  It is
well known fact that sports training is planned, systematic
and scientific process of preparation of sportsman for
higher performance. To achieve the aims of Sports training
various means and methods are applied. These means
and methods are flexible in nature which can be modified
improved and new methods are developed with the help
of various sports sciences. The process of observation,
conducting experiment, analyzing data and discovering
new thought is an important characteristic of sports
training in modern time. Hence the sports' training is a
continuous process of perfection and improvement of
sports performance.
(10) Sports Training is a Process of Development
of Hidden Talent:-  Sports training is a goal oriented
process by preparing a sportsman for the higher
performance as the need and requirement of the
competition. The regulation of training helps the coaches
to assess the performance of the player at any moment.
For effective regulation of training few points should be
kept in mind:
i-Training plan should include aim, sub aim, load,
means and methods.
ii-Training documents should be maintained.
iii-Information regarding level of competition and rate
of improvement.

Complete Guide to Sports Training 10
2
PRINCIPLES AND MEANS
OF SPORTS TRAINING
PRINCIPLES OF SPORTS TRAINING
1.Principle of Continuity of Training: -  The
principle of continuity of training state that training of
the sportsman should be continuous and regular process.
It is the establish fact that regular Training of a sportsman
always leads to the better result. Hence too long break /
interval in the training should be avoided. To ensure this
principle of training following points should be taken into
an account.
I.Sportsman should be educated regarding the
importance of continuity by highlighting the positive and
negative effect of training.
II.The knowledge of the sportsman should be
extended by convincing them that all the performance
factors are developed through the long process of training.
III.Condition of optimum load should be created
because too long and too short volume of regular training
does not effect positively on the performance.
IV.In case of sick injured person the physician should
always be consulted because in case of injury some part
of the body can be given exercise or low intensity training
load may be given.
2.Principle of Increasing of Training Load:- This
principle of training load derived from the well established
fact which exhibit the clear cut relationship between the
load and adaptation process. In this principle coach or
physical Education teacher must continuously plan for
new and higher demand among the sportsperson so that
training load can be increase to get the maximum possible

11
benefit of the sports training. Generally two methods:
linear and step methods are used to increase the load
but in special situation combination of both linear and
step method may also be used to progress the load during
training.
3.Principle of Individual Matter: -  It is established
facts that two like are not alike. In sports training all the
sportsman taking part in the training are differ in the
training age, health condition, individual capacity to bear
load, recovery pace, body constitutions and so many other
factors. Keeping all these factors in mind training must
be formulated as per the need of an individual
consideration.
4.Principle of Active Participation: -  It is the fact
principle of psychology that you can bring the horse into
the water but you can not compel the horse to drink water.
On the basis of similar principle a player who is passively
engage in training does not analyze and evaluate
thoroughly always remain looser because such prayer
totally depend upon the coach who never develop
confidence and does not improve the capacity to improve
the performance. Therefore the coach must educate their
player to activity and consciously participate in sports
activity during training.
5.Principle of Planned & Systematic Training: -
It is the establish fact that sports training is a scientific
and pedagogical process. Therefore to achieve the high
level of sports performance in a competition, the training
must be plan in a proper system. These two principles
are interrelated with each other because a correct
planning is only made if we know the proper system of
Sports training. In other word training is the goal oriented
process hence training should be arrange in such a way
so that the main aim of sports Training is achieved and
performance can be improve and maintain for the long
period of time. The important aspect of systematic training
refers to the correct and sequential arrangements of all

Complete Guide to Sports Training 12
training components. This will not only improve the
performance but also stabilize the previous performance
and create the base for future performance.
For the proper planning and systematic training
following points should be kept in mind for the sequential
arrangements
I.General preparation
II.Specific preparation
III.Effective competitive exercises
IV.Tactical training
V.Technical training
6. Principle of General and Specific Training:-
General and specific training of a sportsman is equally
important because general training create the base and
specific training help to improve the performance. As we
all know that better is the base, the better will be the
performance. General and specific training can not be
separated but it is always advisable that both general
and specific training should be given to a sportsman.
7.Principle of Competitive & Specialised
Training: -  The specialised training refers to the use of
specific means and methods for the improvement of
particular sports performance in a competition. It is
scientific fact that specialize training with the help of
specific means and methods lead to better performance
but in true sense when the training starts in the childhood
and continue up to the age of 25 years or even more then
the specialised training does not effect much towards
positive side but some time it also effect the negatively
because of the following.
I.Specialised training is not suitable for children.
II.High performance is achieved early and it is
difficult to maintain for long time.
III.High performance is achieved before the start of
high performance age.
IV.High performance depend upon the total

13
personality of sportsman specialised training always leads
to the improvement of selected systems & organs of the
body which some time result the inadequate of other
systems.
8.Principle of Clarity:-  To provide the maximum
possible benefit of sports training to a sportsman for the
effective training the clear picture of technique and tactics
and other aspects of performance enhancement should
be given.
  For the implementation of this fact following points
should be kept in mind:
(i) Language must be clear & correct.
(ii) Teaching aids like black board, photo, illustration,
video film graph, etc should be used.
(iii) Various sense organs should be stressed e.g.
(drum beating)
(iv) Constantly informed the quality of movement.
(v) Information should be given as per age, sex and
experience.
9.Principle of Cyclicity: -  The training plan is
formulated as per the availability of time for training. The
training can be plan in three different forms of cycles:
I.Macro Cycle: duration 3 - 12 months.
II.Meso cycle   : duration 3 - 6 week or it is called as
monthly cycle.
III.Micro cycle: duration 5 - 10 days also called as
weekly plan.
10. Principle of Ensuring Results: -  The main aim
of sports training is to achieve the highest possible
performance in a competition. In this regard training
should be formulated in such a way so that ultimate aim
of sport s training is ensured by attaining the result in a
competition.
11. Principle of Critical Training Load:-  To meet

Complete Guide to Sports Training 14
the higher demand of competition in unforeseen situation
the training load should be administered more then the
general load. This administered of critical load should b
e given 4-5 times in a year.
12. Principle of Adaptability:-  For the effective use
of training the adaptation process should take place. To
ensure the adaptability the training load should be
followed by a measured period of the recovery. The
optimum adaptation is possible when there is proper
proportion between the load and recovery.
13. Principle of Uniformity & Differentiation:- To
achieve the best possible result the training should be
formulated uniformly but allowing the individual
difference. The uniformly also mean the similar principle
of training like time and duration of the activity. Similarly
the load may vary as per the capacity of an individual.
14. Principle of Awareness:-  The sportsman should
educate in such a way so that they can aware about the
importance of training and competition demand from time
to time. The sportsman should also aware by creativity
so that they can actively participate in the training.
15. Principle of Visual Presentation:-  Visual
presentation in the training mean that one should present
the total task in brief so that every player become familiar
/ aware about the demand made on them. In this principle
of sports training. Sportsmen are taught to observe/watch
carefully so that they can make maximum use of their
sense organs. The main aim of visual presentation/
demonstration to improve the observation power of the
sportsman which helps in skill learning.
Following points are to be considered in visual
presentation:
i.Correct mental picture of movement sequence is
to be given.
ii.Information should be provided through visual
aids.

15
iii.Different kinds of aids should be used.
iv.Selection of aids should be done on the basis of
functions, aims and features of training task.
v. Visual aids may also be used for teaching purpose.
16.   Principle of Feasibility:-  This principle is based
on the fact that man develops from being active and that
development is released by performance. According to
this principle training of the sportsman should be done
in optimum form so that maximum benefit of training
can be taken. Too little and too much training should be
avoided.
For the effective use of this principle following points
should be kept in mind:
i- Observe the needs of sportsman.
ii- Create the demand among sportsman individually
and develop the bearing capacity.
iii-Consider the age and sex of sports man.
17. Principle of Regulation of Training:-  Sports
training is a goal oriented process by preparing sportsman
for the higher performance as per the need and
requirement of the competition. The regulatory process
of training helps the coaches to assess the performance
of the player at any moment. For effective regulation of
training few points should be kept in mind:
i. Training plan should include aim, sub aim, load,
means and methods etc.
ii. Training document should maintain.
iii. Information regarding level of competition and rate
of improvement.
TRAINING MEANS
The main aim of training is to achieve the high sports
performance, this high sports performance can only be
achieve if the training is done in the scientific and
systematic manner. During sports training any object,

Complete Guide to Sports Training 16
method or procedure which helps to improve and
maintain the performance is called as training means.
Similarly any material or immaterial object which helps
to achieve the objectives of the sports training is also
called as training means. There are various means and
methods of training but for better understanding of
students/sportsman, teacher/coaches and scientists the
training means are classified into two main parts:-
1. PRINCIPAL MEANS:-  Training means are the
important means among all the means for the
improvement, maintenance and faster recovery. During
sports training the training session should begin carefully
so that all the factors of training can be arrange in a
systematic and scientific manner. This act of training will
helps to ensure the best possible performance.
•Warming Up: -  For the effective training warming
up is the important aspect which not only raises
the temperature of the muscle but also minimizes
the possibility of the injury.
•Arrangement of Exercises: -  The proper sequential
arrangement of the physical exercises is the first
and foremost principle which helps to attain the
highest performance and quick recovery from
fatigue after training.
Exercises are generally classified into three main
parts:-
I-Gen exercises: -  These types of exercises are taken
from other sports in general which do not have any
relationship with the movement of any kind of competitive
sports. Generally these exercise helps in all kind of sports
movement which are not performed with the help of any
kind of element or apparatus.
II- Specific exercises:-  Specific exercises are of two
types I type of exercises are related to the sequence of
movement of competitive exercise but this type of
exercises deviate from the characteristics of training load.

17
To improve the performance load should be repeated more
than the demand. II types of exercises are partial related
to the sequence of movements, but they are specifically
concerned with the particular event or an individual.
These exercises also activated the various muscle in the
same manner as desired for particular competitive event.
III-Competitive exercises:-  Competitive exercises
may be define as the form of movement which are in the
sequence of movements and its typical features,
corresponds broadly with the demand of specific
competitive event.
•Limbering down exercises: -  Each training session
should be followed by limbering down / cool down
exercises should be done for 10 - 15 minutes.
-Low pace exercises: -  First of all low pace/
low intensity exercises should be done
continuously so as to bring the organism/body
to the normal functioning.
- Flexibility & Stretching exercises: -  Low pace
exercise should be followed by the flexibility &
stretching exercise which not only reduce the
possibility of fatigue but also helps to remove
the metabolic products from the blood cells.
 2. ADDITIONAL MEANS
i.Educational means:  During training session the
task is to be demonstrate, explain, observe, verbal
discussion and some sort of lecture may be delivered.
These means will helps the player to gain knowledge about
the task, make the movement concept clear this act will
not only develop the mental abilities but also motivate
the sportsman by creating interest for active participation.
ii.Health & Nutritional means :  During and after
the training for the improvement and maintenance of
health and fitness proper balance diet is to be taken,
during training liquid diet rich in minerals and after
training session carbohydrate rich diet should be provided
to the sportsman.

Complete Guide to Sports Training 18
iii. Physiotherapeutic means: Physio-therapeutic
means in the form of massage, ultrasound, sauna bath,
cryotherapy and electrotherapy may be used so as to
relaxation of body, prevention and rehabilitation of
injuries and quick recovery from fatigue.
iv. Psychological means:  In training of a sportsman
psychology plays an important role in the enhancement
of sports performance. Physiological research indicates
that the nervous system is responsible for the recovery
process and this nervous system is control and regulated
by so many psychological factors. Keeping in view the
fact psychological means like mental training, autogenic
training, auto suggestion, ideo motor training and psycho
tonic training means  may be used so as to remove the
fear, relaxation, develop the confidence and psychological
preparation of the athlete/ sportsman.
v.Biomechanical means:  There are various
biomechanical means in the literature but
cinematography is an important mean which not only
helps in the assessment of technical training but also
provide the feedback regarding the other biomechanical
aspect of training.
vi.Natural means:  In the training of a sportsman
the natural means like weather condition, light, air, water
and altitude indirectly affect the performance of the
sportsman. Keeping in view the venue of the competition,
day and time of the competitive event training of the
athlete may be done under the ideal natural condition so
that the sportsman get familiar with all possible
circumstances.
vii. Material object means:  In sports training
material object means like training equipment, apparatus
and audiovisual aids may be used as important means
so that movement concept become clear, provide feedback
to the sportsman and helps to motivate the sportsman to
improve their technical and tactical efficiency.

19
3
TRANSFER THE TRAINING
In the field of learning, transfer of training is a topic
or area having a wide range. This concept is very
important or significant in the field of physical education.
A player can learn new skill with greater ease and less
difficulty if learning from any previously learned skill is
being transferred to the new learning process. With this,
learning experience of one gets consolidated.
CONCEPT OF TRANSFER OF TRAINING
In the field of education, concept of transfer of training
is not a new one. It is being used in all kinds of learning
and it plays important role in different learning processes
as it always takes place within the context of what is
learned previously. What is being learned at one stage
facilitate progress at the next stage. It is through the result
of transfer that familiar learning curve takes place.
Learning received in one situation influences the
learning acquired in another situation because learning
acquired in one situation gets being transferred to the
other situation. When the training conditions of two tasks
are highly similar, the degree of transfer is greater.  Some
skills are familiar to each other, because of which they
should be taught if not simultaneously, but just after
each-other. When learning got during one stage is being
transferred to the learning being taking place on  next
stage, it is known as the transfer of training. The basic
principle on which the process of transfer of training is
based is that skill learned in one situation can be used
or utilised in another situation.
There is hardly any skill in which no experience from
past learning is being used. The process of transfer is
being affected by the amount of practice on the original

Complete Guide to Sports Training 20
activity. Under this process, what is learnt with respect
of one task is being transferred to the learning of another
task, which is being learnt in the future. If during the
early part of a series of related tasks, greater effort is
being extended, then the transfer will take place in large
amount. Acquisition of the subsequent skill will be
affected to a lot of extent by the knowledge and
understanding of the fundamental principles of previous
skill. There are some principles which are common to
both the skills, i.e., that is learnt earlier and which is
being learnt in the future, and one should understand
the common principles, which will help in transferring
the training or knowledge of one skill to another properly.
Coach or teacher should teach the skills having some
common features in such a sequence that players can
retain some points of skill from which training is to be
transferred.
If the direct practice is readily available, one should
not rely on the transfer of training. Process of transfer of
training should be used at the next level properly if direct
practice is not possible. Where learning a large number
of practical situations require a lot of material or time,
the transfer of training is of great help and benefit.
Thus, transfer of training is a very systematic process
which should be done with utmost cautious and care.
Teacher should have knowledge of how to manage this
process.
Defining the Concept of Transfer of Training
Various experts have defined the concept of transfer
of training in various ways, some of which are as follows:—
In the words of McGeogh and Irion this process takes
place whenever the existence of a previously established
habit influence the performance of another habit.
According to Cratty, the effect which is being produced
with the practice of one task upon the performance of
another task is known as transfer of training.

21
Crow and Crow has defined the concept of transfer of
training as carry-over of habits of thinking, feeling or
working from one learning area to another.
KINDS OF TRANSFER OF TRAINING
There are no certainty of the fact that transfer of
training will take place in all the training programmes.
When and how this process will take place, it is also even
not certain. There are three categories into which transfer
of training can be classified, which are discussed as
follows :—
a. Positive Transfer of Training :  In this kind of
transfer of training, the learning of a previous skill helps
in acquiring the other skill. Thus, benefits of earlier
learning can be utilised on the acquisition of other skills.
This kind of transfer take place on in those situations in
which there are some common features of characteristics
in two skills. How much similarity is being found is the
factor which determines the quantity in which transfer
will take place. For this, it is necessary that the player
should keep in his mind the main points of the previously
learned skill.
b. Negative Transfer of Training :  If the acquisition
of particular skill interferes with the learning of
subsequent skill, it is known as negative transfer of
training. This kind of situation takes place when learner
is to make a new response to an old stimulus. Thus, if
the previously acquired skill hamper the process of
acquisition of new skill, it is known as the negative transfer
of training.
c. Zero or No Transfer of Training : As the name
suggests, in this kind of process, no part of previously
learned skill is being get transferred to the process of
learning the new skill. Thus, there will be neither positive
transfer nor the negative one. This kind of situation takes
place when the skills are totally un-related to each other.
Thus, we can say that generally in the learning

Complete Guide to Sports Training 22
process, transfer of training takes place in some extent.
Sometimes, it can be positive, sometimes, negative and
sometimes zero transfer.
VARIOUS FACTORS AFFECTING TRANSFER OF
TRAINING
There are various factors which affect the process of
transfer of training, some of which are as follows :—
i. If there are any kind of similarities between the
skills taught and which are going to be taught, transfer
of training can take place. Thus, it is the nature or the
kind of skill which plays an important role in determining
the fact that whether the process of transfer of training
will take place or not.
ii. Students can differentiate between the fundamental
elements if they are being labelled by the teacher as they
can remain stick to the mind of the players or the students
for a longer period of time. With this mental activity,
analytical capacity of the students and their power to
concentrate will increase considerably.
iii. Process of transfer of training will be determined
by the fact whether the students to whom skills are being
taught are capable of keeping the things stored in their
mind or not. In other words, it is the intelligence level of
the students which play an important role in determining
the extent to which transfer of training can take place.
Only those students can perform this function who have
the ability to keep in their mind all the skills taught earlier.
Intelligent students, who possess this quality can easily
formulate generate principles which help them in
performing this process.
iv. Process of transfer is being affected to a lot of extent
by the mental set-up, ideals and the purposes of the
students or players. More transfer will take place only in
that situation if a player learns or practice a skill with a
great interest and enthusiasm. If player does not have
any interest in practising the skill, this process will not

23
take place successfully.
DIFFERENT THEORIES OF TRANSFER OF TRAINING
Various studies have been conducted to find out the
mechanism or the means through which process of
transfer of training takes place. To explain its mechanism,
various theories have been put forward by the experts,
some of which are as follows :—
a. According to Thorndike and some other experts,
transfer of training takes place when some kind of
similarities are being found in the skills. If the
fundamental objective of various activity is same, one
can think of transfer of training. When the conditions or
the requirements are almost identical, this process can
take place.
Transfer of training has an important place in the
field of physical education. Experts have suggested to
establish the specific habits and training in particular
skills which are useful in carrying out desirable behaviour.
Thus, this theory suggests that transfer of training takes
place when the some tendencies or the behaviour units
are identical or common to earlier taught skill and the
skill to be taught.
b. Some experts have propounded the theory of formal
mental discipline. This doctrine is based on the idea that
there are certain mental activities which exercises the
mind and as a result of these exercises, general mental
agility produces. For producing maximum amount of
exercise, difficult exercises should be undertaken.
However, this theory or the view is not supported by the
experts of modern times.
c. W.C. Baglay provided the theory of ideals, in which
he stated that transfer of training takes place in form of
ideals. If the conclusions are being drawn from previous
experience are imbibed as ideals of some importance,
they can be transferred to the other situations as well. In
the field of sports and games, when a player learns to
obey different rules, he imbibes the importance of fair

Complete Guide to Sports Training 24
play and sportsmanship, and he apply these qualities on
the playing ground and also in his general life.
d. Charles H. Judd has propounded the theory of
generalisation according to which, when an individual
learn something, he tend to make certain conclusions or
generalisations. In the subsequent situations, these
generalisations affect the process to some extent. It is
the on the child’s individual discovery of the solution that
the transfer of training depends. Teacher should
encourage the players to make generalisation from the
teaching on their own. It is by the generalisation that
students can solve various kinds of problems.
e. According to theory of faculty, human mind is
comprised of various faculties which are independent in
nature. Each faculty consists of various activities within
it. It is only within a particular faculty that the transfer of
training can take place. However, later it was said by the
experts that transfer of training cannot take place in the
absence of common faculty.
f. Spearman put forth the theory of two factor, in
which he stated that all the human beings consist of
certain qualities, some of which are general while some
are specific in nature. General abilities were termed by
him as g-factor, while specific abilities as s-factor. In the
activities of general nature transfer of training can take
place to more extent, while rate of this process in the
case of s-factor is less, the reason being that g-factor are
common among various activities while s-factors are
specific to certain activities only.
Thus, experts have tried a lot to find out the
mechanism which facilitate the transfer of training. All
the theories are complementary to each other and not
contrary. No teacher should try to make this process
applicable forcefully in the training programme. Only that
part of the skill should be transferred which can actually
be transferred, otherwise, objectives of the training cannot
be obtained successfully.

25
4
TRAINING PLANNING
MEANING
In sports attainment of the high performance is largely
depend upon the systematic and scientific approach of
training therefore planning finds its important place in
sports training. Before organising any activity one has to
plan well in advance. The process of sports training helps
to develop personality and performance of a sportsman.
Planning ensure  development in the sports performance
therefore it continues for so many years, months, days
and even training session too. Planning of any event
largely depend upon the nature of the competition in
which sportsman has to participate.
Definition:- Planning is an important method to
ensure continuous development of personality and sports
performance which enable the sportsman to achieve best
performance in the training age of high performance.
Principles of Planning:-  Planning is the complex
scientific process. The effect of the planning depends upon
the so many factors.  The principles of planning are
discussed in detail for the better understanding of coach,
trainer and physical education teacher.
1. Planning should be based on the progressed sports
performance:- Basically training is planned in such a way
so that best performance can be achieved in future. In
other words all kinds of training plan directly or indirectly
based on the structure of future performance.
2. Planning should be aimed at personality &
performance development: - Training is an educational
process as it aims at personality and performance
development of the sportsman. So it is essential to plan

Complete Guide to Sports Training 26
because without the required attitude, interest, mental
capabilities, personality traits, proper habits etc.
sportsman cannot be trained effectively for a long period.
3. Planning should be based on the scientific
knowledge & experience: -  Training is highly scientific
procedure as it is a competition oriented process. The
scientific method helps the sportsman in much quicker
and effective improvement.
For the qualitative and quantitative improvement
coach should know the means and methods which are
used by the successful sportsman and latest knowledge
about the following:
i-   Training methodology
ii-  Growth and development
iii-  Principles and laws of systematic development
4. Planning must ensure harmony among various
training plans :-  In specific training various types of plans
are needed for e.g. Short term & long term plan, individual
& group plan. The aim of this plan is in harmony with
each other. The short term & long term plan must fit into
the long term plan. Individual & groups plans must
supplement each other to ensure proper development of
an individual & a group.
5. Planning is a continuous process: - Planning is
not static it is dynamic process. It can be modified
according to the effects & changes in the personality &
performance caused by training & other factor. Time to
time the planning process may be evaluated.
6. Planning should be based on factors determining
performance: -  The aim & content of planning must be
determined after a careful observation. Plan must include
all the factor i.e. time, status, diet, family routine etc.
During plan all important factors which have a direct or
indirect effect should be carefully considered.
7. Planning must be pragmatic & concrete: -  It

27
should be based on verifying fact, scientific knowledge &
should not take the form of wild imagination. Whatever
is planned must be based on the load tolerance ability
otherwise it leads to accumulation of fatigue and
overloads.
TYPES OF TRAINING PLANS
Training plan can be classified according to the
duration and according to the number of person involved
in the training.
According to the duration the training plan of following
types:
(i)   Training conception
2.  Yearly plan
3.  Meso-cycle plan
4.  Micro - cycle plan
5.  Training session plan
(i)Training Conception:  As it is clear by the name
it self in real sense it is not a plan but a concept for
planning and carrying out of training process for a long
period. It involves principles and fundamental rules for
the formulation of training.
/head2right Training plan normally prepared by concerned
federation
/head2right It is prepared for different level and class of
sportsmen.
/head2right It is prepared on the basis of analysis
/head2right It is also prepared on the basis of international
trend.
/head2right It form the basis of all kinds of training plans which
can be further classified into three:
•Training conception for complete duration.
•Training conception for different stages.
•Training conception for a training cycle longer than

Complete Guide to Sports Training 28
a year i.e. Olympic plan.
(ii)Yearly Plan:   These plans  are made for the
effective formulation and proper implementation of
training for the period of one year. The yearly plan is a
kind of document in which training details are laid down
clearly and precisely.
The yearly training document generally contains the
following:
/head2right Time available for training.
/head2right Level of sportsmen.
/head2right Analysis of present state of sportsmen.
/head2right Goal and Sub goal.
/head2right Performance factor to be achieved.
/head2right Information about the training contents.
/head2right Sequence of training.
/head2right Arrangement of Meso cycles.
/head2right Date of competition.
/head2right Other relevant information.
(iii) Meso-cycle plan:  These plans are  perhaps the
important plan because in these plans are formulated
for the sufficient duration i.e. 3-6 week duration, hence
it helps to check the adaptation process caused by
training. Meso plan is the important tool for the control
and regulation of sports training. Each Meso cycle has
its set aims and objectives which are to be achieved by
proper formulation and arrangement of micro cycles.
These plans are more specific and detailed in comparison
to yearly plan. Meso plan is also called as operative plan.
After each Meso cycle some sort of test or competition
are to be conducted so as to check whether the desire
objectives have been achieved or not. If the aims and
objectives are not achieved then the training plan for
subsequent Meso cycle has to be changed or readjusted.
(iv) Micro - cycle plan:  Micro cycle is the short term

29
plan which form the basis for Meso cycle. Due to short
duration of micro cycle desired objectives can be achieved
by systematic arranging the load of a sportsman in
number of micro cycles and as a result of which
adaptation can be achieved in Meso cycle.
In micro cycle plan number of training session are
planed with contents in detail. On the basis of this training
is carried out in each training session. The planning of
micro cycle depends upon several factors such as training
state, Meso cycle, nature of sports etc.
In planning for micro cycle normally following rules
are followed:
1.  The degree of load should vary within the micro
cycle.
2. The aim and contents of load should vary within
the micro cycle but it should ensure optimum load for
the development of one or two factors.
3. The aim contents and load in a micro cycle must
correspond to the aims and contents of Meso cycle in
which it falls.
4.  In micro cycle having very high load should provide
one or two training sessions for active recovery.
5.  In competition period the micro cycle are generally
formulated in such a manner that there is no carry over
of fatigue from one micro cycle to the next micro cycle.
6. The micro cycle immediately before start of
important competition should be formulated in such a
manner that the sportsman is able to participate in the
competition in a state of super compensation.
(v)Training session plan:  Training session plan is
the basic unit of training process. The actual process of
training is realized in a training session. Keeping in mind
the importance of training session it will be discussed
separately.

Complete Guide to Sports Training 30
Training plan is also divided into individual and group
plan:
* Individual Plan:-  Individual plan are more common
in individual sports. These plans are necessary to ensure
optimum development of sportsman as in individual plan
the individual factors form the basis of planning.
* Group Plan:- The group plan are most often used
in team games. In the initial stage of training group
training plans are generally used to ensure uniform type
of training facilitating training of large number of
sportsman.

31
5
TRAINING LOAD AND
ADAPTATION PROCESS
TRAINING LOAD
In sports training load is a central concern / phase
through which performance of a sportsman is improved.
Every sports training consist of physical exercises /
movements which causes fatigue. Fatigue is directly a
product of training load which helps in the process of
adaptation. Therefore training load and fatigue are
important for any kind of sports performance.
If load remain constant then there will be stagnation
in the performance. Training load helps to stimulate the
various organs of a body which helps to adapt these by
giving proper shape to the body parts so that the
maximum possible work can be done in a minimum effort.
If we seriously look into the matter the word load has
not been properly define in the sports sciences. The
concept of the term load has been borrowed / derived on
the basis of stress in the medical science. It is again
question of discussion whether the load is equal to the
stress or not, It is quite clear that load is always good for
the health whereas stress has its negative effect on the
body.
DEFINITIONS OF LOAD
1.  Amount of work done by an individual body is
called as load.
2. Load is the psychological and physiological demand
put on the organism through motor stimuli resulting in
improvement and maintenance of higher performance
capacity.
* What is Demand: In sports training and competition
demand may be represent as the act of doing physical
exercise / movement. The amount of work required for

Complete Guide to Sports Training 32
these demands is the product of load factor or components
such as quality of movements, types of exercise, load
volume and load intensity.
TYPES OF LOAD
As per the demand of training and  competition and
as a result of it the rate at which disturbance take place
in physiological functions of the body, the load is mainly
divided into two parts:
1. External load
2. Internal load.
FACTORS OF TRAINING LOAD
Load factors also called as features of load or in
other words the component of load which all together
are included in training load are called as factors of
load. The important factors of load are:
I.Movement Quality:-The quality of movement is the
subjective factor which cannot be measure
properly and precisely. When the correct
movements are performed by a sportsman it
directly affects the training load. For any kind of
technical and tactical process of perfection
movement quality become important aspect of
training load. By increasing the degree of difficulty
of movement training load may be increase
gradually.
II.Types of Exercise:-Each and every training load
consists of physical exercises/ movements. These
exercises have different effect on the performance
of an individual as per the nature and demand
required by a particular game/ sport. According
to the effect, the exercises are classified into three
parts :
(i)General exercises
(ii)Specific exercises
(iii)Competitive exercises
These exercises are important means of the

33
training. Every exercise depends upon the body
part which involve in a particular movement.
Similarly the type of coordination required and the
way in which load is given so that it may have
different effect on the performance ability of a
sportsman.
III.Load Intensity: - The intensity is represented in
degree or rate at which work is done in relation to
the time. Load intensity is further divided into two
parts:
A. Intensity of Stimulus- intensity of stimulus
refers to the pace of doing work or pace of doing
one single movement.
For example: Speed of 100 meter sprint in mt./
sec.
B. Density of Stimulus- Density of the stimulus
may be define as the ratio between  the load and
recovery or it may be understood as the pause /
rest between the two  motor  movement or set of
movement.
For example: Rest period between the two sprint
of 100 meter.
IV.Load Volume: - The load volume may be defined
as total work done in one training session. The
load volume is also divided into two parts :
A. Duration of Stimulus- It may be expressed in time/
distance in a single stimulus and set of stimuli.
For example: total time take in 100 mt. sprint/
distance of one repetition.
B. Frequency of Stimulus- frequency of stimulus may
be define as the number of repetitions in one set of
exercises.
For example: In practice of 100 meter sprint 10 times
in which 10 will be the frequency of stimulus / movement.
PRINCIPLES OF TRAINING LOAD
1. Principle of continuity and long term:  The load

Complete Guide to Sports Training 34
should be continuously means there should not be any
break in the training. The load given to a sportsman
should be followed for a long period of time which keeps
the body to maximum adaptation.
2. Principle of progression of load:  Same kind of
load for a long period does not effect much hence the
progression of load is necessary load may be progress in
linear / step form method.
Frequency
Ist  improve volume
Duration
Density
IIndIntensity
Intensity
proper
3. Principle of Variation increase load
-Linear increase of load may be assess/ measure in
every training session which is applicable to beginners.
-Step method is maintain for long period after proper
adaptation process it increased further which is applicable
to advance athlete/ sportsman.
4. Principle of load and adaptation:  Load should
be increase after attainment of phase of super
compensation.
5. Load should be optimum as per the individual
capacity:  optimum load should be given as per the
individual capacity of a sportsman.
6. Proper and sufficient rest between two training
session:  Proper proportion between load and recovery
should be maintain so as to get the maximum benefit of
adaptation process.
7. Principle of general and specific load:  Among

35
beginners one kind of load improves so many factors
where as in case of advance athlete same kind of load
develops only one factor. Hence specific load should be
given to improve the performance of desired event. For e.
g. 100 mt. sprint.
8. Principle of proper ratio between intensity and
volume: If intensity is high volume should be low and
vice versa.
9. Load should be administered by training cycles:
The administration of load should be done according to
the training cycles so as to get the maximum benefit of
adaptation in main competition.
JUDGEMENT OF TRAINING LOAD
(Objective and Subjective Means)
Training is the indispensable means of performance
improvement. The quantum of load has to be optimum
to get the best possible results therefore the training
should be plan regulated and evaluated from time to time.
This is possible only when we can measure the load.
Unfortunately there is no such precise/accurate/ reliable
method to measure the load.
The administration of training load is also vary from
according to the training age of a sportsman. In this regard
for beginners training load may be given once in a day
where as in case of advance players load should be given
twice a day.
However with the help of psychological and medical
science some objective and subjective means have been
derived which are commonly used by the coaches and
training expert for judging the training load.
1.Objective Means:  In this method generally we
assess the physiological and biochemical changes during
the training and just after the training session. To judge
the training load of a sportsman following objective means
may be used:
i. Heart rate

Complete Guide to Sports Training 36
ii. Body weight
iii. Intensity of load
iv. Volume of load
v. Oxygen consumption
vi. Lactic acid concentration
vii. Blood urea concentration
viii. Other biochemical changes in the body
2. Subjective Means:   The subjective means to judge
the training load need to have specific equipment and
expert in the field. This is not easy but cost by too. Hence
the coach and expert largely depend upon the subjective
method to assess the training load. In this method the
judgment of training load is done by assessing/judging
the external symptoms of a sportsman. In this method to
assess the training load one should be well aware of the
following factors:-
i. Behaviour of a player
ii. Face reading of sportsman
iii. Movement of a player
iv. Colour of the skin
v. Increase quantity of sweat
vi. Error committed by a player in performing
technique
vii. Increase respiratory rate
viii. Feeling pain in the muscle
ix. Features of face
x. By seeing the performance action
xi. Body movement
xii. General experience of coach
MEANING OF OVER LOAD
During training of a sportsman load is given to the
players as per their capacity when ever this load goes
beyond the capacity of an individual the physiological
and psychological function of the sportsman get disturb.
This load does not effect immediate if the administration
of the overload continue for a longer period it leads/causes

37
decrease in the performance capacity of an individual.
In general all the physical activity are performed by
the muscular system as per the metabolic efficiency of
the body. This muscular system and metabolic system
largely depend or control by the nervous system of the
body. When the nervous system disturb the whole system
of the body get disturb which also causes the decrease in
capacity to perform any physical task.
It happen in the past that over load adversely effect
the achievement of the training but in modern trend
sports scientist are in the opinion that over load occur
due to the so many reason. If symptoms of the over load
are diagnose and causes are identified then the over load
may be avoided or it may be completely eliminated from
the training of a sportsman.
CAUSES OF OVER LOAD
Over load occurs due to the so many reasons but
some of the important causes of overload are as follows:-
1. Improper use of training method:- During training
of a sportsman if the training method is not used properly
or there is error or fault in the training method it may
lead to an over load. It may be understood in the following
ways:
i.Immediate increase of training load does nod lead
to any adaptation which causes over load.
ii.If the recovery is ignored in relation to training
load it may cause over load.
iii.If proper proportion between intensity & volume
is not maintained then it may lead to over load.
iv.High intensity in endurance event training may
cause over load.
v.High volume in sprinting event will also lead to
over load.
vi.Participation in too many competitions may also
cause over load.
vii. Ignorance of other training means may also cause

Complete Guide to Sports Training 38
over load.
2. Life Style of a Player: For any kind of high class
performance high degree of discipline is expected by the
sportsman failing which condition of over load may occurs.
Following points in relation to life style of a sportsman
may be understood as the causes of over load:
i.Improper rest or sleep may cause overload.
ii.Not taking meal in the time may also cause
overload.
iii.Use of alcohol, nicotine tobacco may also lead to
overload.
iv.Dirty dress, unhygienic living condition may also
cause overload.
v.Aggressive and derogative attitude may also cause
overload.
vi.Engagement in unwanted / dirty activities in free
time also causes over load.
3. Socio-Environmental Causes: Every individual or
sportsman lives in the society and he/she has to adjust
in the society according to the socio environmental
condition. When an individual engage in sports training
he may lead to over load because of the so many reasons-
i.Family tension
ii.Too much engagement in family work
iii.Lack of family support
iv.Lack of coordination with subordinates
v.Mental load due to the study
vi.Poor result of the examination
vii. Too much engagement in entertainment
viii. Negative attitude of society towards sports
4. Health Related Causes:  Health of an individual is
the main factor which contributes lot to the sports
performance. If any of the health factor lack during the
training it may cause over load:-
i. Cough and cold
ii. Any kind of fever

39
iii. Disturbance in digestive system
iv. Any kind of injury
v. Infection
SYMPTOMS OF OVER LOAD
The various symptoms to identify the over load may
be understood in the following ways:-
1. Changes in psychic behaviour of a sportsman
i. Over excited
ii. Doubt in mind
iii. Attitude towards criticism
iv. Loss faith in coach
v. Loss of motivation
vi. Loss of confidence
vii. Feeling of depression
viii. Depression
ix. Indifferent behaviour
x. Uneasiness
2. Performance Symptoms:
i. Decrease in coordinative efficiency
ii. Tension in movement pattern
iii. Poor movement flow
iv. Chances of injury
v. Concentration ability decreases
vi. Recovery period is delayed
vii. Competitive fear
viii. Loose temper immediately
ix. Forget team tactics and strategy
x. Chances of error increase
xi. Surrender in tough competition especially at the
end of event
xii. Decrease efficiency of readiness
3. Somatic functional symptoms
i. Loss of sleep.
ii. Loss of appetite.
iii. Decrease in body weight.
iv. Digestive system disturb.

Complete Guide to Sports Training 40
v. Vital capacity decreases.
vi. Recovery rate decrease.
vii. Chances of injury and infection.
TACKLING OF OVER LOAD
Tackling of over load is a serious problem especially
when the over load reaches to the advance stage it become
very difficult task to manage. During training coach is
the central concern hence he / she needs to work with a
team of sportsman, doctors, psychologis t even than if at
all it required he should take family members in
confidence. While organising the process of tackling the
over load following measures can be taken into an
account:-
1. Training Measures
i. Recognize the causes as earliest as possible
ii. Remove the causes of over load.
iii. Modify the training.
iv. If necessary re plan the training.
v. Avoid trials /competition.
vi. Complete rest is not advisable.
vii. Again start training when symptoms of over load
seems to decrease.
viii. Intensity of load should be increase first.
ix. Load volume should be increase carefully.
2. Nutritional Measures
i. To increase appetite foo d like milk vegetable and
fruits may be given.
ii. Decrease the quantity of protein in food.
iii. No tea, coffee and cigarettes should be provided
to the sportsman.
iv. Small quantity of light alcohol is advise after meal.
v. Heavy doses of vitamin A,B & C should be provided.
3. Physical Therapy
i. Sportsman should expose to open air swimming.

41
ii. Warm bath 15 - 20 minutes at 330c to 370c
temperature may be given.
iii. Cold and fresh water shower in the morning should
be followed by proper rubbing  massage by towels.
iv. Rhythmic exercises with the help of music may be
given.
v. Sona bath and steam bath should be avoided
completely. (Body loose lots of electrolytes)
4. Climate Therapy
i. Change in the environment
for e.g. Hill area to plan region.
ii. Light sun rays treatment is advise.
ADAPTATION PROCESS
Indeed the nature and process of adaptation which
include both physiological and psychological aspect of
training not yet derived completely. Whenever any
sportsman participates in sports training or competition
in which muscles of the body are made to contract through
exercise or movement as per the demand of the body in
relation to particular sports. This continuous act of
movement needs more energy which is produce by
carbohydrarate, protein and fat etc in the human body.
For the quick and immediate requirement of the energy
carbohydrarate is the main source of energy.
When movement / exercise continue for quite long
period there is decrease in the energy substance take
place. For the fulfillment of this energy requirement
metabolic process take place in the body as a result of
which some compound chemical produce out of which
one of the chemical compound is known as lactic acid.
As the physical exercises are performed comparatively
for more time the amount of lactic acid increase in the
muscle which causes fatigue in the body. If we are able
to provide a correct ratio of recovery during training which
helps to control the quantity of lactic acid in the muscle
and gradually one passes through the limit of fatigue. In
this context it may be understood that recovery is directly

Complete Guide to Sports Training 42
related with the result of fatigue.
LOAD AND ADAPTATION
During the sports training and competition the load
is given in the form of exercises or movements as per the
demand of the body in relation to the particular sports or
event. Therefore the process of demand create
disturbance in the Psycho-Physiological state of the
human body. To overcome this problem all the structural
and functional parts acts together to regain the normal
condition of the organism. When the process of loading
continue for a longer time specially in days then the
structural and metabolic changes take place in the human
body.
The continuous acts of exercises/ movements lead
to tolerate the more loads as a result of which adjusting
to the external conditions the performance capacity
increases. This way tackling of load is termed as
adaptation.
Adaptation:-  Adaptation may be define as the
adjustment of physical and psychological functional
systems accomplished under the influence of external
load, to a higher performance standard and the
adjustment to the specific external conditions.
The physical and psychological adaptation is the
similar process which brings about changes in the
functional, biomechanical and structural changes in the
human body.
LAWS / RULES / CONDITION OF ADAPTATION
There is direct relationship between the load and
adaptation. This relationship is governed by certain laws
which are called as laws of adaptation which are explained
as under:-
Optimum load leads to better adaptation- The load
should be given as per the capacity of in individual
because if the load is less adaptation will not start
similarly if the load is high recovery process is delayed.

43
1.Correct proportion between load and recovery-
Better adaptation always needs the maintenance of
correct proportion between load and recovery. There
should be proper rest between training sessions. Due to
hetrochronocity the various organs of the body recover
at different pace hence complete rest may be provide at
the end of a week.
2.Adaptation is faster in beginners in comparison
to trained sportsman -  for the better adaptation in case
of beginners the load should be given in linear form where
as for trained sportsman it should be given as per the
individual capacity.
3.Exposure to new and inhabitable exercises leads
to faster adaptation -  If a sportsman expose to new and
inhabitable specific exercises the adaptation process will
be faster among trained sportsman.
4.Specific load leads to specific development -
In case of trained sportsman load given in the specific
exercises suitable for the particular game leads to better
adaptation process.
For e.g. If we want to improve the speed of basketball
players, than the load should be given in the form of
specific exercises with the ball.
5.Correct proportion between load tolerance and
training load:-  It is true that if the correct proportion
between load tolerance and training load is maintained
then the performance will improve gradually which will
lead to better adaptation process.
6.Adaptation is not permanent through training
load:  There are various stages of the competition the
preparation for the competition through training load not
lead to stable adaptation if the training is stopped the
load will adapt at lower level if the training is continue
then the adaptation process will also improve.
7.For optimum adaptation maximum load is
essential:  Stable load does not lead to any improvement
in adaptation process therefore for the optimum level of

Complete Guide to Sports Training 44
adaptation 2 -3 times in a year the maximum load should
be given.
8.Adaptation is faster if perfect ratio between
intensity and volume is maintained:  For the faster
adaptation if the volume is high intensity should be low
similarly if the intensity is high volume should be low.
9.Continuity in training and load factor:   Once /
twice load given to a player does not lead to any kind of
adaptation process. Hence training should continue for
so many days and load should be given regularly as per
the capacity of the sportsman.
10. Adaptation leads in duration which is required
for the structure of training load:  The adaptation
process varies from time to time as per the requirement
and structure of training load.
11. Variation in training means quick phase of
super compensation:  It is very difficult to create the
phase of super compensation at the faster rate but
variation in training means create quick phase of super
compensation.
LOAD AND RECOVERY
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN LOAD AND RECOVERY
FACTORS AFFECTING RECOVERY
(i)Intensity of Load:  Sportsman recovers from
intensive load because high intensity causes faster fatigue
but after activity the recovery is also faster.
(ii)Volume of Load:  Sportsman recovers slow from
volume load. Because high volume causes slow fatigue
but after activity it also makes the recovery process
delayed.
(iii) Nature of Load:  After training load one need to
recover from fatigue. This recovery process is fulfilled by
production of energy through ATP-CP system and
depletion of glycogen. ATP system caused faster recovery
where as glycogen cause or take long time to recover.
(iv) Health:  Recovery process is control by central

45
nervous system which is influence by the hormonal
interaction. Hence the sound health is the prime
characteristics of faster recovery.
(v)Physical Fitness:  A physically fit person recovers
faster in comparison to sedentary person. Basic
endurance is important factor and specific endurance
may help in faster recovery.
(vi) Nutrition:  Balance diet containing all required
nutrients are important for faster recovery, after training
meal like carbohydrate sodium potassium and vitamins
taken into liquid form are good for quick recovery.
Similarly meal taken five times a day in fixed time and
good eating habits are considered to be ideal for faster
recovery.
(vii) Sleep:  7-8 hours of sound sleep is established
fact for recovery it not only recover physiologically but
psychological too.
(viii) Daily Routine:  Proper daily routine helps to
improve the recovery process. A set routine of a sportsman
in the form of circular bio rhythm, if the process is
disturbed than the recovery process is affected adversely.
(ix) Total Load:  The sum offload given in a day directly
influence the recovery process. If the lod is beyond the
capacity of a sportsman than the recovery process is
delayed.
(x)Age: Youngman recover faster in comparison to
older one.
(xi) Sex:  Recovery process is slower in female in
comparison to male.
(xii) Experience:  Experience people recover faster
and quicker due to the movement quality of a sportsman.
(xiii) Climatic Factors:  In colder places sportsman
recover faster in comparison to hot places.
MEANS OF FASTER RECOVERY
Training Methodological Means
(a)Macro Cycle: Generally this is the period which

Complete Guide to Sports Training 46
is decided into preparatory, competition and transitional
period. During the transitional period after the hard
preparatory and competition period, the exercises done
at low pace with medium volume are very much effective
for recovery process. In other way the correct formulation
of load dynamics in a macro cycle helps to prevent
accumulation of fatigue.
(b)Meso Cycle:  The Meso cycle have a normal
duration of 3-6 week after each Meso cycle a week time
is devoted for the recovery process. Again low training
load is helpful to achieve the faster recovery. In Meso
cycle the use of general exercises with proper adjustment
of load dynamics is also important for prevention and
accumulation of fatigue.
(c)Micro Cycle:  Since the duration of micro cycle is
very short i.e., about one week hence in this period the
recovery can be ensured by doing the following :
i.Training load should not remain constant
ii.There should be variation in Training i.e. strength
training.
iii.During this period one or two Training session of
about 60-90 min should be devoted for active recovery.
iv.At the end of micro cycle complete rest should be
given.
(d)Training Session
i.Warming - Up
ii.Sequence of exercises and task
iii.Rest Pauses
iv.Cool Down
Nutritional Means
(a)Sportsman is advised to take balance diet
(b)After Training session light digestive drinks
containing carbohydrates, minerals and vitamins are
suggested for faster recovery.
(c)Inculcate the good eating habits in fixed time.

47
Physiotherapeutic Means
(a)Physiotherapeutic means should be selected
carefully with the consultation of experts.
(b)Sona bath should not be used more than twice a
week
(c)Physiotherapeutic means should be used in
addition to the training means but these means should
not substitute the training means.
Psychological means
Psychological means are also helpful for accelerating
the recovery process. These means should not be used
during training or just after the competition but use of
psychological means between the training sessions or just
before the sleep are very much useful for sound sleep.

Complete Guide to Sports Training 48
6
TRAINING METHODS
DEFINITIONS OF TRAINING
According to Martin, “Sports training is a planed and
controlled process of achieving goals in which the changes
of motor performance and behaviour are made through
measures of content, methods and organizations.”
According to Mathew, “Sports training is the basic form
of preparation of sportsmen.”
According to Thiess and Schnabel, “Sports training is
scientifically based and pedagogically organised process
which through planned  and systematic, effect on
performance ability and performance readiness aims at
sports perfection and performance improvement as well
as at the contest in sports competitions."
According to Harre, “Sports training, based on scientific
knowledge, is a pedagogical process of sports perfection
which through systematic effect on psycho-physical
performance ability and performance readiness aims at
leading the sportsman to high and the highest
performance. Through active and conscious interaction
with the given demands in sports training, the
sportsman's personality develops according to the norms
and standards of socialist society.”
MEANING OF TRAINING METHODS
Training methods is highly a specialized field, which
aims for high performance level. Training to improve
fitness components and other required aspects. This
methodology cover wide area of physiological,
Psychological and social aspects, apart from these the
individual also, works on technique tactics, skill and
strategy of related activity. This is again applicable
differently to every individual, though can be designed
for groups also. In the field of sports and games keeping

49
individual differences in consideration is valuable, Every
method is known for its special component, therefore it
is required to know by a trainer that which athlete require
which component or quality more.
Training is well in advance organized programme with
an aim of optimum performance. Training is a basic
process of preparation for the highest level of performance,
this preparation can be for any kind of activity. It is
physiological, psychological, intellectual preparation of
an individual in a systematic instructional process to
assist the athlete for achieving highest possible
performance. Training is a systematic and scientifically
designed work out of physical exercises and mental
preparedness for the attainment of optimum level of
performance. Training is a process designed for the
development of various motor and psychological qualities
need specifically by individual who is under straining to
perform at best possible level in competition. Training is
a programme organized to achieve all needed aspects of
physical fitness, technical and tactical demands and
psychological preparedness, which increases the
capabilities of performer.
METHODS IN SPORTS TRAINING
Methods of training show the correct and different ways
to develop the fitness components. Each method aims to
develop one or the other component. The selection of
method depends upon period of training level of athlete,
age and sex of athlete etc and the selection of correct
method for needed type of training is very important.
Below some training methods are presented which aims
for the development of three basic components of physical
fitness and wellness i.e. STRENGTH, ENDURANCE AND
SPEED.
METHODS OF STRENGTH DEVELOPMENT
Three common effective methods of muscular strength
development are :-
(i) Isotonic Exercises

Complete Guide to Sports Training 50
(ii) Isometric Exercises
(iii) Isokinetic Exercises
(i) ISOTONIC
EXERCISES
'Iso' means 'same'
'Tonic' means
'tension'/'resistance'.
Isotonic exercises are
those contracting
exercises where the load
taken by related
muscles remains
constant throughout
the complete range of
joint. As movement of
muscles involved this
contraction is rhythmic
in nature. It is
characterized by
constant resistance on
muscles involved in
complete motion. In
Isotonic contraction
length of related
muscles keeps on changing with no variation in load.
Example Bicep curls with constant weight. It involves (i)
concentric and (ii) Eccentric contractions.
(i) Concentric contraction:  Any movement
characterized by shortening (Principle action of muscles)
of flexor muscle and lengthening of extensor muscle.
Concentric contraction is commonly known as Shortening
Contraction   ( the prime muscle actually shortens).
(ii) Eccentric contraction: Any movement
characterized by shortening of extensor muscle and
lengthening of flexor muscle.  Eccentric contraction is
commonly known as Lengthening Contraction.


51
ADVANTAGES OF ISOTONIC CONTRACTION
a) It involves basic movements (flexion and extension
etc) of joints,. Basic fundamental movements are easy to
perform.
b) Muscle endurance is the assistant component
developed.
c) Fast gain of muscle hypertrophy (increased
thickness).
d) Somebody weight can be used to perform exercises
(situps etc)
e) Helpful in development of some specific skills. Skills
which need fundamental movements of javelin throwing,
basketball shooting etc.
f) It is an effective method to develop dynamic strength.
DISADVANTAGES OF ISOTONIC CONTRACTION
a) Chances to have soft tissue injuries as it is dynamic
in nature.
b) For effective results, sometimes good equipments
are required.
c) These exercises can not be performed anywhere (eg
squat etc).
ii.  ISOMETRIC EXERCISES
'Iso' means 'same'
'Metric' means 'length'.
Isometric exercises are those
contracting exercises where the
length of related muscles
remains constant throughout
the workout.  It is characterized
by not any kind of change in the
length of muscle involved. As no
movement can be performed no
change in length of related
muscle this contraction is static
in nature. These exercises
involve the tension (tension is


Complete Guide to Sports Training 52
developed) but there cannot be any change in length of
related muscle holding weight in static position. Pushing
against any object without overcoming resistance are the
common examples of isometric exercises.
ADVANTAGES OF ISOMETRIC CONTRACTION
a) Essential activity of Rehabilitative programme. In
the recovery phase injured athlete goes for this type of
contraction. (Intensity of workout depends upon stage of
recovery)
b) Iso metric contraction can be performed without
any equipment. (Using body weight).
c) Isometric exercises can be performed anywhere.
d) As there is no rest phase in isometric contraction,
involved muscles working efficiency improves.
e) It is helpful in development of specific slalls, which
need static movements of - shooting, archery etc.
f) It is an effective method to develop static strength,
(Maximum strength).
g) Muscle endurance, is an assistant component
developed.
DISADVANTAGES OF ISOMETRIC
(i) Isometric exercises can not be the part of daily
training programme. It can cause lose of interest.
(ii) Quick release of tension may cause injuries.
(iii) During Isometric contraction blood pressure raises,
this may lead to serious consequences.
(iv) Athletes of major games do not prefer to put much
concentration on isometric exercises.
(III) ISOKINETIC EXERCISES:
'Iso' means 'same'
"Kinetic' means 'motion'. Isokinetic exercises are those
contractual exercises the tension in flexor throughout
the movement. Isokinetic exercises are characterized with
constant speed. In these exercises maximal contraction
occurs throughout the full range of motion. As Isokinetic
involves movement of joints, these are dynamic in nature

53
but require advanced and special machines/equipments
(eg multigym etc) to perform.
ADVANTAGES OF ISOKINETIC
Isokinetic is method for
(a) Fast development of involved muscles.
(b) Isokinetic exercises develop flexor muscle  and
extensor muscle simultaneously.
(c) It requires less effort in compaired with Isometric
or Isotonic.
(d) t is helpful in development of specific skills like
swimming, cycling etc.
(e) Muscle endurance and speed are assistant
components developed.
DISADVANTAGES OF ISOKINETICS
a) Controlled is kinetic contraction can be performed
with equipments only.
b) Is kinetic equipments are advanced therefore need
good maintenance.
c) It is a advanced method therefore require special
supervision on performer.
d) It cannot be performed anywhere.
METHODS OF ENDURANCE DEVELOPMENT
Three effective methods of endurance development are:
1. Continuous Training Method
2. Interval Training Method
3. Fartlek Training Method
1.  CONTINUOUS TRAINING METHOD
Dr. V. Aaken is the main head behind inventing this
effective method for endurance development. The rest
intervals in the training programme are missing. It is a
continuous workout without any break. This method is
generally used once in a week in advanced training
programme. This method is also used for beginners with
low intensity. There are three type of continuous training
method:
(a) Slow Continuous Method

Complete Guide to Sports Training 54
(b) Fast continuous Method
(c) Slow fast (alternate) continuous method.
a) Slow continuous method- In this method athlete
runs slower from his racing pace but on the other paint
he runs more distance than the actual race. This is mainly
used by 'Marathon' runners or even very effective for long
distance track events. General athlete also adopts this
method with approximately covering 25-30 kms. It took
30 to 40 minute extra than the completion timing.
Heartbeat goes about 160 per minute.
b) Fast continuous method-  In this method athlete
runs faster from his racing pace but the distance covered
is decreased if compaired to actual race distance. This
method is mainly used by medium distance runners.
General athletes also adopt this method with
approximately covering 5 to 10 Kms. It took about 5 to 8
minutes less time, depends upon distance reduced and
intensity increased. Heartbeat goes about 190 per minute.
c) Slow fast continuous method-  In this method the
athlete running pace varies or the running pace is not
fixed in this method. It is a combination of slow and fast
running. This method is very general in nature and can
be used by beginners. This method is adopted by almost
in every game and sport-conditioning programme. The
time variation of slow running and fast running decides
the intensity here. This method covers approximate 10 -
15 Km of distance and the heartbeat goes about 200 per
minute. (This method ends up in fast running pace.)
Advantages of continuous method
(I) This method does not require any special guidance
lean be performed easily by beginners.
(II) This method gives out good experience about actual
competition. For example - Marathon
(III) It is effective method during off season for
maintaining endurance.
(IV) As variation in pace can be made, this method is
well adjustable from athlete's points of view.

55
(V) This method does not require any specific ground.
(Roads are the best & easiest way, but safety must be
there)
(VI) Develop both Aerobic and Anaerobic endurance.
Disadvantages of continuous method
(I) This method sometimes requires good knowledge
of time and pace managements.
(II)  It is difficult to apply this method on a group at a
time. This is mainly a individuals training programme.
2. INTERVAL TRAINING METHOD
Woldermar Gershler is the person who introduced this
method. The rest period during workout is the main part
in this method. The load of work in this method is mainly
decided by taking the period pf rest in consideration. In
this method the heart rate in intervals between the runs
is controlling factor. After workout the heart rate in the
rest period when comes around 120 beats per minute,
the athlete is allowed to restart the work out in same
manner as was in previous. The duration of rest period
when comes around 120 beats per minute, the athlete is
allowed to restart the workout in some manner as was in
previous. The duration of rest period must be of 80-90
seconds  ( if target is to get 120 beats per minute in resting
heart rate).The duration here also decided the work load.
Interval training method is mainly used by advanced
coaches and athletes. Interval training in general is short
breaks alternating with intensive short workout.
Three type of Interval training are-
a.  Target Running-  In this type of interval method
runner fixed "Distance or Time as a target and start with
a slow pace running to racing pace upto the target. After
getting the target (Distance or time) athlete again shows
down his/her running pace. This work outs is followed
by Intervals. The duration of intervals depend upon the
difficulty level of target and athletes potential. In short it
is a continuous running with increasing speed. This is
mainly adopted by short and medium distance runners.

Complete Guide to Sports Training 56
This method consists of 5-6 intervals and to duration is
60-120 minutes.
b. Repeat Running-I n this method runner keeps on
repeating the work out of running at or above the race
pace after each rest period. Here also runner runs for a
given distance or time this is also applied mainly by short
and medium distance runners. It is also practiced by
players of major games like foot ball players, basket ball
players etc. the integral duration differ individual to
individual. This method consists of 3-A intervals and its
duration is 60-90 minutes.
c. Formal Running- In this runner covers the racing
distance (competition distance)..Within a well-decided
time as good Athlete go for formal running distance and
try to achieve that given distance within specified distance.
This method is mainly used by short distance runners.
This method consists of 4-5 intervals and its duration is
60-120 minutes.
Advantages of Interval Training Method
I. It improves both energy producing system that is
AEROBIC and ANAERIOBIC.
ii. Speed is the assistant component developed by this
method.
i. This method requires  less time period if compared
to continuous method.
ii. This method having less strain if compared to other
method of endurance development.
iii. It gives good competitive experience, mainly by
Formal running method.
iv. Preferred to every athlete of any games or sport for
endurance development.
v. Components of load (intensity, volume etc) can be
managed easily in this method.
Disadvantages of Interval Training Methods.
i. This method requires well-trained coaches or good
knowledge of training methodology.

57
i. It requires well-marked track, indicators for distance
covered and timers etc.
FARTLEK TRAINING METHOD
Astrand is the person who
introduced this method; Fartlek is
a modified cross-country running.
This method is characterized by
variable running paces, no active
rest is provided. Rather the slow
running (jogging) is the rest period
in this method and athlete runs on
the road, terrain path, park land,
small mills etc. The fast running
period with the recovery (slow
running) periods works alternately
and depends upon the athlete's adoption of load. Fertlek
is an advanced training method and mainly used by
distance runners. It is performed by well experiences and
advanced athletes because it has no predetermined
schedule to follow. The length of both periods (fast running
pace and recovery interval) can be changed during
workout. Self-awareness and highly pace judgment skills
are required to experience different running paces and
long short recovery intervals as demanded. Fartlek is also
very effective for athlete of every games and sports.
Number of intervals depends upon athlete's workout level
and immediate fitness level. There is no preplanned
duration or distance or number of intervals in this
method. An average athlete may cover 20-40 kms. (or
more ).
Advantages of Fartlek training Method
i. It develops self-awareness and pace judgement skills
in an athlete.
ii. It gives opportunity to athlete to experiment his
fitness level by increasing racing pace and checking
fitness of recovery period.


Complete Guide to Sports Training 58
iii. It is an adventurous and creative effort (This create
interest in athlete).
iv. It is effectively applicable to all athletes (athlete any
game or sport)
vi. Fartlek method athlete is independent to perform
in the way he/she likes.
vii. It can also be practiced off season.
Disadvantages of Fartlek Method.
i. Fartlek method requires well-trained coaches and
good knowledge of training Methodology.
ii. As nothing is very specifically perished led, this
method is mainly for advanced athletes.
iii. Path followed/Track selection may cause harms. If
unknowlgly it involves slippery runway, thorns etc. Athlete
sometime last actual path also.
iv. It is hard to measure actual distanced covered by
athlete.
METHODS OF SPEED DEVELOPMENT
Two  effective methods of speed developments-
i. Acceleration Runs.
ii. Pace runs.
In every speed workout three phases arrives that is.
a) Acceleration phase-This includes starting to achieve
the race pace by an athlete. This is a process of speeding
up of athlete.
b) Racing phase-This includes the racing pace. This is
a process where athlete runs allot and at the maximum
speed possible.
c) Deceleration Phase- This includes the showing down
from racing phase. Athlete cannot stop him self abruptly.
Therefore the deceleration phase  is adopted properly.
(i) ACCELERATION RUN METHOD
In this method the more emphasis is given on first
phase of speed workout (Acceleration Phase). In this
method athlete concentrates on starting and then gaining
the maximum speed as fast as possible, but he/she does
not maintain the maximum speed. Athlete tries to slow

59
down easily just after gaining maximum speed. Therefore
acceleration on run method has always I phase longer
compared to II and II Phase of speed workout, with II
phase as of shortest duration. In this method athlete may
not prefer formal start initially (starting slowly and the
trying to touch the II phase as fast as possible).
Number of repetitions and intervals depend upon
athletes ability. An average athlete may go for 8 to 12
repetitions with 60-120 sec of rest intervals.
ADVANTAGES OF ACCELERATION RUN METHOD
(i) It is highly effective for sprinters.
(ii) It assists in skill developments like better start,
etc.
(iii) Acceleration run method helps athlete in
understanding his/her own running approach of
understanding the changes in length of strides needed
at different phases body balance etc.
DISADVANTAGES OF ACCELERATION RUN METHOD
(i) Changes of injuries are more because quick changes
of phases is required e.g. muscle pull, over streatching of
ligaments, ankle strain, back pain etc.
(ii) Well prepared and maintained track is required.
(iii) It is harmful if performed on hard surface and with
out proper general and very specific warming up.
ii. PACE RUN METHOD
Pace run method is of two types:
(a) RACING PACE RUN METHOD
In this method the more emphasis is given on record
phase of speed workout (Racing Phase). In this method
athlete concentrates on Racing Pace (Pace require in
competition) and try to maintain that pace. The duration
or distance of II Phase (racing phase) in this method is
always longer than the actual.
This method is highly beneficial for sprinters or short
distance runners. Number of repetitions and intervals
depend upon athletes load taking ability (anaerobic
capacity). An average athlete may go for 6-8 repetitions

Complete Guide to Sports Training 60
with 90-120 secs of rest intervals.
(b) VARIED PACE RUN METHOD:
In this method athlete runs with variation in running
pace. This method is very effective for speed controlling.
Athletes runs in various paces and try to maintain every
changed pace for short duration. This method is therefore
very taxy and mainly adopted by advanced athletes. The
athlete makes changes in the running pace by their own
or by the indication given through coach. Speeding up or
slowing down from running pace can also be settled by
ground distance or time elapsed.
ADVANTAGES OF PACE RUN METHOD
(i) By practicing this method athlete gets good hold on
pace controlling.
(ii) Athlete of any game and sports can adopt it.
(iii) It helps athlete in understanding his/her own
running approach.
(iv) This method helps athlete to manage pace as
demanded in competition.
DISADVANTAGES OF PACE RUN METHOD
(i) Well-prepared and maintained track is required.
(ii) This method needs good coaching and planning;
otherwise athlete may go under overload.
CIRCUIT TRAINING


61
R.E. Morgan and G.T. Adamson introduced circuit
training in 1953. This training programme involves almost
every component of fitness and is very scientific and
effective. In circuit training different specific exercises
are performed in a sequence. In this programme selected
exercises are to be performed at different stations. There
can be 5 to 10 stations in a single training programme
with 2 to 4 sets. Athlete performs specific exercise of each
station and as soon as he/she finishes the exercise will
rush other station for next specified exercise. Duration
of performing exercise in each station is also specified;
degree of difficulty can be increased or decreased,
depending upon the objective of training. Distance
between each station also plays its role in adjusting the
load. Circuit training can be formed to develop one or
two fitness components, depends upon the type of nature
of game and requirement of fitness components. It can
also be designed by putting main concentration on same
muscle group. Circuit training is very interesting and
creative activity proper instructions and clear objective
and good deconstruction is very essential before
undergoing circuit training. Circuit training is preferably
for advanced athletes.

Complete Guide to Sports Training 62
7
FLEXIBILITY
MEANING
Flexibility is a kind of motor ability in real sense
neither it is a conditional ability nor it is a coordinative
ability. Some part of the flexibility depends upon the
energy liberation process where as other part of it is
controlled and regulated by the central nervous system.
There are various terms are used synonym to the
flexibility which are stretchability, elasticity, suppleness
and mobility. In scientific sense the flexibility is much
more then that these terms actually means.
DEFINITION
Flexibility may be defined as the ability to perform
movement with greater amplitude (wide range) or in other
words it may be defined as the range of movement possible
around a specific joint.
Stretchability & Elasticity are the qualities of the
muscle and ligament by which they stretch and regain to
its normal position without any adverse effect.
Suppleness is the ability of the muscle to remain in
low tension which helps to perform the movement easily.
Mobility is related to the degree of movement possible
in different planes at a joint.
Improving flexibility through stretching is another
important aspect for preparatory activity. It has been
advocated that through better flexibility a sportsman or
a player can achieve the following advantage (importance)-
(i)It helps to improve physical performance.
(ii)It helps to execute/perform the skills more
efficiently and gracefully.

63
(iii)It helps in prevention of sports related injuries.
(iv)It helps to increase elasticity of the muscle and
ligaments; hence wider range of motion is possible.
(v)Better elasticity leads to forceful contraction.
FORMS/TYPES OF FLEXIBILITY
PASSIVE FLEXIBILITY:  It is the ability to perform
movements with wider range with some external helps.
Example:- Partner exercise (stretching exercise)
ACTIVE FLEXIBILITY:  It is the ability to perform
movements with larger amplitude without any external
help.
Example:- Swinging of legs
DYNAMIC FLEXIBILITY:  It is the ability to perform
movements with greater amplitude when the body is in
motion. Dynamic flexibility is more specific to sports
movements.
Examples:- Running and taking sammer Sault in
gymnastics.
FACTORS DETERMINING FLEXIBILITY
Though there are many factors which determine the
flexibility of a particular joint however some of the factors
are being discussed as follows:-
1.Anatomical structure of a joint:  When two or
more bone join together with the help of ligament. In that
case the structure of the bone ends decide the possible
movement in a joint.
Example: Shoulder joint is much more flexible in
comparison to elbow and knee joint.
2.Attachment of the muscle and ligament at a
joint:  The arrangement of muscle and ligament at a joint
determine the possible movement which can take place.
Example: Long length attachment of ligament helps
to execute the movement with wide range and also avoid
the chances of injury.

Complete Guide to Sports Training 64
3.Muscle strength:  An individual with less strength
can perform the movement with wide range but in case
of active flexibility the strength of the muscle contribute
a lot to the range of movement.
4.Coordination: It is well known fact that some part
of the flexibility is control and regulated by the central
Nervous System hence the ability of the Nervous System
which meaningfully integrate the contraction and
relaxation of the muscle of a joint plays a vital role.
5.Skill:  When the body is in motion or moving form
it is the only factor which  determine the flexibility of an
individual For i. e. Running in the Football and kicking
the ball with sammer Sault.
6.Muscle temperature: The more the temperature
of the muscle greater the range of movement and vice
versa.
7.Time of day: In the morning flexibility is poor
afternoon good and in the evening it is the best.
8.Exercises:  Frequent and regular doing of physical
exercises increases the flexibility up to some extent.
9.Fatigue:  It has been observed that an individual
under the state of fatigue realize slightly decrease in the
range of movement.
10. Age:  Children are more flexible than adult and
flexibility decreases as the age increases.
11. Sex:  Normally women are more flexible in
comparison to men due to difference in the joint and lower
muscle mass.
12. Emotions:  Whenever an individual is under the
state of psychological factors like emotion and depression
or muscle cool down it lower the flexibility.
METHODS OF IMPROVING FLEXIBILITY
Stretching technique for improving flexibility has
under gone some changes over past few years. As a result
of it some new technique have developed, which are as

65
follows:-
1. Ballistic Method:  In this method movements are
performed in swing in a rhythmic manner. This method
can be used with counts to stretch at a particular joint to
its maximum. The major problem in this method is that
it needs good warming up failing which it may cause
injury. Though this method is not very good but the some
sportsmen like gymnast are commonly using this method
just because of the nature of sports event.
2. Slow Stretch Technique
This method is better than the ballistic method
because the movements are done slowly and muscles
are made to stretch gradually to its maximum limit and
then brought back to its normal position.
3. Slow Stretch and Hold Technique
This method is better than the slow stretch technique
because in this method muscles are made to stretch to
its full limit and then this position is hold for 5-10 sec.
After that it brought back to the normal position. This
technique is more effective which minimize the chances
of injury too.
4. Proprioceptive Neuro Muscular Facilitation Technique
(P.N.F.):
This is one of the techniques being used from last
few years. There are number of different P.N.F. techniques
currently being used. These technique involve
combination of alternating contraction and relaxation of
both against and antagonist muscles. These techniques
evolve 10 sec. pushing phase (contraction) followed by a
10 sec. relaxation phase.
(A)  Slow Reversal Hold
The individual lying on his/her oblique or back with
the knee extended and ankle flexed at 90 degree, a partner
passively flexes the leg at hip joint to the point where
slight discomfort is felt in the muscle. At this point the

Complete Guide to Sports Training 66
individual pushes against the partner resistance by
contracting hamstring muscle. After pushing for ten
second. The hamstring muscle are relax and quadriceps
group of muscles are contracted as the partner applies
passive pressure to further stretch the hamstring and
also to have more flexibility at hip joint. This should be
repeated three times. When there is a flexion at hip joint
that is when the leg moves up to 90 degree the following
muscles are contracted (1) Iliopsoas (2) Sartorius (3)
Rectus femoris and hamstring group is stretched. As the
leg moves beyond 90 degree quadriceps group of muscle
is contracted and further stretch on hamstring group of
muscle.
 
Relaxation 
Phase  
B:- Contract Relax:  It is
variation of above technique
in this the hamstring are
contracted isotonically so that
the leg moves towards the
floor during the contraction
phase. 

67
C. Hold Relax:  Again it is variation of slow reversal
technique it involve isometric contraction against
immovable resistance during push phase (Contraction).
During relaxation phase both techniques involve
passive stretching.
 
EXERCISE 1:  Standing in a quadral squat position,
it relax hamstring group so that there will be easy stretch
for hamstring in the next exercise.
EXERCISE 2:  Feet apart up to shoulder width slowly
bend forward from the waist to stretch the hamstring to
come up first bend the knees their gradually come up.
EXERCISE 3 :  Pull one leg to the chest, it will stretch
the upper hamstring and the hip muscle.
EXERCISE 4:  Assume a hurdle stretch position to
stretch your quadriceps.

Complete Guide to Sports Training 68
8
IMPORTANCE OF TECHNIQUES
IN SPORTS TRAINING
Sports activity consists of sports movements. A sports
movement is a motor action complete in itself. The
efficiency or effectiveness of these sports movements
determines the sports performance. All factors of
performance capacity are ultimately needed to increase
the efficiency of the sports movement/movements during
training or competition. As a result the sports performance
in sports depends to a great extent on the efficiency or
effectiveness of sports performance in sports depends to
a great extent on the efficiency or effectiveness of sports
movements or motor actions. In other words the factor
technique/co-ordination is of high importance as it is
through technical actions that the given tasks in sports
training or competition are effectively tackled. Technique
and technical training, therefore, is an important part of
the total process of training.
The technique and technical training in sports is
based on four basic considerations:-
(1)In each sport tasks have to be fulfilled or tackled
during competition. Each task can be tackled in
one or more ways. The best motor procedure of
tackling the task has to be determined and
consequently taught to the sportsmen. This
becomes the aim of technical training.
(2)After determining the technique or motor procedure
to be taught it is essential to know in which way
this motor procedure is realised into actual motor
action by the sportsman. For this we have to study
the control and regulation of the motor action by
the central nervous system. In other words, motor

69
co-ordination as determinant of motor action has
to be studied.
(3)The third step/consideration is to find out ways and
means by which motor co-ordination is perfected
and refined. This is essential for improving the
effectiveness of the motor action. The process of
improving and perfecting the motor co-ordination
is called the motor learning process.
(4)After studying the motor learning process we have
to study and explore the ways and means of
organising and implementing technique training in
such a way that motor learning takes place faster
and effectively.
These four considerations or steps give rational and
scientific basis to technical training in sports. The science
of sports training is mainly concerned with the
organisation and implementation aspect of technique
training. But, for this it has to depend heavily on the
knowledge about motor co-ordination and motor learning
though these aspects are not its direct concern. The
present chapter on technique, therefore, does not aim
directly at motor co-ordination or motor learning.
Basically, its aim is to provide fundamentals and guide
lines for proper formulation of technique training in
sports.
As discussed earlier motor co-ordination also forms
the basis of co-ordinative abilities. The training for co-
ordinative abilities is, therefore, basically aimed at
affecting the motor co-ordination through motor learning
process. Co-ordinative abilities are, therefore, considered
to be a part of the performance factor technique/co-
ordination.
TECHNIQUE, SKILL AND STYLE IN SPORTS TRAINING
Technique is defined as the motor procedure  for
tackling a motor task. Motor procedure should be
understood as a system of movements of body parts in a

Complete Guide to Sports Training 70
definite sequence. Many of these movements, however,
may take place simultaneously. The motor procedure or
technique is always task or goal oriented. In different
sports sportsmen have to tackle different types of motor
tasks. Therefore, different motor procedures or techniques
are required in different sports. In shotput, for example,
the motor task is to put the shot as far as possible;
whereas in weightlifting, in clean and jerk, the motor task
is to lift as much weight as possible. In team games, the
sportsmen are required to tackle a variety of tasks under
different conditions. Therefore, in these sports the
sportsman has to learn a number of techniques with
possible variations.
SKILL
A motor skill is acquired through a long process of
motor learning. Skill denotes the level of effectiveness
with which a movement or motor action can be done.
Skill is defined as automatisation of motor procedures. A
sportsman tries to learn a technique or motor procedure
and through continuous and systematic process he is
able to acquire the skill i.e., automatisation of the motor
procedure. In other words, one can say that skill is the
capacity of the sportsman to realise technique in actual
motor action.
Technique training aims at the development of
technical skills and not at the development of technique.
As the process of skill acquisition is the process of motor
learning, therefore, technique training is essentially
purposeful manipulation or exploitation of motor learning
for best results through organisation of training means
and methods.
In sports, we come across sportsmen with varying
degree or level of skill who are attempting to follow the
same motor procedure or technique. Their skill or lack of
skill does not convey much about the effectiveness or
correctness of the technique. Skill can be assessed and

71
evaluated by the use of different procedures e.g., bio-
mechanical procedures of skill assessment.
Skilful movement are made possible by highly
advanced control and regulation processes of motor co-
ordination. To understand skill and to derive guidelines
for its improvement, therefore, motor co-ordination has
to be first understood in all its relevant details.
STYLE
Style is individual expression of technique in motor
action. No two sportsmen are alike in different factors
which determine motor action. Therefore, each
sportsman, because of his peculiar psychic, physical and
biological capacities realises the technique in a different
manner. This is his style. Several sportsmen may follow
the same technique in order to tackle a definite task, but
the motor action of each will be different from that of the
others. Technique model, therefore, should be flexible
enough to allow for individual difference. It is wrong and
unproductive to try to copy each and every minute detail
of technique model or the technique of outstanding
sportsmen.
In actual practice, we come across individual styles
of technique. The analysis of individual styles of top level
sportsmen is the basis for preparing a model of technique.
This model may not tally cent percent with the style of
any sportsman. Sportsman tries to do the movements
according to the technique model; but at the same time
the individual style, of top sportsmen, of doing the
movements forms the basis of technique model.
In the end, it is important to understand that the
model of technique is a generalised model of successful
motor procedures of tackling motor tasks. These models
are to be followed by sportsmen of all levels. But the
children and sportsmen of lower qualification are normally
not in a position to effectively adopt this technique model
in all the required details. Therefore, it is essential to

Complete Guide to Sports Training 72
prepare separate models of technique or technical
demand profile for lower stages of training. Needless to
say these profile must be based on the technical model
high performance training stage with due modification
in consideration of possible changes in the model in the
near future.
MOTOR CO-ORDINATION
Previously, it has been stressed that skill is the
product of motor co-ordination automatised to a great
extent. An understanding of the basic mechanism of how
motor actions are controlled and regulated is essential
for effective formulation of motor learning process. For
this purpose motor co-ordination is described briefly in
the following paragraphs.
The control and regulation processes involved in
motor co-ordination takes place at different levels of CNS.
Some of these processes are conscious bound and some
are not conscious bound. Hacker states that there are
basically three levels with definite tasks of co-ordination:
(i) intellectual level which is responsible for the general
plan of action (ii) perceptive-cognitive level responsible
for the motor action programme (iii) senso-motor level
responsible for fine programming of the musculo-skeletal
system. In motor co-ordination almost all parts of the
nervous system are involved in an integrated manner.
As soon as the sportsman decides to tackle a certain
task, a movement programme for accomplishing this is
formed at all the CNS level which are to be involved. The
forming of movement programme is considerably affected
by motor memory and the perception of the prevailing
situation. On the basis of this programming the required
nerve impulses from the different levels go to the
concerned muscles which respond by contracting as
directed by the nervous system. With the action of the
muscles the motor action starts. During the movement
execution the various motor sense organs send the
informations back to the nervous system. This information

73
do not come from the working muscles and joint only.
Information about the changed situation is also taken
up by the nervous system through eyes etc.
Vast amount of information regarding movement,
environment etc. is continuously reaching the nervous
system. All this information is analysed and synthesised
to arrive at conclusions regarding which way the
movement is taking place. During information uptake and
synthesis motor memory plays an important role as it
helps in quick identification of signals, thereby helping
in movement perception.
The actual picture of the movement being done is
then compared with the movement programme according
to which the movement should take place. This vital
process is called comparison and takes place at all levels
at which the movement programme was formed. The
comparison allows to detect differences and discrepancies
between the between the movement programme and the
actual movement. On the basis of this correction impulses
are sent to the muscles to correct the movement. In this
manner, in a cyclic form, the movement execution is
controlled and regulated till the end.
The above given description of motor co-ordination
is a highly simplified description of a process which in
reality is very complex. It is important to realise that the
quality of motor co-ordination primarily depends on the
effectiveness of three key mechanisms: programming,
information uptake and synthesis and comparison. In
technique training, therefore, we have to primarily aim
at improving these three mechanisms. Programming and
comparison, however, cannot be affected directly. This
can be only done through information uptake and
synthesis. Therefore, giving of timely and correct
movement feedback forms the basis of technique training.
With the improvement in these mechanisms qualitative/
quantitative changes take place in the movement
execution. Alongwith this there is progressive shifting of

Complete Guide to Sports Training 74
functions and responsibilities to lower levels of control
i.e., automatisation.
AIMS OF TECHNIQUE IN SPORTS
In different sports different types of tasks have to be
tackled. Therefore, technique aims at different things in
different sports. The aim for which a technique is to be
used is important for proper formulation of technique
training as well as for correct assessment and evaluation
of technique. There are numerous techniques which are
used in sports. It is, therefore, impossible to discuss the
aim of each and every technique. But in the following
paragraphs general aim of technique in different groups
of sports is discussed in brief.
(1) Endurance Sports
In these sports technique aims at ensuring high
movement economy or reduction in energy expenditure.
In endurance sports, normally one or two techniques have
to be learnt. The movements to be learnt are usually
simple and can be learnt in a short period. Examples:
long distance running, cycling, rowing etc.
(2) Sprints
The aim of the technique in sprint events is to ensure
high movement frequency with high generation of force
for short duration. In these sports also one or two
movements are to be learnt. These movements are usually
simple but as these have to be done at high speed
therefore the role of technique is more as compared to
endurance sports. Examples: track and field sprints.
(3) Power Sports
In these sports the technique aims at generating
maximum force for imparting maximum speed to the body
or to an implement. The movement must be performed
with high co-ordination so that the force generated by
different muscle groups/body parts can be effectively
simulated to achieve the principal aim of technique. In
these sports normally one or two technique have to be

75
learnt. The movements are usually complex requiring
much longer period of training for perfection. Examples:
shotput, high-jump, weightlifting.
(4) Technical Sports
These sports are characterised by a large number of
techniques with a very high degree of difficulty. The
technique aims at executing a movement or combination
of elements with high quality combined with grace and
beauty. Because of several techniques, their high degree
of difficulty and constant introduction of new and more
difficult exercises the role of technique in these sports is
very high. Examples: gymnastics, diving, figure skating.
(5) Regulatory Sports
In these sports technique aims at regulating a system
consisting of sportsman and some equipment/
automobile/animal. The force for movement is external
and the sportsman has to control and regulate it to get
best results. Examples: sailing, motor sport, equestrian.
(6) Combat Sports
In combat sports the aim of technique is to execute
learned movements for tackling a task in consideration
of the situation and tactics. In these sports technique is
mostly used as a tool for effective tactical action. A large
number of techniques are required to be learnt and
mastered alongwith their variations. Examples: boxing,
judo, wrestling.
(7)Team Games
The technique aims at tackling a task in consideration
of situation, opponent, team mate and tactical aim. Like
combat sports, in team games also technique is normally
subordinated to tactical action. Large number of
techniques and their variations have to be mastered with
the aim of applying these under different conditions from
tactical aspect.
It is difficult to determine the relative importance of

Complete Guide to Sports Training 76
factor technique/co-ordination in different sports. But
the extent of importance of this factor in sports depends
on the following three things:-
•Number of techniques.
•Degree of difficulty technique.
•Variable applicability of technique and its variations.
RATIONAL TECHNIQUE
A motor task can be solved or tackled by different
techniques. But out of these one technique will be the
most effective for a sportsman. This technique can be
called the rational technique for him It will enable him to
tackle the task with best results. A technique which is
best or rational for one sportsman may not be the same
for the other. The rationality of a technique cannot be
determined by bio-mechanical analysis of the technique
alone. More factors must be taken into consideration to
decide whether a technique will suit a sportsman or not.
All the external and internal factors which can have a
significant effect on the motor procedure during action
have to be carefully judged. Some of the important factors
are:-
•Bio-mechanical factors.
•Energy expenditure.
•The role of ground, equipment, opponent etc. during
the course of movement execution.
•Height, weight and body dimensions.
•Tactics.
•Psychological considerations.
•Motor habits.
Motor Learning
Learning is a fundamental activity in human life and
is instrumental in the development of personality.
Learning can take place through play or work. But in
addition to these two, there is also learning activity which
directly aims at acquiring knowledge and capabilities.

77
Learning activity is basically of two types: mental learning
and motor learning. Both are interrelated and
interdependent. In sports, both the types of learning are
common though motors learning takes precedence over
mental learning.
The process of skill acquisition is essentially a process
of refinement and stabilisation of motor co-ordination.
This process, however, is influenced by a number of
factors which if properly managed can make motor
learning more effective and faster. Important among these
are discussed below in brief:-
(1) Information Essential for Learning
The motor learning starts with the giving of
information about the movement which has to be learnt.
Moreover, information as feedback is also essential for
effective control and regulation of motor action. A
constant, timely and systematic flow of relevant
information before, during and after the movement
execution is obligatory for motor learning i.e., unity of
mental and motor learning. The role of information in
motor learning points to the fact that motor learning is a
conscious activity in which for best effects the sportsman
must be mentally and physically active. It also brings
into focus the role of language and motor sense organs
in motor learning.
(2) Training State
Motor learning is further dependent to a great extent
on the training state. The level of conditional and co-
ordinative abilities for effective motor learning is self
explanatory. In addition, the already acquired skills have
an important role to play in the learning of new skills.
The already learnt skills can hinder or help motor learning
through transfer or interference effect. Moreover, certain
psychic factors like mental capabilities, personality traits
etc. enable the sportsman to do motor learning in a much
better way.

Complete Guide to Sports Training 78
(3) Motivation and Interest
Without the required motivation and interest, the
learning activity cannot be done effectively. It is, therefore,
essential to cultivate positive interest and attitude for
motor learning. On this basis the sportsman can be easily
motivated to put in his best in the activity of motor
learning. This enables him to do technique training with
the required concentration and attention.
The above mentioned three factors which influence
motor learning in reality represent three groups of factors.
In addition to these factors, the social factors also have
an effect on motor learning. Last, but not the least, the
proper formulation and implementation of motor learning
activity in the form of technique training can have a highly
positive effect on motor learning.
The process of motor learning in sports training is
normally a long process. As the nature of motor learning
is not uniform throughout, therefore, different types of
means and measures are adopted to affect it positively at
different times. The motor learning process is normally
divided into three phases described below:-
(i) Phase I
It begins with the introduction of a sportsperson to
the movement/technique which he/she has to learn. It
ends with the achievement of rough co-ordination i.e.,
the sportsperson is able to do the complete movement
but with several errors and mistakes. Depending on the
complexity of the movement this phase can be short or
long. In the case of complex movements or technique e.g.,
pole-vault this phase can last several weeks. But in the
case of simple techniques like dribbling in basketball it
is much shorter.
(ii) Phase II
This phase starts with the acquisition of rough co-
ordination and ends with the acquisition of fine co-
ordination i.e., the sportsperson is able to do the

79
movement nearly perfectly under normal conditions; but
he/she is unable to do so under changed or difficult
conditions. In this phase motor co-ordination undergoes
vast changes. This phase is normally much longer than
the earlier one and is also more hard on the sportsperson.
(iii) Phase III
This phase starts with the achievement of fine co-
ordination and ends with the mastery of the technique.
As a sportsperson cannot master a technique cent
percent, therefore, this phase never ends. Moreover
several factors like growth, periodisation, change in
technique model etc. keep affecting the skill level
negatively and as a result the technique training in the
third phase never ends. Mastery of technique denotes
the ability of the sportsman to do the movement nearly
perfectly under all types of conditions: normal, changed
or difficult.
TECHNIQUE TRAINING IN THE FIRST PHASE
The aim of technique training in the first phases of
skill acquisition is to achieve rough co-ordination i.e., to
enable the sportsman to do the complete movement,
under easier conditions. The movement has several errors
and mistakes but effort should not be to achieve perfect
movement but a complete, though largely imperfect
movement.
The control and regulation processes in the first
phase are too inadequate to allow perfect movement
execution. The movement programming is not complete.
It mainly consists of a visual image of the movement
formed by seeing the demonstrations and through verbal
explanations. It lacks kinesthetic elements of
programming. Moreover, the movement programming
does not include all the details of the movement.
Therefore, to start with the programming is inadequate
and incomplete.
Because of imperfect programming, the motor

Complete Guide to Sports Training 80
commands to the muscles are imperfect. Moreover, there
is irradiation of excitation among the motor centres which
leads to innervation of muscles not needed for the
movement. This results in undue tension in the body in
general. As in programming the kinesthetic elements
which pertain to control and regulation of muscle actions
with the required tension and sequence are largely absent,
therefore, this function has to be performed  by the higher
centres which are ill equipped for this task. The result is
imperfect movement with conscious control by higher
centres.
Information uptake and synthesis is also inadequate
for the task. Foremost short coming is the lack of
awareness and utilisation of information coming from the
kinesthetic, tactile and vestibular sense organs.
Sportsman, due to this reason depends heavily on his
optical sense and verbal information from outside for
feedback about the movement. He lacks the ‘feel of the
movement’. Short-comings in the motor memory because
of lack of required experience seriously hamper the
process of information synthesis and movement
perception. All these things lead to poor feedback about
the movement.
The process of comparison which forms the basis of
movement correction cannot take place effectively
because of poor programming, unsatisfactory feedback
and inadequate motor memory. The result is that the
sportsman normally does not become aware of movement
errors himself and hence cannot correct these.
The poor state of motor co-ordination in the first
phase finds expression in poor movement execution.
When one looks at the movement execution, one can
notice several draw backs in it. Some of the important
drawbacks which characterise rough coordination are
given below:-
1.The movements are usually tense and cramped. The

81
undue muscle tension, however, enables the
sportsman to do the movement by ruling out
movement of other body parts. But muscles tension
also ensures more energy expenditure and faster
onset of fatigue.
2.The movement execution lacks proper rhythm. The
application of force is incorrect and is either too
much or too less. This makes the movement
unrhythmic, jerky and edgy.
3.Because of wrong force application the movement
flow is not smooth. There are sudden changes in
the speed of movement significantly lowering the
movement flow and continuity.
4.The sportsman is unable to meaningfully the
movements of different body parts i.e., coupling of
movements. This results in undue wastages of force
generated by various body parts as it cannot be
added to the force generated by other body parts.
5.The movement amplitude is either too less or too
much. Generally, because of undue muscle tension
and body rigidity, the movement amplitude is lesser
than required. This results in ineffective force
generation.
6.The movement execution is highly inconsistent.
Each repetition of the movement differs significantly
from the previous one.
7.There is low movement accuracy and precision.
IMPLICATIONS FOR TECHNIQUE TRAINING
On the basis of the nature of motor co-ordination in
the first phase of skill acquisition, the following
suggestions are presented for effective formulation and
implementation of technique training in the first phase.
1. Analysis of the Present State
Technique training is a long term process, therefore,
before its start a general strategy or plan of technique
training for all the three phases must be worked out. For

Complete Guide to Sports Training 82
this purpose first the present state of the sportsman must
be analysed. Among other things, it is important to find
out the label of co-ordinative and conditional abilities,
the technical skills learnt in the past, motor experience,
motivation, interest and other mental and psychological
qualities and traits which are important for learning the
intended movement. If it is needed then effort should be
made to improve certain things e.g., conditional or co-
ordinative abilities, motivation etc., without which
technique training cannot be effectively started.
Special stress should be laid on improving the
motivation and interest of the sportsman since without
these technique training is not possible. This can be done
by different means: demonstrations, explanations,
discussions etc. The sportsman must be convinced about
the importance of the technique to be learnt.
On the basis of the analysis of the present state, the
teaching procedure, including teaching steps/stages,
sequence of exercise to be use, means and methods to
be followed etc., should be planned.
2. Practice Under Easier and Favourable Conditions
In the first phase, as a rule, technique training should
be done under easier and favourable conditions of
learning. The movement execution can be made easier
by adopting several means: breaking the movement into
parts; by practising with lighter/smaller equipment; by
doing the movement at a slower speed, by giving external
help and so on. By favourable conditions were also mean
technique training should be done in an atmosphere in
which a sportsman can practise without any external
disturbance or discomfort. Practise under conditions of
fatigue should be avoided.
Stress should be laid on enabling the sportsman to
do the movement optimum number of times, because
only by doing the movement he will learn it. Therefore, it
is important that sportsman is enabled to get a feeling of

83
the complete movement as quickly as possible.
3. Development of Movement Concept
Movement concept or movement image is a vital part
of movement programming which forms the basis of
movement execution. Therefore, a lot of effort should be
made to enable a sportsman to have a clear movement
concept of the technique which he is to learn. In the first
phase all the details of movement concept should not be
given. Only that much is needed which can be grasped
by the sportsman. Moreover, the stress should be on the
visual aspect of the movement and not on the dynamic
and temporal. Development of movement concept should
be mainly achieved through demonstrations,
explanations, by showing pictures, diagrams, etc. The
basic rhythm of the movement, however, should be
stressed right from the beginning of technique training.
4. Less Stress on Kinesthetic Perception
In the beginning of motor learning a sportsman
cannot consciously discriminate between the informations
coming from his kinesthetic, vestibular and tactile sense
organs. This is because of the lack of requisite movement
experience as well as due to the absence of link between
these sensations and his consciousness. Therefore,
during practice less stress should be laid on this
information i.e., kinesthetic perception. On the contrary,
more stress should be laid on the visual and verbal
information. Lack of discrimination of kinesthetic
perception, however, does not mean that the sportsman
cannot feel the movement. He can feel the movement but
he is unable to determine the quantitative and qualitative
aspect of the movement through kinesthetic perception.
He should be asked to consciously feel the movement
but should not be asked to correct or refine the movement
on its basis.
5. Less Correction
In the first phase of skill acquisition, too much stress

Complete Guide to Sports Training 84
on movement correction is not advisable. This is because
of two main reasons. Firstly,  he is not in a position to
have a good movement perception and hence is unable
to effectively correct his movement. Secondly,  because
the aim of technique training is rough co-ordination and
not fine co-ordination. Movement correction should be
limited to major and basic errors in the main phase of
the movement. Alongwith correction is a good amount of
encouragement should also be given to the sportsman.
This should take place in the form of pointing out the
progress he has made in learning the technique.
Encouragement in this sense is a positive means for
further refinement and stabilisation of movement concept.
6. Competitions
Formal competitions during the first phase of skill
acquisition should be avoided because of poor level of
motor co-ordination and also because of higher chances
of stabilisation of incorrect control and regulation process
under high psychic stress. But in team and combat sports
informal competitions, with changed rules etc., can be
used with positive effect on motor learning as these afford
opportunity to sportsmen for variable applicability of the
technique being learnt.
TECHNIQUE TRAINING IN THE SECOND PHASE
The second phase of technique training begins with
the achievement of rough co-ordination and ends with
the acquisition of fine co-ordination. The second phase
is characterised by high training volume, increased
amount of movement correction and erratic progress in
motor learning. All these factors tend to make technique
training very stressful and uninteresting for the
sportsman resulting in loss of interest motivation and
decrease in the quality of learning activity.
In the second phase the motor learning is not smooth.
It is characterised by phases of stagnation. These are the
phases in which, inspite of continuing technique training,

85
no significant improvement takes place. There can even
be deterioration. But after these phases of stagnation
there is normally a sudden increase in performance. It
may also happen if during stagnation the technique
training is stopped for some training session. It seems
that during stagnation phase the further refinement of
motor co-ordination continues though it does not find
any expression in the movement execution till it reaches
a certain level.
IMPLICATIONS FOR TECHNIQUE TRAINING
1. Help and Encouragement
As pointed out earlier, the motor learning in second
phase is not smooth. It is characterised by phases of
stagnation. Besides, it involves high amount of movement
correction, high training, volume and high level of
concentration and attention. All these things tend to make
motor learning stressful and frustrating for the
sportsman. Unless the coach adopts certain means for
constant encouragement, help and motivation the
sportsman can gradually loose interest and motivation
for technique training.
2. High Volume of Technique Training
The volume of technique training in second phase is
much more than in the first phase. This means higher
number of repetitions in a training session. The technique
training, therefore, should be carefully planned and
organised so as to enable the sportsman to do the needed
number of repetitions with proper attention and
concentration.
3. High Concentration and Attention
The technique training in second phase aims at fine
co-ordination and as a result there is increased amount
of movement correction and increased stress on
movement perception and conscious execution of
movement. Therefore, each repetition of movement must
be done with a high degree of concentration and attention.

Complete Guide to Sports Training 86
In a systematic manner the sportsman must direct his
attention and concentration to different parts, details and
aspect of movement execution. He should also strive to
consciously perceive and understand the movement
sensations.
4. Practise Under Normal Conditions
As a rule the movement should be practised under
normal and standard conditions. But this rule may have
to be modified in sports like team games and combat
sports. In these sports, because of the nature of sports
and also because of subordination of technique to tactics,
the technique training in second phase has to be, to some
extent, done under different changing conditions.
5. Refinement of Movement Concept
In the first phase only a gross movement concept is
conveyed to the sportsmen. In the second phase the
movement concept has to be further refined and enriched
with more details. Now the movement concept should
not be limited only to the visual aspect of the movement.
It should be gradually extended and refined to include
dynamic and spatial aspects of the movement. For this
purpose, in addition to verbal explanations and
instructions, the teacher should increasingly make use
of other means by which the internal structure of the
movement can be made clear to the sportsman e.g., use
of graphs, diagrams, bio-mechanical procedures etc.
Accurate and timely feedback is of high value in this
regard.
Tasks of movement observation and description are
valuable means for further refinement of movement
concept. These tasks, however, should be carefully
planned and the activity of the sportsman must be
properly supported and guided to get the best results.
The use of language has a double to play in the
development of movement concept. Firstly, it is used as
a means for conveying the information. Secondly, it is

87
used to build association between movement perception
and awareness. The second function of language is the
basis of making the sportsman conscious about
movement perception, and thereby helping in fine
programming. The effect of verbalisation of a technique,
which takes place consciously or unconsciously to some
extent in advanced sportsmen, depends on the link
between language and movement sensations.
The development of movement concept runs parallel
to the advancement in motor learning. The development
of required conditional and coordinative abilities also runs
parallel to motor learning process.
6. Stress on Kinesthetic Perception
The kinesthetic perception should be given high
priority in the second phase. The sportsman must be
enabled to correctly perceive it. The role of language in
this regard has already been pointed out in the preceding
point i.e., point No. 5. In addition to facilitate kinesthetic
perception movement feedback should be used. The
feedback during the movement or immediately after the
movement execution is very helpful in this regard. To
make the sportsman aware of kinesthetic sensations the
movement can also be done with minor variations in
speed, force etc. It helps the sportsman to differentiate
between sensations he receives while doing the movement
differently. The aim of improving kinesthetic perception
should not be limited to mere awareness but it should
extend to differentiation and precision in movement
perception.
7. High Movement Correction
In the second phase the movement execution has to
be continuously corrected till it is possible to execute the
movement without error under normal conditions. All
possible means and methods of movement correction
should be used to achieve this target. But all this must
be done in a systematic and organised manner. Major

Complete Guide to Sports Training 88
errors must be removed first. Moreover, at one time the
stress should be laid only on one or two errors and not
more.
8. Competitions
Sports in which technique is to be realised under
standard and unchanging conditions competitions should
be avoided during the second phase. In other sports in
which technique is realised under constantly changing
conditions the competitions are advisable. In these sports
competitions, by the end of second phase, should be
increasingly used as effective means of technique training
as these allow for meaningful technical actions coupled
with tactical aims.
TECHNIQUE TRAINING IN THE THIRD PHASE
The third phase of motor learning starts with the
achievement of fine coordination and leads the sportsman
to achieve mastery over the technique. Mastery of skills
is considered to have been achieved when the sportsman
is able to do the movement successfully under different
and difficult conditions. It denotes the variable
applicability of movement. The important criterion to
judge skill mastery is the ability to do the movement
correctly and effectively in competition.
The third phase of motor learning never ends.
Complete mastery over the technique is never achieved,
and as a result a sportsman has to continue training for
this purpose. The continuity of technique training is also
necessary to effectively maintain the level of skill acquired
and to avoid deterioration due to discontinuity. In addition
to this, there are other factors which can lead to
deterioration in skill. Most common among these are the
effects of periodisation, growth in height and weight and
change in body proportions in childhood and adolescence,
changes in rules and regulations of competition,
introduction of new equipment, surface etc., necessitating
relearning, introduction of new technique and so on. All

89
this makes it imperative to continue technique training
without any end in sight.
In the third phase motor co-ordination achieves a
very high level of perfection. The movement execution is
characterised by a high degree of automatisation.
Movement programming is highly perfect. It takes place
in a highly differentiated manner at all levels of CNS
involved in motor co-ordination. There is a highly
advanced fine programming containing the detailed
programme of dynamic, temporal and spatial aspects of
the movement. The programming is now combined with
anticipation of goal, movement and situation.
Programming is not limited to a single movement
programme but it essentially includes several alternative
programmes of the movement and its variations. At any
moment during the movement execution the CNS can
switch over to an alternate movement programme with
ease and speed.
The muscle innervation is highly differentiated and
accurate due to high level of movement programming.
Different muscles are made to contract at the right time,
with right force and speed and in correct sequence most
appropriate for achieving the goal. The irradiation in motor
centres is practically not there.
Information uptake and synthesis also achieve a very
high level. Sportsman is acutely aware of the various
sensations coming from different sense organs especially
from the kinesthetic, vestibular and tactile sense organs.
There is high level of differentiation, filtering and selection
of information signals which takes place at high speed
and with high accuracy. Sportsman, if he so wants, can
attend to the minutest details during the course of the
movement and even immediately after the movement. A
high level of association between movement perception
and language is a unique characteristic of the mastery of
technique. Verbal description or mental imagination of
the movement calls forth corresponding movement

Complete Guide to Sports Training 90
sensation. The control and regulation of the movement
is now achieved through the internal circuit which is best
equipped for this task. There is a vast store of motor
experience in the memory which helps strongly in the
information uptake and synthesis.
Because of the high level of programming and
information uptake and synthesis the comparison of
intended and actual movement takes place very fast and
accurately. This enables anticipation of movement errors
and corresponding movement correction which is difficult
to be observed by another person. This results in smooth
and graceful movements. Sportsman is in a position to
perceive minute deviations from the intended movement
programme. He also perceives the speed of deviation. This
enables him to correct the movement with high speed
and effectiveness.
A high level of motor co-ordination in the third phase
of motor learning is characterised by several movement
qualities mentioned below:-
1.The movement can be done with high degree of
precision and accuracy.
2.There is a high degree of movement constancy. The
important parameters of movement change very
little from repetition to repetition e.g., speed and
force values or indices.
3.There is also a high degree of movement consistency
or result consistency. Irrespective of the changed
conditions the sportsman is able to achieve fairly
constant results.
4.The movement is also characterised by a high level
of other qualities e.g., movement coupling,
movement flow, movement rhythm etc.
5.The movement execution is accompanied by feelings
of joy, pleasure and satisfaction. Sportsman enjoys
doing the movement which he can do with high
results and with great ease and comfort.

91
IMPLICATION FOR TECHNIQUE TRAINING
The technique training in the third phase is
continuation of the technique training in the second
phase. There is only qualitative difference. In many
respects it resembles the second phase e.g., help and
encouragement, training volume, high concentration and
attention, stress on kinesthetic perception and high
amount of movement correction. In addition the following
guidelines are given:-
1. Practise Under Difficult and Different Conditions
Mastery of skill can only be achieved by practising
the movement under different and difficult conditions.
The application of this principle takes place in two ways
depending on the nature of sports.
(i) Standardised Sports
In these sports the technique is realised under more
or less standard conditions e.g., in swimming, gymnastics,
weightlifting, track and field. In these sports technique
training should aim at stabilisation of movement
execution under different difficult conditions. This is
achieved mostly by practising the movement under higher
psycho-physical load e.g.,
•Practising the movement with different rhythm,
higher resistance, higher speed etc.
•Practising the movement under different external
conditions e.g., ground, surface, weather
conditions, changed ground dimensions etc.
•Practising the movement with minor changes in the
movement execution.
•Practising the movement under higher psychic
stress caused by competition, spectators etc.
•Practising the movement under conditions of
fatigue.
(B) Non Standardised Sports
In these sports the technique is realised under

Complete Guide to Sports Training 92
constantly changing conditions e.g., team games, combat
sports. In these sports technique training should aim at
variable applicability of skill. The movement should be
practised under considerably different conditions. The
important possibilities are mentioned below:-
•Practising the different variations of technique.
•Practising the movement in combination with other
movements.
•Practising the movement from tactical aspect.
•Practising the movement different partners and
opponents.
•By changing the external conditions for movement
practise e.g., size of ball or other equipment, difficult
weather conditions, change in rules, change in
ground dimensions.
2. Development of Movement Concept
The movement concept must be further developed
in the third phase of technique training. All the aspects
and details of movement execution need to be conveyed
to the sportsman gradually and systematically. For this
purpose one should not limit the movement concept only
to diagrams or pictures of the movement. But it should
extend to the kinetic and kinematic aspects of the
movement. The effort should be directed to enable the
sportsman to understand the internal structure of the
movement.
Along with the refinement of the movement concept
effort should be made to develop the required conditional
and co-ordinative abilities still further.
3. Accurate and Precise Feedback
High amount of movement correction is an important
characterstic of the third phase of technique training.
For this purpose the sportsman must be given very
accurate and precise feedback about the movement
execution. For this the coach or teacher should not

93
depend on his subjective judgement only. He should
increasingly use various equipments and apparatus
which can give accurate information about the movement
execution e.g., video films, timing devices,
cinematography, force platform etc. Quick and timely
feedback is essential for achieving mastery of a skill.
4. Increased Use of Competitions
In the third phase competitions should be used as
means of technique training. Competitions involve higher
degree of psycho-physical demands and, therefore, help
in skill acquisition under different and difficult conditions.
Role of competitions for achieving stabilisation of
movement execution as well as for variable applicability
of learnt movement can hardly be exaggerated.
5. Ideo-motor Training
In the third phase because of highly strong link
between language and movement perception ideo motor
training can be used with positive results. Ideo-motor
training, also called mental practise, is helpful for the
precision and stabilisation of temporal and spatial aspects
of movement execution.
Best results by ideo-motor training are achieved
when it is combined with actual movement practise. Ideo-
motor training has also proved to be effective for
maintenance of skill during periods when technique
cannot be done e.g., training break due to injury or illness.
Ideo-motor training is a complex psychological
procedure and should be learnt under expert guidance
before it can be effectively used by a sportsman
independently.
RELEARNING
In sports, sometimes it becomes necessary to change
the already learnt movement. This is called relearning.
Relearning is basically restructuring of a skill to a lesser
of greater extent. Relearning is normally more difficult
than new learning because of high degree of interference

Complete Guide to Sports Training 94
of already learnt movement. It also does not always lead
to good results. In sports, relearning becomes necessary
due to any of the following two factors:-
•Introduction of a new and more effective variation
of technique.
•Presence of a few or a large number of errors in the
movement execution which have been automatised.
The necessity for learning a new variation of
technique mostly arises due to introduction of new
implement or equipment, introduction of new playing
surface, or change in rules and regulations of competition.
In technical sports like gymnastics, diving etc. there is a
continuous change in the movements to increase their
degree of difficulty, thereby necessitating new learning
or relearning. In case of children and adolescents, rapid
growth in height, weight or change in body proportions
can lead to adoption of a new variation of technique.
In India relearning is a common problem faced by
sportsmen due to automatisation of incorrect movement
execution in the initial stages of training or due to non-
availability of standard equipment/implements or playing
surface.
The process of relearning according to Harre can be
divided into the following four phases:-
I. Phase
The old variation of skill is highly dominant and
strongly hinders the new variation. It is not possible to
successfully execute the new variation.
II. Phase
The old variation is destroyed but the new variation
has not yet been adequately learnt. There is still a strong
interference.
III. Phase
The new variation is gradually acquired, but it is not
yet stable and can be easily disturbed if the movement is

95
done under different and stressful conditions. During
competition or under stress the old variation asserts itself
over the new one. The performance with the new variation
is still less as compared with the performance with the
old variation.
IV. Phase
The new variation achieves stability and reliability.
The performance starts improving. But if care is not taken
the old variation can again assert itself. In this phase
mastery of new variation is achieved only after some tome.
Relearning is a long strenuous process and often does
not yields desirable results. Regarding relearning following
suggestions are made:-
1.It is best to avoid relearning, and it can be possible
if the correct variation of technique is taught from
the very beginning. It is helpful to teach a basic
variation of technique in initial stages of training
and on the basis of this in later stages the other
variations can be learnt. It is also important not to
go in for a high degree of automatisation of a
technique in the initial stages as it will make
relearning, if required, more difficult later on.
2.If relearning cannot be avoided it should be planned
on a long term basis. During the process of
relearning, competitions should be avoided. The old
variation should not be used at all in training or in
competition.
3.The process of relearning is very hard on the
sportsman. For best results his full co-operation
and willingness is required. To achieve this coach
must convince the sportsman about the importance
of relearning for his performance improvement. He
should also constantly encourage and motivate the
sportsman to ensure high level and volume of
learning activity.
4.The process of relearning must be continuously
controlled and regulated.

Complete Guide to Sports Training 96
5.Ideo-motor training should be used as an additional
means of technique training. It helps in checking
interference and in facilitating positive transfer.
TRANSFER OF MOTOR LEARNING
Motor learning does not begin from a scratch. There
is always some amount of co-ordination patterns existing
which affect motor learning. In childhood, and also later
on, we acquire certain basic and fundamental movements
which serve as a base for learning other movements.
According to Roleb the motor learning in
later phases of life is essentially a reorganisation and
restructuring of the basic movements learnt in childhood.
The already learnt movements or movement patterns
can help or hinder the learning of new movements. This
effect is called transfer of motor learning. When the
transfer helps in learning a new movement it is called
positive transfer of motor learning. But when it interferes
or hinders new learning it is referred to as negative
transfer or interference.
INTERFERENCE
In sports interference can take place in two forms or
ways: (i) old skill or coordination pattern hindering the
learning of new skill. Relearning falls into this category.
(ii) a skill being learnt hindering the learning of another
skill or vice versa.
Interference does not only take place when the
movement to be learnt is similar to an already learnt
movement. But it can also take place when the two
movements are directly opposite to each other regarding
the coordination mechanisms.
For an effective tackling of the problem of interference
following things should be performed:-
1.Several movements should not be learnt
simultaneously, especially those movements which
are similar to each other.

97
2.Correct variation of technique should be learnt to
avoid relearning at a later stage.
3.Interference is considerably reduced or totally
stopped when the sportsman is able to adequately
differentiate the movement programmes of the skills
concerned. Therefore, the coach must adopt means
and measures to clarify the movement concepts of
the movements. Ideo-motor training or mental
practice can also be used effectively for this purpose.
POSITIVE TRANSFER
The positive transfer can take place in two ways (i)
from an already learnt skill (ii) from a skill being learnt at
the same time. The basis of positive transfer is the
similarities between co-ordination mechanisms of the two
skills. Bernstein  found that for positive transfer the
similarities between the senso-motor co-ordination of two
skills is decisive and not the similarities in the external
aspect of movement execution.
Motor learning process should be consciously
planned and implemented to ensure maximum possible
positive transfer. To achieve this the following steps
should be taken:-
1.The movement should be learnt in a definite
sequence. For this purpose the various exercises
and technical skills should be hierarchically
organised and systematised on the basis of the co-
ordination mechanisms. On the basis of this system
learning of a class of exercise/technical skills is
faster because of the positive transfer from the
exercises previously learnt. Such a systematisation
of exercises laying down the sequence of learning
of various exercises is highly desirable in all sports.
2.The development of required co-ordinative abilities
is a necessary prerequisite for effective positive
transfer as the development of co-ordinative abilities
ensure generalisation and stabilisation of co-

Complete Guide to Sports Training 98
ordination mechanisms for a group of exercises or
technical skills. E.g., balance ability for learning
exercises depending primarily on balance. But care
should be taken to develop special co-ordinative
abilities with specific exercises for best results.
3.The positive transfer is desirably affected by
practising the movement with opposite side, hand
or foot. Both sided practise has been found to have
a positive effect on positive transfer.
METHODS OF TECHNIQUE TRAINING
Method of technique training essentially concern the
regulation of the activity of the teacher and the taught
for the purpose of enhancement of motor learning. There
are three method of technique training. These are used
in different forms in technique training.
(I) PRESENTATION METHOD
In this method the teacher is active and the student
is physically passive but mentally receptive. The main
task accomplished in this method is the presentation of
information and knowledge about the movement to be
learnt by the student. In sports the presentation method
is used in three forms which are described below:-
(A) Demonstration
Demonstration of the technique to be learnt is
normally one of the first steps is technique training. The
complete movement may be demonstrated by the teacher
or some student. Technique is also demonstrated through
films, video, diagrams etc. For the proper utilisation of
demonstration in technique following suggestions are
given:-
1.Correct variation of technique must be selected for
demonstration. The demonstration of this technique
should be correct otherwise the students will form
a wrong movement concept. The movement should
be demonstrated several times during the practice

99
if needed. The demonstration by actually doing the
movement before the students must be further
supplemented by showing the movement in picture,
figures etc. to clarify important aspects of the
technique. Showing films or video recording of the
movement execution of famous sportsmen serves
the additional purpose of creating positive motives
and interests for learning the concerned technique.
2.The technique to be demonstrated should be
suitably modified to correspond with the level of
the students. Highly advanced version of technique
is normally beyond the ability of children and
beginners to realise it in their movements.
3.During demonstration observation tasks should be
set for the students so that they can properly and
systematically observe the important and finer
points of technique.
4.Demonstration can be done in slow movement to
effectively illustrate the fast and complex phases of
movement. For the sake of clarification important
phases, therefore, should be ‘stretched’ or even done
exaggeratedly.
5.To facilitate observation, the class formation should
be correct. All students should be able to clearly
see the complete movement. Demonstration should
also be done at an optimum distance from the
students. If needed, the demonstration should be
done in such a way that the students can observe
the movement from different angles e.g., front, back,
side or from above.
6.Demonstration and explanation normally should not
be given simultaneously especially to the beginners.
For best results the demonstration and explanation
should be in a definite sequence. But while
demonstrating the movement in slow motion or
when using films, figures etc. explanation and

Complete Guide to Sports Training 100
demonstration can be given simultaneously.
(B) Lecture
In sports lectures are not commonly used on the field
during movement practise. These are mainly used in
theory sessions. The contents and method of lecture must
correspond to the level of the students. It must ensure
optimum attention and receptiveness on the part of the
students. Long lectures containing difficult words and
ideas should be avoided. For the purpose of technique
training the lectures must depend considerably on the
use of audio-visual aids.
(C) Explanation
Explanation consists of a few lines, sentences or
hints. An explanation should never become a lecture.
Explanation in technique training should be used for
making the movement concept clear, for correction and
for motivation and encouragement. It is also used to
compare the two movements as well as to generalise the
important aspects of the movement. For effective
explanation in technique training following suggestions
are offered:-
1.It should be short and simple containing only the
information needed for the time being. It should
last for a few seconds only.
2.In an explanation simple language should be used
which can be understood by the students. The
extent to which difficult scientific words and
concepts should be used depends on the knowledge
and mental maturity of the students. They should
be prepared for this gradually through separate
theoretical sessions.
3.Explanation should be used to enable the students
to learn and internalise standard terms and
expressions and to associate these with the actual
sensations they receive during the movement
execution. The use of correct and effective examples

101
is of immense value in this regard. It also helps to
avoid interference and to facilitate positive transfer.
4.In an explanation the vital and crucial aspects of
movement execution should be repeatedly stressed.
5.Explanation should be given in a loud and clear
voice with a tone which is optimistic and motivating.
Explanation should never be depressing and
demoralising.
II. CO-OPERATIVE METHOD
In co-operative method the student and teacher are
both active. The most common variation of co-operative
method is movement practise. In movement practice the
student does the movement for optimum number of times
while the teacher is constantly supervising, helping and
correcting him. There is a high degree of interaction
between them, mental as well as physical. There is a
constant flow of information between the two.
(A) Movement Practise
The manner in which the movement should be
practised in the three phases of motor learning has
already been discussed. Here some more helpful
suggestions are given:-
•The movement to be learnt should be done, with
the required concentration and attention, for
optimum number of times. As the absence of fatigue
is a necessary prerequisite for motor learning
therefore, repetitions should be done in such
manner that fatigue does not accumulate to a
significant extent. It is preferable to arrange the
repetitions in series with pauses of optimum
recovery in between. During the pauses exercises
should be done to accelerate recovery as well as for
removing mental tension.
•The pauses should be utilised to give additional
information and hints about the movement, for

Complete Guide to Sports Training 102
giving demonstrations and also for motivating and
encouraging the students.
•Each repetition of the movement should be done
with the aim of doing the movement in a better way
i.e., repetition without repetition.
•Stress should be laid on conscious movement
perception. Use of language during movement
execution is very helpful in this regard. To start with
it should be done loudly but progressively with lower
voice till it becomes just a mental activity.
•In case of complex movements, the movement
should be broken into parts for the purpose of
learning. Later on with the advancement in learning
the parts should be gradually combined till practice
with the complete movement is possible.
During movement practise certain more measures
are adopted. Due to the importance of these measures
for the effectiveness of movement practise these are
discussed below in more detail.
HELP AND SAFETY
Measures for providing necessary help or assistance
or ensuring safety of the sportsman are not needed for
learning of all type of movements. But in some sports,
due to the nature of movement or technique these
measure have to be adopted.
Help in the form of physical support or assistance
should be given in cases where the students cannot do
the movement on their own e.g., swimming, pole-vault,
gymnastics etc. External help or assistance enables the
students to get a feeling of the complete movement,
thereby enabling better movement concepts. It is also
motivating to the student when they are helped to do the
complete movement. The external help however should
be provided only to that extent to which it is required. It
should not lead to habit formation, thereby hindering the
learning process. Gradually and progressively, the

103
external help should be reduced till it is no more required
by the students.
Safety measures have to be adopted during
movement practise when there is a risk of injury or
mishap. The safety measures should be adopted, if the
situation so warrants, even if the student does not feel
the necessity of it. On the other hand these have to be
adopted if the student thinks he can get injured though
the situation does not warrants this. Use of protective
equipment like pads, mattresses etc., are commonly used.
Much more important is, however, the physical presence
of the coach or helpers to give a feeling of safety to the
student and to induce confidence in him.
HINTS AND IMPULSES
It is quite common during movement practice to
remind the student about various aspects of movement
execution which have been already explained to him. This
is done through hints and impulses. Hints are short
phrases or incomplete short sentences which are loudly
said by the coach to the student while he is doing the
movement e.g. head up; look forward, trunk straight, high
knee action etc. The hints help the student to correct the
movement during the movement execution.
Impulses are special sounds or words to draw the
attention of the student about the application of force
during definite phases of movement execution. There are,
for example, such words or signalled; Now! Hup! Ya! Go!
Jump! etc. These help to do the movement with correct
rhythm. Impulses can also be given in forms of counts.
The impulses, to be effective, must be given at the right
time otherwise these tend to disturb the motor co-
ordination. As a rule impulses should be given fraction
of a second before the required application of force. It is
always better if the impulses are preceded by some sort
of a sound so that the student prepares himself for the
coming impulse and can effectively make use of it.

Contents
1.Sports Training—Definitions, Aims, Functions 1-9
and Characteristics
Definitions of Sports Training and Coaching 1
Aims of Sports Training 2
Functions of Sports Training 3
Characteristics of Sports Training 6
2.Principles and Means of Sports Training 10-18
Principles of Sports Training 10
Training Means 15
3.Transfer the Training 19-24
Concept of Transfer of Training 19
Kinds of Transfer of Training 21
Various Factors Affecting Transfer of Training 22
Different Theories of Transfer of Training 23
4.Training Planning 25-30
Meaning 25
Types of Training Plans 27
5.Training Load and Adaptation Process 31-47
Training Load 31
Definitions of Load 31
Types of Load 32
Factors of Load 32
Principles of Training Load 33
Judgement of Training Load 35
Meaning of Overload 36

Causes of Overload 37
Symptoms of Overload 39
Tackling of Overload 40
Adaptation Process 41
6.Training Methods 48-61
Definitions of Training 48
Meaning of Training Methods 48
Methods in Sports Training 49
Methods of Strength Development 49
7.Flexibility 62-67
Meaning 62
Definition 62
Forms/Types of Flexibility 63
Factors Determining Flexibility 63
Methods of Improving Flexibility 64
8.Importance of Techniques in Sports 68-103
Training
Technique, Skill and Style in sports training 69
Motor Co-ordination 72
Aims of Technique in Sports 74
Rational Technique 76
Relearning 93
Transfer of Motor Learning 96
Methods of Technique Training 98