CONDITIONING  
FOR STRENGTH  
AND HUMAN  
PERFORMANCE
Fully revised and updated, the third edition of Conditioning for Strength and Human Performance  
provides strength and conditioning students with the clearest and most accessible introduction to 
the scientific principles underpinning the discipline. Covering bioenergetics and nutrition, a sys-tematic approach to physiological and endocrinological adaptations to training and the biome -
chanics of resistance training, no other book provides such a thorough grounding in the science of strength and conditioning or better prepares students for evidence-based practice.
T. Jeff Chandler, CSCS, NSCA-CPT, FACSM, FNSCA  has previously served as Professor and 
Department Chair at Marshall University, USA, and as Professor and Department Head at 
Jacksonville State University, USA. Dr. Chandler has 12 years of experience in a clinical sports medicine setting at the Lexington Clinic Sports Medicine Center, USA. He is the Editor in Chief of the Strength and Conditioning Journal, the professional journal of the National Strength and 
Conditioning Association, serving in that position since 1998.
Lee E. Brown, EdD, CSCS
*D, FNSCA, FACSM was on the faculty at California State University, 
Fullerton, USA, from 2002–2017 and was the Director of the Center for Sport Performance and 
the Human Performance Laboratory. He was President of the National Strength and Conditioning Association (NSCA), the NSCA Foundation, and the Southwest American College of Sports Medicine (SWACSM). He also sat on the Board of Trustees of the national American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) and is a Fellow of both the ACSM and the NSCA.

CONDITIONING 
FOR STRENGTH 
AND HUMAN 
PERFORMANCE
THIRD EDITION
EDITED BY T. JEFF CHANDLER AND LEE E. BROWN

Third edition published 2019
by Routledge2 Park Square, Milton Park, Abingdon, Oxon OX14 4RN
and by Routledge
711 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10017
Routledge is an imprint of the Taylor & Francis Group, an informa business 2019 selection and editorial matter, T. Jeff Chandler and Lee E. Brown; 
individual chapters, the contributors
The right of T. Jeff Chandler and Lee E. Brown to be identified as the 
authors of the editorial material, and of the authors for their individual chapters, has been asserted in accordance with sections 77 and 78 of the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988.
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reprinted or reproduced or 
utilised in any form or by any electronic, mechanical, or other means, now known or hereafter invented, including photocopying and recording, or in any information storage or retrieval system, without permission in writing from the publishers.
Trademark notice: Product or corporate names may be trademarks or 
registered trademarks, and are used only for identification and explanation without intent to infringe.
First edition published by Lippincott Williams & Wilkins 2008
Second edition published by Lippincott Williams & Wilkins 2013
British Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data
A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Names: Chandler, T. Jeff, editor. | Brown, Lee E., 1956- editor.Title: Conditioning for strength and human performance / edited by T. Jeff 
Chandler and Lee E. Brown.
Description: Third edition. | New York, NY : Routledge, 2018. | Includes 
index.
Identifiers: LCCN 2018004165| ISBN 9781138218062 (hbk) | ISBN 
9781138218086 (pbk) | ISBN 9781315438443 (web pdf) | ISBN 9781315438429 (mobi) | ISBN 9781315438450 (ebk)
Subjects: LCSH: Physical fitness—Health aspects. | Exercise—Physiological 
aspects. | Physical education and training.
Classification: LCC RA781 .C43 2018 | DDC 613.7—dc23
ISBN: 978-1-138-21806-2 (hbk)
ISBN: 978-1-138-21808-6 (pbk)ISBN: 978-1-315-43845-0 (ebk)
Typeset in Sabon
by Swales & Willis, Exeter, Devon, UK
Visit the companion website: www.routledge.com/cw/chandler

DEDICATIONS
For Theresa, you are the reason I am alive,  
and you are my reason for living.
LEB, 2018
To my wife, Pam; my son Britt and his family; and  
my daughter Kate and her family. With much love!
TJC, 2018

Contributors  ix
Preface  xi
PART 1  Basic science  1
 1 Bioenergetics  3
T. Jeff Chandler, W. Britt Chandler,  
and C. Eric Arnold
 2 The cardiorespiratory system  23
Andy Bosak
 3 The neurom uscular system  51
Jared W. Coburn, Travis W. Beck,  
Herbert A. deVries, Terry J. Housh, Kristen C. Cochrane-Snyman, and  Evan E. Schick
 4 The skeletal system  77
W. Britt Chandler, T. Jeff Chandler,  and Clint Alley
 5 Biomechanics of resistance  
training  97
Scott K. Lynn, Guillermo J. Noffal,  and Derek N. Pamukoff
 6 The endocrine system  125
Andy Bosak
 7 Nutrition  163
Colin D. Wilborn, Lem Taylor,  
and Jaci N. DavisCONTENTS
PART 2   Organization and 
administration  189
 8 Facility administration and  
design  191
Allen Hedrick
 9 Warm-up and flexibility  213
Duane V. Knudson
10 T est administration and 
interpretation  233
Megan A. Wong, Ian J. Dobbs,  
Casey M. Watkins, and  Lee E. Brown
11 Resistance exer cise techniques  
and spotting  269
Ryan T. McManus and  Andrew J. Galpin
PART 3   Exercise  
prescription  345
12 Needs analysis  347
Andy V. Khamoui, Michael C.  Zourdos, and Lee E. Brown
13 Program design  357
Nathan Serrano and  Andrew J. Galpin

CONTENTS
 viii
14 Periodization of resistance  
training: concepts and  
paradigms  371
William J. Kraemer and  
Matthew K. Beeler
15 Aerobic exercise prescription  397
Anthony B. Ciccone,  Loree L. Weir, and Joseph P. Weir
16 Resistance training  
prescription  417
Michael C. Zourdos, Andy V.  
Khamoui, and Lee E. Brown
17 Plyometric, speed, agility,  
and quickness exercise  
prescription  433
Casey M. Watkins, Saldiam R.  Barillas, Megan A. Wong,  
and Lee E. Brown
18 Implement training  479
Allen HedrickPART 4  Special topics  527
19 Applied sport psycholog y 529
Traci A. Statler
20 Strength training for special 
populations  547
Marie E. Pepin, Joseph A. Roche,  
and Moh H. Malek
21 Age and gender training 
considerations  573
Tammy K. Evetovich and  
Joan M. Eckerson
22 Injury prevention and  
rehabilitation  601
Todd S. Ellenbecker, Jake Bleacher,  Tad Pieczynski, and Anna Thatcher
23 Ergogenic aids  641
Colin D. Wilborn, Lem Taylor,  
and Jaci N. Davis
Index  667

Clint Alley, MS
The Forge
C. Eric Arnold, PhD
University of Tampa
Saldiam R. Barillas, MS, CSCS, USAW, RYT 
200
Cardiff Metropolitan UniversityTravis W. Beck, PhD
University of Oklahoma
Matthew K. Beeler, MA, CSCS
The Ohio State University
Andy Bosak, PhD, EP-C, CSCS
*D
Liberty UniversityJake Bleacher, MSPT, OCS, CSCS
The Ohio State University
W. Britt Chandler, MS, CSCS, 
*D
Lexington, KYAnthony B. Ciccone, PhD, CSCS
Utah Valley University
Jared W. Coburn, PhD, CSCS
*D, FNSCA, 
FACSM
California State University, FullertonKristen C. Cochrane-Snyman, PhD, CSCS*D
California State University, FresnoJaci N. Davis, BS
University of Mary Hardin-Baylor
Herbert A. deVries, PhD, FACSM
University of Southern California
Ian J. Dobbs, MS, CSCS
*D
Cardiff Metropolitan UniversityJoan M. Eckerson, PhD
Creighton University
Todd S. Ellenbecker, DPT, MS, SCS, OCS, CSCS
Rehab Plus Sports Therapy, Scottsdale, Arizona
Tammy K. Evetovich, PhD, CSCS, ACSM  
EP-C, FACSM
Wayne State CollegeAndrew J. Galpin, PhD, CSCS
*D, NSCA-
CPT*D, FNSCA
California State University, FullertonAllen Hedrick, MA, CSCS
*D, FNSCA
Colorado State University-PuebloTerry J. Housh, PhD, FACSM, FNSCA
University of NebraskaCONTRIBUTORS

CONTRIBUTORS
 x
Andy V. Khamoui, PhD, CSCS
Florida Atlantic University
Duane V. Knudson, PhD, FACSM, FISBS, 
RFSA
Texas State UniversityWilliam J. Kraemer, PhD, CSCS
*D, FNSCA, 
FACSM, FISSN, FACN
The Ohio State University
Scott K. Lynn, PhD
California State University, Fullerton
Moh H. Malek, PhD, FACSM, FNSCA, 
CSCS*D
Wayne State UniversityRyan T. McManus, MS, CSCS
California State University, Fullerton
Guillermo J. Noffal, PhD
California State University, Fullerton
Derek N. Pamukoff, PhD
California State University, Fullerton
Marie E. Pepin PT, DPT, MSPT, OMPT
Wayne State University
Tad Pieczynski, MSPT, OCS, CSCS
Rehab Plus Sports Therapy, Scottsdale, Arizona
Joseph A. Roche BPT, Dip. Rehab. PT, PhD
Wayne State UniversityEvan E. Schick, PhD, CSCSCalifornia State University, Long Beach
Nathan Serrano, CSCS, USAW
California State University, Fullerton
Traci A. Statler, PhD, CMPC, CSCS
California State University, Fullerton
Lem Taylor, PhD, FACSM, FISSN
University of Mary Hardin Baylor
Anna Thatcher, DPT, SCS, OCS, ATC,  
CSCS
AZ Sports Center Rehabilitation and  
Pilates
Casey M. Watkins, MS, CSCS
Auckland University of Technology
Joseph P. Weir, PhD, FACSM, FNSCA
University of Kansas
Loree L. Weir, PhD
University of Kansas
Colin D. Wilborn, PhD, CSCS
*D, FNSCA, 
FISSN
University of Mary Hardin BaylorMegan A. Wong, MS
Cardiff Metropolitan University
Michael C. Zourdos, PhD, CSCS
Florida Atlantic University

Welcome to the third edition of Conditioning 
for Strength and Human Performance . The 
field of strength and conditioning is grow-
ing exponentially along with an enormous increase in the science surrounding human adaptations related to training. This makes for a difficult task to stay abreast of new infor -
mation. In this new edition, we have not only added the latest scientific published results but also new and expanded content related to the critical factors associated with human physi -
ology systems, psychology, periodized training and neuromuscular adaptations to exercise.
This third edition retains the illustrative fig-
ures and photos of previous editions so vital to making the material inside come to life for stu-dents. In addition, laboratory activities have been enhanced to provide students with real hands-on experiences designed to highlight scientific theory and phenomena found in each chapter. Finally, all pedagogical elements remain including key points, case examples and real-world applications along with instructor slides and test questions.PREFACE
The book is divided into four sections: 
Basic science, Organization and administra-tion, Exercise prescription and Special topics. A new chapter has been added on Needs anal -
ysis to provide a foundation for determining the needs of the athlete and the demands of the sport and how these characteristics match. Following this chapter is another new addi -
tion on Program design which breaks down the systematic planning of resistance train -
ing into an easy to follow manageable task. Lastly, Age and gender have been combined and expanded as extraordinary issues of Special populations as they are two of the most important aspects affecting performance in strength and conditioning.
We hope the additional content of this 
third edition serves both instructor and stu -
dent well. It has been our pleasure to write and compile this information into a unique educa -
tional textbook. We hope you will also enjoy reading and using it to maximize your own or your athlete’s performance.

1 PART
BASIC SCIENCE
1 Bioenergetics  3
2 The cardiorespiratory system  23
3 The neuromuscular system  51
4 The skeletal system  77
5 Biomechanics of resistance training  97
6 The endocrine system  125
7 Nutrition  163

Contents
Introduction  3
Enzymes  5
The “creation” of chemical energy  7
Energy systems  7
Lactate  15
Summary of catabolic processes in the production of cellular energy  16
Efficiency of the energy producing pathways  16
Limiting factors of performance  18
Oxygen consumption  18
Metabolic specificity  19
Summary  20
References  20

1 CHAPTER
OBJECTIVES
After completing this chapter, you will be able to:
• Identify the biological energy systems and explain their role in human athletic performance.
• Explain the concept of metabolic specificity and sources of energy as related to human athletic 
performance.
• Discuss the role of enzymes in catalyzing chemical reactions.
• Explain the role of lactic acid and lactate in human athletic performance.
• Demonstrate an understanding of the limiting factors in human athletic performance.BIOENERGETICS
T. Jeff Chandler, W. Britt Chandler, and C. Eric Arnold
KEY TERMS
Activation energy
AnabolicATPBioenergeticsBlood lactateCarbohydrateCardiorespiratory 
endurance
CatabolicChemical energyCytoplasmDeaminatedElectron transport  
system (ETS)
EndergonicEnzymesExcess post-exercise 
oxygen consumption
ExergonicGluconeogenesisKrebs cycleMechanical  
energy
MitochondriaOxygen consumptionOxygen deficitPhosphatePhosphofructokinase 
(PFK)
Q10 effectRate limiting enzymeReactantSpecificity of trainingSteady stateSubstrateThermodynamics
INTRODUCTION
Human movement requires energy, and energy 
is vital for athletic performance. Bioenergetics  is the flow of energy in biological systems and is a key consideration during exercise. For any physical activity, energy must be generated, and used by the body to accomplish the task. 

T. JEFF CHANDLER ET AL.4
The source of energy influences the ability  
of the sprinter to complete the 100-meter dash, 
the marathoner to complete a run, and the weightlifter to complete a lift. Understanding metabolism, specifically understanding the energy systems that are used during various types of exercise, is vital in developing effec -
tive activity-specific conditioning programs. With a basic knowledge of bioenergetics, the student can understand why specific chemical reactions that take place in skeletal muscles are turned on and how energy from these chemi -
cal reactions fuel muscles during exercise.
Bioenergetics is the study of sources of energy in 
living organisms, and how that energy is ultimately utilized.
The food we eat contains energy in 
the form of chemical energy . We store this 
chemical energy in our body in the forms of 
glycogen, fat, and protein. Ultimately, the chemical energy stored can be released to pro -
vide energy to produce adenosine triphosphate (ATP). ATP is the primary source of energy to support muscle contraction during exer -
cise. The structure of ATP is comprised of an adenine group, a ribose group, and three 
phos-
phate  groups joined together (Figure 1.1).The formation of the ATP occurs by com-bining adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and inorganic phosphate (Pi). This process requires a substantial amount of energy that must be captured from the food we eat.
ATP is the high energy molecule responsible for 
muscular contraction and other life sustaining metabolic reactions in the human body.
ATP is a high energy molecule that stores 
energy in the form of chemical bonds. Energy 
is released when the chemical bonds that join ADP and Pi together to form ATP are bro-ken (Figure 1.2). The chemical energy derived 
from the breaking of the chemical bonds pro -
vides energy to generate 
ATP, and thus energy 
to perform various types of exercise.
Metabolism is the total of anabolic  and 
catabolic  processes. A catabolic process breaks 
larger compounds into smaller compounds. In metabolism, this involves the breakdown of substances such as 
carbohydrate  to provide 
fuel for the muscles during exercise. An ana-bolic reaction builds larger substances from smaller substances.
METABOLISM = CATABOLISM + ANABOLISM.
Ribose groupATPPi Pi PiPhosphate groupAdenine group
Figure 1.1  The basic structure of ATP. Energy is stored in the three phosphate bonds.

BIOENERGETICS5
ENZYMES
Enzymes  are protein structured molecules 
that speed or facilitate certain chemical reac -
tions by lowering the energy of activation of 
a chemical reaction (7). The energy of activa -
tion is considered an energy barrier that must be overcome for a chemical reaction to occur 
(Figure 1.3). Enzymes lower the 
activation 
energy , or the amount of energy needed to 
cause a specific chemical reaction to occur. In this way, enzymes facilitate metabolic chemi -
cal reactions. The enzyme does not become  
a part of the product, but remains intact as  
an enzyme.
A chemical reaction is classified as either 
an 
exergonic  or an endergonic  reaction. An 
exergonic reaction gives up energy and an endergonic reaction absorbs energy from its sur -
roundings. During a 100-meter sprint, ATP is  
being broken down in the muscle and energy is being released (exergonic reaction) and utilized by the muscles (endergonic reaction) that are being actively recruited during the activity. An exergonic reaction is illustrated 
in Figure 1.4 where A → B is a spontaneous  ATP Regeneration
Pi
Pi
Pi PiPi Pi
ATP
Energy
captured
from cellular
respirationEnergy
released and
utilized by
metabolic reactions
ADP
Figure 1.2  Regeneration of ATP. Energy is released when ATP is broken down into ADP and Pi. ATP is 
regenerated from ADP and energy captured from food.
Course of actionActivation energy without
enzyme
Activation energy with enzymeEnergy
Figure 1.3  Energy of activation. An enzyme lowers 
the amount of energy that must be overcome for a 
chemical reaction to occur.

T. JEFF CHANDLER ET AL.6
downhill reaction. In this example, the reactant ’s  
(A) (ATP) energy level is greater than the 
product(s) (ADP + Pi) (7).
An endergonic reaction is illustrated in Figure 
1.5 where C →  D is a nonspontaneous uphill 
reaction (7). In this example, the energy level of the product(s) is greater than the reactant(s) (7). The C → D transition will not occur unless an 
enzyme is present to lower the energy of activa -
tion (7). The energy of activation serves as an energy barrier to the chemical reaction (7).
Metabolism is a series of enzyme con -
trolled chemical reactions to store or use 
energy. Metabolism (Figure 1.6) begins with a substrate, which is the beginning material in the reaction.
 In each step, the substrate under -
goes a chemical change catalyzed by enzymes. At each step, the substrate is modified, and the modified compounds are referred to as intermediates. In the final step, the resulting compound is referred to as the product.
In a series of metabolic reactions, one 
enzyme is generally referred to as the 
rate 
limiting enzyme . A rate limiting enzyme 
is defined as an enzyme that catalyzes the slowest step in a series of chemical reac-
tions (Figure 1.7). Generally, the rate limiting enzyme catalyzes the first step in the series of chemical reactions.
 To stimulate or inhibit 
a series of reactions, a substance must affect the rate limiting step. This is referred to as a negative feedback system, because the change that occurs is in the opposite direction from what was happening before the feedback.BProductsReaction
gives off
energyEnergy of
activationReactants
Enzymes –
lower the energy
of activationA
Figure 1.4  Exergonic chemical reaction. In an 
exergonic reaction, the energy level of the reactant(s) 
is greater than that of the product(s).Products
D
Reaction requires
an input of energy
Reactants
C
Figure 1.5  Endergonic chemical reaction. In 
an endergonic reaction, the energy level of the product(s) is greater than that of the reactant(s).
Substrate Intermediate 1 Intermediate 2 Intermediate 3
ProductsEnzyme 1 Enzyme 2 Enzyme 3 Enzyme 4
Figure 1.6  Metabolism. In this metabolic pathway, enzymes facilitate chemical reactions that change a substrate 
to intermediates and, finally, to a product.

BIOENERGETICS7
Enzymes are influenced by changes in 
both pH and temperature. Changes in pH can influence key enzymes that control metabolic pathways. During high-intensity exercise pH decreases within muscle which may affect enzyme function and could slow down glycol -
ysis, reducing the amount of ATP available for muscle contraction.
Temperature can have an important effect 
on enzymatic reactions. This effect is studied by changing the temperature in multiples of 10° C and is referred to as the 
Q10 effect .
Increasing the temperature by 10° C 
doubles the speed of the enzymatic reaction. From a practical perspective, warming up the muscles prior to engaging in physical activ -
ity allows the athlete to take advantage of the Q10 effect.
THE “CREATION” OF 
CHEMICAL ENERGY
Where does energy come from? Energy is nei -
ther created nor destroyed but can be changed 
from one form to another. This concept rein -
forces the first law of thermodynamics , the 
physical science dealing with energy exchange, where energy is “changed” from one form to another. The first law of thermodynamics can be applied to muscle contraction. During exercise, chemical energy in the form of ATP is transformed into 
mechanical energy  in the form of muscle contraction. Without chemical energy from the breakdown of ATP, mechani -
cal energy in the form of muscle contraction could not occur.
The origin of the chemical energy that 
we take into our bodies is an anabolic pro -
cess called photosynthesis. In photosynthesis, green plants, in the presence of sunlight and chlorophyll, take carbon dioxide and water and change it into carbohydrate (a carbon/hydrogen/oxygen compound) with oxygen given off into the atmosphere. It is this reac -
tion that converts the sun’s energy to chemical energy that we need to live and replenishes the oxygen supply in our atmosphere. These car -
bohydrate compounds formed in green plants are the basic form of energy needed by man. This carbon structure can be modified through anabolic reactions to form fats, which also contain carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, and proteins, which contain carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen.
ENERGY SYSTEMS
There are three distinct yet closely integrated energy systems that operate together in a coor -
dinated fashion to provide energy for muscle contraction: the phosphocreatine system, the anaerobic glycolytic system, and the oxidative system. The phosphocreatine and anaerobic glycolytic systems provide ATP at a high rate Rate-limiting
enzymeInhibition (from negative feedback)
Substrate Intermediate 1 Intermediate 2 Intermediate 3
ProductsEnzyme 2 Enzyme 3 Enzyme 4
Figure 1.7  Inhibition of a chemical reaction. A rate limiting enzyme is inhibited by the final product of the 
reaction through negative feedback mechanism.

T. JEFF CHANDLER ET AL.8
to support muscle contraction during short 
bursts of high intensity exercise such as a 200-meter sprint. However, the supply of ATP by the phosphocreatine and anaerobic glycolytic energy systems is limited.
There are three energy systems that provide ATP 
for muscular work: the phosphocreatine system, the anaerobic glycolytic system, and the oxidative system.
The oxidative system predominates dur -
ing low to moderate exercise intensity when 
oxygen is available to the muscle. At lower exercise intensities such as during walking, ATP demand is low and energy can be supplied at a high enough rate through the oxidative energy systems (20). At higher exercise inten -
sities, ATP demand is high; energy cannot be supplied solely by oxidative metabolism (20). The anaerobic glycolytic system, therefore, must fill this gap between the phosphocreatine system and the oxidative system. During high intensity exercise, the supply of ATP must be derived from the phosphocreatine and anaero-bic glycolytic energy systems.
It is important to note that all three 
energy systems are active at a given point in time, but one system will predominate based on the conditions at that time (Table 1.1). Each energy system operates like a dimmer switch in that they are not completely turned off but transitioned from one energy system to the next based on energy requirements of the muscle during exercise.
Figure 1.8 provides a graphic representa-tion of the overlap and timing of the major 
energy systems. Box 1.1 provides a summary of the transition of energy systems from one to the next.
Exercise intensity is the most important variable 
related to which energy system is activated to produce ATP for muscular work.Energy system
Oxidative
system
Glycolytic
system (fast) and
oxidative system
Glycolytic
system (fast)
Phosphocreatine
and glycolytic
system (slow)
Phosphocreatine
system
02 55 07 5 100 125 150 175 2000–10 s0–30 s30 s to 2 min2–3 min<3 min & rest
Time (s)
Figure 1.8  The energy systems and their 
approximate contributions to various durations of exercise at maximal intensity. Note the overlapping and timing of the various energy systems.
Box 1.1  Energy system transition
The recruitment and activation of energy systems during exercise are analogous to a dimmer 
switch in your dining room that controls the level of lighting. The phosphocreatine energy system is the first energy system recruited, followed by anaerobic glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation (e.g., aerobic metabolism). The dimmer switch in your dining room provides more light to the room as you turn the dimmer switch up and less light as you turn it down. This dimmer switch relationship applies to all energy systems, the phosphocreatine system, anaerobic glycolysis, and the oxidative systems. As exercise progresses, the energy systems transition from one energy system to the next to provide the ATP needed to provide energy for the muscles to perform. As one system fades, the next system begins to take over the demand for the production of energy.

BIOENERGETICS9
Exercise intensity, duration, and the mode of 
exercise each play an instrumental role in deter -
mining which energy system will predominate during exercise. However, exercise intensity plays the most important role in dictating which energy system is activated.
Exercise intensity is prescribed using a 
percentage of maximal 
oxygen consumption  
(% VO 2 max). Maximal oxygen consumption 
is defined as the greatest amount of oxygen utilization that occurs during dynamic exer -
cise and is measured in either mL/kg/min or l/min. For example, an individual may be pre -
scribed exercise that requires 70% of his or her VO
2 max.
Understanding when a specific energy 
system is turned on during various activities and/or sporting events can assist the strength coach in developing programs that are meta-bolically specific.
The phosphocreatine system
ATP is broken down to release energy (a cat -
abolic process) and can be regenerated from its component parts, an adenosine group and three 
phosphate groups . Conversely, energy is 
required to add a phosphate group to an aden-osine group, which is an anabolic process.
Box 1.2 lists the characteristics of the 
phosphocreatine system.
When muscular energy is needed for a 
short period of time, the phosphocreatine sys-tem is capable of supplying most of the needed ATP. The phosphocreatine system will also supply energy in the beginning stages of all types of exercise. ATP is produced in the phos -
phocreatine system anaerobically (without oxygen present). There are three basic reac-tions in the phosphocreatine system (Figure 1.9). When physical activity is initiated,
 ATP 
stored in the muscles is utilized. All activities are initiated 
anaerobically, as it takes time 
to begin to produce ATP aerobically. The phosphocreatine system can regenerate ATP anaerobically, allowing anaerobic activity to proceed at a maximal or near maximal level, but only for a short period of time.
Myosin ATPase reaction
The first step in the phosphocreatine system is the breakdown of ATP to ADP + Pi in the presence of the enzyme myosin ATPase. This reaction produces energy for muscle contrac -
tion anaerobically. Some ATP is stored in the muscles to perform this task. As mentioned, the initiation of all activity depends on this TABLE 1.1  The energy systems and their 
approximate contributions to various durations of 
exercise at maximal intensity (1)
Energy system Duration
Phosphagen system 0–10 seconds
Phosphogen system and glycolytic system(slow)10–30 seconds
Glycolytic system (fast) 30 seconds–2 minutes
Glycolytic system (fast) and oxidative system2–3 minutes
Oxidative system < 3 minutes and rest
Note: At submaximal intensity, each system can supply ATP 
for a longer time period.
Recovery from energy expenditure is aerobic.
Box 1.2  Phosphocreatine system characteristics
1 Involves only one chemical step
2 Catalyzed by the enzyme creatine kinase (CK)
3 Very fast chemical reaction
4 One ATP generated per creatine phosphate molecule
5 Lasts for 5–10 seconds at maximal intensity
6 Anaerobic
7 Fatigue associated with creatine phosphate depletion
8 The dominant energy system in speed and explosive po wer events

T. JEFF CHANDLER ET AL.10
stored ATP. Following the initial breakdown 
of ATP, there are two reactions that regener -
ate ATP anaerobically. These reactions are often named by the enzymes that catalyze the reactions: the creatine kinase reaction and the myokinase reaction.
Creatine kinase reaction
In the creatine kinase reaction phosphocre-atine is combined with ADP in the presence of the enzyme creatine kinase to form new ATP.
Myokinase reaction
A second reaction that can regenerate ATP anaerobically over the short term is the myoki -
nase reaction which regenerates ATP from two ADP. This reaction results in the production of one ATP and one AMP. The production of AMP is important to the control of metabolism, as AMP is a potent stimulator of glycolysis.In summary, the ATP used in the phos -
phocreatine system starts with energy from carbohydrates (or fats or proteins) with the energy from the food stored in the chemical bonds between adenosine and phosphate (see Figure 1.1). ATP is broken down to provide 
energy and can also be “recharged” anaero -
bically
. When ATP is regenerated, energy is 
stored. When ATP is used for energy, energy  
is released. ATP is the ultimate source of energy for muscular contraction.
Regulation of energy production
The energy charge of the cell  (ATP/ADP ratio) 
plays an integral role in regulating the phos -
phocreatine system. The energy charge of the muscle cell provides information on how much energy (ATP) is available in the muscle to support the activity.Myosin
ATPase
Pi Pi Pi Pi Pi
Pi
ATP ADPEnergy + +
A
PiPi Pi Pi Pi
ATP ADPPCrCreatine
kinase
Cr++
B
Pi Pi
ADP+Pi PiPi Pi Pi
ATP
ADPMyokinase
Pi
AMP+
C
Figure 1.9  Reactions of the phosphagen system. (A) myosin ATPase reaction; (B) creatine kinase reaction; and 
(C) myokinase reaction.

BIOENERGETICS11
Increased ADP concentration in the cell 
stimulates creatine kinase, the key regulatory 
control enzyme of the phosphocreatine system. An increase in intracellular ATP inhibits creatine kinase decreasing the rate of the enzymatic reac -
tion. Therefore, high levels of ADP stimulate creatine kinase which accelerates the break-down of PCr + ADP →  ATP + Cr and provides 
energy for short-term high intensity exercise. High levels of ADP in the muscle would reflect that ATP is being extensively used by the muscle for providing energy for generating force as in a 200-meter run. Low levels of ADP in the muscle would reflect that ATP is not being used exten -
sively as in, for example, walking at a slow pace.
Post-exercise phosphocreatine resynthesis 
occurs between 2 and 3 minutes of recovery (20) using the phosphocreatine energy shut-tle. This process involves shuttling Cr and PCr between sites of utilization (e.g., myofibrils) and sites of regeneration (e.g., 
mitochondria ).
When specifically training recovery of the 
phosphocreatine system, it may be advanta-geous for the athlete performing 40-meter sprints to allow for a 2–3 minute recovery to optimize phosphocreatine resynthesis (12). This would also apply to resistance training when an athlete is training for recovery of the phospho -
creatine system. Allowing an adequate recovery time between sprints and resistance sets would provide more ATP availability through the phosphocreatine chemical reaction.
The glycolytic system
The glycolytic system, or anaerobic glycoly-sis, involves the breakdown of carbohydrate anaerobically to produce energy. Fats and proteins cannot be metabolized in the glyco -
lytic system. The carbohydrate (the substrate) comes from either blood glucose or glycogen stored in the liver or muscles. There are two types of glycolysis, fast glycolysis and slow glycolysis (Figure 1.10). Slow glycolysis is sometimes referred to as “aerobic glycolysis” (7) because pyruvate is converted to acetyl-CoA if oxygen is present, and to lactic acid if no oxygen is present. Box 1.3 provides an analogy for the A
TP investment and genera -
tion phases in glycolysis.Fast glycolysis
CHO Pyruvate Lactic acid
Slow glycolysis
CHO Pyruvate Acetyl-CoA
Figure 1.10  Reactions of fast and slow glycolysis. Pyruvate is converted to lactic acid if no oxygen is present, 
and to acetyl-CoA in the Kreb’s cycle if oxygen is present.
Box 1.3  ATP inv estment and generation phases in glycolysis
In the initial phases of anaerobic glycolysis, 2 ATP must be invested into the system, and 4 ATP are 
eventually produced for a net gain of 2 ATP. This investment of ATP is like an investment in a stock (e.g., IBM stock), and ATP generation is like a profit gained from a stock (e.g., IBM stock). So, there is a net total of 2 ATPs generated from the metabolism of 1 glucose molecule in glycolysis. Glycoly -
sis is like investing in a stock where you invest $200 and gain $400 dollars at the end of a quarter. Therefore, you have a net gain of $200: double what you had when you initially invested in the stock.

T. JEFF CHANDLER ET AL.12
Fast glycolysis breaks down glucose 
(CHO) to pyruvate and eventually to lactic 
acid anaerobically with the net production of 2 ATP. If glycogen is the substrate, 1 ATP is saved, and there is a net production of 3 ATP.
Slow glycolysis is the path the pyruvate 
takes if sufficient oxygen is present for aerobic metabolism. When oxygen is present, pyruvate is changed through a series of biochemical reactions to acetyl CoA, the first compound in the 
Krebs cycle . Slow glycolysis prepares 
the carbon compound (pyruvate) to enter the aerobic pathway. Glycolytic reactions take place for the most part in the 
cytoplasm  of the 
cell, the watery medium between the cell mem-brane and the nucleus. The final step in slow glycolysis, pyruvate to acetyl CoA, takes place in the mitochondria.
Anaerobic glycolysis produces a net gain of 2 ATP, 
but it is able to proceed when there is no O2 
present.
The control enzyme of the glycolytic sys -
tem is phosphofructokinase (PFK ). PFK is the 
rate limiting enzyme that controls the rate 
of glycolysis. PFK is inhibited by high levels of ATP, phosphocreatine, citrate, free fatty acids, and a markedly decreased pH. PFK is stimulated by high concentrations of inorganic phosphate (Pi), ADP, phosphate, ammonia, and is strongly stimulated by AMP. Box 1.4 summarizes the basic characteristics of the gly-colytic system.The oxidative system
The oxidative system aerobically oxidizes or “burns” carbohydrates (or other carbon con-taining structures obtained from fat or protein). The preferred fuels for aerobic metabolism are carbohydrates and fats, but protein can be 
deaminated  by removing the amino group, the 
nitrogenous component of the carbon/hydrogen/oxygen/nitrogen compound, and oxidizing the remaining carbon/hydrogen/oxygen compound aerobically. The oxidative system is a complex process that involves two parts: the Krebs cycle (citric acid cycle) (Figure 1.11) and the 
electron 
transport system  (ETS)  (Figure 1.12).
The Krebs cycle  is a complex series of 
enzyme controlled metabolic reactions. The Krebs cycle takes place in the mitochondria, which is the site of aerobic ATP production. The Krebs cycle plays an integral role in oxidizing carbohydrates, fats, and proteins. The electron transport chain takes place in the inner mem -
brane of the mitochondria and is responsible for the aerobic production of ATP. The Krebs cycle generates electrons in the form of hydrogen ions shuttled through the ETS by electron carriers (FAD+ or NAD+). It is in the ETS that many ATP molecules are generated. Aerobic meta-bolic reactions take place in the mitochondria, an organelle inside the cell membrane in the cytoplasm. One molecule of glucose oxidized aerobically produces approximately 38 ATP (7).
Skeletal muscle mitochondrial oxidative 
capacity declines with age and likely has a nega -
tive effect on activities of daily living including walking. Recent evidence indicates muscle 
Box 1.4  Characteristics of the glycolytic system
1 18 chemical reactions, 6 ar e repeated
2 12 chemical compounds, 11 enzymes
3 Phosphofructokinase (PFK) is the rate limiting enzyme
4 Fast, but not as fast as creatine phosphate system
5 2 ATPs if glucose is the substrate, 3 ATPs if glycogen is the substrate
6 Anaerobic
7 1–2 minute duration at high (not maximal) intensity
8 Fatigue associated with decreased pH reflecting an incr ease in hydrogen ions
9 Predominant energy system in high intensity non-maximal exercise, e.g., 800 meter run

BIOENERGETICS13
mitochondrial oxidative capacity affects both 
muscle strength and walking speed. Strength training may have a positive influence on this inefficiency in muscle bioenergetics and may improve functionality in older adults specifi -
cally related to walking speed.
The aerobic system can produce many more ATP 
per molecule than the anaerobic system, but it cannot produce ATP rapidly, and the intensity must remain at or below a steady state (21).
Fats can also be oxidized aerobically 
to form ATP. First, fats are broken down 
into glycerol and free fatty acids. The free fatty acids then enter the mitochondria, and through a process called beta oxidation, they are degraded to acetyl CoA and hydrogen atoms. The acetyl CoA enters the Krebs cycle directly as an intermediate compound.
Although it is not a preferred source of 
energy, protein can be broken down and oxidized aerobically. First, proteins are cat -
abolized into their smaller components, amino acids. Amino acids can then be deaminated. The carbon/hydrogen/oxygen portion of the compound can be converted to glucose through gluconeogenesis, pyruvate, and other 
Krebs cycle intermediates.
The contribution of amino acids to energy 
production is minimal for anaerobic activities but may contribute up to 18% of the energy requirements for aerobic exercise (3). Branched chain amino acids are the major amino acids used by skeletal muscle for energy production. The nitrogenous waste, the amino portion of the amino acid, is eliminated from the body 
COH
H H C
CoAH
H
OOH C
C
C OH
C
COOH
COOHHC
HH2COOH
HOCH2COOH C
C H2COOHHOC COOH
H2COOH C
COOH HCCCOOHCOOH
HCOH
CH2
COOHCOCOOH
CH2
COOH
COOHC
COOHHCH
CH2COOH
HOC
OC H2COOH
C H2COOH
C
COOHHCH
CH2COOH
CoA SHOC
OCCOOH
H COOH CHNADH + H+
FADH2
NADH + H+NAD+FAD+
CoA CO2 NADH + H+ NAD+CoAAcetyl coenzyme A Pyruvic acid
CoACoenzyme A
H2O
H2O
CO2H2O
ADPATPOxaloacetic
acidCitric acid
cis-Aconitic acid
Isocitric acid
α-Ketoglutaric acid Succinyl CoASuccinic acidFumaric acidMalic acid
Citric
acid
cycle 2H2H
2H
2HNADH + H+
2H + CO2
H2ONAD+NAD+
Figure 1.11  The Krebs cycle. Also known as the citric acid cycle, it is a complex series of enzyme-controlled 
metabolic reactions.

T. JEFF CHANDLER ET AL.14
as urea or ammonia. Ammonia is potentially a 
contributor to fatigue (19).
Control of the oxidative system is related 
to several factors. First, adequate amounts of FAD+ and NAD+ must be present to shut -
tle hydrogen ions into the ETS. A reduction in FAD+ and NAD+ leads to a decrease in the rate of oxidative metabolism. The ETS is inhibited by high concentrations of ATP and stimulated by high concentrations of ADP (7). Box 1.5 summarizes the characteristics of the 
oxidative system.NAD+
2H+H+
2H+2e−
2e−NADH
ADPPi Pi
Pi
Pi Pi PiEnergy ATP synthase
ATPCytochrome
oxidase
1/2 O2+
+
+
H2O
Figure 1.12  Electron transport system (ETS). ETS is responsible for the aerobic production of ATP.
Box 1.5  Characteristics of the oxidativ e system
1 124 chemical reactions
2 30 compounds, 27 enzymes
3 Rate limiting enzymes, PFK,  ID, CO
4 Slow
5 36 ATP generated from glucose, 37 via glycogen
6 Potentially limitless duration at lower intensity
7 Fatigue associated with fuel depletion (muscle gl ycogen)
8 Predominant energy system in endurance events, e.g., marathon

BIOENERGETICS15
LACTATE
The lactic acid formed because of fast glycoly -
sis is immediately buffered and changed into a 
salt called lactate. While lactic acid is certainly associated with fatigue, lactate becomes a sub -
strate that can be converted back into pyruvate and used in the Krebs cycle, particularly in the heart and in slow twitch muscle fibers (3,8).lactate produced by fast twitch muscle fib -
ers (type IIx) during exercise to slow twitch muscle fibers (Type 1). The lactate produced by the fast twitch muscle fibers is shuttled directly to the adjacent slow twitch muscle fib -
ers where oxidation occurs. Some 75 to 80% of lactate is disposed of through oxidation with the remaining converted to glucose or glycogen in a process called gluconeogenesis (5). 
Gluconeogenesis  is a process that occurs 
in the liver and involves the formation of glu-cose from noncarbohydrate. Gluconeogenesis involves lactate leaving the fast twitch muscle fibers, circulating through the blood as 
blood 
lactate , and being delivered and taken up by 
the liver.
Blood lactate can be utilized as a labora-
tory test to predict endurance performance. The common laboratory test incorporated to estimate this maximal steady state speed is the lactate threshold. To determine the lactate threshold, a subject will run on a treadmill at various running speeds at different stages until they can’t continue further. During each stage a blood sample will be obtained from the subject to provide a measure of the blood lactate concentration. The lactate threshold (LT) represents the point where blood lactate begins to increase in a non-linear fashion at 
a specific exercise intensity (Figure 1.13). 
During exercise above the anaerobic thresh -
old,
 pulmonary oxygen uptake (VO 2) slowly 
increases (referred to as the slow compo-nent of VO
2). Recent evidence indicates that 
blood lactate accumulation decreases dur -
ing this time without decreasing muscular  
efficiency (18).
Lactate threshold is an important factor in 
performance. If there are two athletes in an aerobic event with the same VO
2 max, the athlete 
with the highest lactate threshold will likely win the race.
The running speed at which the lactate 
threshold occurs is used as a predictor of per -
formance (1). The measure of the maximal 
steady-state running speed is beneficial in pre-dicting success in distance running events from two miles to the marathon (8–10,14–16).Q&A FROM THE F iELD
I have always heard that lactic acid makes 
you fatigued. Is that true?
Lactic acid is a byproduct of anaerobic 
metabolism. Anaerobic exercise is by definition high intensity, and the end product will be lactic acid. Also by definition, high intensity anaerobic exercise will lead to fatigue rather rapidly. In one sense, the production of lactic acid parallels fatigue. It may also be that molecules of lactic acid interfere with efficient muscle contraction. Lactic acid is also responsible for the immediate burning in muscle that is exercising at a high intensity. This burning is not to be confused with delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS) that occurs over the next 24–48 hours. DOMS is not due to lactic acid. The lactic acid that is produced is quickly buffered to lactate. Lactate can be transported to the liver and converted to glucose. Lactate is a useful energy source for recovery from intense anaerobic exercise.
The lactic acid produced during heavy exercise 
is rapidly converted to lactate. Lactate is a useful metabolic compound that can be transported to the liver and changed to glucose in a process called “gluconeogenesis” in the liver. It can then be used by the body as fuel during recovery from exercise.
Lactate was once perceived as a meta -
bolic waste product; however, lactate is now 
considered an important fuel source. The lactate shuttle hypothesis explained that lac-tate played a key role in the distribution of carbohydrate energy among various tissues and cellular compartments (6). The original lactate shuttle hypothesis was later renamed the cell-cell lactate shuttle (4). The cell-cell lactate shuttle involves the transportation of 

T. JEFF CHANDLER ET AL.16
SUMMARY OF CATABOLIC 
PROCESSES IN THE PRODUCTION OF CELLULAR ENERGY
Figure 1.14 summarizes the breakdown of 
food (catabolic process) to produce energy. The food we eat is composed of fats,
 carbohy -
drates, or proteins. Carbohydrates are broken down into blood glucose. The blood glucose can either be used for energy or stored as gly -
cogen. When glycogen stores in the liver and muscles are full, the glucose is stored as fat.
The glucose, through glycolysis, is con -
verted to pyruvic acid, then either lactic acid if no oxygen is present (fast glycolysis) or acetyl CoA if oxygen is present in the cell. The acetyl CoA then goes into the Krebs cycle and the electron transport system to produce ATP with the eventual end products of CO
2 and H 2O.
Q&A FROM THE F iELD
Is glucose and carbohydrate always stored 
as carbohydrate in the body?
There is a limit to the amount of glucose that 
can be contained in the blood, and there is a limit to the amount of glycogen that can be stored in the liver and muscles. When the amount of carbohydrate contained in the blood as glucose and in the liver and muscle as glycogen is maximal, excess calories consumed from carbohydrates can be converted to fat. Y ou do not have to eat fat to store body fat.
Fats and proteins can both be used for 
energy. Fats are catabolized into glycerol and 
fatty acids. The glycerol can be converted to pyruvate and enter glycolysis. Fatty acids undergo beta oxidation and are converted to acetyl CoA and enter the Krebs cycle.
Proteins are catabolized into amino 
acids. The amino acids are deaminated with the amino group being secreted as urea. The resulting carbon compound can be converted to pyruvate, acetyl CoA, or other Krebs cycle intermediates.
EFFICIENCY OF THE 
ENERGY PRODUCING PATHWAYS
Efficiency of the energy producing pathways 
depends on the demands of the activity. At first glance, it may appear the aerobic pathway is the most efficient as it produces many more ATP molecules than the anaerobic pathways. Oxygen consumption30 35 40 45 50 55012.5510
122135147158170177Lactate concentration
(mmol/L)
Heart rate
Figure 1.13  Lactate threshold. The lactate threshold represents the point where blood lactate begins to 
increase in a non-linear fashion at a specific exercise intensity (19). As exercise intensity increases, blood levels of 
lactic acid begin to accumulate in an exponential fashion.

BIOENERGETICS17
There are, however, different ways to calcu -
late efficiency. The simplest method of looking 
at the efficiency of each metabolic system is relative to the task at hand. If the task is a 100-meter sprint, the oxidative system is very inefficient as it does not have the time needed to produce ATP. Likewise, if the task is a mar -
athon, the anaerobic pathways will be much less efficient as they lack the capacity to pro-duce ATP over a long period of time. Using this logic, the anaerobic energy systems are the most efficient at producing ATP immediately. The aerobic energy system is the most efficient for producing ATP over a continuous period. Box 1.6 provides an analogy to further explain 
the efficiency of these systems.Food
Carbohydrates
Simple sugars
(glucose)Proteins
Amino
acidsFats
GlycerolFatty
acids
Glycolysis
Pyruvic acid
Acetyl coenzyme A
Citric
acid
cycle
ATPATP
ATP
ATPReducing
power of NADH
Electron
transport
chain
Waste productsCO2
CO2O2
NH2 H2OStage 1:
Breakdown of large macromolecules
to simple molecules
Stage 2:
Breakdown of simple molecules to
acetyl coenzyme A with a net production
of 2 ATP
Stage 3:
Complete oxidation of carbohydrates
to H2O and CO2 yields a net total of
36–38 ATP
Figure 1.14  Summary of catabolic processes involved in breaking down food to energy.
Box 1.6  Efficiency of aerobic and anaer obic energy systems
Efficiency must be related to a specific task. For example, a gas-electric hybrid is more economical 
or efficient in terms of miles per gallon than a 4 x 4 “monster truck” for traveling cross country, but the truck is more efficient at carrying or pulling a heavy load, or climbing a steep hill. Efficiency must be viewed as task specific. The anaerobic energy systems are most efficient at producing ATP rapidly. The aerobic system is very inefficient at producing ATP if the demand is immediate. The aerobic energy system is more efficient at producing ATP over a longer duration and a lower workload. The anaerobic system, like the truck, is inefficient at performing low intensity work over a long period of time. The aerobic system, like the hybrid, is inefficient at performing at a high intensity such as pulling heavy loads or climbing a steep hill.

T. JEFF CHANDLER ET AL.18
LIMITING FACTORS OF 
PERFORMANCE
Factors that limit performance from the met -
abolic standpoint (Table 1.2) will relate to 
the build up of metabolic byproducts (lactic acid and possibly ammonia),
 the depletion 
of PCr, or the depletion of  substrate  (fats, 
carbohydrates, or proteins). Obviously, the limiting metabolic factor in an activity will depend on the energy system involved in the activity which is determined, basically, by the intensity and duration of the activity. A low intensity activity such as a long distance run will result primarily in the depletion of mus -
cle and liver glycogen.
High intensity activities that are not 
repeated without a great deal of rest have essentially no metabolic limiting factors. In repeated high intensity activities, muscle gly-cogen, ATP/PC, and a decrease in pH are all possible limiting factors. The hydrogen ions given off from the buildup of lactic acid have been shown to decrease force production in skeletal muscle (13), possibly by competing with the binding sites on troponin.
OXYGEN CONSUMPTION
Oxygen consumption  is the ability of the body 
to take in and use oxygen to produce energy. Oxygen consumption can be estimated using a metabolic cart which can measure the oxy -
gen content of the inspired and expired air. Maximal oxygen consumption is considered a measure of 
cardiorespiratory endurance . Maximal oxygen consumption is also called VO
2 max, which can be measured in milli -
liters/kilogram/body weight (mL/kg/bw) or in liters/minute (l/min). Measuring VO
2 max 
in mL/kg/min is used when comparing two individuals because body weight influences maximal oxygen consumption. Liters per min-ute is used when just comparing an individual from one test to the second test. From a prac -
tical perspective, a coach develops a training program for his or her cross country athletes and desires to see the impact it has had on their VO
2 max. Prior to the training program 
the coach obtains a baseline measure of VO 2 
max and then the training program begins. Therefore, the coach would have his or her athletes perform a second VO
2 max test to 
determine if any significant changes occurred in their respective values.
An important addition to the VO
2 max 
test would be the ability to obtain blood lac -
tate levels during the test. The coach would have his or her athletes run on a treadmill at various speeds where a blood lactate sample would be obtained at each stage of the proto-col. Information obtained from the VO
2 max 
would include:
1 At what VO 2 did the lactate threshold 
occur?
2 At what percentage of the V O2 max did 
the lactate threshold occur?
3 At what running speed did the lactate 
threshold occur?
4 What heart rate (subjects would need a 
heart rate monitor) was achieved at the 
lactate threshold?
The information provided could assist 
both the coach and the athlete in tailoring a specific program based upon their VO
2 max, 
at what point and/or percentage of the VO 2 
did the LT occur, and what maximal heart rate was achieved at the LT.
In the recovery from anaerobic work, 
energy (ATP) is supplied aerobically. Since it takes time for the oxidative system to begin to produce adequate ATP to support an aero -
bic activity, all exercise is supported initially by anaerobic metabolism. The initial portion of energy supplied anaerobically is termed the TABLE 1.2  Metabolic factors that limit performance
Activity Primary limiting 
factors
Marathon muscle Glycogen, liver glycogen
High intensity repeated (10 × 40 m)ATP, muscle glycogen, decreased pH
High intensity (400 m) Decreased pH

BIOENERGETICS19
oxygen deficit . After exercise, this “shortfall” 
must be replenished aerobically. This replen -
ishment of the anaerobic system is termed the 
oxygen debt, or excess post-exercise oxygen 
consumption  (EPOC). The term EPOC is more 
accurate than oxygen debt. The term debt implies a direct replacement of the deficit or initial shortfall. EPOC supports several meta -
bolic processes that are in effect post-exercises.
EPOC must support the following:
1
 Elevated HR during recovery
2 Elevated respiration rate during recovery
3 Elevated metabolism for heat dissipation
4 Elevated metabolism for the breakdown 
of hormones released during exercise
5 Resynthesis of ATP and CP stores
6 Resynthesis of glycogen from lactate
7 Re-saturation of body tissues (blood and 
muscle tissue) with oxygen (2,11,17).
Oxygen consumption, oxygen deficit, 
and EPOC are depicted for aerobic work in Figure 1.15A and anaerobic work in Figure 1.15B. Exercise where the oxygen supply is equal to the oxygen demand is termed steady state exercise. In aerobic 
exercise, anaerobic 
metabolism supplies energy for the first few minutes, creating an oxygen deficit. Although part of this deficit can be paid back during  the activity, the deficit must be repaid post-  
exercise. Again, the energy for this post-exercise  
metabolic activity comes from aerobic sources. With anaerobic activity, note that the oxygen deficit is much larger because the demand for energy is greater than in the initial stage of aerobic activity.
METABOLIC SPECIFICITY
Specificity of training  is a key concept in the 
field of training and conditioning. If training is to be specific to an actual sport or activ -
ity, then the training must focus on the same metabolic energy pathways used in the sport or activity. It is important to note that all energy systems are active to some degree all the time. Also, the intensity of the activity is a key determining factor in the energy system utilized.
Training energy systems involves manipu -
lating both the intensity and the duration of the activity. Metabolic specificity does not mean that all training is the same intensity and duration as the activity. Most activities are dif-ficult to classify exactly in terms of intensity and duration. Box 1.7 provides examples of specificity of training.Steady-state exercise
Deﬁcit
EPOC
Rest Exercise Recovery
TimeDeﬁcitSteady-state exercise
EPOC
Rest Exercise Recovery
Time
A BVO2/uni2219VO2/uni2219
Figure 1.15  Oxygen deficit and EPOC (excess post-exercise oxygen consumption). (A) for aerobic exercise; (B) 
for anaerobic exercise.

T. JEFF CHANDLER ET AL.20
A basic understanding of metabolism and 
bioenergetics is a key to understanding the 
field of conditioning and applying that knowl -
edge to improve human performance.
SUMMARY
The concepts of bioenergetics are keys to understanding human performance, as well as understanding exercise prescriptions that Box 1.7  Examples of specificity of training
1 If the a verage tennis point is six seconds, and the average intensity is 60% of maximum, it does 
not mean that all training should be done for six seconds at 60% of maximum intensity. Some points are shorter, and some are longer. Some points are more intense, and some points are less intense. Duration and intensity, then, should be used to determine a reasonable range within which a majority of the training should fall. Progression, from general training to metabolically specific training, is also a factor.
2 F ootball players predominately perform short bursts of high intensity. The short burst of activity 
requires the phosphocreatine and anaerobic glycolytic energy systems. Devising a conditioning program that includes sprint/agility activities at 5–10 seconds of sustained high intensity exer -
cise would activate the phosphocreatine system. The anaerobic glycolytic energy system would be activated during the longer sprints (30 seconds to 2 minutes).
will enhance human performance. The source of energy for a specific sport or activity depends on the intensity and duration of the activity. The breakdown of food and chang -
ing it to the energy we need to move and live is a complex process.
Since human adaptation to training is 
specific to the type of training, we must learn to train athletes in a way such that  
the appropriate energy system is stressed  
at the appropriate time and peaks at the appropriate time.
MAxiNG OUT
1 Energy system training is sport specific, and may be specific to positions within a sport. 
Consider a soccer player. What are some things you need to consider when planning a metabolically specific training program for a soccer player?
2 What happens to the excess carbohydrate we consume in our diet when muscle glycogen stores are full?
3 What is the fate of lactic acid produced during exercise?
REFERENCES
 1. Bassett DR Jr, Howley ET. Limiting 
factors for maximum oxygen uptake and determinants of endurance performance. Med Sci Sp Exerc 2000; 32:1;70–84.
 2. Borsheim E, Bahr R. The effect of exercise intensity, duration, and mode on excess post oxygen consumption. Sports Med 2003; 33:14;1037–1060. 3. Brooks GA. Amino acid and protein 
metabolism during exercise and recovery. Med Sci Sp Exerc 1987; 19;S150–S156.
 4. Brooks GA. Intra- and extra cellular lactate shuttles. Med Sci Sp Exerc 2000; 32:4;790–799.
 5. Brooks GA. Lactate shuttles in nature. Biochemical Society Transactions 2002; 30:2;258–264.
 6. Brooks GA. The lactate shuttle during exercise and recovery. Med Sci Sp Exerc 1986; 18;360–368.

BIOENERGETICS21
 7. Brooks GA, Fahey TD, Baldwin K. Exercise 
Physiology: Human Bioenergetics and Its 
Applications. Boston, MA: McGraw Hill, 2005.
 8. Costill D, Thompson H, Roberts E. Fractional utilization of the aerobic capacity during distance running. Med Sci Sp Exerc 1973; 5;248–252.
 9. Farrell P, Wilmore J, Coyle EF, Billing JE, Costil, DL. Plasma lactate accumulation and distance running performance. Med Sci Sp Exerc 1979; 11;338–44.
10. Foster C. Blood lactate and respiratory measurement of the capacity for sustained exercise. In: Physiological Assessment of Human Fitness, P. Maud and C. Foster, eds. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 1995.
11. Gaesser GA, Brooks GA. Metabolic bases of excess post oxygen consumption. Med Sci Sp Exerc 1984; 10:1;29–43.
12. Harris RC, Edwards RHT, Hultman E, Nordesjo LO, Nylind B, Sahlin K. The time course of 
phosphocreatine resynthesis during recovery of the quadriceps muscle in man. Pfluegers Arch – Eur J Physiol 1976; 97;392–397.
13. Hermansen L. Effect of metabolic changes on force generation in skeletal muscle during maximal exercise. In: Human Muscle Fatigue, R. Porter and J. Whelan, eds. London: Pitman Medical, 1981.
14. Lafontaine T, Londeree B, Spath W. The maximal steady state versus selected running events. Med Sci Sp Exerc 1981; 13;190–192.
15. Lawler J, Powers S, Dodd S. A time saving incremental cycle ergometer protocol to determine peak oxygen consumption. Br J Sports Med 1987; 21;171–173.16. Lehmann M, Burg A, Kapp R, Wessinghage T, Keul J. Correlations between laboratory testing and distance running performance in marathoners of similar ability. Int J Sp Med 
1983; 4;226–230.
17. Mole P. Exercise metabolism. In: Exercise Medicine: Physiological Principles and Clinical Application, A. A. Bove and  
D. T. Lowenthal, eds. New York: Academic Press, 1983.
18. O’Connell JM, Weir JM, MacIntosh BR. Epub 2017 May 26. Blood lactate accumulation decreases during the slow component of oxygen uptake without a decrease in muscular efficiency. Pflugers Arch 2017 Oct; 
469(10):1257–1265.
19. Smith SA, Montain SJ, Matott RP, Zientara 
GP, Jolesz FA, Fielding RA. Creatine supplementation and age influence muscle metabolism during exercise. J of Appl Physiol 1998; 85;1349–1356.
20. Spriet LL, Howlett RA, Heigenhauser GJF. An enzymatic approach to lactate production in human skeletal muscle during exercise. Med Sci Sp Exerc 2000; 32:4;756–763.
21. Zane A, Reiter D, Shardell M, Cameron D, Simonsick E, Fishbein K, Studenski SA, Specer RG, Ferrucci L. Muscle strength mediates the relationship between mitochondrial energetics and 
walking performance. Aging Cell 2017; 
16:3; 461–468. Published online 2017 Feb 9. doi: 10.1111/acel.12568 PMCID: PMC5418194.

Contents
Introduction  24
Cardiovascular system  24
Respiratory system  32
Blood  35
Cardiovascular response to acute exercise  35
Pulmonary ventilation during exercise  39
Cardiovascular adaptations to training  39
Respiratory adaptations to training  43
Blood volume adaptations to training  43
Environmental factors affecting cardiorespiratory function  44
Summary  46
References  47

2 CHAPTER
OBJECTIVES
After completing this chapter, you will be able to:
• Understand the function of the organs that comprise the cardiorespiratory system.
• Identify the components of the cardiac cycle and the specific patterns of the P-QRS-T complex.
• Understand the changes in cardiac output during exercise.
• Assess and analyze blood pressure readings.
• Discuss the importance of the respiratory system with the cardiovascular system.
• Analyze the distribution of blood flow in response to exercise.
• Discuss the impact the environment may have on the cardiorespiratory system.THE CARDIORESPIRATORY   
SYSTEM
Andy Bosak
KEY TERMS
Bohr effect
BradycardiaCardiac cycleCardiovascular driftCardiac outputChronotropyConcentric hypertrophyDepolarizationDiastasisDiastoleDiastolic blood pressureEccentric hypertrophyEjection fractionEjection phaseEnd-diastolic volumeEnd-systolic volumeErythropoietinExpirationFick equationFrank-Starling mechanismHypertrophic 
cardiomyopathy
HyperventilationHypervolemiaHypohydrationHypoxiaInspirationIntercalated discsInterventricular  
septum
InotropyMyocardiumPartial pressureP-QRS-T complexRepolarizationStroke volumeSystoleSystolic blood pressureTachycardiaValsalva maneuverVentilatory equivalentVentilation

ANDY BOSAK24
INTRODUCTION
The primary role of the cardiorespiratory sys -
tem is to meet the energy demands of the body. 
During physical activity, as energy demands increase, the cardiorespiratory system can compensate by increasing the amount of nec-essary consumed oxygen and the volume of blood that can be pumped into the circulation. During prolonged exercise training, physi-ological systems can adapt to the increased demands that are placed upon it. Hence, these adaptations are specific to the type of exercise stimulus that is encountered by the body. After reviewing this chapter, students should under -
stand the nuances of the cardiovascular and respiratory systems, as well as the changes that are seen during acute exercise and the adapta-tions that are seen during prolonged training. Furthermore, environmental factors that affect the function of the cardiorespiratory system will also be explored.
CARDIOVASCULAR 
SYSTEM
The cardiovascular system consists of an 
elaborate network of vessels that comprise the circulatory system and a pump, known as the heart, that is responsible for the delivery of oxygen and nutrients to active organs and muscles and in removing the waste products of metabolism. The heart is a four-chambered muscular organ that is located midcenter of the chest cavity. Its anterior border is the ster -
num, while posteriorly it borders the vertebral column. Of further importance, the lungs are situated on the heart’s lateral borders and infe -
rior to the heart is the diaphragm.
Morphology of the heart
The heart muscle, referred to as the myocar -
dium , is similar in appearance to striated 
skeletal muscle. However, the fibers of the myocardium are multinucleated and inter -
connected end to end by 
intercalated discs . 
These discs contain desmosomes that main -
tain the integrity of the cardiac fibers during contraction and gap junctions that allow for a rapid transmission of the electrical impulse that signals for contraction. The structure of the myocardium can be thought of as three separate areas: 1) atrial, 2) ventricular, and 3) conductive. The atrial and ventricular myo-cardium function quite similarly as skeletal muscle since they will contract in response to electrical stimuli. Yet, unlike skeletal muscle fibers, an electrical stimulus of only a single cell in either chamber will result in an action potential being rapidly spread to the other cells of the atrial and ventricular myocardium, resulting in a coordinated contractile mecha -
nism. In addition, the cardiac fibers in each of these areas can function separately. The conductive tissue that is found between these chambers provides a network for the rapid transmission of conductive impulses allowing for coordinated action of both the atrial and ventricular chambers.
The structural detail of the heart can be 
seen in Figure 2.1. Notice the difference in the anatomy and physiology of the right and left sides of the heart as these differences specifi -
cally relate to their unique functions.
 The right 
side of the heart receives blood, via the right atrium, from all parts of the body, while the right ventricle pumps de-oxygenated blood to the lungs through the pulmonary circulation. The left side of the heart receives oxygenated blood, via the left atrium, from the lungs and pumps the blood from the left ventricle into the aorta and throughout the entire systemic circulation. The left ventricle is an ellipsoidal chamber surrounded by thick musculature which provides the power to eject the blood through the entire body, yet the right ventricle is crescent shaped with thin musculature that reflects the reduced ejection pressures seen specifically in this ventricle (25 mm Hg) com -
pared to approximately 125 mm Hg in the left ventricle at rest. Notice that the 
interventricular 
septum , which is a thick muscular wall, sepa -
rates the left and right ventricles.
Blood flow from the right atrium to the 
right ventricle goes through the tricuspid valve, which consists of three cusps or leaf -
lets that allow only a one directional flow of blood. The bicuspid or mitral valve allows blood flow between the left atrium and left ventricle. The semilunar valves, located on the 

THE CARDIORESPIRATORY SYSTEM25
arterial walls on the outside of the ventricles, 
prevent blood from flowing backwards into the heart between contractions.
Cardiac cycle
The contraction phase, where the atria or ventricles eject the blood in their chambers, is called 
systole , while the relaxation phase, in 
which the chambers refill with blood, is referred to as 
diastole . One complete revolution of sys-
tole and diastole is referred to as the cardiac 
cycle. At rest, the heart spends most of its time 
(approximately 60%) filling with blood and less time (approximately 40%) expelling the blood. However, during exercise this situation is reversed, with most of the cardiac cycle spent in systole. During systole, the tricuspid and mitral valves are closed, yet blood flow from pulmonic and systemic circulation continues into the atria. As systole ends, the atrioventricu -
lar valves rapidly open and the blood that has accumulated in the atria flows quickly into the ventricles accounting for 70% to 80% of the ventricular filling. There are three specific peri-ods occurring in diastole. The initial third is one of rapid filling; the middle third is character -
ized by very little blood flow into the ventricle and is referred to as 
diastasis ; and during the 
final third, ventricle filling is completed with an additional 20% to 30% of blood pumped into the ventricle as the result of atrial systole.
The volume of blood in the ventricle at the 
end of diastole is called the 
end-diastolic volume  
(EDV). During systole, the pre-ejection and ejection phases occur. The pre-injection phase includes an electromechanical lag, which is the time delay between the beginning of ventricular  From head and
upper extremitiesTo head and upper extremities
To right lung
From
right lungTo left lung
From left lung
From trunk and
lower extremities
To trunk and lower extre mitiesAorta
Pulmonary artery
Pulmonary veins
Left atrium
Mitral valve
Left ventricle
Right ventricle
Descending aortaInferior vena cavaTricuspid valveRight atriumAortic valvePulmonary valveSuperior vena cava
Figure 2.1  Anatomy of the heart.

ANDY BOSAK26
excitation (depolarization) and the onset of 
ventricular contraction, and isovolumic con-traction. Isovolumic contraction is the phase in which intraventricular pressure is raised prior to the onset of ejection. This part of the pre-injection phase occurs between the closure of the mitral valve and the opening of the semilu -
nar valve (the aortic valve). During the 
ejection 
phase  the blood within the ventricle will be 
pumped into the systemic circulation through the opening of the semilunar valve, and this phase will end with the closing of the semilu-nar valve. The blood remaining in the ventricle at the end of ejection is referred to as the 
end- 
systolic volume  (ESV). The difference between 
EDV and ESV is called the stroke volume , which 
in simpler terms represents the amount of blood that is pumped out of the ventricles in one beat (1). The proportion of the blood pumped out of the left ventricle with each beat is called the 
ejection fraction  (EF) and is determined by  SV/EDV. The ejection fraction averages about 60% at rest. This simply means that 60% of the blood in the left ventricle at the end of diastole will be ejected with the next contraction.
The time spent in systole or diastole is dependent 
upon whether the individual is at rest or exercising.
Heart rate and conduction
A unique feature of the heart is its ability to 
contract rhythmically without either neural or hormonal stimulation. This autorhythmic -
ity is due to a specialized intrinsic conduction system that consists of the sinoatrial node (SA node), internodal pathways, the atrioventricu-lar node (AV node), and Purkinje fibers. The intrinsic conduction system of the heart can be seen in Figure 2.2.
SA node
AV node
Right branch bundleLeft branch bundle
Purkinje /f_ibersAV bundle
Internodal pathways
Figure 2.2  Intrinsic conduction system of heart.

THE CARDIORESPIRATORY SYSTEM27
The SA node located in the right atrium is a 
collection of specialized cells that can generate 
an electrical impulse. Because of this distinc -
tive ability, it is appropriately nicknamed the pacemaker of the heart. Once an impulse leaves the SA node it propagates leftward and downward spreading through the atrial syncy -
tium of the right and then left atrium through internodal pathways merging onto the AV node located toward the center of the heart on the lower right atrial wall.
The AV node, or the AV junction (com -
prised of the AV node and the Bundle of His), delay transmission of the impulse for a tenth of a second. This slight delay of ventricu-lar excitation and contraction will allow for the atria to contract and permit a limitation in the number of signals that are transmitted by the AV node. This may serve as a protec -
tive mechanism for the ventricles from atrial tachyarrhythmias. The Bundle of His is found distally in the AV junction and divides into right and left segments, known as bundle branches, which transmit the electrical impulses to the right and left ventricles. The Purkinje fibers are found on the distal tips of the right and left bundle branches and extend their fibers into the walls of the ventricles accelerating the conduction velocity of the impulse to the rest of the ventricle. The conduction velocity of the Purkinje fibers may increase four-fold as com -
pared to what is seen at the Bundle of His.
As previously stated, the SA node, AV node, 
and Purkinje fibers have the inherent ability for spontaneous initiation of the electrical impulse. But, the autonomic nervous system can also influence the rate of impulse forma -
tion, known as 
chronotropy , contractile state 
of the myocardium, known as inotropy , and 
the rate of spread of the excitation impulse. The sympathetic and parasympathetic nerv-ous systems, as well as certain hormones, influence cardiac contractility. The atria are well supplied with both sympathetic and parasympathetic neurons, while the ventri -
cles are primarily innervated by sympathetic neurons. Sympathetic stimulation releases the catecholamines epinephrine and norepineph-rine from sympathetic neural fibers. These neural hormones will accelerate the heart rate by increasing SA node activity and increasing both atrial and ventricular contractile force. The increases in heart rate are referred to as 
tachycardia .Parasympathetic stimulation through the 
vagus nerve will release acetylcholine, a neuro-hormone, which as a depressant effect on SA node activity and decreases atrial contractile force. A decrease in heart rate is known as 
brad-
ycardia . Sympathetic stimulation may increase 
heart rate by over 120 beats per minute and the contraction strength by 100%, while maximal vagal stimulation may decrease heart rate by 20–30 beats per minute and lower contraction strength by approximately 30% (1,2).
Q&A FROM THE F iELD
My resting heart rate is about 45 beats per 
minute. I am a distance runner. Is that too low?
A low resting heart rate can be an indication of 
cardiac problems. In the case of a healthy athlete, the answer is probably not. Regular participation in aerobic exercise often results in a decreased resting heart rate: approximately 5 to 25 beats per minute. This is due to both the increased efficiency of the heart and the adaptations to the nervous system that affect heart rate. Also, a smaller reduction in heart rate may occur from resistance training, but the effects of resistance training on heart rate seem to be related to the volume and intensity of training.
The electrocardiogram (ECG)
The P-QRS-T complex  is the typical pattern that 
is associated with ECG interpretation (Figure 
2.3).
 Einthoven, a Dutch physician and scien -
tist who was credited with the invention of the
 
electrocardiogram in the early part of the 20th 
century, wanted to be mathematically correct with his description of ECG wave patterns. It is said that he admired the work of Descartes, the inventor of analytical geometry. Descartes labeled successive points on a curve start -
ing with the letter “P”. Therefore, Einthoven thought the letter “P” would be an appropriate means of labeling the first wave on an ECG (3).
By using ECG the practitioner is able to 
detect abnormalities of the electrical activity of the heart. Since a normal ECG is based on a nonathletic population, there is often concern about the athletic heart because of the simi -
larities to an abnormal ECG. Unfortunately, this is an area that is often misunderstood due to the void in the research literature.

ANDY BOSAK28
The ECG is comprised of 12 electrode leads 
that are placed on specific sites of the body. 
The sites of these leads are typically the arms, legs, and chest. The stimulation of the heart is recorded by these electrodes and the recorded electrical signal is presented by wave patterns known as the P-QRS-T complex. With the 12-lead ECG, the leads provide extensive data regarding the electrical activity of the heart as they transfer the information into the P-QRS-T wave complex which provides an indication of the normal or abnormal functioning of the heart.
Stimulation of cardiac tissue is a con -
tinuous sequence of processes referred to as 
depolarization  and repolarization . The con-
traction of the atria and ventricles occurs when the cardiac cells are depolarized. As stated previously, this corresponds with the atria and ventricles pumping blood. The relaxation phase, which allows the cardiac cells to return to a normal resting state, represents repolari -
zation. In the ECG, this is represented by the depolarization of the atria (P-wave) followed by the depolarization of the ventricles (QRS complex), and then a return to resting state or repolarization (ST, T, and U waves).
The P wave
The P wave is the depolarization of the atria beginning with the SA node and spreading from the right atrium to the left atrium. Some abnormal P wave ECG readings include:• Prolonged P wave
{{Enlarged atria
• Absent or retrograde P wave
• Retrograde meaning the pacemaker of the heart is starting at the AV junction and the initiation of the heart beat is flowing back -
ward (retrograde)
• Increased or decreased amplitude of P wave
{{Indicative of hypokalemia or hyperkalemia
Hypokalemia can be an issue for some 
athletes due to poor potassium intake, exces-sive perspiration, or gastrointestinal issues resulting in diarrhea. Muscle cramping and/or extreme fatigue represent other signs and symptoms of this condition.
QRS complex
The QRS complex represents the depolarization of the ventricles, where the blood is being ejected from the heart. Even though it appears to be a series of events in the making, the QRS repre -
sent a single event. The direction of the electrical impulse will indicate whether the deflection will be positive or negative. The first negative deflection is the Q wave, while the first positive deflection, the R wave, occurs next followed by the S wave, which is a negative deflection. Figure 2.4 shows examples of abnormal QRS wave readings.P waveT wave
QRS complexQSR
Figure 2.3  Normal ECG.

THE CARDIORESPIRATORY SYSTEM29
• Wide QRS complex
{{Bundle branch block
{{Electrolyte disturbance
{{Ischemia
• Decreased amplitude of complex
{{Chronic lung disease
{{Obesity
• Increased amplitude of R waves
{{Ventricular hypertrophy, known as the 
athletic heart, or hypertrophic cardio-myopathy (HCM)
• Abnormal Q waves
{{Myocardial infarction
Because of the fast response of the 
Purkinje fibers in the ventricles, the QRS com-plex depolarizes quite quickly. For this reason, we see delays in the QRS complex conduc-tion resulting in an abnormal ECG. In the case of left and right ventricular hypertrophy, it is important to be aware that thin, young, and athletic individuals will demonstrate tall voltage in the R waves of the chest leads. However, it is often difficult to differentiate between someone that is a well-conditioned athlete versus someone that has ventricular hypertrophy. Therefore, it is usually recom-mended that the individual in question receive further testing in the form of an echocardio -
gram (i.e., an ultrasound test utilized to detect the sound waves of the heart) to attempt to make the differential diagnosis.T wave
After the depolarization of ventricles and the resulting QRS complex, the T wave represents the beginning of ventricular repolarization. T waves are normally asymmetrical in shape with the asymmetry occurring towards the end of the wave in the form of a peak (Figure 2.5A).
A symmetrical 
T wave may reveal that 
a myocardial infarction has occurred. The S wave and T wave are looked at collectively, which represents the ST segment. Also, the Q wave and T wave provide the QT interval. Some T wave abnormal ECG findings include:
• T wave inversion
{{Myocardial ischemia
{{Myocarditis
{{Young patient
{{Arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia (ARVD)
• Tall T wave
{{Acute myocardial ischemia “tombstones”
• ST segment depression
{{Right and left ventricular hypertrophy
{{Non Q wave MI
{{Subendocardial ischemia
• ST segment elevation
{{Pericarditis
• Conduction delay of the QT interval (Figure 2.5B)
{{Long QT syndromeP waveT wave
QSR
Figure 2.4  Conduction delay in wide QRS complex.

ANDY BOSAK30
Many abnormalities are not limited to one 
lead or one ECG wave. Often, several leads 
and ECG waves are affected. For example, someone with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy might present a tall R wave in the QRS com -
plex and an inverted T wave which are present in all lateral chest leads (4). Additionally, someone who is unhealthy may be suffering from several different cardiac issues making diagnosis more complicated.
The ability to interpret the P-QRS-T complex 
may assist in the detection of abnormalities in the cardiac cycle.Cardiac output
Cardiac output  is the product of heart rate 
and stroke volume. It refers to the amount 
of blood pumped by the heart in one min -
ute. Cardiac output is highly related to the energy demands of the body. In the average adult male, regardless of training status, the total volume of blood pumped out of the left ventricle per minute at rest is approximately 5 liters. If an individual’s resting heart rate is 70 beats per minute, stroke volume would need to be approximately 71 mL per beat. In the endurance athlete, heart rate is generally much lower at rest due to a greater vagal tone and A
BP waveT wave
Normal QT intervalQSR
SP wave T wave
Long QT interval QR
Figure 2.5  (A) Normal T wave; (B) Conduction delay of QT interval.

THE CARDIORESPIRATORY SYSTEM31
reduced sympathetic drive. If the heart rate of 
this athlete was 50 beats per minute, stroke volume would be approximately 100 mL per beat. A comparison of the cardiac output in trained and sedentary males can be seen in Table 2.1. The mechanism that drives this par -
ticular adaptation is not entirely clear, but it is likely related to the increased vagal tone seen consequent to endurance training and to mor -
phological adaptations of the heart.
Vasculature
The vascular system is composed of a series of vessels that carry oxygenated blood away from the heart to the tissues and return deox -
ygenated blood from the tissues back to the heart. Of great importance, the heart has its own coronary vascular system that is responsi-ble for supplying the myocardium with oxygen and nutrients. The arterial system receives the blood from the left ventricle of the heart and distributes it throughout the body. Notice that blood is first ejected from the left ventri -
cle into a thick, elastic vessel called the aorta. From the aorta, the blood is then circulated throughout the body via a network of arteries, arterioles (small arterial branches), metart -
erioles (smaller branches), and capillaries. The walls of the arteries are both strong and thick, which help withstand higher pressures associ-ated with the rapid transport of blood to the tissues. The thickness of these vesicles prevents any gaseous exchange from occurring between them and the surrounding tissues. In addition, the arterial vasculature system is innervated  
by the sympathetic nervous system, allowing it to be effectively stimulated for regulating blood flow.
As blood reaches the tissues, it becomes 
diverted to smaller branches of the arterial sys-tem. At the end of the metarterioles (the smallest  
arterial vessel) are the microscopic capillaries. The capillaries are approximately 0.01 mm in diameter and consist of a single layer of endothelial cells. Because of the small diameter, the rate of blood flow decreases as the blood circulates toward and into the capillaries. In addition, there is an extensive branching of the capillary microcirculation creating a large surface area between the capillary vasculature surrounding tissues. The combination of a large surface area, slow rate of blood flow, and a thin layer of endothelial cells make the capil -
laries an ideal place for gas exchange between the blood and the tissues.
As the blood leaves the capillaries, it enters 
the venous circulation. Similar to the arterial system, the venous system is comprised of ves-sels of various sizes that get larger as they get closer to the heart. Deoxygenated blood leav -
ing the capillaries enters venules (small veins) that increase the rate of blood flow due to the smaller cross-sectional area of the venous sys-tem in comparison to the capillary system. The blood is transported back to the heart via the superior vena cava and the inferior vena cava. The deoxygenated blood then enters the right atrium, goes through to the right ventricle, and is pumped to the lungs to be reoxygenated and subsequently transported back into the left side of the heart to be circulated through arte-rial circulation once again.
During rest, blood flow is controlled by 
the autonomic nervous system and is pri -
marily distributed to the liver, kidneys, and brain. However, during exercise there is a redistribution of blood flow to the exercis-ing muscles. The muscles may receive 75% or more of the available blood at the expense of the other organs. In combination with a greater cardiac output, the exercising mus -
cles may receive up to a 25-fold increase in blood flow. The flow of blood to the muscles and organs at rest and during exercise can be seen in Figure 2.6.TABLE 2.1  Cardiac output at rest in sedentary and endurance-trained men
Cardiac output = (L) Heart rate × (beats·minute−1) Stroke volume (mL)
Sedentary 5 70  71
Trained 5 50 100

ANDY BOSAK32
During exercise, blood flow will be diverted from 
organs to exercising muscles.
Blood pressure
During each contraction, blood is pumped 
into the aorta from the left ventricle (sys-tole). The pressure within the aorta under normal resting conditions reaches approxi-mately 120 mm Hg. This measurement is referred to as the 
systolic blood pressure , 
which represents the strain against the arte -
rial walls during ventricular contraction. Since the pumping action or contraction of the left ventricle of the heart is pulsatile in nature, the arterial pressure will fluctu -
ate from an elevated level during systole to a lower level during the heart’s relaxation phase known as diastole. 
Diastolic blood pres-
sures  are approximately 80 mm Hg at rest 
and provide an indication of the peripheral resistance or ease at which blood flows into the capillaries. As blood flows through the systemic circulation, pressure will continue to fall and reach approximately 0 mm Hg as it reaches the right atrium. The decrease in arterial pressure during each segment of the systemic circulation is directly proportional to the vascular resistance in that specific seg-ment. Therefore, changes in the resistance of the systemic circulation are quite important in the regulation of blood flow.Blood pressure may reach unsafe levels during 
exercise. Therefore, it is important to understand both normal and abnormal changes in blood pressure as well as their relationship to various types of exercises.
RESPIRATORY SYSTEM
The coordination between the cardiovascular 
and respiratory system provides the body with an efficient means to transport oxygen to the tissues and remove carbon dioxide. During respiration, air is breathed in (
inspiration )  
though the nasal cavity or mouth. The air then travels through the pharynx, larynx, trachea, and finally into the lungs. Once in the lungs, the air flows through an elaborate system comprised of branches termed bron-chi and bronchioles that expand the surface 
area for gas exchange (see Figure 2.7). From 
the bronchioles, the air reaches the smallest respiratory unit,
 the alveoli. It is at the alve -
oli that gas exchange with the pulmonary circulation occurs (1). The lungs are located in the chest cavity (thorax), but do not have any direct attachment to the ribs or any other bony structure. Instead, they are suspended by pleural sacs that connect to both the lungs and thoracic cavity. Between the pleural sacs and lungs, a fluid is present to prevent friction from occurring during respiration.100
80
60Percent4020
0
Brain
Heart
Liver
Skin
OtherKidney
Muscle
Rest Strenuous endurance exercise
Figure 2.6  Distribution of cardiac output.

THE CARDIORESPIRATORY SYSTEM33
During inspiration, the muscles of the tho -
racic cavity (diaphragm and external intercostal 
muscles) contract causing the thorax to expand. As a result, the lungs stretch and initiate a reduc -
tion in air pressure within the lungs. As pressure within the lungs is reduced to levels below that seen on the outside, the pressure gradient will cause air to rush inside the lungs. During exercise, additional muscles, such as the pecto -
ralis and sternocleidomastoid, can be recruited, causing a greater movement of the thorax and creating an even larger lung expansion.
When air is breathed out (
expiration ), the 
inspiratory muscles relax, or during forced expi -
ration contraction of the internal intercostal and abdominal muscles will cause the thorax to return to its normal position. As a result, the pressure within the lungs expands to levels above that seen outside, causing expiration to occur.A change in pressure is the primary mecha-
nism in which air and gases flow into and out of the lungs and through the entire respiratory and circulatory systems. For 
ventilation  to occur, 
only slight changes in pressure between the lungs and the outside environment need to occur. For instance, standard atmospheric pressure is 760 mm Hg and only slight changes in intrapulmo -
nary pressure (i.e., pressure within the lungs) are needed to cause the air to be inhaled.
Pressure differentials in gases
In addition to changes in pressure that cause inspiration and expiration, pressure differen -
tials in the gases within the air we breathe will be the primary impetus causing the exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide. Each gas will exert a pressure in proportion to its concentration in Right lungTracheaLarynxHard palateNostrilNasal cavity
Soft palato
Pharynx
Epiglottis
Esophagus
Left lung
Left primary bronchus
Secondary bronchus
Tertiary bronchus
Figure 2.7  Anatomy of the respiratory system.

ANDY BOSAK34
the gas mixture, known as its partial pressure . 
The air that we breathe is comprised of 79.04% 
nitrogen, 20.93% oxygen, and 0.03% carbon dioxide. At sea level, in which atmospheric pressure is 760 mm Hg, the partial pressure of oxygen is 159.1 mm Hg (20.93% × 760 mm 
Hg) and carbon dioxide is 0.2 mm Hg (0.03% ×  
760 mm Hg).
As the air reaches the alveoli, the partial 
pressures of both the gases in the alveoli and the gases in the blood create a pressure gradient (see Figure 2.8). This is the basis of gas exchange. If 
the partial pressures of the gases on either side of the membrane were equal,
 no gas exchange 
would occur. The greater the pressure gradient, the faster the gases will diffuse across the mem -
brane. As inspired air moves into the alveoli, the partial pressure of oxygen (Po
2) is between 100 
and 105 mm Hg due to the mixing of the air within the alveoli. At the pulmonary capillary, blood has been stripped of most of its oxygen by the tissues. Typically, the P o
2 at the pulmonary 
capillary level is between 40 and 45 mm Hg. As a result, the pressure gradient favors oxygen going from the alveoli to the capillary. In addition, the pressure gradient of carbon dioxide favors exchange from the capillary to the alveoli where it can be exhaled from the body during expira-tion. The pressure gradient for carbon dioxide is not as great at the capillary–alveoli membrane as it is for oxygen. Nevertheless, carbon diox -
ide diffuses quite easily across the membrane, despite the low pressure gradient, due to greater membrane solubility than oxygen.
Gas exchange occurring at the capillary and 
alveoli and between the capillary and the tissue is the result of pressure differentials that cause oxygen or carbon dioxide to diffuse from an area of high concentration to one of low concentration.
Oxygen and carbon dioxide 
transport
Oxygen is transported in the blood, either com-
bined with hemoglobin (98%) or dissolved in the blood plasma (2%), and each molecule of hemoglobin can carry four molecules of oxy -
gen. The binding of oxygen to hemoglobin is also dependent upon the P o
2 in the blood and 
the affinity between oxygen and hemoglobin. The greater the P o
2, the more saturated the 
hemoglobin molecules are with oxygen. In addition, the temperature and pH of the blood will also affect the affinity between oxygen and hemoglobin. As the pH of the blood decreases, the affinity that hemoglobin has to oxygen is decreased and oxygen is released. The right-ward shift of the curve is known as the 
Bohr 
effect  (see Figure 2.9) and is important during 
exercise when a greater amount of oxygen is 
Po2 = 40Po2 = 105
Pco2 = 40
CapillaryAlveoli
Pco2 = 46
Figure 2.8  Pressure gradient between the capillary 
and alveoli within the lungs.00102030Oxyhemoglobin saturation (% )
405060708090100
10 20 30 40 50
PO2 (mm Hg)60 70 80 90 100pH 7.60
7.407.20
VenousArterial
Figure 2.9  Bohr effect.

THE CARDIORESPIRATORY SYSTEM35
needed in the active musculature. On the other 
hand, when the pH is high, as it would be in the lungs, there is a greater affinity between oxygen and hemoglobin; this is important in order to saturate the hemoglobin molecules with oxygen (1).
Carbon dioxide transport in the blood 
occurs primarily in the form of bicarbonate ion (approximately 60–70%). Carbon diox-ide will also be transported, dissolved in the plasma (7–10%), or bound to hemoglobin. However, it does not compete with oxygen since it has its own binding site on the glo-bin molecule. In contrast, oxygen’s binding site is on the heme molecule. As carbon diox -
ide diffuses from the muscle to the blood, it combines with water to form carbonic acid. This is a very unstable acid and it quickly dissociates, releasing a hydrogen ion (H
+) 
and forming a bicarbonate ion (HCO3−). 
This results in an increase in acidity, caus -
ing hemoglobin to lose its affinity for oxygen and increases oxygen’s rate of diffusion into  
the tissues.
Gas exchange is affected by changes in pH and 
temperature.
BLOOD
Blood is a viscous fluid that is comprised of 
cells and plasma. More than 99% of the cells in the blood are red blood cells, the remain -
der being white blood cells. Plasma is part of the extracellular fluid of the body and is very similar in composition to interstitial fluid that is found between tissue cells. Yet these fluids differ regarding the amount of protein that is found between the two fluids where plasma contains approximately 7% protein, while interstitial fluid contains approximately 2% protein. The percentage of the blood that is cells is called the hematocrit and the average man has an approximate hematocrit level of 42, while the average female has a hematocrit level of approximately 38. Simply put, 42% of the blood is comprised of cells in an average male and 38% in an average female with the remaining component being plasma.
CARDIOVASCULAR 
RESPONSE TO ACUTE EXERCISE
Oxygen consumption (VO2) is elevated dur -
ing acute exercise to meet the higher energy 
needs of the exercising muscle and other asso -
ciated tissues. It is important to note that as exercise intensity increases, a greater demand for energy is met by an increase in the cardiac output and/or by a greater oxygen extrac -
tion from the vasculature (a greater (a−v)O
2 
difference). During the early stages of exer -
cise, increases in both heart rate and stroke volume occur quite rapidly to bring about 
increases in cardiac output. Figure 2.10 dem-
onstrates the effects of varying intensities of 
 
exercise on heart rate, stroke volume, and cardiac output.REAL-WORLD APPL iCATiON
Increasing maximal oxygen consumption
Athletes of many sports aim to increase their level of maximal oxygen consumption. In the 
past, coaches have instructed their athletes to perform long slow distance (LSD) training with the goal of increasing VO
2 max. However, in recent years, it has been observed that interval 
training results in VO2 increases similar to, or even greater than, traditional LSD training. 
Therefore, it may be beneficial to incorporate interval training into a conditioning program for athletes whose sports, such as soccer, lacrosse, field hockey, etc. rely on the ATP/CP and glycolytic systems, yet participate in competition for prolonged periods of time.

ANDY BOSAK36
Cardiac output
Cardiac output at rest is approximately 5 L. 
However, during maximal endurance exercise, cardiac output may increase to as much as 20 L in young, sedentary men whereas in young, endurance-trained male athletes, cardiac output may reach 40 L. In examining this con -
siderable difference in cardiac output, it is easy to notice that the maximal heart rate for both of these individuals (assuming that both men are 20 years old) will be approximately 200 bpm (maximal heart rate = 220 − age). Thus, a 
difference in stroke volume must account for the large differences in cardiac output. In our example, the stroke volume of the sedentary male would be approximately 100 mL per beat, while the stroke volume in the endurance trained athlete may reach 200 mL per beat.
The importance of a large cardiac out -
put for the endurance athlete is reflected by the linear relationship seen between cardiac output and oxygen consumption (5). This relationship is seen not only in adults, but also reported in children and adolescents (6) and between trained and untrained individuals (7).
Increases in cardiac output during exercise are 
the result of changes in stroke volume and heart rate. It is important to note that SV and heart rate respond differently to various types of training.Heart rate
The increases in heart rate during exercise are 
primarily controlled by sympathetic stimula-tion from the brain’s higher somatomotor centers. The heart rate response is directly proportional and linear to the intensity of exercise. Thus, as exercise intensity increases, heart rate will continue to increase until it reaches a plateau. Usually, at this specific point, the individual has apparently reached his or her maximal level.
Initial increases in heart rate are also 
related to a withdrawal of parasympathetic input. This occurs during low intensity exer -
cise when, as the exercise session continues in duration or increases in intensity, a greater sympathetic stimulation is seen and becomes the driving force in increasing the heart rate. Sympathetic activation occurs from feedback mechanisms in peripheral, mechanical, and chemical receptors that monitor changes in pH, 
hypoxia , temperature, and other metabolic 
variables that can alter sympathetic drive.
As heart rate increases, the volume of 
blood that is pumped into circulation will also increase. However, there is a limitation to this effect as when the heart rate rises above a cer -
tain level, the strength of each contraction may decrease due to a metabolic overload. More importantly, the greater rate of contraction results in less time spent in the diastole phase. 0
Light Maximal Moderate
Exercise intensity50100150200HR (B/min) and SV (ml/min)250
0510152025Q (L/min).
Heart rate Stroke volume Cardiac output
Figure 2.10  Effect of exercise intensity on heart rate, stroke volume, and cardiac output. HR = heart rate;  
SV = stroke volume; Q = cardiac output.

THE CARDIORESPIRATORY SYSTEM37
Unfortunately, the time between contractions 
becomes so reduced that there is not sufficient time for the blood to flow from the atria to the ventricles. Thus, the total volume of blood made available to the circulation is reduced. For this reason, during artificial electrical stimulation, the heart rate will only increase to an approximate level of 100 to 150 beats per minute. However, elevations in heart rate from sympathetic stimulation will result in a heart rate between 170 and 250 beats per min -
ute. Notice that sympathetic stimulation will also result in a stronger systolic contraction, decrease the time during systole, and thereby allow a greater time for filling during diastole.
Decreases in resting heart rate likely reflect 
changes in sympathetic and parasympathetic stimulation.
Stroke volume
Increases in stroke volume occur early during 
exercise primarily through an increase in left ventricular end-diastolic volume (EDV). This rapid augmentation of stroke volume is due to the 
Frank-Starling mechanism , which is related 
to the increased volume of blood that returns to the heart during exercise. With a greater volume of blood returning to the heart, the ventricles will become stretched to a greater extent than normal and will respond with a more forceful contraction. This stronger con-traction will result in a greater volume of blood entering the systemic circulation with each heart beat. This mechanism appears to occur in the early stages of exercise and at a relatively low exercise intensity level. The Frank-Starling mechanism may cause an approximate 30% to 50% increase in stroke volume (8). As exer -
cise continues, increases in EDV will reach a plateau while exercise intensity is still at a submaximal intensity. Further increases in stroke volume are attributed to the enhanced left ventricular contractile function, which is 
controlled by enhanced sympathetic stimula-
tion, thereby resulting in a greater decrease in end-systolic ventricular volume.
There are two mechanisms that appear to 
be responsible for the increase in EDV dur -
ing exercise. The initial mechanism involves the use of the exercising muscles as a pump to increase the rate of return of the blood to the heart, and one would expect this to increase the pressures within the ventricular cavity during filling, thereby raising diastolic pres -
sure. However, this does not occur in a healthy heart. Also, the relaxation seen in the left  
ventricle reduces the ventricular pressure below that of the left atrium, which in turn will cause the mitral valve to open and ventricular fill -
ing will occur. As mentioned previously in this 
chapter, the enhanced sympathetic response 
during exercise will increase the relaxation time during diastole. During this specific time, the increase in size of the left ventricle causes a further reduction in pressure creating a suc -
tion effect which draws additional blood into the chamber. This facilitation of the suctioning  
mechanism by sympathetic drive is the secondary mechanism that contributes to the increased stroke volume and is crucial in the recruitment of Frank-Starling mechanisms (8).
Cardiac drift
As exercise duration is prolonged, or when exercise is performed in a hot and potentially humid environment, a gradual increase in heart rate and a decrease in stroke volume may occur even when exercise intensity is maintained. This specific process is called 
cardiovascular 
drift and is thought to occur from a greater 
percentage of circulating blood being diverted to the skin attempting to dissipate body heat as a result of an increased core temperature in the exercising athlete. The greater concentration of blood in the periphery and a loss of some plasma volume, specifically water loss from the plasma which contributes to the composition of sweat, will result in a reduced blood volume (i.e., venous return) going back to the heart. The decrease in EDV will result in a reduced stroke volume, which will then cause the heart rate to increase in order to compensate for the change in stroke volume, and more impor -
tantly, to maintain cardiac output.
(a−v)O2 difference
In an individual with a normal hemoglobin concentration, who is in a resting state, each liter of blood will contain approximately 

ANDY BOSAK38
200 mL of oxygen. Considering that a nor -
mal cardiac output is 5 L per minute at rest, 
approximately 1 L of oxygen is available to the body. However, only 250 mL, or 25% of the available oxygen, is extracted from arte -
rial blood (the (a−v)O
2 difference) during rest, 
which will leave the remaining 750 mL of oxy -
gen available as a reserve.
It is logical to assume that during exercise, 
oxygen extraction from the arterial blood is increased and up to 75% of the available oxy -
gen may be used by the exercising muscles. The increase in oxygen extraction appears to be related to the intensity of exercise and may be further enhanced by participating in an endur -
ance training program. The ability to extract oxygen from the blood and the total blood volume available to the muscles is critical in determining the aerobic capacity of the indi-vidual. This is reflected by the 
Fick equation :
VO2 max = Maximal cardiac output × 
Maximal (a−v)O2 difference
Of major interest, there may be very little dif -
ference between moderately trained individuals and endurance athletes in the ability to extract oxygen, despite large differences in V O
2 max. 
Therefore, the primary factor determining aer -
obic capacity is likely cardiac output.
Distribution of cardiac output
During exercise, most of the circulating blood is diverted to the active muscles (see Figure 2.2). 
The magnitude of the shunting process will be 
 
dependent upon the environmental condition and possibly other factors including type of exercise and fatigue. The shunting of blood is generally accomplished by diverting blood flow from organs or areas of the body that can toler -
ate a reduction in blood flow to the exercising muscles, and this process is commonly referred to as autoregulation. However, certain organs such as the heart cannot function without a normal blood flow and will try strongly not to reduce their blood supply during exercise.
Blood pressure
Blood pressure typically increases in a lin -
ear fashion during dynamic exercise such as walking, jogging, or running. In a healthy indi-vidual, this increase is seen only in the systolic response. The systolic blood pressure response appears to be buffered to a large extent by the decrease in peripheral resistance caused by the vasodilation in the vasculature of the exercis-ing muscles (9). The decrease seen in peripheral resistance appears to account for the minimal to non-existent change that is observed with diastolic pressures. It is also important to note that diastolic pressure may decrease during high intensity exercise bouts.
Q&A FROM THE F iELD
Can resistance training be harmful to the 
heart? Is it possible that this type of training can contribute to an enlarged heart?
The heart is a muscle, and exercise, including 
resistance training, increases the workload on the heart. The heart can hypertrophy just like any other muscle. Bodybuilders and weightlifters can get an enlarged heart, which by itself does not cause any heart problems. However, resistance training will cause your heart muscle to thicken without enlargement of its cavity, which enables the heart to work better under the increased intrathoracic pressure that occurs with anaerobic exercise. Other causes of an enlarged heart include certain diseases that are associated with specific heart problems.
During exercise that only involves the 
upper body, both systolic and diastolic blood 
pressures are higher than when exercise is performed with only the use of the legs (10). This is thought to occur because of the rela-tively smaller muscle mass and vasculature of the arms. Even when these vessels are maxi -
mally dilated it does not appear to have the same effect on peripheral resistance compared with lower body exercise. The higher pressor response seen with upper body exercise has important implications in determining the exercise prescription for individuals who have coronary heart disease.
During resistance training exercise, large 
increases in both systolic and diastolic blood pressures may occur (11,12,13). During maximal efforts that involve a large muscle mass, intra-arterial blood pressures exceeding 

THE CARDIORESPIRATORY SYSTEM39
350/250 mm Hg in healthy young men have 
been reported (12). The large pressor response that occurs during resistance training is a combination of vascular compression within contracting muscles and a 
Valsalva maneuver  
(9). The magnitude of the pressor response is also related to the relative size of the muscle mass involved and the intensity of the effort. Note, blood pressure will increase with each repetition when an individual completes a set to failure, and then drops rapidly to below 
resting levels after the last repetition (12,13). 
This is a transient decrease and is likely related to the large vasodilation of the vasculature that was occluded during muscle contraction and may contribute to the dizziness that  
one may experience after an intense exercise session.
A major portion of the large pressor 
response seen during resistance training is attributed to a Valsalva maneuver. During a Valsalva maneuver, there is a rapid increase in intrathoracic pressure which results in an increase in both systolic and diastolic blood pressures (11). However, if the Valsalva maneuver is maintained, within several sec -
onds, the systolic and diastolic pressures will begin to drop because of the reduced diastolic filling caused by an impaired venous return. Although often contraindicated during resist -
ance exercise, the Valsalva maneuver may in fact be quite beneficial and have a protective effect in healthy resistance trained individuals (9,14). The increase in intrathoracic pressure seen during the Valsalva maneuver will pro -
vide stabilization to the spinal column, and reduce left ventricular transmural pressure, which is otherwise known as afterload (15). This contrasts to the high afterload that is normally expected when systolic pressures are elevated. In addition, the increase in intrathoracic pressure is also transmitted to the cerebral spinal fluid, which will reduce the transmural pressures of the cerebral ves-sels preventing vascular damage at the time of peak peripheral resistance (14).
During exercise, systolic blood pressure is 
expected to increase relative to changes in exercise intensity; however, diastolic blood pressure will remain the same or decrease slightly.PULMONARY 
VENTILATION DURING 
EXERCISE
During submaximal exercise, ventilation will 
increase linearly with oxygen uptake. The increase in oxygen consumption is primar -
ily the result of an increase in tidal volume, which is the amount of air inspired or expired during a normal breathing cycle. As exercise intensity increases, the increase in oxygen consumption may rely more on increasing the breathing rate (i.e., the respiration rate). During steady state exercise, minute ventila-tion, which is the liters of air breathed per minute, will plateau when the demand for oxygen is met by supply. The ratio of minute ventilation to oxygen consumption is termed the 
ventilatory equivalent  and is symbolized 
by Ve/VO2. During submaximal exercise the 
ventilatory equivalent in healthy individuals is approximately 25:1 (16). In simple terms, this represents 25 L of air that is breathed in for every liter of oxygen. This ratio may be slightly higher in children (17) and may also be affected by the exercise mode such as swimming versus running (18). However, during maximal exercise, minute ventilation increases disproportionately in relation to oxygen uptake and this is important to con -
sider since the ventilatory equivalent may reach as high as 35–40 L of air per L of oxy -
gen consumed in a healthy adult.
CARDIOVASCULAR 
ADAPTATIONS TO 
TRAINING
When individuals are compliant to an endur -
ance exercise program for a long period of 
time, this may result in numerous cardiovas -
cular adaptations that are specific to the type of exercise program that the individual par -
ticipates in. Endurance training and resistance training are modes of training that represent two distinctly different physiological demands that are placed on the cardiovascular system. Although many of the cardiovascular adapta -
tions observed in these training programs are 

ANDY BOSAK40
similar, others are quite different. A summary 
of these adaptations can be seen in Table 2.2 
and are discussed in this section.
Cardiac output and stroke  
volume
Increases in VO2 max are characteristic of 
compliance to an endurance training program. 
These increases are generally accompanied by increases in cardiac output and an improved extraction capability within skeletal muscle (increase in (a−v)O
2 difference). Improvement 
in oxygen extraction is related to the greater perfusion capabilities of exercising muscle. Since maximal heart rates are unaffected by training and will not differ between elite endurance athletes and age-matched seden-tary individuals, increases in cardiac output are primarily the result of having an improved stroke volume.
Endurance training is a potent stimulus 
for increasing stroke volume both at rest and during maximal exercise, and the increases in stroke volume are related to an enlarged ventricular chamber (referred to as eccentric 
hypertrophy ) caused by a chronic increased 
ventricular filling seen during endurance exer -
cise. This increased preload seems to relate to the expanded plasma volume associated with such training (19,20).
It is important to note that resistance 
training results in little to no change in car -
diac output. Yet, significantly greater stroke volumes have been reported in elite level weightlifters when compared to recreational lifters (21). However, the increase in stroke volume seen in these athletes appeared to be more a factor of a larger body size than a training adaptation (22).
Increases in cardiac output following prolonged 
endurance training are the result of an increased SV.
Heart rate
A decrease in resting heart rate, and a relative 
decrease in heart rate at any given submaximal VO
2 level, is a common adaptation to engaging  TABLE 2.2  Cardiovascular adaptations to prolonged endurance and resistance training
Endurance training Resistance training
Rest Exercise Rest Exercise
Heart rate D NC D or NC NC
Stroke volume I I I or NC I or NC
Cardiac output NC I NC I or NC
Blood pressure:
 Systolic D or NC D or NC D or NC D or NC
 Diastolic D or NC D or NC NC D or NC
Morphological adaptations: Left ventricular mass I I
 Left ventricular diameter I I or NC
Wall thickness: Left ventricle I I
 Septum I I
I = increase, D = decrease, NC = no change

THE CARDIORESPIRATORY SYSTEM41
in an endurance training program (23,24). The 
decrease in heart rate during submaximal exer -
cise is likely subsequent to improved stroke volume and also is reflective of an improved exercise economy. The mechanism regulating training induced bradycardia (i.e., a low heart rate) is not thoroughly understood but is likely related to a change in the balance between sympathetic and parasympathetic activity. In addition, a decrease in the intrinsic rate of firing of the SA-node following long-term training has 
also been suggested to be a factor in the brady -
cardic response to long-term training (25).
Blood pressure
In normotensive individuals, resting systolic or 
diastolic pressures are generally unresponsive to endurance training programs. However, based on numerous epidemiological studies and other investigations examining exercise and hypertension, it appears that exercise is a potential stimulus for reducing both systolic and diastolic blood pressure in hypertensive individuals (26). The reduction in resting blood pressure appears to occur during endur -
ance exercise programs that include training frequencies of between three and five sessions per week that are at least 30 minutes in dura-tion and include an intensity level of 50% to 70% of VO
2 max (26,27).
During endurance exercise at a given exer -
cise intensity level, the blood pressure response has been shown to decrease (9), but this may be related to the initial conditioning level of the individual. Therefore, well-conditioned endurance athletes will probably need to train at higher intensity exercise levels for a pro-longed duration to see potential adaptations.
Resistance training appears to result in no 
change or a slight decrease in resting blood pressure (28), but a significant decrease in the blood pressure response during resistance exercise at the same absolute load tends to occur (29,30). However, a decrease in resting blood pressure subsequent to resistance train -
ing is likely the result of a decrease in body fat and possible reduction in the sympathetic drive to the heart (31).
Changes in resting blood pressure are dependent 
upon the individual’s initial conditioning level.Cardiac morphology
An athlete’s heart is quite large in comparison 
to a recreationally trained or sedentary indi -
vidual. For many years, a debate was waged whether this enlarged heart in athletes was a consequence of pathological disease or physio -
logical adaptation. However, the technological advances since the early 1980s have allowed for a much closer examination of the physio-logical adaptations of the heart in conjunction with prolonged training.
During prolonged training, the heart will 
adapt to match the workload placed on the left ventricle in order to maintain a constant rela -
tionship between systolic cavity pressure and the ratio of wall thickness to ventricular radius (32). Adaptations to the morphology of the heart are governed by the law of Laplace that states that wall tension is proportional to pres -
sure and the radius of curvature (33). During a pressure overload, common to resistance exercise programs, the septum and posterior wall of the left ventricle increase in size to normalize myocardial wall stress. During a volume overload, common to endurance train -
ing programs, the increase is predominantly in the internal diameter of the left ventricle, which increases the size of the cavity, with a proportional increase in both the septum and posterior wall of the ventricle. Both endurance training and resistance training are at opposite ends of the spectrum concerning the volume and pressure stresses placed upon the heart. However, most sports have a parallel impact on both cavity dimension and wall thickness (34). In these specific sports, athletes perform a combination of aerobic and anaerobic training which results in cardiovascular adaptations associated with both an enlarged diastolic cavity dimension and a larger wall thickness. In sports that primarily emphasize a single form of training, such as distance running or road cycling, the morphological changes of the heart may be more extreme.
Endurance trained athletes have been 
shown to have a greater than normal left ventricular internal diameter, with normal to slightly thicker walls (34,35,36,37). This type of left ventricular hypertrophy is termed eccen -
tric hypertrophy and is considered a normal physiological response to a volume overload consistent with prolonged endurance training.

ANDY BOSAK42
On the other hand, resistance trained 
athletes have normal internal diameters 
with significantly thicker ventricular walls (27,36,38,39). This type of hypertrophy is referred to as 
concentric hypertrophy  and, at 
times, may approach levels that are seen in 
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy , which is a dis -
ease of the myocardium that is associated with large thickening of the septum and posterior wall at the expense of cavity size, which greatly impairs left ventricular function. Of major importance, the concentric hypertrophy seen in the resistance trained athlete does not impede on the internal diameter of the ventricle. In addition, the type of hypertrophy seen in car -
diomyopathy is usually asymmetric, whereas in resistance trained or power athletes, the change in wall size is generally symmetrical. Figure 2.11 compares morphological changes in the left ventricle between endurance and resistance trained individuals.
Left ventricular mass in highly trained 
athletes are on average 45% greater than in age-matched control subjects (35).
 This 
increase in mass is related to the increases in left ventricular internal diameter and ventricu-lar wall thickness. When examined relative to changes in body mass or body surface area, the significantly greater ventricular mass is still present. Some studies have suggested that differences are more prevalent in elite athletes than in athletes of lesser caliber (22).
Morphological changes of the heart are dependent 
upon the type of training program performed.Endurance training
Resistance training
Figure 2.11  Caricature of morphological adaptations of the left ventricle subsequent to endurance and 
resistance training.

THE CARDIORESPIRATORY SYSTEM43
RESPIRATORY 
ADAPTATIONS TO TRAINING
The respiratory system does not appear to be 
a major limiting factor in providing sufficient oxygen to the exercising muscles. However, similar to most other physiological systems in the body, the respiratory system can also adapt to physical exercise in order to maxi -
mize its efficiency. In general, lung volume and capacity will change very little from physi-cal exercise. However, it appears that during maximal exercise vital capacity may increase slightly, but this may be related to the slight decrease seen in residual volume, which is the amount of air that remains in the lungs follow -
ing maximal expiration (40).
Respiratory capacity does not appear significantly 
affected by physical exercise.
Ventilatory equivalent and  
minute ventilation
Endurance training appears to reduce the 
ventilatory equivalent  (i.e., the amount of air 
that is inspired at a particular rate of oxygen 
consumption) during submaximal exercise (41,42). As a result, the oxygen cost of exer -
cise that is attributed to ventilation is reduced. This benefit may be realized by a reduction in fatigue of the ventilatory musculature and greater oxygen availability to the exercising muscles (43).
Minute ventilation also appears to decrease 
during submaximal exercise following pro-longed endurance training. This yields an improved exercise efficiency resulting from such training. However, during maximal exercise, endurance training appears to cause minute ven -
tilation to increase and this is thought to occur due to an increase in VO
2 max (44). In untrained 
subjects, minute ventilation can increase from 120 L·min
−1 to about 150 L·min−1 after training 
(40). In addition, minute ventilation in highly trained endurance athletes may increase to 180 L·min
−1 and elite rowers have been reported to 
reach as high as 240 L·min−1 (40).BLOOD VOLUME 
ADAPTATIONS TO TRAINING
Endurance training appears to be a potent 
stimulus for causing hypervolemia , which is 
an increase in blood volume. This adaptation appears to occur within the initial two to four weeks of training and is thought to be the result of increases in plasma volume (45). However, as training progresses further, increases in blood volume appear to be the result of both continued plasma volume expansion and an increase in red blood cell number.
The increase in plasma volume is believed 
to be the result of increases in the fluid regu -
latory hormones antidiuretic hormone and aldosterone that bring about an increase in fluid retention by the kidneys. In addition, exercise causes an increase in plasma proteins, primarily albumin (46). This increase in plasma proteins within the blood will cause a greater osmotic pull causing fluid to be retained in the blood. Also, plasma volume expansion does appear to be a greater contributor to hyper -
volemia (47). Figure 2.12 shows the effect of prolonged endurance training on blood vol -
ume expansion and the contributions of both
 
Plasma 3 LPlasma 3.3 L
Red blood
cells 2 LRed blood
cells 2.1 L
Before training
Total blood
volume = 5 L
Hematocrit = 40After training
Total blood
volume = 5.4 L
Hematocrit = 39
Figure 2.12  Effect of endurance training on blood 
volume, plasma volume and hematocrit.
Adapted from Hoffman JR. Physiological Aspects of Sport 
Training and Performance. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics. 55, 2002.

ANDY BOSAK44
plasma volume expansion and increases in 
red blood cell number. Although both plasma volume and red blood cell volume increase, they do not increase proportionally. Thus, hematocrit will decrease, which will lower the viscosity of the blood and facilitate blood flow through the circulation. However, the reduc -
tion in hematocrit does not appear to cause a concern for low hemoglobin concentrations. In fact, hemoglobin concentrations in endurance trained athletes are typically above normal and 
provide an ample capacity of oxygen to meet 
the body’s needs during exercise.
Increases in red blood cell number and  
plasma volume expansion as the result of 
endurance training will cause a reduction  
in hematocrit.
ENVIRONMENTAL 
FACTORS AFFECTING 
CARDIORESPIRATORY 
FUNCTION
Exercise performed under severe environmen-
tal conditions may cause a large strain on the cardiorespiratory system specifically in meet -
ing the body’s oxygen demands. In addition to potential performance limitations, exercise under such conditions poses significant risks to the health and well-being of the individual. This section will focus on the aspects of exer -
cising in the heat and altitude and how this will impact cardiorespiratory function.
Cardiorespiratory response to 
exercise in the heat
During exercise in the heat, a large volume of 
circulating blood (up to 7 L·min−1) is diverted 
to the skin to help dissipate the resulting body heat increases (48). As blood flow to the skin is 
increased, the peripheral vasculature becomes 
compliant and engorged with blood creat -
ing blood pools (49). Blood pooling in the periphery causes a reduction in venous return and subsequently a decrease in cardiac filling, which in turn will result in further cardiovas-cular strain that is reflected by a decrease in stroke volume. To compensate for the decrease in SV, the heart rate must increase to main -
tain cardiac output and, as stated earlier, this process is known as cardiovascular drift. In addition, blood flow from splanchnic and renal areas are further reduced to compensate for the greater blood flow that is diverted to the exercising muscle and periphery for heat dissipation (48).
To combat elevations in body temperature 
resulting from exercising in the heat, sweat rate will increase to enhance evaporative cooling. This adds further to the cardiovas -
cular strain by causing a greater reduction in blood volume (50). However, as blood volume becomes reduced, it will result in less blood being made available to the periphery and, as a result, sweat output will decline and the body’s ability to dissipate heat will be reduced. Consequently, core temperature will rise, and in combination with a reduced blood volume, cardiovascular strain becomes elevated and the risk for heat illness is increased. When exercise in the heat is further complicated with a body water deficit, the resulting dehydration will exacerbate the physiological strain and in simpler terms, will cause the athlete to have a reduction in performance as he or she will have an inability to maintain the required exercise intensity.
An existing body water deficit, known 
as 
hypohydration , will have significant impli -
cations for cardiovascular function and results in a reduction of plasma volume. As a consequence, less blood is available to both exercising muscle and the skin. In addition, decreases in plasma volume are also associ -
ated with a reduction in stroke volume (51). To compensate, the heart rate will increase to maintain normal blood flow. However, depending upon the magnitude of the body water deficit, the increase in heart rate may be insufficient to fully compensate for the lower stroke volume. Unfortunately, cardiac output 
will also be reduced (51,52). However, one 
factor to consider is that cardiac output can be maintained at higher degrees of hypohy -
dration if it occurs in the absence of a thermal strain (53).

THE CARDIORESPIRATORY SYSTEM45
During exercise in the heat, blood flow must be 
redistributed to accommodate the competing interests of thermoregulation and skeletal muscle. Furthermore, cardiovascular function can be compromised during exercise in the heat by a 
reduction in SV.
Effect of altitude on the 
cardiorespiratory response
As one ascends above sea level, the partial 
pressure of oxygen (Po2) becomes reduced. 
Remember that the pressure gradient between arterial Po
2 and tissue Po2 is approximately 
64 mm Hg at sea level, which is the differ -
ence between an arterial P o2 of 104 mm Hg 
and a tissue P o2 of 40 mm Hg. This creates 
a pressure gradient causing oxygen to diffuse easily into the tissues. However, at altitude, a reduction in arterial Po
2 will cause a decrease 
in the pressure gradient reducing the diffu -
sion capability of oxygen from the vasculature into the tissue. For instance, at an elevation of 2,500 m the arterial P o
2 drops to about 60 
mm Hg, with the tissue Po2 remaining at 40 
mm Hg, creating a pressure gradient of only 20 mm Hg. This 70% reduction in the pres -
sure gradient will cause a significant reduction in the speed at which oxygen moves between the capillaries and tissues. The reduction in the pressure gradient between the vasculature and the tissues has important implications in main -
taining exercise performance during exercise at altitude. To compensate for the reduced Po
2 at altitude, breathing rate is increased. 
However, as breathing rate increases, known as 
hyperventilation , the partial pressure of 
carbon dioxide (P co2) in the alveoli becomes 
reduced. As a result, the stimulus to maintain a high rate of ventilation may be removed since Pco
2 is an integral part of the driving force 
behind hyperventilation.
To compensate for the reduced oxygen 
availability at altitude, increases in cardiac output occur at rest and during exercise. The primary mechanism that contributes to the increase in cardiac output appears to be an increase in heart rate. Heart rate has been shown to increase between 40 and 50% at rest without any change in SV (54). Even during exercise, the increase in cardiac output appears to be primarily the result of an increase in heart rate. In contrast to what is normally seen during exercise at sea level, during exercise at altitude, stroke volume will decrease (54). The decrease in stroke volume is apparently from a reduction in plasma volume that is observed within a short time following arrival at alti -
tude (55,56).
During initial exposure at altitude, 
observed at elevations above 3,000 m, decreases in plasma volume appear to be the result of both a diuresis and natriuresis, which is known as an increase in sodium excretion (57). The diuresis may be explained by the large evaporative heat loss caused by ven -
tilation of dry inspired air at altitude. The natriuresis appears to be the result of a neu -
ral stimulation of the kidney to decrease the reabsorption of sodium due to the 
hypoxic  
(low oxygen) stimulus (57). Even during pro -
longed exposure to altitude, plasma volume will still remain below normal levels, and studies examining individuals that reside at altitude have reported lower plasma volumes in comparison to residents of sea level com -
munities (58). Thus, acclimatization does not seem to have any significant effect on a return of blood volume to pre-exposure levels.
Changes in the partial pressure of oxygen as the 
result of ascending to altitude will impair gas exchange in the lungs and tissues.
Cardiorespiratory changes from 
prolonged exposure at altitude
During the first few days at altitude, changes in 
the respiratory response can be seen. Initially, breathing rate is increased while arterial P o
2 
decreases. However, after a few days at alti -
tude, arterial P o2 begins to rise as P co2 values 
fall. The ventilatory rate will continue to rise from changes in the ventilatory response to 
CO
2 levels and in the sensitivity of the carotid 
body. The carotid body is situated above the 
bifurcation of the carotid artery and it serves as a sensor of oxygen saturation in the blood, and most notably, its location is ideal for this 

ANDY BOSAK46
role since it receives a large blood supply 
allowing it to respond to oxygen saturation and not to oxygen content (59). The increased sensitivity of the carotid body appears to have a biphasic response. The initial response may be a decrease in the hypoxic ventilatory response during the first three to five days of altitude exposure, but following these initial days of exposure, an increase in the ventila -
tory response occurs (59).
In addition to changes in the ventilatory 
response, another component of respiratory adaptation to altitude may be the diffusion capacity of oxygen. After seven to ten weeks of altitude exposure, diffusion capacities are reported to increase between 15 and 20% (58). Although much of this improved diffusion capacity may be accounted for by increases in hemoglobin concentrations, other studies comparing individuals permanently residing at altitude to individuals residing at sea level have also reported significant differences in oxygen diffusion capacities between these population groups (60). These differences may be related to the larger lung volumes developed through exposure to chronic hypoxia and the subse-quent development of greater surface area for oxygen diffusion (61).
Altitude and temperature each elicit various 
physiological responses that are specific to the environment.
After several weeks of altitude exposure, 
cardiac output remains similar to those val -
ues observed at sea level. However, similar 
to what occurs during an acute exposure to altitude, increases in cardiac output follow -
ing extended stays at elevation appear to be primarily attributed to increases in heart rate, yet stroke volume continues to remain reduced (62). One of the best-known adaptations to prolonged exposure to altitude is the increase in the number of red blood cells per unit vol -
ume of blood. Exposure to hypoxic conditions 
result in the release of the hormone 
eryth-
ropoietin . Erythropoietin is responsible for 
stimulating red blood cell (i.e., erythrocytes) 
production and is seen to increase within two hours of exposure to altitude and reaches a maximum rate of increase at about 24 to 48 hours (63). After three weeks of exposure to altitude, erythropoietin concentrations appear to return to baseline levels, but not until they have contributed to an approximate 20 to 25% increase in packed cell volume (64). Increases in red cell mass continue to increase even after erythropoietin returns to normal levels (64). However, the mechanism that underlies this continued increase is not known. This physi -
ological adaptation to altitude is one of the reasons why many endurance athletes live at 
altitude and train at sea level.
Finally, as red cell volume increases, 
the blood’s hemoglobin concentration will 
increase as well. This increase allows for a greater amount of oxygen to be carried per unit volume of blood. However, as red cell vol -
ume and hemoglobin concentration increase, the viscosity of the blood will also increase, presenting an inherent danger associated with these physiological adaptations that occur with altitude.
SUMMARY
In this chapter, the effect of acute exercise on car -
diac function and how the heart will compensate for the increased energy demands of exercising muscles was discussed. This compensation is manifested by changes in cardiac output, regu -
lated in part by enhanced sympathetic drive and increased venous return. In addition, blood flow is diverted from non-exercising muscles and non-essential organs to exercising muscles to provide for greater oxygen delivery. Differences in the acute cardiac response between endur -
ance and resistance training programs were also reviewed. The coordinated relationship between the cardiovascular and respiratory systems and the effect both acute and prolonged training have on function was also discussed. In addi -
tion, the effects of prolonged training on both cardiovascular and respiratory adaptations were explored and a specific focus was placed on how these adaptations are dependent upon 
the type of training program employed. Finally, 
the effects of environmental stresses were also reviewed. Specific discussion was directed at acute exercise in the heat and at altitude with adaptation to prolonged exposure to altitude being briefly reviewed.

THE CARDIORESPIRATORY SYSTEM47
MAxiNG OUT
1 You are responsible for training a collegiate cross-country team in Park City, Utah, but 
most of the team members are traveling to southwest Georgia during the last few weeks of the summer break. The first competition of the cross-country season occurs in the second week of September. When do you advise your athletes to return to the mountains in Park City, and what physiological changes may happen when they are on vacation?
2 After an unusually hot and humid summer, one of your university age club level soccer players complains to you about having a higher heart rate than normal. After investi -
gating this specific issue, you discover that many of the players have resting heart rates approximately ten beats higher than they did three months ago. What may have caused the problem and what methods will you employ to try to fix this problem?
3 You are the strength and conditioning coach for the junior Olympic (age 20 and under) track and field team. During an intense lifting session that consists of four sets of two to three repetitions of the dead lift, one of your throwing athletes loses consciousness. His teammates mention that his face turned very red during his final repetition of the third set. What was the likely cause of your athlete passing out in this manner?
REFERENCES
 1. Powers SK, Howley ET. Exercise Physiology: 
Theory and Application to Fitness and Performance, 10th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill. 2018; 224–255.
 2. Adamovich DR. The Heart. Fundamentals of Electrocardiography, Exercise Physiology and Exercise Stress Testing. Freeport, NY: Sports Medicine Books; 1984.
 3. Hurst JW. Naming of the waves in the ECG, with a brief account of their genesis. Journal of the American Heart Association 1998; 98;1937–1942.
 4. Dunbar C. ECG Interpretation for the Clinical Exercise Physiologist. Baltimore, MD: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. 2009.
 5. Lewis SF, Taylor WF, Graham RM, et al. Cardiovascular responses to exercise as functions of absolute and relative work load.  J Appl Physiol 1983; 54;1314–1323.
 6. Cunningham DA, Paterson DH, Blimkie CJ, et al. Development of cardiorespiratory function in circumpubertal boys: a longitudinal study. J Appl Physiol 1984; 56;302–307.
 7. Saltin B, Astrand PO. Maximal oxygen uptake in athletes. J Appl Physiol 1967; 23;353–358.
 8. Bonow RO. Left ventricular response to exercise. In: Fletcher GF, ed. Cardiovascular Response to Exercise. Mount Kisco, NY: Futura Publishing Co, Inc. 31–48. 1994. 9. MacDougall JD. Blood pressure responses to resistive, static, and dynamic exercise. In: Fletcher GF, ed. Cardiovascular Response to Exercise. Mount Kisco, NY: Futura Publishing Co, Inc. 155–174. 1994.
10. Toner MM, Glickman EL, McArdle WD. Cardiovascular adjustments to exercise distributed between the upper and lower body. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1990; 22;773–778.
11. MacDougall JD, McKelvie RS, Moroz DE, et al. Factors affecting blood pressure response during heavy weightlifting and static contractions. J Appl Physiol 1992; 73;1590–1597.
12. MacDougall JD, Tuxen D, Sale DG, et al. Arterial blood pressure response to heavy resistance exercise. J Appl Physiol 1985; 58;785–790.
13. Sale DG, Moroz DE, McKelvie RS, et al. Effect of training on the blood pressure response to weight lifting. Can J Appl Physiol 1994; 19;60–74.
14. McCartney N. Acute responses to resistance training and safety. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1999; 31;31–37.
15. Lentini AC, McKelvie RS, McCartney N,  
et al. Assessment of left ventricular response of strength trained athletes during weightlifting exercise. J Appl Physiol 1993; 75;2703–2710.
16. Wasserman K, Whipp BJ, Davis JA. Respiratory physiology of exercise: metabolism, gas exchange, and ventilatory control. International Review of Physiology 1981; 23;149–211.

ANDY BOSAK48
17. Rowland TW, Green GM. Physiological 
responses to treadmill exercise in females: adult-child differences. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1988; 20;474–478.
18. McArdle WD, Glaser RM, Magel JR. Metabolic and cardiorespiratory response during free swimming and treadmill walking. J Appl Physiol 1971; 30;733–738.
19. Carroll JF, Convertino VA, Wood CE, et al. Effect of training on blood volume and plasma hormone concentrations in the elderly. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1995; 27;79–84.
20. Convertino VA, Keil LC, Bernauer EM, et al. Plasma volume, osmolality, vasopressin, and renin activity during graded exercise in man. J Appl Physiol: Respiration Environmental Exercise Physiology 1981; 50;123–128.
21. Pearson AC, Schiff M, Mrosek D, et al. Left ventricular diastolic function in weight lifters. American Journal of Cardiology 1986; 58;1254–1259.
22. Fleck SJ. Cardiovascular adaptations to resistance training. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1988; 20;S146–S151.
23. Blomqvist CG, Saltin B. Cardiovascular adaptations to physical training. Annual Review of Physiology 1983; 45;169–189.
24. Charlton GA, Crawford MH. Physiological consequences of training. Cardiology Clinics 1997; 15;345–354.
25. Schaefer ME, Allert JA, Adams HR, et al.  
Adrenergic responsiveness and intrinsic sinoatrial automaticity of exercise-trained rats. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1992; 24;887–894.
26. Seals DR, Hagberg JM. The effect of exercise training on human hypertension: a review. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1984; 16;207–215.
27. Fagard RH. Exercise characteristics and the blood pressure response to dynamic physical training. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2001; 33;S484–S492.
28. Goldberg L, Elliot DL, Kuehl KS. A comparison of the cardiovascular effects of running and weight training. J Strength Cond Res 1994; 8;219–224.
29. McCartney N, McKelvie RS, Martin J, et al. Weight-training-induced attenuation of the circulatory response of older males to weight lifting. J Appl Physiol 1993; 74;1056–1060.
30. Sale DG, Moroz DE, McKelvie RS, et al. Comparison of blood pressure response to isokinetic and weight-lifting exercise. Eur J Appl Physiol 1993; 67;115–120.
31. Fleck SJ, Kraemer WJ, 4th ed. Designing Resistance Training Programs. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics. 2014.32. Shapiro L. The morphological consequences of systemic training. Cardiology Clinics 1997; 15;373–379.
33. Ford LE. Heart size. Circulatory Research 1976; 39;299–303.
34. Spirito P, Pelliccia A, Proschan M, et al. Morphology of the “athlete’s heart” assessed by echocardiography in 947 elite athletes representing 27 sports. American Journal of Cardiology 1994; 74;802–806.
35. Maron BJ. Structural features of the athletic heart as defined by echocardiography. American Journal of Cardiology 1986;7;190–203.
36. Morganroth J, Maron BJ, Henry WL, et al. Comparative left ventricular dimensions in trained athletes. Annals of Internal Medicine 1975; 82;521–524.
37. Pelliccia A, Maron BJ, Spataro A, et al. The upper limit of physiologic cardiac hypertrophy in highly trained elite athletes. New England Journal of Medicine 1991; 324;295–301.
38. Fleck SJ, Henke C, Wilson W. Cardiac MRI of elite junior Olympic weight lifters. International Journal of Sports Medicine 1989; 10;329–333.
39. Menapace FJ, Hammer, WJ, Ritzer TF et al. Left ventricular size in competitive weight lifters: an echocardiographic study. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1982; 14;72–75.
40. Kenney WL, Wilmore JH, Costill DL. Physiology of Sport and Exercise, 6th ed. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics. 2015.
41. Girandola RN, Katch FL. Effects of physical training on ventilatory equivalent and respiratory exchange ratio during weight supported, steady-state exercise. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 1976; 21;119–125.
42. Yerg II, JE, Seals DR, Hagberg JM, et al. Effect of endurance exercise training on ventilatory function in older individuals.  J Appl Physiol 1985; 58;791–794.
43. Martin B, Heintzelman M, Chen HI. Exercise performance after ventilatory work. J Appl Physiol 1982; 52;1581–1585.
44. McArdle WD, Katch FI, Katch VL. Exercise Physiology. Energy, Nutrition, and Human Performance, 8th ed. Baltimore, MD: Williams & Wilkins. 253–456. 2014.
45. Convertion VA. Blood volume: its adaptation to endurance training. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1991; 23;1338–1348.
46. Yang RC, Mack GW, Wolfe RR, et al. Albumin synthesis after intense intermittent exercise in human subjects. J Appl Physiol 1998; 84;584–592.

THE CARDIORESPIRATORY SYSTEM49
47. Green HJ, Sutton J, Coates G, et al. Response 
of red cells and plasma volume to prolonged training in humans. J Appl Physiol 1991; 70;1810–1815.
48. Rowell LB. Human Circulation Regulation during Physical Stress. New York: Oxford University Press. 1986.
49. Sawka MN, Wenger CB, Young AJ, et al. Physiological responses to exercise in the heat. In: Marriott BM, ed. Nutritional Needs in Hot Environments. Washington, DC: National Academy Press. 55–74. 1993.
50. Sawka MN, Pandolf KB. Effects of body water loss on physiological function and exercise performance. In: Gisolfi CV, Lamb DR eds, Fluid Homeostasis During Exercise. Perspectives in Exercise Science and Sports 
Medicine. Vol 3. Indianapolis, IN: Benchmark 
Press. 1–38. 1990.
51. Nadel ER, Fortney SM, Wenger CB. Effect of hydration on circulatory and thermal regulation. J Appl Physiol 1980; 49;715–721.
52. Sawka MN, Knowlton RG, Critz JB. Thermal and circulatory responses to repeated bouts of prolonged running. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1979; 11;177–180.
53. Sproles CB, Smith DP, Byrd RJ, et al. Circulatory responses to submaximal exercise after dehydration and rehydration. Journal of Sports Medicine and Physical Fitness 1976; 16;98–105.
54. Vogel JA, Harris CW. Cardiopulmonary responses of resting man during early exposure to high altitude. J Appl Physiol 1967; 22;1124–1128.
55. Singh MV, Rawal SB, Tyagi AK. Body fluid status on induction, reinduction and prolonged stay at high altitude on human volunteers. International Journal of Biometeorology 1990; 34;93–97.
56. Wolfel EE, Groves BM, Brooks GA, et al. Oxygen transport during steady-state submaximal exercise in chronic hypoxia.  J Appl Physiol 1991; 70;1129–1136.
57. Honig A. Role of arterial chemoreceptors in the reflex control of renal function and body fluid volumes in acute arterial hypoxia. In: Acher H, O’Regan RG, eds, Physiology of the Peripheral Arterial Chemoreceptors. 
395–429. 1983.
58. West JB. Diffusing capacity of the lung for 
carbon monoxide at high altitude J Appl Physiol 1962; 17;421–426.
59. Ward MP, Milledge JS, West JB. High Altitude Medicine and Physiology. London: Chapman and Hall Medical. 1995.
60. Dempsey JA, Reddan WG, Birnbaum ML, et al. Effects of acute through life-long hypoxic exposure on exercise pulmonary gas exchange. Respiration Physiology 1971; 13;62–89.
61. Bartlett D, Remmers JE. Effects of high altitude exposure on the lungs of young rats. Respiratory Physiology 1971; 13;116–125.
62. Reeves JT, Groves BM, Sutton JR, et al. Operation Everest II: preservation of cardiac function at extreme altitude. J Appl Physiol 1987; 63;531–539.
63. Eckardt K, Boutellier U, Kurtz A, et al. Rate of erythropoietin formation in humans in response to acute hypobaric hypoxia. J Appl Physiol 1989; 66;1785–1788.
64. Milledge JS, Coates PM. Serum erythropoietin in humans at high altitude and its relation to plasma renin. J Appl Physiol 1985; 59;360–364.

Contents
Introduction  52
The neuron  52
Reflexes and involuntary movements  53
Proprioception and kinesthesis  54
Higher nerve centers and voluntary muscular control  55
Gross structure of skeletal muscle  57
Microscopic structure of skeletal muscle  58
The sliding-filament theory of muscle contraction  61
Gradation of force  62
Types of muscle actions  63
Neuromuscular adaptations to resistance training  65
Summary  70
References  71

3 CHAPTER
OBJECTIVES
After completing this chapter, you will be able to:
• Identify the structures in a neuron.
• Understand the feedback mechanisms of proprioception.
• Differentiate types of muscle fibers.
• Understand the timing of sliding filament theory of muscle contraction.
• Explain the neural and muscular adaptations to resistance training.THE NEUROMUSCULAR SYSTEM
Jared W. Coburn, Travis W. Beck, Herbert A. deVries,  
Terry J. Housh, Kristen C. Cochrane-Snyman, and Evan E. Schick
KEY TERMS
A band
Acetylcholine (Ach)ActinAction potentialsAdenosine diphosphate 
(ADP)
Adenosine triphosphate 
(ATP)
AfferentAntagonist coactivationAxonBilateral deficitConcentric muscle actionCorpus striatumCrossbridge recyclingCross-educationDendritesDynamic constant external 
resistance (DCER)
Eccentric muscle actionEfferentElectromyography (EMG)End bulbEndolymphExcitable membranesExtrapyramidal systemH zoneHyperplasiaHypertrophyI bandIntrafusal (IF) muscle fibersInverse myotatic reflexIsokinetic muscle actionIsometric muscle actionsLower motor neuronsMonosynaptic reflexMotor endplateMotor neuronMotor nucleiMyelinMyofilamentsMyoneural junctionMyosinMyosin ATPaseMyosin crossbridgeMyotaticNeural adaptationsNeuromuscular junctionNeuronNodes of RanvierPeak torque
(continued)

JARED W. COBURN ET AL.52
INTRODUCTION
The nervous system allows parts of the body 
to communicate rapidly with other parts of the body to regulate responses to internal and external stimuli. The nervous system can be divided anatomically into the central (brain and spinal cord) and peripheral (outside of the spinal cord) systems or functionally into the somatic (voluntary) and autonomic (involun-tary) systems. The autonomic nervous system is composed of the sympathetic and parasympa-thetic systems, which control the involuntary functioning of various internal organs, the circulatory system (including vasoconstriction and vasodilation), and the endocrine glands. Voluntary human movement, however, is con -
trolled by the somatic nervous system. When we decide to perform a muscle action, the elec-trical activity that eventually leads to muscle contraction originates in the motor cortex of the brain and travels through the central and peripheral systems to the muscle.
The nervous system controls both voluntary and 
involuntary functions. Voluntary human movement is controlled by the somatic nervous system, while the involuntary functioning of internal organs, circulatory system, and endocrine glands is controlled by the autonomic nervous system.
THE NEURON
A nerve cell, or neuron , is the basic structural 
unit of the nervous system. Billions of neurons are in the nervous system; usually, several neu -
rons are interconnected by synapses  (junctions 
between neurons) to form pathways for con -
ducting nervous impulses. The neurons that 
conduct sensory impulses from the periphery to the central nervous system are called 
sen-
sory or afferent  neurons. The neurons that 
conduct impulses from the central nervous system to the periphery are called 
efferent  
neurons, or motor neurons  when directed at 
muscle. Although neurons are microscopic in diameter, one cell can be up to approximately 3 feet (1 m) in length, such as a motor neuron that extends from the spinal cord to a muscle of the foot.
The impulses directed from the central 
nervous system to the periphery and from the periphery to the central nervous system are transmitted via 
action potentials . Action 
potentials occur on excitable membranes , 
which are characterized by regions containing voltage-gated Na
+ and K+ channels. An action 
potential is generated after the motor neuron cell body has reached its threshold for depolar -
ization, which is usually approximately 15 mV greater than its resting membrane potential. A unique aspect of an action potential is that it has an “all-or-none” property. Thus, when an action potential is generated, the amplitude is constant, regardless of the magnitude of stim -
ulus at the motor neuron cell body.
The typical motor neuron (Figure 3.1) 
includes a cell body
, dendrites  (which receive 
impulses and conduct them to the cell body), and an 
axon (which conducts the impulses, 
such as action potentials, away from the cell body). The cell body of the motor neuron, Power stroke
ProprioceptionProprioceptive-cerebellar 
system
Pyramidal systemPyramidal tractsRate codingRate of force 
development (RFD)
RecruitmentRed nucleusReflexRepetition maximum (RM)Saltatory conductionSarcomereSarcoplasmic  
reticulum (SR)
Satellite cellsSchwann cellsSensorySize principleSliding-filament theorySubstantia nigraSynapseTransverse tubulesTropomyosinTroponinUtricleVestibular receptorsZ line(continued)

THE NEUROMUSCULAR SYSTEM53
which innervates skeletal muscle, lies in the 
gray matter in the ventral horn of the spinal cord; its axon joins many axons from other motor neurons (and many sensory axons) to form a spinal nerve. Such a nerve is thick enough to be seen in gross dissection. From the ventral horn, the post synaptic motor neuron, which innervates skeletal muscle, branches and rebranches into many twigs, each of which innervates a single muscle fiber, also creating a motor unit, which will be discussed later.
One characteristic of many neurons is 
the presence of 
myelin , which surrounds the 
axon as a sheath. It is a fatty white substance produced by 
Schwann cells  in the peripheral 
nervous system. Myelin functions as a pow -
erful insulator, protecting the neuron from current (action potential) leakage across the membrane. In addition, due to its insulative properties, myelin reduces ion movement across the membrane and, therefore, conserves energy via reduced Na
+-K+ ATPase pump activ-
ity. The myelin sheath is laid down in segments along the length of the axon, resulting in gaps called 
nodes of Ranvier . In myelinated axons, 
the velocity whereby the action potential is conducted is increased because it jumps from one node of Ranvier to the next. This is called 
saltatory conduction . Generally, the thicker the 
myelin sheath around an axon, the greater the conduction velocity of an action potential.
In addition to a greater conduction veloc -
ity due to axon myelination, the diameter of a neuron’s axon has an effect on action potential  propagation. As with neuron length, there are different axon diameters throughout the nervous system. Neurons with larger diam-eter axons also have increased conduction velocities compared to their smaller diam -
eter counterparts. The conduction velocity across an axon increases by approximately the square root of the fiber diameter down which it travels.
Neurons conduct electrical impulses to and from 
the central nervous system.
REFLEXES AND 
INVOLUNTARY 
MOVEMENTS
A reflex  is most simply defined as an invol -
untary motor response to a given stimulus. 
An illustration is the automatic, unthinking 
leg extension response when a physician taps 
the patellar tendon with a rubber mallet. In this simplest form, a reflex consists of a dis -
charge from a sensory (afferent) nerve ending, with the impulses traveling over the sensory nerve fiber to a synapse in the spinal cord with a motor (efferent) neuron. When the motor neuron is stimulated to discharge, impulses travel over its axon to the muscle, causing it to move. This simple reflex arc is called the 
myotatic  or stretch reflex; because it involves 
Dendrite
Cell body
Axon
Nodes of Ranvier
Myelin sheath (Schwann cells) Axon terminals
Muscle
Figure 3.1  The neuron and its components. Each neuron consists of dendrites, a cell body, and an axon.

JARED W. COBURN ET AL.54
only one synapse in the spinal cord, it is called 
a monosynaptic reflex . Other more complex 
reflexes (such as removing the hand from  
a hot surface) can involve multiple neurons and synapses.
A reflex is an involuntary response to a given 
stimulus.
PROPRIOCEPTION  
AND KINESTHESIS
Optimal coordination of motor activity by 
the central nervous system depends on a con -
stant supply of sensory feedback during the movement. This feedback of sensory informa-tion about movement and body position is called 
proprioception . The receptors for pro-
prioception are of two types: vestibular and kinesthetic.
The 
vestibular receptors  are found in the 
inner ear and respond to the movement of a fluid called 
endolymph . Indirectly, the inertia 
of the endolymph provides data to the brain regarding rotational acceleration or decelera-tion of movement, as in twisting or tumbling. Movement itself, however, is not recognized. For example, moving at almost the speed of sound in an airliner produces no sensation unless a change of direction or velocity occurs.
The vestibular system also includes an 
inner ear structure called the 
utricle , which 
provides data regarding positional sense. Specialized structures in the utricle respond to linear acceleration and tilting and thus are the source of data that inform us of our posture and orientation in space. For example, sensory information from the utricle is responsible for our ability to tell whether we are standing up or lying down, even with our eyes closed.
The kinesthetic or muscle sense is crucial 
to our ability to properly execute movement; it provides information about what our limbs or body segments are doing without our hav -
ing to look. For example, most individuals have no difficulty touching their noses with their index fingers, even when blindfolded. Furthermore, one can usually make reason-ably accurate guesses about the weight of an object by lifting it.The two primary receptor structures that 
serve 
kinesthesis  (sense of movement and body 
part location in space) are muscle spindles and Golgi tendon organs. Muscle spindles are large enough to be visible to the naked eye and are widely distributed throughout muscle tissue. Their distribution, however, varies from muscle to muscle. In general, muscles used for intricate movements (such as finger muscles) have many muscle spindles, while muscles involved pri -
marily in gross movements have few.
In humans, each spindle includes from five 
to nine 
intrafusal (IF) muscle fibers . These IF 
fibers should not be confused with skeletal (extrafusal or EF) muscle fibers, which cause muscle contraction. The IF fibers of the mus-cle spindles are innervated by gamma motor neurons, while EF (skeletal) fibers are inner -
vated by alpha motor neurons. Alpha motor neurons make up about 70% of the total effer -
ent fibers; gamma motor neurons make up the remaining 30%. The structure of a muscle 
spindle is shown in Figure 3.2. It is important to note that the muscle spindles are oriented parallel to the EF fibers.
Because IF fibers lie lengthwise,
 parallel 
with the skeletal (EF) fibers, an externally applied stretch results in stretching the IF as well as the EF fibers. Thus, stretching results in a sensory afferent discharge from the muscle  
Connective tissue capsule
Gamma efferent
Afferent /f_ibers
Alpha efferent
Intrafusal /f_ibers
Extrafusal /f_ibers
Figure 3.2  Muscle spindle. This sensory receptor 
is sensitive to stretch and helps to monitor muscle 
length.

THE NEUROMUSCULAR SYSTEM55
spindles, which leads to contraction of the 
muscle that was stretched. This response underlies the stretch or myotatic reflex when a physician strikes the patellar tendon.
The Golgi tendon organ (Figure 3.3) is 
found in the musculotendinous junction and lies in series with the EF (skeletal) muscle fib -
ers.
 Therefore, active shortening of the muscle 
(contraction) causes the Golgi tendon organ to discharge, while the muscle spindle discharges only when the muscle is stretched. The muscle spindle ceases to fire when contraction begins because it is in parallel with the EF muscle fibers and is thus unloaded as soon as the EF fibers shorten in contraction.
The primary functional difference between 
the muscle spindle and the Golgi tendon organ is that the muscle spindle facilitates contrac -
tion, whereas the Golgi tendon organ inhibits contraction, not only in the muscle of origin but also in the entire functional muscle group. Thus, the Golgi tendon organ may provide a protective mechanism that prevents dam -
age to muscle tissue or a joint during extreme contractions. The activity of the Golgi tendon organ that prevents overstressing the tissues is called the 
inverse myotatic reflex .
Proprioception involves sensory feedback about 
movement and body position. Kinesthesis is sometimes called muscle sense and involves the functions of muscle spindles and Golgi tendon organ.
HIGHER NERVE CENTERS 
AND VOLUNTARY MUSCULAR CONTROL
Voluntary muscular activity is controlled by 
three primary systems: the pyramidal system , the 
extrapyramidal system , and the proprioceptive-
cerebellar system .
Muscle /f_ibers
Ib afferent neuron
Capsule of the Golgi
tendon organ (opened)
BoneTendonCollagen /f_ibrils
Figure 3.3  Golgi tendon organ. Located at the musculotendinous junction, this sensory receptor monitors tension.
REAL-WORLD APPL iCATiON
The physiology of stretching
It has been theorized that stretching can improve performance and prevent injury. It is also 
important, however, to consider how to stretch. Specifically, we must consider the effect of the muscle spindle on flexibility and stretching.
(continued)

JARED W. COBURN ET AL.56
A muscle that is stretched rapidly with a jerky motion will respond by contracting. The 
magnitude and rate of this contraction vary directly with the magnitude and rate of the 
movement that causes the rapid stretch. This contraction is a result of the myotatic or stretch reflex. The rapidly applied stretch causes activation of the muscle spindles located between the skeletal (extrafusal) muscle fibers. This rapid stretch causes an afferent impulse to be car -
ried by a sensory neuron to the spinal cord, where the neuron synapses with a motor neuron. The motor neuron then carries an impulse back to the skeletal muscle, causing it to contract. The important point is that if, in an attempt to stretch the muscle, the stretch is applied with a bouncing, jerky motion, the result is activation of the myotatic reflex and a contraction of the very muscle that is the object of the attempted stretch. This can lead to less than optimal stretching at best and injury at worst.
Static stretching, on the other hand, in which the stretch is applied slowly, does not invoke 
the myotatic reflex. By moving slowly into the stretched position, activation of the muscle spindles is avoided. This allows the muscle to relax while being elongated, leading to a more effective stretch.
The pyramidal system
Electrical stimulation and clinical observa-
tions have been used to identify the functions of the various parts of the cerebral cortex. The most commonly used architectural map of the human cortex that relates location to function is that of Brodmann (Figure 3.4).
The 
pyramidal system  originates in large 
“pyramid-shaped” neurons found mainly in area 4, often called the motor cortex, of the Brodmann map. The axons of the motor neurons with cell bodies in area 4 form large descending motor pathways, called 
pyramidal 
tracts , that go directly (in most cases) to syn-
apses with the motor neurons in the ventral horn of the spinal cord. The neurons with cell bodies in the brain are called 
upper motor 
neurons , while those in the spinal cord are 
called lower motor neurons . Approximately 
85% or more of the neurons of the pyramidal tract cross from one side to the other (decus-sate), some at the level of the medulla, others at the level of the lower motor neuron. The motor cortex is oriented by movement, not by muscle. That is, stimulation of the motor cor -
tex results not in a twitch of one muscle but in a smooth synergistic movement of a group of muscles.(continued)
228643 12
5
Figure 3.4  The areas of the human cerebral 
cortex involved in the pyramidal and 
extrapyramidal systems. The pyramidal system originates mainly in area 4 (motor cortex) of the brain and controls specific, voluntary movements. The extrapyramidal system (mainly area 6, but also areas 1 to 3, 5, and 8) is concerned with large, general movement patterns and posture control. In the temporal lobe, area 22 is concerned with the extrapyramidal pathways.

THE NEUROMUSCULAR SYSTEM57
The extrapyramidal system
The extrapyramidal system , or the premo -
tor cortex, originates primarily in area 6 of 
Brodmann’s map. Some of the fibers descend -
ing in the extrapyramidal tracts, however, originate in other areas of the cortex, such as areas 1, 2, 3, 5, and 8.
The descending tracts from the premo-
tor cortex are more complex than those from the motor cortex. These neurons do not syn -
apse directly with the lower motor neurons but travel through relay stations called 
motor 
nuclei . The most important motor nuclei are 
the corpus striatum , substantia nigra , and red 
nucleus . Some neurons, however, also go by 
way of the pons to the cerebellum.
Important functional differences exist 
between the pyramidal and extrapyramidal systems. For example, electrical stimula -
tion of area 4 produces specific movements, while stimulation of area 6 produces only gross movement patterns. Thus, it is likely that learning a new skill in which conscious attention must be devoted to the movements (as in learning a new gymnastic move, where every aspect of the movement is contemplated) involves area 4. As an individual becomes more skilled, the origin of the movement is thought to shift to area 6 (often, gymnasts do not have to concentrate on their feet but rather on very general patterns of movement). Area 4, however, still participates as a relay station, with fibers connecting area 6 to area 4.
The proprioceptive-cerebellar 
system
Kinesthesis and the vestibular system involve 
the sensory functions of the proprioceptive-
cerebellar system . Typically, the pathway 
associated with vestibular proprioception leads directly or indirectly (via the medulla) to the cerebellum. Conscious sensory knowledge of movement from kinesthesis, however, trav -
els via the thalamus, cortex, and cerebellum. The cerebellum is central to the gathering of sensory information on position, balance, and movement. The cerebellum receives sensory information from muscles, joints, tendons, and skin as well as visual and auditory feed-back. Thus, the loss of cerebellar function can lead to the impairment of volitional move-ments, disturbances of posture, and impaired balance control.
Three primary systems control voluntary 
human movement: the pyramidal system, the extrapyramidal system, and the proprioceptive-cerebellar system.
GROSS STRUCTURE OF 
SKELETAL MUSCLE
A skeletal muscle is covered by a connective 
tissue sheath called the epimysium , which lies 
beneath the skin, subcutaneous adipose tissue, and superficial fascia. The epimysium merges with the connective tissue of the tendon, which allows the force produced by muscu -
lar contraction to be transmitted through the 
Tendon
Epimysium
Skeletal
muscle
Perimysium
Endomysium
Sarcolemma
Nucleus
MyoﬁbrilSarcoplasmMuscle ﬁberFasciculus
Figure 3.5  Muscle fibers and connective tissue 
sheaths. Each fiber, fasciculus, and whole muscle is 
surrounded by connective tissues called endomysium, perimysium, and epimysium, respectively.

JARED W. COBURN ET AL.58
connective tissues to the tendon and bone, 
resulting in movement.
Skeletal muscle cells or muscle fibers are 
oriented in bundles called fasciculi. Each fas -
ciculus, which contains from a few muscle fibers to several hundred, is surrounded by a connective tissue sheath called the perimysium. Figure 3.5 illustrates these and other gross and microscopic structures of skeletal muscle.
The gross structures of skeletal muscle are 
important for transducing the force of muscular contraction to the tendon and bone, resulting in movement.
MICROSCOPIC 
STRUCTURE OF  SKELETAL MUSCLE
Surrounding each muscle fiber is a delicate 
connective tissue sheath known as the endomy-
sium. Thus, the endomysium surrounds a single 
fiber, the perimysium surrounds a fasciculus, and the epimysium surrounds the whole mus-cle. The force produced within a muscle fiber is transferred in series to the endomysium, per -
imysium, epimysium, tendon, and then bone.
The diameter of individual muscle fib-
ers may vary from approximately 10 to 100 µm (1,000 µm = 1 mm), while the length may range from 1 mm to the length of the whole muscle. The thickness of the fiber is related to the amount of force that the fiber can produce, and each muscle has fibers of characteristic size. For example, the eye muscles have fibers with a small diameter, while the fibers of the quadriceps femoris muscles are large.
Structure of the muscle fiber
Each skeletal muscle fiber is surrounded by a cell membrane known as the 
sarcolemma . 
Situated just inside the sarcolemma are many nuclei which direct protein synthesis within the cell. The fluid part, or cytoplasm, of the muscle cell is known as the 
sarcoplasm . Much 
of the sarcoplasm is occupied by column-like structures known as myofibrils. Alternating light and dark bands run the length of the myofibrils. The strict alignment of these bands from one myofibril to another is what gives the muscle fiber its characteristic striated appearance under the light microscope.
Muscle fibers may vary greatly in size and length 
yet have the same structures (i.e., cell membrane, cytoplasm) as other cells in the body.
Muscle fiber types
For nearly 200 years, scientists have recognized 
the heterogeneity of fiber types within skeletal muscle. To this day, a full appreciation for the assorted fiber types continues to evolve along -
side developing identification and classification technologies. In the early 19th century, fiber color served as the basis by which scientists dis -
tinguished between muscle fiber types. Fibers appearing red were considered to be well suited for endurance activities, exhibiting remarkable fatigue resistance, whereas white fibers, consid-ered to be specialized for high velocity and high force contraction, were susceptible to fatigue (63). Differences in intracellular levels of iron appear to account for the differences in color. Compared to white fibers, red fibers contain more myoglobin, an iron-containing oxygen transport protein which, along with impart-ing their red color, is partially responsible for their fatigue resistance (59). The technological age of the past half-century has given way to more modern methodological approaches to fiber type identification, allowing researchers to discriminate between the various fiber types based not only on their appearance, but also their mechanical, biochemical, and histochemi -
cal properties.
Though recent evidence indicates humans 
may display as many as eight different muscle fiber types, a consensus still supports the exist -
ence of three predominant fiber types (13). However, the older white versus red fiber-type classification system has become inadequate, since there are two subtypes of white fibers that are mechanically, biochemically, and his-tochemically different. Thus, in 1972, Peter et  al. proposed a system that classified the three predominant muscle fiber types based on their mechanical and biochemical properties (62). According to this system, those primary fiber types in human skeletal muscle are slow-twitch oxidative (SO), fast-twitch oxidative 

THE NEUROMUSCULAR SYSTEM59
glycolytic (FOG), and fast-twitch glycolytic 
(FG) (62). SO fibers possess a slow, fatigue resistant, low force twitch when stimulated with an electrical impulse and favor oxida-
tive (aerobic) means of energy production; FOG fibers have a fast, high force twitch with 
intermediate fatigue resistance and are adept in both oxidative and glycolytic (anaerobic) forms of energy production; FG fibers are the fastest, highest force, yet most fatigable and favor glycolytic energy production. Table 3.1 
compares the naming systems and lists the characteristics of muscle fiber types.
Developments in protein analysis tech -
niques have continued to evolve fiber type nomenclature. Cutting edge protein identifi -
cation and quantification methods reveal that the specific myosin heavy chain (MyHC) iso-form expressed within a muscle fiber drives its unique biochemical and mechanical prop -
erties (Figure 3.6). Heavy chain protein, the largest sub unit of myosin, composes both its tail and head region and confers motor activity through 
its interaction with ATPase. 
The specific isoform of MyHC expressed in a muscle fiber determines the activity level  
of ATPase and, hence, the rate and force of  contraction. In order of increasing ATPase activity and fatigability, the three distinct MyHC isoforms are: I, IIa and IIx (48). Furthermore, the heavy chain isoforms are encoded by the MYH genes: MYH7 codes 
MyHC I, MYH2 codes MyHC IIa, and MHY1 
codes MyHC IIx (8). Those fibers expressing MyHC I are referred to as type I muscle fibers, exhibiting the biochemical and mechanical TABLE 3.1  Characteristics of muscle fiber types
Nomenclature
Older systems Red slow-twitch (ST) White fast-twitch (FT)
Dubowitz and Brooke Type I Type IIA Type IIB
Peter et al. Slow, oxidative (SO) Fast, oxidative glycolytic (FOG) Fast, glycolytic (FG)
Myosin heavy chain 
(MHC) contentType I Type IIA Type IIX
Characteristics
Speed of contraction Slow Fast Fast
Strength of contraction Low High High
Fatigability Fatigue resistant Fatigable Most fatigable
Aerobic capacity High Medium Low
Anaerobic capacity Low Medium High
Size Small Large Large
Capillary density High High Low
Actin
binding ATP
binding
Essential light chain
Regulatory light chain
Head Neck Coiled-coil of two alpha-helices (150 nm)
Heavy chain
TRENDS in Genetics
Figure 3.6  Schematic representation of a myosin 
filament: blue, the two coiled heavy chains, each 
containing an ATP and actin binding site in their heads.

JARED W. COBURN ET AL.60
properties of SO fibers (31). Type IIa muscle 
fibers express MyHC IIa and are FOG while type IIx fibers express MHC IIx and are FG. Thus, a more contemporary fiber classifica-tion scheme in humans is type I, IIa, and IIx. Not surprisingly, MyHC expression has been shown to be important for determining its per -
formance in strength/power activities (67).
The basic functional unit of the neuromuscular 
system is the motor unit, which consists of a motor neuron (nerve) and all the muscle fibers it innervates. All of the fibers within a particular motor unit are of the same type, although the fibers from different motor units are intermingled within the muscle belly. In small muscles, a single motor unit may consist of only a few fibers; in large muscles, each motor unit may comprise several hundred fibers.
The patterns of fiber type distribution in 
various muscles are related to the function(s) 
of the muscle. For example, postural muscles must be fatigue-resistant and therefore are usually composed mainly of type I fibers. In contrast, the ocular muscles do not contract for extended periods and therefore consist primar -
ily of type IIa and IIx fibers. While muscles in non-athlete populations typically display a 1:1 ratio of type 1 to type IIa/x fibers, the same mus -
cles in elite endurance or sprint/power athletes may display extreme patterns of fiber-type dis-tribution (15). In fact, type 1 fiber composition may reach 60–70% in middle distance runners and nearly 90–95% in long endurance athletes. Conversely, elite weightlifters and powerlift -
ers may exhibit 50% more type II fibers than endurance athletes, while type II composi-tion in sprinters can reach 80% (1,9,32,77). Although each individual’s fiber-type distribu -
tion pattern is genetically determined prior to adulthood, recent evidence (discussed below in ‘Muscle fiber type transitioning’) sheds light on the fascinating plasticity of muscle fibers.
Structure of the myofibril and  
the contractile mechanism
The sarcomere  is the functional unit of the 
myofibril (Figure 3.7). It extends from one Z line  
to an adjacent Z line. The sarcomere comprises 
two myofilaments  (contractile proteins), myosin , 
and actin, which lie parallel to one another. The 
myosin filament is approximately twice as thick as the actin filament and defines the length of the 
A band . It is the A band that forms the dark 
part of the striation effect. The actin filaments are longer than the myosin filaments and extend inward from the Z lines toward the center of the sarcomere. Within the A band is a lighter region known as the 
H zone , the area of the A band 
that does not contain actin filaments. The I band  
is the area between the ends of the myosin fila-ments. Because it is less dense than the A band, the I band is also lighter in color. These alter -
nating areas of greater and lesser optical density are what give skeletal muscle its characteristic “striped” or “striated” appearance.
I
Z
Myosin ActinZ HAI
Figure 3.7  A sarcomere extends from Z line to Z line. The sarcomere is the functional unit of the myofibril.

THE NEUROMUSCULAR SYSTEM61
THE SLIDING-FILAMENT 
THEORY OF MUSCLE CONTRACTION
The sliding-filament theory  has been used to 
describe the mechanics of muscle contraction. 
It states the following:
 1 Voluntary muscle contraction is initiated 
in the cortex of the brain.
 2 Typically, the electrical current, or action 
potential , travels via an upper motor neuron  
and synapses with a lower motor neuron in the ventral horn of the spinal cord.
 3 The action potential passes along to the 
end of a lower motor neuron ( end bulb ) 
and causes the release of the stimulatory neurotransmitter 
acetylcholine (Ach) . The 
intersection between a lower motor neuron and a muscle fiber is called the 
myoneural 
junction , or neuromuscular junction .
 4 The Ach is released into a small gap between 
the motor neuron and the muscle fiber called the 
synapse . The Ach then binds to 
receptor sites on the muscle fiber membrane at a location called the 
motor endplate .
 5 The binding of Ach with the receptors at the  
motor endplate causes an action potential to spread along the muscle fiber’s sarcolemma.
 6 The action potential travels along the sar -
colemma and down channels that lead into the muscle fiber, called 
transverse 
tubules , or t tubules.
 7 The action potential travels down the 
t tubules and intersects an intracellular structure called the 
sarcoplasmic reticulum 
(SR). One function of the SR is to store 
calcium. When stimulated by the action potential, the SR releases calcium into the fiber’s sarcoplasm.
 8 The calcium binds to a protein called tro-
ponin , which is bound to another protein 
called tropomyosin . Under resting condi -
tions, the contractile proteins actin and myosin are separated by the presence of tropomyosin. The binding of calcium to troponin changes the shape of the tropo -
myosin molecule and uncovers the binding 
sites on the actin molecule. Figure 3.8 illus -
trates these contractile proteins.
 9 The myosin head then attaches to the 
binding site on the actin molecule, forming  a myosin crossbridge . Prior to attaching 
to actin, the myosin head is “energized,” storing the energy released from the break -
down of 
adenosine triphosphate (ATP)  to 
adenosine diphosphate (ADP)  and inor -
ganic phosphate (Pi). Once attached to actin, the myosin crossbridge releases Pi and uses its stored energy to attempt to pull the actin filament toward the center of the sarcomere. This pulling action is referred to as a 
power stroke . Whether or 
not it is successful at shortening the sar -
comere depends on the amount of force generated as well as the external force which opposes the crossbridges.
10
 Once the myosin crossbridge has pulled 
actin and swiveled toward the center of the sarcomere, it releases ADP. A new ATP molecule then binds to the myosin head and causes the actin/myosin bond to be broken. After detaching, the enzyme 
myosin ATPase  causes the splitting of the 
ATP molecule. This once again energizes the myosin head. This allows the myosin crossbridge to return to the upright posi -
tion, attach to another actin binding site, and begin the contraction process again. This repeating process is called 
cross-
bridge recycling . Figure 3.9 summarizes 
the sliding-filament theory of muscle contraction.Troponin
Myosin crossbridge (head)
Myosin (thick ﬁlament)TropomyosinActin (thin
ﬁlament)
Figure 3.8  Contractile proteins actin, myosin, 
troponin, and tropomyosin. The interaction of myosin 
(thick filament) and actin (thin filament) allows muscle contraction to take place.

JARED W. COBURN ET AL.62
Myosin
Actin
Z line
Muscle relaxed,
lengthened sarcomerelengthMuscle ﬂexed,shortened sarcomerelength
Figure 3.9  The sliding-filament theory of muscle contraction. This theory proposes that the filaments slide past 
each other during muscle contraction without themselves changing in length.
Muscle contraction is initiated by the central 
nervous system and generated at the molecular level through interaction of the contractile proteins actin and myosin.
GRADATION OF FORCE
Gradation of muscular force is achieved by 
varying the number of motor units activated, or motor unit 
recruitment , and by changes 
in the firing frequency of the active motor units, or 
rate coding  (Figure 3.10). The 
recruitment of motor units generally follows what is called the 
size principle , according to 
which increasingly forceful contractions are achieved by the recruitment of progressively  larger motor units. Smaller motor units are typically composed of SO fibers and have the lowest stimulus thresholds for contraction. Thus, smaller motor units are active dur -
ing low-intensity contractions. Increasingly forceful contractions, however, require the recruitment of larger motor units containing fast-twitch fibers. In addition, active motor units can produce greater force by firing at higher frequencies (firing rates). The rela -
tive contributions of recruitment or firing rate to increasing force production vary  
from muscle to muscle. In general, large muscles with mixed fiber types, such as the quadriceps, tend to rely on recruitment to  
a greater degree than do small muscles,  
such as those in the hands, which rely more on rate coding.

THE NEUROMUSCULAR SYSTEM63
Muscle force is modulated through two 
mechanisms: motor unit recruitment and rate coding. The relative contributions of these two mechanisms to force production vary in different muscles.
TYPES OF MUSCLE 
ACTIONS
The term muscle contraction implies muscle 
shortening. Muscles, however, can produce force 
while shortening, lengthening, or maintaining a given length. The term muscle action is therefore 
more accurate and descriptive. Muscle action types include isometric, 
dynamic constant exter -
nal resistance (DCER) , isokinetic, concentric, and 
eccentric muscle actions.
Isometric muscle actions
Isometric muscle actions  involve the produc -
tion of force without movement at the joint or shortening of the muscle fibers. Even in sports characterized by dynamic movements, these muscle actions are important to stabi -
lize joints or to resist an opponent. Isometric strength is joint angle–specific owing to vary -
ing degrees of overlap of the actin and myosin filaments as well as other biomechanical fac -
tors. In comparing isometric strength between individuals, the joint angle at which the isometric muscle action is performed is an important consideration.
Dynamic constant external 
resistance muscle actions
The muscle actions that occur during the lift -
ing of free weights have traditionally been 
referred to as isotonic muscle actions. During a true isotonic muscle action, a muscle gener -
ates a constant amount of force throughout a range of motion. Force production by a mus-cle, however, rarely remains constant as the joint angle changes. Thus, the term dynamic constant external resistance (DCER) muscle actions more accurately describes the muscle actions occurring during this type of move -
ment. Although the weight being lifted remains constant (constant external resistance) with changes in the joint angle, the force produced by the muscle is changing, or dynamic.
DCER strength is usually expressed in 
terms of a 
repetition maximum (RM)  load. An 
RM load is the maximum amount of weight that can be lifted for a specified number of repetitions. For example, a 1RM load is the 
maximum amount of weight that can be lifted 
through the full range of motion for only one repetition, whereas a 6RM load is the maxi -
mum amount of weight that can be lifted for six repetitions but not seven. Typically, DCER (B)(A)
Simple
twitchesSummationForceTetanus
StimuliLight010203040Contribution of force by different
ﬁber types5060708090100
Maximum
EffortType IType IIaType IIx
Figure 3.10  Contributions of A. motor unit 
recruitment and B. firing rate to force production. 
The nervous system uses these two methods to vary the force production of whole muscles.

JARED W. COBURN ET AL.64
strength testing involves a trial-and-error pro -
cedure where progressively heavier weights 
are attempted until the 1RM is determined. Because strength is joint angle–specific, DCER strength is limited by the weakest point in the range of motion; therefore, the 1RM load is the maximum weight that can be lifted at the weakest point in the range of motion.
Isokinetic muscle actions
An isokinetic muscle action  is a dynamic move-
ment that occurs at a constant velocity. Typically, isokinetic muscle actions are performed on a dynamometer, a device that accommodates the counterresistance based on the amount of torque being produced. This allows movement to occur at a constant velocity regardless of torque production. Isokinetic strength testing has advantages over both isometric and DCER testing because, during a maximal isokinetic muscle action, maximum torque (
peak torque ) is 
produced throughout the entire range of motion.
Concentric and eccentric  
muscle actions
A concentric muscle action  occurs when a 
muscle produces torque (technically, the 
muscle produces force, resulting in torque around the joint) and shortens. When a mus -
cle lengthens while producing torque, it is performing an 
eccentric muscle action . Both 
DCER and isokinetic muscle actions can be performed concentrically and eccentrically 
(Figure 3.11). The force produced concentri-
cally decreases as velocity increases. 
 When the 
velocity of a concentric muscle action is low, both slow- and fast-twitch fibers contribute to force production; at higher velocities, the 
No movementMovement
Biceps
muscle
Concentric action
Muscle contracts and shortens
Movement
Eccentric action
Muscle lengthensTriceps
muscle
Isometric action
Muscle does not shorten
Figure 3.11  Types of muscle actions. Muscle may produce force while shortening, lengthening, or maintaining a 
constant length.

THE NEUROMUSCULAR SYSTEM65
rate of muscle shortening is too great for the 
slow-twitch fibers to contribute to torque production. Because the slow-twitch fibers are “unloaded” at high velocities, fewer mus -
cle fibers contribute to torque production; therefore, torque is decreased. On the other hand, eccentric strength changes little with increased velocity. During eccentric muscle actions, the myosin crossbridges are pulled apart from the actin molecules. In theory, the amount of force necessary to pull the myosin heads from the actin molecules is independent of the velocity.
The three types of muscle action are isometric, 
dynamic constant external resistance (DCER), and isokinetic. Isokinetic and DCER muscle actions may be performed either concentrically or eccentrically.
NEUROMUSCULAR 
ADAPTATIONS TO RESISTANCE TRAINING
The following discussion focuses on neuro-
muscular changes resulting from prolonged resistance training.
Muscular strength adaptations
Training can lead to strength gains, regard -
less of the mode of resistance (30). Isometric, isokinetic, variable resistance, and DCER programs are all effective at eliciting strength gains assuming scientific principles of pro -
gram design are applied. Strength gains, however, tend to be sensitive to the mode of training. For example, isometric training leads to greater gains in isometric strength than isokinetic strength (30). Even within a specific mode of training, there can be specificity. For example, in training with isokinetic muscle actions, greater gains in muscular strength tend to occur at velocities closest to the train -
ing velocity (16). Thus, specificity of training must be considered if the goal of a resistance training program is to transfer the newly developed strength to other activities, such as sport, recreational, or occupational pursuits.Strength gains resulting from resistance training 
tend to be specific to the type of training performed.
In terms of the absolute weight lifted, 
men tend to be stronger than women. 
This is because men are usually bigger and have more muscle mass. Women tend to be about 40% to 50% as strong as men in upper body movements and 50% to 80% as strong in lower body movements (30). When strength is expressed relative to muscle cross-  
sectional area, however, there are no sex-related differences in muscular strength (44) (Figure 3.12). Thus, for a given amount of 
muscle, men and women produce the same amount of force (54).
The quality of muscle is the same for men and 
women. In addition, men and women respond to resistance training in a similar manner.
For many athletes, the ability to develop 
force rapidly is as important, if not more so, 
as developing maximal force. It usually takes  
in excess of 0.3 to 0.4 seconds to generate 
Cross-sectional area of muscle (cm2)Arm ﬂexor strength (kg)
81 01 21 41 61 8111213141516
Female Male
Figure 3.12  Muscle strength per unit of cross-
sectional area of human muscle. There is no 
qualitative difference in strength per unit of muscle size between the genders.

JARED W. COBURN ET AL.66
maximal force (78). Because time is limited 
during many sport activities (i.e., 0.22 to 0.27 seconds during shot putting and 0.101 to 0.108 seconds during sprinting) (47,52), how -
ever, the activated muscles must exert as much force as possible in a short time. This capabil-ity can be measured by determining the 
rate of 
force development (RFD) . Performing “power” 
or “explosive” training exercises (plyometrics, cleans, pulls, weighted jumps, sprinting, etc.) can increase the RFD (37,64).
Muscle fiber adaptations
Resistance training typically results in increases in muscle size and strength. These adaptations may be partially explained by muscle fiber adaptations.
Hypertrophy and hyperplasia
Perhaps the most obvious adaptation to resist-ance training is enlargement of the trained muscles. Growth in muscle size can result from an increase in the size of existing muscle fiber (
hypertrophy ) or an increase in the number of 
muscle fibers ( hyperplasia ).
Substantial evidence supports muscle 
fiber hypertrophy as the primary mechanism 
of increasing muscle size (69) (Figure 3.13). 
This increase is primarily due to an increase in the 
number and size of actin and myosin filaments (33). The actin and myosin filaments are added to the periphery of the myofibrils, resulting in enlargement of existing myofibrils. Once the myofibril reaches a critical size, it splits, yielding two or more daughter myofi-brils (33). Although both slow- and fast-twitch fibers increase in size, the fast-twitch fibers appear to be more responsive to resistance training (33,46). The precise mechanism by which training leads to muscular adaptations is unknown, but it appears to be a complex interplay between mechanical, metabolic, and hormonal factors (18,19,20).
The role of 
satellite cells  has been sug-
gested to be a contributing factor to muscle growth in human and animal subjects in response to exercise and training (10). Satellite cells are precursor cells, like stem cells, which donate new myonuclei to a developing muscle fiber and are important for muscle develop-ment and regeneration. It has been suggested that these cells contribute to postnatal muscle growth in humans in response to both acute exercise and chronic training. The mechanism by which these cells are reactivated is thought to lie with a developmental gene which sig -
nals the satellite cells to re-enter the cell cycle and multiply. Although resistance training has been shown to be a potent stimulator of satellite cells (25,53), endurance exercise also has the capability of activating them (12). After acute periods of post-damaging (eccen -
tric) exercise, satellite cells are likely involved 
(A) (B)
Figure 3.13  Muscle hypertrophy following resistance training. (A) pretraining; (B) posttraining. Hypertrophy 
results from an increased content of contractile protein (actin and myosin) in muscle.

THE NEUROMUSCULAR SYSTEM67
in the repair and regeneration of damaged 
myofibrils, while at the end of chronic training (resistance or endurance), they appear as part of the adaptive remodeling of muscle, i.e., the hypertrophic response.
Although there is strong evidence supporting 
the role of satellite cells in mechanisms under -
lying hypertrophy, they may also play a part in regeneration, or hyperplasia, which would have important clinical applications. Evidence from studies of laboratory animals suggests that 
hyperplasia may contribute to resistance train-
ing–induced increases in muscle size (4,34). In regard to humans, there is conflicting informa -
tion (22,74) but the general consensus is that evidence for hyperplasia is inconclusive, and therefore, may be of little significance (30). Thus, in humans, hypertrophy primarily accounts for the training-induced increase in muscle size.
It has been suggested that eccentric mus -
cle actions are necessary to induce muscle hypertrophy. Hypertrophy, however, can occur following concentric-only training (42), suggesting that hypertrophy does not require eccentric muscle actions. Nonetheless, numerous studies have suggested that eccen -
tric muscle actions may be more effective for inducing hypertrophy than concentric muscle actions (28). As with exercise action, accepted recommendations for inducing hypertrophy via resistance training programs have called for heavy loads, i.e., 67–85% 1RM (35). However, recent investigations have shown similar manifestations of hypertrophy from resistance exercise performed to failure at 30% 1RM and at 80–90% 1RM in both the upper and lower body (55,60). With regard to sexes, women respond to resistance training much like men (40). Although the absolute gains in muscle size are greater in men, the percentage increases are similar for the two sexes (11,21).
Hypertrophy is the primary mechanism by which 
muscles increase in size.
Muscle fiber transitioning
As mentioned earlier, skeletal muscle fib-
ers exhibit tremendous plasticity, i.e., ability  
to transition between types, in response to exercise training. Indeed, a wide range of research indicates that light and heavy resist -
ance as well as aerobic training elicit rapid shifts in myosin heavy chain isoform expres -
sion from type IIx to type IIa (7,46,68,70,71). However, to date, most research has failed to show the existence of training-induced inter-type transitioning, that is, type IIa to type I transitions and vice versa. Although limited, evidence on the subject suggests that if inter-type transitioning is possible, high velocity 
training may promote type I to II transition -
ing and that sprint training may stimulate a 
consolidation of both type I and type IIx fibers to type IIa fibers (5,26,50,61). Interestingly, inactivity and unloading has been shown to induce a type I to type IIx transition (6,41,72). Research into the magnitude of muscle plastic-ity is still in its infancy, yet the current body of knowledge poses an intriguing question: How important to athletic performance is genetic fiber-type endowment in the face of training induced fiber plasticity?
Q&A FROM THE F iELD
The head coach of our women’s volleyball 
team is hesitant to implement a resistance 
training program for our team. He 
doesn’t believe that female athletes can gain strength and muscle size, like male 
athletes can. My previous experience is with 
conditioning male athletes. Is it true that females are less trainable than males when 
it comes to resistance training?
—Undergraduate student intern
There is every reason to believe that female 
athletes will adapt to resistance training in a 
manner similar to male athletes. The typical female 
athlete will be smaller, weaker, and have less muscle mass than her male counterpart. Her gains in size 
and strength will also be less than those of the 
male if expressed on an absolute basis, i.e., weight lifted in pounds. When size and strength gains are 
expressed as a percentage increase relative to 
initial values, however, the female will experience gains that are comparable to those of her male 
counterpart. Female muscle is of the same quality 
as male muscle and is just as trainable.

JARED W. COBURN ET AL.68
Nervous system adaptations
Although muscles produce force, it is the nerv -
ous system that provides for the activation 
of muscle tissue. It is not surprising, there-fore, that resistance training programs lead to adaptations in both the nervous and muscular systems.
Evidence of neural adaptations
Several pieces of evidence point to the role of  
neural adaptations  in resistance training. For 
example, increases in muscular strength may occur without accompanying increases in muscular size (38). If there is no increase in the size of the muscle fibers producing force, the logical conclusion is that adaptations within the nervous system are responsible for the observed strength gains.
It has been shown that the early gains in 
strength following initiation of a resistance training program often occur in the absence of muscle hypertrophy (56). Previously untrained subjects may have difficulty in fully activating their motor units, and strength gains resulting from the first several weeks of resistance train -
ing have been attributed to learning to recruit those units (56). Although neural adapta -
tions are often associated with the early phase of resistance training (56), one study found that two years of training led to significant increases in strength and power despite mini-mal changes in muscle fiber size in competitive Olympic weightlifters (38). Weightlifters com-pete within body-weight categories and often want to develop increased strength without changes in muscle mass that might lead to changes in body weight (30). Thus, neural adaptations are an essential mechanism of strength increase among these athletes.
Early gains in strength are due to neural factors, 
while long-term gains in strength are primarily due to hypertrophy.
Performing resistance training with one 
limb can lead to strength increases in the 
untrained limb on the opposite (contralat-eral) side of the body (27,48,57,79). This phenomenon is known as the 
cross-education  
or cross-training effect. The strength gain in the untrained limb is typically equal to or less than 60% of that in the trained limb (79). The cross-education effect demonstrates specificity of training. For example, unilateral resistance training for one leg will increase the strength of the contralateral leg but not the contralateral arm. There is also specificity regarding muscle action type. Training with concentric muscle actions leads to greater gains in the untrained limb when tested concentrically rather than eccentrically (79). Theories to explain this cross-education effect include (i) the concept that unilateral resistance training may activate neural circuits that modify motor pathways projecting to the opposite untrained limb, or (ii) that unilateral resistance training induces adaptations in motor areas that are primar -
ily involved in the control of movements of the trained limb, but that may be accessed when activating the untrained limb. The latter would involve modification of neural circuits in ways similar to those that occur with motor learning (48). Whatever the mechanism for the cross-education effect, the site of the adapta-tion to training involves the brain and/or the spinal cord.
Force measured with both limbs concur -
rently (bilaterally) is typically less than the sum of the force developed by each limb inde-
pendently (unilaterally) (17) (Figure 3.14). 
This 
bilateral deficit  may be the result of less 
activation to each muscle group during bilateral 
Two
legsRight
legLeft
legSum of
legsForce (N)
050010001500200025003000
Figure 3.14  The bilateral deficit, showing that the 
bilateral force (two legs) is less than the sum of the 
left and right legs acting separately (sum of legs).

THE NEUROMUSCULAR SYSTEM69
activation than to either muscle group acti-
vated maximally alone (43). This suggests that there is an inhibitory mechanism that limits maximal activation during bilateral muscle actions. Training with bilateral muscle actions reduces the bilateral deficit, bringing bilateral force production close to the sum of unilateral force production (23).
Cross education and the reduction of the bilateral 
deficit provide evidence of neural adaptations to resistance training.
Electromyographic evidence  
of neural adaptations
Electromyography (EMG)  records and quanti -
fies the electrical activity in the muscle fibers 
of activated motor units (65) (Figure 3.15). It 
reflects the number of motor units activated and their firing rates (65).
 Typically, isometric 
muscle actions are characterized by linear or curvilinear increases in EMG amplitude with torque (or force) (3). Therefore, an increase in maximal EMG activity would reflect an increase in motor unit activation (a neural adaptation). The increase in EMG activity may result from increased numbers of active motor units (i.e., high-threshold motor units), increased motor unit firing rates, or motor unit synchronization.
Numerous investigations have shown 
increases in EMG activity as a result of resistance training (2,39,58). Untrained indi-viduals (those unfamiliar with resistance training exercises) may not be able to recruit the highest-threshold motor units (types IIa and IIx) (2). This is indicative of an inabil-ity to fully activate the agonist muscle(s). An increase in the ability to recruit these high-threshold motor units can increase the 
Time (ms)EMG signal (mV)
0−2.0
−2.5−1.5−1.0−0.500.51.01.52.02.5
1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000Figure 3.15  Raw electromyographic (EMG) signal. EMG is the recording of muscle action potentials.

JARED W. COBURN ET AL.70
expression of muscular strength. For example, 
the highest threshold motor units make up only about 5% of the total number of motor units of the triceps brachii, but these units con -
tain approximately 20% of the total number of muscle fibers (65). Increasing the firing rate of motor units can also affect the force pro-duced by activated motor units. Motor units can increase their force 10-fold by altering their firing rates (66). Not surprisingly then, resistance training has been shown to increase 
motor unit firing rates after training (45).
Increased synchronization of motor units 
has been observed after strength training (29). 
The more synchronous the firing of motor units, the more motor units will be firing at any given time. Theoretically, this might lead to an increase in maximal force production, although some evidence suggests that asynchronous fir -
ing of motor units may be more effective than synchronous firing in producing force during submaximal muscle actions (49). Thus, the role of synchronization of motor unit firing in force production remains unclear (30).
Increased neural drive results from increased 
motor unit recruitment, increased motor unit firing rate, or synchronization of motor unit firing.
A maximal muscle action of an agonist mus -
cle or muscle group is typically accompanied 
by simultaneous activation of the antagonist muscle or muscle group (65). This is known as 
antagonist coactivation  (or co-contraction). For 
example, a maximal voluntary contraction of the elbow flexors (agonists) may also involve activation of the elbow extensors (antagonists). This coactivation reduces the net torque in the intended direction, reducing performance on the strength test. Coactivation may be a strategy used to help stabilize a joint, particularly if the individual is inexperienced or uncertain about lifting a load (24). Strength training reduces coactivation of antagonist muscle groups, lead -
ing to an increase in the expression of muscular 
strength (36).
Metabolic adaptations
Some evidence points to increased fuel availa-
bility following resistance training. One study  showed increases in ATP (18%), phosphocre-atine (PCr) (25%), and glycogen (66%) levels following five months of heavy resistance training (51). Another study showed increased activity levels of several key enzymes involved in anaerobic energy metabolism (creatine kinase, myokinase, and phosphofructoki-nase) (14). Others, however, concluded that strength training does not increase ATP or PC levels (75) or lead to increased activities of enzymes associated with the phosphagen, 
glycolytic, or oxidative energy systems (73). 
Differences between studies may be due to 
the pre  training status of subjects,  muscles 
examined, and variations in the design of the training programs (30).
SUMMARY
The nervous system is complex; it may be divided into central (brain and spinal cord) and peripheral (motor and sensory neurons) components. Motor neurons conduct nerv-ous impulses from the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) to peripheral structures, such as skeletal muscles, while sensory neurons conduct nervous impulses from peripheral structures to the central nervous system. A reflex is an involuntary motor response to a given stimulus. Of the many types of reflexes, the myotatic (stretch) and inverse myotatic reflexes are especially important for those cul -
tivating strength and conditioning.
The individual fibers comprising skel-
etal muscle are arranged into bundles called fasciculi. Each fiber, fasciculus, and whole muscle is surrounded by connective tissues called endomysium, perimysium, and epimy -
sium, respectively. These connective tissues transmit the force of muscle contraction to the tendons, which are attached to bones and cause movement. The sliding-filament theory of muscle contraction describes how actin and myosin interact to cause contraction and thus force production.
The three muscle fiber types found in 
humans are slow oxidative (SO), fast oxidative glycolytic (FOG), and fast glycolytic (FG). These fiber types differ from one another based on their contractile and metabolic characteristics.  

THE NEUROMUSCULAR SYSTEM71
The relative proportions of each fiber type  
differ among people and are largely determined 
by genetics.
Resistance training increases muscle size 
and strength. Hypertrophy refers to an increase in cell size and is thought to be the primary mechanism by which muscles are enlarged with training. The nervous system also adapts to chronic heavy resistance training. Evidence of neural adaptations include the cross-  
education (cross-training) effect, reduction 
of the bilateral deficit, increased electromyo -
graphic (EMG) activity, and reduced antagonist coactivation.
MAxiNG OUT
1 You are working with a group of track athletes who want to estimate the percentage of 
fast-twitch muscle fibers in their quadriceps muscles, but you do not have access to the technology required for a muscle biopsy. You know that Thorstensson and Karlsson (76) developed a fatiguing isokinetic leg-extension test to estimate the percentage of fast-twitch fibers in the quadriceps muscles. In this test, the subject performs 50 consecutive maximal isokinetic leg extensions at 180° per second and the percent decline in peak torque is used to estimate the percentage of fast-twitch muscle fibers through the following equation:
Percent fast-twitch fibers = (percent decline − 5.2) ÷ 0.9
Percent decline = ([initial peak torque − final peak torque] ÷ initial peak torque) × 100Estimate the percentage of fast-twitch muscle fibers for subjects with declines of 25, 40, 67, and 83%.
2 A previously inexperienced weight trainer has completed the first two weeks of a resistance training program designed to increase muscle size and strength. The athlete approaches you and expresses frustration that she does not see any sign of an increase in muscle size or fat-free body mass. Considering the time course of contributions from neural adaptations versus hypertrophy, explain to the athlete why this is normal following just two weeks of resistance exercise.
3 An athlete is intrigued that he is not able to exert as much force during higher- versus slower-speed concentric muscle actions despite making a maximal effort under each condi -
tion. Explain why there is a negative relationship between force and velocity for concentric muscle actions.
REFERENCES
 1. Aagaard P, Andersen JL. Correlation 
between contractile strength and myosin heavy chain isoform composition in human skeletal muscle. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1998; 30(8):1217–1222.
 2. Aagaard P, Simonsen EB, Andersen JL, Magnusson SP, Halkjaer-Kristensen J, Dyhre-Poulsen P. Neural inhibition during maximal eccentric and concentric quadriceps contraction: effects of resistance training. J 
Appl Physiol 2000; 89(6):2249–2257. 3. Alkner BA, Tesch PA, Berg HE. Quadriceps 
EMG/force relationship in knee extension and leg press. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2000; 
32(2):459–463.
 4. Alway SE, Winchester PK, Davis ME, Gonyea WJ. Regionalized adaptations and muscle fiber proliferation in stretch-induced enlargement. J Appl Physiol 1989; 66(2):771–781.
 5. Andersen JL, Klitgaard H, Saltin B. Myosin heavy chain isoforms in single fibres from m. vastus lateralis of sprinters: influence of training. Acta Physiol Scand 1994; 151(2):135–142.

JARED W. COBURN ET AL.72
 6. Baldwin KM, Haddad F. Effects of different 
activity and inactivity paradigms on myosin heavy chain gene expression in striated muscle. J Appl Physiol (1985) 2001; 90(1):345–357.
 7. Bamman MM, Petrella JK, Kim JS, Mayhew DL, Cross JM. Cluster analysis tests the importance of myogenic gene expression during myofiber hypertrophy in humans. J Appl Physiol (1985) 2007; 102(6):2232–2239.
 8. Beedle AM. Distribution of myosin heavy chain isoforms in muscular dystrophy: insights into disease pathology. Musculoskelet Regen 2016; 2.
 9. Bergh U, Thorstensson A, Sjodin B, Hulten B, Piehl K, Karlsson J. Maximal oxygen uptake and muscle fiber types in trained and untrained humans. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1978; 10(3):151–154.
10. Blaauw B, Reggiani C. The role of satellite cells in muscle hypertrophy. J Muscle Res Cell Motil 2014; 35(1):3–10.
11. Brown CH, Wilmore JH. The effects of maximal resistance training on the strength and body composition of women athletes. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1974; 6(3):174–177.
12. Charifi N, Kadi F, Feasson L, Denis C. Effects of endurance training on satellite cell frequency in skeletal muscle of old men. Muscle Nerve 2003; 28(1):87–92.
13. Ciciliot S, Rossi AC, Dyar KA, Blaauw B, Schiaffino S. Muscle type and fiber type specificity in muscle wasting. Int J Biochem Cell Biol 2013; 45(10):2191–2199.
14. Costill DL, Coyle EF, Fink WF, Lesmes GR, Witzmann FA. Adaptations in skeletal muscle following strength training. J Appl Physiol 1979; 46(1):96–99.
15. Costill DL, Daniels J, Evans W, Fink W, Krahenbuhl G, Saltin B. Skeletal muscle enzymes and fiber composition in male and female track athletes. J Appl Physiol 1976; 40(2):149–154.
16. Coyle EF, Feiring DC, Rotkis TC, Cote RW, 3rd, Roby FB, Lee W, Wilmore JH. Specificity of power improvements through slow and fast isokinetic training. J Appl Physiol 1981; 51(6):1437–1442.
17. Cresswell AG, Ovendal AH. Muscle activation and torque development during maximal unilateral and bilateral isokinetic knee extensions. J Sports Med Phys Fitness 2002; 42(1):19–25.
18. Crewther B, Cronin J, Keogh J. Possible stimuli for strength and power adaptation: acute metabolic responses. Sports Med 2006; 36(1):65–78.
19. Crewther B, Cronin J, Keogh J. Possible stimuli for strength and power adaptation: acute mechanical responses. Sports Med 2005; 35(11):967–989.
20. Crewther B, Keogh J, Cronin J, Cook C. Possible stimuli for strength and power adaptation: acute hormonal responses. Sports Med 2006; 36(3):215–238.
21. Cureton KJ, Collins MA, Hill DW, McElhannon FM, Jr. Muscle hypertrophy in men and women. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1988; 20(4):338–344.
22. D’Antona G, Lanfranconi F, Pellegrino MA, Brocca L, Adami R, Rossi R, Moro G, Miotti D, Canepari M, Bottinelli R. Skeletal muscle hypertrophy and structure and function of skeletal muscle fibres in male body builders. J 
Physiol 2006; 570(3):611–627.
23. Enoka RM. Muscle strength and its 
development. New perspectives. Sports Med 1988; 6(3):146–168.
24. Enoka RM. Neuromechanics of Human Movement. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics; 2002. xix.
25. Eriksson A, Kadi F, Malm C, Thornell LE. Skeletal muscle morphology in power-lifters with and without anabolic steroids. Histochem Cell Biol 2005; 124(2):167–175.
26. Esbjornsson M, Hellsten-Westing Y, Balsom PD, Sjodin B, Jansson E. Muscle fibre type changes with sprint training: effect of training pattern. Acta Physiol Scand 1993; 149(2):245–246.
27. Farthing JP, Chilibeck PD. The effect of eccentric training at different velocities on cross-education. Eur J Appl Physiol 2003; 89(6):570–577.
28. Farthing JP, Chilibeck PD. The effects of eccentric and concentric training at different velocities on muscle hypertrophy. Eur J Appl Physiol 2003; 89(6):578–586.
29. Felici F, Rosponi A, Sbriccoli P, Filligoi GC, Fattorini L, Marchetti M. Linear and non-linear analysis of surface electromyograms in weightlifters. Eur J Appl Physiol 2001; 84(4):337–342.
30. Fleck SJ, Kraemer WJ. Designing Resistance Training Programs. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics; 2004. xiii.
31. Fry AC, Allemeier CA, Staron RS. Correlation between percentage fiber type area and myosin heavy chain content in human skeletal muscle. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 1994; 68(3):246–251.
32. Fry AC, Schilling BK, Staron RS, Hagerman FC, Hikida RS, Thrush JT. Muscle fiber characteristics and performance correlates of male Olympic-style weightlifters. J Strength Cond Res 2003; 17(4):746–754.
33. Goldspink G, Harridge S. Cellular and molecular aspects of adaptation in skeletal 

THE NEUROMUSCULAR SYSTEM73
muscle. In: Komi PV, editor. Strength and 
Power in Sport. Oxford, UK: Blackwell Scientific; 2003. 231–251.
34. Gonyea WJ, Sale DG, Gonyea FB, Mikesky A. Exercise induced increases in muscle fiber number. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 1986; 55(2):137–141.
35. Haff G, Triplett NT, National Strength & Conditioning Association (U.S.). Essentials of Strength Training and Conditioning. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics; 2016. xvi.
36. Häkkinen K, Kallinen M, Izquierdo M, Jokelainen K, Lassila H, Malkia E, Kraemer WJ, Newton RU, Alen M. Changes in agonist-antagonist EMG, muscle CSA, and force during strength training in middle-aged and older 
people. J Appl Physiol 1998; 84(4):1341–1349.
37. Häkkinen K, Komi PV, Alen M. Effect of 
explosive type strength training on isometric force- and relaxation-time, electromyographic and muscle fibre characteristics of leg extensor muscles. Acta Physiol Scand 1985; 
125(4):587–600.
38. Häkkinen K, Pakarinen A, Alen M, 
Kauhanen H, Komi PV. Neuromuscular and hormonal adaptations in athletes to strength training in two years. J Appl Physiol 1988; 65(6):2406–2412.
39. Higbie EJ, Cureton KJ, Warren GL, 3rd, Prior BM. Effects of concentric and eccentric training on muscle strength, cross-sectional area, and neural activation. J Appl Physiol 1996; 81(5):2173–2181.
40. Holloway JB, Baechle TR. Strength  training for female athletes. A review of selected aspects. Sports Med 1990; 9(4):216–228.
41. Hortobagyi T, Dempsey L, Fraser D, Zheng D, Hamilton G, Lambert J, Dohm L. Changes in muscle strength, muscle fibre size and myofibrillar gene expression after immobilization and retraining in humans. J 
Physiol 2000; 524 Pt 1:293–304.
42. Housh DJ, Housh TJ, Johnson GO, Chu 
WK. Hypertrophic response to unilateral concentric isokinetic resistance training. J Appl Physiol 1992; 73(1):65–70.
43. Howard JD, Enoka RM. Maximum bilateral contractions are modified by neurally mediated interlimb effects. J Appl Physiol 1991; 70(1):306–316.
44. Ikai M, Fukunaga T. Calculation of muscle strength per unit cross-sectional area of human muscle by means of ultrasonic measurement. Int Z Angew Physiol 1968; 26(1):26–32.
45. Kamen G. Resistance training increases vastus lateralis motor unit firing rates in young and old adults. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1998; 30(Suppl.):S337.
46. Kraemer WJ, Patton JF, Gordon SE, Harman EA, Deschenes MR, Reynolds K, Newton RU, Triplett NT, Dziados JE. Compatibility of high-intensity strength and endurance training on hormonal and skeletal muscle adaptations. 
J Appl Physiol 1995; 78(3):976–989.
47. Lanka J. Shot putting. In: Zatsiorsky VM, 
editor. Biomechanics in Sport: Performance Enhancement and Injury Prevention. Oxford, UK: and Malden, MA: Blackwell Science; 2000. p 435–457.
48. Lee M, Carroll TJ. Cross education: possible mechanisms for the contralateral effects of unilateral resistance training. Sports Med 2007; 37(1):1–14.
49. Lind AR, Petrofsky JS. Isometric tension from rotary stimulation of fast and slow cat muscles. Muscle Nerve 1978; 1(3):213–218.
50. Liu Y, Schlumberger A, Wirth K, Schmidtbleicher D, Steinacker JM. Different effects on human skeletal myosin heavy chain isoform expression: strength vs. combination training. J Appl Physiol 2003; 
94(6):2282–2288.
51. MacDougall JD, Ward GR, Sale DG, Sutton 
JR. Biochemical adaptation of human skeletal muscle to heavy resistance training and immobilization. J Appl Physiol 1977; 43(4):700–703.
52. Mero A, Komi PV. Force-, EMG-, and elasticity-velocity relationships at submaximal, maximal and supramaximal running speeds in sprinters. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 1986; 
55(5):553–561.
53. Mikkelsen UR, Langberg H, Helmark IC, 
Skovgaard D, Andersen LL, Kjaer M, Mackey AL. Local NSAID infusion inhibits satellite cell proliferation in human skeletal muscle after eccentric exercise. J Appl Physiol 2009; 
107(5):1600–1611.
54. Miller AE, MacDougall JD, Tarnopolsky 
MA, Sale DG. Gender differences in strength and muscle fiber characteristics. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 1993; 66(3):254–262.
55. Mitchell CJ, Churchward-Venne TA, West DW, Burd NA, Breen L, Baker SK, Phillips SM. Resistance exercise load does not determine training-mediated hypertrophic gains in young men. J Appl Physiol (1985) 
2012; 113(1):71–77.
56. Moritani T, deVries HA. Neural factors 
versus hypertrophy in the time course of muscle strength gain. Am J Phys Med 1979; 58(3):115–130.

JARED W. COBURN ET AL.74
57. Munn J, Herbert RD, Gandevia SC. 
Contralateral effects of unilateral resistance training: a meta-analysis. J Appl Physiol 2004; 96(5):1861–1866.
58. Narici MV, Roi GS, Landoni L, Minetti AE, Cerretelli P. Changes in force, cross-sectional area and neural activation during strength training and detraining of the human quadriceps. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 
1989; 59(4):310–319.
59. Needham DM. Red and white muscle. Physiol 
Rev 1926; 6(1):1–27.
60. Ogasawara R, Loenneke JP, Thiebaud RS, Abe T. Low-load bench press training to fatigue results in muscle hypertrophy similar to high-load bench press training. International Journal of Clinical Medicine 
2013; 4(2):114–121.
61. Paddon-Jones D, Leveritt M, Lonergan 
A, Abernethy P. Adaptation to chronic eccentric exercise in humans: the influence of contraction velocity. Eur J Appl Physiol 2001; 85(5):466–471.
62. Peter JB, Barnard RJ, Edgerton VR, Gillespie CA, Stempel KE. Metabolic profiles of three fiber types of skeletal muscle in guinea pigs and rabbits. Biochemistry 1972; 11(14):2627–2633.
63. Ranvier L. Propriétés et structures différentes des muscles rouges et des muscles blancs chez les lapins et chez les raies. CR Acad Sci Paris 1873; 77:1030–1034.
64. Ross A, Leveritt M, Riek S. Neural influences on sprint running: training adaptations and acute responses. Sports Med 2001; 31(6):409–425.
65. Sale DG. Neural adaptations to strength training. In: Komi PV, editor. Strength and Power in Sport. Oxford, UK: Blackwell Scientific; 2003. pp 281–314.
66. Sale DG, McComas AJ, MacDougall JD, Upton AR. Neuromuscular adaptation in human thenar muscles following strength training and immobilization. J Appl Physiol 1982; 53(2):419–424.
67. Schilling BK, Fry AC, Chiu LZ, Weiss LW. Myosin heavy chain isoform expression and in vivo isometric performance: a regression model. J Strength Cond Res 2005; 19(2):270–275.
68. Scott W, Stevens J, Binder-Macleod SA. Human skeletal muscle fiber type classifications. Phys Ther 2001; 
81(11):1810–1816.
69. Shoepe TC, Stelzer JE, Garner DP, Widrick 
JJ. Functional adaptability of muscle fibers to 
long-term resistance exercise. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2003; 35(6):944–951.
70. Staron RS, Johnson P. Myosin polymorphism and differential expression in adult human skeletal muscle. Comp Biochem Physiol B 1993; 106(3):463–475.
71. Staron RS, Karapondo DL, Kraemer WJ, Fry AC, Gordon SE, Falkel JE, Hagerman FC, Hikida RS. Skeletal muscle  
adaptations during early phase of  
heavy-resistance training in men 
and women. J Appl Physiol 1994; 
76(3):1247–1255.
72. Staron RS, Kraemer WJ, Hikida RS, Reed DW, Murray JD, Campos GE, Gordon SE. Comparison of soleus muscles from rats exposed to microgravity for 10 versus 14 days. Histochem Cell Biol 
1998;110(1):73–80.
73. Tesch PA, Komi PV, Häkkinen K. Enzymatic 
adaptations consequent to long-term strength training. Int J Sports Med 1987;8 Suppl 1:66–69.
74. Tesch PA, Larsson L. Muscle hypertrophy in bodybuilders. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 1982;49(3):301–306.
75. Tesch PA, Thorsson A, Colliander EB. Effects of eccentric and concentric resistance training on skeletal muscle substrates, enzyme activities and capillary supply. Acta Physiol Scand 1990;140(4):575–580.
76. Thorstensson A, Karlsson J. Fatiguability and fibre composition of human skeletal muscle. Acta Physiol Scand 1976;98(3):318–322.
77. Widrick JJ, Stelzer JE, Shoepe TC, Garner DP. Functional properties of human muscle fibers after short-term resistance exercise training. Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol 2002;283(2):R408–416.
78. Zatsiorsky VM. Biomechanics of strength and strength testing. In: Komi PV, editor. Strength and Power in Sport. Oxford: Blackwell Scientific; 2003. p 439–487.
79. Zhou S. Chronic neural adaptations to unilateral exercise: mechanisms of cross education. Exerc Sport Sci Rev 2000;28(4):177–184.

Contents
Introduction  77
Structure of the skeletal system  78
Functions of the skeletal system  83
Growth of the skeletal system  84
Adaptations of the skeletal system to loading  86
The skeletal system and health  87
Exercise prescription to promote bone density  90
Summary  92
References  93

4 CHAPTER
OBJECTIVES
After completing this chapter, you will be able to:
• Understand the living nature of bone tissue including the mechanisms for responding to load 
and stress.
• Recognize the types of tissue found in the human skeletal system.
• Discuss the functions of the skeletal system, specific joint classifications, and the various ana -
tomical components that comprise the skeletal system.
• Discuss the role of Wolff’s law in bone remodeling.
• Recognize the role of minimal essential strain for bone health, growth, and development.
• Discuss the key concepts of training to improve bone strength and bone.THE SKELETAL SYSTEM
W. Britt Chandler, T. Jeff Chandler, and Clint Alley
KEY TERMS
Amphiarthrosis
Appendicular skeletonArticular cartilageArticulationsAxial skeletonCanaliculiCartilageCollagenCortical boneDiaphysisDiarthrosisDistal insertionEpiphyseal discsFlat bonesLacunaeLeverLigamentsLong bonesMinimal essential  
strain (MES)
OsteoblastsOsteoclastsOsteocytesOsteonic canalOsteonsOsteoporosisPeriosteumProximal insertionShort bonesSynarthrosisTendonsTrabecular boneWolff’s law
INTRODUCTION
The living skeleton is much more than the 
calcified bones we study in anatomy. It is a dynamic system with living cells that continu-ally remodel bone and respond to the demands placed on it by training and conditioning. Specific protocols of loading and unloading 

W. BRITT CHANDLER ET AL.78
bone tissues cause unique adaptations to bones, 
ligaments, tendons, and cartilage. Ligaments  
connect one bone to another. T endons  connect 
muscle to bone, and cartilage  protects the ends 
of bones. This chapter discusses the anatomy, physiology, and response to training of the skeletal system.
The bones of the skeletal system provide 
the internal framework of the body. They com -
prise the levers and articulations that enable us to move. A 
lever is a rigid bar that moves 
around an axis of rotation. Articulations , 
where one bone meets another bone, allow movement and serve as the axes around which movement occurs. Bones function to protect our vital organs from trauma; they also pro-duce blood cells, including the red blood cells that transport oxygen to our tissues. In addi -
tion to all this, bones serve as depositories for the minerals we need to remain healthy.STRUCTURE OF THE 
SKELETAL SYSTEM
The human skeleton is divided into two major 
parts, axial and appendicular (Figure 4.1). The 
axial skeleton  consists of the skull, vertebral 
column, sacrum, coccyx, ribs, and sternum. The 
appendicular skeleton  can be subdivided 
into the pectoral and the pelvic girdles. The pectoral girdle includes the clavicle and scap-ula. The pelvic girdle is made up of the coxal bones of the hip. The bones of the appendicu -
lar skeletal system form articulations or joints that allow movement when forces are applied by muscles.
The skeletal system is composed of an axial 
skeleton and an appendicular skeleton.
Figure 4.1  The axial skeleton and the appendicular skeleton. The axial skeleton consists of the skull, spine, and 
ribs. The appendicular skeleton consists of the appendages, shoulder girdle, and hip girdle.

THE SKELETAL SYSTEM79
The body’s movement is general in nature 
(both angular and linear) and can range from 
locomotion and gross positioning to adept manipulations of the hands and feet.
Bone tissue
One way to classify bones is by their appear -
ance (Figure 4.2). The long bones  (femur, tibia, 
humerus, and radius) determine most of the length of the arms and legs, are responsible for most of our mature height, and provide one loca -
tion for blood cell production. These bones are generally longer than they are wide. 
Short bones  
(carpals and tarsals) are more cubical in shape. Several adjacent short bones provide the hands and feet with a flexible base for dexterity at the distal articulations. The 
flat bones  (ribs, scapula, 
bones of the skull and sternum) provide another site for blood cell production and protect the vital organs. Last, 
irregular bones  (the vertebrae 
and maxilla) have different shapes depending on their functions. They may provide multiple fac-ets for articulation and muscular attachment or unique leverage, depending on their location.
To better understand the function and 
nature of bone and its relation to physical 
activity, look first at its structures. Figure 4.3 
illustrates these structures.
1
 Osteons : Predominant structures found in 
cortical bone that compose the matrix.
2 Osteocytes : Bone cells. There are two types 
of bone cells, osteoclasts and osteoblasts, 
both located in the lacunae. Osteoclasts  
are responsible for reclaiming calcium for metabolic processes and removing dam -
aged bone. 
Osteoblasts  are responsible for 
depositing new bone matrix to replace the bone removed by osteoclastic activity.
(A)
(B)(C)
(D)
Figure 4.2  Classification of bones by their appearance. (A) the sternum is a flat bone; (B) the femur is a long 
bone; (C) the vertebrae are irregular bones; (D) the carpals are short bones.

W. BRITT CHANDLER ET AL.80
3 Canaliculi : Small canals that allow the dis-
semination of nutrients and metabolites to 
osteocytes and surrounding tissue.
4 Lacunae : Small spaces at the centers of 
canaliculi, which house the osteocytes.
5 Osteonic canal : A longitudinal canal at 
the center of the osteon, which provides for the passage of nutrients and metabolic wastes. The osteonic canals house arteri-oles and venules, which carry blood and nourishment to the bone tissue. Osteonic 
canals are interconnected by perforating 
canals running perpendicular to them.In a magnified cross-sectional view of 
a mature long bone, the osteonic canals run parallel to the shaft of the long bone and are surrounded by a calcified concen -
tric matrix that fuses them together. Much like the annular concentric rings you see in a cross-cut tree, the concentric rings travel outward from the osteonic canal. Canaliculi are strategically placed to disperse fluid to the surrounding tissue. The osteocytes resid-ing in the lacunae are distributed throughout  
the concentric rings to support the metabo -
lism of specific portions of the bone. All the 
Medullary cavity
Blood vessels
Cortical boneYellow
marrow Pores
Trabecular
bone
Cortical
bonePeriosteumOsteonOsteonic canal
containing blood
vessels and hervesLacuna (space)OsteocyteCalciﬁed bone matrixCanaliculus
Figure 4.3  Longitudinal cross-section of a mature long bone. Osteonic canals run longitudinally through long 
bones. Osteocytes are arranged in concentric circles around the osteonic canal.

THE SKELETAL SYSTEM81
concentric rings surrounding an osteonic canal 
form an osteon.
There are two types of bone relative 
to porosity. Cortical bone  is highly min -
eralized and dense, having a low porosity. This type of bone is found in the shafts of long bones and most small, short, irregular bones that are regularly subjected to com -
pressive stresses. 
Trabecular  bone  is less 
mineralized, is more porous, and is there-fore less dense. It is found at the ends of long bones and is encased in cortical bone, which provides certain advantages in ena -
bling movement. Cortical bone is denser and thus contains more minerals, which add to its weight and rigidity. Because tra-becular bone is located at the ends of long bones, the weight at the end of the bone is decreased, thus reducing the force that muscles must generate to move the lever. If the entire skeleton were composed of corti -
cal bone, movement would be impaired due to the weight of the bones.
Bone tissue is continually being reab -
sorbed and reformed, and exercise is a key stimulus for this process. When bone is opti-mally stressed, osteoblasts deposit minerals, primarily calcium phosphate, on the collagen matrix. 
Collagen  is a tough flexible protein 
found in other connective tissue as well as bone. Particularly in preadolescents and to some extent in adolescents, bone is more flex-ible because less calcium phosphate has been deposited on the collagen matrix. The 
peri-
osteum  is a tough, fibrous outer covering of 
bone. As we age, our bones continue to grow in circumference because new bone is being developed underneath the periosteum.
Bone tissue is living tissue that is constantly being 
remodeled. Several factors, including hormonal status, nutritional status, and exercise, determine bone density.
Epiphyseal discs
 are the site at which bone 
increases in length. Long bones continue to 
grow in length up to the time of epiphyseal closure. Prior to epiphyseal closure, bone tis -
sue in this region is more prone to injury from abnormal stresses. Injuries to the epiphysis prior to closure can cause cessation of lon-gitudinal bone growth, which can lead to a limb-length discrepancy. Although resistance training is a concern in this regard, an appro -
priately designed resistance training program controls the stresses applied to the skeletal system more closely than does participation in many sports and activities.
Training exercises performed properly and 
under proper supervision with spotters should minimize the risk of epiphyseal disc injuries during training.
Appropriately applied forces will strengthen 
the skeletal system. Building bone density in youth 
may help to maintain bone density throughout life. Many of the skeletal problems associated with aging are related to decreases in bone density. Some of these problems are related to hormonal or nutritional status. Some problems may be related to our failure to attain maximum bone density as we mature to adulthood.
Ligamentous tissue
Ligaments are composed of tough, fibrous tissue with little elasticity. Ligaments prevent joints from moving in abnormal patterns. By their arrangement, they may allow movement in one plane only or restrict movement in an abnormal direction. In a joint that is inherently lax, as in the shoulder, numerous ligaments function to stabilize the joint in various planes of motion. The ligaments may also serve to fix a bone to another bone where little or no movement is intended, as in the acromioclav-icular joint.
Cartilage
Articular cartilage  (Figure 4.4) covers the 
ends of long bones and reduces friction at the joint while it is moving under pressure.
 In 
basic composition, the structural components consist of a dense mesh of collagen fibrils, pro -
teoglycan macromolecules (PGs), and water, creating a stiff gel-like substance. The tissue is semi-transparent, with four distinct layers:

W. BRITT CHANDLER ET AL.82
1 The articular surface,  which is super -
slick. This layer greatly reduces 
friction between two articulating bone surfaces.
2
 The middle zone,  composed of collagen 
fibrils and fluid-swollen proteoglycans.
3 and  The deep zone and the tidemark region
4 where the cartilage matrix meshes 
with the actual bone structure.
By maintaining the fluid content in the tissue 
at normal levels, the protective and friction-reducing properties of cartilage are retained (22). If the friction-reducing properties of cartilage are lost, this may damage the cartilaginous tissue resulting in eventual deterioration of the joint increasing the potential for injury (14).
Articulations
Articulations are where bones join together. At articulations, contact is maintained by cartilage and forces associated with move-ment of the joint. This arrangement allows 
bone growth, conversion of angular to linear 
motion, and dexterity at distal extremities; it 
BoneTidemark
regionDeep zoneMiddle zoneArticular
surface
Figure 4.4  Layers of articular cartilage. Articular cartilage covers the ends of long bones.

THE SKELETAL SYSTEM83
also provides for fusion, support summation, 
and motion as dictated by the location, type, and function of the articulation.
Articulations can be classified by the type 
of connective tissue used to form the articu -
lation. There are three major classifications of joints: synarthrosis joints, amphiarthro-sis joints, and diarthrosis joints. Each type of articulation has specific characteristics in terms of stability and mobility. A description of the classifications is as follows ( Figure 4.5):
1
 Synarthrosis : Immovable joints, bound 
tightly by fibrous tissue.
2 Amphiarthrosis : Slightly movable joints, 
cartilaginous.
3 Diarthrosis : Freely movable joints, synovial.
FUNCTIONS OF THE 
SKELETAL SYSTEM
The bones of the skeleton provide structure, allow 
movement, and provide protection for our organs as well as other physiological functions. We will examine each of these functions in more detail.
Structure and protection
Without bones, we would be incapable of stand -
ing, sitting, or moving in general. The length of our long bones determines the length of our body segments. For example, the talus, calca -
neus, tibia, and femur make up the length of the leg and allow for ankle and knee flexion, extension, and gross compensation for surface irregularities so that we may stand erect. We can walk on an irregular or uneven surface because the foot can compensate for the slope with this adaptable base of support.
Movement
Bones provide both a proximal and distal inser -
tion for muscles, allowing movement when sufficient tension is developed in the muscle that crosses a joint. The 
proximal insertion  is closer 
to the trunk, and the distal insertion  is farther 
from the trunk. The bones of the appendicular skeleton and to a lesser degree the axial skeleton are arranged as sets of levers with reciprocally shaped surfaces that allow maximal contact to be maintained at the joint during movement. Joints function as axes of rotation around which torque is generated by muscle force.
The structure of the skeletal system allows it to 
perform one of its essential functions: movement.
The bones of the skeleton act as a mechani -
cal framework for movement and the attachment 
(A) (B)
(C)Synovial membrane
BoneArticular cartilageJoint cavity ﬁlled
with synovial ﬂuidFibrous capsuleTrabecular
boneSuture
Cortical
boneIntervertebral
discVertebral body
Figure 4.5  Types of articulations. (A) a cranial suture is a synarthrotic joint; (B) the shoulder is an 
amphiarthrotic joint; (C) the knee is a diarthrotic joint.

W. BRITT CHANDLER ET AL.84
of muscles. The irregular bones of the spine (the 
vertebral bodies) are specifically engineered to bear the summed weight of the body superior to a specific vertebral articulation. Vertebral bodies distribute weight over a large surface area to dis -
tribute increasing pressures at each descending vertebral level. The legs, in particular the femur and tibia, are structured such that the cortical portion of the bone resists compressive forces from the weight of the entire body superior to them. The hips can experience as much as six times body weight during normal stair climb-ing (6). The bones support as much as five times their weight in soft tissue in the normal adult.
One function of the skull and vertebral 
column is to protect the brain and spinal cord from injury. The thoracic vertebrae have spinous processes that restrict hyperextension in the thoracic region. These processes provide additional surfaces for muscular attachment. The ribs and sternum protect the heart, liver, spleen, lungs, and large blood vessels in the thorax. The vertebral column and pelvis also mechanically protect the abdominal or visceral organs and to a lesser degree the genitalia.
Blood cell production
The spongy bone houses the red marrow, which produces the blood cells. The production  
of red and white blood cells is a result of  differentiation of mature blood stem cells that reside primarily in the flat bones of the skull, ribs, sternum, and the ends of the long bones. As the spleen naturally destroys damaged red blood cells (RBCs), these cells must be continu -
ally replaced. Every second, the body produces over 2 million RBCs (17).
GROWTH OF THE 
SKELETAL SYSTEM
Bone changes in size and functional character -
istics via two processes: 1) normal growth, and 
2) remodeling due to applied loads. Normal growth is largely a function of migration of the epiphysis, resulting in an increase in bone length and diameter prior to skeletal maturity. Chondrocytes secrete a matrix of cartilage and minerals that then deposit themselves on the matrix, stiffening and strengthening it. This process is passive and takes time. Figure 4.6 
depicts the epiphyseal region of a long bone.
The second mechanism,
 remodeling, is 
a result of the stresses and strains (or lack thereof) applied to the skeletal system through daily activity or planned exercise. In this pro -
cess bone adapts to stresses due to osteoclastic  
and osteoblastic activity, which serves to strengthen bone to withstand the applied 
DiaphysisMetaphysisEpiphysisArticular cartilage Cancellous bone
Trabeculae
Epiphyseal
plate
Medullarycavity(A)Calciﬁed cartilage of epiphyseal plate
Cartilaginous
cores oftrabeculae
covered by
Bone matrix
(B)
Figure 4.6  Epiphyseal growth region (A) the end of a long bone covered by cancellous bone and articular 
cartilage. The epiphyseal disc separates the epiphysis from the metaphysis; (B) a magnified section of the 
metaphysis undergoing calcification of the cartilaginous matrix. Adapted from Cormack DH. Essential Histology. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2001.

THE SKELETAL SYSTEM85
forces. Remodeling is more active in the main-
tenance of bone integrity; it increases and decreases the bone’s circumference in relation to activity level. It is here that we have the greatest opportunity to generate bone adap-tation to training. By loading in an exercise/training format, we can influence this adapta-tion and thus the strength of bone.
Primary bone growth in the 
epiphysis
At birth, the skeletal system is composed of a 
cartilaginous framework that has the general form of the skeleton but is not distinguished in proportion, specific structure, or definitive landmarks. In the first stage of growth, cal -
cification of the cartilage framework begins. Development of the periosteum is evidenced by the periosteal bone collar along the center of the shaft and the development of 
articular 
cartilage  at the ends of the femur. The collar 
appears as a ring of calcified bone around the shaft at approximately the midline. A short time later, the periosteal bone collar becomes the primary ossification center, and epiphy -
seal capillaries develop in the bone’s proximal and distal ends.
Soon the ossification (calcium deposi-
tion) of the 
diaphysis  or shaft of the bone 
becomes evident at the center of the shaft, and the epiphyseal plates or growth cent -
ers are apparent at the ends of the heavily mineralized centers. As the epiphyseal discs lay down new bone, they migrate toward the  distal ends. Still later, additional growth centers originate at both ends, forming the unique structural features of a long bone. The secondary ossification centers lay down spongy bone, which is covered by articular cartilage. As this growth in length is taking place, the layer on the surface just beneath the periosteum is adding to the circumference of the bone in response to the compression, shear, tension, and torsional loading imposed by movement and exercise. Long bones reach their final length in early adulthood, when the epiphyseal discs are completely closed. Figure 4.7 illustrates the transition of bone 
from cartilaginous to fully ossified.
Chondrocytes 
are active cells that special-
ize in the generation of the protein cartilage framework or matrix. In human growth, they synthesize and secrete matrix into the extra-cellular space (1). Chrondrocyte hypertrophy is an active process resulting in increased amounts of intercellular material, including mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum. Increases in the height of the chondrocyte col -
umn height are responsible for 44% to 59% of longitudinal bone growth, the remainder being due to matrix synthesis and chondro-cyte proliferation. The rate of differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells into chondrocytes is a factor that regulates the synthesis of the matrix and thus the rate of bone growth (1). In addition to the collagen matrix being laid down, osteoclasts and osteoblasts are being differentiated near the epiphysis, where there is a narrow band of cells called the “prolif-erating region” of the growth plate. Here, 
Developing
periosteumCortical bone
developingOssiﬁcation
of epiphysis
(secondary)Epiphyseal
platesRemnants of
epiphyseal discsArticular
cartilage
Trabecular
boneCortical
bone
Medullary
cavity
Remnant of
epiphyseal
disc
Trabecular
bone
Articular
cartilageEpiphyseal
plateOssiﬁcation
of epiphysis
(secondary)Ossiﬁcation
of bone shaft(primary)CalciﬁedcartilageCartilage
frameworkBlood
supply
Figure 4.7  Prior to ossification, bone begins as a cartilaginous framework.

W. BRITT CHANDLER ET AL.86
chondrocytes multiply and secrete matrix 
materials, causing migration of the active growth center toward the proximal and distal ends of the long bones. The matrix material is the template for ossification.
ADAPTATIONS OF THE 
SKELETAL SYSTEM TO LOADING
Loads applied to the skeletal system cause 
adaptations to occur that are specific to the type of load.
Wolff’s law
Adaptation to training can be defined accord -
ing to Wolff’s law , which states that “the 
densities, and to a lesser extent, the sizes and shapes of bones are determined by the magni-tude and direction of the acting forces applied to bone.”
Growth in circumference acts to distrib-
ute the compressive forces over an increased cross-sectional area and thus reduces the amount of pressure per square unit of the bone’s cross-sectional surface. In animal experiments, growth in regions of higher stresses and strain has been shown to occur (16). These adaptations can actually change the geometry of the bone and thus the response to a repetitive movement or strain. Increased thickness in the direction of force application and bending serves to better accommodate repeated flexion. Bones, like muscles, adapt to progressive overload. If we increase the load, we increase flexion in the bone. Figure 
4.8 demonstrates how bone under axial 
load “bends,” stimulating the deposition of bone 
underneath the periosteum at the spe-
cific location where the bending occurred. Weight-bearing exercises are most effective in ensuring the overall health (size and density) of the skeletal system in a healthy individual.
The response of bone tissue to stress is specific to 
the type of stress applied.
Because the diameter of the bone is enlarged 
through growth at the outer surface, the space 
in the center of the bone, required for the mar -
row, nerves, and blood supply, is not reduced. Since these functions are essential to healthy bone, hypertrophy on the external surfaces does not reduce the functional interior space but does allow increasing load accommodation.
Minimal essential strain
Minimal essential strain (MES)  is the minimal vol-
ume and intensity of loading required to cause an increase in bone density. Approximately 10% of the strain required to fracture the bone 
Application of force
causing lateral
bending of bone
Bending of bone
(red lines)Migration of
osteoblasts
to stressed area
Osteoblast lay down
collagen ﬁbersNew bone created
in stress area
Figure 4.8  Wolff’s law. If the load and speed of movement are high enough, bone will “bend” under an axial 
load. This stimulates the deposition of calcium in the specific location of the stress. Therefore, bone responds to 
“bending” by getting thicker in the direction of the load.

THE SKELETAL SYSTEM87
is considered the threshold at which new bone 
formation is triggered (8). The interaction of matrix strain and fluid flow may actually be the interacting source of the remodeling signal in bone tissue (12). Whether the stress comes from exercise or the work environment, bone remodeling will occur if the stress triggers the osteoblasts to migrate to the strained region  
of bone.
An exercise program that does not reach the level 
of minimal essential strain will be ineffective at promoting bone density.
MES varies by age and individual. An 
obese person will have greater loads placed on 
the skeletal system in normal daily activities than his or her lighter peers. The obese indi-vidual, however, will also likely be less active.
Bone density decreases with age, beginning 
in the third decade. The amount of strain needed to start the remodeling process may occur in the elderly with a decreased load. In a younger, more active population, the requirements of MES should be higher based on higher individual levels of bone density. Therefore, more rigorous exer -
cise may be required to achieve MES in a young, active population. Although stresses applied to bone and subsequent remodeling are ongoing, bone continues to increase in diameter. The total stress required to initiate new bone growth by remodeling is increased if the bone is stronger.
Training adaptations to the 
skeletal system
The response of bone to applied forces is spe-
cific to the applied forces. Strain activation changes a small section of exterior bone from the normal state to a state of remodeling. The location of the adaptation is underneath the outer layer of the bone – in the periosteum. The activated area of bone begins resorp -
tion, or the removal of the damaged bone by osteoclasts. This will take one to three weeks. Next is a reversal from primarily osteoclastic activity to osteoblastic activity, which takes another one to two weeks. Osteoblasts start forming new bone by producing matrix in the now cleared resorption area, which takes approximately three-and-a-half months.
Mineralization of bone takes place by the 
precipitation of calcium phosphate crystals, which bind to and fill in the protein matrix. Calcification increases the diameter of the bone and the thickness of the external cortical bone layer. Calcification of the matrix increases the rigidity of the bone. This adaptation can be stimulated by loading in exercise and can result in an increase in bone density during progress from a less trained to a more trained condition.
Studies in elderly females have shown no 
significant change in bone density in the femur and forearm after a resistance training period of five months or more (20). In animal studies, small changes in bone density result in a sig -
nificant shift in bone strength (16). In all cases, care should be taken in training the elderly and the untrained so as to reduce the risk of injury. In these populations, acute loading may require less resistance than that perceived to result in the damage or failure of bone.
THE SKELETAL SYSTEM 
AND HEALTH
Although balanced growth, proper miner -
alization, and good training are important 
indicators of good health, pathologies can occur as a result of specific disorders of or stresses on the skeletal system. This section discusses loss of bone mass, improper align -
ment, structural damage, and repair of bone.
Imagine the strength of an I-beam increased proportionally by increases in thickness of 
specific portions of the beam. The increases in thickness of the vertical portion of the beam simulate an increase in rigidity from increased bone mineral density (BMD). As you can see there is an increased difficulty of bending the I-beam on the right versus the left. If bone strength is increased due to increased BMD as a result of remodeling, then the minimal essential strain (MES) would increase as the bone got stronger.

W. BRITT CHANDLER ET AL.88
Bone density and health
Peak bone density is an indicator of long-term 
skeletal health. It is generally accepted that those who achieve a higher peak bone mass are less at risk for osteoporotic fracture later in life. 
Osteoporosis  is a disease characterized 
by a loss of bone density; it is insidious in that it presents no signs or symptoms until the fracture of a bone that has lost its mineral den -
sity occurs. Three distinct populations are at higher risk for osteoporosis: (i) postmenopau-sal women after about age 50, (ii) both men and women after about age 70, and (iii) young female athletes who also have eating disor -
ders, in whom it is a component of the female athletic triad (discussed later in this chapter).
We know that the appropriate dose of 
physical activity can increase bone mineral density (BMD) throughout our lives (13). Consider the person who achieves higher peak bone density and a larger calcium depot reserve to begin with. As he or she ages, the individual with higher bone density will likely be less prone to developing osteoporosis.of the bone makes the elderly more suscep -
tible to bone breakage. A broken hip in an elderly individual can occur as a break at the neck of the femur under the normal load of locomotion, causing the person to fall. In normal locomotion, the stress on bone can be two to three times that of body weight. These breaks occur because the bone density and strength at a vital load-bearing point are diminished due to increased relative osteo -
clastic activity.
The higher the bone density achieved in 
the active years, the better the ability to main-tain bone density through the aging process into the regression period. Attention given to diet and exercise in the early years may make the functional difference in the later years (19). Although new bone formation can occur at any time of life, the greatest gains are attained in the preadolescent and adoles -
cent years. Adults who started engaging in load-bearing sports before puberty had 22% greater bone mineral content than did a con-trol group. This is compared with a similar group of adults who first started participat -
ing in load-bearing activities in adulthood; although these individuals also had increased bone mineral content, it was only 8.5% greater than that in the control group (19). In the case of the female athletic triad, at the time in life when bone mineral density should be peaking, these athletes are intentionally starving their systems and thus greatly reduc-ing their probability of good bone health in their later years.
Q&A FROM THE F iELD
My mother and grandmother both have 
osteoporosis. Is there anything I can do to 
decrease my chances of having osteoporosis 
when I get older?
Heredity is certainly a risk factor. In females, 
the hormonal changes that accompany menopause are a risk factor. Several lifestyle factors increase the risk of osteoporosis: smoking, nutritional 
deficiencies, excessive alcohol consumption, and 
the lack of weight-bearing exercise. Everyone loses some bone density as they age. It is important to 
maximize bone density when you are younger with 
a weight-bearing exercise program designed to improve bone density.
If the bone mineral reserve was small to 
begin with, reductions in bone mineraliza -
tion and decreases in strength would reach a 
critical state more rapidly. Reduced bone min -
eralization and thus the structural integrity  Q&A FROM THE F iELD
I have heard that swimming is not a good 
activity to promote bone density. Is this 
true? Why? It seems like it would be a very 
good activity for bone density.
Swimming, or any activity in the water, takes 
place in a semi weightless environment. Astronauts lose bone density through prolonged exposure to a weightless environment. Because swimming is not 
a weight-bearing activity, it does not provide the 
minimal stimulus to bone to stimulate growth.

THE SKELETAL SYSTEM89
Q&A FROM THE F iELD
What is the best activity to promote bone 
density throughout the entire skeletal system?
At present, it would appear that moderate- to 
high-intensity resistance training using a variety of exercises and movement patterns would cause maximum adaptation of the skeletal system. Exercises should load the body axially, such as the bench press for the upper body or the squat for the lower body. Other activities do not stimulate bone density in the entire skeleton. Jogging causes some increase in bone density in the hips but not in the upper body. T ennis may stimulate increases in bone density in the dominant arm but not in the nondominant arm.A lateral curvature of the spine that can 
be life-threatening in extreme cases is scoliosis, 
which can occur simultaneously in the fron-tal and transverse planes (3), resulting in a far more complex diagnosis (Figure 4.9). This 
curve is not a mere exaggeration but rather should not exist and serves no function.
 In an 
exercising population, we should be aware of these maladies and the restrictions they may impose on the individual. Exercise programs that accommodate or minimize the effects of these disorders should be considered as much as possible.
Female athletic triad
The female athletic triad is a disease predomi-nantly found in females whose sport, training, or competition is enhanced by a reduced ratio of body fat to lean body mass. Its com-ponents are osteoporosis, disordered eating (usually anorexia nervosa), and amenorrhea. Long-distance runners and gymnasts seem par -
ticularly susceptible to this malady, although it is also possible that young girls choose these sports to hide their disorder. Addiction to exercise caused by endorphin addiction has been also proposed as a cause of this behavior. Often these athletes attempt to improve their performance by reducing body fat. Reduced Spinal alignment maladies
The spinal maladies presented below are related to an improper or exaggerated spinal curve. An exaggerated thoracic curve, the curve of the vertebrae associated with the ribs and cervical area, is called kyphosis. This malady can result in a gross “head forward” posture or “hunchback.” Another spinal deformity is the curvature of the lumbar vertebrae called lordosis. Both lordosis and kyphosis occur pri -
marily in the sagittal plane.
(A) (B) (C) (D)
Figure 4.9  Skeletal abnormalities of the spine. (A) normal spinal alignment; (B) kyphosis; (C) lordosis;  
(D) scoliosis

W. BRITT CHANDLER ET AL.90
body fat improves performance by modifying 
the strength-to-weight ratio, increasing power, and reducing total workload. When this pro -
cess is carried to extremes, the female athletic triad can occur.
The three factors that make up this disor -
der are described as follows:
1
 An eating disorder (normally anorexia 
nervosa) generally accompanied by a dis -
torted body image. An anorexic athlete 
will see herself as fat even when she has 
starved herself to a dangerously low level.
2 Osteoporosis is the loss of bone mineral 
density and destruction of associated matrix materials. Loss of bone tissue can compromise health and make bone brit -
tle. Competitive athletes generate much greater than normal forces in the body, and their bones may not hold up to these forces.
3
 Amenorrhea (irregular or complete 
absence of menses). The athlete reduces nutritional intake to the point where not enough essential fat is left to produce sufficient female hormones. Estrogen is the major hormone responsible for the balance of osteoclastic and osteoblas -
tic activity. If the athlete cannot produce enough estrogen, osteoclastic activity rises and bone tissue is lost.
A heavy training load (frequently self-
imposed) is usually a part of a competitive athlete’s training program. The female athlete triad is probably an interaction of overtrain -
ing, poor diet, and lack of adequate body fat from which to produce the required hormones to generate the menstrual cycle. It may also be driven by psychological factors, including the desire to be thin (2).
Different types of female athletes were 
compared in and out of season, looking at factors related to the female athletic triad. Long-term exposure to decreased estrogen levels was nearly associated linearly with 
decreased bone mineral density. A prolonged 
exposure to decreased estrogen locally gener -
ates compounds that cause an environment favoring the formation of osteoclasts and inhibiting apoptosis in osteoclasts when sig -
naled (4). A lack of tone (normal resting muscle tension) in the muscles, in spite of a high-level training state, can be a key indica-tor of abnormality. In essence, these athletes starve themselves yet continue to train hard in an effort to improve their performance.
EXERCISE PRESCRIPTION 
TO PROMOTE BONE DENSITY
Considering the mechanisms of bone growth, 
the next step is creating training programs that will provide maximal bone growth, bone density, and overall health. To adequately test bone strength, we might remove the bone from the body and measure the forces that cause it to break. Because this is not possible, we have to depend on studies in animals and cultured bone cells to understand the charac -
teristics and responses to stimuli exhibited in these situations. The current studies do not define the exact number of repetitions, sets, percentage of RM, speed, and frequency of loading, neither do they provide us with a “magic” combination or formula. Generally, when we examine a population of nonath -
letes compared with a population of athletes, we find major differences in bone mineral densities.
In racquet athletes, we find increased bone 
density in the dominant arm compared to the nondominant arm (11). Elevated activity levels in the athlete provide musculoskeletal stresses that improve BMD over that of the less active population (13). Currently, we cannot describe the best way to accomplish the desired goal. We can, however, provide some insight into the possible results of specific training pro-grams and their effect on bone density.
Loading speed
Studies have been done to determine the effect 
of purposely slow training on bone density. 
Static loading has repeatedly been shown to produce little or no significant effect on new bone growth. Dynamic loading, on the other hand, has been shown to produce significant increases in new bone formation (9).

THE SKELETAL SYSTEM91
Bone cells are extremely sensitive to changes in 
hydrostatic pressure. Training movements and loads that maximize fluctuations in hydrostatic pressure within the bone cells will stimulate bone growth.
This occurs primarily because dynamic 
loading causes fluctuations in fluid pres -
sure within the lacunar-canalicular system. 
Bone cells are very responsive to these fluc -
tuations. We can presume that to stimulate new bone growth, our movements must be dynamic in nature.
Rate and frequency of loading
Bone responds most effectively to exercises that are dynamic and involve rapid loading (9). The frequency of an exercise also affects the rate of bone formation. A runner who runs with a stride frequency of 90 cycles per minute will form more bone in the pelvis and lower extremities than will someone who runs with a slower cadence of 60 cycles per minute.
Dynamic exercise at a high loading rate stimulates 
bone development. Deliberately slow movements probably will not promote bone adaptation to the same extent as dynamic movements.
Direction of loading and  
response
In animal experiments using rats, a process 
of loading the right ulna was applied to the right side of the animal, with the left side unstressed and used as the control (16). Data were gathered after a 16-week application of loading. Before and after, dual x-ray absorp -
tiometry (DEXA) tests were conducted. A modest increase of 5.4% bone mineral den -
sity was found. After DEXA, the ulnae were removed and tested for strength in the direc-tion of the loading protocol. It was determined that the increase in maximal amount of force that the bone could support before failing was 64%. So a relatively small increase in bone min -
eral density can translate into a much greater increase in strength to failure. The majority of bone growth took place consistent with the direction of loading. In keeping with Wolff’s law, the stimulus of loading actually changed the geometry of the bone.
Training programs that utilize a variety of 
movement and loading patterns will probably stimulate bone development to a greater extent.
Intensity of exercise
Load-bearing activities that place an axial 
load on the skeleton will induce greater bone formation. Along these lines, exercises such as running or jumping will elicit greater bone formation than walking (10). Dynamic weight-bearing exercises (such as the sport of weightlifting and the Olympic-style lifts) load more of the skeleton per repetition than do, say, arm curls. In animal experiments, the majority of new bone formation (greater than 95%) is stimulated by the first 40 repetitions of an exercise (23). Additional repetitions do not significantly increase the amount of bone that is formed.
Exercises that place an axial load on the skeletal 
system are probably superior, in terms of improving bone density, to exercises that do not place an axial load on the skeleton.
Short bouts of exercise followed by rest 
are better than prolonged workouts (18). The 
androgen receptors in the body that stimulate new bone growth experience desensitization after a period of time. They need a recovery period before they can be stimulated again to promote bone growth.
Bone takes about six to eight hours to 
recover its ability to stimulate new bone (18). After the androgen receptors that regulate new bone growth become saturated, they are again available after six to eight hours of rest. Because more receptors are available, full stimulation from the new bout of exercise may 
result. If a second training session starts before 
this recovery period, the formation of new bone may be compromised slightly. In another study, the femur and tibia of rats trained using only five jumps per day five days a week for eight weeks demonstrated significantly greater 

W. BRITT CHANDLER ET AL.92
fat-free dry weights per body weight and  
maximum loads at the fracture tests than those 
in the control group (24).
Frequency of training
It appears it is better to add workouts to the training schedule rather than to extend exist -
ing workouts as long as there is enough rest between sessions. Rats that were trained to make 120 jumps five times a week experienced 
twice as much bone growth in their limbs as 
did another group that was trained to make 300 jumps twice a week (10). The same num -
ber of jumps distributed over a greater number of workouts significantly increased the devel-opment of new bone.
Vibration
With space travel, it was learned that astro -
nauts lost bone density while in space (21). On the long-duration flights on Mir in the 1990s, cosmonauts lost as much as 20% of their bone density. In a weightless environ -
ment, as in space, axial loading of the skeletal system due to gravity does not occur. One of the contemplated remedies for this problem is vibration. Some information suggests the use of vibration as an alternative or supplemental method of training to maximize or maintain bone density.
When we look at the sensitivity of mature 
osteocytes to changes in hydrostatic pressure and increased osteoblastic activity, vibration would change the direction and flow of intra -
cellular fluid at a rapid rate. Would the rate be adequate to inspire new bone growth and if so, what rate would be optimal?
Experimentation to combat the effects of 
microgravity using vertical vibrational loading to promote bone strength and BMD gains is ongoing (22). Therapeutic applications of vibra -
tion to improve or maintain bone density are being investigated in rehabilitation settings (5).
One study used a vibrating platform 
to manipulate rats with removed ovaries. Hormonal changes after menopause are thought to be at least partly responsible for bone loss in females. Over a 12-week period, the experimenters evaluated the effect of vibration in regard to bone loss and compared the experimental condition to a control condi-tion (7). The results showed less bone loss over a five-week period in the vibration-trained group compared to the control group.
Vibration as a stimulus for bone growth may 
promote bone density and prevent a loss of bone density under specific conditions.
Some important factors in vibration 
research include harmonic resonance dynam -
ics, frequency modulation, consistent loading 
and stimulus application, and study length. Harmonic resonance occurs at certain fre -
quencies of vibration. At some frequencies, tissue damage may occur. Frequency modula -
tion is associated with the construction and application of sonic vibration. The mechanism of applying mechanical vibrational loading must be quantifiable and repeatable.
SUMMARY
Mechanisms within the human body cause adaptation of skeletal tissue in response to imposed stresses (15). The dynamic loading of bone stimulates bone growth. The rate and frequency of loading in animal models has a direct effect on bone growth. Designing con -
ditioning programs to maximize bone growth and development should be specific to the demands of the sport and should include multidirectional loading.
Modest changes in BMD can represent 
large changes in bone strength. Short bouts with high-intensity loads are probably supe -
rior in promoting bone strength. Vibration will promote bone density in certain popula -
tions under specific conditions.
Frequent, short, dynamic exercises fol-
lowed by a minimum of six to eight hours of rest appear to be optimal for the maintenance of bone health in athletes and others. The 
rest allows the osteoclastic activity to become 
more prominent than osteoblastic activity. This should be considered in planning training programs or practice sessions where multiple sessions are performed in one day.

THE SKELETAL SYSTEM93
MAxiNG OUT
1 A nonathletic female expresses concern to you that she may be at risk of bone density dis -
orders as she gets older. Design a conditioning program to promote maximal bone density 
in this individual.
2 You believe that a female athlete on the track team is at risk for osteoporosis and that she may possibly have an eating disorder complicating the situation. What steps should you take to deal with this situation appropriately?
3 An athlete in a collision sport has a history of bone injuries, primarily stress fractures. He is accustomed to hard training and is experienced in a variety of lifting techniques. He is cur -
rently not injured. Plan a resistance training program for this athlete to promote maximal bone density.
REFERENCES
 1. Ballock RT, O’Keefe RJ. Current concepts 
review: the biology of the growth plate. J Bone Joint Surg 2003; 85a(4):715–726,
 2. Bemben DA, Torey D, Buchanan, et al. Influence of type of mechanical loading, menstrual status, and training season on bone density in young women athletes. J Strength Cond Res 2004; 8(2):220–226.
 3. Burwell RG. Aetiology of idiopathic scoliosis: current concepts. Pediatr Rehabil 2003; 6(3–4);137–170.
 4. Chan GK, Duque G. Age-related bone loss: old bone, new facts. Gerontology 2002; 48:62–71.
 5. Cheung JT, Zhang M, Chow DH. Biomechanical responses of the intervertebral joint to static and vibrational loading: a finite elemental study. Clin Biomech 2003; 9:790–799.
 6. Costigan PA, Deluzio KJ, Wyss UP. J. Gait Posture Aug 2002; 16(1):31–37.
 7. Flieger J, Karchaolis T., Khaldi L, et al. Mechanical stimulation in the form of vibration prevents post-menopausal bone loss in ovariectomized rats. Calcif Tissue Int 1998; 63:510–514.
 8. Frost H. From Wolff’s law to the Utah paradigm: insights about bone physiology and its clinical applications. Anat Rec 2016; 262;398–419.
 9. Hert J, Liskova M, Landa J. Reaction of bone to mechanical stimuli. 1. Continuous and intermittent loading of the tibia in rabbits. Folia Morphol (Praha) 1971; 
19;290–300.10. Hsieh YF, Turner CH. Effects of load frequency on mechanically induced bone formation. J Bone Min Res 2001; 16:918–924.
11. McClanahan BS, Harmon-Clayton K, Ward, KD, et al. Side-to-side comparisons of bone mineral density in upper and lower limbs of collegiate athletes. J Strength Cond Res 2002; 16(4):586–590.
12. Nauman E, Wesley C, Chang W, et al. Microscale engineering applications in bone adaptation. Microscale Thermophys Eng 1998; 2;139–172.
13. Nutter J. Physical Activity increases bone density. NSCA J 1986; 8(3):67–69.
14. Olsen S, Oloyede A. A finite element analysis methodology for representing the articular cartilage structure. Comp Meth Biomech Biomed Eng 2002; 5(6):377–386.
15. Platen P, Chae E, Antx R, et al. Bone mineral density in top level male athletes of different sports. Eur J Sport Sci 2001; 1:1–15.
16. Robling AG, Hinant FM, et al. Improved bone structure and strength after long term mechanical loading is greatest if loading is separated into short bouts. J Bone Min Res 2002; 17:1545–1554.
17. Rothenberg E, Lugo JP. Differentiation and cell division in the mammalian thymus. Dev Biol 1985; 112:1–17.
18. Rubin C, Lanyon L. Regulation of bone formation by applied dynamic loads. J Bone Joint Surg 1985; 66-A;397–402.
19. Silverwood B. Pediatr Nurs 2003; 15(5):27–29.

W. BRITT CHANDLER ET AL.94
20. Simpkin A, Ayalon J, Leichter I. Increased 
trabecular bone density due to bone loading exercises in postmenopausal osteoporotic women. Calcif Tissue Int 1987; 40:59–63.
21. Shackelford LC, Oganov V, LeBlanc A, et al. Bone Mineral Loss and Recovery after Shuttle-Mir Flights. Available at www.hq.nasa.gov/osf/station/issphase1sci.pdf. Accessed June 24, 2006.
22. Teshima R, Nawata J, et al. Effects of weight bearing on the tidemark and osteochondral junction of articular cartilage. Acta Orthop Scand 1999; 70(4):381–386.
23. Torvinen S, Kannua P, Sievanen H, et al.  
Effect of 8-month vertical whole body vibration on bone, muscle performance, and body balance: a randomized controlled study. J Bone Min Res 2003; 
18(5):876–884.
24. Umemura Y, Ishiko T, Yamauchi M, et al. 
Five jumps per day increase bone mass and breaking force in rats. J Bone Min Res 1997; 12:1480–1485.

Contents
Introduction  97
Basic mechanics  98
Human musculoskeletal mechanics  104
Biomechanics of resistance  109
Progressing/regressing movement  115
Summary  120
References  122

5 CHAPTER
OBJECTIVES
After completing this chapter, you will be able to:
• Comprehend units of biomechanical measurements.
• Apply velocity and joint angle specificity to training.
• Understand the length-tension and force-velocity-power relationships.
• Conceptualize Newton’s laws of motion and apply them to training.
• Evaluate and compare different modes of resistance.
• Understand how to use a fundamental knowledge of biomechanics to progress or regress any 
exercise to the appropriate level for each individual.BIOMECHANICS OF   
RESISTANCE TRAINING
Scott K. Lynn, Guillermo J. Noffal, and Derek N. Pamukoff
KEY TERMS
Acceleration
Angular motionBalanceBiomechanicsDisplacementDistanceForceFrictionGravityInertiaLengthMassMechanical  
advantage
MomentumPowerRotary inertiaStabilityStretch-shortening  
cycle (SSC)
TimeTorqueVelocityVelocity/speed  
advantage
WeightWork
INTRODUCTION
Biomechanics  has been defined as “the study of 
the structure and function of biological systems 
using the means and methods of mechanics” (10). This definition divides the word biome-chanics into two parts: bio (biological system) and mechanics. In the field of strength and conditioning, the biological system that we are most concerned with is the human body. This includes all tissues directly involved with pro -
ducing, preventing, or influencing movement (muscles, bones, ligaments, tendons, cartilage, the nervous system, etc.). Also, “mechanics” is 

SCOTT K. LYNN ET AL.98
defined as the study of the influence of force on 
bodies. Therefore, this chapter will be examin -
ing how we can manipulate forces in a strength and conditioning setting to produce the desired effect on the structures (tissues) and functions (movements) of the human body.
For the strength and conditioning spe -
cialist, a basic knowledge of biomechanics is essential in order to be able to evaluate human movement and then be able to design and prescribe appropriate movements (exercises) aimed at increasing the overall efficiency of movement. Forces are required to produce any type of human movement and there are various different types of forces and aspects of those forces that must be considered by the strength and conditioning specialist. A sound knowl-edge of basic mechanical principles will allow for the prescription of appropriate movements at the appropriate intensity to produce the desired movement outcomes without increas-ing the chance for injury (acute or chronic) of any of the movement structures/tissues.
It should be noted that many terms used 
in this chapter are not used according to their strict mechanical definition but have been sim -
plified so that their applications in a strength and conditioning setting can be more clearly understood.
BASIC MECHANICS
Biomechanics can be simply defined as the effect of forces on the structure and function of living systems. In the field of strength and conditioning, there are several mechanical concepts that must be understood in order to fully comprehend how to most effectively and safely achieve our training goal. If we think of the simple example of someone lifting a barbell, some of the key mechanical concepts include force, distance, speed, inertia, mass, weight, velocity, acceleration, torque, power, and momentum. Many of these are derived from three basic variables – time, length, and mass (25). The basic unit of 
time is measured 
in either seconds, minutes, or hours; however, since many sporting or lifting movements are short in duration they are most often meas-ured in seconds. The basic dimension of length  is measured in inches, feet, and yards 
in the USA, but the scientific community has adopted the metric system which utilizes cen -
timeters, meters, kilometers, and so on. Lastly, the basic dimension of 
mass  is commonly 
measured in kilograms.
To illustrate many of these biomechanical 
principles, we will examine one of the most basic of exercises, the bench press. Firstly, in the process of lowering the bar to your chest or pushing it back up, the bar moves through space in a fairly straight line. Naturally, if you are a tall individual with long arms you will be moving it a greater distance than some -
one with short extremities. Thus, 
distance  
is defined as the total path traveled by the bar. 
Displacement  is defined as a straight 
line between where the movement started and where the movement ended. Although there is a difference between the two terms (distance vs. displacement), they are most often used interchangeably to describe how far the object has traveled. So, in the bench press example, if a beginner lifter struggles to push the weight up and it does not take a direct line from their chest to the finish posi -
tion, they will have pushed the bar a greater distance than a more experienced individual 
who is able to push it straight up (Figure 5.1). 
For the more experienced lifter
, the move -
ment was much more efficient as the distance the bar traveled was much smaller to achieve the same displacement.
Similarly, if the beginner lifter took much 
longer to push the bar up, they would also have a lower bar 
velocity  (often referred to as 
speed), which is defined as distance divided by time. Velocity can be measured in any unit that divides a measure of distance by a measure of time. The most common units used to meas -
ure velocity include meters/second, kilometers/hour, miles/hour. Therefore, in order to calcu-late velocity, you must measure the distance the object moved and the time it took to cover that distance. Distance and time can be meas -
ured in several different ways, which include the use of a tape measure and timing gates, video equipment, or electronic transducers.
Another illustration of velocity is the 
example of a sprinter finishing the 100 meter race in 10 seconds. This sprinter has achieved an average velocity of 10 m/s over the course 

BIOMECHANICS OF RESISTANCE TRAINING99
of the race. This gives the strength and con -
ditioning specialist some information, but in 
order to tailor appropriate training sessions to improve their time, more information is needed. If we obtained 10 meter split times for this race, we could calculate many veloci-ties throughout the race and this would give us much more information regarding the por -
tions of the race that need the most work. For example, if there is a large drop in velocity towards the end of the race, the strength and conditioning specialist may need to design a training program to work on the endurance of the athlete to ensure they are better able to maintain their velocity through the finish line. Thus, it becomes increasingly important to examine not just velocity, but how velocity is changing over time.
Acceleration  is a measure of how veloc -
ity changes over time (defined as the change in velocity divided by time it took to make that change). An example that most are famil-iar with involves discussing how you would change velocities while driving your car (i.e., either speed up or slow down). In order to accelerate your car, or increase your car’s speed, the accelerator pedal must be pressed. Conversely, in order to decelerate your car, or decrease the speed, you must press on the brakes. Thus, if while traveling at 40 mph you decide to increase your speed to 50 mph, an acceleration is needed. And if you are going 40 mph and you wish to stop your car (bring your car to a velocity of zero), a deceleration is needed. The rate at which these accelera -
tions/decelerations happen become extremely important as well. Assume you are going 40 mph in your car and an animal jumps into the road directly in front of you. You need to decelerate from 40 mph to zero mph in a very short period of time to avoid hitting the ani -
mal. This scenario requires an extremely large deceleration as a large change in speed must happen over a short period of time. However, if you are going the same speed and you see the traffic light change to red 500 yards in front of you, you can press the brake more lightly and slow down gradually over a longer period of time. Thus, the same change in speed over a longer period of time requires a much smaller magnitude of deceleration. Good ath-letes generally have the ability to produce large accelerations and decelerations (quick changes in velocities). Therefore, training the ability to quickly and safely change speeds is important in most athletes.
Coming back to our bench press exam -
ple, acceleration or deceleration of the bar is achieved through the application of force. 
Force  is defined as a push or pull that moves 
or tends to move an object. The unit of force in the metric system is the Newton, while in the USA the pound (lb) is more commonly used. The amount of force being applied to Beginner lifter (A) Experienced lifter (B)
Figure 5.1  The path that the barbell travels for (A) a beginner; (B) an experienced lifter. Notice that the 
distance traveled is much greater for the beginner lifter; however, the displacements are the same.

SCOTT K. LYNN ET AL.100
an object can be calculated by multiplying 
the mass of the object by its acceleration. 
Mass  is a measure of the quantity of matter 
within the object, and in the human body it would be the sum of all the tissues that make up our bodies (bones, muscles, fluids, etc.). Mass can be thought of as a measure of the linear inertia of a body. 
Inertia  is defined 
as the resistance to changes in motion, and therefore an object with a larger mass will be more difficult to get moving and more dif -
ficult to stop once it has begun moving than an object with a smaller mass. Mass is often equated to 
weight ; however, they differ in 
that weight is mass multiplied by the accel -
eration due to gravity (which we assume to be a constant value of 9.81 m/s
2 on the 
earth). Therefore, a person with a mass of 100 kg would weigh 981 Newtons while on earth, while in space in a zero gravity envi -
ronment this person would be weightless, and while standing on the moon this person would weigh 162 Newtons (the acceleration due to gravity on the moon is approximately 1.62 m/s
2). Thus, while the weight will 
change depending on where the individual is standing, the mass will remain constant. It is fitting that the unit of force bears Isaac Newton’s name as he has been credited with the discovery of gravity. 
Gravity  is a mutually 
attractive force between two bodies that pos -
sess mass. Since the mass of the earth is much greater than that of anything on its surface, it will attract or pull all objects towards its core. Gravity is an important concept for strength and conditioning practitioners as weight training includes lifting and lowering objects against and with the force of gravity. It should be noted that gravity always pulls objects towards the center of the earth and thus only acts in the vertical direction.
Momentum  is the product of mass and 
velocity and it is an important concept for the strength and conditioning specialist since momentum alone can continue the motion of an object. Unlike previous Aristotelian views 
that a constant force application was needed 
to maintain motion, Newton found that an object’s inertia (mass) while on the move has a tendency to maintain that motion and only an external force acting on the object will slow it down and eventually stop its motion. Therefore, the greater the momentum of an object the greater the external forces needed to subsequently stop it.
There are many ways to increase the inten-
sity of a workout session. Naturally, the most obvious is to increase the amount of weight being lifted. Another simple modification is to increase the number of repetitions to increase the workload. This introduces the concept of 
Work , which is defined as force times displace -
ment and is measured in joules. As you increase the number of repetitions you also increase the displacement over which a force has been applied, therefore increasing the amount of work done. If there are two individuals lift -
ing the same amount of weight over the same distance then these individuals are doing the same amount of work; however, if one of these 
REAL-WORLD APPL iCATiON
Acceleration forces in lifting weights
One component of acceleration that is constantly acting on the human body and sports imple -
ments is acceleration due to gravity. In the example of arm curl with a dumbbell:F = ma + mgwhere F, force; m, mass of the dumbbell; a, instantaneous acceleration of the dumbbell; g, 
acceleration due to gravity (9.81 m/s
2); with a concentric muscle action in the dumbbell curl, 
gravity is a resistance force that results in negative acceleration. With an eccentric muscle action to lower the dumbbell, the force of gravity results in positive acceleration.

BIOMECHANICS OF RESISTANCE TRAINING101
individuals is capable of producing the lift in a 
shorter period of time, then it is said that this person is more powerful.
Power  is calculated two different ways: 
as work divided by time or as force multi -
plied by velocity, and it is measured in watts. Commonly used “slow-moving” exercises such as the bench press, squat, and dead lift only produce approximately half the power of the faster Olympic lifts (9). As can be seen from the formula, the optimization of both force and velocity is necessary for the greatest power output, and while large loads require large amounts of force to get moving, the movement speed is too low for optimal power. Conversely, lighter loads can be accelerated to high speeds but do not include the necessary force production to achieve greatest power.
Up to this point we have only been consid -
ering movements of objects or the body in a straight line, or what is generally called linear motion; however, many movements involve objects rotating about an axis or fulcrum and are defined as 
angular motion . In the human 
body these angular motions occur as our seg -
ments (foot, lower leg, thigh, etc.) rotate about axes created at the joints (ankle, knee, hip, etc.). Angular motion is measured in degrees, and in some instances can be described in radi -
ans (1 rad = approximately 57°) or revolutions (1 rev = 360°).
As discussed earlier, forces are needed 
to create linear motion. The angular equiva -
lent of force is a 
torque  (T), which is needed 
to create angular motion, and is expressed in foot-pounds (ft lb) or Newton-meters (N·m). In order to lift a dumbbell, the biceps brachii muscle must produce a torque in the upwards direction. How much torque is produced depends on the amount of force being uti-lized multiplied by the torque arm. The torque arm is defined as the perpendicular distance between where the force is being applied (the attachment of the biceps on the bone) and the axis of rotation (the elbow joint). In 
the example shown in Figure 5.2, lifting the dumbbell through concentric activity of the biceps 
requires a counterclockwise torque of 
greater magnitude than the clockwise torque being produced by the weight of the dumbbell. That is, the force of the biceps multiplied by the torque arm of the biceps has to be greater than the weight of the dumbbell multiplied by the distance this dumbbell is from the axis of rotation in order to produce concentric elbow flexion. If the opposite is true and the counter -
clockwise torque created by the dumbbell is greater than the clockwise torque created by the biceps brachii, eccentric elbow extension will be the resulting motion as the muscle will have allowed the dumbbell to “win.” Isometric activity would occur when the magnitude of the torque produced by the muscle is equal to the torque produced by the dumbbell and there is no motion at the joint.Biceps moment arm
Dumbbell moment
armDumbbell torqueMuscle torque
Figure 5.2  The biceps muscle torque 
(counterclockwise) and the torque produced by the 
dumbbell (clockwise), in an elbow flexion exercise.
Q&A FROM THE F iELD
If the elbow flexors are strongest at 90° of 
flexion, why is the “sticking point” in the midrange of the movement?
The elbow is the strongest in flexion at 90° 
because the distance of the muscle force vector to the axis of rotation of the elbow is maximal here. This distance is a special kind of torque arm called the force arm (FA). This is the perpendicular distance from the muscle insertion to the axis of rotation at the elbow. However, the perpendicular distance from the point where the resistance is located to the axis of rotation, is also the greatest 
(continued)

SCOTT K. LYNN ET AL.102
in the midrange of the motion for an isotonic 
exercise. This distance is another kind of torque arm called the resistance arm (RA). Although the mechanical advantage of the elbow flexors is greatest at 90°, the increasing length of the RA in a heavy isotonic exercise overcomes this advantage. The sticking point will occur somewhere near 90°.represented by the mass of the object; how-
ever, in order to calculate the rotary inertia, you need to measure both the mass of the object and how this mass is distributed rela -
tive to the axis of rotation. A simple example demonstrating this concept involves asking an individual to run without bending their knees. They will obviously not be able to run nearly as fast as when they are able to flex the knee during the swing phase of the running gait. While the legs themselves are not changing their mass as the hip flexes and extends, the outstretched leg is maintaining the mass of the lower leg and foot relatively far from the hip (axis of rotation). If instead the runner flexes the knee during the swing phase, this will bring the lower leg and foot closer to the hip (axis of rotation) and in so doing decrease the rotary inertia and allow the entire leg to now flex forward at a faster rate. This allows for the person to get through the recovery (swing) phase in a much shorter time and therefore 
run much faster (Figure 5.4).
Though this example demonstrates how
 
bringing the mass closer to the axis of rota -
tion promotes faster rotations, there are 
instances when rotation is not desired and the goal is then to increase the rotary iner -
tia. Good examples of this are individuals walking along a tightrope. These daredevils often carry a long pole in their hands that is bent down from weights attached at its ends. The weights serve two purposes: it puts mass far away from the performer and brings the (continued)
The concept of torque is very important 
for the strength and conditioning specialist to understand as modifying the placement of the weight or resistance from the axis of rotation can be an effective tool in either increasing or decreasing the muscular effort needed to successfully complete a movement. Figure 
5.3 demonstrates this concept as picture (A) 
would require much more muscular torque than picture (B) to move the same mass.
 A 
real-life example of this would be having somebody do leg raises in the supine position with the legs straight and then with the legs bent at the knees. Bending the knees short -
ens the torque arm distance and decreases the amount of muscular torque needed to perform this exercise.
As mentioned earlier, 
inertia  relates to an 
object’s resistance to being moved or stopped from moving (in a linear sense); 
rotary inertia  
refers to an object’s resistance to being spun (angular motion). Linear inertia can be easily 
Muscle torque = F * force arm = 20 lbs * 1.5 feet =35 ft lbs(A)
(B)
Muscle torque = F * force arm = 20 lbs * 1 foot = 20 ft Ibs
Figure 5.3  (A) a longer torque arm with the same mass = more torque required to move the object; (B) a 
shorter torque arm with the same mass = less torque required to move the object.

BIOMECHANICS OF RESISTANCE TRAINING103
center of gravity of the individual closer to 
the wire rendering them more stable and less likely to tip over (angular motion) to one side or the other due to the greater rotary inertia (Figure 5.5).
The term 
balance  implies control of equi -
librium, whereas stability  is resistance to loss 
of equilibrium. One of the ways individuals increase their stability is by increasing the size of their base of support. This base of support is defined as the two-dimensional area formed by 
the supporting segments of the body (Figure 5.6). 
Coaches 
often ask their players to spread their 
feet shoulder-width apart rendering them more stable. Increasing the base of support enhances stability because it increases the distance your line of gravity has to move before it ends up out -
side this base, causing a loss of balance. Once the line of gravity is outside the base of support, the body will experience a destabilizing torque from the pull of gravity that will tend to topple the body over. Lowering your center of gravity also increases stability by decreasing the mag -
nitude of this destabilizing torque by reducing distance from your center of gravity to your axis of rotation (your feet on the ground). Olympic lifting competitions require not only for the ath-lete to lift the weight above their head, but they also need to demonstrate control of the weight by balancing it for three seconds. This balance is difficult due to the high center of gravity position since it is not uncommon for these athletes to be lifting more than twice their own body weight. Therefore, a shorter lifter would have a stability advantage over a much taller lifter as the same small movement of the load would produce a greater destabilizing torque in the taller lifter.
The most unstable foot position possible 
in a human being is standing on one foot. When standing on one foot our base of sup-port becomes the length or width of the foot, and if the center of gravity falls outside of the dimensions of the foot, there will be a loss of balance. The strength and conditioning spe -
cialist can use this foot position during many different exercises to train stability. By training in this very unstable position, one can further develop the body’s sensory and muscular recruitment strategies needed to maintain bal -
ance. Several pieces of equipment frequently in use in strength and conditioning facilities also have the goal of creating an unstable sur -
face to allow for the training of the ability to maintain balance. One such recent invention 
is the BOSU® ball (Figure 5.7). If we stand on the platform side of this ball the base of support becomes the portion of the ball that is in contact with the ground.
 The stability chal -
lenge can then be altered by how much air you put in the ball. If the ball is pumped up with a lot of air, it will be very rigid and you will be balancing on a really small area of the ball. This makes maintaining balance more difficult as the base of support is extremely small. To make this challenge easier, you can remove air from the ball so that the ball becomes softer and more of it then comes in contact with the ground, increasing the base of support.(A) (B)
Figure 5.4  There is much more knee flexion during 
the swing phase of running than there is when 
walking. This allows the runner to decrease the rotary inertia of the swing leg and move it much faster.
Figure 5.5  The pole used by a tightrope walker 
increases their rotary inertia.

SCOTT K. LYNN ET AL.104
Friction  can also be used in certain instances 
to increase the difficulty of a certain task or 
exercise. The two factors that determine the amount of friction are the nature of the two surfaces attempting to slide past one another (the coefficient of friction) and the amount of force pressing the two surfaces together (the normal force). Monarch cycle ergometers use increased tension of the belt around the wheel to increase the friction and increase the resist-ance, this would be an example of altering the normal force or force pushing the two objects together. Football coaches stand on top of blocking sleds to increase the force pressing the sled to the ground and in so doing making it harder for football players to push the sled across the grass. This is another example of increasing the normal force in order to increase friction and make an exercise more difficult. Applying talcum powder to the hands in order to remove moisture and get a better grip while lifting is an example of changing the nature of the surfaces in contact and altering the coef -
ficient of friction.
HUMAN 
MUSCULOSKELETAL 
MECHANICS
Length-tension relationship
There are two types of tissues that can create 
tension in a muscle: (i) the active component consisting of the acting and myosin muscle pro -
teins, and (ii) the passive component consisting Narrow/small base of support
Wide/large base of support
Weight vector
(center of gravity)
within the base of
support = balanceWeight vector
(center of gravity)
not within the base of
support = loss of balance(A)
(B) (C) (D)
Figure 5.6  The position of the center of gravity relative to the base of support determines whole body stability 
and balance.
Figure 5.7  Using a BOSU® ball to alter the size of 
the base of support during a squatting exercise.

BIOMECHANICS OF RESISTANCE TRAINING105
of the connective tissue within the muscle belly 
which comes together on either end to form the muscle tendon. The tension/force that can be created by these two different types of tissue changes as the length of the muscle changes throughout a movement (12,14).
The length-tension curve for the active 
component of muscle is an inverted “U” shape. The peak of this curve (where the maximum active tension/force can be pro -
duced) corresponds to the position where the muscle is in an optimal position to allow the most actin/myosin cross-bridges. As the muscle is increasingly stretched beyond this length, these cross-bridges are torn apart so the amount of tension/force the active com -
ponent of muscle can produce decreases as the length of the muscle increases. Conversely, as the muscle is shortened from this optimal length, increasing numbers of the actin/myo -
sin cross-bridges become overlapped and are no longer able to produce the power strokes that allow for the production of tension/force. Therefore, as the length of a muscle decreases so too does the amount of tension/force that the active component of muscle can produce.
The passive component of muscle only 
produces force/tension when the muscle is lengthened. You can think of this component of your muscles as elastic bands. If you shorten an elastic band beyond its resting length, it does not create any tension/force. The only way to produce tension/force of an elastic band is to stretch it beyond its resting length so that it then tries to snap back to its original shape. Therefore, when a muscle is shortened the total length tension curve involves only the inverted U shape of the active component as there is no passive contribution to force pro-duction. However, as the muscle is increasingly lengthened, the tendon and connective tissues are stretched beyond their resting length and produce an increasing amount of force with increased lengthening. Therefore, the total ten -
sion/force achieved when a muscle is stretched beyond its resting length is the sum of both the 
active and passive components (Figure 5.8).
Force-velocity-power  
relationship
Although the amount of force a muscle can 
produce is important, perhaps more important in many human movements is the velocity at which a muscle can develop this force. Often the terms “strength” and “power” are errone -
ously used interchangeably. Strength refers to a muscle’s ability to produce force in isometric or slow velocity contractions; whereas power refers to a combination of force production and velocity (18). Training only force devel -
opment at slow speeds (strength) may have negative implications for a wide range of indi-viduals. Obviously, most sporting activities involve high velocity, high power movements and therefore, it may not be effective to train any athlete to only be able to slowly develop extremely large forces. Also, in order to train older adults to avoid falls, we must be concerned with the velocity of muscular con-traction as well. If an individual loses their balance, they must move quickly and adjust the position of their center of gravity or take a step to widen their base of support to avoid falling. It has also been shown that as one ages, explosive strength or power decreases more than maximum isometric strength (16) which makes training these fast muscular con-tractions essential in older adults. Therefore, an understanding of the relationship between 
force, velocity, and power presented in Figure 
5.9 (14) is essential for the strength and condi -
tioning specialist.
ShorteningForce or tension ⇒
LengtheningResting length
Active force Passive force
Resultant force
Figure 5.8  The active, passive, and resultant forces 
for the typical muscle length tension curve.

SCOTT K. LYNN ET AL.106
If a muscle is maximally activated in an 
attempt to produce movements at different speeds, 
several important points must be observed:
1 As the speed of concentric contraction 
increases, the force that can be produced 
during those contractions decreases. Therefore, the minimum amount of force that a muscle can produce is during a fast concentric contraction.
2
 Greater tension can be developed during 
an isometric contraction (velocity = 0) than during any speed of concentric contraction.
3
 Muscles can generate their greatest forces 
while resisting motion during eccentric (lengthening) contractions. These eccen-tric or lengthening velocities are shown as negative velocities (x axis) in Figure 5.9. 
It should also be noted that forces gener -
ated during eccentric contractions also rise slightly and then remain relatively constant as velocity increases.
4
 As was mentioned in the Basic mechan -
ics section, Power = force × velocity. Since force and concentric velocity have an inverse relationship (i.e., as velocity goes up, force goes down), the point of peak concentric power will occur somewhere between an isometric and maximum velocity concentric contraction. The in vitro concentric power curve derived from the force-velocity relationship of skel-etal muscle is highly dependent on the movement being tested. Izquierdo et  al. (16) demonstrated that the best resist-ances (forces) for the development of peak power in the upper body were in the range of 30–45% of maximum isometric force. However, for explosive lower body movements peak power was observed at 60–70% of maximum isometric force.
5
 Recent research (2) has demonstrated 
that as eccentric velocity increases, power increases as well in a linear relationship.
This force-velocity-power relationship can 
be readily observed in strength and condition -
ing settings. If we attempt to lift an extremely FMax
Eccentric ConcentricIsometricForce and power
0 Vmax Vmax
Velocity
Figure 5.9  The force–velocity (purple), power–velocity (orange) relationship. Note: Recent research (2) has 
determined the eccentric force-power relationship.

BIOMECHANICS OF RESISTANCE TRAINING107
heavy load, the velocity of movement will be 
extremely small as we will need to produce maximal forces to move this load and will not be able to get it moving very quickly. When training with lighter loads we are much more able to get the resistance moving quickly; however, training with too light a load will necessitate extremely small forces from our muscles. Therefore, in order to achieve peak power we must choose an appropriate resist-ance to allow for adequate force productions and speed of movement.
Physiological cross-sectional  
area
The physiological cross-section area (PCSA) 
of a muscle is a measure of how many mus -
cle sarcomeres are arranged in parallel in that particular muscle. This has been shown to determine the maximum force generating capacity of the muscle (8). Therefore, a bigger muscle (larger PCSA) can produce more force than a smaller muscle (small PCSA). This is logical as one of the main goals of resistance training is to increase the size, and hence the force producing capacity of our muscles.
One muscle with an extremely large 
PCSA in the human body is the gluteus maxi-mus muscle (15). With the force generating capacity of this muscle being so large, many smaller muscles must compensate for it if it is not working efficiently. Therefore, it is important that we train it appropriately as extremely common pathologies such as low back pain have been associated with a loss of neural drive to this muscle – termed “gluteal amnesia” (24).
Stretch shortening cycle
Most human movements begin with motions in the opposite direction to the intended move -
ment. For example, the vertical jump involves an initial flexion of the knees/hips and dor -
siflexion of the ankles used to accelerate the center of gravity downwards. This causes an eccentric stretch of the knee/hip extensors and ankle plantarflexors that is quickly turned into a concentric contraction of these same muscles to produce the upwards motion of the center of gravity resulting in the jump. This eccentric stretch followed closely by a concentric short-ening has been termed the 
stretch-shortening 
cycle of muscle (SSC)  of muscle. If there is a 
minimal time delay between the eccentric stretch and concentric contraction, it has been shown that there is an increase in the force pro -
duced as compared to an isolated concentric contraction (28). The magnitude of increase in concentric force depends on the movement performed and the resistance being moved but is generally thought to be in the magnitude of 10–20%. Therefore, the SSC is critical in pro -
ducing high force and high power concentric muscular contractions.
Joint angle and muscular  
torque
Muscles pull on bones at a distance from the 
axis of rotation (joint) and therefore, they produce a torque that attempts to produce angular motion of the bones to which they are attached. The amount of torque can be calcu-lated by multiplying the force by the torque arm distance. As a muscle causes move-ment of the bones, the length of the force arm changes. This means that with the same amount of muscular force, there are changes in the amount of torque generated as the muscle moves the joint through its range of motion. In a simple hinge joint like the elbow/knee, the flexors (biceps brachii/hamstrings) are at a mechanical advantage at a joint angle of 90° as the force arm is the longest in this joint position. As the joint angle increases or decreases, the force arm decreases in length, creating less torque with the same muscular force (Figure 5.10).
Levers
The arrangement of the bones, muscles, and joints in the human body create simple machines called lever systems. The anatomi-cal levers of the body cannot be changed, but when the system is well understood, they can be used more efficiently to maximize the muscular efforts of the body (6). The three components of every lever system include  
the axis (joint), the resistance (weight of the 

SCOTT K. LYNN ET AL.108
segment being moved and any attached exter -
nal weight), and the force (muscle force). 
The location of these three components with respect to one another will determine the type of lever and most importantly, the movement characteristics for which they are best suited. The lever type is determined primarily by which of the three components is located in between the other two. That is, a first class lever has the axis in the middle, while a sec -
ond class lever has the resistance in the middle, and finally a third class lever has the force in between the axis and resistance (Figure 5.11).The distances between the axis and the
 
force (a special kind of torque arm called a force arm [FA]) and the axis and the resist -
ance (a special kind of torque arm called a resistance arm [RA]) help determine the types of movements that each lever system is best designed to perform. Those levers with a short resistance arm and a long force arm are said to have a large mechanical advantage (calculated by dividing the FA by the RA). This is because large resistances can be moved over short dis -
tances with small forces if a lever is used that creates this mechanical advantage. For exam-ple, if a 180-pound person wants to move a 900 pound rock, they could do this most effectively by getting a board and wedging it under the rock and then balancing the board on an object really close to the rock (creating  
the axis of rotation). If the distance between the  
axis and the rock is two feet, this creates 1,800 ft-lbs of torque that must be overcome in order to move the rock. Therefore, the per -
son would need to jump on the board ten feet from the axis to produce the required torque needed to move the large rock, but the result -
ant displacement and hence the velocity of the rock would not be large.
Human muscle bone levers have the 
muscles inserted really close to the joints cre -
ating extremely short FAs. By comparison, our limb segments are relatively long creating Note: Red arrow = hamstring force
          Blue line = force arm
Figure 5.10  The change in the torque generating capacity (force arm distance) of the hamstring muscles as the 
knee joint angle changes.
F
ARFirst class
Second class
Third classFR
FR
AA
Figure 5.11  First class, second class, and third class 
lever systems.

BIOMECHANICS OF RESISTANCE TRAINING109
much longer RAs. This creates a mechanical 
disadvantage or a velocity/speed advantage  
(calculated by dividing the RA by the FA) in human muscle bone levers. This is due to the fact that it will take a lot of force to get the resistance moving (mechanical disadvan-tage), but once we get it moving it will have a much larger displacement and hence veloc -
ity/speed. This concept is displayed in research that examined the anatomical differences in the ankle/foot between a group of collegiate sprinters and a group of height matched non-athletes (20). It was discovered that the sprinters had longer toes and also had 25% 
shorter Achilles tendon FAs (Figure 5.12). 
Therefore,
 the sprinters had shorter FAs and 
were also able, with their longer toes, to get the force of the ground pushing back up on their foot further from the axis of rotation at their ankle, creating a longer RA. This creates a greater velocity/speed advantage that may be one mechanical reason why sprinters can run faster than non-sprinters.
BIOMECHANICS OF 
RESISTANCE
In strength and conditioning settings, various 
forms of resistance have been used to make movements/exercises more challenging. The extra stimulus provided by this resistance can help accomplish the goal of the training ses-sion, whether it is simply to make fundamental human movement patterns more efficient or to increase strength, speed, or both (i.e., power). The original and most commonly used form of resistance simply utilizes different forms of mass and the force of gravity. As various technologies have advanced, other forms of resistance have been developed that have cer -
tain biomechanical characteristics that are different from mass and provide a different stimulus to the human body during training. The following section will examine several different forms of resistance and discuss how the mechanics of these then produce different training stimuli. This information is important for the strength and conditioning specialist so that the appropriate form of resistance can be used to accomplish the specific functional goal of the training. It is important to tailor the training to the particular goal of the program to ensure success. An appropriate analogy can be drawn to the engines in our automobiles. A formula one car (designed for speed) will require a much different engine than a truck designed to haul and tow large loads (designed more for force production). The strength and conditioning specialist needs to choose the appropriate form of resistance to ensure that we are building the correct engines (muscles) to meet the goals of the individual.
The following section will examine the 
biomechanics of several different forms of resistance which will be divided into two main categories: (i) those that use mass and the force of gravity as the resistance, and (ii) those that do not use significant mass and generate the mechanical resistance using other means.Resistance Force
Red = Non-sprinters
Blue = Sprinters
FA = force arm
RA = resistance arm
Figure 5.12  The differences in anatomy 
noted by Lee and Piazza (20) between 
sprinters and nonsprinters. Sprinters had a shorter force arm and a longer resistance arm, creating a speed advantage.

SCOTT K. LYNN ET AL.110
Q&A FROM THE FIELD
How can I alter the squat movement 
pattern to make it more “knee dominant” or more “hip dominant”?
In addition to external objects, other forces 
commonly place external torques on joints. For example, during weight bearing exercises, body weight acts downward toward the ground, and the ground pushes back upwards on the body to create a ground reaction force (GRF). This direction of the GRF is often positioned away from joint centers, and an external torque is created (Figure 5.13). In other words, the GRF is acting at a distance from the axis of rotation of the joint and this produces an external torque that is attempting to rotate the joint. Muscles must respond to this torque and produce the appropriate internal joint torques to achieve the desired movement. An example of this concept during a squatting motion is described in the Q&A ‘From the Field’ below and illustrates how the position of the ground reaction force influences relative contributions from the hip and knee joint musculature in producing the squat movement.
In Figure 5.13A, the ground reaction force is 
positioned much further posterior to the center of the knee joint and much closer to the center of the hip joint. This produces a relatively large external flexion torque on the knee joint that must be matched by the knee extensors (quadriceps). This individual could be considered “knee dominant” because there is much larger knee joint torque relative to the hip joint torque. In contrast, the individual in Figure 5.13B has a ground reaction force that is acting much closer to the knee joint center and further anterior to the hip joint center. This produces a relatively larger external flexion torque on the hip that must be matched by the hip extensors. Therefore, this individual could be considered “hip dominant” because there is much larger torque on the hip than there is on the knee.
There are several ways to alter how much the 
knee and hip extensors contribute to producing this motion, but all utilize this basic mechanical principle. One simple way to shift the loading onto one joint or the other is to change where the mass of the body segments and resistance are located. Doing a counter-balanced squat, where you hold weights in your hands and raise them in front of you as you sit back in the squat, shifts the GRF anteriorly. This makes the exercise more “hip dominant” as it increases the load on the hip extensors and decreases the load on the knee extensors. Conversely, performing a squat where the weights remain on your shoulders keeps the GRF acting more posteriorly, which makes it more “knee dominant” (increases the load on the knee extensors and decreases the load on the hip extensors) (21).
Application: knee joint loading in 
osteoarthritis
In addition to external torques produced by 
objects such as dumbbells, external torques can also come from our body weight pushing into the ground. For example, during weight bearing activities, our body weight acts downward, and the ground pushes back up on our body creating a GRF . The position of the GRF relative to the center of our joints creates a torque (Figure 5.14). Notice the blue arrow representing the ground reaction force is positioned medial from the center of the left knee joint.
External torques can also influence internal 
joint loading with consequences for joint health and disease. For example, individuals with misaligned knees are at greater risk for knee osteoarthritis (27). In these individuals, the position of the ground reaction force vector is offset from the joint center in the frontal plane. This creates an external adduction torque on the knee joint and contributes to preferential loading of the medial side of the knee joint (1). Over time, excessive loading on the medial side of the knee joint may contribute to osteoarthritis by wearing of the 
Figure 5.13  (A) The ground reaction forces 
(red arrows) are further from the knee joint 
than the hip joint indicating a “knee dominant” squat position; (B) the ground reaction forces (red arrows) are further from the hip joint than the knee joint indicating a “hip dominant” squat position.

BIOMECHANICS OF RESISTANCE TRAINING111
is implicated in traumatic knee injuries, such as 
anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) tear. For example, notice the position of the ground reaction force in Figure 5.15 and its lateral position relative to the right knee joint. This position creates an external knee abduction torque. An individual that lands with their knees caved inwards, often termed a “valgus collapse,” is at greater risk factor for ACL injury (11). Importantly, these movement patterns highlight areas for conscious correction through muscle strengthening. For example, the described knee position also indicates excessive hip adduction. Therefore, strengthening and improving hip abductor function may be a focus for this individual, and the exercises described in the “Progressing/regressing movement” section may be useful.
Mass
When using any form of mass as resistance, the 
most important biomechanical concept that the strength and conditioning specialist must keep in mind is its inherent inertial properties. To be put another way, mass resists changes to its state of motion. So, if it is not moving, large forces must be applied to the mass to get it moving. Then, once it begins moving, less force must be applied to keep it moving than was needed to start it in motion. Most over -
look the fact that, when performing a lift with a 20-pound dumbbell, the resistance provided to the human body throughout that lift can vary from much greater than 20 pounds to overcome the inertia of that mass, to almost zero if the mass is accelerated to a high enough speed during the lift.
The force the person is applying to the 
mass can best be calculated using the equa -
tion: F = ma + mg. The second part of this equation (mg) is constant as the acceleration due to gravity (g = 9.81 m/s
2) and the mass 
remain constant throughout a lift. However, the first half of this equation (ma) is not con-stant as the mass must be accelerated at the start of the lift and decelerated at the end of the lift. If a mass is moved extremely slowly through the range of motion, the effect of the “ma” term becomes negligible; however, for rapid movements with large changes in speed, this term becomes extremely important and 
Figure 5.14  Notice the ground reaction force 
(blue arrow) acts medial to the left knee joint. This 
position places an external knee adduction torque on the joint.
joint articular surfaces (22). Interestingly, the vast 
majority of knee osteoarthritis cases occur in the medial compartment. Therefore, limiting excessive knee adduction torques may be useful in knee osteoarthritis prevention.
Application: strengthening hip abductors
In addition to chronic joint conditions, 
external torques can also cause acute injuries. For 
example, body position during landing activities 
Figure 5.15  External abduction torque created 
by the position of the ground reaction force (blue 
arrow) relative to the position of the knee joint.

SCOTT K. LYNN ET AL.112
can cause great variation in the resistance 
felt by the muscles throughout the range of motion. It has been shown that doing high speed lifts with free weight resistance requires in excess of 190% of the weight of the load in order to produce these high accelerations (4,26). That means that if doing a bench press with 130 lbs, the resistance at the beginning of the concentric phase can actually exceed 250 lbs as the momentum of the eccentric phase is quickly absorbed and the bar is accelerated concentrically to a high rate of speed. Then, once the weight is moving at a high rate of speed, the resistance provided to the muscles can decrease to almost zero if the weight is accelerated fast enough that the magnitude of the (m × a) term equals that of the (m × g) term. This gives the lifter the feeling that the bar is temporarily floating and almost thrown into the air, which can be dangerous in a bench press movement. This is demonstrated by studies showing that well trained athletes can spend up to 52% of the concentric phase of a high-speed lift attempting to decelerate and control the trajectory of the load (5), this leads to a decrease in the activity of the muscles pro -
ducing the movement during this portion of the lift (26).
Two common forms of mass used as resist -
ance in strength and conditioning settings include: (i) free weights and (ii) gravity-based machines.
Free weights
Free weights are often thought to include only barbells and dumbbells but can also come in many other forms. Any object that has a mass and allows for 6° of freedom movement of that mass can be considered a “free weight.” Other common forms of free weight include: kettle-bells, medicine balls, weight vests, weighted ankle/wrist straps, weighted sleds, training ropes, chains, and the simplest form of resist-ance of all, the individual’s own body weight. The biomechanics of these forms of resistance follow the laws of inertia outlined earlier and always have the resistance acting vertically downward. Therefore, the force needed to move these weights vertically can be deter -
mined using the formula F = ma + mg. The force needed to move these weights horizontally does not need to overcome gravity and therefore can be determined using F = ma. Therefore, adjust -
ing how much a mass is moved horizontally/vertically can be a good method of progress -
ing and regressing many different movements, as the amount of gravity that must be over -
come during the movement can be altered. An example of this would be doing a push up with your hands on a bench rather than on the ground. With your hands on the bench, you will be moving your mass partially in a hori-zontal direction, making the movement much  
easier and requiring less muscular force to  
complete it.
Gravity-based machines
The resistance of any mass acts vertically downward, which limits our ability to train certain muscle groups. For example, using mass to train a vertical shoulder press movement is appropriate, but in order to train the antago -
nist movement (i.e., lat pull down exercise), the gravity force needs to be redirected. This is accomplished by machines that use cables and pulleys to allow us to direct the resistance of a mass/gravity upwards or horizontally (Figure 
5.16).
 Older versions of these machines would 
have the user adjust the resistance by adding/removing weighted plates,
 but newer ver -
sions of these machines use pin-loaded weight stacks to make the adjusting of the resistance much easier.
 
Figure 5.16  Two gravity-based weight machines 
that allow the resistance of the mass to be redirected 
using pulleys.

BIOMECHANICS OF RESISTANCE TRAINING113
Engineers have also attempted to design 
gravity-based machines so that the resistance 
delivered to the individual better matches our muscles’ ability to produce force across the range of motion of the joint. For example, in the free weight bench press we are limited in resistance by the amount we are able to move through our weakest point (sticking point) near the bottom of the lift. Therefore, our muscles are not getting challenged appropri-ately in the upper part of the range of motion, as we must pick a resistance that allows us to get through the sticking point where our muscles are weakest. This was originally over -
come by creating machines where the user would start the movement in their weakest position (i.e., the bottom position of the chest press movement) but with the machine lever arm to the weight stack extremely short. As the movement proceeded from bottom to top, the machine’s lever arm to the weight stack would increase in length, thus also increas -
ing the resistance felt by the user in the later stages of the lift. Various other gravity-based machines have also attempted to produce a variable amount of resistance throughout a lift using different designs. One common design uses a cable or chain that wraps over a variable-radius cam and alters the moment arm distance to the resistance (weight stack) as the user moves through the range of motion (Figure 5.17). Again, this allows for the user 
to feel more resistance at portions of the lift where 
the muscles are mechanically strong -
est and less resistance where the muscles are less optimally positioned. However, all of these machines use mass for the resistance and therefore the speed of movement becomes really important to determining the resistance felt by the muscles, as creating large accelera -
tions of the mass could negate the effects of these variable resistance designs.
Other forms of resistance
Pneumatic resistance
In order to overcome the limitations associated with training at high speed using mass as the resistance, a technology was developed that creates the resistance with air pressure (17). It has been contended that this form of resist-ance does not have the inherent limitations of mass and its inertial properties. Therefore, high speed training involving large accelera-tions can be performed and the resistance can be kept relatively constant throughout the movement. The basic technology involves a compressor pumping air into a cylinder (Figure 
5.18) (more air pressure = more resistance; less 
air pressure = less resistance) equipped with a piston that further compresses the air during the concentric phase and is pushed back out by 
the air during the eccentric phase of the 
movement. As the air is further compressed during the concentric phase of movement, the resistance increases, and this is thought to match the force producing capacity of our muscles during most movements. The user also has control of the resistance with hand 
Figure 5.17  A variable radius cam.

SCOTT K. LYNN ET AL.114
buttons or foot pedals that can increase (pump 
in more air) or decrease (let air out) the resist-ance throughout the movement.
There has been a wide range of exercise 
equipment designed using this pneumatic resistance technology. Some of these include machines designed for high stability that guide the user through the range of motion and train only specific movements (chest press, leg extension, leg press, etc.) – Figure 5.19. There 
are also cable machines that can be adjusted to provide the resistance in the desired direction
  
for the exercise and allow for a less controlled  
range of movement – Figure 5.20. Finally, there have been power racks designed to be able to incorporate both mass and air
 
resistance in a wide range of total body 6° of freedom movements (bench press, squat, deadlift, power clean, etc.). These can com-bine different amounts of mass and air resistance or can be used with negligible mass and only air resistance depending on the goal of the training session.
Research has shown that pneumatic resist -
ance allows for greater movement velocities and also produces greater muscle activity at the end range of motion as compared to free weights in a bench press movement (7). This is due to the fact that pneumatic resistance contains limited mass and therefore does not develop momentum at high speeds. Athletic movements as well as many movements in everyday life (i.e., regaining equilibrium after a loss in balance) require high speed muscular contractions and velocity specific power production. Therefore, training with pneumatic resistance could provide some movement specific advantages over free weights. However, this work also suggests that pneumatic resistance reduces the forces required to use the stretch shortening cycle 
Figure 5.18  A Keiser pneumatic resistance machine 
showing the air cylinder (with the piston inside).
Figure 5.19  A pneumatic resistance machine 
designed for high stability by guiding the user through 
the range of motion.
Figure 5.20  Adjustable pneumatic resistance 
machines that allow for the resistance to be focused in any direction and allow for much less control of the range of motion.

BIOMECHANICS OF RESISTANCE TRAINING115
at the end of the eccentric and start of the 
concentric phase of motion (7). Therefore, further investigation is needed to identify the neuromuscular responses of the human body to this alternate form of resistance.
Hydraulic resistance
Another form of resistance similar to pneu-matics uses fluid (generally oil) to create the resistance. This form of resistance has the 
movement drive a piston that forces the fluid 
through a small opening creating the resistance. The difference between pneumatic and hydrau -
lic resistance comes in the compressibility of the fluid being used for the resistance. The air used in pneumatic resistance is compressible; therefore, the forces put into compressing it during the concentric phase are returned during the eccentric phase. The oil used in hydraulic resistance is essentially incompressible; there-fore, hydraulic resistance does not provide any eccentric resistance during movement.
It has been shown that greater gains in 
peak torque can be achieved when movements are trained both concentrically and eccentri-cally (19). However, an examination of the differences between groups’ subjects training with free weights (concentric-eccentric) and hydraulics (concentric only) revealed no dif -
ferences in velocity, torque, power, or force between groups (13). Therefore, there is some controversy in the literature regarding the usefulness of hydraulic resistance in a train -
ing program. It can also be suggested that the elimination of the eccentric phase created with this equipment may have uses for special populations as it may also decrease the muscle soreness experienced by the user.
Elastic resistance
Various forms of elastic resistance have become extremely common in strength and condition-ing settings recently. Elastics provide a variable amount of resistance throughout a movement as the elastic will produce more force the 
more it is stretched. It also provides an eccen -
tric resistance as all the force that went into 
stretching the elastic will be returned as the individual’s muscles control the speed at which the elastic is returned to its original length.Studies comparing the effects of training 
with elastic resistance to training with mass as a resistance also provide contradictory results. In a sample of sedentary middle-aged women, there was found to be no differ -
ences in several functional and structural measures between training with elastic resist -
ance versus training with a weight machine (3). Whereas, in a sample of recreationally trained college students, those who trained by simply doing depth jumps (using body 
weight) increased their vertical jump height, 
while those who trained with elastic resist -
ance (VertiMax) did not change their jump height after training (23).
What form of resistance  
is best?
It should be clear from the sections outlined 
above that no single form of resistance is ideal for all training purposes. However, the strength and conditioning specialist must have a basic knowledge of all forms of resist -
ance and how they can be combined and altered so that an appropriate stimulus can be selected to meet the goal of each individual training program.
PROGRESSING/
REGRESSING  
MOVEMENT
As a strength and conditioning specialist, an 
important skill is to be able to modify move-ments/exercises to (i) increase the difficulty of movement to further challenge those who have mastered the basic movement, and (ii) decrease the difficulty of movement to give those who are unable to perform the basic movement a chance to develop the proper strength and/or muscular recruitment strategies.
Progressing and regressing movements/
exercises requires a good basic knowledge of many basic biomechanical principles. The simplest progressions and regressions can be performed by simply manipulating the vari -
ables of the equation presented in the previous 

SCOTT K. LYNN ET AL.116
section (F = ma). If we assume that progressions 
would generally involve creating movements that require more force production, this can be accomplished by either increasing the mass or increasing the rate of velocity change during the movement (acceleration or deceleration). Conversely, we could easily regress a movement/exercise by decreasing the mass being moved or by moving more slowly (requiring less accel-erations/decelerations). Although this sounds logical, there are other factors that must be kept in mind. For example, moving extremely slowly through a bench press movement may seem like a regression (less accelerations) when it may actually make the exercise more difficult. Newton’s First Law (Law of Inertia) tells us that an object in motion wants to remain in motion; therefore, getting the bar moving quickly in certain phases of the lift would require less mus-cular effort to keep it moving in other phases. This becomes important in overcoming points in the range of motion where the muscle length tension relationship and angle of pull of mus -
cle are at their least optimal (sticking point). Therefore, simply trying to manipulate the variables of that equation in order to progress/regress movements is not enough. The strength and conditioning specialist needs a much more complete knowledge of biomechanics to be able to tailor movement/exercise difficulty to the level of each individual.The following section will use the example  
of the single-leg Romanian dead-lift (RDL) in order to illustrate how biomechani-cal principles can be used to progress or  
regress a movement/exercise. We will begin with a biomechanical description of the basic movement.
Single-leg Romanian dead-lift 
(RDL)
This basic exercise (shown in Figure 5.21) 
has several main goals when used in a train -
ing program; some of these goals include: (i) 
training the hip abductors to increase frontal plane control of the pelvis,
 (ii) training the  
hip extensors to move us in the sagittal plane, (iii) training the balance and proprioceptive systems in single limb stance.
If we examine this movement in the fron -
tal plane, we can see that the axis of rotation is created at the hip of the stance limb. Gravity then pulls on the rest of the body (person’s left 
in Figure 5.21) and produces a torque that is attempting to spin our pelvis clockwise. Our hip abductors then produce a force on the other 
side of the axis of rotation to counter 
the body weight (clockwise) torque with the muscular (counterclockwise) torque needed to maintain a steady pelvis.
  
Figure 5.21  The basic single-leg Romanian dead-lift exercise.

BIOMECHANICS OF RESISTANCE TRAINING117
In the sagittal plane, tilting of the trunk 
anteriorly creates a clockwise torque attempt -
ing to produce flexion at the stance hip. We 
then have two counterclockwise torques act -
ing on the other side of the axis of rotation attempting to produce hip extension: (i) the torque created by the weight of the contra lat-eral leg (which will be of smaller magnitude than the torque created by our trunk as the mass of a single leg will be much less than the mass of the trunk) and (ii) the muscle force created by your hip extensors that is needed to absorb the excess trunk torque in the eccen-tric phase and overcome it to produce the concentric hip extension needed to return to a standing position.
We will now examine how a good knowl -
edge of biomechanics can be used to create three regressions and two progressions of the basic RDL exercise. The above continuum (Figure 5.22) shows each of the five exercise modifications that can be used to make the exercise less challenging (regressions) and more challenging (progressions).
 Note: The 
further the exercise is to the right, the harder the exercise is; and the further the exercise is to the left, the easier the exercise is.
Regressions
Arms out
The first basic regression involves doing the exercise with your arms out in a “T” position as shown in Figure 5.23. This simple modifica -
tion of the exercise spreads your mass out over a larger distance,
 which increases your rotary 
inertia in the frontal plane. This increased resistance to angular motion makes it easier to keep your center of gravity within your base of support and maintain your balance.Contralateral
balance aidIpsilateral
balance aidRegression
(Easier)Progression
(Harder)
Arms
outBasic
RDLIpsilateral
weightContralateral
weight
Figure 5.22  The single-leg RDL progression/regression continuum.
  
Figure 5.23  The single-leg RDL exercise arms out regression.

SCOTT K. LYNN ET AL.118
Ipsilateral balance aid
In this middle regression, the client would use a 
balance aid in the same (ipsilateral) arm as the stance leg (Figure 5.24). In this regression, the client pushes the balance aid into the ground and,
 with our understanding of Newton’s 
Third Law, the balance aid then pushes back up on them. This regression does not have an effect in the frontal plane as the force produced by the balance aid passes directly through the axis of rotation of the hip and therefore does not increase or decrease the torque required from the hip abductors. The effect of this regression occurs in the sagittal plane as there is another force to help fight the weight of the trunk that is pulling the stance leg hip into flexion. This decreases the force required from  
the hip extensors to both slow down the hip flexion in the eccentric phase and to create the hip extension in the concentric phase.
The ipsilateral balance aid would also 
increase the base of support in the anterior-posterior direction, therefore making it easier to maintain balance in this direction. However, it does not increase the base of support in the medial-lateral direction.
Contralateral balance aid
In the third regression, the client would use a balance aid in the opposite (contralateral) arm as the stance leg (Figure 5.25). This 
  
Figure 5.24  The single-leg RDL exercise ipsilateral balance aid regression.
  
Figure 5.25  The single-leg RDL exercise – contralateral balance aid regression.

BIOMECHANICS OF RESISTANCE TRAINING119
regression makes the exercise easier in both 
the sagittal and frontal planes. Since the mass is still the same distance from the axis of rotation of the hip in the sagittal plane, this regression would have the same effect on the hip extensors as would the ipsilateral bal -
ance aid. However, this regression decreases the challenge for the hip abductors in the frontal plane as the balance aid produces an extra counter clockwise torque to help balance the clockwise torque created by the body weight. This requires less force to be produced by the hip abductors in order to maintain pelvic stability in the frontal plane during the movement.The contralateral balance aid also increases 
the base of support in both the anterior-  
posterior and medial-lateral directions. This makes it much easier to maintain the center  
of gravity within the base of support and maintain balance.
Progressions
Ipsilateral weight
The first progression involves adding a weight (generally a dumbbell) to the same hand as the stance leg (Figure 5.26). This progres-
sion is similar to the ipsilateral balance aid
  
  
Figure 5.26  The single-leg RDL exercise – ipsilateral weight progression.
  
Figure 5.27  The single-leg RDL exercise – contralateral weight progression.

SCOTT K. LYNN ET AL.120
regression except for now the weight is pro-
ducing a force in the opposite direction (downward). This progression has no effect in the frontal plane as the line of action of the weight force passes directly through the axis of rotation of the hip and therefore does not increase or decrease the torque required from the hip abductors. The effect of this progres -
sion occurs in the sagittal plane as the weight produces an extra clockwise torque that must be absorbed by increasing the eccentric force 
created by the hip extensors.
Contralateral weight
The second progression involves adding a weight 
to the opposite hand as the stance leg (Figure 5.27).  
This progression makes the exercise more challenging for both the hip extensors and hip abductors. Now, the downward force produced by the weight is also producing a clockwise torque in the frontal plane and therefore the hip 
MAxiNG OUT
1 You want to incorporate some Olympic lifting into the strength and conditioning program 
for the volleyball team. However, a problem is that the athletes are having real trouble learning to perform the lifts correctly. How could biomechanics be used to assist you in teaching the athletes?
2 The football coach has told you that he only wants his players completing single joint exercise on pin-loaded resistance machines and at slow speed. His rationale is that he does not want the athletes injured in the weight room. From your biomechanics knowledge you do not believe such a program is optimal but you have to convince the coach. Write a dis -
cussion paper outlining the basis for including ground supported, multi-joint movements including high speed exercises once the athletes have developed the appropriate patterns of movement and muscle activation strategies.
CASE E xAMPLE
Extending the application of a simple contact mat timing system to derive more 
pertinent mechanical measurements
BackgroundYou have just been employed as a strength and conditioning coach with a small college 
that has limited performance testing equipment and no current budget to purchase more sophisticated equipment. The program has a simple electronic timing system that can record abductors must produce a much greater force to keep the pelvis stable. The effect of this con-tralateral weight in the sagittal plane is the same as with the ipsilateral weight, as the dumbbell is the same distance from the axis of rotation of the hip; therefore, the extra clockwise torque that must be absorbed by increasing the force created by the hip extensors is the same in both progression conditions.
SUMMARY
A good fundamental knowledge of biome -
chanics is essential for any strength and conditioning professional. This knowledge is imperative in order to ensure the prescribed exercises are tailored to the correct level, using the correct form and amount of resistance, and reinforcing the appropriate movement patterns to achieve the functional goals of the training session as quickly and safely as possible.

BIOMECHANICS OF RESISTANCE TRAINING121
(continued)contact time and flight time during vertical jumping. In the past, only the flight time has been 
recorded and provided to the athletes and coaches, but you would like to provide more exten -
sive information that is both understandable and relevant.
Recommendations/considerations
One of the problems with just providing flight time is that the athletes cannot really relate 
to the measure. They want to know how high they have jumped. Also, in terms of quantify -
ing leg power, flight time does not adequately quantify the explosiveness of the athlete or account for athletes of differing body weights. Based on your biomechanics knowledge you recommend to the coaches that the jumps be performed from an approach run, and that the athletes jump onto the mat then jump vertically upward for maximum height, landing back on the mat. You also recommend recording body mass. From these additional measures, jump height and power will be calculated.
Implementation
Each sporting squad is tested after a functional movement assessment and prior to a 
skills session. They are instructed beforehand to avoid strenuous activity for the previous  
48 hours.
Measurement of body mass. Body mass is measured in kilograms for each athlete using an 
electronic scale.
Measurement of jump performance. As a group, the athletes are instructed in the correct 
technique for performing the test.
Stand approximately three strides back from the contact mat. Step into the mat area, land -
ing with both feet on the mat, then jump vertically upwards for maximum height landing 
back on the mat. The hands are to be held on the hips throughout the test.
At the end of each trial, the contact time and subsequent flight time will be recorded.
Calculations
Flight to contact ratio. A useful and easily calculated measure is simply flight time divided by 
contact time.
Jump height. Jump height can be estimated based on the flight time and the assumption of 
simple projectile motion. The formula is:
Jump height = (g × flight time
2)/8
where g = 9.81 m2
Work done. Once jump height has been determined, the work done during the concentric phase of the jump can be calculated as:
Work = Fd = mass × g × jump height
Absolute power output. As we have a measure of contact time prior to the jump, we have an estimate of the time over which the work calculated above was completed. We must assume that the duration of the concentric time is equal as we have no way of measuring this. So the 

SCOTT K. LYNN ET AL.122
concentric time is equal to the contact time divided by 2. Absolute power is then calculated as 
the work done divided by the concentric time.
absolute power = work/(flight time/2)
Relative power output. Relative power output is calculated as absolute power output divided by body mass. This gives an indication of the power to weight ratio for the athlete.
relative power = absolute power × body mass
−1
Results
The following results were obtained on six athletes and the subsequent additional measure 
calculated. As you can appreciate, the use of biomechanics’ principles has provided for a much more in depth and relevant analysis of vertical jump performance. This test could then be repeated at various intervals during a training program designed to improve vertical jump performance. This will provide invaluable quantitative feedback regarding whether or not your training is accomplishing its goal with every athlete.
Athlete A B C D E F
Mass (kg) 80 78 82 79 69 74
Contact time (s) 0.561 0.493 0.587 0.534 0.521 0.508
Flight time (s) 0.567 0.587 0.543 0.602 0.511 0.519
Flight: Contact ratio 1.011 1.191 0.925 1.127 0.981 1.022
Jump height (m) 0.394 0.423 0.362 0.444 0.320 0.330
Work done (J) 309 323 291 344 217 240
Absolute power (W) 1,103 1,312 991 1, 290 832 944
Relative power (W × kg−1) 13.8 16.8 12.1 16.3 12.1 12.8(continued)
REFERENCES
 1. Bennell KL, Bowles KA, Wang Y, Cicuttini 
F, Davies-Tuck M, Hinman RS. Higher dynamic medial knee load predicts greater cartilage loss over 12 months in medial knee osteoarthritis. Annals of the Rheumatic 
Diseases 2011; 70:1770–1774.
 2. Carney KR, Brown LE, Coburn JW, Spiering 
BA, Bottaro M. Eccentric torque-velocity and power-velocity relationships in men and women. European Journal of Sport Science 2012; 12:139–144.
 3. Colado JC, Triplett NT. Effects of a short-term resistance program using elastic bands versus weight machines for sedentary middle aged women. J Strength Cond Res 2008; 22:1441–1448.
 4. Cronin JB, McNair PJ, Marshall RN. Force-velocity analysis of strength-training 

BIOMECHANICS OF RESISTANCE TRAINING123
techniques and load: implications for training 
strategy and research. J Strength Cond Res 2003; 17:148–155.
 5. Elliott BC, Wilson GJ, Kerr GK. A biomechanical analysis of the sticking region in the bench press. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1989; 21:450–462.
 6. Floyd RT. Manual of Structural Kinesiology, 17th Ed. New York: McGraw Hill. 2009.
 7. Frost MF, Cronin JB, Newton RU. A comparison of the kinematics, kinetics and muscle activity between pneumatic and free weight resistance. Eur J Appl Physiol 2008; 104:937–956.
 8. Gans C. Fiber architecture and muscle function. Exercise and Sports Sciences Reviews 1982; 10:160–207.
 9. Garhammer J. A review of power output studies of Olympic and Powerlifting: Methodology, Performance Prediction, and Evaluation Tests. J Strength Cond Res 1993; 
7:76–89.
10. Hatze H. The meaning of the term: “Biomechanics.” Journal of Biomechanics 1974; 7:189–190.
11. Hewett TE, Myer GD, Ford KR, Heidt RS, Jr., Colosimo AJ, McLean SG et al. Biomechanical measures of neuromuscular control and valgus loading of the knee predict anterior cruciate ligament injury risk in female 
athletes: a prospective study. Am J Sports Med 
2005; 33:492–501.
12. Hof AL, Van den Berg JW. EMG to force processing II: Estimation of parameters of the Hill muscle model the human triceps surae by means of a calfergometer. Journal of Biomechanics 1981; 14:759–770.
13. Hortobagyi T., Katch FI. Role of concentric force in limiting improvement in muscular strength. J Appl Physiol 1990; 68:650–658.
14. Hill A V. The First and Last Experiments in Muscle Mechanics. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. 1970.
15. Ito J., Moriyama H., Inokuchi S., & Goto N. Human lower limb muscles: an evaluation of weight and fiber size. Okajimas Folia Anatomica Japonica 2003; 80(2–3):47–56.
16. Izquierdo M, Ibanez J, Gorostiaga E, Gaurrues M, Zuniga A, Anton A, Larrion JL, Häkkinen K. Maximal strength and power characteristics in isometric and dynamic actions of the upper and lower extremities in middle-aged and older men. Acta Physiological Scand 1999; 167:57–68.
17. Keiser DL. Pneumatic exercising device. USA patent: 4,257,593. 1981.
18. Knudson D. Fundamentals of Biomechanics, 2nd Ed. New York: Springer. 2007.
19. Lacerte M, deLateur BJ, Alquist AD, Questad KA. Concentric versus combined concentric-eccentric isokinetic training programs: effect on peak torque of human quadriceps muscle. Archives of Physical Medicine and 
Rehabilitation 1992; 73:1059–1062.
20. Lee SM, Piazza SJ. Built for speed: 
musculoskeletal structure and sprinting ability. J Exp Biol 2009; 212:3700–3707.
21. Lynn SK, Noffal GJ. Lower extremity biomechanics during a regular and counter-balanced squat. J Strength Cond Res 2012; 26:2417–2425.
22. Lynn SK, Reid SM, Costigan PA. The influence of gait pattern on signs of knee osteoarthritis in older adults over a 5–11 year follow-up period: A case study analysis. Knee 2007; 14:22–28.
23. McClenton LS, Brown LE, Coburn JW, Kersey RD. The effect of short-term VertiMax vs. depth 
jump training on vertical jump performance. J Strength Cond Res 2008; 22:321–325.
24. McGill S. Low Back Disorders: Evidence 
Based Prevention and Rehabilitation, 2nd Ed. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics. 2007.
25. McGinnis PM. Biomechanics of Sport and Exercise, 2nd Ed. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics. 2005.
26. Newton RU, Kraemer WJ, Häkkinen K, Humphries BJ, Murphy AJ. Kinematics, kinetics, and muscle activation during explosive upper body movements. Journal of Applied Biomechanics 1996; 12:31–43.
27. Sharma L, Chmiel JS, Almagor O, Felson D, Guermazi A, Roemer F et al. The role of varus and valgus alignment in the initial development of knee cartilage damage by MRI: the MOST study. Annal of the 
Rheumatic Diseases 2013; 72:235–240.
28. Wilson GJ, Elliott BC, Wood GA. The effect 
on performance of imposing a delay during the stretch-shorten cycle movement. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1991; 23:364–370.

Contents
Introduction  126
The endocrine system  126
Hormonal rhythms  134
Hormones vital to exercise  138
Effects of exercise on the endocrine system  141
Optimizing the training program  156
Summary  157
References  158

6 CHAPTER
OBJECTIVES
After completing this chapter, you will be able to:
• Familiarize yourself with hormone and neurohormone regulation in the body during rest and 
exercise.
• Understand how steroid, peptide, and amine hormones differ from one another.
• Identify the roles that testosterone, cortisol, growth hormone, and insulin play during and after exercise.
• Describe the acute and chronic adaptations that occur within the endocrine system in response to training.
• Understand and describe the differences between genders as they pertain to the various hormones.
• Explain how hormones can affect various training programs and also continue to optimize performance in order to avoid overtraining.THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM
Andy Bosak
KEY TERMS
Adrenal cortex
Adrenocorticotropic 
hormone (ACTH)
AlbuminAlpha cellsAlpha receptorsAmine hormoneAmino acidsAnabolic hormoneAnaloguesAnenylate cyclase–
cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) systemAnticipatory  
response
AutocrineBeta cellsBeta receptorsBinding proteinBiocompartmentsBiologically activeCalmodulinCatabolic hormoneCatecholaminesChapterone proteinChromaffin cellsCircadian rhythmCorticotropin-releasing 
hormone (CRH)
Cross-reactivityCybernetic regulationCytoplasmic receptorCytosolDegradationDiacyl glycerol (DG)-
inositol triphosphate (IP
3) system
Diurnal variationDownregulationEndocrineEndogenous
(continued)

ANDY BOSAK126
Enzymes
ExogenousFight or flight responseFree hormoneFree testosteroneGH-inhibiting hormone 
(GH-IH)
Gluconeogenesis
Half-life (T
½)
Hormone
Hypothalamic-pituitary axisInfluxInhibiting G protein (G
i)
Invasive methodLeydig cellsLipolysisLipophilicLipophobicMessenger ribonucleic 
acid (mRNA)
MetabolismNegative-feedback systemNeuroendocrineNeurohormoneNeurotransmitterNocturnal urine measures
Noninvasive method
ParacrinePeptide hormonePlasma fluid shiftPostreceptor activityPosttranslational processingPrecursor moleculePulsatileQuantal releaseRate-limitingReceptorReceptor densityReceptor specificitySalivary concentrationsSex hormone-binding 
globulin (SHBG)
Signaling pathwaySteroid hormone
Stimulating G protein (G
s)
Stress hormone
Système Internationale (SI)Total hormone 
concentration
TranscriptionTranslationTransport proteinTrophic hormoneUpregulation
INTRODUCTION
The human body is designed to provide amaz -
ing control of its physiological systems during 
physical exercise and sport performance. Each of these physiological systems is closely regu-lated and coordinated while the desired result is performance improvement. As similar to other physiological systems, the hormonal system is closely controlled and responds to exercise and physical activity to assure optimal results. The hormonal or endocrine system is very impor -
tant as it can influence the other systems of the body. Most importantly, it is critical to under -
stand how the endocrine system responds to the short-term requirements of a single bout of exercise and how it adapts to the chronic stresses of a long-term training program.
THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM
The endocrine  system helps to maintain homeosta-
sis in the body by regulating hormonal functions. This occurs through the communication between chemicals in the body, called messengers, that regulate different physiological actions. The  messengers are secreted into the bloodstream, travel to their respective binding sites, and pro -
mote changes in cellular functions upon arrival at the designated binding site.
Hormones defined
For the purposes of this chapter, a hormone  is 
a chemical compound that is secreted into the circulation to regulate a biological function at a distant site in the body. A hormone is secreted directly into the bloodstream from a tissue known as an endocrine gland. These glands contain specialized cells designed to create and release their respective hormones. A 
neurohor -
mone  is very similar except that it is released 
from a nerve ending into the circulation. Regardless of the source, the hormones and neurohormones travel to various parts of the body until they reach their target tissues. Once arrived, they can bind to specialized receptors on or in the cells of the target tissues and they will influence how the target tissues function.
Hormones are chemical compounds secreted 
by endocrine tissues and are transported via the circulation.(continued)

THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM127
Endocrine tissues
Numerous hormones and neurohormones 
are involved in the proper functioning of a healthy system. Hormones are chemical compounds that are produced by endocrine tissues and typically released into the circula -
tion. Neurohormones are a type of hormone that also functions as a neurotransmitter in the nervous system. Of particular interest are those hormones that specifically respond to physical exercise and sport performance. Numerous endocrine tissues in the body par -
ticipate in this process, whether it involves the short-term or sudden acute responses to a single bout of exercise or the long-term chronic adaptations to regular exercise and training. Figure 6.1 illustrates, in both a male and female, the endocrine glands and tissues responsible for the hormones and neurohor -
mones discussed in this chapter.
 In general, these tissues release their hormonal prod-ucts into the body’s circulation where they are transported to their target sites. To fully understand the endocrine and neuroendocrine systems, it is important to be strongly familiar with the various endocrine tissues as well as the normal blood concentrations of the hor -
mones, as listed in Table 6.1 (3,4).
Although those in the medical profession 
and the related health sciences often use con -
ventional units of measure, scientific reporting requires the use of the measurements defined by the 
Système Internationale (SI) . The SI  
system is universally recognized by scientists all over the world and provides a logical and systematic method for quantification (4).
Hormonal transportation routes
Although most of the hormones discussed in this chapter are released into the circulation 
Thyroid
Adrenals
Pancreas
OvariesHypothalamus
Pituitary
Parathyroid
Liver
Testes
Figure 6.1  Anatomical location of the principal endocrine glands.

ANDY BOSAK128
for transport to their respective targets, other 
methods of transport exist. Some hormones never leave their tissue while others never leave their cells. Figure 6.2 illustrates the autocrine, paracrine, endocrine, and neuroendocrine hor -
monal transport routes.
Autocrine
When hormones or neurohormones are synthe -
sized in their respective cells, not all are released into the circulation. Certain chemical compounds never leave the cell and they can remain within the cell and influence the activity of the cell in some form or fashion. These types of chemical compounds are called 
autocrine  hormones (5). 
An example of this is insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I). IGF-I is produced in many cells of the body and is responsible for many of the actions of growth hormone. IGF-I can be measured from the circulating blood, yet it is important to mention that some IGF-I never leaves the cell.
Paracrine
Some hormones leave their endocrine cells and never enter circulation, but they travel to adjacent cells, where they exert their influence on cellular activity. These are called 
paracrine  
hormones (6). As with an autocrine system, circulating amounts of these paracrine chemi -
cal compounds may be important, but they do not account for the portion that never enters the circulation.
Endocrine
The term endocrine refers to hormones that are released into the bloodstream or lymph TABLE 6.1  Typical adult serum concentrations in both Système Internationale (SI) and conventional units 
(67,69)
Variable SI Unit Conventional Unit
Testosterone (4 p.m.) Men 10–35 nmol∙L−13–10 ng∙mL−1
Women <3.5 nmol∙L−1<0.1 ng∙mL−1
Cortisol (4 p.m.) 50–410 nmol∙L−12–15 µg∙mL−1
Growth hormone Men 0–5 µg∙L−10–5 ng∙mL−1
Women 0–10 µg∙L−10–10 ng∙mL−1
Insulin-like growth factor I Men 0.45–2.2 kU∙L−10.45–2.2 U∙mL−1
Women 0.34–1.9 kU∙L−10.34–1.9 U∙mL−1
Insulin (fasting) 35–145 pmol∙L−15–20 µU∙mL−1
Glucagon 50–100 ng∙L−150–100 pg∙mL−1
Epinephrine (resting, supine) 170–520 pmol∙L−130–95 pg∙mL−1
Norepinephrine (resting, supine) 0.3–2.8 nmol∙L−115–475 pg∙mL−1
Antidiuretic hormone 2.3–7.4 pmol∙L−12.5–8.0 ng∙mL−1
Aldosterone < 220 pmol∙L−1< 8 mg∙mL−1
Thyroxine (T4) 51–42 nmol∙L−14–11 µg∙mL−1
Triiodothyronine (T3) 1.2–3.4 nmol∙L−175–220 ng∙mL−1
Calcitonin < 50 ng∙L−1< 50 pg∙mL−1
Parathyroid hormone 10–65 ng∙L−110–65 pg∙mL−1

THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM129
Types of hormones
Hormones come in different chemical forms 
(Figure 6.3) and three basic chemical struc -
tures account for the hormones that are of most interest (7).
Steroid hormones
The steroid hormones  share the same four-
carbon-ring structure and affect growth and the development of the sex organs. All ster -
oid hormones are made from a cholesterol molecule, which is called a 
precursor mol-
ecule . Depending on the endocrine tissue 
involved, the cholesterol molecule is converted by 
enzymes  (proteins serving as catalysts in 
mediating and speeding a specific chemical reaction) into the final steroid hormone that is to be released. Different endocrine glands have different hormonal enzymes that determine which steroid hormone will be produced. Since the steroid hormones are formed from choles -
terol, they are 
lipophilic , which means that they 
can pass through the lipid membrane of a cell. Pharmaceutical forms of steroids, which are orally ingested or injected are called 
exogenous  
steroids, which means that they come from out -
side the body. These steroid types are typically variations of the hormones naturally produced by the body, which are known as 
endogenous  
steroids. Endogenous steroids will be the ster -
oids that are focused on in this chapter.
Peptide hormones
A second group of hormones comprises the 
peptide hormones , which consist of chains of 
amino acids , the building blocks of protein. 
Small chains (of fewer than 20 amino acids) are simply termed peptides and larger chains 
are called polypeptides. These hormones can 
be quite long, as exemplified by growth hor -
mone, which is 191 amino acids long. The shapes of these polypeptides are often deter -
mined by their amino acid sequences and by the existence of bonds between certain amino acids. These bonds cause the peptide to con -
figure into the specific shape required for the hormone to function optimally. It is impor -
tant to note that if any alteration occurs in the chain of amino acids, the hormone’s func -
tion may be affected. This can occur when one or more of the amino acids in the chain is replaced with a different amino acid or if Paracrine
Hormone
producing
cell Receptor cell
Endocrine
Hormone
producing cellCapillary
Neuroendocrine
Capillary NeuronAutocrine
Hormone
producing
cell Cell
Figure 6.2  Autocrine, paracrine, endocrine, and 
neuroendocrine transport routes of hormones.
system to control growth, metabolism, mood, and reproduction. Also, the term 
neuroendo-
crine  refers to hormones that are released into 
the bloodstream or lymph system following stimulation of the nervous system. Once the chemical compound is released, it travels via the circulation and eventually reaches its tar -
get tissue or is broken down into its metabolic by-products. Although many factors influence the concentrations of these hormones in the blood, it is still essential to measure their con -
centrations in the blood to fully understand their roles in physiological function.
Once produced, most hormones enter the 
circulation for transport (endocrine), some travel to adjacent cells (paracrine), and some never leave the cell (autocrine).

ANDY BOSAK130
the peptide chain is cut, which will result in a 
smaller peptide chain. Sometimes these altered forms of the hormone still have a function, but it is often different from that of the original hormone. Peptide hormones are more prone to 
degradation  in the circulation than steroid 
hormones. Degradation is the breakdown of a complex compound into simpler compounds. Additionally, peptide hormones are 
lipopho-
bic, which means they are repelled by lipids 
and cannot readily pass through the cell mem -
brane. Hence, they will require a receptor at the membrane that will permit them to act.
Amine hormones
The last group of hormones are the amine 
hormones , characterized by an amine ring. 
Since amine hormones are derived from amino acids, they are sometimes classified as pro-tein hormones. These hormones are found as either hormones or neurohormones and can be  produced and secreted by either endocrine tissues or nerve endings. Some of these com -
pounds also function as neurotransmitters in the nervous system. The typical precursor mol -
ecule of amine hormones is the amino acid tyrosine. In the event that tyrosine is not avail-able in adequate quantities, phenylalanine can be converted to tyrosine and then used for the synthesis of an amine hormone. Some amine hormones, such as epinephrine (also known as adrenaline) and norepinephrine (noradrena-line), break down rapidly in the circulation and must therefore exert their influence on target tissues in a rapid manner. Amine hormones are lipophobic like peptide hormones, which means they will require a membrane receptor.
The three types of hormones, steroid, peptide, 
and amine are each synthesized differently. Therefore, each of the three types has a specific role during exercise.Steroid hormones
(Cholesterol is precursor)OHABC D
TestosteroneOH
ABC D
O
Peptide hormones
(Amino acid chain)AA AA AA AA AA AA
Growth hormoneNH2
COOH
Amine hormones
(Tyrosine is a precursor)NH2CH2 OH CHCOOH
EpinerphrineNH CH2CH3OH
HOHO
CHType of Hormone Examples
Figure 6.3  Different types of hormones include steroid, peptide, and amine.

THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM131
Hormone production
As shown in Figure 6.4, each of the three types 
of hormones is produced in a different man-ner
. Therefore, understanding how the human 
body makes these hormones can give us a greater appreciation of the complex role they play in human performance.
Production of steroid hormones
As mentioned earlier, the synthesis of the differ -
ent types of steroid hormones is dependent on the various enzymes present in the particular endocrine gland (8,9). The first step is the con -
version of cholesterol to pregnenolone in the mitochondria of the cell. This is called the 
rate-
limiting  step in the process, since the subsequent 
steps occur more readily. Once the stimulus for steroid hormone synthesis arrives at the endo -
crine cell, the process begins with this first step to pregnenolone. Pregnenolone is then transported to the endoplasmic reticulum where it is con-verted via several enzymatic steps into the desired steroid. For some of the steroid hormones, addi -
tional processing occurs in the mitochondria. Once the final hormone is completed, it can dif-fuse through the cell membrane, which consists of two lipid layers. Owing to the hormone’s abil -
ity to exit the cell easily, these hormones are not stored, but instead produced as needed.
Production of peptide hormones
Peptide hormones are synthesized when the appropriate signal for hormone production results in 
messenger RNA (mRNA)  being pro-
duced in the cell nucleus (9). The mRNA serves as the code indicating which amino acids are needed and in what specific order. The mRNA is transported to the ribosomes, where the appro -
priate amino acids are brought and assembled mRNA
Processed into
prohormones &
ﬁnal hormones
Storage
Release
from cellNucleus
Crytosol
Ribosomes
Endoplasmic
reticulum &
Golgi apparatus
Vesicles
ExtracellularCholesterol
Pregenolone
Converted into
desired hormone
Final conversion
(not all steroids)
Diffuses through
cell membrane
(no storage)Mitochondria
Endoplasmic
reticulum
Mitochondria
CrytosolSteroids
Peptides
Tyrosine
DOPA
Dopamine
NE Epi
Epi
Storage
Release
from cellCytosol
Chromafﬁ n
granule
Cytosol
Vesicle
ExtracellularAmines
Translation into
precursor protein
Figure 6.4  Synthesis of different types of hormones. mRNA = messenger RNA; DOPA = 3,4 
dihydroxyphenylalanine; NE = norepinephrine; Epi = epinephrine.

ANDY BOSAK132
into a precursor molecule in a procedure called 
translation . The precursor molecules are then 
transported to the endoplasmic reticulum and 
the Golgi tendon organ for further modifica-tion. This very unique and detailed process is termed 
posttranslational processing , which 
often includes splicing the precursor amino acid chain into smaller molecules. Because peptide molecules are lipophobic, they cannot pass through the cell membrane. Therefore, to be released, they must enter storage vesicles in the cell, which can eventually release them to the surrounding environment. When a vesi-cle releases its contents, all the contents are released, but for more hormone to be released, additional vesicles must release their contents. This process is known as 
quantal release , since 
the amount of hormone secreted is always a multiple of the number of vesicles involved.
Production of amine hormones
Amine hormones are produced in chromaffin 
cells found in various tissues in the body (10). 
These cells are named based on their ability to take up chromium when stained. One family of amine hormones and neurohormones are the 
catecholamines  which include examples such as 
epinephrine, norepinephrine, and dopamine. As previously stated, the precursor molecule tyros -
ine enters the cytosol of the cell, where enzymes ultimately convert it to dopamine. Dopamine will then enter the chromaffin granule found in the cell, where it is converted to norepinephrine. For norepinephrine to be converted to epineph-rine, it must leave the chromaffin granule. After returning to the granule, epinephrine is stored in a vesicle, where it awaits quantal release from the cell. Depending on which enzymes are pre-sent or absent in the cell, the process of synthesis can stop at any of the preliminary hormones. Other amine hormones, such as the thyroid hormones, are produced in the follicular cells of the thyroid gland, and these hormones follow a different process for synthesis but are still char -
acterized by amine rings.
Hormonal transport and binding 
proteins
Once hormones are released into the circu -
lation, they must be transported in a timely 
fashion to the tissues where they are to act, but a problem the hormones encounter is the process of 
metabolism , or in other words, their 
degradation. Numerous factors can prevent hormone molecules from ever reaching their targets because of degradation. The time it takes for a hormone to be partially metabolized in the circulation, or for half of it to be degraded, is called its 
half-life (T1/2). Some hormones have 
a half-life measured in seconds, while the half-lives of others are measured in minutes or hours. To preserve a hormone for longer periods, the hormonal molecule may be protected by becom -
ing attached to a 
binding protein  which will also 
assist in the hormone’s transport, as illustrated 
in Figure 6.5 (11). Hormones such as steroid and thyroid hormones are bound to these 
transport 
proteins , while amines and protein hormones 
are not. Albumin , a binding protein made in the 
liver that helps to maintain blood volume in the arteries and veins, can bind numerous different hormones, but does not exhibit a high affinity to any of them. Regardless, the hormone-binding protein complex can move through the circula -
tion without the hormone being degraded. The problem with this system is that the hormone is unable to bind to its target tissue until it is released from the binding protein. When this happens, the hormone is considered 
biologically 
active , which means it is available for use during 
metabolism. The portion of the hormone not bound to a binding protein is called the percent 
free hormone , while the total hormone concen-
tration  includes both the free and the bound 
portions. Typically, when binding proteins are used, most of the circulating hormone is bound to a transport protein. For example, only 
Binding
protein
Bound hormone
(longer half life)Endocrine
cell
Unbound (free) hormone
(biologically available
to act on target)
Target cell
Figure 6.5  Binding proteins help protect circulating 
hormones.

THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM133
approximately 1% to 2% of the total testoster -
one in the circulation is free testosterone, which 
suggests it is not bound to its binding protein.
Binding proteins protect the hormone, but 
the hormone is biologically active only when it dissociates from the binding protein.
Factors affecting circulating 
concentrations
The concentration of hormones in the blood can 
be extremely variable, depending on the hormone and on a number of contributing factors (12).Hormone production and release
It would initially seem that the primary factor would simply be how much hormone is being produced by the endocrine gland. Although this is certainly one factor, the process is much more complicated, as suggested in Table 6.2. Three 
sites in the body can contribute to the circulating concentrations and they include the endocrine
 
cell, the circulating blood, and the target tissue. At the endocrine cell, it is not only the rate of hormonal synthesis that matters, but additional factors are how much hormone is released and how quickly this occurs.
Hormonal transport in the circulation
In the circulation, the binding proteins can affect the availability of a hormone at its tar -
get tissue (11). Additionally, hormones are degraded in various tissues, thus affecting how much hormone arrives at the target site. Other tissues are involved in this process, but hepatic clearance is a major factor. Concerning exer -
cise, after a vigorous effort, blood may pool in the venous circulation, resulting in less of the hormones circulating to the target tissue. One of the largest factors during exercise is 
plasma 
fluid shifts  (13). Plasma is the fluid portion of 
blood and during physical exercise, this fluid has a reduced volume within the blood which can result in a higher hormonal concentra -
tion. Factors that contribute to this specific change in plasma volume include fluid loss, specifically water, via sweating, and increased arterial pressures and postural changes. Plasma volume shifts of more than 15% have been reported for long-term endurance exer -
cise as well as resistance training sessions. This response is augmented when the exercise occurs in a hot and/or humid environment.
Hormonal activity at the target cell
At the target tissue, the properties of the hormone receptors are critical factors (14). 
Receptors  are 
the cellular structures to which the hormones bind and result in the appropriate action at the cell. The number of receptors available to bind to a hormone is known as 
receptor density . How 
readily the hormone attaches to the receptor, how sensitive the receptor is to the hormone, and 
postreceptor activity  can vary. This can involve 
the role of the signaling pathways  that instruct 
the cell how to respond once the hormone has bound to the receptor. Some of these signals are TABLE 6.2  Factors affecting hormone 
concentrations
Site Factor
Endocrine cell Hormone synthesis
Hormone release
Circulation Method of transport to target 
tissue
Binding proteins
Hormonal concentration
 •Total
 •Free
 •Bound
Fluid (plasma) shifts
Venous poolingHepatic (kidney) clearance ratesExtrahepatic clearance ratesDegradation of hormones
Target tissue Binding affinity
Receptors Maximal binding capacitySensitivity
Intracellular Second-messenger systemsNuclear receptor adaptations
Source: Reproduced with permission from Kraemer WJ. 
Endocrine responses and adaptations to strength training. In: Komi PV, ed. Strength and Power in Sport. Oxford, UK: Blackwell, 1992:291–304

ANDY BOSAK134
initiated at the receptors in the cell membrane 
and others are initiated in the cell nucleus, but this will depend upon the specific hormone.
Hormones affect their target tissues by binding 
to hormone-specific receptors. Binding at these receptors initiates the specific cellular responses to the hormone.
Trophic hormones and pulsatility
In order for a hormone to be secreted by its 
endocrine gland, the gland must receive some type of signal, and the signal needed for many hormones is a 
trophic hormone  from another 
endocrine gland or from the nervous system (15). When increased concentrations of a hor -
mone are required, the body detects this need and causes the trophic hormonal signal to be increased. This signal is not based simply on the hormone’s concentration, but also related to the trophic hormones that are released in a 
pulsatile  fashion (i.e., periodic bursts) as illus -
trated in Figure 6.6 (16). The trophic signal is increased either by increasing the frequency of the pulses or by increasing their magnitude or amplitude.
 But, to properly study these signals, 
many blood samples must be taken to measure pulse frequency and amplitude. For example, the primary trophic hormone for testosterone in males is luteinizing hormone (LH), which 
Concentration
TimeA
Concentration
TimeB
Figure 6.6  Pulsatility. Trophic hormones increase their signal by increasing the number and magnitude of pulses. 
Each arrow indicates a trophic hormone pulse. (A) A basal trophic signal. (B) An amplified trophic signal. Note 
that the signal is amplified by both increasing the frequency and the magnitude of pulses.
is released from the anterior pituitary gland. 
In turn, luteinizing hormone is regulated by LH-releasing hormone (LH-RH) from the hypothalamus. Thus, it is important to under -
stand that the control of our hormones is very complex and highly dependent on the signal-ing pattern of the trophic hormones.
Circulating concentrations are often regulated 
by trophic hormones that signal the synthesis and release of the hormones. This system is synchronized by a negative-feedback system that can detect the current blood concentrations.
HORMONAL RHYTHMS
Many hormones present different blood con-
centrations at different times of the day (17). In biological systems, hormonal variations occur over a number of time periods such as hourly, less than every 24 hours, every 24 hours, or at differ -
ent times of the year (seasonally). Of particular interest to this chapter are the 
circadian rhythms , 
or daily cycles of physiological processes, also known as the 
diurnal variation . Figure 6.7 illus-
trates an example of the diurnal variation for
 
cortisol. As shown, baseline concentrations can be quite high late in the typical sleep cycle and early in the morning. Therefore, any interpreta -
tion of the hormonal responses to exercise and sport must consider where the baseline values 

THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM135
were prior to the physical activity (18,19). Yet, 
many researchers simply avoid the times of day when hormonal concentrations are elevated (e.g., early morning for cortisol). In addition, when hormonal levels are being studied over a long time, as in a training study, the time of day the blood samples are taken must be kept constant to minimize the effect of diurnal variations.
Hormone concentrations are influenced by the 
time of day and by anticipation of an impending stressor, such as exercise or competition.
Anticipatory response
The hormonal response occurring in anticipa -
tion of impending exercise, sport, or physical 
activity is termed the anticipatory response  
(10). The body possesses a number of hor -
mones collectively called stress hormones  and 
these hormones help the body prepare for a stressful experience, whether it involves physi-cal activity, cognitive stress, or both. They are part of the 
fight or flight  response  and all bio -
logical systems have methods of responding and dealing with stressful situations, whether they involve fighting the threat or fleeing from it (20). Experienced athletes are very famil -
iar with the “pregame jitters” they encounter prior to an important competition, and similar feelings are also common in other scenarios, such as taking exams, public speaking, and musical recitals. In examining the hormonal responses to physical activity, it is important to separate the responses due to stressful antic -
ipation from those due to the actual physical activity. The catecholamine (i.e., epinephrine) that is particularly sensitive to an anticipatory 
response is illustrated in Figure 6.8. Yet, corti -
sol can also exhibit an anticipatory response.
 
Therefore, blood sampling must be performed prior to the anticipatory response to determine the actual resting baseline value. It should be noted that some individuals will exhibit an anticipatory response to the actual process of taking a blood sample with a needle. Hence in these specific cases, the sample must be taken when the needle has previously been inserted (i.e., via an intravenous catheter) and after the individual has had time to relax and return to baseline.
Biocompartments
The typical method of measuring hormonal concentrations involves venous blood sampling. Most hormones of interest are released directly into the circulation, which indicates that this is often the most sensitive way to measure the endocrine responses. Information on hormonal 0200400600800
8 A.M.
4 P.M.
4 A.M.8 P.M.
8 A.M.Noon
MidnightSleepnmol/L
Figure 6.7  Examples of the variations of 
concentrations of cortisol during a typical day. The 
shaded area indicates a typical sleep cycle. (Modified from Goodman HM. Basic Medical Endocrinology. New York: Raven Press, 1998:103).
Resting Pre-exercise Post-exercisepmol/LAnticipatory
response
01000200030004000500060007000
Figure 6.8  Example of the anticipatory response of 
epinephrine to a stressful lifting task. The difference 
between resting and preexercise concentrations represents the anticipatory response for the impending exercise. (Adapted from Fry AC, Kraemer WJ, van Borselen F, et al. Catecholamine responses to short-term high-intensity resistance exercise overtraining. J Appl Physiol 1994;77(2):941–946).

ANDY BOSAK136
activity, however, can be collected from other 
sites, or biocompartments , in the body (21). 
Since hormones are ultimately degraded to their metabolic by-products, urine may be sampled to indirectly determine the quantity of hormone produced over a period of time. For example, when true baseline or resting levels are of inter -
est, 
nocturnal urine measures  are analyzed  
for the hormonal by-products. In this manner, the total amount of hormone produced during the sleep hours, when one is most at rest, can  
be estimated. Another common biocompart-ment is saliva, which may also be analyzed to determine hormonal concentrations, since 
salivary concentrations  are related to blood 
concentrations. However, a limitation with sali-vary samples is that the measure is less sensitive to slight fluctuations in blood concentrations and it takes longer to respond to physical activ -
ity. On the other hand, both urine and saliva are obtained through 
noninvasive methods , mean-
ing that they can be obtained without breaking the skin. Hence, both methods are easier to collect than biocompartment samples such as interstitial fluid, gathered by 
invasive methods , 
which necessitate an incision or puncture. See Figure 6.9 for further detail. It is important to 
consider that there is some interest in interstitial fluid and intramuscular collection since this is
 
the fluid that is surrounding the muscle. Thus, collection of interstitial fluid may provide infor -
mation about the transport of hormones from circulation to the tissue (22).
Receptors and cell signaling
When a hormone molecule arrives at its target tissue, it interacts with the tissue by binding at a protein receptor. Receptors come in many different configurations, each hormone hav -
ing a receptor specific to it. This is known as 
receptor specificity  (8,14). This specificity has 
been described as being analogous to a lock and key. Just as the lock can be opened with only one particular key, one hormone can bind to only one type of receptor, resulting in the optimal desired response. In some cases, other similar hormones can also bind to the receptor, although the results may be slightly different or smaller in magnitude. This 
cross-
reactivity  exists when more than one hormone 
can bind at a particular receptor. Cellular receptors are a favorite site of action for many of the pharmaceutical drugs in use today, and these drugs act as 
analogues  to the natural 
chemicals of the body, which means they are 
More sensitive Less sensitiveEndocrine
cell
CirculationUrine
(can measure hormonal
activity over a period of
time, e.g., 8 hours for
nocturnal measures)
Saliva
(noninvasive measure
is easier to obtain than blood
sample)
Figure 6.9  Hormonal levels can be determined by sampling from either blood (whole, serum, or plasma), or 
urinary or salivary biocompartments. Sensitivity of the sample to hormonal fluctuations decreases when not taken 
from the circulation.

THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM137
similar enough that they are able to bind to 
their respective receptors. Since they are not identical to the body’s endogenous hormones, neurohormones, and neurotransmitters, they can result in a number of unwanted side effects. Of particular interest, receptors are often located in the cell membrane, where the circulating hormones have ready access for binding, as illustrated in Figure 6.10. Steroid receptors, however, are located within the cell nucleus,
 since steroids can easily enter the cell 
due to their lipophilic nature, and regardless of the location of the receptor, the activity of the cell is modified in some fashion as soon as a hormone binds to its receptor.
Second-messenger systems
Figure 6.10 illustrates several of the second-messenger systems used by membrane-bound receptors,
 and it is abundantly clear that several  
different types of hormones can interact with the 
adenylate cyclase–cyclic adenosine 
monophosphate (cAMP) system  (14,23). When 
hormone A (Ha) binds to its receptor, the 
stimulating G protein (Gs) activates adenylate 
cyclase to produce cAMP from adenosine triphosphate (ATP). This causes a kinase to modify an enzyme in the cell to either increase or decrease its activity. Yet, other hormones work in an opposite manner by activating an 
inhibiting G protein (Gi), which turns off the 
adenylate cyclase activity. Also, other hor -
mones (Hc) bind to receptors associated with 
a different second-messenger system, the diacyl 
glycerol (DG)-inositol triphosphate (IP3) system  
(14,24). Activation of DG results in a protein-activated cell response, while production of IP
3 
releases calcium from storage sites within the cell. This calcium activates 
calmodulin , which Steroid
hormone
systemBinding
protein
Steroid
hormone2nd messenger systems
Cell responseActivates
protein
or
enzyme activity
response
CellActivates
protein kinaseIntracellular
Ca++ releasedProtein
Kinase C
ATP cAMPGDPGDPDGGTP
GTPIP3GSGiHBHAHC
R R R G AC PK-CCa++
Activates
calmodulinProtein
synthesis
responseCytoplasmic
receptor
mRNA
DNA
Nucleus
Cell
Figure 6.10  Hormonal intracellular signaling systems. Habc = different hormones; R = receptor; Gs = 
stimulating G protein; Gi = inhibiting G protein; AC = adenylate cyclase; GDP = guanosine diphosphate;  
GTP = guanosine triphosphate; ATP = adenosine triphosphate; cAMP = cyclic adenosine monophosphate;  
PK-C = protein kinase C; DG = diacyl glycerol; IP3 = inositol triphosphate.

ANDY BOSAK138
results in a protein-activated cell response. An 
alternative mechanism of action is a receptor-activated 
influx  of calcium from outside the 
cell. As with IP3, this activates calmodulin, 
which will produce the desired cell response.
Nuclear interactions
Steroid hormones work in a completely dif-ferent manner, and since they can readily pass through the cell membrane, they are able to enter the 
cytosol  where they are bound to a 
chaperone protein, sometimes called a cyto-
plasmic receptor  (8,25,26). This protein 
escorts the steroid to the cell nucleus where it can bind to a site on the cell DNA. This initiates a process called 
transcription , which 
results in the coded signal for the produc -
tion of a cellular protein. This signal leaves the nucleus in the form of messenger ribonu -
cleic acid (mRNA), and at the ribosomes, the protein is assembled from the various amino acids, resulting in the desired cell response. Regardless of which system is used, each hormone binds to its target receptor, which activates many sequential events resulting in the proper cell response.
Regulating hormonal levels
As previously mentioned, the increase or decrease in production of many hormones depends on the signal of trophic hormones (15). When the central nervous system detects a need for increased or decreased hormonal levels, it signals a trophic endo -
crine gland to increase or decrease its signal to the target endocrine gland. The pulsatile nature of the trophic hormone release sends the appropriate signal to the endocrine gland of interest. Once the hormonal concentra -
tions increase, both the regulating endocrine gland in the central nervous system (CNS) and the trophic endocrine gland detect these increased concentrations and decrease their signals. This regulatory mechanism is called a 
negative-feedback system . This regula-
tory mechanism is also known as cybernetic 
regulation , as displayed in Figure 6.11. The 
system for regulating testosterone in males is 
a good example of negative-feedback 
regulation as circulating concentrations of testosterone are detected by both the hypo-thalamus, which produces LH-RH, and the anterior pituitary, which produces LH. This causes the signal to the testes to be altered, depending on whether more or less testos-terone is needed. In this manner, the body is able to closely control the levels of hormones found in the circulating blood.
HORMONES VITAL TO 
EXERCISE
Although many hormones and neurohormones 
are responsible for the healthy functioning of the human body, the following section identi -
fies the primary hormones of interest for this chapter.
Testosterone
Testosterone is a steroid hormone produced primarily by the 
Leydig cells  in the male testes. 
Circulating testosterone in females is about 10% of that in males and is derived from the ovaries, (i.e., the female sexual glands, which produce estrogen, testosterone, and progesterone), and the adrenal cortex. During maturation, testos-terone contributes to many of the male sexual −
−− +
+
+Regulating
endocrine
gland
Trophic
endocrine
gland
Target
tissueCirculating
hormone
Figure 6.11  Example of negative-feedback regulation 
of circulating hormones. + = upregulation; − = 
downregulation; ↑ = increased.

THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM139
characteristics associated with development. 
Testosterone is regulated by the hypothalamic-
pituitary axis . In this regulatory structure, the 
hypothalamus detects circulating concentra -
tions of testosterone and secretes LH-RH. This stimulates the release of LH from the anterior pituitary, which functions as the primary stim -
ulus for the release of testosterone from the testes. This process takes up to 15 minutes to occur, so faster responses are probably due to direct innervation of the testes or to sympathetic 
nervous activity via circulating epinephrine or 
norepinephrine. Once released, testosterone is  
bound to its binding protein known as 
sex  
hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) .
Cortisol
Cortisol is a steroid hormone secreted by the outer layer of the adrenal glands (i.e., the 
adre-
nal cortex ), and it is sometimes called a stress 
hormone  since it is released when the individ-
ual experiences either physical or psychological stresses. Cortisol’s principal role is to ensure the availability of energy. In this role, cortisol increases the production of glucose from either fat or protein in the liver (a process called 
gluco-
neogenesis ), decreases glucose uptake, increases 
glycogen production in skeletal muscle, and causes amino acids to be mobilized from skeletal muscle. Because of this breakdown of protein into amino acids, cortisol is often termed a 
catabolic hormone . Circulating levels 
of cortisol are detected by the hypothalamus, which secretes 
corticotropin-releasing hormone 
(CRH) , a polypeptide hormone involved in the 
stress response. CRH then stimulates the ante -
rior pituitary to release adrenocorticotropic 
hormone (ACTH) , which in turn signals the 
adrenal cortex to produce and release cortisol.
Testosterone/cortisol ratio
The ratio between testosterone, an anabolic hor -
mone  that causes the synthesis of molecules into 
more complex molecules, and cortisol, a cata-
bolic hormone , has been used as a hormonal 
indicator of training stress (27). This can be con -
sidered for both a single aerobic training session and/or a long-term training phase. With a single stressful exercise session, testosterone initially increases or decreases, but cortisol increases to a greater extent. The net result is that the ratio decreases. Thus, the more stressful the session is then the more the ratio decreases. The ratio will also decrease over time in performing a stress-ful phase of training involving multiple sessions. As the individual tapers or backs off the train -
ing, the ratio returns to initial levels. As such, this ratio has been used as a marker of training stresses and is thought to be very useful when monitoring recovery status of athletes. Also, 
using the ratio between 
free testosterone  (the 
portion of circulating testosterone not bound to 
SHBG) and cortisol could be a more sensitive indicator for monitoring an athlete’s recovery status. This idea is based on the fact that free testosterone is the actual hormone that is bio -
logically available to exert its actions at the target tissue.
Growth hormone
Growth hormone is a polypeptide hormone consisting of 191 amino acids and 2 disulfide bonds. It is produced and secreted from the anterior pituitary gland in a pulsatile fash-ion. Concentrations of growth hormone are increased by its trophic hormone, GH-RH, and decreased by 
GH-inhibiting hormone 
(GH-IH) , both from the hypothalamus. Many 
variations of growth hormone appear to exist because various forms of the original peptide are produced, but this makes growth-hormone data difficult to interpret at times. Many of the actions of growth hormone occur because of its effect on insulin-like growth factors. Although growth hormone is most often associated with its growth properties (including skeletal mus-cle), it also exerts tremendous influence on the metabolic system and energy availability as it increases muscle uptake of amino acids as well as the breakdown of lipids via 
lipolysis . The 
net result is that amino acids are preferentially used for anabolic purposes by muscle, and gly -
colytic energy sources are spared in favor of 
lipid energy sources.
Insulin-like-growth factor I (IGF-I)
The IGF-I system is composed of the IGF-I ligand (a 7.6-kD 70 amino acid polypeptide secreted from the liver), six binding proteins, 

ANDY BOSAK140
an acid labile subunit, and two receptors. The 
synthesis of IGF-I has been reported to be  
under the regulation of GH release, but exercise-  
related IGF-I responses, especially at the local tissue level, appear to be independent of GH (28,29). Similar to GH, IGF-I has multiple metabolic and hypertrophic actions, including insulin-like activity and direct stimulation of protein synthesis pathways.
Insulin and glucagons
Insulin and glucagons are considered together, since their actions are so closely associated. Insulin is a 51-amino-acid peptide hormone produced by the 
beta cells  of the pancreas, the 
organ that secretes both insulin and glucagon. Insulin consists of a 21–amino acid A-chain and a 30–amino acid B-chain connected by 
two disulfide bonds. Glucagon is also a poly -
peptide chain, yet it is only 29 amino acids long and is produced by the 
alpha cells  of the 
pancreas. Insulin and glucagons are released in response to increasing or decreasing blood glucose levels. Increasing concentrations of insulin prompt circulating glucose to be taken up by the following:
1
 Adipose cells for conversion to triglycer -
ides
2 Liver cells for conversion to glycogen
3 Skeletal muscle cells for conversion to gly -
cogen
The net result is control of rising blood 
glucose levels and storage of energy for future 
use. Glucagon, however, results in the exact opposite responses. Triglycerides are metabo-lized in adipose tissue whereas amino acids and glycogen are metabolized in the liver. These collectively increase circulating glucose during times of high energy needs, such as dur -
ing exercise, sport, and physical activity. Both insulin and glucagon are also under control by epinephrine and norepinephrine from the sym -
pathetic nervous system (SNS), causing insulin 
to decrease and glucagon to increase.
Epinephrine
Epinephrine, sometimes referred to as adrena -
line, is an amine neurohormone. Although it serves as a neurotransmitter  in the CNS and 
transmits signals between the synapses of 
nerve cells, its role in the circulation is of major interest in this chapter. Blood-borne epineph -
rine comes from chromaffin cells in the center portion (i.e., medulla) of the adrenal glands. Upon neural stimulation, the adrenal medulla dumps its contents into the renal vein, which contributes to a very fast epinephrine response. Furthermore, the adrenal medulla is com-pletely surrounded by the adrenal cortex and 
therefore, the medulla is constantly exposed 
to cortisol. This specific interaction with cor -
tisol is critical for maintaining resting levels of epinephrine. When it is released into the circu -
lation, epinephrine interacts with a variety of 
alpha  and beta receptors  in many different tis -
sues of the body. Epinephrine is responsible for many of the “fight-or-flight” responses, and the physiological responses to stress prepare the body to either fight or flee from an impend-ing threat and include increased arousal and cardiac output, altered blood-flow patterns, enhanced muscle contractions, and greater energy availability.
Norepinephrine
Norepinephrine, also known as noradrena -
line, is an amine neurohormone. Unlike epinephrine, which is derived primarily from the adrenal medulla, most of the circulating norepinephrine comes from spillover from the SNS synapses. Hence, norepinephrine is some -
times considered an indicator of SNS activity. The adrenal medulla also produces some nor -
epinephrine, but this is usually less than 20% of the epinephrine released.
Aldosterone
Aldosterone is a steroid hormone secreted by the adrenal cortex and is a key player in fluid regulation as it responds to a decrease in blood pressures due to lowered blood fluid volumes. To counter this problem, aldosterone 
acts in the kidneys to keep sodium from being 
excreted. When sodium is retained, fluid is also retained, which helps counter the previously detected fluid loss. It is important to note that this response is not rapid and requires 30 min -
utes or more to go into effect.

THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM141
Antidiuretic hormone
Antidiuretic hormone (ADH) is a peptide 
hormone secreted by the posterior pituitary under hypothalamic control. Also known as arginine vasopressin, ADH responds to hydration status as does aldosterone, yet the mechanisms behind ADH are somewhat dif -
ferent. The concentration of proteins in the blood is known as the blood’s osmolality, and this increases when fluid leaves the plasma portion of blood. The change in osmolality is readily detected in the arterial and venous circulation, which will yield a rapid ADH response. With ADH stimulation, the kidneys readily take up more fluid, which otherwise might have been excreted. ADH is also a strong vasoconstrictor which helps maintain blood pressure even when blood fluid levels have been reduced.
Thyroid hormones
The thyroid hormones thyroxine (T4) and trii-
odothyronine (T3) are secreted by the thyroid 
gland. They are derived from tyrosine and contain either four or three iodine molecules respectively. They are regulated by thyrotropin, also known as thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), from the pituitary gland. T
4 is secreted in 
greater quantities than T3, but much of T4 is con-
verted throughout the body to the more potent T
3. The thyroid hormones are basically responsi -
ble for increasing the body’s metabolic rate and enhancing the action of other hormones.Calcium-regulating hormones
Calcitonin, from the thyroid gland, and parathyroid hormone, from the parathyroid gland, are both responsible for regulating calcium concentrations in the circulation. As calcium levels in the blood are detected, cal -
citonin is released to stop calcium from being taken from bone and to increase the excre -
tion of calcium in the kidneys. Parathyroid hormone, however, works in an opposite manner. When blood calcium levels are low, release of parathyroid hormone stimulates bone to release calcium and inhibits excretion of calcium in the kidneys. Since the largest pool of calcium in the body is found in the skeletal system, it has been speculated that alterations of these hormones may be critical for the proper skeletal adaptations to exercise and physical activity.
EFFECTS OF EXERCISE ON 
THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM
The endocrine system responds and adapts to 
the stresses placed on it, which include exer -
cise, physical activity, and training for sports performance. The body will adapt to stress and produce enhanced performances or at least a tol -
erance for current activity levels (30). Although the hormonal response is not the only adapta -
tion the body makes to exercise, it is of major importance as these hormones interact with so many other tissues and systems of the body.
REAL-WORLD APPL iCATiON
Maximizing your endocrine response
Athletes perform resistance training for a variety of reasons. One of the most common 
goals is skeletal muscle hypertrophy. In order to optimize anabolic hormone responses, the training program must be designed to do so. A resistance training session with the goal of increasing anabolic hormone responses, and in turn, inducing muscle hypertrophy, should meet the following criteria: 1) target large muscle groups; 2) be comprised of complex, multi-joint movements; 3) intensity of effort should be high; 4) volume should be high with intensity of load being moderate-to-heavy; and 5) rest period should be low (around 60 seconds).

ANDY BOSAK142
Acute and chronic training 
adaptations
Regular training and physical activity result 
in an adaptation of the body to accommo -
date the stress. Hormonally, this can lead to the upregulation or downregulation of dif-ferent hormones, depending on the types of physical activity and the physiological system involved. 
Upregulation  refers to an increase in 
the number of receptors on the surface of tar -
get cells which make the cells more sensitive to a hormone or other molecule. Conversely, 
downregulation  is a decrease in the number of 
receptors on the surface of target cells which make the cells less sensitive to a hormone or other molecule. On the one hand, these changes can be quite simple as they either increase or decrease the circulating concen -
trations found in the blood, but the changes 
can also be more complex. Figure 6.12 illus -
trates an example of how some hormones can 
both increase and decrease in response to 
long-term training (31,32). Prior to engaging in a chronic training program, individuals can exercise only up to a certain work rate due to their untrained status. But, as they increase their exercise intensity, the hormonal response increases accordingly. After long-term training has resulted in an increased capacity to exer -
cise, they can exercise at a higher work rate. Also, when they exercise at the same absolute work rate as they did before participating in the chronic training program, they now will require less hormonal response to complete the same activity. On the other hand, when they exercise at their maximal capacity, they can produce a greater hormonal response which yields a greater work rate. Essentially, the individual will become more efficient dur -
ing submaximal exercise while at the same time being capable of functioning at much higher intensities. It is important to note that acute responses to exercise are determined immediately or shortly after completing the exercise as these values represent the hormo -
nal response to a single exercise session. On the other hand, chronic hormonal responses are often determined from changes in resting hormonal concentrations. These values rep -
resent the long-term concentrations that are continuously exposed to the target tissue.Responses and adaptations of 
hormones to endurance exercise
The following section addresses the primary 
hormones of interest and how they acutely respond to different intensities and dura-tions of aerobic exercise. Where available, the chronic responses to long-term training are also included. It is very important to notice that the figures for each hormone indicate representative values and responses and these may vary between individuals and with differ -
ent testing conditions.
During aerobic activities, most hormones increase 
as intensity and duration increase. Some important exceptions, however, should be noted.
Testosterone and endurance exercise
Acute responses to endurance exercise 
During aerobic exercise, testosterone increases in an intensity-dependent manner. Meaning, low intensities of exercise elicit little or no response and maximum or near-maximum intensities result in a significant elevation, as noted in Figure 6.13. During prolonged  Work rateHighHigh
LowLowConcentrationLow sub-max
response
after trainingGreater max
response
after training
Untrained Trained
Figure 6.12  Common long-term training adaptations 
for hormonal responses to an exercise session. Note 
the decreased hormonal response at an absolute submaximal work rate after long-term training (indicated by the large arrow) but the increased hormonal response at maximal work rates. The trained individual is capable of exercising at higher work rates.

THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM143
aerobic exercise, testosterone exhibits a biphasic  
response (35). Provided that the intensity is 
great enough, testosterone concentrations increase initially. If the duration of the exer -
cise is long enough, concentrations decrease, which suggests that the decline in glucose levels may blunt the testosterone response. An example of this is the depressed testos -
terone levels that are reported after a runner completes a marathon. Also, of further impor -
tance, since the amounts of testosterone in females are small, little to no responses are usually observed (36).
Chronic responses to endurance exercise
Long-term endurance training has often been associated with lower concentrations of testosterone, but this may be simply due to the effects of the huge volumes of training reported for these individuals. Testosterone is inversely related to training stress where once the training stress increases, the testosterone levels will decrease. However, the observed lower concentrations are not enough to be medically significant. In addition, the fraction of testosterone measured in the blood and its other physiological roles may affect concen -
trations. Testosterone can be measured as a bound fraction (bound to SHBG), free, or total. Some researchers will only report the free testosterone concentrations, theorizing that it is the only one that is biologically available to the individual. Also, testos-terone has a potent chronic metabolic role which increases the production of red blood cells, yielding an increase in oxygen carrying capacity.
Gender differences
Instead of testosterone, the primary sex-related hormones of interest in females are progesterone and the estrogens such as estra -
diol, estrone, and estriol. As with testosterone, these hormones increase somewhat in an intensity-dependent manner (37). The phase of the menstrual cycle and energy balance can influence the acute and chronic responses. Plus, it is important to note that the use of hormonally based oral contraceptives can alter these responses. Given these factors, it is hard to determine the sole effects of endurance exercise on sex-related hormones.
Cortisol and endurance exercise
Acute responses to endurance exerciseDuring aerobic exercise, cortisol increases mostly in an intensity-dependent man -
ner (38,39). Hence, at very low intensities, cortisol is not increased and may actually decrease slightly due to the very low stress on the metabolic systems at these intensities.  Male onlynmol/L
VO2 max A25% 50% 75% 100%0153045
Male
Femalenmol/L
B Minutes0
0153045
30 60
Figure 6.13  Responses of circulating concentrations of total testosterone to aerobic activities (33,34). A. 
Typical responses for men at different aerobic intensities (% <adV>O2 max). B. Testosterone concentrations 
during 60 minutes of high-intensity endurance exercise for both men and women.

ANDY BOSAK144
As illustrated in Figure 6.14, intensi -
ties greater than 50% of 
Vo2 max result 
in elevations of cortisol due to the energy 
requirements needed to perform at these levels. A similar response is observed for pro -
longed aerobic exercise, with elevations in cortisol levels occurring as the duration of exercise increases (43).
Chronic responses to endurance exercise
The long-term training response includes lower cortisol concentrations (32), and these reflect the body’s ability to utilize the energy substrate available in a more efficient man-ner. However, no long-term differences and transient increases have been reported (14). Short-term high-intensity training may tem-porarily increase resting levels, but as with testosterone, this may be indicative of the nature of the training stressors.
Testosterone/cortisol ratio and 
endurance exercise
Because of the extremely high volumes of 
training that endurance athletes often per -
form, this hormonal ratio is often depressed among endurance athletes (45–47). This does not have to be the case, however, since this ratio can rebound when training volume is reduced.The ratio between testosterone and cortisol is 
extremely important for strength adaptations. The body will be in a catabolic state if cortisol levels are greater than testosterone levels. However, when testosterone levels are higher than the cortisol levels, the body will be in an anabolic state which yields adaptations to strength training.
Growth hormone and endurance 
exercise
Acute responses to endurance exercise
Since growth hormone is closely tied to energy availability, circulating concentrations are positively related to exercise intensity and are highly correlated with lactate response (38,39). During aerobic exercise completed at maximal intensities, very large increases in growth hormone levels can be observed. Also, as displayed in Figure 6.15, the levels 
of growth hormone increase with increasing durations of aerobic exercise (49).
Chronic responses to endurance exercise
Few data exist describing the chronic rest -
ing adaptations of GH to endurance exercise,
 
but it appears that chronic training has no effect on resting GH concentrations. Women do exhibit higher resting concentrations ver -
sus their male counterparts, but this occurs regardless of their training status.VO2 max25% 50% 75% 100%0150300450nmol/L
A00150300450
30 60nmol/L
Minutes BPre
Post
Figure 6.14  Responses of circulating concentrations of cortisol to aerobic activities (25,40,41,42). A. Typical 
responses at different aerobic intensities (%<adV>O2 max). B. Cortisol concentrations during 60 minutes of 
endurance exercise at = 60% <adV>O2 max. Pre and post refer to before and after long-term training.

THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM145
During exercise, long-term training results 
in a lesser acute response to a given submaxi -
mal workload, which appears to be the result 
of a more efficient metabolic system in trained individuals (50). However, maximal exercise efforts result in a greater growth hormone response in trained individuals (38).
Gender differences
Few studies exist that have evaluated gender differences in GH in response to endurance training. However, a prior study in trained endurance runners reported that GH con -
centrations increased in men, but not women after prolonged moderate intensity running (96). Conversely, other studies have reported no differences (52,53).
IGF-I and endurance exercise
Acute responses to endurance exerciseIncreases, decreases, and no change in IGF-I concentrations during exercise have been reported, yet the majority of the studies suggest a transient increase in an intensity-dependent fashion, but then a return to resting values occurs within 30 minutes of exercise (44). As previously indicated, exer -
cising IGF-I levels are not under the control of GH and increases may be due to the release of a muscle isoform of IGF-I (29). Also of importance, IGF-I is highly dependent on nutritional status and this may account for the disparate results.
Chronic responses to endurance exercise
Chronic training produces a biphasic response of IGF-I, decreasing in the initial few weeks of training, followed by an increase that is above pretraining values (52). In addition, cross-sectional studies have suggested that IGF-I is highly correlated with VO
2 max val -
ues, which may suggest that this is a possible biomarker for fitness status (54). However, the completion of more research studies is needed concerning the role that IGF-I may play in endurance training adaptations.
Gender differences
Similar to GH responses, gender differences in IGF-I response to endurance exercise are con-flicting, with few differences being reported (51).
Insulin, glucagon, and endurance 
exercise
Acute responses to endurance exercise
During aerobic exercise, insulin decreases, which will maximize the uptake of blood glu -
cose when it is needed for energy. However, glucagon increases, which will permit glucose A VO2 max25% 50% 75% 100%015
1030µg/L
Minutesµg/L
B0
01030
20
30 60Pre
Post
Figure 6.15  Responses of circulating concentrations of growth hormone to aerobic activities (40,41,48). A. Typical 
responses at different aerobic intensities (%<adV>O2 max). B. Growth hormone concentrations during 60 minutes 
of high-intensity endurance exercise. Pre and post refer to before and after long-term training.

ANDY BOSAK146
to become available for energy. In this manner, 
these two hormones work together to properly regulate glucose availability during physical activity (38,39). Figure 6.16 illustrates the responses of insulin to aerobic activities, and Figure 6.17 shows the responses of glucagon to aerobic activities.
Chronic responses to endurance exercise
After long-term training,
 the decrease in 
insulin is less pronounced, which is most likely due to the almost nonexistent change in glucagon. Glucose uptake becomes less dependent on insulin, since chronic training results in increased activation of membrane glucose transport proteins, which regulate the transport of glucose across the plasma cellu-lar membrane. In addition, chronic training results in a decreased response of the sympa-thetic nervous system; thus, levels of insulin are decreased, and glucagon increases to a lesser extent.A VO2 max25% 50% 75% 100%040
2060pmol/L
Bpmol/L40
2060
Minutes0
03 06 0Pre
Post
Figure 6.16  Responses of circulating concentrations of insulin to aerobic activities (23,57). A. Typical responses 
at different aerobic intensities (%<adV>O2 max). B. Insulin concentrations during 60 minutes of high-intensity 
endurance exercise. Pre and post refer to before and after long-term training.
A VO2 max25% 50% 75% 100%0100200300ng/L
Bng/L
Minutes0 30 600100200300
Pre
Post
Figure 6.17  Responses of circulating concentrations of glucagon to aerobic activities (40,41). A. Typical 
responses at different aerobic intensities (%<adV>O2 max). B. Glucagon concentrations during 60 minutes of 
high-intensity endurance exercise. Pre and post refer to before and after long-term training.

THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM147
Gender differences
Women exhibit greater increases in insulin in response to submaximal endurance exer -
cise compared to men (51,55). Researchers speculate that this difference is due to either autonomic nervous system regulation differ -
ences and/or substrate utilization differences.
Epinephrine and endurance exercise
Acute responses to endurance exerciseCompared to other hormones, the catecho -
lamines exhibit extremely large responses to physical exercise. Epinephrine is particularly susceptible to an anticipatory response (56,57). In response to aerobic exercise, concentrations of epinephrine increase in an intensity-dependent manner (41,58) as suggested in Figure 6.18, yet the responses at low intensities are sometimes minimal.
 Furthermore, concentrations will 
increase with increasing duration of aerobic exercise (38,60).
Chronic responses to endurance exercise
As illustrated in Figure 6.12, long-term aero -
bic 
training results in an increased ability to 
secrete epinephrine at maximal intensities. On the other hand, absolute submaximal intensities result in lower concentrations after training, indicative of a more efficient system. The receptors for epinephrine are very sensitive to circulating concentrations and will readily decrease in number or responsiveness if epi -
nephrine levels remain elevated for too long a time (33).
Gender differences
Males exhibit greater concentrations of epi -
nephrine during exercise when compared to females (61,62). This differential response may be related to the fact that men utilize more carbohydrates during prolonged exercise, while women rely primarily on fat oxidation. Data concerning the training effect on chronic epinephrine concentrations is limited and it is unclear whether women exhibit the same chronic effects as men (63).
Norepinephrine and endurance 
exercise
Acute responses to endurance exercise
Although epinephrine and norepinephrine appear to respond similarly, they are pri -
marily derived from different sources and their responses to exercise are not absolutely identical. As such, they represent different physiological phenomena. Norepinephrine increases in an aerobic intensity-dependent manner, with greater intensities eliciting larger responses (41,58). As displayed in Figure 6.19, similar to epinephrine, norepinephrine A VO2 max25% 50% 75% 100%02000
10003000pmol/L
B Minutes03 06 002000
10003000pmol/LPre
Post
Figure 6.18  Responses of circulating concentrations of epinephrine to aerobic activities (18,40,43,59). A. Typical 
responses at different aerobic intensities (%<adV>O2 max). B. Epinephrine concentrations during 60 minutes of 
high-intensity endurance exercise. Pre and post refer to before and after long-term training.

ANDY BOSAK148
increases with longer duration aerobic exer -
cise (38,60).
Chronic responses to endurance exercise
Long-term training will result in greater nor -
epinephrine concentrations with maximal exercise, yet submaximal exercise will produce smaller concentrations, but this is dependent upon a more efficient system, as suggested in Figure 6.12. If exercise results in excessive 
elevation of the catecholamines for extended periods of time,
 the physiological system 
responsible (SNS) can become exhausted and lead to an impaired performance (27).
Gender differences
The gender difference of norepinephrine in response to exercise is equivocal, with AV O2 max25% 50% 75% 100%0204060nmol/L
BM inutes03 06 00204060nmol/LPre
Post
Figure 6.19  Responses of circulating concentrations of norepinephrine to aerobic activities (18,40,43,59). A. 
Typical responses at different aerobic intensities (%<adV>O2 max). B. Norepinephrine concentrations during 60 
minutes of high-intensity endurance exercise. Pre and post refer to before and after long-term training.
A VO2 max25% 50% 75% 100%pmol/L
0306090
BM inutes03 06 0pmol/L
0306090
Figure 6.20  Responses of circulating concentrations of aldosterone to aerobic activities (35,65). A. Typical 
responses at different aerobic intensities up to 80% <adV>O2 max. The dotted line indicates expected values for 
greater intensities. B. Aldosterone concentrations during 60 minutes of high-intensity endurance exercise. Note 
that the aldosterone response is highly dependent on the exercise intensity and the existing hydration status of the individual.

THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM149
increased responses in men being reported (61) 
and no differences also being reported (53,55).
Aldosterone and endurance exercise
Acute responses to endurance exerciseAs with many hormones, aldosterone increases during aerobic exercise in an intensity-dependent  
manner (64). Although aldosterone will increase during long-duration aerobic exercise, the extent of this increase is highly dependent on the environmental conditions (40). For example, conditions where sweat rates are high will even -
tually result in lowered plasma fluid levels and a concomitant decrease in blood pressure. As dis-
played in Figure 6.20, in extreme conditions, the 
aldosterone response can be quite large.
Chronic responses to endurance exercise
Chronic endurance 
training may enhance aldos-
terone response and sensitivity during exercise leading to an expansion in plasma volume. This may explain the greater stroke volumes and lower heart rates with a given exercise intensity observed in trained athletes (66).
ADH and endurance exercise
Acute responses to endurance exerciseAt low aerobic exercise intensities, ADH exhibits little or no response, but at greater intensities, the increase in ADH is quite sub -
stantial (64).
Chronic responses to endurance exercise
As with aldosterone, long-duration aerobic exercise increases ADH, but these responses are very dependent on the environmental 
conditions (40). As shown in Figure 6.21, 
long-term 
aerobic training results in lowered 
ADH responses at the same absolute exercise intensity, while the response increases at the same relative intensity.
Thyroid hormones and endurance 
exercise
Acute responses to endurance exercise
Although the thyroid hormones are undoubtedly critical for health, their responses to exercise are reportedly quite variable (67), and little is known concerning their responses and adaptations to acute and chronic exercise. However, a prior study sug -
gested that exhaustive endurance exercise decreases thyroid hormones for 24 hours into recovery and that cortisol responses are inversely related to the reduction, which illustrates the important role that thyroid hormones play in energy balance during and after exercise (68).
A VO2 max25% 50% 75% 100%0246µU/mL
BM inutes0 30 600246µU/mL
Figure 6.21  Responses of circulating concentrations of anti-diuretic hormone to aerobic activities (35,65). A. 
Typical responses at different aerobic intensities up to 80% <adV>O2 max. The dotted line indicates expected 
values for greater intensities. B. Antidiuretic hormone concentrations during 60 minutes of high-intensity 
endurance exercise. Note that the aldosterone response is highly dependent on the exercise intensity and the existing hydration status of the individual.

ANDY BOSAK150
Chronic responses to endurance exercise
Some evidence exists that the thyroid hor -
mones decrease chronically during stressful phases of training, but this is not conclusive. Given the acute data, it is possible that chronic decreases would result from lower hypotha-lamic-pituitary signaling and may be indicative of energy conservation in athletes undergoing high-intensity training (69,70).
Calcium-regulating hormones and 
endurance exercise
To date, it has been difficult to tie calcium reg -
ulating hormones in with the exercise-induced 
responses of the skeletal system. Although acute exercise can increase circulating con -
centrations of these hormones, no definitive pattern has been identified concerning acute or chronic exercise responses (67).Responses and adaptations of 
hormones to resistance exercise
One of the problems with studying the endo -
crine responses to resistance exercise is the 
tremendous variety that exists with the vari -
ous training stimuli. This is best illustrated by the five acute training variables for resistance exercise (71,72). They are as follows:
1
 Choice of exercise
2 Order of exercise
3 V olume of exercise
4 Intensity (or load) of exercise
5 Interset rest intervals
These five variables represent all of the 
possible variables for a single weight-training 
session. Needless to say, each of the variables 
TABLE 6.3  Known effects of the acute weight training variables on several hormonal responses to a single 
exercise session (8,29,31,48,56,73–79)
Acute 
training variableT estosterone Cortisol Growth hormone Lactate
Choice of 
exercise↑ With large-
muscle-mass exercises and high-
power exercises, 
moderately high volumes necessary↑ With large-muscle-mass exercises and high-power 
exercises, ↑ usually 
with full body training session↑ With large-muscle-mass exercises and high-power 
exercises, ↑ with 
free weights > ↑ with machines↑ With large-muscle-mass exercises and high-power exercises
Volume of 
exercisesVariable responses, depends on other 
factors↑ With increasing volume. Note: volume can be low 
if intensity is high 
enough↑ With increasing volume. Note: GH response related to 
total work↑ With increasing 
volume
Intensity of exercise↑ With increasing relative intensity (% of 1RM)↑ With increasing relative intensity (% of 1RM). Note: cortisol ↑ > 
testosterone ↑↑ With increasing 
relative intensity (% of 1RM). Note: volume must be high 
enoughToo high an intensity 
→ smaller HLa 
response
Interset rest 
intervals
↓ Rest may ↑ 
testosterone (responses are 
variable)↑ With decreasing 
rest intervals↑ With decreasing rest intervals↑ With decreasing rest intervals
↑ = increases, ↓ = decreases, RM = repetition maximum, > = greater than

THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM151
includes many options. When all five vari -
ables are considered, the number of possible 
combinations becomes exponentially large, thus representing the huge number of stim -
uli resistance exercise can present. When the long-term program is added to this, the characteristics of the training program can almost be overwhelming. Regardless, much progress has been made concerning the effect of the acute training variables on the subse -
quent hormonal responses. Unfortunately, many questions remain unanswered concern -
ing the hormonal responses to each of these acute training variables. For example, little is known about how changing the order of exercise influences the hormonal responses and adaptations. Furthermore, little is known about how numerous hormones respond to 
resistance exercise. Nevertheless, Table 6.3 
summarizes much of the research on several
 
hormonal responses to a single resistance 
exercise training session and the roles of the acute training variables.
During heavy resistance training exercise, the 
specific hormonal response is rather dependent upon the acute training variables which include: the choice of exercise, order of exercise, total repetitions, load or intensity, and interset rest.
Q&A FROM THE F iELD
Hormonal responses to resistance exercise 
seem to be very specific to the type and intensity of exercise. Can this specific hormonal response be planned based on specific goals and phases of a periodized strength training and conditioning program?
Yes. Specific hormonal responses help to 
determine the training effect on muscle tissue. In a hypertrophy phase of training, the male athlete would want to stimulate the body’s own production of testosterone. This can best be accomplished by large-muscle-mass exercises, heavy resistance, and a moderate to high volume with short (about 60-second) rest intervals. The testosterone response in male athletes is greatest with two or more years of resistance training experience.T o stimulate the body’s production of growth 
hormone, use resistance training protocols that stimulate high lactic acid production (high-intensity, 10RM, short rest periods). The appropriate use of carbohydrate and protein supplements before and after the workout can also help with endogenous production of growth hormone.
T o optimize the adrenal response to resistance 
training, the athlete should use high-volume, large-muscle-mass exercises with short rest periods. Exposing the athlete to a variety of resistance training stimuli at a high intensity allows the adrenal response to take an active role in recovery. In a high-intensity protocol such as this, always monitor the athlete for signs of overtraining.
Testosterone and resistance exercise
Acute responses to resistance exercise
Testosterone readily increases during a weight-training session, but this requires at least a moderate training volume as measured by the total repetitions completed (79–82). Sessions that utilize large-muscle-mass multi-joint exercises appear to elicit larger responses than those using just small-muscle-mass exer -
cises (83,84). Additionally, exercise sessions that incorporate high-power exercises such as the Olympic weightlifting movements that include the snatch, and clean and jerk, can also produce considerable increases in tes-tosterone (84). These types of exercises (e.g., squats, bench presses, cleans, dead lifts, etc.) have large energy requirements and activate the body’s endocrine and neuroendocrine sys -
tems to a greater extent than other types of resistance exercises (e.g., arm curls, leg exten-sions, leg curls, etc.). The relative intensity, as expressed as a percent of one-repetition maxi-mum, or % of 1RM, is critical, with greater relative intensities producing the largest increases (79). It is important to note that the intensity may be so high (e.g., 100% of 1RM) that an adequate training volume cannot be performed. Hence, the net result is little to no testosterone response (77). When very low relative intensities are used, such as 40% of 1RM, acute responses of testosterone are also minimal (83). Some evidence also exists that decreasing the rest between sets may increase 

ANDY BOSAK152
the testosterone response slightly (79). Again, 
it should be pointed out that too short a rest interval may mean that the loads have to be decreased below the critical level for a signifi-cant testosterone response.
Chronic responses to resistance exercise
Observations in resting testosterone con -
centrations during resistance training are inconsistent in both men and women with increases, no differences, and reductions 
being reported (85). Furthermore, resting 
levels may depend on the current volume and intensity of training (85). In a study where resting increases were reported during short-term high-volume training, subsequent reductions were observed when volume was reduced and intensity was increased over seven weeks (86). Thus, substantial changes in volume and intensity may elicit transient changes in resting testosterone concen -
trations and values, which then return to baseline during normal training.
Cortisol and resistance exercise
Acute responses to resistance exerciseCompared to testosterone, cortisol tends to exhibit a larger acute response to resistance exercise (79). As with testosterone, cortisol responds most when large-muscle-mass, multi-joint exercises are performed and when high-power exercises are utilized (84). Due to the metabolic requirements, cortisol levels will increase when total-body training sessions are performed. Cortisol responds in a relative intensity- and volume-dependent manner (79). When interset rest intervals are decreased, cor -
tisol responses are also increased, again most likely due to the metabolic requirements of the session (79). It should be noted that some dietary supplements have been promoted with claims that they decrease the cortisol response to exercise. Although cortisol is a catabolic hormone, it also serves an important role in the remodeling of muscle tissue. As such, 
decreasing or eliminating the cortisol response 
may not be desirable.
Chronic responses to resistance exercise
Despite the role cortisol has in remodeling muscle, chronically elevated levels can be deleterious. Chronic resistance training produces inconsistent patterns of cortisol secretion and studies have reported in men and women (i) no change (18,48,87,88), (ii) reductions (42,89,90), and (iii) increases (59) during training and short-term overreaching. Also, when compared to untrained individu -
als, highly resistance trained individuals appear to have less of a cortisol response to intense resistance training, yet this adapta-tion may be of little importance as a trained 
individual may not be undergoing the same 
extreme muscular adaptations as someone who is untrained.
Growth hormone and resistance 
exercise
Acute responses to resistance exercise
The fact that acute resistance exercise stimu-lates a potent GH release in both men and women is well documented (1). However, the magnitude of acute release in response to resistance exercise depends upon several vari -
ables, which include: rest time between sets, volume, load, exercise selection, training sta -
tus, muscle actions used, amount of muscle mass recruited, time of day, and total work. Thus, it is extremely difficult to isolate the individual variable effects on GH release. The use of large-muscle-mass, multi-joint exer -
cises as well as high-power exercises is critical for a large growth hormone response (1,79). Research evidence suggests that free weights may produce a larger response than machine exercises, but this may simply be related to the muscle mass involvement (91). The relative intensity and the volume of exercise are posi -
tively related to the growth hormone response as well (79,92). The interset rest interval is extremely important as very short rest inter -
vals elicit extremely large acute growth hormone responses (79,86).
Chronic responses to resistance exercise
Chronic training may increase the GH 
response to acute exercise in both men and women (90). However, this response is likely due to their ability to perform more work and utilize heavier loads, as resting values do not change.

THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM153
Gender differences
Women have higher resting values when com -
pared to men, but the data is conflicting as to whether there are differences in the acute exercise response, with no differences being consistently reported (78,93). A heavy load -
ing protocol has been reported to elicit a GH response in men versus women, yet both gen-ders have an equal response to a higher rep, lower rest interval protocol (42). This data suggests that factors such as lean body mass, total body mass, fat mass, nutritional intake, training status, and the menstrual cycle may all play a role in the resistance exercise induced GH response.
IGF-I and resistance exercise
Acute responses to resistance exerciseThe response of circulating IGF-I to an acute resistance exercise bout is variable, with some investigations showing no change (20,65) and some reporting increases (78,90,92). These reported differences may be due to the differ -
ences in protocols, subjects’ trained state and age, gender, and nutritional status. In 1991, Kraemer et al. (78) compared the responses of eight men and eight women to two different full body acute resistance exercise protocols. Protocol one utilized a 5RM load, 3-minute rest period. Protocol two utilized a 10RM load, 1-minute rest period and had a higher total work than the first protocol. Both protocols were designed to control for load, rest period length, and total work (each protocol con -
tained a secondary workout surrounding the primary protocol to equalize total work). IGF-I increased in response to both exercise protocols in both genders, but there were no significant differences between men and women.
Chronic responses to resistance exercise
Well-trained men are reported to have higher concentrations of IGF-I at rest compared to untrained men, despite no differences between these two groups in circulating con-centrations of GH (92). Temporal changes in IGF-I levels were reported in both men and women in response to different exer -
cise protocols that differed in volume and rest periods (94). In addition, increased rest -
ing levels of IGF-I were reported after the supplementation period, suggesting that dietary manipulation played a role in IGF-I  
dynamics (2).
Gender differences
Similar to GH, women have significantly higher resting values of IGF-I and the higher values at rest are reflective of the GH mediated control of IGF-I. However, some researchers speculate that the significant increases at rest in women gives further support to the concept that women may rely upon the IGF/GH axis to a greater extent than men as an anabolic sig-naler for strength gains, while men probably rely more on testosterone.
Lactate: acute response to resistance 
exercise
Although not a hormone, lactate provides 
insight on the metabolic characteristics of different weight-training sessions. In general, protocols that use large-muscle-mass, multi-joint, and high-power exercises, with large training volumes and short interset rest inter -
vals, produce the largest lactate responses (78,84,95). However, if the relative intensity is too great, the volume that can be performed becomes too low, which compromises the lac -
tate response.
Long-term adaptations to 
resistance exercise
The long-term (chronic) responses to heavy 
resistance exercise are found in Table 6.4 
(18,89,97,98).
 In general, resting concen-
trations of these hormones are not always altered, but differences in the acute responses to a resistance training session can occur. In some cases, the response increases, which sug-gests an enhanced capacity of the involved endocrine glands. In other cases, the response decreases, indicating greater efficiency of those hormones. At present, the responses of a num -
ber of hormones are not known.
Long-term hormonal adaptations to training are 
more subtle than the acute response to a single session, but they can provide an important training adaptation.

ANDY BOSAK154
Overtraining and the endocrine 
system
Although a properly designed training program 
is desirable for optimal results, sometimes the exercise program is improperly prescribed, resulting in maladaptations or overtraining. Overtraining occurs when training volume and/or intensity is excessive and results in prolonged decreases in performance (27,72). Short-term performance decrements are some-times referred to as overreaching and are often part of a planned training program (e.g., two-a-day training sessions for many sports). As one might expect, the endocrine system has been implicated in the maladaptations occurring TABLE 6.4  Hormonal effects of long-term normal 
resistance exercise training (15,23,38,57,69,87,95,96)
Hormone Effects
Testosterone Slight increase
Cortisol Slight decrease
Growth 
hormoneSlight decrease
Insulin Increase
Glucagon Decrease
Epinephrine Max intensity: increase
Submax intensity: decrease
Norepinephrine Max intensity: increaseSubmax intensity: decrease
Antidiuretic 
hormoneSlight decrease (depends on the environmental conditions)
Aldosterone Slight decrease (depends on the environmental conditions)
Thyroxine No known change
Triiodothyronine No known change
Calcitonin No known change
Parathyroid hormoneNo known changeduring overtraining. It has been suggested that 
monitoring certain hormones may permit mon-itoring of the training stresses, which may help avoid the onset of an overtrained state (73). However, different types of overtraining appear to elicit different hormonal responses, and this has often been overlooked (27).
Overtraining occurring from activities that 
emphasize aerobic endurance is often charac -
terized by very high training volumes (45–47). As seen in Table 6.5, most hormonal responses 
eventually decrease except for the stress hor -
mone cortisol.
 The decrease in catecholamines 
appears to be reflective of exhaustion of the sympathetic nervous system. High volumes of resistance exercise exhibit many of the same endocrine characteristics (27,72,96). Perhaps the most commonly cited variable for moni -
toring overtraining is the testosterone/cortisol ratio (73). In general, this appears to be indica-tive of the collective training stresses, but it is very important to notice that changes in this ratio can often occur when overtraining is not present. Therefore, one cannot diagnose over -
training using this variable alone. It appears that subsequent exposures to high-volume resistance exercise overtraining may permit the body to adapt to the stress, resulting in an avoidance of overtraining (57,96).
Contrary to many of the common charac -
teristics of aerobic overtraining or high-volume resistance exercise, high-intensity resistance exercise overtraining exhibits a much differ -
ent endocrine profile. In general, the steroid hormones and growth hormone are often unaffected. In fact, some studies have shown an increase in testosterone which is the exact opposite to other types of overtraining (74). In this case, the catecholamines actually exhibit increased responses to exercise (56,57). It is believed that the SNS is still attempting to pre-serve performance and has not yet reached a state of exhaustion as previously described for other types of overtraining.
Although many factors can contribute to 
overtraining and the accompanying decreases in performance, several easily administered training variables can help (72). When train-ing volumes and volume loads have been high, small but critical decreases in either volume or relative intensity can result in the avoid -
ance of overtraining. Although not always 

THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM155
the case, high volumes of resistance exercise 
typically depress resting testosterone and the testosterone/cortisol ratio. Simply providing a day of recovery each week, or at least a sharp decrease in volume (and usually intensity), may avoid such a problem. It is not hard to fathom that an alteration in training volume is easy to administer, yet this particular recovery method is overlooked and often ignored.
As similar to skeletal muscle adaptations, hormonal 
adaptations occur as a result of short- and long-term training. As training continues, the amount of hormones needed will increase or decrease.
Using the endocrine system to 
monitor training
A major issue for many coaches and athletes 
that must be addressed is monitoring the phys -
iological effects of a training program. This can be relevant for either the individual train -
ing session or for the longer-term effects of a phase of the training cycle. Obviously, obtain -
ing blood samples from an athlete is often easier said than done, and having the blood analyzed may be even more difficult. An alter -
native approach might be to collect salivary or urine samples, but the analyses are still time-consuming and expensive. Regardless, much valuable information may be attainable if this information is accessed.
It has been proposed that levels of fatigue, 
recovery, and overtraining may sometimes be monitored by tracking hormonal responses and adaptations to training.
Training effect of a single session
The hormonal response to a single training 
session can help the coach determine whether the desired training stimulus is being applied (21). The responses of testosterone, cortisol, and growth hormone can help determine the anabolic characteristics of the training stimu -
lus. It is also logical to assume that the thyroid hormones and insulin be also monitored for this very reason, since they have also been associated with anabolic responses of muscle.
Training intensity of a single session
It has been suggested that supporting information on whether proper training intensities have been applied can be deduced from the acute hormonal profiles. If hormo -
nal responses are typically monitored, then it may be possible to evaluate whether the prescribed intensity is appropriate based on the responses of intensity-dependent hor -
mones (21).TABLE 6.5  Endocrine responses to overtraining (17,24,28,61,73,99)
Hormone Aerobic overtraining High-volume RE 
overtrainingHigh-intensity RE overtraining
Testosterone Decrease Decrease NC or slight
Increase
Cortisol Increase Increase NC
Tes/Cort Decrease Decrease NC
Growth hormone Increase NC NC
→ decrease
Epinephrine Decrease Decrease? Increase
Norepinephrine Decrease Decrease? Increase
RE = resistance exercise, NC = no change

ANDY BOSAK156
A training session may be designed that optimizes 
or minimizes the anabolic hormonal responses.
Diagnosing fatigue
All coaches and athletes would like to know 
how well the training program is being toler -
ated (21,27,72). When the training becomes excessive, it is critical to detect this problem before it turns into a long-term overtraining syndrome. To properly do this, hormonal variables must be measured on a regular basis to determine normal values for each individual. Possible variables to monitor include: testosterone, cortisol, the testoster -
one/cortisol ratio, and the catecholamines. It is also important to remember that just because some of the endocrine variables change, it does not mean that overtrain-ing has occurred or that excessive fatigue exists. Yet, it may serve as a warning of  
impending problems.
Monitoring recovery
Once normal hormonal levels have been determined for an individual, it is possible to determine when a fatigued individual returns to a prefatigue state (21). Any hor -
mone or neurohormone that responds to training stress may have to return to normal levels for that individual before physiologi -
cal recovery is considered complete. This may be a critical step in assessing whether a periodized training program has been designed to adequately permit recovery dur -
ing certain phases of the training.
OPTIMIZING THE 
TRAINING PROGRAM
The ultimate challenge for the reader of this 
chapter is to utilize the information provided in designing a strength and conditioning pro-gram. Such a program will, of course, depend on the desired goals determined for the specific purpose of the training. Although numerous physiological systems of the body must be con-sidered, insight on the development of training programs can be deduced from the endocrine data available.
Goal: muscle hypertrophy
In designing a program where muscle hyper -
trophy is a primary objective, it will be important to design the training stimulus to optimize the anabolic hormone response. For example, growth-hormone responses are opti-mized when large-muscle-mass exercises are 
used with approximately 10RM loads, while 
rest intervals are kept fairly short (1 minute or less). In addition, some work with relatively heavy loads is necessary to optimize the acute testosterone response.
Goal: no muscle hypertrophy
Some sports may require an individual to main-tain a certain body weight (e.g., weight-class sports such as wrestling, or activities where a large body mass may not be desired such as figure skating, distance running, or climbers in professional cycling). In designing a pro -
gram for such individuals, it may be wise to minimize the anabolic hormone response. For example, avoiding large-muscle-mass exercises may minimize some of the growth-hormone response to a training session. Of course, this is also dependent on the intensities and rest intervals prescribed. In some cases, large-  
muscle-mass, multi-joint exercises are neces-sary for the purposes of the training. In such instances, allowing longer rest intervals will def -
initely minimize the growth-hormone response.
Goal: high-power performance
It has been suggested that optimal power per -
formances occur when resting testosterone concentrations are relatively high (100). If this is the case, the training program must permit a long-term elevation in resting testosterone levels. One method of doing this is by decreas -
ing the training stresses (i.e., decreasing volume 
and/or intensity) during the taper phase (76). 
In addition, chronic utilization of high relative intensities using high-power, large-muscle-mass exercises may contribute to slight elevations of long-term resting levels of testosterone (98).

THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM157
Goal: peak performance
If a performance peak is desired, the preceding 
training taper must permit the resting concen -
trations of certain hormones to be adequately recovered. In this case, decreasing the volume-load (i.e., reps times weight) can result in elevations of resting testosterone and increases in the testosterone/cortisol ratio (76).
Goal: avoiding overtraining
Although many factors can contribute to overtraining and the accompanying decreases in performance, several easily administered training variables can help (72). When train -
ing volumes and volume loads have been high, small but critical decreases in either volume or relative intensity can result in the avoid -
ance of overtraining. Although not always the case, high volumes of resistance exercise typically depress resting testosterone and the testosterone/cortisol ratio. Simply providing a day of recovery each week, or at least a sharp decrease in volume (and usually intensity), may avoid such a problem.
SUMMARY
The endocrine system comprises complex interactions of hormones and neurohormones with each other and other physiological sys -
tems. Thus, proper responses of the endocrine 
system are essential for optimal adaptations 
to a training program. Although it may be hard to measure and analyze these variables, a thorough understanding of how the body responds and adapts to the stresses applied is imperative for developing truly effective training programs and understanding why they are effective. Finally, understanding how the endocrine system responds to the various acute training variables assists in the ability to design a training prescription that provides an optimal hormonal environment for the desired results.
MAxiNG OUT
1 You are interviewing to become a strength and conditioning coach for collegiate track and 
field throwers. The head coach asks if resistance training the men and women the same way will result in exactly the same results pertaining to hormonal adaptations. Please explain to your prospective head coach how the hormonal response to resistance training for the male and female throwers will be different and therefore contribute to potentially different training outcomes.
2 One of your 5 km distance runners mentions to you that they would like to become an ultra -
marathon runner when their collegiate athletic career is over, but they are concerned about maintaining their current muscle mass as well as their ability to train every day of the week. Please explain to your athlete how the hormonal response to prolonged endurance exercise, as in the case as to when they begin training like an ultramarathon runner, may impact their ability to maintain their current muscle mass and discuss how their ability to recover may be jeopardized with making the change to becoming an ultramarathon athlete.
3 One of the head coaches in your athletic department approaches you with a concern that one of their athletes complains of always feeling like they are tired and that their perfor -
mance appears to be declining. Please explain to the coach that the condition that the athlete may be experiencing is overtraining and discuss how this relates to the hormone levels in the body. Also, discuss with the coach how monitoring hormonal levels may be able to be used to predict overtraining in the “under-recovered athlete” in question.

ANDY BOSAK158
REFERENCES
  1. Kraemer WJ and Ratamess NA. Hormonal 
responses and adaptations to resistance exercise and training. Sports Med 2005; 35:339–361.
  2. Kraemer WJ, Volek JS, Bush JA, Putukian M, and Sebastianelli WJ. Hormonal responses to consecutive days of heavy-resistance exercise with or without nutritional supplementation. J Appl Physiol 1998; 85(4):1544–1555.
  3. Wilson JD, Foster DW, eds. Williams Textbook of Endocrinology. Philadelphia, PA: Saunders, 1992: inside front cover.
  4. Young DS. Implementation of SI units for clinical laboratory data. Ann Intern Med 1987; 106:114–128.
  5. Sporn MB, Todaro GJ. Autocrine secretion and malignant transformation of cells. N Engl J Med 1980; 303:878–880.
  6. Feyrter F. Ueber die These von den peripheren endokrinen Druesen. Wien Zeitschr Inn Med 1946; 27:9–38.
  7. Ojeda SR, Griffin JE. Organization of the endocrine system. In: Textbook of Endocrine Physiology, Ojeda SR, Griffin JE, eds. New York: Oxford University Press, 1988:3–16.
  8. Clark JH, Schrader WT, O’Malley BW. Mechanisms of action of steroid hormones. In: Williams Textbook of Endocrinology, 8th ed., Wilson JD, Foster DW, eds. Philadelphia, PA: Saunders, 1992:35–90.
  9. Hebener JF. Genetic control of hormone function. In: Williams Textbook of Endocrinology, 8th ed., Wilson JD, Foster DW, eds. Philadelphia, PA: Saunders, 1992:9–34.
 10. Landsberg L, Young JB. Catecholamines and the adrenal medulla. In: Williams Textbook of Endocrinology, 8th ed., Wilson JD, Foster DW, eds. Philadelphia, PA: Saunders, 1992:621–705.
 11. Mendel CM. The free hormone hypothesis: a physiologically based mathematical model. Endocr Rev 1989; 10:232–274.
 12. Kraemer WJ. Endocrine responses and adaptations to strength training. In: Strength and Power in Sport, Komi PV, ed. Oxford, UK: Blackwell, 1992:291–304.
 13. Wilkerson JE, Gutin B, Horvath SM. Exercise-induced changes in blood, red cell, and plasma volumes in man. Med Sci Sports 1977; 9:155–158.
 14. Kahn CR, Smith RJ, Chin WW. Mechanism of action of hormones that act at the cell surface. In: Williams Textbook of Endocrinology, 8th ed., Wilson JD, Foster DW, eds. Philadelphia, PA: Saunders, 1992:91–134.
 15. Houk JC. Control strategies in physiological systems. FASEB J 1988; 2:97–107.
 16. Veldhuis JD, Johnson LM. Cluster analysis: a simple, versatile, and robust algorithm for endocrine pulse detection. Am J Physiol 1988; 250:E486–E493.
 17. Czeisler CA, Klerman EB. Circadian and sleep-dependent regulation of hormone release in humans. Rec Progr Horm Res 1999; 54:97–130.
 18. Häkkinen K, Pakarinen A, Alen M, et al. Daily hormonal and neuromuscular responses to intensive strength training in 1 week. Int J Sports Med 1988; 9:422–428.
 19. Thuma JR, Gilders R, Verdun J, Loucks A. Circadian rhythm of cortisol confounds cortisol responses to exercise: implications for future research. J Appl Physiol 1995; 78(5):1657–1664.
 20. Cannon WB. Bodily Changes in Pain, Hunger, Fear, and Rage. New York: Appleton, 1922.
 21. Viru A, Viru M. Biochemical Monitoring of Sport Training. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2001:61–65.
 22. Nindl BC, Pierce JR. Insulin-like growth factor I as a biomarker of health, fitness, and training status. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2010; 42:39–49.
 23. Gilman AG. G-proteins and regulation of adenyl cyclase. JAMA 1989; 262:1819–1825.
 24. Hokin LE. Receptors and phosphoinositide-generated second messengers. Annu Rev Biochem 1985; 54:202–235.
 25. Borer K. Exercise Endocrinology. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2003:45.
 26. Glass CK. Differential recognition of target genes by nuclear receptor monomers, dimers, and heterodimers. Endocrinol Rev 1994; 15:391–407.
 27. Fry AC, Kraemer WJ. Resistance exercise overtraining and overreaching: neuroendocrine responses. Sports Med 1997; 23(2):106–129.
 28. Eliakim A, Nemet D, and Cooper DM. Exercise, training, and the GH-IGF-I axis. In: The Endocrine System in Sports and Exercise, WJ Kraemer and AD Rogol, eds. Malden, MA: Blackwell, 2005:165–179.
 29. Goldspink G, Yang SY, Hameed M, Harridge S, and Bouloux P. The Role of MGF and Other IGF-I Splice Variants in Muscle Maintenance and Hypertrophy. In: The Endocrine System in Sports and 
Exercise, WJ Kraemer and AD Rogol, eds. Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishing Ltd, 2005:180–193.

THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM159
 30. Selye H. The Stress of Life. New York: 
McGraw-Hill, 1956.
 31. Kjaer M, Galbo H. Effect of physical training on the capacity to secrete epinephrine. J Appl Physiol 1988; 64:11–16.
 32. Winder WW, Hickson RC, Hagberg JM, et al. Training-induced changes in hormonal and metabolic responses to submaximal exercise. J Appl Physiol 1979; 46:766–771.
 33. Atgie C, D’Allaire F, Bukowiecki LJ. Role of beta1 and beta3 adrenoceptors in the regulation of lipolysis and thermogenesis in rat brown adipocytes. Am J Physiol 1997; 273:C1136–C1142.
 34. Chandler RM, Byrne HK, Patterson JG, and Ivy JL. Dietary supplements affect the anabolic hormones after weight-training exercise. J Appl Physiol 1994; 76:839–845.
 35. Cumming DC, Brunsting LA III, Strich G, et al. Reproductive hormone increases in response to acute exercise in men. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1986; 18:369–373.
 36. Baker ER, Mathur RS, Kirk RF, et al. Plasma gonadotropins, prolactin, and steroid hormone concentrations in female runners immediately after a long-distance run. Fertil Steril 1984; 38:38–41.
 37. Bonen A, Ling WYU, MacIntyre KP, et al. Effects of exercise on the serum concentrations of FSH, LH, progesterone, and estradiol. Eur J Appl Physiol 1979; 42:15–23.
 38. Galbo H. Hormonal and Metabolic Adaptation to Exercise. New York: Thieme-Stratton, 1983.
 39. Sutton JR, Farrell PA, Harber VJ. Hormonal adaptations to physical activity. In: Exercise, Fitness, and Health, Bouchard C, Shephard RJ, Stephens T, et al, eds. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 1990:217–257.
 40. Francesconi RP, Sawka MN, Pandolf KB, et al. Plasma hormonal responses at graded hypohydration levels during exercise-heat stress. J Appl Physiol 1985; 59:1855–1860.
 41. Kotchen TA, Hartley LH, Rice TW, et al. Renin, norepinephrine, and epinephrine responses to graded exercise. J Appl Physiol 1971; 31:178–184.
 42. Kraemer WJ, Staron RS, Hagerman FC, et al. The effects of short-term resistance training on endocrine function in men and women. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 1998; 78:69–76.
 43. Brandenberger G, Follenius M. Influence of timing and intensity of muscle exercise on temporal patterns of plasma cortisol levels. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 1975; 40:845–849.
 44. Consitt LA, Copeland JL, Tremblay MS. Hormone responses to resistance vs. endurance exercise in premenopausal females. Can J Appl Physiol 2001; 26:574–87.
 45. Lehmann M, Foster C, Netzer N, et al. Physiological responses to short- and long-term overtraining in endurance athletes. In: Overtraining in Sport, Kreider RB, Fry AC, O’Toole ML, eds. Champaign, IL: Human 
Kinetics, 1998:19–46.
 46. Lehmann, M, Gastmann U, Petersen KG, 
et al. Training-overtraining: performance, and hormone levels, after a defined increase in training volume vs training intensity in experienced middle- and long-
distance runners. Br J Sports Med 1992; 
26:233–242.
 47. Lehmann M, Gastmann U, Baur S, et al. Selected parameters and mechanisms of peripheral and central fatigue and regeneration in overtrained athletes. In: Overload, Performance Incompetence, and 
Regeneration in Sport, Lehmann M, Foster 
C, Gastmann U, et al, eds. New York: Kluwer Academic/Plenum, 1999:7–26.
 48. Häkkinen K, Pakarinen A, Kyrolainen H, et al. Neuromuscular adaptations and serum hormones in females during prolonged power training. Int J Sports Med 1990; 11: 91–98.
 49. Lassare C, Girard F, Durand J, Reynaud J. Kinetics of human growth hormone during submaximal exercise. J Appl Physiol 1974; 37:826–830.
 50. Wideman L, Weltman JY, Hartman ML, Veldhuis JD, Weltman A. Growth hormone release during acute and chronic aerobic and resistance exercise: recent findings. Sports Med 2002; 32(15):987–1004.
 51. Vislocky LM, Gaine PC, Pikosky MA, Martin WF, Rodriguez NR.  Gender impacts the post-
exercise substrate and endocrine response in trained runners. J Int Soc Sports Nutr 2008; 26:5–7.
 52. Eliakim A, Portal S, Zadik Z, Rabinowitz J, Adler-Portal D, Cooper DM, Zaldivar F, Nemet D. The effect of a volleyball practice on anabolic hormones and inflammatory markers in elite male and female adolescent 
players. J Strength Cond Res 2009; 
23(5):1553–9.
 53. Friedmann B, Kindermann W. Energy 
metabolism and regulatory hormones in women and men during endurance exercise. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 1989; 59(1–2):1–9.
 54. Nindl BC. Insulin-like growth factor-I as a candidate metabolic biomarker: military relevance and future directions for 

ANDY BOSAK160
measurement. J Diabetes Sci Technol 2009; 
3(2):371–376.
 55. Tarnopolsky LJ, MacDougall JD, Atkinson SA, Tarnopolsky MA, Sutton JR. Gender differences in substrate for endurance exercise. J Appl Physiol 1990; 68(1):302–308.
 56. Fry AC, Kraemer WJ, van Borselen F, et al. Catecholamine responses to short-term high-intensity resistance exercise overtraining. J Appl Physiol 1994; 77(2):941–946.
 57. Fry AC, Kraemer WJ, Stone MH, et al.  
Endocrine responses to over-reaching before and after 1 year of weightlifting training. Can J Appl Physiol 1994; 19(4): 
400–410.
 58. Christensen NJ, Galbo H, Hansen JF, et al. Catecholamines and exercise. Diabetes 1979; 28:58–62.
 59. Häkkinen K, Pakarinen A. Serum hormones in male strength athletes during intensive short term strength training. Eur J Appl Physiol 1991; 63:191–199.
 60. Kinderman W, Schnabel A, Schmitt WM, et al. Catecholamines, growth hormone, cortisol, insulin, and sex hormones in anaerobic and aerobic exercise. Eur J Appl Physiol 1982; 49:389–399.
 61. Horton TJ, Pagliassotti MJ, Hobbs K, Hill JO. Fuel metabolism in men and women 
during and after long-duration exercise. J Appl Physiol 1998; 85(5):1823–32.
 62. Mendenhall LA, Sial S, Coggan AR. Gender differences in substrate metabolism during moderate intensity cycling (Abstract). Med Sci Sports Exerc 1996; 27: S213.
 63. Zouhal H, Jacob C, Delamarche P, Gratas-Delamarche A. Catecholamines and the effects of exercise, training and gender. Sports Med 2008; 38(5):401–423.
 64. Tidgren B, Hjemdal P, Theodorsson E, et al. Renal neurohormonal and vascular responses to dynamic exercise in humans. J Appl Physiol 1991; 70:2279–2286.
 65. Kraemer WJ, Aguilera BA, Terada M, et al. Responses of IGF-I to endogenous increases in growth hormone after heavy-resistance exercise. J Appl Physiol 1995; 79:1310–1315.
 66. Convertino VA. Blood volume: its adaptation to endurance training. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1991; 12:1338–1348.
 67. McMurray RG, Hackney AC. Endocrine responses to exercise and training. In: Exercise and Sport Science, Garrett WE, Kirkendall DT, eds. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott, Williams & Wilkins, 
2000:135–164. 68. Hackney AC, Dobridge JD. Thyroid 
hormones and the interrelationship of cortisol and prolactin: influence of prolonged, exhaustive exercise. Endokrynol Pol 2009; 60:252–257.
 69. Baylor LS, Hackney AC. Resting thyroid and leptin hormone changes in women following intense, prolonged exercise training. Eur J Appl Physiol 2003; 88(4–5):480–484.
 70. Simsch C, Lormes W, Petersen KG, Baur S, Liu Y, Hackney AC, Lehmann M, Steinacker JM. Training intensity influences leptin and thyroid hormones in highly trained rowers. Int J Sports Med 2002; 23:422–427.
 71. Fleck SJ, Kraemer WJ. Designing Resistance Exercise Programs. 4th ed. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2014.
 72. Fry AC. Overload and regeneration during resistance exercise. In: Overload, Performance Incompetence, and Regeneration in Sport, Lehmann M, Foster C, Gastmann U, et al, eds. New York: Kluwer 
Academic/Plenum, 1999.
 73. Adlercreutz H, Harkonen M, Kuoppasalmi 
K, et al. Effect of training on plasma anabolic and catabolic steroid hormones and their response during physical exercise. Int J Sports Med 1986; 7:S27–S28.
 74. Fry AC, Kraemer WJ, Ramsey LT. Pituitary-adrenal-gonadal responses to high-intensity resistance exercise overtraining. J Appl Physiol 1998; 85(6):2352–2359.
 75. Goodman HM. Basic Medical Endocrinology. New York: Raven Press, 1988:103.
 76. Häkkinen K, Pakarinen A, Alen M, et al. Relationships between training volume, physical performance capacity and serum hormone concentrations during prolonged training in elite weight lifters. Int J Sports 
Med 1987; 8(Suppl):61–65.
 77. Häkkinen K, Pakarinen A. Acute hormonal 
responses to two different fatiguing heavy-resistance protocols in male athletes. J Appl Physiol 1993; 74(2):882–887.
 78. Kraemer WJ, Gordon SE, Fleck SJ, et al. Endogenous anabolic hormonal and growth factor responses to heavy resistance exercise in males and females. Int J Sports Med 1991; 12:228–235.
 79. Kraemer WJ, Marchitelli L, McCurry R, et al. Hormonal and growth factor responses to heavy resistance exercise. J Appl Physiol 1990; 69(4):1442–1450.
 80. Fahey TD, Rolph R, Moungmee P, et al. Serum testosterone, body composition, and strength of young adults. Med Sci Sports 1976; 8:31–34.

THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM161
 81. Gotschalk LA, Loetbel DD, Nindl BC, et al. 
Hormonal responses of multi-set versus single-set heavy resistance exercise protocols. Can J Appl Physiol 1997; 22(3): 244–255.
 82. Weiss LW, Cureton KJ, Thompson FN. Comparison of serum testosterone and androstenedione responses to weightlifting in men and women. Eur J Appl Physiol 1983; 50(3):413–419.
 83. Harber MP, Fry AC, Rubin JC, et al. Skeletal muscle and hormonal adaptations to circuit weight training. Scand J Med Sci Sports 2004; 14(3):176–185.
 84. Kraemer WJ, Fry AD, Warren BJ, et al. Acute hormonal responses in elite junior weightlifters. Int J Sports Med 1992; 13(2):103–109.
 85. Kraemer WJ, Ratamess NJ, Hatfield DL, and Vingren JL. The endocrinology of resistance exercise and training. In: Essentials of Sports Nutrition and Supplements, J Antonio, ed. Totowa, NJ: Humana Press, 2008.
 86. Ahtiainen JP, Pakarinen A, Alen M, Kraemer WJ, Häkkinen K. Short vs. long rest period between the sets in hypertrophic resistance training: influence on muscle strength, size, and hormonal adaptations in trained men. J 
Strength Cond Res 2005; 19(3):572–582.
 87. Häkkinen K, Pakarinen A, Kraemer WJ, et al. 
Basal concentrations and acute responses of serum hormones and strength development during heavy resistance training in middle-aged and elderly men and women. J Gerontol 
A Biol Sci Med Sci 2000; 55:B95–B105.
 88. Potteiger JA, Judge LW, Cerny JA, Potteiger VM. Effects of altering training volume and intensity on body mass, performance, and hormonal concentrations in weight-event athletes. J Strength Cond Res 1995; 9:55–58.
 89. Häkkinen K, Pakarinen A, Alen M, Komi PV. Serum hormones during prolonged training of neuromuscular performance. Eur J Appl Physiol 1985; 53:287–293.
 90. Marx JO, Ratamess NA, Nindl BC, et al. Low-volume circuit versus high-volume periodized resistance training in women. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2001; 33(4):635–43.
 91. Schilling BK, Fry AC, Ferkin MH, Leonard ST. Hormonal responses to free-weight and 
machine exercise [abstract]. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2001; 33(5 Suppl):S270.
 92. Rubin MR, Kraemer WJ, Maresh CM, et al. High-affinity growth hormone binding protein and acute heavy resistance exercise. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2005; 37:395–403.
 93. Taylor JM, Thompson HS, Clarkson PM, Miles MP, and De Souza MJ. Growth hormone response to an acute bout of resistance exercise in weight-trained and non-weight-trained women. J Strength Cond 
Res 2000; 14:220–7.
 94. Kraemer WJ, Fleck SJ, Dziados JE, et al.  
Changes in hormonal concentrations 
after different heavy-resistance exercise protocols in women. J Appl Physiol 1993; 75(2):594–604.
 95. Guezennec Y, Leger L, Lhoste F, et al. Hormone and metabolite response to weight-lifting training sessions. Int J Sports Med 1986; 7:100–105.
 96. Fry AC, Kraemer WJ, Stone MH, et al. Endocrine and performance responses to high volume training and amino acid supplementation in elite junior weightlifters. Int J Sport Nutr 1993; 3(3):306–322.
 97. Häkkinen K. Neuromuscular and hormonal adaptations during strength and power training. J Sports Med Phys Fit 1989; 29:9–24.
 98. Häkkinen K, Pakarinen A, Alen M, et al. Neuromuscular and hormonal adaptations in athletes to strength training in two years. J Appl Physiol 1988; 65(6):2406–2412.
 99. Hoffman J. Physiological Aspects of Sport Training and Performance. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2002:15–26.
100. Bosco C, Tihanyi J, Viru A. Relationship between field fitness test and basal serum testosterone and cortisol levels in soccer players. Clin Physiol 1996; 16:317–322.

Contents
Introduction  163
Energy balance  164
Training nutrition  170
Nutrient timing  171
Meal frequency and controlled fasting  173
Optimal diet to prevent overtraining  175
Vitamin and mineral intake  175
Diets  177
Very high carbohydrate, very low-fat diets  179
High-carbohydrate, low-fat diets  181
Low-carbohydrate, high-protein diets  182
Low-carbohydrate, high-fat, high-protein (ketogenic) diets  182
Summary  184
References  185

7 CHAPTER
OBJECTIVES
After completing this chapter, you will be able to:
• Provide dietary recommendations to a variety of athletic populations.
• Draw your own conclusions about commercially available diets.
• Determine whether or not an athlete’s diet appropriately corresponds to his or her training.
• Understand the importance of timing the intake of nutrients.
• Identify the composition and quality of nutrients within different foods.NUTRITION
Colin D. Wilborn, Lem Taylor, and Jaci N. Davis
KEY TERMS
Carbohydrates
Empty calorieEnergy balanceEssential fatty acidsGlycemic loadGlycemic indexMacronutrientMagnesiumNutrient densityNutrient timingOvertrainingProteinTrans fatsTriglyceridesVitamin CVitamin EZinc
INTRODUCTION
Nutritional intake is essential for optimizing the 
performance adaptations initiated in the gym, on the track, or on the field. Of the modifiable factors contributing to optimal exercise per -
formance, nutritional intake is one of the most easily adaptable and often overlooked. There are many important facets of proper dietary regulation of athletes including energy balance, macronutrient type, and timing of ingestion. Consistent consumption of appropriate macro- and micronutrients during periods of heavy training can improve muscle protein turnover (the breakdown of old tissue and the rebuilding of new, more functionally adapted tissue) (44,63) 

COLIN D. WILBORN ET AL.164
as well as augment the function and recovery of 
the nervous system (20), immune system (41), and musculoskeletal system (29). Strength and conditioning professionals must impress on their athletes the importance of understanding how to appropriately fuel the body for the demands of specific training. Coaches who neglect the nutrition component of training limit their own efficacy in terms of helping their athletes and team to improve.
ENERGY BALANCE
Energy balance  is the relationship between 
energy ingested and energy expended. It is an important determinant of exercise performance, body composition, training adaptation, and optimal physiological functioning in athletes. Unfortunately, many hold a simplistic view of energy balance suggesting it is as simple as the equation: calories in = calories out. It is often 
incorrectly assumed that total energy intake is predominantly related to weight gain or loss, ignoring 
macronutrient  composition and tim -
ing. Our body absorbs 90% to 95% of the calories taken in, so caloric intake is not 100% efficient. More so, many factors relate to energy expenditure, some of which are not affected by diet and exercise. For example, if an athlete wants to lose body fat or overall mass, eating less will produce a negative energy balance; however, the athlete may not experience the 
changes that they are expecting. Figure 7.1 lists 
the details regarding glycemic index, one aspect concerning caloric intake.
Caloric intake
Energy digested and absorbed
(90%–95% of caloric intake)Energy expenditure
Calories out
Expended in
exercise
Physical workGiven off
as heat
1. Efﬁciency
of work
Heat produced during
digestion of food
(Thermal efﬁciency of food)
Heat produced during
resting metabolism2. Efﬁciency of
food metabolism
3. Efﬁciency
of fat gainHeat produced:
Adipose creationEnergy stored
in adipose
Heat produced due to cold:
Adaptive thermogenesisStored as
Fat/CHO
proteinEnergy intake
Calories in
Heat produced/lost
during exerciseMovement economy in
physical work
Exercise and activity
Figure 7.1  Factors related to the efficiency of energy intake and expenditure. (Adapted from Rampone AJ, 
Reynolds PJ. Obesity: thermodynamic principles in perspective. Life Sci 1988;43:93–110.)

NUTRITION165
Figure 7.2 demonstrates the relationship 
between energy intake and energy consump-
tion,
 comparing common diets which modify 
macronutrient ratios. This relationship between macronutrients and energy demands deter -
mines how energy intake will affect body mass and composition. Creating a hypocaloric intake will cause the athlete’s metabolic rate to slow and muscle mass will be compromised, resulting in a negative effect on performance. Optimal performance and health are related to total energy intake, metabolic rate, tissue turno -
ver, and muscle mass.
Since the micronutrient content of the diet 
is closely related to energy intake, decreases in energy consumption may lead to nutrient deficiencies. Nutrient deficiencies can lead to impaired performance through fatigue, immune suppression, lethargy, and potentially lead to overtraining. 
Overtraining  is a physiological and 
psychological condition that occurs when the volume and intensity of an individual’s training exceeds their recovery capacity. Dietary factors play a large role in the body’s ability to recover from intense training and avoid overtraining. Therefore, athletes should eat nutrient-dense foods to increase the ratio of nutrients ingested to energy ingested. 
Nutrient density  is the 
amount of nutrients (carbohydrate, protein, fat, vitamins, minerals) per unit of energy (kcals) in a given food. For example, athletes who habitu -
ally eat sugary breakfast cereals in an attempt to increase carbohydrate intake would benefit from exchanging these cereals for a combina -
tion of fruits, vegetables, and a whole grain like oatmeal, increasing the nutrient composition of their meal. These latter foods are not only more nutrient-dense, but they also have more fiber 5. Metabolic rate can still remain
depressed and efﬁciency increased
4. If energy rate is low, hunger increases,
metabolic rate falls, and metabolic
efﬁciency improves
Energy expenditure
Calories outEnergy intake
Calories in
2. Energy intake is sensed3. Signals are sent to
manipulate expenditure1. Energy comes
in
Figure 7.2  The relationship between energy intake and expenditure. This relationship determines how energy 
intake will affect body mass and composition.

COLIN D. WILBORN ET AL.166
TABLE 7.1  The glycemic index of common sources 
of carbohydrates
Glycemic Index Source
Extremely high Cake, doughnut
 (greater than 100) Waffles
GatoradeBagelPretzelsCornflakes cerealCheeriosRice Chex cerealRice Krispies cerealWatermelonPopcornJellybeans
Glycemic  
standard = 100%Bread, white
High (80–100) Angel-food cake
Pound cakeBran muffinGlycemic Index Source
Pastry
Coca-Cola (250 mL)Orange juicePineapple juiceCorn chipsOat breadPitta breadSpecial K cerealPineappleWhite rice
Moderately high (60–80) Cranberry juice 
cocktail
Tomato juiceVanilla ice creamBananaGrapesOrangeBaked beansChicken nuggetsSpaghettiChocolate milkPower bar
Moderate (40–60) AppleApple juiceSuper supreme pizza 
(Pizza Hut)
All-Bran cerealSkimmed milkYogurtPeanut M&MsButter beansSplit peas
Low (less than 40) ChickpeasKidney beansPeanuts
Source: Adapted with permission from Foster-Powell K, 
Holt SHA, Brand-Miller JC. International table of glycemic index and glycemic load values: 2002. Am J Clin Nutr [Special Article] 2002;76:5–56.and a lower glycemic index, which means that 
they cause less of an increase in blood sugar than more refined carbohydrates. 
Glycemic 
index  (GI) is a term that describes how rapidly 
and how long a specific carbohydrate increases blood glucose. Foods with a glycemic index greater than 100 raise blood glucose levels more rapidly, whereas foods with a glycemic index of less than 100 raise blood glucose more slowly. In addition, high-fiber and low-glycemic carbohydrates play a role in improving health and body composition. In recent years sports nutritionists have begun to rely on the glycemic load of food as opposed to the glycemic index alone. The 
glycemic load  takes into account the 
amount of carbohydrates eaten multiplied by the GI. So a large volume of carbohydrate that has a moderate GI may in fact be worse for the athlete than a food that is high on the GI but 
low in grams of carbohydrate. Table 7.1 lists 
the glycemic indexes of common sources of car -
bohydrates.

NUTRITION167
The glycemic index tells us which carbohydrates 
will have the greatest impact on blood sugar. Avoid or limit foods high on the glycemic index. However, keep in mind that high GI carbohydrates may be warranted pre, during, and/or post-
exercise.
Athletes must find ways to consume more 
calories from food while maintaining an opti -
mal body composition and body mass for their 
specific activity. Although it may seem coun-terintuitive to suggest that an individual can lose fat mass while eating more food, taking advantage of appropriate food selection and strategic nutrient timing can accomplish both goals (49). Examining each macronutrient (i.e., carbohydrate, protein, and fat) and how to optimize times of feeding will allow indi -
viduals to develop a better understanding of how these strategies affect strength athletes.
Total energy intake combined with appropriate 
timing is the most important dietary factor governing the adaptive response of strength-power athletes to exercise training.
Carbohydrate intake
Carbohydrates  are foods that are commonly 
referred to as sugars, starches, cellulose (fiber), 
and gums. Carbohydrates are converted to glucose, which is the primary source of energy for physical activity and are the only source of energy for the brain and nervous system. Structurally, they can be classified as mono-, di-, tri-, and polysaccharides. The smallest carbohydrates are the single-unit monosac-charides, like glucose and sucrose (i.e., table sugar). Polysaccharides such as starch, cellulose, and glycogen are long chains of sac-charide molecules and can be quite large.
Dietary carbohydrate intake has become 
a controversial topic. Carbohydrates have been demonized in the media, with some challenging the paradigm set forth by the U.S. Food Guide Pyramid and the Canadian Food Guide and instead suggesting low-carbohydrate diets as a better option. Some short-term studies have demonstrated that a lower carbohydrate intake leads to bet -
ter overall weight loss, losses in body fat, and better preservation of muscle mass. Moreover, favorable changes in triglycerides and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cho-lesterol typically occur when carbohydrate intakes are decreased. Very low carbohy-drate diets (i.e., ketogenic diets), however, will reduce an athlete’s total energy intake, impair intense exercise performance, reduce work capacity, suppress immune function, and increase perception of effort during nor -
mal exercise tasks. Although athletes could 
potentially benefit from a slight reduction in 
carbohydrate intake during rest periods and training periods of low volume/intensity, it is generally not recommended that strength-power athletes restrict carbohydrate to less than 10% of total energy intake.
Although some authors recommend that 
as much as 70% of the diet come from car -
bohydrates, this amount may displace dietary protein and fat and also make fat loss more difficult, particularly if more refined carbo -
hydrates are chosen rather than whole grains. Instead of a chronic high-carbohydrate diet, a better strategy might be to emphasize carbo-hydrate type (e.g., whole grain versus refined carbohydrates) and timing (before, during, and after a workout).
The data are clear that carbohydrates are 
important in an athletic population. Higher-carbohydrate diets can lead to increased concentrations of muscle glycogen and may therefore delay fatigue, prevent exercise-stress-induced immunosuppression (8), and –  
when combined with protein during the exer -
cise and post-exercise periods – stimulate an increase in muscle protein synthesis and gly-cogen resynthesis (46). Athletes, however, often consume the wrong types of carbohy-drates at the wrong times. Rather than simply ingesting large amounts of “empty” calo -
ries during the day, athletes should replace their high-glycemic-index, nutrient-devoid carbohydrate choices with lower-glycemic, high-fiber carbohydrate choices. The term 
empty calorie  refers to a food that offers no 
nutritional value other than energy itself. Foods such as legumes; whole grains; mini -
mally processed breads, pastas, and other grains; fruits; and vegetables are digested more slowly and provide more continu -
ous energy throughout the day acting as  
better carbohydrate choices. By substituting 

COLIN D. WILBORN ET AL.168
lower-glycemic, high-fiber foods and tim -
ing carbohydrates appropriately, athletes 
will be better able to manage daily energy fluctuations, ingest their daily recommen -
dation of fiber, lose fat while preserving muscle mass, and reduce the chances of developing the micronutrient deficiencies that are common in athletic populations. On the contrary, higher-glycemic carbohydrates can be ingested after exercise to promote recovery and glycogen storage – a source of 
rapid energy when it is most needed (dur -
ing training and competition). This is the 
time when the large insulin response that accompanies the ingestion of high-glycemic carbohydrates may lead to an improvement in muscle recovery. By following these rec -
ommendations, athletes may be better able to manage body composition while enhanc -
ing recovery.
Different types of carbohydrates confer different 
physiological responses. The majority of one’s caloric intake should be derived from the consumption of unprocessed, high-fiber carbohydrates.
Protein intake
Protein  is composed of individual amino acids 
which join together to form peptide chains. 
Although the structure of each peptide chain is unique, the overall peptide structures col -
lectively are known as proteins. Of the 20 common amino acids, 9 are indispensable or 
essential  (the term essential as it relates to 
nutrition describes nutrients that you must consume, because your body does not make them endogenously); that is, they must come from the diet. As a result of the essentiality of these amino acids, protein, unlike car -
bohydrate, must be present in the diet. The recommended dietary allowance (RDA) for dietary protein in sedentary individuals is 0.8 g of protein per kilogram of body mass. Very few athletes are at risk for a true pro -
tein deficiency; however, it is likely that 0.8 g/kg is not sufficient to offset the oxidation of amino acids with exercise and provide enough amino acids for lean tissue accretion (14). Thus, many sports nutrition scientists have suggested that athletes may need more protein than their sedentary counterparts (1.5 to 2.0  
g/kg body mass) (35).
Other populations will have higher pro -
tein needs as well: young athletes who are still growing, athletes training for strength and muscle mass, athletes in contact sports, endur -
ance athletes, and women who are pregnant. At times, more than one of these situations may be present in the same athlete, thus fur -
ther increasing his or her protein needs.
Athletes will often self-select a protein 
intake that is higher than conventionally rec -
ommended. In seeking to optimize an athlete’s protein intake, a simple rule of thumb is to plan the athlete’s diet from the foundation of 1 g of protein per pound of body mass (2.2 g/kg body mass). This is easier for the athlete to understand and monitor and provides a small safety factor to ensure adequate protein intake. Once the protein intake is fixed, carbohydrate and fat intakes must be added to meet total daily energy needs. The best way to optimize an athlete’s protein intake would be to experi -
ment with a variety of levels of dietary protein and assess outcomes in terms of personal performance and body composition to deter -
mine which intake leads to the best response. Nutritional strategies should always be evalu -
ated using an outcome-based approach.
In addition to experimenting with over -
all protein intake, it is important to make sure that a large percentage of daily protein comes from complete protein sources (pro-teins that contain all the essential amino acids). Even if an adequate total daily protein intake is ingested, if the protein is from an incomplete protein source (e.g., rice, grains, and other plant sources, etc.), the athlete may experience suboptimal adaptations to train -
ing. This situation can be improved by either ensuring that most of the dietary protein is from complete protein sources (e.g., animal proteins, including eggs and dairy products) or by consuming enough total energy with sufficient amounts of incomplete proteins. Animal proteins are important not only as 
sources of complete protein but also because 
they provide a number of highly bioavailable nutrients, such as B vitamins, zinc, and iron, of which deficiency is more prevalent in an athletic population. While it has often been argued that increased protein intake may 

NUTRITION169
have harmful side effects, no current evidence 
shows that healthy individuals would experi -
ence harm due to a higher-protein diet (36).
A complete food source such as eggs, 
chicken, fish, and lean beef are a preferred source of protein; however, there are many dietary supplements (discussed in more detail in Chapter 23) that may be added to the diet. The two most common types of supplemen -
tary protein are whey and casein.
 While both 
protein types are derived from milk, casein is a slower acting protein better utilized in the evening and whey is a faster acting protein bet -
ter utilized in the morning or post-workout.
The International Society of Sports 
Nutrition has adopted a position stand on protein that highlights the following points (14): 1) exercising individuals need approxi-mately 1.4 to 2.0 g of protein per kilogram of body weight per day; 2) concerns that pro -
tein intake within this range is unhealthy are unfounded in healthy, exercising individu -
als; 3) an attempt should be made to obtain protein requirements from whole foods, but supplemental protein is a safe and convenient method of ingesting high-quality dietary pro-tein; 4) the timing of protein intake in the time period encompassing the exercise session has several benefits including improved recovery and greater gains in fat-free mass; and 5) exer -
cising individuals need more dietary protein than their sedentary counterparts.
Strength-power athletes need more protein 
(1.5–2.0 g/kg/day) than the RDA (0.8 g/kg/day). Moreover, no evidence exists that the consumption of protein at levels two to three times the RDA is harmful to otherwise healthy individuals.
Fat intake
It is becoming increasingly clear that dietary fat 
is essential to the athlete’s nutrition program. The three main types of dietary fatty acids are saturated, monounsaturated, and polyunsatu -
rated fatty acids (omega-3 and omega-6 fats are both types of polyunsaturated fatty acids). 
Triglycerides  are the main storage form of fat. 
Triglycerides are formed from a glycerol skel -
eton with three fatty acids  attached. Each of 
the three types of fats offers unique benefits. In the past, a simplistic view of fat was adopted because coaches and athletes believed that die -
tary fat made you fat; however, research has demonstrated this to be false. In fact, some fats (known as 
essential fatty acids ) are absolutely 
necessary for survival. In addition, the right kinds of dietary fat can improve body compo -
sition by promoting fat loss (57). Furthermore, certain fats can improve training hormonal status (22), increase the body’s ability to store glycogen, increase the body’s ability to burn fat (57), and improve overall health by pro -
viding anti-inflammatory, anticarcinogenic, antioxidant, and antithrombotic effects (56). Although the American Dietetic Association recommends that less than 30% of the diet of a sedentary individual should come from fat, research suggests that athletes should ingest approximately 30% of the diet as fat as long as the individual proportions of fatty acids are distributed appropriately. For optimal health and performance, a balanced approach toward fat consumption is warranted; approximately 10% of dietary energy should come from satu -
rated sources (e.g., whole-fat dairy, animal fats, etc.), approximately 10% from monounsatu -
rated sources (many vegetable fats, especially olive oil), and approximately 10% from poly -
unsaturated sources (predominantly vegetable fats, especially flaxseed and fish oils). Of the polyunsaturated fats, approximately 50% should come from omega-6 fatty acids and approximately 50% from omega-3 fatty acids. It is important to realize that the distribution of fatty acids in the diet is as important as the absolute amount of fat. Therefore, athletes should pay attention to both.
A final consideration related to fat con-
sumption is trans fat. 
Trans fats  are artificial 
fats created when polyunsaturated vegetable oils (high in omega-6 fatty acids) are com-bined with hydrogen molecules to increase shelf life and stabilize the polyunsaturated oil. This process makes nonhydrogenated fat similar to saturated fat (which is naturally saturated with hydrogen), which can produce “bad” LDL cholesterol and potentially lead to heart disease. Consumption of trans fats leads to the inhibition of several critical enzymatic processes in the body, blood lipid abnormali -
ties, and an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. Unfortunately, trans fats are found 

COLIN D. WILBORN ET AL.170
in many processed foods. Any food that lists 
hydrogenated or partially hydrogenated fats on the ingredient list contains trans fats.
It is important that athletes consume 
predominantly unsaturated fats. Both athletes and the general population should limit (but not eliminate) saturated fats in their diets.
TRAINING NUTRITION
During and after training and competition, 
the energy demands of the body are high, fluid needs increase (42), insulin sensitiv -
ity and glucose tolerance are dramatically improved (28), and skeletal muscle is primed for anabolism as long as amino acids are provided (47,61,63). Nutrition during and after exercise should focus on providing car -
bohydrate energy, preventing dehydration, stimulating glycogen resynthesis, and stimu -
lating increases in skeletal muscle protein synthesis. As indicated, during the workout and post-workout periods, insulin sensitivity and glucose tolerance are improved, and the efficiency of glycogen storage is highest. This makes the post-workout period the best time to ingest a larger amount of carbohydrate. In addition, since a large increase in insulin can facilitate greater glycogen resynthesis and muscle protein synthesis, higher glycemic index carbohydrates (i.e., sports drinks con -
taining glucose or glucose polymers) should be ingested during these times. By providing a large amount of carbohydrate during this critical period, fewer carbohydrates should be ingested during the remainder of the day in order to achieve better control of body composition and to promote maximal recov-ery. As a starting point, athletes could begin by ingesting liquid carbohydrate-protein supplements immediately prior to (61) or during exercise (42) as well as immediately after exercise (46,61) so as to promote recov -
ery. To facilitate fluid replacement as well as rapid energy delivery, the two beverages should be diluted to 8% to 12% concentra -
tions (80 to 120 g of substrate (carbohydrate) per 1000 mL of water) and should provide approximately 0.8 g of carbohydrate and 0.4 g protein per kilogram of body mass. It is important to experiment with differing amounts of energy to determine the best com -
position for each individual athlete.
Q&A FROM THE F iELD
How does dehydration affect the strength-
power athlete and what recommendations 
would you give to prevent the harm caused 
by fluid loss?
Dehydration refers to both hypohydration 
(being dehydrated prior to exercise) and to exercise-induced dehydration (i.e., that which develops during exercise). Inadequate fluid intake 
can adversely affect muscle metabolism, the 
regulation of body temperature, cardiovascular function (increased heart rate), and perceived 
exertion (more rapid development of fatigue).
Negative effects on performance have been 
demonstrated with modest (< 2% of body weight) dehydration. In one investigation, college 
wrestlers were actively dehydrated (4.9% of body weight), after which their upper body isokinetic 
performance was measured (65). There was a 
decrease in strength of 7.6% for lat pulldowns, 6.6% in chest push, and 12% in shoulder-press 
repetitions. In contrast, lower body musculature 
was not significantly affected by the 4.9% loss.
Many athletes are reluctant drinkers during 
exercise and do not ingest fluid at rates equal to their fluid loss. T o promote proper hydration for athletes’ optimal health and performance, follow 
these recommendations (17):
1
 Athletes are advised to drink 14 to 22 oz of 
fluid two hours prior to exercise to promote 
adequate hydration and allow time for the 
excretion of excess ingested water.
2 During exercise, athletes should start drinking early into the workout and at regular intervals. 
If training continues for over one hour, a 
carbohydrate-containing beverage should be ingested at a rate of 30 to 60 g/hour to maintain 
oxidation of carbohydrates and delay fatigue.
3 Immediately after exercise; athletes should 
consume 16 to 24 oz of fluid for every pound 
of body weight lost during exercise. All athletes (strength, power, or endurance) need to maximize 
their fluid intake and employ behavioral strategies 
before, during, and after exercise to enhance their 
training and competitive performances. (Courtesy of Jennifer Hofheins, MS, RD, LD, of the Center for 
Applied Health Sciences.)

NUTRITION171
Post-workout consumption of carbohydrate 
combined with protein and/or essential amino acids are critical in enhancing the adaptive response to exercise (i.e., greater gains in lean body mass, greater loss of fat mass, improved 
performance, etc).
NUTRIENT TIMING
An exciting avenue of research is the area 
of nutrient timing , the specific time at which 
you consume certain nutrients to enhance the adaptive response to exercise. Certainly, we know that the composition of the food you ingest is important for promoting gains in muscle protein; however, the timing of nutri-ent consumption may be just as important.
In a 2007 study by Willoughby and 
Colleagues (67), researchers examined the effects of pre- and post-workout protein sup -
plementation on markers of strength, mass, and anabolism. Researchers found that 20 g of protein by subjects taken before and after resistance training workouts resulted in greater gains in fat-free mass and strength than the placebo group that consumed 20 g of dextrose. In addition, the subjects consuming protein had a significantly greater expression of muscle specific proteins.
In another study, subjects cycled intensely 
for 2.5 hours to fully deplete the muscle glyco-gen levels in their thigh muscles (29). Subjects supplemented immediately and two hours post-exercise with the following:
• Group 1: carb-pro-fat (80 g carb, 28 g pro, 6 g fat)
• Group 2: carb-fat (108 g carb, 6 g fat)
• Group 3: carb-fat (80 g carb, 6 g fat)
Note that the beverages groups 1 and 2 consumed were isocaloric, meaning they con -
tained the same number of calories. After four hours of recovery, the investigators found that the greatest amount of muscle glycogen was replenished in group 1. Thus, the replacement of some carbohydrate with protein may expe -
dite muscle glycogen repletion post-exercise.
Other investigations have yielded similarly 
interesting results. Post-exercise supplementation with added protein improved time to exhaustion during a test of endurance (49). Older men who consumed a protein supplement (10 g protein, 7 g carbohydrate, 3 g fat) immediately after training (12-week resistance training program, three days per week), had greater gains in strength, muscle fiber size, and lean body mass compared to the group who ingested the sup -
plement two hours after training (23). It has been suggested that the availability of amino acids is more important than the availability of energy immediately post-exercise to promote 
the repair and synthesis of muscle protein (7).
Other health benefits may accompany 
the ingestion of protein immediately post-
exercise. In a study of healthy male recruits in the U.S. Marine Corps, subjects received a post-exercise supplement during their 54-day basic training period, which was either a placebo (0 g carbohydrate, 0 g pro -
tein, 0 g fat), control, or protein supplement (24). The protein-supplemented group had an average of 33% fewer total medical visits, 28% fewer visits due to bacterial/viral infec-tions, 37% fewer visits due to muscle/joint problems, and 83% fewer visits due to heat exhaustion compared with the placebo and control groups. Muscle soreness immedi -
ately post-exercise was significantly reduced on both days 34 and 54 by protein supple -
mentation but not by the placebo or control supplements.
Some evidence suggests that nutrient tim -
ing affects body composition (21). In one study, 17 slightly overweight men were put on a 12-week program consisting of mild caloric restriction (17% reduction) and a light resistance-exercise training program utilizing dumbbells. One group ingested a protein sup -
plement (10 g protein, 7 g carbohydrate, 3.3 g  
fat, and 33% of the RDA for vitamins and minerals) immediately after exercise. The other group did not consume a supplement. Protein and energy intake were the same for both groups, and protein intake met the RDA. Both groups lost an equal amount of fat; however, the protein-supplemented group maintained 
fat-free mass (FFM), while the group that did 
not supplement lost FFM.
Although most studies have examined 
post-workout nutrition, some data are availa -
ble that compare pre-workout supplementation as well (63). Researchers compared the ana -
bolic response of consuming a combination of 

COLIN D. WILBORN ET AL.172
an essential amino acid (6 g) plus carbohydrate 
(35 g sucrose) before versus after heavy resist -
ance exercise (11). Phenylalanine uptake across the leg (a measure of muscle protein anabolism) over a three-hour period was 160% greater when the amino acid/carbohydrate supplement was taken before versus after a workout. A 2007 study (62) by the same group found that if the pre vs. post ingestion was an intact protein such as whey, there does not appear to be a differen -
tial effect. Thus, consuming the proper nutrients 
before exercise may be more anabolic and 
facilitate recovery better than a post-exercise consumption strategy.
A 2008 Position Stand (JISSN) by 
Kerksick et al. (33) found the following in regard to nutrient timing: 1) prolonged exer -
cise of moderate to high intensity exercise will deplete stores of energy, and prudent timing of nutrient delivery can help offset these changes; 2) ingestion of 6–20 g of EAAs and 30–40 g of high-glycemic CHO within three hours after an exercise bout and immediately before exercise have been shown to significantly stimulate muscle PRO synthesis; 3) daily post-exercise ingestion of a CHO+ PRO supplement promotes greater 
increases in strength and improvements in lean tissue and body fat % during regular resistance training; 4) dietary focus should center on adequate availability and deliv -
ery of CHO and PRO; however, including small amounts of fat does not appear to be harmful, and may help to control glycemic responses during exercise; and 5) irrespec -
tive of timing, regular ingestion of snacks or meals providing both CHO and PRO (3:1 CHO:PRO ratio) helps to promote recovery and replenishment of muscle glycogen.
A 2017 study (52) investigated the effects 
of pre vs post protein intake on strength and body composition. Subjects were 21 college age resistance-trained men (>1 year RT experi -
ence). After baseline testing, participants were randomly assigned to one of two experimental groups: a group that consumed a supplement 
containing 25 g protein and 1 g carbohydrate 
immediately prior to exercise or a group that consumed the same supplement immediately post-exercise. The RT protocol consisted of three weekly sessions performed on non-consecutive days for ten weeks. A total-body routine was employed with three sets of 8–12 repetitions for each exercise. Results showed that pre- and post-workout protein consump -
tion had similar effects on all measures studied (p > 0.05). These findings refute the contention of a narrow post-exercise anabolic window to maximize the muscular response and instead lends support to the theory that the interval for protein intake may be as wide as several hours or perhaps more after a training bout depending on when the pre-workout meal was 
consumed.
A meta-analysis published in the Journal 
of the International Society of Sport Nutrition 
(50) shed some interesting light on this topic. The strength analysis comprised 478 subjects and 96 effect sizes, nested within 41 treatment or control groups and 20 studies. The hyper -
trophy analysis comprised 525 subjects and 132 effect sizes, nested within 47 treatment or control groups and 23 studies. The researchers sought to determine the best approach to the timing of ingestion of protein and/or carbohy -
drate to optimize recovery and gains. The idea of nutrient timing post-workout or the “ana -
bolic window” is based on the idea that the athlete is in a fasted state. Thus, there seems to be less clarity if the athlete is not. The findings of the meta-analysis are inconclusive in iden -
tifying one particular feeding time as being superior to another. What appears to be most important is that the athlete is adequately fed, and the peri-workout window is impor -
tant. According to Aragon and Schoenfeld (2), due to the transient anabolic impact of a protein-rich meal and its potential synergy with the trained state, pre- and post-exercise meals should not be separated by more than approximately three to four hours, given a typical resistance training bout lasting 45–90 minutes. If protein is delivered within particu-larly large mixed-meals (which are inherently more anticatabolic), a case can be made for lengthening the interval to five to six hours.
To optimize the adaptive response to exercise, 
all strength-power athletes should consume a carbohydrate-protein post-workout beverage. This strategy would also be helpful for the recreational athlete or fitness enthusiast seeking to improve 
his/her body composition.

NUTRITION173
Carbohydrate-protein ratio
Controversy exists as to the correct or ideal 
combination of carbohydrate and protein con -
sumed post-workout. It is difficult to make direct comparisons between investigations due to differences in subject population, treatment duration, the type of exercise performed, nutri-ents ingested, etc. One can extrapolate from these studies, however, to suggest that timing may be as important (if not more so) as nutri -
ent composition. For instance, you will find a carbohydrate-to-protein ratio of about 3:1 (approximately three times more carbohydrate than protein) and as low as 0.7:1 (30% less carbohydrate than protein) comparable for promoting recovery. Furthermore, the energy content of recovery supplements varies from 500 kcal to as little as 100 kcal. Therefore, sports nutritionists should consider each ath -
lete individually to determine the most effective nutrient combinations for that person.
MEAL FREQUENCY AND 
CONTROLLED FASTING
To understand the impact that meal timing 
might have on body composition change it is important to first understand how energy bal -
ance is derived. Many clinicians, dieticians, and scholars have subscribed to the theory of calo -
ries in vs. calories out mentioned earlier. While simplistic in nature and good for instructional purposes, this theory continues to receive a wide array of criticisms, such as food type, timing, amino acid intake/protein quality, and metabolic rate as factors that individually and collectively may result in more favorable changes in weight loss and body composition. In addition, the concept is further challenged when individuals (such as athletes) hope to lose only adipose tis -
sue as opposed to losing body mass. Therefore, it is vital that weight loss occurs at a rate that allows for optimal fat loss, but effectively pre -
serves skeletal muscle in the process. Singly, this complex paradigm has initiated decades of research studies, debates, and position stands.
Likely the most profound aspect of nutrient 
timing for weight loss is the frequency of meals.  
This topic is quite popular in the mainstream  media as a number of reports suggest that an increased meal frequency favorably impacts metabolism and weight loss outcomes. In recent years, dieticians, nutritionists, and exercise enthusiasts have taken this theory to suggest that if one is to eat more frequently, resulting metabolic activity will be increased and sustained at these higher levels throughout the day. This concept, in essence, is where rec -
ommendations are commonly made to eat five or six smaller meals in a day rather than two 
or three meals. It is important to note that this 
theory would be based on consuming the same amount of calories regardless of the number of meals. Many people believe that if the body is fed at regular intervals, continual feedback is received that energy is available to the body and as a result doesn’t have to store calories. In contrast, when we skip meals we trigger a nutrient sparing mode where metabolism is negatively affected, resulting in a decrease in calorie burning. However, research is conclu -
sive that it does not appear to matter if you eat two meals or six if the calories and macronu -
trients are right. A 1997 review of the existing literature found that many of the studies done prior to 1997 failed to find any significant relationship between meal frequency and body composition as most of these studies utilized 24-hour recall, which is known to be inaccu -
rate. They concluded that the epidemiological evidence is at best very weak. They further concluded that any effects of meal pattern on the regulation of body weight are likely to be mediated through effects on the food intake side of the energy balance equation (5).
A study done on free living subjects had 
some contrasting results to the previous work done in free living subjects. A study done in pre and post menopausal women found eating more frequently had no effect on pre meno -
pausal women and had a negative effect on the post (69). Dallosso and colleagues investigated the effects of eating two versus six meals on energy balance as measured by whole body calorimetry (19). These researchers did not 
find that meal frequency had any impact on 
energy expenditure. Similar findings were observed in 1987 using indirect calorimetry and comparing two versus six meals (68). Most recently and also in support of these data, 16 obese (34.6 ± 9.5 years and 37.1 ± 4.5 kg/m2) 

COLIN D. WILBORN ET AL.174
men and women were instructed to reduce 
their energy intake by 700 kcals/day and were randomized into two treatment groups. In an energy-matched fashion, one group consumed six meals each day (three traditional meals and three snacks) and the other group con -
sumed three meals per day. Before and after the eight-week intervention, obesity indices, body mass, appetite, and ghrelin were meas-ured and no significant differences were found (13). This last study is particularly important 
because it is one of the few studies to utilize a 
true experimental approach, and under more rigorous conditions it is consistently reported that an increased meal frequency exhibits no pattern of relationship with being overweight, increased adiposity, etc.
In addition, it has been hypothesized for 
many years that you should not eat before you do cardio to burn for fat. In addition, it has been suggested that you should not eat several hours prior to bed so that you fast longer and burn more fat. Then in recent years the idea of inter -
mittent fasting has come up, which has you fast at different times of the day. This idea involves training after an overnight fast to accelerate the loss of body fat. In theory, low glycogen and insulin levels cause the body to shift energy utilization away from carbohydrates, allow-ing greater mobilization of stored fat for fuel. Findings from several acute studies appear to support this contention (27,1,16). Despite an apparent theoretical basis, evidence is scant as to whether fasted aerobic exercise results in greater fat loss over time compared to exercis -
ing in a fed state. In a recent study researchers investigated changes in fat mass and fat-free mass following four weeks of volume-equated fasted versus fed aerobic exercise in young women adhering to a reduced calorie diet. They found that body composition changes associ -
ated with aerobic exercise in conjunction with a reduced calorie diet are similar regardless of whether or not an individual is fasted prior to training (51). In addition, it is very possible and quite likely that you will not only be burning 
fat in a fasted state, but that you may burn 
protein too, which could impact lean tissue. To spare protein, a small number of calories are helpful. Not to mention the benefit of fueling exercise to be able to operate at a high intensity.
It has been hypothesized that late night 
feeding leads to weight gain and obesity. However, it is also true that late night eaters are typically eating processed simple sugars. While there may been some scientific rationale for this line of thinking, it is actually contrary to research. In fact, research over the last several years has actually showed that eating before bedtime actually increases protein synthesis, increases muscle mass, boosts metabolism, and improves recovery (38,43,34).
The rationale of the experimental fasting is 
based on the idea that only eating in an 8-hour 
window would cause the body to use fat storages 
over the course of the 16-hour fast. Principally this makes a little bit of sense because in a fasted state we are likely to burn more stored fuel such as fat. This is similar to the idea theorized by fasting cardio and fasting while sleeping. While there is some interesting hypothesis, there is lit -
tle literature to support these findings. There are several models of intermittent fasting that have been hypothesized. One of the most com -
mon forms of fasting is the whole-day fasting or 24-hour fasting model. This model has been researched the most as it is associated with many religious practices. However, given the rigorous training schedule of athletes, this is likely not a wise approach. The most recent and intrigu -
ing model is the one mentioned above that employs various fasts within a 24-hour period. An 8-week trial by Tinsley et al. examined the effect of a 20-hour fasting/4-hour feeding pro-tocol done four days per week on recreationally active, but untrained subjects (60). No limita-tions were placed on the amounts and types of food consumed in the four-hour eating window. The fasting group lost body weight, due to a sig-nificantly lower energy intake. Cross-sectional areas of the biceps brachii and rectus femoris increased similarly in both the fasting and nor -
mal diet group. No significant changes in body composition were seen between the groups. A study by Moro et al. found that in resistance-trained subjects on a standardized training protocol, a 16-hour fasting/8-hour feeding cycle resulted in significantly greater fat mass loss in fasted vs normal diet control groups with no 
significant changes in fat-free mass in either 
group (40). Seimon et al. recently published the largest systematic review of intermittent fasting research to date, comparing the effects of inter -
mittent energy restriction to continuous energy restriction on body weight, body composition, and other clinical parameters (53). Their review 

NUTRITION175
included 40 studies in total. They found that 
overall, the two diet types resulted in apparently equivalent outcomes in terms of body weight reduction and body composition change.
OPTIMAL DIET TO 
PREVENT OVERTRAINING
Overtraining is a physiological and psychological 
phenomenon that occurs as a result of under-
recovery. The signs and symptoms of overtraining are decreased performance, impaired immune system, lethargy, sleeplessness, depression, hor -
mone imbalance, prolonged muscle soreness, psychological stress, and injury. It is estimated that 10% of athletes will experience overtraining. Proper periodization and nutrient intake is para -
mount to preventing overtraining. A diet that can address the physiological needs of an athlete that is training at the high end of the training paradigm needs to increase energy, support recovery, reduce inflammation, reduce oxidative stress, hydrate, and reduce the overall catabolic environment.
There is a strong link between hydration 
and overtraining. The research says that as lit -
tle as a water deficit of 2% can negatively affect exercise. In fact, one study showed that when resistance-trained athletes were slightly dehy -
drated, their repetitions dropped significantly over what they could do when they were prop -
erly hydrated (32). Through normal processes we excrete over half a gallon of water a day, so add in exercise and that could quickly reach a gallon. So we should drink at least that much to make sure we are hydrated adequately to do work. The research also suggests that athletes do not eat enough calories (54). Athletes tend to over analyze what they eat in terms of sugar, carbs, fats, protein, and a million other things that media suggest they should be eating. However, caloric sufficiency is the basic fun-damental of repair and recovery. Thus, athletes would benefit from not only increased protein, but overall calories as well. As discussed previ-
ously, adequate protein intake is paramount at 
offsetting the oxidation of amino acids associ -
ated with exercise. In addition, total calories being at or exceeding basic needs is paramount during heavy training. Athletes should strive to not lose weight during training by monitoring their weight and increasing calories as needed.The next thing an athlete needs is anti -
oxidant rich foods. These center around fruits and vegetables. Foods rich in antioxidants can improve both immunity and reduce inflam -
mation (discussed later). It is possible that this would allow the athlete to limit days missed and train harder. This is an important cat -
egory as it is one that athletes commonly miss. Adequate carbohydrate intake is needed to optimize fat burning, and the natural vitamin content can improve performance if an ath -
lete is at a deficit in any area. The final area is adequate fat intake. It was hypothesized for years that dietary fat makes us fat, but that is misleading in that it is a positive calorie bal -
ance that makes us gain weight regardless of the source. The research shows that adequate fat intake has anticatabolic effects and reduces muscle damage. In addition, the caloric content of fat can be exactly what we need to push us over the calorie barrier.
VITAMIN AND  
MINERAL INTAKE
Few studies have examined the micronutrient 
(vitamins and minerals) intakes of strength-power athletes. Clearly, however, suboptimal consumption of certain vitamins and minerals may predispose the individual to a number of diseases. For instance, according to one study, suboptimal folic acid levels, along with subop -
timal levels of vitamins B
6 and B12, are a risk 
factor for cardiovascular disease, neural tube defects, colon and breast cancer; low levels of vitamin D contribute to osteopenia and frac-tures; and low levels of the antioxidant vitamins (vitamins A, E, and C) may increase risk for several chronic diseases. Many people do not consume an optimal amount of all vitamins by diet alone. Subsequently, it appears prudent for all adults to take vitamin supplements.
At this moment it is not clear that con -
suming extra or supplemental vitamins can 
improve athletic performance. Some intrigu -
ing data on nutrient intakes in strength-power 
athletes, however, suggest a potential benefit of supplementing with specific micronutrients. Some research has suggested that strength and power athletes are deficient on basic nutrient requirements (4,48). Furthermore, deficiencies 

COLIN D. WILBORN ET AL.176
in basic nutrient requirements can lead to ill -
ness, injury, and detriments in performance 
(37). There is currently a lack of conclusive evidence that exercise performance or recov -
ery would benefit in any significant way from vitamin or mineral supplementation, unless of course a deficiency exists.
Regardless of what the composite data may 
be regarding the average macro- or micronutri -
ent intakes of athletes, one could certainly argue that these data are unimportant in counseling 
individual athletes. To assess whether an individ -
ual athlete is meeting his or her dietary needs, it 
is of no utility to draw conclusions based on the scientific literature. This is because each individ-ual must have his or her food intake separately analyzed to determine whether alterations in a particular nutrition program may be of benefit.
It is impossible to determine an individual’s macro- 
or micronutrient needs based on a composite picture derived from survey studies in the scientific literature.
Vitamin E
Vitamin E  is a fat-soluble vitamin that may 
have beneficial effects in athletes. For exam-
ple, in one study, 12 weight-trained men were divided into two groups: one group received 1200 IU of vitamin E once per day for two weeks while the control group received a cellulose-based placebo pill (39). Plasma cre-atine kinase (CK) levels (an indirect marker of muscle fiber injury) increased significantly in both groups after 24 and 48 hours; at 24 hours, however, the increase in CK was less in the vitamin E supplemented group than in the placebo group. Plasma malondialdehyde (MDA), an indicator of free-radical interaction with cellular membranes, was elevated in both groups; however, MDA levels remained higher for a longer time in the placebo group. Thus, vitamin E may lessen the injury sustained by skeletal muscle fibers as a result of heavy resistance exercises; moreover, its antioxidant 
effects may be of potential benefit to athletes.
Alternatively, no effects of vitamin E sup -
plementation (1200 IU for three weeks in 
non-resistance-trained men) were found on recovery responses to repeated bouts of resist -
ance exercises. According to the investigators, “Vitamin E supplementation was not effective at attenuating putative markers of membrane damage, oxidative stress, and performance decrements after repeated bouts of whole-body concentric/eccentric resistance exercise” (3).
Vitamin C
Vitamin C  is a water-soluble vitamin that 
is needed for collagen formation and may have beneficial effects for active individuals through its effects on cortisol and via an anti -
oxidant effect.
Twenty-four physically active young sub -
jects who ingested either vitamin C (400 mg), vitamin E (400 mg), or a placebo for 21 days before and 7 days after performing 60 min -
utes of box-stepping exercise were examined (30). The investigators tested the function of the triceps surae muscles and found that, compared to the placebo group, no significant alterations in maximal voluntary contrac -
tion (MVC) were found immediately after exercise; however, the recovery of MVC was superior in the vitamin C group during the first 24 hours after exercise. According to the study’s authors, “prior vitamin C supplemen -
tation may exert a protective effect against eccentric exercise-induced muscle damage.” No effects were observed in the vitamin E supplemented group (30).
One study had 16 male subjects randomized 
to a placebo or vitamin C group (58). These subjects performed a prolonged 90-minute inter -
mittent shuttle-running test, and supplementation commenced after the cessation of exercise. That is, immediately after exercise, the subjects drank a 500 mL beverage containing 200 mg of vita-min C (or placebo) dissolved in solution. Later that same day and for the next two days, the sub -
jects again consumed their treatment drinks. As a result, vitamin C supplementation had no effect on post-exercise CK concentrations, muscle sore -
ness, or muscle function of the leg extensors and flexors. Certainly, longer or prolonged consump -
tion of vitamin C must be further examined. In one study, 16 male subjects consumed either 
vitamin C (200 mg twice daily for two weeks) 
or placebo. Subjects performed 90 minutes of intermittent shuttle running 14 days after sup -
plementation commenced. As a result, it was found that vitamin C did have beneficial effects on muscle soreness, muscle function, and plasma concentrations of serum malondialdehyde (59).

NUTRITION177
Based on the very limited data on vitamins 
C and E, one can reasonably conclude that supplementation may have beneficial effects on a subset of individuals that have dietary or exercise induced deficiencies. There appear to be no deleterious effects on any of the parameters measured in published studies.
Minerals
Magnesium  is an essential mineral that regulates 
neuromuscular, cardiovascular, immune, and 
hormonal function (9). Exercise may deplete 
magnesium, which – combined with inadequate intake – may impair energy metabolism. In a study investigating the effects of magnesium supplementation on strength development during a double-blind, seven-week strength training program, both groups involved gained strength; however, the magnesium-supple -
mented group demonstrated significantly better performance compared to the control group in absolute torque, relative torque adjusted for body weight (T/BWT), and relative torque adjusted for lean body mass (T/LBM) when “before” values were used as the covariate.
Zinc is a mineral required for the activ -
ity of more than 300 enzymes. Recently, it has been recognized that zinc may play an important role in thyroid hormone metabo -
lism. The effects of zinc supplementation in athletes have been studied previously. Moreover, chronic exercise can have long-term effects on zinc metabolism (18). It has been reported that runners have lower plasma zinc levels than controls. One con-sequence of low serum zinc levels could be a reduction in muscle zinc concentrations, pos -
sibly resulting in a reduction in endurance capacity. Zinc may also be acting directly at the membrane level; changes in extracellular zinc levels have been reported to influence the twitch-tension relationship in muscle. If 
one consumes an adequate diet rich in zinc, it is likely that zinc supplementation may be of no consequence to skeletal muscle or hormo-nal function. If one’s diet is inadequate (e.g., vegetarians or individuals on low-energy diets), however, zinc supplementation may be considered. A 2004 study (66) found that the combination of zinc and magnesium had no effect in resistance-trained subjects.An examination of the scientific 
literature shows that vitamin and mineral supplementation either has a neutral or positive effect on various health and performance indexes in exercising individuals. As a strategy, it would make sense to consume a multivitamin as an “insurance policy” against poor eating habits. Eating a diet rich in unprocessed, high-fiber carbohydrates, lean meats, and other high-quality protein sources should form the basis of one’s energy intake.
DIETS
Little research is available regarding dietary 
manipulation to improve performance rela-tive to strength and size in comparison to improving performance in the endurance athlete. A number of different theories, beliefs, and recommendations from health professionals are available regarding the proper way to fuel the body for better per -
formance. Although an infinite number of dietary prescriptions are available, essen -
tially they fall into four overall categories: diets very high in carbohydrate and very low in fat (e.g., Pritikin or Ornish); high in carbohydrate and low in fat (e.g., the USDA MyPyramid food guide system, Figure 7.3); 
very low in carbohydrate and high in protein
 
and fat (e.g., Atkins or South Beach diets); 
Figure 7.3  The USDA MyPyramid food guide 
system.

COLIN D. WILBORN ET AL.178
and moderate in carbohydrate and higher in 
protein (e.g., Zone diet). Table 7.2 compares 
these approaches. Most people have their own dietary beliefs that may have worked for them or the 
athletes they train; signifi -
cant scientific support exists, however, for each of these approaches.
Box 7.1  Eating disorders
Eating disorders are often related to disorders of self-image, self-concept, and self-esteem. They are 
not uncommon among athletic and exercising populations. Disordered eating is one component in the female athletic triad (discussed in Chapter 4). Additionally, compulsive exercise can be a com -
ponent of some eating disorders.
Three eating disorders are discussed briefly below.
Compulsive overeating
Compulsive overeating is an “addiction” to food. Compulsive overeaters use food and eating to 
help with daily stresses and problem solving. Individuals who are compulsive overeaters tend to be overweight. They are aware of their inability to control their eating and may be particularly sensitive to comments about their weight or diet. Because obesity is a major health concern in today’s society, we should be aware of the potential role compulsive overeating may play in this disorder.
Anorexia nervosa
The person with anorexia may perceive him/herself as fat or may be afraid of becoming fat. This 
individual probably has an emotional disorder and reacts by controlling his or her eating behaviors.
Signs of anorexia may include obsessive exercise; calorie counting or fat-gram counting; self-
induced vomiting and the use of diet pills, laxatives, or diuretics; and a persistent concern with body image. Individuals with anorexia may go through periods of bulimia and their body weight is generally below average.
Bulimia nervosa
The primary symptoms of bulimia are episodes of binging and purging. The individual will eat a 
large quantity of food in a relatively short time and then induce vomiting or take laxatives, often related to the guilt of overeating. The episodes of binging and purging may be related to feelings of anger, depression, stress, or anxiety. Individuals suffering bulimia may be aware of their eating disorder and usually enjoy discussing food and diet. They may also be overweight, or their weight may fluctuate greatly.
Summary
Similarities can be found among various eating disorders, the most common being some form 
of emotional disorder. With anorexia and bulimia, it may seem to be nothing but an obsessive Eating disorders are a major concern with 
athletic and exercising populations. As exer -
cise professionals, we must be aware of these 
disorders and be able to address the issue appropriately. This includes a basic under -
standing of the disorders and of the team approach to treatment (Box 7.1).

NUTRITION179
concern over body image. For many of these individuals, deeper emotional issues may need to 
be resolved.
Young female athletes in sports such as gymnastics are considered to be at high risk for eating 
disorders, specifically anorexia or bulimia. Rather than causing the disorder, it may be that some sports attract anorexic/bulimic athletes, enabling them to hide their condition. A team approach to treatment should be considered that potentially involves the coach/exercise professional, the parents, a physician, a nutritionist, a psychologist, and perhaps others. This is not a disorder the exercise professional can or should try to handle alone.
VERY HIGH 
CARBOHYDRATE, VERY LOW-FAT DIETS
Carbohydrates are primarily sugars and 
starches and represent the primary macro -
nutrient consumed by Americans. When we consider the dietary needs of a strength athlete, carbohydrates should be the basis of a sound nutritional program. Carbohydrates provide the major source of energy for the athlete through the breakdown of glycogen (the storage form of carbohydrate) during exercise (6). Moreover, increased carbohydrate intake may delay fatigue and can enhance post-exercise protein synthesis alone (10) (though not to the same extent as amino acids) or synergistically when combined with protein during recovery (46). Although carbohydrates are a crucial part of a sound nutritional program for the strength athlete, they do not play the same role with the endur -
ance athlete who uses up glycogen stores more rapidly through lower-intensity, continuous aerobic activities. Some scientific evidence sug-gests that carbohydrate supplementation prior to and during high-volume resistance training results in the maintenance of muscle glycogen concentration, which potentially could result in the maintenance or increase of performance during a training bout (26). Additionally, the ingestion of carbohydrates following resistance exercise may enhance muscle glycogen resynthe -
sis, which may result in a faster time of recovery from resistance training, thus possibly allowing for a greater training volume. It is unlikely that resistance training depletes muscle glycogen to the same extent as endurance training.
As is seen in Table 7.2, very high carbo -
hydrate,
 very low-fat diets, such as those developed by Pritikin and Ornish, recommend a macronutrient composition of approxi -
mately 80% carbohydrate and 10% protein while advocating less than 10% fat. Both of these approaches are supported by a number of scientific studies in terms of positively mod-ulating health outcomes (e.g., heart disease, lipid values, blood pressure, etc.); no direct research, however, supports their applicability to strength athletes. In fact, these diets may be contraindicated if the goal is to cause hyper -
trophy or increase speed or another variable that an athlete participating in a high-intensity sport may desire, since these diets are low in both protein and fat. It has been posited that diets very high in carbohydrate and low in both protein and fat may suit the needs of a patient with heart disease, owing to the increased intake of fibrous carbohydrates and reduced intake of saturated fat; the limited amounts of protein and fat recommended will not benefit the strength athlete. However, recent work published in the American Journal of Clinical 
Nutrition states that “there is no significant evidence for concluding that dietary saturated fat is associated with an increased risk of CHD or CVD” (55).
Macronutrient manipulation is com-
monly used by strength athletes to positively influence the hormonal milieu (testosterone, growth hormone, insulin, etc.), with the inten -
tion of favoring hypertrophy. As discussed earlier, dietary fat has been shown by a num-ber of studies to correlate with serum sex hormones (22,64), improve body composition by promoting fat loss (57), improve overall health by providing anti-inflammatory effects (56), and even increase the body’s ability to store glycogen. These facts, together with the known health benefits and increases in hormone 

COLIN D. WILBORN ET AL.180
concentrations from resistance training itself, 
demonstrate the importance of consuming adequate amounts of dietary fat (i.e., > 10% recommended with these plans).
Let’s use the example of a 150 lb strength-
trained athlete who needs 2,500 kcal/day. Using the 80%/10%/10% (carbohydrate/protein/fat, respectively) model of Ornish or Pritikin, this individual would be getting approximately 500 g of carbohydrate per day or about 7.3 g of car -
bohydrate per kilogram per day and about 63 g 
of protein and fat per day (that is, about 0.9% of 
protein and 0.4% of fat per kilogram per day). Obviously consuming a diet that replaces much of the dietary fat and protein with carbohydrate makes it impossible to obtain adequate levels of either fat or protein. As discussed earlier, the strength-trained athlete needs more than the RDA for protein each day (from 1.5 to 2.0 g/kg per day) (20), which is clearly much higher than the 0.9 g/kg per day the individual in our exam -
ple would consume. Similarly, considering that glycogen is not depleted to the same extent in a strength athlete as it is in an endurance athlete, such a high intake of carbohydrate on a regular 
basis is unnecessary. Consequently, such a diet 
is not recommended for the otherwise healthy strength-training athlete.
TABLE 7.2  Comparison of popular diets
Meal 
planDietary recommendationsComments
Ornish’s 
and 
Pritikin’s plans≥ 80% carbohydrate
10% protein
≤ 10% fatStrength athletes do not need such a high carbohydrate intake. 
Fortunately, there is at least a distinction made and high-quality 
carbohydrates are recommended with these two plans. Both the protein intake and fat intake are too low to elicit the positive benefits that these two macronutrients provide, which has been demonstrated through 
various research studies.
The 
Food Guide Pyramid 
(FGP)55% to 60% 
carbohydrates12% to 15% protein<30% fatAlso a bit too high in carbohydrates for the strength athlete. Without the guidance of a nutrition professional, one might assume that all carbohydrates are created equal and therefore overconsume refined carbohydrates by following the FGP. The FGP also places fat in the 
limited category, when we know that different types of fats are clearly 
linked to health benefits and positive changes for the strength athlete. Another problem with the FGP is that it does not differentiate between protein sources high in saturated fat (e.g., ground beef) versus those 
that are lean (e.g., whey protein powders) or contain healthy fat (e.g., 
salmon).
Zone diet40% carbohydrate30% protein30% fatFollowing this diet will not provide the strength athlete with adequate energy to build lean body mass. This diet was not originally intended for strength-power athletes. However, if the energy intake is increased 
following a 40:30:30 plan, it should provide adequate protein, healthy 
carbohydrate, and unsaturated fat.
Atkins dietLow-carbohydrate (25 to 90 g/day;  
the typical 
recommendation is 35 to 40 g).Fat and protein make up the rest of the 
diet. No types of 
fat are out of the question.Strength athletes do not have the same macronutrient needs as endurance athletes; however, performance will be shortchanged by 
almost eliminating regular consumption of carbohydrates, particularly 
the high-fiber, low-glycemic variety. In addition, although consensus exists in much of the scientific community about strength athletes’ increased protein needs above the RDA, increasing protein at the expense of unprocessed carbohydrates is not warranted. Unprocessed 
carbohydrates should make up the bulk of one’s nutrition program.

NUTRITION181
HIGH-CARBOHYDRATE, 
LOW-FAT DIETS
Coming on the heels of the very high carbohy-
drate plans described above, high-carbohydrate, low-fat diets, such as that of the Food Guide Pyramid (FGP), recommend a macronutrient composition of approximately 55% to 60% car -
bohydrates, 12% to 15% protein, and less than 30% fat. Table 7.3 lists recommended foods that 
contain each macronutrient. The quantity of foods recommended from each block of the FGP
 
is dependent on the activity level of an individual; however, again, no specific energy recommenda -
tion is provided. Using the FGP model, the same 150 lb athlete from above who needs 2,500 kcal/day would have to consume approximately 340 to 375 g of carbohydrate (~5–5.5 g CHO/kg per day), 75 to 90 g of protein (about 1.1 to 1.3 g/kg per day) and 83 g of fat (~1.2 g/kg per day).
Like the diet prescriptions described ear -
lier, one shortcoming with the USDA FGP is that we have an individual in this example who  would find it difficult to obtain adequate lev-
els of protein (1.5 to 2.0 g/kg protein per day for most strength training athletes) by follow-ing the USDA’s guidelines. Another limitation of the FGP is its lack of specificity when it comes to carbohydrate and fat recommenda -
tions. There is no argument that carbohydrates are used as a form of energy. In fact, they are the primary source of energy of your brain and skeletal muscles. Not all carbohydrates are alike, however. Although the FGP does emphasize a carbohydrate-based diet, it stops short of differentiating among the various types of carbohydrate. Processed carbohydrates such as white rice and pasta should be limited (not eliminated). Knowing the benefits of the other macronutrients during strength train -
ing, namely protein and fat, it would be wise to replace the refined carbohydrates in the diet with lean proteins and healthy fats. Separating the various types of proteins (e.g., red meat versus salmon) and fat (e.g., butter versus olive oil) is the best approach to developing a sound nutritional program for athletes.
TABLE 7.3  Recommended selections for each macronutrient
Carbohydrate Protein Fat
Oatmeal
Oat branBrown riceWholewheat pastaYams/sweet potatoesRed potatoesAll vegetablesAll fruitsQuinoaLegumesLentilsWhole-grain bread(e.g., pumpernickel, rye)Low-fat/fat-free dairyBuckwheatLean red meatPoultry (skinless, white meat)All seafoodLow-fat/fat-free cottage cheeseEggsProtein powders composed of 
whey, casein, or combinations thereofFish oil
Olive oilFlax oilNuts (e.g., almonds, peanuts, etc.)Peanut butterAvocado
Note: some foods, such as legumes, lentils, dairy, and peanut butter cross over into other categories (i.e., lentils also have 
protein). They are placed in the category of the macronutrient that is most abundant.

COLIN D. WILBORN ET AL.182
LOW-CARBOHYDRATE, 
HIGH-PROTEIN DIETS
A number of diets fall into this category. The 
one most commonly discussed and researched is the Zone. Barry Sears, its originator, recom -
mends a 40/30/30 ratio (carbohydrates/protein/fat, respectively), which he states will support even the most competitive athletic endeavors. The intention of this specific ratio of macronu -
trients is to control the body’s ratio of insulin to glucagon, ultimately enhancing performance and the ability to mobilize body fat. Although no specific studies used this particular diet with strength athletes, one review (15) and one short-term study measured endurance performance utilizing the Zone diet (31). Both publications came to similar conclusions: athletes should not implement the Zone diet in their practices.
Energy intake is the most important compo -
nent of any dietary strategy. Without adequate energy the body cannot rebuild, repair, or recu -
perate from training. One study demonstrated, through diet records, that at the end of the seven-week study period, subjects following the Zone diet consumed 1994 ± 438 kcal/day (25). Considering that these were active male sub-jects with a mean age of 26 years, this energy intake is much too low to support any type of athletic endeavor. It is impossible to enhance strength and performance if the body is not being fed what it needs. Going back to our previous example of the 150 lb athlete needing 2,500 kcal/day, he would take in 250 g of car -
bohydrate per day (3.7 g CHO/kg/day), about 188 g of protein per day (about 2.75 g of pro -
tein per kilogram per day), and about 83 g fat (about 1.2 g of fat per kilogram per day).
One positive aspect of this plan is that it 
provides a bit more protein than the previously mentioned diets. With this low-energy diet, the protein is particularly important so as to prevent the loss of muscle tissue. In addition, the Zone recommends consuming most carbohydrates as wholegrain carbohydrates to reduce the insulin surge associated with refined carbohydrates. Finally, Sears also separates fats into their vari -
ous components and recommends increasing the intake of more healthy fats over saturated fats. This macronutrient model is closer to what we would recommend on a daily basis for strength athletes; energy needs, however, must be met first to optimize the training adaptations of the strength-power athlete.
LOW-CARBOHYDRATE, 
HIGH-FAT, HIGH-PROTEIN 
(KETOGENIC) DIETS
Carbohydrates were recently demonized with a 
resurgence of books on low-carbohydrate diets. 
These types of diets are essentially intended for weight loss; they are, however, increasing in pop -
ularity in athletes as well. Looking at the Atkins diet (one of the most popular low-carbohydrate plans) as a model, it recommends that a person consumes 25 to 90 g of carbohydrate each day, with the low end of the scale as the “induction phase” when they first begin the program, and then works up to the higher end of the scale as time progresses and they ultimately reach their goal. With this plan, both fat and protein make up the remaining energy, meaning that intakes of both macronutrients are unlimited and rather high. Our previously mentioned 150 lb athlete who consumed 2,500 kcal/day in the induction phase would have an intake of 25 g of carbo -
hydrate. By dividing protein and fat equally to meet the remaining energy needs in this example, we would provide 300 g of protein (about 4.5 g/kg per day) and about 133 g of fat (about 1.95 g/kg per day). This amount of protein is not only extremely high but unnecessary. The amount of fat in this diet plan is relatively high (e.g., no limit on intake), particularly since Atkins claims that saturated fats are no more hazardous to your health than unsaturated and polyunsatu -
rated fats.
Scientists have begun to measure the effects 
of low-carbohydrate, high-fat diets on exercise performance (12). The assumption here is that although glycogen is the storage form of dietary carbohydrates, drastically reducing carbohy-drates will cause only a transient negative effect on energy levels, since fat and protein metabolites can ultimately be used as sources of energy. All of 
the research in this area has been conducted on 
endurance athletes, because carbohydrates and glycogen are more crucial in terms of endurance performance. Eliminating or drastically reducing carbohydrates is more likely to be detrimental to endurance activity than it is to strength activities.

NUTRITION183
With strength training, the ultimate goal 
is typically hypertrophy, speed, and/or power. 
As discussed, protein is necessary for building muscle mass, and dietary fat is correlated to the production of serum sex hormones. It is obvious that the Atkins diet will provide an abundant amount of both protein and dietary fat. Unfortunately, with this diet, the purpose of high intakes of protein and fat is to displace dietary carbohydrate. Although not as impor -
tant in short-duration, high-intensity activities, 
the drastic reduction of dietary carbohydrate 
and subsequently glycogen stores will hinder performance. Furthermore, the Atkins diet, and other similar diets, are low in total energy. No matter what the macronutrient ratio or combination, total energy is ultimately the most important factor in an athlete’s diet.
Another consideration for many strength 
trainers is the effect of the diet on body compo -
sition, whether with regard to esthetics and/or performance. Research has demonstrated that a diet lower in carbohydrate and higher in pro -
tein and fat may in fact have positive effects on body composition, stimulating greater changes in weight loss while maintaining lean body mass. Supporters of the low-carb strategy suggest that this positive change (e.g., loss of body fat) is due to the elimination of gross changes in plasma insulin concentrations caused by the excessive consumption of dietary carbohydrates. As yet, no long-term data demonstrate the superiority of one diet of this type over another, and the studies to date supporting high-fat diets were all of short duration (aside from one 12-month study, which showed no significant changes in body weight versus the higher-carbohydrate diet at the com -
pletion of the 12 months). It should be noted that it is virtually impossible to scientifically study the effects of a diet in the long term (i.e., more than one year). Thus, comparisons between and among diets are relegated to short-term studies that represent small windows of time.
Another limiting factor to regularly displac -
ing dietary carbohydrate with fat and protein is the lack of variety in the foods allowed, making a low-carbohydrate lifestyle difficult to follow for a long time. The lack of variety also limits the intake of micronutrients, phytochemicals, 
antioxidants, and other beneficial components 
of food, which are all correlated with a lower incidence of various diseases. A healthy athlete is an athlete who can continually train harder and ultimately perform better. Also consider the previously discussed studies demonstrat -
ing that carbohydrates at specific times before, during, and after workouts may enhance pro -
tein synthesis, recovery, and ultimately growth (29,23,63). Drastic reductions in carbohydrate intake will not allow athletes to take advantage of this window of opportunity, when insulin lev -
els are high from resistance exercise and muscle cells are in exact need of the nutrients that are shuttled in more rapidly with the ingestion of high-glycemic carbohydrates. Consequently, the suggestion that a low-carbohydrate, high-fat diet can enhance performance is unsound and not based on science.
It is virtually impossible to make blanket dietary 
recommendations for high-performance athletes without first determining their current food intake. The placement of severe restrictions on certain macronutrients, however, is probably not 
the best approach.
1 Eat about six or seven meals each day. For instance, this would include breakfast, a mid-
morning meal, lunch, a mid-afternoon meal, a post-workout meal, dinner, and another meal before bedtime.
2 The bulk of your food should come from unprocessed carbohydrate foods and whole grains (e.g., vegetables of all kinds, oatmeal, brown rice, yams, sweet potatoes, etc.).
3 Protein should be consumed: approximately 2 g of protein per kilogram of body weight; a more practical and easy-to-remember method is 1 g of protein per pound of body weight.
(continued)

COLIN D. WILBORN ET AL.184
4 The majority of dietary protein should come from lean sources such as chicken, fish, and 
turkey. Supplementing with whey or casein can also be beneficial.
5 Unsaturated fats such as fish fat, fats from nuts and legumes, and olive oil are to be empha-sized, but you still need to consume saturated fat (e.g., from beef, eggs, etc.) on occasion.
6 Always consume a post-workout carbohydrate-protein shake that consists of a high-glycemic carbohydrate and fast-absorbing protein (e.g., whey).
7 Limit your intake of processed carbohydrates. Simple or high-glycemic carbohydrates, however, should be consumed as part of your pre-, during-, and/or post-workout beverage.
8 Not including the window before, during, and after a workout, try limiting your consump-tion of liquid calories (e.g., soda, beer, etc.).
9 Avoid fast food and excessive condiments. Fast food is typically high in sugar and fat and lacking in nutrient value.
REAL-WORLD APPLICATION
Avoiding overtraining with dietary intervention
1 Eat nutrient dense foods. Calories are king when it comes to training intensely. Athletes should ensure they have an adequate calorie intake.
2 Get plenty of fluids. Dehydration can lead to a number of performance-related issues. This can lead to fatigue and contribute to overtraining. Athletes should strive to consume at minimum one gallon of water per day when training.
3 Post-workout nutrition is key. Eating a meal immediately after you train or compete will replenish glycogen stores and support protein synthesis.
4 Take a multivitamin every day. Many athletes are known to be slightly low in some vita -
mins and minerals. A multivitamin will ensure that the athlete is not deficient.
SUMMARY
Various experts on sports nutrition may pro-
vide different answers to the same question based partly on science, anecdote, and personal experience. Blanket dietary recommendations are difficult to make because so many factors affect the optimal diet. Not only is resistance training itself important, but training his-tory, performance goals (e.g., hypertrophy versus power versus changes in body compo-sition), program design, individual responses to training and diet, and acute versus chronic adaptations to training will all play a role in nutritional recommendations.
A few basic nutritional principles can 
apply to all athletes. First, athletes must try to ingest as much energy as possible while achieving optimal body mass and composi-tion for their respective sports. To do so, they 
should focus on ingesting approximately 1 g of protein per pound of body weight. This recommendation simplifies the calculations necessary to determine needs, and the value can be adjusted based on established out-come measures. Dietary carbohydrate and fat energy should balance out the remainder of the diet with a higher proportion of car -
bohydrate than fat. The primary sources of carbohydrates should be primarily unpro -
cessed low-glycemic-index carbohydrates, which provide sufficient fiber and abundant nutrients. The intake of high-glycemic-index carbohydrates should be limited to the peri-ods before, during, and after exercise. Fat intake should be substantial (approximately (continued)

NUTRITION185
30% of total energy), with special attention 
to balancing saturated, monounsaturated, and polyunsaturated fats. Finall y, nutrient timing 
through the consumption of energy (prefer -
ably in liquid form to facilitate absorption and 
ease of use) during and after exercise is critical to improving training response and recovery.Dietary recommendations should be spe -
cific to the current training modality and should be regularly adjusted to meet an ath-lete’s changing needs. Seeking the assistance of a qualified registered dietitian or sports nutri -
tionist will allow the athlete to achieve the desired goals in a healthy but timely manner.
MAXING OUT
1 A two-sport female athlete coming out of the basketball season goes straight into the golf 
season. The athlete is having trouble getting her energy levels up. She complains to you of trouble sleeping, lack of appetite, lethargy, and poor performance. You fear the athlete is suffering from overtraining. What type of nutritional advice would you give this athlete?
2 A coach at your school has been telling athletes that high protein content in the diet will cause liver failure and that athletes should limit their intake. In addition, he tells them that there is no benefit to increased intake of protein. How will you approach this issue with the coach and the athletes?
3 Being the strength coach at a small school you are often approached by faculty and staff about diet and exercise advice. Knowing that most faculty and staff would have different energy requirements than the athletes you normally deal with, what advice would you give them? Give the faculty and staff three nutrition keys that will help them obtain their gen -
eral health goals.
4 A novice long-distance runner who has participated in three half-marathons and one mara -
thon (26.2 miles) asks for your advice regarding her nutrition program. She currently eats two to three meals per day with an emphasis on proteins, healthy fats, and low carbohy -
drate. What questions would you ask her and what nutrition advice might she need that is simple yet effective?
5 An 18-year-old collegiate strength athlete who is 5’11” and 198 lbs has come to you for some nutrition advice. The athlete is consuming about 4,000 kcal per day, but he is on a meal plan at school and can only eat twice a day at the cafeteria. He feels like he is gaining weight, but fat weight. His funds are limited, but he needs dietary help. What advice would you give this athlete? How can his diet help him gain the lean muscle that he wants within his limited budget?
REFERENCES
 1. Ahlborg G, Felig P. Influence of glucose 
ingestion on fuel-hormone response during prolonged exercise. J Appl Physiol 1976; 41(5 Pt. 1):683–688.
 2. Aragon A and Schoenfeld B. Nutrient timing revisited: is there a post-exercise anabolic window? J Int Soc Sport Nutr 2013; 10:5. https://doi.org/10.1186/1550-2783-10-5.
 3. Avery NG, Kaiser JL, Sharman MJ, et al. Effects of vitamin E supplementation on recovery from repeated bouts of resistance exercise. J Strength Cond Res 2003; 17(4):801–809.
 4. Bazzarre TL, Kleiner SM, Ainsworth BE.  
Vitamin C intake and lipid profiles in competitive male and female bodybuilders. Int J Sport Nutr 1992; 2(3):260–271.
 5. Bellisle F, Mcdevitt R, Prentice AM. 1997. Meal frequency and energy balance. Br J Nutr 1997; 77(Suppl 1):S57–S70.
 6. Bergstrom J et al. Diet, muscle glycogen and physical performance. Acta Physiol Scand 1967; 71:140–150.

COLIN D. WILBORN ET AL.186
 7. Biolo G, Tipton KD, Klein S, et al. An 
abundant supply of amino acids enhances the metabolic effect of exercise on muscle protein. Am J Physiol 1997; 273:E122–E129.
 8. Bishop NC, Blannin AK, Walsh NP, et al. Nutritional aspects of immunosuppression in athletes. Sports Med 1999; 28:151–176.
 9. Bohl CH, Volpe SL. Magnesium and exercise. Crit Rev Food Sci Nutr 2002; 42:533–563.
10. Borsheim E, Cree MG, Tipton KD, et al. Effect of carbohydrate intake on net muscle protein synthesis during recovery from resistance exercise. J Appl Physiol 2004; 96:674–678.
11. Borsheim E, Tipton KD, Wolf SE, et al. Essential amino acids and muscle protein recovery from resistance exercise. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab 2002; 283:E648–E657.
12. Burke LM, Kiens B, Ivy JL. Carbohydrates and fat for training and recovery. J Sports Sci 2004; 22(1):15–30.
13. Cameron JD, Cyr MJ, Doucet E. Increased meal frequency does not promote greater weight loss in subjects who were prescribed an 8-week equi-energetic energy-restricted diet. Br J Nutr 2010; 103(8):1098–1101.
14. Campbell B, Kreider RB, ZiegenfussT,  et al. International Society of Sports Nutrition position stand: protein and exercise. J Int Soc Sport Nutr 2007; 4:8.
15. Cheuvront SN. The zone diet and athletic performance. Sports Med 1999; 29(4):213–228.
16. Civitarese AE, Hesselink MK, Russell AP, Ravussin E, Schrauwen P. Glucose ingestion during exercise blunts exercise-induced gene expression of skeletal muscle fat oxidative genes. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab 2005; 289(6):E1023–E1029.
17. Convertino VA, et al. American College of Sports Medicine position stand. Exercise and fluid replacement. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1996; 1:i–vii.
18. Cordova A, Alvarez–Mon M. Behaviour of zinc in physical exercise: a special reference to immunity and fatigue. Neurosci Biobehav Rev 1995; 19:439–445.
19. Dallosso HM, Murgatroyd PR, James WP.  Feeding frequency and energy balance in adult males. Hum Nutr Clin Nutr 1982; 36C(1):25–39.
20. Davis JM, Alderson NL, Welsh RS. Serotonin and central nervous system fatigue: nutritional considerations. Am J Clin Nutr 2000; 72:573S–578S.
21. Doi T, Matsuo T, Sugawara M, et al.  
New approach for weight reduction by a combination of diet, light resistance exercise and the timing of ingesting a protein supplement. Asia Pacific J Clin Nutr 2001; 10:226–232.
22. Dorgan JF, Judd JT, Longcope C, et al. Effects of dietary fat and fiber on plasma and urine androgens and estrogens in men: a controlled feeding study. Am J Clin Nutr 1996; 64(6):850–855.
23. Esmarck B, Andersen JL, Olsen S, et al. Timing of postexercise protein intake is important for muscle hypertrophy with resistance training in elderly humans. J Appl Physiol 2001; 535:301–311.
24. Flakoll PJ, Judy T, Flinn K, et al. Postexercise protein supplementation improves health and muscle soreness during basic military training in marine recruits. J Appl Physiol 2004; 96:951–956.
25. Fleming J, Sharman MJ, Avery NG, et al. Endurance capacity and high-intensity exercise performance responses to a high fat diet. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab 2003; 13(4):466–478.
26. Haff GG, Lehmkuhl MJ, McCoy LB, Stone MH. Carbohydrate supplementation and resistance training. J Strength Cond Res 2003; 17:187–196.
27. Horowitz JF, Mora-Rodriguez R, Byerley LO, Coyle EF. Lipolytic suppression following carbohydrate ingestion limits fat oxidation during exercise. Am J Physiol 1997; 273(4 Pt 1):E768–E775.
28. Ivy JL. Glycogen resynthesis after exercise: effect of carbohydrate intake. Int J Sports Med 1998; 19(Suppl 2):S142–S145.
29. Ivy JL, Goforth HW, Jr., Damon BM,  
et al. Early postexercise muscle glycogen recovery is enhanced with a carbohydrate–protein supplement. J Appl Physiol 2002; 93:1337–1344.
30. Jakeman P, Maxwell S. Effect of antioxidant vitamin supplementation on muscle function after eccentric exercise. Eur J App Physiol 1993; 67(5):426–430.
31. Jarvis M, Seddon A, McNaughton L, et al.  
The acute 1-weed effects of the zinc diet on body composition, Blood lipid levels, and performance in recreational endurance athletes. J Strength Cond Res 2002; 16(1):50–57.
32. Judelson DA, Maresh CM, Farrell MJ, Yamamoto LM, Armstrong LE, Kraemer WJ, Volek JS, Spiering BA, Casa DJ, Anderson JM. Effect of hydration state on strength, power, and resistance exercise performance. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2007; 39(10):1817–1824.
33. Kerksick C, Harvey T, Stout J, et al. International Society of Sports Nutrition position stand: nutrient timing. Int J Sport Nutr 2008; 5:18.

NUTRITION187
34. Kinsey AW, Cappadona SR, Panton LB, 
Allman BR, Contreras RJ, Hickner RC, Ormsbee MJ. The effect of casein protein prior to sleep on fat metabolism in obese men. Nutrients 2016; 8(8):452. doi: 10.3390/
nu8080452.
35. Lemon PW, Berardi JM, Noreen EE. The 
role of protein and amino acid supplements in the athlete’s diet: does type or timing of ingestion matter? Curr Sports Med Rep 2002; 1:214–221.
36. Lowery LM and Devia L. Dietary protein and resistance exercise: what do we really know?  J Int Soci Sport Nutr 2009; 6:3.
37. Lukaski H. Vitamin and mineral status: effects on physical performance. Nutrition 2004; 20(7):632–644.
38. Madzima T, Panton L, Fretti S, Kinsey A, Ormsbee M. Night-time consumption of protein or carbohydrate results in increased morning resting energy expenditure in active college-aged men. Br J Nutr 2014; 111(1): 
71–77.
39. McBride JM, Kraemer WJ, Triplett-McBride 
T, et al. Effect of resistance exercise on free radical production. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1998; 30:67–72.
40. Moro T, Tinsley G, Bianco A, Marcolin G, Pacelli Q, Battaglia G, et al. Effects of eight weeks of time-restricted feeding (16/8) on basal metabolism, maximal strength, body composition, inflammation, and 
cardiovascular risk factors in resistance-
trained males. J Transl Med 2016; 14(1):290.
41. Nieman DC. Exercise immunology: nutritional countermeasures. Can J App Physiol 2001; 26(Suppl):S45–S55.
42. Noakes TD. Fluid replacement during exercise. Exerc Sport Sci Rev 1993; 21:297–330.
43. Ormsbee MJ, Gorman KA, Miller EA, Baur DA, Eckel LA, Contreras RJ, Panton LB, Spicer MT. Nighttime feeding likely 
alters morning metabolism but not exercise performance in female athletes. Appl Physiol 
Nutr Me 2016; 41(7):719–727.
44. Phillips SM, Tipton KD, Aarsland A,  
et al. Mixed muscle protein synthesis and 
breakdown after resistance exercise in humans. Am J Physiol 1997; 273:E99–E107.
45. Rampone AJ, Reynolds PJ. Obesity: thermodynamic principles in perspective. Life Sci 1988; 43:93–110.
46. Rasmussen BB, Tipton KD, Miller SL, et al. An oral essential amino acid–carbohydrate supplement enhances muscle protein anabolism after resistance exercise. J Appl Physiol 2002; 88:386–392.47. Rennie MJ and Tipton KD. Protein and amino acid metabolism during and after exercise and the effects of nutrition. Annu Rev Nutr 2000; 20:457–483.
48. Rokitzki L, Sagredos, AN, Reuss F, et al. Assessment of vitamin B6 status of strength and speedpower athletes. J Am Coll Nutr 1994; 13(1):87–94.
49. Roy BD, Luttmer K, Bosman MJ, et al. The influence of post-exercise macronutrient intake on energy balance and protein metabolism in active females participating in endurance training. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc 
Metab 2002; 12:172–188.
50. Schoenfeld B, Aragon A, and Krieger J. The 
effect of protein timing on muscle strength and hypertrophy: a meta-analysis. J Int Soc Sport Nutr 2013; 10:53. https://doi.org/10.1186/1550-2783-10-53.
51. Schoenfeld B, Aragon A, Wilborn C, Krieger J,  
Sonmez G. Body composition changes associated with fasted versus non-fasted aerobic exercise. J Int Soc Sport Nutr 2014; 11:54.
52. Schoenfeld BJ, Aragon A, Wilborn C, Urbina SL, Hayward SE, Krieger J. (2017) Pre- versus post-exercise protein intake has similar effects on muscular adaptations. PeerJ5:e2. https://doi.org/10.7717/peerj.2825.
53. Seimon R, Roekenes J, Zibellini J, Zhu B, Gibson A, Hills A, et al. Do intermittent diets provide physiological benefits over continuous diets for weight loss? A systematic review of clinical trials. Mol Cell Endocrinol 2015; 
418(Pt 2):153–172.
54. Short SH, Short WR Four-year study of 
university athletes’ dietary intake. J Am Diet Assoc 1983; 82(6):632–645.
55. Siri-Tarino PW, Sun Q, Hu FB, Krauss RM. Meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies evaluating the association of saturated fat with cardiovascular disease. Am J Clinc Nutr 2010; 91(3):535–546.
56. Stark AH and Madar Z. Olive oil as a functional food: epidemiology and nutritional approaches. Nutr Rev 2002; 60:170–176.
57. Terpstra AH. Effect of conjugated linoleic acid on body composition and plasma lipids in humans: an overview of the literature. Am J Clin Nutr 2004; 79:352–361.
58. Thompson D, Williams C, Garcia-Roves P,  et al. Post-exercise vitamin C supplementation and recovery from demanding exercise. Eur J Appl Physiol 2003; 89:393–400.
59. Thompson D, Williams C, McGregor SJ,  et al. Prolonged vitamin C supplementation and recovery from demanding exercise. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab 2001; 11(4):466–481.

COLIN D. WILBORN ET AL.188
60. Tinsley G, Forsse J, Butler N, Paoli A, Bane 
A, La Bounty P, et al. Time-restricted feeding in young men performing resistance training: A randomized controlled trial. Eur J Sport Sci 2017; 17(2):200–207.
61. Tipton KD, Borsheim E, Wolf SE, et al. Acute response of net muscle protein balance reflects 24-h balance after exercise and amino acid ingestion. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab 
2003; 284:E76–E89.
62. Tipton KD, Elliott TA, Cree MG, et al. Stimulation of net protein synthesis by whey protein ingestion before and after exercise. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab 2007; 292(1):E71–E76.
63. Tipton KD, Rasmussen BB, Miller SL,  et al. Timing of amino acid–carbohydrate ingestion alters anabolic response of muscle to resistance exercise. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab 2001; 281:E197–E206.
64. Volek JS, Kraemer WJ, Bush JA, et al. Testosterone and cortisol in relationship to dietary nutrients and resistance exercise. J App Physiol 1997; 82(1):49–54.65. Webster S, et al. Physiological effects of a weight loss regimen practiced by college wrestlers. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1990; 22(2):229–234.
66. Wilborn CD, Kerksick CM, Campbell BI, et al. Effects of zinc magnesium aspartate (ZMA) supplementation on training adaptations and markers of anabolism and catabolism. J Int Soc Sport Nutr 2004; 
1(2):12–20.
67. Willoughby DS, Stout JR, Wilborn CD. Effects 
of resistance training and protein plus amino acid supplementation on muscle anabolism, mass, and strength. Amino Acids 2007; 32(4):467–477.
68. Wolfram G, Kirchgessner M, Muller HL, Hollomey S. Thermogenesis in humans after varying meal time frequency. Ann Nutr Metab 1987; 31(2):88–97.
69. Yannakoulia M, Melistas L, Solomou E, Yiannakouris N. Association of eating frequency with body fatness in pre- and postmenopausal women. Obesity (Silver Spring) 2007; 15(1):100–106.

2 PART
ORGANIZATION AND  
ADMINISTRATION
 8 Facility administration and design  191
 9 Warm-up and flexibility  213
10 T est administration and interpretation  233
11 Resistance exercise techniques and spotting  269

Contents
Introduction  191
Facilities and equipment  192
Legal duties and concepts  195
Duties and responsibilities: liability exposure  197
Policies and procedures  204
Summary  204
Acknowledgments  208
References  208

8 Conten CHAPTER
OBJECTIVES
After completing this chapter, you will be able to:
• Understand all aspects of managing a strength and conditioning facility.
• Identify the primary duties involved in strength and conditioning maintenance and safety for 
both the equipment and the facility.
• Demonstrate an understanding of the legal duties and concepts associated with facility design and management.
• Identify potential areas of legal concern in the operations of a strength and conditioning facility and the steps that can be taken to minimize risk.
• Demonstrate an understanding of the policies and procedures associated with developing and managing a strength and conditioning facility.FACILITY ADMINISTRATION   
AND DESIGN
Allen Hedrick
KEY TERMS
Assumption of risk
Construction phaseDesign phaseLiabilityMission statementNegligencePerformance team modelPre-design phasePre-operation phaseProduct liabilityRisk managementStandard of care
INTRODUCTION
Strength and conditioning professional 
responsibilities extend beyond designing and implementing well designed training pro-grams to also include managing the strength and conditioning facility. Among the more critical administrative considerations include the number of athletes training in the facility,  
the size of the strength and conditioning coaching staff and the amount of equipment available, and the amount of time available 

ALLEN HEDRICK192
for each team/athlete to train (1). The purpose 
of this chapter is to discuss facility develop -
ment and management in a typical weight room along with legal responsibilities and concepts, liability exposure, and policies and procedures.
Working as a strength and conditioning 
coach requires competencies in sport/exer -
cise science, administration, management, teaching/coaching, while also complying with various laws and regulations. This combi -
nation of requirements creates remarkable challenges in terms of facility design and administration, requiring considerable expe -
rience, expertise, and resources. Strength and conditioning coaches, and those who hire them, are responsible both for addressing these needs and meeting the standard of care in providing safe and effective programs and training facilities.
A safe training environment requires that 
employees avoid any negligent supervision with a client and/or while setting up a facility, understand the standard care that is required, and recognize the risks that may occur.
FACILITIES AND 
EQUIPMENT
Most architects believe the design of a struc -
ture should be based on its purpose. While 
this approach seems straightforward, many strength and conditioning facilities were originally designed for another purpose. In addition, sometimes these facilities contain less than ideal equipment. Even in facilities that can be considered state-of-the-art, regular upgrades to equipment can be advantageous because equipment manufacturing companies continue to offer improvements in the equip -
ment they manufacture. Because the design of the facility and administering the program are entwined, equipment selection and lay -
out should allow the training program to be implemented safely and effectively. While this concept seems simple, it may be complex in application.Policies of a facility may require employees to have 
specific experiences and/or certifications. Also, as an employee, understanding the safety procedures of the facility is of utmost importance.
Conduct your programs in such a way that you are 
proud to let a knowledgeable visitor observe your athletes training.
Layout and scheduling
The initial step in planning and designing a 
new facility is to form a committee to assist in each step of the process. This can be subdi -
vided into 
pre-design , design , construction , and  
pre-operation phases  (2).
The practitioner should evaluate existing 
equipment based on the program needs of all athletic teams using the facility (2). This will involve multiple considerations, including the number of athletes using the facility, types of strength training required by each group, age groups, and the training experience of athletes training in the facility.
When building a new facility, the design 
of the room should be based on arrang-ing equipment to be placed in the room(2). Considerations include access to the room, location of the coach’s office(s), ceiling height, type(s) of flooring, placement of electrical out -
lets, mirrors, and the location of such things as drinking fountains, rest rooms, telephones, signs, bulletin boards, storage, and repair areas.
Safety is the most important considera-
tion when arranging equipment. Figure 8.1 
shows an example of a well-designed strength/power 
area. Thought should be given to cre-
ating specific areas to meet distinct needs (e.g., stretching/warm-up, circuit training, free weights, Olympic lifting). For example (3):
• When performing standing exercises from a rack, consider the bar length plus a 6 ft safety cushion, then multiply this by a sug-gested user space width of 8 to 10 ft [e.g., if using a 7 ft Olympic bar for the back squat exercise, (7 ft + 6 ft) × (10 ft) = 130 sq ft].

FACILITY ADMINISTRATION AND DESIGN193
• During performance of weightlifting exer -
cises (e.g., cleans, jerks, snatches), consider 
the platform/lifting space length plus a 4 ft perimeter walkway and multiply this by the platform/lifting space width plus another 4 ft perimeter walkway safety space (e.g., [8 ft + 4 ft] × [8 ft + 4 ft] = 144 sq ft).
Regardless of training philosophies, it is 
a priority that conditioning coaches supervise the facility. Often this must be accomplished with limited staff and a high number of ath-letes in the facility at the same time. Depending on training methods and movements utilized, the challenge is to equip and arrange the facil -
ity to maximize capacity without negatively affecting efficiency or safety.
Although equipment selection in any facil -
ity is a matter of matching training philosophies and the clientele of the facility, guidelines can be applied to help direct choices. Practitioners should carefully consider both the benefits and drawbacks of the equipment being considered and make purchasing decisions based on what equipment best matches their training beliefs and philosophies.When selecting equipment, consideration 
should be given to practical issues, including the following:
• Versatility
• Coaching/teaching requirements (and corre-sponding staffing/spotting responsibilities)
• Safety
• Cost, space/time efficiency
When training for strength and power, and 
enhancing athletic performance, literature sug -
gests that unguided-resistance equipment (e.g., free weight training) is superior to emphasiz -
ing machine training, especially when there is qualified instruction and supervision in place (4–7). There seems to be a variety of reasons for this superior training effect that free weight training provides, which in turn can make the equipment selection process easier. In gen -
eral, the facility design and equipment should match the program’s goals and objectives, and the needs of those training in the facility, ena -
bling athletes to perform a variety of multiple joint, multi-plane movements that challenge their coordination and movement skills. Much 
Figure 8.1  Diagram depicting appropriate layout for strength/power area. A strength/power area must be 
designed with regard to facility layout and arrangement as well as equipment safety and function.

ALLEN HEDRICK194
of the equipment selected should be appro-
priate for exercises that involve accelerating the resistance over a long range of motion allowing for high-power levels and rates of force development as well as different types of muscular contractions (concentric, eccentric, isometric, and stretch-shortening cycle).
Maintenance and safety
One of the primary responsibilities of the strength and conditioning coach is to provide a safe training environment while empha -
sizing performance enhancement and injury prevention (2).
Practitioners also have a responsibility to 
maintain and clean the facility and equipment (2). Establishing maintenance and cleaning schedules, and keeping the required supplies, tools, and other items on hand, helps ensure safety, maintain the equipment at a high level, and keep appearance, cleanliness, and func-tionality at a high level.
Environmental factors within the strength 
and conditioning facility also need to be con-sidered for participants’ health and safety. Some specific environmental factors to con -
sider include (2,8):
• Volume on sound and video systems need to be set to allow clear communication between coach and athletes and spotters and lifters at all times
• Air temperature kept within a range of 72° to 78°F (22° to 26°C)• Ventilation systems providing a minimum 8 to 10 air exchanges/hour with no strong odors in the room
• Equipment and floor not wet and slick due to humidity
• Facility well illuminated and free of dark areas
• Exit sign well lighted
• Extension cords large enough for electri-cal load; properly routed, secured, and grounded
• Safety, regulation, and policy signs posted in clear view
Within these areas of responsibility, it is 
important to understand litigation issues (3,9–15). By doing so, practitioners can manage, but not eliminate, the risk of injury among par -
ticipants. It is also important for practitioners to understand the concept of 
product liability . 
Product liability is defined as a manufacturer’s and/or vendor’s legal responsibilities if some-one using their equipment sustains injury or damage due primarily to a defect or defi -
ciency in design or production (2), as well as actions that can place one at risk for litigation. Product liability issues are discussed in further 
detail later in this chapter. Box 8.1 provides basic guidelines for planning and designing a new facility
.
An important consideration when planning the 
facility is to evaluate the needs of the athletes and teams who will be training in the facility.
Box 8.1  Facilities and equipment
Select a committee of professionals to accomplish the following:
 •Assess equipment currently in the facility based on the needs of all athletic teams using the 
room.
 •Evaluate the design of the facility and arrange existing equipment with safety and function as top priorities in determining equipment arrangement.
 •Consider seasonal athletic team priorities (i.e., in-season vs. out of season), staff-to-athlete ratios, and equipment availability relative to the number of athletes in the room at any given time.
 •Establish frequent maintenance and cleaning schedules to ensure safety, protect equipment, and maintain the facility’s appearance, cleanliness, and functionality.

FACILITY ADMINISTRATION AND DESIGN195
REAL-WORLD APPL iCATiON
Funding a training facility
Weight rooms are often filled with obsolete and nonfunctional equipment, and the budget is 
too small to reequip many facilities on a regular basis. This is a common situation, and not one commonly addressed in an academic setting. Suggestions for creative opportunities for funding are provided here.
Create a priority list of the equipment that needs to replaced first. Be specific with how 
many of each item you will need and what the cost will be. Remember that many equipment vendors do provide discount incentives for buying multiple pieces of equipment. Schedule the upgrade in phases, starting with those items most needed and progress from there. If a piece of equipment is still functional, no matter how old or worn, defer replacing it until later. For example, barbells and plates that are old and rusted may not be aesthetically pleasing but will suffice temporarily. Spend available funds on high-priority equipment that cannot be donated or built on site that will most increase the ability to effectively train those using the facility.
Once you have completed planning the upgrade, consider possible resources to fund the 
project. There may be creative funding opportunities available. Ask your athletic director (e.g., administrator who oversees the work of coaches and staff working in an athletic department or facility) for permission to approach local boosters or businesses for “gifts in kind.” Often boosters will exchange services and/or products for tickets or other incentives. Many athletic directors set aside reserve money in their budget until late in the fiscal year to cover unfore -
seen expenses. Ask them to consider directing a portion of that to a weight room upgrade, emphasizing how it can benefit every team’s performance and recruiting. With approval, con-sider approaching a development officer for the institution. Possibly there is a list of boosters who can provide products or services, such as building-supply centers that might donate lumber for platforms, welders who can fabricate equipment, and the like. Boosters are gener -
ally gratified to know that you’re giving them first consideration and that you have seen their advertisements in media guides, game-day programs, stadium signage, and so on.
If you have a specific company in mind for your new equipment, ask about their design 
capabilities to show different options for laying out the equipment in the weight room. They may be able to provide various floor plan options, elevations, or other drawings that will help visualize the various choices which help in making the final decision easier.
One important note: when pursuing the services of welders, carpenters, or other contrac -
tors, be sure to provide them with the required information to build to industry specifications. If the equipment should fail at some point, the facility may be liable for any resulting injuries or damages.
LEGAL DUTIES AND 
CONCEPTS
Practitioners and their employers share legal 
responsibility to provide an appropriate level of supervision and instruction to accomplish the following: meet a reasonable standard of care, provide and maintain a safe environment for athletes, inform users of the risks inherent in and related to their activities, and prevent unreasonable risk or harm resulting from neg -
ligent instruction or supervision (10–13). In fact, these legal duties and concepts define the organizational and administrative tasks of the profession.

ALLEN HEDRICK196
The strength and conditioning practitioner’s 
primary responsibility is to provide a safe training environment for all athletes.
A strength and conditioning professional 
should understand the following legal terms (2):
• Assumption of risk . Voluntary participation 
in activity with knowledge of the inher -
ent risk(s). Practitioners must thoroughly 
inform participants of the risks involved in athletic and conditioning activities. Ideally, athletes should be required to sign a state-ment indicating their understanding and acceptance of the risk.
• Liability . A legal responsibility. Practitioners 
must take reasonable steps to ensure safe participation in conditioning activities, prevent injury, and act prudently when an injury occurs (9).
• Negligence . Failure to exercise the care a 
prudent person would under similar cir -
cumstances. For a practitioner to be guilty of negligence, there must be duty, breach of duty, proximate cause, and damages (15). He or she is negligent if proven to have a duty to act and to have failed to act with the appropriate standard of care, proximately causing injury or damages to another per -
son.
• Standard of care . What a prudent and rea -
sonable person would do under similar circumstances. A practitioner is expected to act according to his or her education, train -
ing, and certification status.
Practitioners and their employers share a legal 
duty to provide an appropriate level of supervision and instruction.
Types of standards
In addition to standards for desired opera -
tional practices published by professional 
organizations such as the National Strength and Conditioning Association (NSCA), stand -
ards for technical/physical specifications have been published by independent organizations. In a negligence lawsuit, established standards of care can be used to gauge a practitioner’s professional competence by comparing his or her actual conduct with written benchmarks of expected behavior. In addition to standards and guidelines established by allied organiza-tions such as the American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) (16,17), American Heart Association (AHA) (16,18), and National Athletic Trainers Association (NATA), other associations have also delineated standards of practice (Aerobics and Fitness Association 
of America, American Physical Therapy 
Association, National Association for Sport and Physical Education). Moreover, relevant technical/physical specifications have been published by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission and the American Society for Testing and Materials (19,20).
Applying standards of practice to 
risk management
Risk management  is a proactive administrative 
process meant to help minimize legal liability 
while also limiting the frequency and severity of injuries and subsequent claims and lawsuits (10,21). It may not be possible to eliminate all risk of injury and liability exposure, but these can be effectively minimized with risk-management strategies. Although the coordinator is ultimately responsible for risk management, all practition -
ers should be involved in various aspects of the process. Eickhoff-Shemek (22) proposes a four-step procedure (adapted from Head and Horn [23]) for applying standards of practice to the risk-management process:
1
 Identify and select standards of practice 
as well as all applicable laws . There are 
several standards of practice published by various organizations. As a result, it is challenging for the practitioner to be aware of all of them and decide which one to apply when implementing the risk-management plan. As far as participant 
safety, normally the most stringent stand-
ards in an industry should be adhered to.
2
 Develop risk-management strategies reflecting standards of practice and all applicable laws. This involves writing pro -
cedures defining specific responsibilities 

FACILITY ADMINISTRATION AND DESIGN197
and/or duties that staff will carry out in 
specific situations. The procedures must be written clearly, succinctly, without excessive detail. Once the written proce -
dures are completed, include them in the staff policies and procedures manual.
3
 Implement the risk-management plan. 
Implementing the risk-management plan involves staff training to ensure that the practitioner’s daily conduct is consistent with written policies and procedures and 
applicable laws and standards of practice. 
The policies and procedures manual is to be used in conjunction with initial training of new employees as well as during regular in-service training where all employees practice specific procedures. From a legal perspective, it is important to explain to staff the neces-sity of carrying out such duties appropriately.
4
 Evaluate the risk-management plan . 
Standards of practice are not static and must be updated periodically to reflect change. The risk-management plan should be stringently evaluated annually, if not sooner, as well as after any accident or injury to determine if emergency proce -
dures were performed correctly and what steps could be taken, if any, to prevent a similar incident occurring.Application of standards of practice to 
the risk-management process is a four-step process: identify and select standards of practice as well as all applicable laws; develop risk-management strategies reflecting 
standards of practice and all applicable laws; 
implement the risk-management plan; and evaluate the risk-management plan.
DUTIES AND 
RESPONSIBILITIES: 
LIABILITY EXPOSURE
Although every program and facility is unique, 
it is beneficial to examine the duties and respon-sibilities of the practitioner in terms of common areas of liability exposure (14). For example, proper instruction and supervision are related to both personnel qualifications and facility layout and scheduling. Noncompliance in one area can affect other areas, thereby increasing the risk of negligence and potential litigation. Practitioners and their employers share the corresponding duties and responsibilities.
The NSCA’s Strength and Conditioning 
Professional Standards and Guidelines  (14) 
identifies nine areas of liability exposure: 
REAL-WORLD APPL iCATiON
Policies and procedures
The following is a sample policy for a strength and conditioning facility:
Work with an attentive spotter and use appropriate safety equipment (e.g., power racks) 
for performing movements where free weights are supported on the trunk or moved over the head/face. Olympic lifts are an exception to the spotter rule and should be per -
formed on an 8 ft by 8 ft platform that is clear of people and equipment.
When writing a policy, consider how it will be enforced. To carry out a policy and ensure it is enforced, several steps should be taken: (i) the staff must be trained on expectations both in terms of teaching athletes to spot and dealing with athletes who neglect to use a spotter; (ii) the athletes must be trained in spotting, what lifts need a spotter, and the number of spotters required for specific exercises; it will be a necessity to train incoming athletes as they enter the program, and it may be necessary to reinforce this training each year; and (iii) determine the consequences in advance for not following policy; be fair and consistent when enforcing policy; consider the legal implications if an athlete who has not followed policy is injured.

ALLEN HEDRICK198
pre-participation screening and clearance; 
personnel qualifications; program supervision and instruction; facility and equipment setup, inspection, maintenance, repair, and signage; emergency planning and response; records and record keeping; equal opportunity and access; participation by children; and supple -
ments, ergogenic aids, and drugs. Within these areas of liability exposure, a total of 11 stand -
ards (“must do’s”) and 13 guidelines (“should do’s”) are proposed. These further define the 
tasks involved in facility organization and 
administration.
Pre-participation screening and 
clearance
A physical examination (ideally conducted 
by a licensed physician) is a necessity for all athletes prior to participating in a program. This should include a comprehensive health and immunization history (as defined by cur -
rent guidelines from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) as well as relevant physical exam, including an orthopedic evalu -
ation. Cardiovascular screening, as discussed later, is also recommended. The practitioner does not need a copy of the results, but a signed statement verifying proof of medical clear -
ance to participate must be obtained. Often this will occur through the athletic trainers responsible for each sport. Athletes who are returning from an injury or illness or have spe -
cial medical requirements must be required to show proof of medical clearance before begin -
ning or returning to participation.
Currently, no universally accepted stand -
ards are available for screening athletes, neither are there approved certification procedures for health care professionals who perform such examinations. The joint Pre-Participation Physical Evaluation Task Force of five organi-zations has published a widely accepted monograph, including detailed instructions on performing a pre-participation history and physical exam and determining clearance 
for participation, and a medical evaluation 
form to copy and use for each examination (24). The American Heart Association and American College of Sports Medicine have also published statements on pre-participation screening for those involved in fitness-related activities (16,18,25). Relevant issues can be summarized as follows:
Educational institutions have ethical, 
medical, and possible legal obligations to implement cost-efficient pre-participation screening strategies (including a complete medical history and physical examina -
tion), thereby ensuring that high school 
(e.g., typically students in the age range of 
about 14 years of age to about 18 years of age) and college (typically students in the age range of about 18 to about 22 years of age) athletes are not subject to unac -
ceptable risks. Support for such efforts, especially in large athletic populations, is mitigated by cost-efficiency consider -
ations, practical limitations, and aware-ness that it is not possible to achieve zero risk in competitive sports.
A properly qualified health care provider 
(with requisite training, medical skills, and background to reliably perform a physical examination, obtain a detailed cardiovas -
cular history, and recognize heart disease) should perform the pre-participation ath -
letic screening. A licensed physician is preferable, but an appropriately trained registered nurse or physician assistant may be acceptable under certain circumstances in states where non-physician health care workers are permitted to perform pre-par -
ticipation screening. In the latter situation, a formal certification process should be established to demonstrate the examiner’s expertise in performing cardiovascular examinations.
The best available and most practical 
approach to screening populations of competitive sports participants involves a 
complete and careful personal and family 
medical history and physical examination designed to identify (or raise suspicion of) cardiovascular risk factors known to cause sudden death or disease progression . Such 

FACILITY ADMINISTRATION AND DESIGN199
screening is a realistic and obtainable objec -
tive and must be mandatory for all athletes. 
A complete medical history and physical examination should be performed before participation in organized high school ath-letics (grades 9 to 12). An updated history should be obtained in intervening years. For collegiate athletes, a comprehensive personal/family history and physical exami-nation should be performed by a qualified 
examiner initially upon entering the institu -
tion, before beginning training and competi -
tion. Screening should be repeated every two 
years thereafter unless more frequent exami -
nations are indicated. An updated history and blood pressure measurement should be obtained each subsequent year to determine if another physical examination, and pos-sible further testing, is required (e.g., due to abnormalities or changes in medical status).
To assist in assigning a level of risk in terms 
of likelihood of injury, health appraisal ques -
tionnaires should be completed prior to participation in any exercise testing and/or training. Written and active communication between facility staff, including athletic train -
ers and team physicians, and the participant’s personal physician or health care provider, should ideally occur when a medical evalua -
tion/recommendation is advised or required. Athletes should be educated regarding the importance of the pre-participation health appraisal and medical evaluation/recom -
mendation (if indicated) and should not be allowed to participate without them.
Personnel qualifications
To properly supervise and instruct athletes 
utilizing facilities and equipment, qualified personnel must be in place. A three-pronged approach is recommended:
1
 The practitioner should acquire exper -
tise, and have a degree from an accredited 
institution in one or more of the topics com-prising the “scientific foundations” domain identified in the Certified Strength and Conditioning Specialist (CSCS) Examination Content Description (26) or a relevant sub -
ject. He or she should also make an ongoing effort to continue to acquire knowledge and competence throughout the duration of his or her career.
2
 Professional organizations within the area of strength and conditioning offer certifications with continuing education requirements as well as a code of ethics for practitioners interested in acquiring the nec -
essary competencies . Depending on one’s 
specific duties, responsibilities, and inter -
ests, relevant certifications offered by other governing bodies may also be appropriate.
3
 The performance team model , which 
involves developing a staff composed of qualified professionals with interde -
pendent areas of expertise and shared leadership roles, can enhance practition-ers’ knowledge and skill development and improve their ability to provide high qual -
ity instruction to their athletes  (27,28). 
The profession’s scope of practice has expanded and diversified to an extent where it is very challenging and often impossible for one individual to acquire proficiency in all areas.
The importance of putting qualified staff -
ing in place to fulfill the institution’s and practitioner’s shared legal duties for safety, supervision, and standard of care cannot be overstated. A lack of qualified instruction and supervision can be identified as a causative fac -
tor in the available literature on injuries and litigations associated with strength and power training. In some cases, this causative effect is obvious (29–31), while in other situations it can be inferred. For example, despite the technical and athletic requirements of weight -
lifting, the relatively high coach-to-athlete ratio and corresponding standard of care are likely reasons for its low incidence of injury (32,33).
Program supervision and 
instruction
About 80% of all court cases concerning inju -
ries to athletes are related to supervision (9). 
Although serious accidents are rare in supervised 

ALLEN HEDRICK200
exercise programs, the liability costs associated 
with inadequate or lax supervision are signifi -
cant; plaintiffs’ recovery rate in such negligence lawsuits is almost 56% (34). Poor facility main -
tenance, defective equipment, and inadequate instruction and/or supervision are the main causes of these incidents. The importance of staff -
ing is obvious in each circumstance. For example, in a review of 32 litigations resulting from neg -
ligent weight training supervision, three issues were raised by the plaintiff’s attorneys in each 
case (35): poor instruction or instructor qualifi -
cations; lax/poor supervision; and failure to warn 
of inherent dangers in the equipment, facility, or exercise. The issue of professional instructors’ qualifications, as discussed in the previous sec -
tion, is a prevalent trend in such litigations.
As a strength and conditioning practitioner, one 
should fully be able to properly use the equipment within the facility, while also being able to recognize when the equipment is no longer safe to use.
Athletes must be properly supervised and 
instructed all the time to ensure maximum 
safety. Bucher and Krotee (36) recommend the following principles:
• Always be there
• Be active and hands-on
• Be prudent, careful, and prepared
• Be qualified
• Be vigilant
• Inform athletes of safety and emergency procedures
• Know athletes’ health status
• Monitor and enforce rules and regulations
• Monitor and scrutinize the environment
In addition to the qualified practitioners 
being present, effective instruction and super -
vision involves several practical considerations (13,34,37,38).
• A clear view of all areas of the facility, or at least the areas being supervised by each practitioner, and the athletes in it. This issue is significantly related to facility design and layout; including equipment placement with respect to visibility, versatility, and accessibility.• A practitioner’s proximity to the group of athletes under his or her supervision. This includes the ability to see and communicate clearly with one another and easy access to athletes in need of immediate assistance or spotting.
• The number and grouping of athletes to make optimal use of available equipment, space, and time.
• The athletes’ age(s), experience level(s), and need(s).
• The type of program being conducted (i.e., skillful/explosive free weight movements ver -
sus guided-machine resistance training) and associated need for coaching and spotting.
Ideally, practitioners should achieve an 
optimal training environment by scheduling teams and athletes throughout the day. Even with careful planning, however, most facili -
ties have times of peak use based on both team practices and athletes’ class schedules. Realistically, it is not possible to sched -
ule activities over a wide range of times to achieve an acceptable professional-to-athlete ratio. The primary concern is to provide adequate facilities and qualified staff so that all athletes have a safe place to train and are properly instructed and supervised during peak usage times (17,39,40). Practitioners should emphasize proper exercise technique, movement mechanics, and safety, and uti-lize instructional methods, procedures, and progressions consistent with accepted pro -
fessional practices to minimize injury risk and liability exposure.
Even when reasonable steps are taken to 
make optimal use of facility space and staff, a potential inequity exists between available resources and demand for programs and ser -
vices in many settings. The combined effects of rapid growth in collegiate/scholastic ath -
lete participation (especially among women), corresponding liability exposures, and equal opportunity/access laws create a significant standard-of-care load and liability challenge 
for practitioners and their employers. A two-
pronged approach can thus be recommended:
1
 During peak use times, activities should 
be scheduled, and the required number  
of qualified staff should be in place so  

FACILITY ADMINISTRATION AND DESIGN201
recommended guidelines are achieved . 
These guidelines include the minimum 
average floor space required per ath-lete (100 ft
2), and coach-to-athlete ratios 
at the following levels: practitioner-to-athlete ratios of 1:10 junior high school; 1:15 high school; and 1:20 at the college level. Further, the number of athletes per barbell or training station should be kept at ≤3 (33,37,39,41). Ideally, this results in one practitioner supervising three to four 
training stations and/or 1,000 ft
2 area 
(junior high school); five training stations 
and/or 1,500 ft2 area (high school); or six 
to seven training stations and/or 2,000 ft2 
area (college), respectively. Professional discretion can be used to adjust these guidelines with respect to the practical considerations discussed earlier.
2
 Practitioners and their employers should strive toward a long-term goal of achiev -
ing the professional-to-athlete ratio in the facility to each sport’s respective coach-to-athlete ratio. This is relatively straightforward at the college level, where the NCAA limits the number of coaches per sport and compiles sports participation data. In the absence of similar information in other settings, such determinations can be made on an individual-institution basis (or possibly according to trends within a district, division, or state).
Facility and equipment setup, 
inspection, maintenance, repair, 
and signage
In some instances, practitioners are involved 
in all phases of facility design and layout. More commonly, they assume responsibil -
ity for an existing facility, in which case the opportunities to plan or modify the facility are often limited. Either way, the practitioner and his or her employer are jointly responsible for maximizing the facility’s safety, effectiveness, 
and efficiency such that available space and 
time can be put to optimal use.
Practitioners should establish written 
policies and procedures for equipment/facility selection, purchase, installation, setup, inspec -
tion, maintenance, and repair. These should be included in the policies and procedures man-ual (as discussed in the next section). Safety checks and periodic inspections of equipment, maintenance, and repair should be conducted and status reports issued. Manufacturer-provided user’s manuals, warranties, operating guides, and other relevant records regarding equipment operation and maintenance (e.g., selection, purchase, installation, setup, inspec -
tion, maintenance, and repair) should be kept on file and adhered to (36).
As mentioned previously, practitioners 
must understand the concept of product lia -
bility. Although this applies to manufacturers and vendors, certain actions and/or behaviors by the practitioner can increase the prac-titioner’s responsibility, increasing the risk for claims or lawsuits. The following steps  
can minimize equipment-related liability exposure (9,36):
• Buy equipment only from reputable man -
ufacturers and be certain that it meets standards and guidelines for professional/commercial (not home) use.
• Use equipment only for the purpose intended by the manufacturer. Modifying equipment from the condition in which it was originally sold should be avoided unless such adaptations are clearly designated and instructions for doing so are included in the product information.
• Post any signage provided by the manufac -
turer on or close to the equipment.
• Do not allow unsupervised athletes to uti -
lize equipment.
• Regularly inspect equipment for damage and wear that may place athletes at risk for injury.
Emergency planning and response
An emergency response plan is a written docu-ment describing the proper procedures of care for injuries that may occur during activity. While all facilities should have such a docu-
ment, the document itself does not prevent 
injuries. In fact, the document may provide a false sense of security if not supported with appropriate training and preparedness by a concerned, professional staff. Therefore, prac -
titioners must:

ALLEN HEDRICK202
• Know the emergency response plan and 
the proper procedures for dealing with an emergency (i.e., location of phones, activat -
ing emergency medical services, designated personnel to care for injuries, ambu-lance access, and location of emergency  
supplies) (42,43).
• Review and practice emergency policies and procedures regularly (i.e., at least  
quarterly).
• Maintain current certification in cardio -
pulmonary resuscitation (CPR). First aid training and certification may also be nec -
essary if sports medicine personnel (e.g., certified athletic trainer [ATC], physician) are not immediately available.
• Adhere to universal precautions for pre -
venting exposure to and transmission of blood-borne pathogens (44,45).
Records and record keeping
Documentation is a critical part of program and facility management. A variety of records should be kept on file (36,46–48).
• Policies and procedures manual (as dis-cussed in the next section).
• Manufacturer-provided user’s manuals, warranties, and operating guides as well as equipment selection, purchase, installation, setup, inspection, maintenance, and repair records.
• Personnel credentials and certifications.
• Professional standards and guidelines.
• Safety policies and procedures, including a written emergency response plan.
• Training logs, progress entries, and/or activ -
ity instruction/supervision notes.
• Injury/incident reports, pre-participation medical clearance, and return to par -
ticipation clearance documents (after the occurrence of an injury, illness, change in health status, or an extended period of absence) for each participant under the practitioner’s care.
• In collegiate and scholastic settings, athletes may be required to sign protective legal documents covering all athletically related activities. In contrast, in other settings, the practitioner should consider having partici -
pants sign similar legal documents.Legal and medical records should be kept 
on file in the event an injury claim or law -
suit is filed. It is good practice to maintain files for a duration recommended by a legal authority. This period is based on the statutes of limitations, which varies from state to state (48). As is the case with other organizational and administrative tasks, adequate staff are  
necessary to properly keep and maintain  
such records.
To ensure proper medical care is given, it is 
important to obtain consent to treat as well as a record of any previous medical history of the client prior to any physical activity within a facility.
Equal opportunity and access
In the majority of organizations, institu-
tions, and professions, discrimination or unequal treatment (e.g., according to race, creed, national origin, gender, religion, age, handicap/disability, or other such legal clas -
sifications) are prohibited by federal, state, and potentially local laws and regulations. For example, practitioners working in feder -
ally funded educational settings must comply with civil rights statutes, including Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, which requires gender equity in providing opportu -
nity and access to athletic facilities, programs, and services. Practitioners must obey the let -
ter and spirit of these laws when working with athletes and staff.
Participation in strength and 
conditioning activities by children
Resistance training can be an important com-
ponent of youth fitness, health promotion, and injury prevention (49,50). Facility admin-istration and design should allow for total supervision and the complete safety of children when using the facility. More information on conditioning for children will be presented in Chapter 20.
Despite children’s physical ability to train, they 
must be supervised at all times.

FACILITY ADMINISTRATION AND DESIGN203
The role of the strength and 
conditioning practitioner and 
supplements
Strength and conditioning practitioners share 
in the responsibility for educating athletes regarding supplements and banned substances. The issue of nutritional supplement and drug use is complicated by several factors. According to the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994, supplements are regulated as foods rather than drugs. This raises concerns about quality control/assur -
ance and possible consequences for consuming these supplements.
Practitioners are often approached for 
advice on nutrition and supplementation and need to be aware of the following: The Federal Trade Commission has primary responsibility for advertising claims. Put simply, advertising for any product, including dietary supplements, must be truthful, substantiated, and not mislead -
ing. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has primary responsibility for product labe -
ling claims. The legislation enforced by this agency includes “Current Good Manufacturing Practices” and selected portions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act related to die -
tary supplements. Manufacturing practices for nutritional supplements established by the U.S. Pharmacopeia and National Formulary are cited as primary resources in this legislation.
The distinctions between dietary sup -
plements, drugs, and conventional foods are not clear. This is especially challenging for competitive athletes and coaches, because such products may contain substances that are banned by one or more sport governing bodies, despite a manufacturer’s or vendor’s use of terms such as herbal, legal, natural, 
organic, safe and effective , etc. Furthermore, 
supplement manufacturers are constantly developing new products with different com -
binations of ingredients, making it more challenging to identify those that may be problematic.
Banned-substance policies differ among 
sport governing bodies. A compound that is banned according to one governing body may not be banned according to another.
Standards and guidelines can be applied across 
nine areas of liability exposure: pre-participation screening and clearance; personnel qualifications; program supervision and instruction; facility and equipment setup, inspection, maintenance, repair, 
and signage; emergency planning and response; 
records and record keeping; equal opportunity and access; participation by children (if applicable); and supplements, ergogenic aids, and drugs.
REAL-WORLD APPL iCATiON
Mission statement
A mission statement  is a brief statement of an organization’s purpose that provides both 
scope and direction for the organization. Here is an example of a mission statement for a 
strength and conditioning program:
The strength and conditioning program will empower athletes and coaches to optimize their capabilities, and thereby achieve excellence through learning and applying funda -
mentally sound principles.
This is a very broad statement, so including a list of goals and objectives helps professionals adhere to the mission statement. Mission statements will vary by facility and should relate to the goals and objectives of the facility. The mission statement should be a product of the core beliefs of the administration and staff. Periodically the mission statement should be reevalu -
ated to make sure that it still reflects the core beliefs of the program.

ALLEN HEDRICK204
POLICIES AND 
PROCEDURES
Strength and conditioning professionals must 
develop policies and procedures that allow them to provide safe and effective programs and services and meet the optimal standard of care for their athletes. This requires a work -
ing understanding of facility and equipment considerations, legal concepts, and duties and responsibilities dictated by liability exposures, as described in previous sections.
It is important that the strength and con-
ditioning program has a well-defined mission along with identifiable goals and objectives (47). Safety, performance enhancement, and injury prevention are, of course, fundamental goals in every program. These should be com -
plemented with specific objectives as part of a holistic mission statement.
It is important to clearly define and dis -
tinguish job titles and duties for each position within the strength and conditioning program (47). These job duties should be developed for the director, associate(s) and/or assistant(s), facility supervisor(s), and other staff members including interns, administrative assistants, and others.
Staff members must be required to maintain 
a professional code of conduct and work cooper -
atively as a team. This encompasses a wide range of issues, including staff meetings, athlete orien-tation, annual planning, budgeting, staff facility use, relationships with athletes and other staff, professional goals, posted information, visitor tours, coaching and spotting procedures, testing, record keeping, athlete incentives, and so on.
A written policies and procedures manual 
is essential to implementing a safe and effec -
tive program (47). In addition to the issues discussed earlier, the manual should address facility access, daily operation, telephone/music system use, rules and regulations, and emergency procedures as well as equipment/facility selection, purchase, installation, setup, inspection, and maintenance and repair. This type of documentation may seem mundane but is fundamental to managing programs or facilities involved in serving people.
Policies and procedures should be clearly 
explained to all staff and athletes using the facility. These policies and procedures should not be rigid or static. Instead, they should be compiled with insight and discretion and revised periodically as circumstances dictate. Box 8.2 provides basic guidelines for writing 
policies and procedures.
Sound policies and procedures should be 
developed to ensure the safety of the athlete and guide administrative decisions.
SUMMARY
Facility administration and facility design 
are important in every aspect of the strength and conditioning program. The design of a facility is related to functionality, which is vitally important to training athletes success -
fully. Facilities and equipment often must be designed for specific groups of athletes.
The legal responsibilities of managing a 
strength and conditioning facility often exceed expectations and training. It is important for the strength and conditioning practitioner to understand the liability aspects of providing a safe training environment for athletes.
Many opportunities in strength and condi -
tioning will provide challenges that reach beyond programing sets and reps. Budgets, equipment, facilities, and staff can often be severely limited 
Box 8.2  Guidelines for writing policies and pr ocedures
 •Safety, performance enhancement, and injury prevention are fundamental goals in developing and clarifying the program’s mission, goals, and objectives.
 •Job titles, descriptions, and duties should be clearly defined and distinguished for each staff position.
 • Practitioners must maintain a professional code of conduct and work cooperatively as a team.
 • Understand the administrative decisions involved in safe and effective program implementation.
 •Create a policies and procedures manual.

FACILITY ADMINISTRATION AND DESIGN205
or lacking altogether. This results in a mismatch 
between demand for and the opportunity to provide safe and effective programs and ser -
vices. Professionals and their employers share a legal duty to meet the standard of care for ath -
letes. The individual practitioner is not solely responsible for fulfilling this standard (unless he or she is self-employed); the individual and his or her employer are jointly responsible for doing so.
The NSCA’s Strength and Conditioning 
Professional Standards and Guidelines   document (38) is one of the main resources 
cited in this chapter. Its implementation will present significant challenges and involve ambitious changes in many programs. Resistance to change can be expected from some athletic directors/employers because it will require them to allocate more resources to the strength and conditioning program. Nonetheless, the employing institution or business has a legal responsibility to help practitioners provide or obtain the resources 
needed to fulfill their standard of care.
MAxiNG OUT
1 You are the strength and conditioning coordinator at a college program. A team coach 
approaches you with a program obtained from another university, asking you to imple-ment that program with her team instead of the one you have developed. Explain what your policy is in this situation, including how it will affect the team’s programming and scheduling opportunities in the varsity weight room.
2 You are the strength and conditioning coordinator at a college program, and your athletic direc -
tor is expressing concern that the facility looks like a “football weight room” equipped primarily with free weights. He feels that this is causing multiple problems, including compromising the programs and services provided to other teams, discouraging other teams’ recruits from attending the school, and placing the university at risk of a Title IX lawsuit. As a result you are instructed to develop a proposal on how to reequip the weight room emphasizing machine training and fewer free weights to make it more accommodating for all sports. Develop and explain your policy regarding equipment selection with respect to performance enhancement and injury prevention.
3 As the Head Strength and Conditioning Coach for a competitive institution, you are given two possible locations for new weight rooms. Your primary needs are a weight room spe -
cifically for football, and a weight room specifically for women’s sports. You have the space and money to equip both weight rooms with only a few renovations necessary in the existing weight rooms to accommodate the remainder of the sports. Location one is under the seats of the football stadium. The space is climate controlled and has adequate space for either group. The second space is on the second floor of the athletic building with coaches’ offices, which is climate controlled and has adequate floor space for either group. What are the pros and cons of each location? Which group of athletes would you locate where? List all factors you may need to take into consideration.
CASE E xAMPLE
Program scheduling, supervision, and instruction
BackgroundYou coordinate a strength and conditioning program that is responsible for programming 
and servicing a total of 362 student athletes in 16 sports:
(continued)

ALLEN HEDRICK206
TABLE 8.1  Facility schedule
Day Mon Tu e Wed Thurs Fri
Time
7:00 am M. Soccer (26)
W. Soccer (23)M. Soccer (26)W. Soccer (23)M. Basketball (16)Softball (18)
W. Tennis (10)
8:00 V. Football (10) J.V. Football (10) V. Football (10) J.V. Football (10) J.V. Football (10)
9:00 V. Football (10) J.V. Football (10) V. Football (10) J.V. Football (10) J.V. Football (10)
10:00 V. Football (10)
M. Golf (3)J.V. Football (10) V. Football (10) J.V. Football (10) J.V. Football (10)
11:00 V. Football (10) J.V. Football (10) V. Football (10) J.V. Football (10) J.V. Football (10)
Noon closed closed closed closed closed
1:00 p.m. V. Football (10)
M. Golf (5)J.V. Football (10) V. Football (10) J.V. Football (10) J.V. Football (10)
2:00 2:45 W. Basketball (14) 2:45 W. Basketball (14) W. Basketball (14)
2:30 W. Golf (8)
3:00 3:30 Baseball (31) W. Tennis (10) 3:30 Baseball (31) M. Golf (10) 3:30 Baseball (31)
4:00 Softball (18) Softball (18)
5:00 Track and Field (60) M. X-Country (13)W. X-Country (13)Track and Field (60)
M. X-Country (13)W. X-Country 
(13)Track and Field (60)
6:00 M. Basketball (16)
Volleyball (14)W. Golf (8)M. Tennis (10)M. Basketball (16)Volleyball (14)M. Tennis (10)(continued)

FACILITY ADMINISTRATION AND DESIGN207
Explanation of abbreviations
M: Men
W: Women
V: Varsity
J.V.: Junior varsity
Including yourself, you have a three-person staff and a 6,000 ft2 weight room equipped 
with eight Olympic lifting platforms, eight self-contained power stations, four plyometric 
stations, and various secondary equipment. It is the first week of September; fall sport ath -
letes have completed preseason camp and classes have begun. Your task is to schedule team workouts for the first six weeks of the fall semester such that in-season sports (cross-country, football, soccer, volleyball) train two days per week, whereas off-season sports train three days per week. Your programs involve periodized multi-set free weight training, including explosive movements.
Recommendations/considerations
Begin by contacting team coaches regarding which days and times they prefer their teams to 
train. Make it clear that in-season sports have priority in the scheduling of the weight room because their schedules are less flexible due to practices, meetings, and games.
The advantage of morning training sessions is that they reduce the demand for weight 
room time during peak (afternoon) hours. The disadvantages are that they can conflict with 
athletes’ sleep and/or meals and lengthen the staff’s workday. Limiting staff hours can prob -
ably be alleviated to a degree by allowing flex time for those staff working the early shift (e.g., leaving work after morning sessions are completed and returning in the afternoon).
Some team coaches may allow some or all of their athletes to train during off-peak times 
individually or in small groups (e.g., between 8 a.m. and 3 p.m.). Further, there may be athletes who have academic commitments during their team workouts and need to use this option. Again, this has the effect of reducing demand on the weight room during peak hours.
Some coaches may also be willing to train varsity (typically students 16 to 18 years of age) 
and junior varsity athletes (typically students 13–15 years of age) on different schedules. This can be extremely useful with large teams in sports such as football. Finally, it is helpful to recruit qualified interns to assist with program implementation, especially during busy times.
Implementation
With a 6,000 ft
2 facility and three-person staff, there may be the opportunity to schedule 
multiple teams concurrently during peak usage times, depending on the size of the team. 
With smaller teams, it may be feasible to start two sessions simultaneously; in larger-group situations, it may be advisable to stagger their starting times every 20 to 30 minutes. Since most of these sports have common demands in terms of total-body power and rate of force development (RFD) and can benefit from similar exercises/equipment, it is helpful to desig -
nate specific training stations for each group to minimize congestion. In any case, workouts should be planned to meet the following recommended guidelines:
(continued)

ALLEN HEDRICK208
TABLE 8.2  Squad size
Sport Squad size Squad size
(Men) (Women)
Baseball 31 —
Basketball 16 14
Cross-
country13 13
Football 96 —
Golf 10 8
Soccer 26 23
Softball — 18
Tennis 10 10
Track & field 32 28
Volleyball — 14
Total athletes 234 128 •100 ft2 average floor space allowance per 
athlete = maximum capacity of 60 athletes
 •1:20 professional-to-athlete ratio = up to 
three-group capacity, with each practitio -
ner supervising one group and up to 6 or 7 training stations (or 2,000 ft
2 area)
 •≤ 3 athletes per barbell or training sta -
tion = equipment capacity of 60 athletes (if distributed between platforms, power stations, and plyometric stations)
Results
Here is an example facility schedule ( boldface 
indicates in-season teams).
Keep in mind that each time the fall, win -
ter, or spring sports’ in-season phases begin or 
end, you may have to adjust the facility sched -
ule. As a result, a variety of schedules for the facility may be in place during the year.(continued)
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The author wishes to thank Steven Plisk and 
N. Travis Triplett, the first two authors respec-tively of this chapter in editions one and two of this book, and the source for the material presented within.
REFERENCES
 1. Kraemer WJ, Dziados J. Medical aspects and 
administrative concerns in strength training. In: Kraemer WJ, Häkkinen K, eds. Strength Training for Sport. Oxford, UK: Blackwell Science, 2002:163–175.
 2. Greenwood M, Greenwood L. Facility organization and risk management. In: Baechle TR, Earle RW, eds. National Strength and Conditioning Association. Essentials of Strength Training and Conditioning. 
3rd ed. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 
2008:543–568.
 3. Kroll B. Structural and functional considerations in designing the facility: part I. NSCA Journal 1991; 13(1):51–58. 4. Morrissey MC, Harman EA, Johnson MJ. Resistance training modes: specificity and effectiveness. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1995; 27(5):648–660.
 5. Nosse LJ, Hunter GR. Free weights: a review supporting their use in rehabilitation. Athletic Training 1985; 20(4):206–209.
 6. Stone MH, Borden RA. Modes and methods of resistance training. Strength Cond 1997; 19(4):18–24.
 7. Stone M, Plisk S, Collins D. Training principles: evaluation of modes and methods of resistance training-a coaching perspective. Sports Biomechanics 2002; 1(1):79–103.
 8. Armitage-Johnson S. Providing a safe training environment: part II. Strength Cond 1994; 16(2):34.
 9. Baley JA, Matthews DL. Law and Liability in Athletics, Physical Education and Recreation. Boston, MA: Allyn & Bacon, 1984.
10. Eickhoff-Shemek J. Standards of practice. In: Cotten D, Wilde J, Wlohan J, eds. Law for Recreation and Sport Managers, 2nd ed. Dubuque, IA: Kendall/Hunt Publishing, 2001:293–302.
11. Halling DH. Liability considerations of the strength and conditioning specialist. NSCA J 1990; 12(5):57–60.

FACILITY ADMINISTRATION AND DESIGN209
12. Halling DH. Legal terminology for the 
strength and conditioning specialist. NSCA J 1991; 13(4):59–61.
13. Herbert DL. Supervision for strength and conditioning activities. Strength Cond 1994; 16(2):32–33.
14. National Strength and Conditioning Association. Strength and Conditioning Professional Standards and Guidelines. Colorado Springs, CO: National Strength and Conditioning Association, 2009.
15. Rabinoff MA. Weight room litigation: what’s it all about? Strength Cond 1994; 16(2):10–12.
16. Balady GJ, Chaitman B, Driscoll D, et al. American Heart Association and American College of Sports Medicine. Recommendations for cardiovascular screening, staffing and emergency policies 
at health/fitness facilities. Circulation 1998; 
97(22):2283–2293; Med Sci Sports Exerc 1998; 30(6):1009–1018.
17. Tharrett SJ, Peterson JA, eds., for the American College of Sports Medicine. ACSM’s Health/Fitness Facility Standards and Guidelines, 2nd ed. Champaign IL: Human Kinetics, 1997.
18. Maron BJ, Thompson PD, Puffer JC, et al. American Heart Association. Cardiovascular pre-participation screening of competitive athletes. Circulation 1996; 94(4):850–856; Med Sci Sports Exerc 1996; 
28(12):1445–1452.
19. American Society for Testing and Materials. 
ASTM Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Stationary Exercise Bicycles: Designation F12508–9. West Conshohocken, PA: ASTM, 1989.
20. American Society for Testing and Materials. ASTM Standard Specification for Fitness Equipment and Fitness Facility Safety Signage and Labels: Designation F17499–6. West Conshohocken, PA: ASTM, 1996.
21. Eickhoff-Shemek J. Distinguishing protective legal documents. ACSM Health and Fitness Journal 2001; 5(3):27–29.
22. Eickhoff-Shemek J, Deja K. Four steps to minimize legal liability in exercise programs. ACSM Health and Fitness Journal 2000; 4(4):3–18.
23. Head GL, Horn S. Essentials of Risk Management, vol. I, 3rd ed. Malvern, PA: Insurance Institute of America, 1995.
24. Pre-participation Physical Evaluation Task Force. American Academy of Family Physicians, American Academy of Pediatrics, American Medical Society for Sports Medicine, American Orthopaedic Society for Sports Medicine and American Osteopathic Academy of Sports Medicine. Pre-participation Physical Evaluation, 2nd ed. 
New York: McGraw-Hill, 1996.
25. Maron BJ, Thompson PD, Puffer JC, et al. 
American Heart Association. Cardiovascular pre-participation screening of competitive athletes: addendum. Circulation 1998;  97(22): 2294.
26. NSCA Certification Commission. Certified 
Strength and Conditioning Specialist (CSCS) Examination Content Description. Lincoln, NE: NSCA Certification Commission, 2000.
27. Katzenbach JR, Smith DK. The Wisdom of Teams. Boston, MA: Harvard Business  School, 1993.
28. Katzenbach JR, Beckett F, Dichter S, et al. Real Change Leaders. New York: Times Books/Random House, 1995:217–224.
29. Jones CS, Christensen C, Young M. Weight training injury trends: a 20-year survey. Physician and Sportsmedicine 2000; 28(7):61–72.
30. Reeves RK, Laskowski ER, Smith J. Weight training injuries: part 1. Diagnosing and managing acute conditions. Physician and Sportsmedicine 1998; 26(2):67–96.
31. Reeves RK, Laskowski ER, Smith J. Weight training injuries: part 2. Diagnosing and managing chronic conditions. Physician and Sportsmedicine 1998; 26(3):54–63.
32. Hamill BP. Relative safety of weightlifting and weight training. J Strength Cond Res 1994; 8(1):53–57.
33. Stone MH, Fry AC, Ritchie M, et al. Injury potential and safety aspects of weightlifting movements. Strength Cond 1994; 16(3):15–21.
34. Morris GA. Supervision-an asset to the  weight room? Strength Cond 1994;  16(2):14–18.
35. Rabinoff MA. 32 reasons for the strength, conditioning, and exercise professional to understand the litigation process. Strength Cond 1994; 16(2):20–25.
36. Bucher CA, Krotee ML. Management of Physical Education and Sport. 11th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1998.
37. Armitage-Johnson S. Providing a safe training environment: part I. Strength Cond 1994; 16(1):64–65.
38. Herbert DL, Herbert WG. Legal Aspects of Preventive, Rehabilitative and Recreational Exercise Programs, 3rd ed. Canton, OH: PRC Publishing, 1993.

ALLEN HEDRICK210
39. Hillmann A, Pearson DR. Supervision: the key 
to strength training success. Strength Cond 1995; 17(5):67–71.
40. Kroll B. Liability considerations for strength training facilities. Strength Cond 1995; 17(6): 16–17.
41. Jones L. USWF Coaching Accreditation Course: Club Coach Manual. Colorado Springs, CO: U.S. Weightlifting Federation, 1991.
42. Anderson JC, Courson RW, Kleiner DM, et al. National Athletic Trainers’ Association Position Statement: Emergency Planning in Athletics. Journal of Athletic Training 2002; 37(1):99–104.
43. Schluep C, Klossner DA, eds. National Collegiate Athletic Association. 2003–04 
NCAA Sports Medicine Handbook, 16th ed. Indianapolis, IN: NCAA, 2003.
44. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention/U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Perspectives in disease prevention and health promotion update: universal precautions for prevention of transmission 
of human immunodeficiency virus, hepatitis 
B virus, and other bloodborne pathogens in health-care settings. MMWR 1988; 37(24):377–388.45. Occupational Safety and Health Administration. U.S. Department of Labor. OSHA Regulations (Standards-29 CFR) 1910.1030: Blood-Borne Pathogens. Washington, DC: OSHA, 1996.
46. Cotten DJ, Cotten MB. Legal Aspects of Waivers in Sport, Recreation and Fitness Activities. Canton, OH: PRC Publishing, 1997.
47. Epley B, Taylor, J. Developing a policies and procedures manual. In: Baechle TR, Earle RW, eds. National Strength and Conditioning Association. Essentials of Strength Training and Conditioning. 3rd ed. Champaign, IL: 
Human Kinetics, 2008:569–588.
48. Herbert DL. A good reason for keeping 
records. Strength Cond 1994;  16(3):64.
49. Faigenbaum AD, Kraemer WJ, Cahill B, et al. National Strength and Conditioning Association. Youth resistance training: position statement paper and literature review. Strength Cond 1996; 18(6):62–75.
50. Faigenbaum AD, Micheli LJ. Current Comment from the American College of Sports Medicine: Youth Strength Training. Indianapolis, IN: American College of Sports Medicine, 1998.

Contents
Introduction  213
Warm-up  214
Flexibility  215
Development of flexibility  221
Summary  225
References  228

CHAPTER
WARM-UP AND FLEXIBILITY
Duane V. Knudson
OBJECTIVES
After reading this chapter, you will be able to:
• Explain the difference between warm-up and stretching and the purpose of each.
• Identify the different warm-ups based on individual needs.
• Define and explain the term flexibility.
• Recall the ways to measure flexibility and understand the basic advantages and disadvantages 
of each.
• Describe ways to increase flexibility by using various stretches and understand the benefits and limitations of increased ROM.
• Design an appropriate and recommended exercise prescription for stretching.
KEY TERMS
Active warm-up
AnkylosisBallistic stretchingDynamic stretchingElasticityFlexibilityGolgi tendon organsHypermobilityHysteresisMechanical strengthMuscle spindlesPassive stretchingPassive warm-upStatic flexibilityStatic stretchingStiffnessStress relaxationThixotropyViscoelasticWarm-up
INTRODUCTION
Athletes looking to improve sport perfor -
mance or lengthen their athletic careers by 
reducing the risk of injury – as well as the exercising public – often focus on warm-up  and flexibility routines in their training. Considerable research has been conducted on both issues, and with a rapid expansion in the number of studies in the last several decades a new picture is emerging on these important fitness issues. The consensus of the 9

DUANE V. KNUDSON214
current research is supportive of performance 
and injury-prevention beliefs related to warm-up. Traditional hypotheses about flexibility and stretching, however, are changing. This chapter summarizes what is known about the performance and injury-prevention benefits of warm-up and flexibility. These two important fitness concepts have complex relationships to performance and the risk of musculoskeletal injury that influence the strength and condi -
tioning professional. The chapter concludes 
with general recommendations for prescribing 
stretching exercises and programs.
WARM-UP
It is important to realize that warm-up and stretching are two different activities. Warm-up is designed to elevate core body tempera-ture and stretching is primarily performed to increase the range of motion (ROM) at a joint or group of joints. It is well accepted that gen-eralized warm-up movements are important to maximizing sport performance and reduc -
ing injury risk in physical activity. 
Warm-up  
consists of active or passive warming of body tissues in preparation for physical activ -
ity. 
Active warm-up  consists of low-intensity 
movements that are effective in elevating body temperature, warming tissue, and producing a variety of improvements in physiological function. 
Passive warm-up  includes external 
heat sources like heating pads, whirlpools, or ultrasound. Prior to vigorous exertion, athletes should perform several minutes of general body movements (general warm-up) of progressively increasing intensity. These move -
ments should emulate the actual movements of the sport or exercise to follow. Submaximal intensity movements specific to the sport or activity of interest are often included in the final phase warm-up.
Warm-up benefits performance through 
thermal, neuromuscular, and psychologi-cal effects. In some people, warm-up may 
also decrease the occurrence of dangerous 
cardiac responses from sudden strenuous exercise. Active warm-up activities mobilize metabolic resources and increase tissue tem-perature. Much of the benefit of warm-up comes from the increased body temperature. Moderate-intensity active warm-up (general movements) and passive warm-up (e.g., dia -
thermy, heating pads, whirlpool) can increase muscular performance by between 3% and 9% (10,11). Large-muscle-group motor tasks generally benefit from warm-up more than fine motor tasks.
Another reason for warm-up is to prepare 
the tissues for the greater stresses of vigorous physical activity and thus to lower the risk of 
muscle-tendon injury. Biomechanical evidence 
supports this “injury-protective” hypothesis, since warmed-up muscle in animal models has been found to elongate more, absorbing more energy before failure compared to no warm-up. This, combined with prospective studies of warm-up, supports the theory that general warm-up prior to vigorous activity may decrease the risk of musculotendinous injury compared to no warm-up. More direct evidence of this relationship would be helpful (18), but it is not ethically possible to design studies that put subjects at risk of injury.
Warm-up activities are important to prepare the 
body for vigorous physical activity because they increase performance and may decrease the risk of muscular injury.
Athletes and other exercisers should there -
fore warm-up prior to competition, practice, 
and physical conditioning. Recommendations for effective warm-up routines vary depend -
ing on the nature and duration of the exercise to be performed. In general, warm-up routines should use general, whole-body movements up to 40% to 60% of aerobic capacity and gradually increasing intensity, focusing on the muscles and joints to be used in train -
ing or competition for five to ten minutes followed by five minutes of recovery (11). The American College of Sports Medicine recommends five to ten minutes of progres -
sive, light to moderate cardiorespiratory and 
muscular endurance activities in warm-up 
(3) and a recent review describes < 15 min-utes of aerobic activity followed by four to five minutes of specific warm-up and transi -
tion (52). There has also been initial work on the gradual decline of warm-up performance 

WARM-UP AND FLEXIBILITY215
enhancements with rest (1,19), consequently 
some teams provide passive and rewarm-up to try and maintain performance benefits for inactive athletes (15,52).
Dynamic movements and muscular con-
tractions commonly used in active warm-up create decreases in passive tension (56,64) and increases in ROM as large as or larger than those due to 
passive stretching  (26,57). Recent 
research to optimize dynamic warm-up proto-cols have focused on manipulating movements and additional resistance to take advantage of contraction history-dependent neuromuscular factors like stretch-shortening cycles and post-activation potentiation (6,7,51,65,66,75), as well as warm-ups for individual athletes (49). Much more work is necessary to equate dosages for good comparisons for evidence-based rec-ommendations, but in the future there may be a consensus of specific warm-up protocols for dif -
ferent athletes, movements, and activities.
Recent active warm-up protocols have 
been sometimes called 
dynamic stretching . 
This terminology should be avoided because it creates confusion with well-defined terms like 
ballistic stretching  and static stretching  
that are not beneficial as warm-up activities. Static stretching currently is not recommended during most warm-up routines (31,44). The reasons for this change from traditional prac -
tice are explored in the following sections on flexibility and stretching.
Warm-up and stretching are not synonymous, 
but both do belong in a strength and conditioning program. Warming up elevates core temperature and blood to the working muscles. Optimal warm-up protocols for specific activities have yet to be established; however, general warm-up of whole body movements beginning at a low intensity that progressively increases over time, followed by specific warm-up movements that mimic the upcoming sport or activity is recommended.
FLEXIBILITY
Flexibility is an important component of fit -
ness and physical performance. Inconsistent 
use of terminology related to the term flexibility  by a variety of health and exercise science professionals has led to confusion. There is a distinct difference between flexibility and joint laxity. 
Flexibility  is “the intrinsic prop -
erty of body tissues which determines the range of motion achievable without injury at a joint or series of joints” (25). The abil -
ity to move a joint through an ROM without causing injury usually refers to the major anatomical rotations at joints rather than the joint laxity or accessory motion tests that orthopedists, physical therapists, and athletic trainers often evaluate to test joint and/or lig -
ament integrity. Flexibility can be measured a variety of ways, and several variables of interest have emerged.
One variable is the common clinical meas -
ure of the limits or maximum ROM referred to as 
static flexibility . This is estimated by 
linear or angular measurements of the lim-its of motion in a joint or joint complex. For example, it might be of clinical interest to know the static flexibility of areas of the body that tend to lose ROM with inactivity, like the lower (lumbar region) back or hamstring muscle group. Many professionals employ a 
sit-and-reach test (Figure 9.1), using a linear measurement that provides a good field meas -
ure of hamstring static 
flexibility. These tests 
are limited by the rise in passive tension as the muscle and connective tissue are stretched.
Figure 9.1  Since its development in the 1950s, the 
sit-and-reach test and several variations have become 
popular field tests of hamstring static flexibility.

DUANE V. KNUDSON216
Tests of static flexibility, although easy to 
administer, have several limitations. A major 
weakness of these tests is that the measures obtained are subjective and largely related to the subject’s stretch tolerance (46), as well as the way in which the endpoint of the ROM is determined. Accurate measurements also depend on strict adherence to testing meth -
odology. Variations in instruments, body positioning, instructions, or the protocol used all heavily influence results. Another problem is the variety of conditions in which the measurements are made. For example, physical therapy uses both active ROM (unassisted) and passive ROM (therapist-assisted) tests. The ROM achievable with the assistance of the tester (passive) is usually greater than that obtained with unassisted ROM. A great deal of information must be known about testing conditions to interpret data on static flexibility.
In a research setting, we can measure 
mechanical properties of the muscle groups, fibers, and connective tissue components of some muscles in addition to ROM. Research laboratory measurements of flexibility using computerized dynamometers, ultrasound, and imaging have allowed the measurement of new biomechanical variables related to the mechani-cal properties of muscle and tendon. Two of these variables that may be related to performance and injury risk are stiffness and hysteresis. These terms are used in physics to describe properties of materials. Since the human body is composed of living materials that react to external forces in a similar fashion, the terms are also applica -
ble to the human body.
The term 
stiffness , sometimes referred to 
as dynamic flexibility, refers to how quickly tissue resistance rises during a movement requiring the muscle-tendon unit to stretch. With passive stretching, the stiffness of the muscle-tendon unit measures how quickly the passive tension rises right before damage occurs. Studies show that the rise in tissue resistance (stiffness) shares only about 44% to 66% of common variance with static flex -
ibility (46,54). Therefore, these variables are related but probably represent different func -
tional properties of the musculature.One problem in discussing the stiffness of 
muscles and tendons is the difference in the scientific and lay meaning of stiffness and elas-ticity. In biomechanics, stiffness and 
elasticity  
are synonymous, so a muscle with a quick rise in tension during stretch has the potential to recover rapidly when the stretch is released, returning more stored energy than a compli -
ant muscle. This conflicts with the colloquial meaning of the term elasticity, which some 
people relate to a low resistance to elongation.
Figure 9.2 illustrates a schematic of a 
torque-angle curve of the elongation phase of 
repeated passive stretches of a muscle 
group. These angular variables approximate well the load-deformation (linear) curve of the muscle and provide an in vivo (in the 
living animal) functional estimate of the pas -
sive stiffness of muscle groups (43). Scientists normally use linear measurements of load and deformation to define the mechanical properties of materials. Note in Figure 9.2 
the 
torque, and therefore the tension in the 
muscle, rises in a complex (non-linear) fash-ion, slowly at first and then more rapidly. 
AngleTorqueE
Figure 9.2  Schematic of a torque-joint angle plot 
during repeated passive stretches of a muscle group. 
Stress relaxation makes the passive torque at a given joint angle in subsequent stretches (green line) less than in the first stretch (purple line). The stiffness (E) of the muscle group in these stretches (slope), however, is not different.

WARM-UP AND FLEXIBILITY217
Also note that the stiffness ( E) of the muscle 
group does not change with repeated static 
stretching. Sometimes the initial response of tissues (short-range stiffness) is of interest, so the slope of the curve early in the range of motion is used, but the term stiffness is usually reserved for the rise in tension late in a stretch, just before permanent dam -
age. Short-range stiffness is that tightness in muscles when sitting in a fixed position for a long time, which is quickly reduced with just a few movements. More on the immedi-ate and long-term biomechanical responses to stretching are covered later in this chapter.
Biological tissues have other complex 
behaviors that influence their function. The muscle-tendon unit resistance to stretch is 
vis-
coelastic . This means that tension developed 
during a stretch depends both on the amount of deformation and the rate of deformation (timing). A slow stretch of muscle will result in lower tension in the muscle and tendon for a particular joint angle compared to a fast stretch. A faster stretch would have a similar load-deformation shape curve, but will have a higher stiffness because of viscoelasticity.
Although the application of materials sci -
ence to the human body may seem complex, it is important to realize that the human body is a living material that responds to stress in a predictable manner. Materials science defines stiffness as the slope of the stress-strain curve in the elastic (linear) region, which is how quickly the tension rises late in elongation before the elastic limit. The elastic limit is the point on the graph depicting the lengthening of the muscle-tendon unit just before the mate-rial begins to fail (the beginning of permanent damage). Beyond the elastic limit is the plas -
tic region, so called because this is where the deformation and damage are not immediately recoverable in materials. Fortunately, normal vigorous physical activity rarely gets near the elastic limit for muscles or tendons and small stretches near the elastic limit may be repaired by the body if it is given enough rest. An unusually severe or unexpected elongation can, however, cause rupture or complete fail-ure of the tissue. Materials scientists call the maximum force or energy absorbed before complete failure the 
mechanical strength  of 
the material.
When a muscle is stretched, but not 
beyond its elastic limit, it will return to resting length and recover some of the energy stored in it as it was stretched. Some of the energy, however, is lost as heat. The energy lost in the return to normal length from a deformed material is termed 
hysteresis . This represents 
the energy lost and can be visualized as the area (loop) between the loading (elongation) 
and unloading (restitution) phases in Figure 
9.3. 
 Figure 9.3 illustrates a schematic of a 
torque-angle curve of the elongation phase (purple line) and the restitution phase (blue
 
line) of a static stretch.
From Figure 9.3, note that in static 
stretching exercises, about 40% to 50% of the energy stored in the stretch is lost as
 
the muscle returns to normal length (40). Much of this energy loss is in the contractile and connective tissue components within the muscle. To the contrary, studies of long tendons in normal vigorous physical activ-ity show that they recover most (80% to 90%) of the energy stored in them in the 
AngleTorque
Figure 9.3  Schematic of a torque-joint angle plot of 
the elongation (purple) and restitution (green) phases 
of a passive stretch of a muscle group. The energy lost (hysteresis) is the area of the loop between the loading and unloading phases.

DUANE V. KNUDSON218
hypermobility. Ankylosis  is pathological loss 
of ROM, whereas hypermobility  is excessive 
ROM. Static flexibility is not a whole-body 
characteristic but, like fitness, is specific to joints and directions of movement. People may tend to have low static flexibility in one part of the body and normal or high flexibility in another. It is also clear that, in general, females have greater static flexibility than males (22), and some of these differences are related to anthropometric differences.
Fitness professionals can access data on 
normal ranges of static flexibility for most joints from several professional sources (see online references). Several reviews of flexibil-ity have been published (see online references) and provide more information on static flexibility. It is unclear, however, whether an “optimal” level of static flexibility for muscle groups or areas of the body exists. If this is the case, it is likely that different sports would require different optimal levels of static flexibility. Future research studies should be designed to focus on determining “normative” static ranges of motion at joints in athletes participating in specific sports, as well as documenting anomalies in athletes and active people who are outside of this norma -
tive range. It is too early to make a definitive 
Ankylosis Normal Hypermobile
Figure 9.4  Schematic of a continuum of static 
flexibility. There is considerable research documenting 
the normal limits of static flexibility but little prospective research that links specific levels of static flexibility to increased risk of injury at either extreme.quick stretch-shortening actions common in 
movement (36).
Measuring energy or other biomechani -
cal variables may be better for examining the effect of stretching on muscle performance, as opposed to stiffness or ROM, because muscle tissue often does not reach the elastic region of the stress/strain curve in typical hamstring stretches (43). Stretching and other passive movement can have a greater effect on hyster -
esis than on the stiffness of muscle. Research on the biomechanical effects of warm-up movements and stretching are important because it could result in practical applications in improving muscular performance.
The ability to move the joints of the body freely 
without injury is known as flexibility, and several mechanical properties and variables can be used to document important aspects of flexibility.
Normal static flexibility
The wealth of research on static flexibility 
measurements provides a general picture of what is normal static flexibility for most joints and populations. Normal static flexibility is the typical joint movement allowed between two extremes ( Figure 9.4): ankylosis and 
Figure 9.5  Repetitive work or body positions (like 
wearing high heels) can create tight muscles and 
decrease ankle static flexibility.

WARM-UP AND FLEXIBILITY219
statement, but it is possible that an athlete or 
active person whose muscles are too tight is more prone to muscle injuries and that one whose muscles are too loose is more prone to joint injuries as well as decreased perfor -
mance in maximal effort activities.
Common deviations from normal static 
flexibility are present in many joint(s). Some people lose ROM from physical inactiv -
ity. People may also lose static flexibility with aging, from workplace or sport-specific positions, and/or repetitive movements. For example, the repetitive motion in several sports with overhead throwing patterns (base-ball, tennis, etc.) without specific stretching intervention can result in glenohumeral inter -
nal rotation deficit (GIRD). Persistent wearing of high heels can decrease ankle dorsiflexion 
ROM (Figure 9.5).
Several resources provide normative data on the 
typical static flexibility of most major joints of the body, but current research does not identify an optimal level of static flexibility.
Flexibility and injury risk
The literature on clinical and basic science 
provides a different view of the role of flexibil-ity in injury risk and performance than what is commonly believed by many people, athletes, and coaches. What appears to be desirable, based on data on the incidence of muscle-tendon injuries, is to avoid the extremes in static flexibility. Athletes and exercisers at both extremes of static flexibility may be at a higher risk for musculoskeletal injuries (27,30). This section focuses on the associa-tion between flexibility and injury risk: the sections on stretching, further on, discuss the association between stretching and changes in muscular performance and injury risk.
Low levels of hamstring flexibility have 
been related to a higher risk of muscular injury in soccer (76). The common belief that greater static flexibility will always decrease the risk of muscular injury, however, appears not to be valid. This may be explained by the stability-mobility paradox. The mechani-cal stability and ROM at a joint or joints are inversely related. It is possible that as static flexibility increases beyond the normal range, the potential benefits of greater motion and less tissue resistance are offset by the greater instability of the joint. For example, static stretching and soccer play significantly increase knee joint laxity compared to con-trols (8). More research is needed to begin to define the ranges of motion for various joints, so that the best compromise of stability and mobility may be provided, along with a lower risk of injury.
A good example of the lack of an asso -
ciation between high levels of static flexibility and lower injury risk is provided by low back fitness testing. Although it seems logical that less flexible back or hamstring muscles would be related to the incidence of low back pain, little evidence supports this association. Despite a large body of the research, there is limited support (mixed results) for an asso-ciation between lumbar/hamstring flexibility and the occurrence of low back pain. One of the largest prospective studies on this topic found no relationship between static flexibil-ity and subsequent low back pain in adults. Therefore, the field tests of hamstring static flexibility commonly used in fitness test bat -
teries may not be useful in predicting future low back injury.
People also commonly believe that less 
“stiff” muscles result in greater flexibility and a lower risk of injury. This belief is often based on a misunderstanding of stiffness and people’s common experience of short-range stiffness. Unfortunately, there is still not adequate research on the association between muscle stiffness and injury risk. Less stiff muscles may be less susceptible to muscle strain injury (74), but few studies have been conducted in this area (53). It appears that muscle with greater stiffness is more susceptible to eccen -
trically induced muscle damage. Currently, the evidence is insufficient to conclude that decreased muscular stiffness will provide an injury-protective benefit. Combined with the unclear nature of the exact levels of static flex-ibility that decrease injury risk, this means that strength and conditioning professionals must educate athletes on the complexity of flexibil -
ity and injury risk.

DUANE V. KNUDSON220
REAL-WORLD APPL iCATiON
The stability-mobility paradox
Static flexibility is like exercise in that more is not always better. Joint motion (mobility) is 
inversely proportional to the stability of the joint. Decreasing muscle passive tension around a joint increases the joint’s ROM but also makes it easier for the joint to be pulled out of normal position. This presents the fitness professional with a paradox. What is the right amount of static flexibility? How much motion is necessary for normal and safe movement without adversely affecting the joint or ligaments? It is not possible to give universal or opti-mal answers to these questions. The amount of motion depends on the joint, the requirements of the sport/activity a person engages in, and other factors. Given that the lowest injury rates seem to correspond to normal flexibility and higher injury rates with the extremes in flex -
ibility (inflexible and hypermobile), maintenance of normal or moderate amounts of static flexibility should be the goal for most people. Unless a person participates in an activity requiring extreme flexibility (dance, gymnastics, diving), most exercise prescriptions should focus on maintaining normal levels of static flexibility.
A complex relationship exists between static 
flexibility and risk of muscular injury. Higher injury rates seem to be related to the extremes (very flexible or very inflexible) of range of motion.Sit-and-reach scores are primarily associ -
ated with hamstring flexibility, but not with 
low back flexibility (50). Although the sit-and-reach test has been shown to be a moderately valid measure of hamstring flexibility which is only slightly affected by anthropomet -
ric variations, the prescriptive value of these measurements is limited. One study reported that 6% of children falsely passed and 12% falsely failed the sit-and-reach test relative to the straight-leg-raise test (13). If these data are consistent across all ages, athletes or clients failing the sit-and-reach field test should be retested with the straight-leg-raise or active-knee-extension test to make sure that they have limited hamstring static flexibility.
Current health-related norms for sit-and-
reach or other static flexibility tests should be used only to identify individuals at the extremes who may be at higher risk for mus -
cle injuries. Not enough data are available to provide specific static flexibility goals beyond the maintenance of normal flexibility. Fitness professionals must also remember that in measuring static flexibility, exacting attention to testing details is necessary. Static flexibility scores are subjective and highly dependent on the subject’s tolerance of the high muscle ten -
sion (discomfort) during testing. The clinical measurement of dynamic flexibility variables like passive tension, stiffness, or hysteresis Assessing flexibility
Exercise prescriptions to modify flexibil-ity should be based on valid measurements using standardized testing procedures. Static flexibility tests are based on both linear and angular measurements of the motion of a joint or group of joints. These tests can focus on sin -
gle joints or compound movements of many body segments and joints.
Single-joint static flexibility tests are 
commonly used clinically in the medical professions; they often involve angular meas -
urements (with goniometers or inclinometers) rather than linear measurements. Single-joint tests are considered better measurements of static flexibility than compound tests because they better isolate specific muscles and are less affected by anthropometric differences (13). The straight-leg-raise and active-knee-extension tests are the common hamstring flexibility tests used in physical therapy. The many variations of the sit-and-reach test are compound flex -
ibility tests and are often validated with the straight leg raise or active knee extension.

WARM-UP AND FLEXIBILITY221
is not practical; it is limited to research set -
tings because of problems related to expensive 
equipment, insufficient standardization, and the time needed.
DEVELOPMENT OF 
FLEXIBILITY
Normal levels of flexibility can be maintained 
by regular physical activity and through specific programs of stretching and strengthening exer -
cises. Strength and conditioning professionals should assess a client’s flexibility, and based on these data and the client’s history, develop a program to improve flexibility. Although poor flexibility can be treated with a combination of stretching and strengthening exercises (4), this section focuses on general recommendations for stretching in mass exercise prescription. Regular stretching exercises are usually recom -
mended for most people often because of their limited physical activity and also because regu -
lar participation in some activities is associated with sport-specific flexibility imbalances. In general, stretching recommendations should be limited to the maintenance of normal lev -
els of static flexibility because of the complex nature of flexibility and the lack of data linking specific levels of flexibility to lower injury risk or better performance. This section concludes with recent evidence on the effect of stretching on muscular performance, which has implica -
tions for the typical placement of stretching in the training cycle.
Stretching exercises are usually classi -
fied into four types: passive, static, ballistic (dynamic), and proprioceptive neuromuscu -
lar facilitation, or PNF. Passive stretching uses an external force, usually another person, to 
stretch muscle groups (Figure 9.6). Static 
stretching involves a slow increase in muscle group length and holding the stretched posi -
tion at that length for a short time (usually
 
15 to 30 seconds). Ballistic stretching tradi -
tionally has meant fast, momentum-assisted, and bouncing stretching movements. These stretches should be avoided because of the viscoelastic nature of muscle. For a given elongation, a fast stretch results in a higher force in the tissue and a greater risk of injury. Some refer to the active warm-up movements mentioned earlier as dynamic stretching. These “stretches” may be acceptable if they are performed in a slower manner than vio -
lent, ballistic stretching. Moderate intensity active warm-up/dynamic stretching creates muscle elongation without imposing high levels of force on the tissue. This is proba -
bly how regular physical activity and weight training can usually maintain normal levels of static flexibility.
The last group of stretching exercises 
focuses on PNF. PNF stretch routines use a specific series of movements and contractions to utilize neuromuscular reflexes to relax the muscles being stretched. PNF stretches can be performed with or without assistance. A simple PNF procedure is a “contract-relax” stretch where a person performs an isometric contraction of a muscle to be stretched, which is immediately followed by a static stretch of that muscle. This strategy takes advantage of the inhibitory effects of 
Golgi tendon organs  
as the muscle is slowly stretched. Assisted stretching procedures like PNF should be performed with care by trained subjects or sports medicine personnel. The practice of having athletes passively stretch partners should be used with caution until the athletes have been carefully trained in correct proce-dures and understand the risks of incorrect or high-force stretches.
Figure 9.6  Passive stretching often uses external 
force from another person to produce a greater 
stretch of a muscle group.

DUANE V. KNUDSON222
Increasing ROM takes time and can be achieved 
by using various methods of stretching: static, dynamic, and proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation (PNF).
The recommendations for stretching proce -
dures are based on reviews of the basic science 
studies of the viscoelastic response of muscle to stretching. These recommendations (Table 
9.1) are designed for group exercise prescrip -
tion with most persons (i.e., 
 not hypermobile 
or with ankyloses). Static or PNF stretching should normally be performed at least three times per week, preferably daily and after moderate or vigorous physical activity (in the cool-down phase of training). Exacting tech -
nique in stretching is recommended to safely focus tension on a muscle group or groups without systematic stress on other joint stability structures (ligaments, joint capsules, cartilage). Some experts have hypothesized, based on functional anatomy, that some stretching exer -
cises are contraindicated because of potentially dangerous ligament and tissue loading (39). While there is no prospective evidence of these injuries, it would be desirable for professionals to select alternative stretches than these con -
traindicated stretches.
Stretching programs should include up to 
4 or 5 stretches for each major muscle group, with each stretch held for 15 to 30 seconds. The intensity (force) of each stretch should be minimized, slowly elongating and holding the stretched position just before the point of discomfort. Slow elongation of muscles cre-ates less reflex contraction through the action of 
muscle spindles . These tissues sense muscle 
length and are responsible for the contraction of a stretched muscle (myotatic reflex). This reflex contraction is most sensitive to fast stretches, so slow muscle elongation in stretch-ing exercises helps maintain relaxation in the muscle groups being stretched.
Static stretching will create a short-term 
increase in ROM and a decrease in passive tension in the muscle at a specific joint angle due to 
stress relaxation , which is the gradual 
decrease in stress (force per unit area) in a material stretched and held at a constant length. Most people can feel the decrease in passive tension in a muscle group held in a stretched position. This stress relaxation fol -
lowing stretching provides an immediate 10% to 30% decrease in passive tension (41,47,56), but the effect will have dissipated after about an hour (45). Holding stretches for 15 to 30 seconds is a good guideline, because most of the stress relaxation in passive stretches occurs in the first 20 seconds (40,55).
Stretching to increase static flexibility in a muscle 
group should normally use 4 to 5 static stretches held for 15 to 30 seconds.TABLE 9.1  Stretching recommendations for group exercise prescription
Fitness variable Recommendation
Frequency At least three times per week, preferably daily and after moderate or vigorous physical 
activity
Intensity Slowly elongate muscle and hold with low level of force to the person’s perception of tightness without discomfort
Time Up to 4 to 5 stretches held from 15 to 30 seconds. Stretch normally during the cool-down phase. Be sure to stretch only muscles that have been thoroughly warmed up from physical activity. Warning: stretching in the warm-up prior to physical activity may weaken muscles and decrease performance
Type Static or PNF stretches for all major muscle groups
Source: Adapted with permission from Knudson D, Magnusson P, McHugh M. Current issues in flexibility fitness. PCPFS Res 
Digest 2000;3(10):1–8 (31).

WARM-UP AND FLEXIBILITY223
Stretching should normally be performed 
during the cool-down period because of four 
lines of evidence:
1 W armed-up tissues are less likely to be 
injured.
2 The placement of stretching within the 
workout does not affect gains in static 
flexibility.
3 Stretching creates immediate decrements 
in muscle strength expression.
4 Stretching likely has no effect on the imme -
diate risk of muscle tendon injury.
Programming static stretching during the 
cool-down period is also logical because stretch-ing tends to relax or inhibit muscle activation (5,67). For example, static stretching is commonly used for the acute relief from muscle cramps or delayed-onset muscle soreness (DOMS). The former is indicated, but research on the latter indicates no effect of stretching before or after activity (70) on the DOMS that occurs after unaccustomed exercise. Static stretching routines in the cool-down period primarily serve to help maintain normal levels of static flexibility (23).
Q&A FROM THE F iELD
Our track-and-field athletes often want 
to stretch before their events. I know that 
flexibility is an important component of 
performance, but I have heard rumblings in the running community for the last few years that 
stretching before racing is a bad idea. Is it true 
that stretching prior to high-intensity track and field events is a bad idea? Will it have a negative 
effect on our athletes’ performance?
Athletes stretch in the warm-up for track 
events because they believe that it decreases their risk of injury and improves their performance. 
Unfortunately, research has shown that this practice is probably not justified for most athletes. 
Unless an athlete has a major deficit in ROM, 
stretching prior to vigorous exertion decreases most forms of maximal muscular performance for 
about 30 minutes to an hour. In addition, stretching 
prior to vigorous activity has also been shown to have no acute effect on the risk of muscular 
injury. The most important thing a coach can do 
is teach athletes that proper warm-up is essential for maximum performance and decreasing the risk of injury. Focus their precompetition routine 
around a progressive and specific active warm-up 
with movements related to their event. If there is a delay before competition, strive to use passive 
warming or re-warm-up to maintain preparation 
for intense activities. Most athletes with normal flexibility should perform their stretching routines 
after practice or competition.
Biomechanical effects of stretching
Stretching exercises are prescribed routinely to 
increase static flexibility. Considerable research has reported that stretch training can increase ROM (4), although much of this increase may be also due to stretch tolerance (16). Stretch tolerance is primarily an analgesic effect that allows a person to accept higher tensions asso -
ciated with a greater stretch of a muscle group. What is also less well known is that these long-term training effects can be different than the short-term immediate effects (62). This sec-tion will summarize the short-term effects of stretching on the muscular performance vari -
ables like strength, stiffness, and hysteresis.
Passive stretching can create large tensile 
loads in the muscle, so it is possible to weaken and injure muscle with vigorous stretching programs. Stretching exercise is like any other training stimulus in that it results in temporary weakening before the body recovers and super -
compensates for that activity. A 4% to 30% decrease in muscular performance following static or PNF stretching has been reported in over 100 studies in all kinds of people and fit -
ness levels. This research on acute performance decrements from stretching are so extensive there have been several narrative and system -
atic reviews published recently (9,29,63).
Stretch-induced decrements in muscular 
performance appear to be equally related to neuromuscular inhibition and decreased con -
tractile force and can last 30 to 60 minutes (17,45). The minimum dose of static stretch -
ing to create a physiologically meaningful decrease (5%) in strength is 20 to 30 seconds (32,63). Most stretching should be performed in the cool-down phase of training and usually avoided in the warm-up period for athletic com -
petition. Only athletes who require extreme 

DUANE V. KNUDSON224
static flexibility for performance (dancers, 
gymnasts, divers) might need to stretch at the middle of a warm-up routine. Several studies have reported that stretch-induced weakness in warm-ups can be eliminated if followed up by additional dynamic warm-up activities (9). The logic of this strategy of a longer warm-up for no or lower performance benefits must be questioned unless the athletes test inflexible or they compete in high-flexibility activities.
Stretching should normally be performed in 
the cool-down phase of conditioning because stretching before activity decreases muscular performance for about 30 minutes.
Stretching can create a short-term increase 
in ROM, but this improvement quickly (5 to 
30 min) disappears (58,71). This greater static flexibility is a result of lower passive tension (stress relaxation) at equivalent joint angles and increased stretch tolerance. This lower passive tension and greater range of motion that people feel, however, is not the same as stiffness.
Studies of the immediate effect of stretching 
on muscle group stiffness have reported both no effects and small reductions (12,24,58,59,71). The lack of consensus may result from the use of different measurements and calculations of stiffness over different portions of the range of motion. Some researchers incorrectly defined stiffness as the change in tension over the change in angle at the beginning of the load-deforma -
tion curve, not as the true mechanical stiffness (the slope in linear region) of the tissue near the end of the tolerable ROM. If stretching can cre-ate a decrease in muscle stiffness, the effect is short (15 to 20 minutes) and it is unclear where the change resides (58,71) or how it may affect performance. Because we do not clearly know the immediate effects of stretching on muscle stiffness, strength and conditioning profession-als should instruct athletes and other exercisers that the primary benefits of stretching are main -
tenance of ROM and a decrease in the passive 
tension of the muscles at similar joint angles.
While the evidence is mixed that static 
stretching immediately affects muscle stiffness, 
passive motion exercise can create significant reductions in muscle stiffness (56). Cyclic movements that create a slow stretch of muscle groups, just like the active warm-up described earlier, also decrease the energy lost (hysteresis) in subsequent stretches (42). Static stretching has also been observed to significantly reduce hysteresis (34,35,42). More research on mus -
cle hysteresis is needed, but currently it appears that active or passive movement is an effective strategy to make muscles more compliant and recover more energy following a stretch. These properties likely have immediate benefits to many kinds of performance and may help reduce the risk of injury.
The relationship between stretching per -
formance is complex for many reasons. Stretch training can have different effects on the vari -
ous fiber and connective tissue components of the muscle-tendon complex (28,34,48,58,59). Second, muscles have history-dependent or a 
thixotropic  response, where differences in pre -
vious muscle status (rest, concentric, active, or passive stretch) have an immediate effect on the mechanical response of subsequent muscle actions. Overall performance of a multi-segment biomechanical system will be even more difficult to predict because of the differ -
ent kinds of performance variables, as well as the interaction of technique, neuromuscular, muscle, and tendon effects. For example, lower levels of static flexibility have been associated with better running economy (14,21); however, less stiff musculature may be more effective in utilizing elastic energy in stretch-shortening cycle movements (37,38,68,72,73). It is likely that the effects of stretching and flexibility on muscular performance are complex, both mus -
cle (33) and activity-specific (20). Considerable future research is needed to outline the best matching of the immediate and training effects of stretching to the many kinds of muscular performance in sport and exercise.
Prophylactic effects of stretching
The other traditional rationale for prescrib -
ing preactivity stretching is a hypothesized reduction in the risk of injury. The logic was that if there were greater static flexibility 
from stretching, the chance that stretching the 
muscle beyond this point might lead to injury would be reduced. In the case of flexibility, this logic has not been supported by scientific evi-dence. Muscle strains (pulls) occur more often in eccentric muscle actions rather than passive elongation.

WARM-UP AND FLEXIBILITY225
The larger and better-designed prospective 
studies have shown little or no effect of stretch -
ing on injury rate (2,60,61,69). The studies 
with larger samples and better controls (60,61) and the consensus of the research (9) support the conclusion that flexibility and stretching may be unrelated to injury risk. Currently the data are insufficient to support the common prescription of stretching programs to modify flexibility based on the hypothesis of reducing the risk of muscle injury. Much more research 
on the effects of stretching and the associa -
tions between various flexibility levels and 
injury rates are needed before specific guide-lines on stretching will be available.
Research has not confirmed the belief that 
stretching decreases the risk of muscular injury, so general stretching prior to physical activity probably confers no protective effect.
SUMMARY
Both active and passive warm-up are com-
mon preparatory activities before exercise and athletic competition. Several lines of research have supported the beneficial effects of warm-up on improving performance and reducing injury risk. Typical warm-up should consist of general and future activity-specific movements of gradually increasing intensity. The intensity of warm-up should be moderate (up to 40% to 60% of aerobic capacity) and sustained (5 to 10 minutes) to increase the tissue temperature. Flexibility is an important property of the mus-culoskeletal system that determines the ROM and resistance to motion at a joint or group of joints. This property can be examined by meas -
uring the limits of the achievable motion (static flexibility) or several other biomechanical varia -
bles of passively stretched muscle group. Normal ranges of static flexibility are well documented for most joints through a variety of tests. There is some evidence that extremes in static flexibil -
ity (top or bottom 20% of the distribution) may 
be associated with a higher incidence of muscle 
injury. Sport science research and prospective studies of flexibility and stretching indicate that stretching should not normally be performed in warm-ups. Stretching prior to physical activ-ity decreases muscular performance and does not reduce the risk of musculoskeletal injury. Currently, little scientific evidence is available on which to base precise, individualized pre -
scriptions of stretching development beyond the maintenance of normal levels of static flex -
ibility. Static or PNF stretching should normally be performed during the cool-down phase of physical activity. Stretches should slowly elon-gate and hold muscles with low levels of force for 15 to 30 seconds. Four to five stretches per muscle group or area of the body are usually recommended. Athletes with poor flexibility or in sports that demand extreme flexibility may stretch in the warm-up if they conclude the warm-up sport-specific active muscle actions. Future research on history-dependent properties and muscle mechanical variables may identify more specific ways to optimize warm-up and stretching for specific activities.
MAxiNG OUT
1 Dancer – A dancer/cheerleader requests your help in increasing hip flexion and abduction 
ROM to facilitate the split position for a variety of stunts. What stretching program would you recommend? Design a ten-week progressive flexibility program to improve hip flexion and abduction ROM to improve the ability of the cheerleader to perform in the split position.
2 Personal training client – A manager seeks relief from neck and shoulder pain from long days on an office computer. What stretching and strengthening exercises would you recom -
mend? Design a progressive ten-week stretching and strengthening program for your client
3 Athlete – An athlete who has undergone acute rehab wants to return to play and increase plantarflexion ROM following an ankle sprain. What assessments would you use to docu -
ment progress and what stretching program would you utilize?

DUANE V. KNUDSON226
CASE E xAMPLE
Postmatch flexibility routine in tennis
BackgroundYou are a strength coach working with the university medical staff and a 20-year-old male 
collegiate tennis player. The player has limited internal shoulder rotation ROM in the domi -
nant shoulder, which is common in repetitive overarm sports like tennis.
Recommendations/considerations
Following matches, practice, and conditioning sessions, the cool-down phase will consist 
of a static stretching routine. This will be a typical whole-body routine but will focus extra stretching on sport-specific imbalances common in tennis players: reduced shoulder internal rotation and flexibility of the lower back and hamstrings.
Implementation
Three 20-second wrist flexor and extensor stretches.
Four 20-second standing pectoralis major stretchesFour 20-second shoulder internal rotation stretches
Figure 9.9  Shoulder internal rotation stretch.
 Figure 9.10  Knees to chest low back stretch.Four 20-second knees to chest low back stretchesThree 20-second trunk twists both directions
Figure 9.8  Standing pectoralis major stretch. Figure 9.7  Wrist flexor and extensor stretches.


WARM-UP AND FLEXIBILITY227
Three 20-second butterfly hip internal rotator stretches
Four 20-second seated hamstring stretches
Figure 9.11  Butterfly hip internal rotators stretch.
 Figure 9.12  Seated hamstring stretch.
Three 20-second seated calf stretchesThree 20-second seated dorsiflexor stretches
Figure 9.13  Seated calf stretch.
 Figure 9.14  Seated dorsiflexor stretch.
Results
Results before and after (a ten-week flexibility program) indicate an improvement in ROM 
over the period of the training program in specific movements. Tests included shoulder inter -
nal rotation ROM, hip flexion ROM, and sit-and-reach.
Shoulder internal rotation ROMInitial: dominant, 33°; nondominant, 66°.
(continued)

DUANE V. KNUDSON228
After training: dominant, 48°; nondominant, 70°.
As is typical with overhead throwing athletes, shoulder internal rotation was decreased in 
the dominant extremity. The prescribed program caused a change in the ROM of the domi -
nant arm in internal rotation in the direction of normal. Because of the demands of the sport, 
it is unlikely that the dominant arm would ever reach the same ROM as the nondominant arm.
Hip flexion ROM with knee extendedInitial: dominant, 40°; nondominant, 39°.
After training: dominant, 51°; nondominant 50°.
In hip flexion, a dominant-to-nondominant difference is not as pronounced as it is in the 
upper extremity. Both extremities demonstrated a small increase in ROM related to ham -
string extensibility from the prescribed flexibility program.
Sit-and-reach flexibilityInitial: + 1 cmAfter training: + 3 cm
The flexibility program resulted in a slight increase in ROM in trunk flexion. These 
increases in ROM related to hamstrings extensibility could, in theory, maintain this athlete 
in a lower injury risk to hamstring and lower back compared to players with reduced or excessive flexibility. These tests support the efficacy of the training program and should be maintained and monitored in this athlete.
REFERENCES
 1. Alberti G, Annoni M, Ongaro L, et al. Athletic 
performance decreases in young basketball players after sitting. Int J Sports Sci Coach 2014; 9:975–984.
 2. Amako M, Oda T, Masuoka K, et al. Effect of static stretching on prevention of injuries for military recruits. Mil Med 2003; 168:442–446.
 3. American College of Sports Medicine. ACSM’s Guidelines for Exercise Testing and Prescription, 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2017.
 4. Aquino CF, Fonseca ST, Goncalves GGP, Silva PLP, Ocarino JM, Mancini MC. Stretching versus strength training in lengthened position in subjects with tight hamstring muscles: a randomized controlled trial. Man Ther 2010; 
15:26–31.
 5. Avela J, Kyrolainen H, Komi PV. Altered 
reflex sensitivity after repeated and prolonged passive muscle stretching. J Appl Physiol 1999; 86:1283–1291.
 6. Ayala F, Moreno-Perez V, Vera-Garcia FJ, et al. Acute and time-course effects of traditional and dynamic warm-up routines in young elite junior tennis players. PLoS ONE 2016; 11(4), e0152790. doi:10.1371/journalpone.0152790.
 7. Barnes KR, Hopkins WG, McGuigan MR, Kilding AE. Warm-up with a weighted vest improves running performance via leg stiffness and running economy. J Sci Med Sport 2015; 18:103–108.
 8. Baumgart C, Gokeler A, Donath L, et al. Effects of static stretching and playing soccer on knee laxity. Clin J Sports Med 2015; 25:541–545.
 9. Behm DG, Blazevich AJ, Kay, AD, McHugh M. Acute effects of muscle stretching on physical performance, range of motion, and injury incidence in health active individuals: A systematic review. Appl Physiol Nutr Metab 
2016; 41:1–11.(continued)

WARM-UP AND FLEXIBILITY229
10. Bishop D. Warm up I: potential mechanisms 
and the effects of passive warm up on exercise performance. Sports Med 2003a; 33:439–454.
11. Bishop D. Warm up II: performance changes following active warm up and how to structure the warm up. Sports Med 2003b; 33:483–498.
12. Cabido CET, Bergamini JC, Andrade AGP et al. Acute effect of constant torque and angle stretching on range of motion, muscle passive properties, and stretch discomfort perception. J Strength Cond Res 2014; 
28:1050–1057.
13. Cornbleet SL, Woolsey NB. Assessment of 
hamstring muscle length in school-aged children using the sit-and-reach test and the inclinometer measure of hip joint angle. Phys Ther 1996; 76:850–855.
14. Craib MW, Mitchell VA. The association between flexibility and running economy in sub-elite male distance runners. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1996; 28:737–743.
15. Edholm P, Krustrup P, Randers MB. Half-time re-warm up increases performance capacity in male elite soccer players. Scand J Med Sci Sports 2015; 25:e40–e49.
16. Flopp H, Deall S, Harvey LA, Gwinn T. Can apparent increase in muscle extensibility with regular stretch be explained by changes in tolerance to stretch? Aus J Physiother 2006; 52:45–50.
17. Fowles JR, Sale DG, MacDougall JD. Reduced strength after passive stretch of the human plantar flexors. J Appl Physiol 2000; 89:1179–1188.
18. Fradkin AJ, Gabbe BJ, Cameron PA. Does warming up prevent injury in sport: The evidence from randomized controlled trials. J Sci Med Sport 2006; 9:214–220.
19. Galazoulas C, Tzimou A, Karamousalidis G, Mougios V. Gradual decline in performance and changes in biochemical parameters of basketball players while resting after warm-up. Eur J Appl Physiol 2012; 112:3327–3334.
20. Gleim GW, McHugh MP. Flexibility and its effects on sports injury and performance. Sports Med 1997; 24:289–299.
21. Gleim GW, Stachenfeld NS, Nicholas JA. The influence of flexibility on the economy of walking and jogging. J Orthop Res 1990; 8:814–823.
22. Harris ML. Flexibility. Phys Ther 1969; 49:591–601.
23. Herbert RD, Gabriel M. Stretching before and after exercise: effect on muscle soreness and injury risk. Br Med J 2002; 325:468.24. Herda TJ, Cosley PB, Walter AA et al. Effects 
of two modes of static stretching on muscle strength and stiffness. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2011; 43:1777–1784.
25. Holt J, Holt LE, Pelham TW. Flexibility redefined. In: Bauer T, ed. Biomechanics in Sports XIII. Thunder Bay, ON: Lakehead University, 1996:170–174.
26. Hubley CL, Kozey JW, Stanish WD. The effects of static stretching exercises and stationary cycling on range of motion at the hip joint. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther 1984; 6:104–109.
27. Jones BH, Knapik JJ. Physical training and exercise-related injuries. Sports Med 1999; 27:111–125.
28. Kay AD, Blazevich AJ. Moderate-duration static stretch reduces active and passive plantar flexor moment but not Achilles tendon stiffness or active muscle length. J Appl Physiol 2009; 106:1249–1256.
29. Kay AD, Blazevich AJ. Effect of acute static stretch on maximal muscle performance: A systematic review. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2012; 44:154–164.
30. Knapik JJ, Jones BH, Bauman CL, et al. Strength, flexibility, and athletic injuries. Sports Med 1992; 14:277–288.
31. Knudson D, Magnusson P, McHugh M. Current issues in flexibility fitness. PCPFS Res Dig 2000; 3(10):1–8.
32. Knudson D, Noffal G. Time course of stretch-induced isometric strength deficits. Eur J Appl Physiol 2005; 94:348–351.
33. Kubo K, Miyazaki D, Shimoju S, Tsunoda N. Relationship between elastic properties of tendon Structures and performance in long distance runners. Eur J Appl Physiol 2015; 115:1725–1733.
34. Kubo K, Kanehisa H, Fukunaga T. Effect of stretching on the viscoelastic properties of human tendon structures in vivo. J Appl Physiol 2002a; 92:595–601.
35. Kubo K, Kanehisa H, Fukunaga T. Effect of transient muscle contractions and stretching on the tendon structures in vivo. Acta Physiol Scand 2002b; 175:157–164.
36. Kubo K, Kanehisa H, Fukunaga T. Gender differences in the viscoelastic properties of tendon structures. Eur J Appl Physiol 2003; 88:520–526.
37. Kubo K, Kanehisa H, Kawakami Y, et al. Elastic properties of muscle-tendon complex in long-distance runners. Eur J Appl Physiol 2000; 81:181–187.
38. Kubo K, Kawakami Y, Fukunaga T. Influence of elastic properties of tendon structures on 

DUANE V. KNUDSON230
exercise: mechanisms and applications. Sports 
Med 2015; 45:1523–1546.
53. McHugh MP, Connolly DAJ, Eston RG, et al. The role of passive muscle stiffness in symptoms of exercise-induced muscle damage. Am J Sports Med 1999; 27:594–599.
54. McHugh MP, Kremenic IJ, Fox MB, et al. The role of mechanical and neural restrains to joint range of motion during passive stretch. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1998; 30:928–932.
55. McHugh MP, Magnusson SP, Gleim GW, et al. Viscoelastic stress relaxation in human skeletal muscle. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1992; 24:1375–1382.
56. McNair PJ, Dombroski EW, Hewson DJ, et al. Stretching at the ankle joint: viscoelastic responses to holds and continuous passive motion. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2000; 33:354–358.
57. Medeiros JM, Smidt GL, Burmeister LF, et al. The influence of isometric exercise and passive stretch on hip joint motion. Phys Ther 1977; 57:518–523.
58. Mizuno T, Matsumoto M, Umemura Y. Viscoelasticity of the muscle-tendon unit is returned more rapidly than range of motion after stretching. Scand J Med Sci Sports 2013; 23:23–30.
59. Morse CI, Degens H, Seynnes OR, et al. The acute effect of stretching on the passive stiffness of the human gastrocnemius muscle tendon unit. J Physiol 2008; 586: 97–106.
60. Pope RP, Herbert RD, Kirwan JD. Effects of flexibility and stretching on injury risk in army recruits. Aust J Physiother 1998; 44:165–172.
61. Pope RP, Herbert RD, Kirwan JD, et al. A randomized trial of preexercise stretching for prevention of lower-limb injury. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2000; 32:271–277.
62. Shrier I. Does stretching improve performance? A systematic and critical review of the literature. Clin J Sport Med 2004; 14:267–273.
63. Simic L, Sarabon N, Markovic G. Does pre-exercise static stretching inhibit maximal muscular performance? A meta-analytical review. Scan J Med Sci Sports 2013; 23:131–148.
64. Taylor DC, Brooks DE, Ryan JB. Viscoelastic characteristics of muscle: passive stretching versus muscular contractions. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1997; 29:1619–1624.
65. Thompsen AG, Kakley T, Palumbo MA, Faigenbaum AD. Acute effects of different warm-up protocols with and without weighted vest on jumping performance in jump performance in humans. J Appl Physiol 1999; 87:2090–2096.
39. Liemohn W, Haydu T, Phillips D. Questionable exercises. PCPFS Res Digest 1999; 3(8):1–8.
40. Magnusson SP. Passive properties of human skeletal muscle during stretch maneuvers: a review. Scand J Med Sci Sports  1998; 8:65–77.
41. Magnusson SP, Aagaard P, Nielson JJ. Passive energy return after repeated stretches of the hamstring muscle-tendon unit. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2000; 32:1160–1164.
42. Magnusson SP, Aagard P, Simonsen E, et al. A biomechanical evaluation of cyclic and static stretch in human skeletal muscle. Int J Sports Med 1998; 19:310–316.
43. Magnusson SP, Aagaard P, Simonsen EB, et al. Passive tensile stress and energy of the human hamstring muscles in vivo. Scand J Med Sci Sports 2000; 10:351–359.
44. Magnusson P, Renstrom P. The European College of Sports Sciences Position statement: The role of stretching exercises in sports. Eur J Sport Sci 2006; 6:87–91.
45. Magnusson SP, Simonsen EB, Aagaard P, et al. Biomechanical responses to repeated stretches in human hamstring muscle in vivo. Am J Sports Med 1996; 24:622–628.
46. Magnusson SP, Simonsen EB, Aagaard P, et al. Determinants of musculoskeletal flexibility: viscoelastic properties, cross-sectional area, EMG and stretch tolerance. Scand J Med Sci Sports 1997; 7:195–202.
47. Magnusson SP, Simonsen EB, Aagaard P, et al. Visocoelastic response to repeated static stretching in human skeletal muscle. Scand J Med Sci Sport 1995; 5:342–347.
48. Mahieu NN, McNair P, De Muynck M, Stevens V, Blanckaert I, Smits N, Witvrouw E. Effect of static and ballistic stretching on muscle-tendon tissue properties. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2007; 39:494–501.
49. Mandengue SH, Miladi I, Bishop D, Temfemo A, Cisse F, Ahmaidi S. Methodological approach for determining optimal active warm-up intensity: predictive equations. Sci Sports 2009; 24:9–14.
50. Martin SB, Jackson AW, Morrow JR, et al. The rationale for the sit and reach test revisited. Meas Phys Ed Exerc Sci 1998; 2:85–92.
51. McCray JM, Ackermann BJ, Halaki M. A systematic review of the effects of upper body warm-up on performance and injury. Br J Sports Med 2015; 49:935–942.
52. McGowan CJ, Pyne DB, Thompson, KG, Rattray B. Warm-up strategies for sport and 

WARM-UP AND FLEXIBILITY231
athletic women. J Strength Cond Res 2007; 
21:52–56.
66. Turki O, Chaouach A, Behm DG, et al. The effect of warm-ups incorporating different volumes of dynamics stretching on 10- and 20-m sprint performance in highly trained male athletes. J Strength Cond Res 2012; 
26:63–72.
67. Vujnovich AL, Dawson NJ. The effect 
of therapeutic muscle stretch on neural 
processing. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther 1994; 
20:145–153.
68. Walshe AD, Wilson GJ, Murphy AJ. The validity and reliability of a test of lower body musculotendinous stiffness. Eur J Appl Physiol 1996; 73:332–339.
69. Weldon SM, Hill RH. The efficacy of stretching for prevention of exercise-related injury: a systematic review of the literature. Manual Ther 2003; 8:141–150.
70. Wessel J, Wan A. Effect of stretching on the intensity of delayed-onset muscle soreness. Clin J Sports Med 1994; 4:83–87.
71. Whatman C, Knappstein A, Hume P. Acute changes in passive stiffness and range of motion post-stretching. Phys Ther Sport 2006; 
7:195–200.
72. Wilson GJ, Elliott BC, Wood GA. Stretch shorten cycle performance enhancement through flexibility training. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1992; 24:116–123.
73. Wilson GJ, Wood GA, Elliott BC. Optimal stiffness of series elastic component in a stretch-shorten cycle activity. J Appl Physiol 1991; 70:825–833.
74. Wilson GJ, Wood GA, Elliott BC. The relationship between stiffness of the musculature and static flexibility: an alternative explanation for the occurrence of muscular injury. Int J Sports Med 1991; 12:403–407.
75. Wilson JM, Duncan NM, Marin PJ et al. Meta-analysis of postactivation and power: Effects of conditioning activity, volume, gender, rest periods, and training status. J Strength Cond Res 2013; 27:854–859.
76. Witvrouw E, Danneels L, Asselman P, et al. Muscle flexibility as a risk factor for developing muscle injuries in male professional soccer players: a prospective study. Am J Sports Med 2003; 31:41–46.

Contents
Introduction  233
Purpose of testing  234
T est selection  235
Assessment  239
Summary  263
References  266

10 CHAPTER
OBJECTIVES
After completing this chapter, you will be able to:
• Understand the purpose of testing.
• Differentiate between validity and reliability.
• Perform a needs analysis.
• Determine appropriate testing protocols for specific performance variables.
• Familiarize yourself with statistical measures.TEST ADMINISTRATION AND  
INTERPRETATION
Megan A. Wong, Ian J. Dobbs, Casey M. Watkins, and Lee E. Brown
KEY TERMS
Assessment
Bimodal curveCentral tendencyConcurrent validityConstruct validityContent validityCriterionEvaluationFace validityInterval scoresIntraclass correlation 
coefficient (ICC)MaximumMeanMeasurementMedianModeNNegatively skewedNormativeOrdinalPopulationPositively skewedPredictive validityRangeRatio scoresReliabilitySubpopulationStandard deviation (SD)Standardized scoresSumTestT-scoreValidityVarianceZ-score
INTRODUCTION
Test and measurement is at the heart of any 
resistance-training program. This is the point where initial decisions are made regarding the exercise prescription and involve such topics as frequency, intensity, and volume. However, test -
ing is not a one-time task, but rather an ongoing method of evaluation throughout the prescribed program. In this sense, it is the beginning, the 

MEGAN A. WONG ET AL.234
middle, and the end of a true individual perio -
dized regime. The results can be used to evaluate 
performance and make decisions regarding the future of a program or individual. They may also be used to predict future performance in much the same way that college entrance exam scores are used to predict an individual’s prob -
ability of graduating. Lastly, test scores may be used in a research environment as part of an in-depth analysis of an important question. Ultimately, the outcome of this entire process is 
the individualized exercise prescription that will 
best serve each athlete or client.
Physical testing is an ongoing task to assess the 
status of both the athlete and the program.
PURPOSE OF TESTING
The main reason test and measurement is at the 
heart of resistance training is that it determines where an individual currently stands regarding his or her training status and, more impor -
tantly, where he or she is headed. The final outcome of any training program is to arrive at a peak level of performance or to achieve some predetermined goal (12). Therefore, hav -
ing goals is of no consequence if neither the exerciser nor the strength and conditioning professional knows the present state of the athlete. In short, before we can plan for a trip to go somewhere, we must first know where we currently are. In this way a cogent strategy can be designed and implemented based on the individual and unique demands of the athlete which have been determined through test and measurement.
Using the results of a properly designed and 
implemented test and measurement protocol will enable the tester or coach to make objec-tive rather than subjective decisions regarding their client’s or athlete’s program. The ulti-mate assessment will be based on hard data collected through judicious use of appropriate 
tests gathered under the scrutiny of a well-  
prepared tester. In this way, individual bias can 
be reduced, and the tester’s prejudice can be eliminated when measuring an attribute on a test. There is, however, still a place for subjec -
tive reasoning during an evaluation process, but it is better utilized in the overall synergy of how the athlete’s skills may be able to coordi-nate with the sport requirements rather than on the independent collection of raw data.
The purpose of this chapter is to lay the 
framework for a neat and concise assessment procedure when evaluating clients or athletes. Before proceeding it is important to understand the nomenclature used during this process.
• Population : an entire group of individuals 
sharing some common characteristic. This might be all third graders in America or all NCAA Division I female pole-vaulters. This group is nearly always too large in number to test every member, so a smaller sample is chosen as representative.
• Sub-population : the sample group men -
tioned above, which contains a manageable number of people in which to obtain per -
formance measures. The results of this sub-population will be used to infer to the total population.
• T est: a tool used to measure performance. 
This may take the form of a vertical jump test, a one-repetition maximum (1RM) strength test, or a timed muscular endurance test. The test is just a tool used to collect data in the course of the assessment procedure.
• Measurement : the quantitative score 
derived from the test. It will be in the units described by the individual test such as inches or feet or pounds. Alone it has very little meaning since different tests have dif -
ferent scales, making comparisons difficult if not impossible.
• Evaluation : placing a value on the meas-
urement derived from the test. This is the point where the score must be compared to a scale and given worth. This part of the procedure requires a professional trained to choose the proper ranking scale and mind -
ful of the intricacies involved in making decisions in the face of extraneous variables as well as individual differences associated with age, gender, and training status.
• Assessment : putting all three of the afore-
mentioned events together. Choose a test, measure the score, then make an evaluation based on a scale comparison.
• Normative : a post-measurement scale derived  
from the scores of a peer group. When  

TEST ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION235
comparing within a sub-population, placing 
the greatest score at the top then listing the descending scores in order of magnitude gen -
erally determines this scale. In other words, if scores on a vertical jump test ranged between 28 and 12 inches, then all the other scores would be ranked between them and some value placed on each performance. Breaks in the scale can be established according to statistical rules such as central tendency, standard deviation, or natural breaks.
• Criterion : an a priori scale whereby the break 
points are known prior to testing and each person must meet an established level of performance to achieve that value level. It is important to understand that this scale is usu-ally derived from many bouts of normative testing. When a considerable amount of data is collected on enough sub-populations to constitute a logical inference of the results to the total population, then a criterion scale can be established and used for evaluation of sub -
sequent scores. This scale requires participants to perform at a standard level of achievement. It may be reaching a specific height dur -
ing the vertical jump for a basketball team, or lifting a specific amount of weight as in a pre-employment screening exam, or attaining a particular height before being allowed to enjoy an amusement park ride.
Testing data can be useful in justifying a program 
or a training method.TEST SELECTION
To accurately evaluate athletes, proper tests 
must be chosen which allow an in-depth view of an individual’s performance level. This is best accomplished by choosing specific tests designed to measure only one aspect of human performance (13,18). Often many separate tests will be required to precisely measure an athlete’s state of training, and each test should be chosen with risks and outcomes in mind. Sport coaches sometimes make choices based on anecdotal evidence or use insensitive tests that are incapable of discriminating variable human performance. The proper procedure is to first determine what the desired outcome is, then design a test and measurement proto -
col around those outcomes (5).
Tests chosen should be specific to the sport and 
to the population being tested.
Physical tests include measurements of 
cardiovascular and respiratory function, 
strength, power, endurance, and anthropome-try just to name a few. Each of these categories consists of a myriad of choices, every one of which is intended to measure a single factor of that performance characteristic within specific and detailed guidelines (11). Violation of these guidelines will result in spurious data, which is of no use whatsoever.
REAL-WORLD APPL iCATiON
Calculating average velocity during sprint running
The example is an athlete completing a 40-meter sprint. We have electronic timing lights at 10, 20, 
and 30 meters from the starting light gate. The average speed over the last 10 meters might be used as an indication of maximum running speed. Let’s assume the times and distances are as follows:
Distance 10 20 30
Time 1.741 2.890 3.995
Velocity is change in distance over change in time. Therefore:velocity = (30 − 20) / (3.995 − 2.890) = 10 / 1.105 = 9.05 m/sec.

MEGAN A. WONG ET AL.236
Making decisions about an individual’s 
physical state of being is not a trivial task and 
carries with it severe consequences for both the evaluator and the client. The utilization of spurious data will ultimately result in draw -
ing erroneous conclusions. The severity of prescribing exercise for an individual that is beyond their capacity or returning an athlete to play prior to their being able to participate without undue risk of danger cannot be over emphasized. Remember, bad data is worse 
than no data at all because it may offer an 
unstable foundation on which to build further training.
Validity
Validity  is the most important aspect of any 
assessment procedure. In order for a test to be valid it must test what it purports to test (14). That is, if one wishes to measure leg strength, then a valid test might be the squat, leg press, or deadlift. Each test would result in different scores and care would need to be exercised when choosing the proper test for a unique sub-population, but each is a valid test of leg strength. In contrast, the vertical jump test includes leg strength as a compo -
nent but is a test of leg power. Therefore, the vertical jump test is not a valid test of leg strength because it measures an individual’s ability to produce power. However related strength and power might be, they are still distinct mechanisms of physical perfor -
mance. Again, this is the sensitive nature of test selection.
Validity is historically measured against 
a “gold standard” of performance. For instance, if someone has designed a new device to test leg strength, then the procedure would be to obtain measures using the new device and compare those with the “gold standard” method (7). Using statistical tech -
niques, it is possible to determine whether the two tests are conceptually similar and to what degree their results differ. A corre -
lation analysis such as the Pearson product moment (r) may answer the conceptual ques -
tion by determining the association of the two scores, while an analysis of variance (ANOVA) may answer the degree to which the tests’ scores differ. These techniques are beyond the scope of this chapter, but the con-cept should not be lost on the reader. The concept is that a test must measure what it has been designed to measure in order for the results to be a valid quantification of that physical component.
There are five major types of validity:
1
 Face validity  states that the test is logical 
on the surface, as when having a person lift a weight to measure strength.
2
 Content  validity  states that the test 
includes material that has been taught or covered; for instance, testing speed after training for speed.
3
 Predictive  validity  states that test scores 
can accurately predict future performance. An example would be the NFL measuring college football players prior to the draft to determine their potential.
4
 Concurrent  validity  states that the test is 
a measure of the individual’s current per -
formance level. This happens when the test occurs shortly after training is com -
pleted.
5
 Construct  validity  states that the test meas-
ures some part of the whole skill, such as measuring bench press strength for foot -
ball linemen.
Reliability
Reliability  is loosely defined as repeatability. 
That is, the ability of a test to arrive at or near the same score upon repeated measurements in the absence of any intervention strategy. A reliable test should result in consistent scores. To accomplish this (using the new device sce -
nario stated previously), the procedure would be to measure individuals using the new device, then allow a time delay of approximately 48 to 72 hours so no significant training effects could interfere with the results, and then measure each person a second time using the 
identical procedures as the first measurement. 
If reliability is high then people scoring well on the first test should also score well on sub -
sequent tests (6,7).

TEST ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION237
REAL-WORLD APPL iCATiON
Reproducing physical test results in training and conditioning
Reproducing test results of physical tests is important to maintain the validity and reliability 
of a test. Testing athletes in the weight room or on the field presents special challenges in terms of reproducing test data.
Why is reproducibility important in training and conditioning? It is important for a num -
ber of reasons, even though the data may not be used for research purposes.
You will make a decision about the type of program you use based on the results you 
obtain. If your results are not accurate, then you may be making the wrong decision, choos -
ing a program that is not producing the results you seek. Pre-testing and post-testing must use reproducible testing procedures so you can accurately make that decision.
Conditioning programs should focus on specific areas of weakness in a particular athlete. 
Those areas of weakness must be monitored on a regular basis using reproducible tests. If the tests used are not reproducible, then once again, the incorrect decision will be made.
Inconsistent test results may not motivate the athlete to improve. We know that hard work 
pays off with improved scores, but if the scoring is inconsistent, we are providing bad infor -
mation to the athlete. Documenting improvement in the athletes you train is an indication you as a conditioning coach are doing your job. Providing your administrators with accurate test -
ing records obtained using reproducible tests is an important step in justifying your position.
Are there steps the conditioning professional can take to improve the reproducibility of the 
test results? Of course!
• Standardize the testing procedures for every test. Have the procedures in writing and pro -
vide a copy to each data collector.
• Train the data collectors to collect the test results accurately and consistently.
• Use the same data collectors as much as possible.
• Allow the same number of trials for each test.
• Test in the same environmental conditions as much as possible. Environmental conditions are best controlled indoors, so test indoors as much as possible and practical.
• Standardize the amount and type of external motivation provided to the athlete and keep it consistent from one testing session to the next.
• Test at the same time of day if possible.
• Always test after a day of rest if possible. Strenuous training of specific muscle groups may decrease performance on some tests.
• Maintain the same order of testing.
Control diet as much as possible. You may not be able to control diet to a great extent but 
remember that it can have an effect on performance, both positive and negative.
The rank order of participants should 
remain relatively constant as in back-to-back 
days of handgrip strength testing. A perfect rank order between tests would mean that each person kept his or her spot in the ordi -
nal sequence relative to all others. This almost 

MEGAN A. WONG ET AL.238
never occurs with human testing. Employing 
the statistical techniques of Pearson r would establish this rank order of the two measure -
ments and establish reliability on a continuum ranging between 1.0 and −1.0. Reliability is not an either/or proposition, but rather a floating scale of different levels.
Table 10.1 depicts one strategy to use to 
categorize the level of reliability between two measurements taken at two different times using the same population. Remember that a negative correlation still represents reliability but simply states that as one score increases another score decreases thereby inverting the rank order of participants. This may occur when comparing two different tests such as vertical jump height and percent body fat. Figure 10.1 shows graphical representations of the scores as they appear when scatter plot-ted. 
The trend line (sometimes referred to as 
the “line of best fit”) has been added to illus-trate positive, negative, and null relationships respectively.
Although the Pearson r correlation can be 
used to determine the relationship between subsequent tests in our new device scenario, it is no longer the gold standard when determin -
ing reliability. Instead, an 
intraclass correlation 
coefficient (ICC)  can be used to better establish 
reliability. A Pearson r score close to 1 or −1 will denote that an individual has scored simi -
larly with respect to his/her peers, but does not take into account any changes in the mean test score. What would happen if the group of ath-letes we tested on our new device all finished in the same rank order on the second test, but each scored several points higher? This would be a case in which Pearson r correlation would 
TABLE 10.1  Category system to determine level of 
reliability
r-value Relationship
1.0–0.8 Very high
0.79–0.6 High
0.59–0.4 Moderate
0.39–0.2 Low
0.19–0 Very lowA
B00102030Pull-ups405060
10 20
Strength30 40 50
00102030Sit-ups405060
10 20
Body fat30 40 50
C0051015Hair color2025
10 20
IQ30 40 50
Figure 10.1  Graphical representation of scores 
when scatter-plotted. (A) Positive relationship 
between strength and number of pull-ups. (B) Negative relationship between body fat and number of sit-ups. (C) No relationship between IQ and hair color.
be high, because all of the athletes performed 
similarly with respect to their peers, on both tests. The test would not be reliable, how -
ever, because the mean score was higher on 

TEST ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION239
the second test. Therefore, the results are not 
repeatable. The ICC takes into account any difference that may be present, not only in the rank of each athlete, but the overall difference in the value of the scores (10). It is important to remember that the ICC, like the Pearson r, does not determine the reliability of a test in a yes or no fashion, but rather places the relia -
bility on a theoretical continuum which allows us to state the degree to which a test is reliable.
It should be evident then that a test 
may be reliable but not valid, while a valid test must always be reliable. It is always important to remember that each of these procedures assumes complete cooperation of the athlete and 100% maximum effort during every test session. That is not always the case and should be carefully monitored by the individual responsible for test admin-istration or sub-maximal testing should be performed (26).
Tests chosen must be valid and reliable and must 
be administered using a reliable protocol.
ASSESSMENT
The first thing that should be done is a full 
assessment, including medical and exercise his -
tory, obtaining a physician release if necessary, performing physiological testing, determin -
ing baseline nutritional status (to determine if referral to an RD/LD is necessary), and deter -
mining program goals. The objective of the assessment is to provide a comprehensive view of the athlete, what they are capable of, what their limitations are, and any special needs that may need to be addressed. This initial assess-ment may be done the first time you meet but will be ongoing as you work with and learn about the person’s needs.
Medical history and PAR-Q
The medical history should begin with a few basic questions, such as those found on the PAR-Q form. The PAR-Q is a limited tool that should not be considered to encompass all the information that you will need to know. It is a quick and easy way to determine whether a potential client is at risk for any major com -
plications during low to moderate, but not vigorous, exercise. In addition to the PAR-Q, it is appropriate to determine the following:
• Is the person diabetic? If so, are they able to control their blood glucose levels, and how do they monitor blood glucose? Additionally, have they ever been on a regu-lar exercise program while diabetic?
• Do they have asthma? If so, is their asthma 
exercise induced, and at what levels? Do 
they use a fast-acting inhaler or other medi -
cation to control attacks?
• Do they smoke? If so, how much and how often?
• Is there a family history of heart attack, coronary artery bypass surgery, or sudden death before age 55 in men, or age 65 in women?
• Do they have a history of hypertension (systolic pressure ≥140, or diastolic pres -
sure ≥90), or are they on antihypertensive medications?
• Do they have a total cholesterol level greater than 200 mg/dL?
• Are they obese, defined as a body mass index of ≥30, confirmed with a waist meas -
urement of >100cm?
You will also need to know about any pre -
vious injuries that might interfere with their ability to perform certain exercises. Ask about such things as sprains and strains, arthritis, athletic injuries, unusual pain or swelling in any of the joints, and any tightness that limits their ability to move with ease.
Understanding an individual’s medical and exercise 
history will help you make an informed decision regarding exercise prescription, or whether referral to a medical professional for additional testing is indicated.
Physician release
The words “please consult with your physician 
before beginning an exercise program” are often found on the control panels of cardio-vascular equipment. No matter how thorough a medical history you obtain, a physician will 

TABLE 10.2  Various strength, power, endurance, and agility tests
T ests Muscle groups and joints 
usedMuscle actions Time limitsKinetic chainEnergy system
Wingate Anaerobic Cycle Hips, quads, ankles Concentric 30 s Closed Anaerobic
Margaria-Kalamen Stair Climb Hips, quads, ankles Concentric & eccentric 2 s Closed ATP-PC
Isokinetic velocity spectrum Each one individually Concentric & eccentric 5 s to60 sOpen ATP-PC &Anaerobic
Overhead medicine ball throw Entire body Concentric & eccentric 2 s Closed ATP-PC
Counter movement vertical jump Hips and ankles Concentric & eccentric 2 s Closed ATP-PC
1RM power clean Arms, shoulders, back, hips, quads, anklesIsometric & concentric & eccentric 5 s Closed ATP-PC
1RM squat Entire lower body Isometric & concentric & eccentric 5 s Closed ATP-PC
1RM bench press Entire upper body Isometric & concentric & eccentric 5 s Closed ATP-PC
Bench press body weight for total reps Entire upper body Isometric & concentric & eccentric 30 s to60 sClosed Anaerobic
Push-up test Upper body Concentric & eccentric 30 s to
60 sClosed Anaerobic
40-yard dash Entire lower body Concentric & eccentric 5 s Closed ATP-PC
T-test Entire body Isometric & concentric & eccentric 10 s Closed ATP-PC &
Anaerobic
5–10–5 shuttle Entire body Isometric & concentric & eccentric 5 s Closed ATP-PC &Anaerobic
Standing long jump Entire lower body Concentric & eccentric 2 s Closed ATP-PC
5–0–5 test Entire lower body Isometric & concentric & Eccentric 5 s Closed ATP-PC
Source: Lockie RG, Jalilvand F, Orjalo AJ, Giuliano DV, Moreno MR and Wright GA. A methodological report: Adapting the 505 change-of-direction speed test specific to 
American football. J Strength Cond Res 2017; 31(2): 539–547.

TEST ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION241
be better able to assess the medical ability of a 
person to begin an exercise program, and may have information that can help you to deter -
mine the best course of action for that person. It is a good idea to have a medical release form that describes each of the exercise com -
ponents, including the levels of intensity and duration.
Nutrition
It is important to get a basic understanding of the person’s nutritional status. Nutritional programming should only be performed by a registered or licensed dietician. However, you can obtain basic information, such as choice of foods, quantity, and timing of meals from a simple three-day recall. Having the client recall everything ingested for the past three days will allow you to decide if more specific dietary interventions are necessary, in which case a referral to an RD/LD is necessary.
Needs analysis
Two main concerns when choosing proper tests to be administered to athletes are the needs of the individual and the needs of the activity. Each of these brings specific requirements to the task of test selection and should be treated with equal diligence.
A needs analysis should be performed to evaluate 
the needs of the athlete and the demands of the sport.
First, individual needs may be assessed 
through traditional physiological methods 
such as body fat, cardiovascular, muscular strength/power, and flexibility testing. These tests are designed to evaluate the individual’s present state of readiness to participate in the activity of choice. Not all tests will be required for each person as not all physiological vari -
ables are equally required across sporting activities. Furthermore, each category may compel the investigator to pick appropriate ways to measure the individual.
Second, the needs of the particular sport 
or activity are unique and require different physiological performance levels of the athlete or client. Some sports require maximal isomet-ric upper body movements such as wrestling while others require sub-maximal continuous lower body movements such as cycling or run -
ning. Once again, the need to be specific with a test and measurement scheme is vital for the success of the program.
In short, preparation for a comprehensive 
test and measurement system requires time and diligence of the tester at the onset of the program in order to choose tests that meas -
ure the requisite needs of both the participant and the activity. These needs should consider all aspects of human performance including, but not limited to, energy systems, duration of each repetition, duration of the entire event, muscle used, muscle actions used, range of motion involved, and speed of movement (22,23).
Table 10.2 displays a myriad of tests 
designed to measure strength, power, muscu-lar endurance,
 and agility, yet each is unique 
in that it requires different muscles, muscle actions, time limits, kinetic chain limitations, and energy systems. The tests presented in this chapter are by no means the only avail -
able methods of evaluating strength, power, muscular endurance, and agility. Instead, they have been selected as a representation of the vast array of choices one has in assessing an athlete’s training needs. Table 10.3 presents 
normative data for many of these tests.
Warm up protocol
Warming up prior to performance testing is essential for assessing muscular strength. General warm-ups are intended to increase muscle temperature, whereas specific warm-up tends to increase neuromuscular activation. For improved short-term performance activity, a moderate intensity warm-up is sufficient to cause only minimal fatigue (4). Performing an active dynamic warm-up has been shown to be effective for preparing the body before explosive tests (30). In contrast, static stretch -
ing reduces strength and power and has been shown to have little effect on reducing injury risk (15). Therefore, coaches should warm up athletes appropriately to the battery of tests being performed. For testing guidelines, it is 

MEGAN A. WONG ET AL.242
recommended to perform a moderate general 
warm-up in addition to a specific warm-up prior to maximum strength assessments (1).
Instructional cues
Providing verbal instructions to athletes before administering tests may influence perfor -
mance. Directing attention towards the bodily movements and muscles (internal focus of attention) may hinder performance. Focusing on directing attention to an external object or toward the movement outcome (external focus of attention) tends to enhance motor learning and overall performance (3,16,17). Testers should display confidence and explain the expectations of the test in simple terms. If applicable, it is strongly encouraged for test -
ers to instruct athletes using external objects or devices to focus on when cueing, which has been shown to enhance performance testing (31,32). Examples of external cues include “Break the bar” during a bench press, or “Push the ground away” during a verti-cal jump test. Finally, testers should clearly answer any questions that athletes have before testing begins.
Wingate anaerobic cycle test
The Wingate anaerobic cycle test was designed as a means to measure overall anaerobic lower extremity power. The athlete is made to cycle as fast as possible for 30 seconds with a predeter -
mined resistance (Figure 10.2). This resistance 
is derived by multiplying the athlete’s body weight (kg) by the constant 0.075 (2,19).
Specialized cycle ergometers will record
 
the athlete’s peak power and mean power during the 30-second test. This test is a good overall assessment of lower extremity power 
Figure 10.2  Wingate anaerobic cycle test. This 
test is a good indicator of overall anaerobic lower 
extremity power.TABLE 10.3  Calculated ratios for female/male comparisons of absolute (N·m) and relative (N·m·kg-1) peak 
torque for knee extension and flexion
Female/male ratio for torque values
Joint motion 60°·s-1180°·s-1300°·s-1Average
Abs Rel Abs Rel Abs Rel Abs Rel
Men Knee extension 0.77 0.81 0.84 0.88 0.83 0.87 0.81 0.85
Knee flexion 0.88 0.93 0.93 0.99 0.86 0.91 0.89 0.94
Women Knee extension 0.76 0.77 0.85 0.86 0.83 0.85 0.81 0.83
Knee flexion 0.88 0.88 0.95 0.96 0.86 0.86 0.9 0.9
Sources: Beam WC, Bartels RL, Ward RW, Clark N and Zuelzer WA. Multiple comparisons of isokinetic leg strength in male 
and female collegiate athletic teams. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1985; 17(2):Abstract #20, 269.
Wyatt MP and Edwards AM. Comparison of quadriceps and hamstring torque values during isokinetic exercise. Journal of 
Orthopaedic and Sports Physical Therapy 1981; 3:48–56.

TEST ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION243
TABLE 10.4  Comparative data for Wingate Anaerobic Cycle Test
Comparative data for Wingate Anaerobic T est
Group Peak anaerobic power Mean anaerobic power
Force 
(%wt)Absolute (W)Relative (W_kg
−1)Work (kJ)Absolute (W)Relative (W_kg
−1)
Men
Non-athletes (18–28y) 7.5 700 9.2 16.9 563 7.3
Non-athletes (18–24y) 7.5 540 8.2 13.5 450 7.0
Non-athletes (25–34y) 7.5 700 9.2 16.2 540 7.2
Non-athletes (35–44y) 7.5 660 8.6 15.0 500 6.6
Cyclists (Category I–II) 10.0 1125 14.7 27.1 903 11.8
Cyclists (Category II–IV) 9.5 963 13.3 23.5 783 10.8
WomenNon-athletes (18–28y) 7.5 454 454.0 11.4 381 6.3
Active women 7.5 561 561.0 13.6 453 7.2
Sources: Inbar O, Dotan R and Baro-Or O. Anaerobic characteristics in male children and adolescents. Med Sci Sports Exerc 18, 
264–269, 1986.
Jacobs I. The effects of thermal dehydration on performance of the Wingate Anaerobic Test. International Journal of Sports 
Medicine 1, 21–24, 1980.Maud PJ and Schultz BB. Norms for the Wingate Anaerobic Test with comparison to another similar test. Research Quarterly for 
Exercise and Sport 60(2), 144–151, 1989.Tanaka H, Bassett DR, Swensen TC and Sampredo RM. Aerobic and anaerobic characteristics of competitive cyclists in the 
United State Cycling Federation. International Journal of Sports Medicine 14, 334–338, 1993.
as it requires contributions from all major 
muscle groups of the lower extremities. Also, it can be used to measure not only peak power, but mean power over a 30-second period as well. For this reason, it is a good test to include with sports that require maximal effort for bouts that last longer than just a few seconds. One negative aspect of this test is the need for a specialized cycle ergometer that will derive the athlete’s peak and mean power. These ergometers are costly and are used primarily for research purposes (Tables 10.4 and 10.5).
Margaria-Kalamen Stair Climb Test
This test of lower extremity power is easy and quick to perform. It is performed on a staircase and is a good measure of lower body power and explosiveness, which is important to ath-letes requiring speed, agility, and quickness. First, measure the subject’s body weight and calculate the height of each step. The test is per -
formed by beginning in front of a flight of at least a dozen stairs. Each step height is approx -
imately 17.5 cm (7 in) high. Timing mats are placed on the third and ninth steps, which are connected to a timing device and are acti -
vated by the subject’s body weight. The subject begins 6 meters from the first step then runs toward and up the steps, taking them three at a time (
Figure 
10.3). The result (power) is the 
product of body weight and the step vertical distance and gravity 
divided by the total time 
from the third to the ninth step. Results of this 

TABLE 10.5  Category for absolute and relative peak and mean anaerobic power and fatigue index by gender
Category %ile Peak anaerobic power Mean anaerobic power Fatigue index
Men Women Men Women Men 
(%)Women (%)Absolute
(W)Relative(W_kg
−1)Absolute
(W)Relative(W_kg
−1)Absolute(W)Relative(W_kg
−1)Absolute(W)Relative(W_kg
−1)
Well above average 95 867 11.1 602 9.3 677 8.6 483 7.5 21 20
Above average 90 822 10.9 560 9.0 662 8.2 470 7.3 23 25
85 807 10.6 530 8.9 631 8.1 437 7.1 27 25
80 777 10.4 527 8.8 618 8.0 419 7.0 30 26
75 768 10.4 518 8.6 604 8.0 414 6.9 30 28
Average 70 757 10.2 505 8.5 600 7.9 410 6.8 31 29
60 721 9.8 480 8.1 577 7.6 391 6.6 35 34
50 689 9.2 449 7.6 565 7.4 381 6.4 38 35
40 671 8.9 432 7.0 548 7.1 367 6.2 40 38
30 656 8.5 399 6.9 530 7.0 353 6.0 43 40
Below average 25 646 8.3 396 6.8 521 6.8 347 5.9 45 42
20 618 8.3 376 6.6 496 6.6 337 5.7 47 44
15 594 7.4 362 6.4 485 6.4 320 5.6 47 44
10 570 7.1 353 6.0 471 6.0 306 5.3 52 47
Well below average 5 530 6.6 329 5.7 453 5.6 287 5.1 55 48
Source: Maud PJ, and Shultz BB. Norms for the Wingate Anaerobic Test with comparison to another similar test. Research Quarterly for Exercise and Sport 60(2), 144–151, 1989.

TEST ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION245
Isokinetic velocity spectrum
Isokinetic testing involves controlling the veloc-
ity of a given movement rather than the force or power with which it is performed. A computer -
ized dynamometer is set to a specified velocity at which the lever arm of the machine can be moved. The athlete then attempts to move the lever arm as fast as he or she can through a pre -
set range of motion. Torque (rotational force) and power produced during the movement are then recorded by the dynamometer. These measurements can be expressed as maximal values or averaged over several repetitions to derive mean torque and power values. This test -
ing is often performed at a range of velocities, or spectrum, so that the tester can get a bet-ter indication of whether potential deficits exist during slow or fast velocity movements (29).
Figure 10.3  Margaria-Kalamen Stair Climb Test. 
This test is a good indicator of lower extremity 
power.test have shown a moderate correlation to the 
Wingate Cycle Test (21). The normative ranges for the Margaria-Kalamen Stair Climb Test are shown in Table 10.6.
Figure 10.4  Isokinetic testing. Using a computerized 
dynamometer, this test measures torque and power 
at various velocities.

MEGAN A. WONG ET AL.246
Isokinetic dynamometers can be used 
to test a variety of joints in either seated or 
reclined positions. These machines can only test each joint in isolation, and not as part of a dynamic movement. Therefore, they are limited in their application to the movement patterns specific to an individual sport. They do, however, provide precise, highly reliable data which can easily be compared between athletes, injured and uninjured limbs, or ago -
nist and antagonist muscle groups (8,27,28).
Overhead medicine ball throw
This test requires explosive total body move -
ment to throw a medicine ball for maximum distance. The overhead medicine ball throw test (Figure 10.5) is suitable specifically for athletes involved in sports where total body power is important.
 This test requires a 2 or 3 
kg rubber medicine ball (men use 3 kg, women use 2 kg), tape measure, and clear open area.
The athlete begins by facing their back 
towards the direction they are throwing. Feet must be shoulder width apart with heels on the start line (zero distance mark). The ath -
lete will then start with the ball in both hands held extended over their head. While keeping the arms extended, the athlete will swing the ball down between their legs while flexing the knees, hips, and trunk. This serves as the countermovement. After the countermove-ment, the athlete will thrust the hips forward, extend the knees and trunk, flex the shoulders, while in one motion, throwing the ball back overhead. At the end of the throw, the feet can leave the ground as in a vertical jump to mini -
mize any deceleration in the movement. These procedures should allow the muscles involved to generate power similar to the counter -
movement vertical jump test. The examiner is encouraged to allow the athlete several warm-up throws prior to the test.
Displacement of the medicine ball during 
this test strongly correlates with the power index for the countermovement vertical jump test, which has been shown to be a reliable TABLE 10.6  Margaria-Kalamen Stair Sprint Test normative ranges
Classification Men’s age groups (years)
15–20 20–30 30–40 40–50 50+
Excellent 2,197+ 2,059+ 1,648+ 1,226+ 961+
Good 1,844–2,197 1,726–2,059 1,383–1,648 1,040–1,226 814–961
Average 1,471–1,824 1,373–1,716 1,098–1,373 834–1,030 647–804
Fair 1,108–1,461 1,040–1,363 834–1,088 637–824 490–637
Poor Under 1,108 Under 1,040 Under 834 Under 637 Under 490
Classification Women’s age groups (years)15–20 20–30 30–40 40–50 50+
Excellent 1,785+ 1,648+ 1,226+ 961+ 736+
Good 1,491–1,785 1,383–1,648 1,040–1,226 814–961 608–736
Average 1,187–1,481 1,098–1,373 834–1,030 647–801 481–598
Fair 902–1,177 834–1,089 637–824 490–637 373–471
Poor Under 902 Under 834 Under 637 Under 490 Under 373
Source: Fox EL, Bowers RW, and Foss ML. The Physiological Basis of Physical Education and Athletics (5th ed.). Dubuque, IA: Wm. C. 
Brown, 1993

TEST ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION247
Figure 10.5  Overhead medicine ball throw.
test for muscular power. This suggests that the 
overhead medicine ball throw test is reliable for assessing total body muscular power (26).
Countermovement vertical jump
The vertical jump is performed, primarily, utilizing the hip extensor and ankle plantar flexor muscle groups. The athlete is instructed to jump as high as he or she can following a quick downward squatting movement. The athlete’s jump height can be recorded simply by measuring the difference between chalk markings placed on a wall while standing on the ground and reaching and the highest point that athlete can reach while performing the countermovement jump. Commercial prod-ucts involving a series of plastic sticks that rotate about a vertical axis when touched are also available to measure vertical jump height (Figure 10.6).This 
test is often a good choice with ath -
letes as it is an essential skill in many sports. Therefore, the movement pattern and metabolic demands are similar to what the athlete might encounter in a game situation. Furthermore, improvement on a test such as this may have a direct effect on sport performance. One limi -
tation of the counter movement vertical jump test is the fact that technique often differs between athletes. Thus, the examiner must be careful that differences in scores on subsequent tests are due to training and not variations in the athlete’s jumping technique.
One-repetition maximum power clean
The power clean is an exercise performed using several upper extremity, lower extremity, and core muscle groups (Figure 10.7). Because the exercise is designed for the athlete to lift the weight as quickly as possible,
 it is a good 

MEGAN A. WONG ET AL.248
indication of ballistic strength. The repetition 
maximum power clean is considered to be the greatest load with which the athlete can perform one repetition of the movement with proper form. This test is useful for power ath -
letes who are required to move explosively for short durations.
One-repetition maximum squat
The one-repetition maximum squat is consid -
ered the greatest load with which an athlete can perform the exercise in good form (Figure 10.8). This 
test is a good indication of overall 
lower body strength as the movement requires contributions from 
all of the major muscle 
groups of the lower body. It is an important test for athletes whose sports require high amounts of lower extremity strength such as basketball and volleyball.
The guidelines for one-repetition maxi-
mum testing are set out in Box 10.1.
Figure 10.6  Countermovement vertical jump. (A) 
first, determine the athlete’s reach while standing 
on the floor; (B) then, have the athlete jump to determine maximum height.(A)
(B)
Figure 10.7  Power clean. (A) starting position; (B) 
first pull; (C) catch.(A)
(B)
(C)

TEST ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION249
Figure 10.8  Squat. (A) starting position; (B) downward movement.
Box 10.1  One-r epetition maximum testing guidelines
Prior to prescribing a resistance training program, baseline performance values must be obtained 
for each exercise. One-repetition maximum (1RM) tests are frequently employed by strength and conditioning professionals to assess an athlete’s initial strength level. This information is then used to prescribe training intensity for a given exercise as a percentage of 1RM. The following are guide -
lines for conducting a 1RM test:
 1 Ensur e the athlete is proficient in the exercise to be assessed for 1RM.
 2 Ensur e that pre-testing precautionary issues have been addressed (e.g., appropriate number of 
spotters; correct spotting technique).
 3 Instruct the athlete to perf orm a general warm-up (low intensity aerobic exercise) to raise core 
body temperature and reduce the risk for injury.
 4 Instruct the athlete to perf orm a specific warm-up (1 set of 5–10 repetitions of the exercise 
to be assessed using a light to moderate load [50% estimated 1RM], followed by one additional 
heavier but sub-maximal set [~70% 1RM]).
 5 Instruct the athlete to lift a w eight corresponding to approximately 3RM.
 6 Pr ovide 3–5 minutes of recovery.
 7 Instruct the athlete to attempt their first 1RM trial.
 8 Based on trial outcome , make load adjustments based on athlete feedback and the following 
guidelines:
a If the trial was successful,  add 5–20 pounds for upper body exercises and 10–30 
pounds for lower body exercises
b If the trial was unsuccessful,  remove 5–10 pounds for upper body exercises and 10–20 
pounds for lower body exercises
 9 Pr ovide 3–5 minutes of recovery between trials.
10 Repeat steps 8 and 9 until 1RM is achie ved.
Source: Brown LE and Weir JP . ASEP procedures recommendation I: Accurate assessment of muscular strength and power. Journal of Exercise Physiology online 4(3), 2001.(A) (B)

MEGAN A. WONG ET AL.250
One-repetition maximum bench press
Like the squat test for the lower body, the 
one-repetition maximum bench press is often used to estimate an athlete’s overall upper body strength (Figure 10.9). Again, this value 
is obtained by determining the greatest load with which the athlete can perform the move -
ment with good form.
 It is a particularly useful 
test for sports requiring upper body strength such as football. Since all athletes can benefit from improving their overall strength base, a general upper body test such as this is good to include for all athletes.
Finding a true one-repetition maximum 
may be both difficult and unnecessary in some cases. As with other repetition maximum tests, the bench press test can be time consuming to conduct (9). Long periods of rest are required between trials and several trials are necessary for each test. Therefore, repetition maximums are often derived using prediction equations. Many prediction equations exist and are based on the mass lifted and the amount of repeti -
tions performed.
Bench press body weight for total reps
This test is another good indicator of general upper body strength and muscular endurance. It may be a more valid measure than the one- repetition maximum test, because it takes into consideration individual differences in mass. Using this test would allow the strength coach to compare an athlete to his or her peers more appropriately.
Although this test provides for variations 
in strength due to mass, it does not consider differences in training age. Athletes who have greater training ages may be able to bench press their body weight several times without much difficulty. As such, this test may provide a base line of strength for some and muscular endurance for others. Deciding on an appro -
priate test for upper body strength should take both differences in mass and training age into account.
Push-up test
The push-up test aims to assess an athlete’s general upper body muscular endurance. This test (Figure 10.10) is suitable for ath -
letes whose sport requires them to endure
 
repeated muscular contractions. To perform this test, a flat surface, optional mat, and an assistant are required. To start this test, the athlete will lie face down on the mat with hands shoulder width apart with fully extended arms. The athlete will lower their body until the elbow reaches 90° and subse-quently return to the starting position. The push-ups are to be continuous with no rest between repetitions. The athlete will com-plete as many successful push-ups as possible. The examiner will record the total number of successful repetitions.
40-yard sprint
The 40-yard sprint is another highly func -
tional test to gauge total lower body power. Sprinting at top speed is a skill required in many sports. Therefore, the 40-yard sprint is 
Figure 10.9  Bench press. (A) starting position;  
(B) downward movement.(A)
(B)

TEST ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION251
often a good test to include, as its performance 
may have direct application to many athletes’ sports. Although many highly accurate timing devices are available, the test can easily be per -
formed using a stop watch.
To assess 40-yd sprint speed, obtain the 
appropriate space necessary to perform the test (e.g., a straight section of track). As usual, a general and specific warm-up consisting of light aerobic activity and a few submaximal trials, respectively, should be performed by the athlete. After completing the trial runs, have the athlete get into the starting position by assuming a four-point stance. On the tester’s cue or following some other auditory stimulus, the athlete will sprint the pre-marked 40-yard distance, with the best of two trials recorded for later assessment.
One negative aspect of this test, how-
ever, is its potential to be over emphasized. In fact, such importance is placed on this test that highly competitive athletes often spend a great deal of time and effort prac-ticing form drills in the hopes of running a few tenths of a second faster. Although this is a very functional and useful test, its results should be used in conjunction with other tests to identify an athlete’s strengths and weaknesses. It should not be used as a direct predictor of how he or she will perform on the field.
T-test
The T-test assesses change of direction abil-ity in the forward and lateral planes. This test (Figure 10.11) requires four cones placed in the shape of a “T.” The athlete will begin the test at the base of the 
“T” in the standing position. 
The athlete will then sprint 10 yards forward to the first cone, shuffle laterally 5 yards to 
Figure 10.10  Push-up.

MEGAN A. WONG ET AL.252
Figure 10.11  T-test.

TEST ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION253
Figure 10.11  (continued)

MEGAN A. WONG ET AL.254
the left cone without crossing his or her feet, 
shuffle laterally 10 yards to the far right cone, shuffle 5 yards left back towards the center cone, and end with a 10-yard backpedal to the starting point.
5–10–5 shuttle
The 5–10–5 shuttle (Figure 10.12), or pro agility test, is another frequently employed agility test.
 The NFL combine administers 
the 5–10–5 shuttle as part of its test battery  to assess potential draftees. This test assesses change of direction ability in a linear plane and it only requires three cones placed in a straight line 5 yards apart. The athlete will begin the test behind the center cone in a two-point stance. The test begins when the athlete initiates movement on their own and sprints 5 yards to the left, touches the cone, 10 yards to the right, touches the cone,  
and finally 5 yards left across the starting position.
Figure 10.11  (continued)
Figure 10.12  5–10–5 shuttle.

TEST ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION255
Figure 10.12  (continued)

MEGAN A. WONG ET AL.256
Figure 10.12  (continued)

TEST ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION257
The 5–0–5 test measures an athlete’s abil -
ity to change direction while sprinting in a 
linear direction. To begin the 5–0–5 test, the athlete will sprint 10 meters to timing gates and a further 5 meters past the timing gates where the athlete will decelerate on a chosen leg. They will then accelerate back past the timing gates and a change of direction score will be recorded.
Standing long jump
The standing long jump is also a good func -
tional test that measures total lower body power (Figure 10.13). Though the verti -
cal jump is used to measure vertical power 
, 
the long jump is used to measure horizon -
tal power. Being another test of lower body power, it too is a good choice for athletes requiring speed, agility, and quickness. The test is very easy to conduct; a tape measure and an open space with a flat surface are the primary requirements. First, place a piece of masking tape or other heavy-duty tape on the testing surface to serve as a starting line. Then have the athlete get into the starting position by standing with their toes behind the line. Instruct the athlete to jump as far as possible using a single countermovement. For the jump to be considered successful, the athlete must land with both feet without any disturbances to his or her balance. If the jump is deemed successful, the distance between the starting line and the point behind the athlete’s heels constitutes the jump distance. Have the ath -
lete complete three trials with the best score recorded for later assessment.
Figure 10.13  Standing long jump. (A) starting position; (B) jump; (C) landing.(A)

MEGAN A. WONG ET AL.258
Figure 10.13  (continued)(B)
(C)

TEST ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION259
Although this is a valid measure of lower 
body power, the standing long jump is a 
movement pattern that is not specific to many sports. Therefore, other field tests, such as the 40-yard sprint test and vertical jump may have more specific applications for many athletes.
Q&A FROM THE F iELD
The head S & C coach for the football team 
at our university only uses 4 tests for the 
players: the 40-yard dash, vertical jump, 
1RM squat, and 1RM bench press. We had such a great season last year, winning our 
conference championship, so the tests seem 
adequate, but should we be doing more?
       —graduate student intern
Certainly we must take many things into consideration when designing a testing program. A 
mature, well-trained group of players might be able 
to continue to perform well with minimal testing. In order to determine the appropriate tests, we need 
to review the basic rationale for testing athletes. 
Remember the primary reasons for testing:
1 to determine the fitness base of the athlete
2 to determine the performance characteristics of the better players in the sport, and
3 to motivate the athletes to continue to train hard.
There are other possible reasons for testing. 
One reason might be that the S & C coach is in the process of justifying his position on the coaching staff. 
Good solid data demonstrating improvement in a 
number of performance characteristics in the teams he trains would provide solid evidence that he is 
performing an important service for those athletes.
T o get a total picture of the fitness base of the 
athlete, you will likely need tests in a number of areas of performance. These areas might include:
 1 upper body strength
 2 lower body strength
 3 upper body endurance
 4 lower body endurance
 5 upper body power
 6 lower body power
 7 aerobic capacity
 8 speed
 9 speed endurance
10 maximal anaerobic capacity.Y ou may choose some tests that overlap two 
of these characteristics, or you may determine that a test is not appropriate for a particular sport. 
Maximal anaerobic capacity tests that cause a dramatic rise in lactic acid production might not 
be appropriate for a golfer, for example. Do recall, 
however, that aerobic capacity is used in recovery, even in anaerobic sports.
Remember also that we base our decisions 
about the type of training program needed on the testing results. In a mature, highly performing group 
of athletes, it is possible that the training protocols 
are well established and the testing data will not greatly affect the program. Thus, a minimal testing 
program might work in some specific situations. 
Spending less time testing allows more time for conditioning or practice of the sport, which might 
be an advantage in some situations.
In summary, there are several reasons to 
consider adding tests to the testing program described above. It is also possible to spend too 
much time and energy testing, taking away from training time and practice time. The correct 
answer to your question depends on the goals 
of that particular testing program. Do the athletes need more motivation to train hard? 
Additional tests may provide the additional 
motivation the athletes need. Is it important for the S & C coach to provide data to justify his 
value to the team? Additional tests may prove 
his importance. Do the chosen tests adequately represent the physical requirements of the 
sport? If not, additional tests may provide the 
missing data. Are the tests position-specific? In football, physical demands of different positions 
can vary. A 40-yard dash may be appropriate 
for backs, while a 10- or 20-yard dash may be more appropriate for lineman. Matching testing 
to position-specific physical requirements will 
provide useful information. The training program should provide position-specific benefits to the 
individual athlete.
Every group of athletes will be different to 
some extent, and the philosophy of conditioning programs will vary from school to school as well. 
An S & C coach is constantly thinking about what he can do to keep motivation high, to keep the 
athletes working hard, and to keep a positive 
attitude toward the training. The testing program should evaluate improvement in performance that 
is specific to the sport of football as well as to 
the athlete’s position. A properly designed testing program can be a key component of the program!

MEGAN A. WONG ET AL.260
Test interpretation
Administering a test and recording a measure-
ment are the simple portions of any assessment routine. The final and most complicated por -
tion is making an evaluation of those scores. This involves placing a value on the recorded score so it may be used to help design a pro -
gram of training specific to the individual. In order to accomplish this the scores must be put into a logical order and analyzed for prac -
tical significance. Once the scores have been collected they must be compared to a proper criterion or normative scale based on the sub-population (20,24,25). The scope of this book does not allow an in-depth discussion of statis -
tical significance and therefore this discourse will focus on practical uses of test scores.
Once the test data is collected, it should be 
accurately interpreted to the coach and the athlete in terms of norms and expected improvement.
Order scales
Test scores fall into three main categories. Nominal scores are those that are coded for entry into a spreadsheet or statistical com -
puter program. They represent the “real” item through the use of numbers. An example is coding gender as 1 for men and 2 for women or vice versa. One might also use a code for positional differences on an athletic team such as 1 for outside hitters and 2 for setters and 3 for middle blockers on a volleyball team. This procedure allows the tester to add up the number of participants who possess similar characteristics but not to perform mathemati -
cal calculations on those values.
Interval  scores  are those that do not pos -
sess an absolute zero, meaning that zero does not represent the absence of that variable, but that it sometimes contains negative scores and there is no standard unit of difference between scores. The most popular form of interval scoring is temperature expressed in Fahrenheit degrees. Freezing is expressed as 32°; zero does not constitute no temperature; negative num -
bers are used to express colder temperatures; and 66° is not twice as warm as 33°.
Ratio  scores  possess all the traits not held 
by interval. They have an absolute zero, mean -
ing a zero score is an absence of that variable, as in an elderly person’s vertical jump score of zero inches. They contain no negative numbers and there is an absolute scale of measurement between scores, such that lifting 50 pounds is exactly half as much as lifting 100 pounds. This is the most popular form of physiologi -
cal measurement and is predominantly used in physical activity literature and testing.
Sometimes a fourth form of scoring order 
is expressed as 
ordinal , which is more accu -
rately described as a ranking system rather 
than a scoring scale. An ordinal system ranks 
scores from top to bottom or highest to low -
est or greatest to least. All the other scales of measurements can be listed in ordinal rank, but it does not change them from their origi-nal scaling form.
Mathematical measures
There are a few variables associated with cen -
tral tendency that need to be discussed so the investigator may draw conclusions from the collected data. They are fundamental in nature and require little mathematical skill but will provide the tester with valuable information regarding the data as a whole and each indi -
viduals’ relationship to the overall group.
• Minimum  and maximum  refer to the least 
score and the greatest score respectively.
• Range  is the difference between the mini -
mum and maximum and represents the overall spread of scores as a whole number. The formula is max − min.
• Sum is the total of all scores combined and 
added together. The formula is x1 + x2 + x3 
+ x4, etc.
• N is the symbol used to denote the number 
of people in the test group and is used in conjunction with the sum to arrive at other important variables.
• Mean  is simply the arithmetic average 
derived from the sum divided by N. It is the most sensitive of all measures of cen-tral tendency and is also used most often. It considers every score in the group and is 
pulled away from the middle by extreme 
scores. The formula is sum/n.
• Median  is the exact middle of the total num-
ber of scores. It is not affected by outliers, shows a position only and is rarely used for any statistical calculations. To find the 

TEST ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION261
median, the scores should first be placed in 
an ordinal ranking, then if there is an odd number of scores the median will be the middle score (e.g., if 11 scores then median is score #6 since 5 scores are greater and 5 scores are less). If there is an even number of scores then the median will be an average of the two middle scores (e.g., if 12 scores then median is the average of scores 6 and 7).
• Mode  is the score that occurs most fre -
quently. There may be multiple modes or there may not be a mode at all. It is also not affected by extreme scores, neither is it used frequently in statistical calculations.
Distribution of scoresOnce all the scores have been collected it is beneficial to determine their measures of cen -
tral tendency. 
Central tendency  is the measure 
of the middle of a distribution of scores. The measurement community relies on scores fol -
lowing a few basic rules, which causes them to take familiar shapes when presented graphi -
cally. The scores can then be analyzed using 
basic statistical assumptions. Figure 10.14 dis -
plays 
a normal bell curve, the basic element and 
starting point of many statistical techniques. The bell curve is a frequency histogram which plots the number of times a score occurs on the vertical, or Y axis, against the raw number itself on the horizontal or X axis where scores increase as they move from left to right. The conventional hump in the middle demonstrates that the greatest number of scores fall in the middle range with fewer and fewer scores out to either side. Most tests will produce a graph that is at least in part similar to a bell curve. In other words, there will be a few very low and very high scores with the majority of scores being very similar. It is of paramount importance to remember that while many statistical calcu-lations are based on the bell curve, it almost 
never occurs in real life data. Therefore, there is a bit of error built into all statistics and they should always be read with this in mind. The only true bell curve is when the mean, median, and mode are exactly the same number.
The hump in the bell curve shows the like -
ness of scores. If many of the athletes scored similarly, then the hump would be tall and thin, whereas a group with many varied scores would be short and flat. In some instances, the curve does not follow such a symmetrical 
shape as that of the bell curve. Figure 10.15A 
displays a 
positively skewed  curve with a long 
tail on the right and a hump near the left side 
of the graph. Figure 10.15B displays a nega-
tively skewed  curve with a long tail on the left 
and a hump near the right side of the graph. There are even times when a group of scores 
may produce multiple humps. Figure 10.15C 
displays a 
bimodal curve  where the frequency 
of scores was greatest in two different portions of the final outcome. Since the hump exhibits similarity of scores, a bimodal curve may reveal that the group contains two like groups of peo -
ple (e.g., two genders, two athletic teams, etc.).
Variability
The most commonly used measure of variabil-ity in scores is the 
standard deviation  (SD). It 
describes the scatter of scores about the mean and is used to show inclusion of scores for dif -
ferent percentages of the population and can be used as a measure of homogeneity when compared to the mean. It is derived through a few simple mathematical steps:
1
 Calculate the deviation of each score from 
the mean by subtracting the mean from each raw score. Half of the deviation scores will be negative since half the scores will −3 −2 −10
68.3%
of area
95.6% of area
99.7% of area12 3
Figure 10.14  Normal bell curve. This commonly 
occurring frequency histogram demonstrates that the 
greatest number of scores falls in the middle range, with fewer scores at the extremes.

MEGAN A. WONG ET AL.262
fall below the mean. Do not let this concern 
you as it will be remedied in the next step.
2 Square each deviation score by multi-plying it by itself. This will convert all negative scores to positive scores.
3
 Add all the squared deviations together to arrive at a sum.4
 Divide the sum of the squared deviations by N – 1 (e.g., if N =  11 then divide by 
10) the answer is termed the 
variance . By 
eliminating one participant from the group it will better assist the tester in using the resultant data to predict the performance of other similar groups that were not tested.
5
 Take the square root of the variance to counter-balance the squaring process performed earlier in the second step. The answer is the SD.
Now the SD can be used to explain the 
variability of scores previously displayed in the 
bell curve. Figure 10.14 shows how the mean 
and SD can be used to calculate group inclu -
sion numbers.
 Simply stated, the mean plus or 
minus 1-SD includes approximately 68% of the total group population. In other words, if following a test the scores revealed a mean of 25 and an SD of 10 then it could be stated that approximately 68% of the group popu -
lation had scores between 15 and 35 (e.g.,  
25 − 10 =  15 and 25 +  10 =  35). If N =  75 then 
68% of that population would be 51 (i.e., 75 × 0.68). Likewise, the mean plus or minus 2-SD includes approximately 95% of the population while the mean plus or minus 3-SD includes approximately 99% or almost everyone in the test population. Remember that since the bell curve almost never occurs (mean, median, and mode must be exactly the same number), there is always some error in the system. Therefore, the percentages rarely fall directly on those numbers but are most often close.
Standardized scores
Another important use for the SD is to calcu -
late 
standardized scores . These are scores that 
express each individual score as an SD mak-ing it easier to determine each score’s standard distance from the mean. This procedure allows tests with different units of measurement to be compared without confusion (e.g., vertical jump in inches vs 1RM in pounds). They are therefore very popularly used with standardized tests of knowledge or for large population groups fol-lowing administration of a test battery.
Standardized scores are divided into two 
types. First are 
Z-scores , which range between −3 
and +3 and are expressed out to 2 decimal places. 
They are calculated by subtracting the mean from the raw score then dividing by the SD. If a CHeightFrequencyBPushupsFrequencyABody fatFrequency
Figure 10.15  Likeness of scores shown by humps 
on graphs. (A) positively skewed curve; (B) negatively 
skewed curve; (C) bimodal curve.

TEST ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION263
raw score were 35 and the mean 25 with an SD 
of 10, then the equation would be (35 − 25) / 10 = 
1. The resultant Z-score of 1 means that the raw score of 35 is exactly 1-SD greater than the mean. Consequently, the average Z-score is zero and all positive Z-scores are raw scores greater than the mean while all negative Z-scores are raw scores that are less than the mean.
Second, 
T -scores , which range from 30 
to 80, are almost identical to Z-scores. They are the same because they are derived from 
Z-scores. The procedure for T-scores is to mul -
tiply the Z-score by 10 then add 50. T-scores 
are always positive whole numbers (i.e., no decimal places). Consequently, the average T-score is 50 and all T-scores greater than 50 are raw scores greater than the mean, while all T-scores less than 50 are raw scores that are less than the mean. T-scores are used because the resultant value is always positive and easy to understand by the lay person.SUMMARY
A valid and reliable evaluation and assessment 
program begins with a careful needs analy-sis of both the client/athlete and the activity/sport. Appropriate tests are then chosen based on the individual needs of the situation and the results are carefully analyzed using the basic mathematical calculations of central tendency and variability. By performing these simple calculations, assumptions can be made regarding the value of each score for each participant. Scores can then be compared to population specific normative values or a criterion scale developed from those norms. In the final analysis the well-prepared and knowledgeable tester will be able to evalu-ate each individual’s needs and subsequently prescribe an appropriate training program to meet the derived client-specific goals.
CASE E xAMPLE
Designing a performance testing program for an elite junior tennis athlete
Background
You are employed in a major, well equipped sports facility with all testing equipment available 
to you. You are told to prepare for a complete fitness evaluation of a 16-year-old, nationally ranked male tennis player preparing to turn pro. The player is the current national champion in the 16-and-under age group. He was first runner-up in the Junior U.S. Open this year.
(continued)MAxiNG OUT
1 A graduate student wanted to know something about the vertical jump of her classmates. 
She tested each one in the class and came up with the data set below: 19.5, 20, 21.5, 18, 17.5, 16, 22.5, 25, 24.5, 17.5. Find the mean, median, and mode of the data set and explain how to use these numbers to describe a team to a coach.
2
 The basketball coach comes to you and wants an assessment of the team. You plan to do a “needs analysis” looking at both the individual player and the game of basketball. List the tests you will need to perform to answer the coach’s query regarding the state of his team.
3
 A colleague of yours has just developed a new assessment tool and has come to you in order for you to establish the validity and reliability of the new tool. What would you do to estab -
lish both validity and reliability of this tool? How are the two different?

MEGAN A. WONG ET AL.264
The athlete is experienced in all areas of training and conditioning. He uses free weight 
resistance training regularly in his program, and performs a variety of multi-joint and 
Olympic-style lifts. He participates in a variety of speed and agility training exercises.
The athlete does participate in clay court tournaments from time to time, but his primary 
surface, and the surface his game is expected to excel on, is a hard court surface.
Using a needs analysis of the sport of tennis and a typical tennis athlete, design a complete 
fitness testing session to evaluate this athlete.
Recommendations/considerations
Begin with a needs analysis of the sport of tennis. Professional tennis is an explosive fast 
game, particularly on hard court surfaces. The tennis athlete is required to change directions rapidly several times in a point. The ability to generate ground reaction force and transfer that force to the upper body is a key component of success in tennis. The testing program for this athlete will likely include tests for the following: muscular endurance, lower extremity mus -
cular strength, lower extremity power, upper extremity muscular strength, upper extremity power, speed, agility, cardiorespiratory endurance, and joint range of motion. Injuries should be noted, and the musculoskeletal adaptations to those injuries should be considered.
Implementation
Maximal treadmill test with metabolic cartAlthough tennis is primarily an anaerobic sport, recovery between points is aerobic. 
Moderate to moderately high levels of oxygen consumption are desirable in the tennis ath -
lete. This test will provide information on the athlete’s ability to work aerobically and to recover between points.
Bench press
Since the athlete trains using free weights, the bench press is a good measure of upper body 
strength.
Squat
Again, since the athlete trains with free weights, the squat is a good choice for measuring 
overall lower extremity strength. The ability of a tennis player to generate ground reaction force is a key component of tennis performance.
Vertical jump
The vertical jump is an excellent choice to measure lower body power. Performance on this 
test is relevant to tennis as it is an indicator of the ability of the athlete to get a quick start and may also be an indicator of the athlete’s ability to generate power in the service motion.
Seated medicine ball push
This test is a measure of general upper body power.(continued)

TEST ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION265
20-yard dash
Speed in tennis is limited to short distances, and 20 yards would be the maximum a player 
would have to run all out without stopping or changing direction.
Hexagon
This test is used to measure footwork and agility.
“T” test
This test measures lateral, backward, and forward movement over a short distance, and the 
ability to transition among each form of locomotion.
5–0-5 test
This test measures changes-of-direction speed by running 10 meters to timing gates, decelerating 
through 5 meters, changing direction on one leg and accelerating back through the timing gates.
5-point agility run
This test measures the ability of the athlete to move in diagonal patterns, changing direction, 
gaining speed, decelerating, and stopping.
Underwater weighing
Measuring body composition using underwater weighing techniques is an accurate way to 
determine body composition.
Push-ups in 60 seconds
In this athlete, push-ups are a test of upper body muscular endurance. In the athlete who can 
only perform a few push-ups, it becomes a test of muscular strength.
Sit-ups in 60 seconds
Sit-ups are a general measure of core body strength and endurance. The trunk is very impor -
tant in tennis as it transfers forces from the ground to the upper extremity.
Results
Results are reported by percentile rank using a database of over 100 16-year-old male tennis 
athletes.
Maximal treadmill test with metabolic cart: 90th percentile
Bench press: 96th percentileSquat: 91st percentileVertical jump: 60th percentile
(continued)

MEGAN A. WONG ET AL.266
Seated medicine ball push: 88th percentile
20-yard dash: 88th percentileHexagon: 85th percentile“T” test: 89th percentile5-point agility run: 87th percentileUnderwater weighing: 90th percentileThese results should be reported to the athlete, the coach, and/or the parents of the player. 
The one area of athletic fitness that obviously needs the most work is lower body power. Remember when conveying results to the player to point out needed areas of improvement and prescribe appropriate exercise regimens to correct the identified deficits.
REFERENCES
 1. Abad CCC, Prado ML, Ugrinowitsch C, 
Tricoli V, Barroso R. Combination of general and specific warm-ups improves leg-press one repetition maximum compared with specific warm-up in trained individuals. J Strength 
Cond Res 2011; 25(8):2242–2245.
 2. Bar-Or O. The Wingate test: An update on 
methodology, reliability and validity. Sports Med 1987; 4:381–394.
 3. Benz A, Winkelman N, Porter J, Nimphius S.  Coaching Instructions and Cues for Enhancing Sprint Performance. Strength Cond 2016; 38(1):1–11.
 4. Bishop, D. Warm up II-performance changes following active warm up and how to structure the warm up. Sports Med 2003; 33(7):483–498.
 5. Brown LE, Weir JP. ASEP procedures recommendations for the accurate assessment of muscular strength and power. J Exerc Physiol [serial online]. 2001; 4(3):1–21. Available at: http://faculty.css.edu/tboone2/
asep/August2001JEPonline.html. Accessed 
October 16, 2003.
 6. Brown LE, Whitehurst M, Bryant JR. A comparison of the LIDO sliding cuff and the tibial control system in isokinetic strength parameters. Isokinetics and Exercise Science 1992; 2(3):101–109.
 7. Brown LE, Whitehurst M, Bryant JR. Reliability of the LIDO active isokinetic dynamometer concentric mode. Isokinetics and Exercise Science 1992; 2(4):191–194.
 8. Brown LE, Whitehurst M, Bryant JR, Buchalter DN. Reliability of the Biodex system 2 isokinetic dynamometer concentric mode. Isokinetics and Exercise Science 1993; 3(3):160–163. 9. Chapman PP, Whitehead JR, Binkert RH. The 225-lb reps-to-fatigue test as a submaximal estimate of 1-RM bench press performance in college football players. J Strength Cond Res, 1998; 12:258–261.
10.
 Chinn S, Burney PGJ. On measuring repeatability of data from self-administered questionnaires. Int J Epidemiol 1987; 16:121–127.
11.
 Conway DP, Decker AS. Utilizing a computerized strength and conditioning testing index for assessment of collegiate football players. Strength Cond 1992; 14(5):13–16.
12.
 Dolezal BA, Thompson CJ, Schroeder CA, et al. Laboratory testing to improve athletic performance. Strength Cond 1997; 19(6):20–24.
13.
 Enoka RM. Neuromechanical Basis of Kinesiology. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 1988.
14.
 Graham J. Guidelines for providing valid testing of athletes’ fitness levels. Strength Cond 1994; 16(6):7–14.
15.
 Haddad M, Dridi A, Chtara M, Chaouachi A,  
Wong DP, Behm D, Chamari K. Static stretching can impair explosive performance for at least 24 hours. J Strength Cond Res 2014; 28(1):140–146.
16.
 Halperin, I, Williams KJ, Martin DT, Chapman DW. The effects of attentional focusing instructions on force production during the isometric midthigh pull. J Strength Cond Res 2016; 30(4):919–923.
17.
 Halperin I, Chapman DW, Martin DT, Abbiss, C. The effects of attentional focus instructions on punching velocity and impact forces among trained combat athletes, J of Sports Sci 2016; 
35(5):500–507.(continued)

TEST ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION267
18. Magill RA. Motor Learning: Concepts and 
Applications, 5th edition. Madison, WI: Brown & Benchmark Publishers, 1998.
19.
 Maud PJ, Shultz BB. Norms for the Wingate Anaerobic Test with comparison to another similar test. Res Quart for Ex and Sport 1989; 60:144–151.
20.
 Mayhew JL, Ware JR, Prinster JL. Using lift repetitions to predict muscular strength in adolescent males. Strength Cond 1993; 15(6):35–38.
21.
 Patton JF, Duggan A. An evaluation of tests of anaerobic power. Aviation Space Environ Med 
1987; 58:237–242.
22.
 Plisk SS. Anaerobic metabolic conditioning: A brief review of theory, strategy and practical application. J Strength Cond Res 1991; 5(1):22–34.
23.
 Plisk SS, Gambetta V. Tactical metabolic training: Part 1. Strength Cond 1997; 19(2):44–53.
24.
 Schweigert D. Normative values for common preseason testing protocols: NCAA division II women’s basketball. Strength Cond 1996; 18(6):7–10.
25.
 Semenick D, Connors J, Carter M, et al. Rationale, protocols, testing/reporting forms and instructions for wrestling. Strength Cond 
1992; 14(3):54–59.26.
 Stockbrugger BA, Haennel RG. Validity and reliability of a medicine ball explosive power test. J Strength Cond Res 2001; 15(4):431–438.
27.
 Swank AM, Adams K, Serapiglia L, et al. Submaximal testing for the strength and conditioning professional. Strength Cond 1999; 21(6):9–15.
28.
 Taylor NAS, Sanders RH, Howick EI, Stanley SN. Static and dynamic assessment of the Biodex dynamometer. Eur J Appl Physiol 1991; 62:180–188.
29.
 Timm KE, Fyke D. The effect of test speed sequence on the concentric isokinetic performance of the knee extensor muscle group. Isok Exerc Sci 1993; 3(2):123–128.
30.
 Turki O, Chaouachi A, Behm DG, Chtara H, Chtara M, Bishop D, Chamari K, Amri M.  
The effect of warm-ups incorporating different volumes of dynamic stretching on 10- and 20-m sprint performance in highly trained male 
athletes. J Strength Cond Res  2012; 26(1):63–72.
31.
 Winkelman, N. Attentional focus and cueing 
for speed development. Strength Cond 2017; 40(1):13–25.
32.
 Wu WFW, Porter JM, Brown LE. Effect of attentional focus strategies on peak force and performance in the standing long jump. J Strength Cond Res 2012; 26(5):1226–1231.

Contents
Introduction  269
Benefits of resistance training  270
Safety  272
Resistance-training technique  274
Resistance-training exercises  276
Summary  344
References  344

11 CHAPTER
OBJECTIVES
After reading this chapter, you will be able to:
• Apply general physiological adaptations to resistance training.
• Explain the proper technique for specific free weight, machine, and trunk exercises performed 
at both slow and explosive speeds.
• Provide safe and effective spotting assistance for specific exercises.
• Understand the importance of wearing proper clothing and footwear in the weight room.
• Understand the basic components of resistance-training exercise technique.
• Identify specific exercises that can have carryover to other activities.RESISTANCE EXERCISE   
TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING
Ryan T. McManus and Andrew J. Galpin
KEY TERMS
Absolute muscular 
strength
Alternated grip
Common gripEnergy intakeFive-point contact positionHook gripHyperplasiaHypertrophyIntermuscular adaptationIntramuscular adaptationMuscle recruitmentNarrow gripNeutral gripOsteopeniaOsteoporosisOverloadOvertrainingPeriodizationPronated gripRelative muscular 
strength
SpotterSticking pointSupinated gripValsalva maneuverWide grip
INTRODUCTION
This chapter provides an explanation of the 
physiological benefits, safety, equipment, and techniques of resistance training. It also includes detailed descriptions of 25 free weight, 7 machine,  and 8 trunk exercises. These exercises are cat -
egorized into the following classes: total-body (power/explosive), multi-joint lower-body, single-joint lower-body, multi-joint upper-body, and single-joint upper-body exercises. Total-body exercises emphasize loading the 

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN270
spine directly or indirectly. Multi-joint exercises 
involve two or more joints that change angles during the movement of a repetition. Single-joint exercises involve only one joint changing its angle during the completion of a repetition. Each exercise described in this chapter is accompanied by a detailed explanation of the type of exer -
cise, muscles utilized, body and limb alignment, ascending and descending movement, safety points, and variations of exercise technique.
The benefits of resistance training are 
provided and include positive adaptations to muscles, nerves, and bones. Safety is important in resistance-training exercises, particularly considering the increased loads placed on the body during specific lifts. Spotters should be utilized in resistance training when appropri -
ate. Exercise technique is important for safe execution of each lift and to understand the musculature affected in each exercise.
BENEFITS OF  
RESISTANCE TRAINING
Muscles adapt to resistance training by 
strengthening and growing. This process, called 
hypertrophy  (4,5,10,15), involves an 
increase in the cross-sectional area of mus -
cle fibers, not the splitting of the muscle into additional muscle fibers, which is called 
hyper -
plasia . A muscle will develop more force and 
power as it increases in cross-sectional area (5). Hypertrophy has been demonstrated to occur from an increase in the thickness and number of myofibrils (4,5,10,15,16). It is believed to be the primary mechanism governing muscle growth. Many factors generally are responsi-ble for muscle hypertrophy (4,5,10,15,16):
By varying exercises, volumes, and intensities, 
safe and well-planned resistance training can have positive effects on skeletal muscle growth, neuromuscular coordination, and bone mineral density in both men and women (13).
• Overload /mechanical tension. The resist-
ance should be greater than the muscle’s 
previous ability.• Muscle recruitment . The maximal numbers 
of muscle fibers should be recruited.
• Metabolic stress . The resistance and vol -
ume should combine to cause muscular fatigue.
• Energy intake . An adequate amount of 
carbohydrate and protein should be con -
sumed.
Resistance training can enhance absolute 
and relative muscle strength (4,5,10,15,16). 
Absolute muscular strength  is the strength 
an individual can develop regardless of body weight. 
Relative muscular strength  is defined 
by absolute muscular strength divided by body weight in either kilograms or pounds. Increases in muscle and explosive strength are generally tied to inter- and intramuscu-lar adaptations and muscle hypertrophy. The term 
intermuscular adaptation  refers to the 
proper execution of technique for exercises performed at both slow and explosive speeds. As an individual acquires proper technique, less energy is required to perform the exer -
cise; therefore, the resistance utilized can be increased. 
Intramuscular adaptation  refers to 
how many motor units are recruited during the effort, how quickly they are recruited, and whether antagonistic motor units inter -
fere with the movement (4,5,10,16). By undergoing resistance training, individuals can expect an increased number of motor units to be recruited at an accelerated speed along with an increased inhibition of antag -
onistic muscle(s).
Increases in strength from resistance training 
are due to both hypertrophic and neurological adaptations.
Other benefits of resistance train -
ing include improvements in bone density, 
energy utilization, and substrate storage. The lack of weight-bearing activity with aging has often been linked to 
osteopenia  
(lowering of bone mineral mass to 1 stand -
ard deviation below young-normal levels) and 
osteoporosis  (lowering of bone mineral 
mass to more than 2.5 standard deviations 

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING271
below young-normal levels). As discussed in 
Chapter 4, bone adapts to resistance training by increasing mineralization in a particular region of the bone.
 This results in increases 
in strength and ability to handle the stress (5,13,14). This may be accomplished through exercises using loads at greater than 75% of an individual’s 3RM (the maxi -
mum weight an individual can utilize for three repetitions) that are weight-bearing in nature (multi-joint, closed-chain-kinetic exercises, such as leg presses, squats, and Romanian deadlift). If the resistance train-ing includes light to moderate loads (40% to 60% of 1RM), higher repetitions (12 to 25), and shorter rest periods (30 to 60 seconds), moderate increases of 5% in VO
2 (oxygen 
uptake) may be expected (2,5). With resist -
ance training, individuals will utilize and store energy more efficiently. This will result in the muscle’s ability to train at higher resistances and for longer periods of time. Resistance training performed with good technique through a full range of motion (ROM) can also enhance muscle flexibility and reduce the likelihood of injury (2,5).
The effects of a resistance-training program 
depend on how training variables such as repetitions, intensities, and rest periods are modified.
Although males are typically stronger than 
females, the differences in muscle strength are 
not tied to the quality of the muscle tissue or its ability to produce force or power. In these respects, no difference exists between genders. A significant difference does exist, however, in the quantity of muscle tissue in the aver -
age male (40%) versus female (23%), which is largely responsible for the male strength advantage. It is this difference that also helps to explain why women are typically 43% to 63% weaker in upper-body strength and 25% to 30% weaker in lower-body strength (2,5). Conditioning programs for male and female athletes for the same sport should be essen -
tially the same, as the physiological demands of the sport are the same.Males generally have a greater absolute strength 
than females, but males and females are similar in relative strength when cross-sectional area is equated.
Overtraining
 is characterized by a decline in 
performance over a time. This occurs when an 
individual’s body is not given enough time to recuperate from training prior to the next training session (2,4,5,10,16). Symptoms of overtraining include but are not limited to the following:
• An increase in morning resting heart rate
• An unintentional decrease in body weight
• Inability to perform in a training session at the same level of strength, power, or endur -
ance as had been achieved earlier
• An increase in muscle soreness from one training session to the next
• Extreme muscle soreness and stiffness on the day immediately following a training session
• A decrease in appetite
Once an individual becomes overtrained –  
that is, by exhibiting two or more of the warn -
ing signs listed above – the frequency, intensity, and duration of activity should be reduced until the symptoms dissipate. Obviously, it is more effective to prevent overtraining than to recover from it. Guidelines for preventing overtraining include increasing training inten -
sity and duration gradually (< 5%), following sound nutritional guidelines, and devoting ade -
quate time to sleep and recovery. The risk of overtraining may be increased in training the multisport athlete (see the case study further on). Additionally, utilization of 
periodization  
when designing resistance-training programs is essential for both avoiding overtraining and maximizing benefits. Periodization is the planned variation of training variables (vol -
ume, intensity, choice, rest intervals, etc.) to achieve peak levels of performance and/or fit -
ness at a designated time (5,6).
Proper planning using a periodized resistance- 
training program will help prevent overtraining and maximize results.

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN272
REAL-WORLD APPL iCATiON
Training male and female athletes for the same sport
You are asked to evaluate the conditioning program for both the boys and girls on your high 
school’s basketball teams. You are asked to make recommendations to the coaches as to changes that they could consider.
Observed: After observing the training program you note the girls’ team uses only body-
weight exercises while the boys’ team is using only machines.
Recommendations: The boys’ and girls’ teams should not be using separate programs, 
since they are training for the same sport. It is recommended that both teams use free weight exercises that focus on lower-body strength and power. Areas of muscular weakness or imbal-ance should be identified and targeted with specific assistance training.
SAFETY
Training equipment and facilities can provide 
a safe environment for exercise as long as basic safety guidelines are utilized.
Spotting
Probably the most critical aspect of safe train -
ing (once the facility and equipment utilized have been inspected) is the use of a spotter(s), particularly with free weight exercises. A 
spot-
ter is a knowledgeable individual who assists in 
the proper execution of an exercise (2,5,6). His or her responsibility is to ensure the exerciser completes all repetitions with good technique, assist the exerciser with completion of a repeti -
tion when needed (or to help complete forced repetitions), and summon help when necessary (2,5,6). This responsibility should be taken very seriously, as failure to do so may result in serious injury not only to the exerciser, but to the spotter as well. Since the following maneu -
vers are the most potentially harmful to the athlete, exercises involving free weights either over the head (standing barbell press), with the barbell resting on the back (barbell lunge or back squat), racked at the front of the upper shoulders (barbell front squat), or over the face (barbell bench press or supine triceps exten -
sion) necessitate the use of one or more skilled spotters. Power exercises, as well as any exer -
cise involving raising the barbell or dumbbell to the side or front of the body below shoulder level generally do not require a spotter.Spotting must be taken seriously to ensure safe 
lifting practices are taking place. The focus of the spotter must be solely on the lifter throughout the entire exercise. Communication between the lifter and the spotter is essential. For example, the 
spotter must know the intensions of the lifter  
(i.e., repetition goals and when to provide aid).
Barbells should always be loaded evenly on both 
sides and the weights secured with collars.
Exercises performed overhead and with the 
barbell on the front or back of the shoulders 
should be performed inside a power rack with the safety bars placed at an appropriate height. Individuals who are not spotting or performing the exercise should remain at a safe distance. Because the loads utilized in these exercises can be substantial, spotters should ideally be nearly as strong and as tall as the exerciser. All additional barbells, collars, plates, weight trees, and other equipment should be outside the immediate exer -
cise area. Collars should be utilized regardless of the load to prevent weight plates from sliding off the barbell. For maximum safety, three spotters (one directly behind the exerciser and one on each side of the barbell) should be present. All three should assist with removing the load from the rack as well as returning the load to the rack on completion of the repetitions. When multiple spotters are being used, a lead spotter should be designated. It is this person’s job to direct the other spotters and make the call on when assis-tance should be given to the exerciser.

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING273
Q&A FROM THE F iELD
Y ou notice that a particular exerciser 
in your program looks fatigued. What 
questions might you ask him? What possible 
causes of the fatigue should you consider?
How much sleep he is getting? What are his 
eating habits? Is he getting enough recovery between training sessions? Is there enough variety in his exercises? Y ou should consider overtraining, 
disease, psychological problems, and normal 
emotional stresses as possible causes.
For exercises performed over the face, the 
spotter should hold the barbell with an alter -
nated grip inside the exerciser’s grip to ensure 
the barbell does not leave the exerciser’s hands and land on the exerciser’s face, neck, or chest. In the case of an exercise where the athlete’s grip is narrow, the spotter may grasp the barbell immediately outside the exerciser’s grip. Spotters should be conscious of body alignment (flat back, feet shoulder-width apart in a solid base, and a bent-knee position), as they may be called on quickly to help the exerciser by catching the barbell or by helping to lift the load. Dumbbell exercises may pose a different challenge to the spotter as they require more skill to assist. For the safety of the exerciser, it is important for spotters to spot by standing as close to the dumbbells as possible and spotting near the wrists so that the spotter can quickly support the exerciser if his or her elbows collapse, preventing the dumbbells from falling inward toward the exerciser’s chest or face. For exercises in which one dumbbell is used, such as seated overhead triceps extension or supine dumbbell pull-over, it is important to spot with the hands directly on or slightly below the dumbbell.
In selecting the number of spotters for a 
given exercise, an exerciser should consider the load being lifted, the physical strength and height of the spotters, and the experience level of both the exerciser and spotters. The heavier the load, the greater the risk for injury and the sever -
ity of injury to both the exerciser and the spotter should the exerciser fail to complete a repetition and an inadequate spot be provided. For most exercises that involve overhead lifting with a barbell, a barbell on the back or shoulders with heavier loads, and over-the-face exercises with heavier loads, a lead spotter should be placed immediately behind the lifter to direct the other spotters placed on each side of the barbell. As the number of spotters increases, so does the poten -
tial for errors in timing. Prior to the first lift, the exerciser should tell the spotter(s) how the barbell will be lifted from the rack, how many repetitions will be performed, and how the bar -
bell will be returned to the rack. This ensures the exercise can be performed safely and the spotters do not disrupt the exercise.
Exercises that require explosive power 
should not utilize a spotter. Spotting these exercisers places both the exerciser and the spotter at increased risk for injury. Exercisers performing these explosive lifts should be taught the proper technique for missing a lift. To miss a lift when the barbell is in front of the body, the proper technique is to push the barbell forward and release it as the lifter moves backward. To miss a lift with the barbell behind the body, the lifter should release the barbell and jump forward. For the safety of not only the exerciser but also other exercisers in the surrounding area, power exercises should be performed on a segregated power platform clear of other exercisers and equipment (5).
Exercise apparel
Proper clothing when exercising with resist -
ance equipment is critical for two major reasons: safety and etiquette. It is important to wear a workout shirt that covers the chest, upper back, and shoulders to avoid losing control of a barbell on exercises where the barbell rests on the upper shoulders (e.g., bar -
bell back squats). Without a shirt that covers those areas, a barbell may slip off the body, putting the exerciser, spotters, and other exer -
cisers nearby at risk for injury. Covering the upper body with a T-shirt is also important on exercises that require the exerciser to lie prone or supine on a bench. Not doing so is poor etiquette and may also cause damage to the 
equipment’s upholstery.
Footwear is also important in resistance 
training. Closed-toe training shoes that pro-
vide a solid, stable base should be used at all times. The proper shoes will ensure that the exerciser has a stable lifting base, which is 

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN274
critical for all explosive lower-body, squat -
ting, overhead lift, or lifting from the floor 
exercises. Closed-toe shoes also provide some protection against dropped plates, barbells, and dumbbells. Sandals and bare feet should not be permitted in the resistance-training area for reasons of safety and hygiene.
Clothing provides a layer of protection from 
exercise equipment and provides friction between the lifter and the bar. For example, the bar does 
not slide off the back during a squat as easily while clothed as it would on a bare back. Shoes protect 
the feet from foreign objects lining the floor and provide a stable base, encouraging proper lifting technique.
Safety is extremely important in a resistance-
training program, and proper precautions should 
be taken at all times.
RESISTANCE-TRAINING 
TECHNIQUE
Every resistance-training exercise provides 
its own unique benefits and challenges. Understanding the similarities and differences between exercises is essential for the proper design of a resistance-training prescription. The proper execution of a resistance-training exercise has eight basic components:
1
 Objective for exercise selection
2 Equipment alignment
3 Body alignment
4 Stabilization of body
5 Movement of body during exercise
6 Speed of movement
7 Breathing
8 Initiation and return of exercise equipment
In selecting an exercise, it is essential to 
ensure the exercise matches the objective of the 
program. For example, exercisers often per -
form numerous sets of chest exercises while not 
balancing them with an appropriate number of upper back exercises, or failing to perform leg exercises. Spot enhancement or reduction of a given section of the body is not achiev -
able (1,5,10). It is important for exercisers  to recognize the importance of balance in a resistance-training exercise prescription. You are only as good as your weakest link.
As a general rule, select equal amounts of 
exercises that work opposing muscle groups. This reduces the likelihood of asymmetrically stressing joints, which can lead to injury of muscles, joints, and cartilage over time.
Equipment alignment means setting the 
equipment up properly so the exercise can be performed safely and with maximum ben -
efit. The proper resistance should be set on a machine exercise, the barbell should have equal resistance on each side, or dumbbells of identical resistance should be selected. Collars should be placed securely on each side of the barbell to make sure weights do not slide or fall off the barbell, causing the barbell to tip. Hooks for barbell exercises in which the bar -
bell is placed on the shoulder should be set 3 to 4 in. below shoulder level so the exerciser can drop under the barbell to remove it from the rack to initiate the set and then return it to the rack above the hooks before sliding it back down on the hooks at the completion of the set. Safety bars on the power rack should be set slightly below the end ROM on squat or power exercises performed within the rack. Cams, seats, and arm and leg lengths on machines should be adjusted to the exerciser’s optimal safe ROM.
In positioning the body during resist-
ance training, the axial skeleton and its immediate attachments are of the highest pri-ority (1,5,10). This means particular attention should continuously be paid to the positioning of the pelvis, spinal column, and shoulder gir -
dle before and during any resistance-training  
exercise. The spinal column is in its most stable and therefore strongest position when it, the pelvis, and the neck are all in neutral positions with a slight thoracic kyphosis and lumbar lordosis. To place the torso in an ideal resistance-training position, the athlete should pull the shoulder blades back slightly and down, lift the sternum slightly out and up, and 
pull the chin slightly back and down, creating 
or maintaining the natural arch in the thoracic and lumbar regions of the spine (1,5,10). Be careful to not over arch, or hyperextend the lumbar spine. Positioning of the hands is also important. The two primary handgrip posi-tions are the 
pronated grip  (palms down and 

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING275
knuckles up) and supinated grip  (palms up 
and knuckles down). A variation of either 
grip is the neutral grip  (knuckles point later -
ally). Other grips include the alternated grip  
(one hand supinated and the other pronated). In performing exercises that require a stronger grip (Olympic-style lifts), a 
hook grip  (wrap-
ping the index and middle fingers around the thumb, which is placed against the bar first), designed to add at least 10% to any pulling motion, is used (5). Along with the handgrip, 
grip width must be considered. The three grip 
widths are a 
common grip  (shoulder width), 
a wide grip  (outside of shoulder width), and  
narrow  grip (inside shoulder width).
Before performing any exercise, it is important 
to know the correct grip choice and grip width. The proper grip to use can be determined by the choice of exercise, load, and/or target musculature.
Regardless of whether the exercise is 
performed utilizing a barbell, dumbbell, or 
machine, stabilization of the body is criti -
cal (9,11,12). A stable position enables an exerciser to maintain proper body alignment during an exercise, which in turn ensures that the appropriate stress is placed on the intended muscles and joints. Exercises that call for a standing position require the feet to be positioned shoulder-width, with all parts of the feet securely in contact with the floor. Whether the exerciser is seated, prone (lying face down), or supine (lying face up), his or her head, shoulders (front or back), chest or upper back, lower back, and buttocks or pel -
vis should be in contact with the bench or machine. The feet must remain in contact with the floor unless the height of the machine does not permit or require the feet to be in contact with the floor or the exercise is a lower-body open-chain exercise. When the head, back, pelvis, and both feet are in contact with the bench and floor, it is known as the 
five-point 
contact position .
The movement of the body differs during 
different exercises. Although exercises gener -
ally have a maximum ROM, the ideal ROM depends on variations in the exerciser’s mus-culoskeletal, neurological, and biomechanical systems, and purpose of the exercise selection. Modern exercise machines are often designed with a range of controls for both the eccentric and concentric muscle actions. Additionally, power racks allow the exerciser to control ROM in barbell exercises.
Speed of motion with exercises depends on 
the type of exercise being performed. Exercises should always be performed in a controlled manner. Explosive power exercises are intended to maximize movement speed. Other exercises are generally performed more slowly with an 
emphasis on ROM, technique, and movement 
quality. The eccentric muscle action of these exercises should generally be performed over a 2- to 4-second period, with a 1-second hold at completion before initiating the concentric movement. The concentric movement is gen-erally performed over a 1- to 3-second period with a 1-second hold at the completion before initiating the eccentric muscle action. If move -
ment speed is increased, do not compromise exercise technique, body alignment, stability, or general movement quality.
Exercisers should breathe at some point 
during every repetition. The most strenu -
ous portion of a repetition, typically where the lifter is most likely to fail, is referred to as the 
sticking point  (5). This is the point in 
the ROM of any joint where the mechanical advantage of the lever system is the lowest. The exact angle of the sticking point will depend on the mechanical properties of a spe -
cific joint. A general rule is for exercisers to inhale before initiating an exercise or at the less stressful phase of the repetition and to exhale after passing the sticking point. The use of the 
Valsalva maneuver  (expiring against 
a closed glottis, which when combined with contracting the abdomen and rib cage mus -
cles, creates rigid compartments of fluid in the lower torso and partially braces the spine) may be necessary to maintain proper verte-bral alignment and support (6,9,10,11,12). Emphasis should be placed on firstly filling the abdomen (not the thoracic chest) with air. This bracing should be accomplished prior to 
starting the movement or placing the load on 
the body. However, implement with caution as movements exceeding 2 to 4 seconds may cause dizziness, lightheadedness, or in extreme 
cases, blackouts.
As a final aspect of resistance-training tech -
nique, it is very important exercisers properly 

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN276
lift the resistance to initiate a set and return the 
resistance to its starting position at the com -
pletion of a set. At least one spotter should be assisting when using a barbell with a power rack or bench to perform exercises that require loading of the vertebral column or overhead or over-the-face exercises. For the safety of the exerciser and others in the immediate area as well as for equipment maintenance, exercise should be initiated with the resistance being lifted from its resting position and returned to 
its starting position slowly.
RESISTANCE-TRAINING 
EXERCISES
Power exercises (1,5,6,7)
Power clean
High pullPush jerkKettlebell swingMedicine ball slamTRX sprinter’s start
Hip/thigh exercises (1,3,5,6)
Back squatFront squatDeadliftBarbell split squatTRX rear foot elevated split squat (RFESS)Romanian deadlift (RDL)Single-leg Romanian deadlift (single-leg RDL)Leg pressLeg extensionLeg curlStanding calf raiseChest exercises (1,5,14)
Bench press, dumbbellBench press, barbellIncline press, barbellDumbbell fly
Upper back exercises (1,5,14)
Dumbbell one-arm rowLat pull-downSeated cable row
Shoulder exercises (1,5,14)
Dumbbell seated shoulder pressMachine shoulder pressBarbell upright row
Triceps exercises (1,5,14)
Supine triceps extensionTriceps pushdown
Biceps exercises (1,5,14)
Barbell bicep curlSeated dumbbell bicep curl
Abdominal and lower back 
exercises (1,4,5,8)
Abdominal crunch
Back extensionStability ball jack knifeStability ball roll-outProne plankSide plankPaloff pressHollow position
Box 11.1  P ower exercises
Power clean
Type of exercise
Total body/power (explosive) exercise
Muscles used
Gluteals, hamstrings, quadriceps, soleus, gastrocnemius, trapezius, and deltoids

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING277
Starting position (A)
 1 Appr oach the barbell on the floor and take an approximately shoulder-width overhand grip on the bar.
 2 K eep the arms straight, the wrists slightly flexed, and the elbows locked and rotated outward.
 3 Stand with f eet hip-width apart.
 4 Pull the shoulders back and do wn, elevate the chest, keep the eyes looking forward.
 5 Squat do wn, while keeping the shoulders in front of the barbell and the weight on the forward 
half of the feet.
First pull (B)
(continued)(A)
(B)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN278
 6 K eep the back flat and the arms straight, extend the hips and knees to lift the barbell off the 
ground to mid-thigh. Avoid jerking the bar, rounding the back, or locking out the knees when 
moving the barbell from below knee height to mid-thigh height.
 7 Look straight and raise the shoulders and hips at the same speed.
Second pull (C)
 8 K eeping the arms straight and the wrists slightly flexed, explosively extend the hips, rise up on 
the toes, and elevate the shoulders, moving the bar vertically and not away from the body.
 9 Contin ue looking straight ahead as you elevate the barbell as high as possible, to chest level, 
without using the muscles in the arms.
Receiving position (D)
10 When the bar has r eached its maximum height, drop under it into a quarter squat, lifting the 
elbows up and under the bar. If this is done properly, the bar is received on the front of the shoulders at the same time that you reach quarter squat. The shoulders should not slump forward.(continued)
(C)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING279
Ending position
11 K eeping the elbows high and the chest elevated, stand straight up.
High pull
Type of exercise
Total-body/power (explosive) exercise
Muscles used
Gluteals, hamstrings, quadriceps, soleus, gastrocnemius, trapezius, and deltoids
Starting position (A)
 1 Appr oach the barbell on the floor and take an approximately shoulder-width, pronated grip on 
the bar.
 2 K eep the arms straight, the wrists slightly flexed, and the elbows locked and rotated outward.
 3 Stand with the f eet hip-width apart.
(continued)(D)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN280
(continued)
 4 Pull the shoulders back,  elevate the chest, 
and keep the eyes looking forward.
 5 Squat down, while keeping the shoulders 
in front of the barbell and the weight on 
the forward half of the feet.
First pull (B)
 6 K eeping the back flat and the arms straight, 
extend the hips and knees to lift the bar -
bell off the ground to the mid-thigh in a slow and controlled manner. Avoid jerking the bar off the ground, which will cause the back to round. Avoid locking out the knees when moving the barbell from below knee height to mid-thigh height.
 7 Look straight ahead and raise the shoul -
ders and hips at the same speed.
Second pull (C)
 8 K eeping the arms straight and the wrists 
slightly flexed with the bar at mid-thigh 
(A) (B)
(C)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING281
level, violently extend the hips, rise up on the toes, and elevate the shoulders explosively, 
keeping the bar close to the body.
 9 Contin ue looking straight ahead as you elevate the barbell to about chest level, without using 
the muscles of the arms.
Ending position
10 When the bar has r eached its maximum height, around the level of the chest, let the bar 
return to a resting position on the thighs.
11 Once the bar is on the thighs r eturn it to the floor by squatting down with the back flat and 
the spine in neutral position.
Push jerk
Type of exercise
Total-body/power (explosive) exercise
Muscles used
Gluteals, hamstrings, quadriceps, soleus, gastrocnemius, trapezius, and deltoids
Starting position (A)
(continued)(A)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN282
1 Begin b y standing straight with the feet hip-width apart and the bar on the front of the shoulders.
2 T ake a shoulder-width grip on the bar, with the palms facing upward.
3 Ele vate the chest, pull the shoulders back, and tuck the chin.
The dip
4 K eeping the weight on the heels, the barbell on the shoulders, and the chest up, quickly move 
into a quarter squat by pushing the hips back and flexing the knees.
The drive
5 Without pausing at the bottom of the squat, explosively reverse directions, driving straight 
up with the legs until rising up onto the toes. The act of driving up will force the bar up off 
the shoulders.
Ending position (B)(continued)
(B)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING283
6 When the bar has r eached its greatest height from the drive, continue to press it until the 
arms are extended and the barbell is in line with the hips (slightly behind the head).
Safety: technique on how to miss
If the lifter loses control of the barbell or cannot complete a rep for any reason, he or she should quickly 
get out from underneath and let it drop (without trying to save it on the way down). Use the barbell’s downward momentum to move out of the way (the lifter is told to “keep your grip and push yourself away from the barbell as it falls”). Stay between the plates (this does not mean that the lifter should 
remain under a falling barbell but rather should move backward or forward, not sideways, to escape).
Kettlebell swing
Type of exercise
Total body/power (explosive) exercise
Muscles used
Gluteals, quadriceps, hamstrings, rectus abdominis, erector spinae, lattisimus dorsi, and deltoids
Starting position (A–D)
(continued)(A)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN284
(B)
(D)
(C)(continued)
 1 Stand o ver the kettlebell with feet flat, 
shoulder-width apart, toes facing forward, 
chest up, shoulders back.
 2 With a neutral spine , squat down and grab 
the kettlebell with both hands, with a firm, closed, pronated grip.
 3 Grip the k ettlebell and stand up maintain -
ing a neutral spine, keeping the elbows fully extended with the shoulders back engaging the torso muscles.
 4 Shift the body w eight slightly towards the 
heels and soften the knees and hips to a quarter squat position with the kettlebell hanging between the thighs, ready to swing.
Action (E–H)
 5 Flex at the hips to allo w the kettlebell to 
swing backwards between the legs. Keep the knees in the same starting flexed position with the back neutral and arms extended.

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING285
(E)
(G)
(F)
(H)
(continued)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN286
 6 Allo w the kettlebell to swing backward until the torso is nearly parallel to the floor. The kettlebell 
should be past the vertical line of the body.
 7 Push thr ough the heels, engage the gluteal muscles, and extend the hips and knees to swing 
the kettlebell upward. Allow momentum to swing the kettlebell up to eye height keeping the 
arms extended. At the top of the movement, engage the torso muscles.
 8 Let the weight descend passively (while still maintaining control of the kettlebell) and flex at 
the hips and knees to absorb the weight.
 9 Pr epare the body for the next swing by shifting weight back towards the heels while bending at 
the hips, loading the hamstrings and glutes.
10 Allo w the kettlebell to swing back between the legs and continue.
11 Driv e through the heels, gluteals, and hips as the kettlebell swings backward to forward.
Medicine ball slam
Type of exercise
Total-body/power (explosive) exercise
Muscles used
Gluteals, hamstrings, quadriceps, soleus, gastrocnemius, rectus abdominus, and deltoids
Starting position
1 Stand with feet slightly wider than shoulder-width apart holding a medicine ball with both 
hands directly in front of the chest; palms facing each other, and elbows bent pointing 
toward the floor.
The action
2 Lift the medicine ball above the head, fully extending the body, while standing on the forefoot.
3 Re verse the motion, slamming the ball onto the ground as hard as possible.
Ending position
4 Catch the ball with both hands on the bounce .
5 Return to the standing position.
Suspension sprinter’s start
Type of exercise
Lower-body/power (explosive) exercise
Muscles used
Gluteals, hamstrings, quadriceps, soleus, and gastrocnemius(continued)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING287
Starting position (A)
1 Begin b y standing facing away from the suspension trainer with a neutral grip on the handles.
2 The arms are positioned over the straps and bent at the elbows with hands tucked close to 
the body.
3 Stagger the f eet, one stride length in front of the other, approximately hip-width apart.
The action (B)
4 Slightl y flex the ankles, knees, and hips.
5 Ra pidly extend the ankle, knee, and hip of the forward leg while forcefully driving the rear 
knee upward while flexing the ankle and hip of the rear foot, and maintaining a neutral spine.
Ending position
6 Land on flat feet with slight flexion of the ankles, knees and hips while returning to the starting 
position. Complete the desired number of repetitions, and then switch foot position.
(B)
To choose appropriate exercises,  
the lifter or coach must understand how to select the proper exercises. Selection of exercises, proper alignment, movement, and speed of movement are all components of resistance training.(A)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN288
Box 11.2  Hip/thigh e xercises
Back squat
Type of exercise
Lower-body/multi-joint
Muscles used
Gluteals, quadriceps, and hamstrings
Starting position (A)
1 P osition the rack so that the bar is approximately at shoulder height.
2 Step under the bar to place it on the upper por tion of the back and shoulders. The bar should 
not rest on your vertebrae.
3 Grip the bar at a comf ortable position, about a thumb’s length from the knurling (the rough 
part of the bar) or slightly wider than shoulder-width.
4 Lift the bar off the rack b y extending the hips and knees, then step back, placing legs about 
shoulder-width apart and toes pointed slightly outward.
Action (B)
(B) (A)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING289
5 Brace the spine and pelvis while gripping the floor with y our feet before initiating a backward 
movement with the hips.
6 Allo w the body to descend by flexing at the hips and knees. Keep knees in a path that aligns 
with the toes.
7 As the body descends,  maintain an upright torso and a neutral spine.
8 Depending on the desir ed ROM, descend until the thigh and calf contact each other, the spine 
loses neutrality, or the tops of the thighs are parallel to the ground.
9 Return to star ting position using the same path used for the downward movement.
Only squat as deep as can be performed with proper form (spine neutral, knees tracking toes, feet 
completely in contact with the ground and facing forward).
Avoid excessive forward lean of the torso.
Spotter (C, D)
(C)
(continued)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN290
1 Ask the lifter if the y would like to be spotted from the bar, chest, or arms.
2 Load the bar e venly and use collars to secure the weight.
3 Ask the lifter ho w many reps they are intending to complete.
4 Step behind the lifter while the bar is still placed in the rack.
5 As the lifter steps back fr om the rack, position the arms in ready position, under the lifter’s 
arm pits. Move as close to the individual as possible without touching them or disrupting the 
movement.
6 Squat do wn in unison with the lifter so support may be provided throughout the entire move -
ment if needed.
7 Help the lifter back into the rack when the set is completed or when the y need assistance.
Q&A FROM THE F iELD
In observing an exerciser in the squat, you note that she has too much forward trunk lean 
during the descent. Additionally, you notice that she has her heels on blocks of wood to 
raise them off the floor. What advice would you consider for this lifter?
This lifter should lower the bar position and focus on keeping her chest up during the lift. She should 
also work on gastrocnemius ROM so as to allow the heels to be flat during the lift.(continued)
(D)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING291
Front squat
Type of exercise
Lower-body/multi-joint
Muscles used
Gluteals, quadriceps, and hamstrings
Starting position (A)
1 P osition the rack so that the bar is approximately at shoulder height.
2 Grip the bar a pproximately a thumb’s length from the knurling (or slightly wider than shoulder-
width), and rotate elbows upward from underneath the bar. Using your fingers to help stabilize, 
allow the bar to rest across the top of the shoulders and clavicle. Fully flex the elbows to  
position the upper arms parallel to the ground.
3 Lift the bar off the rack by flexing the hips and knees, then step back, placing legs about 
shoulder-width apart and toes pointed slightly outward.
(continued)(A)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN292
Action (B)(continued)
(B)
4 Brace the spine and pelvis while gripping the floor with y our feet and keeping the elbows high 
before initiating a backward movement with the hips.
5 Allo w the body to descend by flexing at the hips and knees. Keep knees in a path that aligns 
with the toes.
6 As the body descends k eep an upright torso, neutral spine, and elbows high.
7 Depending on the desir ed ROM, descend until the thigh and calf contact each other, the spine 
loses neutrality, or the tops of the thighs are parallel to the ground.
8 Return to star ting position using the same path used for the downward movement.
Only squat as deep as can be performed with proper form (spine neutral, knees tracking toes, feet 
completely in contact with the ground and facing forward).
Avoid excessive forward lean of the torso. The torso should remain in a more upright position 
compared to the back squat.
This variation of the squat typically elicits higher quadriceps activation compared to the back squat.

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING293
Spotter (C, D)
(C)
(D)
(continued)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN294
1 Ask the lifter if the y would like to be spotted from the bar, chest, or arms.
2 Load the bar e venly and use collars to secure the weight.
3 Ask the lifter ho w many reps they are intending to complete.
4 Step behind the lifter while the bar is still placed in the rack.
5 As the lifter steps back fr om the rack, position the arms in ready position, under the lifter’s arm pits. 
Move as close to the individual as possible without touching them or disrupting the movement.
6 Squat do wn in unison with the lifter so support may be provided throughout the entire move -
ment if needed.
7 Help the lifter back into the rack when the set is completed or when the y need assistance.
Deadlift
Type of exercise
Lower-body/multi-joint
Muscles used
Gluteals, erector spinae, hamstrings, quadriceps, trapezius, rhomboids, deltoids, and finger flexors.
Starting position (A)(continued)
(A) (B)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING295
1 Star t with the bar on the floor and position the feet under the bar so that the bar is over the laces 
of the shoe and toes pointed forward. The legs should be about hip-width to shoulder-width apart.
2 Hinge hips backward, lean torso forward over the bar, and flex at the knees to get into the proper 
starting position. The shoulders should be over or slightly in front of the bar. Be sure to maintain 
a neutral spine by depressing and retracting the shoulder blades and keeping the chest up.
3 Grip the bar about a thumb’ s length from knurling and extend the arms at the elbows.
Action (B)
4 K eeping the feet flat on the floor and weight distributed slightly toward the heels, brace the 
spine and pelvis before beginning to pull the bar off the ground.
5 Raise the bar b y bringing the hips forward and extending at the knees. Focus on pushing 
through the ground with the legs and do not allow the hips to rise before the shoulders. Keep the bar close to the body, arms straight, and spine in a neutral position.
6 The shoulders should r emain over or slightly ahead of the bar until the bar reaches the knees. 
Continue the movement until the knees and hips are fully extended.
7 Return to star ting position using the same path used for the downward movement. Keep the 
spine in a neutral position.
If the individual is not strong enough to lift standard plates, bumper plates or blocks can be 
used to maintain the ideal starting position.
A “snatch grip” or “wide grip” can be used.
Compound, multi-joint exercises can be broken down into simple, single-joint movements. For 
example, dead lifts and front squats can benefit the power clean. Different exercises can also activate the same muscle groups as other exercises, providing a large carryover between them. Dumbbell flies and the incline bench press activate the same muscles that are being used during the barbell bench press, thereby assisting the bench press.
Barbell split squat
Type of exercise
Lower-body/multi-joint
Muscles used
Gluteals, iliopsoas, quadriceps, hamstrings, soleus, and gastrocnemius
Starting position (A)
 1 P osition the rack so that the bar is approximately at shoulder height.
 2 Step under the bar to place it on the upper por tion of the back and shoulders.
 3 Grip the bar at a comf ortable position, about a thumb’s length from the knurling or slightly 
wider than shoulder-width.
 4 Lift the bar off the rack b y extending the hips and knees, then step back. Create a “split 
stance” by placing one leg in front of the torso and the other behind the torso. Keep legs 
about hip-width apart.
(continued)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN296
Action (B)
 5 Brace the spine and pelvis while k eeping the front foot flat on the floor and the torso in an 
upright position, allow the body to descend by initiating movement through knee flexion of 
the rear leg.
 6 Descend the body straight do wn and resist “lunging” forward with the hips. The front leg 
should be allowed to flex at the knee as the body descends.
 7 As the body descends k eep an upright torso and neutral spine.
 8 Descend until the back knee is just abo ve the ground.
 9 Return to star ting position using the same path used for the downward movement.
10 P erform the desired number of reps, switch the front and rear leg, and repeat.
Avoid excessive forward lean of the torso.
The same exercise can be performed holding dumbbells at the sides in order to limit spinal 
loading, or with the bar in the “front rack position” to increase activation of the quadriceps.
Spotter
1 Ask the lifter if the y would like to be spotted from the bar, chest, or arms.
2 Load the bar e venly and use collars to secure the weight.
3 Ask the lifter ho w many reps they are intending to complete.
4 Step behind the lifter while the bar is still placed in the rack.
5 As the lifter steps back fr om the rack, position the arms in ready position, under the lifter’s 
arm pits. Move as close to the individual as possible without touching them or disrupting the 
movement.(continued)
(B) (A)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING297
6 P osition the body in the same “split position as the lifter.”
7 Squat do wn in unison with the lifter so support may be provided throughout the entire move -
ment if needed.
8 Help the lifter back into the rack when the set is completed or when the y need assistance.
Variation (split squats with dumbbells)
If balancing a barbell is too difficult for the lifter, dumbbells held at the sides may be substituted 
as an alternative.
Suspension rear foot elevated split squat (RFESS)
Type of exercise
Lower-body/multi-joint
Muscles used
Gluteals, iliopsoas, quadriceps, and hamstrings
Starting position (A)
(continued)
(B) (A)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN298
1 Adjust the suspension trainer so the handles ar e about mid-shin height.
2 Place one f oot in the lower loop of the suspension trainer. Position the foot so the loop is 
around the laces of the shoe and the heel is resting on the hard handle.
3 Step out with the other f oot into a “split” position.
Action (B)
4 Maintain a neutral spine and lo wer the body straight down by pushing the rear hip back and 
flexing the front leg at the knee joint.
5 Descend until the top of the thigh is parallel to the gr ound and the knee is over the toe. Allow 
the elevated leg to swing back.
6 Return to star ting position using the same path for the downward movement.
7 P erform the desired number of reps, switch the front and rear leg, and repeat. This movement 
can be increased in intensity by holding a kettlebell at the chest to add resistance.
Romanian deadlift (RDL)
Type of exercise
Lower-body/single-joint
Muscles used
Gluteals, erector spinae, and hamstrings
Starting position (A)(continued)
(A)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING299
1 P osition the rack so that the bar is slightly above knee height.
2 Grip the bar a pproximately a thumb’s length from knurling or slightly wider than shoulder-
width. Extend the arms at the elbows. Extend the hips and knees to lift the bar off the rack 
and step back.
3 P osition feet about shoulder-width apart with knees slightly bent.
Action (B)
(B)
4 Brace the spine and pelvis while gripping the floor with y our feet before hinging at the hips 
(flex and push the hips backwards) to decrease the angle between the torso and thigh. Be sure to maintain a neutral spine.
5 Lo wer the bar until it is in line with the patella tendon or slightly below the knee.
6 Return to star ting position by extending the hips and using the same path used for the 
downward movement. The knees should remain static and keep the same amount of flexion throughout the entirety of the movement.
Avoid flexion through the spine and rounding of the back.
The same exercise can be performed holding dumbbells in front of the body in order to limit 
spinal loading.
(continued)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN300
Variation
This movement may also be performed with a pair of dumbbells of equal weight or specially des -
ignated plate-loaded equipment.
Single-leg Romanian deadlift (single-leg RDL)
Type of exercise
Lower-body/single-joint
Muscles used
Gluteals, erector spinae, and hamstrings
Starting position
1 P osition the rack so that the bar is slightly above knee height.
2 Grip the bar a pproximately a thumb’s length from knurling or slightly wider than shoulder-
width. Extend the arms at the elbows, lift the bar off the rack by extending the hips and knees, 
then step back.
3 P osition feet about hip-width apart with knees slightly bent.
Action
4 Brace the spine and pelvis while gripping the floor with y our feet.
5 Sim ultaneously, allow one leg to rise off the floor, extending behind the body. Be sure to main -
tain a neutral spine and keep hips parallel with the floor.
6 Lo wer the bar until it is in line with the patella or slightly below the knee, with the chest paral -
lel to the floor.
7 Return to star ting position by extending the hips and using the same path used for the down -
ward movement.
Avoid flexion through the spine and rounding of the back.
Only allow the torso to fall as far as the back leg can rise. The body should act like a teeter-
totter with the planted leg serving as the fulcrum.
The same exercise can be performed holding a dumbbell in contralateral arm of the planted leg 
to increase activation of gluteus medius.
Leg press
Type of exercise
Lower-body/multi-joint
Muscles used
Gluteals, quadriceps, and hamstrings(continued)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING301
Machine setup (A)
1 Adjust the star ting position so that the knees are bent to approximately 90° when placed 
upon the foot plate.
2 P osition the feet on the foot plate approximately hip-width apart with the toes slightly pointed 
out.
3 Choose the a ppropriate resistance on the weight stack.
Action (B, C)
4 Push the foot plate away from the body by extending the hips and knees until fully 
extended.
5 Return to the star t position in a controlled manner.
(continued)(A)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN302
(B)
(C)(continued)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING303
Leg extension
Type of exercise
Lower-body/single-joint
Muscles used
Quadriceps
Machine setup (A, B)
1 P osition the back pad so that the knee joints align with the machine’s axis of rotation.
2 Adjust the star ting position so that the leg pad rests on, or directly above, the shins while the 
knees are bent to 90°.
3 Adjust the leg pad so it r ests in a comfortable position just above the ankles.
4 Select the a ppropriate resistance on the weight stack.
5 Sit straight up with the back firml y against the back rest and head in a neutral position; grasp 
the handles at the side.
Action (C–E)
6 Extend the knees in a smooth and contr olled manner until they reach full extension.
7 Return to the star t position in a controlled manner.
(B)
(continued)(A)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN304
(C)
(D)
 (E)(continued)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING305
Leg curl
Type of exercise
Lower-body/single-joint
Muscles used
Hamstrings
Machine setup (A)
1 P osition the back pad so that the knee joints align with the machine’s axis of rotation.
2 Adjust the leg pad so it is positioned just under the ankles while the knees ar e extended.
3 Select the a ppropriate resistance on the weight stack.
4 Sit straight up with the back firml y against the backrest and head in a neutral position; grasp 
the handles at the side.
(continued)(A)
(A)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN306
Action (B)
(B)
5 Flex the knees in a contr olled motion to move the pad until the heels are fully flexed.
6 Return to the star t position in a controlled manner.
Standing calf raise
Type of exercise
Lower-body/single-joint
Muscles used
Gastrocnemius and soleus
Starting position
1 P osition the rack so that the bar is approximately at shoulder height.
2 Step under the bar to place it on the upper por tion of the back and shoulders.(continued)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING307
3 Grip the bar at a comf ortable position, about a thumb’s length from the knurling or slightly 
wider than shoulder-width.
4 Lift the bar off the rack and step back,  placing legs about hip-width apart.
Action
5 Ele vate the body by extending the ankles and allowing the heels to come off the ground.
6 Full y extend the ankles, while still remaining on the balls of the feet.
7 Return to the star ting position using the same path as the upward movement.
The same exercise can be performed holding dumbbells at the sides of the body in order to limit 
spinal loading. Additionally, the balls of the feet can be placed on a flat lying plate to increase the range of motion of the exercise.
To achieve greater activation of the soleus, the same exercise can also be performed in a seated 
position with knees at 90°. Use plates or dumbbells positioned on the thighs to add resistance.
(continued)Box 11.3  Chest e xercises
Bench press, dumbbell
Type of exercise
Upper-body/multi-joint
Muscles used
Pectoralis major, pectoralis minor, deltoid, serratus anterior, and triceps brachii
Starting position
1 After selecting the a ppropriate dumbbells, sit on the edge of the bench with the dumbbells 
resting on thighs above the knee.
2 Firml y grasp the dumbbells with a closed grip and carefully lie back onto the bench, bringing 
the dumbbells into position near the shoulders.
Action
3 While maintaining the fiv e-point contact, press the dumbbells up in a controlled manner until 
the arms are fully extended over the chest.
4 Lo wer the dumbbells back down to the resting position in a controlled manner to complete 
the repetition.
5 Repeat this mo vement until the desired number of repetitions has been completed.

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN308
Spotter
1 Clear the ar ea in case the lifter needs to drop the weight.
2 Ask the lifter ho w many repetitions they intend to complete.
3 Stand at the head of the bench r eady and prepared to assist the lifter.
4 Assist the lifter with getting the dumbbells into the star ting position by lifting near the wrists.
5 K eep hands placed near the forearms throughout the lift.
6 Assist the lifter in sitting up and r emoving the dumbbells once the lift is completed.
Bench press, barbell
Type of exercise
Upper-body/multi-joint
Muscles used
Pectoralis major, pectoralis minor, deltoid (anterior), serratus anterior, and triceps brachii
Starting position (A, B)
1 Lie on the bench,  maintaining a five-point contact.
2 Grasp the bar with a firm,  closed, pronated grip with hands slightly wider than shoulder-width apart.
3 With spotter assistance , remove the bar from the rack and support directly over the chest.(continued)
(B) (A)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING309
(C)
3 Stand at the head of the bench,  behind the bar and grasp the bar with an alternated grip inside 
the lifter’s hands. Assist the lifter with the bar off the rack.
4 When the lifter is r eady, slowly transfer the weight of the bar to the lifter’s hands.
5 Stand back out of the lifter’ s line of sight, ready to assist in case the movement cannot be 
completed at any point.
6 Once the desir ed number of repetitions has been completed, assist the lifter with returning 
the bar to the rack.
Q&A FROM THE F iELD
A lifter states she has reached a plateau in the bench press and is unable to increase in 
weight. What variations can you suggest to the program to help?
Alternate exercises such as flies, incline press, or decline press can be used to add variety. Dumbbells 
can be used to require the lifter to balance the load, and lighter weights can be used explosively to increase power. The lifter may be overtraining, and some time off or a period of active rest may be necessary.
Incline press, barbell
Type of exercise
Upper-body/multi-joint
(continued)Action (C)
4 While maintaining the fiv e-point contact 
position, lower the bar to the chest in a 
controlled manner. Avoid bouncing the bar off the chest.
5 Pr ess the barbell up to the starting posi -
tion until the elbows are fully extended, using a complete range of motion. Repeat motion for desired number of 
repetitions.
6 Once the desir ed number of repeti -
tions is completed, return the bar to 
the rack with the assistance of your spotter.
Spotter
1 Bef ore the exercise begins, ensure the 
bar is evenly loaded and collars are in place.
2 Ask the lifter ho w many repetitions they 
intend to complete.

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN310
Muscles used
Pectoralis major, pectoralis minor, deltoid (anterior), serratus anterior, and triceps brachii
Starting position (A, B)
1 Lie on the bench,  maintaining a five-point contact position.
2 Grasp the bar with a firm,  closed, pronated grip with hands slightly wider than shoulder-width 
apart.
3 With spotter assistance , remove the bar from the rack and support directly over the chest.
Action (C)
4 While maintaining the fiv e-point contact position, lower the bar to the chest in a controlled 
manner. Avoid bouncing the bar off the chest.
5 Pr ess the barbell up to the starting position until the elbows are fully extended, using a com -
plete range of motion. Repeat motion for desired number of repetitions.
6 Once the desir ed number of repetitions is completed, return the bar to the rack with the 
assistance of your spotter.
Spotter
1 Bef ore the exercise begins, ensure the bar is evenly loaded and collars are in place.
2 Ask the lifter ho w many repetitions they intend to complete.(continued)
(A)
 (B)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING311
(C)
Dumbbell fly
Type of exercise
Upper-body/single-joint
Muscles used
Pectoralis major, pectoralis minor, deltoid (anterior), and serratus anterior
Starting position (A, B)3 Stand at the head of the bench, behind the 
bar and grasp the bar with an alternated 
grip inside the lifter’s hands. Assist the lifter with the bar off the rack.
4 When the lifter is r eady, slowly transfer 
the weight of the bar to the lifter’s hands.
5 Stand back out of the lifter’ s line of sight, 
ready to assist in case the movement can -
not be completed at any point.
6 Once the desir ed number of repetitions 
has been completed, assist the lifter with returning the bar to the rack.
(A)
 (B)
(continued)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN312
1 After selecting the a ppropriate dumbbells, sit on the edge of the bench with the dumbbells 
resting on thighs above the knee.
2 Firml y grasp the dumbbells with a closed grip and carefully lie back onto the bench, bringing 
the dumbbells into position near the shoulders.
3 While maintaining a five-point contact position, press the dumbbells into position above the 
chest with the palms facing each other and a slight bend in the elbows.
Action (C, D)
4 While maintaining a fiv e-point contact position, lower the dumbbells in controlled manner out 
to the sides of the chest in a wide arc, while keeping a soft bend in the elbows.
5 While maintaining y our position, raise the dumbbells back to the starting position, following 
the same path. Repeat for the desired number of repetitions.
6 Once the desir ed number of repetitions has been completed, lower the weight and place the 
face of the dumbbells on the thighs. Sit up with the help of a spotter if necessary.
Spotter
1 Clear the ar ea in case the lifter needs to drop the weight.
2 Ask the lifter ho w many repetitions they intend to complete.
(C)
 (D)(continued)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING313
3 Stand at the head of the bench r eady and prepared to assist the lifter.
4 Assist the lifter with getting the dumbbells into the star ting position by lifting near the wrists.
5 K eep hands placed near the forearms throughout the lift.
6 Assist the lifter in sitting up and r emoving the dumbbells once the lift is completed.
Box 11.4  Upper back e xercises
Dumbbell single-arm row
Type of exercise
Upper-body/multi-joint
Muscles used
Latissimus dorsi, middle trapezius, rhomboids, teres major, posterior deltoid, biceps brachii, bra -
chialis, and brachioradialis
(A)
 (B)
(continued)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN314
Starting position (A, B)
1 Place one hand and knee of the same side of the body on a bench with the torso parallel to 
the floor. Maintain a neutral spine and use a soft knee bend in the supporting leg.
2 With the opposing hand,  grasp a dumbbell with a closed, neutral grip.
Action (C, D)
3 Sim ultaneously flex the elbow while pulling the dumbbell up to the torso while maintaining the 
starting position.
4 While maintaining position and under control, lower the dumbbell along the same path back 
to the starting position.(continued)
(C)
 (D)
Lat pull-down
Type of exercise
Upper-body/multi-joint

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING315
Muscles used
Latissimus dorsi, trapezius, rhomboids, teres major, posterior deltoid, biceps brachii, brachialis, 
and brachioradialis
Machine setup (A, B)
1 Select y our desired resistance on the weight stack.
2 Sit do wn and adjust the thigh pad so it sits securely on the thighs.
3 Stand up and grasp the bar firml y with a closed, pronated grip.
4 While maintaining this grip , return to the secure, seated position and slightly lean back.
Action (C, D)
5 While maintaining a neutral spine and stable posture, retract the shoulder blades and pull the 
bar down to the chest in a controlled manner. The elbows should move toward the body.
6 Maintain this position and r eturn the bar up overhead in a controlled manner to complete the 
movement.
7 When the desir ed number of reps has been completed, maintain your grip on the bar, slowly 
stand up and return the bar to its original position while controlling the weight down to the stack.
(continued)
(A)
 (B)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN316
(C)
 (D)(continued)
Seated cable row
Type of exercise
Upper-body/multi-joint
Muscles used
Latissimus dorsi, middle trapezius, rhomboids, teres major, posterior deltoid, biceps brachii, bra -
chialis, and brachioradialis
Starting position (A)
1 Select y our desired resistance on the weight stack.
2 P osition yourself on a seated cable row machine with feet on the supporting platform with a 
soft bend in the knee.
3 Grasp the handle with a firm grip and position y ourself with a neutral spine, upright posture, 
and retracted shoulder blades.

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING317
Action (B)
4 While maintaining this position,  pull the handle towards the torso while flexing the elbows.
5 Slo wly extend the elbows and return the handle to its starting position using a full range of 
motion.
6 When the desir ed number of reps has been completed, maintain your grip on the handle, 
slowly return the handle to its resting position while controlling the weight down to the stack.
(A)
 (B)
Box 11.5  Shoulder e xercises
Dumbbell seated shoulder press
Type of exercise
Upper-body/multi-joint
Muscles used
Deltoid (anterior and medial), trapezius (upper portion), serratus anterior, and triceps brachii
(continued)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN318
Starting position (A, B)
1 After selecting the a ppropriate dumbbells, sit on the edge of vertical shoulder press bench 
with the dumbbells resting on thighs above the knee.
2 While maintaining a fiv e-point contact position, firmly grasp the dumbbells with closed grip 
and bring them into position just above the shoulder.
Action (C, D)
3 Pr ess the dumbbells overhead until the elbows are fully extended, with spotter assistance if 
necessary.
4 Slo wly bend the elbows to lower the dumbbells along the same path back to the starting posi -
tion. Repeat for the desired number of repetitions.
5 Once the desir ed number of repetitions has been completed, carefully lower the weight so 
the face of the dumbbells rests on the thighs.
Spotter
1 Clear the ar ea in case the lifter needs to drop the weight.
2 Ask the lifter ho w many repetitions they intend to complete.
3 Stand at the head of the bench r eady and prepared to assist the lifter.
4 Assist the lifter with getting the dumbbells into the star ting position by lifting near the wrists.
5 K eep hands placed near the forearms throughout the lift.(continued)
(A)
 (B)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING319
Machine shoulder press
Type of exercise
Upper-body/multi-joint
Muscles used
Deltoid, trapezius, serratus anterior, and triceps brachii
Machine setup
1 Adjust the seat so that the handles ar e aligned with the shoulders.
2 Select the a ppropriate resistance on the weight stack.
3 P osition the body into a five-point contact position alignment and grip the handles.
Action
4 While maintaining the fiv e-point contact position, press the handles upward in a controlled 
manner until the elbows are fully extended.
5 Return the handles do wn to the resting position. Repeat for the desired number of  
repetitions.
(C)
 (D)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN320
Barbell upright row
Type of exercise
Upper-body/multi-joint
Muscles used
Anterior, medial and posterior deltoid, trapezius, serratus anterior, brachialis, biceps brachii, and 
brachioradialis
Starting position (A, B)
1 Stand with f eet shoulder-width apart with a soft bend in the knees.
2 Grasp the bar with a firm,  closed, pronated grip. Hands should be slightly wider than shoulder-
width apart.
(A)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING321
Action (C, D)
(B)
(C)
 (D)
(continued)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN322
3 Begin the lift by simultaneously flexing the elbows and elevating the shoulders, bringing the bar 
to about shoulder height.
4 Maintain a stable postur e and avoid jerking or swinging the barbell.
5 After a brief pause , slowly lower the barbell along the same path back into the starting posi -
tion. Repeat for the desired number of repetitions.(continued)
Box 11.6  T riceps exercises
Supine triceps extension
Type of exercise
Upper-body/single-joint
Muscles used
Triceps brachii
Starting position
1 Select an EZ bar with the desir ed weight and lie back on a bench maintaining a five-point 
contact position.
2 Pr ess the bar over the chest with a firm, closed, pronated grip until the elbows are fully 
extended. Use spotter assistance if necessary.
Action
3 While maintaining the fiv e-point contact position and keeping the elbows over the shoul -
ders, slowly bend the elbows and lower the bar to the forehead. Avoid touching the 
forehead.
4 Pr ess the bar back up to the starting position following the same path.
Spotter
1 Bef ore the exercise begins, ensure the bar is evenly loaded and collars are in place.
2 Ask the lifter ho w many repetitions they intend to complete.
3 Stand at the head of the bench,  behind the bar and grasp the bar with an alternated grip inside 
the lifter’s hands. Assist the lifter with the bar.
4 Stand back out of the lifter’ s line of sight, ready to assist in case the movement cannot be 
completed at any point.
5 Once the desir ed number of repetitions has been completed, assist the lifter with the bar.

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING323
Triceps pushdown
Type of exercise
Upper-body/single-joint
Muscles used
Triceps brachii
Starting position (A)
1 Stand in fr ont of the machine and grasp the handles with a firm, closed, pronated grip. Keep 
elbows tight to the body with a soft knee.
2 K eep the elbows in this position and upright posture throughout the movement.
Action (B)
3 While maintaining the star ting position, push the handle down in a controlled manner until the 
elbows are fully extended.
4 Once completed, return to the starting position by flexing the elbows in controlled manner, fol -
lowing the same path that initiated the movement. Repeat for the desired number of repetitions.
(A)
 (B)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN324
Box 11.7  Biceps e xercises
Barbell bicep curl
Type of exercise
Upper-body/single-joint
Muscles used
Biceps brachii, brachialis, and brachioradialis
Starting position (A, B)
1 Stand with f eet shoulder-width apart and keep a soft knee.
2 Grasp the bar with a firm,  closed, supinated grip with arms fully extended. Maintain a stable 
and upright posture throughout the movement.
(A)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING325
Action (C, D)
(B)
(continued)(C) (D)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN326
3 Raise the bar b y flexing the elbows in a slow, controlled manner using a full range of motion. 
Avoid using momentum or “swinging” the bar, and avoid hyperextending the spine.
4 Lo wer the bar by extending the elbows, following the same path. Maintain control of the bar 
and a stable posture throughout the movement. Repeat for the desired number of repetitions.
Seated dumbbell bicep curl
Type of exercise
Upper-body/single-joint
Muscles used
Biceps brachii, brachialis, and brachioradialis
Starting position (A, B)
1 Sit on a v ertical bench with feet shoulder-width apart. Maintain a five-point contact position.
2 Grasp the dumbbells with a firm,  closed grip and keep them at the side of the body, with 
elbows fully extended.
(A)
 (B)(continued)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING327
Action (C, D)
(C)
(D)
(continued)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN328
3 Raise the dumbbells in a slow, controlled manner by flexing the elbows through a full range of 
motion. Maintain the five-point contact position and avoid using momentum or “swinging” the 
dumbbells.
4 Lo wer the dumbbells by extending the elbows along the same path as the upward movement. 
Repeat for the desired number of repetitions.
Box 11.8  Abdominal and lo wer back exercises
Abdominal crunch
Type of exercise
Trunk
Muscles used
Rectus abdominis, obliquus externus abdominis, tensor fascia latae, and rectus femoris
Starting position (A)(continued)
(A)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING329
1 Lie supine (face up) on the floor with the f eet on a bench to allow for a 90° bend at the knees 
and hips.
2 With the finger tips at each side of the head, lift the head off the floor.
Action (B)
(B)
3 K eeping the feet in position on the bench, curl the torso off the floor, moving the head and 
shoulders toward the thighs until the upper back is off the floor.
4 Return to the star ting position following the same path used for the upward movement.
Curl all the way up until the upper back is off the floor.
Keep the feet on the bench throughout the movement.
Do not jerk the torso or arms to provide momentum to assist the movement.
Back extension
Type of exercise
Trunk
(continued)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN330
Muscles used
Longissimus thoracis, quadratus lumborum, iliocostalis lumborum, longissimus thoracis, iliocosta -
lis thoracis, intertransversarii laterales lumborum, gluteus maximus, and hamstrings
Equipment setup (A)(continued)
(A)
1 Adjust the f oot-position bar so that the upper pad rests on the hips and upper thighs.
2 P osition yourself in the machine so that the legs are nearly straight and the torso is approxi -
mately 90° from the legs.
3 Cr oss the arms over the chest.
Avoid exaggerating the range of motion and rounding the back and shoulders during the movement.Action (B)
4 Extend at the hips,  raising the torso in a controlled and smooth motion until it forms a straight 
line with the legs.
5 Return to the star ting position following the same path used for the upward movement.
Maintain a neutral spine throughout the movement.

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING331
Stability ball jack knife
Type of exercise
Trunk
Muscles used
Rectus abdominis
Starting position (A, B)
1 Lie in supine position (face up) and suppor t the body in a plank/pushup position with the 
hands on the floor, slightly wider than shoulder-width.
2 Place one leg at a time on top of the stability ball until both upper shins ar e in contact with 
the ball.
Action (C, D)
3 K eeping the feet together, slowly pull the feet and knees in toward the torso until they are fully 
drawn in.
4 Slo wly return to the starting position following the same path used for the inward movement.
(B)
(continued)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN332
(A)(continued)
(B)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING333
(C)
(D)
(continued)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN334
Maintain a neutral spine position.
Avoid letting the ball move to the side of the legs or letting the hips drop.
Keep the abdominal muscles tight.
Stability ball roll-out
Type of exercise
Trunk
Muscles used
Rectus abdominis
Starting position (A, B)(continued)
(A)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING335
1 Kneel on the floor and place the f orearms on the stability ball.
2 P osition the feet and knees slightly wider than shoulder-width.
Action (C, D)
3 Reach f orward and roll out on the forearms until the movement becomes too difficult for you 
to go any farther forward, or until the body is fully extended.
4 Return to the star ting position following the same path used for the outward movement.
Maintain a neutral spine position.
Keep the abdominal muscles tight.
(B)
(continued)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN336
(C)(continued)
(D)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING337
Prone plank
Type of exercise
Trunk
Muscles used
Rectus abdominis, internal obliques, and external obliques
Position (A, B)
1 Lie pr one (face down) with the feet pointed straight behind hip-width apart.
2 Bend the elbo ws to about 90° directly under the shoulders and place the palms face down flat 
on the floor.
3 K eep the spine and head neutral and aligned with the torso so ankles, knees, hips, shoulders, 
and head are in a straight line.
4 Hold the position until failur e or for the desired duration.
Keep the spine and head neutral by activating the abdominal muscles.
Focus on the lower portion of the abdominal muscles.
(A)
(continued)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN338
Side plank
Type of exercise
Trunk
Muscles used
Internal obliques and external oblique
Position (A–D)
1 While l ying on your side with the feet stacked on top of each other, bend one elbow to about 
90° and place under the shoulder.
2 K eeping the spine and head neutral and in line with the torso, raise your hips off the floor until 
the bottom ankle, knee, hip, and shoulder are in a straight line.
3 Hold the position until failur e or for the desired duration.
4 Switch and r epeat for the other side.
Keep the spine and head neutral by activating the internal and external obliques.
Focus on the lower side of the torso.
(continued)
(B)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING339
(A)
(continued)
(B)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN340
Paloff press
Type of exercise
Trunk
Muscles used
Rectus abdominis, erector spinae, internal obliques, external obliques, rhomboid major, and  
rhomboid minor
Starting position (A, B)
1 Star t in a standing, half-kneeling, or kneeling position.
2 Hold a band or cable with both hands at the center of the chest and stand,  half-kneel, or kneel 
perpendicular to the machine.
3 K eep a neutral neck, shoulder, low back, and hips at all times.
Action (C, D)
4 Slo wly extend the elbows until they are fully extended, then return to the starting position.
(C)
 (D)(continued)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING341
(A)
 (B)
(C)
 (D)
(continued)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN342
Hollow position
Type of exercise
Trunk
Muscles used
Rectus abdominis, internal obliques, external obliques, and gluteals
Starting position
1 Lie on the gr ound in a supine position (face up), squeeze the gluteals and point the toes and 
extend the arms above the head.
2 Contract the abdominals to k eep the lower back pressed to the floor in a neutral position.
Action (A–D)
3 While k eeping the spine neutral, slightly elevate the feet, arms, neck, and upper back off the floor.
4 Hold the position f or the desired time. Keeping the glutes squeezed pulling the belly button 
to the floor will help minimize any excessive arching of the lower back.
(A)

RESISTANCE EXERCISE TECHNIQUES AND SPOTTING343
(B)
(C)
 (D)

RYAN T. MCMANUS, ANDREW J. GALPIN344
SUMMARY
Resistance training provides numerous ben-
efits including increased muscular strength via neurological adaptations and increases in cross-sectional area (hypertrophy). Resistance training can also alleviate symptoms of age-related diseases such osteoporosis and osteopenia by increasing bone mineral density. Prior to beginning a resistance-training pro -
gram, an exerciser should be familiar with proper technique, attire, spotting techniques, and breathing techniques. If any of these prin -
ciples is ignored, the exerciser increases his/her risk of injury. Prior to performing a specific exercise, the exerciser should know the proper movement of the exercise as described in this chapter.
MAxiNG OUT
1 An experienced strength-trained participant is performing a 3RM exercise in the back 
squat. How many spotters are required? Where should they be positioned? What are their responsibilities?
2 One of the roles of a spotter is to give verbal cues and verbal encouragement to the lifter. In this respect, a spotter should always be used. There are times when it is dangerous for a spotter to be near a rapidly moving bar. Can you describe a situation like this?
3 An inexperienced participant is deadlifting barefoot in a busy weight room. What action should the on-duty coach take? Why?
4 The Valsalva maneuver helps maintain a rigid torso and keep an upright posture. When is the best time to utilize this maneuver? At what point does its use become hazardous?
REFERENCES
 1. Aaberg E. Resistance Training Instruction, 
2nd ed. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics. 2007.
 2. Baechle TR, Groves BR. Weight Training: Steps to Success, 4th ed. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics. 2012.
 3. Bathgate KE, Galpin AJ. Lower-body exercises. In: Strength Training. LE Brown, ed. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics. 2017.
 4. Brooks GA, Fahey TD, Baldwin KM. Exercise Physiology: Human Bioenergetics and Its Applications, 4th ed. New York: McGraw Hill. 2005.
 5. Haff GG, Triplett NT. eds. Essentials of Strength Training and Conditioning, 4th ed. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics. 2016.
 6. Fleck SR, Kraemer WJ. Designing Resistance Training Programs, 4th ed. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics. 2014.
 7. Galpin AJ, Bartolini JA. Explosive movements. In: Strength Training. LE Brown, ed. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics. 2017.
 8. Galpin AJ, Bagley JR. Torso exercises. In: Strength Training. LE Brown, ed. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics. 2017. 9. Harman EA, Rosenstein RM, Frykman PN, Nigro GA. Effects of a belt on intra-abdominal pressure during weightlifting. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1989; 21(2):186–190.
10. Hoffman JR. ed. NSCA’s Guide to Program Design. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics. 2012.
11. Lander JE, Hundley JR, Simonton RL. The effectiveness of weight-belts during multiple repetitions of the squat exercise. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1990; 24(5):603–609.
12. Lander JE, Simonton RL, Giacobbe JKF. The effectiveness of weight-belts during the squat exercise. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1990; 22(1):117–126.
13. Nutter J. Physical activity increases bone density. NSCA J 1986; 8(3):67–69.
14. Salatto RJ, Rojo VM, Coburn JW. Upper-body exercises. In: Strength Training. LE Brown, ed. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics. 2017.
15. Schoenfeld BJ. The mechanisms of muscle hypertrophy and their application to resistance training. J Strength Cond Res 2010; 24(10):2857–2872.
16. Zatsiorsky VM, Kraemer WJ. The Science and Practice of Strength Training, 2nd ed. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics. 2006.

3 PART
EXERCISE PRESCRIPTION
12 Needs analysis  347
13 Program design  357
14 Periodization of resistance training: concepts and  
paradigms  371
15 Aerobic exercise prescription  397
16 Resistance training prescription  417
17 Plyometric, speed, agility, and quickness exercise  
prescription  433
18 Implement training  479

Contents
Introduction  347
Metabolic aspects of sport  348
Biomechanical aspects of sport  350
Injury risk  352
Summary  353
References  353

12 CHAPTER
OBJECTIVES
After reading this chapter, you will
• Understand the reasons for conducting a needs analysis.
• Be able to discuss the relationship between a needs analysis and the energy systems.
• Be able to discuss the relationship between a needs analysis and basic biomechanical factors.
• Understand the relationship between a needs analysis and injury risk.
• Understand the relationship between a needs analysis and exercise prescription.NEEDS ANALYSIS
Andy V. Khamoui, Michael C. Zourdos, and Lee E. Brown
KEY TERMS
Athlete testing and 
assessment
Basic movement  
analysis
Glycolytic
Injury riskMetabolic and 
biomechanical requirements
Needs analysisOxidativePhosphocreatineSpecific needs of  
the individual  athlete
Sport injuriesThree major energy-
producing systems
INTRODUCTION
Before a training program can be designed and 
implemented, a formal needs analysis  must be 
conducted. A needs analysis is performed by the strength and conditioning professional to determine how an athlete might be best served by programmed training. It aims to identify the demands of the sport itself, as well as the 
specific needs of the individual athlete . In other 
words, a needs analysis comprises a major part of the initial planning and preparation (in addition to athlete testing and measure -
ment, see Chapter 10) that is then used to inform and guide program design. Because adaptations are specific to the type of train-ing performed, careful consideration must be 
given to the needs analysis – it is in effect,
 the 
foundation for an effective training program that prepares a given athlete for competition.
What does a needs analysis address?  
A needs analysis will typically address the  

ANDY V. KHAMOUI ET AL.348
metabolic and biomechanical requirements  of 
the sport itself, and any unique requirements 
dictated by specific positions within that sport. Furthermore, a needs analysis may also seek to identify potential injuries encountered by an athlete, for the purpose of designing a train-ing program that minimizes the risk of that  
injury (see Chapter 22, Injury prevention and rehabilitation).
In essence, the 
needs analysis aims to 
address the following major questions: 1) What are the metabolic (energy) requirements for an athlete based on their sport and position? 2) What are the biomechanical requirements demanded of an athlete during competition? 3) What are common injuries associated with an athlete’s sport? By addressing these questions, the strength and conditioning pro -
fessional is able to make informed decisions with respect to the acute program variables (i.e., exercise selection, order, load, sets, and repetitions) that comprise the day-to-day ele-ments of a training program. Specifically, the training program can be designed to produce adaptations that at a minimum, meet the metabolic and biomechanical requirements for an individual athlete’s sport and position  
(i.e., specificity of training).
METABOLIC ASPECTS  
OF SPORT
Energy systems overview
As described in Chapter 1, there are three 
major energy-producing systems  or pathways: 
1) phosphocreatine , 2) glycolytic , and 3) oxidative . 
These systems consist of enzyme-driven bio-
chemical reactions of varying complexity that yield adenosine triphosphate (ATP). ATP is fre -
quently referred to as a high-energy molecule because cleavage of the terminal phosphate bonds yield energy. The energy released is then used to power cellular events such as muscular contraction, and hence, movement and physi -
cal performance.
The three energy systems differ in both 
their rate of ATP provision, as well as their maximal capacity for generating ATP (1). For instance, the phosphagen system con -
sists of single-enzyme, oxygen independent (i.e., anaerobic) reactions that can be mobi -
lized rapidly to provide a quick supply of ATP for muscular contraction. One of the principal reactions of this system is cata -
lyzed by creatine kinase, which provides ATP from adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and phosphocreatine (PCr). Because the phos -
phagen system is mobilized quickly, it is also referred to as the immediate energy system. However, PCr stores in muscle are limited and this system has a low capacity for ATP provision, with maximal effort activity sup-ported for less than 10 seconds. Beyond this duration (e.g., 1–2 minutes), muscular con-traction is supported by the glycolytic system. Glycolysis yields ATP from the metabolism of glucose obtained from blood (i.e., circulating glucose) or from intramuscular glycogen. An example of an event that requires significant contribution from the glycolytic pathway of energy production is the 400 m sprint. For extended duration tasks (i.e., several min-utes up to several hours), energy demands are met principally by oxidative pathways. The oxidative system metabolizes nutrient derived substrates such as glucose and fatty acids in a series of complex biochemical reac-tions requiring oxygen to generate ATP (e.g., TCA cycle, oxidative phosphorylation). These complex reactions are slower to activate and therefore have a lower rate of ATP provision; however, the oxidative system is high capacity because it has a greater overall ATP yield.
Metabolic demands of sport
Metabolic demands vary considerably between sports. For instance, endurance events such as marathon running or distance swimming will predominantly utilize oxidative pathways of energy production to sustain performance in that activity. At the other end of the spectrum, athletes that perform very brief, explosive movements such as short sprinters, shot putters, or weightlifters require significant contribution from the phosphagen system to execute their respective activities. Many team sports such as soccer, football, basketball, and hockey require contributions from both anaerobic and oxidative  

NEEDS ANALYSIS349
TABLE 12.1  Approximate contribution of the three energy systems to sport
Sport Phosphagen (%) Glycolytic (%) Oxidative (%)
Team-based
American Football 70 25 5
Basketball 20 20 60
Baseball 95 5 —
Field hockey 20 25 55
Ice hockey 30 30 40
Lacrosse 20 25 55
Rugby 25 25 50
Soccer (football) 25 25 50
Volleyball 80 15 5
Water polo 20 25 55
Individual-basedBoxing 30 45 25
Cycling 10 10 80
Fencing 85 10 5
Field events 100 — —
Marathon — — 100
Skiing 35 25 40
Tennis 50 5 45
Track-distance 5 5 90
Track-mid distance 15 50 35
Track-short sprints 90 5 5
Wrestling 30 45 25
Mixed individual/teamRowing 10 40 50
Swimming-sprints 75 25 —
Swimming-distance 10 10 80
Adapted from: NSCA’s Guide to Program Design. Hoffman JR (Ed.). Human Kinetics, Champaign, IL.
mechanisms of energy production. More often 
than not, a sport is likely to require some con -
tribution from each of the energy systems, although one may predominate. There are only a few instances where a sport is reliant exclu -
sively on one energy system (e.g., phosphagen system for field events and Olympic lifts, oxi-dative system for marathon). The approximate energy demands of various sports are listed in Table 12.1.
It is also important to note that even within 
the same sport, metabolic demands can change 

ANDY V. KHAMOUI ET AL.350
depending on an athlete’s position. For exam -
ple, a goalkeeper in soccer rarely ventures 
outside the 18-yard box. This position requires the goalkeeper to perform either quick short sprints in a linear direction to stop the opposing team’s attack, vertical jumping under pressure to collect the ball mid-air, or explosive lateral movements (e.g., diving to stop a goal from being scored). With these unique positional requirements, the goalkeeper has metabolic demands that require energetic contribution primarily from the phosphagen system, and to a lesser extent the glycolytic system. Extended duration running of low to moderate intensity (i.e., long, slow, distance workout) that relies on oxidative pathways of energy production would not be a priority. After having identified these unique requirements in the needs analysis, training should prioritize tasks that make use of the requisite energy systems while incorporat-ing competition-specific scenarios or tasks.
In contrast, the soccer midfielder covers 
all areas of the field to initiate a goal scoring opportunity, or disrupt the opposing team’s attack. These duties require intermittent bouts of both short and longer distance sprints, interspersed with slower jogging for recovery. The overall distance covered by a soccer field player such as a midfielder during the course of a competitive match is substantial, reach -
ing up to 11 km (~7 miles) (2). Interestingly, midfielders performed running or high-speed running (14.4–25.1 km·hr
−1) over a distance of 
roughly 2.5 km (~2 miles), in addition to max -
imal sprints accumulating 0.5 km (0.3 miles) (2). The remaining distance of approximately 8.3 km (~5 miles) is occupied by walking and jogging. Given these match requirements, the midfielder will require significant energetic contribution from both the oxidative and glycolytic systems; therefore, training should consist of activities that utilize those systems under comparable match conditions. Since maximal effort sprints were also performed during the match, albeit to a lesser degree, sprinting drills should also be included in the training program.
Based on the varied metabolic profiles 
encountered among sports, and for specific positions within a given sport, it is imperative to develop an individualized needs analysis for each athlete.BIOMECHANICAL  
ASPECTS OF SPORT
Biomechanics overview
In addition to identifying metabolic demands, 
the needs analysis should also evaluate the basic biomechanical characteristics associated with an athlete’s respective sport. Relevant features include the movement patterns per -
formed during competition, muscles recruited and major joint actions, force requirements, movement velocity, acceleration, flexibility, and agility. Other factors to carefully consider include the desired training adaptations and their order of priority (i.e., strength, power, hypertrophy, muscular endurance). By hav-ing a basic understanding of these elements, the strength and conditioning professional can design a training program that approximates or exceeds the biomechanical demands that occur during competition, or which contain exercises that exhibit appropriate transfer to competition. From a practical standpoint, the strength and conditioning professional may find it useful to consult primary literature or obtain video of a given sport to accurately identify movement patterns and muscular recruitment. For a more complete discussion of biomechanics and resistance training, refer to Chapter 5.
Evaluating basic biomechanics
The basic biomechanical elements that can be described for a specific activity, and how this information guides program design, is illus-trated in the following example. In the snatch, weightlifters are required to move a heavily loaded barbell seamlessly from the ground to an overhead position. A 
basic movement analysis  
of this lift would indicate that it is a whole body movement that begins with the athlete fully crouched, having significant flexion of the hips, knees, and ankles. The arms are also fully extended as the lifter grasps the bar.
The general sequence of events involves 
the first pull, in which the athlete lifts the barbell in a near linear path from the ground to approximately knee height, followed by transition of the bar around the knees. After 

NEEDS ANALYSIS351
this transition period, the athlete should be in 
a position where the knees, hips, and ankles are slightly flexed, with the barbell near mid-thigh level in preparation for the second pull of the lift. The second pull is characterized by explosive triple extension of the hips, knees, and ankles to propel the bar upwards while the lifter pulls him or herself underneath to “catch” the bar with arms fully extended over -
head and the shoulder blades retracted. Based on the major joint actions, muscles heavily  recruited to execute the first and second pull include the gluteus maximus, hamstrings, quadriceps, and triceps surae (i.e., hip, knee, and ankle extensors). In addition, the del -
toids and trapezius muscles, as well as other scapular stabilizers comprise the upper body muscles that enable the pulling of the barbell and catch overhead. Therefore, leg strength and power, particularly of the hip and knee extensors, would be priorities for training as would shoulder strength and stability.
TABLE 12.2  Sample metabolic and biomechanical assessment by sport and position
Athlete 1
Field events-shot putAthlete 2Soccer midfielder Athlete 3Long-distance runner
Metabolic profile
 •Maximal effort explosive movement requiring the upper and lower body; very 
brief action, not exceeding a 
few seconds in duration.
 •Major energetic contribution provided by phosphagen system.Metabolic profile
 •Intermittent short and long distance sprinting interspersed with jogging and walking over 
the course of a 90-min match.
 •Major contribution from 
glycolytic and oxidative systems; somewhat less contribution 
from phosphagen system.Metabolic profile
 •Repeated, low tension muscle 
contractile activity performed for an extended duration (i.e., 
several minutes to hours).
 •Major contribution from 
oxidative mechanisms of energy production.
Biomechanical profile
 •Highly complex task requiring the generation of high limb velocities within a limited 
space.
 •Task requires proximal to 
distal sequence of muscular actions, which are initiated by 
the lower body and completed 
by the arms and hands; goal is to impart maximal velocity on the implement (i.e., release 
velocity).
 •Literature indicates several 
lower body biomechanical factors are related to shot 
put performance: peak rate 
of force development, peak force, and peak power output (16,17). These parameters 
may be modified by 
programmed training.Biomechanical profile
 •Linear speed, agility, and fast footwork essential to execute goal-scoring opportunities, and 
thwart attacks by opposition.
 •Vertical jumping required to 
challenge opposition for ball in mid-air; also used for goal 
scoring (heading)
 •One-on-one defensive posture 
is executed by flexing the hips at initial contact with the opposing 
athlete; hip flexion lowers 
COM, and this in turn minimizes vertical COM displacement when performing defensive 
cutting movements (18).
 •Skilled performers of instep 
kick show greater trunk ROM and velocity; also positive 
relationship between peak hip 
flexion and ball velocity (19).Biomechanical profile
 •Repetitive, low forces required of lower body muscles, trunk stabilizers, 
shoulders and arms (i.e., 
muscular endurance).
 •Running economy (RE), which refers to the energy demand when running submaximally at 
a given velocity, is recognized 
as a predictor of endurance performance – those with better RE use less energy (20).
 •Muscle-tendon complexes of the lower extremities (e.g., quadriceps, triceps surae) 
contribute to RE. Runners 
with high RE have greater compliance of the quadriceps tendon at low forces (<45% 
MVC), and greater muscular 
strength and tendon stiffness of the triceps surae (21).
COM, center of mass. ROM, range of motion. MVC, maximal voluntary contraction.

ANDY V. KHAMOUI ET AL.352
Other examples of how a basic move -
ment analysis can inform program design is 
in American football. Linemen and receiv-ers are two positions with widely different biomechanical requirements. Starting from a crouched position, linemen drive upward using the hip and knee extensors while con -
currently performing pressing motions to block the opposing team (i.e., horizontal shoulder abduction/adduction, elbow exten-sion, trunk stabilization). These motions are performed with maximal effort for only a few seconds in duration. Linear speed over long distances is not a major requirement for the position. Therefore, exercise selection that develops both upper and lower body strength and power would be beneficial for blocking, one of the principal tasks of a lineman. In contrast, receivers require both linear speed and change of direction ability to a significant extent, with vertical jump ability also being a necessity in order to outmaneuver the defense. Consequently, training for speed, agility, and quickness, and lower body power would be priorities for the receiving corps.
An example of basic assessment of both 
the metabolic and biomechanical demands of various sports and specific positions is shown in Table 12.2.
INJURY RISK
Sport injuries  are often sustained by the mus-
culoskeletal systems through contact that overloads a particular structure (e.g., impact between two opposing players causing acute injury), overload that occurs without contact (e.g., acute joint injury when performing rapid change of direction), or gradual overuse of tis -
sue (i.e., muscle, tendon, bone, ligaments) from repeated microtrauma without appropriate recovery (3–5). Although injury is sometimes unavoidable, the needs analysis should give consideration to common injuries associated with a given sport. Specifically, the strength and conditioning professional should seek to identify any factors that predispose or increase risk for a particular injury. Are particular attributes predictive of 
injury risk ? In addi -
tion, the injury history of the athlete should be noted, such as previous injuries sustained, elapsed time since the injury occurred, and any rehabilitative efforts. Specific measures may then be taken to prevent an injury from recurring, or training load can be adjusted accordingly. From a practical standpoint, these issues may be addressed to a better extent in consultation with the network of health pro -
fessionals involved in the athlete’s daily care, such as Certified Athletic Trainers (ATCs), physical therapists, and the sports physician.
As described in Chapter 10, 
athlete test-
ing and assessment  is also a key component of 
the needs analysis because performance on the test battery reveals the current physical status of the athlete. This information is then used to guide program design because identified defi -
ciencies can be addressed when planning the training schedule (i.e., needs of the athlete). Data from these performance tests can also be helpful for identifying predisposition to injury.
Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) rupture 
occurs at a greater frequency in female ath -
letes compared to males participating in the same sport (6,7). Using isokinetic dynamom-etry to measure muscle function, it was reported that female athletes who sustained a non-contact ACL rupture had decreased hamstrings strength, but similar quadriceps strength compared to their male counterparts (8). Interestingly, female athletes who did not rupture their ACL showed similar ham-strings strength, but decreased quadriceps strength compared to the male athletes. Thus, this data suggests that knee extensor/flexor strength imbalance plays a role in suscepti -
bility to non-contact ACL rupture in females, with decreased hamstring strength coupled to higher quadriceps strength increasing the risk for injury. By identifying a group with predisposition to ACL injury (i.e., females), and having an index of injury susceptibil -
ity (hamstrings and quadriceps strength), female athletes that show a deficit during pre-screening assessments can seek to improve hamstrings strength as a training goal.
The strength and conditioning professional 
should also document any previous or recur -
ring injuries whenever possible, either from athlete self-reporting or based on feedback from the appropriate healthcare professional. Knowledge of previous or recurring injuries 

NEEDS ANALYSIS353
experienced by an athlete should be identified 
in the needs analysis so that program design can incorporate appropriate interventions. For example, ankle sprains occur with regularity in volleyball, soccer, and basketball. Since ankle sprains can arise from any load-bearing task, they are by far one of the most common injuries in sport (9). Evidence suggests that balance and proprioceptive training are effec -
tive for mitigating subsequent re-injury of the ankle (10–12). Technical instruction has also 
been reported to reduce the risk of ankle injury 
recurrence (e.g., take-off and landing tech-nique when jumping in volleyball) (13). Thus, the athlete’s needs (i.e., reducing ankle re-injury) can be addressed by allocating specific training that includes balance and propriocep-tion development, and technical instruction if warranted. As mentioned previously, this aspect of athlete care (i.e., injury management) may be better managed in conjunction with the network of other professionals tasked with overseeing the health of the athlete.
Efforts to minimize injury risk should 
not be limited to the initial needs analysis. Managing injury risk requires regular surveil-lance of athlete well-being and monitoring of training load throughout the course of the competitive season. Improperly managed training loads in conjunction with insufficient recovery periods can lead to overuse injuries (e.g., tendinopathy, bone injuries, patellofemo -
ral pain) (14). Furthermore, fatigue resulting from excessive training loads and insufficient recovery may compromise decision-making and coordination, which in turn may increase injury risk (14). Contractile function of skel -
etal muscle may also be impaired as a result of fatigue, thereby reducing joint stability and increasing risk of injury (15). Therefore, the strength and conditioning professional has a significant role in addressing injury risk during the needs analysis and initial program design, as well as throughout the competitive season.
SUMMARY
The major purposes of the needs analysis are to identify the demands of the sport and the needs of the athlete. When evaluating demands of the sport, the strength and conditioning professional should make note of the energetic requirements for a particular athlete, move-ment patterns associated with an athlete’s sport and position, primary muscles recruited, and common sites of injury. Athlete testing and assessment is also an integral component of the needs analysis because this information reveals areas of deficiency that can then be addressed by programmed training. Since the initial planning and preparation for any train -
ing program begins with the needs analysis, this task is the cornerstone of program design. The strength and conditioning professional should make every effort to carefully consider the needs analysis, ensure that athletes are periodically re-evaluated to monitor ongoing progress, and implement appropriate adjust -
ments when necessary.
REFERENCES
 1. Egan B, Zierath JR. Exercise metabolism and 
the molecular regulation of skeletal muscle adaptation. Cell Metab 2013; 17(2):162–184.
 2. Mallo J, Mena E, Nevado F, Paredes V. Physical demands of top-class soccer friendly matches in relation to a playing position using global positioning system technology. J Hum Kinet 2015; 47:179–188.
 3. Roos KG, Marshall SW. Definition and usage of the term “overuse injury” in the US high school and collegiate sport epidemiology literature: a systematic review. Sports Med 2014; 44(3):405–421.
 4. Yu B, Garrett WE. Mechanisms of non-contact ACL injuries. Br J Sports Med 2007; 
41 Suppl 1:i47–51.
 5. Bahr R, Krosshaug T. Understanding injury mechanisms: a key component of preventing injuries in sport. Br J Sports Med 2005; 39(6):324–329.
 6. Sutton KM, Bullock JM. Anterior cruciate ligament rupture: differences between males and females. J Am Acad Orthop Surg 2013; 21(1):41–50.
 7. Barber-Westin SD, Noyes FR, Smith 
ST, Campbell TM. Reducing the risk of 
noncontact anterior cruciate ligament injuries in the female athlete. Phys Sportsmed 2009; 37(3):49–61.
 8. Myer GD, Ford KR, Barber Foss KD, Liu C,  Nick TG, Hewett TE. The relationship 

ANDY V. KHAMOUI ET AL.354
of hamstrings and quadriceps strength to 
anterior cruciate ligament injury in female athletes. Clin J Sport Med 2009; 19(1):3–8.
 9. Hootman JM, Dick R, Agel J. Epidemiology of collegiate injuries for 15 sports: summary and recommendations for injury prevention initiatives. J Athl Train 2007; 42(2):311–319.
10. Mohammadi F. Comparison of 3 preventive methods to reduce the recurrence of ankle inversion sprains in male soccer players. Am J Sports Med 2007; 35(6):922–926.
11. McGuine TA, Keene JS. The effect of a balance training program on the risk of ankle sprains in high school athletes. Am J Sports Med 2006; 34(7):1103–1111.
12. McKeon PO, Hertel J. Systematic review of postural control and lateral ankle instability, part II: is balance training clinically effective? J Athl Train 2008; 43(3):305–315.
13. Stasinopoulos D. Comparison of three preventive methods in order to reduce the incidence of ankle inversion sprains among female volleyball players. Br J Sports Med 2004; 38(2):182–185.
14. Soligard T, Schwellnus M, Alonso JM, Bahr R, Clarsen B, Dijkstra HP, Gabbett T, Gleeson M, Hagglund M, Hutchinson MR et al. How much is too much? (Part 1) International Olympic Committee consensus statement on 
load in sport and risk of injury. Br J Sports 
Med 2016; 50(17):1030–1041.
15. Ortiz A, Olson SL, Etnyre B, Trudelle-Jackson EE, Bartlett W, Venegas-Rios HL. Fatigue effects on knee joint stability during two jump 
tasks in women. J Strength Cond Res 2010; 
24(4):1019–1027.
16. Zaras ND, Stasinaki AN, Methenitis SK, Krase AA, Karampatsos GP, Georgiadis GV, Spengos KM, Terzis GD. Rate of force development, muscle architecture, and performance in young competitive track and field throwers. J 
Strength Cond Res 2016; 30(1):81–92.
17. Landolsi M, Bouhlel E, Zarrouk F, Lacouture 
P, and Tabka Z. The relationships between leg peak power and shot-put performance in national-level athletes. Isokinetics and Exercise Science 2014; 22(1):55–61.
18. Sasaki S, Koga H, Krosshaug T, Kaneko S, Fukubayashi T. Biomechanical analysis of defensive cutting actions during game situations: six cases in collegiate soccer competitions. J Hum Kinet 2015; 46:9–18.
19. Fullenkamp AM, Campbell BM, Laurent CM, Lane AP. The contribution of trunk axial kinematics to poststrike ball velocity during maximal instep soccer kicking. J Appl Biomech 2015; 31(5):370–376.
20. Saunders PU, Pyne DB, Telford RD, Hawley JA. Factors affecting running economy in 
trained distance runners. Sports Med 2004; 34(7):465–485.
21. Arampatzis A, De Monte G, Karamanidis K, Morey-Klapsing G, Stafilidis S, Bruggemann GP. Influence of the muscle-tendon unit’s 
mechanical and morphological properties on running economy. J Exp Biol 2006; 209(Pt 17):  
3345–3357.

Contents
Introduction  357
Basic training principles  358
Advanced training methods  366
Summary  366
References  367

13 CHAPTER
OBJECTIVES
After completing this chapter, you will be able to:
• Explain the basic training principles of overload, variation, and specificity for improving sport 
performance and general fitness.
• Explain and apply the modifiable variables to drive adaptation.
• Understand the difference between training and relative intensity.
• Know how and when to apply the rating of perceived exertion to an athlete’s training.
• Understand and explain the basic idea of the SAID Principle, the common mistakes made imple -
menting a program based on specificity.
• Plan programs for speed, power, strength, and endurance.
• Create a periodized program that meets the athlete’s/coach’s goals for the athlete.
• Understand the basics behind training for hypertrophy and fat loss.PROGRAM DESIGN
Nathan Serrano and Andrew J. Galpin
KEY TERMS
Frequency
General Adaptation 
Syndrome (GAS)
HypertrophyIndividualizationMaladaptation phaseOverloadOverreachingPeriodizationPost activation 
potentiation
Progression/ 
regression
Rating of perceived 
exertion (RPE)
ReboundingRelative intensityRest intervalSAID PrincipleSpecificityTraining intensityVariationVolumeVolume load
INTRODUCTION
Designing a proper training program requires 
consideration of numerous variables as each adaptation (speed, strength, power, hypertrophy,  conditioning, fat loss, etc.) presents unique challenges. A basic understanding of program design, combined with a foundational knowl -
edge of human anatomy and physiology, allows coaches to efficiently and effectively 

NATHAN SERRANO, ANDREW J. GALPIN358
create appropriate training programs that 
reduce injury risk while achieving athlete/client goals. This requires examination and discussion of the modifiable (choice, order, frequency, intensity, volume, rest, progression) and non-modifiable (i.e., gender, limb length, training age, etc.) variables. More impor -
tantly, while several of these key concepts hold extensive scientific backing, others have only recently received extensive study.
The purpose of this chapter is to briefly dis -
cuss the basic principles underlying the specific training adaptations that result from properly periodized and implemented resistance train -
ing programs. This requires exploring a mix of both i) traditional methodologies and ii) some of the more recent findings in the sci-entific studies regarding resistance training for athletic performance.
BASIC TRAINING 
PRINCIPLES
Nearly every successful training program 
includes a combination of the following three basic training principles:
 overload , variation , 
and specificity . The overload provides the 
challenge required for physiological adapta -
tion. However, by definition, this creates some damage or otherwise overwhelming stress, increasing injury risk. Variation helps reduce this danger by dispersing the stress. It also enhances the robust nature of the adaptation, increasing the likelihood that the new physical abilities are expressible in multiple avenues. Specificity maximizes the transferability of the improved performance to the direct, intended target. Variation and specificity appear contra -
dictory on the surface, yet a closer examination of their proper implementation reveals their true complimentary nature.
The human body is highly adaptable, but 
must undergo an abnormal stress, or 
over-
load, to induce physical change. Overload is 
the training stimulus that drives adaptation and can be achieved through any number of alterations to the seven modifiable variables (described later). When applied in appropri -
ate doses, overload induces short-term fatigue, but eventually enhances performance (32). The overload must exceed habitual training ability, making it a moving target as the ath -
lete continually progresses. In other words, the stress must be constantly progressed and include 
variation  via the manipulation of exer -
cises that follow a progressive model. This can be achieved on a week to week or day to day basis by increasing exercise sets, repeti -
tions, and load, or by altering rest intervals. Overloading over weeks to months is done by increasing training frequency.
Regardless of the specific overload strat -
egy, the physiological responses to overload are generally the same. When a stressor is introduced to a system, an immediate response occurs, known as the alarm phase, where per -
formance is decreased due to acute fatigue. Then a 
rebounding  phase begins where the 
system begins to recover from the stressor. Ideally, this is followed by a super compensa-
tion phase where the performance is actually elevated above the starting point (5,10). This concept of alarm, rebound, and super compen -
sation is collectively referred to as the 
General 
Adaptation Syndrome (GAS)  and is presented 
in more detail in Chapter 14. The training 
program should be designed such that each time a new stimulus is introduced the athlete
 
has sufficient time to rebound and compen-sate. However, poorly planned programs can invoke the final stage of GAS, which should be avoided because it can be detrimental to the athlete’s health and performance. This phase is called the 
maladaptation phase  and 
denotes a detraining effect due to over stimu -
lating the system without proper recovery or rest periods (5,10).
The resulting adaptation will be specific 
to the overloading demand. This is known as the 
SAID Principle (specific adaptation to 
an imposed demand). The coach must stra -
tegically manipulate the seven modifiable variables to ensure the physical demand of 
exercise,
 and resulting adaptation, is reflec -
tive of the training goal (5,36,41). This is known as 
specificity , which is a process of 
creating a particular efficiency of movement and energy production in sport through pro-gressive training (19,26,28,42,48). Some mistakenly interpret this concept to mean one should mimic sport movements in the weight room and/or add sport equipment exercises. 

PROGRAM DESIGN359
For example, a runner should not execute all 
strength training on one leg simply because running is an entirely single-leg support activ -
ity, and a lacrosse athlete does not need to hold a stick in his/her hand while doing all agility training to achieve specificity. Several factors such as muscle actions, range of motion, energy systems, speed of movement, primary joint angles and force vectors, muscle groups involved, and common injuries should be considered when determining specificity. 
An example would be performing jumping 
and landing mechanics that reduce the risk of injuries, teaching acceleration mechanics that will help the athlete become more efficient in their sprints, teaching deceleration mechanics for change of direction efficiency, basic move -
ment patterns like squatting, hip hinging, and pulling and pushing with the upper body.
Resistance training is meant to improve 
athleticism, not necessarily the specific athletic movements used in their sport.
The specificity mistakes explained earlier 
are problematic because they may not effec -
tively target the athlete’s weakness and they 
limit variation. Mindlessly increasing overload and specificity may yield short-term benefits, but in the long term is foolish, ineffective, and likely to cause injury by directing too much stress to a given area. The purpose of learning program design is to understand how to use variation to balance the need for continually increased overload and specificity.
The balance between specificity and vari -
ation is determined by the time of year, goals, chronological age, and training age. Well-designed training programs move from more variation to more specific as the athlete gets closer to season. The same trend occurs over chronological age as younger athletes should focus on variation, avoiding copious specific -
ity until reaching advanced (post-collegiate) or professional levels. However, older athletes 
may stay more on one side of the continuum 
based on individual needs and goals. Imagine two hockey players (Corey and Rickey) are trying to earn more ice time. Corey may use more variation in his training as he is well-rounded, but needs a little improving in all areas. Rickey may focus almost his entire off-season training on speed as he’s the slowest player in the league.
Training age is independent of chronologi-
cal age and represents the amount of time (in years) an athlete has spent physically training, preferably under the direction of a qualified strength and conditioning professional. Elite athleticism is not always indicative of being well-trained. A professional basketball player with less than two years’ training (“begin -
ner”) is not physically prepared to handle the same training overload as a teammate with more than four years’ training (“advanced”). The “beginner” should utilize more variation, while the “advanced” athlete may need more specificity. Thus, a large proportion of athletes, and nearly all non-athletes, should focus the majority of their training on general exercises and fundamental movement patterns, and not be over-reliant on specificity.
Start simple and slowly progress athletes as they 
gain movement control.
Balancing overload, specificity, and varia -
tion is best achieved when coaches thoroughly 
understand the answers to a few basic ques -
tions before writing the program:
1 What are the physical demands of the sport?
2 What are the metabolic demands of the 
sport?
3 What are the biomechanical demands of 
the sport?
4 What are the common overuse injuries 
associated with the sport?
5 What performance variables (e.g.,  power, 
strength, etc.) are limiting the athlete’s 
success in the sport?
6 What is the athlete’ s training history?
7 What is the athlete’ s injury history?
Programs should be based on the demands of the 
sport and individual.
Modifiable variables
Rest can be described within an exercise (inter-
set) as “rest interval”, or from session to session 

NATHAN SERRANO, ANDREW J. GALPIN360
as “frequency” (see later). The rest interval is 
the period of time that energy is being con -
served in order to allow for ATP to be readily available for the next set and for the clearing of other metabolic substrates that can hinder per -
formance (4). Proper rest intervals are vital and determined by the specific training goal. More rest is preferred for maximal strength, so more reps can be completed at heavier loads (9). Speed and power follow a similar concept as maximal neuromuscular function is mandated. 
This likely explains why more complicated 
intra-set rest strategies such as cluster sets are effective at conserving maximal strength and velocity over multiple sets (45).
Muscular endurance and fat loss require 
less rest because the goal is to induce meta-bolic stress, with less concern for maintaining relative intensity. 
Hypertrophy , or increases in 
muscular cross-sectional area, was also thought to require short rest intervals, yet recent research questions this assumption (35,37). More research is needed, but these initial find-ings suggest that while short intervals increase metabolic disturbance and tissue damage (both of which directly and independently stimulate growth), they limit the load and/or volume. This compromises mechanical tension (another independent stimulator of growth) and result -
ant strength gains. Conversely, longer rest intervals limit metabolic damage. Thus, a well-rounded hypertrophy program may necessitate inclusion of both rest strategies.
Frequency  of training is the amount of 
sessions an athlete completes, per week. This is NOT synonymous with number of train-ing days per week. It is common in high level mixed martial artists, swimmers, weightlift -
ers, sprinters, and others to train multiple times a day. Two training sessions a day would total a weekly frequency of 14, not 7. This is done to accumulate large amounts of work but requires excess recover resources and/or abilities. The extreme frequencies would be for highly trained athletes since their habitual level is much higher than an untrained person 
or a recreational athlete (37).
Even highly skilled athletes may not necessarily be 
highly physically trained, so progress their training volume and frequency slowly.Intensity
Each training session must vary in intensity, 
which is the amount of work done in a ses -
sion ( training intensity ) or within an exercise 
(relative intensity ) (17,36,44). For example, 
lifting 90% of your one-repetition maximum (1RM) for two repetitions would equate to relatively large amounts of work, but lifting 65% of your 1RM for two repetitions would be much less intense. However, athletes typi -
cally do not lift 65% 1RM only two times (unless being performed explosively for the development of speed or power (5,13,23)). If more reps at 65% 1RM are completed, the amount of work would eventually match the previous example at 95% 1RM. In this exam -
ple, the 95% lift would have a high relative intensity while the 65% for max repetitions would have a low relative, but high training intensity. Most athletes should be exposed to a combination of low and high relative and training intensities (47).
Some coaches use the 
rating of perceived 
exertion  (RPE) as an indicator of intensity 
because it is easy to implement and track over months/years. RPE also provides additional use -
ful feedback from the athlete, accounts for day to day fluctuations in physical ability, and can encourage athlete accountability. For example, if a coach tells an athlete that a given set should be done at an RPE of 8/10 (with 10 being the maximum exertion), the athlete knows it should be a challenging set. The athlete might then choose to slightly alter the prescribed repe -
titions or load to ensure the difficulty is not too low or too high. Keep in mind, the use of RPE as an intensity guide requires some calibration to what 1/10 and 10/10 feel like, so it may be too subjective for beginners (46).
Volume  is the total number of reps per -
formed (sets ×  reps), typically reported on 
a per exercise, per day, or per weekly basis. 
Volume load  can also be calculated to show an 
overall amount of work performed by multi -
plying the volume by the load. For example, if John performed the back squat with 225 lbs for 5 sets of 5 repetitions, then his volume load was 5,625 lbs (25 reps × 225 lbs). This is 
an easy way of tracking and monitoring train -
ing on a given day or over a period of weeks, months, or years. This also highlights how  

PROGRAM DESIGN361
volume and relative intensity are inversely 
related (30,31,37). As the intensity of an exer -
cise goes up, the volume must go down. This is due to the effort demand of heavier load, reduc -
ing the energy remaining available to perform more repetitions. Both volume and intensity can remain high if a moderate to heavy load is used for many sets, in combination with proper rest intervals (9). This strategy has been shown to drive hypertrophy and strength adaptations (40–42). However, it should be done sparingly as the high training intensity is demanding, which increases risk of injury or overtraining.
Exercise 
progression/regression  refers to 
increasing/decreasing the difficulty level of an exercise based on individual needs. This is often accomplished by reducing or adding dimen-sions of control, though many other methods exist. For example, a squat can be regressed to a leg press, or progressed to a single-  
leg squat. Mastering progression/regression  
enables coaches to quickly individualize  
workouts when training teams or groups  
of athletes.
Individualization is the ability of a coach to create 
a program that fits the athlete’s specific needs and uses exercises that fit his/her current abilities.
Exercise order
Exercise order refers to the progression from 
one exercise to the next in a given workout. Traditionally, order moves from the most complex/highest velocity movements to the least complex/lowest velocity because the for -
mer requires greater neurological input, which diminishes as fatigue occurs (5). Improper order compromises, or completely eliminates, the ability to develop speed, power, or strength.
Think about the demands of each exercise, 
and how that would influence the subsequent exercises. A fatigued neuromuscular system (caused by doing fatiguing exercises first) reduces the ability to generate maximum force and power. Thus, performing hang snatches after the highly fatiguing, high volume split squats would be a bad idea as it will hinder the athlete’s ability to produce power, which is the major purpose of the exercise. In addition, it is generally best practice to place individuals in the most dangerous situations (e.g., landing, implements over the head, complex move-ments, uncontrolled environments, etc.) first and progressing to safer settings (e.g., single joint exercises, machines, slower tempo, etc.) when fatigued.
Periodization
Periodization, presented in Chapter 14 is a phasic training path that leads to a future perfor -
mance outcome.
 More plainly, it is the planned 
variation in training variables (mostly volume and intensity). Periodization is a combination 
of three distinct cycles presented in Chapter 14, 
microcycles, 
 mesocycles, and macrocycles (5).
Organizing in this fashion allows for 
planned periods of overreaching , an overload 
micro or mesocycle known to temporarily com-
promise performance, but eventually inducing supercompensation when stress is reduced. Overreaching phases maintained for too long result in overtraining. The line between over -
reaching and overtraining is difficult to decipher and differs considerably from athlete to athlete. Proper monitoring of athlete fatigue, mood, nutrition, sleep, and attitude aid in avoiding overtraining.
A good strength coach plans out the year’s 
macrocycle and programs in one- to four-week intervals to create the best possible microcycles.
1 Sample program design for improving 
hypertrophy: increasing load from week 
to week
a Monday: Hypertrophy (moderate volume)
b Tues: Hypertrophy (high volume)
c Wed: rest
d Thurs: Hypertrophy (moderate volume)
e Friday: Hypertrophy (high volume)
f Saturday-Sunday: rest
2 Sample program design for improving 
power:
a Monday: Hypertrophy (medium load, medium/high volume)
b Tuesday: Strength (high load, low/medium volume)

NATHAN SERRANO, ANDREW J. GALPIN362
c Wednesday: Power (low load, low/
medium volume)
d Thursday: Hypertrophy (medium/high load, medium volume)
e Friday: Strength (high/medium load, medium volume)
f Saturday: Power (low load, low volume)
g Sunday: rest
3 Sample program design for improving 
strength: goal-centered mesocycle with deload week
a Week 1: Hypertrophy
b Week 2: Hypertrophy
c Week 3: Strength
d Week 4: Recovery (deload)
A weightlifting athlete at the beginning of his/her training cycle might start with six train -
ing sessions a week with an average intensity at 68% of their main lifts. As the athlete enters the pre-competition phase of the cycle, the coach increases the frequency to nine ses-sions and sets the intensity at 75%, which slowly progresses to 95% over the next three months. Leading to the biggest competition of the year, the coach programs the athlete to have more practice with the competitive lifts and less accessory work. For example, the athlete might have a training session in the morning at the beginning of the pre-competition cycle that includes six sets of a snatch at 75% 1RM. The next exercise is back squats at 80% 1RM for five sets of five. The next training session in the afternoon calls for five sets of clean and jerks at 70% and a barbell shoulder press for four sets of eight at 65%. At the end of each training day the athlete also has split squats, bench press, core work, front, lateral and reverse shoulder raises. As the competition gets closer, the overall vol -
ume of training increases to ten sessions and the average intensity is 85–90% to elicit an overreaching effect. In the peaking phase of this cycle, the training is focused on recovery and maintaining the adaptations that were gained the previous four to six months. The coach might reduce training volumes down to six to seven sessions a week with the inten -
sity holding at 85–95%, until the final week where the intensity drops back to ~70–80% to allow recovery.A collegiate baseball shortstop, Jose, just 
came off his junior season and is starting his offseason training. The strength and condi -
tioning coach has Jose training four days a week with little/no baseball specific activities. The first four to six weeks are focused on cor -
recting any muscular or joint imbalances Jose developed over the season. In the next training phase (pre-season), the baseball team begins sport practice and only has weight training three days a week. The strength coach splits the training up in a lower body, upper body, and full body fashion. The lower body day Jose performs power cleans at 75–80% and squats at 80–85% 1RM. He is also still using some unilateral exercises like single-leg hamstring curls and glute bridges to maintain muscular balance as he heads into his season. The upper body day includes bench press, bent over rows, pull ups, and overhead stability drills to help strengthen his shoulder. The full body session has front squats for postural integrity, low volume plyometrics, and a mixture of lower body unilateral exercises, upper body presses, and horizontal pulling. Once the season starts, Jose is lifting twice a week with his practice and multiple games every week. This includes a push and pull day. The push session includes squats, bench, and shoulder stability work. During the pulling session, Jose is performing power clean pulls, deadlifts, pull ups, and bent over rows at 80–90% for only three or four sets of no more than three to five reps on most of these exercises to maintain strength, power, and speed with the limited time in the weight room. The strength and conditioning coach would also add specific exercises designed to reduce injury risk for baseball players.
Training for speed
Speed is arguably the most sought-after per -
formance variable in athletic performance and is discussed in Chapter 17. Athletes improve 
speed when they increase i) the rate that a mus -
cle contracts,
 ii) movement mechanics, or iii) 
strength. Untrained or beginner (young train-ing age) athletes may benefit the most from improving strength (15,16,20,50,51). Speed involves three key concepts: acceleration, maximum velocity, and deceleration. During acceleration, generating force in the proper 

PROGRAM DESIGN363
direction with magnitude decreases the num-
ber of strides necessary to move from point A to point B. This is termed stride length. Stride frequency requires speed within the muscle to decrease the time it takes for the foot to propel the body forward, drive the knee up, and cycle back down into the ground. This is best trained through maximum effort sprints with appropriate rest intervals or high power exercises (5). Maximum velocity deals with maintaining the built-up velocity during the acceleration phase. Most sports rarely reach maximum velocity due to the constant change of direction. Though there are many scien-tifically supported modes of training speed, deceleration is a forgotten tool. The ability to attenuate the forces (i.e., stop and control movement) is critical for rapid change of direc-tion. A large amount of strength is required to overcome the eccentric loading during decel -
eration. Thus, a base of strength is required for speed development as both acceleration and 
deceleration rely upon force production.
Training for power
Speed multiplied by strength is power. In other words, power is the product of work and time. The more work done over a short period of time, the higher the power. This typically translates into a training prescription of lighter weights at high velocities (11,12). The optimal relative intensity (load) for peak power production differs from person to person and ranges from 30–85% 1RM. For instance, squat jumps appear to produce peak power around 30% 1RM, but weightlifting movements (8) (i.e., variations of the snatch or clean and jerk) exhibit peak power closer to 80–85% 1RM (21). Thus, athletes are encour -
aged to train across the entire power spectrum.
A great way to train power is through ply -
ometric exercises, also addressed in Chapter 
17.
 A plyometric by definition is cyclical and 
has a loading or (eccentric) phase, amortiza-tion (deceleration) phase,
 and an explosive 
force (concentric) phase (2,14–16). A common plyometric exercise is a depth to box jump, where an athlete steps off a box then rebounds off the ground up to another box. Low vol -
umes are recommended for ballistic exercises such as this for two reasons. Firstly, fatigue compromises performance, which reduces speed, force, or both, eliminating the purpose of the exercise (to produce maximal power). Secondly, the high demands increase injury risk, which only increases over time.
Training for strength
Muscular strength is defined as the ability of a muscle group to develop maximal contractile force against a resistance in a single contrac -
tion. The signal to contract comes from the nervous system and signals the muscle fibers to contract. However, the amount of force trans -
mitted from the fiber, through the connective tissue, and to the tendon, determines how the bone is moved. Other biomechanical factors such as joint angle, pennation angle, and lever arms also influence limb movement. Thus, mus -
cular strength is determined by a combination of neurological, muscular, connective tissue, and biomechanical factors. Connective tissue and biomechanical changes occur extremely slowly, if at all. Improvements in strength are therefore primarily a result of neurological and/or muscular adaptations. Increased motor unit recruitment, frequency of firing, and syn -
chronization, as well as increased relaxation of antagonist muscle groups, or decreased Golgi tendon organ activation, result in greater force production. Changes in fiber type (48) or con-traction kinetics (e.g., greater calcium affinity, faster sarcoplasmic reticulum recycling of acetylcholine, etc.) result in increased single fiber contractility (i.e., velocity of muscle fiber contraction), independent of size (hypertro-phy) gains. However, muscle hypertrophy is usually associated with some strength gains as the increased size is mostly a result of thicker myosin and actin molecules, which increase the number of myosin and actin interactions, form-ing more cross-bridges. Together, it explains how individuals can get stronger without gain-ing excessive muscle mass, but gaining muscle will result in some strength gains, but will not optimize strength gains. The heavy neurologi -
cal component leads many to describe physical strength as a “skill,” meaning it requires much specific practice. It also explains that  
while exceptions exist, larger athletes will generally have greater absolute strength 
(total weight lifted), which is why sports like 

NATHAN SERRANO, ANDREW J. GALPIN364
weightlifting, wrestling, and mixed martial 
arts require weight categories. However, the smaller athletes will often have greater relative 
strength (total weight lifted divided by body weight). The sport of weightlifting accounts for this by using a correction factor called the Sinclair score (which accounts for both abso -
lute and relative strength) to determine overall champions.
Strength training should therefore include 
a range of repetitions and loads in order 
to stimulate neuromuscular, muscular, con -
nective, and biomechanical adaptations. A 
strength phase for beginners should start with building a base through high volume and low/moderate intensity (to build hypertrophy, connective, and biomechanical factors) fol-lowed by a decrease in volume and increase of intensity (to challenge the muscle fiber and neuromuscular systems). More advanced ath-letes may be able to reduce the high-volume phase and spend more time developing the specific skill of strength.
Lift heavy things often for best strength gains.
Training for hypertrophy
The three key ingredients to inducing skeletal muscle hypertrophy are tissue damage (sore -
ness), mechanical stress (load), and metabolic stress (metabolites). Tissue damage can be accomplished through high reps of low to moderate loads, as well as eccentric loading of the muscle. This is not to say soreness is the number one goal of every training session, or that its relationship to growth is linear. Surely soreness is a general sign that adaptations may ensue; however, it should not be the goal of the strength and conditioning professional to induce muscle soreness as it is a poor indicator of resulting growth (29,38).
Mechanical stress relates to the magnitude 
of the load (i.e., how heavy it is). Mechanical stress and tissue damage are often associated 
together as high loads at moderate to high vol-
umes tend to cause muscle damage. However, high intensity and low volume induces sig -
nificantly less soreness. Research has also shown that metabolic stress increases muscle growth significantly through the collection of metabolic substances called metabolites (e.g., lactate, inorganic phosphate, and H+) which signal cellular growth (39). Metabolic stress is primarily a result of high volume in combina -
tion with low/no rest. When taken together, it is no surprise that recent research suggests that a continuum of rep ranges stimulates growth (32–35). Thus, a well-rounded program that emphasizes all three throughout a given week will likely produce the best results.
Use a combination of heavy/low reps, moderate/
moderate reps, and light/high reps to maximize hypertrophy.
Training for conditioning
Adaptations to conditioning occur both sys-
temically (e.g., insulin sensitivity, lactate threshold, O
2 saturation, etc.) and on the cel-
lular level (e.g., mitochondrial density, capillary density, metabolic enzymes, etc). Track sprint -
ers often run multiple races in competition (e.g., qualifying, prelims, semifinals, and finals) and so they require a certain type of condition to adequately recover and repeat or improve their performance. Other sports like hockey, football, or basketball require movement bouts that last a little longer, but with intermittent bursts of intensity. These athletes require different types of conditioning than track sprinters, or even steady state endurance athletes like a triathlete. Thus, the athlete’s conditioning should mimic the intensity and duration of their specific activities on the field. Primarily concentric-only exercises like cycling, sled pushing/towing, or rowing work well for conditioning, regardless of sport, since these exercises have relatively low skill requirements and their limited eccen -
tric components moderate muscle soreness, allowing them to be performed at a high vol -
ume and frequency (24,29).
Steady state endurance is not the only way to 
improve cardiovascular and muscular endurance.
Training for fat loss
There has been much debate as to what method 
of training is best for fat loss. That is, the loss 

PROGRAM DESIGN365
of fat body mass and maintenance or gain of 
lean muscle mass. Fat loss requires a net caloric deficit, which is achievable with countless methods. Some individuals prefer continuous, steady-state endurance exercise (e.g., jogging, swimming, cycling, etc.) while others favor high intensity intervals (e.g., circuit weight training, repeated max effort cycling, etc.). The best answer probably lies in a combination of numerous conditioning and resistance training methods, all integrated in high variety.progress the weight or increase the speed. If this 
is done properly, the short- and long-term injury 
risk are greatly reduced, allowing more training 
later in life, which ultimately leads to greater improvements in physical attributes and sport 
performance.
Training for fat loss has to be paired with a caloric 
deficit. Training alone will limit your success.
Q&A FROM THE F iELD
What is the best way to program for an 
adolescent beginning athlete?
It is a common misconception that training 
prepubescent athletes is detrimental to their growth and development. However, research 
has long shown that children and adolescent 
athletes can and should use a properly designed resistance-training program. This is not much 
different from training a beginner athlete, 
regardless of chronological age. The goal with any individual is to develop and eventually master 
good movement mechanics and postural integrity. 
The goal of training programs for beginner athletes should be to enhance long-term athletic 
development, not short-term improvements in 
any single performance goal (e.g., strength, power, hypertrophy, etc.). This typically means athletes 
should learn how to perform basic athletic 
movements like running, jumping, throwing, squatting, hip hinging, upper body pushing/pulling, 
rotating, and core stabilization. The focus should 
be placed on movement technique, efficiency, and quality rather than things like “amount of weight 
lifted” or speed. A generally good idea is to have 
the athlete perform a movement with a slow tempo and be able to maintain proper position, 
stabilization, and muscle sequencing (i.e., using the 
proper muscles in the proper order) throughout, for example a squat with a five second eccentric 
portion, five second hold in the bottom position, 
and five second concentric portion. If an athlete executes this for multiple reps while maintaining 
movement quality, then it may be appropriate to Q&A FROM THE F iELD
When is it appropriate to max out?
Maxing out or finding a maximum amount of 
weight an athlete can lift with proper form should 
be used sparingly because it is highly fatiguing for the athlete. This is not advisable for individuals that 
are still beginners in training age because they are 
still developing the movement patterns and can put the athlete at a high risk for injury.
Q&A FROM THE F iELD
What can you do if you’re working with a sport coach who is adamant about testing 
the athletes’ max lifts?
This is a common issue strength coaches must 
deal with, so you should work towards having a relationship with the sport coach that values 
your input. An alternative approach would be to perform the test where the “max” is considered 
as the maximum amount lifted until a breakdown 
in technique occurs. This can be thought of as the athlete’s “technical 1RM.” Skilled lifters may easily 
reach their true 1RM, while less experienced 
athletes may only achieve 70–80% of their true maximum. In both cases, the information is 
valuable and provides the appropriate details 
needed to assess your program quality and effectiveness. Exercise selection can also be 
modified to reduce some injury risk (however, 
even technically simple exercises can have a large risk if executed poorly). An example would be 
using an alternative exercise like a leg press as 
a crude measure of leg strength for an athlete with limited/no squatting experience. As the 
athlete develops, the back squat will eventually 
replace the leg press as the primary leg strength testing modality. Thus, while a leg press is indeed 
quite different from a squat, it may represent a 
reasonable mitigation of risk in this situation.

NATHAN SERRANO, ANDREW J. GALPIN366
Q&A FROM THE F iELD
How do I know if I need to perform 1RM 
testing?
We recommend the strength coach ask the 
following questions prior to doing 1RM testing. Is the sport a maximal effort in nature (i.e., 
shotput, discus, weightlifting, or powerlifting)? 
If so, this merits more frequent 1RM testing. Does the athlete understand the safety hazards 
accompanied with 1RM testing? If not, use 
alternative testing strategies, or select exercises the athlete is highly skilled and competent in. 
Are there adequate strength and conditioning or 
other qualified personnel to act as spotters? If not, reconsider testing. Does the athlete have extensive 
experience in that movement at that high of a 
load? If so, then 1RM represents fairly low risk, so engage accordingly.movement velocity (6). The band or assist -
ing device aids the athlete in their movement 
allowing an increased movement velocity and synchronous contractions of the involved muscles. Heavy elastic, or variable resistance bands (VRB), are effective tools for overspeed training (3,7). VRB also aid in reducing the eccentric loading of some movements allow -
ing for an increased volume, without fatigue or resulting soreness. Other means of utilizing assisted or overspeed training include assisted 
jumping, towed sprinting (when the band is 
used to accelerate the athlete, not as added resistance), or speed bats for baseball/softball. Adding resistance in the form of sled towing and parachute running can improve accelera -
tion, but not maximal velocity (43).
Dynamic variable resistance
Use of VRB has increased in popularity in recent years. This usually involves adding a VRB to already loaded exercises like the back squats, deadlifts, or bench press. This strat -
egy has been shown to improve the time to peak power (time it takes to reach the highest power output during a given exercise), peak power (maximum power output during a given exercise), and time to peak velocity (time it takes to reach the highest velocity during a given movement) (18). This works by manipu -
lating the human strength curve, which says the maximal strength of an exercise is deter -
mined by the maximal strength in the weakest part of the movement. In other words, a 1RM will be limited by the maximal strength at the weakest position, not the maximal strength at the strongest position. The band adds the least resistance at the weakest position, but increased resistance at the strongest position, meaning the muscles are progressively chal-lenged throughout the exercise as the body simultaneously gains mechanical advantage.
SUMMARY
Adaptation is an important factor of training especially when performance is the primary goal. The athlete and coach must have a thor -
ough understanding of the three basic training ADVANCED TRAINING 
METHODS
Post activation potentiation
Post activation potentiation (PAP) is a physi -
ological phenomenon where a heavy lift (e.g., 
80% 1RM deadlift) is used to activate the central nervous system immediately before performing a fast or explosive movement. PAP has received extensive study over recent years and appears highly effective for well-trained individuals (7,22,25,27,49), but may actually hinder performance in beginning ath -
letes (1,8). This training style can also offer a great way to utilize traditional rest periods in large group training sessions for experienced high school (juniors and seniors with at least two years of properly instructed training) and college athletes. Some examples include per -
forming a heavy squat immediately before a vertical jump, a heavy bench prior to a med ball chest press, or heavy deadlift before a short sprint.
Assisted and overspeed training
Studies have shown that assisted exercises, also known as overspeed training, improve 

PROGRAM DESIGN367
principles (overload, specificity, and variation) 
and theories to maximize the dose response of resistance exercise. All of the factors of training must be put into consideration (fre -
quency, intensity, volume, rest, choice, order, and progression). Individuals should focus on constructing a plan that is progressive and varied, while also overloading the body. Plans are constructed in a periodized fashion and encompass a macrocycle, and several meso and microcycles. Proper manipulation of the basic 
training principles and modifiable variables 
produce the best, and most specific, adapta -
tions and decrease the likelihood of injury.
REFERENCES
 1. Arias JC, Coburn JW, Brown LE, Galpin AJ. 
The acute effects of heavy deadlifts on vertical jump performance in men. Sports 2016; 4(2):22.
 2. Baker D. Comparison of upper-body strength and power between professional and college-aged rugby league players. J Strength Cond Res 2001; 15:30–35.
 3. Bartolini JA, Brown LE, Coburn JW, Judelson DA, Spiering BA, Aguirre NW, Carney KR, Harris KB. Optimal elastic cord assistance for sprinting in collegiate women soccer players.  J Strength Cond Res 2011; 25:1263–1270.
 4. Bottaro M, Brown LE, Celes R, Martorelli S, Carregaro R, Vidal JCD. Effect of rest interval on neuromuscular and metabolic responses between children and adolescents. Pediatric Exercise Science 2011; 23: 311–321.
 5. Brown LE, Greenwood M. Periodization essentials and innovations in resistance training protocols. Strength Cond 2005; 27: 80–85.
 6. Cazas VL, Brown LE, Coburn JW, Galpin AJ, Tufano JJ, LaPorta JW, Du Bois AM. Influence of rest intervals after assisted jumping on bodyweight vertical jump performance. J Strength Cond Res 2013; 
27:64–68.
 7. Chiu L, Fry A, Weiss L, Schilling B, Brown 
L, Smith S. Postactivation potentiation 
response in athletic and recreationally trained 
individuals. J Strength Cond Res 2003; 17:671–677.
 8. Chiu L, Schilling B. A primer on weightlifting: From sport to sports training. Strength Cond 
2005; 27: 42–48. 9. Ciccone AB, Brown LE, Coburn JW, Galpin AJ. Effects of traditional vs. alternating 
whole-body strength training on squat performance. J Strength Cond Res 2014; 28: 2569–2577.
10. Coffey VG, Hawley JA. The molecular bases of training adaptation. Sports Medicine 2007; 37:737–763.
11. Cormie P, McBride JM, McCaulley GO. Power-time, force-time, and velocity-time curve analysis during the jump squat: Impact of load. Journal of Applied Biomechanics 2008; 24:112–120.
12. Cormie P, McCaulley GO, McBride JM. Power versus strength-power jump squat training: Influence on the load-power relationship. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2007; 39:996–1003.
13. Darmiento A, Galpin AJ, Brown LE. Vertical jump and power. Strength Cond 2012; 34:34–43.
14. de Villarreal ESS, Kellis E, Kraemer WJ, Izquierdo M. Determining variables of plyometric training for improving vertical jump height performance: a meta-analysis.  J Strength Cond Res 2009; 23:495–506.
15. Ebben WP, Blackard DO. Strength and conditioning practices of National Football League strength and conditioning coaches.  J Strength Cond Res 2001; 15:48–58.
16. Ebben WP, Carroll RM, Simenz CJ. Strength and conditioning practices of National Hockey League strength and conditioning coaches. J Strength Cond Res 2004; 18: 889–897.
17. Fry AC, Kraemer WJ, Ramsey LT. Pituitary-adrenal-gonadal responses to high-intensity resistance exercise overtraining. J of Appl Physiol 1998; 85:2352–2359.
18. Galpin AJ, Malyszek KK, Davis KA, Record SM, Brown LE, Coburn JW, Harmon RA, Steele JM, Manolovitz AD. Acute effects of elastic bands on kinetic characteristics during the deadlift at moderate and 
heavy loads. J Strength Cond Res 2015; 
29:3271–3278.
19. Gehri DJ, Ricard MD, Kleiner DM, Kirkendall DT. A comparison of plyometric training 
techniques for improving vertical jump ability and energy production. J Strength Cond Res 1998; 12:85–89.
20. Harridge SDR, Bottinelli R, Canepari M, Pellegrino M, Reggiani C, Esbjornsson M, Balsom PD, Saltin B. Sprint training, in vitro and in vivo muscle function, and myosin heavy chain expression. J of Appl Physiol 
1998; 84: 442–449.

NATHAN SERRANO, ANDREW J. GALPIN368
21. Hori N, Newton RU, Andrews WA, Kawamori 
N, McGuigan MR, Nosaka K. Comparison of four different methods to measure power output during the hang power clean and the weighted jump squat. J Strength Cond Res 
2007; 21:314–320.
22. Jo E, Judelson D, Brown L, Coburn J, Dabbs 
N. Influence of recovery duration after a potentiating stimulus on muscular power in recreationally trained individuals. J Strength Cond Res 2010; 24:343–347.
23. Kelly SB, Brown LE, Coburn JW, Zinder SM, Gardner LM, Nguyen D. The effect of single versus multiple sets on strength. J Strength Cond Res 2007; 21:1003–1006.
24. Kelly SB, Brown LE, Hooker SP, Swan PD, Buman MP, Alvar BA, Black LE. Comparison of concentric and eccentric bench press repetitions to failure. J Strength Cond Res 2015; 29: 1027–1032.
25. Khamoui A, Brown L, Coburn J, Judelson D, Uribe B, Nguyen D, Tran T, Eurich A, Noffal G. Effect of potentiating exercise volume on vertical jump parameters in recreationally trained men. J Strength Cond Res 2009; 
23:1465–1469.
26. Kraemer WJ, Nindl BC, Ratamess NA, 
Gotshalk LA, Volek JS, Fleck SJ, Newton RU, Häkkinen K. Changes in muscle hypertrophy in women with periodized resistance training. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2004; 36:697–708.
27. Lowery RP, Duncan NM, Loenneke JP, Sikorski EM, Naimo MA, Brown LE, Wilson FG, Wilson JM. The effects of potentiating stimuli intensity under varying rest periods on vertical jump performance and power.  
J Strength Cond Res 2012; 26:3320–3325.
28. Murray DP, Brown LE, Zinder SM, Noffal 
GJ, Bera SG, Garrett NM. Effects of velocity-specific training on rate of velocity development, peak torque, and performance.  J Strength Cond Res 2007; 21:870–874.
29. Nguyen D, Brown LE, Coburn JW, Judelson DA, Eurich AD, Khamoui A V, Uribe BP. Effect of delayed-onset muscle soreness on elbow flexion strength and rate of velocity development. J Strength Cond Res 2009; 
23:1282–1286.
30. Ostrowski KJ, Wilson GJ, Weatherby R, 
Murphy PW, Lyttle AD. The effect of weight training volume on hormonal output and muscular size and function. J Strength Cond Res 1997; 11:148–154.
31. Peterson MD, Rhea MR, Alvar BA. Maximizing strength development in athletes: A meta-analysis to determine the dose-response relationship. J Strength Cond Res 2004; 18: 377–382, 204.32. Ribeiro AS, Avelar A, Schoenfeld BJ, Fleck SJ, Souza MF, Padilha CS, Cyrino ES. Analysis of the training load during a hypertrophy-type resistance training programme in men and women. Eur J Sports Sci 2015; 15:256–264.
33. Ribeiro AS, Avelar A, Schoenfeld BJ, Trindade MCC, Ritti-Dias RM, Altimari LR, Cyrino ES. Effect of 16 weeks of resistance training on fatigue resistance in men and women.  J Hum Kinet 2014; 42:165–174.
34. Schoenfeld B. Repetitions and muscle hypertrophy. Strength Cond 2000; 22:67–69.
35. Schoenfeld B. Science and Development of Muscle Hypertrophy. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2016.
36. Schoenfeld B and Dawes J. High-intensity interval training: applications for general fitness training. Strength Cond 2009; 31: 44–46.
37. Schoenfeld B, Ratamess N, Peterson M, Contreras B, Tiryaki-Sonmez G. Influence of resistance training frequency on muscular adaptations in well-trained men J Strength Cond Res 2015; 29:1821–1829.
38. Schoenfeld BJ, Contreras B. Is postexercise muscle soreness a valid indicator of muscular adaptations? Strength Cond 2013; 35:16–21.
39. Schoenfeld BJ, Contreras B. The muscle pump: potential mechanisms and applications for enhancing hypertrophic adaptations. Strength Cond 2014; 36:21–25.
40. Schoenfeld BJ, Contreras B, Ogborn D, Galpin A, Krieger J, Sonmez GT. Effects of varied versus constant loading zones on muscular adaptations in trained men. Int J Sports Med 2016; 37:442–447.
41. Schoenfeld BJ, Contreras B, Vigotsky AD, Ogborn D, Fontana F, Tiryaki-Sonmez G. Upper body muscle activation during low-versus high-load resistance exercise in the bench press. Isokinetics and Exercise Science 
2016; 24:217–224.
42. Schoenfeld BJ, Ratamess NA, Peterson MD, 
Contreras B, Sonmez GT, Alvar BA. Effects of different volume-equated resistance training loading strategies on muscular adaptations in well-trained men. J Strength Cond Res 2014; 
28:2909–2918.
43. Spinks CD, Murphy AJ, Spinks WL, Lockie 
RG. The effects of resisted sprint training on acceleration performance and kinematics in soccer, rugby union, and Australian football players. J Strength Cond Res 2007; 21:77–85.
44. Tufano JJ, Brown LE, Coburn JW, Tsang KKW, Cazas VL, LaPorta JW. Effect of aerobic recovery intensity on delayed-onset muscle soreness and strength. J Strength Cond Res 2012; 26:2777–2782.

PROGRAM DESIGN369
45. Tufano JJ, Conlon JA, Nimphius S, Brown 
LE, Seitz LB, Williamson BD, Haff GG. Maintenance of velocity and power with cluster sets during high-volume back squats. Int J Sports Physiol Perform 2016; 
11:885–892.
46. Wernbom M, Jarrebring R, Andreasson MA, 
and Augustsson J. Acute effects of blood flow restriction on muscle activity and endurance during fatiguing dynamic knee extensions at low load. J Strength Cond Res 2009; 
23:2389–2395.
47. Willardson JM and Burkett LN. The effect 
of rest interval length on bench press performance with heavy vs. light loads.  J Strength Cond Res 2006; 20:396–399.
48. Wilson J, Loenneke J, Jo E, Wilson G, Zourdos M, and Kim J. The effects of endurance, strength, and power training on muscle fiber type shifting. J Strength Cond Res 2012; 26:1724–1729.
49. Wilson JM, Duncan NM, Marin PJ, Brown LE, Loenneke JP, Wilson SMC, Jo E, Lowery RP, Ugrinowitsch C. Meta-analysis of postactivation potentiation and power: effects of conditioning activity, volume, gender, rest 
periods, and training status. J Strength Cond 
Res 2013; 27:854–859.
50. Yap CW and Brown LE. Development  
of speed, agility, and quickness for the  
female soccer athlete. Strength Cond 2000; 22:9–12.
51. Yetter M and Moir G. The acute effects of heavy back and front squats on speed during forty-meter sprint trials. J Strength Cond Res 2008; 22:159–165.

Contents
Introduction  371
Increasing interest in periodized training in the Western world  373
Why periodized training?  375
Variation and rest are fundamental concepts to any periodization training model  375
Theoretical basis for periodization  376
Complexity of training changes and needs in a periodized program  378
Periodization terminology  379
Traditional/linear periodization  380
Traditional periodization modifications  381
Non-traditional periodization  382
Conjugate periodization  384
Non-linear (undulating) periodization  386
Summary  388
References  391

CHAPTER
OBJECTIVES
After completing this chapter, you will be able to:
• Apply the concepts of “evidence-based practice” to developing training and conditioning programs.
• Express an understanding of the “general adaptation syndrome” and how it fits into a perio -
dized training model.
• Utilize the terminology related to periodized training programs.
• Develop an understanding and appreciation for the historical aspects of periodization.
• Understand and explain both “traditional” and “non-traditional” periodized models of training.
• Express an understanding of “flexible” non-linear programing.PERIODIZATION OF RESISTANCE  
TRAINING: CONCEPTS AND PARADIGMS
William J. Kraemer and Matthew K. Beeler
KEY TERMS
Block periodization
Competitive or realization 
block
Conjugate periodizationEvidence-based practiceGeneral adaptation 
syndrome
General blockMacrocycleMesocycleMicrocycleOvertraining syndromePrioritizationRecoveryRecovery blockSpecific, transformation, 
or transmutation block
StalenessStep loadingStressSupercompensationTraditional or classic 
periodization
Training sessionUndulating non-linear 
periodization
VariationVolume load14
INTRODUCTION
What is periodization  and how has it been 
transformed from a fundamental concept of 
training theory over the past century? The short answer is by evolving into many different 
periodized approaches to training athletes in all sports at all levels. First, one needs to under -
stand that paradigms and frameworks provide ideas for program design and d evelopment (8). 

WILLIAM J. KRAEMER, MATTHEW K. BEELER372
Monitoring workouts and testing of athletes 
provides data as to the efficacy and success of a training model being used. Individualized testing and analysis is undertaken to directly determine effectiveness of the program design approach being used. If a training program is not meeting training goals, modifications should be made as needed. Thus, the training model is not static, but rather dynamic in its fundamental nature. Periodization of training allows for one very global theoretical para -
digm arising out of the modern world of sports and exercise training theories. It can be config -
ured in different sets, reps, intensity, volume, etc. to help mediate desired changes and meet the training goals. Finally, periodization is not one training model but consists of configura-tions of a program along with the short- and long-term sequencing used in exercise training progressions.
A periodized training model is not static, but 
rather is dynamic in its fundamental nature.
Whether you are a strength coach, an ath-
lete, or a dedicated fitness trainee, a resistance 
training program is only as successful as the understanding you have of the program being used and how it can be modified over time. While this chapter addresses periodization of resistance training, it is typically only one part of a total conditioning program (e.g., others include aerobic conditioning, anaerobic con-ditioning, flexibility, etc.). Ultimately, in such a chapter we can only provide “paradigms” to work with that have been successful both in anecdotal and/or research reports. However, it is important to understand that each individual will respond differently to each condition -
ing program or combinations thereof. This is due to the different genetic predispositions for inherent characteristics (e.g., muscle fiber type, connective tissue density, number of muscle fibers in various muscles) each indi-vidual has which mediate the physiological 
adaptations to a program. From a practical 
perspective, this means that training must be highly individualized. This challenge of indi -
vidualization is not easily met when managing teams or large numbers of athletes in differ -
ent sports. However, computerized software  systems for tracking workouts in real time and downloading and graphing workout results are becoming more and more affordable and accessible to more people each year.
Individual athletes will respond differently to a 
specific conditioning program or combinations thereof.
In reading this chapter it is important 
to keep in mind that hundreds of articles, 
internet blogs, multitudes of book chapters, and many books have been written on this topic of training theory and more specifically about periodization of training. “Agreements and disagreements”, “criticisms and claims of superiority”, and “factual scientific find-ings”, “disagreements between studies”, and “mythology of training outcomes” abound in the literature and on the internet. Keep in mind each anecdotal idea arising from experi -
ences or facts from scientific studies will have a different context for their interpretation and meaning (2). This means that one situational framework for findings that led to X effects may not be totally transferable or generalized to another situational framework (e.g., pro-grams used for college athletes versus junior high school athletes). Care must be taken in your generalizations and appropriate accom -
modations made where necessary. Evaluating readings and struggling with what you want to do is just part of the professional art of being a strength and conditioning professional.
We acknowledge that a host of reference 
materials on this topic, especially since the 1990s, is available for further in-depth study to gain a more global understanding of the concepts related to periodization. We will try to point you in their direction as the chapter progresses as no one group or individual can really proclaim universal understanding on a topic. The hope is that you will use the con-cept of 
evidence-based practice  in your view of 
any workout program or training model (2). 
This involves a systematic process in decision 
making with available knowledge on topics ranging from anecdotal to scientific findings in order to use an evidence-based process for best practices and decision making. Amonette et al. (2) have recently developed a new six-step 

PERIODIZATION OF RESISTANCE TRAINING373
evidence-based approach for such purposes. 
It is a cyclical process of the team looking at the question and then finding the best evidence and evaluating it with individual analyses and testing etc. The basic domains for this process are:
• Develop the question you are trying to answer for your program
• Search for evidence
• Evaluate the evidence
• Incorporate the evidence into practice
• Confirm the evidence to the individual
• Re-evaluate the evidence
This approach gives some valuable 
insights into decision making and evaluating various forms of knowledge in making exer -
cise program design and progression decisions. Nevertheless, controversy is just part of the history and struggle for any training theory as it continues in its development with our empirical use and laboratory studies. As one coach said a long time ago about the field of strength and conditioning, “If you get into this field, the timid need not apply”.
Keep in mind in the pursuit of program 
design that one starts with finding a basic “paradigm” or “framework” to work from in order to develop a resistance training program. The late University of Connecticut strength and conditioning coach, Jerry Martin, whom I (WJK) was honored to work with for so many years, used to tell me, “What do we know about the science of this particular approach to training for this sport?” Historically this is where “the rubber meets the road” and con -
tinues to do so as program ideas and theories along with training technology many times out-distance scientific facts. However, that is acceptable if one uses science as a compass to get started in a general direction and then moves on from there as that training data pre -
sents itself.
As training time goes forward, goals change 
as the body adapts to the exercise stimuli cre -
ated by the conditioning programs, in this case resistance training. Resistance training pro -
gram design is therefore a dynamic process of change in response to the achievement or lack thereof of training program goals. Concepts for progression have been put forth over the years in general formats or paradigms for use by healthy individuals and athletes (1,30).
We often think of periodization in a singu -
lar training model or concept. However, again it is important to note that historically, peri-odization models in training theory are very diverse in nature, as are the sportsmen and women they are used for training. Thus, one might say there is no one periodized program, but rather a group of periodized training mod -
els that use some inherent concepts in the 
design of training programs to meet the diverse 
needs of many different athletes in different sports or individuals attempting to improve fitness, health, and performance. The purpose of this chapter is to provide a basic overview of periodization in resistance training as well as perspectives and insights for your consid -
eration in program design.
Periodization models are very diverse in nature as 
are the sportsmen and women they are used for training.
INCREASING INTEREST IN 
PERIODIZED TRAINING IN 
THE WESTERN WORLD
In the competitive worlds of weightlifting and 
track and field, it became apparent that train -
ing progression was one key to success. The thirst for such training information was driven by the success of the former Soviet Union and Eastern bloc countries in the Olympic Games from the 1960s forward. Dr. Tudor Bompa, formerly a Romanian Olympic crew athlete and a coach of multitudes of Olympic medal winners, and later a professor at York University in Canada, has been considered by many to be the individual who brought the concept of periodization to the Western world of sports training. He also has been one of the most prolific interpreters of periodized train-
ing theories with 14 books and a multitude of 
articles originating from the 1970s to today, including recent collaborations with current co-author Dr. Greg Haff from Edith Cowan University in Perth Australia (e.g., see (4–6,84). In 1975, Carl Miller, then the Head Coach of 

WILLIAM J. KRAEMER, MATTHEW K. BEELER374
USA Weightlifting, sent mimeographed (i.e., 
blue print) papers to all of its members over -
viewing the Bulgarian periodized training program used by their weightlifters. In many ways, this was big news to me (WJK) and many others who got the program approach in the mail from Coach Miller. This program was another version of classic periodization theories that had been developed in the former Soviet Union.
The exposure of the periodization concept 
in North America and its interpretation for American sport coaches was also driven by a few young scientists in the 1970s who were weight -
lifters themselves, most notably, Dr. Michael Stone and Dr. John Garhammer. Dr. Stone, for -
merly a physiologist at the National Strength Research Center at Auburn University, is now running an Olympic Center for Excellence in Sports Science and Coaching Education with an emphasis in weightlifting at East Tennessee State University. Dr. John Garhammer com -
pleted his doctoral degree in biomechanics at UCLA and later served as a professor at California State University, Long Beach. Their work in the area of periodized training con -
tinues today with presentations, books, and papers with special reference toward weight -
lifting and sports (see 11,13,14,69,71,73,74). Additionally, articles by Dr. Michael Yessis, a professor at the California State University at Fullerton, were also instrumental with his Russian translational sport training papers in his Yessis Review of Soviet Physical Education and Sports.
With the establishment of the National 
Strength and Conditioning Association (NSCA) in 1978 and the NSCA Journal, the stage was set to expose this concept to the world of strength and conditioning coaches working with other sports in the Western world, most notably the United States of America (see 12,70,72). By 1981 a long-awaited English translation from a German translation of the original Russian of a book by Professor Leonid Pavlovich Matveyev of the former Soviet Union 
became available. He overviewed many of the 
historical developments of periodized train -
ing for sports in the former Soviet Union (34). Additionally, the NSCA developed conference trips to the former Soviet Union in the early 1980s to allow coaches to interact with the sport training coaches at the time. The 1980s were a fertile time for prolific interest and desire to implement resistance training pro -
grams using periodization. From this, strength and conditioning professionals of all types were progressively exposed to periodization concepts and programs.
From this early exposure of the periodiza -
tion model and concept, a plethora of different periodized training approaches would evolve over the years to address the needs of dif -
ferent sports and fitness training. As time went on the original concept of Professor Matveyev’s model of periodization has not been without controversy. The concept of peri -
odization originated in the early days of the Soviet Union’s pursuit of athletic dominance. Professor Yuri V. Verchoshansky, another very notable Russian sport scientist and training theorist over the last 60 years, published a paper in 1998 in a German journal that was later translated into English in a number of publication outlets that criticized the original theory (78). The paper in English translation entitled “The end of periodization in the train -
ing of high performance sport” was a shocking title for many of us working in the area. Upon closer review, this Russian scientist who was considered the father of shock training and plyometric training in many people’s opinion had some challenges to periodization concepts as originally developed.
First, his contention was the fact the 
Matveyev’s early conceptualization of the training theory had not yet met rigorous scientific study due to the fact that achieve -
ments of the former Soviet Union’s athletes in the World and Olympic competitions were so amazing. Furthermore, most of the origi -
nal data arose for short-term training studies in only a few sports in the former Soviet Union’s system early on in its development. Next, our understanding of many sports was limited or in its infancy. Finally, by the 1990s he postured that the original theory as proposed had its limitations in dealing with 
the modern competition calendars and sport 
demands, especially teams. Today, the NSCA continues to publish papers on periodization of resistance training concepts in professional journals and remains a valuable source of professional training and education.

PERIODIZATION OF RESISTANCE TRAINING375
WHY PERIODIZED 
TRAINING?
Without proper planning and design of an 
all-encompassing training program, results may not be optimal, and major training ben -
efits may become stagnant or lost (75). Even in today’s world of sports and fitness pursuits, not enough time is given to the importance of plain “rest” for physiological and psycho -
logical 
recovery . This is where periodization of 
training made a significant impact by formally planning for day(s) of rest. At its core, strength and conditioning periodization is simply a way to provide program 
variation  in the training 
stimuli while using planned rest periods, ensur -
ing proper restoration and recovery from each training session (16). Research studies, while ongoing in their pursuit of understanding dif -
ferent periodized training program approaches, clearly delineates that some form of periodiza -
tion in a strength and conditioning program is superior to none (33,45,48,82). Again, the focus of any resistance training program must view training as it relates to the very specific needs of the individual’s training goals.
Periodization made a significant impact in the field 
by formally planning for day(s) of rest.
VARIATION AND REST 
ARE FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTS TO ANY PERIODIZATION  TRAINING MODEL
Planning training programs involves both pro-
gression and integration of all conditioning programs. In strength and conditioning, one of the key factors for optimal training outcomes is the “variation” provided in the exercise programs. Programs become even more chal-lenging with athletes who address not only strength and power as performance outcomes but other performance capabilities as well (e.g., aerobic fitness, local muscular endur -
ance). Training for both strength and power in addition to maximal aerobic fitness is now often called a “compatibility issue” with con -
current or simultaneous training. It has been shown that aerobic endurance training can interfere and negatively impact strength and power development (18,19,28,35,49,54). This appears to be due to the effects of such concurrent training at the level of muscle fib -
ers, especially the Type I (slow twitch fibers) found in motor units in the early recruitment order for force development (28). From this literature, proper frequency and intensity of each exercise needs to be considered so as not to push the individual into an acute “non- functional” overreaching condition (i.e., loss of performance with program mistakes that may be from an unknown source but recov-ered if stimuli are removed). If not addressed it could progress to an 
overtraining syndrome  
with long-term performance stagnation (53,67,68). Thus, how much aerobic training is needed by an athlete must be determined by the “needs analysis” of the sport, and many times for strength power sports it can be met with interval training (8).
Importantly, one can only address a few 
priorities in any one phase or cycle of train -
ing, thereby requiring coaches and athletes to understand that training “priorities” of each cycle have to be determined (8). Often failure in a training program is the result of trying to do too much with the limited amount of time available in any one specific training cycle. Thus, developing a resistance training program for many sports sits in a multi-dimensional environment of stressors and requires a lot of integrated prioritization and planning. Again, while outside of the scope of this chapter, we will try to point out some of the contexts that must be taken into consid -
eration when designing a resistance-training program. Overall stresses that must be con -
sidered and understood for each athlete can 
be seen in Figure 14.1.
Optimal variation in the training stimulus 
is also augmented by strategic incorporation of rest days and weeks.
 In recent times, this 
reflects the concept of reliance and long-term successful participation in sport or other occu -
pations (e.g., warfighters, firefighters, and police). The concept of “periodization” of train -
ing allows for planned variation in resistance  

WILLIAM J. KRAEMER, MATTHEW K. BEELER376
PERFORMANCEHEREDI TY
WORK
SCHOOL
SOCIAL LIFE
Exerci se 
TRAINING  
Stres sorsDAIL Y 
NUTR ITIONPHYSICAL  
ENVIRONM ENTCOACH ATHLETE 
INTERACTION
INJURYSLEEP
FACTORS (STRES SORS) AFFECTING 
Training Effectivenes s RESTORATION/
RECOVE RY
Figure 14.1  Factors (stressors) affecting training 
effectiveness.
program design while considering what other 
exercise or sport stressors must also be con -
sidered. No matter what the total demands are, “recovery” is the key factor for optimal conditioning progression as well as in sport competition. Recovery involves more than what is going on in the skeletal muscles; it spans to other organs and systems, includ -
ing the brain. From studies on overtraining it appears that one or two complete days of rest in a week can reduce the potential for acute non-functional overreaching in strength or high force development (10).
While beyond the scope of this chapter, 
nutrition plays a huge role in the recovery process and was much more a part of perio -
dization theory than what has been translated into the Western literature from its develop-ment in the former Soviet Union (80). Thus, only parts of the total concept of periodized training programs really came through, those being some of the strength training approaches or paradigms used with various sports (85,86). As noted before, other factors from nutrition to recovery therapies were also part of the overall programs. Today recovery techniques are a hot area of research and span a wide array of interventions from nutritional supple -
ments to physical therapy type interventions (e.g., cryotherapy, compression) to neurologi -
cal aspects (e.g., mindfulness, deprivation float therapy, and sleep therapies). But even with different recovery interventions individual responses are highly variable, again pointing to the importance of keeping the concepts of “personalized medicine” or “individual-ized programing” front and center. In essence recovery is now a total body phenomenon, but periodization or the variation in conditioning programs plays a huge role as a modulator of conditioning stress.
Training periodization allows for the divi-
sion of a training program into smaller periods, 
giving coaches and practitioners a structured 
and planned way to properly program exer -
cise (23). Again, although there is considerable diversity in the exact strategies used to accom -
plish periodization, it is clear in all strategies that manipulating all, or some, of the core acute program variables (frequency, intensity, volume, rest periods, repetition velocity) in both short- and long-term programs is a key to success.
THEORETICAL BASIS FOR 
PERIODIZATION
Having worked as a professor with Dr. Vladimir 
Zatsiorsky, who came to Canada in 1989, to UCLA in 1990, and to the Pennsylvania State University in 1991, I (WJK) had the honor to work and teach with him for several years. Interestingly, together we taught a course on the theory of resistance training. Over the years it was interesting to hear of the evolution of training concepts in the former Soviet Union as overviewed in his seminal books, one edition of which I was honored to be a part of as a co-author (85,86). Our course integrated Eastern and Western thoughts of sports conditioning.  
Dr. Zatsiorsky was a physics and mathematical genius in biomechanics who has developed so many fundamental concepts in the biomechan -
ics field. He has worked with some of the most legendary weightlifters of the Soviet Union (e.g., David Rigert, Vasily Alekseyev). His applications 
for training in sports, especially resistance train-
ing, grew out of this scientific base in the former Soviet Union. There he was Head of and the Chair of Biomechanics in the Central Institute of Physical Culture, Moscow; 1987–1989, Director of the All-Union Research Institute of 

PERIODIZATION OF RESISTANCE TRAINING377
Physical Culture, Moscow; 1974–1987, Head 
and Professor of the Biomechanics and Chair in the Central Institute of Physical Culture, Moscow; 1960–1974, and Associate Professor and Full Professor at the Central Institute of Physical Culture, Moscow. From this experience I had with him, it was clear that math, physics, and computations of elite athletes’ training pro -
gressions that led to successful outcomes were key to understanding periodization approaches developed over the decades in the former Soviet Union. This along with advanced technique training and individualization of programs made it work.
Special attention was also given to the 
bench-top research published in scientific jour -
nals related to 
stress . In particular, in the early 
years it was fascination with the work of a Canadian endocrinologist named Hans Selye, who was interested in stress. Dr. Selye was interested in the endocrine responses to exter -
nal stressors and the response to the stress, which allowed for a biological meaning for an adaptive behavior to a pathogenic insult, and was the cornerstone of adaptive stress theory recently overviewed eloquently in a paper by Gorban et al. (15). In that proscess, Dr. Selye was interested in a variety of external stressors (e.g., chemical agents, disease, states, etc.) on endocrine function with a special focus on the adrenal cortex. Most of the time he utilized cellular or animal models (55–57,59–63,65). While he was never really an applied scientist, his findings were applied to training theory by other coaches, most notably Fred Wilt, a track coach at Purdue University, and Forbes Carlile, a swim coach from Australia, and other sci -
entists including those from the former Soviet Union. From Dr. Selye’s body of research it became apparent that a stress model existed. It showed that any new stressor had a type of tri-phasic response including an initial “alarm response” which could be generally tolerated for a period of time (e.g., six to eight weeks) before a turn for the worse or distress would occur, ultimately leading to the death of the organism. This resulted in a theory of stress conceptualized by Dr. Selye in a series of papers on stress adaptation syndrome that led to his later terming it 
General Adaptation 
Syndrome  (58). As his research developed, he 
saw his work as having important influences on health and wellbeing, which culminated in his 1956 book The Stress of Life (64).
From this General Adaptation Syndrome, 
it was then translated into a model for exer -
cise or sports training over the years from the 1950s on. But this was essentially a general theory of stress. While it provided a frame-work of biological responses to pathogens, it could not address the multitude of highly inte -
grated and very specific stressors arising from sport. Nevertheless, popularity for using this model as a basic starting point persisted and evolved. From a training perspective it essen-tially showed the need for rest in order to reset the body and allow recovery. Continued train -
ing with the same program was thought to lead to plateaus or training stagnation, which could then lead to a type of overtraining syndrome (9). Thus, there was a need to start over with the training process with a new program theo -
retically leading to a higher level of adaptive changes, later called “supercompensation” (see Figure 14.2).
Generally, periodization of training pro -
grams take advantage of the cyclical nature of response to stress in biological systems to force changes in programs preceded by rest periods. This augmented training effect by not pushing one into an overtraining syndrome was described by Russian scientist Nikolai N. Yakovlev as the supercompensation cycle as overviewed in a classic paper by Professor Atko Viru, who in his own right pioneered the field of exercise endocrinology and role of hormonal regulation as an underlying mecha-nism for energy and the plasticity of response to the stressors of exercise and exercise train -
ing (79). In response to stress, the body will initially attempt to adapt to meet the demands of the stressor. This was subsequently shown in research on the alarm reaction to dif-ferent types of resistance training program progressions and methods to obviate the initial decreases (31,81). Interestingly, these studies showed that creatine supplementation and amino acids were shown to be effective in reducing this initial decrease seen with a new resistance exercise stressor. However, given proper rest, the individual becomes stronger and more resilient to further stressors as shown in many studies of the “repeated bout effect” first shown in 1987 by Dr. Pricilla Clarkson’s 

WILLIAM J. KRAEMER, MATTHEW K. BEELER378
100%
0%
Training  TimeGenetic Adaptation Ceiling  
Training  Gains 
Beginner IntermediateA dvan cedE lite
Figure 14.3  The genetic adaptation ceiling.AB CA B C
A. Alarm: An initial stressor, in our 
case resistance training, is 
presented and causes an acute decrease in performance.
13
2
1. If the stressor is not discontinued, or if there 
is an inadequate recovery period between 
stressors, performance will decrease below baseline and cause over training.
2. If the stressor is increased and continued 
after an adequate amount of recovery time, 
the baseline ability is improved and 
supercompensation may occur again.
3. If the new stressor is not great enough, a 
plateau may occur where the stressor is not 
adequate enough to cause a continued response. Initial Ability LevelNew Ability Level
B. Resistance: The body responds 
to the initial stressor and brings
the body back to homeostasisand baseline ability levels.  
C. Supercompensation: A new 
ability level is achieved in response to the initial stressor.
Figure 14.2  General adaptation syndrome 
(GAS).
group at the University of Massachusetts (38), 
and shown to be important even in such prep-aration for reducing muscle damage with a contact sport in the early practices of summer in American football (27).
Rest is a key factor in any periodization 
training program. A highly trained athlete or individual will require higher volumes and intensities to see progress in a training pro -
gram (42). Thus, recovery is needed for repair of tissues and also psychological recovery from the training and the sport and this places a premium on quality rest phases. Here we see how the “practice and art” of the profession as a strength and conditioning coach comes into play. We will discuss this concept later in the chapter as the quality of the workout and the ability to recover become important for deci -
sions as to the specific workout performed each day.
COMPLEXITY OF 
TRAINING CHANGES  AND NEEDS IN A PERIODIZED PROGRAM
The complexity of training will increase as the 
athlete progresses in both their ability and expe -
rience with resistance training. Consequently, the rate of adaptation and the subsequent improvements from training decrease as the athlete becomes more experienced and  performance increases to genetic ceilings (51) 
(see Figure 14.3). However, while adaptations 
in one system may hit their genetic ceiling, other systems are not yet fully adapted and
 
contribute to performance improvements. In a classic study of weightlifters over two years, Dr. Häkkinen and his colleagues at the University of Jyvaskyla in Finland showed that with long-term training in highly trained weightlifters only minor increases in muscle fiber size (i.e., little muscle hypertrophy) were observed (17). Thus, the improvements in performance were mediated by the nervous system, which also requires recovery in order to balance the sym -
pathetic and parasympathetic systems, now often determined with heart rate variability analyses.

PERIODIZATION OF RESISTANCE TRAINING379
For example, training for power has 
many different adaptive windows for adapta-
tion beyond the improvement of just force in the power equation. Attention to these other trainable characteristics (e.g., velocity) can help continue improvements in power when force may be hitting a ceiling for improve-ment (40). Often this is called 
prioritization  
of training. In one example during an in-season program, training NCAA Division I women volleyball players using the traditional periodized program with the focus on heavy loading for strength, approach jump power, and performance were decreased by about 5% by mid-season. Then with a shift in the focus of the primary variable now being power, and using more ballistic training emphasis, by the end of the season a 5% increase in power was observed but no different from the start of the season (39). Upon reflection of our study, while the change in the prioritization of the training shifted to recover lost power, a maintenance of maximal strength with a focus on ballistic power training and performance may have been a wiser choice. This study underscored that for a periodized training program to be effective, more frequent testing or monitoring of training logs is needed. There is a need to programmatically respond more quickly to changes in an athlete’s workout performance or physical status in real time.
There is still very little empirical evidence 
showing one form of periodization as being superior to another in all cases or training sit -
uations for all athletes in different sports, but again some model of “variation” is superior to constant training approaches (7,8). Also, considerable variation can be found in the ways each individual practitioner describes and implements each type of periodization sequencing.
In this chapter we can only provide a basic 
overview to strength and conditioning profes-sionals about periodization, but it is certainly not an exhaustive review of all known strategies of periodization, neither is it a pure scientific review of all known literature. It is, however, an overview of some of the primary concepts a strength and conditioning practitioner may consider and utilize to start his/her study of periodization. It will also allow you to employ some basic concepts in a resistance-training program to elicit a better training response than just using a constant programing approach.
PERIODIZATION 
TERMINOLOGY
As one becomes a student of periodization 
and training theory one can see that there is a multitude of terms used. This concern for a lack of universal understanding of such terminology has been a common issue his-torically for all of the exercise literature, and especially in training theory and periodiza -
tion concepts (6,77,78,85,86). We will frame this chapter overview with some of the more common and accepted terms used in periodi -
zation program theory.
Common to most variations of periodiza-
tion models, individual lengths of time during a periodization program can be described by certain terms from longest duration to smallest: multi- or single-year preparation, 
macrocycle , 
mesocycle , microcycle , and training session , 
which in some periodization approaches is a 
microcycle (see Figure 14.4). The many differ -
ent 
periodization programs typically use some 
form of these common terms to describe their unique program structures.
The macrocycle is typically the longest-term 
planned phase and was originally meant to encompass an entire yearly season. In Olympic athletes, the quadrennial cycle is typically the longest duration planned phase, as it encom-passes a four-year Olympic period. In modern times, sport has adapted to require several competitive seasons in a year and thus, the mac -
rocycle can be represented by shorter, several month periods and repeated many times in a year as needed. The mesocycle is traditionally the culmination of several weeks of training, with the macrocycle normally comprised of mul-tiple mesocycles. The microcycle may vary from a full week to several days in length, with the mesocycle consisting of multiple summed micro -
cycles. The smallest training unit is the individual training session. Several training sessions can be summed to create a microcycle, yet as we will see in non-linear (also called undulating periodiza -
tion) periodized training approaches, the single training session represents a microcycle.

WILLIAM J. KRAEMER, MATTHEW K. BEELER380
MacrocycleMulti/Single-Year Preparation 
Mesocycle
Microcycle
Training
Session
Figure 14.4  Progression from a single training session to a multi/single year preparation.
TRADITIONAL/LINEAR 
PERIODIZATION
The traditional model of periodization pro -
posed from its original form used in the 
former Soviet Union has in recent times also 
been referred to as linear periodization  due to 
an increasing intensity of resistance with each phasic cycle of training over time (8,10,66). At its core, 
traditional or classic periodization  
involves manipulating training volume and intensity in an opposing fashion over long periods of time, broken into separate train-ing phases. This original phasic sequence approach has been criticized as not being able 
to address the needs of some elite athletes or 
sports with demanding schedules (78). Thus, one can use it as a paradigm and then alter training use and phase lengths etc. and in some cases integrate multiple periodization 
approaches in the same macrocycle (32,43). 
The terminology used to delineate these training phases and each phase’s time-length 
varies greatly, depending on the specific sport 
and country of origin (see Figure 14.5). For 
example, traditional American sport specific 
terminology uses a pre-season to delineate
 
the mesocycles done before the season starts 
whereas the American strength and power 
terminology breaks the pre-season up into a 
typical hypertrophy and subsequent strength and power mesocycles. European terminology 
calls this pre-season mesocycle a prepara -
tory and first transition phase. Following these general preparatory phases, a typical peaking, competitive, or in-season phase is used to allow the general preparation work to culminate in a maximum performance. Following these phases, some form of active rest is taken, with low volume and intensity work used to recover for the next macrocycle. In the recovery phase, training is generally not stopped, but instead sport specific training is generally ceased and all other forms of train -
ing are markedly decreased. The contents and length of the active recovery/off-season period depends on the level of the athlete, with high level athletes typically needing longer dura -
tions of rest than less experienced athletes. Also the drop off of volume of training is less dramatic in more highly trained strength/power athletes (43).
Regardless of the terminology, the core 
setup of traditional periodization is similar between all variations. Classical traditional periodization typically uses a sequential method of programming exercise. This means that only one specific training goal (hyper -
trophy, max strength, power) is programmed for at one time. In the first mesocycle, vol -
ume is high, as a large amount of exercises is used with high volume in order to train many physical abilities at once with a large 

PERIODIZATION OF RESISTANCE TRAINING381
Skills training
Intensity
VolumePre-season In-season Off-season
Hypertroph yS trength/power Peaking Active rest
Preparation First transition CompetitionSecond
transition/ active
restPeaking
-High volume
-Lower intensity
-Many gene ral 
abilities trained 
simul taneously
-Low sports 
speciﬁc skill 
training-Volume lowered
-Intensity raised
-Focus on speed
strength, power , 
and maximum strength-Sport speciﬁc skills tr aining 
raised-Sport speciﬁc 
skills major 
emphasis-High in tensity 
with very little volume-In-season 
maintenance -Taper be fore 
competition  -Little volume
or int ensit y
-Little no
sport speciﬁc training
-Focus onrecovery andgener al
training
Figure 14.5  Periodized model to promote peaking during the in-season phase.
volume. Additionally, toleration of resistance 
exercise or a new program is developed in the first phase. Sports specific skills, as well as intensity, are kept low to account for this large general training phase. Typically, aero -
bic training, as well as muscular endurance, hypertrophy, and general movement tech -
nique work share the bulk of the 
volume 
load during the first mesocycles of traditional 
periodization. This initial mesocycle is meant to build the general abilities of the athlete. As the program progresses, the athlete begins the peaking/competitive/in-season phase. This period is marked by a decrease in volume, with subsequent increases in intensity and sports specific skills training. Typically, exer -
cises meant to increase maximum strength as well as power are programmed along with higher volumes of sports specific practice in preparation for competition. The gains made in the previous general preparatory phases are culminated in a high intensity sport spe -
cific peaking phase that allows for maximum performance directly before a competition. The last period, active rest, allows the athlete to recover from the competitive phase using active rest techniques. Generally, the athletes do not completely abstain from programmed exercise, but all training is drastically reduced in volume and intensity. Sports specific train -
ing is normally ceased for this duration.TRADITIONAL 
PERIODIZATION 
MODIFICATIONS
Minor modification may be made to the tra -
ditional linear model of periodization that 
may improve its efficacy for more advanced athletes (43). In particular, alterations in short-term programming of loading may help alleviate some of the shortcomings of tradi -
tional periodization.
Alterations in short-term programming of loading, 
particularly in advanced athletes, may improve the efficacy of a periodized program.
One major criticism of traditional perio -
dization is the monotonous nature of the 
loading over a long-term program. Traditional periodization requires the athlete to train for a certain ability (hypertrophy, maximum strength, power) over the course of many weeks, possibly months with very similar loads and volumes. The practitioner may get around this limitation by programming short-term var -
iations in the volume and intensity of training, termed 
step loading . Overall, the same discrete 
goals are trained in a similar fashion, but the short-term loading schemes allow for greater 

WILLIAM J. KRAEMER, MATTHEW K. BEELER382
variation. For example, during the hypertrophy 
or pre-season phase a high volume of training is programmed for many different abilities such as hypertrophy, general aerobic conditioning, and muscular endurance. The practitioner may increase the total volume load for all exercise each week, typically for a total of two to four weeks, then program a rest week where the total volume load is significantly reduced for all exercises. This pattern resembles a staircase, where each step represents an increase in total volume load. The rest week is programmed to allow for restitution and recovery and prevent non-functional overreaching or overtraining. This pattern can be repeated as many times as needed for each mesocycle or phase of tradi-tional periodization.
NON-TRADITIONAL 
PERIODIZATION
Since its mainstream adoption sometime in the 
middle of the twentieth century, periodization of sports training has seen a host of different vari-ations come about to meet some of the original criticisms by Verhoshansky of being too phasic (77,78). Nevertheless, it was clear from the per -
formances of the eastern Europeans and former Soviet Union in many international competitions that some form of periodization was essential for maximal performance in competition (16). However, modern research and techniques have made possible a deeper understanding of physiological and psychological adaptations to training that allow for a more well thought out approach to planning athletes’ work. In many ways, the traditional model of periodization falls short, and the approach to training periodi -
zation is not optimal for athletes at high level or that have many competitions in a single season. The following programs have been developed to help alleviate these problems and may be more appropriate for higher level athletes competing multiple times in a competitive season.
Block periodization
One consequence of the rethinking of resistance training planning was a modified traditional periodization scheme known as 
block perio-
dization . Vladimir Issurin defined it as “a 
training cycle of highly concentrated special -
ized workloads” (22,23). Essentially, each block is designed to focus on a discrete num -
ber of abilities with a large volume of different exercises focused on those few abilities. Unlike the thinking of traditional periodization, this non-traditional approach such as block perio-dization allows for great variation of volume and intensity within the daily and weekly programming (23). But much like traditional periodization, block periodization may still be considered a sequential method due to only one training goal being focused on within a one- to four-week period. In its essence, block periodization is a modified version of linear, or classical traditional, periodization. On a short-term scale, the training methods used as well as the volume and intensity programmed are where the differences exist. In its simplest form, each set of mesocycle blocks very much resembles the longer-term programming of traditional periodization. Block periodization progresses from a general training period with higher volumes and lower intensities towards a very specific block of high amounts of strength and power training with high intensity and low volume (41). This happens on a shorter time scale than traditional periodization, and many different microcycle schemes can be used to program short-term intensity and vol -
ume. Many of these mesocycles are summated to a macrocycle scheme. The total volume load when all mesocycles are summated follow a linear trend, where the absolute peak per -
formance is completed after many individual mesocycles have been completed. Each meso -
cycle can be broken down into four blocks that vary in length but are typically described as lasting two to six weeks: general, specific, 
competitive, and recovery (Figure 14.6) (23).
General block
The general block  focuses on accumulating 
training effects by implementing high volumes on the athlete’s general abilities. Training focuses on the base abilities such as cardiores -
piratory endurance, muscular hypertrophy, coordination, and general movement tech -
niques (3,23).

PERIODIZATION OF RESISTANCE TRAINING383
Genera l Bloc k
•Referred to as
accumulatio n
block.
•Development of
basic abilities.
•High volume an d
low intensit y,
developing basi c
endur ance,
strength, an d
coordination .
•M ay last from 2 to
6 weeks gener ally. 
Speciﬁc Bloc k
•Referred to as
transformation ,
or transmutation  
block.
•Volume is
lower ed, intensit y
is raised, and
sports speciﬁc
technique tr aining
and ener getic
mechanisms ar e
increased .
•M ay last from 2
to 4 week s
gener ally.Competitive Block
•Referred to as th e
realization, or
tapering block.
•M odelling of
competitive
perfo rmance.
•Contains an active
rest period to
prepar e athlet e
for competition.
•M ay last from 8
to 15 days .
Recovery Block
•A ctive recove ry is
utilized.
•Preparation for the
next training bloc k
or recove ry from
main ta rgeted
event.
•Lengt h ma y vary
based on leng th
and load of th e
training bloc ks,
competitio n
schedule, athletes ’
individua l
response.
Block Periodization of a Mesocycle
Figure 14.6  Block periodization of a mesocycle.
Adapted from Issurin (2010) (23)
Specific block
Also referred to as the transformation block  or 
transmutation block , this period is character -
ized by a lowering of volume, and an increase 
in intensity of the selected abilities. Typically, this block focuses on more sport specific tasks, allowing the delayed transmutation effects of the generalized training from the previous blocks to improve the more sport specific task.
Competitive block
The competitive block  or realization block  
is typically used as a precompetitive phase. Generally, the training is focused on modeling the event or completing training that directly improves the event. Also included in this block typically is a tapering of training to allow for restitution before the event.
Recovery block
If directly following an event, a recovery block  
is typically used to allow for active rest. This block may be omitted if the mesocycle does not culminate in a specific event, and the beginning of the next block mesocycle can begin directly after the competitive block.
Block periodization’s benefits
What makes block periodization different  
and unique from the traditional model is the flexibility in programming micro and meso -
cycles to meet the needs of advanced athletes. The mesocycles in block periodization are typically much shorter and much more con -
centrated than in traditional theory. Each block can consist of one to four microcycles concentrated on only a few specific abilities. The general block may focus on building large amounts of volume and workload on those few abilities. When transitioning to the spe-cific block, the large training residuals from the general block may lead to the performance of those abilities being at a higher level when competition or peaking comes. In the specific block, the targeted abilities are training with a higher intensity than in the general block, with lowered volume and an emphasis on training the energetic mechanisms and sport specific techniques needed in the individual athlete. The training residuals from this block are shorter than in the general block, but should still induce a training effect at the competitive or realization block. Finally, the realization or competitive block allows for the modeling of competitive performance. Typically, training load is markedly decreased and active recovery is achieved using volume load tapering. This block should allow the athlete to recover and prepare for competition. If no competition is imminent, this block may be used as a testing block, allowing the athlete to peak and test-ing the athlete’s current ability. Many of these 

WILLIAM J. KRAEMER, MATTHEW K. BEELER384
block mesocycles can be summated to create a 
macrocycle in which all of the training abilities are focused on and peaked many times with many different volume and intensity loads.
Mesocycles in block periodization are typically 
shorter and more concentrated than in traditional periodization.
Block periodization attempts to address 
and rectify many of the weak points exposed 
in traditional periodization. To start, tradi-tional methods emphasize the general training of many abilities at once, manipulating the volume and intensity in a counteractive fash -
ion over a long period. As training intensity increases over time, the volume of the work goes down. Although appropriate for begin-ners needing improvements in many general abilities, this poses a problem for advanced athletes that may require large volumes and intensities in a single ability to achieve appro-priate stimulus for adaptation (23). With the simultaneous training of many abilities, and no particular focus on any single ability, an advanced athlete may not receive the proper stimulus for ideal adaptation (24). Block periodization works to solve this problem by introducing concentrated blocks of work on a limited set of abilities. Volume load is con -
centrated on those specific skills, allowing for advanced athletes to experience a stimuli suf-ficient enough to improve in that ability.
Additionally, the simultaneous training of 
many different abilities, as in the traditional model, poses several other physiological prob -
lems (21). The physiological adaptations of many abilities are not compatible. For exam -
ple, when resistance type training is done concurrently with aerobic type training, sig -
nificant negative interactions occur, causing an inhibited response to hypertrophy and strength (83). Traditional models have the athlete training both abilities in a general preparatory stage, usually for a long period 
of time. Training blocks help alleviate this by 
focusing training on a discrete amount of abil -
ities concentrated into shorter specific blocks of time that are physiologically congruent.An additional physiological consideration 
is taken into account with block periodiza-tion. 
Staleness  can present a problem with the 
traditional model. In the traditional model, typically long blocks of time are set aside for different phases of the training program, with only slight variation in volume and intensity. Also, this model uses many of the same exer -
cises and modalities throughout that entire phase. Although an initial adaptation and improvement may be seen, stagnation may 
cause a plateau in performance (21). Blocks are 
designed to combat this staleness, using shorter duration periods that focus on discrete abili -
ties, then a change is made in modalities and volume load to ensure staleness does not occur.
Arguably one of the most important elements 
of block periodization, and possibly why it was developed in the first place, is the consideration of multiple competitive events in a macrocycle (23). The traditional model is typically insufficient in planning a peaking phase for many events in a year, which may be typical in many high-level sports. Normally, there is a possibility for two to three peaks planned in the traditional model. For some sports, such as national level track and field, the need to peak for multiple competitive events throughout the year would not be con-sidered under the traditional method. Therefore, in block periodization multiple macrocycles are developed to allow for many peaks in perfor -
mance throughout a competitive year.
CONJUGATE 
PERIODIZATION
A key to success for advanced athletes may 
lie in ensuring they train with greater volume loads more frequently and with much more varied exercises than less advanced athletes. Block periodization is a step in the right direc -
tion for allowing great variation in workload and content of each workload at many dif -
ferent levels of periodization (43). One other 
advanced non-traditional periodization pro -
gram may be employed to these ends. 
Conjugate 
periodization  helps achieve this and is the work 
of Yuri Verhoshansky (76). In its essence, 

PERIODIZATION OF RESISTANCE TRAINING385
it is very similar to block periodization, but 
may offer more flexibility in inter- and intra-mesocycle variation. Conjugate periodization is an example of a concurrent method of periodization. In concurrent planning, more than one training goal may be focused on within the microcycle, with all abilities being focused on with the similar volume. Conjugate periodization may be used on the inter- or intra-microcycle scale.
The basic tenant of conjugate periodiza-
tion lies in the use of concentrated periods of accumulation for a specific ability followed by a restitution period for that ability (66,76,77) 
(see Figure 14.7). Much like block periodiza -
tion,
 this concentrated loading is specific to a 
discrete ability, like maximum strength, muscu -
lar endurance, or speed strength. Unlike block 
periodization, conjugate periodization uses many different concentrated loading periods for different abilities in close proximity to each other. For example, during the concentrated loading periods, that discrete ability is focused on for a series of microcycles, normally lasting only one week, but may also be a single day within the microcycle. Only minimal mainte -
nance level work is done for all other abilities during this loading period. The large volume load concentrated on that ability causes the athlete to intentionally overreach, and per -
formance of that ability declines (43). The emphasis is then reversed, and a different dis-crete ability is trained that typically does not physiologically overlap with the first concen-trated period. It is during this time that the first ability is allowed to recover using a restitution block. Again, only a minimal amount of main -
tenance work is done on the first ability while the second ability is trained with high volume. Theoretically, during the restitution period, 
supercompensation  will occur in the first abil -
ity allowing for increased performance over the baseline when beginning the next concen -
trated loading period for that ability.
As stated before, practical programming 
with this method may vary. Some practitioners may choose to concentrate loading on a particu -
lar ability on the daily scale. This would allow hypertrophy, strength, and power loading to all be accomplished within the same week. This loading scheme does not vary significantly from week to week, so typically the lifts are varied frequently. In many cases, the lifts are changed each week to avoid overtraining, while achiev-ing functional overreaching in each general skill area. The restitution periods would then pos-sibly be programmed as its own separate week embedded within the mesocycle. Typically, even the most skilled lifters cannot continue at such high intensities indefinitely. Therefore, this res-titution block may be applied once a month, or however frequently the practitioner chooses.
Targeted abilities 1 Targeted abilities 2 Targeted abilities 33rd MesocyclePeaking Peaking PeakingTargeted 
eventAbility Leve lTime
2nd Mesocycle 4th Mesocycle 1st Mesocycle
Figure 14.7  Periodized model to promote peaking at specific times in a competitive period.

WILLIAM J. KRAEMER, MATTHEW K. BEELER386
NON-LINEAR 
(UNDULATING) PERIODIZATION
The evolution of “ undulating ” periodization , 
now called “ non-linear ” periodization  arose 
from the need to achieve “quality workouts” 
within the construct of long sport seasons or when other demands on the athlete or individual impacted their ability to workout. The concept of using different workouts on each day of the week had been originally conceptualized, in part, by Charles Poliquin who started in Canada as a strength coach and became an entrepreneur founding strength fitness centers in Canada and the USA (44). To follow up on our prior discus -
sion, at its core, conjugate periodization is a specific form of daily non-linear periodization. Each ability is concentrated on by a weekly basis in some forms of conjugate periodization. Unlike traditional or block periodization, a great varia-tion in the volume and intensity of exercises is seen on a short-term scale.
Figure 14.8 shows a planned non-linear 
schedule for one week. It consists of different workouts each day with each workout being
 
a microcycle. This comes from a planned mesocycle for 8–12 weeks with the priority of the training feature to be focused on noted (e.g., preparatory mesocycle). Each mesocycle may have a different frequency of different 
workouts yet they are mixed in with highly var -
iable workouts. Then mesocycles are grouped together for the planned macrocycle. Typically 
in the research on non-linear periodization the 
planned method has been used with no real flex -
ibility of the training sequence. Later this would evolve into another form of non-linear perio-
dization where it is more flexible as to what is 
done day to day (i.e., called flexible non-linear 
periodization). This daily variation between 
hypertrophy, strength, and power abilities is 
the hallmark of daily non-linear periodization 
(36,37,46,47,50). Each performance variable 
gets adequate stimulation (i.e., high force or 
power intensities and volumes etc.) every week, 
whereas other methods may concentrate this 
exercise stimuli into longer periods or cycles 
and then the program’s cycle moves to another set of workout protocols different from the one that proceeded it (e.g., going from four weeks of 8–12 reps at 65% of 1RM to 3–6 reps at 85–90% of 1RM for four weeks) (30,82).
While comparisons of different types of 
periodization plans are somewhat nonsensi -
cal due to the many factors and contexts that exist, popularity of this form of programing was spurred on with some early comparative research (48). Planned daily non-linear perio -
dization was shown to be one way around the previous variation methods but also raises its 
Mond ay
Heavy da y  
3-5 sets
3-6 RM
or
85-95% of1RM
Primary exercises
Assistance
exercises
3 sets of 8-10 RM
80% of 1 RM Tuesday
Light day
1-2 sets15-20 RM60-65% of 1 RM
Primary exercises
and
Assistance
exercisesWednesd ay  
REST da y
Care is taken to
allow neededrestThursd ay 
Power day
4-8 sets2-3 re ps
Ranging from
50 to 60% of 1 RM
higher velocity
power in whole bodypower exercises
where  only gr avity
decele rates the weig ht
e.g., Olympicmoveme nts
Plyometric exercises
can be used asadditional exercises
etc.  Friday
Mode rate day  
3-6 sets
8-10 RM
or
70-75% of
1RM
Primary exercises
and assi stance
exercises
Figure 14.8  A planned non-linear periodized training schedule.

PERIODIZATION OF RESISTANCE TRAINING387
own concerns. Mainly, fatigue could be an 
issue. This fatigue could be due to many fac -
tors including sport practices, busy schedules, sleep loss, sickness, or just fatigue from the prior workout. Thus, the quality of the work-out could be compromised. Ultimately just “going through the motions” in a workout would not really contribute to improvement in the training goal. As they say, “You cannot get faster by running slower” and thus quality of training is always an important factor along 
with recovery.
Evolution of flexible non-linear 
periodization
Working with the women’s tennis players in 
one research program in the Center for Sports Medicine at Penn State University through the 1990s we (WJK) noticed how difficult it was to use typical linear periodization progressions. Continued sequence of the same loading etc. resulted in “good and bad” workouts where the athletes were unable to do the workouts at the prescribed intensity or volume. We were faced with an athlete with a long season and who really never stopped playing. Later we found this to be typical of so many other colle -
giate sports with fall and spring seasons. Many also had very long seasons (e.g., basketball, ice hockey, etc.). Thus, we took a cue from con -
jugate methods and Poliquin methods and created a planned non-linear program of dif-ferent intensities and volumes on different days and later published some of these data (26,29). We also had the opportunity in the early 1990s to make comparisons with other programs or just playing tennis alone, which now would be considered a type of malpractice given what we now know about resistance training. We then sought out other methods of trying to improve this concept of non-linear programing. We started with planned non-linear periodization plans and then it morphed into a type of non-linear periodization approach I later called 
“flexible” non-linear periodization in which 
we had an overall planned mesocycle for 8 to 12 weeks but would make daily determina -
tions if one could do the planned workout for that day, and if not we defaulted to another one or made it a rest day (25).This concept would be put on hold 
until I (WJK) got back to the University of 
Connecticut (UCONN) in 2001 where basket -
ball was the school’s top sport. Working with strength and conditioning programs and the late Head Strength and Conditioning Coach Jerry Martin and his staff, most notably Coach Andrea Hudy who worked with the strength and conditioning for the basketball teams, I saw the same problem in this sport as I had noticed in tennis and other sports at 
Penn State. Now with a historic integration 
of sport and exercise science and athletics at UCONN, a unique opportunity existed and we proceeded to develop and implement a “flexible” non-linear periodized resistance training program. As Coach Martin said at the time, “We have the science but now we must see how we can implement it”. The answer was “
flexible ” non-linear programing  
of workouts based on the ability of the ath -
lete to do the workout. Coaches Jerry Martin, Andrea Hudy, and Chris West had developed some questions for this process. They were for pre-workout:
• What are we testing for?
• What affects the pre-workout test?
• What is the pre-workout test?
• How does the test decide the workout?
• What are the workouts?
Keeping in mind the stressors that impact 
the quality of workout, in those early times, we started to use training logs: could the ath -
lete do the workout at or above the previous intensity, power output, and volume as the workout began? Could they perform a vertical jump to at least 90% of their best jump prior to a power workout? We had to convince some sport coaches that doing a workout after a practice may not yield many training benefits due to a lack of quality of the training stimuli. Were they sick or injured? Did they have a high fatigue rating on a fatigue scale? If there were negative implications, the workout was 
defaulted to another one they could do or they 
were told to take the day off and rest or go see the athletic trainer. Later we wrote about this and used flexible non-linear programs in almost all sports and many times in combina -
tion with linear programs when nothing could 

WILLIAM J. KRAEMER, MATTHEW K. BEELER388
interfere with the workout cycle sequences 
(25,32). Coach Hudy would go on in 2004 to the University of Kansas and take flexible non-linear periodization programs to the next level with advanced pre-workout analyses (e.g., using force plate testing) as well as com -
puter analyses of each workout repetition for force, velocity and power with advanced tech-nologies on each power rack working with  
all of their Olympic sport teams, including basketball (20).
Key to any flexible non-linear periodized 
training program was the need for individu-alized monitoring and testing in order to determine the effectiveness of various training cycles or phases. While an early monitoring system was of the training logs themselves, this still remains an important aspect for observing program effectiveness. With on-line monitoring systems feeding computers the result of every set and repetition, a huge amount of training data is now available to strength coaches, but the challenges to keep up in real time use and its interpretation for the next workout has been daunting, espe-cially with high numbers of athletes (52). As 
an example, in Figure 14.8, if one was not 
able to do the heavy day on Monday, as the workout started one 
would default to another 
workout, perhaps the light workout that had been scheduled for Tuesday and then do the heavy workout on Tuesday. It is always a give and take and evaluation of the ability of the individual to be able to do the workout and recover from prior day stressors. As the for -
mer strength coach of the Indianapolis Colts, Coach Jon Torine, who was the coach during their Super Bowl days once told me, “I come into the weight room and have a multitude of different programs going on with the players”. From this they were able to optimize their own potential and have quality workouts and recovery (32).
SUMMARY
Periodization of resistance training has a long history and evolution as a training theory and one that continues to evolve today. Finding the model that best works for you in your situ -
ation is key to success. Understanding some of the fundamental principles and then doing more research and giving further thought to the context you are working within all play a role. We hope that this chapter will help pro -
vide a solid resource for the process you now have to undertake in your quest to help indi -
viduals or athletes be all they can be and reach their potential. No one source of information can give you all the answers but can create a process by which you find answers to your questions (2).
REAL-WORLD APPL iCATiON
Developing a question: similar to a needs analysis
Much like the needs analysis of a sport and its athletes, developing a research question requires 
taking a step back and looking at the bigger picture. For example, the sport of basketball requires the ability to jump; players also need to have long limbs. A researcher must look at his or her question with a similar mindset. For example, boxing requires chasing an opponent around the ring with rapid changes in direction. Because of this, it seems like chicken chasing may be beneficial to a boxer because it resembles chasing an opponent around the ring. Now that a background question has been developed, it is time to develop directed questions such as: How long will the subjects chase the chicken? What type of chickens will be used? Who will the subjects be so that the outcomes can be applied to boxing? What will foot speed be compared to? How many times will the boxer chase the chicken?

PERIODIZATION OF RESISTANCE TRAINING389
REAL-WORLD APPL iCATiON
Periodization for a young high school discus athlete
A high school freshman who is planning on throwing the discus this coming spring sits with 
her coach to determine how to prepare for the upcoming season. She is relatively untrained and has never participated in a resistance-training program, neither has she thrown the discus before. If you were to consult with her coach, how might you design the training program?
There are numerous ways in which the training program could be constructed. The best 
approach would be to consider this athlete’s individual needs and mold the training program to her goals and objectives. Obviously, there are several strategies that could be considered based upon the concepts of periodization.
1 The first step is to consider this athlete’s development as a long-term process in which a multiyear plan should be developed, specifically a quadrennial plan in which her highest levels of performance would be targeted for her senior year.
2 When constructing the annual training plan that will be used for her freshman year, the primary factors to consider are the development of a training base in which longer general preparatory phases would be considered. In this context, targeting strength development as well as performing conditioning activities to get this individual in shape are extremely important. Additionally, this athlete will need to learn how to throw the discus, so there will be substantial time working on remedial drill work at specific time points in the year.
3 To develop the annual training plan, a detailed list of competitions that this athlete will compete in should be generated. This will serve as the foundation for establishing the com -
petitive phase of the annual training plan.
4 To monitor the athlete’s progress, consider spacing performance assessments periodically throughout the training year which examine multiple factors such as muscular strength, muscular power, technical proficiency, and markers of throwing performance. These tests will help in the evaluation of this annual training plan’s success.
It is obvious that his novice athlete will not require advanced training techniques. Consider some of the following:
1 Utilize a classic periodization model approach. This will allow the athlete to have lon-ger periods of development, which will be the foundation for subsequent annual training plans.
2 Since she is a novice, she will require less training volume, intensity, and variation in order to get improvements. As she progresses, her program will need to be modified, specifically in subsequent annual training plans.
3 When implementing the training plan, it is important that the coach communicates with the athlete in order to garner feedback about how the athlete feels about the program as well as to educate the athlete about the training process and why things are being targeted at specific points.
4 Because this athlete has a low training base, be careful to only target a few complementary training factors at any given time point.

WILLIAM J. KRAEMER, MATTHEW K. BEELER390
Q&A FROM THE F iELD
The strength and conditioning coaches on 
staff at the university are evaluating the 
use of chains and bands for power training 
phases. I cannot find a lot of evidence to support their use over traditional training 
methods. Should I implement this type of 
training?
Assistant Strength and Conditioning Coach
Training using bands or chains attached to the 
end of the barbell is a new and popular strength 
and power training method. It helps to overcome some limitations associated with traditional 
strength training (i.e., the mismatch between the 
constant force requirements of lifting a weight versus the variation in force-generating capacity 
through the range of motion). Chains and bands 
apply greater resistance at the top of the range of motion, potentially allowing for improved 
matching of force requirements to force-
generating capacity.
There are few studies at this time evaluating 
this technique. It may be that following long-term training, there is no difference in power development during the bench press exercise in athletes using chains, bands, or traditional weight training methods. Given the lack of conclusive 
evidence, I would not replace traditional 
resistance training and plyometrics with chain or band training. However, it may be used sparingly 
to augment traditional training programs.
Q&A FROM THE F iELD
I recently visited with an elite weightlifting 
coach who coaches several Olympic 
weightlifters. She uses a conjugate 
periodization model with her athletes. Is that the type of program I should use with 
my youth weightlifting club?
Conjugate periodization is an advanced model 
of periodization for advanced athletes. For young athletes, consider a classic model of periodization. 
While the classic model may not be the best for intermediate and advanced athletes, it works well 
with novice or beginning athletes. It allows for a 
stabilization of training effects as well as technical mastery that is essential for the development of 
beginners.
MAxiNG OUT
1 Your little brother’s high school football coach is telling the team to run until they puke 
during summer preseason training. Your brother and his friends complained to the coach, but he responded that they must do it because that is what his coach made them do 20 years ago when they won the state championship. Is this coach’s rationale of training evidence-based? Based on what you learned in the chapter, explain how this conditioning program can become more evidence-based.
2 You are a practicing strength and conditioning coach. You attend a conference where researchers are suggesting that a new type of training is superior to all others and that coaches should immediately begin implementing it into their programs. As a coach, you know that this novel training strategy is not practical in the weight room. How would you go about asking the researcher to take the information presented to you and figure out a way to use it on a day-to-day basis?
3 The researcher from the scenario above tells you that if it can be done in the laboratory, it can be done in a weight room. Where can you look for additional information related to the topic so you can draw your own conclusions by combining the information you find with the novel training method?
4 You are working with a high school football player. What type of periodization model would most likely be the most effective for this athlete?

PERIODIZATION OF RESISTANCE TRAINING391
CASE E xAMPLE
Designing a periodized training program for a recreational basketball player
BackgroundLee is a recreational basketball player who has been resistance training for months. He reports 
that he is no longer getting stronger and feels as though he has hit a plateau. Following a con -
sultation with you, you realize he has been doing the same workout for six months straight. Why have Lee’s strength gains come to a halt, and what can be done to improve his situation?
Recommendations/considerations
Lee’s strength gains have come to a halt likely because his program has lacked variability and 
his body has fully adapted to the stressors applied to his muscles. If Lee continues to do the same workouts, he will experience very few, if any, strength gains, hence his current situation. Lee should change his workout frequently. You should advise him to include hypertrophy workouts for four to six weeks, followed by strength workouts for four to six weeks with a focus on strength and power development. You should advise Lee to concentrate on strength and power because basketball relies heavily on the adenosine triphosphate-phosphocreatine (ATP-PCr) and glycolytic energy systems. In recreational basketball leagues, increased speed and jumping ability will most likely result in success.
REFERENCES
 1. American College of Sports M. American College 
of Sports Medicine position stand. Progression models in resistance training for healthy adults. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc 2009; 41:687–708.
 2. Amonette WE, English KL, Kraemer WJ. 
Evidence-Based Practice in Exercise Science: The Six-Step Approach. Champagin, IL 
Human Kinetics Publishers, 2016, p. 328.
 3. Bartolomei S, Stout JR, Fukuda DH, Hoffman 
JR, Merni F. Block vs. weekly undulating periodized resistance training programs 
in women. J Strength Cond Res 2015; 
29:2679–2687.
 4. Bompa TO. Power Training for Sport. Oakville, ON: Mosaic Press, 1996.
 5. Bompa TO. Variations of periodization of strength. Strength Cond 1996; 18(3):58–61.
 6. Bompa TO, Haff G. Periodization: Theory and Methodology of Training. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2009. 7. Cissik J, Hedrick A, Barnes M. Challenges 
applying the research on periodization. 
Strength Cond 2008; 30:45–51.
 8. Fleck SJ, Kraemer WJ. Designing Resistance Training Programs, 4th Ed. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2014, p. 520.
 9. Fry AC, Kraemer WJ. Resistance exercise overtraining and overreaching. Neuroendocrine responses. Sports Med 1997; 23:106–129.
10. Fry AC, Kraemer WJ, Lynch MJ, Triplett NT, Koziris LP. Does short-term near-maximal intensity machine resistance training induce overtraining? J Strength Cond Res 1994; 8:188–191.
11. Garhammer J. Performance evaluation of Olympic weightlifters. Med Sci Sports 1979; 11:284–287.
12. Garhammer J. Periodization of strength training for athletes. Track Technique 1979; 79:2398–2399.
13. Garhammer J. Power production by Olympic weightlifters. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1980; 12:54–60.5 You are working with a soccer athlete in the general phase of training; how might you 
apply the block model of periodization?
6 You are talking with a fellow coach who wants to know how the classic model of periodi-zation differs from the block model. How might you explain it?

WILLIAM J. KRAEMER, MATTHEW K. BEELER392
14. Garhammer J. Sports Illustrated Strength 
Training. New York: Time Inc., 1986.
15. Gorban AN, Tyukina TA, Smirnova EV, Pokidysheva LI. Evolution of adaptation mechanisms: Adaptation energy, stress, and oscillating death. J Theor Biol 2016; 405:127–139.
16. Haff GG. Roundtable discussion: periodization of training – part 1. Strength Cond 2004; 26:50–69.
17. Häkkinen K, Pakarinen A, Alen M, Kauhanen H, Komi PV. Neuromuscular and hormonal adaptations in athletes to strength training in two years. J Appl Physiol 1988; 65:2406–2412.
18. Hickson RC. Interference of strength development by simultaneously training for strength and endurance. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 1980; 45:255–263.
19. Hickson RC, Rosenkoetter MA, Brown MM. Strength training effects on aerobic power and short-term endurance. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1980; 12:336–339.
20. Hudy A. Power Positions. Kansas City, KS: Andrews McMeel Publishing. 2014.
21. Issurin V. Block periodization versus traditional training theory: a review. J Sports Med Phys Fitness 2008; 48:65–75.
22. Issurin V. Principles and Basics of Advanced Athletic Training. Muskegon Heights, MI: Ultimate Athlete Concepts, 2008.
23. Issurin VB. New horizons for the methodology and physiology of training periodization. Sports Medicine (Auckland, NZ) 2010; 40:189–206.
24. Kraemer WJ, Adams K, Cafarelli E, Dudley GA, Dooly C, Feigenbaum MS, Fleck SJ, Franklin B, Fry AC, Hoffman JR, Newton RU, Potteiger J, Stone MH, Ratamess NA, Triplett-McBride T, American College of Sports M. 
American College of Sports Medicine position 
stand. Progression models in resistance training for healthy adults. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2002; 34:364–380.
25. Kraemer WJ, and Fleck SJ. Optimizing Strength Training: Designing Nonlinear Periodization Workouts. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2007.
26. Kraemer WJ, Häkkinen K, Triplett-Mcbride NT, Fry AC, Koziris LP, Ratamess NA, Bauer JE, Volek JS, McConnell T, Newton RU, Gordon SE, Cummings D, Hauth J, Pullo F, Lynch JM, Fleck SJ, Mazzetti SA, Knuttgen 
HG. Physiological changes with periodized 
resistance training in women tennis players. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2003; 35:157–168.27. Kraemer WJ, Looney DP, Martin GJ, Ratamess NA, Vingren JL, French DN, Hatfield DL, Fragala MS, Spiering BA, Howard RL, Cortis C, Szivak TK, Comstock BA, Dunn-Lewis C, Hooper DR, Flanagan SD, 
Volek JS, Anderson JM, Maresh CM, Fleck 
SJ. Changes in creatine kinase and cortisol 
in National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I American football players during a season. J Strength Cond Res 2013; 27:434–441.
28. Kraemer WJ, Patton JF, Gordon SE, Harman EA, Deschenes MR, Reynolds K, Newton RU, Triplett NT, Dziados JE. Compatibility of high-intensity strength and endurance training on hormonal and skeletal muscle adaptations. 
J Appl Physiol 1995; 78:976–989.
29. Kraemer WJ, Ratamess N, Fry AC, Triplett-
McBride T, Koziris LP, Bauer JA, Lynch JM, Fleck SJ. Influence of resistance training volume and periodization on physiological and performance adaptations in collegiate 
women tennis players. Am J Sports Med 
2000; 28:626–633.
30. Kraemer WJ, Ratamess NA. Fundamentals of resistance training: progression and exercise prescription. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2004; 36:674–688.
31. Kraemer WJ, Ratamess NA, Volek JS, Häkkinen K, Rubin MR, French DN, Gomez AL, McGuigan MR, Scheett TP, Newton RU, Spiering BA, Izquierdo M, Dioguardi FS. The effects of amino acid supplementation 
on hormonal responses to resistance training 
overreaching. Metabolism 2006; 55:282–291.
32. Kraemer WJ, Torine JC, Dudley J, Martin GJ. Nonlinear periodization: insights for use in collegiate and professional american football resistance training programs. Strength Cond 2015; 37:17–36.
33. Marx JO, Ratamess NA, Nindl BC, Gotshalk LA, Volek JS, Dohi K, Bush JA, Gomez AL, Mazzetti SA, Fleck SJ, Häkkinen K, Newton RU, Kraemer WJ. Low-volume circuit versus high-volume periodized resistance training 
in women. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2001; 
33:635–643.
34. Matveev LP. Fundamentals of Sports Training. Moscow: Progress Publishers, 1981.
35. McCarthy JP, Agre JC, Graf BK, Pozniak MA, Vailas AC. Compatibility of adaptive responses with combining strength and endurance training. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1995; 27:429–436.
36. Miranda-Furtado CL, Ramos FK, Kogure GS, Santana-Lemos BA, Ferriani RA, Calado 

PERIODIZATION OF RESISTANCE TRAINING393
RT, Dos Reis RM. A nonrandomized trial of 
progressive resistance training intervention in women with polycystic ovary syndrome and its implications in telomere content. Reprod Sci 2016; 23:644–654.
37. Miranda F, Simao R, Rhea M, Bunker D, Prestes J, Leite RD, Miranda H, de Salles BF, Novaes J. Effects of linear vs. daily undulatory periodized resistance training on maximal and submaximal strength gains. J Strength Cond 
Res 2011; 25:1824–1830.
38. Newham DJ, Jones DA, Clarkson PM. 
Repeated high-force eccentric exercise: effects on muscle pain and damage. J Appl Physiol 1987; 63:1381–1386.
39. Newton RU, Rogers RA, Volek JS, Häkkinen K, Kraemer WJ. Four weeks of optimal load ballistic resistance training at the end of season attenuates declining jump performance of women volleyball players. J Strength Cond 
Res 2006; 20:955–961.
40. Newton RU, Kraemer WJ. Developing 
explosive muscular power: Implications for a mixed methods training strategy. Strength Cond 1994; 16: 20–31.
41. Painter KB, Haff GG, Ramsey MW, McBride J, Triplett T, Sands WA, Lamont HS, Stone ME, Stone MH. Strength gains: block versus daily undulating periodization weight training among track and field 
athletes. Int J Sports Physiol Perform 2012; 
7:161–169.
42. Peterson MD, Rhea MR, Alvar BA. 
Applications of the dose-response for muscular strength development: a review of meta-analytic efficacy and reliability for designing training prescription. J Strength 
Cond Res 2005; 19: 950–958.
43. Plisk SS, Stone MH. Periodization strategies. 
Strength Cond 2003; 25:19–37.
44. Poliquin C. Five steps to increasing the effectiveness of your strength training programs. NSCA J 1988; 10(3):34–39.
45. Rhea MR, Alderman BL. A meta-analysis of periodized versus nonperiodized strength and power training programs. Res Q Exerc Sport 2004; 75:413–422.
46. Rhea MR, Alvar BA, Ball SD, Burkett LN. Three sets of weight training superior to 1 set with equal intensity for eliciting strength. J Strength Cond Res 2002; 16:525–529.
47. Rhea MR, Ball SD, Phillips WT, Burkett LN. A comparison of linear and daily undulating periodized programs with equated volume and intensity for strength. J Strength Cond Res 2002; 16:250–255.48. Rhea MR, Ball SD, Phillips WT, Burkett LN. A comparison of linear and daily undulating periodized programs with equated volume and intensity for strength. J Strength Cond Res 2002; 16:250–255.
49. Rhea MR, Oliverson JR, Marshall G, Peterson MD, Kenn JG, Ayllon FN. Noncompatibility of power and endurance training among college baseball players. J Strength Cond Res 2008; 22:230–234.
50. Rhea MR, Phillips WT, Burkett LN, Stone WJ, Ball SD, Alvar BA, Thomas AB. A comparison of linear and daily undulating periodized programs with equated volume and intensity for local muscular endurance. J Strength Cond 
Res 2003; 17:82–87.
51. Rippetoe M, Kilgore L, Pendlay G. Practical 
Programming for Strength Training. Wichita Falls, TX: The Aasgaard Company, 2007.
52. Sands WA, Kavanaugh AA, Murray SR, McNeal JR, Jemni M. Modern Techniques and Technologies Applied to Training and Performance Monitoring. Int J Sports Physiol Perform 2017; 12:S263–S272.
53. Schwellnus M, Soligard T, Alonso JM, Bahr R, Clarsen B, Dijkstra HP, Gabbett TJ, Gleeson M, Hagglund M, Hutchinson MR, Janse Van Rensburg C, Meeusen R, Orchard JW, Pluim BM, Raftery M, Budgett R, Engebretsen L. 
How much is too much? (Part 2) International 
Olympic Committee consensus statement on load in sport and risk of illness. Br J Sports Med 2016; 50:1043–1052.
54. Sedano S, Marin PJ, Cuadrado G, Redondo JC. Concurrent training in elite male runners: the influence of strength versus muscular endurance training on performance outcomes. J Strength Cond Res 2013; 27:2433–2443.
55. Selye H. The concept of stress as it appears in 1952. Brux Med 1952; 32:2383–2392.
56. Selye H. Dynamics of the general adaptation syndrome; the role of the adrenal and the anterior pituitary glands. Lijec Vjesn 1952; 74:137–143.
57. Selye H. The general-adaptation-syndrome and the diseases of adaptation. Can Nurse 1952; 48:14–16.
58. Selye H. The general adaptation syndrome (G-A-S) and gastroenterology. Rev Gastroenterol 1953; 20:185–190.
59. Selye H. General adaptation syndrome and diseases of adaptation. Med Arh 1952; 6:1–13.
60. Selye H. The general adaptation syndrome and the adaptation diseases. Wien Klin Wochenschr 1952; 64:781–783.

WILLIAM J. KRAEMER, MATTHEW K. BEELER394
61. Selye H. The general adaptation syndrome as 
a basis for a unified theory of medicine. Oral Surg Oral Med Oral Pathol 1952; 5:408–413.
62. Selye H. Prevention of cortisone overdosage effects with the somatotrophic hormone (STH). Am J Physiol 1952; 171:381–384.
63. Selye H. Stress and disease. Trans Am Laryngol Rhinol Otol Soc 312–326; discussion, 326–319, 1955.
64. Selye H. The Stress of Life. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1956.
65. Selye H. Stress, hormones and inflammation. Am J Proctol 1955; 6:226–227.
66. Siff MC, Verkhoshansky YV. Supertraining: Special Strength Training for Sporting Excellence – A Textbook on the Biomechanics and Physiology of Strength Conditioning for All Sport. Denver, CO: Supertraining 
International, 1999.
67. Soligard T, Schwellnus M, Alonso JM. 
Infographic. International Olympic Committee consensus statement on load in sport and risk of injury: how much is too much? Br J Sports Med 2016; 50:1042.
68. Soligard T, Schwellnus M, Alonso JM, Bahr R, Clarsen B, Dijkstra HP, Gabbett T, Gleeson M, Hagglund M, Hutchinson MR, Janse van Rensburg C, Khan KM, Meeusen R, Orchard JW, Pluim BM, Raftery M, Budgett R, 
Engebretsen L. How much is too much? (Part 1)  
International Olympic Committee consensus 
statement on load in sport and risk of injury.  
Br J Sports Med 2016; 50:1030–1041.
69. South MA, Layne AS, Stuart CA, Triplett NT, Ramsey M, Howell ME, Sands WA, Mizuguchi S, Hornsby WG, 3rd, Kavanaugh AA, Stone MH. Effects of short-term free-weight and semiblock periodization resistance 
training on metabolic syndrome. J Strength 
Cond Res 2016; 30:2682–2696.
70. Stone MH, O’Bryant H, Garhammer J. A hypothetical model for strength training. J Sports Med Phys Fitness 1981; 21:342–351.
71. Stone MH, O’Bryant H, Garhammer J, McMillian J, Ronsenek R. A theoretical model of strength training. NSCA J 1982; 4: 36–39.
72. Stone MH, O’Bryant H, Garmahmmer J, McMillian J, Rozenek R. A theoretical model of strength training. NSCA J 1982; 4: 36–39.
73. Stone MH, Stone M, Sands WA. Principles and Practice of Resistance Training Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics 2007, p. 375.74. Stowers T, McMillan J, Scala D, Davis V, Wilson D, Stone M. The short-term effects of three different strength-power training methods. NSCA J 1983; 5:24–27.
75. Turner A. The science and practice of periodization: a brief review. Strength Cond 2011; 33:35–46.
76. Verkhoshansky Y. Fundamentals of Special Strength-Training in Sport. Livonia, MI: Sportivny Press, 1986.
77. Verkhoshansky Y. Main features of a modern scientific sports training theory. New Studies in Athletics 1998; 13:9–20.
78. Verkoshansky Y. The end of “periodization” of training in top-class sport. New Studies in Athletics 1999; 14:47–55.
79. Viru A. Early contributions of Russian stress and exercise physiologists. J Appl Physiol 2002; 92:1378–1382.
80. Volek JS. Influence of nutrition on responses to resistance training. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2004; 36:689–696.
81. Volek JS, Ratamess NA, Rubin MR,  
Gomez AL, French DN, McGuigan MM, Scheett TP, Sharman MJ, Häkkinen K, Kraemer WJ. The effects of creatine supplementation on muscular  
performance and body composition responses to short-term resistance training overreaching. Eur J Appl Physiol 2004; 
91:628–637.
82. Willoughby DS. The effects of mesocycle-length weight training programs involving periodization and partially equated volumes on upper and lower body strength. J Strength Cond Res 1993; 7:2–8.
83. Wilson JM, Marin PJ, Rhea MR, Wilson SMC, Loenneke JP, Anderson JC. Concurrent training: a meta-analysis examining interference of aerobic and resistance exercises. J Strength Cond Res 2012; 
26:2293–2307.
84. Wright GR, Bompa T, Shephard RJ. 
Physiological evaluation of winter training programme for oarsmen. J Sports Med Phys Fitness 1976; 16:22–37.
85. Zatsiorsky VM. Science and Practice of Strength Training. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 1995.
86. Zatsiorsky VM, Kraemer WJ. Science and Practice of Strength Training. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2006.

Contents
Introduction  397
Endurance performance  398
Maximal oxygen consumption  398
Mechanical efficiency  399
Fractional utilization and training zones  400
Types of training  403
Programming  405
Summary  412
References  414

15 CHAPTER
OBJECTIVES
After completing this chapter, you will be able to:
• Understand what factors influence aerobic performance.
• Recognize the physiological changes that occur with positive aerobic adaptations.
• Know how to designate athlete-specific training intensities.
• Learn how to track athlete-specific positive and negative adaptations.
• Understand how to use absolute HR.
• Grasp how training can be programmed to enhance performance.AEROBIC EXERCISE PRESCRIPTION
Anthony B. Ciccone, Loree L. Weir, and Joseph P. Weir
KEY TERMS
Absolute HR
(a−v)O2 difference
Cardiovascular driftCompetition periodContinuous trainingEconomyFartlek trainingFractional utilizationGeneral preparatory 
period
Interval trainingLactate thresholdMaximal cardiac outputMechanical efficiencyPacingPercentage of race paceSelf-perceived exertionSpecific preparatory 
period
StrategyTraining zonesVO
2 max
INTRODUCTION
Endurance exercise performance is governed 
by the interplay of a variety of physiological, psychological, and mechanical factors. Here we define endurance performance as perfor -
mance in exercise tasks that depend heavily on aerobic metabolism, as opposed to being primarily governed by muscle strength and/or power (e.g., throwing events in track and field, line play in American football) or anaerobic (phosphagen and glycolytic) metabolic sys-tems (e.g., 400 meter sprint in track and field). Events such as 1500 meter and longer run -
ning events, cycling races, and most swimming events are primarily limited by factors amenable to aerobic exercise training. In addition, many popular team sports require various mixes of 

ANTHONY B. CICCONE ET AL.398
aerobic, anaerobic, and strength/power ele -
ments, and the strength and conditioning 
coach must design their programs accordingly.
While different sporting events and exer -
cise tasks primarily are limited by specific factors, endurance performance is affected by the interplay of multiple metabolic, physiolog -
ical, mechanical, and psychological/cognitive factors. The interplay of these factors is sum -
marized in Figure 15.1. In general, maximal oxygen consumption (VO
2 max), mechanical 
efficiency (often called running economy when studying running physiology), and fractional utilization (percent of VO
2 max maintained 
during an event; reflects sustainable speed/power output) are considered the “Big 3” when focusing on aerobic exercise performance (1). The Big 3 are noted at the top of the figure and these factors will be discussed in more detail in subsequent sections. In general, aerobic train -
ing programs should be designed to increase VO
2 max, increase mechanical efficiency, and 
modify the fractional utilization.
ENDURANCE 
PERFORMANCE
At the bottom of Figure 15.1 we have noted three 
additional factors that can either directly or indi -
rectly affect aerobic exercise performance. 
These 
are neuromuscular strength/power, strategy / pacing , and anaerobic capacity. Because the 
emphasis of this chapter is on aerobic exercise prescription, we will only mention them briefly here. A large body of research has shown that strength and power training can improve mechanical efficiency, so aerobic exercise per -
formance can be improved indirectly by the effect of strength/power training on mechanical efficiency. In addition, there may some direct effects of improved neuromuscular strength and explosiveness on endurance performance (2). We have combined strategy and pacing in the figure; however, a more detailed analy -
sis, which is beyond the scope of this chapter, would reflect that strategy and pacing have cognitive, psychological, and physiological components. Indeed, the study of the physiol -
ogy of pacing is a relatively new and exciting area of research in fatigue. Finally, anaerobic capacity is likely important in endurance events where a “kick” or sprint typically occurs at the end of the event. Information related to sprint training can be found in Chapter 17.
MAXIMAL OXYGEN 
CONSUMPTION
Maximal oxygen consumption, or VO2 max, is 
one of the most common measurements taken in 
exercise physiology, and the research literature  
Mechanical efﬁciency
(running economy)Fractional
utilizationVO2 max
Endurance performance
Strategy/pacing Neuromuscular
strength/powerAnaerobic
capacity??
Figure 15.1  A theoretical representation of the major variables that influence endurance performance. 
Question marks indicate relationships that vary depending on performance task demands.

AEROBIC EXERCISE PRESCRIPTION399
addressing VO2 max is voluminous. The VO2 
max reflects the maximal amount of oxygen 
that can be extracted from the atmosphere and utilized for cellular respiration during exer -
cise. Because the largest total energy yield, by far, comes from aerobic metabolism, getting oxygen to the mitochondria is critical for sus -
tained exercise. The aerobic system requires the integration of pulmonary, cardiovascular, and skeletal muscle systems to engage in gas exchange, deliver oxygenated blood to the 
active tissues, and transfer oxygen from the 
blood (primarily bound to hemoglobin) to the mitochondria in the skeletal muscle. These same systems also serve to remove the prod -
ucts of exercise that accumulate (e.g., CO
2, 
H+) during exercise and facilitate recovery 
between exercise bouts.
The units of oxygen consumption are typi -
cally expressed as either milliliters of oxygen per minute (L∙min
−1) or as milliliters of oxy -
gen per kilogram of body weight per minute (mL∙kg
−1∙min−1). The latter expression is a rela -
tive index, i.e., relative to body weight. There are statistical and theoretical concerns regarding the use of a simple ratio standard to create an index that is “independent” of body weight (see allometric scaling). However, ignoring that for a moment, it is apparent that one way to increase relative VO
2 max is to simply lose body mass. 
Even assuming no changes in pulmonary, car -
diovascular, or skeletal muscle aerobic capacity, dividing maximal VO
2 by a smaller body mass 
will increase the relative VO2 max. This may also 
have performance effects as it takes less energy in the form of ATP, and therefore a smaller oxy -
gen consumption, to propel a less massive body.
Beyond changes in body mass, to develop 
training programs to increase VO
2 max, it is 
helpful to reflect on the basic equation that defines VO
2, known as the Fick equation. The 
Fick equation is as follows:
VO2 = HR x SV x (a-v)O2 diff
where HR = heart rate, SV = stroke volume, 
and (a–v)O2 diff is the arteriovenous oxygen 
difference. Notice that the product of HR and SV equals the cardiac output (volume of blood pumped per minute), while the 
(a–v)O2 
diff is the difference in oxygen content between arterial and venous blood, which reflects the amount of oxygen that is extracted from blood as it passes through the capillary beds. For  
VO
2 max then, the Fick equation becomes
VO2 max = HRmax x SVmax X x (a-v)O2 diff max.
The primary ways to increase VO2 max 
then are to increase maximal cardiac output and to increase the amount of oxygen that can be extracted from oxygenated blood by the 
active skeletal muscle.
Adaptations that can increase maximal 
cardiac output primarily occur with respect to 
changes in stroke volume (3). In general, exer -
cise training does not increase maximal heart rate (4). The performance of the left ventricle, however, can be substantially improved. Typical long-term aerobic training programs can increase both the cavity size of the left ventricle (so that it can accept more blood) and the per -
formance of the left ventricle during systole (5). In addition, expansion of blood volume and red blood cell volume (6) facilitate increased stroke volume (through the Frank-Starling mechanism) and total oxygen carrying capacity of the blood respectively. Collectively, these adaptations can increase the ability of the cardiovascular system to generate cardiac output.
Regarding the (a–v)O
2 diff, a variety of 
adaptations increase the ability to extract and utilize O
2 during endurance exercise (3). These 
include increases in capillary density in the trained muscle, increases in mitochondria and aerobic enzyme concentrations, and changes in muscle transport proteins on the muscle cell membrane (e.g., increases in MCT1 and MCT4 proteins that increase the ability to shuttle lactate between fast and slow twitch muscle fibers) (7).
Aerobic endurance is affected by maximal oxygen 
consumption, lactate threshold, fuel utilization, muscle fiber type, and exercise economy.
MECHANICAL EFFICIENCY
Mechanical efficiency  concerns the O2 cost rela -
tive to the amount of work performed during 
an exercise task. In brief, a higher mechanical 

ANTHONY B. CICCONE ET AL.400
efficiency means that there will be a lower O2 
demand at a given speed/power output (PO), 
assuming all else is equal. Picture two individ-uals that have the same VO
2 max but different 
metabolic efficacies. The more efficient indi-vidual will use less O
2 than the competitor, and 
all else being equal this means that the exer -
cise at a given speed/PO is “easier” and elicits a smaller fatigue response. Indeed, it has been hypothesized that much of the dominance in distance running by racers from East Africa is 
due, at least in part, to higher levels of running 
economy (8).
Mechanical efficiency does appear modi -
fiable with training. Interestingly, a variety of strength and explosive power training proto -
cols have been shown to improve mechanical efficiency in tasks such as running, cycling, and cross-country skiing (2). The training programs in the literature have run the gamut from high-load, low velocity tasks (e.g., squats at 4RM loads) to “reactive strength” training using tasks such as unweighted drop jumps and hops. The beneficial effects may be due, in part, to improvement in musculo -
tendinous stiffness, which may translate to increases in the ability to store and release elastic energy (2). However, improvements in mechanical efficiency also occur with cycling (9), in which there is no appreciable eccentric component.Improvements in efficiency following 
strength training may also be due to changes in motor unit activation. As motor units increase their force and power production capabilities, all else being equal fewer motor units would need to be recruited to generate a given speed/PO. As lower threshold motor units are generally popu-lated by slow twitch muscle fibers, and slow twitch fibers are presumably more efficient (with respect to O
2 consumption) than fast twitch 
muscle fibers (10), this may translate a lower O2 
cost. In addition, improvements in rate of force development (RFD) with strength and power training may increase mechanical efficiency, per -
haps by decreasing the contraction time during a repetition of the endurance task, which may improve transit time for blood flow through an active capillary bed (9). While the mechanism(s) linking strength training to improvements in mechanical efficiency are still largely speculative, the data are clear that strength/explosive power training can improve mechanical efficiency dur -
ing predominantly aerobic tasks.
FRACTIONAL UTILIZATION 
AND TRAINING ZONES
The idea of fractional utilization  is simply 
a way to quantify the intensity of aerobic Blood lactate
concentration (mmol)
Power (watts)002468
30 60 90 120 150 180 210 240 270 300 330
Figure 15.2  Example data from one subject showing the blood lactate (simulated) response during an 
incremental exercise test. Simulated data modified from table 2 of Morton (1989) (40).

AEROBIC EXERCISE PRESCRIPTION401
exercise, but primarily from a metabolic 
perspective. The simplest way to quantify frac-tional utilization is based relative to VO
2 max. 
For example, assume two runners are running at the same speed. If one runner is running at 70% VO
2 max while the other runner is run -
ning at 80% VO2 max, all else being equal, the 
second runner is at a disadvantage and will likely have a faster rate of fatigue development.
However, the picture becomes more 
complicated due to different physiological conditions that may be present at different levels of fractional utilization. The nomencla-ture can become confusing because different authors use different terms, and there is con -
troversy over the physiological mechanisms that underpin different 
training zones . We 
will try to avoid getting mired in physiologi -
cal controversies and focus on measurements that can be used to define metabolic training zones. However, in brief, we can use different techniques to define training zones/intensities, and these zones are referred to as moderate intensity (Zone 1), heavy intensity (Zone 2), and severe intensity (Zone 3).
Figure 15.2 shows the plot of measure-
ments of blood lactate (simulated) taken during
 
the performance of an incremental cycling exer -
cise test to exhaustion in a hypothetical athlete; this type of test is typically used to quantify  
VO
2 max. Notice that lactate does not increase in a linear manner with exercise intensity, but rather increases more abruptly after about 150 watts. The exercise intensity at this point has been called the anaerobic threshold or the lac -
tate threshold; for clarity we will refer to this 
as the lactate threshold. Figure 15.3 shows a similar plot of gas exchange data. Notice the change in ventilation 
VE and also the ratio of 
VE to VO2 around 150 watts; this discontinu-
ity reflects an additional drive to ventilation beyond just the associated increase in VO
2. In 
general, the exercise intensity associated with changes in gas exchange and ventilation coin-cide in time with the lactate threshold, but the physiological links between the phenomena are controversial and the identification of the transition points is not always obvious. The changes in gas exchange and ventilation have been referred to as the ventilatory threshold or the gas exchange threshold. For purposes that will be discussed below, we will refer to this index as ventilatory threshold 1 (VT1).
In general, the transition in exercise inten-
sity associated with the 
lactate threshold  and/
or VT1 defines the transition from moderate intensity (Zone 1) to heavy intensity (Zone 2) exercise. In theory, exercise intensities in Zone 1 are intensities that can be maintained some -
what indefinitely; for example, cycling at 90% of the power at VT1 resulted in task failure (inability to maintain the set power) in 180 to V
E (L/min)
V
E/VO2 and V
E/VCO2
Power (watts)0
3020 1618202224
406080
60
90
120150180210240270300330
V
E (L/min) V
E/VO2V
E/VCO2
Figure 15.3  Example data from one subject showing the volume of expired air (VE), volume of oxygen (VO2), 
and volume of carbon dioxide (VCO2) at different cycling work rates (power) during an incremental exercise test. 
Data courtesy of H. Bergstom, University of Kentucky; data have been modified for clarity.

ANTHONY B. CICCONE ET AL.402
360 minutes depending on the exerciser (11). 
From a metabolic perspective, Zone 1 exercise does not result in an accumulation of blood lactate (11). In addition, the VO
2 response will 
level off (reach a steady state) such that VO2 is 
elevated relative to resting values but does not drift upwards over time. Table 15.1 shows the 
exercise intensity, expressed as a percentage of the maximum heart rate, associated with VT1 from several different studies that reflect dif -
ferent populations.
In contrast, constant intensity exercise in 
the heavy intensity zone (Zone 2) does result in an increase in blood lactate levels; however, the blood lactate will reach a relative plateau –  
that is, blood lactate will reach a steady state. However, the VO
2 response will not reach a 
steady state and will drift upwards as the exer -
cise bout continues; this is referred to as the VO
2 slow component. Maintaining exercise 
at a fixed power output in Zone 2 results in a faster rate of fatigue development than in Zone 1, and the rate of fatigue development will depend on the intensity of exercise within Zone 2 range. For example, a recent study reported that subjects cycling near the lower bound of Zone 2 reached task failure in 43.5 ± 16.2 minutes (11).
The third intensity zone is referred to as 
severe exercise (Zone 3). In Figure 15.3, notice the changes in gas exchange (specifically V
E/
VCO2) shown around the power outputs of 
210–240 watts. At this point, the exercise intensity is such that ventilation accelerates at an even faster rate than that occurring at VT1. This second transition has been referred to as the respiratory compensation threshold, but we will refer to this as ventilatory thresh-old 2 (VT2). The demarcation between VT1 and VT2 defines the heavy (Zone 2) versus the severe (Zone 3) exercise intensity domains. As the name suggests, severe exercise is very high intensity exercise and maintaining a fixed exercise intensity in this domain would result in the exercise termination in about 2 to 14 minutes depending on the specific power out -
put while in Zone 3 (11). In addition, exercise performed at power outputs in the severe inten-sity domain do not result in a steady state in either blood lactate or VO
2. Both will increase 
rapidly until the power cannot be maintained by the exerciser. Indeed, the VO
2 will drift up 
to VO2 max at the point of task failure. Table 
15.1 shows the exercise intensity, expressed as a percentage of the maximum heart rate, asso -
ciated with VT2 from several different studies that reflect different populations.
There are other techniques used to iden-
tify the demarcation between heavy and severe exercise. Among these is the critical power (CP) test (see also critical speed (CS), critical torque) which is a test that allows for the quantification of the hyperbolic relationship between power output and the time to test failure and the respective powers. An example plot is shown in Figure 15.4. The asymptote of the relation -
ship is called critical power and is a remarkably 
robust predictor of transition from heavy to
 
severe exercise (12). In addition, CP/CS test -
ing requires little equipment except an exercise modality (e.g., cycle ergometer, treadmill) and a stopwatch to record the time until task failure at each tested power/speed. While VT2 and CP/CS have both been used to define the transition 
TABLE 15.1  A summary of mean ventilatory threshold (VT) data from different populations
Study Mean age 
(yr)Exercise status VT1 mean (%HRmax)VT2 mean (%HRmax)
Deruelle et al. 2006 (41) 63 trained cyclists 76.6 88.9
Neder and Stein 2006 (42) 31 nontrained 74.5 91.0
Ramos-Campo et al. 2016 (43) 23 professional basketball 74.9 93.6
Algrøy et al. 2011 (44) 24 professional soccer 78 87
Seiler et al. 2007 (45) 23 highly trained runners 77 86
Lucìa et al. 2000 (46) 24 professional cyclists 78.2 90.4

AEROBIC EXERCISE PRESCRIPTION403
Time limit (sec)Power (watts)
0 2000 4000 6000 8000250300350
Figure 15.4  Example of a critical power (CP) plot for an illustrative subject. The subject performed five cycling 
bouts to task failure at fixed power outputs in the severe intensity domain. The time to task failure (Time Limit) 
at each power was used to derive the hyperbolic plot. The asymptote of the relationship (in this case ~ 250 watts) is termed critical power. Example data courtesy of H. Bergstrom, University of Kentucky; data have been modified for clarity.
from Zone 2 and Zone 3, and on average result 
in similar values, it should be noted that on an individual basis, the differences between esti -
mates may not be trivial (13,14).
Collectively, identifying the power (or 
speed) that defines the moderate, heavy, and severe exercise domains provides a very use -
ful tool to define training zones that can be used to design the aerobic training program. In practice, the heart rate values that occur at the transition from Zone 1 to Zone 2, and Zone 2 to Zone 3 are useful metrics to guide program design. That is, one can control training volume and intensity by assigning specific volumes of work in heart rate ranges that correspond to how much work is desired in each training zone. That is, advanced aero -
bic exercise prescriptions quantify the amount of training that is to be performed in each training zone, and modify these as individu -
als move through yearly periodization cycles. Furthermore, training can be modified to spe-cifically target increasing the power output for a specific transition. For example, increas -
ing CP would increase the bandwidth of the heavy exercise domain such that a power (or speed) that used to be in the severe domain is now in the heavy domain. This would increase endurance performance at that power (or speed) without necessarily increasing VO
2 max. Application of fractional utilization and training zones to exercise prescription is dis -
cussed in the Programming section below.
TYPES OF TRAINING
Continuous
Continuous training  is planned exercise that 
is performed at a specific intensity for an 
extended period of time – typically lasting at least 20 minutes. However, one can argue that many athletes, such as team sports ath -
letes, may benefit from continuous training sessions that require far less than 20 minutes of continuous exercise. Conversely, highly aerobic events such as marathons may require elite athletes to utilize greater than two-hour long continuous exercise sessions (15). It is important to note that the intensity of con -
tinuous training typically falls in the Zone 1 (moderate intensity) category. Conversely, higher intensity exercise, Zones 2 (heavy intensity) and 3 (severe intensity), are com-monly prescribed using interval training. The need for continuous training is dictated by the length and intensity of each athlete’s competi-tion. For example, research has shown that 

ANTHONY B. CICCONE ET AL.404
elite cross-country running performance in 
the 10.13 km event is highly correlated to the amount of Zone 1 training time, but perfor -
mance in the 4.175 km event is less correlated to the amount of Zone 1 training time (16). In practice, continuous exercise is typically prescribed by prompting athletes to cover a certain distance at a certain pace or cover a specific distance at a specific HR.
Continuous training may lack specificity to many 
sports and activities and may expose athletes to overuse injuries. It does appear to improve maximal oxygen consumption and performance potential in endurance athletes.Interval
Interval training  is characterized by exercise 
that alternates between bouts of heavy or 
severe exercise intensities and bouts of rest or low to moderate exercise intensities. The advantage of interval training is that it allows athletes to achieve greater total exercise time above race pace and race HR, when compared to continuous training. Importantly, data sug -
gests that performance enhancement in highly trained aerobic athletes comes from increases in high-intensity interval training (HIIT) volume and not from increases in moderate intensity exercise volume (17). Furthermore, the high intensity intermittent nature of interval training REAL-WORLD APPL iCATiON
Strength training and endurance athletes
Strength training, within reason, is important for endurance athletes. It can help to prevent inju -
ries by targeting muscles and joints that are prone to injury. For example, it can help to improve 
strength imbalances in a runner’s knee or a swimmer’s shoulder. It can also help to improve an athlete’s ability to apply force. Even though endurance athletes are taking many steps, strokes, or revolutions during a race, an athlete who can generate more force will still have the ability to get somewhere faster than the one who cannot.
There are a number of guidelines for strength training in endurance athletes:
1 Keep it in perspective. Endurance athletes are not strength and power athletes. They cannot tolerate high volumes and intensities of strength training combined with their endurance training; this can lead to overtraining or injury. Overly intense strength train -
ing can also be counterproductive in another way; putting on too much muscle will negatively affect an endurance athlete’s exercise economy, thereby detracting from event performance.
2 Resistance training does not have to mean weight training. Since the focus is not on dras-tically increasing maximal strength or hypertrophy, resistance training can be done in a number of ways, including in the weight room, through calisthenics, and with medicine balls or other implements.
3 Keep the stresses of the athlete’s endurance training in mind. If the athlete’s endurance training stresses a given joint (e.g., the effect of pounding from running on the knee), then strength training should not further aggravate that.
Strength training is an ineffective tool for training maximal oxygen consumption; it does 
not effectively improve aerobic metabolism in trained athletes. However, it does an excellent 
job of improving one’s anaerobic metabolism and one’s tolerance to it. Adjusting the length of the sets and the recovery intervals can be a great way to further enhance these pathways.

AEROBIC EXERCISE PRESCRIPTION405
can more closely mimic the intermittent nature 
of many team sports, which should have the greatest transfer to competition (18). An undu -
lating form of interval training is commonly known as 
Fartlek training , in which athletes 
perform bouts of aerobic exercise that vary in intensity and duration within the training session. This differs from traditional inter -
val training where exercise and rest bouts are typically static throughout the training session. The benefit of Fartlek training is that athletes 
may mix moderate intensity exercise zone 
bouts with severe and heavy exercise bouts in an effort to benefit from both continuous and interval-type stressors in a single session.
The contribution of each energy system 
during an HIIT workout and the degree of adaptations that occur in response to train -
ing will vary as the differing training variables are manipulated. Manipulation of variables within a training program depends on the train-ing goals, which in turn depend on the specific position/sport that the athlete is training for. The exact duration and intensity of the work and rest periods, and therefore the work:rest ratio, will vary according to the specific require -
ments of the sport. There is no single optimal work:rest ratio that will apply to all athletes because the individual characteristics, the meta -
bolic demands of each sport, and the training goals for each athlete are unique. However, in general, intervals performed at higher intensities require lower work:rest ratios. In other words, rest intervals should be much longer than work intervals when exercise intensities are high.
Interval training appears to be an effective way to 
target an athlete’s deficiencies, but it is extremely demanding and requires a solid fitness base before this training activity is initiated.
PROGRAMMING
Adaptation tracking
Similar to resistance exercise prescription, 
both volume and intensity are of primary importance to aerobic exercise prescription. The prescription of nearly all aerobic exercise  relies on prior knowledge of the aerobic capacity or some physiologic response to exer -
cise. For aerobic exercise prescription, volume can be defined as distance or quantity of exercise duration. Although there are numer -
ous metrics that have been used to prescribe continuous aerobic exercise intensity, the most practical metrics are: percentage of velocity or power at VO
2 max, percentage of maximum 
HR or absolute HR , percentage of race pace , 
and self-perceived exertion . All of these metrics 
can be obtained using a single exercise test or no exercise test. Although some of these met-rics, such as percentage of velocity or power at VO
2 max, are most accurately measured via 
gas exchange measurements, power or veloc -
ity at VO2 max can be estimated using an 
incremental exercise test without gas exchange measurements.
Intensity and volume of training are inversely 
related. If the intensity of the exercise is high, the volume will be lower.
One major issue with the use of VO2 max-
derived metrics is that, as athletes improve 
their VO2 max, they may have to periodically 
re-test their VO2 max to ensure prescribed 
training intensities do not unintentionally decrease over time. It should also be noted that environmental factors such as tempera-ture, wind resistance, and humidity will alter the metabolic stress of any given work rate such that aerobic training intensities based on a percentage of a work rate or specific pace may result in an inappropriate exercise intensity (19). For example, if a VO
2 max 
test was performed indoors in a comfortable environment and exercise is performed in a hot and humid environment (20), a cyclist who is told to cycle at a percentage of their wattage at VO
2 max will be exercising at 
an intensity that causes much more aerobic stress than is intended.
With the aforementioned drawbacks in 
mind, it is likely most convenient and appro-priate to prescribe continuous aerobic exercise intensities using percentages of maximum HR or absolute HRs (15). The use of HR is appeal -
ing because maximum HR is very stable in the 

ANTHONY B. CICCONE ET AL.406
sense that it does not change much within a 
period of months, and is typically not affected by training. Furthermore, when an individual enhances their aerobic capacity, their heart rate will be lower at any fixed work rate (21). For example, if a cyclist has a maximum HR of 200 and they are told to exercise at 75% of their maximum HR, they may exercise at 200 watts on day one of their training program, but as the athlete undergoes positive aerobic adaptations, the wattage that elicits an HR response of 75% of their maximum should be higher on day 60 of the training program (Figure 15.4).
Percentage of 
maximum HR values may 
also be used to estimate approximate work rates that correspond to VT1 and VT2. This allows for the use of programming through the use of previously mentioned exercise zones. As seen in Table 15.1, VT1 and VT2 occur at approximately the same percentages of HR maximums across a wide variety of populations. Although these mean population sample values are similar, there is certainly variation within a population. Accordingly, without data from a graded exercise test with gas exchange analysis, it is difficult to determine HR values that correspond to VT1 and VT2. However, as previously discussed in this chapter, HR at critical power output may be used to determine the HR associ -
ated with VT2. When using HR to prescribe exercise intensities, the estimation of the ath -
lete-specific VTs may be critical, as research suggests exercise prescribed based on person-specific thresholds can result in better aerobic adaptations when compared to general HR percentages (22).More practically, athletes may use a talk 
test to estimate exercise zone transitions. Research suggests that the highest work rate at which an athlete can hold a conversation coin-cides with VT1, and the highest work rate at which an athlete can definitely not talk coin -
cides with VT2 (23). Once the work rates are determined, HR responses at those work rates can be used to program future exercise pre-scription in desired intensity zones. However, prescribing continuous aerobic exercise using HR during periods of intensified training can result in unintentionally high exercise inten -
sities. This is because periods of intensified training or overreaching can result in decreases in maximum HR (24). Although perceived effort is clearly a very convenient method of exercise prescription, without HR data, it may impair the practitioner’s ability to detect positive and negative physiologic changes in athletes. Coaches should be aware of athletes who exhibit decreased performance, decreased maximal HRs, and increased submaximal perception of effort (24). Athletes who train in such a physiological state for a prolonged period of time (many weeks or months) may become overtrained. Thus, the collection of a variety of training data is necessary to analyze both positive and negative aerobic adaptations. A summary of the benefits and drawbacks of the previously mentioned exercise prescription metrics can be seen in Table 15.2.
The aerobic adaptations made by ath-
letes are typically tracked by measuring HR responses to a known submaximal work rate. The periodic monitoring of such responses is critical in determining if athletes are posi-tively or negatively adapting. For example, 
TABLE 15.2  Benefits and drawbacks of different metrics that can be used for aerobic exercise prescription
%VO2 
max work 
rateArbitrary distance% Race pacePerceived exertionAbsolute or % max HR
Does not require costly test(s) X X X X
Requires infrequent testing X X X X
Responds to environmental changes X X
Critical for detection of overtraining X

AEROBIC EXERCISE PRESCRIPTION407
a positively adapting cyclist should exhibit 
improvements in their 10 km time trial average wattage and decreases in their HR response (21) to a 150 watt work rate (Figure 15.5). A negatively adapting cyclist would exhibit decreases in 10 km time trial average watt-
age 
and increases in their HR response (25) 
to a 150 watt work rate (Figure 15.6). If the practitioner plans an overreaching microcycle 
(described in the Chapter 13, Program design), they should expect the cyclist to exhibit decreases in 10 km time trial average wattage and decreases in HR response to a 150 watt work rate. Similarly
, positively adapting ath -
letes should be able to exercise at higher work rates at specific HRs, whereas negatively adapt -
ing athletes will need to exercise at lower work rates to achieve a specific HR (Figure 15.4). It should also be noted that 
cardiovascular 
drift can make HR-based inferences difficult. 
Cardiovascular drift is the progressive increase in HR at a constant work rate that can occur at higher work rates and challenging environ -
mental conditions such as training at altitude and in hot environments (15). To minimize the confounding effect of cardiovascular drift and the environment, workouts that are meant to be used for adaptation tracking should be per -
formed in controlled environments at Zone 1 work rates.Needs analysis
The first step that each strength and con -
ditioning professional should take when 
developing a program for an athlete is to determine the needs of that athlete. Because all sports and athletes within each team do not require the same aerobic capacity, deter -
mining the aerobic demands of each athlete is of critical importance. For example, in soccer, elite mid-fielders typically have higher aerobic capacities than elite strikers and center-backs (26). Furthermore, the sport demands of each athlete may vary in the magnitude of benefit from enhancing aerobic capacity. Specifically, many sports are not continuous in nature and, instead, require athletes to perform intermit -
tent bouts of high-intensity exercise separated by periods of rest, such as ice hockey, or periods of lower intensity exercise, such as soccer. These differences will be addressed in detail later in this section. Once the aero -
bic demands of the athlete are determined, the strength and conditioning professional must begin to consider the logistics of imple -
menting an appropriate training program to obtain specific aerobic adaptations for the athlete(s). Arguably the most appropriate strategy is to begin by determining which in-season periods are most important. It is  
these periods from which the strength and 
142144146148150152154156
02468Heart rate (bpm)
Training week
Positive Negative
Figure 15.5  Theoretical heart rate responses to a 150 watt work rate throughout an eight-week training period. 
The green line indicates a response that is typical of an athlete who is improving aerobically, positively adapting. 
The red line indicates a response that is typical of an athlete who is detraining or regressing in performance, negatively adapting.

ANTHONY B. CICCONE ET AL.408
180185190195200205210
02468Work rate (W)
Training week
Positive Negative
Figure 15.6  Theoretical work rates that correspond to a heart rate of 150 beats per minute throughout an 
eight-week training period. The green line indicates a response that is typical of an athlete who is improving 
aerobically, positively adapting. The red line indicates a response that is typical of an athlete who is detraining or regressing in performance, negatively adapting.
conditioning professional should work back-
wards to organize appropriate mesocycles and microcycles to attempt to maximize the ath-lete’s performance or to increase the likelihood of team success. Finally, the intricacies of the program should be carefully determined with respect to training time availability, training resources, and any other logistical issues.
Aerobic training programs are under -
pinned by the same basic training principles as strength training: frequency, intensity, volume, rest, choice, order, and progression. These var -
iables should be manipulated in an attempt to optimize performance around the periods that the strength and conditioning professional(s) and coaches have identified as being most cru -
cial for success. When programming aerobic exercise, frequency refers to the spacing of aer -
obic training workout sessions. Intensity can be defined as relative work rate, and volume can be quantified as training distance or time. Rest can be defined as the non-exercising time between training bouts or training sessions. Exercise choice is the act of choosing the mode of exercise (i.e., cycling, running, rowing, etc.) for each workout. Exercise choice is important because some training movements are more similar to competition movements, which is related to how well training improvements may translate into competition improvements. This movement-related transfer of improvements is known as specificity. For example, research -
ers have observed that progressive running training improves both running and cycling VO
2 max, whereas progressive cycling training 
improves cycling VO2 max without improving 
running VO2 max (27). Exercise order applies 
to workouts that contain different exer -
cises. For example, an athlete may perform both resistance training and aerobic training within the same workout; in this situation, the strength and conditioning professional(s) would need to determine the order of these exercises. The training variable, progression, should be addressed by altering training in a way that progressively overloads the athlete in an attempt to achieve specific adaptations and enhanced performance. The seven train-ing variables mentioned at the start of the paragraph should vary as athletes move from general preparatory to specific preparatory to competition periods of a macrocycle. It is important to note that the duration of these three periods can vary drastically between athletes, but the general training goals within each period should vary minimally.
Specific modes of exercise are selected to train 
specific energy systems. Once the mode of exercise is selected, intensity will be determined based on the specific exercise.

AEROBIC EXERCISE PRESCRIPTION409
General preparatory period
During the general preparatory period , which 
is synonymous with offseason, athletes should 
have three primary training goals: recovery, conditioning, and general strength. Because the general preparatory period follows an ath -
lete’s competition period, if applicable, the athlete should ensure that they utilize this time to recover from any injuries that may have occurred in the course of the previous competi -
tion period. Seemingly healthy athletes also need to recover during the general preparatory period as it is generally thought that long periods of high volume and high intensity training increase the likelihood of injury or becoming overtrained. Although within a macrocycle, total training volume should be the lowest and rest should be highest during the general preparatory period, athletes still need to perform both aerobic and resistance exercise workouts during this time. The aerobic training sessions aim to create an aerobic “base” which is necessary to support the ensuing increase in training volume and intensity in the specific preparatory period (18).
Although strength training increases aero -
bic exercise economy (28), enhanced exercise economy is not necessary during non-com -
petition periods. Actually, enhanced exercise economy during non-competition periods may force athletes to exercise at higher intensi -
ties or volumes to achieve a given increment in aerobic capacity. However, strength train -
ing has been shown to decrease the likelihood of hamstring injuries in soccer athletes (29). Thus, the general preparatory period can also be thought of as a pre-habilitation period. During this period, initial workout volumes, intensities, and frequencies should be con -
servatively estimated, as many athletes may begin the period in a severely detrained state. Furthermore, workouts should emphasize variety instead of specificity, because training variety has been shown to decrease the likeli-hood of overuse injury (30).
A variety of aerobic exercise modes, train -
ing zones, intensities, and volumes should be utilized along with a variety of strength training exercises and intensities. However, practition -
ers should tailor the distribution of aerobic and strength training workouts to each athlete with respect to the relative importance of aerobic capacity to their performance. Furthermore, for highly aerobic sports, this period should con -
tain the highest relative distribution of Zone 1 training. For team sports, which are intermit -
tent in nature, aerobic training may primarily consist of interval training. In this case, this period should contain the highest volume of longer duration intervals. For both continuous and interval training, it is crucial that athletes are progressively overloaded with both aerobic and strength stressors as to improve aerobic capacity and general strength before the spe-
cific preparatory period is reached.
When designing an aerobic exercise training 
program, keep the following factors in mind: warm up properly, balance the hard and easy days, establish a fitness base first, determine weak points and then train them, and don’t neglect resistance training.
(continued)Q&A FROM THE F iELD
The university has had a successful cross-
country team for the last several years. 
Recently I’ve been put in charge of designing 
their workouts. I understand how to incorporate the different types of endurance 
training, but I’m having trouble figuring out 
how to balance out the hard and easy days. How do I go about determining all that?
—Graduate assistant coach
This can be a confusing topic for any strength and conditioning professional. First, determine when the competitions are; this will dictate the training 
calendar. The period around the competitions will 
be your competition phase. This period will see the most intense training. The remaining time will be 
divided between preparation and precompetition. 
The precompetition phase usually lasts four weeks and consists of training of increasing intensity. 
Preparation should ideally make up the bulk of the 
training, with low to moderate intensity (intensity should increase over time).
Once the rough calendar has been determined, 
break each phase into four-week cycles. The easiest way to do this is to have a 3:1 approach (i.e., 
intensity increases for the first three weeks, then 
week four is a recovery week). This would mean that week two is more difficult than week one, 

ANTHONY B. CICCONE ET AL.410
week three is more difficult that week two, and 
week four is less difficult than week two (though 
slightly more difficult than week one).
Within a 34-week cycle, decide on the intensity 
levels for each week. They may be high-intensity (i.e., three peaks), medium-intensity (i.e., two 
peaks), or low intensity (i.e., one peak) work. Remember that a race always counts as a peak. In 
general, the weeks in the competition phase will 
consist of high-intensity weeks; the rest of the training time (preparation and precompetition) 
will consist primarily of low- and medium-intensity 
weeks, with a few high-intensity weeks thrown in.
Once you’ve determined how many peaks a 
week will have, organize the training week around the peaks.
In summary, to help determine how to balance 
our hard and easy days, several steps may be taken:
1 Determine when the competitions ar e.
2 Divide up the calendar into competition,  
precompetition, and preparation phases.
3 Br eak each phase into four-week cycles.
4 Decide upon an intensity f or each week within 
a four-week cycle.
Distribute the peaks according to the guidelines laid out in this chapter.
Specific preparatory period
As athletes leave the specific preparatory 
period , training volume will continue to 
increase, and athletes should have the strength 
and aerobic capacity to tolerate the high train -
ing volume required of the specific preparatory period. During this period, athletes should target technique, sport specific endurance, and maximal speed. Thus, the big difference between this stage and the general preparatory stage is that training volume increases for all training intensities (15,31). For highly aerobic sports, the volume in Zone 1 training is neces-sary to allow for athletes to train in Zones 2 and 3 for longer durations (18). Furthermore, intermittent maximal or near-maximal effort exercise bouts, such as interval sprints, should be periodically implemented. This will allow for athletes to develop neurological and anaerobic metabolism adaptations to facilitate improvements in maximal work rates or speed. This implementation of the entire spectrum of exercise intensities ultimately allows for the highest quantity of heavy and severe exercise volume. This is important because research has shown that high intensity exercise vol -
ume is critical for performance enhancement of highly trained athletes (17,32). In other words, this period of time is said to improve the speed-endurance of aerobic athletes.
For highly aerobic athletes such as 
marathoners and cyclists, a distribution of approximately 20% of workouts in Zones 2 and 3 and 80% of workouts in Zone 1 has been shown to be highly effective in enhancing aerobic performance in a way that is typically superior to training programs that contain high volumes of Zone 2 training. The relative avoidance of Zone 2 and high volume of Zone 1 training is known as polarized training. A polarized training regimen has been success-fully utilized by elite athletes of a wide variety of sports such as skiing, cycling, running, and rowing, to name a few (16,33,34). Practitioners may also utilize polarized training distributions within a workout where continuous moder -
ate intensity exercise is performed before or in between higher-intensity exercise bouts. However, team sport athletes, such as soccer players, should not utilize the polarized training model, as repeated maximal or near maximal repeated sprint ability is desired. Thus, soccer players would benefit from a much larger per -
centage of Zone 3 volume than Zone 1 volume.
To facilitate this readiness, workouts should 
become increasingly sport specific through -
out the training period. For example, a cyclist should transition to a lower percentage of run -
ning workouts and higher percentage of cycling workouts. Furthermore, a soccer player may want to perform drills or small-sided games that elicit the desired heart rate responses. To ensure that exercise economy is maximized, athletes should perform approximately two-weekly resistance training workouts using two to three sets of four to ten repetition-maximum 
loads performed with two to three minutes of 
rest between sets (28). These resistance exer -
cises should primarily target the muscles that limit competition performance.
Although the absolute volumes of exer -
cise performed in the three different intensity (continued)

AEROBIC EXERCISE PRESCRIPTION411
zones will differ between athletes, perspective 
is important. At an extreme end of the training volume spectrum, elite marathoners have been observed to run approximately 231 km per week when their volume peaked during their specific preparatory period (15). It is impor -
tant to note that these elite marathoners also average approximately 13 aerobic training ses -
sions per week. In one case study, a European 1500 meter men’s champion performed a peak running volume of 156 km per week prior to 
their competition period (31). However, the 
1500 meter athlete performed a much higher percentage of Zone 2 work (26.1%) than the marathoners (11%). This shows a clear vol -
ume distribution difference due to the specific intensity demands of the two events.
Throughout this period, practitioners 
should pay close attention to the training per -
formance of each athlete and the HR responses each athlete has to know submaximal work rates, as previously detailed in the “Adaptation tracking” section of this chapter. HR responses to known submaximal work rates have been proposed as the best measurement to monitor fatigue due to its high signal to noise ratio (35). This information will allow for practitioners to most confidently determine if athletes are acquiring positive aerobic adaptations.
Competition period
By the end of the specific preparatory training period, athletes should be ready for the 
competi-
tion period . The competition period will contain 
the highest percentage of Zone 2 and 3 training and lowest total training volume (15,31), as the main goal of this phase is to maintain or increase each athlete’s capacity for Zone 3 work rates: speed-endurance. However, part of the Zone 3 training volume will come from competitions. If competitions are separated by many days or weeks, any insufficiencies in high intensity vol-ume must be accounted for through workouts. During this period, economy improvements gained in the specific preparatory period will 
likely be maintained by implementing a high 
intensity low volume strength training workout once a week (28). Resistance training should not be removed completely as research suggests that doing so can result in aerobic performance decrements (36).Because competition readiness is highly 
dependent on athletes’ recovery from work -
outs and competition, practitioners should have a general idea of how long each ath -
lete takes to recover from a competition and variety of different workouts. For example, research has shown that elite soccer players exhibit impaired high intensity performance when matches are separated by three days, but performance is recovered with four days of rest between matches (37). This suggests 
that practitioners who train athletes with fre -
quent competitions may need to concentrate 
on recovery and fatigue management rather than speed-endurance. Furthermore, data also suggest that athletes who have the capacity to perform a greater volume of high-intensity exercise in competition also recover from com -
petition faster, in spite of their higher volume of in-competition exercise (38). This scenario also highlights why athletes should not rely on the competition period to increase their aero -
bic base or maximal work capacity.
However, it is possible, particularly in 
sports that spend a lot of practice time on tactics, for in-practice training intensities and volumes to inadequately stress the athletes in a way that results in negative aerobic adapta -
tions. Thus, when training team sports athletes, practitioners should know the approximate relative distribution of time spent in each HR zone during competition. This information should be used as a general conditioning guide for determining workout intensity distributions to ensure that the maximal aerobic and anaer -
obic capacities of the athlete are maintained throughout the competition period. Athletes who have less frequent competitions will need to maintain their physiologic adaptations by maintaining a similar distribution of training intensities as in the specific preparatory period, except athletes should perform a higher per -
centage of Zone 3 training, a lower percentage of Zone 1 training, and a lower total training volume. Furthermore, if competitions are sepa -
rated by weeks or months, athletes will likely 
benefit from a taper. Data gathered from a large 
quantity of swimming, running, and cycling studies suggest that the maintenance of exer -
cise zone volume distribution while decreasing total exercise volume by 41–60% results in the greatest performance enhancements (39).

ANTHONY B. CICCONE ET AL.412
SUMMARY
Several factors influence aerobic performance 
including VO2 max, running economy, frac -
tional utilization, neuromuscular strength and power, anaerobic capacity, and strategy/pacing. With a sound aerobic training program, posi -
tive physiologic changes will occur over time that should be monitored periodically. Tracking aerobic fitness over time helps ensure that the training adaptations are sound, and also identifies any negative adaptations that should 
be monitored. Every athlete is different, and athlete-specific training intensities should be used. Absolute HR, or the percentage of maxi -
mum HR, is likely the most convenient and appropriate measure to use to prescribe con-
tinuous aerobic exercise intensities. Resistance 
training is effective in improving aerobic per -
formance, and should be maintained through the general preparatory, specific preparatory, and competitive phases of training.
CASE E xAMPLE
Designing continuous, interval, and repetition training programs for a recreational 
cyclist
BackgroundYou are employed as a personal trainer and hired by a recreational cyclist who wants to compete 
in a 20 mile race in 16 weeks. This individual has been cycling for three years recreationally and can easily complete the 20 miles; however, she would like to improve her speed and does not know how to go about doing so. Apply the guidelines presented in this chapter to design a 16-week-long workout program, training three times per week, to improve her performance in a 20 mile race.
Recommendations/considerations
We have 16 weeks. Starting backward from the competition, the four weeks prior (which 
we’ll designate weeks one through four, week one being the week of competition) will be our competition phase and will consist of the most intense workouts (intervals and repeti -
tions, some continuous work). Weeks five through eight will be a peaking phase and will see the gradual integration of high-intensity workouts (continuous work and intervals). Weeks 9 through 16 will be our preparation phase and will primarily consist of low- and medium-intensity workouts, mostly continuous work.MAxiNG OUT
1 A track coach comes to you and wants to determine the distances for continuous training 
sessions for 800 meter runners. If you were to base those distances on the length of the race, how long should the continuous runs be?
2 A high school cross-country coach is trying to determine the duration, recovery time, and number of intervals for her high school athletes. What are the different ways presented in the chapter for determining this information? Which one would be the most appropriate for the coach’s situation?
3 A recreational 5 km runner is having trouble with her warm-ups. She complains of feeling slug -
gish and has been having hamstring trouble during her runs. Her warm-ups currently consist of stretching for five minutes and then beginning her run, gradually increasing her pace over the first mile. List some things that can be modified in her warm-up to improve its effectiveness.

AEROBIC EXERCISE PRESCRIPTION413
Implementation
Preparation phaseOur athlete will train three times per week: Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday. Bowing 
to reality, the longest ride of the week will occur on Saturday (i.e., Saturdays will be the peak). On Tuesdays there will be a shorter ride at approximately 60% effort. On Thursdays there will be a moderate ride at 60% to 70% effort. On week 16 (i.e., the first week of training), the longest training session will be performed at the race distance (i.e., 20 miles); Tuesday’s workout will be conducted at 50% of Saturday’s distance (i.e., 10 miles); Thursday’s workout will be conducted at 75% of Saturday’s distance (i.e., 15 miles). Volume will be increased for the following weeks: 15, 14, 12, 11, and 10. Volume will be increased by 5% in each of these weeks. Weeks 13 and 9 will serve as recovery weeks; volume for these weeks will be equal to that for weeks 15 and 11. This means that by week 10, the distances for each day will be
Tuesday: 12.1 miles
Thursday: 18.15 milesSaturday: 24.2 miles
Peaking phase
Our athlete will continue training three times per week. Beginning with this phase, Thursday 
will become the peak and will consist of interval training. Saturday will remain the longest day, with Tuesday as a recovery ride. Saturday’s distances will never increase over 24.2 miles. Interval training will be designed initially to improve our athlete’s ability to recover from lac-tic acid. As she is not an elite athlete, intensity will be 75%. Intervals will last three minutes. Since we are targeting recovery, she will achieve close to full recovery between intervals (i.e., two minutes of slow riding between each interval).
Week 8 will see long-ride volumes equal to that of week 12; this step back is being taken 
because of the addition of the intervals. In week eight, our athlete will perform only four intervals. The number of intervals, like the distance of the other rides, will increase over weeks seven and five, with week five being a recovery week. With this in mind, week six (the most difficult week) will look like this:
Tuesday: 12.1 miles
Thursday: six three-minute intervals (with two-minute recovery rides)Saturday: 24.2 miles
Competition phase
With this phase, repetitions will be used on Tuesday’s workout, Thursday will remain interval 
training, and Saturday will remain a continuous training session. Repetitions will consist of 90 seconds of near-maximal activity, followed by 450 seconds of recovery riding (i.e., 1:5 work: rest ratio). Intervals will now focus on training her to tolerate large levels of lactic acid; they will remain three minutes in length but recovery will be cut in half to one minute. Continuous training will continue to be capped at 24.2 miles.
Week four will see continuous training distances equivalent to those of week seven and 
the performance of only four intervals on Thursday’s workout. This step back is being taken because of the addition of repetitions on Tuesday. Tuesday’s workout will consist of four 
(continued)

ANTHONY B. CICCONE ET AL.414
repetitions during week four. Weeks 3 and 2 will see an increase in the number of repetitions, 
intervals, and continuous training distance (to 24.2 miles). Week one will be a recovery week, with the race being at the end of that week.
Week two (the most difficult week) will look like this:
Tuesday: six 90-second repetitions (450-second recovery rides)Thursday: six three-minute intervals (one-minute recovery ride)Saturday: 24.2 miles
REFERENCES
 1. Larsen HB. Kenyan dominance in distance 
running. Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology Part A: Molecular & Integrative Physiology 2003; 136(1):161–170.
 2. Beattie K, Kenny IC, Lyons M, Carson BP. The effect of strength training on performance in endurance athletes. Sports Med 2014; 44(6):845–865.
 3. Bassett DR, Howley ET. Limiting factors for maximum oxygen uptake and determinants of endurance performance. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2000; 32(1):70–84.
 4. Ekblom B, Astrand P-O, Saltin B, Stenberg J, Wallström B. Effect of training on circulatory response to exercise. J Appl Physiol 1968; 24(4):518–528.
 5. Pluim BM, Zwinderman AH, van der Laarse A,  
van der Wall EE. The athlete’s heart. Circulation 2000; 101(3):336–344.
 6. Sawka MN, Convertino VA, Eichner ER, Schnieder SM, Young AJ. Blood volume: importance and adaptations to exercise training, environmental stresses and trauma sickness. Med 
Sci Sports Exerc 2000; 32:332–348.
 7. Dubouchaud H, Butterfield GE, Wolfel EE, Bergman BC, Brooks GA. Endurance training, expression, and physiology of LDH, MCT1, and MCT4 in human skeletal muscle. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab 2000; 278(4):E571–E579.
 8. Foster C, Lucia A. Running economy. Sports Med 2007; 37(4–5):316–319.
 9. Sunde A, Støren Ø, Bjerkaas M, Larsen MH, Hoff J, Helgerud J. Maximal strength training improves cycling economy in competitive cyclists. J Strength Cond Res 2010; 24(8):2157–65.
10. Jones A, Grassi B, Christensen P, Krustrup 
P, Bangsbo J, Poole D. Slow component of 
VO2 kinetics: mechanistic bases and practical 
applications. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2011; 
43(11):2046–2062.11. Black MI, Jones AM, Blackwell JR, Bailey SJ, 
Wylie LJ, McDonagh ST, et al. Muscle metabolic 
and neuromuscular determinants of fatigue 
during cycling in different exercise intensity domains. J Appl Physiol 2017; 122(3): 446–459.
12. Poole DC, Burnley M, Vanhatalo A, Rossiter HB, Jones AM. Critical power: an important 
fatigue threshold in exercise physiology. Med 
Sci Sports Exerc 2016; 48(11):2320–2334.
13. Broxterman R, Ade C, Craig J, Wilcox S, Schlup S, Barstow T. The relationship between critical 
speed and the respiratory compensation point: 
coincidence or equivalence. Eur J Sport Sci 2015; 15(7):631–639.
14. Broxterman R, Ade C, Barker T, Barstow T. Influence of pedal cadence on the respiratory 
compensation point and its relation to 
critical power. Respiratory Physiology & Neurobiology 2015; 208:1–7.
15. Stellingwerff T. Case study: nutrition and training periodization in three elite marathon 
runners. Int J Sport Nutr Exe 2012; 
22(5):392–400.
16. Esteve-Lanao J, San Juan AF, Earnest CP, Foster C, Lucia A. How do endurance runners 
actually train? Relationship with competition 
performance. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2005; 37(3):496–504.
17. Laursen PB, Jenkins DG. The scientific basis for high-intensity interval training. Sports 
Med 2002; 32(1):53–73.
18. Hedrick A. Soccer-specific conditioning. 
Strength Cond 1999; 21(2):17.
19. Jeukendrup A, Diemen A V. Heart rate 
monitoring during training and competition in cyclists. J Sports Sci 1998; 16(sup1):91–99.
20. Moyen NE, Ellis CL, Ciccone AB, Thurston TS, Cochrane KC, Brown LE, et al. Increasing relative humidity impacts low-intensity exercise in the heat. Aviation, Space, and Environmental Medicine 2014; 
85(2):112–119.(continued)

AEROBIC EXERCISE PRESCRIPTION415
21. Henriksson J. Training induced adaptation 
of skeletal muscle and metabolism during submaximal exercise. The Journal of Physiology 1977; 270(3):661–675.
22. Wolpern AE, Burgos DJ, Janot JM, Dalleck LC.  
Is a threshold-based model a superior method to the relative percent concept for establishing individual exercise intensity? A randomized controlled trial. BMC Sports Science, Medicine 
and Rehabilitation 2015; 7(1):16.
23. Rodríguez-Marroyo JA, Villa JG, García-
López J, Foster C. Relationship between the talk test and ventilatory thresholds in well-trained cyclists. J Strength Cond Res 2013; 27(7):1942–1949.
24. Halson SL, Bridge MW, Meeusen R, Busschaert B, Gleeson M, Jones DA, et al. Time course of performance changes and fatigue markers during intensified training in trained cyclists. J Appl Physiol 2002; 93(3):947–956.
25. Coyle EF, Martin W, Bloomfield SA, Lowry O, Holloszy J. Effects of detraining on responses to submaximal exercise. J Appl Physiol 1985; 59(3):853–859.
26. Boone J, Vaeyens R, Steyaert A, Bossche LV, Bourgois J. Physical fitness of elite Belgian soccer players by player position. J Strength Cond Res 2012; 26(8):2051–2057.
27. Roberts JA, Alspaugh JW. Specificity of training effects resulting from programs of treadmill running and bicycle ergometer riding. Med Sci Sports 1972; 4(1):6–10.
28. Rønnestad BR, Mujika I. Optimizing strength training for running and cycling endurance performance: A review. Scand J Med Sci 
Sports 2014; 24(4):603–612.
29. Askling C, Karlsson J, Thorstensson A. Hamstring injury occurrence in elite soccer players after preseason strength training with eccentric overload. Scand J Med Sci Sports 2003; 13(4):244–50.
30. Dufek JS. Exercise Variability: A Prescription for Overuse Injury Prevention. ACSM’s Health 
& Fitness Journal 2002; 6(4):18–23.
31. Tjelta LI. A longitudinal case study of the training of the 2012 European 1500 m track champion. Int J Appl Sports Sci 2013; 25:11–8.
32. Castagna C, Impellizzeri FM, Chaouachi A, Bordon C, Manzi V. Effect of training intensity distribution on aerobic fitness variables in elite soccer players: a case study. J Strength Cond Res 2011; 25(1):66–71.
33. Fiskerstrand Å, Seiler K. Training and performance characteristics among Norwegian international rowers 1970–2001. Scand J Med Sci Sports 2004; 14(5):303–310.34. Seiler KS, Kjerland GØ. Quantifying training intensity distribution in elite endurance athletes: is there evidence for an “optimal” distribution? Scand J Med Sci Sports 2006; 16(1):49–56.
35. Buchheit M. Monitoring training status with HR measures: do all roads lead to Rome? Frontiers in Physiology 2014; 5:73.
36. Karsten B, Stevens L, Colpus M, Larumbe-Zabala E, Naclerio F. The effects of sport-specific maximal strength and conditioning training on critical velocity, anaerobic running distance, and 5-km race performance. Int J 
Sports Physiol Perform 2016; 11(1):80–85.
37. Mohr M, Draganidis D, Chatzinikolaou A, 
Barbero-Álvarez JC, Castagna C, Douroudos I, et al. Muscle damage, inflammatory, immune and performance responses to three football games in 1 week in competitive male players. 
Eur J Appl Physiol 2016; 116(1):179–193.
38. Johnston RD, Gabbett TJ, Jenkins DG, Hulin 
BT. Influence of physical qualities on post-
match fatigue in rugby league players. J Sci Med Sport 2015; 18(2):209–213.
39. Bosquet L, Montpetit J, Arvisais D, Mujika I. Effects of tapering on performance: a meta-analysis. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2007; 39(8):1358–1365.
40. Morton RH. Detection of a lactate threshold during incremental exercise? J Appl Physiol 1989; 67(2):885–888.
41. Deruelle F, Nourry C, Mucci P, Bart F, Grosbois J, Lensel G, et al. Optimal exercise intensity in trained elderly men and women. Int J Sports Med 2007; 28(07):612–616.
42. Neder JA, Stein R. A simplified strategy for the estimation of the exercise ventilatory thresholds. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2006; 38(5):1007–1013.
43. Ramos-Campo DJ, Rubio-Arias JA, Ávila-Gandía V, Marín-Pagán C, Luque A, Alcaraz PE. Heart rate variability to assess ventilatory thresholds in professional basketball players. JSHS 2016. doi:10.1016/j.
jshs.2016.01.002.
44. Algrøy EA, Hetlelid KJ, Seiler S, Pedersen JIS. 
Quantifying training intensity distribution in a group of Norwegian professional soccer players. Int J Sports Physiol Perform 2011; 6(1):70–81.
45. Seiler S, Haugen O, Kuffel E. Autonomic recovery after exercise in trained athletes: intensity and duration effects. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2007; 39(8):1366–1373.
46. Lucía A, Hoyos J, Chicharro JL. Preferred pedalling cadence in professional cycling. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2001; 33(8):1361–1366.

Contents
Introduction  417
Needs analysis  419
General prescription  419
Acute training variables  422
Progression  426
Summary  427
References  428

16 CHAPTER
OBJECTIVES
After completing this chapter, you will be able to:
• Determine the critical variables related to resistance training prescription.
• Utilize a needs analysis to build a resistance training prescription.
• Understand how to manipulate the acute training variables for differing adaptations.
• Understand how a resistance training prescription fits within the structure of a periodized 
macrocycle.
• Appropriately progress critical variables at an individualized rate.RESISTANCE TRAINING  
PRESCRIPTION
Michael C. Zourdos, Andy V. Khamoui, and Lee E. Brown
KEY TERMS
Assistance exercises
AutoregulationClosed kinetic chain 
exercise
Exercise choice/ 
orderFrequencyIndividualizationLoad (i.e., intensity)Multi-joint exercisesOpen kinetic chain 
exerciseProgressive overloadRepetition maximum 
(RM)
Rest intervalsSingle-joint exercisesVolume
INTRODUCTION
Many factors must be considered when 
creating resistance training prescriptions including training variables such as volume, intensity, and frequency. The adaptations asso -
ciated with each variable must be understood  
by the strength and conditioning profes-sional to implement a successful prescription. Moreover, the individual needs of an athlete are paramount in determining the specifics of number of repetitions, sets, and training intensity. Importantly, data is available which demonstrates how to determine an athlete’s needs and reveals systematic strategies to create a training prescription for long-term success of the athlete by manipulating these training variables.

MICHAEL C. ZOURDOS ET AL.418
Key tenets: progressive overload 
and specificity
Prior to discussing the intricate workings and 
configurations of exercise prescription it is essential to understand the basic principles of which all programs are based. These principles are 
progressive overload  and specificity.
Progressive overload
Progressive overload  is consistent and gradual 
increase of stress (i.e., volume or load) over time with resistance training (10). Consequently, skel -
etal muscle needs continual overload otherwise long-term adaptations will stall. Progressive over -
load can be achieved by: (i) increasing the load, or (ii) increasing total training volume (training volume = sets ×  repetitions × weight lifted) (47). 
Moreover, since training volume is the product of three variables, there are various ways in which volume can be increased. However, it must also be stated that caution should be used when achieving progressive overload, in that increasing load or volume should not occur at a magnitude which is unsustainable. Greater specifics will be discussed later; however, as a rule, weekly progressions should stay with +2–5% of the previous training 
week’s prescription, and rate of progression will slow over time (i.e., a beginner will progress at a faster rate than an experienced trainee).
Specificity stipulates that training adap -
tations occur specific to the muscle actions involved (37), speed of movement (9445), range of motion (46), muscle groups trained (55), energy systems involved (32,56), and intensity and volume of training (23,44,57). In other words, an athlete’s body will adapt in a specific manner to how training is performed. Thus, to improve a specific skill, an athlete would practice that skill. One of the bases of resistance train-ing exercise selection is specificity of the exercise to the performance task (i.e., weighted vertical jumps for a volleyball athlete). Ultimately, to determine exercise selection, a ‘needs analysis’ of the athlete must first be conducted to determine the most appropriate resistance training strategy to best prepare this athlete for competition.
Box 16.1 sets out some basic training prin -
ciples, and Box 16.2 discusses how balancing overload, specificity, and variation may best  
be achieved.
Box 16.1  Basic training principles
Nearly every successful training program includes a combination of the following three basic training 
principles: overload, variation, and specificity. The overload provides the challenge required for 
physiological adaptation. However, by definition, this creates some damage or otherwise overwhelm -
ing stress, increasing injury risk. Variation helps reduce this danger by dispersing the stress. It also enhances the robust nature of the adaptation, increasing the likelihood that the new physical abilities are expressible in multiple avenues. Specificity maximizes the transferability of the improved perfor-mance to the direct, intended target. Variation and specificity appear contradictory on the surface, yet a closer examination of their proper implementation reveals their true complimentary nature.
Box 16.2  Balancing ov erload, specificity, and variation
Balancing overload, specificity, and variation is best achieved when coaches thoroughly understand the answers to a few basic questions before writing the program:
1 What are the ph ysical demands of the sport?
2 What are the metabolic demands of the spor t?
3 What are the biomechanical demands of the spor t?
4 What are the common o veruse injuries associated with the sport?
5 What performance variables (e .g., power, strength, etc.) are limiting the athlete’s success in the sport?
6 What is the athlete’s training histor y?
7 What is the athlete’s injur y history?

RESISTANCE TRAINING PRESCRIPTION419
NEEDS ANALYSIS
Once the key tenants of progressive overload 
and specificity are understood, the practitioner next must perform a needs analysis of the indi -
vidual in question when designing a resistance training prescription. Chapter 12 discusses a needs analysis for the resistance trained ath-lete.
 This ensures that the key tenants are 
being met; however, it will also increase the likelihood of overall adherence to training and minimizing unnecessary training.
When designing a needs analysis, ques -
tions can be posed in two categories: (i) sport needs and (ii) athlete availability to most effec -
tively determine the needs analysis.
Performing a needs analysis assists the strength 
and conditioning professional in designing a specific and individualized resistance exercise program.
GENERAL PRESCRIPTION
Once a needs analysis is determined of the 
specific sport and athlete the practitioner can begin to implement the general prescription of the program. For resistance training the components of this general prescription are: modality (i.e., free weight- vs. machine-based training), exercise selection, exercise order, and contraction type (i.e., eccentric vs. concen-tric). Therefore, this section will examine the variants of general exercise prescription and explain how to program those variants based upon the pre-determined needs analysis.
Exercise selection
For an athlete, the overarching aim of exer -
cise selection is implementing exercises which will transfer to sport-specific performance; thus, chosen exercises should coincide with the aforementioned principles of specificity. Three classifications which should be con -
sidered when selecting a specific exercise are: (i) single- or multi-joint, (ii) large or small muscle group, or (iii) open or closed kinetic chain. 
Single-joint exercises  stress one joint (or 
muscle group). For example, the biceps curl stresses elbow flexion (biceps muscle group). While skill required to complete a single-joint exercise is minimal and injury risk is low (1), the sport-specific transfer and overall muscle recruitment is lower in single vs. multi-joint exercises. Contrastingly, 
multi-joint exercises  
stress two or more joints (or muscle groups). For example, the back squat stresses hip and knee extension, which includes gluteus, ham -
strings, and quadriceps muscle groups. These exercises require more complex neural acti -
vation and coordination; thus multi-joint exercises are likely more effective than  
single-joint for enhancing muscle strength and power (1).
Indeed, when multi-joint exercises are 
included in resistance training prescription there is a transfer of the increased strength to sprint performance (59). Therefore, both multi- and single-joint exercises can be uti -
lized; however, coaches should consider that greater musculature is recruited with multi-joint exercises and there is greater transfer to sport-specific performance; yet single-joint exercises should still be utilized to target weak muscle groups in individual athletes. Thus, a practitioner should consider the results of the needs analysis to implement exercises for indi-vidual athlete weak points.
Multi-joint exercises that stress large muscle 
groups invoke a greater metabolic and hormonal stimulus than single-joint exercises that stress small muscle groups.
Free weights and machines
Once a decision regarding single- or multi-
joint and specific exercise selection has been made, coaches and athletes must decide if these exercises should be performed with free weights (barbells and dumbbells) or weight machines (plate loaded or weight stack). Weight machines (e.g., leg extensions, leg curls, pull downs) are largely safe because of the minimal skill required to utilize this modality (10,58). However, free weights often require a movement pattern, which is more performance task-specific; thus free weights are more likely to improve sport performance than weight machines (10). Ultimately, like single-joint exercises, free weights can be used to target a weak muscle group. Additionally, while beginners should utilize multi-joint exer -
cises (i.e., squats, bench presses, and deadlifts) with very low loads to practice a movement 

MICHAEL C. ZOURDOS ET AL.420
pattern and elicit neural adaptations, machine-
based training can also be utilized to achieve progressive overload in the early stages of training. Importantly, the use of free weights in novices is important to build skill and appro -
priate motor patterns early on as free weights will become the predominant modality as an athlete becomes more experienced (10).
Modalities of resistance training
When using free weights, barbells and dumb -
bells will be the primary modes of resistance training. In addition to large multi-joint exercises (i.e., back squat and deadlift) recruiting greater musculature than eccentric exercise, it is often noted that another benefit is the enhanced acute hormone response (i.e., greater acute testosterone and growth hor -
mone) with multi-joint exercises; however, it is now known that this acute response is not particularly important (60). Furthermore, an additional consideration with free weights is to choose an 
open kinetic chain  or closed kinetic 
chain  exercise. An open kinetic chain exercise 
necessitates that the distal end of the mov -
ing segment is not in contact with the ground or a fixed surface (i.e., biceps curl or bench press). Conversely, the distal end of the mov -
ing segment is indeed in contact with a fixed surface (i.e., back squat). Often closed kinetic chain exercises coincide with being multi-joint exercises such as the back squat; thus large musculature is recruited, whereas in an open chain movement there is lower muscle activa-tion of an antagonist muscle group (4,5).
Furthermore, it is necessary to consider 
the agonist–antagonize relationship when pre -
scribing training. Essentially, if an antagonist becomes too strong compared to the ago -
nist such that an imbalance occurs, the risk of injury increases in the antagonist muscle. For example, if bench presses are regularly performed, yet there is minimal to no back training (i.e., rowing movements), then the back musculature will be more susceptible to 
injury. Essentially, upper-body pulling motions 
should be utilized to balance out upper-body pushing motions. Specifically, a row can be used to balance out a bench press (horizontal motions) and a pull-up could be utilized to bal -
ance out an overhead press (vertical motions). In accordance with specificity, triple extension exercises (i.e., extension of the hip, knee, and ankle) can be utilized to coincide with the prin -
ciple of specificity in preparation for sports in which triple extension is utilized (i.e., explosive running and jumping).
It must be noted that alternative forms 
to barbells and dumbbells of free weight resistance training do exist. These alternative forms include: medicine balls, plyometrics, elastic tubing, and body-weight exercises. 
While these variants are not the overall base 
of a resistance training prescription, they can be performed at a high velocity since little resistance is utilized, thus increasing specific -
ity within explosive sports. Therefore, these explosive modalities should be used in more experienced athletes once a strong base of training has been established.
All major muscle groups should be trained during 
a resistance exercise program to avoid muscular imbalances.
Exercise order
After training modalities are established the 
order in which resistance training exercises are performed must be determined. The
 exer -
cise order  (the sequencing of specific exercises 
within a session) significantly affects force pro-duction, fatigue rate, and muscle recruitment patterns during a session (6–8). Consequently, training volume (sets × repetitions × weight lifted) or intensity may be compromised on exercise performed later in a training session due to fatigue accumulation; thus progress on those exercises over the long term is attenu -
ated due to the lower volume (9). Therefore, to maximize progress, the most important exercises, usually the multi-joint exercises, should be performed first in a session due to their abilities to recruit a high amount of musculature and transfer to sport-specific per -
formance. Moreover, when choosing order 
within multi-joint exercises which require 
spinal loading preference should be given to those which do not increase fatigue (e.g., back squat before leg press). It is also important to consider that full-body training might not take place every session (i.e., a split-type training 

RESISTANCE TRAINING PRESCRIPTION421
program might be used); however, when train -
ing all major muscle groups in one session, 
here is a point-by-point guide to determining exercise order (10):
• Perform large muscle group before small muscle group exercises
• Perform multi- before single-joint exercises
• Rotate upper and lower body exercises (i.e., upper first on Monday, lower first on Wednesday, upper first on Friday, etc.)
• Utilize ‘power’ or explosive barbell exer -
cises which require triple extension first, i.e., power cleans before back squats (11).
• Rotate between pushing and pulling upper body exercises
Overall example
• Power clean
• Back squat
• Dumbbell bench press
• Barbell row
• Barbell curl
Muscle action
Most resistance exercises include concentric (CON) and eccentric (ECC) muscle actions. CON means that the muscle shortens as it produces force; ECC indicates that the muscle lengthens as it produces force. For example, during the arm curl exercise the biceps per -
form a CON action as the weight is lifted and an ECC action as the weight is low -
ered. Although ECC actions result in more delayed onset muscle soreness due to greater muscle damage (35,36) than CON actions, improvements in dynamic muscular strength are greatest when ECC actions are included in the repetition movement (as opposed to CON-only movements) (37). Considering that exercises typically used within resistance training exercise prescriptions include CON and ECC muscle actions, that excluding ECC movements reduces gains in strength, and that 
there is not much potential for variation in this 
acute program variable, it is recommended that CON and ECC muscle actions are included in all resistance training programs. Additionally, most exercises begin with the eccentric por -
tion of the lift (i.e., squats and bench presses), so the benefit of the stretch reflex aids the concentric portion. However, a few exercises (i.e., deadlifts) begin with the ECC. Thus, if doing multiple repetitions on the deadlift and minimal time occurs (< four seconds) between repetitions, an athlete may find the second repetition to be easier than the first repetition. Therefore, it is recommended to take at least four seconds between repetitions on a deadlift to allow the benefit of the stretch reflex to dis -
sipate, so that each repetition is a true deadlift.
Resistance training exercises should include CON 
and ECC muscle actions.
Repetition velocity
Force is equal to mass times acceleration; there -
fore, performing an exercise slowly reduces 
the associated muscular forces. Data has indi -
cated that force production is significantly lower for an intentionally slow velocity (five seconds CON; five seconds ECC) compared to a voluntary velocity (38). Furthermore, over the course of ten weeks, the use of a very slow velocity (ten seconds CON; five seconds ECC) compared to a slow velocity (two seconds CON; four seconds ECC) led to significantly less strength gains (39). Furthermore, moder -
ate and fast velocities have been shown to be more effective for increasing the number of repetitions performed, work and power out -
put, and volume (40–42) and for increasing the rate of performance gains (41). Therefore, intentionally slow concentric velocities are not recommended.
It is important to note that unintention-
ally slow velocities will occur as there are strong and very strong inverse correlations between barbell velocity and percentage of 1RM (61) in that as percentage of 1RM increases velocity decreases. However, this is a natural consequence of a heavier load and should not be confused with intentionally slow movement velocity.
Athletes should intend to perform exercises with 
a fast lifting velocity, as intentionally slow velocities diminish gains.

MICHAEL C. ZOURDOS ET AL.422
ACUTE TRAINING 
VARIABLES
A fundamental component of resistance 
training prescription is prescribing the acute training variables (volume, intensity, fre-quency, and rest intervals). These components are highly dependent upon time of year (in-season vs. off-season) where an athlete is within a periodized macrocycle. Periodization will be discussed later; however, we will estab -
lish the basics of the acute training variables in the present section.
Training volume
Total training  volume  can be defined as: vol -
ume = sets (number) × repetitions (number) 
x weight lifted. For example, if three sets of eight repetitions were performed at 100 kg, the equation would be as follows: volume = 3 
× 8 × 100 kg, which would result in 2400 kg. 
However, absolute volume is often misleading when examining different athletes due to dif-ferent strength levels. Thus, relative volume can be calculated in this case using percentage of one-repetition maximum (1RM) in place of load. In the previous example, if 100 kg represents 70% of 1RM, the relative volume equation would be: relative volume = 3 × 8 × .70, which would equal 16.8. Thus, alteration of any of the three components will alter total or relative training volume. While determina-tion of how much volume to prescribe will come later, for now it is important to under -
stand that training volume will be dependent upon time of year (more training volume in the off-season vs. in-season) and training sta-tus (greater training volume in experienced vs. inexperienced). Moreover, training volume influences neural (24), metabolic (3025,26), and hormonal (15–17,27–31) and enhances the magnitude of muscle damage; thus the appropriate amount of volume should be pre-scribed to achieve adaptations, yet not be so excessive as to prevent recovery in time for the next training session. Table 16.1 shows 
an example of weekly training volumes with varying frequencies.
Increased metabolic and hormonal responses are 
associated with high training volume.
Exercise intensity
Intensity  can be defined as the absolute load 
being lifted, the percentage of 1RM being uti -
lized, or the amount of stress at the end of a set 
which can be determined by rating of perceived exertion (RPE) (61). Importantly, intensity will be somewhat dependent upon volume, in that with more volume, typically a lighter absolute load is utilized (12). Specifically, there is an inverse relationship between the load and the maximal number of repetitions performed in that as the load increases the number of rep -
etitions that can be performed decreases (14). In terms of intensity as a percentage of 1RM often a repetition prescription will be made utilizing percentage-based training.
For example, four sets of six at 75% of 1RM 
(expressed as: 4 ×  6 @ 75%). Another way to pre -
scribe repetitions could be with RM zones such as four sets at 10–12RM where a specific load would be estimated by the athlete and/or coach that would lead to muscular failure between 10 and 12 repetitions. In this example of muscular failure, the athlete can also determine intensity by the resistance training-specific – one to ten repetitions in reserve (RIR)-based RPE scale 
(Table 16.2), in which an RPE value corresponds to a number of RIR (61). Specifically, if failure 
TABLE 16.1  Demonstration of weekly training volumes with varying frequencies
Monday Wednesday Friday T otal volume
Example A 10 × 10 @100 kg No training No training 10,000 kg
Example B 4 × 10 @ 100 kg 5 × 8 @ 110 kg 6 × 4 @ 120 kg 11,280 kg
This table demonstrates that excessive volume in one day may result in diminished training frequency due to inability to recovery vs. lower 
daily training volume, which facilitates better recovery and thus more frequency and volume over time.

RESISTANCE TRAINING PRESCRIPTION423
is reached that means the set was completed,  
maximum effort was achieved, and no additional 
repetitions could be performed, which would be an RPE of 10 (zero RIR). However, stopping  one repetition short of failure would correspond to a 9RPE (one RIR) and an 8RPE would be an  
RIR of two.
The RIR-based RPE scale is a practical 
way for coaches and athletes to assess the intensity of a specific set, and as discussed later to individualize progression and daily loading. It also must be noted that altering training load affects hormonal (3,15–18), neu-ral (19,20), and metabolic (21,22) responses and adaptations to resistance training. Further, the amount of repetitions which can be per -
formed at a specific intensity is individualized, which makes the RIR-based RPE scale espe-cially useful to keep intensity similar when coaching in a team setting yet allowing for dif -
ferent percentages of 1RM; nonetheless, Table 
16.3 provides general guidelines for repeti -
tions allowed at specific intensities of 1RM.
If using percentage of 1RM to prescribe 
training load,
 it is paramount that an accurate 
1RM is established. Thus, below is a protocol and feedback tools which can be used to accu -
rately determine a 1RM.
Frequency and session structure
Training  frequency  can be used to note the 
total number of sessions within a week (i.e., TABLE 16.2  Resistance training-specific rating of 
perceived exertion scale
Rating Description of perceived exertion
10 Maximum effort
9.5 No further repetitions but could 
increase load
9 1 repetition remaining
8.5 1–2 repetitions remaining
8 2 repetitions remaining
7.5 2–3 repetitions remaining
7 3 repetitions remaining
5–6 4–6 repetitions remaining
3–4 Light effort
1–2 Little to no effort
Adapted from (61)
TABLE 16.3  Relationship between percentage of 1RM, repetitions performed, and RIR-based RPE
RPE Repetitions performed
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
10 100% 95% 91% 87% 85% 83% 81% 79%
9.5 97% 83% 89% 86% 84% 82% 80% 77.5%
9 95% 91% 87% 85% 83% 81% 79% 76%
8.5 93% 89% 86% 84% 82% 80% 77.5% 74.5%
8 91% 87% 85% 83% 81% 79% 76% 73%
7.5 89% 86% 84% 82% 80% 77.5% 74.5% 71.5%
7 87% 85% 83% 81% 79% 76% 73% 70%
1RM = one-repetition maximum
RPE = rating of perceived exertionRIR = repetitions in reserve
Adapted from (62).

MICHAEL C. ZOURDOS ET AL.424
three total sessions) or the total number of 
times within a week a specific exercise or muscle group was trained. For the latter, an example would be that total training days were six (Monday–Saturday); however, back squats were performed three times a week (i.e., Monday, Wednesday, and Friday) and bench presses were performed three times a week (i.e., Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday). Frequency will be dependent upon training status and of course the initial needs analysis; 
for example, if an athlete is well-trained and 
the sport requires a significant hypertrophy and power then training blocks of higher vol -
ume may be needed; thus, increased frequency. Consequently, training volume will also dic -
tate frequency; if required volume is high then a frequency of two to three times per week per muscle group will be needed to achieve higher volumes. Indeed, a recent meta-analysis sug-gests two to three times per week on a muscle group is superior to once a week for adapta -
tions (63), and this is in part due to the ability to perform greater total volume across more weekly sessions.
It is also imperative to understand how 
total volume or contraction type affects muscle damage and subsequent recovery. Greater training volume in one session will incur more myofiber damage, thus causing increased recovery time. Furthermore, a focus on eccentric contractions will also enhance the damage response (64) and elongate recovery. Therefore, when high session volume or an eccentric focus is implemented, more than 48 hours of recovery is warranted, whereas 48 hours may be sufficient following more stand -
ard training sessions. Moreover, untrained athletes or beginners may require more recovery than trained lifters. Consequently, introductory cycles should be structured for beginners which are aimed to protect against excessive muscle damage or elicit the repeated bout effect (RBE), in that repeated training of the same exercise or muscle group will attenu-ate the muscle damage response (65). Once the 
RBE has occurred to a magnitude which pro-
duces low muscle damage to training like the initial bout, then frequency can be increased, which will in turn cause greater training vol-ume. The periodization section includes details regarding setting up training cycles. For now it is important to remember the basic guide -
lines of a frequency per muscle group of two to three times per week and to manage the muscle damage/fatigue and recovery balance so as to not induce too much fatigue in one day such that it prevents recovery for the next scheduled training session.
Training frequency in the 
competitive season
In brief, greater general preparation (i.e., 
hypertrophy and base strength) is built in the off-season for an athlete. Building base hyper -
trophy and strength will require greater levels of training volume as volume is closely associ -
ated with both hypertrophy (66) and strength (67); however, in-season an athlete is aim -
ing to maintain strength and power output. Therefore, training volume will be lower in-season as increased training volume in-season may decrease power output due to excessive volume. Ultimately, in-season there is a greater increase on skill practice (i.e., specificity), and high training volume may be unsustainable due to the demands of on-field practice and game/match play.
Rest intervals
Rest intervals , the time between sets, can signif -
icantly influence acute and chronic responses to resistance training. For years, it was recom -
mended that short rest intervals (i.e., 30–90 seconds) be used to maximize muscle growth due to increased lactate (32), which facili -
tates a greater acute growth hormone release than longer rest intervals (15–17). However, it is now known that acute anabolic hormone elevation is not a causative factor in long-term skeletal muscle growth (60). Rather, total train -
ing volume is the variable which is most closely associated with muscle growth; thus rest inter -
vals which are too short may be detrimental to hypertrophy as performance on subsequent 
sets may be diminished (13). Indeed, over 
four weeks, short (30–40 seconds) rest inter -
vals attenuated strength increases compared to long (2–3 minutes) rest intervals (33,34). Thus, to maximize strength and training vol -
ume it is recommended that rest intervals 

RESISTANCE TRAINING PRESCRIPTION425
that are at least two minutes are optimal for 
strength gains; however, if an individual ath -
lete needs greater recovery to ensure successful completion of a subsequent set, that is also recommended. Thus, rest intervals from two to five minutes are sufficient.
Short rest periods are associated with greater 
metabolic and hormonal responses; however, very short rest periods might attenuate strength gains.
Exercise selection across  
session-type
Overall, multi-joint compound exercises are 
superior to single-joint exercises for hypertro -
phy, strength, and power adaptations. However, single-joint exercises are certainly useful to bal -
ance out a weak muscle group, which can be determined in an individual needs analysis or target a muscle group that is especially benefi-cial in a sport. Moreover, a single-joint exercise may be able to prevent injury (i.e., neck flexion and extension in football).
Ultimately, multi-joint exercises are most 
effective for increasing overall hypertrophy and strength because they enable a greater amount of weight to be lifted (43), which will in turn lead to greater training volume. Multi-joint compound exercises also stress multiple muscle groups within a single exercise and are specific to the movement demands of most sports.
For power training not only are multi-joint 
exercises recommended, but also total-body and closed kinetic chain exercises (e.g., power clean, deadlift) due to the requirement of rapid force production (107) in sport-specific movement patterns. Importantly, exercises which require a slow deceleration phase are not typically used for power training; thus jump squats would be recommended over regular back squats. Indeed, data examining the bench press indicates that deceleration 
occurs during 24 to 40% of the concentric 
movement (48,49), the deceleration phase increases to 52% when performing the lift with a lower percentage (81%) of 1RM (48), and the deceleration phase increases when attempting to move the bar rapidly to train at a high movement velocity (49). This is in con -
trast to ballistic resistance exercises (explosive movements that enable acceleration through -
out the full range of motion) which limit the deceleration associated with traditional resist -
ance exercises (50–52). For instance, loaded jump squats with 30% 1RM loads have been shown to increase vertical jump performance to a greater extent than traditional back squats (52). Therefore, it is recommended that strength and conditioning coaches choose 
exercises that allow acceleration throughout 
the range of motion (e.g., power clean, power snatch, jump squats, plyometrics) to maximize transfer to athletic performance during power training phases.
Muscular endurance training exercises 
stressing multiple or large muscle groups are associated with the greatest acute meta -
bolic responses (2,53,54). This is important because high metabolic demand is a stimu-lus for adaptations leading to improved local muscular endurance (e.g., increased mitochon-drial density and capillary number, fiber type transitions, buffering capacity). Therefore, it is recommended that multiple or large muscle group exercises are emphasized in programs aimed at improving local muscular endurance.
Rest intervals
As previously stated, even though short rest intervals do not allow lactate to clear and elicit large acute hormone responses, it is now known that the acute hormone release is not causative in long-term hypertrophy, rather total training volume is more indicative of hypertrophy. Additionally, longitudinal studies (33,34) have shown greater strength increases with long rest intervals, where at least two to three minutes is recommended for strength on primary exercises (e.g., back squat, bench press, deadlift). Moreover, two to three minutes is also recommended for hypertrophy so as not to sacrifice total training volume. For 
assis-
tance exercises  or single joint exercises (e.g., 
biceps curls, leg curls), one to two minutes of rest might suffice (10). Two to three minutes are also recommended to rest between sets for power training so as to fully recover and not compromise repetition velocity to coincide with the goal of power-type training.

MICHAEL C. ZOURDOS ET AL.426
PROGRESSION
How to alter training variables over time will 
be addressed in this section by discussing the various ways to progress training load from week to week using the exercise prescription based on a periodized model.
Periodization
Periodization strategies are discussed in Chapter 14. Briefly, a year of training can be referred to as a 
macrocycle , which contains 
mesocycles  (i.e., four to six weeks, commonly 
referred to as ‘training blocks’), and micro-
cycles  which are usually one to two weeks 
of training. Within a periodized macrocycle volume will decrease over time and inten-sity will increase as competitions approach. Thus, there will be greater hypertrophy-type or high-volume training in the off-season and the beginning of macrocycle while strength- and power-type training will occur as volume decreases later in the macrocycle.
Progression
Even though information has been presented on how to lay out a training program, pro-gression has not yet been examined. In general, 
progression  is the act of moving 
forward toward a specific goal (10), more specifically in the resistance training context, it is the ability to progress training load over time or from week to week. Importantly, even though human physiology is similar across individuals, the individual rate of adaptation to resistance training is different as there are high, low, and moderate responders to train -
ing (68). There are three main ways to progress weekly training load that will be discussed: (i) arbitrary progression, (ii) autoregulatory progressive resistance exercise (APRE), and (iii) autoregulation based upon RPE. Each of these progression strategies has positives and negatives, and there is not necessarily a right or wrong strategy, rather progression strategy determination should occur based upon the needs analysis.Arbitrary progression
An arbitrary weekly progression is simply add -
ing load from one week to the next on the same exercise by a pre-determined amount (i.e., 2.5 or 5 kg.). The drawbacks to this progression model are obvious: (i) an athlete may not be pro -
gressing at a rate fast enough to meet the load progression and thus might fail on the following week’s training, or (ii) an athlete might progress faster than the rate of progression; thus, the pre-planned training might not provide a great enough stressor to achieve the desired adapta -
tion. However, this model might be beneficial to keep novices from progressing too quickly. Since novices can make progress on minimal volume and load is a component of total volume, pro -
gressing at a minimal 2.5 kg per week may be advisable so as to not risk injury by progressing too quickly in novice individuals.
Autoregulatory progressive 
resistance exercise (APRE)
The APRE progression strategy adds load 
based on the previous week’s performance (69). For example, if in week one of a meso -
cycle an athlete is prescribed five sets of four repetitions on the back squat with a plus set (plus set means the last set is performed for as many repetitions as possible), then the amount of repetitions on the plus set is used to determine the following week’s training load. Specifically, if nine to ten repetitions are per -
formed then a larger increase of +7.5 kg could 
be taken, while a +5 kg change could be taken 
for a seven to eight repetition performance, and five to six repetitions would result in a +2.5 kg 
increase in load. Additionally, it may be advis -
able to use percentage increases in load across different individuals as a 7.5 kg increase is a 3.75% change for an individual with a starting squat 1RM of 200 kg, yet a 7.5% change for an individual with a 100 kg starting 1RM. A positive aspect of APRE is individualized load progression, which is consistent with the prin -
ciple that adaptations rates are highly variable among individuals. However, one drawback is that this method is basing progression solely on one set during a given week; thus the athlete may have atypical excitability or performance 

RESISTANCE TRAINING PRESCRIPTION427
during that one set leading to a higher than 
advisable progression for the following week.
Autoregulation based upon RPE
The third and final progression strategy laid out is to progress load based upon the previ -
ous week’s RPE values. To accomplish this the athlete needs to record an RIR-based RPE (61) following each set or the last set of each main compound lift during the previous week. Then, 
there is an inverse relationship between RPE and 
load progression. For example, if the predicted RPE or goal RPE for the previous week was 8 (i.e., 2 RIR) yet the actual average RPE for that day or last set RPE was 5 (i.e., 5 RIR), then a large load increase (i.e., +7.5 kg) could be taken 
for the following week. However, if actual RPE was 7, a small load increase (i.e., +2.5 kg) could 
be administered or no change could be made if the predicted or goal RPE of 8 was met. Like APRE, the advantage of progressing with RPE is that this progression is individualized. An advan-tage of RPE progression vs. APRE is that APRE is basing weekly progression solely on one training  
session, whereas in an RPE progression model load could be progressed differently on each spe -
cific day. The individual day progression might be especially useful within a daily undulating periodization model (i.e., Monday-hypertrophy training; Wednesday-power training; and Friday-strength training) as some athletes might be better at muscular endurance and thus might have low RPEs on Monday; however, they might have high RPEs on the strength day; thus each day can be progressed accordingly. On the other hand, a drawback of this progression model is that data has indicated that RPE ratings are improved with training status, in that trained 
individuals record RPE more accurately than 
untrained (61). Additionally, experience with the RIR-based RPE scale itself improves the qual -
ity of RPE ratings; therefore, a limitation of this model is the individual’s ability to accurately gauge how many RIR they have after each set.
SUMMARY
The two main tenants of any resistance training exercise prescription are the principles of speci -
ficity and progressive overload. Once a needs analysis is performed, i.e., the specific needs of an athlete are determined, a program can be laid out which implements the appropriate general 
TABLE 16.4  Basic implementation guidelines for an exercise prescription
Exercise selection: Multi-joint, large muscle mass exercises including power exercises should be 
emphasized
Exercise order: (i) power exercises; (ii) multi-joint, large muscle mass exercises; (iii) single-joint, small muscle mass exercises
Loading: Power exercises: 30–50% 1RM
Strength exercises: > 80% 1RM
Volume: Multiple-sets, one to six repetitions per set
Rest intervals: Fundamental exercises: two to three minutes
Assistance exercises: one to two minutes
Frequency: Four sessions per week
Workout structure: Split routine
Muscle actions: Concentric and eccentric
Repetition velocity: Power exercises: intent to perform the repetitions as quickly as possible
Strength exercises: volitional speed

MICHAEL C. ZOURDOS ET AL.428
prescription (i.e., free weights vs. machines), 
training volume and intensity between hyper -
trophy-, strength-, and power-type training, and periodizing and progressing these train -
ing variables over the course of a macrocycle to peak performance for the competitive sea-son. Practically, to appropriately accomplish these goals it is strongly recommended that the athlete and/or coach methodically track all training variables to ensure accurate data is accumulated. A spreadsheet can be especially  effective to track each training session. If data is tracked then coaches and athletes can appropriately implement progression not only throughout a macrocycle, but data can be reviewed in subsequent training years to improve program design/exercise prescription and enhance performance. Table 16.4 sets out 
some basic implementation guidelines for an 
exercise prescription, and Boxes 16.3 and 16.4 set out suggested cluster sets and rest intervals, and volume load,
 respectively.
Box 16.3  Cluster sets and rest intervals
Rest can be described within an exercise (inter-set) as a rest interval. The rest interval is the 
period that energy is being conserved to allow for ATP to be readily available for the next set and 
for the clearing of other metabolic substrates that can affect performance. Proper rest intervals are vital and determined by the specific training goal. This may explain why more complicated intra-set rest strategies such as cluster sets are effective at conserving maximal strength and velocity over multiple sets. Cluster sets require the athlete to rest for 20–30 seconds between each repetition (36). This could be done two to three times before taking a full rest (two to five minutes) between sets. For example, 5 × 3 would be executed in the following fashion: 1 rep (30 second rest), 1 rep 
(30 second rest), 1 rep (30 second rest), two to five minute rest; repeat entire cycle five times. This obviously extends total workout time considerably, but yields impressive results.
Box 16.4  Volume load
Volume load can also be calculated to show an overall amount of work performed by multiplying the volume of training by the load. For example, if John performed the back squat with 102.5 kgs for five sets of five repetitions, then his volume load was 2,562.5 kgs (25 reps x 102.5 kgs). This is a way of tracking and monitoring training on a given day or over a period of weeks, months, or years. This also highlights how volume and relative intensity are inversely related (27,28,34). As the intensity of an exercise goes up, the volume must go down. This is due to the effort demand of heavier load, reducing the energy remaining available to perform more repetitions. Both volume and intensity can remain high if a moderate to heavy load is used for many sets, in combination with proper rest intervals. This strategy has been shown to drive hypertrophy and strength adaptations. However, it should be done sparingly as the high training intensity is demanding, which increases risk of injury or overtraining.
REFERENCES
 1. Ratamess NA, Alvar BA, Evetoch TK, et al. 
Progression Models in Resistance Training for Healthy Adults. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2009; 
41:687–708. 2. Ballor DL, Becque MD, Katch VL. Metabolic responses during hydraulic resistance exercise. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1987; 19:363–367.
 3. Kraemer WJ, Ratamess NA. Endocrine responses and adaptations to strength and power training. In: Komi PV, eds. Strength 

RESISTANCE TRAINING PRESCRIPTION429
and Power in Sport. Oxford, UK: Blackwell 
Science, 2003.
 4. Wilk KE, Escamilla RF, Fleisig GS, et al. A comparison of tibiofemoral joint forces and electromyographic activity during open and closed kinetic chain exercises. Am J Sports Med 1996; 24:518–527.
 5. Escamilla RF, Fleisig GS, Zheng N, et al. Biomechanics of the knee during closed kinetic chain and open kinetic chain exercises. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1998; 30:556–569.
 6. Häkkinen K, Komi PV Alen M. Effect of explosive type strength training on isometric force- and relaxation-time, electromyographic and muscle fibre characteristics of leg extensor muscles. Acta Physiol Scand 1985; 
125:587–600.
 7. Brennecke A, Guimaraes TM, Leone R, et al. 
Neuromuscular activity during bench press exercise performed with and without the preexhaustion method. J Strength Cond Res 2009; 23:1933–1940.
 8. Simao R, Farinatti PDTV, Polito MD, et al. Influence of exercise order on the number of repetitions performed and perceived exertion during resistance exercise in women. J Strength Cond Res 2007; 21:23–28.
 9. Dias I, de Salles BF, Novaes J, et al. Influence of exercise order on maximum strength in untrained young men. J Sci Med Sport 13:65–69.
10. Kraemer WJ, Adams K, Cafarelli E, et al. American College of Sports Medicine position stand. Progression models in resistance training for healthy adults. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2002; 34:364–380.
11. Kraemer WJ Ratamess NA. Fundamentals of resistance training: progression and exercise prescription. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2004; 36:674–688.
12. Sforzo FA Touey PR. Manipulating exercise order affects muscular performance during a resistance exercise training session. J Strength Cond Res 1996; 10:20–24.
13. Kraemer WJ. A series of studies: the physiological basis for strength training in American football: fact over philosophy.  
 J Strength Cond Res 1997; 11:131–142.
14. Willardson JM, Kattenbraker MS, Khairallah M, et al. Research note: effect of load reductions over consecutive sets on repetition performance. J Strength Cond Res 2010; 24:879–884.
15. Kraemer WJ, Fleck SJ, Dziados JE, et al. Changes in hormonal concentrations after different heavy-resistance exercise protocols in women. J Appl Physiol 1993; 75:594–604.16. Kraemer WJ, Gordon SE, Fleck SJ, et al. Endogenous anabolic hormonal and growth factor responses to heavy resistance exercise in males and females. Int J Sports Med 1991; 12:228–235.
17. Kraemer WJ, Marchitelli L, Gordon SE, et al. Hormonal and growth factor responses to heavy resistance exercise protocols. J Appl Physiol 1990; 69:1442–1450.
18. Raastad T, Bjoro T, Hallen J. Hormonal responses to high- and moderate-intensity strength exercise. Eur J Appl Physiol 2000; 82:121–128.
19. Komi PV, Vitasalo JH. Signal characteristics of EMG at different levels of muscle tension. Acta Physiol Scand 1976; 96:267–276.
20. Sale DG. Neural adaptations to strength training. In: Komi PV, eds. Strength and Power 
in Sport. Oxford, UK: Blackwell Scientific, 1992.
21. Fleck SJ. Cardiovascular adaptations to resistance training. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1988; 20:S146–151.
22. Stone MH, Wilson GD, Blessing D, et al. Cardiovascular responses to short-term olympic style weight-training in young men. Can J Appl Sport Sci 1983; 8:134–139.
23. Campos GE, Luecke TJ, Wendeln HK, et al. Muscular adaptations in response to three different resistance-training regimens: specificity of repetition maximum training zones. Eur J Appl Physiol 2002; 88:50–60.
24. Häkkinen K, Pakarinen A, Alen M, et al. Relationships between training volume, physical performance capacity, and serum hormone concentrations during prolonged training in elite weight lifters. Int J Sports 
Med 1987; 8 Suppl 1:61–65.
25. Willoughby DS, Chilek DR, Schiller DA, et al. 
The metabolic effects of three different free weight parallel squatting intensities. J Hum Mov Stud 1991; 21:53–67.
26. Benton MJ, Swan PD. Influence of resistance exercise volume on recovery energy expenditure in women. Eur J Sport Sci 2009; 9:213–218.
27. Craig BW, Kang H. Growth hormone release following single versus multiple sets of back squats: total work versus power. J Strength Cond Res 1994; 8:270–275.
28. Gotshalk LA, Loebel CC, Nindl BC, et al. Hormonal responses of multiset versus single-set heavy-resistance exercise protocols. Can  J Appl Physiol 1997; 22:244–255.
29. Kraemer WJ. Endocrine responses to resistance exercise. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1988; 20:S152–157.

MICHAEL C. ZOURDOS ET AL.430
30. Mulligan SE, Fleck SJ, Gordon SE, et al. 
Influence of resistance exercise volume on serum growth hormone and cortisol concentrations in women. J Strength Cond Res 1996; 10:256–262.
31. Vanhelder WP, Radomski MW, Goode RC. Growth hormone responses during intermittent weight lifting exercise in men. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 1984; 53:31–34.
32. Kraemer WJ, Noble BJ, Clark MJ, et al. Physiologic responses to heavy-resistance exercise with very short rest periods. Int J Sports Med 1987; 8:247–252.
33. Pincivero DM, Lephart SM Karunakara RG. Effects of rest interval on isokinetic strength and functional performance after short-term high intensity training. Br J Sports Med 1997; 31:229–234.
34. Robinson JM, Stone MH, Johnson RL, et al. Effects of different weight training exercise/rest intervals on strength, power, and high intensity exercise endurance. J Strength Cond Res 1995; 9:216–221.
35. Vissing K, Overgaard K, Nedergaard A, et al. Effects of concentric and repeated eccentric exercise on muscle damage and calpain-calpastatin gene expression in human skeletal muscle. Eur J Appl Physiol 2008; 
103:323–332.
36. Ebbeling CB Clarkson PM. Exercise-induced 
muscle damage and adaptation. Sports Med 1989; 7:207–234.
37. Dudley GA, Tesch PA, Miller BJ, et al. Importance of eccentric actions in performance adaptations to resistance training. Aviat Space Environ Med 1991; 62:543–550.
38. Keogh JWL, Wilson GJ Weatherby RP. A cross-sectional comparison of different resistance training techniques in the bench press. J Strength Cond Res 1999; 13:247–258.
39. Keeler LK, Finkelstein LH, Miller W, et al. Early-phase adaptations of traditional-speed vs. superslow resistance training on strength and aerobic capacity in sedentary individuals. J Strength Cond Res 2001; 15:309–314.
40. Lachance PF Hortobagyi T. Influence of cadence on muscular performance during push-up and pull-up exercises. J Strength Cond Res 1994; 8:76–79.
41. Morrissey MC, Harman EA, Frykman PN, et al. Early phase differential effects of slow and fast barbell squat training. Am J Sports Med 1998; 26:221–230.42. Hay JG, Andrews JG, Vaughan CL. Effects of lifting rate on elbow torques exerted during arm curl exercises. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1983; 15:63–71.
43. Stone MH, Plisk SS, Stone ME, et al. Athletic performance development: v-1 set vs. multiple sets, training velocity and training variation. NSCA J 1998; 20:22–31.
44. Schlumberger A, Stec J, Schmidtbleicher D. Single- vs. multiple-set strength training 
in women. J Strength Cond Res 2001; 15:284–289.
45. Kanehisa H, Miyashita M. Specificity of velocity in strength training. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 1983; 52:104–106.
46. Knapik JJ, Mawdsley RH, Ramos MU. Angular specificity and test mode speificity of isometric and isokinetic strength training.  J Orthop Sports Phys Ther 1983; 5:58–65.
47. Fleck SJ, Kraemer WJ. Designing Resistance Training Programs. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 1997.
48. Elliott BC, Wilson GJ, Kerr GK. A biomechanical analysis of the sticking region in the bench press. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1989; 21:450–462.
49. Newton RU, Kraemer WJ, Häkkinen K, et al. Kinematics, kinetics, and muscle activation during explosive upper body movements.  J Appl Biomech 1996; 12:31–43.
50. Newton RU, Kraemer WJ. Developing explosive muscular power: implications for a mixed methods training strategy. Strength Cond 1994; 16:20–31.
51. Newton RU, Kraemer WJ, Häkkinen K. Effects of ballistic training on preseason preparation of elite volleyball players. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1999; 31:323–330.
52. Wilson GJ, Newton RU, Murphy AJ, et al. The optimal training load for the development of dynamic athletic performance. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1993; 25:1279–1286.
53. Scala D, McMillan J, Blessing D, et al. Metabolic cost of a preparatory phase of training in weight lifting: a practical observation. J Appl Sport Sci Res 1987; 1:48–52.
54. Tesch PA. Short- and long-term histochemical and biochemical adaptations in muscle. In: Komi PV, eds. Strength and Power in Sport. Boston, MA: Blackwell Scientific Publications, 1992.
55. Kraemer WJ, Nindl BC, Ratamess NA, et al. Changes in muscle hypertrophy in women with periodized resistance training. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2004; 36:697–708.

RESISTANCE TRAINING PRESCRIPTION431
56. Schuenke MD, Mikat RP, McBride JM. Effect 
of an acute period of resistance exercise on excess post-exercise oxygen consumption: implications for body mass management. Eur J Appl Physiol 2002; 86:411–417.
57. Rhea MR, Alvar BA, Ball SD, et al. Three sets of weight training superior to 1 set with equal intensity for eliciting strength. J Strength Cond Res 2002; 16:525–529.
58. Foran B. Advantages and disadvantages of isokinetics, variable resistance and free weights. NSCA J 1985; 7:24–25.
59. Seitz LB, Reyes A, Tran TT, de Villarreal ES, Haff GG. Increases in lower-body strength transfer positively to sprint performance: a systematic review with meta-analysis. Sports Medicine 2014 Dec 1; 
44(12):1693–1702.
60. Mitchell CJ, Churchward-Venne TA, Bellamy L, Parise G, Baker SK, Phillips SM. Muscular and systemic correlates of resistance training-induced muscle hypertrophy. PloS One. 2013 Oct 9; 8(10):e78636.
61. Zourdos MC, Klemp A, Dolan C, Quiles JM, Schau KA, Jo E, Helms E, Esgro B, Duncan S, Merino SG, Blanco R. Novel Resistance Training–Specific Rating of Perceived Exertion Scale Measuring Repetitions in 
Reserve. J Strength Cond Res 2016 Jan 1; 
30(1):267–275.
62. Helms ER, Cronin J, Storey A, Zourdos MC. Application of the repetitions in reserve-based rating of perceived exertion scale for resistance training. Strength Cond 2016 Aug; 38(4):42–49.63. Schoenfeld BJ, Ogborn D, Krieger JW. Effects of resistance training frequency on measures of muscle hypertrophy: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Sports Medicine 2016 Nov 1; 46(11):1689–1697.
64. Nosaka K, Newton M. Concentric or eccentric training effect on eccentric exercise-induced muscle damage. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2002 Jan 1; 34(1):63–69.
65. Zourdos MC, Henning PC, Jo E, Khamoui A V, Lee SR, Park YM, Naimo M, Panton LB, Nosaka K, Kim JS. Repeated bout effect in muscle-specific exercise variations. J Strength Cond Res 2015 Aug 1; 29(8):2270–2276.
66. Flann KL, LaStayo PC, McClain DA, Hazel M, Lindstedt SL. Muscle damage and muscle remodeling: no pain, no gain? J Exp Biol 2011 Feb 15; 214(4):674–679.
67. Zourdos MC, Jo E, Khamoui A V, Lee SR, Park BS, Ormsbee MJ, Panton LB, Contreras RJ, Kim JS. Modified daily undulating periodization model produces greater performance than a traditional configuration in powerlifters. J 
Strength Cond Res 2016 Mar 1; 30(3):784–791.
68. Petrella JK, Kim JS, Mayhew DL, Cross JM, 
Bamman MM. Potent myofiber hypertrophy during resistance training in humans is associated with satellite cell-mediated myonuclear addition: a cluster analysis. J Appl 
Physiol 2008 Jun 1; 104(6):1736–1742.
69. Mann JB, Thyfault JP, Ivey PA, Sayers SP. The 
effect of autoregulatory progressive resistance exercise vs. linear periodization on strength improvement in college athletes. J Strength Cond Res 2010 Jul 1; 24(7):1718–1723.

Contents
Introduction  433
The SSC  434
Plyometrics  437
Acute training variables  440
Linear sprinting  441
Agility  448
Integration of speed and agility drills  452
Summary  471
References  473

17 CHAPTER
OBJECTIVES
After completing this chapter, you will be able to:
• Understand exercise prescription for speed, quickness, agility, and plyometrics.
• Understand and appreciate both mechanical and neuromuscular aspects of training for speed, 
quickness, agility, and plyometrics.
• Be able to integrate the components of a sprint training program with the phases of linear sprinting.
• Be able to prescribe different progressions and variations of speed, quickness, agility, and plyomet -
ric exercises.PLYOMETRIC, SPEED, AGILITY, AND  
QUICKNESS EXERCISE PRESCRIPTION
Casey M. Watkins, Saldiam R. Barillas, Megan A. Wong, and Lee E. Brown
KEY TERMS
Acceleration phase
AgilityAssisted sprintingAttainment phaseContractile elementsEccentric overloadGallopingHopJumpLeapMaintenance phaseMechanical modelNeural feed-forward 
mechanism
Neuromuscular modelNoncontractile elementsOverspeedPlyometric exercisesReaction time (RT)Reciprocal innervationResisted sprintingShufflingSkippingStretch shortening cycle 
(SSC)
Stride frequencyStride lengthSupport phaseSwing phaseThrowingToss
INTRODUCTION
In most sports, athletes perform short (5–20 m) or 
long (20–40 m) sprints, change direction rapidly, or jump for height and/or distance. Therefore, linear acceleration and multidirectional speed, agility, along with vertical, horizontal, and lateral jumping movements are essential ele -
ments of successful athletic performance. These locomotor skills are learned at young ages as 

CASEY M. WATKINS ET AL.434
children participate in unstructured playful 
activities. Maturation and experience will help refine the movement patterns associated with these skills; however, instruction on the mechan -
ical aspects of locomotion is typically required to improve efficiency, performance, and to limit the likelihood of injury. Once the global and seg -
mental mechanical aspects of a skill have been mastered, training can focus on improving and ultimately maximizing performance. The types of exercises or drills prescribed to an athlete will 
be based on identified mechanical flaws or mus -
cular weaknesses. To date the manipulation of 
acute training variables for speed, agility, quick -
ness, and plyometric training is unclear but will certainly depend on their athletic goals’ (short and long term) developmental stage, as well as chronological and training age.
To design a training regimen for an ath -
lete, sport performance professionals need to consider aspects from several domains. First, a clear understanding of the sequence of motor development from childhood to adulthood for running, jumping, and changing direction is important. This will help guide the selection of appropriate drills or exercises for inexperi-enced, mature, and advanced athletes. Second, sports performance professionals should clearly recognize mature movement patterns associ -
ated with global and segmental mechanics and understand the specific muscular actions involved. This will help them to identify move -
ment flaws, instruct athletes on appropriate changes, and assist skill improvement during childhood and through adolescence. Finally, understanding how to manipulate acute train-ing program variables (e.g., sets, reps, frequency, volume) will prove to be the most challenging aspect of improving and maximizing perfor -
mance, since research is scarce regarding sprint, agility, quickness, and plyometric training. Nevertheless, appropriate training principles are applied to ensure sufficient stimulation to improve performance while minimizing exces-sive overload.
This chapter begins with an overview of 
the 
stretch shortening cycle (SSC)  and briefly 
describes factors that impact SSC efficiency. Next, the developmental sequence of sprinting, jumping, and changing direction is illustrated, which includes characteristics for mature motor 
skill performance. Then a brief list of exercises 
and drills is provided to help develop and improve sprinting, jumping, and agility skills. Finally, general guidelines for program design are recommended.
THE SSC
All explosive movements, whether sprinting, jumping, and/or changing direction, have one major component in common: the SSC. The SSC can be described simply as the coupling of an eccentric action with a concentric action. In other words, when a muscle or muscle group is eccentrically loaded (i.e., stretched) and is imme -
diately followed by a shortening action, then an SSC has occurred. Think of a rubber band’s abil -
ity to snap back with more force the further it is stretched. Although SSC motions are common in everyday tasks (e.g., walking), their use in ath -
letics is often intended to enhance performance. By rapidly coupling eccentric-concentric actions, the muscular force and power output during the concentric phase are enhanced (1). This, in turn, allows athletes to run faster, jump higher, and change direction quicker.
Although the SSC has been studied in 
great detail, the mechanisms responsible for 
REAL-WORLD APPL iCATiON
Muscle elasticity
Releasing a rubber band from a stretched position will allow it to snap back into its original 
shape. Similarly, stored elastic energy will provide additional force when muscle shortening is preceded immediately by a stretch. During the stretch, energy is stored in the muscle, just as it is stored in the stretched rubber band. The stored elastic energy of muscle is one reason plyometric exercises increase power output.

PLYOMETRIC, SPEED, AGILITY, QUICKNESS 435
greater power production are still debated 
(1–5). Two models may contribute to a com -
plex mechanism, which results in enhanced power production during the concentric por -
tion of the SSC. The first is the 
mechanical 
model , first illustrated by A. V. Hill (6), which 
describes contractile and non-contractile ele -
ments (discussed in Chapter 3). The second 
is the neuromuscular model , which outlines 
the fine interplay of nervous and muscular systems. 
Contractile elements  are contained 
within the sarcomere of a muscle and consist of actin and myosin. 
Noncontractile elements  
consist of the series elastic component (SEC), also known as the muscle-tendon unit (5), and the parallel elastic component (PEC), which consists of the connective tissues surrounding individual fibers, muscle bundles, and the entire muscle (i.e., endomysium, perimysium, and epimysium). The mechanical model states that muscle force is increased due to the reutiliza-tion of elastic energy by the SEC (5). In other words, when a muscle is eccentrically loaded (i.e., stretched) and immediately followed by a concentric action at high velocities and forces, elastic energy (EE) will be produced, stored (as potential energy), and ultimately released (kinetic energy) from the muscle-tendon unit and increase force and power output. On the other hand, the neuromuscular model suggests that preactivation of a muscle or muscle group is partially responsible for the force and power potentiation during the concentric phase of n SSC (1,3). A comparison of jumps initiated from either a static squat position or by begin -
ning with a countermovement shows that there is a greater amount of time to develop force and muscular activation prior to shortening by the contractile element during the countermove -
ment jump (3). Both the elastic properties and the activation by the central nervous system work together to produce increased force dur -
ing the concentric portion. In addition, sprinting and agility skills have shown pre-activation of a majority of the leg muscles prior to the sup -
port phase (7–9), suggesting that movement speed would be dramatically reduced other -
wise. In all likelihood, both models contribute to the enhancement of force and mechanical power output during SSC. In fact, during the early extension phase of a static squat jump, it has been shown that the SEC is stretched only slightly (10). This is most likely due to the large amount of shortening of the contractile element. Just prior to toe-off during a running gait (about 100 milliseconds), there is a reversal in roles where the contractile element does not change in length and the SEC rapidly shortens and releases stored energy (48). Therefore, each model may provide a stimulus during different portions of a given SSC.
Practically speaking, the mechanical model 
illustrates that non-contractile units store EE alleviating mechanical strain on contractile units producing force, and thus increase energy turn-over/efficiency (11). The SEC does not change length but can be stretched rapidly by an eccen -
tric muscle action, stored EE, and will rapidly return back to normal length, releasing EE, nor -
mally at the start of a concentric muscle action of high velocity movements (11). Therefore, according to the mechanical model, the force from a maximal concentric muscle action (100% maximal effort) will be able to utilize EE stored by the preceding eccentric muscle action (20% maximal effort) resulting in a net gain in force (120% maximal effort) (11,12).
The SSC is an important physiological reflex 
that enhances muscular power output. Both mechanical and neural factors contribute to power potentiation.
Neural control and reflexes of skeletal muscle are 
governed by two receptors: muscle spindles and Golgi tendon organ.
Muscle spindles and GTOs are responsible for the 
enhancement or inhibition of muscular actions by monitoring the rate of stretch and detecting tension in muscle.
Impacting factors
In performing exercises that involve SSC, 
there are several factors that can impact the enhancement of force or power output of the movement. Another factor affecting SSC, espe -
cially during jumping, is the use of the upper extremities. Swinging the arms while perform -
ing a countermovement jump creates more downward vertical ground reaction force; con -
sequently, a greater amount of upward vertical 

CASEY M. WATKINS ET AL.436
force is generated (Newton’s law of action-
reaction), propelling the body higher or further during flight (13). Arm swing also contributes to takeoff velocity during vertical and horizon -
tal jumping actions (13,14). Swinging the arms during sprinting increases velocity compared to sprinting without arm actions (9). Choosing whether or not to swing the arms can signifi -
cantly contribute to the execution of SSC drills and consequently affect athletic performance.
Studies have reported gender differences in 
SSC ability by using indirect measurements such as countermovement jump height or sprint -
ing ability. Typically, boys and men exhibit greater absolute power than girls or women. In addition, larger increases are observed in maximal power for boys compared to girls during adolescence (15). Greater amounts of lean body tissue (i.e., muscle mass) are believed to be responsible for these differences; how-ever, when normalized for body weight, the differences between boys and girls are often minimized (16,17). Reports have shown higher peak velocity during countermovement jumps for men as compared to women (18,19). In fact, one study concluded that the difference in peak power between men and women was solely due to movement velocity (18). Other factors such as fiber-type composition, anaero -
bic metabolism, and neuromuscular aspects may also contribute to gender differences (15). Although these differences exist, there is no evidence to suggest that men and women respond to SSC training differently; therefore, program design should reflect developmental stage, training experience, and the particular sport rather than gender.
Sprinting, jumping, and changing direc-
tion require complex multi-joint movements, which must have specific coordination between agonists and antagonists to ensure movement efficiency. There are reflexes that stimulate agonists while simultaneously inhibiting antag -
onists. This is termed 
reciprocal innervation  
(20,21). Alterations in this relationship can be impacted by increased strength or fatigue (22–
24). For example, strengthening agonists will 
increase acceleration of the movement, while strengthening antagonists will allow decel -
eration to occur over a shorter time (44). The overall effect would be a heightened capacity to perform explosive SSC actions.Fatigue, on the other hand, reduces the 
effectiveness of the SSC through a host of mech -
anisms. The mechanisms responsible for altered SSC function may be influenced by whether the fatigue was generated during submaximal or maximal exercise (25,26). Therefore, the dura -
tion of recovery from previous training sessions may be heavily dependent on the type and intensity of SSC drills performed.
This brief overview of SSC identifies 
several aspects that must be considered in 
designing a training regimen or exercise ses-
sion. First, the use of arm swing is an integral component of locomotion and should be considered in selecting drills or exercises. For example, proper arm actions should always be implemented for younger, inexperienced ath -
letes who are still learning the fundamental locomotor skills. Second, improving overall strength should be regarded as a priority for improving locomotor skills that require SSC. Children will become stronger through growth and development, but they may still benefit from playful activities or body-weight exer -
cises that can increase strength. Athletes can include resistance training to enhance force capacity, depending on training age. Training age can be quantified as fundamental move-ment quality. Fundamental movement skills development has been shown to ensure safe and effective performance of more complex sports movements (27). Although gender will play a role in the difference of force and power production following puberty, variations between boys and girls at younger ages are minimal. Therefore, children should be taught proper movement mechanics regardless of gender; however, beyond puberty, training reg -
imens should target performance limitations of the individual athlete and may be designed toward particular gender differences. Finally, unless there are specific needs that require an athlete to perform sprints, jumps, or changes in direction in a fatigued state, SSC exercises should be performed early within a training session and appropriate rest given between 
subsequent training sessions.
Many factors can contribute to SSC function, such 
as fiber-type distribution, gender, age, muscle activation patterns, fatigue, and arm actions.

PLYOMETRIC, SPEED, AGILITY, QUICKNESS 437
Q&A FROM THE F iELD
I work with many youth soccer teams (12- to 
14-year-olds) and continually find the need to 
work on fundamental movement skills, such as 
sprinting and agility. What are appropriate drills and progressions to use with this age group?
        —high school strength and 
conditioning coach
The ability to perform stopping and starting tasks in sports such as soccer is important. Coupling deceleration with reacceleration, however, may be 
one of the most challenging motor skills to teach 
younger athletes, since other things like balance, orientation, rhythm, and anticipation will set the 
foundation for more advanced skills. Nevertheless, 
an appropriate progression is an important consideration in selecting drills for your athletes.
First, teach your athletes how to accelerate 
properly. Next, develop their ability to stop or decelerate. Then begin to combine these skills in a 
linear acceleration, deceleration, and reacceleration 
sequence. Finally, couple linear stopping with reacceleration in different directions. Each of these 
steps must start at slow speeds and progress to 
faster movements, ultimately producing athletes who can start, stop, and restart in a variety of 
directions at maximal speed. Below are two drills 
to include in your training plan.
Seated to marching arm swing. Before 
athletes begin in locomotion they need to find 
the rhythm with their arm swing. Start with the athletes seated on the ground with either legs straight or bent knees and get their elbows to 90°. Cueing can vary here, but the goal is to have one 
arm swing forward as the other swings back while 
maintaining 90° at the elbow. Having the athlete focus on the elbow to move will keep the athlete from chopping the forearm down. Once the 
athlete has the rhythm seated, have them stand up 
and perform the same arm swing while marching. Here the athlete should have the opposite knee raised to the arm forward, e.g., left knee should be up if the right elbow is forward.
Linear walk to stride. Instruct the athletes to 
transition from walking to a jog and then slow back 
down again over short distances (5–10 yd). Once 
slower speeds are perfected, have your athletes increase the speed of acceleration. Be sure they use 
a multiple-step stopping technique when slowing 
down and avoid using one large step. Y ou can also specify a distance for your athletes to stop within (e.g., 2–4 yd) and thereby heighten the intensity.
Jog-stop-turn-jog. Once your athletes can 
perform linear stopping and starting drills at higher speeds, you can introduce slight changes 
in direction by having the athletes move between 
cones. Initially instruct your athletes to completely stop when they reach a cone, plant their outside 
foot, simultaneously rotate their torso toward 
the new direction, and finally resume jogging. Y ou should begin with shallow angles (130–160°) and 
progressively make them more challenging (90, 60, 
and 45°). When your athletes can perform changes in direction at slower speeds with minimal flaws, 
gradually increase the speed.
Be sure to progress slowly; it may take 
several months or longer to develop appropriate movement skills. Provide ample practice time when 
athletes are fresh (at the beginning of practice) and continually give feedback.
PLYOMETRICS
Plyometric exercises  are specifically designed 
to utilize the SSC. Many upper- and lower-
body exercises exist; it is beyond the scope of this chapter to include an all-inclusive list, but several examples are provided at the end of the chapter. This section provides a discussion on intended uses, the importance of instructions, complex training outcomes, and proper exer -
cise terminology for plyometric training.
Terminology
There are three main movement skills; a few of their derivatives are listed below. First, a 
jump  
involves a takeoff from one or both feet and a landing on both feet simultaneously. Second, a 
leap (sometimes called a bound) occurs from 
taking off on one foot and landing on the other. Finally, a 
hop is when the takeoff and landing 
occur on the same single foot. Other common fundamental skills are the gallop, shuffle, and skip. 
Galloping  and shuffling  are a combination 
of a step and leap, whereas skipping  requires 
combining a step with a hop. It becomes some -
what more difficult to distinguish types of upper-body actions. One distinction that can be used is throwing and tossing. 
Throwing  actions 

CASEY M. WATKINS ET AL.438
will be considered when an overhand move-
ment is used to propel an object, whereas a toss 
occurs when an underhand action is employed. Plyometric exercises also exist for the core. Core exercises can be classified as stability, anterior-posterior flexion and extension, rotation, and lateral flexion and extension.
Developmental sequence
Moving from the ground to the air and back down to the ground can be accomplished by three major movement patterns – jumping, leap -
ing, and hopping. All individuals will develop these skills based on experiences throughout childhood, and some will perfect them later in life due to coaching from more knowledgeable instructors. It is important to understand some of the key movement characteristics as well as to be able to identify the developmental diffi-culties associated with these motor skills. With that said, it is beyond the scope of this chap -
ter to provide all of the criteria to evaluate the  different stages of all jumping skills; therefore, a brief overview follows for vertical jumping and horizontal leaping. More detailed informa -
tion can be found in the references (28,29).
Vertical jumping is common to many 
sports, and its initiation can begin as early as two years of age (29). Many steps are involved in the developmental transition from ineffi-cient jumping actions to proficient movement skills. In younger or inexperienced jumpers, there is only a small preparatory counter -
movement action. In addition, full extension of the hips, knees, and ankles does not occur. Often the legs are tucked (knee flexion) under during the flight phase, so the center of mass is not elevated. Another characteristic is that there is difficulty jumping and landing on both feet. A small step can usually be observed when a one-footed takeoff and landing occurs. Arm action is also asymmetrical and is not necessarily coordinated with the body or legs. Mature jumping patterns differ dramatically, and changes will occur quickly. For example, REAL-WORLD APPL iCATiON
Angular motion and human movement
The human body is designed for angular motion around joints, which causes linear motion 
of the center of gravity of the body. Think about rowing a boat: the blade of an oar enters the water, the oar itself is relatively inflexible, and there is an oarlock providing a pivot point. This lever system works to provide the propulsion that moves the boat forward. Foot contact during the support phase, muscle activation providing stiffness, and motion around the hip joint all ultimately allow horizontal motion.
REAL-WORLD APPL iCATiON
Absorption of energy
An egg that has been thrown at you will break when you catch it unless you “give” with it 
and catch it softly. Similarly, in landing from a jump, or similar movement, the athlete can learn to land softly. Instead of all of the energy dissipating on impact, it is spread out over a larger period. Landing softly decreases the chance of impact-related injuries. The transition from eccentric to concentric muscle action, however, must occur rapidly to utilize the stored elastic energy in the muscle.

PLYOMETRIC, SPEED, AGILITY, QUICKNESS 439
there is an appropriate preparatory counter -
movement action of the legs that is followed 
by a more forceful extension of the hips, knees, and ankles (29). The movement patterns of the legs are now also coordinated with those of the arms, so that there is an increase in ground reaction forces (preparatory countermove -
ment phase) as well as an improvement in peak vertical velocity (extension phase). During the flight phase, the trunk remains upright; and upon landing, there is appropriate flexion of 
the hips, knees, and ankles to reduce the forces 
on impact.
Horizontal leaping (or bounding) is another 
common jumping skill that is similar to running in that there is an air phase when body weight is transferred from one leg to the other. Unlike running, leaping requires a prolonged air phase with greater vertical height and more horizon -
tal distance covered. Early attempts at leaping typically resemble modestly exaggerated run -
ning movements. There is an inability to propel the body upward or for greater horizontal dis -
tances (29). There is a high degree of conscious effort to perform this movement; therefore, the entire motion is ineffective and often appears stiff. The arms are not used for generating force but rather for maintaining balance. Mature leaping includes forceful extension of the sup -
port leg to maximize horizontal and vertical distances, and the arms are now coordinated and assist in force development.
Interestingly, chronological age does not 
guarantee mature jumping or leaping patterns, as adolescents and adults have been found to display immature or ineffective mechanical char -
acteristics. These can range from preparatory, takeoff, and landing inefficiencies. Therefore, sports performance professionals should not assume that movement skills have been mas-tered simply due to chronological age. A critical examination of these motor skills is important to identify performance deficiencies. Only when proper takeoff and landing characteristics are evident should a training program focus on improving and maximizing performance.
Intended purpose
Plyometric exercises are used in a variety of settings (e.g., athletic training, strength and conditioning, physical therapy); although no formal classification system has been devel -
oped, it is important to understand the purpose and expected outcomes of any plyometric exercises chosen for a training program. For simplicity, the following section describes the instructions used for two very distinct areas of motor development: injury prevention and performance enhancement, both of which are important for any athlete.
Injury prevention
Some approaches to injury prevention have used plyometric exercises in an attempt to improve neuromuscular control, alter biomechanical risk factors, and provide instructions on general pro -
prioceptive and stability development (30–33). This requires specific instructions that typically focus on reducing landing forces to minimize risk potential. These types of instructions can be effective in a short time (e.g., one to three ses -
sions) (34,35), but they must be used regularly, because adaptations appear temporary.
A common mechanism of injury occurs on 
landing from a jump. This is often due to improper mechanics, where landing forces are not appropri -
ately dissipated because the hips, knees, or ankles are extended and/or rotated. As an example, these mechanical flaws are associated with noncontact injuries to the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL). By instructing athletes to land with greater hip, knee, and ankle flexion, the landing forces can be significantly reduced (32,36). Although programs using these types of instructions have shown success in reducing landing forces and noncon -
tact ACL injury rates, the effect on performance enhancement is extremely questionable, because no attention is given to maximizing concen -
tric movement velocity. Therefore, these types of instructions for plyometric exercises may be reserved for younger athletes who require propri-oceptive and motor development or kept within the context of clinical rehabilitation. Healthy or more advanced athletes might also benefit from this type of work if fundamental motor skills are not fully developed; however, if performance improvement is the intended outcome, other 
instructions may be necessary.
Improving power
Plyometric drills are most often incorporated 
into a strength and conditioning program 

CASEY M. WATKINS ET AL.440
with the intention of improving SSC capabil -
ity, power, and ultimately performance (e.g., 
vertical jump, linear sprint speed). Because power is related to both force and velocity, the question regarding which is more respon -
sible for power improvements is often asked.
It has been reported that the use of plyomet -
ric exercises alone can improve jumping ability (37–40). Peak velocity during the concentric phase, however, appears to be the key compo -
nent for countermovement jump performance 
(13,14,41). Research has shown that improve -
ments of 12.7% in takeoff velocity accounted 
for 71% of the observed improvement in jumping performance (14). In addition, the use of light (30% of 1RM) compared to heavy (80% of 1RM) squat jump loads has been shown to provide greater velocity specificity and improvements in jumping and acceleration (42). Maximizing power production varies across component exercises of jumping. Light (< 30%), Moderate (30–70%), and Heavier (70%) loads relative to 1RM have been shown to maximize power production in the jump squat, squat, and clean, respectively (43). This underscores the importance of instruction for takeoff technique and the ability to take off with maximal velocity. Therefore, landing and jumping mechanics should be viewed as sepa-rate motor skills and trained independently.
Plyometric drills used for injury prevention, 
rehabilitation, or motor skill development should focus on proper jumping and landing mechanics. Training with the intention to improve performance (maximal takeoff velocity) should be the focus.
The performance of SSC drills in isolation 
during training is not common, and the com -
bination of resistance training and plyometric 
exercises is often integrated into training regi -
mens. One classic study demonstrated that the combination of resistance and plyometric train -
ing caused greater improvements in vertical jump ability than either training modality alone (44). Other research has provided indirect sup -
port for this notion by reporting that neither resistance training nor plyometric exercises alone can provide a stimulus any greater than the other when targeting performance enhance -
ment (40). It therefore appears that one cannot increase power simply by becoming stronger and that utilizing any increase in strength at appropriate speeds is the key factor for perfor -
mance enhancement (45).
The implementation of plyometric exercises 
at appropriate times to maximize performance for a particular competition requires careful pro -
gram design. The duration for a given mesocycle may be as short as several weeks and as long as several months. Shorter-duration programs (six weeks) do not provide adequate stimulation or 
enough time for major adaptation to occur in 
adults (46), but interventions implemented over 8 to 12 weeks can improve vertical jump height and power production (38,47). Youth athletes with an adequate training age of proper fun -
damental movement skill have seen increased rebound jump height (48), reactive strength index (49), agility and power (50) vertical jump performance (51), and running velocity (52), with plyometric training interventions ranging from 4–12 weeks.
The combination of resistance and plyometric 
training provides a significant stimulus for improving performance. The use of high-intensity drills for a minimum of eight weeks seems necessary.
ACUTE TRAINING 
VARIABLES
The acute training variables – volume, fre -
quency, and intensity – must be planned on 
a daily basis and are key components of the exercise, which relate strongly to the potential effectiveness of the training program.
Volume
Foot contacts or distance covered are the most common methods for determining plyometric volume. Often volume is prescribed based on classifying the individual as a beginner, interme -
diate, or advanced athlete (53); however, there 
is no scientific support for this approach. In 
fact, studies examining the effects of plyomet-rics on performance have used between 30 and 200 jumps per day (37,40,44,46,47,54–56). The volume of work should be based on the 

PLYOMETRIC, SPEED, AGILITY, QUICKNESS 441
intent of the session (i.e., performance versus 
learning), the intensity of the drills (i.e., high versus low), the training age of the athlete (i.e., inexperienced versus advanced), and other vari-ables, such as the sport itself and the particular goals of the training cycle. Volume is inversely related to intensity. Two leg plyometrics are less intense than single-leg plyometrics. If intensity is increased, then volume should be decreased in order to reduce risk of injury. Additionally, if a coach is working with an athlete for the 
first time who was predominantly sedentary, 
their capacity to handle high eccentric loads is probably low. These athletes would be given less volume of plyometrics compared to elite athletes of the same age.
Frequency
The number of plyometric training sessions performed weekly will be governed by many factors. In general, one or two sessions during the season and three to four sessions during the off season may be sufficient; however, avail -
able evidence suggests that two to three days per week may be optimal for improving perfor -
mance (37,40,44,46,47,54–56). The frequency of plyometric sessions will be dictated by the need for recovery from other training or prac -
tice sessions. It may also be affected by the demands of the sport. For example, volleyball and basketball require a large volume of jumps to be performed on a daily basis. Therefore, it may be unreasonable to include in-season plyometric sessions. If plyometric exercises are implemented with the intent to teach proper motor skill development and the demands are small, then more frequent (four to five days per week) sessions could be prescribed.
Intensity
The intensity of plyometric drills is often quali -
fied with terms such as high, moderate, or low 
intensity. Overcoming eccentric muscle force 
of the hamstring, specifically bicep femoris, 
have been shown to quantify jumping plyo -
metric intensity (57). A coach may use basic biomechanic and gravity principles to gauge plyometric intensity. For example, an athlete with a heavy body mass will have large landing forces. The same heavy athlete may land with greater hip, knee, and ankle flexion, resulting in lower landing forces than a lighter athlete who lands with less flexion in those joints. Therefore, muscle-tendon stiffness, gravity, and fatigue affect the intensity of plyometric drills. Adding complexity to a drill will alter the intensity. For example, a single-leg hop will be more intense than a two-leg countermovement jump. Unilateral plyometrics increase strain on the working leg due to the nature of one 
leg dissipating ground reaction forces instead 
of two. When comparing a leap to a two-leg jump, there is increased strain on the concentric portion of the takeoff leg and on the eccentric portion of the landing leg.
The intensity of the exercises used may 
impact the outcome in targeting performance enhancement. For example, one study compared depth jump training to countermovement jump training; even though both groups significantly improved jump height, the range of improve-ment was larger for the individuals performing depth jumps (47). On the other hand, if injury prevention is the primary focus, it will be help -
ful to implement a variety of less challenging exercises. Much more research is necessary in this area prior to drawing any definitive conclu -
sions regarding an intensity classification system for plyometrics.
LINEAR SPRINTING
Linear sprint speed is a key component for suc -
cessful athletic performance in most sports. Sprinting is made up primarily of two key ele-ments: 
stride length  and stride frequency  (58). 
Increasing performance depends on increasing one of these variables, while maintaining the other. Linear sprinting can typically be divided into three distinct phases: 
acceleration  (0–20 
m), attainment  (20–35 m), and maintenance  
(above 35 m). These distances will certainly differ between individuals and should be used 
only as a temporal guide to the various phases. 
When breaking down the 100 meter race, these terms are commonly used for the phases of the race: initial acceleration (0–20 m), accelera -
tion or extended pick up (20–40 m), maximum velocity (40–70 m) and maintenance/deceleration  

CASEY M. WATKINS ET AL.442
TABLE 17.1  Changes during linear sprint running as athletes increase their velocity (Adapted from Kovacs M. 
Understanding Speed: The Science Behind The 100 Meter Sprint. Birmingham, AL: Metis Publishing; 2005)
STRIDE LENGTH
short→medium/long and maintain1.30m→1.47m→2.35m (maximum 
velocity)Initially, short strides increase to moderate to longer strides 
throughout the acceleration stage. Once maximum velocity is reached (50–70 meters), stride length should be maintained (and 
not increased).
TOTAL STRIDE TIME
relatively constant throughout the race
range from 0.21 seconds to 0.26 
secondsTotal stride time is the combination of ground contact time and flight time (time in air). Total stride time is relatively constant; however, the percentage of time spent during ground contact and 
flight time is vastly different during the different stages of the race.
GROUND CONTACT TIME
long→short→shorter and maintain
0.22 seconds→0.11 seconds→0.09 
secondsThe amount of time the foot is in contact with the ground. Ground contact time moves from long ground contacts at the beginning of 
acceleration (as a mechanism to generate force into the ground) to 
very short ground contacts as maximum velocity is reached.
FLIGHT TIMEshort→longer→longest0.03 seconds→0.08 seconds→0.119 
secondsThe time during each stride spent in the air. Flight time is short 
during the first few strides of acceleration but becomes longer as velocity increases.
SHIN ANGLE TO GROUNDSmall→medium→medium and maintainThe angle between the anterior shaft of the tibia and the ground starts at a very small angle. As stride length increases and body position changes (more upright) as velocity increases, the shin angle 
to the ground increases to between 70–85°.
VELOCITY
slow→fast→fastest→fast(0 m/s→ 7 m/s → 10 m/s→ 12 m/s→ 10 
m/s)Slow at the onset of the race and increases rapidly over the first 20 meters. Velocity increases more gradually for the next 30–40 meters until maximum velocity is reached, between 50–70 meters. 
Once maximum velocity is reached it can only be maintained for 
approximately 10–20 meters.
STRIDE FREQUENCY Slow stride frequency at the beginning of the race increases rapidly as velocity increases.
HEEL HEIGHT FROM THE 
GROUNDThis is directly related to the height of knee lift throughout each stride. At the beginning of acceleration, the heel height and knee 
height are rather low. As the athlete increases their velocity the heel and knee height increase throughout the acceleration period.
(70–100 m). A forward body lean and exponen -
tial increases in both stride length and frequency 
occur during the initial eight to ten strides. Increased stride frequency contributes primar -
ily during the acceleration phases of sprinting and plateaus around 10–15 meters for novice, and around 25 meters for elite sprinters. Stride length, on the other hand, continues to increase up to 25–30 m for novice, and up to 45 m for elite sprinters. (59). These factors are only bene -
ficial if the athlete can simultaneously maintain or decrease ground contact time. Research has shown starting position trunk angle is around 42°–45° in elite sprinters and decreases to about 5° during maximal velocity (60). Acceleration is useful not only for linear sprinting, but a whole myriad of sports where athletes are required to overcome inertia and need to quickly pick 

PLYOMETRIC, SPEED, AGILITY, QUICKNESS 443
up speed (i.e., football, rugby, basketball). The 
ability to produce a powerful downward force, gain momentum and quickly generate high velocities is of the utmost importance during the acceleration phase (61).
Untrained sprinters, and adolescents, 
generally reach maximal velocity around 20–30 m. On the other hand, world-class sprinters can continue to accelerate as much as 50–70 m before reaching maxi -
mum velocity, suggesting they are better 
able to gradually increase their speed, may 
have better limb coordination strategies, and allowing them to increasingly generate forces (58,60,61). An understanding of the move -
ments involved and specific muscular actions responsible for creating movement will allow sports performance professionals to design drills and develop training regimens that are appropriate for improving linear sprinting performance during all phases (Table 17.1).  
Bounding and other plyometrics are commonly used to increase speed during acceleration and maximal velocity running phases. Several key sprint mechanics drills are displayed at the end of this chapter.
Reaction time
Reaction time  is defined as the time from the 
stimulus (gun signal, ball, opponent move -
ment, etc.) until the production of force by the  
athlete. Reaction time has been broken into two separate parts: “premotor” and “motor” time. Premotor time is the time from the stimu -
lus until the first sign of EMG electrical activity in the muscles. Motor time has been defined as the time from the first electrical activity in the muscles until the production of visible force (limb movement) by the muscles (62). To per -
form the sprint start effectively, the important muscles (gluteals, quadriceps, gastroc-soleus complex) should be activated before any force can be detected against the blocks (63). Reaction time has been recorded to respond quicker in a sprinter’s front leg than their  
back leg (63).
After the gun signal, leg extensor mus -
cles, as the producers of the greatest amount of force, must contribute maximally to the production of optimal force. For improving the starting action, it is advisable to recruit all extensor muscles in the lower limbs before any force can be detected against the blocks.
For more than 100 years the accepted 
figures for simple reaction times for col -
lege-age individuals has been about 190 ms (0.19 sec) for light stimuli and about 160 ms (0.16 sec) for sound stimuli (64,65). However, the fastest athletes in the world consistently have reaction times less than 0.15 seconds (63,66). In identical events women have been shown to have longer 
reaction times than men (67). However, 
reaction time does not correlate well with 
TimeFSFlexorsMoment (N • m)TO
−500−400−300−200−1000100200300400
A
TimeExtensors
FS
FlexorsMoment (N • m)TO
−300−200−1000100200300
B
TimeFSMoment (N • m)TOPlantar ﬂexorsDorsi ﬂexors
−300−200−1000100200300
CExtensors
Figure 17.1  Muscle dominance during sprinting 
around the A. hip, B. knee, and C. ankle. TO = toe 
off; FS = foot strike. (Adapted from Mann RV. A kinetic analysis of sprinting. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1981;13:325–328.)

CASEY M. WATKINS ET AL.444
Box 17.1  Sprinting gait (69)
1 Early flight: From toe-off to maximal hip extension. Gluteal muscles decelerate backward 
motion of the thigh eccentrically.
2 Midflight: Forwar d leg swing, the foot is in mid-air and not in contact with the ground. Concentric 
hip flexion accelerates the thigh forward. Quick transition from eccentric knee extension to 
eccentric knee flexion.
3 Late flight: Eccentric knee flexion to decelerate leg swinging f orward, stabilization of knee joint, 
and concentric hip extension to absorb ground impact forces.
4 Early support phase: Continued hip extension minimizes braking forces and ground contact 
shock absorption, slight knee flexion also preventing knee joint hyperextension.
5 Late support: Triple extension and forward body propulsion, backwards thigh deceleration.
sprints lasting longer than a few seconds (63). The fastest reaction times do not influence a race over a long distance, and any distance more than 20 meters is not typically influenced by an individual’s reac-tion time in elite athletes. It is important to understand, in sports that cover shorter distances (i.e., racket sports or field sports), an improved reaction time can make a valu -
able difference.
Developmental sequence
The main difference between walking and running is the absence of a double support phase and the presence of a flight phase, respectively. The earliest attempts to run occur around 2–3 years of age or approxi-mately 6–7 months after a child learns how to walk (28,29). By observing these move -
ments in young children, one often notes a brief flight phase with a limited range of motion in the legs. This will result in short -
ened stride length. In addition, the thighs and arms swing away from the body, most likely acting to help stabilize and balance the body during the flight and support phases (28). Their stance is often wider to aid in balance as well. As children mature, they develop movement patterns that are more efficient and powerful. For example, maturity will bring about an increase in muscle mass and strength, which will provide more ground force and increase stride length, which are strongly related to sprint speed (61,68). Other changes in sprint mechanics include full leg extension, keeping the actions of the extremities in the anterior-posterior plane, and maintaining bent elbows (28). The devel-opment of motor skill patterns will impact coordination strategies, energy expenditure, fatigue rates, injury risk, and ultimately lin -
ear sprint performance.
Sprinting gait
Sprinting is a complex motor skill for which specific kinetic and kinematic patterns emerge. Box 17.1 shows a basic breakdown of leg actions for sprinting. In addition, Figure 17.1 shows the average moments around the hip, 
knee,
 and ankle joints during a complete 
stride. The following discussion briefly out -
lines the two phases of a sprint: the flight phase  
and support phase . The flight phase can be 
broken down into early flight, mid-flight, and late-flight, important recovery and ground contact preparation. The support phase can be broken up into early and late support and is composed primarily of eccentric braking (deceleration) and forward propulsion. This overview describes factors associated with movement patterns and forces applied both concentrically and eccentrically. It should provide a context from which to design drills and develop a training program targeted at improving or maximizing sprinting speed in advanced athletes.

PLYOMETRIC, SPEED, AGILITY, QUICKNESS 445
Swing phase
At toe-off, maximum extension (about 185°) 
of the hip occurs (70), while knee extension is approximately 145° (71). During early flight, both hip flexor and knee extensor muscle activ -
ity greatly increases, as they are eccentrically loaded, meaning muscles are forcibly lengthened rather than shortened. This acts to decelerate leg rotation (72) and helps with quick leg recovery (Figure 17.2). The transition from early-flight to 
mid-flight is the first SSC observed in the sprint cycle.
 The quick eccentric extension of the hip 
flexors stores potential energy, which is released during the resulting concentric action and con -
tributes to overall force of the upper leg. The quicker the amortization phase, or time between eccentric and concentric phases, the more poten-tial force there is for the athlete to use during their forward swing. This is caused by concen-tric hip flexor action, which actively rotates the upper leg anteriorly (73). Maximum hip flexion occurs two-thirds of the way through the swing phase and corresponds with contralateral toe-off. About this time there is a switch from knee 
flexion to knee extension. Figure 17.2 shows relatively little muscle activation of the quadri -
ceps during this time in the swing cycle (9),
 
indicating that knee extension is mainly brought about by momentum from hip flexion, which provides a whip-like action of the lower leg dur -
ing the swing phase. The hamstrings now act eccentrically, halting knee extension, to prevent over-stepping, while simultaneously beginning hip extension during late-flight (74). Practically speaking, greater forward swing forces of the knee contribute to greater downward hip forces Forward swing Backward swing SupportMaximum voluntary contraction (%)
51 01 52 02 5303 54 04 55 0556 06 57 07 58 08 59 09 5 10050
0100150200250
Quadriceps Hamstring Adductors Gluteus
Figure 17.2  Relative muscle activation patterns during a sprint stride. (Adapted from Wiemann K, Tidow 
GN. Relative activity of hip and knee extensors in sprinting: implications for training. New Studies Athletics 
1995;10(1):29–49.)

CASEY M. WATKINS ET AL.446
and ground contact, acting to propel the athlete 
forward faster. This is the second SSC observed during the swing phase of the sprinting cycle.
The adductors are active during early flight 
(just after toe-off) and late flight stabilizing the knee by counterbalancing the external rotation and abduction action of the gluteus group (9)  
(see Figure 17.2). Tibialis activity begins at 
toe-off and remains throughout the entire swing phase,
 whereas gastrocnemius activ -
ity is minimal during most of this phase and does not increase until immediately prior to foot contact (75). This pre-activity is thought to help prepare the joint, assisting in decreas -
ing the vertical forces during ground contact as well as creating a more efficient SSC of the gastrocnemius.
Support phase
Once the foot has made contact with the ground, hip extensor muscles (e.g., hamstrings and gluteus) act concentrically (8). The gluteus maximus is continuously active (76), extending the hip but also stabilizing it (see Figure 17.2). 
The hamstrings are responsible for providing
 
the necessary force to propel the body forward and are the key contributors to linear sprint speed (9). Higher-level sprinters have shown the ability to decrease horizontal braking by creat -
ing larger forces and generating more power in the hip extensors and knee flexors during early support (72). This extremely brief sub-phase should be recognized as the most important time of the sprinting cycle, realizing that hip extension is the main action responsible for lin-ear sprint speed. Therefore, to maximize speed, gluteal muscles power generation is critical in the support phase as early as possible.
A transition of muscle action occurs during 
late support when the hip flexors begin to act eccentrically and decelerate leg rotation (72). It appears the main function of the knee joint during the support phase is to transfer power in a proximal-to-distal direction (i.e., hip to ankle). There is a large amount of knee exten-sor muscle activity to stabilize the knee, transfer forces from the hip to the ankle, and keep the height of the center of mass constant, prepar -
ing the trunk for forward propulsion. Lending support to this notion, one study reported neg -
ligible power from the knee during late support (77). Therefore, during the attainment and maintenance phases of a sprint, the knee exten -
sors should not be considered a muscle group that produces forward propulsion. In fact, if the knee extensors activated maximally during support, it would produce a disproportionate upward force rather than forward propulsion. This would lead to a higher and subsequently longer flight phase (9), in turn reducing linear sprinting performance. The primary role of the muscles surrounding the ankle joint is to assist in maintaining the height of the center of mass at foot contact and to provide some thrust, albeit minimal, of the body in the anterior-  
posterior plane (74,75).
Sprinting requires horizontal power production 
from the hip extensors and knee flexors to propel the body forward during the early portion of the support phase. Maintaining a stable center of gravity occurs through eccentric actions of the gluteus, quadriceps, and gastrocnemius muscle groups.
Acute training variables
The acute training variables are the specific var -
iables that are manipulated to produce intended 
variation in volume, frequency, and intensity of training. They must be planned accordingly and strongly relate to the potential effectiveness of the training program.
Volume
The volume of linear sprint work will be characterized by the total distance covered during a given training session. It might be ben-eficial to consider sprint drills (e.g., A-skips, B-skips) and sprint capacity exercises sepa-rately, or quantify volume load, characterized by distance multiplied by the intensity of the exercise, either characterized by effort or per -
centage of their maximum velocity. Sprint drills may be included daily during the warm-up routine with a focus on perfecting mechani-cal technique, or as dedicated drills during the workout. Regardless, mastery of sprint mechanics is vital before increases in volume or intensity should occur. The volume of work dedicated to improving sprint capacity will be governed by the characteristics of a given sport and possibly by requirements of a specific posi -
tion. A sprinter will spend the majority of his or 

PLYOMETRIC, SPEED, AGILITY, QUICKNESS 447
her training time dedicated to linear sprinting, 
whereas a basketball player will divide up his or her program, including other variables includ-ing vertical jump ability, lateral agility, and upper body power. Other program variables that contribute to the amount of time dedi -
cated to sprint speed improvements include the metabolic and linear sprint characteristics (i.e., average frequency and distance). A football lineman will spend almost no time, or energy, running distances greater than 10 m, whereas 
a receiver can sprint up to multiple hundred 
meters in a game, and will have a different resulting stress. Creating a needs analysis for the athlete based on the linear speed require -
ments and metabolic demands will help tailor the program specifically. There is a great deal of variability in program design, so definitive guidelines on linear sprint volume are limited. The most important critical variables are adapt-ability and attentiveness to how the athlete is responding to the program. No program will be optimal for every athlete; individualization is key based on their specific needs.
Frequency
Performing high-intensity sprint training is physically demanding, therefore the number of weekly sessions will depend on recovery from other training and practice sessions. Untrained athletes will need more rest, compared to ath -
letes that are accustomed to the type of training and intensity. Whenever programming high-intensity training, it is advised to incorporate drills slowly and allow the athlete to gradually increase intensity, or volume to prevent injury. It may be sufficient to schedule two to three sessions per week, depending on additional demands placed on the athlete.
Intensity
Training to improve sprint capacity will typically involve maximal efforts; however, submaximal bouts of work can be used with inexperienced athletes to develop technique. It is important to practice good movement patterns slowly 
until they create a new motor program and 
the desired movement becomes natural to the athlete. Always emphasize quality repetitions over quantity, or the likelihood of injury will increase especially during states of fatigue. With that in mind, younger athletes should focus on drills that will enhance mechanics, while more advanced athletes can be prescribed maximal-effort bouts of work, targeting specific linear sprint distances.
Two additional methods shown to increase 
running velocity are assisted and resisted sprints (78). Both 
resisted  and assisted sprint-
ing use implements to add additional intensity 
compared to body weight sprints. These meth-ods should not be prescribed to any athlete who has not mastered linear sprint mechanics. 
Extreme caution is warranted even for those 
athletes who have mature movement patterns, since resisted and assisted sprints can have negative consequences which may result in negative movement mechanics and increased injury potential. Assisted and resisted sprinting should be incorporated into an athlete’s pro -
gram at a very low volume and frequency until the athlete understands the increased demands of the exercises and feels comfortable under the new conditions.
Assisted running (e.g., high-speed treadmill 
exercises, towing, or downhill running) will per -
mit an athlete to run faster than his or her natural 
pace and is typically prescribed to help increase 
stride frequency (i.e., improve turnover rate). In 
congruence, four-week assisted sprinting train -
ing (14.7% assistance) have shown significantly 
increased values for both mean velocity and 
mean acceleration during the first 25 yards of a 
40 yd maximal sprint test in collegiate women’s 
soccer players, compared to resisted and tradi-
tional sprint training. The greatest increases in 
velocity and acceleration with assisted sprinting 
were seen in the first 5 yd which is especially important for field athletes who are required to make repeated 5 yd and 10 yd cutbacks (78). Another study found similar results looking at the acute effect of rest intervals; assisted sprint -
ing resulted in decreased sprint times compared to body weight sprinting during the first 5 m of a 20 m sprint after two minutes’ rest following intervention (79; measurements in metric).
However, when used improperly, running 
at supramaximal speeds could increase stride length and decrease stride frequency compared with maximal running (80–82). These altera -
tions could potentially cause an increase in the horizontal distance from the foot to the center of mass at ground contact, resulting in greater braking forces during the support phase, greater 

CASEY M. WATKINS ET AL.448
stabilization stress on the joints, and increasing 
the likelihood of injury (81). Running too far above an athlete’s maximal velocity, an athlete will start to mechanically slow themselves down as a protective mechanism, and training benefits will be negated (71). Therefore, this type of train -
ing should be limited to experienced athletes.
Resisted running includes dragging a 
weighted sled or running uphill, often pre -
scribed to increase stride length during body  
weight sprinting. Resisted sprinting is thought 
to increase stride length by increasing the force 
production of the hip and knee extensors (78). When used correctly, resisted sprinting pro -
grams (12.6% body mass) have been shown to increase running velocity and acceleration dur -
ing the later portion of a 40 yd sprint, with the greatest increases occurring during the 15–25 yd  
portion of the 40 yd sprint (83). Several mechanical alterations occur with resisted sprints. Improper use of resistance can cause alterations in overall posture even when run-ning up slight grades (3°) or pulling minimal weight (12% of body mass) (82,84). These changes in sprint mechanics may be detrimental to linear speed if too much resistance is added; therefore, caution is warranted in prescribing resisted sprint drills. One error many coaches make is to increase the incline before an athlete is ready (inappropriate training and strength levels) or increase the angle of incline by an extreme level that causes reduced effectiveness and increases chance of injury and/or inappro-priate mechanics. Movement mechanics change considerably as the incline is increased dispro -
portionately to skill level. It is advisable to limit inclines to below 6° even with highly developed adult athletes.
AGILITY
Changes in direction occur often during many athletic activities and include deceleration fol -
lowed immediately by reacceleration of the entire body or individual body segment(s). This 
ability, termed 
agility , has been described as an 
efficient, coordinated movement in multiple 
planes performed at multiple velocities (85,86). However, recent research has started to differen -
tiate between planned and unplanned bouts of agility. Young adds to the traditional definition by acknowledging agility as “a rapid whole-body movement with a change in velocity or direction in response to a stimulus” (87,88). Planned or closed agility drills are when an athlete is instructed prior to the beginning of the test to complete a 5–10–5 test (measure -
ments in metric) by sprinting 5 m to the right, stop changing direction, sprinting 10 m to the left, stop changing direction again and sprint -
ing back through the start. A ballroom dancer performing the mambo or salsa, or a slalom 
skier are examples of planned agility, where the 
athlete knows the movement routine prior to the competition. A fighter dodging a punch or kick, a rugby player tackling their opponent, a tennis player hitting a volley are all examples of unplanned agility. Individuals involved in the development and improvement of sport performance, however, often regard agility as a locomotor skill where an athlete simply changes direction by decelerating the body and reaccel -
erating in a new direction (85,86). However, reactive agility is a much more complex, multi-faceted skill comprised of not only an athlete’s physical and motor control abilities, but their cognitive and perceptual abilities as well. Reactive agility is an independent attribute and needs to be practiced in the context specific to competition (85,89). Additional qualities are considered important and contribute to agil -
ity performance, including dynamic balance, spatial awareness, rhythm, and visual process -
ing (90). A high degree of complexity is present within this fundamental athletic motor skill.
Quickness
Quickness is often grouped together with speed and plyometrics but is also a facet of agility. All of these skills will involve some carry-over, but should be addressed as indi -
vidual skills and trained as thus. Quickness is defined as explosive power or maximal power in the shortest amount of time (91). Explosive power is extremely important to most sports, where there is often not enough time to reach 
maximal strength. Baseball players at the bat, 
or volleyball players jumping to spike the ball have less than 0.5 seconds to recruit power (60). Plyometrics have been used to increase quickness by increasing firing rate and neural loop synchronization (91).

PLYOMETRIC, SPEED, AGILITY, QUICKNESS 449
Developmental sequence
Learning to become agile requires the develop -
ment of appropriate movement patterns and, 
more importantly, the ability to integrate loco -
motor skills efficiently (e.g., running, jumping) with proprioceptive awareness and often deci -
sion-making. As children learn to walk fast and run (at 1.5–3 years of age), they make attempts to be elusive and change direction when being chased. Their movement efficiency is often poor, however, and associated with awkward arm motion, overall unbalanced posture, and a gen -
eral lack of timing and coordination. These are all characteristics described earlier in the section on the developmental sequence of sprinting. Because a variety of aspects are included in the ability to change direction, it is difficult to pre -
cisely identify a specific developmental sequence, as found in other locomotor skills.
Nevertheless, at planned intervals, either 
general or specific drills can be implemented 
to develop agility appropriately. For instance, children aged 5–8 years should perform a large variety of general movement patterns to develop a foundation of motor skills. This could include arm and leg movements in a stationary position, rhythmic jumps in place, or locomotor drills that incorporate spatial orientation. Learning the temporal characteristics of general movements is extremely beneficial, especially prior to initiating more specific drills or activities. Closed agility drills, where the initiation, execution, and termi-nation of a drill are clearly established, should dominate during this period. Children involved with athletics should be able to perform general drills with minimal flaws prior to advancing to more demanding exercises.
Young athletes will be able to move more 
quickly as they mature and finish puberty. For 
reasons of safety and injury prevention, how -
ever, any athlete new to agility training should initially perform drills at submaximal speeds. Weaving within a set of linear cones, running a figure-eight pattern, or learning how to inte -
grate several locomotor skills into one exercise are all beneficial for athletes learning kinesthetic awareness of their body, acceleration, decelera -
tion, and change of direction. Drills that include sharp changes in direction performed at high running speeds are unlikely to benefit agility development, especially when mastery has not yet been achieved (92,93). Closed drills should still predominate in this window of time; how -
ever, some open drills can be included sparingly to add a reactive component with visual or audio stimuli.
Alterations in body size, structure, and 
body mass will influence a young athlete’s coordination and proprioception. During this stage, take the time to perfect locomotor skills that are already developed, allowing the ath-lete to become more comfortable with his or 
her new body (85). Greater difficulty and more 
challenging drills can certainly be added to the training regimen, but throughout this stage gen -
eral agility and a variety of movement patterns should still be emphasized as they encourage overall athletic development.
More complexity and specificity are the 
focus of agility training during later teenage years (post-puberty) and can now be regularly implemented within the training plan (85). The same drill can be made more difficult simply by using different field conditions, decision-making elements, including a partner, or implement -
ing an area or time restriction. These are all acceptable methods to increasingly challenge an athlete’s ability to change direction effectively (85). Athletes should perform nearly all of the drills at high speeds, as slower movements have been shown to alter muscle activation patterns (94). However, if muscle mechanics are compro -
mised due to muscle imbalances or technique issues, then these areas should be improved in ancillary movements and exercises, not as part of an agility training session. An example would be an athlete who struggles to change direc-tion effectively and has weak gluteus medius strength; he or she should focus on developing gluteus medius strength in the gym, while still working on agility movements close to (or at) game speed.
Impacting factors
The ability to coordinate a smooth and rapid transition between stopping and starting is 
a distinct advantage for athletes performing 
changes in direction. Body awareness, and the ability to keep center of mass over one’s base of support helps in quick transitions, and cutting movements, and keeping the body stabilized to prevent injury (95). Inefficient transitions 

CASEY M. WATKINS ET AL.450
caused by poor deceleration mechanics or an 
elongated support phase might allow a defender to maintain close proximity, not allowing an offensive player to become open to receive a pass (e.g., football, soccer, lacrosse). Enhanced agility must be developed in concert with many other proprioceptive and kinesthetic skills, such as balance, orientation, reactiveness, rhythm, visual processing, timing, and anticipation (90). With that in mind, several variables will impact how drills and exercises are performed, namely 
movement velocity, the angle of direction 
change, and whether a movement is planned (closed skill) or unplanned (open skill).
Effects of movement velocity
Agility drills can be performed at slow or fast running speeds. Slower running speeds are associated with greater ground-contact time during the deceleration phase compared to faster running speeds (300 vs 170 ms, respec-tively) (93,94,96). As in linear sprinting, pre-activation of knee flexors and extensors occurs immediately prior to ground contact, which serves to prepare the joints for eccen -
tric loading during deceleration. An increase in muscle pre-activation at higher running speeds has led some to suggest that a neural feed-forward mechanism exists to protect the hip and knee joints from the increased eccen -
tric and rotational loads. A 
neural feed-forward  
mechanism  indicates that the protective mus-
culature would pre-activate as a protective mechanism to decrease the chance of injury through neural control. It may also stimulate an increase in SSC ability and enhance the transi -
tion from eccentric to concentric muscle actions.
During the support phase, the adductors 
and gluteus medius are constantly active and are primarily responsible for stabilizing the hip. A highly integrated agonist-antagonist relation-ship between the quadriceps and hamstrings provides the ability to change direction (94). More specifically, the knee extensors work to decelerate the body upon ground contact, while hip extensor activity predominates during the 
late support phase. An unequal distribution 
of strength between these muscles could cause excessive stress on the ligaments, and tendons surrounding the joint, emphasizing the impor -
tance of strength symmetries between opposing muscles (97). Hip extension provides the nec -
essary horizontal propulsion of the body in the new direction. Recall from the section on linear sprinting that hip extension is important dur -
ing the early portion of the support phase. This apparent difference from linear sprinting should be considered in developing drills or exercises focused on improving agility performance.
Effects of angles
Changes in direction can be considered shallow 
(less than 45°) or sharp (more than 45°). When 
athletes are observed in the laboratory and asked to perform sharp changes in direction, there is a large reduction in approaching velocity. Often there is an inability to appropriately execute the drill even with the reduction in approaching velocity (92,93). The fact that these movements are preplanned further highlights the difficulty of performing such maneuvers. It also indicates the need for incorporating drills into training regimens for elite athletes with mature move-ment skills. Drills that focus on the ability to make drastic changes in movement, requiring a decision-based component while maintaining speed, will provide the necessary stimulus for adaptation and transfer to competition. On the other hand, inexperienced athletes should focus on more rounded patterns performed at slightly slower speeds and avoid demanding drills.
Changes in direction can be performed with 
an open or a crossover step. During the early stages of development, it might be beneficial to teach young athletes both movement skills. These steps should be performed at slow speeds, with specific attention given to proper mechan -
ics. An analysis of open-step changes in direction shows internal rotation, whereas crossover steps produce external rotation on the knee. These loads can be up to five times greater than in linear running (92). In addition, crossover steps produce varus loads, while open steps show a mixture of varus and valgus loading at the knee (92). Changes in direction using an open step increase the activity of the vastus medialis and gluteus medius (93,98). This acts to (a) create 
stability around the hip joint during stance and 
(b) counter the valgus loads associated with this movement. Closely observe your athletes as they perform agility drills to ensure proper mechan-ics and include resistance training exercises 

PLYOMETRIC, SPEED, AGILITY, QUICKNESS 451
that target the quadriceps and gluteus muscles, 
which will help stabilize the knee.
Effects of anticipation
Whether a skill is preplanned (closed) or unplanned (open) will also impact move -
ment patterns and joint loads. For example, an offensive soccer player may attempt several pre-planned cutting maneuvers to elude a defensive player. On the other hand, the defensive player must continually adjust to the visual stimulus 
and anticipate the movements of the offensive 
player, making changes of direction reactive, or unplanned. Both positions will use planned, and unplanned bouts of agility throughout the course of the game to initiate and react to changes of stimulus. The difference between preplanned and unplanned changes in direction has effects on external varus/valgus and internal/external rotational loading (92,98), muscle activation patterns (98), and body preparation (93).
Compared to an unplanned change in direc -
tion, a preplanned open step change in direction shows a slight crossover with the step prior to the pivot foot being planted, an earlier rotation of the pivot foot in the new direction, and a greater body lean (93). Flexion/extension loads are similar in planned and unplanned cutting actions, but there is greater knee flexion when movements are unplanned (92). In addition, a reduction in the whole movement angle occurs during an unplanned change of direction (92). These are all protective mechanisms that provide additional time for appropriate muscle activa -
tion, proper joint stabilization, and decreased internal joint forces.
Performing an unplanned cutting maneuver 
increases the valgus and internal rotation loads by 70% and 90%, respectively. Interestingly, muscle activation only increases by 10–20% (92,98). Furthermore, general muscle activa -
tion patterns emerge during unplanned changes in direction, indicating nonspecific coordina -
tion between anterior/posterior and medial/lateral synergistic muscle pairs (92). On the other hand, preplanned actions produce spe -
cific activation patterns of the vastus medialis and biceps femoris to counter the external val-gus and internal rotation loads, respectively (92). The inability of the neuromuscular  
system to initiate the appropriate adjustments during unplanned changes in direction reduces the efficiency and velocity of the movement. Therefore, to enhance the ability to deceler -
ate, include exercises that increase the eccentric ability of muscles (e.g., resistance training) as well as drills that focus on improving reactive ability (e.g., plyometrics).
Factors such as velocity of movement, angle 
of change, or anticipation will impact muscular activation patterns, kinematics, and joint forces. 
Exercises that develop muscular stability, eccentric muscle strength, and reactive ability should be 
included for maximal athletic development.
Acute training variables
Limited information exists on how to improve 
agility; however, training for linear speed will not improve the ability to change direction and vice versa (88,99). In fact, linear sprint speed, power, and agility are independent performance characteristics, where ability in one variable is not associated with the oth-ers (100). Programming of these skills should be based on the requirements of the competi -
tion. Specificity of training demands attention to each skill individually to see performance increases. This means that agility training should be an integral component of an athlete’s training regimen.
Volume
Specific training sessions dedicated to the devel -
opment or improvement of agility can utilize guidelines similar to those of linear sprint train -
ing, where volume is the total distance covered. Volume load (distance x intensity) should still be considered as some intense drills will impart a greater degree of stress on the athlete compared to lesser intense drills and should be accounted for. Inexperienced athletes may require more time to learn proper mechanics and perform general movement patterns. Advanced ath -
letes can perform a greater volume of work. 
Understanding the relative contribution of 
changing direction to the sport or position will help to guide the sports performance profes -
sional in determining the appropriate volume appropriate for high-level athletes.

CASEY M. WATKINS ET AL.452
There are numerous agility drills; the 
conditioning specialist is limited only by the 
imagination when designing these drills. Agility drills should focus on changing direction quickly and using multiple footwork patterns. These drills should also be sport-specific in terms of movement patterns, footwork pat-terns, distances, work intervals, rest intervals, and intensities. Although it would be impos-sible to make a comprehensive list of agility drills, sample drills are described in Figures 
17.3 to 17.21 in Box 17.2. These drills can be 
easily changed from one workout to the next for variety
.
Frequency
Inexperienced athletes can include agility daily as a part of a warm-up routine. Regular attention to proper mechanics is vital for the development of appropriate movement skills. Program design for advanced athletes will depend on the time of the year, sport specific requirements, and other training demands. The intent or focus of exercises can be adjusted to incorporate them more or less frequently.
Intensity
The intensity of agility drills will depend on factors such as running velocity, preplanned (closed) versus unplanned (open) drills, and sharpness of the angles. Young, inexperienced athletes need to perfect general, preplanned motor patterns before performing sport-specific  drills. Body weight resistance exercises and less demanding plyometric drills will also benefit the ability to change direction. As an athlete becomes more advanced, specific movement patterns can be included. The drills can be increasingly reactive and may include a wide variety of angles.
INTEGRATION OF SPEED 
AND AGILITY DRILLS
Depending on the sport and the time of the 
training cycle, the focus may be on either speed or agility or possibly both. If the focus is on maximizing forward running speed, three to four training sessions per week may be devoted to speed. Agility training may be per -
formed occasionally for variety. The opposite will be true if the focus is on agility.
Most sports – soccer, for example – 
require both speed and agility. If speed and agility are both training goals, one to two sessions per week can be devoted to speed, and one to two to agility. Well-conditioned athletes may be able to benefit from com-bined sessions, using both speed and agility exercises. These exercises should be per -
formed early in a training session so that the athlete is fresh. Performing speed and agility exercises while the athlete is fatigued on a regular basis may not be as effective in improving performance.
Box 17.2  Speed and agility ex ercises
Plyometric exercises
Countermovement jump
Starting position
The athlete stands with feet shoulder width apart, the body in an upright posture and looking straight ahead (Figure 17.3A).
Movement sequence
Begin with a preparatory countermovement by flexing the hips and knees. Maintain an upright body posture (Figure 17.3B). Once at the bottom position, immediately jump vertically (Figure 17.3C). Land in same spot from where the jump was initiated and flex the hips and knees to reduce landing forces.

PLYOMETRIC, SPEED, AGILITY, QUICKNESS 453
Variations
Manipulate the depth of the preparatory counter-movement. Keep the hands placed on the hips to eliminate arm swing. Add degrees of rotation so that the athlete will land facing a different direction.
Scissor jump
Starting position
The athlete stands with the feet a shoulder width apart, the body in an upright posture, looking straight ahead. Take a half step forward with the right foot and a half step backward with the left.
Movement sequence
Begin with a preparatory countermovement by flexing the hips and knees. Maintain an upright body posture (Figure 17.4A). Once at the bot -
tom position, immediately jump vertically (Fig -
ure 17.4B). While in the air, switch the positions
 
of the legs so that the landing will occur with the left leg forward and the right leg behind. Be sure that the knees remain pointed forward 
and avoid caving inward (Figure 17.4C).
(continued)
Figure 17.3  Countermovement jump. (A) 
starting position; (B) countermovement; (C) jump.(A) (B)
(C)

CASEY M. WATKINS ET AL.454
Variations
Keep the hands placed on the hips to elimi -
nate arm swing. Attempt to perform a double switch of the legs while in the air, so that land -
ing occurs in the same position as the takeoff.
Broad jump
Starting position
The athlete stands with the feet a shoulder width apart, the body in an upright posture, looking straight ahead.
Movement sequence
Begin with a preparatory countermovement by flexing the hips and knees. During the down -
ward movement, the body will lean slightly for -
ward and the arms should be coordinated with a posterior swing (Figure 17.5A). At the bottom of the countermovement, jump horizontally in the anterior direction (Figure 17.5B). Land with an upright body posture and head looking for -
ward. Flex the hips and knees to reduce land
-
ing forces and be sure the knees are pointing forward and not caving inward (Figure 17.5C).(continued)
Figure 17.4  Scissor jump. (A) countermovement; 
(B) jump, with right leg forward; (C) landing, with 
left leg forward.(A) (B)
(C)

PLYOMETRIC, SPEED, AGILITY, QUICKNESS 455
Figure 17.5  Broad jump. (A) countermovement; (B) jump; (C) landing.
Variations
Eliminate arm swing. Take off from two feet and land on one foot.
Linear bounds
Starting position
Although starting from a stationary position is possible, it may be more comfortable by beginning with several lead-in steps.
(continued)(A)
(B) (C)

CASEY M. WATKINS ET AL.456
Figure 17.6  Linear bound. (A) starting position; (B) bound.(continued)
(A)
(B)

PLYOMETRIC, SPEED, AGILITY, QUICKNESS 457
Figure 17.7  Lateral cone jump. (A) 
countermovement; (B) lateral jump; (C) landing.Movement sequence
This drill can be compared to an exaggerated run. Forcefully drive off the rear leg (Figure 17.6A) 
with the intent to gain as much vertical height 
 
and horizontal distance possible (Figure 17.6B). 
On landing with the contralateral leg, immediately
 
generate maximal force to propel the body again.
Lateral cone jump
Starting position
The athlete stands with the feet a shoulder width apart, the body in an upright posture, looking straight ahead, with a cone placed directly to the side.
Movement sequence
Begin with a preparatory countermovement by 
flexing the hips and knees (Figure 17.7A). Main -
tain an upright body posture. Once at the bottom
 
position, immediately jump, propelling the body 
vertically as well as laterally (Figure 17.7B). Land on the opposite side of the cone and flex the hips and knees to reduce landing forces (Figure 17.7C).
(continued)(A) (B)
(C)

CASEY M. WATKINS ET AL.458
Variations
Keep the hands placed on the hips to eliminate arm swing. Add degrees of rotation so as to land facing in a different direction.
Lateral bounds
Starting position
The athlete stands with the feet a shoulder width apart, the body in an upright posture, looking straight ahead.
Movement sequence
Begin with a preparatory countermovement by flexing the hips and knees. Maintain an upright body 
posture. During the downward phase, begin to shift the body weight to the left leg (Figure 17.8A). (continued)
(A)
(B)

PLYOMETRIC, SPEED, AGILITY, QUICKNESS 459
Figure 17.8  Lateral bound. (A) countermovement; (B) lateral movement; (C) downward movement; (D) landing.
(continued)Once at the bottom position, propel the body laterally with the left leg (Figure 17.8B) and land on 
the 
right ( Figure 17.8C). Be sure to flex the hips and knees on landing while also keeping the body 
inside the vertical plane of the knee (Figure 17.8D).
Variation
Add anterior movement 
to this drill where the athlete will follow a zig-zag or diagonal pattern with 
each bound.(C)
(D)

CASEY M. WATKINS ET AL.460
Figure 17.9  Chest throw. (A) countermovement; (B) release.Chest throw
Starting position
The athlete stands with the feet a shoulder width apart, holding a medicine ball in the center of the chest.(continued)
(A)
(B)

PLYOMETRIC, SPEED, AGILITY, QUICKNESS 461
Figure 17.10  Scoop toss. (A) countermovement; (B) upward phase; (C) full leg extension; (D) release.Movement sequence
Begin with a preparatory countermovement by flexing the hips and knees. Maintain an upright body posture (Figure 17.9A). During the upward phase, begin to simultaneously extend the arms with the legs. As the legs reach peak extension, the medicine ball is released with the intent of obtaining maximal horizontal distance (Figure 17.9B).
Variation
Perform this exercise from your knees or with a partner.
(continued)(A) (B)
(C) (D)

CASEY M. WATKINS ET AL.462
Figure 17.11  Overhead throw. (A) starting 
position with elbows flexed; (B) extension of elbows; 
(C) release.Scoop toss
Starting position
The athlete stands with the feet a shoulder width apart, holding a medicine ball by the hips with the arms fully extended.
Movement sequence
Begin with a preparatory countermovement by flexing the hips and knees. Maintain an upright body posture and extended arm position (Fig-ure 17.10A). During the upward phase, while the legs are extending, begin to flex at the shoulders, keeping the elbows extended (Figure 17.10B). As full leg extension is reached ( Figure 17.10C), 
release the medicine ball with the intent of obtain -
ing maximal vertical height (Figure 17.10D).
VariationPerform this drill with a partner.
Ov
erhead throw
Starting position
The athlete stands in a staggered stance, with an upright posture, holding a medicine ball directly overhead with the elbows extended.(continued)
(A) (B)
(C)

PLYOMETRIC, SPEED, AGILITY, QUICKNESS 463
Figure 17.12  Lateral toss. (A) starting position 
with rotated torso; (B) release; (C) catch.Movement sequence
Begin with a preparatory flexion of the elbows so that the medicine ball is behind the head (Fig -
ure 17.11A). Immediately extend the elbows (Figure 17.11B) and release the ball toward the wall (Figure 17.11C). Attempt to hit the wall so that the ball rebounds directly into your hands with your elbows still extended.
Variation
Perform this drill by maintaining extended elbows, moving only from the shoulder.
Later
al toss
Starting position
The athlete stands with the feet a shoulder width apart and holding a medicine ball by the hips with the arms fully extended.
Movement sequence
The athlete rotates the torso to the left while simultaneously slightly flexing the hips and knees (Figure 17.12A). During the return, the hips and knees are extended and 
(continued)(A) (B)
(C)

CASEY M. WATKINS ET AL.464
Figure 17.13  Two-handed put throw. (A) starting position with rotated torso; two-handed put throw;  
(B) with full extension and release.
the ball is released toward the wall at a slight 
angle (Figure 17.12B). As the ball rebounds off the wall, the athlete catches and performs the same action to the opposite side of the
 
body (Figure 17.12C).
VariationsPerform this drill with a partner. Maintain the rotation to the same side of the body.
T
wo-handed put throw
Starting position
The athlete stands with the feet a shoulder width apart, holding a medicine ball in the cen-ter of the chest.(continued)
Movement sequence
Begin by rotating the torso to the right  
(Figure 17.13A) and flexing the hips and knees into a deep squat position. Once at the bot-tom, immediately extend the hips and knees while simultaneously rotating toward the starting position. The medicine 
ball will be 
thrown with the right hand (guide with the left). Fully extend the hips, knees, and right elbow, attempting to maximize the verti-cal height of the ball ( Figure 17.13B). Follow 
through completely by rotating to the left.
Variation
Perform this drill with a partner.(A) (B)

PLYOMETRIC, SPEED, AGILITY, QUICKNESS 465
Figure 17.14  Wood chop throw. (A) starting position; (B) semisquat position; (C) arc movement; (D) 
release.
(continued)(A) (B)
(C)(D)

CASEY M. WATKINS ET AL.466
Figure 17.15  Quick step. (A) starting position; (B) step movement.Wood chop throw
Starting position
The athlete stands with the feet a shoulder width apart, holding a medicine ball at the center of the chest (Figure 17.14A).
Move
ment sequence
Begin by rotating the torso to the right and flexing the hips and knees into a semi-squat 
position (Figure 17.14B). Move the ball in an arc from knee height to slightly above the head 
(Figure 17.14C). Rotate the torso toward the start position, throwing the ball toward the 
ground (Figure 17.14D).
VariationAttempt to move and position yourself to catch the ball to initiate the next repetition.
Sprint mechanic drills
Quick step
Starting position
This drill begins with the athlete jogging/running in place (Figure 17.15A).(continued)
(A) (B)

PLYOMETRIC, SPEED, AGILITY, QUICKNESS 467
Movement sequence
Swing the hands rapidly, being sure to initiate the movement from the shoulder joint. The feet should contact the ground with the ball of the foot during every support phase. Shoulders should remain relaxed. Maintain a visual focal point directed straight ahead (Figure 17.15B).
The purpose of this drill is to enable the athlete to establish proper movement patterns (e.g.,
 
body alignment, support foot position, arm swing) without the mechanical or metabolic loads associated with high-speed horizontal movement.
Variation
Start at slower movement speeds and increase gradually from a jog into a run and finally a sprint.
B-march
Starting position
The athlete should begin this drill in a “marching” posture facing straight ahead (Figure 17.16A).
Movement sequence
Lift the knee (Figure 17.16B) and pull the knee back to the ground. Although the knee is lifted and pulled back, it must be understood that the motion originates and is designed to accentuate the action about the hip. Keep the lower leg relaxed (do not kick; the lower leg will naturally have a whip-like motion when relaxed). Contact the ground with the ball of the foot and concentrate 
on 
“pulling” the body horizontally. Maintain visual focal point directed straight ahead. Keep shoulders relaxed. Proper arm swing should be maintained throughout.
The purpose of this drill is to create the appropriate muscle activation patterns during late swing 
through mid-support.
Figure 17.16  B-march. (A) starting position; (B) knee extension.
(continued)(A) (B)

CASEY M. WATKINS ET AL.468
Variation
Start with a marching action and advance into skipping and finally skipping with a transition to a short sprint.
Stride cycles
Starting position
The athlete begins this drill by jogging or running forward (Figure 17.17A).
Movement sequence
Jog or run on the balls of the feet over a predetermined distance (e.g., 20–30 yd) ( Figure 17.17B). 
At a prescribed number of steps, perform a complete sprint cycle with one leg. Complete this 
repetition at a higher speed, contacting the ground on the ball of the foot and again “pulling” the 
body horizontally with hip extension (Figure 17.17C). Allow the athlete to transition into maximum effort linear sprinting by integrating single-leg full sprint cycles (swing and support phase) at pre -
scribed intervals. All cycles should be performed near or at maximum speed.
V
ariation
Start with a high number of jogging/running steps (five to seven) between cycles, gradually reduc -
ing this (to one to three), and finally coupling into a double cycle (both the left and the right foot 
complete a cycle without jogging/running steps in between).(continued)
(A) (B)

PLYOMETRIC, SPEED, AGILITY, QUICKNESS 469
Five-point agility run
Starting position
The athlete should start in an athletic “ready” position facing the direction of the first sprint.
Movement sequence
Start at position X and run to position 1 as quickly as possible, returning to position X. Con-tinue running to positions two to five, always returning to position X after each one (Figure 
17.18). The purpose of this drill is to improve 
agility by requiring quick stops, quick starts, rapid accelerations, and changes of direction.
Focus on an explosive start and accelerate 
to maximum speed as rapidly as possible, keep -
ing the center of gravity low to stop quickly, and keeping the center of gravity on the back edge of the base of support.
V
ariation
This drill can be performed with various 
movements including sprinting, shuffling, and backpedaling. It can also be performed both clockwise and counterclockwise, and the dis -
tance of each sprint can be varied.
T-drill for combining lateral and forward/backward movement
Starting position
The athlete should start in an athletic “ready” position facing the direction of the first sprint.
Figure 17.17  Stride cycle. (A) starting position; (B) 
jogging movement; stride cycle; (C) hip extension.
1234
5 X
Figure 17.18  Five-point agility run.
(continued)(C)

CASEY M. WATKINS ET AL.470
Movement sequence
Start at cone 1 and sprint to the left side of cone 2. Move around cone 2 and shuffle to the right 
to and around cone 3. Then shuffle to the left all the way back across to and around cone 4. Then shuffle to the right back to cone 2, then backpedal backward to cone 1 (Figure 17.19). The purpose of the T-drill is to train the athlete to rapidly and effectively transition from forward/backward, forward/lateral, and backward/lateral movement patterns.
The focus of this drill is not only forward/backward/lateral movements but also the ability to 
transition from one to the other. The center of gravity should be kept low, and on the back edge of the base of support when changing direction.
V
ariation
The footwork patterns and the distance between cones can be altered.Five dot drill
Starting position
The athlete should start in an athletic “ready” position facing forward.
Movement sequence
There are various movement patterns for this drill. One common pattern is for the athlete to start with one foot on each of the two nearest dots, approximately 2 ft apart. She then jumps in a hop-scotch pattern to the two farthest dots, approximately 3 ft away. The athlete then jumps backward in the same manner to the starting position (Figure 17.20). This movement is repeated as many times as desired.
The athlete should maintain her center of gravity as close as possible to the center dot to 
facilitate rapid movement and maintaining balance. The athlete should maintain an athletic position during 
the drill with the center of gravity low. Encourage the athlete to move her feet as rapidly as 
possible. The purpose of the five-dot drill is to develop the ability to move the feet quickly while (continued)
243
1
Figure 17.19  T-drill for combining lateral and 
forward/backward movement. Figure 17.20  Five-dot drill.

PLYOMETRIC, SPEED, AGILITY, QUICKNESS 471
maintaining an athletic balanced position, using both single and double leg movements in forward/
backward patterns.
Variation
Other movement patterns can be used for this drill, such as jumping with both feet together and 
jumping to each dot individually. The spacing of the dots can also be increased or decreased. Any variation or combination of movements can be used in one specific drill. The length of time the athlete performs the drill can be modified, or the number of single or double leg foot contacts can be used as an estimate of workload.
Hexagon drill
Starting position
The athlete should start in an athletic “ready” position facing forward in the middle of a hexagon.
Movement sequenceJump over one side of the hexagon and return back to the middle. Then jump over each of the six sides of the hexagon in order, always returning to the inside of the hexagon follow -
ing each jump (Figure 17.21). The purpose of the hexagon drill is to develop the ability to move the feet quickly while maintaining an ath -
letic balanced position using both single and double leg movement patterns.
V
ariation
The pattern can be performed clockwise or 
counterclockwise. The size of the hexagon can also be varied.
Figure 17.21  Hexagon drill.
SUMMARY
Explosive movements such as sprinting, jump -
ing, and changing direction are vital to success 
in nearly all sports. The effective utilization of the SSC (coupling eccentric and concentric muscle actions) to increase power output and ultimately enhance performance is the major purpose of all explosive training techniques, drills, and exercises. Scientific evidence indicates that both mechanical and neural factors regulate SSC ability. In addition, fiber-type distribution, the use of the upper extremities, gender, age, agonist and antagonist strength, and fatigue can either attenuate or augment the SSC. More importantly, program design and drill selection should weigh heavily on the experience of the athlete(s), with a focus on general motor devel -
opment (agility, balance, and coordination) for younger athletes and greater sport specificity with relative increases in loads and difficulty for advanced athletes. Training programs utiliz-ing plyometric, sprint, and agility drills should address all these factors in a controlled, tech -
nique-focused training program to improve performance and limit the likelihood of injury.

CASEY M. WATKINS ET AL.472
CASE E xAMPLE
Designing a plyometric training program for a women’s college volleyball player 
(outside hitter)
BackgroundYou are employed as a strength and conditioning coach at a Division I university. One of 
your responsibilities is to train the women’s volleyball team year-round. The coach has asked specific attention to be given to improving the vertical jump performance of the three outside hitters. They have all played volleyball for more than seven years and have a minimum of three years’ experience with resistance training. Their landing and jumping mechanics are sound and they have the three highest 1RM squat scores on the team. Using a needs analy-sis, identify the jumping characteristics of collegiate women’s outside hitters and develop an eight-week plyometric cycle leading into the preseason.
Recommendations/considerations
Begin with a needs analysis of jumping volume for the group of players. Watching several vid -
eos from the previous season should provide you with a very reasonable understanding of the 
types and volumes of jumps performed. You find the maximal number of spikes and blocks per -
formed per game is approximately 34 and 27, respectively. If it is necessary to play four games to determine the outcome of a match, then an outside hitter could expect to perform nearly 250 jumps per match (136 spikes and 108 blocks). A movement analysis indicates that to perform a spike, the athlete must first generate horizontal velocity and transfer it to vertical motion. On the other hand, a block begins from a quasi-static squat position and has only vertical motion.
Implementation
Select exercises that are closely associated with the motor skills. For example, power skips 
performed for linear distance or maximal height would both provide a suitable stimulus for this group of athletes. Depth jumps could also be used sparingly to develop the ability to decelerate and change directions rapidly, as is found during the spike. Any type of vertical jumping drill would be appropriate to focus on blocking ability. More specifically, the block is started from a quasi-static position; therefore, a drill such as box jumps would fit into the MAxiNG OUT
1 A high school baseball coach asks the new strength and conditioning coach if she will watch 
his athletes perform their plyometric routine, which includes depth jumps. When they per -
form the depth jumps, she notices that many of them have poor landing mechanics (e.g., little flexion of the hips and knees, the knees buckling inward). What would be an appropriate suggestion she could make to the coach regarding how the drills should be performed?
2 A varsity track sprinter wants to start lifting weights in an attempt to become faster. He has never been involved in resistance training before. Initially, what muscle groups and what types of exercises would be most beneficial?
3 An elite-level tennis player wants your suggestions for new ways to improve the team’s ability to change directions. Which program variables should be the focus of their training and how can they be manipulated to stimulate performance improvements?

PLYOMETRIC, SPEED, AGILITY, QUICKNESS 473
training program. The athletes should be instructed to perform all exercises with maximal 
takeoff velocity throughout the entire training cycle. An attempt is made to equate the actual volume observed during competition to what is prescribed during training. This should occur over several weeks and only be implemented during select training sessions. Progressive over-load and a periodized schedule will allow for proper recovery between training schedules.
Results
Using appropriate progressions for volume and intensity and providing adequate rest should 
provide the necessary stimulus for improved performance and greater jumping ability. Regular assessment (approximately every two to three weeks) of performance using volleyball-specific vertical jump tests will provide the necessary feedback to monitor your program.
REFERENCES
 1. Walshe AD, Wilson GJ, Ettema GJ. Stretch-
shorten cycle compared with isometric preload: contributions to enhanced muscular performance. J Appl Physiol 1998; 84:97–106.
 2. Bobbert MF. Dependence of human squat jump performance on the series elastic compliance of the triceps surae: a simulation study. J Exp Biol 2001; 204:533–542.
 3. Bobbert MF, Gerristen KG, Litjens MC, et al. Why is countermovement jump height greater than the squat jump height? Med Sci Sports Exerc 1996; 28:1402–1412.
 4. Ettema GJ. Muscle efficiency: the controversial role of elasticity and mechanical energy conversion in stretch-shortening cycles. Eur J Appl Physiol 2001; 85:457–465.
 5. Finni T, Ikegawa S, Lepola V, et al.  
Comparison of force-velocity relationships of vastus lateralis muscle in isokinetic and in stretch-shortening cycle exercises. Acta Physiol Scand 2003; 177:483–491.
 6. Hill A V. Mechanics of the contractile element of muscle. Nature. 1950; 166:415–419.
 7. Belli A, Kyröläinen H, Komi PV. Moment and power of lower limb joints in running. Int J Sports Med 2002; 23:136–141.
 8. Kyröläinen H, Komi PV, Belli A. Changes in muscle activity patterns and kinetics with increasing running speed. J Strength Cond Res 1999; 13(4):400–406.
 9. Wiemann K, Tidow GN. Relative activity of hip and knee extensors in sprinting: implications for training. New Studies Athletics 1995; 10(1):29–49.
 10. Kurokawa S, Fukunaga T, Fukashiro S.   
Behavior of fascicles and tendinous structures of human gastrocnemius during vertical jumping. J Appl Physiol 2001; 90:1349–1358.
 11. Lichtwark GA, Wilson AM. Is Achilles tendon compliance optimised for maximum muscle efficiency during locomotion? J Biomech 2007; 40(8):1768–1775.
 12. Turner A, Jeffreys I. The Stretch-Shortening Cycle: Proposed Mechanisms and Methods for Enhancement. Strength Cond 2010; 32(4):87–99.
 13. Harman EA, Rosenstein MT, Frykman PN, et al. The effects of arms and countermovement on vertical jumping. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1990; 22:825–833.
 14. Ashby BM, Heegaard JH. Role of arm motion in the standing long jump. J Biomech 2002; 35:1631–1637.
 15. Martin RJ, Dore E, Twisk J, van Praagh E, Hautier CA, Bedu M. Longitudinal changes of maximal short-term peak power in girls and boys during growth. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2004; 36(3):498–503.
 16. Kearney JT, Rundell KW, Wilber RL.  
Measurement of work and power in sport. In: Kirkendall DT, ed. Exercise and Sport Science. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; 2000.
 17. van Praagh E. Development of anaerobic function during childhood and adolescence. Pediatric Exercise Science 2000; 12:150–173.
 18. Caserotti P, Aagaard P, Simonsen EB, et al.  
Contraction-specific differences in maximal muscle power during stretch-shortening cycle movements in elderly males and females. Eur J Appl Physiol 2001; 84:206–212.
 19. Harrison AJ, Gaffney S. Motor development and gender effects of stretch-shortening cycle performance. J Sci Med Sport 2001; 4:406–415.
 20. Fox SI. Human Physiology. 8th ed. New 
York: McGraw-Hill; 2004.

CASEY M. WATKINS ET AL.474
 21. Moritani T. Motor unit and motorneuron 
excitability during explosive movements. In: Komi PV, ed. Strength and Power in Sport. Oxford, UK: Blackwell; 2003.
 22. Jaric S, Ropret R, Kukolj M, et al. Role of agonist and antagonist muscle strength in performance of rapid movements. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 1995; 71:464–468.
 23. Jaric S. Changes in movement symmetry associated with strengthening and fatigue of agonist and antagonist muscles. J Motor Behav 2000; 32:9–15.
 24. Avela J, Komi PV. Interaction between muscle stiffness and stretch reflex sensitivity after long-term stretch-shortening cycle exercise. Muscle and Nerve 1998; 21:1224–1227.
 25. Strojnik V, Komi PV. Fatigue after submaximal intensive stretch-shortening cycle exercise. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2000; 32:1314–1319.
 26. Strojnik V, Komi PV. Neuromuscular fatigue after maximal stretch-shortening cycle exercise. J Appl Physiol 1998; 84:344–350.
 27. Oliver JL, Lloyd RS, Meyers RW.  Training Elite 
Child Athletes: Promoting Welfare and Well-Being. Strength Cond 2011;3 3(4):73–79.
 28. Haywood KM, Getchell N. Life Span Motor 
Development. 3rd ed. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics; 2001.
 29. Gallahue DL, John CO. Understanding 
Motor Development. 6th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill; 2006.
 30. Caraffa A, Cerulli G, Projetti M, et al.  
Prevention of anterior cruciate ligament injuries in soccer. A prospective controlled study of proprioceptive training. Knee Surg Sports Traumatol Arthrosc 1996; 4:19–21.
 31. Griffin LY. The Henning program. In: Griffin LY, ed. Prevention of Noncontact ACL Injuries. Rosemont, IL: American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons; 2001.
 32. Hewett TE, Stroupe AI, Nance TA, Noyes FR. Plyometric training in female athletes: decreased impact forces and increased hamstring torques. Am J Sports Med 1996; 24:765–773.
 33. Silvers HJ, Mandelbaum BR. Preseason conditioning to prevent soccer injuries in young women. Clin J Sport Med 2001; 11:206.
 34. McNair PJ, Prapavessis H, Callender K.   
Decreasing landing forces: effect of instruction. Br J Sports Med 2000; 
34:293–296.
 35. Onate JA, Guskiewicz KM, Sullivan RJ.  
Augmented feedback reduces jump landing forces. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther 2001; 
31:511–517. 36. Mandelbaum BR, Silvers HJ, Watanabe DS, et al. Effectiveness of a neuromuscular and proprioceptive training program in preventing anterior cruciate ligament injuries in female athletes: 2-year 
follow-up. Am J Sports Med 2005; 
33:1003–1010.
 37. Brown ME, Mayhew JL, Boleach LW.  
Effect of plyometric training on vertical 
jump performance in high school basketball players. J Sports Med Phys Fit 1986; 26:1–4.
 38. Fatouros IG, Jamurtas AZ, Leontsini D, et al. Evaluation of plyometric exercise training, weight training, and their combination on vertical jumping performance and leg strength. J Strength 
Cond Res 2000; 14:470–476.
 39. Luebbers PE, Potteiger JA, Hulver MW, 
et al. Effects of plyometric training and recovery on vertical jump performance and anaerobic power. J Strength Cond Res 2003; 17:704–709.
 40. Wilson GJ, Murphy AJ, Giorgi A. Weight and plyometric training: effects on eccentric and concentric force production. Can J Appl Physiol 1996; 21:301–315.
 41. Lees A, Rojas J, Ceperos M, et al. How the free limbs are used by elite high jumpers in generating vertical velocity. Ergonomics 2000; 43:1622–1636.
 42. McBride JM, Triplett McBride T, Davie A, et al. The effect of heavy- vs light-load jump squats on the development of strength, power, and speed. J Strength Cond Res 2002; 16:75–82.
 43. Soriano MA, Jimenez-Reyes P, Rhea MR, Marin PJ. The optimal load for maximal power production during lower-body resistance exercises: a meta-analysis. Sports Med 2015; 45(8):1191–1205.
 44. Adams K, O’Shea J, O’Shea K, et al. The effect of six weeks of squat, plyometric, and squat-plyometric training on power production. J Appl Sports Sci Res 1992; 6:36–41.
 45. Bobbert MF, Van Soest AJ. Effects of muscle strengthening on vertical jump height: a simulation study. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1994; 26:1012–1020.
 46. Young WB, Wilson GJ, Byrne C. A comparison of drop jump training methods: effects on leg extensor strength qualities and jumping performance. Int J Sports Med 1999; 20:295–303.
 47. Gehri DJ, Ricard MD, Kleiner DM, et al. A comparison of plyometric training techniques for improving vertical jump ability and 

PLYOMETRIC, SPEED, AGILITY, QUICKNESS 475
energy production. J Strength Cond Res 
1998; 12:85–89.
 48. Meylan C, Malatesta D. Effects of in-season 
plyometric training within soccer practice on explosive actions of young players. J Strength Cond Res 2009; 23(9):2605–2613.
 49. Lloyd RS, Oliver JL, Hughes MG, Williams CA. The effects of 4 weeks of plyometric 
training on ractive strength index and leg stiffness in male youths. J Strength Cond Res 
2012; 26(10):2812–2819.
 50. Faigenbaum AD, McFarland JE, Keiper FB, et al. Effects of a short-term plyometric and resistance training program on fitness performance in boys age 12 to 15 years. J Sci Med Sport 2007; 6:519–525.
 51. Kotzamanidis C. Effect of plyometric training on running performance and vertical jumping in prepupertal boys. J Strength Cond Res 2006; 20(2):441–445.
 52. Matavulj D, Kukolj M, Ugarkovic D, Tihanyi J, Jaric S. Effects of plyometric training on jumping performance in junior basketball players. J Sports Med Phys Fit 2001; 
41:159–164.
 53. Radcliffe JC, Farentinos RC. High-Powered 
Plyometrics. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics; 1999.
 54. Clutch M, Wilton M. The effect of depth jumps and weight training on leg strength and vertical jump. Res Q Exerc Sport 1983; 54:5–10.
 55. Diallo O, Dore E, Duche P, et al. Effects of plyometric training followed by a reduced training programme on physical performance in prepubescent soccer players. J Sports Med Phys Fit 2001; 41:342–348.
 56. Potteiger J, Lockwood R, Daub M, et al.  
Muscle power and fiber characteristics following 8 weeks of plyometric training. J Strength Cond Res 1999; 13:275–279.
 57. Jarvis MM, Graham-Smith PG, Comfort P.  
A methodological approach to quantifying plyometric intensity. J Strength Cond Res 2014; 30(9):2522–2532.
 58. Manzer S, Mattes K, Holländer K. Kinematic analysis of sprinting, max vs acceleration. Biology of Exercise. 2016; 12(2). www.biologyofexercise.com/images/issues/1225.pdf.
 59. Schmolinsky G. Track and Field: The East 
German Textbook of Athletics. London: Sport Book Pub; 2000.
 60. Baechle TR, Earle RW. Essentials of Strength 
Training and Conditioning. 3rd ed., 2008.
 61. Mackala K, Fostiak M, Kowalski K. Selected determinants of acceleration in the 100m sprint. J Hum Kinet 2015; 45:135–148. 62. Schmidt RA, Lee TD. Motor Control and 
Learning. 3rd ed. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics; 1999.
 63. Mero A, Komi PV. Reaction time and electromyographic activity during a sprint start. Eur J Appl Physiol 1990; 61:73–80.
 64. Galton F. On instruments for (1) testing perception of differences of tint and for (2) determining reaction time. Journal of the Anthropological Institute 1899; 19:27–29.
 65. Brebner JT, Welford AT. Introduction and historical background sketch. In: Welford AT, ed. Reaction Times. New York: Academic 
Press; 1980:1–23.
 66. Gambetta V, Winckler G. Sport Specific 
Speed: The 3S System. Sarasota, FL: Gambetta Sports Training Systems; 2001.
 67. Mero A, Komi PV, Gregor RJ. Biomechanics of sprint running. Sports Medicine 1992; 13(6):376–392.
 68. Bissas AI, Havenetidis K. The use of various strength-power tests as predictors of sprint running performance. J Sports Med Physical Fit 2008; 48(1):49–54.
 69. Putnam CA, Kozey JW. Substantive Issues in 
Running. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press Inc., 1989.
 70. Sinning WE, Forsyth HL. Lower-limb actions while running at different velocities. Med Sci Sports 1970; 2:28–34.
 71. Kivi DM, Maraj BK, Gervais P. A kinematic analysis of high-speed treadmill sprinting over a range of velocities. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2002; 34:662–666.
 72. Mann RV. A kinetic analysis of sprinting. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1981; 13:325–328.
 73. Mann RA, Moran GT, Dougherty SE.  
Comparative electromyography of the lower extremity in jogging, running, and sprinting. Am J Sports Med 1986; 14:501–510.
 74. Mann R, Sprague P. A kinetic analysis of the ground leg during sprint running. Res Q Exerc Sport 1980; 51:334–348.
 75. Dietz V, Schmidtbleicher D, Noth J. Neuronal mechanisms of human locomotion. J Neurophysiol 1979; 42:1212–1222.
 76. Jacobs R, van Ingen Schenau GJ.  
Intermuscular coordination in a sprint push-off. J Biomech 1992; 25:953–965.
 77. Johnson MD, Buckley JG. Muscle power patterns in the mid-acceleration phase of sprinting. J Sports Sci 2001; 19:263–272.
 78. Upton DE. The effect of assisted and resisted sprint training on acceleration and velocity in Division IA female soccer athletes. J Strength Cond Res 2011; 25(10):2645–2652.

CASEY M. WATKINS ET AL.476
 79. Nealer AD, Malyszek K, Wong M, Costa P, 
Coburn J, Brown L. Influence of rest intervals after assisted sprinting on bodyweight sprint times in female collegiate soccer players. J 
Strength Cond Res 2016; 31(1):88–94.
 80. Bosco C, Vittori C. Biomechanical characteristics of sprint running during maximal and supra-maximal speed. NSCA J 1986; 1:39–45.
 81. Corn RJ, Knudson D. Effect of elastic-cord towing on the kinematics of the acceleration phase of sprinting. J Strength Cond Res 2003; 17:72–75.
 82. Paradisis GP, Cooke CB. Kinematic and postural characteristics of sprint running on sloping surfaces. J Sports Sci 2001; 19:149–159.
 83. Upton DE. The effect of assisted and resisted sprint training on acceleration and velocity in Division 1A female soccer athletes. J Strength Cond Res 2011; 25(10):2645–2652.
 84. Lockie RG, Murphy AJ, Spinks CD. Effects of resisted sled towing on sprint kinematics in field-sport athletes. J Strength Cond Res 2003; 17:760–767.
 85. Drabik J. Children & Sports Training: How 
Your Future Champions Should Exercise to Be Healthy, Fit, and Happy. Island Pond, VT: Stadion; 1996.
 86. Verstegen M, Marcello B. Agility and coordination. In: Foran B, ed. High Performance Sports Conditioning. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics; 2001.
 87. Sheppard JM, Young WB, Doyle TL, Sheppard TA, Newton RU. An evaluation of a new test of reactive agility and its relationship to sprint speed and change of direction speed. J Sci Med Sport 
2006;9(4):342–349.
 88. Young WB, McDowell MH, Scarlett BJ.  
Specificity of sprint and agility training 
methods. J Strength Cond Res 2001; 
15(3):315–319.
 89. Little T, Williams AG. Specificity of acceleration, maximal speed and agility in professional soccer players. J Strength Cond Res 2005; 19(1):76–78.
 90. Ellis L, Gastin P, Lawrence S, et al. Protocols for the physiological assessment of team sports players. In: Gore CJ, ed. Physiological Tests for Elite Athletes. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics; 2000.
 91. Herodek K, Joksimovic A, Nejic D, Rakovic A, Markovic K, Stankovic D. Plyometric training and its effects on quickness. Research in Kinesiology 2011; 39(2):171–176.
 92. Besier TF, Lloyd DG, Cochrane JL, et al.  
External loading of the knee joint during running and cutting maneuvers. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2001; 33:1168–1175.
 93. Rand MK, Ohtsuki T. EMG analysis of lower limb muscles in humans during quick change in running directions. Gait Posture 2000; 12:169–183.
 94. Neptune RR, Wright IC, van der Bogert AJ.  
Muscle coordination and function during cutting movements. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1999; 31:294–302.
 95. Zazulak BT, Hewett TE, Reeves NP, Goldberg B, Cholewicki J. Deficits in neuromuscular control of the trunk predict knee injury risk: a prospective biomechanical-epidemiologic study. Am J Sports Med 2007; 
35(7):1123–1130.
 96. Bencke J, Naesborg H, Simonsen EB, et al.  
Motor pattern of the knee joint muscles during 
side-step cutting in European team handball. Scand J Med Sci Sports 2000; 10:68–77.
 97. Boling MC, Padua DA, Marshall SW, Guskiewicz K, Pyne S, Beutler A. A prospective investigation of biomechanical risk factors for patellofemoral pain syndrome: the Joint Undertaking to 
Monitor and Prevent ACL Injury (JUMP-
ACL) cohort. Am J Sports Med 2009; 37(11):2108–2116.
 98. Besier TF, Lloyd DG, Ackland TR. Muscle activation strategies at the knee during running and cutting maneuvers. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2003; 35:119–127.
 99. Wroble RR, Moxley DP. The effect of winter sports participation on high school football players: strength, power, agility, and body composition. J Strength Cond Res 2001; 
15:132–135.
100. Mayhew JL, Piper FC, Schwegler TM, et al.  
Contributions of speed, agility, and body composition to aerobic power measurement in college football players. J Appl Sports Sci Res 1989; 3:101–106.

Contents
Introduction  479
Similarity in training programs  479
Relying on science  480
Training principles  481
Program design  483
Description of suggested training implements  487
Description of implement exercises provided in example workouts  490
Summary  524
References  526

18 CHAPTER
OBJECTIVES
After completing this chapter, you will be able to:
• Discuss the various types of implements included in this chapter.
• List the potential benefits that can be derived from implement training.
• Describe the potential negative aspects of implement training.
• Detail how implement training can be integrated into an athletic training program.
• Be aware of the safety precautions required when training with implements.IMPLEMENT TRAINING
Allen Hedrick
KEY TERMS
Active fluid resistance
ChainsImplementsKegsLogsStonesTiresWater-filled dumbbellsWater-filled implements
INTRODUCTION
In competitive athletics, today, more than ever, 
a tremendous emphasis is placed on strength and conditioning as a method to improve ath -
letic performance. More and more frequently financial resources are directed toward build -
ing bigger and better strength and conditioning facilities. In addition, through educational and professional organizations, the knowledge base of strength and conditioning coaches continues to improve.
Resistance training is recognized as a necessary 
component of training programs designed to improve athletic performance.SIMILARITY IN  
TRAINING PROGRAMS
Though there are exceptions, the majority of 
strength and conditioning programs meant to improve athletic performance emphasize free weight training as the preferred method of training (8,21,25,28). Further, many of those programs emphasizing free weight training place a priority on performing the Olympic-style exercises (1,10,11,23). In addition, most strength and conditioning coaches design their training programs based on the concept of periodization, organizing their training programs into specific cycles. Each of these cycles has a specific physiological goal, with the ultimate goal to bring athletes to a peak 

ALLEN HEDRICK480
at the appropriate point in the competitive 
season (2,7,15,16,27). There are variations in the periodization model used from program to program. However, if you reviewed the training programs used in strength and condi-tioning facilities across the country you would likely find many similarities in the programs designed from location to location.
As a result, there are a significant number 
of athletes training in high quality facilities being directed by well-educated strength and 
conditioning professionals employing pro-
grams that have similarities in design. Thus, it becomes difficult to provide your athletes with a significant competitive edge through their strength and conditioning programs. The chal -
lenge for the strength and conditioning coach is to find ways to design training programs based on scientific principles and guidelines while at the same time manipulating the strength and conditioning programs they design to provide their athletes with a competitive advantage.The majority of strength and conditioning 
coaches accentuate free weight training and performance of the Olympic-style exercises following a periodized training program. As a result, it is difficult to design training programs 
that provide your athletes with a competitive 
advantage.
RELYING ON SCIENCE
The amount of research in the field of sports 
science has dramatically increased, evaluating a broad spectrum of topics. Because of this, it is important that the strength and condition -
ing coach takes advantage of the available information and applies it appropriately. The majority of any training program should be based on what sports science has determined to be the best approach to achieving the desired goal.
Figure 18.1  Heavy medicine ball.(a)

IMPLEMENT TRAINING481
Because of the wide spectrum of research 
occurring in the area of sports science, the majority of any training program should be based on science.
Lack of implement training 
research
However, there are still methods of training used 
to improve athletic performance that have little or no scientific evidence to support or refute. One such area that is lacking scientific research is the value of training with 
implements  (non-
standard resistance training modes, such as kegs, 
tires, or sandbags) as compared to the more tra -
ditional barbell, dumbbell, or strength training machine. Based on a review of the literature, limited research has been conducted evaluating the effectiveness of training with non-standard equipment, such as tires, 
logs, kegs, stones  (or 
heavy medicine ball, Figure 18.1a and b) and similar, for lack of a better term, strongman type implements (4,22,30,31,32). This is surpris-ing given that most strength and conditioning professionals are diligent in exploring alterna -
tive training strategies as a means to gaining an advantage (4).
One area that is lacking research is the value of 
performing strength training activities with non-traditional resistance training implements.
TRAINING PRINCIPLES
Despite this lack of research, the same princi-
ples that apply to traditional training methods can be used to guide the use of implement training. Perhaps most important is the con -
cept of training movements, not muscle groups (14,18,24,26,27). That is, increases in strength and/or power will occur primarily in the movement used during training. This concept 
Figure 18.1  (continued)(b)

ALLEN HEDRICK482
suggests the more similar a training exercise is 
to the sport or activity, the greater the probabil -
ity of transfer. Advocates of strongman training have suggested that this type of training is more specific than other forms of strength training and may help bridge the gap between train -
ing in the weight room and improving athletic  
performance.
Further, as will be discussed, certain imple -
ments and activities, such as flipping a tire or performing a fireman’s carry, provide the 
opportunity for training in horizontal move-
ment patterns. Horizontal training movement patterns are not the norm in most traditional strength training exercises, such as cleans, squats, and bench press.
Transferability of implement 
training to sports performance
As suggested by Zemke et  al. (32), some 
non-traditional training methods transfer very effectively to athletic performance, and their inclusion in an athletic strength and conditioning program can be of value. Those strongman movements that most closely replicate movements in sports will have the greatest transfer, especially in contact sports such as football, wrestling, hockey, and rugby (32). This occurs because the movement pat -
tern used in training can be similar to the movement pattern seen during competition (for example, as just mentioned, the move -
ment of “flipping a tire” transfers well to blocking, tackling, wrestling, and so on). One reason for this is that the sequential extension of the hip, knee, and ankle, known as triple extension, that occurs when flipping a tire, vertical jumping, or performing the weight -
lifting movements is an important explosive movement in many sports (32).
Although there is a lack of research evaluating 
implement training, the same principles that are applicable to conventional training modes can be 
applied to implement training.
A second aspect that can make implement 
training of value is that this type of training 
increases variation in the training program. This variation has the effect of reducing the physiological and psychological staleness that can occur when performing the same strength training movements repetitively over weeks and months. As suggested by Zemke et  al. (32), strongman implements can provide a novel training stimulus when integrated into a strength and conditioning program and provide the benefits of increased muscular hypertrophy, strength, endurance, while at the same time providing possible increases of sport specific strength and increased enjoy -
ment of training.
In support of this, a recent study of 220 
strength and conditioning coaches found that 81% of those coaches responding believe that they had achieved good to excellent results from strongman training with their athletes (31). Advocates of strongman train -
ing have suggested that this type of training may help bridge the gap between traditional weight room training and best and functional strength (31).
To investigate this belief, Winwood et al. 
(31) performed a study comparing tradi -
tional modes of training and strongman type training and their effects on body composi -
tion, muscular function, and performance measures. The principal finding in this study was non-significant between group differ -
ences and body composition and functional performance measures after seven weeks of resistance training.
Some non-traditional training methods can be used 
to effectively train sport specific movements and provide variation in the training program.
Water-filled implements
One implement training method that theo -
retically seems as if it could be of value in the 
training programs of certain types of athletes (i.e., football, hockey, wrestling) is the use of 
water-filled implements  (water-filled imple -
ments are objects such as kegs or specially designed training logs or 
water-filled dumbbells  
where the majority of the resistance is provided by water contained within the implement). It has been suggested that significant levels of strength and muscular development can be achieved by combining traditional weight training exercises such as the squat and deadlift 

IMPLEMENT TRAINING483
with the lifting of heavy and awkward hard to 
manage objects such as water-filled kegs (30).
Water as a form of resistance provides a 
unique training stimulus because water pro-vides an 
active fluid resistance  (the water 
contained within the object is constantly moving during performance of the exercise, providing an active resistance) rather than a static resistance (12,13,30). Contrast that to a typical exercise where the resistance (in the form of a weight stack, barbell, or dumbbell) is relatively static, that is, there is very little if any extraneous movement occurring. Further, con-sider that most training programs emphasize exercises from the sports of powerlifting (i.e., bench press, squats) and/or weightlifting (i.e., cleans, jerks). When the proper technique is mastered in these movements, the body and bar travel through specific movement patterns. As a result, variation in movement patterns during this type of training are severely limited (32).
Strongman training provides 
unbalanced training
While there have been a number of studies 
evaluating unstable surface training (22) there has been very little research evaluating the value of training with an active fluid resist -
ance. But, applying the concept of specificity, it makes sense that training with an active fluid resistance could provide a sport-specific supplemental method of training (for cer -
tain types of athletes) as compared to lifting exclusively with a static resistance. This is because in many situations, athletes encounter dynamic resistance (in the form of an oppo-nent) as compared to a static resistance. To achieve the greatest muscular response during unstable training the load should be as unsta-ble as safety allows (22).
Further, because the active fluid resistance 
enhances the need for stability and control, this type of training may reduce the oppor -
tunity for injury because of improved joint stability (32).
Water-filled implements provide the athlete with 
the opportunity to train against an active fluid resistance rather than the static resistance that most traditional training methods provide.Implement training should 
supplement traditional methods
It is not being suggested that implement training 
should become the primary form of resistance training for athletes. Barbells and dumbbells are proven tools that have been shown to be very effective at developing increases in strength and power. However, if the goal of training is to gain a competitive edge, then supplementing traditional training with implement training may be a viable option.
Implement training should be used to supplement 
traditional exercises (i.e., exercise machine, barbell, and dumbbell exercises) that make up the typical athletic resistance training program.
PROGRAM DESIGN
Examples of supplementing traditional train -
ing methods with implement training are 
provided in Tables 18.1 through 18.3. The  
following list gives explanations of the abbre -
viations used in the workouts presented in
 
the tables.
• TB: Total body exercise; this is one of the Olympic-style lifts or related training exercises
• CL: Core lift; this is a multi-joint exercise such as a squat
• AL: Auxiliary lift; this is a single joint exer -
cise such as a biceps curl
• DB: Dumbbell; the exercise is performed with a dumbbell
• WT: Weighted; the exercise is performed with an external resistance to provide added intensity
• MR: Manual resistance; the exercise uses a partner as the form of resistance
• MB: Medicine ball; the exercise is per -
formed with a medicine ball
• Alt: Alternating; the exercise is performed alternating legs or alternating arms (depend-ing on the exercise being performed)
• DB/tire squat clean: On the days our athletes perform dumbbell hang cleans we provide them with the opportunity to perform a tire flip. This tire flip is performed with a move-ment similar to the pull sequence seen when performing a clean.

ALLEN HEDRICK484
TABLE 18.1  Hockey: Strength Cycle 1
DATES: April 28–May 25
CYCLE: Strength 1GOAL: To increase muscle strength, because of the positive relationship between strength and powerLENGTH: 4 weeksINTENSITY: Complete the full number of required repetitions on the first set only prior to increasing 
resistance
PACE: Total body lifts performed as explosively as possible. All other exercises lift explosively, lower under 
control
REST: 2:30 between total body lifts, 2:00 between all other exercisesSETS/REPS:April 28–May 4: TB=4 × 5, CL=4 × 7, AL=3 × 8
May 5–May 11: TB=4 × 2, CL=4 × 4, AL=3 × 8
May 12–May 18: TB=4 × 5, CL=4 × 7, AL=3 × 8May 19–May 25: TB=4 × 2, CL=4 × 4, AL=3 × 8
MONDAY WEDNESDAY FRIDAY
TOTAL BODY TOTAL BODY TOTAL BODY
Clean TB DB hang clean/tire flip TB Hang alt foot snatch TB
LOWER BODY LOWER BODY CHEST
Squat CL DB/keg/log 1-leg squat CL Bench press CL
Keg/log lateral squat CL DB/keg/log hockey lunge CL
60-second stabilization TRUNK
TRUNK WT Russian twist 3 × 15
TRUNK MB trunk twist 3 × 15 WT toe touchers 3 × 15
Band twits 3 × 15 DB/keg/log SLDL 3 × 12
WT reverse back ext 3 × 12 SHOULDERS
CHEST Keg/log shoulder press CL
UPPER BACK DB/keg/log bench press CL MR front raise 2 × 8
MR row 2 × 8
UPPER BACK NECK
NECK DB/keg/log row CL MR flex/ext 2 × 8
MR lat flexion 2 × 8

IMPLEMENT TRAINING485
TABLE 18.2  Running backs/wide receivers: Strength Cycle 2
DATES: March 29–May 2
CYCLE: Strength 2
GOAL: Increase muscle strength, because of the positive relationship between strength and power
LENGTH: 5 weeksINTENSITY: Select a resistance that allows completion of the full number of required repetitions on the 
first set only prior to increasing resistance
PACE: Total body lifts performed explosively. All other exercises lift explosively, lower under control
REST: 2:30 between total body exercises, 2:00 between all other sets and exercises
SETS/REPS:March 29–April 4: TB=4 × 5, CL=4 × 6, AL=3 × 6
April 5–April 11: TB=4 × 3, CL=4 × 4, AL=3 × 6
April 12–April 18: TB=4 × 5, CL=4 × 6, AL=3 × 6April 19–April 25: TB=4 × 3, CL=4 × 4, AL=3 × 6
April 26–May 2: TB=4 × 5, CL=4 × 6, AL=3 × 6
MONDAY WEDNESDAY FRIDAY
TOTAL BODY TOTAL BODY TOTAL BODY
Clean TB DB hang clean/tire flip TB Split alter ft snatch balance TB
UPPER BODY LOWER BODY LOWER BODY
Bench press CL DB/keg/log 1-leg squat CL Squats CL
DB/keg/log lateral squat CL Keg/log walking lunges CL
TRUNK 1 × 60-sec stabilization
MB decline 1-arm throws 3 × 15 TRUNK
WT reverse back ext 3 × 12 DB press crunch 3 × 15 TRUNK
DB/keg/log SLDL 3 × 12 WT alter V-ups/with MB 3 × 15
SHOULDERS DB back ext 3 × 12
MR front raise 2 × 8 CHEST
DB/keg/log incline press CL UPPER BACK
UPPER BACK Bent row CL
MR up-right row 2 ×
 8 ARMS
MR stand triceps 2 × 8 NECK
NECK MR stand biceps 2 × 8 MR flex/ext 2 × 8
MR lateral flexion 2 × 8

ALLEN HEDRICK486
TABLE 18.3  Volleyball: Power Cycle 2
DATES: May 31–June 27
CYCLE: Power 2
GOAL: Increases in muscle power because of the positive relationship between muscle power and 
performance
LENGTH: 4 weeks
INTENSITY: Complete the full number of repetitions in good form on the first set only prior to increasing 
resistance
PACE: Total body lifts performed as explosively as possible. Timed lifts performed at a pace that allows 
completion of the required number of repetitions in the specified time period
REST: 3:00 between total body sets and exercises, 2:30 between all other sets and exercises
SETS/REPS:
May 31–June 6: TB=5 × 2, TL=4 × 4@5 sec (1.3)
June 7–June 13: TB=5 × 3, TL=4 × 6@9 sec (1.5)
June 14–June 20: TB=5 × 2, TL=4 × 4@5 sec (1.3)
June 21–June 27: TB=5 × 3, TL=4 × 6@9 sec (1.5)
MONDAY WEDNESDAY FRIDAY
TOTAL BODY TOTAL BODY TOTAL BODY
Hang clean TB DB split alt ft alt snatch balance TB Split alt ft snatch TB
DB hang split alt ft alt snatch TB DB hang split alt ft alt snatch TB Split alt ft jerks TB
LOWER BODY LOWER BODY CHEST
Squats (2 sets) TL DB/keg/log 1-leg front squat CL Bench press (2 sets) TL
Keg/log squats (2 sets) TL DB/keg/log lateral squat CL Keg/log bench press (2 sets) TL
1 × 60-sec stabilization
TRUNK TRUNK
2-hand bar twist 3 × 10 MB ankle chop/twist 3 × 10 MB TRUNK
WT back ext 3 × 8 DB/keg/log SLDL 3 × 12 MB decline throw 3 × 10
UPPER BACK CHEST/SHOULDER SHOULDERS
Bar/keg/log bent row TL DB alt bench press TL Keg/log shoulder press TL
ROTATOR CUFF ROTATOR CUFF ROTATOR CUFF
Internal rotation 2 × 12 Full cans 2 × 12 Functional rotation 2 × 12

IMPLEMENT TRAINING487
DESCRIPTION OF 
SUGGESTED TRAINING 
IMPLEMENTS
Kegs
The number of kegs needed in the training 
program, and the range of weights from the lightest to the heaviest keg, will depend on the number of athletes training with kegs at one time and the types of keg exercises placed into the training program. You can think of each keg as a training station; ideally you will want no more than three athletes per keg. Certain exercises, such as a keg front raise, require a fairly light weight (e.g., 20 lb) while some ath -
letes may be able to go as heavy as 300 lbs on a keg squat.
Be aware that because of the additional 
balance and stability requirements athletes will not be able to use the same amount of weight in a keg exercise that they will per -
forming the same exercise with a barbell. Though initially this may seem to compromise potential increases in strength; consider that the athletes may be building a higher level of transferable strength; that is strength that can be used effectively during competition.
The kegs can be filled to the desired weight 
by removing the cap, placing the keg on a scale, and using a hose to fill the keg with water until the desired weight is reached. Another tech -
nique that can be used to fill the keg is to cut off the spout of the keg, pour the desired amount of water and sand into the keg, and weld the spout back on; a full-size keg, filled with water, will weigh about 160 lb. To further increase the weight of the keg, sand can be mixed in with water. Sand is advantageous because it is inex -
pensive and, because it stays wet inside the keg, it maintains its dynamic characteristics, mov -
ing inside the keg as the exercise is performed.
Keg stands can be built to make it easier 
to perform exercises such as squats, lunges, or shoulder press. The purpose of these stands is to securely hold the keg in place at shoulder height to make it easier to place the keg in the correct position to perform the selected exercise. You can think of the keg stands as being similar to a squat rack where the bar is held in place at about shoulder height so that the athlete can place it on the back to perform a squat.
Most kegs are built with a handle on 
the top end. The bottom end is typically built with a lip that allows the user to more effectively grip that end of the keg. By grip -
ping the handle at the top end and using the lip at the bottom end a secure grip can be achieved when handling the keg. However, caution must still be taken when using the 
kegs to perform resistance training exercises. 
The ability to grip the keg is not as secure as when using a barbell or dumbbell. Further, the water movement within the keg creates a difficult resistance to control. The spotter must take great care when a keg exercise is being performed, and the lifter must remem-ber to use a lighter resistance than would be used when performing the same exercise with a barbell or dumbbell.
The number of kegs needed to supplement the 
strength training program, and the range of poundage needed in the kegs, will depend on the number of athletes training and the types of keg exercises being performed. It is important 
to remember that exercises performed with the 
kegs are more difficult than the same exercise performed with a barbell or dumbbell. Because of this the athlete will have to reduce the training weight when performing a keg exercise as compared to the same exercise performed with a barbell or dumbbell.
Logs
The (6 ft long “tubes” with a 12 in circum -
ference) are filled with water. Extending out 
from each tube is piping the size of a standard barbell so that additional weight plates can be attached to the log. The ability to rapidly change the weight of the log limits the need to have a large number of logs available at vari-ous weights.
The logs are designed with handles to 
make it easier to hold onto the implement. Because of the length of the logs the water has the opportunity to travel a significant dis-tance as compared to the kegs, increasing the dynamic nature of the movement.

ALLEN HEDRICK488
Similar to the kegs, because of the instabil -
ity of the implement athletes will not be able 
to perform exercises performed with the log with the same weight that they would perform the identical exercise with a barbell. Err on the side of caution and slowly increase the weight lifted with this type of training as the athlete demonstrates the ability to control the imple-ment during exercise.
Because the logs are 6 ft long, the water contained 
within the log can move a significant distance, increasing the dynamic characteristics of the exercise and thus the degree of difficulty of the movement.
Water-filled dumbbells
Water-filled dumbbells (smaller versions of  
the water-filled logs) are used as a typical 
dumbbell. Water displacement is less than what occurs when using the logs because the length of the dumbbells is much shorter than the logs. However, the movement of the water still pro -
vides an additional challenge to the athlete as compared to a typical dumbbell. Water-filled dumbbells provide a unique training stimulus and thus have the potential to provide the ath -
lete with a competitive advantage.
Although less dynamic resistance occurs using 
water-filled dumbbells as compared to the kegs or logs (because the dumbbells are shorter than the kegs or logs and thus provide less opportunity for dynamic movement of the water), water-filled 
dumbbells still provide a unique training stimulus 
for the athlete.
Tires
The tires (used truck and heavy equipment 
tires) can be modified so that the athlete can attach additional weight in the center of the tire to adjust the resistance to their specific strength levels. Unlike the kegs, logs, and water-filled 
dumbbells where a variety of exercises can be 
performed, the tires are only flipped. The tire flip requires a heavy tire to be flipped end-over-end as quickly as possible (17).
To perform the movement the athlete 
crouches down in front of the tire, grabs the underside of the tire with a supinated grip approximately shoulder-width apart; and forcefully extends the ankle, knee, hip to flip the tire over.
One common technique used to flip the 
tire that could increase the likelihood of injury is the use of a single-leg support position when repositioning the hands to push the tire over. This technique places a high degree of stress on the supporting leg and should be avoided (29).
However, done correctly, using the tires 
does provide some advantages. First, flipping the tire provides athletes with greater variety in their training program, which is a positive (29). Further, while most gym-based strength training exercises involve vertical movement patterns (i.e., cleans, squats, deadlifts, bench press) with two feet side by side (31), most human-based movements consist primarily of horizontal motion occurring as a result of unilateral ground reaction force production (14). Flipping a tire primarily involves hori -
zontal movement and, using the principle of training specificity, is an example of the type of non-traditional strength training exercises that should be considered (31,32).
An additional advantage of including tire 
flips in the workout is that athletes who have an injury (typically wrist, elbow, shoulder, or back) that prevent them from performing the Olympic-style exercises safely and pain free, may still be able to perform a tire flip without aggravating the injury. Finally, because there is no catch phase in flipping a tire, the athlete sometimes feels better able to concentrate on the explosion phase of the movement.
The tires provide a unique and challenging 
variation for athletes who regularly perform cleans or high pulls as part of their workout.
Chains
One mode of training that has become increas -
ingly popular is adding lengths of chain to 
the end of the barbell (3,5,6,9,19,20,23). 
The rationale for the use of chains  is that the 
chain provides a variable resistance. When performing a typical barbell exercise the weight remains constant throughout the per -
formance of the exercise (11). Theoretically, 

IMPLEMENT TRAINING489
Figure 18.2  Use of chains.(a)
(b)

ALLEN HEDRICK490
chain training provides a variable resistance 
throughout the range of motion of the exercise (5,6,9,20,22). For example, when performing a squat or clean, the chains collect on the floor at the bottom of the movement, adding the least amount of additional resistance at this point of the exercise (which is the point where the muscle is able to generate the least amount of force). As the bar is lifted out of this low position, the bar gets progressively heavier as more and more links of chain are lifted off the floor until the bar gets to its heaviest point, which is where the muscles generate the great -
est amount of force (9). (Figure 18.2a and b)
However, despite the increasing popular -
ity of using chains,
 and the widespread belief 
that the use of chains provides an advan -
tage, these claims remain mostly anecdotal (5,6,9,20). While it has been suggested that the use of chains promotes power, accel-eration, motor control, stabilization, and enhanced neurological adaptation (20), these claims are primarily anecdotal because only a limited number of studies have been con -
ducted evaluating what effect, if any, chains provide during training, and these studies have provided mixed results in terms of the effectiveness of using chains (5,20).
Despite these mixed study results and pri -
marily anecdotal claims, athletes who make use of chains during training believe that chains positively affect their training, increase per -
formance, and require greater effort (5). If an athlete believes chain training is more difficult and requires greater effort during training, this may lead to increased performance over time.
DESCRIPTION OF 
IMPLEMENT EXERCISES PROVIDED IN EXAMPLE WORKOUTS
The list of exercise descriptions provided later 
is not an inclusive list of the exercises that can be performed with the implements discussed in this chapter. Rather, this list is a descrip -
tion of the implement exercises included in the example workouts provided earlier. Most of the implement exercises are performed very similarly to the same exercises performed with traditional strength training equipment.
It is important to note that the Olympic-
style exercises are not performed with either kegs or logs. Because of the technical difficulty of performing these types of exercises, and the awk -
wardness of using these implements, the chance of injury performing these types of exercises with these implements is too great. However, all of the Olympic-style exercises can be safely performed with the water-filled dumbbells by those athletes who have good technique when performing these exercises with standard dumbbells.
Remember that in all of the exercises per -
formed with implements, the training weight must be reduced in comparison to what an athlete would use with a traditional barbell or dumbbell.
Exercise descriptions for the water-
filled dumbbells are not included in this list. Movements using the water-filled dumbbells are identical to movements using standard dumbbells and are therefore not described.
Exercise descriptions
Keg/log lateral squat: (Figure 18.3a, b, c). Place the keg or log on the back, as when performing barbell squats.
 Place the feet as wide as comfort -
able while maintaining the ability to perform the movement with correct technique. Keeping the left knee straight and the left foot planted, flex the right knee while sitting back at the hips and moving the hips laterally to the right. Return to the starting position and alternate the movement to the opposite side until the required number of repetitions has been performed.
Tire flip: (Figure 18.4a, b, c). Place the 
feet about shoulder width apart. Keeping the back arched sit back at the hips (not allow-ing the knees to drift forward of the toes) and assume an underhand grip on the tire. The hands should be slightly wider than shoulder width apart. Use the legs to lift the tire so that the hands are raised to a mid-shin position. The arms should be fully extended, the back arched, and the feet flat on the floor. Using a jumping action explode up through the legs and flip the tire onto its side, remembering to keep the back arched through the entire move-ment. Once the tire has been flipped onto its side step forward and aggressively push the tire onto its opposite side.

IMPLEMENT TRAINING491
Figure 18.3  Keg/log lateral squat.(a)
(b)

ALLEN HEDRICK492
Figure 18.3  (continued)
Figure 18.4  Tire flip.(c)
(a)

IMPLEMENT TRAINING493
Figure 18.4  (continued)(b)
(c)

ALLEN HEDRICK494
Keg/log 1-leg squat: (Figure 18.5a, b, c, d). 
Place the keg or log on the back, as when per -
forming barbell squats.
 Stand about a stride’s 
length away from a utility bench. Reach back 
with one leg and place the foot on the bench. Keeping the back arched initiate the move-ment by sitting back at the hips, not allowing the knee to drift forward of the toes on the forward foot. Continue to sit back until the mid-thigh has achieved a parallel position. Maintaining an arched back position return to the starting position. Repeat with the opposite leg.
Keg/log hockey lunge: (Figure 18.6a, 
b,
 c, d, e, f). Place the keg or log on the 
back, as when performing barbell squats. T
ake an exaggerated stride with the right 
leg, stepping forward so that the right foot is 14–16 ins wider than the right shoulder and then lower the body so that the right knee is behind the toes on the right foot and the left leg is bent with the left knee just off the floor. From that bottom position stride forward in one continuous movement with the left leg and take an exaggerated stride with the left leg as described above; the right leg is bent and the right knee is just off the floor. It is important to keep the back arched during the entire performance of this exercise.
Keg/log straight leg dead lift: (Figure 
18.7a,
 b, c, d). Stand on a pair of plyometric 
boxes or utility benches, 18–20 ins high. The keg should be sitting on the end between the
 
two boxes. Squat down and, keeping the back arched, pick up the keg. Holding the keg at arms-length in front of the body, bend the knees slightly. Maintaining that slight knee bend and the arch in the back, rotate forward at the hips and lower the keg to a point just short of touching the floor directly underneath the feet, then return to the starting position.
Keg/log bench press: (Figure 18.8a, b, c, d). 
Assume a lying position on a flat utility bench, feet on the floor and butt on the bench.
 Place 
the keg or log on the chest as when performing a barbell bench press and grip the implement. Fully extend the arms, keeping the butt on the 
Figure 18.5  Keg/log 1-leg squat.(a)

IMPLEMENT TRAINING495
Figure 18.5  (continued)(b)
(c)

ALLEN HEDRICK496
Figure 18.5  (continued)
Figure 18.6  Keg/log hockey lunge.(d)
(a)

IMPLEMENT TRAINING497
Figure 18.6  (continued)(b)
(c)

ALLEN HEDRICK498
Figure 18.6  (continued)(d)
(e)

IMPLEMENT TRAINING499
Figure 18.6  (continued)
Figure 18.7  Keg/log straight leg dead lift.(f)
(a)

ALLEN HEDRICK500
Figure 18.7  (continued)(b)
(c)

IMPLEMENT TRAINING501
Figure 18.7  (continued)
Figure 18.8  Keg/log bench press.(d)
(a)

ALLEN HEDRICK502
Figure 18.8  (continued)(b)
(c)

IMPLEMENT TRAINING503
bench and the feet flat on the floor. Lower 
under control. The spotter(s) must be diligent in assisting the lifter during performance of this exercise.
Keg/log shoulder press (Figure 18.9a, b, c, d):  
Grip the keg or log high on the chest.
 Using a 
shoulder width split stance with the feet press the keg or log directly overhead until the arms are fully extended, then lower under control.  
It is important to not lean back while per -
forming the exercise, the back should remain straight. Lower through the full comfortable range of motion.
Keg/log incline press (Figure 18.10a, b, 
c, d): Assume 
 a lying position on an incline 
bench, feet on the floor and butt on the bench. Place the keg or log on the chest as when per -
forming a barbell incline press and grip the implement.
 Fully extend the arms, keeping the 
butt on the bench and the feet flat on the floor. Lower under control. The spotter(s) must be diligent in assisting the lifter during perfor -
mance of this exercise.Keg/log walking lunges (Figure 18.11a, b, 
c, d, e, f, g, h): Place the keg or log on the back, as when performing barbell squats. Take an exaggerated stride with the right leg and then
 
lower the body so that the right knee is behind the toes on the right foot and the left leg is bent with the left knee just off the floor. From that bottom position stride forward in one continu -
ous movement with the left leg and take an exaggerated stride with the left leg, the right leg is bent, and the right knee is just off the floor. It is important to keep the back arched during the entire performance of this exercise.
Keg/log squats (Figure 18.12a, b, c, d): 
Place the keg or log on the back, as when performing barbell squats.
 Place the feet 
about shoulder width apart. Keeping the back arched, initiate the movement by sitting back at the hips, not allowing the knees to drip for -
ward of the toes. Continue to sit back until the mid-thigh has achieved a parallel position. Maintaining an arched back position, return to the starting position.Figure 18.8  (continued)(d)

ALLEN HEDRICK504
Figure 18.9  Keg/log shoulder press.(a)
(b)

IMPLEMENT TRAINING505
Figure 18.9  (continued)(c)
(d)

ALLEN HEDRICK506
Figure 18.10  Keg/log incline press.(a)
(b)

IMPLEMENT TRAINING507
Figure 18.10  (continued)(c)
(d)

ALLEN HEDRICK508
Figure 18.11  Keg/log walking lunges.(a)
(b)

IMPLEMENT TRAINING509
Figure 18.11  (continued)(c)
(d)

ALLEN HEDRICK510
Figure 18.11  (continued)(e)
(f)

IMPLEMENT TRAINING511
Figure 18.11  (continued)(g)
(h)

ALLEN HEDRICK512
Figure 18.12  Keg/log squats.(a)
(b)

IMPLEMENT TRAINING513
Figure 18.12  (continued)(c)
(d)

ALLEN HEDRICK514
Figure 18.13  Keg/log side lunge.(a)
(b)

IMPLEMENT TRAINING515
Figure 18.13  (continued)(c)
(d)

ALLEN HEDRICK516
Figure 18.13  (continued)(e)
(f)

IMPLEMENT TRAINING517
Keg/log side lunge (Figure 18.13a, b, c, d, 
e, f): Place the keg or log on the back, as when 
performing barbell squats. Place the feet about shoulder width apart.
 Step directly laterally 
with the right foot through a comfortable range of motion. Keeping the left knee straight and the left foot planted, flex the right knee while sitting back at the hips and moving the hips laterally to the right. Return to the start -
ing position and alternate the movement to the opposite side until the required number of rep-etitions has been completed.
Keg/log bent row (Figure 18.14a, b, c, d):  
Place a keg on its side in front of the body
 
or stand behind a log, depending upon which implement is to be used. Bend the knees slightly and rotate at the hips to lower the upper body so the shoulders are paral -
lel with the hips. The shoulders should be directly over the implement. Keeping the back arched, reach down and grasp the implement. Pull the arms back so that each elbow slides along the rib cage and lift the implement to the chest, then return to the starting position.
Keg arch lunge ( Figure 18.15a, b, c,
 d, 
e, f, g): Place the keg or log on the back, as when performing barbell squats. Place the feet about shoulder width apart.
 Imagine 
an arch on the floor in front of where you are standing, starting a stride length away directly lateral of the right foot and ending a stride length away directly lateral of the left foot. Initiate the movement by lunging directly laterally with the right foot to the right edge of the arch while keeping the right knee behind the toes on the right foot and the left leg straight. Return to the starting position. Alternate lunging with each leg, gradually working from one corner of the arch to the opposite corner of the arch with each step. The number of steps and the place -
ment of the foot on each step will depend on the number of required repetitions.
Figure 18.14  Keg/log bent row.(a)

ALLEN HEDRICK518
Figure 18.14  (continued)(b)
(c)

IMPLEMENT TRAINING519
Figure 18.14  (continued)
Figure 18.15  Keg arch lunge.(a)(d)

ALLEN HEDRICK520
Figure 18.15  (continued)(b)
(c)

IMPLEMENT TRAINING521
Figure 18.15  (continued)(e)(d)

ALLEN HEDRICK522
Figure 18.15  (continued)(f)
(g)

IMPLEMENT TRAINING523
REAL-WORLD APPL iCATiON
Unstable resistance or unstable surface?
This chapter discusses several forms of implements used in training programs that provide 
an unstable resistance: kegs, sandbags, etc. Implements are available that provide an unsta -
ble surface or an unstable base from which the athlete is required to produce force. One question then becomes: which modality is more appropriate, an unstable resistance or an unstable surface?
The answer to this question is most certainly sport-specific. One point of consideration will be 
the degree to which a supporting surface is “unstable” while performing sport-specific activities.
A stability ball is a common piece of equipment used in training athletes today. A “balance disk” 
or “wobble board” is used in some cases to provide an unstable surface underneath a planted foot. As a strength and conditioning professional, you must be able to evaluate these exercise modalities and determine whether they are specific to the sport for which the athlete is training.
In many sports, the ground is the primary surface the athlete uses to generate ground reac -
tion force. In some cases, the ground is slippery (wet grass) or allows sliding (a clay tennis court). Is a slippery surface the same as an unstable surface? Probably not.
Although this does not mean that an unstable surface should never be used, you as a strength 
and conditioning professional should have a reason for using any piece of equipment. These modalities may be very useful in the rehabilitation of specific injuries. Since conditioning pro -
grams should progress from general to specific, it may be that unstable surfaces are useful in the general conditioning phase but not applicable to the sport-specific phase. It is important to be aware that most studies that have evaluated training on unstable surfaces have found that the ability to generate peak force is compromised on these types of surfaces (22).
Before using an unstable surface in a sport-specific conditioning phase, evaluate the sport 
and have a specific rationale for using the modality.
Q&A FROM THE F iELD
Differences of opinion exist in the field about 
training modalities and the use of various 
implements. Many of the implements lack 
a solid foundation in the research literature in terms of effectiveness. As pointed out by 
Winwood et al. (30), training with non-
traditional implements is speculative given 
that no research has examined the chronic 
effects of strongman training. Further, 
while several strength and conditioning practitioners have made some suggestions 
on what strongman implements could be 
incorporated in strength and conditioning programs for strong male athletes, very 
little research has examined how strongman 
training techniques are actually used (30).
Should we, as professionals, be concerned 
about that fact? How should we deal with questions about the lack of research when speaking with administrators, coaches, and 
parents?
Admittedly, there is a lack of research on many of 
the implements discussed in this chapter. Does that mean that we must wait for that research to be done 
before using these implements? Not really. As long as we apply safe and effective principles of training, 
implement training can be safely added to any training 
program. According to Zemke et al. (32), by following general weight training safety recommendations, 
including lifting with good lifting mechanics and 
correct loading using the principle of progressive overload, implement training can be performed 
successfully with low risk with athletes of all ages 
and strength and skill levels. Further, as suggested by Zemke et al. (32), the use of strongman implements 
also plays a role in injury prevention. Traditional 
(continued)

ALLEN HEDRICK524
training with an emphasis on perfectly executed 
movements and avoiding dangerous situations may 
actually lessen an athlete’s preparedness for potentially 
harmful situations encountered in the field of play and place the athlete at an increased risk of injury.
T o justify the exercise as related to a specific 
sport, the concepts of specificity and transferability can be used. Future research will provide 
additional evidence related to the effectiveness of 
the various implements discussed in this chapter. As professionals, even though we do not need to 
wait on that research to utilize these innovative 
methods of training, we must keep up with new research and be willing to adjust our training 
programs accordingly. We must also consider the 
entire body of research on a specific topic. A single study is unlikely to “prove” or “disprove” the 
effectiveness of a single training implement.
SUMMARY
There is a tremendous emphasis placed on 
strength and conditioning to improve athletic performance. Training facilities keep getting bigger and better, and the knowledge base of strength and conditioning coaches continues to increase. While there are subtle differences in program design, most strength and con -
ditioning coaches emphasize free weight training and performance of the Olympic-style exercises in a program based on periodiza -
tion. Because of these similarities it becomes difficult to provide your athletes with a com-petitive advantage.
With the amount of information avail -
able today the vast majority of any strength and conditioning program should be based on what science tells us is the best approach. Unfortunately, as of now, there has been little research evaluating the value of training with various types of implements such as kegs or 
tires. Despite this lack of research, the same 
principles that apply to traditional training methods should be used to guide the use of implement training, including the concept of selecting exercises that mimic the movements found in the sport the athlete is training for. That is, those non-traditional movements that best replicate movements seen in the sport the athlete is training for will have the greatest transfer. This occurs because the movement pattern used in training is similar to the move -
ment pattern seen during competition.
An additional aspect that makes implement 
training valuable is that this type of training increases variation in the training program. This added variation can reduce the physiologi -
cal and psychological staleness that can occur when performing the same exercises repetitively over weeks and months. Thus, such non-tra -
ditional training methods such as water-filled implements, tires, and chains can all be used to effectively enhance the training program.(continued)
MAxiNG OUT
1 You are introducing a new implement in your conditioning program for baseball play-
ers. Name the implement, briefly discuss how you will introduce it into the conditioning program over the next four weeks, briefly describe the exercises you will use with the implement and explain how you expect this form of training to benefit your athletes.
2 In evaluating the athletic ability of a high school basketball player, his coach tells you he needs better balance and stability. He is already performing resistance training using a standard free weight resistance. Would you consider using a training modality that incor -
porates an active fluid resistance? Why or why not?
3 Some of the athletes in your program are complaining of lower back pain. The only significant change in the program is an increase in the volume and intensity of power cleans over the past two weeks. Would you consider tire flipping as an alternative to power cleans? Why or why not?

IMPLEMENT TRAINING525
CASE E xAMPLE
Brian
BackgroundBryan is a 6 ft, 215 lb sophomore division I running back. His test results are as follows:
a bench press: 370 lb
b squat: 500 lb
c clean: 330 lb
d 40 yd dash: 4.5
e Vertical jump: 38 in
He is very committed to his strength and conditioning program, and rarely misses a training 
session. Despite his impressive testing results he is looking for ways to improve his athletic performance and his position coach feels he needs to develop more functional strength to reach his potential as a football player. What are some training techniques that could be used to help this athlete achieve his goals?
Recommendations/considerations
With his superior strength levels, it is doubtful that further enhancing his strength levels will 
have a positive effect on performance. For example, he could focus on increasing his squat from 500 lb to 525 lb, but it is questionable whether this would have the effect of improving on-the-field performance.
What might be more effective at improving performance is to integrate water-filled imple-
ment exercises into his training program, giving him the opportunity to train using an active 
fluid resistance. For example, exercises such as keg bench press (to help pass blocking and straight arm capabilities) and log lunges (to help him maintain balance during contact) could be worked into his training program to help improve his athletic performance, converting his “weight room strength” to “functional strength”.
Tyrone
Tyrone is a 6 ft 11 ins 230 lb sophomore who is the starting center for his division I college 
basketball team. During the last game Tyrone landed awkwardly after coming down with a rebound and strained his lower back. Tyrone is able to complete the majority of his resistance training program without aggravating his back condition. However, he has found that the catch phase when performing a clean does cause him some pain. He is concerned because he has found that performing cleans does help his vertical jump ability and makes him feel more explosive on the court. What is a possible alternative exercise that he could perform that would mimic the triple extension jumping action that occurs when performing a clean without aggravating his strained lower back?
To mimic the jumping action that occurs when performing a clean and to eliminate the pain 
that occurs during the catch phase, Tyrone could be instructed on how to properly flip a tire (#3 
Triple Extension). Once he has learned the correct movement pattern he could attempt the move -
ment on a light weight unloaded tire to make sure the exercise did not cause any pain in his strained lower back. From there a gradual increase in training intensity could occur, making sure that he maintained good technique and that he continued to be able to perform the movement pain free.

ALLEN HEDRICK526
REFERENCES
 1. Allerheiligen B. In-season strength training 
for power athletes. Strength Cond 2003; 25(3):23–28.
 2. Baker D. Applying the in-season periodization of strength and power training for football. Strength Cond 1998; 20(2):18–24.
 3. Baker DG, Newton RU. Effect of kinetically altering a repetition via the use of chain resistance on velocity during the bench press. J Strength Cond Res 2009; 23(7):1941–1946.
 4. Berning JM, Adams KJ, Climstein M, Stamford BA. Metabolic demands of “junkyard” training: 
pushing and pulling a motor vehicle. J Strength Cond Res 2007; 21(3):853–856.
 5. Berning JM, Coker CA, Briggs D. The biomechanical and perceptual influence of chain resistance on the performance of the Olympic clean. J Strength Cond Res 2008; 22(2); 390–395.
 6. Berning JM, Adams KJ. Using chain for strength and conditioning, Strength Cond 2004; 26(5):80–84.
 7. Brooks TJ. Women’s collegiate gymnastics: a multifactorial approach to training and conditioning. Strength Cond 2003; 25(2):23–37.
 8. Coker CA, Berning JM, Briggs DL. A preliminary investigation of the biomechanical and perceptual influence of chain resistance on the performance of the snatch. J Strength Cond Res 2006; 20(4):887–891.
 9. DeGarmo R. University of Nebraska in-season resistance training for horizontal jumper. Strength Cond 2000; 22(3):23–26.
10. Gadeken SB. Off-season strength, power, and plyometric training for Kansas State volleyball. Strength Cond 1999; 21(5):49–55.
11. Hedrick A. Using uncommon implements in the training programs of athletes. Strength Cond 2003; 25(4):18–22.
12. Hedrick A. Athlete strongman. Pure Power 
2003; 3(5):66–74.
13. Keogh J. Lower body resistance training: increasing functional performance with lunges. Strength Cond 1999; 21(1):67–72.
14. Krough JWL, Payne AL, Anderson BB, Atkins P. A brief description of the biomechanics and 
physiology of a strongman event: the tire flip. J Strength Cond Res 2010; 24(5):1223–1228.
15. Kirksey B, Stone MH. Periodizing a college sprint program: theory and practice. Strength Cond 1998; 20(3):42–47. 1998.
16. Kraemer WJ, Vescovi JD, Dixon P. The physiological basis of wrestling: implications for conditioning programs. Strength Cond 2004; 26(2):10–15.17. Krough JWL, Payne AL, Anderson BB, Atkins P. A brief description of the biomechanics and 
physiology of a strongman event: the tire flip. J Strength Cond Res 2010; 24(5):1223–1228.
18. McGill SM, McDermott A, Fenwick CMJ. Comparison of different strongman events: trunk muscle activation and lumbar spine motion, load, and stiffness. J Strength Cond Res 2009; 23(4):1148–1161.
19. McMaster DT, Cronin J, McGuigan M. Forms of variable resistance training. Strength Cond 2009; 31(1):50–64.
20. Murlasits Z, Langley J. In-season resistance training for high school football. Strength Cond 2002; 24(4):65–68.
21. Neelly KR, Terry JG, Morris MJ. A mechanical comparison of linear and double-looped hung supplemental heavy chain resistance to the back squat: a case study. J Strength Cond Res 2010; 24(1):278–281.
22. Ostrowski SJ, Carlson LA, Lawrence MA. Effect of an unstable load on primary and stabilizing muscles during the bench press. J Strength Cond Res 2017; 31(2):430–434.
23. Parakh AA, Domowitz FR. Strength training for men’s and women’s ice hockey. Strength Cond 2000; 22(6):42–45.
24. Pollitt D. Sled dragging for hockey training. Strength Cond 2003; 25(5):7–16.
25. Rosene JM. In-season, off-ice conditioning for minor league professional ice hockey players. Strength Cond 2002; 24(1): 22–28.
26. Siff MC. Functional training revisited. Strength Cond 2002; 24(5):42–46.
27. Szymanski DJ, Fredrick GA. College baseball/softball periodized torso program. Strength Cond 1999; 21(4):42–47.
28. Young W, Pryor J. Resistance training for short sprints and maximum-speed sprints. Strength Cond 2001; 23(2):7–13.
29. Waller W, Piper T, Townsend R. Strongman events and strength and conditioning programs. Strength Cond 2003; 25(5):44–52.
30. Winwood PW, Cronin JB, Keough WL, Dudson MK, Gill ND. How coaches use strongman implements in strength and conditioning practice. Int J Sports Sci Cond 2014; 9(5):1107–1125.
31. Winwood PW, Cronin JB, Posthumus LR, Finlayson SJ, Gill ND, Keough WL. Strongman vs. traditional resistance training effects on muscular function and performance. J Strength Cond Res 2015; 29(2):429–439.
32. Zemke B, Wright G. The use of strongman type implements and training to increase sport performance in collegiate athletes. Strength Cond 2011; 33(4):1–7.

4 PART
SPECIAL TOPICS
19 Applied sport psychology  529
20 Strength training for special populations  547
21 Age and gender training considerations  573
22 Injury prevention and rehabilitation  601
23 Ergogenic aids  641

Contents
Introduction  529
Mental toughness  530
Motivation  531
Goal setting  533
Energy and arousal management  535
Concentration (focus)  538
Confidence and self-talk  541
Types of self-talk  542
Summary  542
References  544

19 CHAPTER
OBJECTIVES
After completing this chapter, you will be able to:
• Understand the term mental toughness and recognize the components of this concept in ath -
lete populations.
• Understand that the strength and conditioning coach cannot directly motivate athletes.
• Realize that the weight room is an appropriate place for athletes to set goals.
• Help athletes control their arousal levels.
• Explain what some differences may be between a confident athlete and an athlete who is not.
• Notice that most aspects of sports psychology are athlete-driven.APPLIED SPORT PSYCHOLOGY
Traci A. Statler
KEY TERMS
Achievement motivation
Broad external focusBroad internal focusConcentrationConfidenceDirection of effortEmotionsGoal ladderIndividual zone of optimal 
functioning (IZOF)Instructional self-talkIntensity of effortInteractional viewInverted-U hypothesisMental toughnessMotivationNarrow external focusNarrow internal focusNegative self-talkParticipant-centered viewPositive self-talkProcess-based goalsProduct-based goalsRoutineSelf-talkShiftingSituation-centered  
view
SMART goalsSuperstition
INTRODUCTION
The primary goal of any strength and con -
ditioning coach or personal trainer is to 
effectively improve athletic performance and fitness using proper strength and conditioning techniques, drawing from the scientific fields of anatomy, exercise physiology, biomechan -
ics and nutrition. Effective practitioners will be skilled in program design, be adept in the 

TRACI A. STATLER530
teaching, reinforcement and monitoring of 
exercise technique, be familiar and comfort -
able with physical testing and evaluation, and have a variety of organizational and admin -
istrative skills (1). The addition of a working understanding of concepts from the field of sport and performance psychology may assist the coach or trainer in the attainment of this primary goal.
It has been argued that the role of sport 
psychology is to “help athletes achieve 
more consistent levels of performance at or 
near their physical potential by carefully managing their physical resources through appropriate psychological strategies and techniques” (2). A basic understanding of these strategies and techniques may help the strength and conditioning coach encourage more consistent effort in the weight room, generate better composure and ability to deal with distractions during workouts and foster more motivated and confident athletes.
The scientific discipline of sport psychology 
generally has three major goals: (i) observing and measuring psychological phenomena; (ii) investigating the relationship between psycho-logical variables and performance; and (iii) applying this theoretical knowledge in per -
formance settings to improve overall athletic performance (2). Therefore, the purpose of this chapter is to focus on the last of these goals, with the aim of helping you – the strength and conditioning coach – effectively integrate some critical sport psychology skills and situational cues into your training programs with the aim of improving your athlete’s overall training and performance.
MENTAL TOUGHNESS
Turn on any televised sporting event or read any sport-related website and you will see and hear contributors talking about the 
men-
tal toughness  of the competitors. Oftentimes, 
sport analysts will use this term in reference to a number of different characteristics or when describing a host of different behaviors. Mental toughness is an umbrella term that many coaches, athletes, media outlets and others have used when referring to the “constellation of psychological factors that appear to discrim -
inate between good and great athletes” (10). It is a multifaceted construct, with key compo -
nents encompassing values, attitudes, thoughts and emotions, and often centering on sport psychology concepts like confidence, atten -
tional control, motivation, positive attitude, resilience, thriving in pressure situations, and contextual sport intelligence (10).
Mental toughness can be effectively 
defined as:
[a] collection of experientially developed 
and inherent sport-specific and sport-general 
values, attitude, emotions and cognitions 
that influence the way in which an individual 
approaches, responds to, and appraises both 
negatively and positively construed pressure, 
challenge and adversity to consistently 
achieve his or her goals.
(11)
It encapsulates an athlete’s ability to deal 
effectively with, and thrive through pressure, challenge and adversity when things are going well, in addition to when things are challeng -
ing (11). Clearly, as described in this definition, mental toughness is a desirable characteristic for any athlete.
With regard to the strength and condition -
ing coach, mental toughness is both something you may see evidenced in the behaviors of the athletes you supervise, as well as something that you can have an active part in develop -
ing. The weight room is an ideal location to train the enhancement of mental toughness, resilience and positive attitude specifically because of the inherent focus on hard work, patience and sacrifice within this environment. Every day in the weight room, or during con-ditioning drills, is an opportunity to effectively manage pressure, train appropriate focus and attention, build confidence and motivation, 
and generally foster beneficial behaviors. Each 
of these is a component piece of this multifac -
eted idea of mental toughness.
Recognize, however, that while a certain 
level of mental toughness is clearly a desirable thing, there can be some potential downsides. 

APPLIED SPORT PSYCHOLOGY531
For example, highly mentally tough athletes 
will often push themselves beyond their lim-its in exercises and drills. While this can be a beneficial characteristic in some settings (like over-speed training), in others it can be disastrous. An athlete rehabbing from injury who evidences high levels of mental tough -
ness may push themselves past their limits in hopes of speeding up the process, but in reality, that determination may impede their progress. Further, a strong desire to achieve 
success combined with the high work ethic 
seen in mentally tough athletes can sometimes increase the likelihood of overtraining or over-reaching. An awareness and recognition of the components of mental toughness evi -
denced in your athletes is key, as the strength and conditioning coach is often in an ideal position to see these characteristics put to the test. Each of these component skills of mental toughness will be discussed in further detail in the rest of this chapter, because as the strength and conditioning coach, you are in the perfect position to help lead these athletes in the right direction.
MOTIVATION
As a strength and conditioning coach you may often find yourself wondering why some ath -
letes you work with seem highly motivated and constantly strive for success in the weight room and on the field of play, whereas oth -
ers seem to lack this motivation, appearing to simply “go through the motions” during workouts, practices and performance situa -
tions. Understanding motivation will probably be the most important psychological construct you will need as a strength coach, but it is also one you have little direct control over. You cannot motivate your athletes, but you can help them to better motivate themselves.
Motivation  can be defined simply as the 
intensity and direction of one’s effort (3). 
It is an inner condition that initiates, directs 
and sustains a person’s behaviors. Direction 
of effort  refers to whether an individual will 
seek out, approach or be attracted to certain situations (4). For example, an athlete might be attracted to the weight room because they understand the relationship between train -
ing and sport performance. Along the same lines, an athlete might avoid the weight room because they do not enjoy the feeling of fatigue that often results from a hard workout. Both of these examples refer to the direction or one’s effort – either toward the weight room or away from it. 
Intensity of effort  refers to how much 
effort a person puts forth in a particular situ -
ation (4). For example, an athlete may attend daily workout sessions, but not put forth very 
much effort during that workout. On the 
other hand, an athlete may only have a short period of access to the training facility, yet make the most of every minute. This intensity is an indicator of motivation. Direction and intensity of effort are generally very closely related as those who are drawn to an activity (direction) will often put forth effort in that activity (intensity), and conversely, those who seem lackadaisical about their workouts, often do not have much attraction to the activity in the first place.
Because motivation is “an inner condition,” it 
is not something that you as the coach can give to your athletes. You cannot motivate someone else. However, you may be able to influence them in such a way that they can better motivate 
themselves.
Approaches to understanding 
motivation
Although motivation is something that works 
differently for everyone, most people can con -
ceptualize how their own motivated behavior comes from a combination of three different orientations. These are the participant-centered view, the situation-centered view and the interactional view. The 
participant-centered  
view (sometimes called the trait-centered view) 
contends that motivated behavior is predomi -
nantly a function of individual characteristics, like a person’s personality, their goals or their 
needs. Individual characteristics are what 
determine how motivated a person will be in any given situation. This could, for example, describe those who seem to excel in all areas of their lives, no matter the circumstances or environment. The 
situation-centered  view 

TRACI A. STATLER532
(sometimes called the state-centered view), 
however, is in direct contrast to this. This view argues that a person’s motivation is pri -
marily determined by the situations in which they find themselves. You can likely think of situations where you would describe yourself as highly motivated, but others where your motivation is lacking. You are still the same person, but now the situation is different. The reality though is that while there may be some personality characteristics that influence your 
motivation, and you find yourself motivated 
in some situations but not others, most of us would generally argue that our motivated behaviors are a function of both our traits (who we are) and our states (how we feel at the moment, in the environment in which we find ourselves). Therefore, the view of motiva -
tion most widely accepted is the 
interactional 
view. The interactional view of motivation 
contends that “motivation results neither solely from participant factors nor solely from situational factors” (4). Rather, the best way to understand motivation is to consider both the person and the situation and how these two interact.
The best way to understand motivated behavior is 
to consider both the person and the situation and examine how these two factors interact with each other.
Achievement motivation
As a strength coach, understanding that 
your athletes all participate in their respec -
tive sports for different reasons, approach the training expectations for their sports in different ways and experience motivation for these activities differently, will be criti-cal in enhancing the level of service you can provide. To best tailor your services to the motivations of each athlete, an understand -
ing of what specifically motivates them to act or behave in certain ways is needed. One 
construct that has emerged from the sport 
psychology literature to help with this is 
achievement motivation .
Achievement motivation refers to a person’s 
orientation to strive for task success, persist in the face of failure and experience pride in accomplishments (5). It is an understanding of this motivation that gives the coach insight into an athlete’s desire and willingness to strive for excellence and under what circumstances they are willing to do so. As strength coaches, knowing if an athlete is motivated to achieve success, even if there is a likelihood of failing, tells us a lot about that athlete. It tells us that this athlete will challenge himself or herself. They will put in the extra effort to be sure they are getting the most out of every workout, even if they are not seeing immediate results. They 
will experience a sense of pride when they 
accomplish goals they have set for themselves, and they will not overly berate themselves when they fail, because they recognize that they have given their all.
Similarly, being able to recognize an 
athlete who is motivated to avoid failure is also beneficial for the strength coach. While these concepts may sound the same, from a motivational perspective, achieving success and avoiding failure are very different. Based on outward behaviors, the athlete motivated to avoid failure may look very similar to the one motivated to achieve success; how-ever, an athlete motivated to avoid failure generally pushes themselves for very differ -
ent reasons. This is a person who strives to avoid situations where failure can be inter -
nally attributed. This means that their prime motivation is to avoid blame or responsibility for failure. They will push themselves in the weight room if they perceive that they have the ability to be successful – not because they want to experience the success, but because they do not want to be held accountable for failing. If they perceive a training goal as highly challenging, they will not even make the attempt, because they do not want to take the risk of failing. For this athlete, motivation comes not from a desire to be successful, but more from a desire to protect the ego. They will appear motivated in environments where they can be successful because if they are suc-cessful, then the ego is safe. However, they may just as likely take on tasks with a very 
low probability of success, because if they 
then fail, the ego is still protected – the atti-tude being that there was little expectation of success in the first place, so why not give it a shot? This athlete will embrace simple tasks and impossible tasks, but shy away from any -
thing truly challenging.

APPLIED SPORT PSYCHOLOGY533
Motive to avoid failure is not about avoiding failure –  
it is about avoiding situations where failure can be 
attributed internally. It is about protecting one’s ego.
Athletes with a motive to succeed will gen-
erally focus on the pride and confidence they 
experience when they are successful. They will often say that things within their control, like high effort and skill, account for their success. When they do fail, they often feel a sense of guilt, because they believe that they have it within their power to do better. On the other hand, athletes with a motive to avoid failure will more often focus on the sense of shame or worry that they experience when they are unsuccessful. They often attribute their failure to things out -
side of their control, like luck, bad officiating or the skill of the other team. When they are suc -
cessful, they will generally feel a sense of relief and feel grateful because they have managed to protect their ego. Paying attention to how your athletes explain or attribute their success and failure, and observing their emotional reactions to these situations, can therefore tell you a lot about their achievement motivation.
GOAL SETTING
One effective tool for enhancing motivation is through setting and hopefully achieving the goals we set for ourselves. Additionally, setting goals can provide direction, give feedback and foster a sense of support as one works toward the attainment of a task. Effective goal setting produces a number of beneficial behavioral changes including more productive training and practice sessions, which generally result in more focused com -
petition behavior.
The weight room is a great place to encour -
age goal setting. This is one location where the athlete has the most control over their own per -
formance and is a place they spend concentrated amounts of time. Potential areas in strength and conditioning where goal setting might prove effective include learning appropriate lifting technique and skill refinement, improving over -
all strength and/or endurance, targeting specific performance markers (i.e., 1RMs, jump heights, sprint times), developing “quality practice” behaviors and dealing with distractions.Goal setting can provide direction, enhance 
motivation, give feedback on progress and foster a sense of support when used effectively.
Process versus product goals
There is much discussion within the field of 
sport psychology about the most effective way to structure or create goal statements. Many have argued that performers should focus more on creating and reinforcing 
process-
based goals , or goals that are centered in the 
present rather than product-based goals , or 
those that focus more on an outcome. The idea behind this supposition is that if one effec-tively works toward attaining process-based goals, the probability of achieving the desired outcomes or results correspondingly increases. The outcomes will take care of themselves. Others have stated, however, that in sport set -
tings, the outcome is what really matters, so should the goal statement not then reflect this?
The reality is that every athlete is different. 
Some are highly motivated by the outcome or product-focused goal, using that to drive their daily behaviors – the proverbial carrot before the horse. Others may be distracted by the product goal, as it is something outside of the present. It is something “out there” and not what I need to be thinking about right now. Some find that outcome-focused goals elevate anxiety, as the athlete is fixating on something not entirely within their control. As the coach, understanding how your athletes respond to different types of goal structures and how those varying goal statements help or hinder overall performance can assist you in better structuring your program designs to coincide with that athlete’s tendencies.
Both process and product goals can be effective 
at providing direction and motivating an athlete; however, process goals raise the probability that the desired outcomes will occur.
Effective structure
As the strength coach, you are contributing to, 
if not fully creating, the daily, weekly, monthly, seasonal and yearly fitness goals for every ath-lete on the teams with which you work. As you 

TRACI A. STATLER534
design the training programs for these ath -
letes, you may choose to discuss with them the 
rationales behind the plans you generate. Your training plans are in essence a description of the goals you have for these athletes. They fill one main purpose of goal setting: providing direction. Your training programs give the ath -
lete the direction they need, every day, week or month, to attain the long-term strength, fit-ness, power or endurance plans you have for them. When the athlete then takes these train-
ing programs and begins to implement them, 
they may wish to create additional goal state -
ments that correspond to the training plan. These goal statements may serve a variety of purposes, including the development of moti -
vation, the enhancement of confidence, and the satisfaction and sense of pride that comes from success.
Goal ladders
A Chinese proverb states, “A journey of a thou -
sand miles begins with a single step.” This idea applies well to the creation of effective goals. Many of us can clearly list a number of long-term goals we have for ourselves – win the championship, get that great job, get an “A” in that class, etc. An understanding of the long-term goal likely also applies to the athletes in your weight room as well (bench x-number of pounds, jump this high, get my V o
2 max to 
here, etc.). The long-term goal is often easy to conceptualize. It is the understanding of where to go from there – the single steps – that can be challenging. This is where “goal ladders” can be helpful.
Goal ladders  are simply conceptual dia -
grams that outline the steps needed to attain the desired long-term goal. If, for example, the long-term goal for one of your athletes is to improve their front squat 1RM, you will likely have a plan in your head for how you will progressively train that athlete to attain this outcome goal. It is unlikely that you would expect to see improvement in this skill without creating a strategic, periodized training plan 
that progressively outlines what the athlete will 
do today, this week, this month and this season to attain this goal. Goal ladders are specific to the goal for which they are created, but gen -
erally follow a structure that includes a series of short-term, medium-range and long-term  goals that all lead to the final outcome goal. Therefore, if the long-term goal is to improve one’s 1RM by 5% by the end of this micro-cycle, an evaluation of several medium-range and short-term goals must occur. What needs to happen in order for me to improve by  
5%? What can I do this week to improve the likelihood of that? What can I do today to take a step toward this? What can I do in this set? The purpose of each goal ladder is to give the performer something they can do right 
now that will take them one step closer to that 
long-term goal.
Goal ladders are conceptual diagrams that show 
the progression of goal development along the path toward achieving the long-term goal.
SMART goals
The acronym SMART  has often been used to 
guide people in the effective formation of their 
goal statements. The letters stand for the fol-lowing:
• S – Specific – Goals need to be written or conceptualized behaviorally, in that they must provide specific guidelines on what to do or think or feel right now. The goal, “I will train with intensity” may sound good, but what does it really mean? What does “with intensity” look like? Rather, “I will focus on proper body alignment in every squat repetition I perform in practice today” is a more effective and specific goal statement.
• M – Measurable – How will you know if you have attained a desired goal if there is no way to determine its attainment? Effective goals should have some way of establishing success or failure built into their wording. At the end of your workout, you should be able to look at your goals’ statements and definitively determine if you have met them.
• A – Attainable – Goals should be challeng -
ing, but attainable. If goals are set “too easy,” there is no sense of accomplish -
ment generated when success is attained. If the goal for today’s practice is simply, “Complete every repetition indicated in my 

APPLIED SPORT PSYCHOLOGY535
training plan for today’s workout,” and this 
is an athlete who regularly completes train -
ing sessions in full, there is no motivation, reward or feedback to be garnered from this goal statement.
• R – Realistic – Though goals must be chal -
lenging, they cannot be unreachable. If I am an athlete just coming off a lower back injury, and my goal for today’s practice is to complete a set of dead-lifts at my pre-injury weight, I am clearly not going to attain my goal. If goals are set “too hard,” the likeli-hood of failure is high and will thus have a tendency to be demotivating.
• T – Time-Framed – Give yourself a time frame to accomplish your goals. Having a specific window for completion of your goals gives you motivation and structure that may be lacking otherwise. This guide -
line also corresponds to the “Attainable” and “Realistic” descriptors as well.
Q&A FROM THE F iELD
I coach a lot of different athletes and don’t 
really have time to sit down with each one more than once a season to discuss their training goals. How can I effectively monitor how they are progressing?
– DI College Strength and  
Conditioning Coach
Providing feedback to your athletes need not be an overly time-consuming process. If you meet with your athletes individually at the start of the season, you can have a discussion about the various fitness and performance goals that athlete will have. If you can periodically review these goals, perhaps just a few each week, you can focus on providing encouragement and support to those athletes at that time. Y ou may also encourage your athletes to share their goals with other members of the team so they may continually encourage each other and hold each other accountable. Lastly, if you are able to publicly reward or acknowledge athletes who are making respectable progress toward their goals, you will likely find that your athletes’ motivation improves thereby reinforcing the process without you having to do much.ENERGY AND AROUSAL 
MANAGEMENT
As explained earlier in this book, an under -
standing of how the human body creates 
energy to fuel various processes is critical for any effective strength and conditioning coach. As stated in Chapter 1 (Bioenergetics), “human movement requires energy, and energy is vital for athletic performance.
” Though they were 
talking specifically about bioenergetics from a physiological perspective, the reality is that in order for an athlete to perform effectively, they also need to effectively manage their mental energy.
Mental energy is generated, maintained, 
depleted and refreshed via our emotions. 
Emotions  are strong feelings, having both physi -
cal and psychological manifestations that serve to energize behaviors. These energy-impacting emotions can have both beneficial and detri -
mental effects on human performance, often depending on how a person interprets them. Emotions are beneficial to performance when they get us excited, cause us to feel motivated, elevate confidence in ourselves and push us to challenge ourselves in performance. Emotion can be detrimental, however, when there is too much or too little (a performer being too “amped up” or “too flat”) or when we lose control of our emotions and cease to function effectively in a performance environment (i.e., an athlete who cannot control their anger or frustration).
Emotions are generators of mental energy and 
can be beneficial or detrimental to performance depending upon how a person interprets them.
Factors affecting mental energy
Athletes often pay the most attention to their 
mental energy levels when it comes time for competition; however, it is also important to recognize how these energy levels affect per -
formance in practice and training conditions as well. Helping your athletes understand what things “drain their battery” prior to beginning their training sessions can help mitigate potential injury. Helping them under -
stand what things “charge their battery” can 

TRACI A. STATLER536
generate more motivated, focused workouts. 
This “charging and draining” of one’s prover -
bial battery is simply a way of understanding how arousal levels impact performance. Athletes who are unable to effectively regu-late their arousal levels may find themselves experiencing decreases in performance, as well as increased stress and worry. In order to perform at one’s best, athletes need to recog -
nize what factors contribute to the most ideal arousal levels for their performances.
A simple tool for evaluating what factors 
impact your athletes’ arousal levels is to have them reflect on what their best performance felt like. Ask them to describe the circumstances of that day, including things like their nutrition, rest and other physical and mental demands they may have been facing. Then have them compare that to their worst performance (or any day where they felt particularly “off”). What factors were different? What were the same? Ask them which of these factors are things they can control. Once the controllable factors are identified, then encourage them to manipulate these factors to help gener -
ate an ideal arousal level for performance. If they identify factors outside of their control, remind them that these are things outside of their control, and focusing on those will only “drain their batteries.” Instead, ask if there are any tools they can use to compensate for these interfering factors.
“Ain’t no use worrying about things beyond your 
control, because if they’re beyond your control, ain’t no use worrying … Ain’t no use worrying about things within your control, because if they are within your control, ain’t no use worrying.” – Mickey Rivers
Identifying effective arousal levels
Before you can help your athletes get to the 
“right” level of arousal or mental energy for per -
formance, they first need to determine what that right level is for them. Optimum arousal is differ -
ent for every person, and often differs within that person depending on the situation. For example, think about how much arousal or energy you need to perform a Fartlek workout. Is this the same level you would need for a plyometric test? What about for cardiovascular endurance train -
ing? Clearly each of these activities will require a different level of mental energy (as well as physi -
cal energy) to perform effectively. It is important for every athlete to know what arousal levels work best for them in different situations. Too much arousal can lead to nervousness, anxiety, muscle tension and/or over-aggressiveness. Too little arousal can lead to distraction, apathy and concentration problems.
Optimal arousal levels will differ from person to 
person, and from situation to situation. Performers need to identify what arousal levels work best for them in a variety of circumstances.
In an effort to better understand the rela-
tionship between energy/arousal levels and 
performance, many sport psychology profes -
sionals turn to the inverted-U hypothesis  for 
a basic explanation. The inverted-U hypoth-esis states that performance will improve as arousal levels increase up to some optimal point. Beyond that point, however, further increases in arousal will cause performance to 
suffer (Figure 19.1).
When 
the performer is experiencing low 
arousal or energy levels, they will feel “flat,” sluggish or tired until the energy level rises to a more optimum point. Their attention 
Low High
Physiological arousalLowHighPerformance
Figure 19.1  The inverted-U hypothesis. 
Performance will improve with increases in arousal 
levels up to some optimum point, whereupon further increases in arousal will cause a performance decrement.

APPLIED SPORT PSYCHOLOGY537
will wander, they experience a sense of apa-
thy regarding the performance and their body will feel physically heavy. Then as arousal increases, the performer will begin to feel more energetic, motivated and confident. This ideal performance state will begin to deterio -
rate, however, if the person cannot keep that mental energy level at the appropriate point. If arousal continues to increase past this ideal state, performance will start to decline, with the performer now feeling too “amped up,” 
intense or frantic. They will feel high levels of 
muscle tension, have difficulty focusing, may have difficulty breathing and may feel hyper -
active. As the strength coach, you will often be able to see behavioral examples of all of these levels in your athletes. Helping them recog -
nize their arousal levels may help them better manage these variations, thus improving their overall performance during workouts.
It is important to recognize though that 
not all athletes performing the same tasks will need the same level of mental energy. Every athlete will have their own 
individual zone of 
optimal functioning (IZOF)  or state at which 
their best performance occurs. The inverted-U and IZOF constructs can help you better explain this energy-performance relationship to your athletes. Furthermore, having high or low levels of arousal is not always necessarily detrimental. Some athletes report needing to feel really excited in order to perform effec -
tively (i.e., certain extreme sport athletes) and if they are feeling low or even moderate arousal levels, they have difficulty performing well. The practical reality is that how an athlete handles their arousal level is far more impor -
tant than how much arousal they may have. The weight room is an ideal environment for helping your athletes learn to manage arousal levels more effectively, as you can manipulate arousal in this controlled environment to illus -
trate how the differences correspond to their perceptions of feeling ready to perform.
Maintaining appropriate arousal 
levels
The reality is that every athlete or performer 
will experience pressure at some point in their career – it is a defining characteristic of competition – but it is the mentally skilled performer who can stay composed enough to perform despite that pressure. When your ath-letes recognize that they have too much arousal to perform effectively, can they calm themselves down? If they notice that they are too “flat,” can they increase their arousal enough to get the job done? These are skills your athletes need on the competitive fields and courts, but having these abilities will also serve them well in the weight room and during training.
When you notice an athlete who seems to 
be overly pumped, is having difficulty focusing and seems to be acting in a hyperactive way, you can suggest some very basic relaxation techniques to bring them back to that ideal performance zone. These are also effective tools for maximizing training effectiveness. Encouraging the athlete to slow down, close their eyes and take a few deep breaths is a quick method to decrease arousal levels. Another is having them take their pulse and try to actively slow it down. Sometimes the immediate physical feedback from measur -
ing heart rate can help them recognize what over-arousal feels like. If the athlete can learn to control him/herself, “then they have an opportunity to control the situation, instead of letting the situation control them. The athlete must find a relaxation technique that works for them; practice it; master it; and then reap the benefits in … their performance” (6).
Slow, controlled, deep breathing is an effective 
tool for managing the sensation of too much arousal, and is highly effective at bringing energy levels back to an ideal state.
More than likely, however, you will be con -
fronted with athletes on the opposite side of 
this spectrum: those who have too little arousal to perform effectively during their workouts. These athletes will look sluggish, will be easily distracted, will be moving slowly and will lack enthusiasm. When you see this is your weight 
room, you can suggest some simple activation 
techniques. First, research shows that mood is often impacted by music (7). If the athlete is too “flat,” suggest a more up-beat play list on their iPod. Even if you do not allow headphones in your weight room, you likely have some sort 

TRACI A. STATLER538
of stereo system – crank it up! Respiration 
rate also impacts arousal level, but rather than using it to calm down, in this instance encour -
age the athlete to use it to pump up. Increasing one’s respiration rate elevates heart rate and increases arousal levels. The use of energiz -
ing cue words, self-talk and creating images of successful attempts can also be useful here. These will be discussed in more depth later in this chapter, but are also typical sport psychol -
ogy “tools” or skills often described in detail in many sport psychology textbooks.
CONCENTRATION 
(FOCUS)
“Every athlete quickly recognizes that without 
appropriate concentration their performances will be inconsistent, error prone, and less than optimal. Concentration therefore is a skill and must be learned” (6). 
Concentration  can be 
defined as the ability to focus on appropri-ate cues in a given situation and control your responses to these cues for the execution of a particular skill (4). Concentration (or focus) therefore, is a skill athletes will need to per -
form effectively in competition, but it is also one critical for effective performance in prac-tice and conditioning sessions. Unfortunately, it is a skill that often gets overlooked until it is notably absent – that is, it is one of the psycho -
logical skill areas that may only become visible when an athlete’s behavior reveals a lack of appropriate sport focus (8).
Attention styles
One useful framework for understanding how focus and concentration works in performance settings has been Robert Nideffer’s model of attention styles (Figure 19.2). This model sug -
gests that an athlete’
s focus continually shifts 
between four quadrants, varying along two intersecting continuums from broad to narrow and from internal to external (9). This then implies that there is not just one type of con-centration or attention style; rather there are several different types that can affect perfor -
mance at different times and in different ways throughout performance. Furthermore, like the previous discussion of arousal levels, there is no one attention style that is best for every person in every situation. Each type of athletic performance may demand one or several atten-tion styles throughout a performance. Each athletic situation requires a variety of specific attention styles to perform adequately. Even within the same athletic team, the concentra -
tion demands on individual athletes may be quite different. It is therefore imperative for an athlete to learn to shift his/her focus in an appropriate manner as the situation requires. In order to do this effectively, athletes must master the ability to focus in each of the four quadrants as well as be able to shift between each as necessary (9).
The first attention style is a 
broad external  
focus , where the performer will rapidly assess 
a situation, taking in a variety of information from the external environment. In a strength and conditioning context, this would be the necessary focus needed at the beginning of a workout where the athlete would look around the room and identify things like how many others are present, where the water contain -
ers are located and the volume of the music. The next style is a 
broad internal  focus , where 
the athlete will begin to analyze and plan their reaction to the information assessed, in essence, creating a game plan or strategy. Carrying the same example forward, this would be when the athlete contemplates the fact that there 
Broad
external
(assess)Broad
internal
(analyze)
Narrow
external
(act)Narrow
internal
(prepare)
NARROWBROAD
INTERNAL EXTERNAL
Figure 19.2  Nideffer’s theory of attentional style. 
Performers need to master the ability to effectively 
shift their attention between each of these four quadrants.

APPLIED SPORT PSYCHOLOGY539
are several other athletes waiting to use the 
Olympic platforms, so he or she decides to rearrange their workout to take advantage of the available cardiovascular equipment. The next category of focus is 
narrow internal . This 
is where the athlete must now be able to center their concentration on mentally rehearsing a performance skill or regulating an emotional state. This stage of concentration is where an athlete internally prepares to act. In our weight room example, this could be the athlete creat -
ing a mental image of themselves setting the speed and incline of the treadmill and creat -
ing the necessary energy level for a good cardio session. The fourth category of concentration is 
narrow external , where the athlete will focus 
entirely on one or two external cues to actu -
ally perform the action necessary. This is where the athlete will pay attention to the treadmill’s display, noting items like miles per hour and METs. The final requirement of attentional style needed for an athlete to perform effec-tively is referred to as 
shifting . While this is not 
a separate attentional style in and of itself, it is a critical ability for effective performance. It is absolutely necessary for an athlete to have a certain amount of attentional flexibility within any given situation. In essence, they need to be adept at “bouncing” back and forth between the four categories to assure that they are pick-ing up all relevant cues and filtering out all irrelevant ones. For example, if our athlete on the treadmill were only focused on the display’s readout (narrow external), they might miss the cue of their coach who just came into the weight room looking for them (broad exter -
nal). Clearly, effective concentration requires that you be adept at shifting your focus to the appropriate cues at the appropriate times.
Effective concentration requires a performer to be 
adept at shifting between a broad external, broad internal, narrow internal and narrow external focus of attention as needed to perform in any given situation.
Distractions
The ability to maintain concentration while 
immersed in competition or practice drills is critical to effective performance. However, the human brain is not capable of maintaining effective focus for the full duration of an ath -
letic event or workout session. Therefore, we must be able to identify the factors that gen-erate distractions and learn how to effectively deal with them so as not to interfere with per -
formance.
Once you can recognize potential distrac -
tions, you can then create a plan for dealing with them. Athletes often report that their 
distractions come simply from thinking about 
the wrong things at the wrong times – that they have an inappropriate attentional style. Athletes often come into the weight room still focused on the things that happened ear -
lier in their day, either at practice, or during school, or with relationships they have out-side of the sporting arena. Letting go of those thoughts so that you can focus on the appro-priate cues will be critical to the attainment of a good workout. Athletes tend to lose their focus when they choose instead to pay atten -
tion to events and experiences that occurred in the past, start thinking about those that will occur in the future, focus on things out -
side of their control or on things irrelevant to the task at hand. Furthermore, experiencing excessive anxiety or being overly tired can also cause distraction, as the athlete is then focused on inappropriate cues. As the coach, you can contribute to the creation of an effec -
tive performance environment by encouraging your athletes to get enough rest prior to their workouts, creating a non-threatening envi -
ronment for your athletes and encouraging them to practice their concentration skills while training.
Refocusing strategies
There are several tools or strategies one can use to practice concentration. The weight room is often an ideal environment for this as well because it is usually a location where a multi -
tude of things are going on at the same time, 
with several people doing different things, 
and loads of potential distractions present. If an athlete can effectively tune their ability to shift between all the needed attentional styles throughout the duration of a workout, chances are high that they will be able to transition 

TRACI A. STATLER540
those skills out onto the playing fields and 
courts. The following are some suggestions for practicing concentration skills:
• “Distraction inoculations” – Create tools that simulate the typical distractions your athletes report. Things like taped record -
ings of crowd noise, confederate observers watching a practice session as if they were spectators, judges or other coaches on-site evaluating the athlete as they work out, or 
negative words or phrases scattered around 
the facility to invoke negative thoughts will all work. Have the athletes practice main -
taining the effective focus despite these distractions, in essence “inoculating” them to their existence.
• Cue words and positive self-talk – Cue words or phrases are things that can be said out loud or in one’s head that remind the athlete to focus on specific things. For example, an athlete just learning the proper form for a power clean might choose to say the instructional cue words “Scoop!” or “Catch!” to remind themselves to focus on these elements of technique. Another might choose to use more motivational cue words (like “Come on! You’ve got this!”) to get their energy level up and focus themselves on the feeling needed to perform well. The key to cue words is to keep them simple. More on self-talk will be provided later in this chapter.
• Routines – Pre-performance routines improve focus by helping the athlete transfer their attention from task-irrelevant concepts that might distract them from their preparation to those task-relevant thoughts they need to get ready to per -
form (4). These can be used before the training session begins (to prepare for your workout), during your workout in preparation for a challenging lift or set, and even after your workout to transition your focus away from the activities in the weight room back to whatever activity is 
next. Recognize, however, that routines 
are not the same things as superstitions. A 
routine  is a conscious decision to perform 
an action or series of actions with the express purpose of benefitting performance in some way. A 
superstition  is an action 
taken for fear of what might happen if the action is not taken. Routines direct focus to appropriate cues needed for effective performance. Superstitions draw focus away from these relevant cues, instead focusing on the irrelevant cue of fear of outcomes.
• Two-minute drill – The two-minute drill is one many coaches use in a variety of settings to get their athletes to focus on 
what they will do in a particular situation. 
Concerning concentration training, the two-minute drill is simply telling yourself to focus on whatever action you are per -
forming for the next two minutes. At the end of that two-minute period, you are giving yourself permission to let your atten-tion wander. When the two minutes start, you are committing to fully directing your focus to the task-relevant cues needed to perform. You may become aware of inter -
nal or external distractions, but as soon as you recognize them, you make a con -
scious effort to bring your focus back to the task at hand. You are fully committed and fully invested in this thing right here, right now, because you know you only have to focus for two little minutes. This is a great exercise for practicing concen -
tration skills because it echoes the realities of many sports. Most sporting events are composed of short bursts of plays, downs, attempts, sets or heats, followed by some sort of brief “rest” period. This occurs in resistance and interval training as well, and presents a great opportunity to challenge the athlete to focus for “just this next ten-rep set” or “just this next interval” as this will get them adept at shifting in and out of intense focus.
The skills of concentration are probably 
the most relevant of all the psychological skills for actual performance but they can only be mastered if the athlete has learned to con -
trol their arousal levels first. Concentration, anxiety, arousal and self-confidence are all intricately interwoven, with each of these factors greatly dependent upon effective con -
centration skills.

APPLIED SPORT PSYCHOLOGY541
REAL-WORLD APPL iCATiON
A gymnast is faced with maintaining concentration during competition
During a gymnastics competition, there are many distractions that occur. There are external vari -
ables that may affect an athlete’s concentration and may detract from her optimal performance. 
The gymnast’s first event of the meet is the floor exercise. While on the floor, the gymnast has many variables on which to focus. This event involves the playing of music and synchronization of movements to the music. She will have to be able to concentrate on specific cues in the music to stay on point. In addition, competitions tend to have large crowds. Thus, there may be an excess amount of noise. She will have to be able to concentrate on the task at hand and cancel out the noise from the crowd. If she is able to focus, she will most likely perform near or at optimal level.
CONFIDENCE AND  
SELF-TALK
All other things being equal, a confident ath-
lete will perform better than one without confidence (8). 
Confidence  is the belief that 
one’s abilities are greater than or equal to the demands placed upon them. It is the belief that you can successfully perform a desired behav -
ior or generate a desired outcome. Confidence is most often situation-specific, though some athletes seem to exhibit confidence across a variety of different domains. More often, how -
ever, people are confident in some elements of their lives and less confident in others, or in one skill but not others. Confidence is a critical component for effective sport participation. A confident athlete will:
• Set challenging goals for themselves
• Recover from set-backs, losses or disap -
pointments fairly quickly
• Persist when faced with adversity
• Focus on success and the relevant cues nec-essary to attain it
• Stay cool under pressure situations
• Trust themselves, their perceptions and their decisions
• Push themselves past their perceived limits
An observant strength and conditioning 
coach will generally be able to spot an athlete lacking in confidence. They will give up easily when situations get challenging, they are generally unwilling to take risks, they will struggle main -
taining focus, they will appear tentative and they will protect themselves, both physically and men -
tally. The good news though is that confidence is a “teachable” skill. Like many of the other sport psychology skills described in this chapter, confidence can be developed through practice, thereby improving overall performance.
All other things being equal, a confident athlete 
will generally outperform one with low confidence because they challenge themselves more, trust in their abilities and stay focused on the task-relevant cues needed to perform well.
Building, enhancing and  
maintaining confidence
As a coach, you are in a position to assist ath -
letes in developing, enhancing and maintaining 
their confidence levels, both as they relate to their sports as well as in more general aspects of their lives. Although research shows that a large part of a person’s confidence is generated from success in past performances, the reality is that several other experiences and sources can contribute to this characteristic as well. Training hard and effectively can contribute to effective performance, which can enhance con -
fidence levels. Breaking down complex skills or tasks into manageable parts and succeeding at these steps can also enhance confidence lev -
els. Recognizing and taking control over the things you can control, and letting go of those 

TRACI A. STATLER542
that you cannot, can further enhance confi-
dence. It is important to recognize that it is not just the “big” things that contribute to build -
ing confidence – each “little” accomplishment does too. When viewed from this perspective, every successful day in the weight room or hard workout completed can contribute to the development of confidence.
As their strength coach, the ways in which 
you interact with your athletes can contribute to or deteriorate their confidence in themselves. 
Be aware of how you communicate with your 
athletes, both verbally and nonverbally, dur -
ing your interactions with them. You spend a great deal of time communicating expectations, teaching new skills and behaviors, providing feedback and correcting errors, and encourag-ing and rewarding achievement. In each of these areas, you have an opportunity to develop and reinforce confidence by acknowledging success (even the small ones) and focusing on the con -
structive element of criticism, rather than just the critical. Try to “catch” your athletes being successful, rather than just catching their errors.
TYPES OF SELF-TALK
The internal language athletes use with them -
selves has the ability to impact everything described thus far in this chapter – the setting of challenging but realistic goals, the initia -
tion and sustaining of motivation, the trust in self to manage arousal levels, and the ability to direct and redirect focus. This internal lan -
guage – 
self-talk  – is essentially the process of 
thinking and cognition. It is the running dia -
logue you have going on in your head all the time. Self-talk is closely related to confidence in that a person’s self-talk is generally repre -
sentative of what they believe.
There are essentially three types of perfor -
mance-influencing self-talk – instructional, negative and positive. Instructional self-talk was alluded to earlier in this chapter in the discussion of using cue words to direct focus. 
Instructional self-talk  helps the performer focus 
on technical, tactical or task-related elements of performance with the goal of improving execution (4). Encouraging your athletes to use instructional self-talk can be beneficial in the development and reinforcement of con -
fidence because each instance can be viewed as a mini attempt at being successful. When an athlete gives themselves that instructional cue and then is able to follow through on that action, they have just experienced success. Knowing their instructional self-talk and rein -
forcing it is a great way to help your athletes develop their confidence.
The next category,
 negative  self-talk , is the 
most damaging to athletic performance but is difficult to completely avoid or control. It is generally critical and self-demeaning, inter -
fering with a performer’s appropriate focus. Any time negative emotions (distress, anxiety, fear or frustration) occur, chances are the vast majority of athletes will respond by talking to themselves negatively. Effective physical performance can therefore be destroyed by negative self-talk. Negative self-talk and nega -
tive thinking are virtually the same thing, and are generally caused by fear of failure, fear of success, comparison to others, insecurity, poor confidence and unrealistic expectations (6). Negative self-talk lessens the control athletes have over themselves, as it inhibits constructive and reinforcing thought patterns, thus eroding confidence and impairing performance.
Positive self-talk, on the other hand, is the type 
of talk that programs our minds with ideas that enable us to manage situations more effectively. 
Positive self-talk  consists of reinforcing statements 
we say to ourselves generally increasing energy, effort and positive attitude, but that do not carry any task-specific cues (4). It is solution directed, not problem focused. Positive self-talk focuses on the process, stays in the present moment and is designed to be uplifting. It is essential for ath -
letes to learn to talk to themselves from a positive perspective, thus enhancing the probability of consistent and optimal performance. Like any skill though, positive self-talk must be practiced to acquire positive, solution-focused inner dia -
logue. Habits of positive thinking can become integrated and automated by an athlete if they consciously practice developing it.
SUMMARY
It can be argued that the weight room, in and of itself, is a performance environment. The activi -
ties contained therein are like sporting events, and the strength and conditioning coach is in the role of the team leader. As such, all the tools 

APPLIED SPORT PSYCHOLOGY543
of sport psychology that a sport coach can 
implement with their athletes on the field of play and in performance practices can be repli -
cated and reinforced in the weight room by the strength and conditioning coach.
The full complement of sport psychology 
skills and tools that might benefit an athlete dur -
ing their workouts is beyond the scope of this one chapter; however, several of the most rel -
evant constructs have been presented here. The concepts of goal setting, motivation, energy and 
arousal management, concentration, self-talk and confidence development are all elements 
of sport psychology training that every athlete can use to better not only their performance, but their experience of that performance as well. Athletes who have practiced with these mental skills are better able to perform more consistently across competitions, recover their composure more quickly after a mistake or distraction, and perform at their best when the pressure is on. As the strength and conditioning coach, you are in a prime position to assist your 
athletes with these critical constructs.
CASE E xAMPLE
A change in playing stats
BackgroundMike has been playing soccer for the past five years. He is currently a junior and playing for his 
college team. He had been starting each match; however, he has recently lost his starting posi -
tion. Mike is not putting as much effort into each practice, being antisocial toward teammates. As well, he has been nonresponsive during practices. What could Mike be suffering from and what might be done to help him?
(continued)MAxiNG OUT
1 A head coach indicates that he is concerned about the motivation levels of his athletes for 
their training sessions. The coach asks the strength and conditioning coach to help “pump up” the athletes to get them more motivated for workouts. What does the strength and conditioning coach need to understand about motivation? How might they be able to bet -
ter understand the existing motivation levels of the athletes? What might they be able to do to impact that motivation?
2 A football player tells the strength and conditioning coach that his main training goal for the season is simply “to get stronger.” How can the coach work with this athlete to improve the structure and phrasing of this goal statement? How might they work together through this process to develop effective short-term and long-term goals to attain this season-long mission?
3 Why is it important for an athlete to understand the ideal arousal level needed for them in the weight room? If they find that they are “too low,” what might they do to elevate this energy level? If they find they are “too high,” how might they get more “pumped up”?
4 Strength and conditioning requires different types of attention and focus at different times. When might an athlete need to have a “broad external” focus? A “broad internal” one? When would they need a more internal focus?
5 What kinds of self-talk might be beneficial for an athlete during conditioning training? 
How does an athlete’s self-talk relate to their confidence?

TRACI A. STATLER544
Recommendations/considerations
The behaviors exhibited by Mike could illustrate that he is suffering from decreased 
motivation. The strength and conditioning coach or sport psychology consultant could communicate with Mike to establish his main motivators and possibly reevaluate what he wants from the sport.
Implementations
A sport psychology consultant could work in unison with the strength and conditioning 
coaches and athletes to develop different strategies or techniques to better help athletes find motivation in their sport. Possible ways of accomplishing this would be by setting goals, as well as finding meaning within themselves and their sport. Over time, Mike will hopefully find new motivation with himself to perform at his optimal level, in turn possibly regaining his status within the team.
REFERENCES
 1. Triplett NT, Williams C, McHenry P, Doscher 
M. Strength & Conditioning Professional Standards & Guidelines (online). Available: www.nsca-lift.org/publications/SCStandards.pdf. 2009.
 2. Hatfield BD, Brody EB. Psychology of athletic preparation and performance. In: Baechle TR, Earle RW, eds. Essentials of Strength Training and Conditioning, 3rd ed. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2008; 
187–207.
 3. Sage G. Introduction to Motor Behavior: 
A Neuropsychological Approach, 2nd ed. Boston, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1977.
 4. Weinberg RS, Gould D. Foundations of Sport and Exercise Psychology, 4th ed. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2007.
 5. Gill D. Psychological Dynamics of Sport and Exercise. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2000.
 6. Henschen KP, Statler TA, Lidor R. Psychological factors of tactical preparation. In: Blumenstein B, Lidor R & Tenenbaum G, eds. Psychology of Sport Training. Oxford, UK: Meyer & Meyer, 2007, 104–114.
 7. Karageorghis C, Terry P. The psychophysical effects of music in sport and exercise: A review. Journal of Sport Behavior 1997; 20:54–68.
 8. Sport Psychology Mental Training Manual: Coaches’ Guide. United States Olympic Committee, 2006.
 9. Nideffer RM, Segal M. Concentration and attention control training. In Williams JM ed. Applied Sport Psychology: Personal 
Growth to Peak Performance, 4th ed. Mountain View, CA: Mayfield, 2001, 
312–332.
10. Gucciardi DF, Mallett CJ. Mental toughness. 
In Hanrahan SJ and Andersen MB eds. Routledge Handbook of Applied Sport Psychology. London: Routledge, 2013. 547–556.
11. Gucciardi DF, Gordon S, Dimmock JA. Advancing mental toughness research and theory using personal construct psychology. Int Rev Sport Exerc Psychol 2009; 2:45–72.(continued)

Contents
Introduction  547
Geriatrics  548
Pediatrics  551
Intellectual disabilities and Down syndrome  553
Muscular dystrophies  554
Neuromuscular disease  556
Stroke  557
Spinal cord injury  558
Cardiovascular disease  560
Summary  563
References  565

20 CHAPTER
OBJECTIVES
After reading this chapter, you will be able to:
• Identify various populations that will benefit from specific exercise programs.
• Demonstrate an understanding of the roles of strength training in different special populations.
• Discuss the role of strength training in various musculoskeletal diseases and the role of strength 
training in attenuating the progressive nature of these diseases.
• Implement an appropriate exercise prescription for various special populations.STRENGTH TRAINING FOR   
SPECIAL POPULATIONS
Marie E. Pepin, Joseph A. Roche, and Moh H. Malek
KEY TERMS
Activity of daily living (ADL)
AdolescentsAgingCerebral palsy (CP)ChildrenDown syndromeEpiphyseal platesMuscular dystrophyMyopathiesNeuropathiesOsteopeniaOsteoporosisResistance trainingSarcopeniaSpinal cord injury (SCI)
INTRODUCTION
People are living longer, often with one or 
more chronic diseases. Athletes with disabili -
ties are shattering stereotypes. Physicians are prescribing exercise for their patients to man -
age medical conditions such as cardiovascular disease and diabetes. Limited insurance cov-erage may lead a person with hemiplegia out of the physical therapy clinic and into the gym. These are just some of the reasons why exercise management for special populations has become so important.
Venues such as hospital-based wellness 
centers, fitness centers, and assisted living facilities have a wide mix of clients with spe-cial needs. In 2002, Malek et  al. (78) found that the majority of health fitness instruc -
tors surveyed in the Southern California area lacked the level of knowledge needed to safely train special populations. Therefore, the pur -
pose of this chapter is to introduce the reader 

MARIE E. PEPIN ET AL.548
to a variety of special populations and the cur -
rent findings related to exercise as a form of 
intervention. This chapter should be used as a reference by the health fitness instructor rather than a strict guideline.
As in the case of any training regimen, the 
health fitness instructor needs to design an indi-vidualized program in close consultation with the client. For example, one client with a spinal cord injury may desire the strength and endur -
ance to enter athletic competition; another may 
desire the strength and endurance to be able 
to get out of bed independently. In any case, it is imperative to work in close communication with the physician, physical therapist, or other primary care personnel to ensure the safety of the special population client. The health fit -
ness instructor must understand the client’s needs and precautions, where to get more information, and most importantly, be alert to problems and know when to take action or call for medical help. Though caution is essential, it is equally important not to deny those with special needs the opportunity to reap the ben -
efits of exercise.
This chapter touches upon cardiovas -
cular exercise and flexibility, but the focus is on resistance training. 
Resistance training  
has become a critical component of exercise programs for athletes, in marked contrast to previous generations who were instructed to avoid resistance training for fear of becoming “muscle bound”. More importantly, resistance training is now recognized as an important component of overall health and fitness in the general population (46). There are, however, groups of individuals whose participation in resistance training requires special scrutiny. In this chapter, resistance training for several populations with special needs is discussed, and unique aspects and possible contraindi -
cations for resistance training are considered. For those populations where resistance train -
ing is appropriate, the general principles of program design are the same as for the general population. That is, factors such as proper 
warm up, periodization, and specificity need 
to be incorporated in all programs. Caution needs to be employed to avoid injury and overwork, but it should be noted that the ben-efits of resistance training only occur through the application of progressive overload, and high intensity training (in terms of % 1RM) is often necessary for optimal benefits even in special populations.
GERIATRICS
In 2014, there were over 46.2 million people aged 65 and older living in the United States, accounting for just more than 14.5% of the 
total population or about one in every seven 
(17). This number will continue to grow over the next two decades as the Baby Boomers age and the population of people 65 and older in 2060 is projected to be over 98 million (17). Among community-resident Medicare benefi -
ciaries age 65 and older, 28% have difficulties with at least one 
activity of daily living (ADLs)  
which is attributable to the decrease in physi-cal activity associated with aging. Indeed, only 42% of persons aged 65 to 74 and 29% of persons 75 and older report that they engage in regular leisure-time physical activity (109). Only 16.1% reported meeting strength train -
ing guidelines and this number decreases to 10.1% for those with difficulty walking a quarter of a mile (66). Due to the size of this demographic and the need for physical activity in the geriatric clients, health fitness professionals will increasingly interact with this population. The wellness professionals’ primary goal will be to maintain or improve the elderly person’s ability to perform daily activities through exercise training.
Published systematic reviews (15,18) 
support the beneficial effect of exercise inter -
ventions on frail and pre-frail older adults. Some of the beneficial effects of exercise train-ing reported include improved performance of ADL, physical functioning, balance per -
formance, gait, strength, and quality of life as well as decreased fall incidence. Findings for recent studies also suggest that older adults who exercise following recommended pub -
lished strength guidelines have 46% lower 
odds of all causes of mortality than those who 
do not (67).
While the benefit of exercising is evident, 
the optimal program type remains to be deter -
mined. A multimodal program that includes resistance training seems the best strategy to 

STRENGTH TRAINING FOR SPECIAL POPULATIONS549
improve strength and function in the physi-
cally frail elderly (18). A systematic review by Borde et al. (15) reports that the best predic-tors of improved muscle strength were exercise intensity, exercise duration, and duration of muscle contraction during each repetition. The parameters leading to the greatest strength improvements are summarized in Table 20.1.
Many types of resistance training equip -
ment are available to choose from.
 Martins 
et  al. (80) investigated the effects of elastic band training in the healthy elderly and in elderly persons with co-morbidities. They found that elastic band training was effec-tive at improving strength especially in the healthy elderly and those with functional limitations. Despite causing difficulty in objec -
tively monitoring and prescribing a specific intensity, elastic bands can be a good choice of equipment because they are portable, easy to use, and inexpensive. In clients with limited resources, exercises using own body weight can improve strength in the elderly (122).
In summary, a multimodal exercise pro -
gram that includes resistance training, balance training, flexibility, and aerobic conditioning should be implemented. Exercises that are functional, that use large muscle groups, and that combine low and high intensity training at various speeds seem indicated. When work-ing with older adults, the exercise professional should get a doctor’s clearance before imple -
menting an exercise program, must consider the client’s pathologies and co-morbidities, monitor vitals closely, start at a lower inten -
sity, and advance the exercises progressively both in terms of intensity and complexity.
Aging and sarcopenia
The typical aging  process has deleterious 
effects on human skeletal muscles and is associated with loss of muscle mass, muscle strength and power, and eventually difficulty with ADL. Isokinetic strength declines at a rate of about 1.4 to 2.5% per year after age 65, depending on muscle group and contrac -
tion velocity (44). From ages 20 to 80, there is a roughly 40% loss of muscle fiber number accompanied by a general reduction in muscle fiber size (71). Some studies have found that between the ages of 20 and 80 years, skeletal muscle mass decreases by 35 to 40% (30,31). A progressive and generalized loss of mus -
cle mass and strength with advanced age is referred to as 
sarcopenia  (23,32). Sarcopenia is 
common, happening in 5% of the community-  
dwelling individuals and in as much as 33% in frail elderly individuals in nursing homes. The impact of sarcopenia is profound. Sarcopenia can not only impact an older person’s quality of life but is also an independent risk factor for difficulties with ADLs, longer hospital stays, higher rates of hospital re-admission, osteopo-rosis, falls, and even death (23,30,31,43,45,71). Sarcopenia likely contributes to the decline in basal metabolic rate and the progressive increase in the percentage of body fat observed with age. (56,59) Consequently, interventions geared at decreasing sarcopenia are of utmost importance.
Exercise training has been proposed as 
the best intervention to improve sarcopenia  TABLE 20.1  The parameters leading to the greatest 
strength improvements
Parameter Demonstrated the most 
improvement in strength
Mode of muscle actionNo difference between isometric, concentric, and eccentric actions
Duration 50–53 weeks
Frequency 2–3x/ week
Sets 2–3 sets
Repetitions 7–9 repetitions
Intensity 70–79% of 1RM
Total time under tension per repetition (duration of contraction)6 seconds2 seconds for isometric exercises, 2.5 for concentric portion and 3 seconds for eccentric portion
Rest time between sets60 seconds
Rest time between repetitions4 seconds

MARIE E. PEPIN ET AL.550
and much of the focus has been on the ben -
efits of resistance training. (68,120,128). 
Moritani and deVries (89) were the first to show that resistive exercises could result in significant increases in muscle strength in the elderly. Since then, numerous studies have investigated the effect of resistance training on muscle strength, muscle mass, and func -
tion in older persons. In 2014, Cruz-Jentoft et  al. (23) published a systematic review on the effect of exercise training on sarcope-nia. The authors found that two out of four studies reviewed reported increased muscle mass with resistance training compared to standard rehab or low intensity home exer -
cise program (HEP). Similarly, three out of four studies reported increased strength and three out of three reported increased func-tion when compared to control. Multimodal exercise programs (combination of resistance, aerobic, flexibility, and balance training) generally improved muscle strength but not muscle mass. The authors concluded that exercise training in older adults is safe and can improve muscle strength and physical perfor -
mance (1,31,39,69,118,129). While evidence supports resistance training for strength and physical performance improvements in the elderly, it is less clear which exercise mode or parameters are optimal for this purpose.Osteoporosis
Osteoporosis  is a systemic process of dimin-
ishing bone mass and deterioration of internal bone structure that results in increased risks of fracture. Approximately 9.9 million Americans are affected by osteoporosis (50) and the prev -
alence is even higher in older adults. Almost half of Caucasian women aged 50 and older will experience an osteoporotic fracture in their lifetime (50) and the worldwide inci -
dence of hip fracture is projected to increase by 240% in women and 310% in men by the year 2050 (42). Osteoporotic-related fractures affect more than 2 million Americans annually and involve the wrist, hip, and vertebrae most commonly (50). Hip fractures often carry severe consequences; 60% of patients who suffered a hip fracture will be unable to regain their previous level of functional independence (50) and about 20% of hip fracture patients aged 50 and older will die in the year after their fracture (42).
Although diagnosing osteoporosis is 
improving with the advent of bone mineral density (BMD), osteoporosis is still known as a “silent disease” because the first sign of the disease is often a fracture. For this reason, awareness of risk factors and prevention is 
crucial (Box 20.1).
Box 20.1  Risk factors for osteopor osis
Female sex
Thin and/or small frameAdvanced ageFamily history of osteoporosisPostmenopausal (including surgically induced)Amenorrhea (abnormal absence of menstrual periods)Anorexia nervosaLow lifetime calcium intakeVitamin D deficiencyMedications (corticosteroids, chemotherapy, and others)Inactive lifestyleCigarette smokingExcessive use of alcoholLow testosterone levels in men

STRENGTH TRAINING FOR SPECIAL POPULATIONS551
Exercise has become a primary treatment 
recommendation for osteoporosis. To under -
stand how exercise might affect osteoporosis, 
consider the process of bone remodeling. Bone is a dynamic tissue in which old, weakened tissue is resorbed and then replaced by new, stronger material. Peak bone mass is reached during young adult life, then gradually dimin -
ishes as more bone is resorbed than created. 
Osteopenia  is defined as low bone mass, or 
BMD between 1.0 and 2.5 standard devia -
tions below the mean of young normal adults. Osteoporosis is defined according to the National Institute of Health (NIH) as BMD greater than 2.5 standard deviations below the norm. Since bone responds to physical forces by increasing bone formation, it would be logi -
cal to assume that the stresses created during exercise could lead to increased bone density. A systematic review of 43 randomized controlled trials on postmenopausal women shows that exercise improves bone mineral density slightly compared to the control (55). In this same meta-analysis, the most effective type of exercise for increasing BMD to the neck of the femur was non-weight bearing high intensity progressive resistance exercises to the lower limbs (55). The most effective intervention for BMD at the spine were combination exercise programs (variety of static and dynamic weight and non-weight bearing exercises). Fractures and falls were reported as adverse events during exercise programs in some studies, emphasizing that precautions must be taken and fall prevention strategies implemented when working with cli -
ents with or at risk of osteoporosis.
While the ideal training program to 
improve BMD has yet to be defined, there are practical guidelines that can be incorporated into a structured fitness regime. The Delphi consensus has these recommendations for health professionals working with clients with osteoporosis (47):
1
 W ork on fall prevention through strength, 
mobility, balance, and postural training
2 T each safe movements such as keep -
ing good posture and using good body 
mechanics
3 Prevent or slow rate of bone loss through 
exercise (weight bearing and resistance training)4 Strength training should focus on func -
tional exercises and target major muscle groups with the exception of spinal flexors, extensors, and rotators. Proper alignment of the spine is crucial and care -
ful, slow progression recommended.
5
 Aim for meeting or exceeding national 
physical activity recommendations.
Certain precautions must be taken when 
exercising a client with osteoporosis. Avoid 
spinal flexion or rotation during exercises and 
teach the client to maintain a straight spine with erect posture during exercises. This will minimize increased loads on the vertebral bodies that might cause compression frac -
tures. Overhead compressive loads and other high loading exercises should be avoided. Flexibility exercises that improve posture and balance are indicated but ballistic move -
ments should be avoided. Reduce fall hazards through safe exercise choice, close supervision, and guarding.
In summary, bone mass attained early in 
life and maintained through exercise, diet, and healthy lifestyle choices is the best route to prevent osteoporosis, but once present, a comprehensive program including resistance training is likely of some benefit (53).
Evidence suggests that resistance training and 
weight bearing exercise are essential for the client with osteoporosis.
PEDIATRICS
Many children are active in competitive 
sports, but there is a growing number who are sedentary and overweight. The obesity preva -
lence in adolescents has more than doubled since the late 1980s. According to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention, approxi -
mately 18% of children aged 6–11 and 21% of adolescents aged 12–19 are obese. With this 
trend comes an increased risk for diseases such 
as asthma, diabetes, and hypertension which can follow a child into adulthood, potentially resulting in disability and early mortality.
Some children are born with a disabil -
ity such as 
cerebral palsy  or Down syndrome . 

MARIE E. PEPIN ET AL.552
While these conditions are also found in 
adults, they are included in this section as they first significantly affect physical functioning during childhood. Families and schools may turn to fitness centers as exercise outlets for these children as an adjunct to physical ther -
apy, or when insurance funds are depleted. Health fitness professionals can play a key role in getting the pediatric population started on a life-long path of physical fitness.
Healthy children and  
adolescents
The process of growth and development in chil-
dren (before puberty) and adolescents  (after 
puberty) results in increases in muscle size and 
muscle strength (33–37). Much of the strength increase seen during childhood is simply due to increases in muscle size. However, the matura -
tion of the musculoskeletal and nervous systems lead to increases in muscle strength that are 
larger than can be completely accounted for 
simply by increased muscle mass (33–37). That is, there is an “age effect” that results in older children and adolescents being stronger, pound for pound, than younger individuals (123).
Of interest have been the effects of resist-
ance training in the context of growth and development. Specifically, can resistance train -
ing enhance strength development beyond what would be expected to be seen as a nor -
mal consequence of growth and development? Numerous studies and reviews have shown that resistance training in children and adoles -
cents is effective in increasing muscle strength (12,35,37,70,95). The benefits appear to trans-fer to performance on other motor skills such as the vertical jump performance, running, or throwing (12,35,70). Prior to puberty, ana -
bolic hormone concentrations are quite low, which limits the potential for resistance train-ing to cause significant hypertrophy. Despite this, resistance training does increase muscle strength in this population. This suggests that 
the dominant effect is via neurological adap -
tations (13,35). After puberty, both male and 
female children are capable of gaining substan-tive changes in both muscle size and muscle strength with properly implemented resistance training programs.Other known benefits of resistance exer -
cise training include: it enhances bone mineral density, improves body composition, reduces body fat, improves insulin-sensitivity in over -
weight adolescents, enhances cardiac function in obese children, and possibly reduces risks of sport-related injuries (74). Despite the potential benefits of resistance training, many misinformed coaches, parents, and health professionals recommend against resistance training for fear of injuries and delayed growth. 
Specifically, there is fear that resistance train -
ing will cause damage to the 
epiphyseal plates  
(growth plates at the ends of long bones) (34) 
which could interfere with growth. In addi -
tion, resistance training could cause strains and sprains, especially of the low back, and other accidental injuries. However, several studies have found that resistance training in youth is quite safe and has comparable (13,34,35) or lower injury risks as when compared to resist-ance training in adults (74). The World Health Organization (WHO), the National Strength and Conditioning Association (NSCA), the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) and many other reputed national and international organizations recommend that children and adolescents participate in properly designed and supervised resistance training programs (74). Several recommendations (74) have been put forward to maximize safety of resist -
ance training in youth. The athlete engaging in resistance training should be intellectually mature in order to follow directions and abide to safety rules. He/she needs to have sufficient coordination, balance, and control to com -
plete the tasks safely. The program should be supervised by a qualified professional with knowledge of strength and conditioning prin-ciples and of the unique needs of children. The training load should be increased progressively and be adapted to the child’s physical and emo -
tional maturity as well as training experience rather than pure chronological age. The proper technique and proper biomechanics must be emphasized at all times. While training at or 
near 1RM was previously not recommended 
(13), new evidence shows that high intensity training is safe in trained and technically com -
petent children (34,74) and may lead to greater improvements in strength and physical perfor -
mance than lower intensity training (70).

STRENGTH TRAINING FOR SPECIAL POPULATIONS553
The optimal resistance exercise dosage for 
physical performance in youth has been inves-
tigated in a systematic review by Lesinski et al. (70). The authors reported improved strength performance with fewer repetitions at a higher intensity. Nonetheless, the authors advise that the training be adapted to the needs of the child/adolescent and that the intensity be increased only after proper technical skills are acquired. Also of interest was the finding that the improvements with resistance training were found in all athletes studied (age 6–18 years), irrespective of chronological or biological age. Table 20.2 summarizes the parameters that lead 
to the strongest gains in Lesinski’s review (70).
General knowledge supports a properly
 
designed and supervised resistance training pro -
gram that incorporates periodization principles 
to vary volume and intensity throughout the year. Each session should include a comprehensive warm up period and a cool down. Training pro -
grams should target all the major muscle groups and liberally include compound, multi-joint, and functional exercises (35). A variety of different training modalities are appropriate, including free weights, body weight, resisted calisthenics, and machines. Weight machines have the advantage of not requiring as much balance and coordination free weights and often do not require a spotter. However, they may pose other challenges in youth such as large incremental increases in resistance (5–10 lbs per plate) and poor sizing of machines and levers for small children (26). These should be considered when choosing the proper equipment. Progression should initially emphasize increases in repetitions before increases in resistance, and light loads should be employed when learning new movements so that proper technique is learned. Indeed, the use of a broomstick in lieu of a weight bar may be appropriate when initially learning proper technique for complex free weight exer -
cises. The reader is recommended these resources for additional information on training guidelines in youth (70,74).
In closing, considering the evidence availa -
ble of the effects of resistance training in youth, it appears as though the benefits of resistance training significantly outweigh the risks, and resistance training is therefore recommended as part of a comprehensive exercise program to gain and maintain health in children and adolescents (70,74).
INTELLECTUAL 
DISABILITIES AND  DOWN SYNDROME
An intellectual disability (ID) (formerly 
called mental retardation) is defined by the American Association on Intellectual and 
TABLE 20.2  Suggested resistance training dosage in youth by Lesinski (70)
Parameter Dosage that had the strongest effect
Type of training Free weights strongest effect on muscle strength while complex training had most effect 
on sport-specific performance
Training period >23 weeks for strength9–12 weeks for optimal vertical jump height
Frequency 1, 2 or 3x/week had similar effects
Intensity 80–89% of 1RM for strength gains
Number of sets 5 sets for optimal strength improvements3 sets for vertical jump performance
Repetitions 6–8 reps for strength gains3–5 or 9–12 for plyometric training
Rest 3–4 min between sets for strength gains

MARIE E. PEPIN ET AL.554
Developmental Disabilities (AAIDD) as “a dis -
ability characterized by significant limitations 
in both intellectual functioning  and in adaptive 
behavior , which covers many everyday social 
and practical skills. This disability originates 
before the age of 18” (57,82). ID are relatively 
common, affecting just over 1% of the popu-lation (82). One of the major causes of ID is Down syndrome (DS), which is a genetic dis -
order that is characterized by cognitive delay, distinct facial features such as epicanthal folds 
of the eyelids, relatively flat occiput and nasal 
bridge, and short limbs (51). Among its mani -
festations are low muscle tone (hypotonia) and joint laxity (38,51). These latter factors can lead to increased risk of musculoskeletal and orthopedic problems (51).
Several studies have shown that persons 
with IS and/or DS are significantly less active (11), have less muscle strength and endurance (9,19), and have functional declines occur -
ring at a younger age (11) than healthy aged matched adults. Individuals with DS have been shown to be significantly weaker than age and sex matched individuals with mental retarda -
tion other than DS (9,19). This weakness is correlated with low bone mineral density, and risk for osteoporosis is elevated in those indi-viduals affected by DS (9). Finally, individuals with DS are also at increased risk of obesity, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease (38) com -
pared to healthy controls. Increasing physical activity and fitness seems therefore an impor -
tant goal in the management of DS and has the potential to improve health, premature loss in function, and quality of life.
To date, a few studies have examined the 
effects of resistance training in persons with mental retardation generally, or in DS spe -
cifically. Shields and Taylor (111) found that a ten-week machine-based resistance training program resulted in a significant increase in lower limb muscle strength (~42%) in adoles-cents with DS but no improvement in upper body strength. The magnitude of improve -
ment in muscle strength was similar to those 
reported in other populations. The participants 
in Shield and Taylor’s study performed six exer -
cises targeting major muscle groups for 3 sets of 12 repetitions (or until fatigue) and resistance was increased when 3 sets of 12 could be com -
pleted. Similarly, Shields et  al. (112) reported significant increase in lower extremity muscle strength from a resistance program (ten weeks of a machine-based weight training program twice a week, 3 × 12 reps for 7 different exer -
cises at 60–80% 1RM) compared to a program of social activities (ten weeks of supervised social activities) in participants with DS aged 14–22 years. A systematic review by Li et  al. (72) reported on the effect of various exercise interventions on four different fitness outcomes. In this study, strength and balance were signifi -
cantly improved with programs consisting of mixed training (resistance training with balance training or aerobic conditioning) but not when resistance training was implemented on its own. One study only had studied progressive resist -
ance programs on upper body endurance and found endurance to be significantly improved after intervention (72). In addition, Li et  al. reported no serious adverse effects from exer -
cising in this population and the only minor side effect reported was sore hands from hold-ing the weight equipment (72). Though the data is still limited, studies suggest that persons with ID and DS can receive substantial benefits from physical activity (11,72,93). The importance and effects of resistance training in isolation are not well known. More studies need to be under -
taken to study the impact of resistance training on strength, function, and quality of life and  
to determine optimal parameters in persons with ID.
The exercise professional should be crea -
tive in the ways to explain the exercises to ensure proper understanding in this popula -
tion. Simple and short descriptions may be helpful. Modifications may be needed to adapt for tone issues in clients with DS. Care should be taken to maintain good joint alignment and good quality of movement to avoid further laxity in the joints. Exercises in extremes of joint ROM and causing excessive loading on loose joints should be avoided. When in doubt, consulting a physical therapist for guidance may be helpful.
MUSCULAR DYSTROPHIES
Muscular dystrophies (MD)  are a group of 
about 30 inherited muscular diseases that are associated with progressive muscle weakness  

STRENGTH TRAINING FOR SPECIAL POPULATIONS555
and loss of muscle tissue (a.k.a. muscle wast -
ing) (76,91). In MD, the primary pathology 
lies within muscle cells (better known as muscle fibers or myofibers) and not in the motor nerve supply to the muscle. This dis -
tinction from other neuromuscular diseases is important while planning exercise interven -
tions for patients with MD, because the very nature of the myofibers are altered in MD, leading to myofibers being highly susceptible to contraction-induced damage or aberrant 
recovery from injurious muscular contrac -
tions (4,5,63,92,96,100,101). As a result, the 
principles that guide exercise prescription for healthy individuals or individuals with muscle wasting secondary to neurological disorders, might not be suitable for patients with MD. Moreover, since each type of MD has a dis -
tinct pathological basis, and since different patients with the same type of MD might show varied rates of disease progression, the idea of personalized exercise prescription is highly relevant for patients with MD. For more information on the different types of MD, the reader is directed to reviews by Emery et al. and the Muscular Dystrophy Association website (28,76,85,103).
For this section, it would suffice to state 
that, in all types of MD, skeletal muscle under -
goes repeated cycles of degeneration and regeneration. When muscle regeneration is unable to keep up with the rate of degenera-tion, myofibers are permanently lost, resulting in muscle wasting. When exposed to injuri -
ous eccentric contractions, muscles that lack dystrophin (implicated in Duchenne MD (DMD) and Becker MD (BMD) respectively) and muscles that lack dysferlin (implicated in limb-girdle 
muscular dystrophy  (LGMD) type 
2B and Miyoshi myopathy (MM)) undergo extensive myofiber damage, inflammation, and regeneration compared to healthy muscles (101). This data suggests that muscle loading can lead to greater damage in muscles affected by some forms of MD, than seen in healthy muscle (100–102). Repeated exposure to inju-
rious muscle loading during ambulation, ADL, 
and in some cases, aggressive exercise, may possibly be depleting the regenerative capacity of affected muscles over time (65,77,88). Since patients with certain types of MD experience accelerated muscle weakness and wasting with increased muscular activity, the type of wast-ing that is seen, at least in some forms of MD, could be compared to an overuse syndrome (8,126). Moreover, MD, by definition, is pro -
gressive in nature, so the benefits of exercise are likely to be palliative and not curative. As a palliative intervention, one of the goals of resistance exercise could be to maintain suf -
ficient muscle strength in order to preserve independent mobility and participation in ADL for as long as possible.
In an exercise-based interventional study 
by Sveen and colleagues (114), the authors studied patients with LGMD2A (linked to cal -
pain), LGMD2I (linked to FKRP) and BMD to examine if strength training increased mus -
cle strength without causing additional muscle damage (114). The investigators found that, after 24 weeks of low-intensity resistance training (LOIT), which involved performing 3 sets of 12–15 repetitions (40–80% of 1RM), at a frequency of 3 days per week, subjects with MD (N = 8) showed approximately 60% and 40% improvement in strength in the biceps brachii and quadriceps femoris, respectively. Interestingly, healthy control subjects who also participated in the same study only showed approximately 20% and 30% improvement in strength in the biceps brachii and quadriceps femoris, respectively, which suggests that muscles of patients with certain types of MD might actually be hyper-responsive to exercise. In a separate arm of these exercise studies, Sveen and colleagues (114) also evaluated the effect of a high intensity resistance training protocol (HIT) performed over 12 weeks. In the HIT study, subjects trained at increasing levels of intensity during weeks 0–4 (12–8 repetitions, 70–80% 1RM), 4–8 (10–6 repetitions, 75–86% 1RM), and 8–12 (8–4 repetitions, 80–92% 1RM), at a frequency of 3 times per week. In addition to the biceps brachii and quadriceps femoris, the wrist flexors and extensors and the ankle plantarflexors were also exposed to resistance training. Out of the six subjects with MD who 
participated in the study, one patient dropped 
out due to muscle soreness and CK elevation, and another patient dropped out due to time constraints. Based on data from the 4 subjects who completed the study, it was found that only the wrist flexors and extensors significantly 

MARIE E. PEPIN ET AL.556
increased in strength after 12 weeks. Further, 
even though there was no significant increase in CK levels in the four subjects that com -
pleted the study, the subjects did report pain in tendons and joints, indicative of excessive loading. The studies by Sveen et al. (114) thus suggest that low intensity resistance training might be safe and effective for patients with certain types of MD. However, similar to the position taken by the authors of this book chapter, Sveen and colleagues (114) advise 
careful supervision and monitoring of patients 
with MD participating in a resistance training program, in order to ensure that the exercises are indeed beneficial and not doing further harm to the muscles.
A study by Alemdaroglu et al. (3) on chil-
dren with DMD (8–12 years), compared the effects of arm ergometry performed under expert supervision in the laboratory (N = 12) to ROM-strengthening exercises performed as part of a home program (N = 12). The chil -
dren in the ergometry group exercised for 40 minutes, 3 times per week for 8 weeks, at 50% maximal resistance. The ROM-strengthening group performed ROM exercises for vari -
ous upper extremity muscle groups (active resisted, active assisted, or passive, depend -
ing on the subject’s ability), five times per week for eight weeks. On completion of the study, subjects in the ergometry group showed increased strength in only two of the upper extremity muscles or muscle groups that were tested, whereas the ROM-strengthening group showed increased strength in seven of the muscles or muscle groups. Both groups showed improvements in functional outcome. This study did not measure exercise-induced muscle damage (for example, CK or MRI). Nonetheless, as with the Sveen et  al. (114) study, this study demonstrates that dystrophic skeletal muscles might have the potential to respond positively to strengthening exercise.
In summary, individuals with MD may 
benefit from an exercise program. Since MD is progressive in nature, muscle wasting and 
weakness will continue to occur irrespective 
of whether or not patients exercise. However, since maintenance of muscle mass and strength, and prolongation of ambulatory capacity are priorities in the rehabilitative management of MD, incorporating a program of strengthening exercises that is customized to the patient may be beneficial, especially early in the disease process (114). It is important to remember that dystrophic muscles might be highly suscep-tible to exercise-induced muscle damage and that they respond to exercise in unique ways depending on the genetic mutations that cause the dystrophy (101). Depending on the extent of progression, dystrophic muscles might also be deficient in their ability to regenerate from injurious muscle activity. Due to these reasons, 
it is critical that exercise sessions and post-
exercise recovery are carefully monitored, and that exercise dosages are carefully adjusted to derive the benefits of exercise without further aggravating the dystrophic process in affected muscles. Since eccentric contractions, and to a lesser extent isometric contractions, are known to induce muscle injury, it might be advisable to focus on exercises that involve predomi-nantly concentric muscle contractions. As with other disease conditions, it is imperative that patients with any type of MD obtain clearance from a physician before starting or changing an exercise program. Finally, it is worth noting that several promising experimental therapies are likely to become available to patients in the coming years (21,75,86,90,99,115,130). It is therefore all the more important that patients do the best they can to preserve functional muscle mass and stay as active as possible, so that they may be good candidates for newer gene- and/or cell-based therapies as they become available.
NEUROMUSCULAR 
DISEASE
Neuromuscular diseases can be due to dam-
age or dysfunction in the CNS, the peripheral nerves (
neuropathies ), or the muscle tissue 
itself ( myopathies ). Common symptoms of 
neuromuscular diseases include spasticity (which is a velocity dependent resistance to 
stretch), rigidity, weakness, and sensory loss. 
These symptoms can further lead to inactivity and deconditioning, which can then exacerbate motor dysfunction. Historically, activities like resistance exercise have been discouraged for neuromuscular diseases due to concerns about 

STRENGTH TRAINING FOR SPECIAL POPULATIONS557
overstrain and possible exacerbation of spas -
ticity. However, it is now becoming clear that in 
many cases that risk of overwork is much less than previously feared, and concerns regarding spasticity exacerbation are unfounded (24,41). Indeed exercise, and in particular resistance exercise, can be a useful tool in the rehabili -
tation and subsequent management of many neuromuscular conditions, especially for those conditions where weakness is a primary con -
tributor to loss of function.
STROKE
It is typically reported that approximately 795,000 people experience a stroke each year in the United States (125). Strokes are the fifth leading cause of death in the United States and the leading cause of serious long-term disabil -
ity in adults (83). Stroke reduces mobility in more than half of stroke survivors age 65 and over. The combined direct and indirect costs of stroke are estimated at an annual $34 billion.
There are two general categories of stroke. 
An ischemic stroke is conceptually similar to a myocardial infarction in that occlusion of a cerebral artery occurs as a consequence of plaque formation. In contrast, a hemorrhagic stroke results from the loss of structural integ -
rity of a cerebral blood vessel and subsequent bleeding. Both types of stroke can lead to sig-nificant changes in muscle function including weakness and spasticity. The motor symptoms are typically most severe on one side of the body (contralateral to the side of the lesion in the brain) so hemiplegia is common, although even the “good” side frequently shows motor deficits. It was previously thought that motor deficits that had not normalized within the first six months following a stroke were per -
manent, and that neural plasticity was limited. It is now clear, however, that the extent of neu -
ral plasticity is greater than previously thought and significant improvements can occur well after the acute stage of stroke recovery.
Intensive rehabilitation following rehabili-
tation is standard and works toward improving gait, balance, and function, decreasing tone, and increasing quality of movement and independence with home exercise programs (HEP). After a stroke, individuals demonstrate lower levels of physical activity, cardiorespi -
ratory fitness, strength, and power compared to age matched healthy controls (107). These deficits and the physical inactivity that occurs post stroke often remains beyond the dis-charge timeframes from rehab. A properly designed exercise program seems therefore crucial in this population and has the poten-tial to improve function, quality of life, and reduce future cardio-vascular complications (106). A recent systematic review of the litera-
ture by Saunders et al. (107) found sufficient 
data to ascertain the benefit of cardiovascular and mixed programs (resistance and cardiovas -
cular) on walking performance, independence with walking, mobility, and balance.
Historically, resistance training was dis -
couraged for people following a stroke, often on the argument that resistance training might lead to increased spasticity or cause other adverse effects. However, it appears that par -
ticipation in fitness programs does not lead to adverse effects in stroke survivors (107) and that spasticity is not exacerbated by resist -
ance training specifically (10,110). Resistance training has also been shown in some stud-ies to have positive impact on measures of strength (10,29,110,116) and function (29). As with other populations, the improvement in strength has been mainly attributed to adap -
tations in neural control. Engardt et  al. (29) showed increases in agonist EMG following eccentric and concentric-only training from 24 to 33%. The hypertrophic potential of paretic muscle due to stroke has not yet been exam-ined. However, it seems likely that significant adaptations at the muscle level occur, espe-cially given that paretic muscle is significantly deconditioned and would be highly responsive to increased loading.
Two recent systematic reviews have 
attempted to summarize the evidence on resistance training and elucidate the ques -
tions regarding its benefit (104,107). Saunders et al. (107) report some studies that showed benefits from resistance training on the abil-
ity to weight-bear, on walking speed during 
a Time Up and Go test, and some measures of balance. Sometimes, the effect of resistance training was small, and no effect was found for time to ascend one flight of stairs, walking  
ability, or quality of life. Resistance training 

MARIE E. PEPIN ET AL.558
combined with cardiovascular training clearly 
improved balance, had positive effects on mobility (as measured by the Time Up and Go), and improved walking speed and walking capacity. Caution in interpretation of results is warranted as the trials showing benefits were confounded by additional training time in the study group compared to the control group, affecting the strength of the conclusion. The authors conclude that there is insuffi-cient data to reliably determine the effects 
of resistance training post stroke. Resistance 
training combined with cardiovascular train -
ing seems beneficial for walking performance and balance. The authors recommend, when implementing a fitness program, to choose exercises specific to the goal targeted and be “task-related”. In this fashion, if weakness is the major deficit contributing to difficulty get -
ting up from a chair, resistance training should be implemented; if walking is the difficulty, a treadmill program is advisable; and if the patient is at risk for falls, a balance program might be most appropriate.
A similar systematic review performed by 
Salter et  al. (104) looked at resistance train -
ing specifically in the first three months after a stroke. The authors report no significant adverse effects from resistance training but little to no effect on strength, upper limb func -
tion, or mobility. The authors conclude that there is insufficient data to recommend resist -
ance training in the first three months after a stroke. The authors state, however, that the intensity of training was below ACSM rec-ommended parameters for older adults and that this insufficient load might have contrib-uted to the lack of improvement. Finally, the authors propose that the repetitive nature of resistance training and the lack of task speci -
ficity might not be ideal to promote cortical reorganization and improve functional activi-ties early after a stroke.
To date, most studies have employed rela -
tively short training periods (≤ 10 weeks) and longer-term effects are unknown (107). Further, 
studies often had methodological shortcom-
ings such as small sample sizes, inconsistent contact time across groups or poorly defined resistance training protocols (104,107). More research needs to be performed to further define the effects of resistance training on motor function post stroke, and to improve understanding of the different resistance train-ing parameters (e.g., optimal intensity range, appropriate frequency and volume of training, unilateral vs. bilateral training) on outcomes. In the meantime, an individualized program focusing on functional activities appears to be a viable option. Particular attention should be afforded to safety and fall prevention. Exercise modification may be necessary to accommo -
date hypotonic joints (by providing greater 
joint support) and hypertonic joints (by modi -
fying body and joint position to optimize 
movement quality). Clients who have had a stroke often suffer from cardio-vascular dis -
eases, so vitals should be monitored closely and Valsalva avoided during training.
SPINAL CORD INJURY
Spinal cord injury (SCI)  most often results 
from motor vehicle accidents (38%) and falls (30.5%), followed by violence (13.5%) and sports injuries (9%)(20). According to the National Spinal Cord Injury Statistical Center, there are approximately 282,000 persons liv -
ing with an SCI in the United States today. There are 17,000 new cases per year with 80% of those being of the male gender (20). The estimated lifetime cost for a 25-year-old who survives an SCI ranges from $1.58 mil -
lion to $4.72 million (20).
Categorization of SCI is complex and 
depends not only on the level of the injury but also whether the injury is complete or incomplete. For a detailed explanation on classification, the reader is advised to consult the International Standards for Classification 
of Spinal Cord Injury  updated in 2011 (64). 
Briefly, C1-T1 injuries result in tetraplegia (for -
merly quadriplegia) and causes impairments (decreased sensation and motor ability) of the arms, trunk, legs, and pelvic organs; T2 and below injuries result in paraplegia and cause impairments of the trunk, legs, and pelvic 
organs below the level of the injury. A complete 
SCI will lead to complete loss of sensation and paralysis below the level of the lesion.
The lack of neural drive in individuals with 
SCI results in often pronounced weakness and secondary muscle atrophy; exercise is usually 

STRENGTH TRAINING FOR SPECIAL POPULATIONS559
the recommended intervention to improve 
upon those deficits. Volitional exercise is used to exercise non-paralyzed or partially paralyzed muscles, and functional electrical stimulation enhanced activities are often pre -
scribed for limbs without volitional movements (14,54). In addition to the primary motor and neurological deficits discussed earlier, those with SCI are at high risk for secondary prob -
lems like cardiovascular diseases, circulatory insufficiencies, osteoporosis, skin breakdown, 
musculoskeletal dysfunctions, pain, and early 
mortality (27,58). It has been suggested that much of this morbidity and early mortality in persons with SCI is due to inactivity related illnesses (27). Research has indicated that some of these problems may be mitigated with a structured exercise program incorporating appropriate precautions. For example, exer -
cise interventions have been shown to decrease paralysis related bone loss (52), improve blood lipid profiles and platelet aggregation, reduce stress and depression, and improve glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity (27). Also, a strength training program is often helpful for shoulder girdle pain, a common complaint among those with paraplegia (apparently due to the stresses of wheelchair propulsion and transfers) (58). Indeed, improvement in shoul -
der strength and pain was noted in a study that employed shoulder resistance exercises using elastic bands (25). Circuit resistance training, which incorporates periods of low-intensity/high repetition movements (such as a free-wheel arm ergometry) interspersed with a series of resistance training exercises (such as free weights, weight machines, or elastic bands), has also been shown to be effective at improving strength and decreasing shoulder girdle pain (52,58).
A systematic review by Hicks et  al. (54) 
looked at the effects of exercise interventions on strength, body composition, and func -
tional performance in persons with SCI. The authors included 82 studies in their review and concluded that although the study qual -
ity was generally low, there was consistent and good evidence that exercise, performed two to three times per week at moderate-to-vigorous intensity, increases physical capacity and mus-cular strength in the chronic SCI population. The evidence of the positive effects of exercise training on body composition and functional performance was low and there was insuffi -
cient evidence on the effectiveness of exercising in the acute phase of SCI. Furthermore, Hicks et al. looked specifically of the effects of vol-untary resistance training on non-paralyzed muscles of SCI subjects and found that the muscles responded in a fashion similar to those of healthy subjects. Various modes of training were used (circuit resistance training, body weight-supported treadmill training (BWSTT), 
arm ergometry, and kayak ergometry), and 
improvements in strength were seen with as little as five weeks of training. Parameters that led to clear benefits included training three times per week and performing two to three sets at 70–80% of 1RM. Results also showed that nine low quality studies reported improvements in wheelchair skills and propul -
sion following an exercise program of either arm, wheelchair, or rowing ergometry. Most participants trained three times per week at a moderate to high intensity. A more recent RCT by Torhaug et al. (117) showed similar benefits from resistance training. The authors reported that bench press strength training at 85–95% 1RM for six weeks was effective at improv -
ing arm strength and wheelchair propulsion work economy in individuals with paraplegia (117). Bochkezanian et al. (14) systematically reviewed the effect of combined strength and aerobic training on various outcomes. The authors reported that two out of seven stud -
ies reported improvements in aerobic fitness, four out of five showed improvements in at least one strength outcome, and one out of two demonstrated improvements in quality of life. The authors stated that muscle strength training had most benefits when initiated at 50–80% 1RM and progressed as tolerated. The authors concluded that more studies need to be performed to determine the benefits of combined aerobic and strength training in order to better guide prescription.
There seems to be benefits from exercise 
training in SCI; however, the effects of exer -
cise conditioning are inversely proportional to the severity of the primary injury (58). For example, those with tetraplegia may require electrical stimulation or passive movements to use an upper body ergometer resulting in a markedly reduced aerobic training effect 

MARIE E. PEPIN ET AL.560
Box 20.2  Signs and symptoms of autonomic dysrefle xia
 •Pounding headache
 •Blurred vision
 •Nasal congestion
 •Piloerection (goose bumps)
 •Profuse sweating above level of injury
 •Anxiety
 •Sudden increase in systolic blood pressure
 •Cardiac dysrhythmias
(40). In addition, training is not without 
risks, and reports of adverse effects have been documented. To address this concern, Warms et al. (121) reviewed the literature on adverse effects and reported that no serious effects of volitional exercise and functional electri -
cal stimulation (FES)-enhanced exercises had been documented in the studies reviewed (25,117).
In general, the recommendations for 
resistance and aerobic training for individuals with SCI are not significantly different from recommendations for the general population, and should take into consideration specific-ity, overload, progression, and regularity (40). The reader is recommended to read the article by Tweedy et al. that describes the Australian position on exercise guidelines in spinal cord injury subjects (119). The exercise specialist must be aware of the precautions that must be heeded when working with SCI clients. For example, when working with persons with a T6 or higher SCI, one must be aware of the potential life-threatening condition known as autonomic dysreflexia ( Box 20.2). 
Symptoms include an excessive rise in blood pressure,
 slow heart rate, headache, blurred 
vision, and congestion. It can be set off by a noxious stimulus below the level of the injury, such as pressure to a limb or a full bladder. Immediate intervention consists of identifying and removing the noxious stimuli, monitoring blood pressure, and seeking medical help (40). Other precautions include risk of fractures due to osteoporosis, overuse pain due to muscle imbalances, hypotension, and difficulty main-taining thermal stability (58).Knowledge of the type of injury and related 
precautions can minimize the risks and enhance the outcome of exercise programming for persons with SCI.
CARDIOVASCULAR 
DISEASE
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) , which includes 
coronary heart disease and stroke, remains 
the leading cause of death among Americans and is estimated to have an economic cost of over $207 billion each year (22,98). The major risk factors for cardiovascular disease include hypertension, elevated serum total cholesterol, cigarette smoking, and diabetes mellitus (6). In order to reduce the mortality and morbid-ity associated with cardiovascular diseases, researchers have examined the effects of exer -
cise (1,61). Recently, Sattelmair et  al. (105) conducted a meta-analysis examining the dose-response relationship of physical activity on the risks for coronary heart disease. The investiga-tors systematically reviewed studies published from 1995 to 2009 in which the effect of exercise was evaluated on cardiovascular risk factors. They found that exercise reduced car -
diovascular risk factors in a dose-response manner. That is, higher levels of physical activity were associated with a lower risk of developing cardiovascular disease. Indeed, indi -
viduals who engaged in 150 minutes per week of moderate-intensity physical activity had a 14% lower coronary heart disease risk com -
pared with those reporting no physical activity, 

STRENGTH TRAINING FOR SPECIAL POPULATIONS561
while those engaging in 300 minutes per week 
of moderate-intensity physical activity had a 20% lower risk. A systematic review performed in 2012 (73) found similar benefits from physi-cal activity and concluded that:
[a] high level of leisure time PA [physical 
activity] and moderate level of occupational 
PA have a beneficial effect on cardiovascular 
health by reducing the overall risk of 
incidence of coronary heart disease and 
stroke . . . by 20 to 30 percent and 10 to 20 
percent, respectively.
The effects of resistance exercise may also 
reduce cardiovascular risk factors (16,97,124). Kelley and Kelley (60) found that resting systolic  
and diastolic blood pressure decreased by  
2 to 4% following dynamic resistance train-ing exercise in adults. Similar results were found for reductions in resting blood pressure for children and adolescents (62). In addition, resistance training improves insulin sensitivity and glucose tolerance, and the improved mus-cle strength likely decreases the physiological stress of activities of daily living (49,84,97). The comprehensive review by Braith and Stewart (16) describes the evidence for the effect of resistance training for prevention of 
CVD (see Table 20.3). The authors conclude 
that resistance training appears to contribute to CVD reduction and that the evidence sup -
ports 
the guidelines of including moderate 
intensity resistance training for CV health. Table 20.3 summarizes resistance training pre -
scription as per Braith and Stewart (16).
In addition to reducing cardiovascu
-
lar disease risk factors, resistance training is increasingly incorporated into cardiac reha -
bilitation programs in individuals already diagnosed with coronary artery disease. For example, Ades et al. (2) examined the effects of resistance training on functional capac -
ity in older women with coronary heart disease (CHD). A total of 42 CHD subjects were divided into two groups which either performed two sets of eight exercises for the major muscle groups or met three times a week for 40 minutes with a cardiac rehabilita -
tion specialist. The investigators found that the women in the weight training group improved their functional capacity and therefore were able to perform ADL without adverse effects (2). Marzolini et  al. (81) published a meta-analysis on the effect of combined aerobic and resistance training versus aerobic train -
ing alone in individuals with coronary artery disease. The authors concluded that combined aerobic and resistance training was more effec -
tive than aerobic training alone in improving body composition, strength, and some indi-cators of cardiovascular fitness, and did not compromise participant safety. Yamamoto et  al. (127) reviewed the effect of resistance training on its own in middle-aged and elderly patients with CAD. A total of 22 trials with a total of 1,095 participants were included. The authors concluded that resistance training was effective at improving upper and lower extremity strength, exercise capacity, VO
2 max 
in both middle-aged and elderly, and improved mobility in the elderly participants. The opti -
mal exercise intensity was not described, and intensity varied from 40–80% 1RM in the included studies for a duration of 6–29 weeks.
Gielen et al. (48) reviewed and described 
the benefits of exercise training in patients with a variety of heart diseases and made clinical recommendations. The authors report benefits of exercise training in patients with stable CHD, post myocardial infarction, sta -
ble diseases of heart valves, pulmonary arterial hypertension, and chronic heart failure. Gielen et al. (48) included resistance training in the treatment recommendation for all of these dis-eases. The reader is advised to read this review for more detailed information regarding con -
traindications and specific recommendations for each disease entity. The exercise specialist is recommended to gain sufficient knowledge of the heart condition prior to intervention and having the client exercise under proper medical supervision.
Resistance training is also part of most 
treatment interventions for chronic stable heart failure (CHF). Individuals with CHF have sig -
nificant fatigue and shortness of breath with physical activity, and much of the effects seem to be due to changes in skeletal muscle tis-sue including type I muscle fiber atrophy. In a systematic review by Smart el al. (113), resist-ance training in combination with intermittent 

MARIE E. PEPIN ET AL.562
aerobic training led to larger improvements in 
peak VO2 compared to intermittent aerobic 
exercise alone in patients with heart failure. This improvement in peak VO
2 is of great 
importance as it is likely to improve the dysp -
nea and quality of life of individuals with CHF and is a strong predictor of improved prog -
nosis in this population. Exercise training 3–5 days per week for 20 to 60 minutes is usually recommended, but in patients with poor activ-ity tolerance, 3–5 minutes duration 3–4 times a day may be used. Several authors reviewed the effect of resistance training specifically in patients with SHF and all recommend it to be included in the overall patient manage -
ment (79,87,94,108). Readers are directed TABLE 20.3  Summary results from Braith and Stewart (16) regarding the role of resistance training (RT) in 
CVD prevention
Action Specifics
Decreases glycosylated 
hemoglobin (HbA1c) indicating improved glycemic controlIntensity-dependent: benefits maximized when training performed at  70 to 90% 1RM and training > 2 months.
Reduction in blood pressure (BP) Reductions of approximately 3 mm Hg for both systolic and diastolic 
BP in people with normal BP. Effect of RT only on BP in hypertensive 
individuals is not known.
Increase centralarterial stiffnessDuring high-intensity and high-volume training (up to 6 sets) regimens. Central stiffness was not seen with other RT regimens and was not 
associated with increases in BP.
Reduces total body fat Good evidence.
Increased muscle mass by at least 1–2 kg and 40% reduction in visceral fat with RT combined with a healthy diet.
Improves lipid profiles Little evidence but participants tested had cholesterol within normal values at the start of the studies.
Resistance training exercise prescription per Braith and Stewart (16).
Exercise mode Machines are preferred for safety and ease of use; hand-held weights, 
barbells, and elastic bands can also be used.
No. of exercises 8 to 10 exercises for the major muscle groups: chest, shoulders, arms, back, abdomen, thigh, lower legs.
Intensity 30 to 40% of 1RM for upper body and 50% to 60% for lower body exercises. If 1RM testing is not possible or advisable, use a weight that 
can be lifted for 8 to 10 repetitions; increase weight when 15 repetitions 
can be done easily.
Duration Session including a single set of 8 to 10 exercises should take about  
20 minutes.
Frequency At least twice per week.
Precautions Risk/benefit ratio of resistance exercise is very favorable. 
Contraindications to RT are the same as those for aerobic exercise. Treatment for systolic BP >160 mm Hg or diastolic BP >100 mm Hg should be initiated before starting any type of exercise program. Avoid 
extended breath-holding to minimize exaggerated BP response.

STRENGTH TRAINING FOR SPECIAL POPULATIONS563
to Mandic et  al. (79) for more information 
on physiological effects of resistance training in CHF patients and to Selig et al. (108) for specific exercise guidelines recommendations/contraindications. Table 20.4 summarizes 
the current resistance training guidelines for heart failure patients who have slight to no limitations in physical activity; in general,
 low 
resistance/high repetition is usually recom-mended at the initiation of the program and is progressed slowly as tolerated.
Current resistance training guidelines 
for heart failure patients with no limitations or only slight limitation to physical activity 
(79,108) are shown in Table 20.4.
In conclusion,
 the principles of resistance 
training do not differ in those with heart diseases 
than in those without, but particular attention must be paid to minimize risks of cardiovas -
cular events during training, and increased supervision and monitoring is recommended. Contraindications to resistance training include unstable angina, uncontrolled hypertension (systolic ≥ 160 mm Hg, diastolic ≥ 100 mm Hg), uncontrolled dysrhythmias, severe valvu-lar disease, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, left ventricular outflow obstruction, and untreated congestive heart failure (7,97). Patients need physician approval prior to training, initial intensity should be low, and progression should be relatively slow. After surgery, up to three months may be required before starting resist -
ance training (97) and particular caution is needed when initiating exercises with patients who had open heart surgery due to the incision they received through the sternum.A combination of aerobic exercise and circuit 
resistance training improves skeletal muscle function, vasculature to skeletal muscle, as well as functional capacity in patients with cardiovascular disease.
SUMMARY
Resistance exercise in concert with cardiovas -
cular and flexibility exercise is an important 
component of exercise programs in the gen -
eral population. It is increasingly apparent that resistance exercise provides significant benefits to children, adolescents, and the well elderly. Furthermore, resistance exercise appears to provide significant benefits to individuals with a variety of conditions such as COPD, AIDS, diabetes, and neuromuscular diseases. With few exceptions (Duchenne muscular dystro -
phy), the benefits of resistance exercise far outweigh the potential risks, especially when properly designed and supervised. Nonetheless, caution should be applied when introduc -
ing progression into a program. Using a team approach with appropriate health care provid -
ers can enhance the safety and effectiveness of the program. Future research needs to further delineate the program design variables (inten-sity, frequency, volume, etc.) that maximize benefits (including functional outcomes) while minimizing deleterious effects for different dis -
eases and syndromes. In addition, longer-term studies need to be performed to assess the ben -
efits and risks of prolonged resistance exercise for these special populations.
TABLE 20.4  Current resistance training guidelines for heart failure patients with no limitations or only slight 
limitations to physical activity
Sets 1 set progressed to up to 3 sets
Repetitions 6 to 15
Number of 
exercises4 to 8 for the major muscle groups
Intensity RPE range of 11 to 15 (6 to 20 point Borg Scale) or 40–50% 1RM initially and progressed to 50–60% 1RM later on
Muscles targeted Small muscle groups/few muscles at a time
Length Short work phases
Work to rest ratio 1:2

MARIE E. PEPIN ET AL.564
CASE E xAMPLE
Background
Mr. Jackson, a 76-year-old avid golfer, complains that he is having increasing difficulty with 
bending, walking on hills and uneven ground, and getting in and out of the golf cart. He has a history of bilateral knee osteoarthritis controlled with NSAIDs, and hypertension controlled with medication. He admits not adhering to exercise programs in the past but is now moti -
vated because he wants to continue golfing.
Intervention
After having Mr. Jackson complete a health screen questionnaire and getting clearance from 
his physician, exercise testing is performed as outlined in another chapter in this volume. The components of the fitness program should focus on strength and flexibility of the lower extremities targeting major muscle groups used in daily activities and golf, aerobic condition -
ing, and balance and coordination activities. Review sections on sarcopenia, osteoarthritis, and cardiovascular disease for more information.
For resistance training, a five- to ten-minute warm-up should be followed by strength 
training for major muscle groups, focusing on lower extremities, but including upper extremi -
ties and trunk as all are important for golf and other activities of daily living. Begin with 65 
to 75% of 1RM, and progress to 85 to 100% of 1RM as tolerated, 2 to 3 sessions per week, 8 to 12 repetitions. Knee pain should be monitored, and activities modified if increased pain and inflammation are reported. For example, open chain knee extensions could be replaced with closed chain leg presses, load could be reduced, or arc of motion modified to a pain-free range. The session would end with stretching to the major muscle groups.
For aerobic conditioning, a combination of activities could be used including treadmill walk -
ing, stationary bicycling, and water activities. Treadmill walking is functional, and inclines can be gradually introduced to simulate hill walking. Stationary bicycling has the advantage MAxiNG OUT
1 A 30-year-old man wants assistance in designing an exercise program. He is 100 pounds overweight, smokes one pack of cigarettes per day, and complains of knee pain when climbing stairs. What parameters should his program have? Are there any special considerations?
2 An 85-year-old male had a stroke five years ago and has some residual right-sided weak -
ness with mild spasticity, although he is able to walk independently and live alone. His daughter has brought him to the gym and wants him to start an exercise program. His goal is to stay as independent as possible. Is it safe to start him on a resistance training program? What types of exercise would be most appropriate for him?
3 A 44-year-old male volunteer coach for the high school football team wants to start work-ing out with his son who is on the team. He had a heart attack six months ago, and has completed cardiac rehabilitation phases 1, 2, and 3. Now he wants to stay fit and asks for some advice. What are some guidelines and precautions for an exercise program?

STRENGTH TRAINING FOR SPECIAL POPULATIONS565
of providing knee range of motion, which can be increased by lowering the seat height. Water 
aerobics can provide cardiovascular conditioning while minimizing joint stresses. Mr. Jackson should be taught perceived level of exertion, age-related target heart rate, and advised to moni -
tor his blood pressure. He could be encouraged to join an exercise group to enhance adherence.
Supervised but simple balance and coordination activities such as grapevine walking,  
single-leg balance, and walking on an exercise mat to simulate uneven ground can become independent once safety is established. Mr. Jackson should be educated on the importance of an ongoing program, warning signs for cardiovascular disease, and osteoarthritis precautions.
REFERENCES
 1. ACSM. American College of Sports 
Medicine Position Stand. The recommended quantity and quality of exercise for developing and maintaining cardiorespiratory and muscular fitness, and 
flexibility in healthy adults. Med Sci Sports 
Exerc 1998; 30: 975–991.
 2. Ades PA, Savage PD, Cress ME, et al. Resistance training on physical performance in disabled older female cardiac patients. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2003; 35:1265–1270.
 3. Alemdaroglu I, Karaduman A, Yilmaz OT, et al. Different types of upper extremity exercise training in Duchenne muscular dystrophy: effects on functional performance, strength, endurance, and ambulation. Muscle 
Nerve 2015; 51:697–705.
 4. Allen DG, Gervasio OL, Yeung EW, 
et al. Calcium and the damage pathways in muscular dystrophy. Can J Physiol Pharmacol 2010; 88:83–91.
 5. Allen DG, Whitehead NP, Yeung EW. Mechanisms of stretch-induced muscle damage in normal and dystrophic muscle: role of ionic changes. J Physiol 2005; 567:723–735.
 6. American College of Sports Medicine., Franklin BA, Whaley MH, et al. In: ACSM’s Guidelines for Exercise Testing and Prescription, 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; 
2000:33–130.
 7. American College of Sports Medicine., 
Whaley MH, Brubaker PH, et al. ACSM’s Guidelines for Exercise Testing and Prescription, 7th ed., 30th anniversary ed. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & 
Wilkins; 2006.
 8. Angelini C, Peterle E, Gaiani A, et al. 
Dysferlinopathy course and sportive activity: clues for possible treatment. Acta Myologica: Myopathies and Cardiomyopathies: Official Journal of the Mediterranean Society of Myology / edited by the Gaetano Conte 
Academy for the study of striated muscle 
diseases 2011; 30:127–132.
 9. Angelopoulou N, Matziari C, Tsimaris V, 
Sakadamis A, Souftas V, Mandroukas K. Bone mineral density and muscle strength in young men with mental retardation (with and without Down syndrome). Calcified 
Tissue International 2000; 66:176–180.
 10. Badics E, Wittman A, Rupp M, Stabauer 
B, Zifko UA. Systematic muscle building exercises in the rehabilitation of stroke patients. Neurorehabilitation 2002; 17:211–214.
 11. Bartlo P, Klein PJ. Physical activity benefits and needs in adults with intellectual disabilities: systematic review of the literature. Am J Intellect Dev Disabil 2011; 116:220–232.
 12. Behringer M, Vom Heede A, Matthews M, et al. Effects of strength training on motor performance skills in children and adolescents: a meta-analysis. Pediatr Exerc Sci 2011; 23:186–206.
 13. Bernhardt DT, Gomez J, Johnson, MD, Martin TJ, Rowland TW, Small E, LeBlanc C, Malina R, Krein C, Young JC, Reed FE, Anderson SJ, Griesemer BA, Bar-Or O. Strength training by 
children and adolescents. Pediatrics 2001; 
107:1470–1472.
 14. Bochkezanian V, Raymond J, de Oliveira CQ, et al. Can combined aerobic and muscle strength training improve aerobic fitness, muscle strength, function and quality of life in people with spinal cord injury? 
A systematic review. Spinal Cord 2015; 
53:418–431.
 15. Borde R, Hortobagyi T, Granacher U. Dose-response relationships of resistance 

MARIE E. PEPIN ET AL.566
training in healthy old adults: a systematic 
review and meta-analysis. Sports Med 2015; 45:1693–1720.
 16. Braith RW, Stewart KJ. Resistance exercise training: its role in the prevention of cardiovascular disease. Circulation 2006; 113:2642–2650.
 17. Bureau USC. U.S. Census Bureau Facts for Features: Older Americans Month – May 2016.
 18. Cadore EL, Rodriguez-Manas L, Sinclair A, et al. Effects of different exercise interventions on risk of falls, gait ability, and balance in physically frail older adults: a systematic review. Rejuvenation Res 2013; 
16:105–114.
 19. Carmeli E, Ayalon M, Barchad S, Sheklow 
SL, Reznick AZ. Isokinetic leg strength of institutionalized older adults with mental retardation with and without Down’s Syndrome. J Strength Cond Res 2002; 
16:316–320.
 20. Center NSCIS. Spinal Cord Injury (SCI) 
Facts and Figures at a Glance.
 21. Chicoine LG, Rodino-Klapac LR, Shao G, et al. Vascular delivery of rAAVrh74.MCK.GALGT2 to the gastrocnemius muscle of the rhesus macaque stimulates the expression of dystrophin and laminin alpha2 surrogates. 
Mol Ther 2014; 22:713–724.
 22. Chobanian A V, Bakris GL, Black HR, 
et al. Seventh report of the Joint National Committee on prevention, detection, evaluation, and treatment of high blood pressure. Hypertension 2003; 
42:1206–1252.
 23. Cruz-Jentoft AJ, Landi F, Schneider SM, 
et al. Prevalence of and interventions for sarcopenia in ageing adults: a systematic review. Report of the International Sarcopenia Initiative (EWGSOP and IWGS). 
Age Ageing 2014; 43:748–759.
 24. Curtis CL, Weir JP. Overview of exercise 
responses in healthy and impaired states. Neurology Report 1996; 20:13–19.
 25. Curtis KA, Tyner TM, Zachery L. Effect of a standard exercise protocol on shoulder pain in long-term wheelchair users. Spinal Cord 1999; 37:421–429.
 26. Dahab KS, McCambridge TM. Strength training in children and adolescents: raising the bar for young athletes? Sports Health 2009; 1:223–226.
 27. Ditor DS, Hicks AL. Exercise therapy after spinal cord injury: the effects on heath and function. Crit Rev Biomed Eng 2009; 37:165–191. 28. Emery AE. The muscular dystrophies. Lancet 2002; 359:687–695.
 29. Engardt M, Knutsson E, Jonsson M, Sternhag M. Dynamic muscle strength training in stroke patients: effects on knee extension torque, electromyographic activity, and motor function. Archives of 
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation 1995; 
76:419–425.
 30. Evans WJ. Effects of exercise on body composition and functional capacity of the elderly. J Gerontol 1995; 50A:147–150.
 31. Evans WJ. Exercise training guidelines for the elderly. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1999; 31:12–17.
 32. Evans WJ. Effects of exercise on senescent muscle. Clinical Orthopaedics and Related Research 2002; 403S:S211–S220.
 33. Faigenbaum AD, Milliken LA, LaRosa Loud R, Burak BT, Doherty CL, Westcott WL. Comparison of 1 and 2 days per week of strength training in children. Research Quarterly for Exercise and Sport 2002; 
73:416–424.
 34. Faigenbaum AD, Milliken LA, Westcott WL. 
Maximal strength testing in healthy children. J Strength Cond Res 2003; 17:162–166.
 35. Faigenbaum AD, Kraemer WJ, Cahill B, Chandler J, Dziados J, Elfrink LD, Forman E,  
Gaudiose M, Micheli LJ, Nitka LM,  Roberts S. Youth resistance training: position statement paper and literature 
review. Strength Cond 1996; 18:62–75.
 36. Faigenbaum AD, Westcott WL, Long C, 
LaRosa R, Loud M, Delmonico M, Micheli L.  
Relationship between repetitions and selected percentages of the one-repetition maximum in healthy children. Pediatric Physical Therapy 
1998; 10:110–113.
 37. Falk B, Tenenbaum G. The effectiveness of 
resistance training in children. Sports Med 1996; 22:176–186.
 38. Fernhall B. Physical fitness and exercise training of individuals with mental retardation. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1993; 25:442–450.
 39. Fiatarone MA, Marks EC, Ryan ND, Meredith CN, Lipsitz LA, Evans WJ. High-intensity strength training in nonagenarians: effects on skeletal muscle. Journal of the American Medical Association 1990; 
263:3029–3034.
 40. Figoni SF. Spinal cord disabilities: paraplegia 
and tetraplegia. In: Durstine JL, Moore GE eds, ACSM’s Exercise Management for Persons with Chronic Diseases and Disabilities. 2nd ed. Champaign, IL: Human 
Kinetics; 2003:247–253.

STRENGTH TRAINING FOR SPECIAL POPULATIONS567
 41. Forrest G, Qian X. Exercise in 
neuromuscular disease. Neurorehabilitation 1999; 13:135–139.
 42. Foundation IO. Facts and Statistics. 2015.
 43. Frontera WR, Suh D, Krivickas LS, Hughes VA, Goldstein R, Roubenoff R. Skeletal muscle fiber quality in older men and women. Am J Physiol 2000; 279:C611–C618.
 44. Frontera WR, Hughes VA, Fielding RA, et al. Aging of skeletal muscle: a 12-yr longitudinal study. J Appl Physiol 2000; 88:1321–1326.
 45. Frontera WR, Hughes VA, Fielding RA, Fiatarone MA, Evans WJ, Roubenoff R.  Aging of skeletal muscle: a 12-yr longitudinal study. J Appl Physiol 2000;  88:1321–1326.
 46. Garber CE, Blissmer B, Deschenes MR, et al. American College of Sports Medicine position stand. Quantity and quality of exercise for developing and maintaining cardiorespiratory, musculoskeletal, 
and neuromotor fitness in apparently 
healthy adults: guidance for prescribing exercise. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2011; 
43:1334–1359.
 47. Giangregorio LM, McGill S, Wark JD, et al. Too fit to fracture: outcomes of a Delphi consensus process on physical activity and exercise recommendations for adults with osteoporosis with or without 
vertebral fractures. Osteoporos Int 2015; 
26:891–910.
 48. Gielen S, Laughlin MH, O’Conner C, et al. Exercise training in patients with heart disease: review of beneficial effects and clinical recommendations. Progress in Cardiovascular Diseases 2015; 57:347–355.
 49. Goldberg L, Elliot DL, Keuhl KS. Cardiovascular changes at rest and during mixed static and dynamic exercises after weight training. J Appl Sport Sci Res 1988; 2:42–45.
 50. Golob AL, Laya MB. Osteoporosis: screening, prevention, and management. Med Clin North Am 2015; 99:587–606.
 51. Goodman CC, Glanzman A. Genetic and developmental disorders. In: Goodman CC, Boissonnault WG, Fuller KS. ed, Pathology Implications for the Physical Therapist, 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Saunders; 
2003:829–870.
 52. Hammond ER, Metcalf HM, McDonald JW, 
et al. Bone mass in individuals with chronic spinal cord injury: associations with activity-based therapy, neurologic and functional status, a retrospective study. Arch Phys Med Rehabil 2014; 95:2342–2349.
 53. Helleckson KL. NIH releases statement on osteoporosis prevention, diagnosis, and therapy. Am Fam Physician 2002; 66:161–162.
 54. Hicks AL, Martin Ginis KA, Pelletier CA, et al. The effects of exercise training on physical capacity, strength, body composition and functional performance among adults with spinal cord injury: 
a systematic review. Spinal Cord 2011; 
49:1103–1127.
 55. Howe TE, Shea B, Dawson LJ, et al. Exercise for preventing and treating osteoporosis in postmenopausal women. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2011, DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD000333.pub2: CD000333.
 56. Hughes VA, Frontera WR, Wood M, Evans WJ, Dalla GE, Roubenoff R, Fiatarone Singh MA. Longitudinal muscle strength changes in older adults: influence of muscle mass, physical activity, and health. J Gerontol A 
Biol Sci Med Sci 2001; 56A:B209–B217.
 57. Intellectual AAo, (AAIDD) aDD. Definition 
of Intellectual Disability. 2013. AAIDD.
 58. Jacob PL, Nash MS. Exercise recommendations for individuals with spinal cord injury. Sports Med 2004; 34:727–751.
 59. Jette AM, Branch LG. The Framington disability study: II-. The Framingham Disability Study: II. physical disability among the aging. AJPH 1981; 71:1211–1216.
 60. Kelley GA, Kelley KS. Progressive resistance exercise and resting blood pressure: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Hypertension 2000; 35:838–843.
 61. Kelley GA, Kelley KS, Tran ZV. Walking and resting blood pressure in adults: a meta-analysis. Prev Med 2001; 33:120–127.
 62. Kelley GA, Kelley KS, Tran ZV. The effects of exercise on resting blood pressure in children and adolescents: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Prev Cardiol 2003; 6:8–16.
 63. Khairallah RJ, Shi G, Sbrana F, et al. Microtubules underlie dysfunction in Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy. Sci Signal 2012; 5:ra56.
 64. Kirshblum SC, Burns SP, Biering-Sorensen F,  
et al. International standards for neurological classification of spinal cord injury (revised 2011). J Spinal Cord Med 2011; 34:535–546.
 65. Krag TO, Hauerslev S, Sveen ML, et al. Level of muscle regeneration in limb-girdle 

MARIE E. PEPIN ET AL.568
muscular dystrophy type 2I relates to 
genotype and clinical severity. Skelet Muscle 2011; 1:31.
 66. Kraschnewski JL, Sciamanna CN, Ciccolo JT,  
et al. Is exercise used as medicine? Association of meeting strength training guidelines and functional limitations among older US adults. Prev Med 2014; 66:1–5.
 67. Kraschnewski JL, Sciamanna CN, Poger JM,  
et al. Is strength training associated with mortality benefits? A 15 year cohort study of US older adults. Prev Med 2016; 87:121–127.
 68. Latham NK, Bennett DA, Stretton CM, et al. Systematic review of progressive resistance strength training in older adults. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci 2004; 59A:48–61.
 69. Latham NK, Bennett DA, Stretton CM, et al. Systematic review of progressive resistance strength training in older adults. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci 2004; 59A:48–61.
 70. Lesinski M, Prieske O, Granacher U. Effects and dose-response relationships of resistance training on physical performance in youth athletes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Br J Sports Med 2016, DOI: 
10.1136/bjsports-2015-095497.
 71. Lexell J, Taylor CC, Sjostrom M. What is the 
cause of the ageing atrophy? Total number, size and proportion of different fiber types studied in whole vastus lateralis muscle from 15- to 83-year-old men. Journal of the 
Neurological Sciences 1988; 84:275–294.
 72. Li C, Chen S, Meng How Y, et al. Benefits 
of physical exercise intervention on fitness of individuals with Down syndrome: a systematic review of randomized-controlled trials. Int J Rehabil Res 2013; 36:187–195.
 73. Li J, Siegrist J. Physical activity and risk of cardiovascular disease: a meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies. International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health 2012; 9:391–407.
 74. Lloyd RS, Faigenbaum AD, Stone MH, et al. Position statement on youth resistance training: the 2014 International Consensus. Br J Sports Med 2014; 48:498–505.
 75. Long C, McAnally JR, Shelton JM, et al. Prevention of muscular dystrophy in mice by CRISPR/Cas9-mediated editing of germline DNA. Science 2014; 345:1184–1188.
 76. Lovering RM, Porter NC, Bloch RJ. The muscular dystrophies: from genes to therapies. Phys Ther 2005; 85:1372–1388.
 77. Luz MA, Marques MJ, Santo Neto H. Impaired regeneration of dystrophin-deficient muscle fibers is caused by exhaustion of myogenic cells. Brazilian Journal of Medical and Biological Research =  
Revista brasileira de pesquisas medicas e biologicas 2002; 35:691–695.
 78. Malek MH, Nalbone DP, Berger DE, et al. Importance of health science education for personal fitness trainers. J Strength Cond Res 2002; 16:19–24.
 79. Mandic S, Myers J, Selig SE, et al. Resistance versus aerobic exercise training in chronic heart failure. Curr Heart Fail Rep 2012; 9:57–64.
 80. Martins WR, de Oliveira RJ, Carvalho RS, et al. Elastic resistance training to increase muscle strength in elderly: a systematic review with meta-analysis. Arch Gerontol Geriatr 2013; 57:8–15.
 81. Marzolini S, Oh PI, Brooks D. Effect of combined aerobic and resistance training versus aerobic training alone in individuals with coronary artery disease: a meta-analysis. EJPC 2012; 19:81–94.
 82. Maulik PK, Mascarenhas MN, Mathers CD, et al. Prevalence of intellectual disability: a meta-analysis of population-based studies. Res Dev Disabil 2011; 32:419–436.
 83. Mayo NE. Stroke. 1. Epidemiology and recovery. Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation State of the Art Reviews 1993; 7:1–25.
 84. McCartney N, McKelvie RS, Martin J, et al. Weight training induced attenuation of the circulatory response of older males to weight lifting. J Appl Physiol 1993; 74:1056–1060.
 85. MDA. List of Neuromuscular Diseases. 2016.
 86. Mendell JR, Rodino-Klapac L, Sahenk Z, et al. Gene therapy for muscular dystrophy: lessons learned and path forward. Neurosci Lett 2012; 527:90–99.
 87. Meyer K. Resistance exercise in chronic heart failure: landmark studies and implications for practice. Clin Invest Med 2006; 29:166–169.
 88. Morgan JE, Zammit PS. Direct effects of the pathogenic mutation on satellite cell function in muscular dystrophy. Experimental Cell Research 2010; 316:3100–3108.
 89. Moritani T, deVries HA. Potential for gross muscle hypertrophy in older men. Am J Physical Med 1980; 35:672–682.
 90. Nelson CE, Hakim CH, Ousterout DG, et al.  
In vivo genome editing improves muscle function in a mouse model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Science 2016; 351:403–407.
 91. NLMS. Muscular Dystrophy. 2016.

STRENGTH TRAINING FOR SPECIAL POPULATIONS569
 92. Oak SA, Zhou YW, Jarrett HW. Skeletal 
muscle signaling pathway through the dystrophin glycoprotein complex and Rac1. J Biol Chem 2003; 278:39287–39295.
 93. Oviedo GR, Guerra-Balic M, Baynard T, et al. Effects of aerobic, resistance and balance training in adults with intellectual disabilities. Res Dev Disabil 2014; 35:2624–2634.
 94. Palevo G, Keteyian SJ, Kang M, et al. Resistance exercise training improves heart function and physical fitness in stable patients with heart failure. J Cardiopulm Rehabil Prev 2009; 29:294–298.
 95. Payne VG, Morrow Jr JR, Johnson L, Dalton SN. Resistance training in children and youth: a meta-analysis. Res Q Exerc Sport 1997; 68:80–88.
 96. Petrof BJ, Shrager JB, Stedman HH, et al.  
Dystrophin protects the sarcolemma from stresses developed during muscle contraction. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 1993; 90:3710–3714.
 97. Pollock ML, Franklin BA, Balady GJ, et al.  
AHA Science Advisory. Resistance Exercise in 
Individuals With and Without Cardiovascular Disease: Benefits, Rationale, Safety, and Prescription – An Advisory from the 
Committee on Exercise, Rehabilitation, and 
Prevention, Council on Clinical Cardiology, American Heart Association. Position paper endorsed by the American College of Sports Medicine. Circulation 2000; 101:828–833.
 98. Prevention CfDCa. Heart Disease Fact Sheet . 
2016.
 99. Robinson-Hamm JN, Gersbach CA. Gene therapies that restore dystrophin expression for the treatment of Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Hum Genet 2016; 135:1029–1040.
 100. Roche JA, Lovering RM, Roche R, et al. Extensive mononuclear infiltration and myogenesis characterize recovery of dysferlin-null skeletal muscle from contraction-induced injuries. Am J Physiol 
Cell Physiol 2010; 298:C298–C312.
 101. Roche JA, Ru LW, Bloch RJ. Distinct effects 
of contraction-induced injury in vivo on four different murine models of dysferlinopathy. J Biomed Biotechnol 2012; 2012:134031.
 102. Roche JA, Tulapurkar ME, Mueller AL,  et al. Myofiber damage precedes macrophage infiltration after in vivo injury in dysferlin-deficient A/J mouse skeletal muscle. Am J Pathol 2015; 185:1686–1698.
 103. Sahenk Z, Mendell JR. The muscular dystrophies: distinct pathogenic mechanisms invite novel therapeutic approaches. Curr Rheumatol Rep 2011; 13:199–207. 104. Salter K, Musovic A, Taylor NF. In the first 3 months after stroke is progressive resistance training safe and does it improve activity? A systematic review. Top Stroke Rehabil 2016, DOI: 10.1080/10749357.2016.1160656: 
1–10.
 105. Sattelmair J, Pertman J, Ding EL, et al. Dose 
response between physical activity and risk of coronary heart disease: a meta-analysis. Circulation 2011; 124:789–795.
 106. Saunders DH, Greig CA, Mead GE. Physical activity and exercise after stroke: review of multiple meaningful benefits. Stroke 2014; 45:3742–3747.
 107. Saunders DH, Sanderson M, Hayes S, et al. Physical fitness training for stroke patients. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2016; 3:CD003316.
 108. Selig SE, Levinger I, Williams AD, et al. Exercise & Sports Science Australia Position Statement on exercise training and chronic heart failure. Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport / Sports Medicine 
Australia 2010; 13:288–294.
 109. Services AoAAfCLUSDoHaH. A profile of 
older Americans: 2013. DOI: www.aoa.acl.gov/Aging_Statistics/Profile/2013/Index.aspx.
 110. Sharp SA, Brouwer BJ. Isokinetic strength training of the hemiparetic knee: effects on function and spasticity. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation 1997; 78:1231–1236.
 111. Shields N, Taylor NF. A student-led progressive resistance training program increases lower limb muscle strength in adolescents with Down syndrome: a randomised controlled trial. J Physiother 
2010; 56:187–193.
 112. Shields N, Taylor NF, Wee E, et al. A 
community-based strength training programme increases muscle strength and physical activity in young people with Down syndrome: a randomised controlled trial. 
Res Dev Disabil 2013; 34:4385–4394.
 113. Smart NA, Dieberg G, Giallauria F.  
Intermittent versus continuous exercise 
training in chronic heart failure: a meta-analysis. Int J Cardiol 2013; 
166:352–358.
 114. Sveen ML, Andersen SP, Ingelsrud LH, et al. Resistance training in patients with limb-girdle and Becker muscular dystrophies. Muscle Nerve 2013; 47:163–169.
 115. Tabebordbar M, Zhu K, Cheng JK, et al. In vivo gene editing in dystrophic mouse muscle and muscle stem cells. Science 2016; 351:407–411.

MARIE E. PEPIN ET AL.570
 116. Teixeira-Salmela LF, Olney SJ, Nadeau 
S, Brouwer B. Muscle strengthening and physical conditioning to reduce impairment and disability in chronic stroke survivors. Archives of Physical Medicine and 
Rehabilitation 1999; 80:1211–1218.
 117. Torhaug T, Brurok B, Hoff J, et al. The 
effect from maximal bench press strength training on work economy during wheelchair propulsion in men with spinal cord injury. Spinal Cord 2016, DOI: 
10.1038/sc.2016.27.
 118. Trappe S, Williamson D, Godard M. 
Maintenance of whole muscle strength and size following resistance training in older men. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci 2002; 57:B138–B143.
 119. Tweedy SM, Beckman EM, Geraghty TJ, et al. Exercise and sports science Australia (ESSA) position statement on exercise and spinal cord injury. Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport / Sports 
Medicine Australia 2016, DOI: 10.1016/j.
jsams.2016.02.001.
 120. Villareal DT, Steger-May K, Schechtman KB, et al. Effects of exercise training on bone mineral density in frail older women and men: a randomised controlled trial. Age Aging 2004; 33:309–312.
 121. Warms CA, Backus D, Rajan S, et al. Adverse events in cardiovascular-related training programs in people with spinal cord injury: a systematic review. J Spinal Cord Med 2014; 37:672–692.
 122. Watanabe Y, Tanimoto M, Oba N, et al. Effect of resistance training using bodyweight in the elderly: comparison of resistance exercise movement between slow and normal speed movement. Geriatr Gerontol Int 2015; 15:1270–1277.
 123. Weir JP, Housh TJ, Johnson GO, Housh DJ, Ebersole KT. Allometric scaling of isokinetic peak torque: the Nebraska Wrestling Study. Eur J Appl Physiol 1999; 80:240–248.
 124. Williams MA, Haskell WL, Ades PA, et al. Resistance exercise in individuals with and without cardiovascular disease: 2007 update – a scientific statement from the American Heart Association Council 
on Clinical Cardiology and Council on 
Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Metabolism. Circulation 2007; 116:572–584.
 125. Williams WGR, Jiang JG, Matcher DB, Samsa GP. Incidence and occurrence of total (first-ever and recurrent) stroke. Stroke 1999; 30:2523–2528.
 126. www .jain-foundation.org. Patient Stories. 2016.
 127. Yamamoto S, Hotta K, Ota E, et al. Effects of resistance training on muscle strength, exercise capacity, and mobility in middle-aged and elderly patients with coronary artery disease: a meta-analysis. Journal of 
Cardiology 2016; 68:125–134.
 128. Yarasheski KE. Exercise, aging, and muscle 
protein metabolism. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci 2003; 58:M918–922.
 129. Yarasheski KE, Pak-Loduca J, Hasten DL, et al. Resistance exercise training increases mixed muscle protein synthesis rate in frail women and men >/=76 yr old. Am J Physiol 1999; 277:E118–125.
 130. Zhao C, Farruggio AP, Bjornson CR, et al. Recombinase-mediated reprogramming and dystrophin gene addition in mdx mouse induced pluripotent stem cells. PLoS One 2014; 9:e96279.

Contents
Introduction  573
Training considerations for females  574
Training considerations for older adults  587
Summary  595
References  597

21 CHAPTER
OBJECTIVES
After completing this chapter, you will be able to:
•	Identify the gender-specific physiological and anatomical considerations that a coach or strength 
and conditioning professional should consider before designing a training program.
•	Understand nutritional considerations specific to women.
•	Appreciate the effect of the menstrual cycle on athletic performance and physical activity.
•	Understand the factors that affect an exercising pregnant woman.
•	Understand strength and power relationships as a function of gender and age.
•	Understand the effect of strength training on bone mineral density in women and older adults.AGE AND GENDER TRAINING  
CONSIDERATIONS
Tammy K. Evetovich and Joan M. Eckerson
KEY TERMS
Amenorrhea
AnemiaBasal metabolic rate 
(BMR)
Corpus luteumDisordered eatingElectrolyteGlycogenHemoglobinHemolysisMacronutrientMenarcheMenstrual cycleMenstruationMicronutrientOral contraceptiveOsteoporosisProgesteroneRadiationRecommended dietary 
allowance (RDA)
INTRODUCTION
Age and gender refer to special populations 
that will be focused on in greater detail in this chapter. Both are discussed in Chapter 20, Special populations. Based upon the research that has been undertaken and the endorsement of several respected organizations, it is clear that women and older adults can and should par -
ticipate in strength and conditioning activities so that they may enjoy the health and athletic benefits that can lead to better quality of life and performance. This chapter will attempt to address some of the many physiological, 

TAMMY K. EVETOVICH, JOAN M. ECKERSON574
anatomical, sociological, and psychological 
considerations that come to the forefront when considering women and older adults and how they should be trained for fitness, competition, and health.
TRAINING 
CONSIDERATIONS  FOR FEMALES
In 1970, only 1 out of every 27 high school 
girls played varsity sports. Today, that ratio is 1 in 2.5, which is similar to the participa -
tion rate of high school boys (1 in 2). To gain a better appreciation of the overall change, the number of females participating in high school sports increased from 294,015 in 1971 to 2,472,043 in 1997 to over 3,000,000 today, and women participating in college sports has more than tripled, from 31,000 to 250,000.
The increase in athletic participation 
among women has been largely attributed to Title IX legislation, which states that: “No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to dis -
crimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.” Although athletic participation was not directly mentioned in the law, because Title IX prohibits sex discrimination in any educa-tional program or activity at any educational institution that is a recipient of federal funds, it includes high school, college, and university athletes. Other organizations have long rec-ognized that women should be afforded the opportunity to compete athletically and par -
ticipate in all forms of physical and training activities:
National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) 
“An athletics program can be considered gender equitable when the participants in both the men’s and women’s sports programs would accept as fair and equitable the overall program of the other gender. No individual should be discriminated against on the basis of gender, institutionally or nationally, in intercollegiate athletics.” (NCAA Gender-Equity Task Force – www.ncaa.org)The Women’s Sports Foundation “we want equal opportunity for our daughters to play sports so they too can derive the psychological, physiological and sociological benefits of sports participation. Sport has been one of the most important socio-cultural learning experiences for boys and men for many years. Those same benefits should be afforded our daughters.” (www.womenssportsfoundation.org)
American Association of University Professors 
(AAUP) “Enhancing athletic opportunity for young women and girls is of vital importance because of the significant physical, psychological, and sociological benefits those opportunities provide. A number of studies have recognized the role that athletic opportunities for women provide in promoting greater academic success, responsible social behaviors, and increased personal skills.” (2)
The increase in the number of females par -
ticipating in athletics over the last 50 years has 
resulted in growing interest in research for this population. The consensus is that the benefits of physical activity on health and social behaviors is similar to that observed in men, and also pro -
vides benefits specific only to women including a decreased risk of breast cancer and osteoporosis; decreased incidence of smoking and depres -
sion; decreased teenage pregnancy rates; better  
performance in the classroom; prevention of heart disease; and a healthier body weight.
There has also been considerable research 
to help answer the question, of whether men and women should be considered separately and uniquely when designing strength and conditioning programs, optimizing nutri-tional status, and encouraging a healthy psychological profile given their anatomical, physiological, and psychological differences.
National Strength and Conditioning Association 
(NSCA) (32) regarding strength training for female athletes: “It appears that proper strength and conditioning exercise programs may increase athletic performance, improve physiological function and reduce risk of injuries. These effects are as beneficial to female athletes as they are to men. The question that has to be addressed is whether female athletes require different training modalities, programs or personnel than those required by male athletes.

AGE AND GENDER TRAINING CONSIDERATIONS575
Due to similar physiological responses, it 
seems that men and women should train for 
strength in the same basic way, employing similar methodologies, programs and types of exercises. Coaches should assess the needs of each athlete, male or female, individually, and train that athlete accordingly. Coaches should keep in mind that there are many more differences between individuals of the same gender than between men and women. Still, there are many psychological and/or physiological considerations that should be taken into account in training female athletes.”
Gender differences
There are substantial differences between men 
and women when considering anatomical and physiological variables that may impact train -
ing and performance. Table 21.1 provides a gender comparison for many of these variables. For example, from an anatomical perspective, on average, women are shorter than men, have higher percent body fat, and have smaller bone mass. Physiologically, women have higher rest -
ing heart rates, lower lung volumes, unique hormone profiles, and similar muscle fiber type distribution patterns. In addition, women tend to be weaker than men in absolute terms, but when strength is expressed per unit of muscle mass the differences begin to disappear.
In general, men and women respond simi -
larly when examining strength, hypertrophic, and metabolic responses to training. Both sexes have specific training needs and their pro -
grams should be based upon their objectives, activities that they will participate in, and their individual genetic predispositions. However, there are some training considerations that come to light in that many of the anatomical and physiological gender-related differences noted in Table 21.1 could potentially translate into variations in training methods and athletic performance. For example, with regard to resist-ance training, given that some research has 
TABLE 21.1  Gender comparisons of men to women
Physiological and anatomical 
variablesGender comparison
Height Women are shorter than men
Weight Women weigh less than menWomen have more fat weight than menWomen have less fat free weight than men
Circumferences Women generally have smaller circumferences
Diameters Women generally have smaller diameters with narrower shoulders, smaller chest diameters, but a wider pelvis relative to their body size
% body fat Women have higher body fat (average for 20- to 34-year-old men and women is 12% and 28%, respectively)
Bones Women have smaller bones than men, with peak bone mass occurring around age 25
Ligaments Women have smaller ligaments and may have differences in ligament laxity due to differences in steroidal hormones
Joints Women have greater joint laxity
Absolute strength Women are 35–80% as strong as men (35–50% for upper body and 60–80% for lower body)
Muscle fiber cross-sectional area Women less than men
(continued)

TAMMY K. EVETOVICH, JOAN M. ECKERSON576
Physiological and anatomical 
variablesGender comparison
Fast-twitch to slow-twitch muscle fiber areaWomen less than men
Intramuscular fat and connective tissueWomen greater than men
Strength per unit of muscle cross-sectional areaWomen are equal to men for the most part, although this is debatable for the upper body whereby women may be less than men
Resting testosterone levels Women lower than men
Muscle hypertrophy The degree to which female muscle hypertrophies is smaller in absolute terms, but the relative degree of hypertrophy is equal to that of men
Resting growth hormone levels Women greater than men
Rate of muscle force development Women slower than men in absolute terms but relatively the same (based on a percent of maximal force)
Fiber type Muscle fiber type (slow vs. fast twitch) distribution patterns are similar for men and women
Posture Women have greater anterior pelvic tilt, femoral internal rotation, knee hyperextension, and knee valgus
Q angle Quadriceps (Q angle) = 8–15 in men and 12–19 in women
Flexibility Women are more flexible than men at all ages and throughout the lifespan
Lung volume Women have lower tidal and ventilatory lung volumes
Heart rate Adult women have average 5–10 beats/minute faster resting heart rates than adult men
VO
2 max Women less than men
Cardiac output Women less than men
Hemoglobin Women less than men
Reaction time Women same as men
Running economy and endurance At the same submaximal velocity elite male runners are more economical then female runners
Limb length Women have shorter limb length relative to body length
Pelvis width Women wider than men
Shoulder width Women narrower than men
Intercondylar notch Women narrower notch
Posterior tibial slope Women greater slope
Surface area to body mass ratio Women larger than men
Sweat rate Women lower rate than menTABLE 21.1  (continued)

AGE AND GENDER TRAINING CONSIDERATIONS577
found that women may have less upper-body 
strength, even when taking into consideration strength relative to lean body mass and cross-sectional area, it may be beneficial for the female client/athlete that participates in sports and activities that require strong upper body strength (swimming, power lifting, softball, volleyball) to spend a greater amount of time during training on their upper body strength (10). In addition, it has been suggested (10) that women should devote more time, par -
ticularly during the off-season, to resistance training that causes a high metabolic demand, with high volume and multiple sets with short rest periods (hypertrophic training), given that this may increase the acute hormone response to exercise, stimulate lean body mass, and then further stimulate an acute hormonal response. The increased acute hormonal response during the hypertrophic phase would then result in greater development in the strength and power phases of a training program.
Also, coaches and personal trainers may 
want to consider altering lifting technique for some women. It is thought that narrow shoul -
der width observed in women may be cause for concern when performing overhead lifts. Thus, coaches and personal trainers should pay close attention to hand spacing in women. Also, because of differences between the sexes in the Q angle and greater pelvic width, some have suggested that women may want to perform squats with a toe forward stance; however, others have not deemed this change necessary. Therefore, the strength and condi-tioning professional should make their best judgment on what technique and stance is appropriate for each athlete.
Other gender-related anatomical vari-
ations that may lead to altered training and measurement methods include the following:
•	Women have smaller bones and, therefore, 
lower bone mass. Strength training and weight bearing exercises may be particu-larly important to incorporate into their strength and conditioning routine so that they are not as likely to develop 
osteoporo-
sis later in life.
•	Women have smaller ligaments and there is some thought that this may be responsible for the higher incidence of ligament injury, particularly at the knee. In addition, greater joint laxity, possibly due to gender differ -
ences in hormone profiles, may increase the risk for injury in women.
•	Body fat and body weight recommendations should be based upon % body fat not body weight. Optimal levels of % body fat are sport specific, and coaches/athletes should be aware that accurate assessment of body fat can be difficult and is dependent upon the type of technique used and the competence of the person performing the measurements. Before any weight loss or weight gain pro -
gram is undertaken, coaches and personal trainers need to be aware of the societal signals that may be pressuring women and affecting their assessment of their own body image. Eating disorders are observed at a 
higher rate in women and team weigh-ins or other public measurements of weight should be discouraged to avoid making them self-conscious of their body weight. For athletes, it is recommended that body fat gain and loss programs should be undertaken in the off-season under the guidance of a nutritionist or other professional educated on the recom -
mended nutrition levels for 
macronutrients  
and micronutrients , so that body fat goals 
can be met in a healthy manner (3).
Social and psychological 
considerations for resistance training
Progress has been made to encourage women to 
participate in strength and power training activi-ties. However, cultural and sociological pressure is an issue that needs to be considered when expecting the female client to adhere to a strength training program. There are still concerns about feminine appearance, appropriateness of behav -
ior, self-esteem, and self-consciousness both inside and outside the weight room. In addition, there continues to be misinformation about the importance of strength training for maximizing female athletic performance. A survey by Poiss et al. (37) indicated that male student-athletes were more likely to consider weight training an essential part of every training program regard-less of sport and were more likely to weight train more days per week with more minutes per training session.

TAMMY K. EVETOVICH, JOAN M. ECKERSON578
Not only are women struggling to decide 
whether to incorporate resistance training 
into their training routine, but some coaches of female athletes do not consider it a prin -
cipal component of an overall conditioning program (37). This same survey indicated that weight training was more frequently required by coaches of male student-athletes than by coaches of female student-athletes. The authors went on to say that this difference was an “indication that coaches of women athletes may not consider weight training an important element as part of an athlete’s regular training program,” and it is clear that we must teach that weight training is important for female and male student-athletes.
There are many points to reflect upon 
when attempting to understand the social stig-mas that women encounter when considering whether to begin and adhere to a strength training program. The following are some general considerations and recommendations when attempting to create an environment that is more socially acceptable and inviting to female resistance trainers:
•	Help women realize that it is not physi -
ologically possible (due to their hormonal 
profile) to amass large amounts of mus -
cle. Women who avoid heavy resistance training should know that body circumfer -
ences do not tend to change dramatically with the increase in muscle mass that accompanies resistance training. In fact, circumferences may decrease due to a loss of fat with training.
•	Having a female role model in the weight room is important for social acceptance, particularly for young girls. Therefore, both male and female strength and conditioning coaches need to be available in all facilities.
•	Make sure men and women have equal access to weight room equipment so that they will be more likely to adhere to a program.
•	Create a weight room environment and cul-ture that is not intimidating to women.
•	Make sure that separate men’s and wom -
en’s weight rooms have equitable types of equipment and machines.
•	When setting up fitness room equipment, consideration should be given to the layout of the facility and the ability of a woman to maintain her modesty while lifting. This may mean that certain pieces of equipment should be turned or faced toward a wall or be placed in a more private area so that the woman feels comfortable in the weight room environment.
•	Consider not having mirrors on some walls in a fitness facility so that individuals can participate in floor work and face away from the middle of the facility and not be concerned about how their reflection may be viewed by others in the facility.
•	Make sure that there is a wide array of weights and machines that can accommo-date all levels of weight training and are the proper dimensions for many different types of body weights, statures, and sizes.
•	Remove all magazines and reading materi -
als that may have sexist images or portray women in an unhealthy manner from the weight room and other training facilities.
•	Do not allow language in the weight room that someone may find offensive.
•	Do not play music or television programs in the weight room that are offensive or sexist.
Improving resistance training 
adherence
In an article (19) that outlined strategies for 
improving resistance training adherence in female athletes, the primary approaches included:
•	Develop a positive relationship with the 
athlete.
•	Learn about the athlete’s history and confi -
dence related to resistance training.
•	Learn about the athlete’s perceptions, expectations, and goals.
•	Educate the athlete.
•	Identify constraints and possible reasons for lapses in adherence.
•	Develop appropriate goals.
•	Start and progress the athlete appropriately.
•	Create a program that is conducive to the constraints of the athlete.
•	Create alternatives to weight room strength training.
•	Create group exercise sessions to provide peer modeling of resistance training.

AGE AND GENDER TRAINING CONSIDERATIONS579
•	Retest strength and functional abilities, 
reward progress.
•	Provide a planned and unplanned feedback system.
•	Create an exercise environment conducive to resistance training adherence.
Although great progress has been made in 
convincing women that weight training is safe, socially acceptable, and beneficial for maximiz -
ing fitness and performance, there is still much work that needs to be done. It can be chal -
lenging for educators, personal trainers, and coaches to facilitate adherence to a resistance training program in women. Raising social awareness, erasing myths, confronting nega -
tive attitudes, and challenging stereotypes are all important tasks that must be undertaken to bolster support so that women can be viewed as athletes and competitors in the weight room without having to sacrifice their femininity.
Menstrual cycle
Many times, coaches, strength and condition-ing professionals, athletes, and other active women ask the question, “Does the menstrual cycle affect athletic performance and adher -
ence to physical activity programs in women?” In short, they are asking whether the steroid hormone fluctuations that occur during the 
menstrual cycle  can maximize or hinder per -
formance depending upon the phase of the cycle. Before we can examine this question, however, a basic understanding of the men -
strual cycle is necessary.
Follicular phase
The menstrual cycle can be divided into three phases: the follicular phase, ovulation, and the luteal phase. The follicular phase begins with the onset of 
menstruation  (day 1) and 
lasts through about day 13. During this phase, immature eggs called primordial follicles begin to develop into primary follicles, in response to an increase in follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), which starts to produce very low levels of estrogen. Although about 20 follicles begin 
developing during a cycle, only one attains maturity and is released and continues to pro -
duce estrogen. The estrogen level continues to increase and peaks about 24–48 hours before ovulation. The rising level of estrogen stimu-lates the hypothalamus to secrete luteinizing 
hormone (LH) so that there is an LH “surge” during the late follicular phase. It is this surge that triggers ovulation. Thus, in summary, FSH is needed to make the follicles mature, the growing follicles release estrogen which ulti -
mately results in the LH surge. As LH surges, estrogen levels begin to decrease and another hormone, 
progesterone , begins to increase.
Ovulation
The LH surge causes the primary follicle to burst and release its egg (ovulate). This release usually occurs around day 14 of a 28-day cycle.
Luteal phase
After ovulation, the luteal phase begins and continues until the first day of menstruation (beginning of the follicular phase). During this phase, the empty follicle is now called the 
cor-
pus luteum , or yellow body, which is secreting 
primarily progesterone. Progesterone lev-els will reach a peak about seven days after ovulation. The hormones secreted during this phase prevent new follicles from devel -
oping and any further release of eggs so that multiple ovulations do not occur during a cycle. In addition, progesterone is important in supporting a pregnancy should the egg be fertilized and the corpus luteum will continue to support the egg until the placenta can take over. If fertilization does not occur, the corpus luteum will quickly begin to stop functioning as the luteal phase progresses and progester -
one levels begin to decrease. It is this decrease in hormone levels that triggers menstruation and allows a new cycle to begin. The men -
strual cycle will begin anew and FSH will begin to stimulate the maturation of primor -
dial follicles.
Given our brief discussion on the phases 
of the menstrual cycle, it is apparent why those working with female athletes won-der whether the menstrual cycle and the associated fluctuations in steroid hormones (estrogen and progesterone in particular) that occur over the cycle, could affect per -
formance. As discussed, estrogen starts to 

TAMMY K. EVETOVICH, JOAN M. ECKERSON580
increase in the follicular phase, peaking 
around ovulation, and during the luteal phase both estrogen and progesterone are elevated. It is hypothesized that these fluctuations in hormones could have many physiologi-cal ramifications that could adversely affect performance including changes in ther -
moregulation, respiration, and strength of muscular contraction. Several review papers (29,30,31,45) have been published over the years examining the effect of menstrual cycle phase on performance.
Although this topic has been examined 
quite extensively, there is still much research that needs to be conducted to fully under -
stand the effect of the menstrual cycle on exercise performance. Small sample sizes and case studies, the type of subjects used in the studies (trained vs. untrained; sport specific athletes), different types of exercise testing in the research, study eligibility cri -
teria, method for verification of menstrual cycle phase, examining maximal neural acti-vation versus voluntary muscle actions, 
oral 
contraceptive  usage and dosage, menstrual 
history, menstrual disturbances, all need to be considered when examining the research. Nevertheless, a recent report (45) attempted to provide the most recent findings in the research on this matter for muscle strength and fatigability, maximal oxygen consump-tion (V O
2 max), and prolonged aerobic 
activities.
It is possible that the hormone fluctuations that 
occur across the menstrual cycle can affect performance.
Effect of the menstrual cycle on 
muscular strength and endurance
Steroid hormones like estrogen and progester -
one may improve strength and delay muscle 
fatigue at certain phases of the menstrual cycle. Many studies have been conducted on women yet it is difficult to compare studies when hormone concentrations and menstrual cycle phase were not verified, the maximum force-generating capacity of the muscle was not reached (superimposed electrical stimula-tion was not applied to the muscle), and/or the subjects were taking some type of oral contraceptive (“the pill”). When limiting this discussion to studies whereby maximal elec -
trical stimulation was applied, hormone level verification was conducted accurately, and subjects were non-pill users, it was concluded (45) that menstrual cycle phase does not affect muscle strength and fatigability. There was a more recent study (5), however, that satisfied all the methodological considerations above and did find a significant increase in strength (isokinetic knee extension and flexion and iso -
metric knee flexion) around ovulation. Thus, although much research has been conducted in this area, the effects of the menstrual cycle on muscular strength are still unclear.
Effect of the menstrual cycle on 
endurance performance
Although there are potentially many factors 
that could theoretically affect aerobic endur -
ance performance across the menstrual cycle, two issues have come to the forefront and have received the most interest: fluid and body temperature changes.
Effect of the menstrual cycle on  
body fluids and body weight
Changes in body weight due to fluctuations in 
fluid retention across the cycle could affect VO2 
max. Fluid fluctuations may also affect plasma volume, which could ultimately affect the ability to transport oxygen (
hemoglobin  con-
centration) to the working tissues. In addition, blood loss that occurs during menstruation could affect performance. Studies examining this topic have not done a good job verifying menstrual cycle phase with hormone measure-ments and/or did not conduct measurements often enough during the cycle to provide an answer as to whether athletes should be con -
cerned about whether their performance may be affected. However, after examining the liter -
ature, there may be two potential factors that the coach and athlete may want to consider. First, if daily measurements of body weight are conducted, there may be some indication that a slight increase in body weight may be present during the late luteal and early folli -
cular (during menstruation) phases. In those 

AGE AND GENDER TRAINING CONSIDERATIONS581
sports where body weight plays a crucial role, 
performance may be affected. Second, women who lose significant amounts of blood (more than 80 mL) during menstruation have been shown to have a significantly lower hemo -
globin concentration (45), which may affect endurance performance.
Changes in body temperature
Body temperature (BT) increases during ovu -
lation and remains elevated during the luteal phase (40) because of an increase in proges -
terone levels. An increase in BT could affect female athletes in many ways such as increasing heart rate and/or creating greater cardiovascu -
lar strain (particularly in the heat). It has been determined that for every 1° increase in BT, the resultant increase in HR may be as much as seven beats per minute. The increase in BT observed in the luteal phase is only about 0.5°. Thus, most studies report no change in exer -
cising heart rate over the menstrual cycle.
Heat illness in females
During exercise, heat is produced with mus-cular activity, and if the heat production is compounded by a decreased ability to dissi -
pate the heat (via conduction or 
radiation ), as 
in the case of a hot or humid environment, there is an increased risk of developing a heat illness. The threshold for the onset of sweat -
ing may be higher during the luteal phase, and as stated earlier, there is also a slight increase in core temperature during this phase (25,31), which, one might speculate, may put them at a greater risk for heat illness. However, women have been shown to be very tolerant to heat while exercising, across all phases of the men -
strual cycle. In fact, a review by Marsh and Jenkins (31) suggests that the surge in estro -
gen observed before ovulation may lower the hormonally increased set point, which could prove to be a beneficial adaptation for women exercising in the heat at this point in the menstrual cycle. To avoid heat illness for all athletes, it is important that they understand the symptoms of heat illness and adjust their training and competition schedule whenever possible so that they are not exercising during the hottest part of the day.Menstrual cycle and hormonal  
training considerations
There are not many indications that there are 
physiological variables that affect exercise performance across the menstrual cycle for regularly menstruating women participating in strength-specific or anaerobic/aerobic sports and activities. The only potential physiological factor that may be of concern to the coach of a female is that there is possibly a detrimen-tal effect on performance for those women that participate in prolonged exercise in the heat during the luteal phase. In these instances, athletes and coaches may want to adjust their training and competition schedule to the wom -
an’s menstrual cycle, so that the time spent in training is used most efficiently.
To control extraneous variables and verify 
menstrual cycle phases, most studies examining the effect of the menstrual cycle on performance only use eumenorrheic (regularly menstruating) 
subjects. With that in mind, most findings suggest that eumenorrheic female athletes should not be affected by menstrual cycle phase; however, we do not know if this statement holds true for those women who have menstrual disturbances. There is much inter- and intra-individual variation with regard to the effect that the menstrual cycle can have on each specific woman and recognition of this individuality should be considered.
Although there are not many physiologi-
cal indicators that have been shown to affect performance with regard to the menstrual cycle, can we definitively conclude that, for the most part, a woman’s menstrual cycle does not affect her performance? Just ask any woman and she will tell you that the effect of the men -
strual cycle should not be discounted. Why? Many women report that changes in energy, mood, pain, etc., are apparent during certain phases of their cycle (usually before or during menstruation) and that their performance is affected due to discomfort, lack of motivation, and/or changes in mental status and mood. Thus, coaches and strength and conditioning professionals may want to consider whether there are methods to make the active and com-petitive woman more comfortable whether it be the use of ibuprofen to help with pain and discomfort, medications to help regulate the cycle, stress management techniques to help 

TAMMY K. EVETOVICH, JOAN M. ECKERSON582
with mood fluctuations, and/or methods to 
motivate the athlete or recreationally active woman so that she can perform at peak levels. Women usually understand their bodies very well and should experiment with all kinds of methods and techniques and find what works best for them.
Using oral contraceptives to 
manipulate the cycle
One method that some women utilize if they 
are concerned about the effect the menstrual cycle may have on their performance, or if they wish to control symptoms that accompany their menstrual cycle (mood changes, discom-fort, etc.), is to use oral contraceptives (OCs). A review (38) nicely outlined the prevalence of use of OCs in female athletes. It was reported through published and anecdotal data that use of OCs has increased from 5 to 12% in the early 1980s to 83% of elite athletes in 2008 (38).
OCs are small pills that are taken by 
mouth daily and are a combination of syn -
thetic estrogen and progesterone. OCs usually come in a package of 28 pills that contain 21 active pills with hormones and 7 placebo pills; however, there are many other formulations. In addition, there are other methods of absorb -
ing these small amounts of hormones into the body (vaginal rings, injection, vaginal inserts) but most research that has been reviewed for this topic involved OC ingestion. Nevertheless, all serve to prevent pregnancy primarily by preventing ovulation. How? Going back to our discussion of the phases of the menstrual cycle, oral contraceptives “fool” the body so that it produces less FSH and LH so that the follicle is not developed and released.
Due to the consistent consumption of these 
small amounts of hormones on a daily basis it is thought that women are considered to be in a more “stable” hormonal environment (even though there is a placebo week where hor -
mones are withdrawn) and that performance, therefore, will be less affected by hormonal fluctuations. Some have also hypothesized that the small amounts of steroid hormones found in these pills could help build strength. OCs are often prescribed for a variety of reasons including: prevention of pregnancy, to regulate the cycle particularly with 
amenorrhea , to pre-
vent cramping/pain, to regulate heavy flow, to aid in performance, to prevent injury (7), and possibly as a means to prevent menstruation for convenience and psychological reasons. For the most part, however, most users of OCs are taking these synthetic hormones to pre-vent pregnancy and to alleviate the discomfort associated with menstruation.
However, what if the pill actually affected 
performance based upon physiological factors? The review by Rechichi et al. (38) indicated that there is the potential for aerobic capac -
ity, anaerobic capacity, anaerobic power, and reactive strength to vary between users of oral contraceptives when compared to non-OC users. However, it was noted that due to vari -
ations in methodological procedures in studies examining this issue (again, small sample sizes in the research studies, the type of subjects used in the studies, and different types of formula -
tions of OCs), it is difficult to discern whether OCs affect performance. However, the review did provide the following conclusions:
Anaerobic activity – it is unclear whether anaerobic performance is affected by OC consumption. There have been some stud-ies that have shown that anaerobic capacity and reactive strength (important in sprint-ing and jumping performance) (39) could be affected at certain times in the OC cycle.
Muscular strength – it is generally accepted 
that the hormones found in OCs do not have enough of an androgenic effect to influence muscular strength over an OC cycle (34).
Aerobic performance – there is very little 
evidence to suggest that aerobic perfor -
mance is affected by OC use.
Advantages and disadvantages of 
OC usage
There are many factors that need to be con -
sidered by an athlete and her coach while 
reviewing the research so that an informed decision can be made as to whether taking 

AGE AND GENDER TRAINING CONSIDERATIONS583
an OC would be beneficial. Before deciding a 
woman should consider the potential advan-tages and disadvantages of using OCs.
Potential advantages
•	For women who do not want to become pregnant, the pill may be an acceptable form of contraception.
•	For women who are amenorrheic and have the potential for developing 
osteoporosis , 
OC usage may be beneficial. However, it should be noted that there are conflicting reports as to whether OCs can actually help prevent bone loss in amenorrheic individuals.
•	For women who want to manipulate their cycle (delaying or initiating menstruation) for training and competition purposes, the pill may be helpful. It should be noted that this is a controversial use for the pill and some physicians do not condone this method since not menstruating can mask health problems that manifest themselves through changes in the amount of bleeding that is observed.
•	For women who would like to experience the convenience of not menstruating there are some OC formulations that limit the number of times per year that menstruation will occur.
•	For women who have significant cramping and pain before and during menstruation OCs may alleviate the discomfort.
•	For women who think the menstrual cycle could affect their performance from a physi -
ological standpoint (affecting strength, aerobic capacity, anaerobic performance) and want to have a more stable hormone profile across the cycle, OC use may be for them.
•	For endurance athletes who experience severe blood loss during menstruation, OCs may reduce blood loss and decrease the potential for impaired oxygen carrying capacity.
•	For women who think that the more sta-ble hormone environment provided by OCs will help prevent injury (7), perhaps they will choose to take the pill, although ath-letes should not be advised that OCs will definitely reduce the risk of injury.Potential disadvantages
Some women who take OCs experience side effects such as fluid retention, breast tender -
ness, and nausea. In addition, there is the possibility of hypertension, cardiovascular 
disease, and increased risk of breast cancer for some women. Of particular concern for athletes may be the weight gain that for some (not all), can accompany pill usage since that can directly affect performance. In addition, it actually can be a controversial decision when a woman is deciding whether or not to take the pill. For example, some think that taking a synthetic hormone is considered unethical. These individuals may not think any exog -
enous hormones should be put into the body.
Regardless of the reason, an athlete needs 
to make an informed and individualized deci -
sion, in consultation with her strength and conditioning professional and physician as to whether taking the pill is a good decision. Daily consumption of an OC can affect each woman in a different manner. This decision can be affected by an athlete’s moral values, type of sport in which she competes, individual physi -
ological response to the pill, level of menstrual discomfort, health profile, etc., and the right of a woman to make this decision on an individual -
ized basis should be respected and not dictated.
Female athlete triad
As discussed in Chapter 4, the Skeletal System, the menstrual cycle does not, for the most part, affect performance. However, does exercising and par -
ticipating in athletics affect the menstrual cycle? Women involved in intense exercise can experi -
ence disturbances in the menstrual cycle including delayed 
menarche , cessation of menstruation, and 
infertility. In fact, when these disturbances in the menstrual cycle are accompanied by other risk factors (
disordered eating , low bone mineral den -
sity, inadequate caloric intake), it is referred to as a syndrome known as the female athlete triad.
The female athlete triad is a term used to 
refer to the relationship between low energy intake, menstrual disturbances, and low bone mineral density. The estimated prevalence rate has been reported to be as high as 62% in female athletes (although men can be diagnosed 

TAMMY K. EVETOVICH, JOAN M. ECKERSON584
with this syndrome as well) (8). At particular 
risk are those women that compete in sports and activities where leanness, low body weight, and body image are considered important. It should be noted that it is not just competitive athletes that are at risk, but those women and young girls who regularly engage in intense physical activity should also be considered at high risk.
The syndrome begins with inadequate 
dietary intake. This can be a result of severe restriction of calories (due to an intentional reduction in food intake, disordered eating, or 
intense physical training without a concomi-tant increase in calories). If low caloric intake continues, the athlete can then experience a disrupted menstrual cycle. In addition, the low caloric intake results in the inadequate intake of certain vitamins and minerals (such as vita -
min D and calcium) and lower hormone levels (estrogen) that are essential for normal bone growth and building. The inability to reach peak bone mass during the early years of a woman’s life may not be reversible and may ultimately result in a diagnosis of osteoporo-sis. The low bone mineral density observed in these women may also put them at greater risk (when compared to eumenorrheic women) for stress fractures (4).
Coaches and trainers can be instrumental 
in recognizing the signs and symptoms of this 
syndrome. Early detection and diagnosis are critical to prevent compromised health in the long term. There are many published guidelines for the recognition, diagnosis, and treatment of the triad (4,6,8,9). It is recommended that screening occurs during the pre-participation exam or annual health screening. Treatment of this disorder requires a multi-discipline approach among the coach, strength and con -
ditioning professional, physician, a dietitian,  
and family. Treatment may involve a combi -
nation of nutritional counseling (these women 
should be carefully monitored for adequate caloric intake and proper nutrition), psycho -
logical counseling, family involvement, and pharmacological therapy.
Although most coaches and strength and 
conditioning professionals may not be clini -
cally trained to treat someone with an eating disorder, they should be acquainted with some of the signs and symptoms (8):•	Changes in eating habits (unnecessary dieting, not eating, secretive or ritualistic eating habits)
•	Changes in exercise behaviors (excessive or unnecessary exercising)
•	Exercising while injured despite medically prescribed activity restrictions
•	Depression
•	Restlessness
•	Distorted body image and exhibiting self-criticism
•	Intense fear of gaining weight and excessive frequency of weight measurements
•	Social withdrawal
•	Irritability
•	Insomnia
•	Concerns about eating in public or fre-quently eating secretively
•	Inflexible thinking and limited spontaneity
•	Cold intolerance
•	Constipation or other bowel irregularities
•	Stress fractures
•	Amenorrhea or menstrual dysfunction
•	Dry skin
•	Brittle hair and nails
•	Dizziness
•	Low blood pressure
•	Irregular heartbeat
•	Sores in the mouth or throat
•	Damaged teeth or gums
•	Use of diet pills, laxatives, or diuretics
•	Going to the bathroom immediately after a meal or snack
•	Hair loss
•	Low heart rate (bradycardia)
•	Low blood sugar (hypoglycemia)
•	Muscle cramping
•	Callus or abrasion on back of hand (from inducing vomiting)
•	Fine downy body hair (lanugo)
•	Lethargy and fatigue
•	Eating until the point of pain or discomfort (binge eating)
•	Substance abuse (legal, illegal, prescription, or over-the-counter)
Nutritional considerations in 
females
Caloric intake for an inactive woman should 
be between 1600 to 2000 calories per day. However, when women exercise, there is a need for increased caloric intake to 2200 

AGE AND GENDER TRAINING CONSIDERATIONS585
to 2400 calories per day or more and up to 
3000 calories per day may be necessary for extremely active competitive athletes. Further, a more specific recommendation of 39 to 44 kcal/kg body weight/day may be necessary for strength training female athletes (43). It has also been recognized that women may need to consume slightly more kcals during the follicular phase of their menstrual cycle to maintain body weight given that the resting energy expenditure rate is higher during the luteal phase compared to the follicular phase. For an excellent description of a more detailed method for calculating energy requirements in young woman athletes, see the review by Volek et al. (43).
As active women age, their calorie require -
ments decrease primarily as a result of a progressive loss of muscle mass, commonly referred to as sarcopenia. It has been esti -
mated that roughly 20–30% of lean mass is lost between the third and eighth decade of life (15), which results in a decrease in the 
basal 
metabolic rate (BMR) . Older, active individu -
als have an advantage over their sedentary peers, since exercise helps maintain mus-cle mass and, thus, keeps their BMR higher; however, a decrease in energy requirements is a natural function of aging. For example, the energy requirement for an 80-year-old woman is approximately 400 kilocalories less per day compared to a 20-year-old woman of the same height, weight, and physical activity level (41).
Unfortunately, women are at a greater risk 
than men for micro- and macro-nutrient defi -
ciencies, since it is more common for women to 
resist increasing their calorie intake, participate in disordered eating (ten times more prevalent in women than men), eliminate a particular food item from their diet, focus on consuming only a few certain food items, or participate in severe weight loss practices because of fears of gaining weight and changing their appearance. In addition, there are many sports that ar e 
“weight dependent” whereby because the ath-
lete’s performance is affected by their weight they try to cut their caloric intake to keep their body weight low. Further, for many athletic competitions there are contour-revealing uni-forms or the body appearance is important for scoring. These sports include gymnastics, long distance running, ballet, diving, and skating, to name a few. Women in these sports in par -
ticular may be struggling to balance their food intake with concerns about their performance and body image. For these reasons, the female athlete may be deficient in many vitamins and minerals because they just are not eating enough food and/or are not getting enough variety of foods. This ultimately can affect the female athlete’s health, performance, and body image. The following is a discussion of nutritional considerations that are specific to the female athlete. For a thorough discussion of nutritional consideration for all athletes, see Chapter 7, Nutrition, in this book.
Minerals that are particularly important 
for female athletes include iron, calcium, zinc, and magnesium. Iron is important for trans -
porting oxygen to working muscles and for production of metabolic enzymes. The 
recom-
mended dietary allowance (RDA)  is 15 mg for 
teenage women, 18 mg for adult women, and 8 mg for older women, since iron needs decrease with the onset of menopause. Iron intake in women is often inadequate due to low calorie intake, excessive sweat loss, foot-strike 
hemol-
ysis (particularly for endurance runners), and 
women may lose a significant amount of iron each month with blood loss due to menstrua-tion. Thus, most women are not aware that they have 
anemia  (low iron levels) and that 
their performance may be suffering due to lack of iron. Some 40 to 50% of women have a certain degree of iron depletion even though 
they may not have overt anemia (26). Although 
their iron needs are lower, older women can experience iron depletion and anemia, particu -
larly if their energy intake is low. Runners tend to have a greater risk of having anemia and black adolescent female runners have twice the incidence of anemia when compared to white female runners (26). Further, recent reports have indicated that all types of athletes (not just runners) may exhibit a decline in their iron status during training and that iron supplemen -
tation may be beneficial for both endurance and team sport female athletes (22).
Calcium is important for building bones 
and teeth, muscle contraction, nerve impulse 
conduction, and fluid regulation. Women may find themselves deficient in calcium consump -
tion due to disordered eating, elimination of certain food items from their diet, dieting, low 

TAMMY K. EVETOVICH, JOAN M. ECKERSON586
calorie intake, and menstrual dysfunction. 
The RDA for calcium for women between the ages of 19 and 50 years is 1000 mg. However, women at risk of calcium deficiency for the above-mentioned reasons may require as much as 2000 mg to help prevent stress frac -
tures (16). Calcium requirements increase to 1200 mg per day for women over the age of 50, primarily as a result of the decrease in estrogen that occurs at menopause. It is not uncommon for the calcium status in older women to be low due to a decreased intake of dairy products, as well as a decrease in intesti-nal absorption, which may lead to lower bone density and osteoporosis. Vitamin D is neces-sary for calcium absorption, so a vitamin D deficiency can also contribute to osteoporosis. The RDA for vitamin D for women between the ages of 19 and 70 is 600 IU; however, because it is difficult to meet RDA in the diet, vitamin D supplementation is recommended.
Zinc is important for several body pro-
cesses including wound healing and immunity, tissue growth and repair, and gene expres -
sion. Zinc is also a component of several enzymes necessary for carbohydrate, protein, and fat metabolism and is involved in pro -
tein synthesis. Therefore, adequate zinc intake is important for athletic performance and recovery from exercise (3). The RDA for zinc is 8 mg per day for women, and supplemen -
tation is not usually necessary if athletes are consuming zinc-rich foods in the diet such as beef and other dark meats, fish, eggs, whole grains, legumes, and dairy products. Because it has been suggested that zinc may help prevent upper respiratory infections and relieve cold symptoms, zinc supplementation is practiced by some athletes. Whether or not zinc is effec -
tive for preventing colds is still under debate; however, it should be noted that high levels of zinc can interfere with the absorption of iron and copper. In addition, it does not appear that zinc deficiency impairs performance, since the body can compensate by increasing intestinal absorption (18). The RDA for zinc does not increase with age, however, because it is important for wound healing, immunity, and protein synthesis, and it is important that older women receive adequate intakes.
Magnesium is important for bone health, 
protein synthesis, and blood clotting, and acts as a co-factor for hundreds of enzymatic reactions. Magnesium may also play a role in blood pres -
sure regulation and help prevent muscle cramps. The RDA is 310 mg for women aged between 19 and 30 and 320 mg for women over 30 years old. Magnesium is not normally consid-ered when discussing nutritional considerations for women who consume a balanced diet, but a recent position statement by the American College of Sports Medicine (3) reported that women who participate in “body-conscious sports” (such as gymnastics and dance) may have inadequate intakes, which could impair carbohydrate metabolism, and hormone and cardiovascular function. Athletes who ingest rich sources of magnesium including green leafy vegetables, whole grains, legumes, nuts, and seafood will likely not benefit from supple-mentation; however, symptoms such as muscle weakness, cramping, and irritability could indi -
cate a magnesium deficiency.
Deficiency in one or more of the B vita -
mins is common among female athletes. Although research that has examined the impact of B-vitamin deficiency on athletic per -
formance is limited, it is recommended that women consume vitamin B rich foods such as whole grains, green leafy vegetables, fortified cereals, as well as animal and dairy products or consider a B-complex supplement. Vitamin B12 is a special concern to vegetarians and vegan athletes, since it is only found naturally in animal products and their by-products.
Macronutrients
Macronutrients include carbohydrates, pro -
tein, fat, and water that are needed by the body in large amounts and are critical for optimal training and performance. The RDA for pro-tein for healthy adults is 0.8 g/kg body weight; however, physically active women need higher intakes. The recommendation for strength athletes is 1.4–2.0 g/kg; endurance athletes 1.2–2.0 g/kg; and team sports 1.2–1.6 g/kg. For athletes interested in losing or gaining weight, the recommended range is 1.6–2.0 grams/kg. Expressed as a percentage of energy intake, the recommended range is 12–20% of total calo -
ries. Because muscle mass declines with age, it is recommended that older adults consume protein in the range of 1.0–1.3 g/kg (3).
Carbohydrates are considered the “mas -
ter fuel” and the amount needed on a daily 

AGE AND GENDER TRAINING CONSIDERATIONS587
basis by athletes is dependent upon several 
factors including body weight, total calorie needs, the metabolic demands of their sport, and their stage of training or competition. The recommended proportion of energy from carbohydrate is 45–65%; however, when expressed relative to body weight, the gen-eral recommendation for athletes is 5–10 g/kg body weight (3). These recommended ranges do not change with age, but the amount of carbohydrate needed is typically lower for older athletes due to lower total energy needs. Because of their rich nutrient content, athletes are encouraged to consume carbohydrates in the form of whole grains, fruits, vegetables, and dairy products and limit their intake of foods high in sugar.
Calories from fat should account for at 
least 20% of an athlete’s total energy intake and the recommended range is 20–35%. However, many women avoid fat because of their misconception that consuming fat will result in weight gain. While the consump-tion of high amounts of saturated fat may not be healthy, fat is energy dense and is an essential source of energy, and is necessary for transporting fat-soluble vitamins, and for synthesizing hormones. Some studies have indicated that women metabolize fat more efficiently and rely less upon 
glycogen  dur-
ing resistance exercise and moderate intensity aerobic exercise (65–75% of VO
2 max) com-
pared to men. Therefore, it has been suggested that a higher percentage of calories from fat in the diet may be advantageous for women to enhance energy production from intramuscu -
lar fat stores and spare glycogen (40).
Women who avoid eating fat and have a 
low amount of total body fat have an increased risk for menstrual disturbances and may also be at risk for developing the female athlete triad. Fat digestion and absorption is not significantly altered with age; therefore, although fat intake may decrease due to lower total energy needs, the recommended proportion of fat as a per -
centage of total calories does not change. Foods that contain essential fatty acids (nuts, seeds, vegetable oils, fatty-fish, avocados) should be emphasized, while foods higher in saturated fat should be consumed in moderation.
Water is the most essential of all the nutri -
ents, second only to oxygen for maintaining life, and accounts for approximately 55–65% of total body weight. Body water is lost through the kidneys (urine), skin (sweat), lungs, and feces and it is imperative that daily water intake is equal to water loss to maintain hydra -
tion. The goals of hydration during exercise are to maintain 
electrolyte  balance and plasma 
volume, since a water loss of only 2–3% of body weight can lead to a decrease in muscle function and strength performance (27). The general recommended intake for women is 2.7 liters per day, which represents intake from drinking water, watery foods, and other water-containing beverages. However, hydration needs will vary depending upon body weight, environmental factors, and exercise intensity and duration. The following represents general recommendations for proper hydration:
•	Adjust fluid intake for environmental tem-
perature and humidity rates.
•	Drink when thirsty – with age, individuals do not perceive thirst as effectively.
•	Drink enough so that the urine is slightly yellow.
•	Monitor body weight changes pre and post workout to approximately match fluid intake with sweat rate – for most indi-viduals, 7–10 ounces every 10–20 minutes during exercise will help maintain body weight and prevent dehydration. Plain water is typically adequate for training ses-sions lasting < 1 hour; however, a sports drink containing electrolytes is recom -
mended for longer exercise sessions.
Table 21.2 provides specific recommen -
dations for nutrients that are important or commonly deficient in women.
TRAINING 
CONSIDERATIONS FOR OLDER ADULTS
Another population that may benefit from 
strength training, but who also must be consid-ered separately and uniquely when designing training programs, are older adults.
The number of older adults has grown, 
and will continue to grow over the next few decades. For example:

TAMMY K. EVETOVICH, JOAN M. ECKERSON588
TABLE 21.2  Recommended intakes for nutrients of concern for women
Good sources AI or RDA for 
women
19–50 yearsAI or RDA for 
women
51–70 years
Iron Beans, spinach, dried fruits, meat, 
liver18 mg/day 8 mg/day
Calcium Milk, yogurt, cheese, salmon, sardines, broccoli, spinach, kale1000 mg/day 1200 mg/day
Zinc Meat, milk, seafood 8 mg/day 8 mg/day
Magnesium Nuts, seafood, green leafy vegetables, whole-grains310–320 mg/day 320 mg/day
Vitamin C Citrus, green leafy vegetables 75 mg/day 75 mg/day
B Vitamins Lean meats, dairy products, whole grains, eggsThiamin 1.1 mg/dayRiboflavin 1.1 mg/dayB6 – 1.3 mgB12 – 2.4 mgFolate – 400 DFE (dietary folate equivalents)Thiamin 1.1 mg/dayRiboflavin 1.1 mg/dayB6 – 1.5 mgB12 – 2.4 mgFolate – 400 DFE
Vitamin D Milk, egg yolk, salmon, sardines with bones, fish oils, beef liver, fortified cereal600 IU/day 800–1000 IU/day*
Protein Lean meats, eggs, milk, yogurt, beans, nuts, soy0.8 g/kg 0.8 g/kg
Carbohydrates Fruits, vegetables, brown rice, whole grain bread and cereals, potatoes130 g 130 g
Fats Oils, nuts, seeds, avocados, lean meat, low-fat dairy20–35% of daily intake 20–35% of daily intake
Water Drinking water and other beverages; watery fruits and vegetables2.7 L/day 2.7 L/day
RDA = Recommended dietary allowance; AI = Adequate intake.
*Recommendation from Capatina et al. (12).
•	Between 2015 and 2050, the proportion of 
the world’s population over 60 years will nearly double from 12% to 22%.
•	By 2020, the number of people aged 60 years and older will outnumber children younger than 5 years.The increase in population for this age-spe-
cific segment of the population has led the World Health Organization to issue a caution that “All countries face major challenges to ensure that their health and social systems are ready to make the most of this demographic shift.”

AGE AND GENDER TRAINING CONSIDERATIONS589
Similar to the physical activity participation 
barrier that women have faced in the past, older 
adults have on occasion faced a stigma that they are physically limited in their abilities to participate in strength and conditioning activities. However, there is considerable research that indicates that as we age strength and conditioning has many health benefits for both genders. This statement is supported by many notable organizations.
American College of Sports Medicine: “muscle-
strengthening activity is particularly important in older adults, given its role in preventing age-related loss in muscle mass, bone, and its beneficial effects on functional limitations.”
American Heart Association (AHA): “strengthening 
muscles provides the ability to perform everyday activities and helps protect the body from injury.”
Tufts University and Centers for Disease Control: 
“For older adults, strength training requires little time and minimal equipment and that it’s safe, even for people with health problems.”
Strength and power training  
with age
There are significant changes that occur with 
age when considering anatomical and physi -
ological variables that may impact training and performance. Table 21.3 provides a list of many of these variables. For example, from an anatomical perspective, on average, older indi -
viduals are shorter, have higher percent body fat, and have less bone mass. Physiologically , older adults have higher resting but lower maxi -
mal heart rates, lower lung volumes, unique hormone profiles, and decreased brain and cognitive function. As a result of these changes, the functional changes in an older adult may include decreased strength and power, an increase in the likelihood of falling, a decreased ability to thermo-regulate, more bone fractures, slower gait speed, slower reac -
tion times, and reduced exercise tolerance.
Aging is also associated with the onset of 
chronic diseases including hypertension, arthri -
tis, heart disease, diabetes, and lung disease. In some cases, the decrease in functional capacity may make it hard for older adults to remain independent and perform normal functions asso -
ciated with daily living, including opening a jar, reaching into a cupboard, cleaning their home, preparing food, bathing, and other types of com-mon activities that occur throughout the day. Given these changes in functional capacity, older individuals may not be encouraged to engage in strength and conditioning activities due to safety concerns and a belief that they may not be capa -
ble. However, research has made it clear that not only can older individuals participate in all forms of physical activity, but they must if they want to remain independent, improve their qual-ity of life, prevent disease, combat disease, and participate in their communities.
TABLE 21.3  Anatomical and physiological variables
Physiological and 
anatomical variablesChange with increasing age Functional change
Muscle weight and body fat Increases
 •More fat weight
 •Less fat free weight – lose 3/kg muscle mass per decadeIncreased obesity which leads to chronic disease
Bones Decline in bone mass
 •Osteoporosis
 •Increased fractures 
 •Increased falls
Epidermis of skin  •Atrophies with age
 •Loses tone and elasticitySweating and body temperature regulation may be affected
(continued)

TAMMY K. EVETOVICH, JOAN M. ECKERSON590
Physiological and 
anatomical variablesChange with increasing age Functional change
Joints Reduced hyaline cartilage Osteoarthritis and stiffer/painful joints
Muscle  •Higher % slow twitch fibers compared to younger counterparts
 •Lower number of motor units
 •Decreased contractility
 •Sarcopenia
 •Decrease in pH in muscle cell
 •Rate of muscle force development decreases
 •Decreased flexibility •Reduced muscle strength and power
Lung volume
 •Decreased vital capacity
 •Slower expiratory rate volumes
 •Chest deformities
 •Narrowing of small airways
 •Decreased surface area of lung
 •Loss of lung elasticity
 •Lower residual volume •Increased COPD (shortness of breath, excess mucous, poor exercise tolerance)
 •Decreased exercise capacity
 •Reduced oxygen delivery
Cardiovascular  •Slower myocardium conductivity
 •Increased thickness of ventricular wall
 •Chamber volume changes •Maximum heart rate decreases
 •Cardiac output decreases
 •Blood pressure increases
 •Reduced blood flow to muscles and organs
 •Longer heart rate recovery
Hormones  •Growth hormone decreases
 •Increased insulin levels
 •Reduced testosterone and estrogen
 •Decreased sensitivity of beta receptors
 •Decreased insulin response at the cellular level •Decreased muscle mass
 •Decreased regulation of homeostasis
 •Increased levels of blood glucose
Thermoregulation  •Decreased sweating rate
 •Decreased skin blood flow •More instances of thermal distress
Brain, nerve, and cognitive function  •Brain tissue loss
 •Increased demyelinization
 •Increased postural hypotension
 •Slower reflexes
 •Poor depth perception
 •Loss of peripheral vision
 •Decreased ability to detect spatial information •Reduced coordination
 •Decreased reaction time
 •Increased falls and loss of balanceTABLE 21.3  (continued)

AGE AND GENDER TRAINING CONSIDERATIONS591
A notable study by Fiatarone et al. (19) 
indicated that in ten previously sedentary sub-
jects, 86–96 years of age and presenting with diseases associated with old age (coronary artery disease, hypertension, osteoporosis, arthritis), eight weeks of resistance training three times per week of just the knee extensors increased strength by 174% and improved gait speed by 48%. Two subjects eliminated the use of their canes, and one subject who could not rise from a chair was able to do so by the end of the study, all from training only one muscle group. To prevent the debilitating effects of sar -
copenia (age-related loss of muscle), evidence is emerging indicating that resistance training and conditioning can prevent the decline in strength over the lifespan (Figure 21.1).
In addition, physical activity, including 
strength and conditioning activities, can also reduce the signs and symptoms of many diseases and chronic conditions in the following ways:
Arthritis – Reduces pain and stiffness and increases strength and flexibility.
Diabetes – Improves glycemic control.Osteoporosis – Builds bone density and 
reduces risk for falls.
Heart disease – Reduces cardiovascular 
risk by improving overall fitness.Obesity – Increases metabolism, which helps burn more calories and helps with long-term weight control.
Back pain – Strengthens back and abdom -
inal muscles to reduce pain.Better sleep – sleep more deeply and 
awaken less often.
Mental state – reduce depression and boost 
self-confidence and self-esteem, along with improved cognition and delaying or slowing the progression of dementia.
Strength – Increased strength of bones, 
muscles, and connective tissues (tendons and ligaments).
Injury – Lower risk of injury, bone frac-
tures, and falls.
Training considerations for  
anatomical and physiological  age differences
Coaches, trainers, and fitness professionals 
can help older adults realize real fitness gains, improve their quality of life, and increase their functional capacity with appropriate train -
ing and prescription principles. This holds true for even the frailest individuals who 
Muscle mass and strength
AgeResistance
trained
Non resistancetrained
Figure 21.1  A comparison of resistance trained and nonresistance trained individuals with age. Resistance 
training may prevent sarcopenia as well as prevent the decline in strength over the lifespan.

TAMMY K. EVETOVICH, JOAN M. ECKERSON592
have lost their ability to live independently. In 
general, an older adult will respond similarly to their younger counterpart when examin -
ing strength, hypertrophic, and metabolic responses to training. However, an older adult may have specific training needs, and their programs should be based upon their objec -
tives, baseline characteristics, and individual health profile. Because of the anatomical and physiological changes that occur with aging, as outlined in Table 21.3, variations in train -
ing and physical activity levels may need to be considered:
•	Given the potential for many chronic dis -
eases, aerobic, muscle-strengthening, and 
flexibility activities need to be evaluated individually with types and amounts pre-scribed that meet preventive, therapeutic, and health recommendations.
•	Take a gradual and stepwise approach when prescribing activity to minimize the risk for injury or some other type of nega-tive health event.
•	Because bone mass decreases with age, strength training and weight bearing exer -
cises may be particularly important to incorporate into an older adult’s strength and conditioning routine so that osteopo -
rosis may be prevented or delayed.
•	Exercises that target balance and core sta -
bility are of particular importance to this age group given the brain and muscle changes that occur with age. Any activities that maintain or increase flexibility using sustained stretches are good for not only increasing functionality but for improving joint stiffness.
•	For those with balance and joint difficul-ties, aquatic resistance training has distinct advantages over traditional types of resist -
ance training in the weight room and is an excellent alternative environment for older adults.
•	For resistance training, use Theraband, weight machines, or free weights depend-ing upon the goals and capabilities of the individual.
•	An exercise program for someone with arthritis will differ considerably from a healthy individual (14). Given the fact that joints may be eroding and can be further damaged with activity, the following should be considered in exercise programming:
{{It may be difficult to grasp dumbbells or bars.
{{Individuals with arthritis tend to be more deconditioned and less used to vigorous types of activity when compared to their healthy counterparts.
{{Using proper body mechanics is par -
ticularly important for the person with arthritis.
{{Water activities may be preferred by an arthritic client, particularly with warmer water. These activities could include water aerobics, underwater treadmill walking, and water resistance activities for improving strength.
{{Yoga or Tai Chi may be a good alterna -
tive type of activity.
{{The ability to perform through a full range of motions may be an issue for someone with arthritis.
{{Arthritic individuals may be more likely to exhibit symptoms of depression and have poor sleep quality.
{{There may be more fear of new activities in an arthritic client.
{{If an activity causes joint pain during or after exercise, it should not be under -
taken.
•	The chronic health conditions of older adults increase the risk of injuries related to physical activity. However, “there is insuf -
ficient research on effective strategies to prevent injuries” (36) in older adults. Many risk management practices are based upon decreasing liability, expert opinion, and long-term standard practices. However, it is noted that most popular and accepted risk management practices can be effective 
as evidenced by the rarity of serious injury in most studies using older adults. Accepted risk management practices for an older adult include:
{{Use moderate activity versus high inten-sity activity.
{{Take a more gradual stepwise approach when progressing in an exercise program.
{{Good supervision is important to not only prevent injury but also improve the 

AGE AND GENDER TRAINING CONSIDERATIONS593
confidence of the older adult as they per -
form physical activity.
{{Avoid reaching absolute fatigue during 
an acute workout session.
Specific exercise prescription 
recommendations for older adults
Training programs for older adults should 
include resistance training, flexibility, and cardio -
respiratory endurance (20). It should be noted, 
however, that exercise prescription in older adults can vary considerably. This is not surpris -
ing given the wide range of fitness levels within this population. Thus, specific recommendations for varying levels of fitness are provided below.
Resistance exercise
•	Low level – at least one set of 1–15 reps at moderate intensity of 8–10 exercises using all major muscle groups, at least two days per week.
•	Moderate level – 2–4 sets of 8–15 reps at 60–80% of 1RM, two to three days per week.
•	High level – many studies have shown that the overload principle with progressive adjust -
ments in load are effective in older adults.
Balance training
Depending upon the capabilities and confi -
dence of the individual, the following describes a progression program for balance training in older adults:
•	Sitting and standing exercises with external 
support.
•	Sitting exercises without external support.
•	Standing exercises including double leg stance and no external support.
•	Standing exercises including single leg stance, gait, and no external support.
•	Perturbation exercises, reactive and proactive.
Cardiorespiratory endurance
•	Low level – Multiple bouts of activity last -
ing 10 minutes or more in duration (or whatever the individual is capable of doing).•	Moderate level – moderate intensity activity 30 minutes, 5 days per week or 20 minutes of vigorous intensity activity 3 days per week or a combination of both.
•	High level – Moderate intensity activity for up to 60 minutes per day in bouts of at least 10 minutes to total 150–300 minutes per week or more vigorous intensity activity to total 75–100 minutes per week.
It is important for older individuals to participate 
in all forms of physical activity if they want to remain independent, improve their quality of life, prevent disease, combat disease, and participate in their communities.
Exercise adherence in older adults
Given the range of health benefits that older 
adults experience with increased physi -
cal activity, it is important to consider those factors that affect their ability to adhere to an exercise program. A recent review (36) focused on what elements of an older person’s situation increase adherence and pointed out some interesting factors. For example, there is increased adherence for older adults who live alone, come from a higher socioeconomic sta-tus, have attained a higher educational degree, report a better initial health status, have recently been diagnosed with a heart condi-tion, are not showing signs of depression or loneliness, and are not at high risk for falling. Some strategies to increase adherence for older adults include:
•	Offering social support.
•	Offering a supervised program.
•	Keeping instruction simple and less demanding.
•	Providing reminders.
•	Using a peer-mentoring model.
•	Planning appropriate activities.
•	Stressing the importance and value of 
participation (optimal physical function, wellness, quality of life, independence).
•	Paying attention to signs of depression and psychological well-being.
Understanding what factors influence 
adherence in older adults is important for 

TAMMY K. EVETOVICH, JOAN M. ECKERSON594
exercise professionals so that their clients can 
obtain optimal health benefits for any type of physical activity program or prescription.
Physical activity and cognition in  
older adults
Physical activity has been shown to provide 
beneficial effects on the mental state and brain function of older adults. Studies have reported reduced depression and boosts in self-confidence and self-esteem, delay-ing or slowing the progression of dementia, improved ability to cope with stress, and help in the management of Alzheimer’s (1). Of particular interest given the purpose of this chapter are recent reports which sug -
gest that resistance training can improve both chronic and acute cognition. Cognition is broadly defined as factors that affect memory, reasoning, comparison, perception, spatial awareness, comprehension, and learn-ing. Long-term strength training programs in older adults have been shown to improve cognitive performance tests, spatial aware-ness, and reaction time. Acute resistance training has been shown to improve cogni -
tive performance by “affecting anticipation, motor planning, and orienting” possibly due to increased heart rate and blood flow to the brain (1). Altug (1) summarized the poten-tial mechanisms for increased cognition with resistance exercises as follows:
•	Increased blood flow with the concomitant 
improvement in transportation of nutrients and oxygen to the brain.
•	Reduced blood viscosity and better blood flow to the brain.
•	Increases in IGF-1 serum concentrations to promote neural growth, survival, and dif -
ferentiation.
•	Increased activity of antioxidant enzymes and therefore reduced oxidative damage in the brain.
•	Anatomical changes in the brain (i.e., reduced beta-amyloid [Alzheimer’s-related protein] load).
•	Greater physiological arousal with increased heart rate.
•	Increased neurotransmitters in the brain.Age related changes in muscle 
metabolism and strength  performance in males and females
The natural decline in sex hormones that occurs 
with aging leads to changes in skeletal muscle structure, function, and metabolism. In men, tes -
tosterone decreases approximately 2–3% every year after age 30 and, for women, estrogen lev -
els decrease during menopause (21). With age, the skeletal muscle atrophies and is displaced by adipose and fibrous tissue, particularly in type II muscle fibers. In addition, glucose, fat, and pro-tein metabolism are reduced in skeletal muscle, which also contributes to muscle deterioration. 
Other changes in muscle quality including a reduced capillary-to-myofiber ratio, decreased mitochondrial density, and an increase in pro-inflammatory cytokines resulting in chronic low-grade inflammation also contribute to a 
deterioration in muscle mass. This involuntary, 
age-related loss of muscle tissue is referred to as sarcopenia and is highly correlated with decreases in muscular strength, as well as an increased risk of frailty and disability. Interestingly, the rate of change in muscle quality and atrophy is different between men and women. For example, although men typically have a greater percentage of mus -
cle mass compared to women, they lose muscle at a faster rate than women and also experience greater losses in strength. Further, in men, body mass index (BMI), mean strength and power, and testosterone concentrations are strong predic-tors of appendicular muscle mass; however, in women, only BMI predicts muscle mass and sug -
gests that there are different mechanisms driving sarcopenia in men and women (21).
The decrease in muscle mass that occurs 
with aging, as well as physical inactivity, 
results in decreases in maximal isometric, concentric, and eccentric force, as well as the rate of force development and power (24). A study by Petrella et al. (35) that examined age-related differences in 1RM strength of the knee extensors reported that older men and women (60–75 years) had significantly lower strength (men 41%; women 29%) compared to young adults (20–35 years) and that strength declines were more rapid in men versus women. When comparing strength values in an older cohort, Lamoureux et al. (28) reported significant  

AGE AND GENDER TRAINING CONSIDERATIONS595
differences between “old” (mean age 63) and  
“older” (mean age 76) healthy adults for 1RM 
strength of the leg extensors (46%), hip flexors (42%), hip adductors (56%) and abductors (59%), and plantar flexors (65%). Therefore, the greatest losses in strength occur in adults > 75 years. Other cross-sectional studies using subjects between the ages of 65–89 report that maximal strength declines at an annual rate of approximately 1.5% and that power declines by 3.5%, and that after the age of 90, muscle power is markedly reduced (24).
In addition to age-related loss in mus -
cle mass, women also experience decreases 
in bone mineral density (BMD) and, conse-quently, have an increased risk of osteoporosis as a result of the decline in estrogen following menopause. In fact, it has been estimated that BMD declines approximately 0.5% per year starting around age 40 (11), and that they may lose up to 5% of bone mass per year in the first few years of menopause (23). Resistance train-ing is a powerful stimulus for bone formation and maintenance, and also improves muscular strength in older adults. A systematic review by 
Gomez-Cabello et al. (23) suggests that resist-ance training is most effective for increasing strength and BMD in older adults using high-loading intensities (75–80% 1RM) at 2–3 sets of 8–12 repetitions, 3 times per week for at least 4 to 6 months (23,46). Multi-component programs that incorporate strength, aerobic, high impact, and/or weight bearing exercises have also been shown to improve strength and BMD, particularly in post-menopausal women (23). Examples of specific exercises shown to be most effective include: squats, leg press, hip adduction/abduction, knee exten -
sion, hamstring curls, latissimus pull down, seated row, military press, bench press, bicep curls, regular and reverse wrist curls, power cleans, and jumping and stair climbing with weighted vests (46). Whole body vibration training, which uses high-frequency mechani -
cal stimuli applied by a vibrating platform, is a relatively new exercise intervention that has been investigated for its potential to stimulate bone formation and strength in older women (44). The results of studies are equivocal with regard to its effects on strength and muscle mass, but it may result in modest increases in BMD at the hip and femur (42).SUMMARY
Although men and women have similar responses to training, there may be some modifications in training regimens that can be made, such as focusing upon upper-body strength or altering lifting technique, to opti -
mize health, fitness, and athletic performance. There are specific differences that must be considered when working with an older popu -
lation. Changes in cardiovascular health, bone changes, impaired cognition, and an ever-changing health status are just a few variables that are altered as we age that the strength and conditioning professional must deliberately factor into an exercise program.
There are specific differences that may need 
to be addressed when designing and imple -
menting a strength and conditioning regimen for women. Many women are participating in strength training programs, but there still remains a social stigma that must be overcome so that she feels comfortable and accepted in a weight room. Although a woman’s menstrual cycle does not, for the most part, affect her per -
formance, each woman should be treated as an individual and adjustments to the training and competition schedule may be warranted. When disturbances in the menstrual cycle are observed, it may be prudent to screen a woman for the female athlete triad and respond appropriately to treat or prevent this serious condition. Part of that treatment may involve nutritional and psychological counseling and involvement of many supporting individuals.
Aging leads to changes in skeletal muscle 
mass, structure, and metabolism, which results in declines in strength and power, functional dis-ability, and reduced quality of life. Older adults who participate in regular physical exercise have been shown to preserve a greater amount of their strength, power, and BMD compared to their low-active peers (30). Resistance training and other types of weight-bearing exercises (stair climbing, jumping) are superior to lower intensity exercises, such as walking, for improving muscle strength and BMD. Therefore, it is recommended that healthy, older adults perform heavy resist -
ance training that uses the major muscle groups, as well as other types of weight-bearing exercise at least two to three times per week to preserve bone mass and muscle mass and strength.

TAMMY K. EVETOVICH, JOAN M. ECKERSON596
Q&A FROM THE FIELD
There are many forms of calcium 
supplements on the market. If I determine that my diet is calcium deficient and therefore should take a supplement, which formulation is best?
There are many forms such as calcium citrate, 
calcium carbonate, calcium lactate, calcium gluconate, oyster shells, and bone meal. Calcium citrate is the best absorbed form of calcium although calcium carbonate also absorbs very well in a more acidic 
MAXING OUT
You are working with a group of female long distance runners who want a more specific 
recommendation with regard to how much fluid they should consume in order to remain hydrated during training and competition. The following protocol may be used to calculate the amount of fluid needed (13):
1 Make sure you are properly hydrated before the workout – your urine should be pale yellow.
2 Do a warm-up run until you begin to sweat, then stop. Urinate if necessary.
3 Weigh yourself naked with a floor scale (accurate to 0.1 kg).
4 Run for one hour at an intensity similar to your targeted race or training run.
5 Drink a measured amount of a beverage during the run, if you are thirsty. It is important that you measure exactly how much fluid you consume during the run.
6 Do not urinate until post-body weight is recorded.
7 Weigh yourself naked again on the same scale you used in step 3.
8 You may now urinate and drink fluids as needed.
CASE EXAMPLE
Background
A personal training client has informed you that she is pregnant. Her exercise routine included 
biking, lifting weights, body weight exercises, and step aerobics. What are some adaptations that you should incorporate into her routine?
Recommendations/considerations
Some simple adaptations can be made. Beginning in the second trimester, you should avoid 
lifting weights while standing still to resist pooling of blood in the legs. Thus, instruct her environment. Examine labels and look for the 
elemental calcium content (expressed in mg), not the total content. Some pills may have less elemental calcium, which would require you to take more pills to meet the daily requirement. On the label. you may also see the United States Pharmacopeia (USP) or Consumer Lab (CL) abbreviation, which would indicate that the supplement has voluntarily met the industry standards for quality and purity. Finally, try to take your supplement along with a meal as this increases gastric acidity and slows transit time which promotes calcium absorption.

AGE AND GENDER TRAINING CONSIDERATIONS597
to sit down when performing lifts whenever possible. Machine leg curls and leg extensions 
are good substitutes for lunges and squats to avoid falls with the shift in the center of grav -
ity. Some doctors say step aerobics workouts are acceptable if you can lower the height of your step as pregnancy progresses, but caution should be taken as the risk of falls increases. Exercise during cooler parts of the day. Choose stationary biking over land biking. Consider incorporating swimming into her routine. It is a great alternative for staying active. She may want to transition from weight-bearing activities to non-weight bearing activities (stationary biking, swimming, yoga, weights in an upright or seated position, walking) as the pregnancy progresses.
REFERENCES
 1. Altug Z. Resistance exercise to improve 
cognitive function. Strength Cond 2014; 36(6):46–50.
 2. American Association of University Professors. Position Paper. Title IX: Gender Equity in College Sports, 2003.
 3. American College of Sports Medicine, Academy of Nutrition and Dietetic, and Dietitians of Canada Joint Position Statement. Nutrition and Athletic Performance. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2016;48(3):548–568.
 4. American College of Sports Medicine.  Position Statement. The female athlete triad. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2007; 39(10):1867–1882.
 5. Bambaeichi E, Reilly T, Cable NT, et al. The isolated and combined effects of menstrual cycle phase and time-of-day on muscle strength of eumenorrheic females. Chronobiol Intl 2004; 21:645–660.
 6. Beals KA. Disordered Eating Among Athletes: A Comprehensive Guide for Health Professionals. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2004.
 7. Bennell K, White S, Crossley K. The oral contraceptive pill: a revolution for sportswomen? Br J Sports Med 1999; 33:231–238.
 8. Bonci CM, Bonci LJ, Granger LR, et al. National Athletic Trainers’ Association Position Statement. Preventing, detecting, and managing disordered eating in athletes. Journal of Athletic Training 2008; 43:80–108.
 9. Brunet M. Unique Considerations of the Female Athlete. Florence, KY: Delmar Cengage, 2010.
10. Burger ME, Burger TA. Neuromuscular and hormonal adaptations to resistance training: implications for strength development in female athletes. Strength Cond 2002; 24:51–59.
11. Calatayud J, S Borreani, D Moya, JC Colado, and NT Triplett. Exercise to improve bone mineral density. Strength Cond 2013, 35(5):70–74.
12. Capatina C, Carsote M, Poiana C, Berteanu M. Vitamin D deficiency and musculoskeletal function in the elderly. Strength Cond 2015, 37(1):25–29.
13. Casa DJ. Proper hydration for distance running: identifying individual fluid needs. Track Coach 2004; 167:5321–5328.
14. Cheatham SW, Cain M. Rheumatoid arthritis: exercise programming for the strength and conditioning professional. Strength Cond 2015; 37(1):30–39.
15. Dalbo VJ, Roberts MD, Lockwood CM, Tucker PS, Kreider RB, Kerksick CM. The effects of age on skeletal muscle and the phosphocreatine energy system: can creatine supplementation help older adults. Dyn Med 2009, 8:6 doi:10.1186/1476-5918-8-6.
16. Escalante G. Nutritional considerations for female athletes. Strength Cond 2016; 38:57–63.
17. Fiatarone MA, Marks EC, Ryan ND, Meredith CN, Lipsitz LA, Evans WJ. High-intensity strength training in nonagenarians. Effects on skeletal muscle. JAMA 1990; 263:3029–3034.
18. Fink HH and Mikesky AE. Practical Applications in Sports Nutrition, 5th ed. Burlington, VA: Jones and Bartlett, 2018.
19. Fischer DV. Strategies for improving resistance training adherence in female athletes. Strength Cond 2005; 27:62–67.
20. Geithner CA and McKenney DR. Strategies for aging well. J Strength Cond Res 2010; 32(5):36–52.
21. Gheller BJF, Riddle ES, Lem MR, Thalacker-Mercer A. (2016). Understanding age-related changes in skeletal muscle metabolism: 

TAMMY K. EVETOVICH, JOAN M. ECKERSON598
differences between females and males. Ann 
Rev Nutr, 2016; 129–156.
22. Goldstein ER. Exercise-associated iron deficiency: a review and recommendations for practice. Strength Cond 2016; 38(2):24–34.
23. Gomez-Cabello A, Ara I, Gonzalez-Aguero A, Casajus JA, Vicente-Rodrıguez G. Effects of training on bone mass in older adults: a systematic review. Sports Med 2012; 42:301–325.
24. Granacher U, Muehlbauer T, Gruber M. A qualitative review of balance and strength performance in healthy older adults: impact for testing and training. J Aging Res 2012: 708905, 2012.
25. Hazelhurst LT, Claassen N. Gender differences in the sweat response during spinning exercise. J Strength Cond Res 2006; 20:723–724.
26. Ireland ML, Ott SM. Special concerns of the female athlete. Clin Sports Med 2004; 23:281–298.
27. Judelson DA, Maresh CM, Anderson JM, Armstrong LE, Casa DJ, Kraemer WF, Volek JS. Hydration and muscular performance: does fluid balance affect strength, power and high-intensity endurance? Sports Med 2007; 37(10):907–921.
28. Lamoureux EL, Sparrow WA, Murphy A, Newton RU. Differences in the neuromuscular capacity and lean muscle tissue in old and older community-dwelling adults. J Gerontol Biol Sci Med Sci A 2001; 56(6):M381–M385.
29. Lebrun C. Effect of the different phases of the menstrual cycle and oral contraceptives on athletic performance. Sports Med 1993; 16:400–430.
30. Lebrun C. The effect of the phase of the menstrual cycle and the birth control pill on athletic performance. The Athletic Woman 1994; 13:419–441.
31. Marsh SA, Jenkins DG. Physiological responses to the menstrual cycle. Sports Med 2002; 32:601–614.
32. National Strength and Conditioning Association. Position Paper on Strength Training for Female Athletes. Lincoln, NE NSCA, 1990.
33. Nelson ME, Rejeski WJ, Blair SN, Duncan PW, Judge JO, King AC, Macera CA, Castanedasceppa C. Physical activity and public health in older adults: recommendation from the American College of Sports Medicine and the American Heart Association. Med Sci 
Sports Exerc 2007; 39(8):1435–1445.34. Nichols AW, Hetzler RK, Villanueva RJ, et al. Effects of combination oral contraceptives on strength development in women athletes. J Strength Cond Res 2008; 22:1625–1632.
35. Petrella JK, Kim JS, Tuggle SC, Hall SR, Bamman MM. Age differences in knee extension power, contractile velocity, and fatigability. J Appl Physiol 2005; 98(1):211–220.
36. Picorelli AM, Pereira LS, Pereira DS, Felício D, Sherrington C. Adherence to exercise programs for older people is influenced by program characteristics and personal factors: a systematic review. Journal of Physiotherapy 2014; 60:151–156.
37. Poiss CC, Sullivan PA, Paup DC, et al. Perceived importance of weight training to selected NCAA Division III men and women student-athletes. J Strength Cond Res 2004; 18:108–114.
38. Rechichi C, Dawson B, Goodman C. Athletic performance and the oral contraceptive. Int J Sports Physiol Perform 2009; 4:151–162.
39. Rechichi C, Dawson B. Effect of oral contraceptive cycle phase on performance in team sports players. J Sci Med Sport 2009; 12:190–195.
40. Stephenson LA, Kolka MA. Thermoregulation in women. Exerc Sport Sci Rev 1993; 21:231–262.
41. Smolin LA, Grosvenor MB. Nutrition: Science and Applications. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley, 2008.
42. Verschueren S, Bogaerts A, Delecluse C, Claessens AL, Haentjens P, Vanderschueren D, Boonen S. The effects of whole-body vibration training and vitamin d supplementation on muscle strength, muscle mass, and bone density in institutionalized elderly women: a 6-month randomized, control trial. J of Bone Min Res  
2011; 26(1):42–49.
43. Volek JS, Forsythe CE, Kraemer WJ.  
Nutritional aspects of women strength athletes. Br J Sports Medicine 2006; 40:742–748.
44. Von Stengel S, Kemmler W, Bebenek M, Engelke K, Kalender WA. Effects of whole-body vibration training on different devices on bone mineral density. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2011; 43(6):1071–1079.
45. Xanne AK, de Jonge J. Effects of the menstrual cycle on exercise performance. Sports Med 2003; 33:833–851.
46. Zehnacker CH, Bemis-Dougherty A. Effect of weighted exercises on bone mineral density in post menopausal women. A systematic review. J Geriatr Phys Ther 2007; 30:79–88.

Contents
Introduction  601
Pre-participation physicals  602
Roles of health care professionals involved in injury prevention and  
rehabilitation  603
Injury classification  604
Phases of tissue healing: clinical treatment and exercise considerations  605
Return to activity phase: the role of the interval program  613
The interval sport program  614
Overview of knee mechanics and exercise applications  616
Summary  634
References  636

22 CHAPTER
OBJECTIVES
After completing this chapter, you will be able to:
• Understand the role and personnel responsible for the comprehensive care of injured athletes.
• Understand the biomechanics of the knee, spine, and shoulder.
• Understand the role of resistive exercise in injury prevention.
• Understand the stages of injury recovery and characteristics of inflammation in the human body.INJURY PREVENTION   
AND REHABILITATION
Todd S. Ellenbecker, Jake Bleacher, Tad Pieczynski, and Anna Thatcher
KEY TERMS
Articular cartilage
ContusionMacrotraumaMicrotraumaPRICE methodSHARPSprainStrainTendonitisTendonosis
INTRODUCTION
The purpose of this chapter will be to over -
view the role of strength and conditioning 
in the prevention of injuries. Included in this chapter will be an overview of the sports med-icine professionals responsible for providing care for the athlete, as well as the stages of recovery and healing from a musculoskeletal injury. Basic definitions of musculoskeletal injuries will also be included along with more detailed descriptions of shoulder, knee, and spinal anatomy, and biomechanics, along with common injury patterns, and exercise implica-tions applicable for strength and conditioning professionals working with athletes with a  
history of musculoskeletal injury, and especially with those athletes hoping to prevent them.
Some of the most basic principles of injury 
prevention have the most profound influence for strength and conditioning professionals as well as other clinicians in sports medicine. These include adequate pre-activity development of muscular strength, endurance, balance, and proper flexibility, and often most importantly, proper sport biomechanics or technique (1). As will be covered later in this chapter, many injuries in athletes occur from overtraining and overuse (2). Improper levels of muscu-lar strength and endurance are often cited as  

TODD S. ELLENBECKER ET AL.602
critical factors in the development of injuries 
such as rotator cuff tendonitis  (3), humeral epi -
condylitis (4), as well as patellofemoral pain and shin splints (5).
Additionally, sports medicine research pro -
filing various populations of athletes has also identified characteristic patterns of muscular development that create muscular imbalances and can lead to injury (6). One example of a muscular imbalance identified with isokinetic testing of the glenohumeral joint of over -
head athletes was reported by Ellenbecker (7) whereby significant increases in the strength of the internal rotators were measured on the dominant arm of professional baseball pitch -
ers without concomitant increases in strength of the external rotator musculature creat-ing a muscular imbalance. Similar studies in elite level tennis players (8,9) have identified similar imbalances between the internal and external rotators. Byram et al. (11) has shown how alterations in the muscular balance in the shoulder of professional baseball pitchers (external/internal rotation ratio) increase the risk of shoulder injury. Their study highlights the importance to the strength and condition -
ing professional, physical therapist and athletic trainer of ensuring that proper exercise prescrip-tion is followed to allow for balanced strength development for both injury prevention and performance enhancement. The external/inter -
nal rotation ratio is a great example of a very important parameter to measure and track in throwing athletes to decrease injury risk and guide proper exercise prescription and muscle group emphasis in both conditioning and reha-bilitation programs (11).
Careful evaluation and application of stretch -
ing programs are other important factors in injury prevention. While studies directly linking flexibility training and injury prevention are not clear-cut, the consensus among sports medicine professionals is that muscular inflexibility can inhibit optimal performance, and lead to joint and muscle tendon injury in the repetitive envi -
ronment athletic individuals train and compete 
in (1). Despite recent changes in the application 
of static and dynamic stretching programs, sport scientists still believe specific types of flexibility training to be important in both performance enhancement and injury prevention.
Finally, the use of proper sport technique 
and biomechanics is a critical factor in the  prevention of injury. The link between improper use of the kinetic chain in throwing and rac -
quet sports and arm injury has been outlined by Kibler (11). The use of sport technique that optimizes power generation from the lower extremity and trunk and allows for the trans-fer of force from the ground reaction forces up through the lower extremities and trunk to the upper extremity is recommended. While in many cases the strength and conditioning pro -
fessional cannot directly evaluate this facet of 
the injury prevention program, referral of ath -
letes to qualified individuals such as high level 
sport specific coaches and sport biomechanists is highly recommended.
PRE-PARTICIPATION 
PHYSICALS
Although it is beyond the scope of this chapter 
to completely outline all facets of the pre-  
participation physical, the basic premise of the physical as well as key components should be discussed. Several complete references on pre-participation physicals can serve as excellent resources when designing or developing a pre-participation physical (11,12). In general, the pre-participation physical is an integral part of the injury prevention process. The actual phys-ical is designed to evaluate the athlete’s body using a specific series of evaluation methods or tests that screen or identify key factors that could lead to an injury if the athlete were to participate in that sport without rehabilitation or other preparative measures.
Pre-participation physicals are an important part 
of the comprehensive care of the athlete. Using a structured evaluation process, key structural deficits, and strength and flexibility deficiencies can be identified that can decrease the risk of 
injury or reinjury.
Though some of the basic tests are provided 
in nearly all physicals (measurement of height, 
weight, heart rate, blood pressure, etc.), most physicals are made specific to the sport or activity that the athlete or group of athletes is partici -
pating in. One example would be the careful evaluation of rotator cuff strength and shoulder 

INJURY PREVENTION AND REHABILITATION603
flexibility in baseball and tennis players as well as 
swimmers. This area would not be emphasized as heavily for soccer players or other primarily lower body athletes. Careful development of the actual components of the pre-participation physical with the entire sports medicine team is necessary since many specialists and types of clinicians are needed to ensure that the most thorough evalu -
ation is made. Additionally, the important role follow-up, tracking, and ultimately, re-testing plays cannot be overlooked.
ROLES OF HEALTH 
CARE PROFESSIONALS 
INVOLVED IN INJURY 
PREVENTION AND REHABILITATION
Numerous health care professions are involved 
in sports injury management. Depending on the sports program (e.g., high school, college, professional team, community recreation), professionals in medicine, chiropractors, psy -
chology, biomechanics, exercise physiology, nutrition, physical therapy, athletic train -
ing, and strength and conditioning, may be involved in injury management. The diversity of health professionals involved in injury man -
agement allows the athlete to recover not only physically, but also emotionally and socially.
The areas of injury prevention, recognition, 
and rehabilitation are common interests to pro-fessions including: physicians, physical therapists, athletic trainers, and strength and conditioning professionals. These four professions commonly have extensive involvement throughout the reha-bilitation process and will be further discussed.
• Physicians: The physician is responsible for the health care of an injured athlete, including diagnosing and treating injuries. When an injury occurs, the physician makes the ultimate decision on when it is safe to 
return to sport activities. The physician 
guides other members of the team through -
out the rehabilitation process.
• Physical therapists: According to the American Physical Therapy Association, the scope of prac-tice for a physical therapist includes: providing services to patients who have impairments, functional limitations, disabilities, or changes in physical function and health status resulting from injury, disease, or other causes; interaction and practicing in collaboration with a variety of professionals; addressing risk factors and behavior that may impede optimal functioning; providing prevention and promoting health, wellness, and fitness; consulting, educating, engaging in critical inquiry, and administration; and directing and supervising support person -
nel (13). Physical therapists practice in a wide 
variety of settings including: hospitals, outpa-
tient clinics, research centers, fitness centers, and sports training facilities. Physical therapists can receive specialist certifications in seven dif-ferent areas including both orthopedics and sports through the American Board of Physical Therapy Specialties.
• Athletic trainers: Performance domains of the certified athletic trainer as defined by the National Athletic Trainers’ Association Board of Certification include: prevention of athletic injuries; recognition, evaluation, and immediate care of injuries; rehabilita -
tion and reconditioning of athletic injuries; health care administration; and profes -
sional development and responsibility (2). School districts, colleges and universities, sports medicine clinics, professional teams, and industrial settings may employ athletic trainers. The athletic trainer is often present at sport practices and games, and therefore likely to be the first person to evaluate an injury and provide acute treatment. Their daily presence at sport practices also allows athletic trainers extensive involvement throughout the entire rehabilitation process.
• Strength and conditioning professionals: Strength and conditioning professionals have the knowledge of appropriate exer -
cise techniques to work in conjunction with other members of the health care team to develop and supervise reconditioning pro -
grams. It is important that strength and conditioning professionals are informed of injuries and any precautions to exercise 
as they may be the only person involved 
with the athlete once return to sport has occurred. Strength and conditioning pro -
fessionals play an important role in the transition from a controlled, supervised rehabilitation program to a lifelong, inde -
pendent exercise program.

TODD S. ELLENBECKER ET AL.604
The strength and conditioning professional plays a 
key role in injury prevention by developing a sports-specific exercise plan that may decrease the risk of injuries common in a specific sport. The strength and conditioning profession, by working closely with 
the sports medicine team, also plays an important 
role in the transition from a rehabilitation program to full participation in the sport.
Because sports injury management involves  
a multidisciplinary team, it is essential to have 
good communication to allow a safe return to athletic activity as soon as possible. Within each individual sports medicine team, there should be agreement on the specific roles for each member. The roles of sports medicine professionals are increasingly overlapping as practitioners extend from the “traditional” work settings, complete continuing education, and attain specialist certifications. However, each professional brings his or her unique expertise to the sports medicine team that will enhance injury prevention, recognition, and rehabilitation. Despite research evidence, sports medicine (including injury management and return to play criteria) is not an exact sci -
ence. The sports medicine team must discuss varying philosophies and theories to provide consistent, up to date care. Communication must also occur with the athlete, coach, team members, and family members when appro-priate. To allow optimal injury recovery, responsibilities of all professionals involved in injury management include: communica -
tion, continuing education, promoting athlete safety, and understanding the mental and physical demands of sport.
Working in the field of sports medicine requires 
teamwork, optimal knowledge, and understanding of the roles of all of the members of the sports medicine team. This team is required to best serve the athlete.
INJURY CLASSIFICATION
Injuries occur on a regular basis in sporting  
activities. In successfully treating athletic 
injuries in a rehabilitation setting, the health  
professional needs to understand the mechanism and type of injury which has occurred. When classifying an injury, we use various defini -
tions to outline the extent and severity of  
the injury in order to adopt the appropri -
ate methods of treatment at the appropriate stages of healing.
Overuse injuries are often a result of 
micro-
trauma , where the involved tissue becomes 
inflamed and painful over an indeterminate amount of time, secondary to forces which exceed the strength and healing rate of the 
tendon or involved structure. 
T endonitis  refers 
to inflammation of the tendon and associated 
sheath, whereas tendonosis  involves degenera -
tion of the tendon (14).
An injury which occurs at a single point 
in time, with an identifiable source, is termed a 
macrotrauma . There are varying degrees 
of macrotraumatic events, and they can be categorized as intrinsic or extrinsic. Intrinsic injuries are the result of forces (mechanical, environmental, or situational) which super -
sede the ability of the athlete to respond and avoid injury (1,2,15). A shot-putter who rup -
tures his pectoralis tendon while attempting to best his opponent’s distance is an exam -
ple of an intrinsic injury. Extrinsic injuries occur when an identifiable source outside of the athlete’s control is the primary cause of trauma. A running back tackled directly at his knee by an opponent’s helmet causing rupture of the knee ligaments is an example of an extrinsic injury.
There exists a continuum when classify -
ing injury severity. A 
strain  occurs when the 
involved tissue(s) is subject to forces invok-ing a graded local inflammatory response, without disrupting the structural integrity of the tissue. A baseball pitcher who throws 100 pitches in a game at high velocities experiences local soreness in the shoulder girdle second-ary to placing a strain on the contractile tissue around the shoulder. The healing rate with a strain is usually several days to a week, if fur -
ther immediate stressors are avoided.
A 
sprain  occurs when contractile or 
non-contractile tissue are subject to forces exceeding the inherent strength of the tissue, causing pain, local or diffuse inflammation, and varying degrees of functional and struc -
tural tissue loss. Different classification systems for sprains exist. Typically classified 

INJURY PREVENTION AND REHABILITATION605
with a numerical scale (1,14,16), the lower 
numbers indicate the least amount of tissue damage, and the high numbers usually indi -
cate a complete rupture or functional loss of the structure. For example, a grade I ankle sprain involves microscopic tearing of the liga -
ment without loss of function, and may take weeks to heal, and a grade III ankle sprain involves a complete tearing of the ligament with complete loss of function and will likely require surgical intervention (16). Treatment 
of the athlete then varies based on the degree 
of severity of their injury.
Contusions  can occur to muscle, bone, 
and cartilage, and are typically the result of a collision with an outside force such as an opponent, the ground, or a foreign object. Contusions to muscle tissue can also be clas -
sified by severity based on the amount of hemorrhage, pain, ROM limitations, and the extent of tissue involvement. The grading sys -
tem is similar to ligamentous injuries with grade 1 injuries involving mild pain and limi -
tations, and grade 3 injuries being the most severe, with herniation of the muscle through the fascial envelope along with possible bruis -
ing of the underlying bone. Severe contusions may require surgery or evacuation of the hematoma. Care must be taken with mod -
erate to severe muscle contusions to avoid further complications, such as functional loss of the muscle or myositis ossificans, which is a condition involving calcification within the muscle tissue resulting from additional inflam -
mation or trauma (2). 
Articular cartilage  is a 
thin layer of specialized tissue covering joint surfaces in synovial joints such as the knee or hip. The cartilage promotes normal movement between joint surfaces and reduces potentially harmful forces such as shear or compression between the joint surfaces. Articular cartilage receives nutrition through components within the synovial fluid that bathe the joint during normal movement. Injuries to articular car -
tilage pose a challenge, due to the lack of a direct blood supply, and limited ability to self-
repair. When injuries to articular cartilage or 
synovial joints do occur, the goals should be to promote healing by decreasing joint effusion, maintaining ROM and movement between joint surfaces, while preventing overloading to the joint surfaces (15).PHASES OF TISSUE 
HEALING: CLINICAL 
TREATMENT 
AND EXERCISE CONSIDERATIONS
After an acute musculoskeletal injury, there are 
three phases of tissue healing: inflammation, proliferation/repair, and maturation/remod-eling. Health professionals need to identify the healing phase to determine appropriate treatment and exercise. Although each phase is defined by certain characteristics, healing occurs along a continuum and phases overlap. Phase durations are given as guidelines only and vary based on factors including type of tis -
sue and injury severity. Clinical judgment must be used to determine appropriate treatment as healing progresses. Signs and symptoms should be continually monitored throughout the healing phases and treatment adjusted as necessary. The physiology, signs and symp-toms, treatment, and exercise considerations will be described for each phase.
Inflammation phase
Inflammation is the body’s first response to injury and is necessary to begin the heal -
ing process. The inflammation phase begins immediately after injury and can last up to approximately six days (17). The purposes of inflammation are to protect the body against foreign material, destroy and remove foreign materials (e.g., bacteria, damaged cells, dead tissue), localize the injury, and ultimately pro -
mote tissue healing and regeneration (17,18). Although inflammation is necessary to recog -
nize an injury has occurred and to begin the healing process, it can become undesirable as it is a nonspecific response that can occur in an excessive amount. For example, the same inflammatory response occurs whether there is foreign material present (e.g., infection) or if no foreign material is present (e.g., ankle sprain). Another example involves the inflam -
matory response of scar tissue formation. This response is useful when damage such as a muscle tear occurs but can be detrimental 

TODD S. ELLENBECKER ET AL.606
to the tissue and decrease function in chronic 
inflammatory conditions. Prompt recognition and treatment of an injury will help control the inflammatory response, optimize the  
healing environment, and allow earlier return to activity.
Physiology
After tissue damage and cell death from an injury, chemicals are released that cause several 
vascular and cellular changes. Immediately 
following trauma, the first cells to arrive at the injured site are platelets (2). Platelets release serotonin, responsible for immediate vaso-constriction at the injured site. Following the brief period of vasoconstriction, histamine is released from mast cells (connective tissue cells). Histamine increases vascular perme-ability and causes vasodilation, resulting in increased swelling. Bradykinin is another chemical released by injured tissue that increases permeability. Increased vascular per -
meability increases swelling by allowing fluids and proteins out of the capillaries and into the tissues. An osmotic pressure imbalance is cre-ated as blood and plasma proteins enter the interstitial space. Swelling results as more fluid moves into the area to return pressure to nor -
mal. Prostaglandins and leukotrienes are two other chemicals causing increased permeabil -
ity and vasodilation, resulting in swelling and pain. Prostaglandins are produced in nearly all tissues and released in response to dam -
aged cells. Many pain and anti-inflammatory medications work by affecting prostaglandin synthesis.
The cellular response consists of 
increased leukocytes (white blood cells) in the injured area due to increased permeability. Neutrophils and macrophages are two kinds of leukocytes found at the injury site. They are responsible for phagocytosis and removal of debris. Neutrophils destroy bacteria when present (18).
To control the amount of fluid in the tis -
sue area and localize injury, blood coagulation must occur. This process begins with damaged cells releasing thromboplastin, which causes prothrombin to be converted into thrombin. Next, fibrinogen is converted into a fibrin clot that shuts off blood supply to the injured area. This prevents the spread of infection by block -
ing off the area, keeps foreign agents at the site with greatest white blood cell activity, forms a clot to stop bleeding, and gives a framework for tissue repair (19).
Signs and symptoms
Signs and symptoms used to identify the phys -
iologic changes of inflammation phase are remembered by using the acronym 
SHARP : 
Swelling, Heat, Altered function, Redness, 
and Pain. Swelling is assessed visually, 
through palpation, and with anthropometric measurements (measurement taken circum-ferentially around an extremity). Intensity of the inflammatory response and swelling is usually proportional to the amount of tissue damage; however, amount of swelling is not always an accurate predictor of injury sever -
ity. Skin that is warm to the touch is another sign of the inflammation process. Altered function is a consequence of damaged tissue, swelling, heat, and pain. Redness is assessed visually with bilateral comparison. Pain is a subjective measure. Quantitative pain rat-ing scales (e.g., visual analog scale – rating  
pain on a scale from 0 to 10) can be used to monitor pain levels throughout the rehabili -
tation process.
Treatment
Goals of clinical treatment and exercise during the inflammation phase include:
• Prevent further injury
• Decrease swelling and pain
• Establish baseline measurements of signs and symptoms (pain level, swelling, ROM, strength, functional ability)
• Maintain overall fitness level
Many of these goals are accomplished by 
following the PRICE  method  of Protection, 
Rest, Ice, Compression, and Elevation.
• Protection: Based on injury location and severity, protection of the injured area can be accomplished using a splint, sling, brace, or assistive device such as crutches. Splinting assists in decreasing muscle guarding and breaking the pain-spasm-pain cycle.

INJURY PREVENTION AND REHABILITATION607
• Rest: Rest is often applied as “relative rest” 
or “restricted function”. Based on injury severity, clinical judgment is used to deter -
mine the balance between protection and safe, early mobilization. Although injured tissue needs to be protected and immo -
bilized, prolonged rest can lead to tissue contractures and loss of range of motion. Even if the injured area needs to be immobi -
lized, appropriate exercise can be performed with uninjured areas to minimize losses in overall fitness level (see Exercise considera -
tions below).
• Ice/cryotherapy: The primary goal of cryo -
therapy is to decrease tissue temperature (18). The decreased temperature sub -
sequently results in other physiological changes to promote healing. Decreased metabolism is one of the main benefits of cryotherapy used for acute injuries. Decreased metabolism minimizes second-ary hypoxic injury by decreasing the oxygen need of the cell. Secondary hypoxic injury is tissue death that occurs after the initial injury due to lack of oxygen supply. Tissues near the injured site die because the inflam -
matory process decreases blood flow. With decreased blood flow, cells that survived the initial injury die because they cannot get enough oxygen or get rid of waste products. Other benefits of cryotherapy are decreased vascular permeability and vasoconstriction. Cryotherapy should be applied as soon as possible after evaluation of an acute injury. However, it is important to do an adequate evaluation before muscle spasm, pain, and stiffness increase. Prompt application of cryo -
therapy cannot reverse the initial trauma, but decreasing secondary hypoxic injury will decrease the overall amount of injured tissue. Cryotherapy should be applied with a cooling to rewarming ratio of 1:2; ini -
tially ice may be applied for approximately 30 minutes every 1½ to 2 hours (18).
• Compression: Compression can be applied via an intermittent compression pump or elastic bandage. Compression controls edema formation and decreases swelling by promoting reabsorption of fluid.
• Elevation: Elevation decreases capillary hydrostatic pressure, which forces fluid out of the capillary in an uninjured state.The strength and conditioning professional should 
be aware of the PRICE method of treating injuries. Some of these treatment methods may also be utilized during the post-injury transition from rehabilitation to full participation in the sport.
In addition to the treatments already dis -
cussed, health care professionals may use a 
variety of other modalities to promote heal-ing and control the inflammatory process. A common form of electrical stimulation used for control of acute pain is sensory level stimu -
lation. TENS (transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation) units are devices that provide sensory level stimulation. One disadvantage of this modality is that symptom relief occurs only while the TENS device is being used (20) (Figure 22.1).
Ultrasound is another modality that 
may be used to promote healing.
 During the 
inflammatory phase, pulsed ultrasound should be used for its non-thermal effects including altered membrane permeability to promote tissue healing (17). The use of continuous ultrasound produces heat in the tissues and is contraindicated during the inflammatory phase. Various applications of electrical stimu-lation and ultrasound may be used to facilitate delivery of a topical drug into the tissues, known as iontophoresis and phonophoresis, respectively. Use of any of the above modali -
ties is decided upon by an appropriately trained health care professional.
Exercise considerations
Based on injury severity, gentle range of motion of exercises may be indicated near the end of the inflammatory phase. Performing early range of motion will decrease the nega -
tive effects of immobilization. Each type of tissue responds differently to immobilization and remobilization. Negative effects of immo-bilization on muscle include: decreased muscle fiber size, decrease in size and number of mito -
chondria, decrease in muscle tension produced, increase in lactate concentration with exercise, and a decrease in total muscle weight (15). Early controlled passive or active motion may be used postoperatively to retard muscle atro -
phy and tissue contracture. It also allows for diffusion of synovial fluid to nourish articular 

TODD S. ELLENBECKER ET AL.608
Figure 22.1  Modality set-up used to treat a patient with rotator cuff tendonitis.
cartilage, meniscus, and ligaments. In postop -
erative cases, the physician protocol must be 
followed when progressing range of motion and strengthening exercises.
Strengthening of the injured tissue is gener -
ally not indicated during this phase. However, maintenance of overall fitness including strength,  flexibility, and endurance is important for both the physical and psychological return to sport (1). An athlete with a lower extremity injury may use an upper body ergometer to mini -
mize loss of cardiovascular endurance. Aquatic physical therapy may be an alternative if lower extremity weight bearing restrictions are present. 

INJURY PREVENTION AND REHABILITATION609
Strength exercises of noninvolved areas may be 
performed if they do not risk reinjury. A bal -
ance between strengthening for overall fitness and rest must be maintained to allow the body to heal and prevent fatigue.
Repair phase
The repair phase begins once inflammatory debris has been removed, approximately 3 to 20 days after injury (17). According to some 
sources, the repair phase may last up to six 
weeks (2). Events during the repair phase include scar formation, tissue regeneration, and tissue repair, which increase strength at the injured site.
Physiology
A lack of oxygen at the injured site stim-ulates neovascularization, the formation of new capillaries. The formation of new capillaries increases blood flow, oxygen, and nutrients at the injured site. Collagen synthesis occurs as fibroblastic cells begin producing collagen fibers. During this phase, the collagen is laid down randomly and is weak in structure.
The formation of scar tissue after injury is 
a normal response; however, excessive colla -
gen deposition and scar formation can hinder the healing process. As scar tissue matures, it becomes inelastic, firm, and lacks blood flow. This type of tissue forms adhesions, which decrease range of motion and function. Therefore, it is important to promote proper healing and decrease the amount of scar tissue formation.
Signs and symptoms
During the repair phase, the signs and symp -
toms of the inflammation response subside. The amount of swelling remains constant or begins to subside. Skin temperature and color approaches that of the contralateral side. Although pain decreases overall, palpable ten-
derness or pain with specific movements may 
still be present. Skin color is similar to the con -
tralateral extremity; however, ecchymosis may be present. Function slowly improves through-out the repair phase.Treatment
Goals of treatment during the repair phase include:
• Continue to decrease inflammation
• Maintain ROM by minimizing contracture and adhesion formation
• Regain strength and function
Modalities should be used as needed to 
increase exercise tolerance and continue to promote healing. In addition to controlling pain, modalities are used to increase circula -
tion prior to exercise and decrease circulation (and swelling) afterward. Thermotherapy, which was contraindicated in the inflamma -
tion phase, is safe to use once there is no active swelling. Monitoring the signs and symptoms of the inflammatory response will help deter -
mine when swelling is no longer active and begins to decrease. Thermotherapy promotes healing by increasing circulation, decreasing pain, and increasing collagen extensibility. Common forms of thermotherapy include moist hot packs, warm whirlpools, and con -
tinuous ultrasound. After exercise, many of the same treatment interventions used during the inflammation phase should be continued. Cryotherapy, electrical stimulation, com -
pression, and elevation will control pain and swelling that may result from exercise.
In addition to modalities, manual therapy 
techniques including passive range of motion, and joint mobilizations may be used to further decrease pain and increase range of motion. Joint mobilizations will help restore normal joint motion when range of motion is limited due to joint capsule tightness (15).
Exercise considerations
Active-assisted and active range of motion exercises should be initiated if not already included in treatment at the end of the inflam -
mation phase. Range of motion is performed under controlled, supervised conditions, as the collagen is still weak during this phase. As soon as pain and swelling are controlled, strength-ening exercises for the injured area can be initiated. Proper exercise progression will aid healing by increasing circulation, increasing oxygen and optimizing collagen realignment. 

TODD S. ELLENBECKER ET AL.610
Range of motion and strengthening exercises 
promote optimal healing of soft tissue and collagen by causing realignment along lines of stress in a similar manner as bone responds to stress according to Wolff’s law (Chapter 4).
Exercise should place progressively 
increasing amounts of stress on the heal-ing tissues. Davies (22) described an exercise progression continuum to be used during reha -
bilitation. Although all stages are listed here, the later stages are not appropriate until the repair phase due to increased stress placed on the tissue. The exercise progression is as fol -
lows: submaximal multiple angle isometrics, maximal multiple angle isometrics, submaxi -
mal short arc exercises, maximal short arc exercises, submaximal full ROM exercises, maximal full ROM exercises.Multiple angle and short arc exercises 
are performed to allow exercise through-out pain-free range of motion. In addition to strengthening muscles at the range of motion where the exercise is performed, strengthening also occurs up to 10° (isometric) or 15° (isoki-netic) on either side of the range of motion at which the exercise is performed (21). Therefore, performing exercises in a safe, pain-free range of motion will increase strength into the affected areas (Figure 22.2). While isomet -
ric exercises are often the least functional and sport specific, they can be included in the early 
exercise progression following a joint injury as joint motion is not present during isomet -
ric exercise.
 This often minimizes joint stress 
and allows for early strengthening following an injury or surgery.


INJURY PREVENTION AND REHABILITATION611
Figure 22.2  Cybex isokinetic knee extension exercise using a short arc of range of motion between 90° and 60°.
In addition to strengthening, propriocep -
tive exercises should be included. The term 
proprioception describes the sensation of joint movement (kinesthesia) and joint position (joint position sense) (22). Proprioception is decreased after trauma to tissues containing mechanoreceptors, such as muscles, ligaments, and joints. A joint with decreased propriocep-tive feedback and joint position sense is at greater risk for reinjury. Examples of injuries where joint proprioception is decreased include ankle sprains and shoulder (glenohumeral joint) dislocations (23). By incorporating proprioceptive exercises into a rehabilita -
tion program, the neuromuscular control and dynamic joint stabilization needed for athletic activities are improved (22). Examples of basic proprioceptive exercises include single leg bal-ance and balance board activities for the lower extremity as well as applications like rhythmic stabilization (also known as perturbation) and weight bearing exercises like planks for the 
upper extremity (Figure 22.3).
T
issue response to exercise should be con -
stantly monitored. Increased pain and swelling implies too much stress has been placed on the tissue. When signs and symptoms of inflam -
mation reoccur or increase, exercise should be decreased and treatment discussed during the inflammation phase as indicated.

TODD S. ELLENBECKER ET AL.612
collagen fibers results from tensile forces. As 
stress to the collagen is increased, the fibers rea -
lign in a position of maximum efficiency, parallel to the lines of tension. Collagen becomes more organized and its strength increases.
Signs and symptoms
Signs and symptoms present since the inflam -
mation phase will continue to decrease and eventually disappear by the end of the remod -
eling phase. There will be minimal to no 
swelling, pain with motion, and pain with 
palpation. Function continues to approach pre-injury levels. Initial measurements includ -
ing swelling, ROM, and strength should be reevaluated.
Treatment
The primary goal of treatment during the remodeling phase is to regain the prior level of function of the injured tissue. Modalities will be continued as needed, as in the repair phase, to maintain optimal healing environments and assist in regaining full range of motion. However, modality use is decreased as exercise tolerance increases. Manual therapy and joint mobilizations should be continued until full range of motion is achieved. Collagen will con -
tinue to realign along the lines of stress applied by range of motion and strengthening activities.
Exercise considerations
Regaining full strength is an emphasis during the remodeling phase. Exercises are progressed as discussed in the repair phase. Signs and symptoms are monitored to prevent placing too much stress on the tissue and risking rein -
jury. Proprioceptive exercise should also be progressed. As strength and proprioception are increased, functional activities simulat -
ing work or sport requirements should be included. Speed of movement, type of muscle contraction, and length of activity are impor -
tant factors to consider when developing functional activities. Functional and sport spe -
cific exercises are incorporated into the Return to activity phase discussed in the next section.
Phases of healing must be kept in mind 
as health professionals continue to push ear -
lier return to sport. Clinical judgment will determine appropriate exercise and treatment 
Figure 22.3  Unilateral lower extremity 
proprioception exercise using a Thera-band stability 
trainer.
Remodeling phase
The last stage in the healing process is the 
remodeling phase. Even though a person may have returned to prior level of function, the remodeling phase can continue more than a year after the initial injury (19).
Physiology
Near the end of the repair phase, the tensile strength of the collagen increases and the num -
ber of fibroblasts diminishes, signaling the start of the maturation phase. According to Davis’ law (21), realignment and remodeling of the  

INJURY PREVENTION AND REHABILITATION613
progression through the healing phases to 
allow optimal return to sport. Since return to competitive sport activities often occurs before the healing phases are complete, continued strengthening and bracing should be incorpo -
rated as necessary to prevent further injury. A strength and conditioning professional assists the transition from the controlled, supervised environment of a rehabilitation clinic to a life-long independent exercise program for injury prevention. It is imperative during this phase 
that the strength and conditioning specialist 
work closely with the rehabilitation profes -
sional (physical therapist and athletic trainer) to ensure that essential levels of strength, mus -
cular balance, endurance, proprioception, and range of motion have been returned to the injured athlete prior to entering a return to play state. The return to activity phase is a crit -
ical phase in the rehabilitation of an injured athlete, and recent consensus documents and studies have been published and summarized to emphasize the important steps rehabilita -
tion professionals must follow to optimize the patient’s success during this portion of the rehabilitation (24). The use of objec -
tive testing is imperative during this phase of rehabilitation following injury. Examples included instrumented manual muscle testing (10), isokinetic testing, and range of motion measurement (21,25,26) with each measure providing critically important information to allow clinical decision making required for returning an athlete to their sport or activity.
RETURN TO ACTIVITY 
PHASE: THE ROLE OF THE 
INTERVAL PROGRAM
Of all the stages in the rehabilitation process, 
the return to sport or full activity is easily the most anticipated by all persons in the sports medicine team and clearly the most antici -
pated both physically and mentally by the patient. Despite the popularity of this stage of the recovery process, this phase is probably the least well defined, and is filled with guide -
lines and ambiguous rules that often are not predicated on research, functional outcomes, or evidence-based practice themes. Many methods can be used to define or determine whether the athlete is ready for a return to full activity. Most clinicians and sports scientists recommend the inclusion of as much objec -
tively based testing as possible. Use of clinical testing comes in two primary categories. These categories are subjective and objective. Subjective tests are designed to be completed by the patient themselves and typically involve questions geared at obtaining the patient’s per -
ceived level of function.
The return to activity phase is an extremely 
critical part of the rehabilitation process that should be based on function rather than time or symptoms. The strength and conditioning professional should have a defined role in this 
phase of the recovery process.
Objective testing is performed in several 
areas to determine the appropriateness of a 
return to sport. Determination of a return of range of motion of the injured joint or joints is carefully performed with a goniometer, or additional flexibility testing can be done using standardized tests like the sit and reach maneuver which measures low back and ham -
string flexibility. Typically, a return of range of motion equal to the contralateral or uninjured extremity is striven for. Exceptions to match -
ing range of motion or strength to the opposite side must include injury to the opposite side, or presence or either exceptional range of motion or strength on one side from playing a unilat -
eral sport such as tennis or baseball. In most patients, however, using a goal of achieving at least the range of motion or strength levels of the uninjured side is an appropriate goal.
A determination of strength must also be 
made before the patient can be returned to sport or aggressive activities without injury. Typical strength comparisons again use the opposite side as a baseline and employ either manual muscle testing techniques or more 
sophisticated equipment like isokinetic or 
hand-held dynamometers that further objec -
tify strength levels and are capable of reliably testing strength at multiple velocities that more appropriately match the speeds that the muscles and joints function during ADLs or 

TODD S. ELLENBECKER ET AL.614
some sport activities. Initiation of return to 
sport programs such as running and throwing are not recommended when deficits in muscu -
lar strength are 20% or more (21). Therefore, while these isolated types of muscle perfor -
mance tests cannot simulate all functional demands, they provide the clinician with a valid and reliable measure or indicator of mus -
cular performance around an injured joint.
In addition to the objective tests for 
strength and range of motion, testing spe -
cifically designed to assess the function of the limb or the whole individual are recom -
mended. These are typically called functional tests. Examples of functional tests are hop and jump tests and the vertical jump test. One par -
ticularly popular test is the one leg hop test. In patients with an injured knee, this test can be performed simply in a clinic using a tape measure and piece of tape to delineate starting position. The patient takes off and lands on the same limb with comparison of one limb to the other performed. Failure to reach the distance generated on the contralateral side indicates often an inability to generate gross lower extremity power in the lower extrem -
ity, as well as very often a hesitancy in landing and having the eccentric control necessary to absorb the load following the jump. In addition to the actual distance, quantitative assessment of these patients often provides valuable insight as to the patient’s readiness to absorb the impact load on landing, and ability to land on one leg. Often patients will land on both legs to shield the injured extremity from the stress and eccentric overload inher -
ent in landing. Information gleaned during functional testing is imperative for the clinical decision making process that must be under -
taken when considering a patient for a full return to activity. The reader is referred to the following sources for more extensive infor -
mation on functional tests for the upper and lower extremities and trunk (27, 28).
THE INTERVAL SPORT 
PROGRAM
Several key components are inherent in an inter -
val sport return program. These are warm-up, alternate day performance scheduling, integra -
tion with conditioning, progressive stages of 
intensity, proper biomechanics and evaluation of mechanics, and cool-down or after care. Each of these important components form the currently used interval sport return programs and can easily be adapted into nearly any sport or activity.
Warm-up
Despite the understandable anticipation that a patient has upon returning to a sport fol-lowing the hiatus required following injury or during rehabilitation, a proper warm-up must precede actual performance in the inter -
val program. Despite recent evidence that the acute effects of stretching may diminish jump and power performance for a period of up to 20 minutes (29,30), the potential injury prevention or reinjury benefits of stretching and warm-up make this an important initial stage in the interval program. Typically, the warm-up consists of a light cardiovascular workout to elevate local tissue temperature and increase blood flow to the peripheral aspects of the limbs (31). This warm-up is then followed by static stretches with isolated positioning of the muscle’s origin and inser -
tion such that controlled and static elongation occurs. Hold times of 15 to 30 seconds have been reported to produce plastic deformation of the tissue and enhance the flexibility and range of motion of the hamstrings and other muscles (31).
Alternate-day performance 
schedule
Interval sport performance programs typi -
cally have an alternate day performance 
schedule. This is designed to allow the mus-culature and static restraint mechanisms surrounding the injured joint or joints a period of recovery before sport activity is 
again administered. Additionally, the day off 
following performance allows the patient and clinician time to determine the toler -
ance of the body to the previous day’s level of performance. Close monitoring of all subjective symptoms and objective signs is 

INJURY PREVENTION AND REHABILITATION615
an important part of determining when the 
next stage or intensity or activity is initiated. Therefore, alternate day performance of the interval program is recommended.
Integration with other 
conditioning
This is perhaps one of the most difficult aspects 
of returning a patient to their sport. The 
importance of continuing with strength and 
range of motion exercises during the interval program is widely recognized. Restoration of final muscular balance and obtaining the last few degrees of flexibility and motion around a formally restricted joint are all aspects that require continued rehabilitative exercise and conditioning during this phase. Though there is limited work published in this area, several clinical suggestions or guidelines are typically followed. Performance of sport spe -
cific activity is recommended before or prior to any strength or power training. This is to ensure that the body’s musculature, which provides the dynamic stability for the joints, is properly functioning and not fatigued dur -
ing the functional performance. Additionally, exercises to segments even far away from the injured segment may complicate functional performance.
Progressive stages of intensity
For a program to truly be interval in nature, it must contain progressive stages of gradually increasing intensity. These progressive stages allow patients and clinicians to responsibly progress the stresses applied to the postop -
erative or post-injury tissue. One example is an interval throwing program. The interval throwing program contains gradually pro-gressive stages or steps of both increasing distance and volume (number of throws). Careful monitoring of the patient through this program finds them increasing distance from 
as little as 30 to 45 feet initially, to as much as 
120 to 150 feet based on the type of position they play in baseball. Within each distance is a progression in the number of throws as well. This allows for independent increases in the intensity of the throwing (longer distance) as well as an increase in the number of repeti -
tions, which challenges the patient’s ability to withstand repeated stresses and builds endur -
ance. For a complete description of an interval throwing program used in shoulder rehabili -
tation, see Wilk and Arrigo (7). Interval tennis programs follow similar guidelines and can be found in Ellenbecker (3) and Ellenbecker and Wilk (32).
Proper biomechanics and 
evaluation of mechanics
Another critical part of the interval return pro-
cess is the emphasis on proper biomechanics. Many times, returning from an injury or sur -
gery leaves the athlete with deficits in muscle balance, range of motion, and proprioception or kinesthetic awareness in the limb or affected joint and hence sets the athlete up for compensa -
tory movement patterns. Often these movement patterns can lead to injury in the segment being rehabilitated or in adjoining segments. A perfect example of this is when someone is returning to tennis play after a knee arthros -
copy and they develop tennis elbow because of problems with lower body movement and an increase in the contribution and loading on the arm. Another example would be illustrated in the athlete returning to throwing after a shoul -
der injury and due to a loss in external rotation range of motion “short-arms” the ball resulting in greater loading on the inside (medial aspect) of the elbow joint (33).
Therefore, careful monitoring of the ath -
lete’s mechanics is indicated during the return to activity phase. This can be accomplished by having the health care clinician observing the interval process, as well as having the interval process performed in the presence of a coach or even sports biomechanist. Rehabilitation professionals can utilize readily available two-dimensional filming on cell phones and tablets with commercially available software available at little or no cost to provide visual feedback 
to facilitate the identification of injury pro -
ducing mechanics and enhance methods used 
to improve mechanics. Davis et  al. (34) has demonstrated critical time points and vari -
ables to focus on in throwing athletes during two-dimensional filming that can be used to 

TODD S. ELLENBECKER ET AL.616
perform a throwing analysis. These factors 
include premature opening of the lead shoulder, improper front foot placement, and elbow and forearm positioning (34).
Aftercare
Equally important as the warm-up, the cool-down or after care after the interval return program is an essential part of this process. In the earlier phases of the inter -
val program, where oftentimes a physical therapist or athletic trainer is supervising the program being executed in the clinical setting, the remainder of a rehabilitation program is typically completed on the same day as the interval sport return program. So, following the throwing or running or whatever the sport activity is, rehabilitation exercises geared at restoring optimal muscle balance and fatigue resistance, joint range of motion, as well as proprioception and balance are commenced. This allows the athlete to continue perfecting the injured areas during the interval return process and ensures that a day of nearly complete recovery can be followed on the day follow -
ing the interval program and rehabilitative exercise session. After care in this situation is guided by the rehab professional.
During the later stages of the interval pro -
gram, athletes are typically performing these activities independently off-site. Therefore, strict instruction regarding the amount, intensity, and duration of maintenance exer -
cises must be shared with the athlete as well as the specific instructions for post-session stretching and icing. The use of ice to cre -
ate vasoconstriction in the affected area is widely accepted in clinical medicine and sports medicine arenas. The amount of time that ice is used after an injury or following a return to full activity varies and has not been formally studied. Current recommendations are typically for application of ice following post-workout stretching. Following an organ-
ized and consistent program of after care will 
ensure that off-site interval program execu -
tion mirrors the program initially designed in the clinical setting and is thought to minimize the risk of reinjury and facilitate the return to activity.OVERVIEW OF KNEE 
MECHANICS AND 
EXERCISE APPLICATIONS
Knee anatomy and biomechanics
The knee joint is commonly injured during 
athletic activities. Knowledge of knee anatomy and biomechanics should be considered when designing exercise programs to prevent and rehabilitate lower extremity injuries. The knee joint is classified as a synovial joint and con -
sists of the tibiofemoral and patellofemoral articulations. Motion at the tibiofemoral joint occurs in flexion, extension, and internal and external rotation. The screw home mechanism occurs at terminal knee extension and involves the tibia externally rotating on a fixed femur in open kinetic chain activity. Movement at the patellofemoral joint consists of three trans -
lations: medial/lateral, superior/inferior, and anterior/posterior. The patella also can rotate in three directions: medial/lateral rotation in frontal plane, medial/lateral tilt in transverse plane, and flexion/extension in sagittal plane.
There are four main ligaments providing 
stability to the knee joint: anterior cruciate ligament, posterior cruciate ligament, medial collateral ligament, and the lateral collateral ligament. Another commonly injured structure in the knee is the meniscus. The knee has a lateral and medial meniscus, with the medial meniscus having a higher incidence of injury. The meniscus functions to absorb shock by dissipating forces over a larger surface area, aiding in joint lubrication, and increasing joint congruency and stability (35).
Common knee injuries and 
exercise considerations
Traditionally, rehabilitation for knee injuries 
often focuses on strengthening exercises for the quadriceps and hamstring muscles; how -
ever, total leg strengthening of those muscles both proximal and distal to the joint is impor -
tant, as well as exercises to restore balance and proprioception. Restoring the normative strength ratio between knee flexion and exten-sion strength is an important rehabilitation 

INJURY PREVENTION AND REHABILITATION617
goal. A 2:3 ratio of knee flexion to extension 
strength is desirable and supported in the lit -
erature (25). Total leg strengthening, especially of the hip and core muscles, is key as proxi -
mal muscle weakness is often associated with knee and other distal lower extremity injuries. Proprioceptive and balance exercises are also indicated after a lower extremity injury, as trauma to tissues containing mechanoreceptors will often result in decreased proprioception. These rehabilitation principles are further dis -
cussed below in relation to two common knee injuries, patellofemoral pain syndrome and anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury.
Patellofemoral pain syndrome
Related knee anatomy and biomechanicsThe patella is a sesamoid bone imbedded in the quadriceps tendon that functions to opti-mize the extensor mechanism by increasing the leverage and thus the force capability of the quadriceps muscles (35). It articulates with the trochlear groove of the femur via a large, primary weight-bearing lateral patel -
lar facet and a much smaller medial patellar facet. This articulation of the patella within the trochlear groove is commonly referred to as patellar tracking and often plays a vital role in patellofemoral pain. The trochlear groove is bordered by the lateral and medial femo -
ral condyles with the lateral condyle typically being much larger, which serves as a bony block to lateral patella translation. Depth of the trochlear groove changes as it is much shallower superiorly and gets deeper as it goes inferiorly. Patellar articulation is also com -
plicated by Q-angle, or normal knee valgus position of the femur against the tibia, which produces a natural tendency for the patella to translate laterally. The quadriceps muscles are the prime movers of the patella and provide dynamic stability. Contraction of these mus -
cles cause the patella to translate superiorly, laterally, and posteriorly. When the quads contract, this produces a compressive force 
at the patellofemoral joint. Static restraints 
such as the retinaculum further stabilize the patella and impact patella tracking. As the knee moves through a full range of motion in either a weight-bearing and non-weight-bearing position, the patella is exposed to an ever-changing degree of quadriceps compres-sion forces and changes in patella contact surface area all depending on where it lies in the trochlear groove.
Etiology of injury
Patellofemoral pain syndrome is the most common knee disorder seen in orthopaedic practice (36). The term generally encompasses any type of anterior knee pain located in or around the patella. Specific diagnoses that may 
be included under this general term include: 
chondromalacia patella, patellar tendonitis, patellofemoral malalignment, plica syndrome, and Osgood Schlatter disease (37).
Success in treating this syndrome is 
dependent on determining the cause of the pain, which can often be multifactorial. Only after identifying the cause(s) of patellofemoral pain can appropriate treatment be determined. A classification system of patellofemoral disor -
ders has been developed by Wilk et al. (38) to serve as a foundation for clinical interventions. Categories within this classification system include: patellar compression syndromes, patellar instability, biomechanical dysfunction, direct patellar trauma, soft tissue lesions, over -
use syndromes, osteochondritis diseases, and neurologic disorders. Pathological findings that may need to be addressed when treating patel -
lofemoral pain syndrome include: abnormal patellar alignment, patellar hypo- or hyper -
mobility, gluteus and quadriceps weakness, muscle strength/flexibility imbalances, and soft tissue restrictions. Rehabilitation for patel -
lofemoral pain syndrome commonly includes the following: quad strengthening, address -
ing muscle strength and flexibility imbalances throughout the entire lower extremity, orthotic devices, soft tissue mobilization and stretch -
ing of lateral structures (retinaculum and IT band), aerobic conditioning, and taping and bracing (5). Patellofemoral pain often occurs as a secondary injury. Therefore, it is necessary to consider the patellofemoral joint during all knee joint rehabilitation programs to prevent 
causing additional injuries.
Exercise considerations
Exercises for patellofemoral pain syndrome should be related to the specific pathological findings of the evaluation. The following are 

TODD S. ELLENBECKER ET AL.618
general exercise suggestions that apply to 
developing strength programs to treat and pre -
vent patellofemoral pain syndrome.
• Perform exercises through pain-free ranges of motion that minimize patellofemoral joint stress. Relatively safe ranges of motion in which to perform patellofemoral rehabili -
tation have been recommended. Due to the different effects of quad compressive force and patella contact surface area in the open 
and closed kinetic chain positions, it has been 
recommended to perform open kinetic chain exercise between the angles of 90° and 45° of knee flexion and between 50° and 0° of knee flexion for closed kinetic chain activi -
ties (15). Wallace et al. (39) found an increase in patellofemoral joint reaction forces as flexion angle increased during squat exer -
cise. It is thus recommended to avoid knee flexion angles greater than 60° in an attempt to reduce patellofemoral stress during closed kinetic chain activities. Avoiding deep knee flexion exercise in the closed kinetic chain as well as terminal knee extension in the open kinetic chain is ideal for minimizing stress and ultimately pain in these patients.
• Focus on general quad strengthening . A 
common analogy regarding the patella is that of “a train that sits on a track”. As the primary mover of the patella or “train”, the quadriceps also provide dynamic stabil -
ity through compressive forces that work to maintain congruency on “the track” or trochlear groove. For those who dem -
onstrate weak quadriceps,
 strengthening 
exercises have been shown to be very effec -
tive in reducing pain, increasing function, and increasing patella contact area in those with patellofemoral pain (40). A systemic review of the literature by Bolgla and Boling (41) further supports the use of quadri -
ceps strengthening in patellofemoral pain patients. The idea that exercise can specifi-cally target the medial quads and especially the vastus medialis oblique (VMO) muscle 
has been proven to be rather ineffective. 
The VMO has been shown to have no sepa -
rate innervation or fascial plane separation between the proximal and distal fibers of the vastus medialis thus making it impossi -
ble to isolate. Activation of these muscles is thus an “all or none” response. A systematic review of EMG studies by Smith et al. (42) concluded that some of the more common exercise modifications or methods that tra -
ditionally have been used to preferentially enhance VMO activity over the other quad muscles does not actually do so. Focus should thus be placed on choosing quadri -
ceps exercises in appropriate ranges of motion that minimize patellofemoral stress and can be completed pain free.
• Focus on proximal hip strengthening . Back 
to the “train on a track” analogy, another approach to decreasing patellofemoral pain is to control the “track” underneath the “train”. Excessive hip internal rota-tion and hip adduction are often associated with patellofemoral pain patients, espe -
cially in females (43,44,45,46). These motions increase laterally directed forces along the joint and are comparable to pulling the “track out from underneath the train”. Strengthening of the hip exten -
sors, hip abductors, and external rotators are of key importance in rehabilitation of patellofemoral patients. Performing closed kinetic chain exercises utilizing more of a hip strategy (butt back, knees behind toes, forward trunk position) allows for greater hip muscle activation than a quad domi -
nant strategy (upright trunk, knees past toes). Promoting a forward trunk posi-tion with squatting and running has been shown to increase hip extensor activation while reducing use of quads and decreasing patellofemoral stress (47,48). A thorough evaluation of the hip and lower extremity kinetic chain will allow deficiencies at the hip to be determined and allow for correc -
tive exercise and should be completed for all patellofemoral pain patients.
Anterior cruciate ligament injury
Related knee anatomy/biomechanicsOne of the most common injuries to the knee during athletic injuries is rupture of the ACL. 
The ACL is the primary restraint to anterior 
translation of the tibia on the femur in the open kinetic chain. In the closed kinetic chain, the ACL functions to prevent posterior displace -
ment of the femur on the tibia. Depending on the direction and amount of force, injury to the medial collateral, lateral collateral, and 

INJURY PREVENTION AND REHABILITATION619
posterior cruciate ligaments or menisci may 
also occur with an ACL injury. Depending on the severity of injury and activity level of an individual, operative or nonoperative treat-ment may be chosen. For active individuals with a torn ACL, surgical reconstruction is usually the treatment of choice.
After reconstructive surgery, the empha -
sis of rehabilitation progresses from range of motion to strength and proprioception. Regaining full knee extension is important for normal knee biomechanics during gait and to prevent secondary complications. Once strengthening exercises are initiated, it is important to consider force on the ACL dur -
ing lower extremity strength exercises. The greatest amount of force is placed on the ACL between 0° and 30° of knee flexion in the open kinetic chain. Guidelines for strengthening exercises are discussed below.
Rehabilitation after ACL injury
Goals of ACL reconstruction and rehabilita -
tion include: restoration of knee stability, preservation of knee cartilage, expedient return to daily activities including sport participa-tion, and early recognition of complications (49). Exercise progression will be based on the orthopedic surgeon’s protocol. Factors that may influence healing rate and exercise progression are: preoperative condition of the knee, type of graft used, and concomitant injuries. General exercise guidelines after ACL reconstruction are as follows:
• Regain knee flexion and extension strength . 
The hamstring muscles are the dynamic restraint to anterior translation of the tibia on the femur. Increasing the strength and control of the hamstring muscles will increase dynamic stability of the knee joint and decrease ACL strain. The quadri -
ceps must also be strengthened as atrophy occurs due to pain and swelling. Regaining strength of the quadriceps muscles is needed for control of the knee joint. As mentioned earlier, the ratio of knee flexion to extension strengthening should be at least 2:3 (25).
• Incorporate proprioceptive exercises. Lower extremity proprioceptive exercises are indi -
cated since decreased proprioception occurs after ACL injury. Mechanoreceptors provid -
ing proprioceptive input regarding positional stability from the knee are impaired after a torn ACL resulting in decreased input from the knee joint to the central nervous system (50). The resulting decreased neuromuscu -
lar control and proprioception increase risk of reinjury. There are numerous exercises to improve proprioception including single leg balance activities on surfaces such as foam and balance boards.
• Include unilateral exercises. A study by Neitzel et al. (51) found subjects that had undergone ACL reconstruction significantly unloaded the involved extremity when performing a parallel squat 6 to 7 months postoperatively. Not until 12 to 15 months postoperatively did bilateral weight bearing normalize. Therefore, unilateral strength exercises should be per -
formed to achieve maximal strength gains in the involved extremity.
• Strengthen muscles in both the closed and open kinetic chain. Strengthening exercises should simulate functional activities. Both regular daily activities such as gait and sport activities require muscles to func -
tion in the open and closed kinetic chains. Closed kinetic chain exercises involve co-contraction of the muscles surrounding a joint and are characterized by a linear stress pattern and fixture of the distal segment of the extremity to the ground of supportive surface (26). Closed kinetic chain exer -
cises utilize multiple joints and joint axes. One prime example of a closed kinetic chain exercise is the squat or lunge. Closed kinetic chain exercise in a lower extremity involves co-contraction of the quadriceps and hamstring muscles. Anterior transla -
tion of the tibia on the femur is minimized by hamstring contraction, decreasing strain on the ACL. Open kinetic chain exercise is characterized by a rotator stress pattern, and isolated joint and muscle function. The distal aspect is technically allowed to swing freely in space. One example of an open kinetic chain exercise is the knee extension exercise. Open kinetic chain exercises are recommended when trying to isolate quadri-ceps when strengthening. Due to increased strain on the ACL from approximately 0° to 30° of knee extension in the open kinetic chain, exercises must be performed with appropriate modifications (limit last 30° of 
knee extension) (Figure 22.4).

TODD S. ELLENBECKER ET AL.620
  
Figure 22.4  (A) closed kinetic chain exercise using a stability ball; (B) open-chain knee extension exercise.
Nonoperative treatment
Nonoperative treatment is usually only chosen by less active individuals. The laxity from a torn ACL increases the risk of future meniscal and 
articular cartilage  damage. Cartilage dam -
age will continue to increase knee pain and limit function over time. Similar to the post -
operative rehabilitation goals, nonoperative goals include regaining hamstring and quadri -
ceps muscle strength and lower extremity proprioception. The same exercise principles discussed earlier for postoperative strengthen -
ing can be applied.
Anatomy and biomechanics  
of the shoulder
The shoulder or glenohumeral joint is the 
most mobile joint in the human body. The shoulder complex is comprised of several joints; however, the discussion here will be primarily focused on the glenohumeral and scapulothoracic joints. Codman (52) iden -
tified the delicate balance during upper extremity elevation between the glenohumeral and scapulothoracic joints. He termed this the scapulohumeral rhythm. According to Codman (52), for every 2° of glenohumeral joint motion, 1° of scapulothoracic motion occurs. This relationship points out the impor -
tant role the scapulothoracic joint plays in shoulder function and how important proper strength and endurance of the muscles that sta -
bilize the scapula are for normal function. The muscles that stabilize the scapula include the serratus anterior, trapezius, rhomboids, and levator scapulae. The important upward rota -
tion of the scapula that the serratus anterior and trapezius perform is required to optimize the length tension relationship of the rota-tor cuff muscle tendon units as well as move 

INJURY PREVENTION AND REHABILITATION621
the acromion from the path of the elevating 
humerus (11).
The stability of the glenohumeral joints 
“ball and socket” articulation is provided by both static and dynamic elements. The static elements include the glenoid labrum, articu -
lar capsule, as well as negative intra-articular pressure (7). The dynamic stabilizers of the glenohumeral joint include the four rotator cuff muscle tendon units and the biceps long head (53).
One of the most important biomechanical 
principles in shoulder function is the deltoid rotator cuff force couple. This phenomenon known as a force couple explains how the rotator cuff and deltoid muscles work together to provide arm movements (54). The deltoid provides force primarily in a superior direc -
tion when contracting unopposed during arm elevation. The rotator cuff must provide both compressive force as well as an inferi -
orly directed force to prevent impingement of the rotator cuff tendons against the over -
lying acromion. Failure of the rotator cuff to maintain humeral congruency leads to gleno -
humeral joint instability, rotator cuff tendon pathology, and labral injury (7). Imbalances in the deltoid rotator cuff force couple, which primarily occur during inappropriate train -
ing and development of the deltoid without strengthening of the rotator cuff, exacerbate the superior migration of the humeral head provided by the deltoid and lead to impinge -
ment. The exercises listed below can be applied to ensure that a balanced training program for the shoulder and upper extremity is followed and is particularly important for overhead athletes such as baseball players, tennis play -
ers, and swimmers.
Common injuries of the shoulder
In the early 1970s, Neer (55) introduced the concept of shoulder impingement. Impingement refers to the mechanical impingement or com -
pression of the rotator cuff tendons between the humeral head and the acromion. The sub -
acromial space is only reported at 6 to 14 mm in normal subjects (56), and with muscular imbalance and/or fatigue, capsular range of motion restriction, and repeated overuse in overhead positions, rotator cuff impingement occurs producing a progression of disability. This progression, according to Neer (55), starts with edema and hemorrhage initially and, with continued overuse, could result in partial and full thickness tears from the mechani -
cal stresses of compression and impingement. Impingement typically responds to nonopera -
tive rehabilitation, which consists of modalities to decrease inflammation and pain, as well as proper exercises which activate and strengthen the rotator cuff muscles using positions that do not place the rotator cuff in a compressed or 
impinged position to allow for healing.
More recently, medical professionals and 
scientists have understood the important role 
glenohumeral joint instability plays in rotator cuff disease. Impingement of the rotator cuff against the acromion may occur secondary to glenohumeral joint instability from attenua-tion of the static stabilizers such as capsular laxity, labral pathology, and abnormal work or sport biomechanics (57,58,59). Excessive translation or subluxation of the humeral head relative to the glenoid can occur in ath -
letes and individuals with capsular laxity, often developed from repetitive overuse in the overhead movement patterns used in throwing or serving (57). Additionally, shoulder insta-bility can occur from a traumatic event such as a fall on an outstretched arm or the combined movement of abduction and external rota -
tion in contact sports. This can result in a full dislocation of the humeral head from the gle -
noid. Careful application of rotator cuff and scapular exercises are again indicated in these patients to improve dynamic stabilization.
Application of resistive exercise for 
the glenohumeral joint
The anatomical and biomechanical concepts 
outlined earlier in this chapter provide a framework for the clinician to choose exercise positions and movement patterns to increase both strength and muscular endurance in patients and individuals with shoulder injury or weakness. In addition to the concepts such as the scapular plane position, avoidance of 
impingement positions, and the important 
role force couples play in producing controlled glenohumeral joint motion, are electro -
myographic (EMG) studies that specifically measure individual muscular activity patterns with traditionally utilized exercise patterns.

TODD S. ELLENBECKER ET AL.622
Blackburn et  al. (60) used electromyo -
graphy to measure muscular activity in the 
posterior rotator cuff during traditional shoul-der exercise using isotonic weights. The authors identified a position that has been referred to as the “Blackburn position”, which consists of prone horizontal abduction with 100° of abduc -
tion and an externally rotated humeral position. This position was reported to involve high lev -
els of muscular activity in the supraspinatus muscle, infraspinatus, teres minor, and scapular stabilizers (60,61,62). This prone position has become a classic exercise in many rehabilitation programs for both glenohumeral joint impinge-ment and instability (60). Modification of this exercise using only 90° of abduction to decrease potential subacromial contact and compression has been recommended (3,63).
In addition to the Blackburn et al. study (60), 
Townsend et  al. (61) provided the most com-prehensive analysis of shoulder muscle activity during traditional exercises used during reha -
bilitation programs. Examples of exercises used during rotator cuff rehabilitation are pictured 
in Figure 22.5. These exercises utilize positions outlined in this chapter and have confirmed high 
levels of muscle activation of the rotator cuff
 
while placing the shoulder in a comfortable “non-impingement position”. Exercises to improve strength and muscular endurance are also recom -
mended for the scapular stabilizers. Moseley et al. (64) outlined the muscular activation patterns of the scapular muscles during rehabilitation exer -
cises. Application of seated rows, push-up with a “plus”, which involves accentuating scapular protractions, are considered “core scapular” exercises based on this research.
The use of exercises with 90° of abduction 
are indicated to provide sport specific con -
ditioning of the rotator cuff (3). Figure 22.6 
shows how external rotation can be performed
 
with the shoulder elevated 90° in the scapular plane. The scapular plane position is the plane 30° anterior to the coronal or frontal plane of the body and is a position that is character -
ized by high levels of bony congruity between the humeral head and glenoid as well as neu -
tral tension in the glenohumeral capsule (65).  
The use of the scapular plane position is highly recommended during rehabilitation.


INJURY PREVENTION AND REHABILITATION623
Figure 22.5  (continued)

TODD S. ELLENBECKER ET AL.624
(continued)

INJURY PREVENTION AND REHABILITATION625
Figure 22.5  (continued)

TODD S. ELLENBECKER ET AL.626
Figure 22.5  Rotator cuff exercises used to strengthen the rotator cuff and scapular stabilizers based on EMG 
research.(continued)

INJURY PREVENTION AND REHABILITATION627
Figure 22.6  External rotation exercise with Thera-
band using 90° of elevation in the scapular plane (A) 
start position; (B) end position.Finally, modification of traditional exer -
cises performed by many athletes and active 
individuals in the gym is followed and recom -
mended. Limiting shoulder forward and lateral 
raises to only 90° is highly recommended along with performing lat pull downs in front of the head rather than behind (66). Limiting the range of motion during bench presses  
and pec deck exercises to positions in front of the scapular plane to decrease stress on the front of the shoulder is also widely  
recommended (66).
With specific reference to individuals who 
perform extensive amounts of weight train-ing as one of their primary forms of exercise or in training for their sport, recent research has demonstrated the importance of muscular balance and the consequences of unbalanced weight training. An additional example of adaptation of the human shoulder’s deltoid rotator cuff force couple can be demonstrated in a recent study by Kolber et al. (67). They studied 55 subjects who were recreational weightlifters, 24 of which had subacromial impingement. The subjects with subacromial impingement had significantly decreased body weight adjusted external rotation and lower trapezius strength compared to the weightlifters without shoulder pain. Body weight adjusted strength ratios of the abduc -
tors, internal rotators, and upper trapezius (prime movers) were comparable between both groups of weightlifters showing compa -
rable and expected neuromuscular adaptation to resistance exercise training. These findings, however, coupled with the significant decrease in external rotation and lower trapezius strength ratios in the injured weightlifters, highlight the importance of muscular bal -
ance between the rotator cuff and deltoid musculature and its potential role in shoul -
der injuries such as subacromial impingement (67). Proper balance between the rotator cuff, scapular musculature, and prime movers (del -
toid, pectoralis, upper trapezius, etc.) is of key importance for shoulder injury prevention.
The spine
Anatomy
The spine consists of 33 segments divided into 5 regions (cervical, thoracic, lumbar, sacral, and 

TODD S. ELLENBECKER ET AL.628
coccygeal), with the first 24 or pre-sacral ver -
tebrae having the most clinical relevance. The 
S- shape curve of the spine allows increased shock absorption and overall flexibility and is due to the cervical and lumbar lordosis com -
bined with the thoracic and sacral kyphosis. The spine has several key functions from an anatomical and biomechanical standpoint. It serves to house and protect the spinal cord and vital organs. It functions to dissipate weight -
bearing forces of the head and trunk to the pelvis and allows controlled movement of the spine against gravity. The spine can be divided into individual blocks or units called spinal segments. The spinal segment is considered the 
functional (Figure 22.7) unit within the spinal 
column, and consists of the disc-vertebral body interface,
 the facets or zygapophyseal joints, 
and the ligaments, muscles, and vessels which innervate the segment. Together, the individual functional units or spinal segments function to allow for coordinated movement (68).
The size and mass of the spinal segment 
increases from the cervical to the lumbar spine to allow for increased weightbearing on the lower segments. In addition, regional dif -
ferences in the structure of the spine exist to accommodate for the functional demands and movement patterns that are unique to an area of the spine. In the cervical spine, for example, the orientation and shape of the joint sur -
faces allows for greater freedom of movement allowing for positioning of the head in space. In contrast, the thoracic spine has significantly less total ROM, due to the articulation of the ribs and the shape of the spinal motion seg -
ment, and this is due to the primary role being protection of vital organs and increasing res-piratory efficiency. In the lumbar spine the size and shape of the disks are larger to allow for increased weightbearing, and the orientation of the facet joints are primarily in the sagittal plane, allowing for greater flexion and exten -
sion movements with minimal rotation (68).
In a normal upright standing posture, 84% 
of the weightbearing forces are transmitted through the vertebral body and disc-vertebral body interface, with the remaining 16% being borne by the articular facet joints. The intervertebral disc-interface consists of the car -
tilaginous vertebral end plates on the superior and inferior surfaces of the vertebral body, and the interposed disc. The disc consists of the nucleus pulposus at the center, comprised of a mucoid material with a water binding capac-ity giving it a gelatinous composition. The nucleus is surrounded by the annulus fibrosis comprised of concentric layers of collagen and fibrocartilage designed to resist tensile, tor -
sion, and compressive loads imparted to the 
disc (69) (Figure 22.8). The oblique orientation 
of the annular fibers reinforces the strength of the disc,
 allowing resistance to the directional 
forces and movements exerted by the nucleus. Based on the design of the disc, it is thought to have characteristics of a hydraulic system, where the self-contained nucleus cannot be compressed, and therefore exerts pressure 
BodyIntervertebral
diskSuperior articular
processTransverse
processSpinous process
Lamina
Pedicle
PedicleSpinous processInferior articular
process
Figure 22.7  Anatomy of the vertebrae.Vertebral
body
Nucleus
pulposus
Annulus
ﬁbrosus
Vertebral
endplate
Figure 22.8  Structure of the intervertebral disc.

INJURY PREVENTION AND REHABILITATION629
outwards toward the vertebral end-plates and 
annular rings (70). Due to the relative avascu-larity of the disc, most disc nutrition occurs through diffusion via the vertebral end plate during cycles of loading and unloading, allow -
ing for adequate exchange of nutrients and waste products. With age, the composition of the nucleus becomes less distinct from the annular fibers due to changes in the chemical composition in the nucleus.
Biomechanics of the spine
Movement in the spine occurs in a three-  
dimensional model where the individual segments have 6° of freedom or motion com -
ponents. On a basic level, movements at the spinal segments have varying degrees of trans-lation and rotation that occur when movement is produced in cardinal movements such as flexion, extension, sidebending, and rotation. The term coupling patterns is used to describe the accompanying movements between the vertebrae as primary movements are pro-duced. The coupling patterns are the result of the geometry of the individual vertebrae, connecting ligaments, and discs. For example, when the spine is flexed, there is accompany-ing superior and inferior translation or gliding of the individual segments accounting for the coupling movements. Another example of cou-pling occurs when the cervical spine is sidebent or laterally flexed. The vertebral segments will rotate in the same direction as the sidebend -
ing motion (71). Coupling patterns need to occur for normal spinal movement, and the degree and types of patterns vary based on the region of the spine and spinal posture when the movement is produced (71).
Clinical manifestation of coupling patterns 
becomes relevant when dysfunction occurs either due to degeneration or mechanical lock -
ing of the joint. This frequently happens when one attempts to perform a combined movement such as retrieving an object by bending forward and rotating causing mechanical locking of the facet joint. This biomechanical alteration causes pain and restriction with movement.
Muscles of the spine
Humans rely heavily on the muscles of the spi -
nal column for movement, postural control,  
and stability of the individual segments as we perform activities from a very basic level to highly advanced movements like sports. The role of the various vertebral muscles is based on their size, attachments, and loca-tion. The complex interaction of muscle activity to concurrently produce movement while affording stability is the foundation of efficient spinal motion.
The anterior muscles in the abdominal wall 
consist of the rectus abdominus, external and internal obliques, and transverse abdominus. Collectively, the primary movements produced by these muscles are flexion and rotation of the trunk, with minimal muscle activity dur -
ing normal erect standing (72). These muscles also act to regulate pelvic position by coun -
terbalancing the pull of the back extensors. The transverse abdominus plays a key role in achieving spinal stabilization by forming a rigid cylinder, increasing intra-abdominal pressure when contracted. The horizontal ori-entation of the fibers and the attachment into the thoraco-lumbar fascia provide this stabi -
lizing role (Figure 22.9).
The erector spinae muscles are posteriorly 
situated to the spine,
 and run the entire length 
of the spine, and consist of the superficial and deep divisions. Together, the erector spinae muscles act to extend the spine while lifting, and consequently are intermittently active to counteract the gravitational flexion line of pull on the body (72).
The stabilizing role of the deep erector 
spinae is evident when considering the line of pull of the deep erector spinae and the opposing iliopsoas (69). The contralateral antero-posterior line of pull in these muscles acts as a guy wire check system for stability of the lumbar spine in the sagittal plane. The multifidus is an important segmental stabilizer in the lumbar spine. It is present throughout the entire spine but is thickest in the lumbar region. With the segmental attachment, along with their orientation of pull, the multifidus muscles are thought to act as important sta-bilizers in the lumbar spine during lifting and rotational movements of the trunk (16).
Back injuries from and functional implications  
of lifting
Injuries in the spine occur frequently, with an estimated 80% of the general population 

TODD S. ELLENBECKER ET AL.630
AB225 mm Hg
225 mm Hg130 kg
Figure 22.9  Role of intra-abdominal pressure in protecting the spine during lifting.
experiencing low back pain at some point 
in their life (16). The etiology of back pain is not clearly understood, and oftentimes, identifying the source or cause of back pain is difficult. However, in many cases, mechanical back pain is a result of faulty body mechanics, postural habits, and repetitive stresses which may be avoided.
The neutral spine is a posture which 
reduces the stress to the static structures of the spine, and minimizes muscular effort by optimally aligning the segments in their most natural resting position. The neutral spine is achieved through finding the neutral posi -
tion of the pelvis. This is done by flexing and extending the pelvis to end ranges, appreciat -
ing the sense of the extremes, and finding the middle range, where there is the least amount of strain to the spine. Maintaining this neutral spine position provides the optimal position of the spinal curves for muscle length, joint posi -
tion sense, and equally distributes the forces along the spinal segment(s).
When lifting weights or performing 
functional lifting, several concepts should be followed to avoid risk of injury. Minimizing the distance of the object to be lifted by keeping it close to the body reduces the joint reaction forces and intradiscal pres-sure within the spine. By holding a weighted object away from the body, the lever arm is dramatically increased, requiring higher muscle forces to maintain equilibrium, while significantly increasing intradiscal pressure 
(15) (Figure 22.10). For example, while per -
forming front raises with dumbbells with the
 
elbows extended, the intradiscal pressure is exceedingly high. By simply flexing the elbows and keeping the dumbbells closer to the body, the lever arm is reduced, thereby lessening the forces acting on the spine. The role of obesity and the development of lower back problems are also related to having a larger lever arm acting on the lower back when the abdomen protrudes anteriorly.
Studies have demonstrated the impor -
tance of generating large intra-abdominal pressures within the spine through the con-traction of the stabilizing muscles of the paraspinals and abdominals when lifting heavy weights, and when performing push-ing movements against heavy resistance (5). The amount of weight, as well as the speed at which the lift is performed, correlates with 

INJURY PREVENTION AND REHABILITATION631
the increase in intra-abdominal pressures to 
support the spine, reinforcing the impor -
tance of the role of the stabilizing muscles of the trunk when lifting or pushing (see  
Figure 22.9). Some of the more common lifts requiring adequate stabilization to reduce the risk of injury are the weighted squat and
 
deadlift. While performing a weighted squat or deadlift, it is important to maintain the spine in a neutral position, avoiding excess lumbar flexion or extension throughout the movement, by increasing intra-abdominal pressure through contraction of the abdomi -
nal and paraspinal stabilization muscles. This concept of back stabilization through muscular contraction should be utilized with any type of resistance training where the spine lacks adequate stabilization and is at the forefront of core-stabilization training.
Core stabilization is an important concept for the 
strength and conditioning professional in terms of both performance and injury prevention. A number of appropriate methods can be utilized to train the core.Core stabilization training has reached 
new levels of popularity within athletic and 
exercise training circles because it has been shown that this type of training not only reduces the risk of injury through focusing on the important role of the stabilization muscles but enhances muscular control and efficiency. Traditional lifting methods have been supple-mented with exercises utilizing core training to improve performance. Supplemental core exercises should be included with traditional lifting exercises during daily workouts to engage these very important trunk muscles. Some of the more common exercises include:
 1 Push-ups with feet or hands on a ball 
(Figure 22.11)
 2 Bench press with back on ball, unsupported  
at the hips (Figure 22.12)
 3 Reverse sit-up with feet on ball
 4 Trunk rotation in standing or sitting on a ball
 5 Opposite arm and leg in quadruped
 6 Prone isometric abdominals
 7 Bridging with feet on a ball (Figure 22.13)
 8 Lunges with trunk rotation
 9 Thera-band sidestepping
10 Side-lying plank with unilateral row 
(Figure 22.14)
Maintaining adequate flexibility in the mus-
cles of the low back and lower extremities is also
 
very important due to the influence they have with pelvic alignment and control. Tight ham -
strings, paraspinals, or hip flexors can adversely position the pelvis in too much flexion or exten-sion predisposing one to injury or degenerative changes over longer periods. An example of this need for adequate flexibility can be demon-strated in what is termed lumbar-pelvic rhythm, which is a sequential sharing of motion between the paraspinals and hip extensors in the act of bending forward to touch your toes. During the initial bending movement, the pelvis is locked by the hip extensors for approximately the first 60° of motion with movement primarily com -
ing from the lumbar segments. This is followed by approximately 25° of hip motion when the paraspinal muscles become more active to allow for the additional motion to achieve full for -
ward bending. The reverse sequence occurs with return from full flexion, with lumbar extension, followed by pelvic extension. The implications are with inadequate range of motion or muscle Upper body
weightUpper body
weight
Object weightDisc
loadMuscle
forcesObject weightDisc
loadMuscle
forces
Figure 22.10  Proper lifting mechanics.

TODD S. ELLENBECKER ET AL.632
Figure 22.11  Push-up over a stability ball.
Figure 22.12  Bench press exercise performed using a stability ball to increase the muscle activity of the core.

INJURY PREVENTION AND REHABILITATION633
Figure 22.13  Knee to chest exercise using a stability ball.
Figure 22.14  Plank with unilateral row using elastic resistance. (A) start position and (B) end position of the row.

TODD S. ELLENBECKER ET AL.634
Neutral Spine ﬂexion Hip ﬂexion60° + 25 °Neutral +60°
Figure 22.15  Muscle activity in forward bending. Bending forward is a two-part movement involving both the 
spine and the pelvis. Part 1 involves the first 60° of movement, and part 2 involves an additional 25° of forward 
trunk flexion.
activation in either area, injury may result from 
motion compensations due to an abnormal lumbar-pelvic rhythm (Figure 22.15).
SUMMARY
Injury prevention and rehabilitation involve a coordinated effort from various health care professionals. Strength and conditioning profes -
sionals must be aware of the stress placed on body tissues during strengthening exercises to mini -
mize injury risk. When pain or injury does occur, activity needs to be modified, and referral to an appropriate health care professional should be made as needed. Communication between sports medicine professionals is vital in transitioning an athlete from a supervised rehabilitation program to a return to sport interval program, and ulti -
mately an independent conditioning program. Conducting pre-participation physicals, identi -
fying muscular strength and endurance deficits, awareness of joint and body mechanics during strengthening exercises, and appropriate activity progression after injury are all ways to minimize injury risk and maximize sport performance.
MAxiNG OUT
1 A basketball player at a rural high school sustains an ankle sprain. There is no health care 
professional present at the time of the injury. What actions should be taken?
2 What muscles should be addressed by exercises in a core stabilization program?
CASE E xAMPLE
Designing a return to sport conditioning program for a personal training client
BackgroundYou are a personal trainer at a sport performance training facility. One of your clients is an 
18-year-old male, competitive tennis player who has just completed two months of rehabilita -
tion for shoulder impingement. He has been cleared by his doctor to return to play. He pres -
ents to you for assistance with a conditioning program to help him prevent future injuries.  

INJURY PREVENTION AND REHABILITATION635
He has not been playing tennis during his rehabilitation but has been riding a stationary bike 
to maintain cardiovascular endurance. His shoulder pain has dissipated, and he is eager to return to the court. You perform an assessment of his musculoskeletal durability to assist with the development of a conditioning program for the client and offer advice on a return to sport program.
Considerations
Your musculoskeletal durability assessment includes testing for the core, lower extremities, 
and upper extremities. You make note of the client’s core and strength deficits as well as his 
lower extremity flexibility limitations and include exercise appropriate to address these areas. 
You also take into consideration the client’s history of shoulder impingement and ensure that modifications are made to traditional upper extremity exercise to avoid reaggravation of his shoulder. While the client reports maintaining cardiovascular endurance by cycling for the past two months, you feel that a more sport-specific agility program would be ideal for pre -
paring him for a return to the dynamic movement pattern performed on the court.
Implementation
You take into consideration the key components of an interval return to sport program and 
prescribe the following for this client:
 •Warm-up: Prior to stepping onto the court, perform five minutes of jumping rope, fol -
lowed by a stretching program I have designed to target your lower extremities.
 •Alternate day performance scheduling: Schedule your return to tennis session for every other day. Your days off from tennis will allow you to determine your tolerance to the pre -
vious day’s level of performance and will allow you a period of recovery between sessions.
 •Integration with conditioning: Your conditioning program should be performed on your days off from tennis. The conditioning program will include agility training to prepare you for the dynamic movements on the court and further improve your endurance. The strength-ening portion of your program will include total body strengthening but will place emphasis on your core and hips, where you demonstrate deficits. Though your shoulder pain has diminished, it will be important to continue rotator cuff strengthening during your return to tennis to ensure that the strength you developed while in rehabilitation is not lost.
 •Progressive stages of intensity : Your return to tennis should follow a schedule of gradually 
progressed intensity. You should follow the progression as listed in the return to tennis protocol given to you by your physician or therapist and closely monitor your tolerance to each stage of progression.
 •Proper biomechanics: Performing your return to tennis program with your coach is essen-
tial to ensure that proper mechanics are maintained.
 •Cool-down: Following your interval tennis program performance, you should again per -
form the stretching program targeting your lower extremities and commence with ice to your shoulder as you have been doing in rehabilitation.
Results
Because of your advice, your client was compliant with the interval return to tennis pro -
gram supervised by his coach and maintained an alternate-day schedule that allowed him to 
closely monitor his response to each stage of progression. He was able to demonstrate steady improvements in core strength, lower extremity flexibility, and agility. Two months following his return to tennis, he was able to return to competitive tennis without pain. He was per -
forming at a higher level than prior to his shoulder injury, likely secondary to his improved agility and increased power with his serves.

TODD S. ELLENBECKER ET AL.636
REFERENCES
 1. Taylor J, Stone R, Mullin MJ, et al. 
Comprehensive Sports Injury Management: From Examination of Injury to Return to Sport, 2nd ed. Austin, TX: PRO-ED, Inc, 2003.
 2. Arnheim DA, Prentice WE. Principles of Athletic Training. 9th ed. St Louis MO: McGraw-Hill Companies, 1997.
 3. Ellenbecker TS. Rehabilitation of shoulder and elbow injuries in tennis players. Clin Sports Med 1995; 14(1):87–109.
 4. Nirschl RP, Sobel J. Conservative treatment of tennis elbow. The Physician and Sports Medicine 1981; 9:43–54.
 5. Fulkerson JP. Diagnosis and treatment of patients with patellofemoral pain. Am J Sports Med 2002; 30(3):447–456.
 6. Chandler TJ, Kibler WB, Stracener EC, et al. Shoulder strength, power, and endurance in college tennis players. Am J Sports Med 1992; 20:455–458.
 7. Ellenbecker TS, Mattalino AJ. Concentric isokinetic shoulder internal and external rotation strength in professional baseball pitchers. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther 1997; 25(5):323–328.
 8. Wilk KE, Arrigo CA. Interval sport programs for the shoulder. In Andrews JR, Wilk KE eds, The Athlete’s Shoulder. New York: Churchill Livingstone, 1994.
 9. Ellenbecker TS. Shoulder internal and external rotation strength and range of motion in highly skilled tennis players. Isok Exercise Science 2:1–8, 1992.
10. Ellenbecker TS, Roetert EP. Age specific isokinetic glenohumeral internal and external rotation strength in elite junior tennis players. J Sci Med Sport 2003; 6(1):63–70.
11. Byram IR, Bushnell BD, Dugger K, Charron K, Harrell FE, Noonan TJ. Preseason shoulder strength measurements in professional baseball pitchers: Identifying players at risk for injury. Am J Sports Med 2010; 38(7):1375–1382
12. Kibler WB. The role of the scapula in athletic shoulder function. Am J Sports Med 1998; 26(2):325–337.
13. American College of Sports Medicine. Position Statement on Pre-participation Physicals. Indianapolis, IN: ACSM.
14. American Physical Therapy Association. Guide to Physical Therapist Practice, 2nd ed. Alexandria, VA: American Physical Therapy Association, 2001.
15. Kraushaar BS, Nirschl RP. Tendonosis of the elbow (tennis elbow): clinical features and findings of histological, immunohistochemical, and electron microscopy studies. J Bone Joint 
Surgery 1999; 81–A(2):259–278.
16. Andrews JR, Harrelson GL, Wilk KE, eds. Physical Rehabilitation of the Injured Athlete, 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: W.B. Saunders Co, 2004.
17. Richardson JK, Iglarsh A. Clinical Orthopaedic Physical Therapy. Philadelphia, PA: W.B. Saunders Co, 1994.
18. Cameron MH, ed. Physical Agents in 
Rehabilitation: From Research to Practice. Philadelphia, PA: W.B. Saunders Company, 1999.
19. Knight KL. Cryotherapy in Sports Injury Management. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 1995.
20. Prentice WE. The healing process and the pathophysiology of musculoskeletal injuries. In Prentice WE, Rehabilitation Techniques 
in Sports Medicine, 2nd ed. St Louis, MO: Mosby-Yearbook, 1994.
21. Davis HG. Conservative Surgery, As Exhibited in Remedying Some of the Mechanical Causes That Operate Injuriously Both in Health and Disease. New York: D. Appleton & Company. 
443 and 445 Broadway. 1867. https://books.
google.com/books?id=5gycXSqzr7oC&printsec=frontcover&dq=inauthor:%22Henry+Gas
sett+Davis%22&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwiz1vOc-LLaAhVh8IMKHeOnD
W4Q6AEILj
AB#v=onepage&q&f=false.
22. Robinson AJ, Snyder-Mackler L. Clinical Electrophysiology: Electrotherapy and Electrophysiologic Testing, 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams and Wilkins, 1995.
23. Davies GJ. A Compendium of Isokinetics in Clinical Usage and Rehabilitation Techniques. 4th ed. Onalaska, WI: S and S Publishers, 1992.
24. Lephart SM, Pincivero DM, Giraldo JL, et al. The role of proprioception in the management and rehabilitation of athletic injuries. Am J Sports Med 1997; 25:130–137.
25. Smith RL, Brunouli J. Shoulder kinesthesia after anterior glenohumeral joint dislocation. Phys Ther 1989; 69(2):106–112.
26. Ardern CL, Glasgow P, Schneiders AG, Witvrouw E, Clarsen B, Cools AM, Gojanovic B, Griffin S, Khan K, Moksnes H, Mutch S, Phillips N, Reurink G, Sadler R, Gravare Silbernagel K, Thorborg K, Wangensteen A, Wilk K, Bizzini M. Consensus statement on return to sport from the First World Congress in Sports Physical Therapy. Bern Br J Sports Med 2017 Jul; 51(13):995.
27. Davies GJ, Heidersceit BC, Clark M. Open kinetic chain assessment and rehabilitation. Athletic Training Sports Health Care Perspective 1995; 1(4):347–370.

INJURY PREVENTION AND REHABILITATION637
28. Ellenbecker TS, Davies GJ. The application 
of isokinetics in testing and rehabilitation of the shoulder complex. J Athl Train 2000; 35(3):338–350.
29. Reiman MP, Manske RC. Functional Testing in Human Performance. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics 2009.
30. Ellenbecker TS, Davies GJ. Closed Kinetic Chain Exercise. A Comprehensive Guide to Multiple Joint Exercises. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2001.
31. Avela J, Kyrolainen J, Komi P. Altered reflex sensitivity after repeated and prolonged passive muscle stretching. Am J Phys Med 1999; 86:1283–1291.
32. Kokkonen J, Nelson A, Cornwell A. Acute muscle stretching inhibits maximal strength performance. Res Q Exerc Sport 1998; 69(4):411–415.
33. Zachazewski JE, Reischl S. Flexibility for the runner: specific program considerations. Topics in Acute Care and Trauma Rehabilitation 1986; 1:9–27.
34. Ellenbecker TS, Wilk KE. Sport Therapy for the Shoulder. www.humankinetics.com/products/all-products/Sport-Therapy-for-the-Shoulder-With-Online-Video. 2017.
35. Marshall RN, Elliott BC. Long-axis rotation: the missing link in proximal to distal sequencing. J Sports Science 2000; 18:247–254.
36. Davis JT, Limpisvasti O, Fluhme D, Mohr KJ, Yocum LA, Elattrache NS, Jobe FW. The effect of pitching biomechanics on the upper extremity in youth and adolescent baseball pitchers. Am J Sports Med 2009; 
37(8):1484–1491.
37. Magee DJ. Orthopedic Physical Assessment, 
3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: W.B. Saunders Co, 1997.
38. Wood L, Muller S, Peat G. The epidemiology of patellofemoral disorders in adulthood: a review of routine general practice morbidity recording. Prim Health Care Res Dev 2011; 12(2):157–164.
39. Davies GJ, Manske RC, Slamma K, et al. Selective activation of the vastus medialis oblique: what does the literature really tell us? Physiotherapy Canada 2001; 53:100–115.
40. Wilk KE, Davies GJ, Mangine RE, et al. Patellofemoral disorders: a classification system and clinical guidelines for nonoperative rehabilitation. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther 1998; 28(5):307–322.
41. Wallace DA, Salem GJ, Salinas R, et al. Patellofemoral joint kinetics while squatting with and without an external load. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther 2002;32(4):141–148.42. Chiu JK, Wong YM, Yung PS, Ng GY. The effects of quadriceps strengthening on pain, function, and patellofemoral joint contact area in persons with patellofemoral pain. Am J Phys Med Rehabil 2012; 
91(2):98–106.
43. Bolgla LA, Boling MC. An update for the conservative management of patellofemoral pain syndrome: a systematic review of the literature from 2000 to 2010. Int J Sports Phys Ther 2011; 6(2):112–125.
44. Smith TO, Bowyer D, Dixon J, et al. Can vastus medialis oblique be preferentially activated? A systematic review of electromyographic studies. Physiother Theory Pract Feb 2009; 25(2):69–98.
45. Noehren B, Pohl MB, Sanchez Z, et al. Proximal and distal kinematics in female runners with patellofemoral pain. Clin Biomech 2012; 27(4):366–371.
46. Wirtz AD, Willson JD, Kernozek TW, et al. Patellofemoral joint stress during running in females with and without patellofemoral pain. Knee 2012; 19(5):703–708.
47. Willson JD, Davis IS. Lower extremity mechanics of females with and without patellofemoral pain across activities with progressively greater task demands. Clin Biomech 2008; 23(2):203–211.
48. Boling MC, Padua DA, Alexander Creighton R. Concentric and eccentric torque of the hip musculature in individuals with and without patellofemoral pain. J Athl Train 2009; 44(1):7–13.
49. Farrokhi S, Pollard CD, Souza RB, et al. Trunk position influences the kinematics, kinetics, and muscle activity of the lead lower extremity during the forward lunge exercise. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther 2008; 
38(7):403–409.
50. Teng HL, Powers CM. Sagittal plane trunk 
posture influences patellofemoral joint stress during running. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther 2014; 44(10):785–792.
51. DeCarlo M, Klootwyk T, Oneacre K. Anterior cruciate ligament. In Ellenbecker TS ed., Knee Ligament Rehabilitation. Philadelphia, PA: Churchill Livingstone, 2000.
52. Beynnon BD, Ryder SH, Konradsen L, et al. Effect of anterior cruciate ligament trauma and bracing on knee proprioception. Am J Sports Med 1999; 27(2):150–155.
53. Neitzel JA, Kernozek TW, Davies GJ. Loading response following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction during the parallel squat exercise. Clin Biomech 2002; 7(7):551–554.
54. Codman EA. The Shoulder. Privately printed, Boston, MA, 1934.

TODD S. ELLENBECKER ET AL.638
55. Rodosky MW, Harner CD, Fu F. The role 
of the long head of the biceps muscle and superior glenoid labrum in anterior stability of the shoulder. Am J Sports Med 1994; 22:121–130.
56. Inman VT, Saunders JB, Abbott LC. Observations on the function of the shoulder joint. J Bone Joint Surgery 1944; 26(1):1–30.
57. Neer CS. Anterior acromioplasty for the chronic impingement syndrome in the shoulder. J Bone Joint Surgery 1972; 54A:41–50.
58. Cotton RE, Rideout DF. Tears of the humeral rotator cuff: a radiological and pathological necropsy survey. J Bone Joint Surg 1964; 46B:314–328.
59. Jobe FW, Kivitne RS. Shoulder pain in the overhand or throwing athlete. Orthop Rev 1989; 18:963–975.
60. Walch G, Boileau P, Noel E, Donell ST. Impingement of the deep surface of the supraspinatus tendon on the posterosuperior glenoid rim: an arthroscopic study. J Shoulder Elbow Surgery 1992; 1:238–245.
61. Burkhart SS, Morgan CD, Kibler WB. The disabled throwing shoulder: spectrum of pathology Part I: Pathoanatomy and biomechanics. Arthroscopy 2003; 19(4):404–420.
62. Blackburn TA, McLeod WD, White B, et al. EMG analysis of posterior rotator cuff exercises. J Athl Train 1990; 25:40–45.
63. Townsend H, Jobe FW, Pink M, et al. Electomyographic analysis of the gelnohumeral muscles during a baseball rehabilitation program. Am J Sports Med 1991; 19:264–272.
64. Ballantyne BT, O’Hare SJ, Paschall JL, et al. Electromyographic activity of selected shoulder muscles in commonly used therapeutic exercises. Phys Ther 1993; 73:668–682.
65. Ellenbecker TS. Clinical Examination of the Shoulder. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders, 2004.
66. Moseley JB, Jobe FW, Pink M. EMG analysis of the scapular muscles during a shoulder rehabilitation program. Am J Sports Med 1992; 20:128–134.
67. Saha AK. Mechanism of shoulder movements and a plea for the recognition of “zero position” of glenohumeral joint. Clin Orthop 1983; 173:3–10.
68. Gross ML, Brenner Sl, Esformes I, Sonzogni, JJ. Anterior shoulder instability in weight lifters. Am J Sports Med 1993; 21(4):599–603.
69. Kolber MJ, Hanney WJ, Cheatham SW, Salamh PA, Masaracchio M, Liu X. Shoulder joint and muscle characteristics among weight-training participants with and without impingement syndrome. J Strength Cond Res 
2017; 31(4):1024–1032.
70. Hertling D. The spine: general structure 
and biomechanical considerations. In: Hertling D, ed., Management of Common Musculoskeletal Disorders. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2005.
71. Porterfield JA, DeRosa C. Mechanical Low Back Pain: Perspectives in Functional Anatomy. Philadelphia, PA: W.B. Saunders Co, 1991.
72. Cailliet R. Low Back Pain Syndrome, 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: F.A. Davis, 1981.
73. White AA, Panjabi MM. Clinical Biomechanics of the Spine. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: J.B. Lippincott, 1990.
74. Norkin CC, Levangie PK. Joint Structure and Function. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: F.A. Davis, 1992.

Contents
Introduction  642
Types of ergogenic aids/supplements  642
Nutrition before and after workouts  655 
Anabolic-androgenic steroids in sports  656
Summary  658
References  662

23 CHAPTER
OBJECTIVES
After completing this chapter, you will be able to:
• Define and explain the role of ergogenic aids in sports.
• Demonstrate an understanding of the role of anabolic-androgenic steroids (AASs) in sports.
• Discuss and advise athletes on the role of fluid replacement beverages before, during, and after 
exercise.
• Discuss and advise athletes on the role of caffeine, creatine, and other potential ergogenic aids for specific events.ERGOGENIC AIDS
Colin D. Wilborn, Lem Taylor, and Jaci N. Davis
KEY TERMS
Adenosine triphosphate 
(ATP)
Anabolic
Anticatabolic agentArginine, ornithine and 
lysine
Aspartic acidBeta-alanineBeta-hydroxy-beta-
methylbutyrate (HMB)
BoronBranched-chain amino 
acids (BCAAs)
CaffeineCarnitineChromiumCoenzyme Q
10ColostrumConjugated linoleic acid 
(CLA)
CreatineCreatinineDehydrationDHEA and 
androstenedione
Epigallocatechin gallate 
(EGCG)
Ergogenic aidsEssential amino acids (EAAs)GlucosamineGlutamineGlycerolGlycogenolysisGlucose-alanine cycleGreen tea extractHydrationHypohydrationInosineIsocaloricIsoflavonesKetoisocproateLoading cycleLipolysisMedium chain triglyceridesOsteoarthritis (OA)RiboseSports drinksSulfo-polysaccharidesThermogenicVanadiumZinc/magnesium aspartate

COLIN D. WILBORN ET AL.642
INTRODUCTION
Ergogenic aids  are substances (including nutrients, 
nutritional supplements, and drugs) that improve 
athletic performance. Nutritional ergogenic aids include substances that contain fats, carbohy -
drates, proteins, vitamins, and/or minerals. Fats, carbohydrates, and proteins provide energy (cal -
ories) to produce 
adenosine triphosphate (ATP) . 
Vitamins and minerals regulate energy-producing metabolic pathways. Nutritional supplements are 
nutrients in a concentrated form. Drugs can have an effect on cellular function that can directly or indirectly improve performance.
Numerous substances have been studied in 
the quest for improved athletic performance in multiple sports and athletic events. The condi-tions under which a substance might have a positive effect vary depending on metabolic requirements of the exercise, as well as the envi -
ronmental conditions. The list of nutritional supplements that do not work would be endless.other men who suffer from this disorder, Joe 
actually has a well-defined, muscular physique. 
Because of its striking similarity to other body-
image distortions, muscle dysmorphia has been referred to as reverse anorexia or bigorexia and 
is considered to be a type of body dysmorphic 
disorder seen primarily in men. It is not surprising that an individual with body dysmorphia would take 
a lot of supplements to help him reach his goal.
Men suffering from muscle dysmorphia often 
lift weights for hours, pay meticulous attention to their diet, use various ergogenic aids, frequently 
check their bodies out in mirrors, and may spend more than five hours daily obsessing about their 
musculature. Like those who suffer from anorexia 
or other body-image disorders, these individuals are often depressed and may also experience 
anxiety, especially at the thought of anything 
disrupting their workout or diet regimen.
It isn’t known how many men suffer from muscle 
dysmorphia, since large-scale studies have not been conducted. In addition, the etiology of muscle dysmorphia is unclear, though many theories have 
been presented; researchers believe that it may follow 
a psychosocial model with an underlying biological or genetic predisposition combined with social 
influences. The sociocultural theory is also believed to 
be a significant contributing factor. This view describes the societal pressures placed on men to fit media 
images of masculinity that include a fit, muscular 
physique. For years, women have been subjected to images of how a desirable female “should” look. 
Similarly unrealistic expectations for men, however, 
have become popular only in recent years.
Those who suffer from muscle dysmorphia 
rarely seek help for many reasons, including embarrassment over their preoccupation, the anxiety they feel at the thought of having to 
reduce their gym time during treatment, and the 
fear of a potential decrease in muscle mass once they start treatment. Proposed treatment options 
include cognitive behavioral therapy and the use of 
antidepressant medication.
—Marie Spano, MS, RD
TYPES OF ERGOGENIC 
AIDS/SUPPLEMENTS
This chapter focuses on sev  eral supplements 
that have been shown to have a positive effect 
and have been supported by research in a vari -
ety of settings to be ergogenic.Q&A FROM THE F iELD
I am concerned about my boyfriend. 
He wants to lift weights every day. He is 
always looking in the mirror and flexing 
his muscles. He spends a lot of time lifting weights and his muscles are extremely well 
developed. He is taking lots of different 
supplements. What is muscle dysmorphia, and what can we do for him if he has it?
Let me offer an example. Joe, a man 5 ft 10 in 
tall with extremely hypertrophied muscles, walks over to the squat rack, his eyes focused and his 
concentration fierce. He is a regular at the gym 
and is admired for his well-developed pecs, lats so large that his arms appear uncomfortably pushed 
inches away from his body, and powerful quads. Yet 
at 230 lb, Joe feels scrawny. He is embarrassed by what he perceives to be an underdeveloped body 
and tormented by the fear of losing the muscle 
he has if he doesn’t work out for hours daily and follow a strict muscle-building diet. His kitchen 
is filled with large canisters of protein powder, 
a cupboard full of supplements touted to build muscles, and a scale to measure everything, but Joe 
is still displeased with his body.
Joe suffers from muscle dysmorphia, a 
preoccupation with his body image and the feeling that his body is not muscular enough. Like many 

ERGOGENIC AIDS643
β-alanine
β-alanine  is a naturally occurring non-essential 
amino acid that is found in many common food 
sources, such as chicken and turkey. β-alanine 
is thought to be a rate-limiting precursor to intramuscular carnosine synthesis. Carnosine, a natural buffer, is synthesized within the muscle but is dependent upon the levels of histidine and more specifically, β-alanine. Because of this fact, 
the utilization of β -alanine supplementation has 
become prevalent. β-alanine supplementation 
does in fact result in an increase in muscle car -
nosine levels and has been shown to potentially decrease fatigue and improved performance in high-intensity exercise settings by buffering hydrogen ions (H+ ). Thus supplementation of 
β-alanine leads to increased levels of intracellular 
muscular carnosine, which can have a buffering effect and potentially delay the onset of muscu -
lar fatigue and enhance performance (1).
The research around supplementation of 
β-alanine has been developed quite extensively since the early 2010s. A more detailed review of this research can be seen in a review article by Sales and associates (36). Overall, β-alanine 
supplementation has been reported to increase muscular strength and power, increase training volume, and delay fatigue, and thus improve performance in both aerobic and anaerobic settings. Specifically, a recent study by Smith and colleagues (40) found that β-alanine sup-
plementation (6 g/day for days 1–21; 3 g/day days 22–42) for six weeks resulted in increases in VO
2 peak, time to exhaustion, training vol-
ume, and lean body mass when combined with high-intensity interval training. It should be noted that the increases in performance that occurred with the β-alanine supplementation 
occurred in the last three weeks of the training  
period, in which no further increases were observed in the placebo group on the same performance markers. Despite the fact that more research is needed on different aspects and issues of β-alanine supplementation, it is 
safe to say that there is sound evidence to sup -
port the use of β-alanine as an ergogenic aid.
β-alanine may provide an indirect ergogenic effect 
by increasing carnosine levels in skeletal muscle, thus increasing the buffering capacity which can enhance performance and training volume.Arginine, ornithine, and lysine
Lysine  is an essential amino acid and arginine  
is considered semi-essential because it may 
become essential during periods of growth. 
Ornithine  is a nonessential amino acid not 
found in proteins but important for efficient nitrogen removal in the urea cycle. Ornithine α-ketoglutarate (OKG) is ornithine bound with α-ketoglutarate (a Krebs cycle inter -
mediate), which is supposed to enhance the efficiency of absorption.
Supplementation with arginine, lysine, 
and/or ornithine (or OKG) has been pro -
posed to enhance growth hormone levels in circulation, leading to greater muscle mass development (51).
Researchers attempted to determine if oral 
supplementation of these amino acids could raise growth hormone levels. In one study the combined daily supplementation of arginine and lysine (1.2 g each) increased the level of growth hormone, but the individual supple -
ments did not (52). In a related study, daily supplementation with both arginine and lysine (2.4 g) or ornithine and tyrosine (1.85 g) failed to increase circulating growth hormone levels in male bodybuilders (53).
The research involving supplementation 
of arginine, lysine, and ornithine is somewhat contradictory. An important consideration regarding the efficacy of these supplements is that even in the studies that noted an increase in growth hormone, the research protocols did not extend to assessing changes in lean body mass, measures of strength, or insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1). IGF-1 was noted to be unchanged in one study that failed to dem -
onstrate a rise in growth hormone (54). At this time supplementation of arginine, lysine, 
 
and ornithine to raise growth hormone levels is not supported.
Aspartic acid
Aspartic acid  is a nonessential amino acid 
found in proteins and has also been sug-gested as a possible means of slowing muscle glycogen depletion during endurance efforts. The idea is that aspartic acid could serve as a source of oxaloacetate (OAA). OAA is a key intermediate of the Krebs cycle and combines with acetyl CoA derived from fatty acids and 

COLIN D. WILBORN ET AL.644
other fuel sources to form citrate. This would 
reduce the need for OAA derived from glyco -
lysis, and thus the need for glycogen, during strenuous exercise. The result would be an enhancement in endurance performance by extending the time to fatigue associated with glycogen depletion.
In general, researchers have failed to dem-
onstrate that aspartic acid supplementation is beneficial to endurance or strength training performance (55). For instance, when 6 g of 
potassium-magnesium aspartate was provided 
to young males for a day prior to cycling at 75% VO
2 max, there was not a positive 
change in the participants’ time until exhaus-tion (56). Aspartic acid supplementation also did not positively influence plasma ammo -
nia concentrations or other factors related to energy metabolism, namely glucose, lactate, and FFA levels.
Boron
Boron  is an essential mineral involved in bone 
mineral metabolism, and it has been specu-lated that at least some of its influence on bone is related to steroid hormone metabolism. One study demonstrated that boron supplements were able to raise testosterone levels (57). On this basis, boron supplementation was thought to be a means of increasing testos-terone production, which would lead to gains in muscle mass and strength. However, what is often overlooked is that the participants of that study were postmenopausal women who received 3 mg of boron daily after following a low-boron diet (57). Serum estrogen levels were also raised by the boron supplements.
In studies involving athletic populations, 
boron supplementation has not been proven to increase testosterone levels. For instance, male bodybuilders who took 7.5 mg of boron daily for seven weeks had no changes in measures of testosterone, lean body mass, and strength versus training alone (58,59).
Branched-chain amino acids
Amino acids are the building blocks of proteins. The amino acids leucine, isoleucine, and valine are collectively known as the 
branched-chain 
amino acids (BCAAs) . Supplementation with 
BCAAs does not seem to improve short-term exercise performance, but may reduce muscle breakdown during clinical conditions of wast -
ing (e.g., starvation, postsurgery, burns) and periods of prolonged exercise. According to the “central fatigue hypothesis,” during prolonged exercise, the plasma levels of BCAAs decrease and levels of fatty acids increase. The increase in fatty acids causes an increase in the levels of free tryptophan, which is a precursor to sero -
tonin, a neurotransmitter that causes feelings of sleepiness and depression. In other words, 
decreases in BCAAs during prolonged exercise 
can, in theory, increase the mental effort neces -
sary to perform. Use of BCAAs as an ergogenic aid may attenuate the increase in serotonin, thus reducing perceived exertion and mental fatigue during prolonged exercise. Although there is some support for these effects during prolonged cycling, marathon running, and time trials, an equal number of studies have shown no beneficial effect from BCAA supplementa -
tion. Since the side effects from BCAAs appear to be minimal, individuals competing in events lasting two or more hours, especially events in the heat, may wish to experiment with repeated liquid doses of BCAAs. One approach that has yielded positive effects is to ingest a total of 5 to 10 g of BCAAs dissolved in 1 L of fluid (i.e., drinking 150 mL of the solution every 10 to 20 minutes) (6).
Another interesting aspect of BCAAs, 
that has only recently been explored, is their potential effect on weight loss. During a  
moderate-protein (1.5 g/kg of body weight per day), lower-carbohydrate (100 to 200 g/day) diet, the increased intake of BCAAs (especially leucine) is thought to have positive effects on muscle protein synthesis, insulin signaling, and sparing of glucose use by stimulation of the 
glucose-alanine cycle . This leads to more fat 
loss and a greater sparing of lean tissue com -
pared to an isoenergetic, higher-carbohydrate diet (20). Additional research regarding the effects of BCAAs on changes in body composi -
tion is warranted, but this notion is supported in the fact that 
isocaloric  replacement of car -
bohydrates with lean protein sources does elicit benefits on improving body composition.
BCAAs may have positive ergogenic effects related 
to their anticatabolic effect; however, fairly large doses must be consumed.

ERGOGENIC AIDS645
Caffeine
Caffeine  is a bitter white alkaloid (C 8H10N4O2) 
often derived from tea or coffee. Perhaps the 
most commonly consumed drug in the United States, caffeine is an effective ergogenic aid. Research on caffeine is easily accessible and is typically focused on caffeine’s role in pro -
moting lipolysis and energy expenditure (1), stimulating the central nervous system, and acting as a performance-enhancing aid for many types of athletic activity (3,4). Both older (65 to 80 years of age) and younger (19 to 26 years of age) men show a similar 
thermogenic  response to caffeine ingestion, 
but the increase does seem to be blunted as age increases. Caffeine ingestion has been shown to stimulate both 
lipolysis  and energy 
expenditure (1). It is not clear whether the lipolytic effect of caffeine is associated with increased lipid oxidation or futile cycling between triglycerides and free fatty acids (FFAs). Also, it is not known whether the effects of caffeine are mediated via the sym -
pathetic nervous system.
Caffeine can also act as a potent ergo-
genic aid in multiple settings. Caffeine has been removed from the World Anti-Doping Agency’s (WADA) banned list update. Ingesting caffeine (5 mg/kg body weight) can significantly increase exercise time to exhaustion and moderate inten-sities (4). Caffeine ingestion can also improve maximal anaerobic power and sprint-swimming performance in trained swimmers among vari-ous other things. For a complete review of the effects that caffeine has on performance, see the position stand from the International Society of Sports Nutrition (13). Table 23.1 lists the caf -
feine content of various beverages.
A large volume of data supports the ergogenic 
effects of caffeine as well as its thermogenic properties.
Carnitine
Carnitine  is β-hydroxy-γ-trimethylammonium 
butyrate, which is found in a variety of tissues 
and is concentrated in muscle. Two amino acids, lysine and methionine, are used to make carnitine, and synthesis occurs in the liver and kidneys. Carnitine transport mechanisms are necessary for movement of long chain fatty acids (LCFAs) into the mitochondrial matrix, the site of β-oxidation. Shorter chain fatty acids are able to diffuse into the mitochondrial matrix without assistance (60).
With regard to athletic performance, 
carnitine supplementation has been thought to potentially increase fat utilization, which could reduce the rate of glycogen loss and extend performance in endurance sports. Also, for sports with aesthetic considerations such as figure skating, gymnastics, and bodybuild -
ing, enhanced fat utilization at rest and during exercise could enhance muscular appearance.
However, the results of nearly all of the 
experimental trials have not revealed a posi-tive influence on either fatty acid utilization or glycogen sparing, neither does carnitine sup -
plementation postpone the onset of fatigue. Furthermore, the overwhelming conclusion of research done on L-Carnitine suggests that the supplement does not enhance muscle carnitine content, fat metabolism and/or weight loss in trained individuals (61). Studies have also negated carnitine’s effects on anaerobic- and aerobic performance (61).TABLE 23.1  Caffeine content of various products (23)
Product Serving Milligrams 
of caffeine
Starbucks coffee (tall) 12 oz 375
Red Bull 12 oz 120
Mountain Dew 12 oz 55
Diet coke 12 oz 45
Dr. Pepper 12 oz 41
Sunkist orange 12 oz 41
Starbucks espresso 1 oz 35
Coca-Cola classic 12 oz 34
Nestea sweetened iced tea12 oz 26
Barqs root beer 12 oz 22
Hot chocolate 12 oz 8

COLIN D. WILBORN ET AL.646
Chromium
Chromium  is an essential mineral and as a com -
ponent of glucose tolerance factor (GTF), it is 
believed to be vital in the appropriate metabolism of energy nutrients. Chromium supplements are marketed largely as chromium picolinate as well as chromium nicotinate and chromium chloride.
Chromium supplementation is touted to 
increase metabolic rate and aid in weight reduc -
tion and increases in lean body mass. Chromium would accomplish these feats by enhancing the effects of insulin on muscle tissue. Insulin is con -
sidered to be generally anabolic by inhibiting protein breakdown and supporting protein syn -
thesis. Such enhancement of muscle tissue could then lead to increased strength and power and increased energy expenditure and fat utilization at rest. Several well-designed research studies have been unable to demonstrate that chro -
mium supplementation influences weight loss, LBM, or muscular strength (62,63).
Coenzyme Q10 (ubiquinone)
Coenzyme Q10 is often referred to as CoQ 10 or 
ubiquinone. Ubiquinone may be found in all cells and is more concentrated within mitochon -
dria. It is believed to exist attached to proteins of the electron transport chain as well as unat-tached and mobile. The free ubiquinone appears to function more as an antioxidant whereas the bound ubiquinone functions more as a compo -
nent of the electron transport chain. Ubiquinone might enhance aerobic energy metabolism in muscle or help limit free radical stress during and perhaps after endurance exercise (64).
Research supporting ubiquinone sup-
plementation as a way to improve athletic performance is limited. In one study, Finnish top-level cross-country skiers who received 90 mg/day of supplemental ubiquinone had improved indices of physical performance including VO
2 
max (65). Other research efforts have also failed to show that ubiquinone supplementation had a positive impact on aerobic performance or a desirable influence on indicators of energy metabolism in the plasma (such as lactate) (66).
Studies involving ubiquinone supplementa -
tion and antioxidant capacity have shown some positive results. For instance, when endurance ath -
letes were provided with 60 mg/day of ubiquinone in combination with vitamin E and vitamin C, the researchers reported improvements in their serum and LDL antioxidant potential (67). Ubiquinone has also been tested to potentially have a syner -
gistic effect when paired with exercise training resulting in a decrease in hypertension and conges-tive heart failure (68).
Colostrum
Colostrum  is a component of human breast milk 
or cow’s milk, found at its highest concentration two to three days after a female gives birth. It is a rich source of protein, antibodies, and growth factors. Several compelling studies demonstrate an ergogenic effect of colostrum supplementa -
tion (2,9). Such supplementation (20 g/per day for eight weeks) combined with aerobic and heavy resistance training significantly increased bone-free lean body mass (mean increase of 1.49 kg) compared to whey protein (2).
Another investigation demonstrated the 
potential ergogenic effects of colostrum supple -
mentation by comparing the effects of bovine colostrums to whey protein powder. Using a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled parallel design, 51 men completed 8 weeks of resistance and plyometric training while consuming 60 g/day of bovine colostrum or concentrated whey protein powder. By week eight, peak vertical jump power and peak cycle power were significantly greater in the colos -
trum group as opposed to the whey protein group. Interestingly, there were no differences between groups with regard to anaerobic work capacity, 1RM or plasma IGF-1 (9).
Data for colostrum supplementation support 
daily doses ranging from 20 to 60 g to enhance performance as well as to promote gains in lean body mass.
Conjugated linoleic acids (CLA)
Conjugated linoleic acids  are a group of at least 
28 isomers of linoleic acid that is found in the 
diet through meat and dairy sources. CLAs are made up of double bonds that are conjugated together with only a single bond between them thus giving them their name.

ERGOGENIC AIDS647
It has been debated whether or not CLAs 
could be used in exercise supplements to 
promote muscle growth. CLAs may have an effect of lean tissue accretion, but only a few current studies have been done on this topic and have not proven there to be a large benefit (69,70). More so than with other sup -
plements, there is a promise that CLAs can be used to help promote general health and reduce fat mass over time (71). This use of CLAs needs to be further researched before 
any certain benefit can be stated.
Creatine
Creatine  is a naturally occurring nitrog -
enous compound made in the liver, kidneys, 
and pancreas from the amino acids arginine, glycine, and methionine. Creatine is found in relatively high amounts in meat, fish, and poultry. In fact, adults and teenagers who regularly consume these foods typically eat 1 to 2 g of creatine per day, an amount equal to its natural rate of excretion by the kidneys, where creatine is converted to 
creati-
nine. Vegetarians who do not consume meat 
or fish have reduced body stores of creatine. Interestingly, when these individuals are fed creatine, they retain more of it in their bodies (in comparison to nonvegetarians), suggesting that creatine might actually be “essential” to a normal diet. In a 154 lb adult man, about 120 g of creatine is found in the body, 95% of which is in skeletal muscle (42).
A large body of literature demonstrates the 
ergogenic properties of creatine (17,19,45). This literature is summarized in a recent posi -
tion stand on creatine (10). The following discussion is by no means a comprehensive discussion of creatine; however, it does give the reader an insight into this effective ergo -
genic aid.
On ingestion, creatine is absorbed into the 
bloodstream through the small intestine and reaches peak levels 60 to 90 minutes later (42). Creatine is thought to serve at least four vital 
functions:
1
 It stores energy that can be used to regen -
erate ATP.
2 It enhances energy transfer between the 
mitochondria and muscle fibers.3 It serves as a buffer against intracellular 
acidosis during exercise.
4 It stimulates glycogenolysis  (glycogen 
breakdown) during exercise.
Collectively, these effects underscore cre-
atine’s central role in energy metabolism and 
explain why this substance has been the sub -
ject of intensive study (17,45).
A common analogy used by exercise sci -
entists is that creatine is to the weightlifter/
sprinter what carbohydrate is to the distance 
runner. Of the well-controlled human trials on creatine, about two-thirds have shown benefits from its use. Depending on the initial fitness level of the subjects, these have included the following:
• Increased dynamic strength and power (approximately 5% to 15%)
• Increased body weight and lean body mass (approximately 2% to 5%)
• Increased sprint performance (approxi-mately 1% to 5%)
As little as three days of creatine sup -
plementation (0.35 g/kg of fat-free mass) can increase thigh muscle volume and may enhance cycle sprint performance in elite power athletes, with the effect being greater in females as sprints are repeated (50). Creatine supplementation in conjunction with heavy resistance training increased total body mass, fat-free mass, thigh volume, muscle strength, and myofibrillar protein (48).
Creatine is considered beneficial to weight -
lifters and athletes involved in sports requiring short, repeated bursts of high power (e.g., wrestling, rowing, sprint running/swimming/cycling, football, rugby, volleyball, soccer, hockey, lacrosse). Additionally, a growing body of evidence points to the health/medical benefits of oral administration of creatine monohy -
drate. For instance, creatine supplementation may protect against neuronal degeneration in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Huntington’s 
disease and in chemically mediated neurotox -
icity (41). Creatine may protect the immature 
brain from hypoxic-ischemic injury. Also, creatine supplementation has a “significant positive effect on working memory (backward digit span) and intelligence (Raven’s Advanced 

COLIN D. WILBORN ET AL.648
Progressive Matrices), both tasks that require 
speed of processing” (29). Creatine supplemen -
tation has applications that extend beyond the athletic realm. The health benefits of creatine may indeed be a positive area of research in the future.
What are the potential risks (side effects) of 
using creatine? The only consistently reported “side effect” in humans has been weight gain. Despite inflammatory reports in the media of a link between creatine use and muscle cramps/
pulls, dehydration/heat exhaustion, and kid -
ney/liver disorders, these effects have not 
been documented by independent research. To the contrary, studies have either reported no effect (on kidney/liver function or musculo -
tendinous stiffness) or an improved response from creatine use (a lower incidence of muscle cramps/pulls) (46). In one study of 98 ath -
letes, long-term supplementation with creatine (up to 21 months) did not adversely affect a 69-item panel of serum, whole blood, or uri -
nary markers of clinical health status (19). A long-standing myth holds that creatine sup -
plementation is harmful to the kidneys. This is clearly not the case. Neither short-, medium-, nor long-term oral creatine supplementation causes detrimental effects on the kidneys of healthy individuals (28).
In a lay article published on the internet,  
a comparison of 28 creatine distributors revealed that over half were selling products containing contaminants. The overall purity of each product averaged about 90%, but there were dramatic differences in the amount of several potentially toxic impurities. Athletes considering creatine use should exercise the following precautions:
1
 A loading cycle  is not needed. Rather than 
ingesting 20 to 30 g for the first 5 to 7 
days and then 5 g/day thereafter, take only about 3 to 5 g daily.
2
 Cycle periods of use (four to eight weeks) 
with periods of nonuse (four weeks).
3 Purchase the product from a reputable 
manufacturer who is able to provide a “certificate of analysis,” including all of the following information:
 •Appearance (should be white to pale 
cream)
 •Assay (should be at least 95% creatine) •Moisture content (should be less than or equal to 12.5%)
 •Residue on ignition (should be less than or equal to 1%)
 •Microbial/pathogenic contamination (should be negative for  Escherichia coli, 
Staphylococcus aureus, and Salmonella)
 •Yeasts and molds (should be less than 50 g)
 •Poisons/heavy metals (should be less than 10 ppm for lead and mercury)
 •Other contaminants (should be less than 3 ppm for arsenic, 30 ppm for dicyandiamide, and nondetectable for dyhydrotriazine)
Creatine is the most widely studied ergogenic aid 
since the late 1990s. Creatine used for regular supplementation has been shown to increase skeletal muscle mass and muscle fiber size and improve anaerobic exercise performance. No evidence is 
available that regular creatine supplementation is 
harmful to otherwise healthy individuals.
DHEA and androstenedione
Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA)  is a ster -
oid hormone produced and released from 
the adrenal glands. DHEA is derived from cholesterol and can be converted to andros -
tenedione, which in turn can be converted to testosterone. DHEA circulates both indepen -
dently and loosely bound to albumin and sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), whereas DHEAS circulates strongly bound to albumin. The ability of tissue to convert DHEA and androstenedione to testosterone and/or estro-gens relies on the presence of steroidogenic and metabolizing enzyme systems. Both androsten -
edione and testosterone can be converted to estrogens via aromatase. Many tissues produce these converting enzymes including the gonads (testes and ovaries), liver, kidneys, and adipose and endometrial tissue. This allows the con-version of DHEA and androstenedione to the 
androgens and estrogens to be regulated at the 
tissue level. Skeletal muscle lacks the ability to convert androstenedione to testosterone.
Supplementation of DHEA and/or andros -
tenedione has been marketed as a means of increasing testosterone levels, which in turn 

ERGOGENIC AIDS649
could promote greater LBM, strength, and 
power. Although many studies have not resulted in increased testosterone levels after 100 mg of DHEA supplementation, Ostojic and associates measured significant increases in testosterone after 28 days of 100 mg of DHEA per day in young male athletes (91). While testosterone levels were increased, overall body composition was not affected by the supplement. After 28 days of 1600 mg/day DHEA supplementation, untrained males reduced body fat percentage by 31% suggesting 
that higher dosages result in LBM benefits (72). 
The International Olympic Committee (IOC) and the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) currently ban DHEA and androstenedi -
one from use in sports. Also, supplementation of these substances may influence the ratio of testos -
terone to epitestosterone (T/E), which is used to screen for steroid doping by organizations such as the IOC and NCAA.
Essential amino acids
Of the 20 amino acids used to form proteins, nine are considered 
essential amino acids 
(EAAs)  because your body does not pro-
duce them and you need to consume them in your daily diet. A growing body of literature demonstrates the efficacy of EAA supplemen -
tation in enhancing physical performance (7,43,44). The 
anabolic  response to the con -
sumption of an oral cocktail containing EAAs plus carbohydrate (EAC) before versus after heavy resistance exercise was studied (44). Six healthy subjects (three men and three women; average age 30.2 years, height 1.71 m, weight 66 kg) consumed the EAC (6 g of EAAs plus 35 g of sucrose in 500 mL water) either immediately before or after exercise (in a randomized order). The exercise bout con -
sisted of ten sets of eight reps of the leg press (80% of 1RM), and eight sets of eight reps of the leg extension (80% of 1RM). The rest interval was about 2 minutes, with the total exercise time roughly 45 minutes. The inves -
tigators then examined phenylalanine uptake 
across the leg as a measure of muscle protein 
accretion. Over a three-hour period, taking the EAC before exercise resulted in a net pheny -
lalanine uptake that was about 160% greater than that noted when the EAC was taken after exercise. Furthermore, work from the same laboratory found that the nonessential amino acids are not required to stimulate protein syn -
thesis. Finally, there is a dose-dependent effect of EAA ingestion on muscle protein synthesis (7). Thus, a relatively small dose (6 g) of EAA may confer a significant anabolic response.
The essential amino acids play a critical role in 
promoting skeletal muscle anabolism and should be a component of most meals and snacks 
throughout the day.
Glucosamine
Glucosamine  is a combination of glutamine 
and glucose (amino polysaccharide). Following 
ingestion and absorption of glucosamine, it is incorporated into molecules called proteogly-cans, which are part of the joint cartilage. This process is thought to help maintain the integrity of the joint as well as repair damaged cartilage. Glucosamine may also stimulate chondrocytes, or cartilage-producing cells, to make new carti -
lage. The regular consumption of glucosamine may alleviate the signs and symptoms of 
osteo-
arthritis (OA) . Glucosamine supplementation 
may provide some degree of pain relief and improved function in persons experiencing reg-ular knee pain, which may be caused by prior cartilage injury and/or OA. At a dosage of 2000 mg/day, most of the noted improvement occurs within eight weeks (8). A meta-analysis exam -
ined clinical trials of glucosamine from January 1980 to March 2002. This study demonstrated that glucosamine (alone or in combination with chondroitin sulfate) reduced pain and damage to the knee joint. No differences were found in adverse events between placebo and glucosa -
mine, indicating that the supplement appears to be safe (33).
Regular supplementation of glucosamine may 
decrease the symptoms associated with OA.
Glutamine
Glutamine  is the most plentiful nonessential 
amino acid in the human body, particularly 
in the plasma and skeletal muscle, and has numerous physiological functions. Although 

COLIN D. WILBORN ET AL.650
the body can synthesize glutamine, it does 
become a “conditionally” EAA in cases of major trauma such as surgery, illness, and over-training. Even an intense workout or multiple intense workouts that lead to over -
training are a cause for decreased glutamine levels. Among other things, glutamine acts as a cell-volume regulator (32) and has 
anti-
catabolic properties . It may stimulate muscle 
protein synthesis (31) and support immune function. Although more research is neces -
sary, there are limited data to support its ability to increase cellular hydration and stimulate protein synthesis, and most show that glutamine supplementation does not lead to increases in muscle mass, improve -
ments in body composition, strength, and/or improvements in exercise performance (11).
Clinical evidence for the exogenous use 
of glutamine supplementation in critically ill patients for the maintenance of muscle mass and immune function is well supported. Glutamine’s role as an ergogenic aid as it relates to immune function may be of greater signifi -
cance to athletes than its ability to increase muscle mass. Glutamine use may modify the apparent immunosuppression that is observed after prolonged, exhausting exercise. After such strenuous exercise, the concentration of glutamine in the blood is severely decreased. Supplementation of glutamine in this situation may decrease the incidence of illness in these athletes. The influence of glutamine on time to exhaustion and power before and after a prolonged bout of exercise has been examined (27). One group ingested a carbohydrate-plus-glutamine (Glu) beverage and a placebo group ingested a carbohydrate-only beverage (Pl). The Glu group significantly increased time to exhaustion compared to Pl. Peak power in the Glu group was similar in both trials, whereas the Pl group was still significantly lower after the second trial six days later. Therefore, glu -
tamine supplementation seemed to help the Glu group exercise longer and recover quicker than the Pl group.
There is a sound physiological rationale 
and some evidence that glutamine supplemen-tation can have a positive impact on muscle mass and strength gains in athletes. More convincing, though, is evidence that sup -
ports exogenous glutamine supplementation for immune system function, especially with  
prolonged, exhausting exercise.
Glutamine is an amino acid that may be needed in 
greater quantities during times of severe stress. Despite the various important roles of glutamine, current evidence does not support that glutamine supplementation can increase muscle mass or 
body composition.
Glycerol
Glycerol  is a small, simple molecule consisting of 
three carbons and three hydroxyl (OH) groups. 
Glycerol serves as the backbone for fat molecules and can be an energy resource during exercise and fasting. The use of glycerol for energy occurs largely through its conversion to glucose (via gluconeogenesis) by the liver. Glycerol has been touted as a possible ergogenic aid for two reasons. First, it is a substrate for gluconeogenesis and thus may become an important resource for glucose production during endurance bouts. Second, sup-plemented glycerol distributes evenly throughout body fluid and may provide an osmotic influence that could help an athlete hyperhydrate prior to exercise in a warmer environment. This would have special application to sports in which water intake typically fails to match water losses in sweat.
Researchers reported that glycerol-induced 
hyperhydration just before moderate exer -
cise was more effective than water-induced 
hyper  hydration in reducing the thermal stress 
associated with exercise in the heat (73). The study provided 1 g of glycerol + 21.4 mL of 
H
2O per kilogram of body weight. In another 
study, researchers provided 1.2 g of glycerol + 
26 mL of H 2O per kilogram of body weight to 
trained runners (74). They noted that the glyc -
erol supplementation had no advantageous effect over water hyperhydration in terms of heart rate, rate of perceived exertion, fluid retention, or running performance in an envi-ronment mimicking an athletic race. Knight and colleagues concluded from another study 
that glycerol ingestion resulted in decreased 
performance in endurance sports (75).
Based on the available research, it seems 
that the ergogenic potential of glycerol-aided hyperhydration is still under scrutiny and more research is needed.

ERGOGENIC AIDS651
Green tea extract
Green tea extract  has a high content of caf-
feine and catechin polyphenols, which could 
increase 24-hour energy expenditure and fat oxidation in humans. 
Epigallocatechin gallate 
(EGCG)  is a purified catechin derived from 
green tea and is the main active component of the biological activity of tea polyphenols. For instance, one study compared three treatments: green tea extract (50 mg caffeine and 90 mg EGCG), caffeine (50 mg), and placebo, which were ingested at breakfast, lunch, and din -
ner. Green tea extract resulted in a significant increase in 24-hour energy expenditure as well as a decrease in respiratory quotient, indicat -
ing a greater reliance on fatty acid oxidation. Green tea has thermogenic properties and pro -
motes fat oxidation beyond that explained by its caffeine content. Green tea extract may play a role in the control of body composition by thermogenesis, fat oxidation, or both, but the results to date are mixed at best.
EGCG is one of the primary active components 
of green tea. To date, it seems that EGCG supplementation does not have a clear cut ergogenic effect directly related to performance. However, research supports its use as an agent to 
increase energy expenditure and fat oxidation.
Beta-hydroxy-beta-methylbutyrate
Beta-hydroxy-beta-methylbutyrate (HMB)  is a  
natural component of fish and milk. As a break -
down product of the essential amino acid 
leucine, HMB is thought to increase strength and lean body mass by acting as an anticata -
bolic agent in muscle (i.e., decreasing muscle protein breakdown) (26). Studies have veri -
fied these beneficial effects, particularly in untrained men and women who consume 1.5 to 3.0 g of HMB per day, divided into two doses, for at least four weeks. One study sug -
gested that its effects on strength and lean body mass can be further enhanced by coingesting creatine (Cr dose: 20 g/day for seven days fol-lowed by 10 g/day thereafter) (15). Although the exact mechanism(s) behind its effects are unclear, the research suggests that the effects on body composition are not significant and there tends to be a more substantial effect on lower-body strength than upper body strength, and these responses do not seem to occur in previ-ously resistance trained men (35). Ingestion of HMB appears to be safe and may even have beneficial effects on cardiovascular health (e.g., decreasing total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and blood pressure) when doses of at least 3 g/day are ingested for up to eight weeks (26).
HMB supplementation may have an anticatabolic 
effect and increase strength, but the effects seem to be limited to untrained individuals.
Hydration
Dehydration  has negative effects on perfor -
mance (37). Inadequate hydration can refer to 
either hypohydration  (being dehydrated prior 
to exercise) or exercise-induced dehydration, which occurs during exercise. Either state of dehydration can negatively impact muscle metabolism, body temperature regulation, and cardiovascular function, with performance decrements occurring with as little as a 1% to 2% reduction in body weight.
Water and commercial 
sports drinks  can 
be very effective in maintaining performance or delaying the inevitable decrease in per -
formance, especially in endurance or team sports that last longer than one hour. It is recommended that individuals consume a nutritionally balanced diet and drink adequate fluids in the 24-hour period prior to training or competition. The American College of Sports Medicine Position Stand on Exercise and Fluid Replacement (92) recommends that prehydra -
tion, if needed, should be initiated several hours before exercise to allow for excretion of excess fluid. Maintaining proper hydration prior to exercise is simple and generally should not be an issue if prudent measures are followed.
Fluid replacement during exercise is 
extremely critical not only to exercise per -
formance but also to health. Without proper 
fluid replacement during prolonged exercise 
or exercise in a hot and humid environment, heat-related illness and cardiovascular issues can become life-threatening. To minimize these conditions, it is recommended that water losses via sweating be replaced at a rate equal 

COLIN D. WILBORN ET AL.652
to the sweat rate. Athletes should replace the 
weight lost during exercise by drinking fluid. Unfortunately, individuals generally do not sufficiently replace lost fluid at a rate equal to water loss. This is referred to as “voluntary dehydration.” Water alone is not always suf-ficient to replace the fluid deficit incurred due to exercise, especially long-duration exercise with high sweat rates. Complete restoration of fluid lost during exercise cannot occur without replacement of electrolytes, primarily sodium.
Along with sodium, the addition of carbo -
hydrates to fluid-replacement solutions can enhance the intestinal absorption of water (38). More importantly, though, ingestion of a carbohydrate-containing beverage during exercise will help maintain blood glucose con -
centration and thus delay reliance on muscle glycogen stores as well as ultimately delaying fatigue (12). This is especially true in sessions lasting longer than one hour. An optimal carbo-hydrate solution of 4% to 8% helps maintain blood glucose concentrations and replace fluid lost via sweating. The inclusion of carbohy -
drates in rehydration solutions is necessary to maintain blood glucose concentrations for optimal performance in exercise lasting longer than one hour. It is also important to note that fructose should not be the predominant carbohydrate in a fluid-replacement solution due to its low glycemic index and the associ -
ated relatively slow increase in blood glucose. Frequent ingestion of water and commercial sports drinks (containing electrolytes and car -
bohydrates) during exercise is certainly one of the simplest and most beneficial ergogenic  
aids available.
Hydration is a critical factor governing exercise 
performance in the heat. Both water and sports drinks are effective tools to help prevent, maintain, and replenish hydration status in athletic populations.
Inosine
Inosine  in the form of nucleotide inosine 
monophosphate (IMP) is used to make AMP 
and GMP, which in turn can be phosphory -
lated to the high-energy phosphate molecules 
ATP and GTP. IMP is made in many cells using ribose-5-phosphate via the pentose phosphate pathway and the amino acids aspartic acid, glu -
tamine, and glycine with the assistance of folate.
Because ATP is derived from IMP, it 
seems logical that inosine supplementation might be able to enhance ATP levels in muscle cells. This would enhance maximal contrac -
tile activities, such as during weight training and sprinting, and increase performance and adaptation to exercise.
In general, researchers have reported that 
inosine supplementation does not improve 
athletic performance (71). In a different study, 
male cyclists were provided with 5 g of inosine (or placebo) for 5 days before performing a 30-minute self-paced cycling bout at a constant load followed by a supramaximal sprint to fatigue (77). The inosine supplementation failed to alter metabolic and performance parameters during the self-paced cycling bout, and the supramaximal cycling sprint time to fatigue was actually shorter than the placebo trial, sug -
gestive of an ergolytic effect. Other research has also failed to determine a metabolic or perfor -
mance benefit of inosine supplementation (76).
Studies have also failed to demonstrate that 
inosine supplementation increases unloading of O
2 in muscle tissue by increasing 2,3-DPG 
in RBCs (76,77). Furthermore, blood analysis revealed that uric acid levels may be increased due to inosine supplementation (76,77), which raises concerns about the effect of chronic sup-plementation on health.
Thus it seems that inosine supplementa-
tion may not improve measures of aerobic performance and short-term power produc-tion and may actually have an ergolytic effect under some conditions.
Isoflavones
Isoflavones  are proteins that are derived from 
soy food. They have a similar chemical struc-ture to that of mammalian estrogen. Because of their comparable structure, isoflavones have the ability to either increase estrogen activity 
or compete with estrogen for receptor sites and 
decrease health risks that are involved with excess estrogen. Alongside this health benefit, it has also been thought that isoflavones contain anti-cancer characteristics, can ease menopau -
sal symptoms, fight against osteoporosis, as well as aid against cardiovascular disease.

ERGOGENIC AIDS653
In conclusion there may be some health 
benefits, but that is debatable and may require 
further research before a conclusive decision is made.
Ketoisocproate
Alpha- ketoisocproate  is a branched chain keto 
acid that is a metabolite of leucine metabo -
lism. Ketoisocproate (KIC) is widely known to inhibit the enzymatic activity of the branch-
chain alpha-keto dehydrogenase complex 
and therefore is thought to have anticatabolic properties in the muscle. If proven to be effec -
tive, the supplementation of this BCAA would help minimize protein degradation during resistance training, ergo resulting in greater gains in muscle mass from training.
Research on BCAAs and its effects on exer -
cise has only recently started and even less is available on KIC individually. One group of researchers tested the effects of a glycine-argi -
nine-a-ketoiscoparoic (GAKIC) acid blend on its ability to reduce fatigue during high inten -
sity performance. The participants for this study were well-trained male cyclists who in a double blind randomized trail either consumed a pla -
cebo drink or the GAKIC blend and then were put through a series of exhaustive exercise tri -
als and then their rate to fatigue measured. At the conclusion of the study there was no differ -
ence between the placebo group and the GAKIC group on rate of fatigue, therefore it was said that the supplement had no ergogenic effect (78).
There is still potential for KIC to be proven 
effective for resisting against protein catabo-lism during exercise, but at this moment it is still too early to tell.
Medium chain triglycerides
Medium chain triglycerides  (MCTs) contain 
medium chain (length) fatty acids (MCFAs), which have 6 to 12 carbon atoms. Fat digestion releases these fatty acids, which can be absorbed 
directly into the portal vein, as they are water 
soluble. Thus MCFAs are available sooner after ingestion than long chain fatty acids because MCFAs bypass chylomicron formation. In addi-tion, medium chain fatty acids may not require the carnitine transport system to cross the mitochon -
drial inner membrane like long chain fatty acids.Because MCFAs can be absorbed and cir -
culate dissolved in the plasma, they can be rapidly available to muscle. Furthermore, if transport into the mitochondria is a rate-lim -
iting step in longer chain fatty acid oxidation, then MCFAs may enhance fat utilization by skipping this step. Increased fatty acid oxida -
tion during endurance activity could in theory decrease the need for carbohydrate and thus slow glycogen depletion.
The results of some studies do indeed 
suggest that MCFAs derived from MCT sup -
plementation prior to an endurance bout may serve as an energy source during endurance exercise, especially when consumed with car -
bohydrate (79,80). Yet the contribution of pre-exercise MCT supplements to fuel used during exercise is still small.
A few research efforts have attempted 
to determine whether MCT supplementa-tion can influence performance. For instance, researchers provided a placebo, carbohydrate, or carbohydrate and MCTs to cyclists during a 100-km time trial ride (81). The research -
ers reported that the carbohydrate enhanced performance in comparison to the placebo, but that the addition of MCT did not make a difference. In a related study, athletes cycled for two hours at 63% VO
2 max and then per -
formed a simulated 40 km time trial while consuming carbohydrate or carbohydrate plus MCT (82). Here again the carbohydrate supplementation improved measures of per -
formance, but the MCT did not provide an additive effect. Another study failed to elicit performance improvements with MCT supple -
mentation during sprinting in trained cyclists and the authors mentioned that MCT might actually have caused negative performance effects (83). One review of the literature also concluded that there was very little convincing scientific evidence to recommend MCT use to improve exercise performance (71).
At this time the use of MCT as an ergogenic 
aid is very questionable. Clearly, ingested MCT can be used for fuel during exercise, but whether 
that affects the oxidation of carbohydrate, more 
specifically muscle glycogen, is in doubt. One of the largest concerns for MCT supplementation is the potential for gastrointestinal discomfort, including diarrhea (79). Also, its theoretical use would seem to be limited to ultra-endurance athlete populations.

COLIN D. WILBORN ET AL.654
Ribose
Ribose  is a five-carbon carbohydrate. Ribose 
as ribose-5-phosphate is made in many cells 
via the pentose phosphate pathway. Ribose-5-phosphate can then serve as a building block for adenosine, which itself is a building block for ATP. It has been speculated that ribose sup-plementation could lead to increased ATP levels in skeletal muscle and thus greater power pro -
duction during very high intensity activities. This enhanced overload could in turn lead to greater muscular adaptations (hypertrophy).
Although research addressing the poten -
tial application of ribose supplementation to physical performance is limited, a couple of human studies and a few studies performed on rats provide some insight. One study compared ribose and dextrose supplementation (10 g) in female rowers over an eight-week period (84). The participants on the dextrose supplement had greater performance increases than the ribose supplement group leading researchers to believe that ribose was ineffective. In another study, five days of ribose supplementation (10 g/day) resulted in no effect on anaerobic capac -
ity in 19 trained males completing a Wingate test (85). A similar study with moderately trained cyclists (all men) also did not find any differences or increases in anaerobic exercise capacity with a ribose supplementation of 3 g (86). Based on the research it appears that ribose is ineffective at promoting ergogenic effects during aerobic or anaerobic exercise.
Sulfo-polysaccharides
Sulfo-polysaccharides  are dietary supplements 
that have been said to increase strength and muscle mass during resistance training. The research on this ergogenic aid is scarce and inconclusive. One study done in 2006 tested its effects on resistance trained males, who either ingested 800 mg/day or 1000 mg/day during an eight-week training period. At the outset, fourth, and eighth weeks of the study, subjects provided a fasting blood sample, and completed a series of muscular strength and endurance tests. After the statistics were run on the data it was determined that there was no significant training adaptation due to the supplementation (87).At this time, more research needs to  
be done to determine if the benefits of sulfo-polysaccharides actually exist.
Vanadium
Vanadium  is a minor mineral and is believed to 
be nutritionally essential. It is believed to be involved in insulin metabolism and/or to func -
tion in some capacity that mimics the activity of insulin. Vanadium is typically marketed in 
the form of vanadyl sulfate. Like chromium 
picolinate, the positively charged vanadium is bound to the negatively charged sulfate molecule. Vanadium as a sport supplement was popularized in the 1990s as diabetic rats became more glucose tolerant when they were provided with vanadium. Because vana -
dium seemed to somehow mimic the actions of insulin, it was speculated that vanadium supplements might prove anabolic in weight trainers and bodybuilders. Like chromium, vanadium was touted to enhance lean body mass by increasing amino acid uptake by muscle in conjunction with enhanced protein synthesis and inhibition of protein breakdown.
The little research done so far does not sup -
port the notion that vanadium supplements enhance LBM and strength in well-nourished people and athletes. Researchers provided indi -
viduals in a 12-week weight training study with vanadyl sulfate (or placebo) at a level of 0.5 mg/kg of body weight daily (88). They measured changes in 1RM and 10RM for the leg extension and bench press and assessed body composition using DXA scans. Vanadyl sulfate supplementa -
tion failed to improve strength gains or change body composition relative to the placebo group. In addition, two of the participants receiving the vanadyl sulfate supplements dropped out of the study due to side effects.
Zinc/magnesium aspartate (ZMA)
Zinc/magnesium aspartate’s  main ingredients 
include zinc monomethionine aspartate, vitamin 
B6 and magnesium aspartate. Zinc is an essen-
tial mineral found in animal and plant sources, is associated with amino acids, and is involved in almost all human operations. Skeletal mus -
cle on average contains 60% of zinc stores, and absorption of zinc could possibly be enhanced 

ERGOGENIC AIDS655
in the presence of certain amino acids. Protein 
production is an important function of zinc, therefore it is plausible that zinc supplementa -
tion would increase LBM and strength gains. Magnesium, also an essential mineral, is found in food sources such as wholegrain cereals, nuts, seafood, and spices. Some 60% of magnesium in the body is stored in the bones and it is required for 300+  reaction systems, including amino acid 
linking. Similar to zinc, a supplement of magne -
sium is thought to positively affect muscle mass 
development and strength. It is also thought 
that a deficiency in zinc and/or magnesium may reduce testosterone and IGF-1 in the body (71).
A study conducted in 2000 supplemented 
college football players during spring training with ZMA daily for eight weeks (89). Post-testing revealed an increase in testosterone and IGF-1 in the supplement group as well as greater strength increases than the placebo group. It was concluded that ZMA supple -
mentation is beneficial for trained athletes.
Another study concluded the opposite – that 
ZMA supplementation did not increase train-ing adaptations in resistance trained males (90). Wilborn and associates measured body com -
position, 1RM and endurance in leg and bench press, anaerobic power, and hormone levels. No significant differences were seen between the ZMA supplement group and the placebo group.
Based on the research, it appears that the 
effects of ZMA supplementation need to be further examined and studied to determine whether or not trained and untrained individ-uals will experience an ergonomic or ergolytic effect.
While support for magnesium supplemen-
tation is conflicting, it does appear that zinc has a positive effect on immune function in trained individuals (71). Gleeson and Bishop discuss zinc supplementation and its positive effects on immunity while warning individuals of the risk of toxicity, which would lead to other negative health effects (93). One study demonstrated 
that zinc supplementation reduced the negative 
effects of exercise in an acute exercise session (94). It was not known whether the same ben -
efits would be seen in individuals participating in chronic physical activity.
NUTRITION BEFORE AND 
AFTER WORKOUTS
Strenuous exercise, whether aerobic or anaer -
obic, can reduce various energy substrates 
(glycogen, protein, stored phosphagens [ATP, phosphocreatine], intracellular triglycerides), increase muscle protein breakdown, damage cell membranes, cause fluid loss, and temporarily impair immune function. The manner in which these physiological changes occur and how they respond to different interventions has provided clues to researchers as to what and when to eat with regard to optimizing performance.
REAL-WORLD APPL iCATiON
Supplements versus foods
1 Eat about six meals each day. Healthy foods are the basis of sound nutrition. Frequent 
small meals increase metabolism.
2 Supplements should be treated only as an additional “tool” for achieving your goals. They are not magic potions that will cure the adverse effects of poor training and diet. When combined with sound nutrition, supplements could help athletes make substantial improve -
ments in performance, recovery, and immunity.
3 Creatine is clearly a safe and effective supplement that can enhance LBM, muscle strength, and power with little to no side effects.
4 Always consume a postworkout carbohydrate-protein shake within 30 minutes of com -
pleting exercise (strength and endurance) to expedite recovery and promote gains in LBM.
5 Supplements should never take the place of real food.

COLIN D. WILBORN ET AL.656
Assuming that body hydration and muscle 
glycogen levels are adequate, a successful pre-
exercise strategy is to provide a small amount of carbohydrate (25 to 50 g) along with 6 g of EAA (or 40 g of complete protein) approxi -
mately 15 minutes prior to resistance training (43,44). This specific combination of carbohy-drates and EAA has been shown to increase muscle protein synthesis 160% more than ingesting the same cocktail post-exercise (45). In this case, the exercise bout was for the lower 
body only (i.e., ten sets of eight reps of leg press 
at 80% of 1RM and eight sets of eight reps of leg extension at 80% of 1RM). Interestingly, research from the same lab found that adding nonessential amino acids to the mix does not increase protein synthesis. In other words, only the essential amino acids are needed to pro -
mote anabolic processes in muscle (7).
Nutrition during the post-exercise period 
accomplishes three goals: (a) it puts the brakes on protein degradation, (b) it increases muscle protein synthesis, and (c) it rapidly initiates the process of muscle glycogen regeneration. An “optimal” food/beverage has yet to be iden -
tified. Based on research conducted over the past few years (6), however, a carbohydrate- to-protein ratio that ranges from 4:1 to approximately 1:1 may expedite recovery as well as enhance muscle glycogen synthesis and 
net protein status (14,43,44). Athletes should use a lower ratio of carbohydrates to protein when the volume of work (sets times reps) being performed is low, and a higher ratio when the volume of work being performed is high. Practically, this means that athletes inter -
ested in increasing LBM as well as muscular strength and power should consume a post-workout beverage containing at least 100 cal and as much as 500 cal (and a combination of protein and carbohydrate) within 30 minutes of exercise. It is critical to consume this imme-diately after training or competition.
Anecdotally, many athletes find that add-
ing 3 to 5 g of creatine and 5 to 10 g of BCAAs to their pre- and/or postworkout beverages 
provides an enormous benefit.
Consuming a combination of carbohydrate and 
protein immediately after exercise will expedite recovery and perhaps improve subsequent performance.ANABOLIC-ANDROGENIC 
STEROIDS IN SPORTS
Anabolic-androgenic steroids are synthetic forms 
of testosterone, the primary male hormone. Testosterone is responsible for both anabolic (muscle growth) and androgenic (secondary sex characteristics) effects that begin at puberty in males. The anabolic and androgenic charac -
teristics of the drug go hand in hand, thus the name anabolic-androgenic steroids (AASs). The androgenic properties of the drug are responsi -
ble for many of the negative side effects reported.
AASs are generally effective in promot -
ing muscle growth. Although some forms of AASs can be obtained as a legal prescription drug for certain medical conditions, they are illegal for possession without a prescription. AASs can be prescribed for males with delayed 
puberty, inadequate endogenous testo  sterone  
production, and individuals with muscle-wasting diseases. AASs are against the rules of most sport governing bodies. Because of their pronounced effect on muscle size and strength, these drugs are widely used and abused by ath -
letes, particularly in strength and power sports.
Abuse of AASs, however, can lead to poten -
tially serious health problems, some irreversible. In addition to using AASs to improve athletic performance, many individuals are using AASs simply to improve physical appearance. Anabolic steroids come in both oral and injectable forms. Athletes, in an attempt to maximize the benefits of AAS use, will cycle the drugs rather than use them continuously. Cycling means taking multi -
ple doses of steroids over a period of time and then going off them for a period of time before starting again. One concern is that athletes often combine several different types of steroids in an effort to maximize their effectiveness and mini -
mize negative effects (referred to as “stacking”). Many of the studies looking at the negative effects of AAS use are looking at the effects of a prescription dose, not a dose that is stacked and/or cycled. It is quite possible that the larger doses used by athletes would cause the side effects to be even more pronounced.
The side effects from abusing AASs 
may include liver tumors (usually benign), negative blood lipid changes (increases in low-  
density-lipoprotein (LDL) (bad) cholesterol, and decreases in high-density-lipoprotein (HDL)  

ERGOGENIC AIDS657
(good) cholesterol), fluid retention, high blood 
pressure, and severe acne. Since AASs are male hormones, they produce different side effects in males, females, and adolescents. In males, common side effects are shrinking testicles, reduced sperm count, infertility, baldness, gynecomastia (breast development), and an increased risk of prostate cancer. In females, anabolic steroids can cause male hair growth patterns on the face and body, male-pattern baldness, enlargement of the clitoris, and a 
deepened voice. Adolescents may experience 
premature closure of epiphyseal discs, causing stunted growth. Negative side effects are likely a result of the type of AAS used, the dose, frequency, and duration of use. Notice that males tend to develop feminine side effects and females tend to develop masculine side effects. In males, excess androgens (excess testoster -
one) are converted to estrogen, a primary female hormone. It is the estrogen production in males that is related to the feminine side effects. Many, but not all, of the side effects are irreversible when the athlete stops taking AAS.
What does all this mean to the strength 
and conditioning professional? First of all, we should be aware that the athletes we work with may be using AASs to enhance perfor -
mance or appearance. Second, we must be able to provide sound advice to athletes and parents based on the legality of using AASs. Third, competition and sports should be based on the concept of fair play. The use of AASs by athletes to enhance performance crosses this line and jeopardizes the athlete’s safety.myostatin blockers, does exhibit binding specificity 
for serum myostatin (30). We have recently shown 
that C. canariensis binds myostatin; however, 
when combined with heavy weight training, 1200 mg × d-1 of C. canariensis had no effect 
in reducing the level of serum myostatin or in 
preferentially increasing muscle strength and mass and decreasing fat mass (47). Therefore, the results 
from this study suggest that there is no apparent 
anabolic benefit from ingesting myostatin-blocking supplements.
Myostatin appears to negatively regulate 
skeletal muscle growth. In the blood, myostatin appears to work in part by slowing down and 
inhibiting the growth of muscle.
Recent studies with adult rodents showed 
that antibodies were created against myostatin, increasing total body mass, muscle mass, muscle 
size, and absolute muscle strength. The implication is that a myostatin blocker could conceivably 
provide benefits as an ergogenic aid or in the 
treatment of patients with muscle wasting diseases.
—Darryn Willoughby, PhD,  
CSCS, FISSN, Baylor University
Q&A FROM THE F iELD
I’ve been hearing a lot of talk about using myostatin blockers. I am not familiar with 
these. What are they, and how effective are 
they? Do they pose any dangers?
I have seen these supplements in health food 
stores; they have been marketed with claims that they bind to serum myostatin and inhibit it. Myostatin causes muscle atrophy and wasting. 
Therefore, myostatin blockers could basically 
remove the inhibition of muscle growth and allow unlimited potential in muscle mass. One study 
has recently shown that Cystoseira canariensis, 
a brown sea algae that is the active ingredient in Q&A FROM THE F iELD
A friend in my class says he is taking a supplement containing nitric oxide (NO). 
He says he has gained 10 lb of muscle in a 
month. What does research say about NO stimulators (arginine and argine alpha-
ketoglutarate)? Is there any evidence that 
they might help athletes gain muscle mass?
The problem here is that you have some fairly 
complex physiology being thrown around about NO without any substantive human data showing an effect on exercise performance or body 
composition. For instance, we know that arginine is 
an amino acid that participates in the maintenance of muscle and lean tissue throughout the body. It 
can be converted into ornithine, another amino 
acid. Its presence can stimulate the release of certain endogenous anabolic hormones, such a 
growth hormone and IGF-1. There is supposedly 
a better-absorbed form of arginine on the market called arginine alpha-ketoglutarate. This supplement 
is marketed under various names with claims that 
it accelerates the body’s natural production of 
(continued)

COLIN D. WILBORN ET AL.658
NO, vastly augmenting blood flow to muscles. It 
is also claimed that this product adds new muscle 
fibers, not muscle water, and that this addition 
of lean muscle combined with ingestion of the supplement will decrease body fat and enhance 
recovery. Unfortunately, there appear to be no 
scientific studies to validate any of these claims. Future research will reveal the effectiveness of this 
supplement.
Based on the current research, pure arginine 
may be better and more effective than arginine alpha-ketoglutarate. Arginine has been well 
researched and has many beneficial effects, especially in terms of cardiovascular health. Its 
main mechanism of action lies in boosting NO. 
NO is a signaling molecule within muscle cells that may have many anabolic effects, including 
increased nutrient transport and vasodilatation. 
Arginine boosts NO by stimulating NO synthase, the enzyme that makes NO. Research suggests it 
may help improve exercise performance, support (continued) protein synthesis, boost growth hormone levels at 
higher doses, and even help replenish postworkout 
glycogen stores.
OKG (ornithine ketoglutarate) (a salt formed 
from one molecule of alpha-ketoglutarate and two molecules of ornithing) is a metabolic 
regulator and precursor for glutamine and arninine. Glutamine promotes protein synthesis in skeletal 
muscle. OKG is also a precursor for other amino 
acids and ketoacids, which are important for protein synthesis in skeletal muscle. OKG is also 
a precursor for other amino acids and ketoacids, 
which are important for protein synthesis. OKG stimulates the secretion of hormones such as 
insulin and human growth hormone and has 
an anabolic effect on muscles. It can also help with ammonia detoxification. This could be of 
significance, since high levels of ammonia are 
prevalent among body builders and other athletes. Therefore, OKG has been marketed as a sports 
supplement for helping to build muscle.
—Darryn Willoughby, PhD,  
CSCS, FISSN, Baylor University
SUMMARY
TABLE 23.2  Summary of ergogenic aids
Nutrient/ 
supplementActions Dosage Comments References
Aromatase 
inhibitorsBlock the aromatase activity thus increasing 
endogenous levels of serum testosterone.~75 mg/day 
(hydroxyandrost-4-
ene-6,17-dioxo-3-THP ether and 3,17-diketo-androst-1,4,6-triene)Research has confirmed 
that aromatase inhibitors 
can increase serum testosterone levels with supplementation. 
One trial also found 
a significant decrease in fat mass during supplementation.49
BCAA May increase fat-free 
mass; anticatabolic 
effect; may ameliorate performance decrement.BCAA (12–14 g/day; 
50% L-leucine, 25% 
L-isoleucine, 25% L-valine)High dose BCAA 
supplementation may be 
ergogenic.25
Caffeine Lipolytic agent; increases mental alertness; increases thermogenesis; may enhance performance.200–400 mg (acute dose)No longer a banned substance; most commonly consumed drug.1,13

ERGOGENIC AIDS659
Colostrum May increase 
LBM; may enhance performance.20–60 g/day for several weeksCompared to whey protein, may be more anabolic.2,9
Creatine May increase LBM; may enhance performance (i.e., sprints, 1RM, repeated anaerobic 
exercise bouts, etc.).3–5 g/day; for loading 
phase (if chosen), 20–25 g/day for about a weekEnormous scientific support for ergogenic effect.5,10,45,50
EAA May increase muscle protein accretion.6 g (acute dose increases net muscle protein balance)Has greater anabolic effects when taken preworkout versus postworkout.7,43
EGCG A component of green 
tea; may increase 
thermogenesis beyond the normal effects of caffeine.270 mg/day May have antioxidant 
and anti-carcinogenic 
effects; data show enhanced thermogenesis.34
Glucosamine May treat symptoms of osteoarthritis.1500 mg of glucosamine hydrochloride (GH) 
and 1200 mg of 
chondroitin sulfate  
(CS) dailyMay ameliorate symptoms of 
osteoarthritis.39
Glutamine Increases immune 
function.6–10 g May be more effective as immune function 
supporter in times of 
severe stress (exercise).11
HMB May alleviate the exercise-induced proteolysis and/or 
muscle damage; may 
increase muscle mass/
function.3 g/day May work best in untrained individuals.18
Myostatin blockersPurported to block the action of myostatin, which is a 
negative regulator of 
skeletal muscle mass.1200 mg/day of cystoseira canariensisResearch does NOT support the supplementation of 
purposed myostatin 
inhibitors.47
Pre- and postworkout supplementsIncrease muscle mass; increase muscle glycogen repletion; 
increase recovery.Supplement containing 
80 g CHO, 28 g Pro,  6 g fat immediately after 
exercise (10 minutes) 
and two hours post-exercise; as little as 100 calories may help; 6 g of essential amino 
acids consumed pre-
workout effectiveTiming of ingestion is critical. Need to consume a 
carbohydrate-protein 
beverage immediately post-exercise.14,44
(continued)

COLIN D. WILBORN ET AL.660
Prohormones Proposed to increase 
testosterone levels and have effects on 
anabolism.Dosage varies 
based on individual prohormone.May increase testosterone, but NO evidence to support 
that they have an 
effect on muscle mass. No ergogenic effect, and may also increase 
estrogen levels.16
Sodium 
bicarbonateBuffers the increase in H+ ions which increase acidity 
(lowers pH) and 
impact fatigue.0.3 g/kg body weight Potentially effective in maximal exercise lasting 2–5 minutes; 
may improve sprint 
performance.21,24
Sports drinks Carbohydrates necessary to maintain blood glucose 
to delay fatigue; 
electrolytes (sodium) help with absorption and complete fluid restoration.4–8% carbohydrate solutionDehydration causes decrease in performance; may be only effective 
when exercise duration 
exceeds 1 hour; fluid and electrolyte loss due to sweat is variable and dependent 
upon individual sweat 
rates; sports drinks without added protein are inadequate for 
promoting skeletal 
muscle recovery.12,22
TABLE 23.2  (continued)
Nutrient/ supplementActions Dosage Comments References
MAxiNG OUT
1 A football running back for a division 1 college football team asks for your advice regard-
ing his nutrition and supplementation program. He currently eats two to three very large meals each day (lunch and dinner). He often skips breakfast because he is not hungry, and he drinks coffee. His meals are mainly fast food (i.e., burgers, fries, and regular cola) as well as pizza and beer on late-night binges. At 5 ft 10 in tall, weighing 200 lb, and 18 years of age, he consumes approximately 3,000 cal per day. His workouts for football are quite rigorous, and the day after a game he feels extremely lethargic. He wants to know how he can improve his diet as well as whether supplements might improve his performance and help him gain LBM.
2 There are literally thousands of purported ergogenic aids, all of which cannot be covered in a single chapter. Using the Internet or a library resource, investigate a familiar substance that is a purported ergogenic aid. Answer the following questions relative to the substance:

ERGOGENIC AIDS661
CASE E xAMPLE
Professional boxer
BackgroundYou are a sports nutritionist who has been asked by a professional boxer how to best enhance 
his performance. He fights in the heavyweight division at 200 lb (he is 6 ft tall and 26 years old). He is preparing for an upcoming fight in three months and needs advice on how to improve his punching power/speed with new nutrition strategies. He is currently working with a top strength and conditioning specialist to improve his conditioning. This upcoming fight is ten rounds (three-minute rounds), with one minute of rest between rounds.
Recommendations/considerations
Because he is a heavyweight, he can add extra LBM and not worry about exceeding a weight 
limit. Also, he is “light” for a heavyweight boxer and likely needs to maintain his body weight while gaining more LBM.
(continued)a Is there a logical “mechanism of action” by which this substance may have a positive effect 
on human performance?
b If this substance were to improve performance, what sports or events would be most likely to be improved?
c What information can you find regarding the effectiveness of this ergogenic aid? Positive/negative results? Dosing requirements?
d What information can you find regarding the safety of this ergogenic aid? Adverse events? Specific side effects? Any long-term health consequences?
3 It is difficult to address the ethical considerations of using ergogenic aids. Most will agree 
that there is a line we should not cross in recommending ergogenic aids. Write your own 
definition of an ergogenic aid. Then make a determination of whether or not these substances should be allowed to be used by athletes under your definition:
a Amino acids
b Creatine monohydrate
c Concentrated glucose replacement beverage
d Testosterone and related compounds
e Insulin
f Insulin-like growth factor
g Growth hormone
h Vitamin concentrates
i Mineral concentrates
j Coffee and concentrated caffeine beverages or tablets
k Vitamin B12 injections
l Protein bars

COLIN D. WILBORN ET AL.662
Implementation
Descriptive information. Gathering basic information such as height, weight, body fat per -
centage (using skinfolds), age, and training history is essential. Examine past fights to see 
how he fared at different body weights and to determine at what rounds his strength/power subsided. Determine, if possible whether he has an “ideal” boxing weight.
Diet analysis. Have the subject keep a record of his food intake over the next seven days 
to assess whether he is currently meeting his energy needs as well as macronutrient require -
ments. It is important to ensure an adequate intake of protein and essential fatty acids.
Supplements. Is this athlete taking any supplements? Again, you can determine this from 
the interview and his food diary. Perhaps creatine monohydrate supplementation is needed.
Rest. How much rest is the athlete getting?
Conditioning program
. Is he training properly for the fight? Is his training program perio -
dized, matching up with his competition schedule? Does his regime include core training, and are his workouts sports specific? Work with his strength and conditioning coach to answer these questions.
Results
Based on the information obtained from this process, you make the following recommenda -
tions:
1 Increase daily caloric intake to 4,000 kcal a day, utilizing a weight gain supplement if 
needed to obtain the desired intake.
2 Maintain a protein intake of 1 g per lb body weight – 1 d-1.
3 Consume a preworkout beverage containing EAAs plus carbohydrate.
4 Consume a postworkout protein shake to expedite recovery and promote gains in LBM.
5 Consume 3 to 5 g of creatine monohydrate as a daily supplement.
6 Get seven to eight hours of sleep every night.
REFERENCES
 1. Acheson KJ, Gremaud G, Meirim I, et al. 
Metabolic effects of caffeine in humans: lipid oxidation or futile cycling? Am J Clin Nutr 2004; 79:40–46.
 2. Antonio J, Sanders MS, Van Gammeren D.  The effects of bovine colostrum supplementation on body composition and exercise performance in active men and women. Nutrition 2001; 17:243–247.
 3. Armstrong LE. Caffeine, body fluid-electrolyte balance, and exercise performance. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab 2002; 12:189–206.
 4. Bell DG, McLellan TM. Effect of repeated caffeine ingestion on repeated exhaustive (continued)
exercise endurance. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2003; 35:1348–1354.
 5. Bermon S, Venembre P, Sachet C, et al. Effects of creatine monohydrate ingestion in sedentary and weight-trained older adults. Acta Physiol Scand 1998; 164:147–155.
 6. Blomstrand E, Saltin B. BCAA intake affects protein metabolism in muscle after but not during exercise in humans. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab 2001; 281:E365–E374.
 7. Borsheim E, Tipton KD, Wolf SE, Wolfe RR. Essential amino acids and muscle protein recovery from resistance exercise. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab 2002; 283:E648–E657.

ERGOGENIC AIDS663
 8. Braham R, Dawson B, Goodman C.  The effect 
of glucosamine supplementation on people 
experiencing regular knee pain. Br J Sports Med 2003; 37:45–49, discussion 49.
 9. Buckley JD, Brinkworth GD, Abbott MJ. Effect of bovine colostrum on anaerobic exercise performance and plasma insulin-like growth factor I. J Sports Sci 2003; 21:577–588.
10. Buford TW, Kreider RB, Stout JR, Greenwood M, Campbell B, Spano M, Ziegenfuss T, Lopez H, Landis J, Antonio J. International Society of Sports Nutrition position stand: creatine supplementation and exercise. 
J Inter Soc of Sports Nutr 2007; 4:6. 
DOI:a10.1186/1550-2783-4-6.
11. Candow DG, Chilibeck PD, Burke DG, Davison KS, Smith-Palmer T. Effect of glutamine supplementation combined with resistance training in young adults. Eur J Appl Physiol 2001; 86(2):142–9.
12. Coggan AR, Coyle EF. Carbohydrate ingestion during prolonged exercise: effects on metabolism and performance. Exerc Sport Sci Rev 1991; 19:1–40.
13. Goldstein ER, Ziegenfuss T, Kalman D, Kreider R, Campbell B, Wilborn C, Taylor L, Willoughby D, Stout J, Graves BS, Wildman R, Ivy JL, Spano M, Smith AE, Antonio J. International society of sports 
nutrition position stand: caffeine and 
performance. J Inter Soc of Sports Nutr 2010; 7:5. https://jissn.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/1550-2783-7-5.
14. Ivy JL, Res PT, Sprague RC, Widzer MO. Effect of a carbohydrate-protein supplement on endurance performance during exercise of varying intensity. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab 2003; 13:382–395.
15. Jowko E, Ostaszewski P, Jank M, et al. Creatine and beta-hydroxy-beta-methylbutyrate (HMB) additively increase lean body mass and muscle strength during a weight-training program. Nutrition 2001; 
17:558–566.
16. King DS, Sharp RL, Vukovich MD, Brown 
GA, Reifenrath TA, Uhl NL, Parsons KA. Effect of oral androstenedione on serum testosterone and adaptations to resistance training in young men: a 
randomized controlled trial. JAMA 1999; 
281(21):2020–2028.
17. Kraemer WJ, Volek JS. Creatine supplementation. Its role in human performance. Clin Sports Med 1999; 
18:651–666, ix.18. Kreider RB, Ferreira M, Wilson M, Almada AL. Effects of calcium beta-hydroxy-beta-methylbutyrate (HMB) supplementation during resistance-training on markers of catabolism, body composition and strength. 
Int J Sports Med 1999; 20:503–509.
19. Kreider RB, Melton C, Rasmussen CJ, et al. 
Long-term creatine supplementation does not significantly affect clinical markers of health in athletes. Mol Cell Biochem 2003; 244:9–104.
20. Layman DK, Baum JI. Dietary protein impact on glycemic control during weight loss. J Nutr 2004; 134:968S–973S.
21. Lindh AM, Peyrebrune MC, Ingham SA, Bailey DM, Folland JP. Sodium bicarbonate improves swimming performance. Int J Sports Med 2008; 29(6):519–523.
22. Maughan RJ, Leiper JB. Limitations to fluid replacement during exercise. Can J Appl Physiol 1999; 24:173–187.
23. Mayo Clinic. Caffeine Content of Common Beverages. Available at www.mayoclinic.com/health/drug-information/DR202105.
24. McNaughton L, Thompson D. Acute versus chronic sodium bicarbonate ingestion and anaerobic work and power output. J Sports Med Phys Fitness 2001; 41:456–462.
25. Mourier A, Bigard AX, de Kerviler E, et al. Combined effects of caloric restriction and branched-chain amino acid supplementation on body composition and exercise performance in elite wrestlers. Int J Sports 
Med 1997; 18:47–55.
26. Nissen S, Sharp RL, Panton L, et al. Beta-
hydroxy-beta-methylbutyrate (HMB) supplementation in humans is safe and may decrease cardiovascular risk factors. J Nutr 2000; 130:1937–1945.
27. Piattoly T, Welsch MA. L-Glutamine supplementation: effects on recovery from exercise. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2004; 36:S127.
28. Poortmans JR, Francaux M. Long-term oral creatine supplementation does not impair renal function in healthy athletes. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1999; 31:1108–1110.
29. Rae C, Digney AL, McEwan SR, Bates TC. Oral creatine monohydrate supplementation improves brain performance: a double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over trial. Proc R Soc Lond B Biol Sci 2003; 270:2147–2150.
30. Ramazov Z, Jimenez del Rio M, Ziegenfuss T. Sulfated polysaccharides of brown 
seaweed Cystoseira canariensis bind to serum myostatin protein. Acta Physiol Pharmacol 2003; 27:1–6.

COLIN D. WILBORN ET AL.664
31. Rennie MJ. Glutamine metabolism and 
transport in skeletal muscle and heart and their clinical relevance. J Nutr 1996; 126:1142S–1149S.
32. Rennie MJ, Low SY, Taylor PM, et al. Amino acid transport during muscle contraction and its relevance to exercise. Adv Exp Med Biol 1998; 441:299–305.
33. Richy F, Bruyere O, Ethgen O, et al. Structural and symptomatic efficacy of glucosamine and chondroitin in knee osteoarthritis: a comprehensive meta-analysis. Arch Intern Med 2003; 163:1514–1522.
34. Rietveld A, Wiseman S. Antioxidant effects of tea: evidence from human clinical trials. J Nutr 2003; 133:3285S–3292S.
35. Rowlands DS, Thomson JS. Effects of beta-hydroxy-beta-methylbutyrate supplementation during resistance training on strength, body composition, and muscle damage in trained and untrained young men: 
a meta-analysis. J Strength Cond Res 2009; 
23(3):836–846.
36. Sale C, Saunders B, Harris RC. Effect of beta-alanine supplementation on muscle carnosine concentrations and exercise performance. Amino Acids 2010; 39(2):321–333.
37. Schoffstall JE, et al. Effects of dehydration and rehydration on the one-repetition maximum bench press of weight-trained males. J Strength Cond Res 2001; 15:102–108.
38. Schedl HP, Maughan RJ, Gisolfi CV. Intestinal absorption during rest and exercise: implications for formulating an oral rehydration solution (ORS). Med Sci Sports Exerc 1994; 26:267–280.
39. Segal L, Day SE, Chapman AB, Osborne RH. Can we reduce disease burden from osteoarthritis? Med J Aust 2004; 180:S11–S17.
40. Smith, AE, Walter, AA, Graef JL, Kendall KL, Moon JR, Lockwood CM, Fukuda DH, Beck TW, Cramer JT, Stout JR. Effects of beta-alanine supplementation and high-intensity interval training on endurance performance 
and body composition in men: a double-blind 
trial. J Inter Soc Sports Nutr 2009; 6(5).
41. Tarnopolsky MA, Beal MF. Potential for creatine and other therapies targeting cellular energy dysfunction in neurological disorders. Ann Neurol 2001; 49:561–574.
42. Terjung RL, Clarkson P, Eichner ER, et al. American College of Sports Medicine roundtable. The physiological and health effects of oral creatine supplementation. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2000; 32:706–717.43. Tipton KD, Borsheim E, Wolf SE, et al. Acute response of net muscle protein balance reflects 24-h balance after exercise and amino acid ingestion. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab 2003; 284:E76–E89.
44. Tipton KD, Rasmussen BB, Miller SL, et al. Timing of amino acid-carbohydrate ingestion alters anabolic response of muscle to resistance exercise. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab 2001; 281:E197–E206.
45. Volek JS, Rawson ES. Scientific basis and practical aspects of creatine supplementation for athletes. Nutrition 2004; 20:609–614.
46. Watsford ML, Murphy AJ, Spinks WL, Walshe AD. Creatine supplementation and its effect on musculotendinous stiffness and performance. J Strength Cond Res 2003; 17:26–33.
47. Willoughby DS. Effects of an alleged myostatin binding supplement and heavy resistance training on serum myostatin, muscle strength and mass, and body composition. Int J Sports Nutr Exerc Metab 
2004; 14(4):461–472.
48. Willoughby DS, Rosene J. Effects of oral 
creatine and resistance training on myosin heavy chain expression. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2001; 33:1674–1681.
49. Willoughby DS, Wilborn C, Taylor L, Campbell W. Eight weeks of aromatase inhibition using the nutritional supplement Novedex XT: effects in young, eugonadal men. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab 2007; 
17(1):92–108.
50. Ziegenfuss TN, Rogers M, Lowery L, et al. 
Effect of creatine loading on anaerobic performance and skeletal muscle volume in NCAA Division I athletes. Nutrition 2002; 18:397–402.
51. Chromiak JA, Antonio J. Use of amino acids as growth hormone-releasing agents by athletes. Nutrition 2002; 18(7–8):657–661.
52. Isidori A, LoMonaco A, Cappa M. A study of growth hormone release in man after oral administration of amino acids. Current Medical Research Opinion 1981; 7(7):475–481.
53. Lambert MI. Failure of commercial oral amino acid supplements to increase serum growth hormone concentrations in male body-builders. Int J Sports Nutr 1993; 3(3):298–305.
54. Corpas E, Blackman MR, Roberson R, Scholfield D, Harman SM. Oral arginine-lysine does not increase growth hormone or insulin-like growth factor-I in old men. J Gerontol 1993; 48(4):M128–M133.

ERGOGENIC AIDS665
55. Trudeau F. Aspartate as an ergogenic 
supplement. Sports Med 2008; 38(1):9–16.
56. Maughan RJ. The effects of oral supplementation of salts of aspartic acid on the metabolic response to prolonged exhausting exercise in man. Int J Sports Med 1983; 4:119–123.
57. Nielsen FH, Hunt CD, Mullen LM, Hunt JR. Effect of dietary boron on mineral, estrogen, and testosterone metabolism in postmenopausal women. FASEB Journal 1987; 1:394–397.
58. Green NR, Ferrando AA. Plasma boron and the effects of boron supplementation in males. Environmental Health Perspectives 1994; 102:73–77.
59. Ferrando AA, Green NR. The effect of boron supplementation on lean body mass, plasma testosterone levels, and strength in male bodybuilders. Int J of Sport Nutr 1993; 3:140–150.
60. Wildman REC, Medeiros DM, eds. Nutraceuticals and nutrition supplements. In: Advanced Human Nutrition. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press, 2000.
61. Smith W, Fry A, Tschume L, Bloomer R. Effect of glycine propinoyl-L-carnitine on aerobic and anaerobic exercise performance. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab 2008; 18(1):218–223.
62. Lukaski HC, Bolonchik WW, Siders WA, Milne DB. Chromium supplementation and resistance training: effects on body composition, strength, and trace element status of men. Am J Clin Nutr 1996; 
63(6):954–965.
63. Campbell WW, Joseph LJ, Davey SL, Cyr-
Campbell D, Anderson RA, Evans WJ. Effects of resistance training and chromium picolinate on body composition and skeletal muscle in older men. J Appl Physiol 1999; 
86(1):29–39.
64. Kaikkonen J, Tuomainen TP, Nyyssonen K, 
Salonen JT. Coenzyme Q10: absorption, antioxidative properties, determinants, and plasma levels. Free Radical Research 2002; 36(4):389–397.
65. Ylikoski T, Piirainen J, Hanninen O, Penttinen J. The effect of coenzyme Q10 on the exercise performance of cross-country skiers. Molecular Aspects of Medicine 1997; 18(suppl):S283–S290.
66. Bonetti A, Solito F, Carmosino G, Bargossi AM, Fiorella PL. Effect of ubidecarenone oral treatment on aerobic power in middle-aged trained subjects. J Sports Med Physic Fit 2000; 40:51–59.67. Vasankari TJ, Kujala UM, Vasankari TM, Vuorimaa T, Ahotupa, M. Increased serum and low-density-lipoprotein antioxidant potential after antioxidant supplementation in endurance athletes. Am J Clin Nutr 1997; 
65:1052–1056.
68. Balerdinelli R, Mucaj A, Lacalaprice F, et al. 
Coenzyme Q10 and exercise training in chronic heart failure. European Heart Journal 2006; 27(22):2875–2681.
69. Tarnopolsku M, Zimmer A, Paikin J, et al. Creatine monohydrate and conjugated linoleic acid improve strength and body composition following resistance exercise in older adults. PLoS One 2007; 2(10):e991.
70. Pinoski C, Chilibeck PD, Candow DG, et al. The effects of conjugated linoleic acid supplementation during resistance training. Med Sci Sports Exer 2006; 38:339–348.
71. Kreider RB, Wilborn CD, Taylor L, et al. ISSN exercise & sport nutrition review: research & recommendations. JISSN 2010; 7:7–49.
72. Nestler JE, Barlascini CO, Clore JN, Blackard WG. Dehydroepiandrosterone reduces serum low density lipoprotein levels and body fat but does not alter insulin sensitivity in normal men. J Clin Endocrin Metabol 1988; 
66(1):57–61.
73. Lyons T. Effects of glycerol-induced 
hyperhydration prior to exercise in the heat on sweating and core temperature. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1990; 22:477–483.
74. Scheadler C, Garver M, Kirby T, Devor S. Glycerol hyperhydration and endurance running performance in the heat. J Exerc Physiol Online 2010; 13(3):1–11.
75. Knight C, Braakhuis A, Paton C. The effect of glycerol ingestion on performance during simulated multisport activity. Res Q Exerc Sport 2010; 81(2):233–238.
76. McNaughton L, Dalton B, Tarr J. Inosine supplementation has no effect on aerobic or anaerobic cycling performance. Int J Sport Nutr 1999; 9(4):333–344.
77. Starling RD, Trappe TA, Short KR, Sheffield-Moore M, Jozsi AC, Fink WJ, Costill DL. Effect of inosine supplementation on aerobic and anaerobic cycling performance. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1996; 28(9):1193–1198.
78. Beis L, Yaser M, Easton C, et al. Failure of glycine-arginie-a-ketoisocaproic acid to improve high intensity exercise performance in cyclists. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab 2011; 21(1):33–39.
79. Jeukendrup AE, Saris WH, Schrauwen P, Brouns F, Wagenmakers AJ. Metabolic availability of medium-chain triglycerides 

COLIN D. WILBORN ET AL.666
coingested with carbohydrates during 
prolonged exercise. J Appl Physiol 1995; 79(3):756–762.
80. Van Zyl CG, Lambert EV, Hawley JA, Noakes TD, Dennis SC. Effects of medium-chain triglyceride ingestion on fuel metabolism and cycling performance. J Appl Physiol 1996; 80:2217–2225.
81. Angus DJ, Hargreaves M, Dancey J, Febbraio MA. Effect of carbohydrate or carbohydrate plus medium-chain triglyceride ingestion on cycling time trial performance. J Appl Physiol 2000; 88:113–119.
82. Goedecke JH, Elmer-English R, Dennis SC, Schloss I, Noakes TD, Lambert EV. Effects of medium-chain triaclyglycerol ingested with carbohydrate on metabolism and exercise performance. Int J Sport Nutr 1999; 9:35–47.
83. Goedecke JH, Clark VR, Noakes TD, Lambert EV. The effects of medium-chain triacylglycerol and carbohydrate ingestion on ultra-endurance exercise performance. International J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab 2005; 
15(1):15–27.
84. Dunne L, Worley S, Macknin M. Ribose 
versus dextrose supplementation, association with rowing performance: a double-blind study. Clin J Sport Med 2006; 16(1):68–71.
85. Kreider RB, Melton C, Greenwood M, Rasmussen C, Lundberg J, Earnest C, Almada A. Effects of oral d-ribose supplementation on anaerobic capacity and selected metabolic markers in healthy males. Int J Sport Nutr 
Exerc Metab 2003; 13:76–86.
86. Kerksick C, Rasmussen C, Bowden R, 
Leutholtz B, Harvey T, Earnest C, Greenwood M, Almada A, Kreider R. Effects of ribose supplementation prior to and during intense exercise on anaerobic capacity and metabolic markers. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab 2005; 15:653–664.
87. Wilborn CD, Taylor LW, Campbell BI, Kerksick C, Rasmussen FA, et al. Effects of methoxyisoflavone, ecdysterone, and sulfo-polysaccharide supplementation on training adaptations in resistance-trained males. JISSN 
2006; 3:1550–2783.
88. Fawcett JP, Farquhar SJ, Walker RJ, Thou T, 
Lowe G, Goulding A. The effect of oral vandyl sulfate on body composition and performance in weight-training athletes. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab 1996; 6(4):382–390.
89. Brilla LR, Conte V. Effects of a novel zinc-magnesium formulation on hormones and strength. J Exerc Physiol Online 2000; 3:26–36.
90. Wilborn CD, Kerksick CM, Campbell BI, Taylor LW, Marcello BM, Rasmussen CJ, Greenwood MC, Almada A, Kreider RB. Effects of zinc magnesium aspartate (ZMA) supplementation on training adaptations and 
markers of anabolism and catabolism. JISSN 
2004; 1(2):12–20.
91. Ostojic SM, Calleja J, Jourkesh M. Effects of short-term dehydroepiandrosterone supplementation on body composition in young athletes. Chin J Physiol 2010; 53(1):19–25.
92. ACSM. Position stand. Exercise and fluid replacement. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2007; 39(2):377–390.
93. Gleeson M, Bishop NC. Elite athlete immunology: importance of nutrition. Int J Sports Med 2000; 21 Suppl 1:S44–S50.
94. Singh A, Failla ML, Deuster PA. Exercise-induced changes in immune function: effects of zinc supplementation. J Appl Physiol 1994; 76(6):2298–2303.

INDEX
40-yard sprint test 250–251
5–10–5 shuttle 254–257
A band 60
abdominal and lower back exercises, resistance 
training 328–343
abdominal crunch 328–329β-alanine 643absolute HR 405absolute muscular strength 270, 363–364academia see research contextacceleration: linear sprinting 441– 443; 
mechanics 99, 100– 101; training program 
design 362– 363
access (equal opportunities) 202acetylcholine (Ach) 61achievement motivation 532–533actin 60action potential 61activation energy 5–6active fluid resistance 483active warm-up 214activity of daily living (ADLs) 548acute training variables: agility 451– 452; endocrine 
system 142– 153; neuromuscular system 66; 
plyometric training prescription 440– 441; 
resistance training prescription 422– 425; 
sprinting 446– 448
adaptation tracking 405adaptations to training see training adaptationsadaptive behaviors 554adenosine diphosphate (ADP) 4, 61adenosine triphosphate (ATP): adaptations to 
training 70; chemical energy 4 –5; efficiency 
16–17; endocrine system 137; energy systems 
7–11, 348
; ergogenic aids 642, 652, 654; 
muscle contraction 61; myosin ATPase 9–10, 61; needs analysis 348; oxygen consumption  
 18–19, 399; rest intervals 428
adenylate cyclase–cyclic adenosine monophosphate 
(cAMP) system 137
adherence, older adults 593–594administration see facility administration and design; 
test administration
adolescents: intellectual disability and Down 
syndrome 553–554; motor skills 433–434, 437; muscular dystrophies 554–556; participation in strength and conditioning 202; periodization training 389; training programs 552–553; training vs. chronological age 359, 365
adrenal cortex 139adrenaline 140adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) 139aerobic energy efficiency 17aerobic exercise prescription 397–398, 412–414; 
endurance 398; fractional utilization and training zones 400–403; maximal oxygen consumption 398–399; mechanical efficiency 399–400; programming 405–411; types of training 403–405
aftercare, post-injury 616; see also  injury rehabilitation
age: agility 449 ; geriatrics training programs
 
548– 551; jumping 439; older adults training 
considerations 587– 595; pediatrics training 
programs 551–556; special populations 
547– 548; 
training vs. chronological 359, 365; see also  
adolescents; children
agility 448–452; acute training variables 440–441; 
exercise prescription 433 –
434; integration with 
speed drills 452–471; linear sprinting 441–448; stretch shortening cycle (SSC) 434–437
aging process 549–550aldosterone 140, 149alpha cells 140Figures are not indexed separately but are included in text page spans and referenced within the text.

INDEX
 668
alpha receptors 140
alternated grip 275altitude, cardiorespiratory system 45–46amenorrhea 90amine hormones 130, 132, 140amino acids: as ergogenic aids 643–644, 649, 659; 
oxidative system 13–14; peptide hormones 129–130
amphiarthrosis 83anabolic hormones 139anabolic processes 4anabolic-androgenic steroids 656–657anaerobic capacity 398anaerobic energy efficiency 17anaerobic glycolysis 11–12analogues, hormones 136–137anatomical factors: age 591–593; sex 575–577androstenedione 648–649anemia 585angles (directional changes) 450–451angular motion 101, 438ankylosis 218anorexia nervosa 178–179antagonist coactivation 70anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) 352–353anterior cruciate ligament injury 618–619anticatabolic properties, glutamine 650anticipation (agility) 451anticipatory response (hormones) 135antidiuretic hormone (ADH) 141, 149appendicular skeleton 79applied sport psychology see sport psychologyarbitrary progression 426arginine 643aromatase inhibitors 658arousal management, sport psychology 535–538arteries 31articular cartilage 81–82, 85, 605, 620articulations 78, 
82–83
aspartic acid 643–644assessment, meaning of 234, 239; see also  test 
administration
assisted sprinting 
447–448
assisted training 366, 425–426assumption of risk 196athletes: child participation in strength and 
conditioning 202; pre-participation screening 198–199; see also  needs analysis; test 
administration
athletic trainers,
 injury prevention/ 
rehabilitation 603
Atkins diet 180atrioventricular (AV node) 27attainment: linear sprinting 441–443; sport  
psychology 533–535
attention 538–541autocrine hormones 128autoregulation based upon RPE 427autoregulatory progressive resistance exercise 
(APRE) 426–427
(a-v)O2 difference 37–38axial skeleton 78axon 52–53
back extension 329–331
back injuries 629–634; see also spinal injury  
rehabilitation
back squat 288–290balance, mechanics 103balance aids 117–118balance training, older adults 593ballistic stretching 215banned substances 203barbell bicep curl 324–326barbell split squat 295–297barbell upright row 320–322barbells: bands or chains 390; biomechanics 112; 
resistance training exercises 276–283
, 288–300, 
308–311, 320–322, 324–326; resistance training prescription 419–420
basal metabolic rate (BMR) 585basic movement analysis 351–353bench presses 250, 307–308beta cells 140beta receptors 140beta-hydroxy-beta-methylbutyrate (HMB)  
651, 659
bilateral deficit 
68–69
binding proteins 132–133biocompartments, hormones 135–136bioenergetics 3–4, 20; 'creation' of chemical energy 
7; energy production 16–17; energy systems 7–14; enzymes 5–7; lactate 15; limiting factors 18; metabolic specificity 19–20; needs analysis 348–350; oxygen consumption 9, 18–19
biomechanics 97–98, 119–121; basic mechanics 
98–104; flexibility 216–217; human musculoskeletal mechanics 104–109; injury risk 602; knee injury rehabilitation 616, 617; needs analysis 350–352; progressing and regressing exercises 115–119; resistance training 109–115; 
return to activity post-injury 
615–616; shoulder 
injury rehabilitation 620–621; spinal injury rehabilitation 629–634; stretching 223–225; warm-ups 214
biomodal curves 261block periodization 382–384blood, cardiorespiratory system 35blood cell production 84blood lactate 15blood pressure: cardiovascular system 32; exercise 
demands 38–39 , 41
blood volume,
 adaptations to training 43–44
B-march 467–468

INDEX
 669
body temperature: cardiorespiratory system  
44–46; menstrual cycle 581
Bohr effect 34–35
bone density, and health 88–89bone density promotion 90–92, 270–271bone growth 84–86; see also  skeletal system
bone mineral density 
595
bone tissue 79–81boron 644boxers, case study of ergogenic aids 661–662branched-chain amino acids 644, 658broad external focus, attention 538–539broad internal focus, attention 538–539broad jump 454–457budgets, facility administration 195bulimia nervosa 178–179
caffeine 645, 658
calcium: bone tissue 79, 81, 85, 87; endocrine system 
137–138, 141, 150; female athletes 585– 586; 
sliding-filament theory 61; supplements 596
calcium-regulating hormones 141, 150calmodulin 137–138calories: empty calories 167– 168; fat loss 364– 365; 
female athletes 584– 586, 587; see also  nutrition
canaliculi 
80
capillaries 31carbohydrate: catabolic processes 16; female 
athletes 586– 587; high carbohydrate and low 
fat diets 
181; low carbohydrate and high fat, 
high protein diets 182– 184; low carbohydrate 
and high protein diets 182; metabolism 4 ; 
nutrition 167; oxidative system 12– 14; very 
high carbohydrate and very low fat diets 179– 180
carbohydrate-protein ratio 173carbon dioxide, respiratory system 34–35cardiac cycle 25–26cardiac morphology 41–2cardiac output: cardiovascular system 30–31; 
during exercise 36; exercise demands 38, 40
cardiorespiratory endurance 18–19, 593cardiorespiratory system 23–24, 46–47; 
blood 35; blood volume adaptations 43–44; cardiovascular adaptations 39–42; cardiovascular response to acute exercise 35–39; cardiovascular system overview 24–32; environmental conditions affecting function 44–46; pulmony ventilation during exercise 39; respiratory adaptations 43–44; respiratory system overview 32–35; see also  cardiovascular 
system; respiratory system
cardiovascular diseases 560–563cardiovascular drift 
37, 407
cardiovascular system 24; adaptations to training 
39–42; blood pressure 32; cardiac cycle 25–26; cardiac output 30–31; electrocardiogram (ECG) 27–30
; heart morphology 24–25; heart rate and 
conduction 26–27; response to acute exercise 35–39; T wave 29–30; vasculature 31
carnitine 645carotid body 45–46cartilage 78, 81–82, 85catabolic hormones 139catabolic processes 4, 16–17catecholamines 132cell signaling 136–137central tendency 260, 261cerebral palsy 551–552chains, implement training 488–490chemical energy 4, 7; see also  bioenergetics
chest exercises,
 resistance training 307–313
chest throw 460–462children: intellectual disability (ID) and Down 
syndrome 553–554; motor skills 433–434, 437; muscular dystrophies 554–556; participation in strength and conditioning 202; periodization training 389; training programs 552–553; training vs. chronological age 359, 365
chromaffin cells 132chromium 646chronic stable heart failure (CHF) 561–562chronic training: endocrine system 142–153; 
neuromuscular system 66–67
chronological age 359, 365chronotropy 27circadian rhythms 134–138circulating concentrations, hormones 
133–134
classic periodization 380–381, 384closed kinetic chain 420clothing, resistance training 273–274cluster sets 428co-contraction see antagonist coactivationcoenzyme Q
10 646
cognition: intellectual disability 551–552,  
553–554; older adults 594
collagen 81colostrum 646, 659common grip 275competitive block 383competitive phase: aerobic exercise prescription 
409–410, 411, 413–414; frequency of training 424–425; periodization 381, 384; see also 
peaking phase
competitiveness: concentration 
541; sport 
psychology 530–531
compression, injury rehabilitation 607compulsive overeating 178concentration, sport psychology 538–541concentric hypertrophy 42concentric muscle actions 64–65concurrent validity 236conditioning: specificity of training 19–20; training 
program design 364

INDEX
 670
conditioning facilities see facility administration 
and design
conduction, heart 26–27
confidence, sport psychology 541–542conjugate periodization 384–385, 390conjugated linoleic acids 646–647construct validity 236content validity 236continuous training 403–404, 412–414contractile elements, stretch shortening cycle 435contractile mechanism 60contralateral balance aids 118contralateral weights 119controlled fasting 173–175contusions 605coronary heart disease (CHD) 561corpus luteum 579–580corpus striatum 57cortical bones 81corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) 139cortisol 139, 143–144, 152countermovement jump 452–454countermovement vertical jump test 247creatine 647–648, 659creatine kinase reaction 10criterion, test administration 235crossbridge recycling 61crossreactivity 136cryotherapy 607cue words 540cybernetic hormone regulation 138cytoplasm 12cytoplasmic receptors 138cytosol 138
data see test administration
deadlift 294–295degradation, peptide hormones 130dehydration 170– 171, 651– 652; see also  
hydration
dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) 648–649demographic shift 587–588dendrites 52–53
developmental sequence: agility 449; motor skills 
437, 438–439; sprinting 444
diacyl glycerol (DG)-inositol triphosphate (IP3) 
system 137
diaphysis 85diarthrosis 83diastasis, cardiac cycle 25diastole: cardiac cycle 25; heart rate 36–37diastolic blood pressure 32diets 177–184; see also  nutrition
direction of effort 
531; see also  motivation
directional changes (agility) 
449–451
disabilities: cardiovascular diseases 560– 563; 
intellectual disability (ID) and Down syndrome 551–552, 553–554; muscular dystrophies 554– 556; 
neuromuscular diseases 556– 560
disordered eating 90, 178–179, 583–584displacement (mechanics) 98distal insertion 83distance (mechanics) 98distraction 539; see also  concentration
distributions,
 test interpretation 261–263
diurnal variation 134–138documentation, facility administration 202Down syndrome 551–552, 553–554downregulation 142dumbbell fly 311–313dumbbell seated shoulder press 317–319dumbbell single-arm row 313–314dumbbells: biomechanics 112; implement training 
482–483; resistance training exercises 307–308, 
311
–314, 317–319, 326–328; resistance training 
prescription 419–420
dynamic constant external resistance (DCER): 
strength 65; types of muscle actions 63–65
dynamic stretching 215dynamic variable resistance (VRB) 366
eating disorders 90, 178–179, 583–584
eccentric hypertrophy 40eccentric muscle action 64–65efficiency: energy production 16–17; mechanical 
399–400
ejection fraction (EF) 26ejection phase: cardiac cycle 26elastic resistance 115elasticity 216; see also  flexibility
electrocardiogram (ECG) 
27–30
electrolyte balance 587electromyography (EMG) 69–70electron transport system (ETS) 12–14elevation, injury rehabilitation 607emergency response 201–202emotions, energy and arousal management 535– 538
empty calories 167–168end bulb 61end-diastolic volume (EDV) 25–26, 37endergonic reactions 5–6endocrine hormones 128–129endocrine system 125–134, 157; exercise effects 
141–156; hormonal rhythms 134–138; hormones vital to exercise 138–141; training optimization 156–157
endocrine tissues 127endogenous steroids 
129
endolymph 54endomysium 58endsystolic volume (ESV) 26endurance training: aerobic exercise prescription 
398, 404; blood pressure 41; cardiac output 40; endocrine system 142–150; heart rate 40–41

INDEX
 671
energy see bioenergetics
energy absorption 438energy balance: nutrition 164–170; resistance 
training 270
energy charge of the cell 10–11energy management, sport psychology 535–538environmental conditions, cardiorespiratory 
system 44–46
enzymes 5–7, 129epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) 651, 659epimysium 57–58epinephrine 140, 147epiphyseal discs 81epiphyseal plates 552epiphysis 85–86equal opportunities 202equipment 192–195, 201, 274; see also  barbells; 
dumbbells; facility administration and design; implement training
ergogenic aids 641
–642; β-alanine 643; 
anabolic-androgenic steroids 656– 657; 
arginine, ornithine, and lysine 643; beta-hydroxy-beta-methylbutyrate 651; boron 
644; boxer case study 661– 662; branched-
chain amino acids 644, 658; caffeine 645, 
658; carnitine 645; chromium 646; coenzyme Q
10 646; colostrum 646, 659; conjugated 
linoleic acids 646– 647; creatine 647– 648, 
659; DHEA and androstenedione 648– 649; 
essential amino acids 649 , 659
; glucosamine 
649; glutamine 649– 650; glycerol 650; green 
tea extract 651; hydration 651– 652; inosine 
652; isoflavones 652– 653; ketoisocproate 
653; medium chain triglycerides 653; nutrition 655– 656; Q&As 657– 658; ribose 
654; sulfo-polysaccharides 654; summary table 658– 660; vanadium 654; zinc/
magnesium aspartate 654– 655
erythropoietin 46essential amino acids 649, 659essential fatty acids 169estrogen 579–580evaluation, test administration 234evidence-based practice 372 –373
evidence-based training 372
–373, 390
excess post-exercise oxygen consumption  
(EPOC) 19
exercise demands: cardiovascular response 
35–39; endocrine system impacts 141–156; environmental conditions 44–46; pulmony ventilation 39; vasculature 31; see also  training 
adaptations
exercise order 361 
, 420–421
exercise prescription see aerobic exercise 
prescription; plyometric training prescription; resistance training prescription; under agility; under speedexercise selection, resistance training 419; see also 
resistance training exercises
exergonic reactions 5–6exogenous steroids 129expiration (respiratory system) 33explosive movements 434
, 
471
extrapyramidal system 55, 57
face validity 236
facilities 192–195; see also  facility administration 
and design
facility administration and design 191
–192,  
204– 208; facilities and equipment 192– 195, 
201; legal duties and concepts 195– 197; 
liability exposure 197– 203; policies and 
procedures 197, 204
FAD + 14
Fartlek training 405fasting 173–175fat loss, training program design 364–365fatigue: endocrine system monitoring 156; lactic 
acid 15
fats: female athletes 587; high carbohydrate and 
low fat diets 181; low carbohydrate and high fat, high protein diets 182–184; nutrition 169–170; oxidative system 13; very high carbohydrate and very low fat diets 179–180
fatty acids 169, 645female athletic triad 89–90, 583–584female training considerations 272, 574–587; see 
also sex-related differences
Fick equation 38
fight or flight response 
135
five dot drill 470–471five-point agility run 469–470five-point contact position 275flat bones 78flexibility 215–221; development of 221–225; 
training routines 213
–214; see also  warm-ups
flexible periodization 387
–388
flight phase, sprinting 444fluid intake see hydrationfocus see concentrationfollicular phase, menstrual cycle 579Food Guide Pyramid (FGP) 167, 180, 181force arm 108–109forces: definition 99–100; gradation of muscular 
force 62–63; mechanics 98–104; muscle  action 421
force-velocity-power relationship 105–107fractional utilization 400–403Frank-Starling mechanism 37free hormone 132–133free testosterone 139free weights: biomechanics 112; implement 
training 479–480; resistance training prescription 419–420; safety 272

INDEX
 672
frequency of training 360; agility 451– 452; 
competitive phase 424– 425; plyometric 
training 441; resistance training prescription 
422, 423– 424; sprinting 447
friction (mechanics) 104
front squat 291–294funding, facility administration 195
galloping 437
gender see sex-related differencesgender equity 202General Adaptation Syndrome (GAS) 358,  
377–378
general block 382–383general preparatory period: aerobic exercise 
prescription 409, 410–411, 413; periodization 380–381
geriatrics training considerations 548–551,  
587–595; see also  age
GH-inhibiting hormone (GH-IH) 139
glenohumeral joint 
621–622
glucagon 140, 145–147gluconeogenesis 15, 139glucosamine 649, 659glucose, catabolic processes 16glucose tolerance factor (GTF) 646glucose-alanine cycle 644glutamine 649–650, 659glycemic index (GI) 166–167glycemic load 166–167glycerol 650glycogen 11–12, 16, 587, 643–645, 653, 656glycogenolysis 
647
glycolytic system 
11–12, 348
goal ladders 534goals of training: endocrine system 156–157; sport 
psychology 533–535
Golgi tendon organs 55, 221gravity: mechanics 100; resistance training 109, 
112–113
green tea extract 651growth, child development 552–554growth hormone 139–140, 144–145, 152
H zone 60
healing phases, injuries 605–613health: cardiovascular diseases 560–563; 
intellectual disability and Down syndrome 553–554; muscular dystrophies 554–556; neuromuscular diseases 556–560; nutrient timing 171– 175; nutrition 166, 169; and 
skeletal system 87
–90
health care professionals, injury prevention/
rehabilitation 603–604
heart: blood pressure 32; cardiac cycle 25–26; 
cardiac output 30–31; electrocardiogram (ECG) 27–30; morphology 24–25; rate and conduction 26–27; T wave 29–30; vasculature 31heart disease 560–563heart rate 26–27, 36–37, 40–41
heat see
 temperature
heat illness in females 581hemoglobin: altitude 46; (a-v)O2 difference 37–38; 
menstrual cycle 580–581
hemolysis 585hexagon drill 471high pull 279–281high-power performance, endocrine system 156hip dominant resistance training 110–111hip/thigh exercises, resistance training 288–307hollow position 342–343hook grip 275hopping 437hormonal rhythms 134–138hormones: definition 126; endocrine tissues 127; 
exercise effects 141–156; factors affecting circulating concentrations 133–134; menstrual cycle 579–582; oral contraceptive usage 582–583; production 131– 132; transport and 
binding proteins 132
–133; transportation routes 
127–128; types 128–130; types vital to exercise 138–141
hydration: dehydration 170–171, 651–652; as 
ergogenic aid 651–652; female athletes 587, 596; glycerol 650; sports drinks 645, 651, 660
hydraulic resistance 115hypermobility 218hyperplasia 66–67, 270hypertension 583hypertrophic cardiomyopathy 42hypertrophy: neuromuscular system 66–
67
; 
periodization 382; resistance training 270; training program design 360, 361, 364
hyperventilation 45hypervolemia 43hypohydration 44–45, 651hypothalamicpituitary axis 139hysteresis 217–218
I band 60
I-beams 88ice therapy 607implement training 479; example workouts  
490– 522; principles 481– 483; program case 
example 525; program design 483– 486; research 
context 480– 481, 482, 523– 524; similarity 
in training programs 479– 480; suggested 
implements 487– 490; unstable resistance 523
incline press 309
–311
individual zone of optimal functioning (IZOF) 537inertia (mechanics) 100, 102–103inflammation, injury response 605–609inhibiting G protein (Gi) 137injury rehabilitation: healing phases 605–613; 
interval sport return program 613–616; knee injuries 616–620; personal training client 

INDEX
 673
634–635; return to activity 613–614; shoulder 
injuries 620–627; spinal injuries 627–634
injury risk 601– 602; classification of injuries  
604– 605; energy absorption 438; flexibility 219; 
needs analysis 352– 353; plyometric training 
439; pre-participation physicals 602– 604; 
resistance training benefits 271; spinal cord injury 558– 560; warm-ups 214
inorganic phosphate (Pi) 4–5, 9–10inosine 652inotropy 27in-season phase see competitive phaseinspiration (respiratory system) 32–33institutions see facility administration and designinstruction: facility administration 199–201,  
205–208; test administration 242
instructional self-talk 542insulin 140, 145–147insulin-like-growth factor I (IGF-I) 139–140,  
145, 153
intellectual disability (ID) 551–552, 553–554intensity of training: aerobic exercise prescription 
405, 409–411; agility 451–452; lactate threshold 401–403; plyometric training 441; resistance training prescription 422–423; return to activity post-injury 615
; sprinting 
447–448; training program design 360; see also periodization
interactional view, motivation 532intercalated discs 24intermuscular adaptation 270interval scores 260interval sport return program 613–616interval training 35, 404–405, 412–414, 540;  
see also  periodization
interventricular septum 24intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) 238
–239
intrafusal (IF) muscle fibers 54–55intramuscular adaptation 270invasive methods, hormonal rhythms 136inverse myotatic reflex 55involuntary responses 53–54; see also reflexes
ipsilateral balance aids 117
–118
ipsilateral weights 118irregular bones 79isocaloric replacement 644isoflavones 652–653isokinetic muscle actions 64isokinetic velocity spectrum 245–246isometric muscle actions 63–64
jog-stop-turn-jog 437
joint angle 107jumping 437, 439, 440, 452–459
keg 1-leg squat 494
keg arch lunges 517keg bench press 494–503keg bent row 517keg hockey lunge 494keg incline press 503keg lateral squat 490keg shoulder press 503keg side lunges 517keg squats 503keg straight leg dead lift 494keg walking lunges 503kegs, implement training 481, 487
ketoisocproate 653kettlebell swing 
283–286
kinesthesis 54–55knee dominant resistance training 110–111knee injury rehabilitation 616–620Krebs cycle 12–13
lactate: bioenergetics 15; hormone exercise 
responses 153
lactate threshold (LT) 15, 401–403
lactic acid 15lacunae 80lat pull-down 314–316lateral bounds 458–459lateral cone jump 457–458lateral toss 463–464layout, facility administration and design 192–194leaping 437, 439, 440, 452–459
leg curls 305
–306
leg extension 303–304leg press 300–302legal duties and concepts, facility administration 
195–197
length (mechanics) 98length-tension relationship 104–105levers 78, 107–109Leydig cells 138–139liability, facility administration 196, 197–203ligamentous tissue 81ligaments 78linear sprint speed 441–448linear walk to stride 437linear/traditional periodization 380–381, 384lipolysis 139, 645lipophilic steroids 129lipophobic peptide hormones 130loading: bone density promotion 90–92; 
progression 426
–427; skeletal adaptations 
86–87; volume load 360–361, 428
loading cycles 648locomotor skills 434–435log 1-leg squat 494log bench press 494–503log bent row 517log hockey lunge 494log incline press 503log lateral squat 490log shoulder press 503

INDEX
 674
log side lunges 517
log squats 503log straight leg dead lift 494log walking lunges 503logs, implement training 481, 487–488long bones 78long jump test 257–259lower back and abdominal exercises, resistance 
training 328–343
lower motor neurons 56, 61luteal phase, menstrual cycle 579luteinizing hormone (LH) 579lysine 643
machine shoulder press 319
macrocycle, periodization 379, 426macronutrients: diets 179–184; female athletes 
586–588; and nutrition 164–165
macrotrauma 604magnesium 177, 586magnesium aspartate 654–655maintenance: facility administration 194, 201; 
linear sprinting 441–443
maladaptation phase 358Margaria-Kalamen stair climb test 243–245mass: mechanics 98, 100; resistance training  
109, 111–112
mat timing system case study 120–121mathematical measures, test interpretation  
260–261
maximal oxygen consumption see VO
2 max
maximum HR 405–406meal frequency 173–175mean (statistical) 260measurement, test administration 234, 260–261mechanical advantage 102mechanical efficiency, aerobic exercise 399–400mechanical energy 7mechanical model, stretch shortening cycle 435mechanical tension 270mechanics 97
–104; see also biomechanics
median (statistical) 260
–261
medical history, test administration 239medicine ball slam 286–287medicine ball throw 246–247medicine balls, implement training 481medium chain triglycerides 653menarche 583–584menstrual cycle 579–582mental energy 535–538mental toughness 530–531mesocycle, periodization 379, 382, 384, 426messenger RNA (mRNA) 131–132metabolic overload 36–37metabolic specificity 19–20metabolism: adaptations to training 70; 
bioenergetics 4; hormone transport and binding proteins 132; needs analysis 348–350; older adults training considerations 594–595; training program design 360
microcycle, periodization 379, 426micronutrients 165–166microtrauma 604mineral intake 177, 585–588minimal essential strain (MES) 86–87minute ventilation 43mission statements 203mitochondria, oxidative system 12–13mobility, stability-mobility paradox 220mode (statistical) 261modifiable variables 359–360; see also  variation
momentum (mechanics) 100
monitoring 
see test administration; training 
monitoring
motivation, sport psychology 531–533, 543–544
motor endplates 61motor neurons 
52–53; see also  neuromuscular 
system
motor nuclei 57
motor skills: developmental sequence 
437, 
438–439; stretch shortening cycle 434–435; terminology 437–438
movement, skeletal system 83–84multi-joint exercises 419muscle action: reflexes 53–54; resistance training 
prescription 421; sliding-filament theory of contraction 61–62; types of 63–65; voluntary muscular control 55–57
muscle fiber 58–60, 66–67muscle hypertrophy 156, 270muscle recruitment 270muscle spindles 222muscles 420–421; actions 63–65; ergogenic aids 
642, 657–658; resistance training 270; spine 629; structure 57–60; see also  neuromuscular 
system
muscular control: involuntary 53
–54; voluntary 
55–57
muscular development, injury risk 601–602
muscular dystrophies 554–556; see also 
neuromuscular diseases
muscular force, gradation 62–63muscular strength see strengthmuscular torque 107myelin 53myocardium 24myofibril mechanism 60myofilaments 
60
myokinase reaction 
10
myoneural junction 61myopathies 556–557myosin 60myosin ATPase 61
myosin ATPase reaction 9–10

INDEX
 675
myosin crossbridge 61
myostatin blockers 657, 659myotatic reflex 53–54
NAD+ 14
narrow external focus, attention 539narrow grip 275narrow internal focus, attention 539needs analysis: aerobic exercise prescription  
407–408; biomechanical aspects 350–352; injury risk 352–353; metabolic aspects  348–350; periodization 388; purpose of  347–348, 353; resistance training prescription 419; test administration 241–263, 352
negative self-talk 542negative-feedback system, hormones 138negatively skewed curves 261negligence, facility administration 196nerve centers 55–56nervous system 52; adaptations to training 
68–70; hormone regulation 138; see also neuromuscular system
neural adaptations 68–70neural feed-forward mechanism 450neuroendocrine hormones 129neurohormones 126–127, 140neuromuscular diseases 556–560neuromuscular junction 61neuromuscular model, stretch shortening cycle 435neuromuscular system 51–52, 70–71; gradation 
of muscular force 62–63; musculoskeletal mechanics 104–109; neurons 52–53; proprioception and kinesthesis 54–55; reflexes and involuntary responses 53–
54; skeletal 
muscle gross structure 57–58; skeletal muscle microscopic structure 58–60; sliding-filament theory 61–62; training adaptations 65–70; types of muscle actions 63–65; voluntary muscular control 55–57
neurons 52–53; see also  neuromuscular system
neuropathies 556
–557
neurotransmitters 140neutral grip 275nitric oxide (NO) 657nocturnal urine measures 136nodes of Ranvier 53noncontractile elements, stretch shortening  
cycle 435
noninvasive methods, hormonal rhythms 136non-linear (undulating) periodization 386–388non-traditional periodization 382–384noradrenaline 140norepinephrine 140, 147–149normal static flexibility 218–219normative measures, test administration 234–235nuclear interactions 138nutrient density 165–166nutrition 163– 164, 184– 185; diets 177– 184; energy 
balance 164– 170; as ergogenic aid 655– 656; 
female athletes 584– 588; meal frequency 
and controlled fasting 173– 175; overtraining 
prevention 165, 175, 184; test administration 
241; timing 171– 173; and training 170
–171
; 
vitamins and minerals 175– 177
older adults training considerations 548–551, 
587–595; see also  age
Olympic-style exercises,  implement training 
 
479–480, 488, 490
one-repetition maximum (1PM): bench press 250, 
559; ergogenic aids 649, 654, 655; power clean 247–248; resistance training prescription 421, 422–423, 425, 426, 440; sex-related differences 594–595; squat 248–249; testing 366
open kinetic chain 420oral contraceptive usage 580, 582–583order scales 260ordinals 260Ornish’s plans 180ornithine 643osteoarthritis 110–111, 649osteoblasts 79osteoclasts 79osteocytes 79osteonic canals 80–81osteons 79osteopenia 270, 551osteoporosis 88, 90, 270–271, 550–551overhead medicine ball throw 246–247overload 270, 358, 418overreaching 361overspeed training 366overtraining: endocrine system 154–155
, 
157; 
periodization 375; prevention through nutrition 165, 175, 184; symptoms 271
ovulation, menstrual cycle 579oxidative system 12– 14, 348
oxygen,  respiratory system 
34–35
oxygen consumption: bioenergetics 9, 18–19; 
cardiovascular response to exercise 35–36; mechanical efficiency 399–400; see also  VO
2 max
oxygen deficit 18–19
P wave 28
pacing, aerobic exercise prescription 398paloff press 340paracrine hormones 128parallel elastic component 435PAR-Q 239participant-centered view, motivation 531passive stretching 215, 221passive warm-ups 214patellofemoral pain syndrome 617–619

INDEX
 676
peak performance, endocrine system 157
peaking phase: aerobic exercise prescription 
413; periodization 362, 381, 384; see also competitive phase
pediatrics training programs 551–556; see also 
adolescents; children
peptide hormones 129–130, 131–132percentage of race pace 
405
performance tests see test administrationperiodization 371–373, 388–391; complexity of 
training changes and needs 378–379; conjugate 384–385, 390; implement training 479–480; increasing interest in Western world 373–374; interval training 35, 404–405, 412–414, 540; needs analysis 388; non-linear (undulating) 386–388; non-traditional 382–384; overtraining prevention 271; reasons for 375; resistance training prescription 426; terminology 379; theoretical basis 376–378; traditional modifications 381–382; traditional/linear  380–381; training program design 361; variation and rest 375–376
periosteum 81personal training, injury rehabilitation 634–635personnel see practitionerspH, enzymes 7phosphate groups 4, 
9–10
phosphocreatine system 9–11, 348phosphofructokinase (PFK) 12physical activity: cardiovascular diseases 560–561, 
563; Downs syndrome 554; female training considerations 574, 584 ; older adults 548, 589, 
591
–594; strokes 557
physical therapists, injury prevention/ 
rehabilitation 603
physician release, test administration 239–241physicians, injury prevention/rehabilitation 603physiological adaptations see training adaptationsphysiological cross-section area (PCSA) 107physiological factors: age 591–593; sex 575–577plasma fluid shifts 133plyometric training prescription 433–434; acute 
training variables 440–441; exercises for speed and agility 452–466; linear sprinting 441–448; program design 472–473; stretch shortening cycle (SSC) 434–437; types of exercise 437–440
pneumatic resistance 113–115policies, facility administration 197, 204polypeptides 129–130population: demographic shift 587–588; test 
administration 234; see also  special populations 
training programs
positive self-talk 
542
positively skewed curves 261post activation potentiation (PAP) 366postreceptor activity, hormones 133–134posttranslational processing, hormones 132power: aerobic exercise prescription 398; bands 
or chains exercises 390; force-velocity-power relationship 
105–107; older adults training 
considerations 589–591; periodization training 379; plyometric training 439–450; training program design 361–362, 363
power clean 276–279power exercises, resistance training 276–287power stroke 61, 101P-QRS-T complex 27–28practitioners: injury prevention/rehabilitation 
603–604; injury risk management 352–353; liability exposure 197–203; qualifications 199; supervision and instruction 199–201, 205–208; see also  needs analysis
precompetition phase,
 aerobic exercise prescription 
409–410
precursor molecules 129predictive validity 236pregnancy training considerations 596–597pregnenolone 131preparation period: aerobic exercise prescription 
410–411, 413; general preparatory period 380–381
pre-participation screening: facility administration 
198–199; injury risk 602–604
prescription see aerobic exercise prescription; 
plyometric training prescription; resistance training prescription; under agility; under speed
pressure differentials in gases 33–34preworkout supplements 659PRICE method, injury response 606–607prioritization, periodization training 379Pritikin’s plans 180procedures, facility administration 197, 204process-based goals 533product liability 194product-based goals 533progesterone 579programs see
 training programs
progression: biomechanics 115–119; resistance 
training prescription 426–427; training program design 361
progressive overload, resistance training 
prescription 418
prohormones 660pronated grip 274–275prone plank 337prophylactic effects, stretching 224–225proprioception 54–55proprioceptivecerebellar system 55, 57protein: carbohydrate-protein ratio 173; low 
carbohydrate and high fat, high protein diets 182– 184; low carbohydrate and high protein 
diets 182; nutrition 168– 169; oxidative system 13
proximal insertion 83psychology see sport psychology

INDEX
 677
pulmonary oxygen uptake (VO2) 15
pulmony ventilation 39pulsatility 134push jerk 281–283push-up tests 250pyramidal system 55–56
Q10 effect 7
QRS complex 28–29qualifications, practitioners 199quick step 466–467quickness 448; see also  plyometric training 
prescription; speed
radiation, menstrual cycle 581rank orders,  test administration 
237–239, 260
rate coding, gradation of muscular force 62rate limiting enzymes 6–7rate of force development (RFD) 66rate-limiting step, hormone production 131rating of perceived exertion (RPE) 360, 427ratio scores 260reaction time (RT) 443–444realization block 383rebounding 358receptor density 133receptor specificity 136receptors, hormones 133–134, 136–137, 140reciprocal innervation 436recommended dietary allowance (RDA) 585–588record keeping 202recovery, periodization 375; see also  injury 
rehabilitation
recovery block 383
recruitment,
 gradation of muscular force 62
red nucleus 57reflexes, neuromuscular system 53–54refocusing 539–540; see also  concentration
regression: biomechanics 115
–119; training 
program design 361
rehabilitation see injury rehabilitationrelative intensity 360relative muscular strength 270
, 
364
reliability, test administration 236–239remodeling: bones 551; injury response 612–613; 
skeletal system 84–85
repair phase, injury response 609–612repeated bout effect (RBE) 337–338, 424repetition maximum (RM) load 63–64repetition training 412–414; see also  interval 
training; periodization
repetition velocity 421research context: competition phase 411
; 
endocrine system 135, 143, 152, 153; hypertrophy 360, 364; implement training 480–481, 482, 523–524; injury risk 601–602; muscle fiber transitioning 67; nutrition 169, 171–172, 173–175, 183; periodization 376–377, 386–387; pneumatic resistance 114; sport psychology 530; VO
2 max 398–399, 408; 
warm-ups and flexibility 213–219, 223–225
resistance arm 108–109resistance training 269–270; benefits 270–272; 
biomechanics 109–
115
; cardiac morphology 42; 
cardiac output 40; endocrine system 150–156; neuromuscular adaptations 65–70, 270; older adults training considerations 593; progressing and regressing exercises 115–119; safety 272–274; special populations 548; technique 274–276; torque 102; see also  implement 
training
resistance training exercises 276
, 344; abdominal and 
lower back 328– 343; chest 307– 313; hip/thigh 
288– 307; power 276– 287; shoulder 317– 322; 
triceps 322– 328; upper back 313– 317
resistance training prescription 417–418, 427–428; 
acute training variables 422–425; general prescription 419–421; needs analysis 419; progression 426–427
resisted sprinting 447, 448respiratory system 32–35, 43; see also 
cardiorespiratory system
rest: injury rehabilitation 607; periodization  
375–376; training program design 359–360
rest intervals: cluster sets 428; endocrine system 
150, 151, 152
–
153, 156; essential amino acids 
649; resistance training prescription 424, 425; training program design 359–361
restitution period 385ribose 654risk management: facility administration 196–197; 
injuries 352–353
Romanian dead-lift (RDL) 116–117, 298–300rotary inertia 102–103
routines see training routines
running,  developmental sequence 
444; see also 
sprinting
safety, facility administration and design 192–194SAID Principle (specific adaptation to an imposed 
demand) 358–359
salivary concentrations 136saltatory conduction 53sandbags, implement training 481sarcolemma 58sarcomere 60sarcopenia 549–550sarcoplasm 58sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) 61satellite cells 66–67scheduling: aerobic exercise prescription 409– 411; 
facility administration 205– 208; facility 
administration and design 192– 194; resistance 
training prescription 423– 424; see also  periodization

INDEX
 678
Schwann cells 53
science see research contextscoop toss 462–463scoring tests 260–263; see also  test administration
seated cable row 
316–317
seated dumbbell bicep curl 326–328seated to marching arm swing 437second-messenger systems 137–138self-perceived exertion 405self-talk, sport psychology 540, 541–542series elastic component 435session structure, resistance training 423–424;  
see also  scheduling
sex hormone- binding globulin (SHBG) 139
sex-related differences: anatomical and 
physiological factors 
575–577; female athletic 
triad 89–90; female training considerations 574–587; hormone exercise responses 143, 145, 147, 148–149, 153; muscular strength 65, 271; older adults 594–595; social and psychological factors 577–578; testosterone 138–139; training programs 272
SHARP (inflammation) 606shifting focus, attention 539short bones 78shoulder exercises, resistance training 317–322shoulder injury rehabilitation 620–627shuffling 437side plank 338signaling pathways 133–134, 136–137single leg Romanian dead-lift (RDL) 116–117, 300single-joint exercises 
419, 425
sinoatrial (SA node) 26–27situation-centered view, motivation 531–532size principle, gradation of muscular force 62skeletal muscle gross structure 57–58skeletal muscle microscopic structure 58–60skeletal system 77–78; bone density promotion 
90–92; functions 83–84; growth 84–86; and health 87–90; loading adaptations 86–87; musculoskeletal mechanics 104–109; structure 78–83; training adaptations 87, 90–92
skipping 
437
sliding-filament theory 61–62SMART goals 534–535social context, female training considerations 
577–578
sodium bicarbonate 660special populations training programs 547–548, 
563; age and gender 573–574; cardiovascular diseases 560–563; case example 564–565; female training considerations 272, 574–587; geriatrics 548–551; neuromuscular diseases 556–560; older adults training considerations 587–595; pediatrics 551–556; see also adolescents; children; sex-related differences
specific block 383specific needs of the individual athlete 
347;  
see also  needs analysis; special populations 
training programs
specific preparatory period 410–411
specificity: basic training principles 
358–359; 
metabolic specificity 19–20; resistance training prescription 418; training 19–20
speed: acute training variables 440–441; exercise 
prescription 433–434; integration with agility drills 452–471; linear sprinting 441–448; stretch shortening cycle (SSC) 434–437; training program design 362–363; velocity/speed advantage 109
spinal alignment maladies 89spinal cord injury (SCI) 558–560spinal injury rehabilitation 627–634sport injuries see injury risksport psychology 529–530; concentration 
538–541; confidence 541–542; energy and arousal management 535–538; female training considerations 577–578; goal setting 533–535; mental toughness 530–531; motivation 531–533, 543–544; older adults training considerations 593–594; self-talk 540, 541–542
sports drinks 645, 651, 660spotting: resistance training 272–273; starting 
positions 276
sprains 604–
605
sprint mechanic drills 466–471
sprinting: 40-yard sprint test 250–251; acute 
training variables 
446–448; levers 109; speed 
exercise prescription 441–448
stability (mechanics) 103stability ball jack knife 331–334stability ball roll-out 334–335stability-mobility paradox 220staff see practitionersstandard deviation (SD) 261–262standard of care, facility administration 196standardized scores 262–263standards of practice, facility administration 
196–197
standing calf raise 306–307standing long jump 257–259starting positions 276starting/stopping (agility) 449–450static flexibility 215–216, 218–219, 220static stretching 215statistical measures, test interpretation 260–261statistics see test administrationstep loading 381–382steroid hormones 129, 131, 138–139, 140steroids 656–657; see also  ergogenic aids
sticking points 
275
stiffness 216–217, 219; see also  flexibility
stimulating G protein (Gs) 
137
stones, implement training 481

INDEX
 679
stopping/starting (agility) 449–450
strains 604strategy, aerobic exercise prescription 398strength: adaptations to resistance training 65–70, 
270–271; aerobic exercise prescription 398, 404, 409; older adults training considerations 589–591, 594–595; training program design 362, 363–364
strength and conditioning facilities see facility 
administration and design
strength and conditioning training see 
practitioners; training
stress, periodization 377–378stress hormones 135, 139stress relaxation 222stretch reflex 53–54stretch shortening cycle (SSC) 107, 434–437stretching: biomechanics 223–225; flexibility 
development 221–223; neuromuscular system 55–56; and warm-ups 214–215
stretch-shortening cycle of muscle (SSC) 107stride cycles 468stride frequency 441–442stride length 441–442stroke volume 26, 37, 40strokes 557–558strongman training 483sub-population, test administration 234substances see ergogenic aidssubstantia nigra 57substrate, limiting factors 18sulfo-polysaccharides 654supercompensation 385superstitions 540supervision, facility administration 199–201, 
205–208
supinated grip 275supine triceps extension 322supplements 
203
support phase, sprinting 444, 446suspension rear foot elevated split squat (RFESS) 
297–298
swing phase, sprinting 445–446synapses 61synarthrosis 83systole 25systolic blood pressure 32
t tubules 61
T wave, cardiovascular system 29–30temperature: cardiorespiratory system 44–46; 
enzymes 7; menstrual cycle 581
tendonitis 604tendons 78tennis, flexibility routine 226–228test administration 233–234, 263–266; aerobic 
exercise prescription 405; assessment objective 239; injury risk 352; interpretation 260–263; medical history and PAR-Q 239; needs analysis 241–259, 352; nutrition 241; physician release 239–241; purpose of testing 234–235; return to activity post-injury 613–614; selection 235–239, 242–259
testosterone: ergogenic aids 644, 648–649, 655, 
656; exercise effects 142–143, 151–152; as vital to exercise 138–139
testosterone/cortisol ratio 139, 144thermodynamics 7thermogenic response 645thigh/hip exercises, resistance training 288–307thixotropic response 224throwing 437
–438
thyroid hormones 141, 149–150time (mechanics) 98timing, nutrition 171–175timings for training see periodization; schedulingtire flip 490tires, implement training 481, 488torque 101–102, 107tossing 438total hormone concentration 132–133trabecular bones 81traditional/linear periodization 380–382, 384training adaptations: blood volume 43–44; 
cardiac output 40; cardiovascular 39–42; endocrine system 142–156; heart rate 40–41; neuromuscular system 65–70; and nutrition 170–171; respiratory 43–44; skeletal system 87, 90–92; see also  exercise demands
training age 
359, 365
training facilities see facility administration and 
design
training intensity 360training monitoring: endocrine system 155–156; 
goal setting 535; test interpretation 260–261; see also  test administration
training program design 
357–358, 366–367; 
advanced training methods 366; basic principles 358–366; plyometric training prescription 472–473
training programs: aerobic exercise prescription 
405–411
; endocrine system optimization 156– 157; 
goal setting 533– 535; implement training 
483– 486, 525; periodization 379; purpose of 
testing 234– 235; safety 272– 274; scheduling 
192– 194, 205– 208; specificity of 19– 20; see also  
aerobic exercise prescription; endurance training; 
implement training; periodization; plyometric 
training prescription; resistance training; resistance 
training prescription; special populations training 
programs; under  agility; under speed
training routines: flexibility in tennis 226–228; 
pre-performance 540; warm-ups and flexibility 
213–214

INDEX
 680
training volume see volume
training zones, aerobic exercise 400–403trait-centered view, motivation 531trans fats 169–170transcription, hormones 138transformation block 383translation, hormone production 132transmutation block 383transport proteins 132–133transverse tubules 61trauma 604triceps exercises, resistance training 322–328triceps pushdown 323triglycerides 169trophic hormones 134tropomyosin 61troponin 61T-scores 263T-test 251–254two-handed put throw 464–466two-minute drill 540
ubiquinone 646
unbalanced training 483undulating periodization 386–388unstable resistance 523upper back exercises, resistance training 313–317upper motor neurons 56, 61upregulation 142utricle 54
validity, test administration 236, 237
Valsalva maneuvers 38–39, 275vanadium 654variability, test interpretation 261–262variance (statistical) 262variation: basic training principles 358–359; 
implement training 482; periodization 375–376, 379; resistance training prescription 418; training program design 359–360; see also  acute 
training variables
vasculature 31
veins 
31
velocity: agility 450; force-velocity-power 
relationship 105–107; Isokinetic velocity spectrum 
245
–246; linear sprinting  
442–443; mechanics 98–99; repetition 421;  test administration 235
velocity/speed advantage 109ventilation 33ventilatory equivalent 39, 43vertical jump test 247vestibular receptors 54vibration, bone density promotion 92viscoelastic 217Vitamin C 176–177Vitamin E 176vitamin intake 175–177, 586–588VO
2 max: aerobic exercise prescription 398–399, 
405; cardiovascular diseases 562–563; oxygen consumption 18–19
volume load 360–361, 428volume of training: agility 451–452; plyometric 
training 440–441; resistance training prescription 422; sprinting 446–447; training program design 360
voluntary muscular control 55–57; see also 
neuromuscular system
warm-ups 213–214, 225–228; return to activity 
post-injury 614; and stretching 214–215; test administration 241–242; see also flexibility
water intake see
 hydration
water-filled dumbbells 482–483, 488water-filled implements 482–
483
weight (mechanics) 
100
weight lifting: abdominal and lower back 
exercises 328– 343; chest exercises 307– 313; 
conjugate periodization 390; ergogenic aids 642, 657– 658; hip/thigh exercises 288– 307; 
mechanics 100; power exercises 276– 287; 
resistance training 111– 112, 118– 119; 
resistance training exercises 276, 344; shoulder 
exercises 317– 322; training program design 
362; triceps exercises 322– 328; upper back 
exercises 313– 317; see also  biomechanics
weight machines 115 
, 419–420, 553
weight/weight loss: female athletes 585; meal 
frequency and controlled fasting 173–175; nutrient timing 171
Western world, periodization training 373–374whole body exercises 276–287wide grip 275Wingate anaerobic cycle test 242–243Wolff ’s law 86women see female training considerations; sex-
related differences
wood chop throw 466work (mechanics) 100workout supplements 659
young athletes see adolescents; childrenZ line 60
zinc 177, 586zinc aspartate 654–655Zone diet 180Z-scores 263