Periodization
Theory and Methodology 
of Training
Sixth Edition
Tudor O. Bompa, PhD
Carlo A. Buzzichelli


Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Names: Bompa, Tudor O., author. | Buzzichelli, Carlo, 1973- author.
Title: Periodization : theory and methodology of training / Tudor O. Bompa, 
   PhD, Carlo A. Buzzichelli.
Description: Sixth edition. | Champaign, IL : Human Kinetics, [2019] | 
   Includes bibliographical references and index.
Identifiers: LCCN 2017060513 (print) | LCCN 2017041811 (ebook) | ISBN 
   9781492544814 (ebook) | ISBN 9781492544807 (print)
Subjects: LCSH: Periodization training. | Weight training.
Classification: LCC GV546 (print) | LCC GV546 .B546 2019 (ebook) | DDC 
   613.7/11--dc23LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2017060513
ISBN: 978-1-4925-4480-7 (print)Copyright © 2019 by Tudor O. Bompa and Carlo A. Buzzichelli
Copyright © 2009 by Tudor O. Bompa and G. Gregory HaffCopyright © 1999 by Tudor O. BompaCopyright © 1994, 1994, 1983 by Kendall/Hunt Publishing Company
All rights reserved. Except for use in a review, the reproduction or utilization of this work in any form or by any electronic, mechan-
ical, or other means, now known or hereafter invented, including xerography, photocopying, and recording, and in any information storage and retrieval system, is forbidden without the written permission of the publisher.
The web addresses cited in this text were current as of February 2018, unless otherwise noted.
Acquisitions Editor: Roger W. Earle
Developmental Editor: Julie Marx Goodreau
Managing Editor: Ann C. GindesCopyeditor: Jackie Walker GibsonIndexer: Nan BadgettPermissions Manager: Martha Gullo
Graphic Designer: Denise Lowry
Cover Designer: Keri EvansCover Design Associate: Susan AllenPhotographs (interior): © Human Kinetics, unless otherwise noted.
Photo Asset Manager: Laura Fitch
Photo Production Manager: Jason AllenSenior Art Manager: Kelly HendrenIllustrations: © Human Kinetics, unless otherwise notedPrinter: Edwards Brothers Malloy
Printed in the United States of America  10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1The paper in this book is certified under a sustainable forestry program.
Human Kinetics
P.O. Box 5076
Champaign, IL 61825-5076
Website: www.HumanKinetics.com
In the United States, email info@hkusa.com or call 800-747-4457.
In Canada, email info@hkcanada.com.
In the United Kingdom/Europe, email hk@hkeurope.com.
For information about Human Kinetics’ coverage in other areas of the world,
please visit our website: www.HumanKinetics.com
E6954

iiiPreface   vii
A
cknowledgments
  
ix
P art I  T raining Theory  1
 Chapter 1  Basis for T raining  3
Scope of Training  3
Objectiv
es of Training
 4
Classification of Skills
 5
Sy
stem of Training
 6
A
daptation
8
Supercompensation Cycle and Adaptation
 12
Sources of Energy
 19
Summary of Major Concepts
 27
 Chapter 2  Principles of T raining  29
Multilateral Development Versus Specialization  29
Individualization
36
Development of the Training Model
 40
Load Progression
 42
Sequence of the T
raining Load
 48
Summary of Major Concepts
 49
 Chapter 3  Preparation for T raining  5 1
Physical Training  5 1
Exercise for Physical Training
 54
T
echnical Training
 55
T
actical Training
 58
Theoretical T
raining
 68
Summary of Major Concepts
 69Contents

Contentsiv
 Chapter 4 Variables of Training 71
Volume 71
Intensity 73
Relationship Between Volume and Intensity 78
Frequency 84Complexity 85
Index of Overall Demand 86
Summary of Major Concepts 86
 Part II Planning and Periodization 89
 Chapter 5 Periodization of Biomotor Abilities 91
Brief History of Periodization 91
Periodization Terminology 93
Applying Periodization to the Development  
of Biomotor Abilities 99
Simultaneous Versus Sequential Integration  
of Biomotor Abilities 101
Periodization of Strength 103
Periodization of Power, Agility, and Movement Time 106
Periodization of Speed 107
Periodization of Endurance 109
Integrated Periodization 1 10
Summary of Major Concepts 1 13
 Chapter 6 Planning the Training Session 1 15
Importance of Planning 1 15
Planning Requirements 1 16
Types of Training Plans 1 19
Training Session 1 19
Daily Cycle of Training 132
Modeling the Training Session Plan 134
Summary of Major Concepts 136
 Chapter 7 Planning the Training Cycles 137
Microcycle 137Macrocycle 159
Summary of Major Concepts 164

Contentsv
 Chapter 8 Periodization of the Annual Plan 165
Annual Training Plan and Its Characteristics 165
Classifying Annual Plans 177
Chart of the Annual Training Plan 184
Criteria for Compiling an Annual Plan 192
Summary of Major Concepts 205
 Chapter 9 Peaking for Competition 207
Training Conditions for Peaking 207
Peaking 208
Defining a Taper 209
Competition Phase of the Annual Plan 215
Identifying Peaking 223
Maintaining a Peak 224
Summary of Major Concepts 225
 Part III Training Methods 227
 Chapter 10 Strength and Power Development 229
The Relationship Between the Main Biomotor Abilities 229
Strength 231
Methods of Strength Training 238
Manipulation of Training Variables 238
Implementation of a Strength Training Program 253
Periodization of Strength 259
Summary of Major Concepts 263
 Chapter 1 1 Endurance Training 265
Classification of Endurance 265
Factors Affecting Aerobic Endurance Performance 267
Factors Affecting Anaerobic Endurance Performance 275
Methods for Developing Endurance 276
Methods for Developing High-Intensity Endurance 284
Periodization of Endurance 294
Summary of Major Concepts 300

Contentsvi
 Chapter 12 Speed and Agility Training 301
Speed Training 301
Agility Training 31 1
Program Design 313
Periodization of Speed and Agility Training 319
Summary of Major Concepts 323
Glossary  325
References  331
Index  371
About the Authors  381

viiPreface
The classic text Theory and Methodology of Training by Tudor Bompa played a large role 
in shaping the training practices of many coaches and athletes throughout the world. This 
seminal text eventually became known as Periodization: Theory and Methodology of Train-
ing. Since its first publication in 1983, Periodization has presented the latest research and practices related to training theory. The text has been translated into many languages and has become one of the major resources on periodization for sport scientists, coaches, and 
athletes throughout the world. For the sixth edition of Periodization: Theory and Methodology 
of Training, Bompa has teamed with Carlo Buzzichelli to cover the science and practice of the theory and methodology of training. The sixth edition offers information central to understanding the training process while providing scientific support for the principles 
fundamental to periodization.
Organization of the Text
In the sixth edition, Bompa and Buzzichelli organize the text into the three major content 
areas found in the previous editions: training theory, planning and periodization, and 
training methods. Part I, Training Theory, contains four chapters that delve into the major 
concepts central to training, such as the basic concepts of the training process (chapter 1), the principles of training (chapter 2), the tactical, technical, and physical components of the training process (chapter 3), and the variables associated with developing a training 
plan (chapter 4). These four chapters give the coach, sport scientist, and athlete the con
-
cepts necessary for understanding and developing periodized training plans, which are 
addressed in part II.
Part II, Planning and Periodization, contains five chapters that discuss the methodological 
concepts that concern training planning. These chapters provide the historical context within 
which the concept of periodization was developed and the methodological tools for the 
periodization of the annual plan and biomotor abilities (chapter 5). They also cover how to conceptualize and plan training sessions (chapter 6), methods for constructing different training cycles (chapter 7), expanded discussions on the designing of the annual training 
plan (chapter 8), and methods for elevating performance at appropriate times (chapter 9). 
Chapter 9 couples the current scientific knowledge about the interrelation between training stress and performance with practical information that will allow coaches and athletes to 
manipulate training to ensure optimal performance during competition.
The chapters in part III, Training Methods, discuss the development of strength and power 
(chapter 10), endurance (chapter 1 1), and speed and agility (chapter 12). In its examination 
of strength and power training, chapter 10 presents information on the interrelationships of 
force, velocity, rate of force development, and power, along with information on variables 
that can be manipulated in the construction of a strength training program. The chapters on endurance (chapter 1 1) and speed training (chapter 12) have been expanded to include 
the latest information on testing and developing these important sport performance char-
acteristics.

Prefaceviii
Updates to the Sixth Edition
The sixth edition of Periodization: Theory and Methodology of Training maintains several of the 
components of the fifth edition, including sample annual training plans, microcycle loading 
structures, and charts for designing periodized training plans. New to the sixth edition of 
Periodization are these features:
• Discussions on the importance of the designing of a sport-specific annual plan that is specific to competition-level athletes. This helps overcome the misconception that planning and programming can use a one-size-fits-all approach.
• An expanded chapter on the integration of biomotor abilities within the training process.
• A historical contextualization of the concept of periodization of training as well as 
the clarification of several terms and concepts commonly used in the field of theory 
and methodology.
• A comprehensive, coaching-derived update on the concepts of session, microcycle, and macrocycle organization.
• An expanded chapter on the methods for developing muscular strength. This chapter discusses such concepts as the manipulation of loading variables and the conversion to specific strength, and how those concepts can be used to maximize strength gains and transfer to sport-specific performance.
• A more detailed explanation of speed and agility training, differentiating between 
individual and team sports.
• Expanded discussions about the development of sport-specific endurance and its individualization, again differentiating between individual and team sports. In this 
context different types of endurance and specific methods for testing and developing endurance are presented. The physiological bases for these methods are also presented 
to explain how training can affect the athlete’s physiology.
The sixth edition of Periodization: Theory and Methodology of Training 
builds on the tradition established in previous editions of this text 
and expands on the current understanding of training theory and the application of periodization.

ixAcknowledgments
The team at Human Kinetics did a wonderful job putting together this book, a book that 
is so important for everyone who wants to become comfortable with the theory of training, 
periodization, and planning. My sincere thanks to Roger Earle for his constant guidance 
and to Julie Marx Goodreau for her diligence and competent editorial work. Carlo and I are also deeply indebted to Ann Gindes for her assiduity and her deliberate work. It was an incredible journey to eliminate many errors from the original manuscript. Thanks Ann.
I would also like to sincerely thank my coauthor, Carlo Buzzichelli, who made an essential 
contribution to the final form of this book. Grazie, Carlo.
Finally, to my readers: Once I was young and full of dreams, like so many of you. Success 
came to me far too early. I started to believe how great I was! But after an important fiasco, 
I realized that the road to success is also full of frustrations. I have learned much more from 
my failures than from my athletes’ victories. I owe a great deal to my habit of being well organized. Planning became my greatest preoccupation and attribute. If you want to achieve success, I highly recommend being the best planner you can be.
—Tudor Olimpius Bompa
I want to thank Tudor Bompa for his mentorship and for giving me, once again, the chance 
to coauthor a book with him—especially a very important text like this one, probably the 
most adopted book among theory and methodology courses around the world. Mul țumesc!
I want to extend my gratitude to the athletes and coaches I have worked with in the last 
two decades. Their contribution to my understanding of the training process as it pertains 
to sports is inestimable. The concept of periodization has evolved through its application in the context of a multitude of sports; reverse engineering the best practices allows us to bridge the gap between science and practice.
—Carlo A. Buzzichelli

This page intentionally left blank

TRAINING  
THEORYPART I

This page intentionally left blank

31 Basis for Training
The science of sport and the preparation of athletes is continuously evolving. This evo-
lution is based largely upon an ever-expanding understanding of how the body adapts to 
different physical and psychological stressors. Contemporary sport scientists continue to explore the physiological and performance effects of different training interventions, recovery modalities, nutritional countermeasures, and biomechanical factors in order to increase the performance capacity of the modern athlete. As our understanding of the body’s response to different stressors has grown, contemporary training theorists, sport scientists, and coaches have been able to expand upon the most basic concept of training.
Central to training theory is the idea that a structured system of training can be estab-
lished that incorporates training activities that target specific physiological, psychological, and performance characteristics of individual sports and athletes. It follows that it is possi-ble to modulate the adaptive process and direct specific training outcomes. This process of modulation and direction is facilitated by an understanding of the bioenergetic functions (how the body supplies energy) required to meet the physical demands of various physical activities. The coach who understands the bioenergetics of physical activity and sport—as well as the impact of the timing of the presentation of training stimuli on the timeline for physical adaptation—will have a greater chance of developing effective training plans.
Scope of Training
Athletes prepare to achieve a specific goal through structured and focused training. The intent of training is to increase the athlete’s skills and work capacity to optimize athletic performance. Training is undertaken across a long period of time and involves many physi-ological, psychological, and sociological variables. During this time, training is progressively and individually graded. Throughout training, human physiological and psychological functions are modeled to meet demanding tasks.
Per the traditions of the ancient Olympic Games, athletes should strive to combine physical 
perfection with spiritual refinement and moral purity. Physical perfection signifies multilat-eral, harmonious development. The athlete acquires fine and varied skills, cultivates positive psychological qualities, and maintains good health. The athlete learns to cope with highly stressful stimuli in training and competitions. Physical excellence should evolve through an organized and well-planned training program based on practical experience and application of scientifically supported methods.
Paramount to training endeavors for novices and professionals is a realistic and achievable 
goal, planned according to individual abilities, psychological traits, and social environ-ments. Some athletes seek to win a competition or improve previous performance; others consider gaining a technical skill or further developing a biomotor ability. Whatever the objective, each goal needs to be as precise and measurable as possible. In any plan, short or long term, the athlete needs to set goals and determine procedures for achieving these goals before beginning training. The deadline for achieving the final goal is the date of a major competition.

Periodization4
Objectives of Training
Training is a process by which an athlete is prepared for the highest level of performance 
possible (59, 107). The ability of a coach to direct the optimization of performance is achieved 
through the development of systematic training plans that draw upon knowledge garnered 
from a vast array of scientific disciplines, as shown in figure 1.1 (107).
The process of training targets the development of specific attributes correlated with 
the execution of various tasks (107). These specific attributes include multilateral phys -
ical development, sport-specific physical development, technical skills, tactical abilities, psychological characteristics, health maintenance, injury resistance, and theoretical 
knowledge. The successful acquisition of these attributes is based upon utilizing means 
and methods that are individualized and appropriate for the athletes’ age, experience, and talent level.
• Multilateral physical development: Multilateral development, or general fitness (107) 
as it is also known, provides the training foundation for success in all sports. This 
type of development targets the improvement of the basic biomotor abilities, such 
as endurance, strength, speed, flexibility, and coordination. Athletes who develop a strong foundation will be able to better tolerate sport-specific training activities and ultimately have a greater potential for athletic development.
• Sport-specific physical development:  Sport-specific physical development, or sport-specific 
fitness (107) as it is sometimes referred to, is the development of physiological or 
fitness characteristics that are specific to the sport. This type of training may target sev-
eral specific needs of the sport such as strength, skill, endurance, speed, and flexibility (105,107). However, many sports require a blending of key aspects of performance, such as power , muscle endurance, or speed endurance.
• Technical skills: This training focuses on the development of the technical skills necessary for success in the sporting activity. The ability to perfect technical skills is based upon 
both multilateral and sport-specific physical development. For example, the ability 
to perform the iron cross in gymnastics appears to be limited by strength, one of the biomotor abilities (36). Ultimately the purpose of training that targets the develop
-
ment of technical skills is to perfect technique and allow for the optimization of the sport-specific skills necessary for successful athletic performance. The development of 
E6954/Bompa/F01 .01/578222/mh-R1Anatomy Physiology Biomechanics StatisticsTests and
measurements
Theory and methodology
of trainingSports
medicine
PsychologyMotor
learningPedagogy Nutrition History Sociology
FIGURE 1.1 Auxiliary sciences.

Basis for Training5
technique should occur under both normal and unusual conditions (e.g., weather, noise, 
etc.) and should always focus on perfecting the specific skills required by the sport.
• Tactical abilities: The development of tactical abilities is also of particular importance to the training process. Training in this area is designed to improve competitive 
strategies and is based upon studying the tactics of opponents. Specifically, this type 
of training is designed to develop strategies that take advantage of the technical and physical capabilities of the athlete so that the chances of success in competition are increased.
• Psychological factors: Psychological preparation is also necessary to ensure the optimi-
zation of physical performance. Some authors have also called this type of training 
personality development training (107). Regardless of the terminology, the develop-
ment of psychological characteristics such as discipline, courage, perseverance, and 
confidence are essential for successful athletic performance.
• Health maintenance:  The overall health of the athlete should be considered very 
important. Proper health can be maintained by periodic medical examinations and 
appropriate scheduling of training, including alternating between periods of hard work and periods of regeneration or restoration. Injuries and illness require specific attention, and proper management of these occurrences is an important priority to 
consider during the training process.
• Injury resistance: The best way to prevent injuries is to ensure that the athlete has devel-
oped the physical capacity and physiological characteristics necessary to participate in rigorous training and competition and to ensure appropriate application of training (61). The inappropriate application of training, which includes excessive loading, will 
increase the risk of injury. With young athletes it is crucial that multilateral physical 
development is targeted, as this allows for the development of biomotor abilities that will help decrease the potential for injury. Additionally, the management of fatigue 
appears to be of particular importance. When fatigue is high, the occurrence of inju-
ries is markedly increased (101); therefore, the development of a training plan that manages fatigue should be considered to be of the utmost importance.
• Theoretical knowledge: Training should increase the athletes’ knowledge of the physio-logical and psychological basis of training, planning, nutrition, and regeneration. It is 
crucial that the athlete understands why certain training activities are being undertaken. 
This can be accomplished through discussing the training objectives established for each aspect of the training plan or by requiring the athlete to attend seminars and conferences about training. Arming the athlete with theoretical knowledge about the 
training process and the sport improves the likelihood that the athlete will make good 
personal decisions and approach the training process with a strong focus, which will allow the coach and athlete to better set training goals.
Classification of Skills
There are many suggested methods for classifying physical activity skills. Aside from the traditional method of classifying sport activities into individual sports (track and field, gym-
nastics, boxing) and team sports (soccer, football, basketball, volleyball, rugby), a widely 
accepted classification uses biomotor abilities as a criterion. Biomotor abilities include strength, speed, endurance, and coordination (53). While classifying sports by biomotor abilities is very useful, coaches also use other methods. One popular method is to classify 
sporting skills as cyclic skills, acyclic skills, or acyclic combined skills:
• Cyclic skills are used in sports such as walking, running, cross-country skiing, speedskat-
ing, swimming, rowing, cycling, kayaking, and canoeing. The main characteristic of 

Periodization6
these sports is that the motor act involves repetitive movements. Once the athlete 
learns one cycle of the motor act, he can duplicate it continuously for long periods. 
Each cycle consists of distinct, identical phases that are repeated in succession. For 
example, the four phases of a rowing stroke—the catch, drive through the water, finish, and recovery—are part of a whole. The athlete performs them over and over in the same succession during the cyclic motion of rowing. Each cycle the athlete performs 
is linked; it is preceded and followed by another one.
• Acyclic skills show up in sports such as shot putting, discus throwing, most gymnastics, 
team sports, wrestling, boxing, and fencing. These skills consist of integral functions performed in one action. For instance, the skill of discus throwing incorporates the 
preliminary swing, transition, turn, delivery, and reverse step, but the athlete performs 
them all in one action.
• Acyclic combined skills consist of cyclic movements followed by an acyclic movement. Sports such as figure skating, diving, jumping events in track and field, and tumbling 
lines and vaulting in gymnastics use acyclic combined skills. Although all actions 
are linked, we can easily distinguish between the acyclic and cyclic movements. For instance, we can distinguish the acyclic movement of a high jumper or vaulter from the preceding cyclic approach of running.
The coach’s comprehension of these skill classifications plays an important role in the 
selection of appropriate teaching methods. Generally, teaching the skill as a whole appears to 
be effective with cyclic skills, while breaking the skill into smaller pieces appears to be more 
effective with acyclic skills. For example, when working with javelin throwers, the standing throw should be mastered prior to the three-step stride approach, the six-step approach, 
and the full approach (38).
System of Training
A system is an organized, methodically arranged set of ideas, theories, or speculations. The 
development of a training system is based upon scientific findings coupled with accumulated 
practical experience. A training system should not be imported, although it may be beneficial 
to study other training systems before developing one. Furthermore, in creating or develop-ing a better training system, you must consider a country’s social and cultural background.
Bondarchuk (9) suggested that a system of training is constructed by observing three 
basic principles:
1. Uncovering the system’s forming factors:  Factors that are central to the development of the 
training system can stem from general knowledge about the theory and methods of training, scientific findings, experiences of the nation’s best coaches, and the approaches used by other countries.
2. Determining the system’s structure: Once the factors central to the success of the training system are established, the actual training system can be constructed. A model for both short- and long-term training should be created. The system should be able to be 
applied by all coaches, but it should also be flexible enough that coaches can enrich 
the system’s structure based upon their own experiences. The sport scientist plays a crucial role in the establishment of a training system. Research, especially applied research, increases the knowledge base from which the training system is developed 
and further evolved. Additionally, the sport scientist can aid in the development of 
athlete-monitoring programs and talent-identification programs, the establishment of training theories, and the development of methods for dealing with fatigue and stress. 
While the importance of sport science to the overall training system seems apparent, 
this branch of science is not embraced with equal enthusiasm throughout the world. For example Stone and colleagues (108) suggested that the use of sport science in 

Basis for Training7
the United States is on the decline, which may explain, at least in part, the decrease 
in performance levels evidenced by some U.S. track and field athletes at some of the 
recent Olympic Games.
3. Validating the efficacy of the system: Once a training system is initiated, it should be con-
stantly evaluated. The evaluation of the efficacy of a training system can be undertaken in a multidimensional manner. The most simplistic assessments used to validate a training system are the actual performance improvements achieved in response to the system. More complex assessments can also be used, including direct measurements of 
physiological adaptation such as hormonal or cell signaling adaptations. Additionally, 
mechanical assessments can be quantified to determine whether the training structure is working effectively; examples include the evaluation of maximal anaerobic power, maximal aerobic power, maximal force generating capacity, and peak rate of force development. Sport scientists can play a very important role in this capacity, using their expertise to evaluate the athlete and provide insight into the effectiveness of a training system. If the training system is not optimal, then the performance enhancement team can reevaluate and modify the system.
As a whole, the quality of the training system depends on direct and supportive factors 
(figure 1.2). Direct factors include those related to both training and evaluation, while sup-
portive factors are related to administrative and economic conditions and to professional 
styles and lifestyles. Although each factor in the overall system plays a role in the success of the system, it appears that the direct factors are most significant. The importance of the direct factors further strengthens the argument that the sport scientist is an important contributor to the development of a quality training system.
The development of a quality training system is essential to the optimization of perfor -
mance. Training quality does not solely depend upon the coach, but upon the interaction of many factors that can impact the athlete’s performance (figure 1.3). Hence, all factors that could affect the quality of training need to be effectively implemented and constantly evaluated and, when necessary, adjusted to meet the ever-changing demands of modern 
athletics.
E6954/Bompa/F01 .02/578223/mh-R1Training system
Direct factors Supportive factors
Training EvaluationAdministration and
economic conditionsProfessional and
living style
EducationPhysical
trainingScientific
assessmentAudio-
visualAdministrationTraining
facilitiesProfessional
school
satisfactionDiet
TechniqueIncrease
functional
potentialTests and
standardsTraining
journalClub
organizationEquipmentOrganized
daily programNo smoking
or drinking
TacticsDevelop
biomotor
abilitiesMedical
controlSelf-
assessmentBudget Clothing RestActivity in
fresh air
PlanningOrganization
of
competitionsFacilities for
complementary
sports
FIGURE 1.2 Components of a training system.

Periodization8
Adaptation
Training is an organized process whereby the body and mind are constantly exposed to 
stressors of varying volume (quantity) and intensity. The ability of an athlete to adapt and 
adjust to workloads imposed by training and competition is as important as the ability of a 
species to adapt to the environment in which it lives: No adaptation, no survival! For ath-
letes, an inability to adapt to constantly varying training loads and the stressors associated 
with training and competition will result in critical levels of fatigue, overreaching, or even 
overtraining. In such circumstances, the athlete will be unable to achieve training goals.
A high level of performance is the result of many years of well-planned, methodical, and 
challenging training. During this time, the athlete tries to adapt her physiology to the specific requirements of her sport. The greater the degree of adaptation to the training process, the greater the potential for high levels of performance. Therefore, the objective of any well- 
organized training plan is to induce adaptations that improve performance. Improvement is possible only if the athlete observes this sequence:
Increasing stimulus (load) ➞ Adaptation ➞ Performance improvement
If the load is always at the same level, adaptation occurs in the early part of training, 
followed by a plateau (stagnation) without any further improvement (figure 1.4):
Lack of stimulus ➞ Plateau ➞ Lack of improvement
If the stimulus is excessive or overly varied, the athlete will be unable to adapt, and mal-
adaptation will occur:
Excessive stimulus ➞ Maladaptation ➞ Decrease in performance
Therefore, the objective of training is to progressively and systematically increase the 
training stimulus (the intensity, volume of training loads, and frequency of training) to induce superior adaptation and, as a result, improve performance. These alterations in the 
training stimulus must include training variation to maximize the athlete’s adaptation to 
the training plan (figure 1.5).E6954/Bompa/F01 .03/578224/mh-R1Athlete’s
performance
Training
quality
MotivationAthlete’s
abilitiesHeritageCoach’s
knowledge
and
personality
Facilities
and
equipmentFindings
from
auxiliary
sciences
Competitions
FIGURE 1.3 Factors that affect training quality.

Basis for Training9
Training adaptations are the sum of the transformations brought about by systematically 
repeating bouts of exercise. These structural and physiological changes result from the specific 
demands that athletes place on their bodies by the activities they pursue, depending on the 
volume, intensity, and frequency of training. Physical training is beneficial only as long as it 
overloads the body in such a way that adaption is stimulated. If the stimulus does not induce a sufficient physiological challenge, no increase in adaptation can be expected. On the other 
hand, if the training load is very high, intolerable, and undertaken for an excessively long 
period of time, injury or overtraining may occur.FIGURE 1.5 Training stimulus and adaptation.
A = increasing stimulus (load) ➞ adaptation ➞ performance improvement; B = lack of stimulus ➞ plateau ➞ lack of improve-
ment; C = excessive stimulus ➞ maladaptation ➞ decrease in performance;    = increased performance;    = decreased 
performance.
➞➞E6954/Bompa/F01 .04/578231/mh-R1Plateau Stagnation of performanceStandard loadImprovement
Preparatory phase Competitive phase
E6954/Bompa/F01 .05/578232/mh-R1Performance
+–Performance
+–Performance
+–Training
stimulusNew,
varied
training
stimulusNew,
varied
training
stimulus
Training
stimulusSame
training
stimulusSame
training
stimulusSame
training
stimulus
Training
stimulusExcessive
training
stimulusExcessive
training
stimulusExcessive
training
stimulusA
B
CNew,
varied
training
stimulusAdaptation
AdaptationAdaptationAdaptationAdaptation
AdaptationAdaptationAdaptation
Maladaptation
Maladaptation
Maladaptation
MaladaptationFIGURE 1.4 A standard load results in improvements only during 
the early part of the plan.

Periodization10
Specificity of Adaptation
Because adaptation is highly specific to the type of training undertaken, training must be 
based on the energy systems dominant in the sport, the skills of the sport, and the motor 
abilities required by the sport. The time required to reach a high degree of adaptation 
depends on the skill complexity and the physiological and psychological difficulty of the sport. The more complex and difficult the sport, the longer the training time required for the human body to adapt.
If an athlete expects superior performance, he must be exposed to a systematic and pro-
gressive increase in training stimuli that is designed to elevate the athlete’s physiological and performance capacity (i.e., cross the threshold of adaptation). Therefore, it is of utmost 
importance that a systematic and well-organized training program be followed to induce 
superior adaptations of the main functions of the body, such as the following:
• Neuromuscular:  Increase the efficiency of movements and coordination, increase 
the reflex activity of the nervous system, synchronize motor unit activity, increase recruitment of motor units, increase motor unit firing rate (rate coding), increase 
muscle hypertrophy, increase mitochondrial biogenesis, and alter cell signaling 
pathways (19).
• Metabolic: Increase the muscular stores of adenosine triphosphate  (ATP)  and 
phosphocreatine  (PCr), increase the capacity of muscle to store glycogen, increase 
the capacity of muscle to tolerate lactic acid buildup and delay the onset of fatigue, increase the capillary network for a superior supply of nutrients and oxygen, increase 
the use of fat as energy for long-duration activities, increase the efficiency of the 
glycolytic energy system , increase efficiency of the oxidative system , and alter 
specific enzymatic processes associated with the various bioenergetic systems noted on page 19 (87).
• Cardiorespiratory: Increase lung volume; increase hypertrophy of the left ventricular 
wall; increase volume of the left ventricle to increase stroke volume and, as a result, 
facilitate delivery of oxygenated blood to the working muscles; decrease heart rate; increase capillary density; increase the lactate threshold so that the athlete can perform at a higher rate of oxygen consumption; and increase V.  O
2max to enhance aerobic 
capacity for prolonged exercises.
The focus of any training program is to improve performance. This is only possible by 
breaking the threshold of the present level of adaptation by exposing the athlete to higher 
training demands (e.g., using high training loads, greater than 80% in strength training; 
increase duration of training or its intensity in endurance sports; or increase the percentage of maximum speed and agility through training). When an athlete achieves a new level of 
adaptation, his performance will improve (figure 1.6).
Adaptation is a long-term, progressive physiological response to general and sport-specific 
training programs with the goal of readying the athlete for the specific demands of competi-
tion. Adaptation occurs through positive changes of the main functions of the body. Training 
phases—preparatory and competitive—are combined with different types of adaptations:
• Preadaptation is gradual and temporary adaptation to training during the early part 
of a training plan (in this case an annual plan). If the training load and the physio-logical stressors that result from it are not excessive, these early weeks of training will 
progressively lead to a more durable adaptation visible via increased work capacity 
and improved tolerance to higher training demand.
• Compensation can be defined as the body’s reactions to a training program before reaching a stable adaptation. During this phase, still in the early part of the prepa-ratory phase, the athlete experiences positive reactions to the training demand and 
thus improved results in testing and skills proficiency. At this time, the body can 

Basis for Training11
compensate for high training demands as a demonstration of the athlete’s improved 
training potential and increased physiological efficiency.
• Stable or precompetitive adaptation is a phase of improved equilibrium between work and compensation, between high stressors and the ability to tolerate and recover from 
them. Many training loads and social or psychological stressors have to be planned 
and applied at the same levels as during competition so that the athletes can learn to react to and cope with them. Exhibition games and competitions should be used 
to test both technical and tactical proficiency and physiological and psychological 
efficiency. High levels of stability of all training factors indicate that athletes are in, or are close to reaching, the state of readiness to compete in the competitions that are scheduled for the next phase.
• State of readiness for competitions is the result of the athlete’s training. The athlete is 
ready to compete with high technical efficacy, demonstrates high levels of athletic 
effectiveness, displays sport-specific motor skills and physical qualities, and is able to tolerate stress and adapt to it.
Training Effect
Any training program creates a certain reaction to the adaptive responses of the body; this is called a training effect. Since the 1960s several authors have discussed this subject, among 
them H.K. Cooper with his very influential work The New Aerobics (22). Training effect can be classified into three categories:
1. Immediate training effect can be detected during and immediately after a training session 
in the form of physiological reaction to a training load, such as increased heart rate, 
increased blood pressure, decreased force production as a result of fatigue, increased fatigue, and depletion of muscle glycogen, depending on the intensity and volume of 
the training bout.
2. Delayed training effect is the final outcome of a training  session that can be long lasting. 
Although the immediate posttraining effect is reduced because of fatigue, the delayed 
training effect (i.e., the positive training benefits) is apparent after the fatigue associ-ated with training dissipates. The onset of the delayed training effect depends on the 
training bout: The more intense the training session, the longer the time frame before 
performance gains are realized (42, 43).
3. Cumulative effect is the result of several sessions or even phases of training, which can include sessions with very challenging loads that are meant to break the threshold of E6954/Bompa/F01 .06/578233/mh-R1New threshold
of adaptation
Current threshold
of adaptation
Suboptimal
training stimulusOptimal 
training stimulus
FIGURE 1.6 Breaking the threshold of adaptation should improve performance.
  = increase in the threshold of adaptation.➞

Periodization12
adaptation of a given training phase. The occurrence of the cumulative training effect 
often surprises coaches and athletes alike, who may not be able to anticipate or explain 
it (“We have worked hard and suddenly it just happened!”). Good planning of training 
sessions, altering high loads and intensities with compensation sessions, will allow the athlete to benefit from the cumulative training effect.
Zatsiorsky and Kraemer (1 19) proposed that the relationship between fatigue and training 
gains is a factor of 3:1, meaning that fatigue is three times shorter in duration (e.g., 24 h) 
than the positive training effect (e.g., 72 h). Certainly, the type of training can change this 
ratio because anaerobic training is more demanding and thus more fatiguing. In any case, the positive effects of a training session are visible after fatigue is eliminated; adaptation 
then can take place, accompanied by improved performance.
Cooper (22) used five categories to assess the postexercise training effect. He suggested 
that the athlete accumulate 30 points a week to achieve a good training effect (e.g., 2 × 
category 5 = 10 points; 2 × category 3 = 6 points) (table 1.1).
TABLE 1.1 Cooper’s Training Effect Categories
Category Training effect Results
1 1.0-1.9 Minor Develops base endurance. No improvement in maximum 
performance. Enhances recovery.
2 2.0-2.9 Maintenance Maintains aerobic fitness. Does little to improve maximum 
performance.
3 3.0-3.9 Improvement Improves aerobic fitness if repeated two to four times 
weekly.
4 4.0-4.9 Rapid improvement Rapidly improves aerobic fitness if repeated one or two 
times weekly. Needs few recovery sessions.
5 5.0-up Overreaching Dramatically increases aerobic fitness if combined with 
good recovery.
Adapted from Cooper 1968 (22a).
Thus, training effects are complex phenomena with short- and long-lasting influences 
that can be determined by the following:
• One’s current functional or training state
• The effects of previous training bouts
• The sum of all training stimuli (loads) or their combinations, their order of applica-tion, and the interval between them
Supercompensation Cycle and Adaptation
The training phenomenon called supercompensation,  also known as Weigert’s law of 
supercompensation, was first described by Folbrot in 1941 (105) and later was discussed 
by Hans Selye (102), who called it the general adaptation syndrome (GAS). Several Rus-
sian, East German, and American (40) researchers and authors have also shed light on this 
essential training concept.
Selye’s general adaptation syndrome (GAS) theory (figure 1.7) is the basis of progressive 
overloading, which, if applied inappropriately, can create high degrees of undesirable stress. 

Basis for Training13
These concepts suggest that for the best training adaptations to occur, training intensities, train -
ing volumes, and bioenergetic specificity have to be systematically and rationally alternated in 
a sequence of phases. For example, the coach should plan training microcycles  that alternate 
high, moderate, and low training intensities. These alternations of intensities allow for recovery between training sessions; the addition of recovery time between carefully sequenced training  
phases is the basis for cyclical planning (known as periodization) and supercompensation.
Supercompensation, therefore, is a relationship between work and regeneration that leads 
to superior physical adaptation as well as metabolic and neuropsychological arousal before 
a competition. Applying the concept of supercompensation in training has many benefits:
• Helps the athlete manage stress and cope with high training intensities
• Helps coaches create structured training systems
• Avoids the onset of critical levels of fatigue and overtraining
• Makes a coach cognizant of the need to alternate intensities to facilitate the best 
adaptations
• Justifies the use of different types of posttraining and postcompetition recovery tech-niques (e.g., passive and active rest, nutrition, physiotherapy, psychological techniques)
• Facilitates precompetition training to achieve peak performance
• Uses both physiological and psychological techniques in training
When athletes train, they are exposed to a series of stimuli that alter their physiological 
status. These physiological responses can include acute metabolic (28, 40, 96, 1 1 1), hormonal (46, 52), cardiovascular (88), neuromuscular (32, 48, 49), and cell signaling alterations 
(5). Such responses are mitigated by the volume, intensity, frequency, and type of training 
undertaken by the athlete. The greater the volume, intensity, or duration of training, the greater the magnitude of the physiological responses to training.
The acute physiological responses to a training session will result in the accumulation of 
fatigue (33, 84), which can manifest itself as an inability to produce or maintain maximal voluntary force output (48, 49, 92, 93). The postexercise period also is associated with a reduction in muscle glycogen stores (56), lactic acid accumulation (1 10, 1 15), reductions E6954/Bompa/F01 .07/578235/mh-R1A
BC
Original
performance
level
Alarm
phaseResistance or
adaptation phase
Overtraining or
exhaustionTraining
stimulus
New level
of performance
TimeLevel of performance
FIGURE 1.7 Illustration of Selye’s general adaptation syndrome theory.
A = typical training; B = overtraining; C = overreaching or supercompensation.
Adapted, by permission, from A.C. Fry, 1998, The role of training intensity in resistance exercise overtraining and overreaching. In 
Overtraining in sport, edited by R.B. Kreider, A.C. Fry, and M.L. O’Toole (Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics), 114.

Periodization14
in PCr stores (64, 72), and an increase in circulating cortisol levels (3, 54, 94). These phys-
iological responses temporarily reduce the athlete’s performance capacity.
Following the training session, the athlete must dissipate fatigue, restore muscle glycogen 
and phosphagen stores, reduce circulating cortisol levels, and deal with the lactic acid that has accumulated. The time that the athlete needs to recover is affected by many factors, which can include the training status of the athlete (49), the muscular contraction type encountered 
during the training session (92), the use of restoration techniques, and the nutritional status 
of the athlete (12). Nutritional status is of particular importance: An inadequate diet can increase the time needed for recovery (13).
The fatigue induced by exercise results in an abrupt drop in the athlete’s homeostasis curve 
(figure 1.8), which is coupled with a reduction in functional capacity. Following the exercise bout, the return of the athlete to homeostasis can be considered a period of compensation. The return to homeostasis, or a normal biological state, is slow and progressive, requiring 
E6954/Bompa/F01 .08/578236/mh-R1FatigueStimulusSupercompensation
Involution
Homeostasis
(normal biological state)
Compensation
IV III II I
FIGURE 1.8 Supercompensation cycle of a training session.
Modified from Yakovlev 1967 (116).
World-record holder and 11-time world champion Usain Bolt spent many years training  
as a sprinter. The cumulative training effect for Bolt was winning eight Olympic gold medals.
Anadolu Agency/Getty Images

Basis for Training15
several hours to several days (93). If the time between high-intensity training sessions is 
sufficient, the body dissipates fatigue and fully replaces the energy sources (especially gly-
cogen), allowing the body to rebound into a state of supercompensation.
Every time supercompensation occurs, the athlete establishes a new, increased homeostatic 
level with positive benefits for training and performance. Consider supercompensation as the 
foundation of a functional increase of athletic efficiency, resulting from the body’s adaptation 
to the training stimulus (load) and the replenishment of glycogen stores in the muscle. If 
the resulting phase or the time between two stimuli is too long, supercompensation will fade, leading to involution, or a reduction in performance capacity.
Phases of Supercompensation
The supercompensation cycle (figure 1.9) has four phases and occurs in the following sequence.
Phase I: Duration of One to Two Hours
After training, the body experiences fatigue. Exercise-induced fatigue occurs via either cen-tral or peripheral mechanisms (32). Fatigue is a multidimensional phenomenon caused by several factors:
• Reductions in neural activation of the muscle, which are generally associated with central fatigue, can occur in response to exercise (49).
• Exercise-induced central fatigue can also increase brain serotonin levels, which can 
lead to mental fatigue (32). This accumulated mental fatigue can affect the athlete’s 
willingness to tolerate high levels of discomfort or pain associated with training and competition.
E6954/Bompa/F01 .09/578237/mh-R1StimulusSupercompensation
Involution
Homeostasis
(normalbiologicalstate)
Phase
Time (hr)
Catabolic
phaseAnabolic phase
Time (hr)I II III IV
1-2 24-48 120-168
0 1-2 48PerformanceFatigue
Psychological response
Neural response
Compensation
FIGURE 1.9 Supercompensation cycle response to a training session.

Periodization16
• Exercise can result in impairments in neuromuscular transmission and impulse 
propagation, impaired Ca2+ handling by the sarcoplasmic reticulum, substrate 
depletion, and other factors that disrupt the contractile process and are associated 
with exercise-induced peripheral fatigue (31).
• Exercise-induced substrate utilization occurs in response to the intensity, volume, and duration of the exercise bout. Substrates that can be significantly affected include 
muscle glycogen and phosphocreatine stores. Muscle glycogen can be significantly reduced in response to high-intensity interval training (1 1, 106), resistance training 
(55, 83), and endurance training (23, 27). Phosphocreatine stores can be significantly 
reduced in as little as 5 to 30 s and can be completely depleted after exhaustive exer-
cise (64, 73, 74).
• The classic literature suggests that lactic acid accumulation as a result of exercise is 
a major player in the formation of fatigue (1 15). It is theorized that higher levels of lactic acid formation cause a state of acidosis, which may decrease force-generating capacity as a result of alterations in contractile properties (1 12, 1 15). Contemporary 
literature suggests that inorganic phosphate (P
i), which is formed from the breakdown 
of PCr, rather than acidosis, may be the major cause of muscle fatigue that occurs in 
response to exercise (1 15). Increased Pi concentrations appear to affect sarcoplasmic 
reticulum handling of Ca2+ (6, 30). It has also been suggested that Pi can reduce cross-
bridge attachment force as a result of a decrease in myofibrillar Ca2+ sensitivity (1 15).
• During prolonged exercise there is an increase in glucose uptake, despite a decrease in the amount of circulating insulin (75). Glucose uptake is thought to be facilitated 
during exercise as a result of glucose transporter-4 (GLUT4) (109). GLUT is con-
traction sensitive and facilitates the uptake of glucose by the working tissue (109).
• During exercise, whether endurance training or resistance training, significant eccentric 
exercise components can result in muscle damage (18). Examples of exercises that have the potential to increase muscle damage—resulting in delayed-onset muscle soreness (DOMS)—are downhill running and lowering weights in resistance train-
ing. Impairments in exercise performance in response to muscle damage and DOMS 
can last for up to 24 h, depending on the degree of muscle damage (47, 85). It has been hypothesized that the inflammation associated with muscle damage plays a 
role in muscle repair (18).
Phase II: Duration of 24 to 48 Hours
As soon as training is terminated, the compensation (rest) phase begins. During the com-
pensation phase the following occur:
• Within 3 to 5 min of the cessation of exercise, ATP stores are completely restored (60, 66), and within 8 min PCr is completely resynthesized (60). Very high-intensity 
exercise may require up to 15 min of recovery after exercise for PCr to be completely 
restored (89). Depending on the volume, intensity, and type of training, the ATP and PCr pool may increase above normal levels (1, 2).
• Within 2 h after exercise bouts with large stretch shortening cycle (SSC) compo-nents, such as jumping, electromyographic (EMG) activity is partially restored as well as maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) (93). However, SSC-induced fatigue 
(as indicated by depressed EMG and MVC) exhibits a bimodal recovery, with the first 
recovery occurring within 2 h and the final recovery taking days (93). Muscle glyco-gen usually is restored to basal levels within 20 to 24 h (13, 29). If extensive muscle 
damage occurs, more time is needed for muscle glycogen recovery (25). The rate at 
which muscle glycogen is restored is directly related to the amount of carbohydrate consumed during the compensation period (26).
• An increase in oxygen consumption following exercise, known as excess postexer-
cise oxygen consumption (EPOC), occurs in response to the exercise bout (77). 

Basis for Training17
Depending on the modality and intensity of the exercise bout, EPOC can remain 
elevated for 24 to 38 h after the cessation of exercise (14, 77, 90).
• Resting energy expenditure is elevated as a result of a resistance training or endurance training bout. This elevation in energy expenditure can be expected to last 15 to 48 h, 
depending on the magnitude of the training bout (71, 91). Although the exact mech-
anism for stimulating an elevation in resting energy expenditure is not known, some authors have suggested that increased protein synthesis (81), increased thermogen-
esis from the thyroid hormones (80), and increased sympathetic nervous system 
activity (100) play a role in increasing the rate of energy expenditure after exercise.
• After a resistance training bout, an increased protein synthesis rate occurs (17, 81). 
By 4 h postexercise the muscle protein synthesis rate is increased by 50%, and by 24 
h it is elevated by 109%. The protein resynthesis rate returns to baseline by 36 h (81). Thus, it is thought that this phase of the supercompensation cycle is the initiation of the anabolic phase.
Phase III: Duration of 36 to 72 Hours
This phase of training is marked by a rebounding or supercompensation of performance. During this phase the following occur:
• Force-generating capacity and muscle soreness have returned to baseline by 72 h postexercise (1 18).
• Psychological supercompensation occurs, which can be marked by high confidence, 
feelings of being energized, positive thinking, and an ability to cope with frustrations 
and the stress of training.
• Glycogen stores are fully replenished, enabling the athlete to rebound (12).
Phase IV: Duration of 3 to 7 Days
If the athlete does not apply another stimulus at the optimal time (during the supercom-pensation phase), then involution occurs, which is a decrease in the physiological benefits 
obtained during the supercompensation phase. By 6 to 8 days after stretch shortening cycle 
(SSC) performance, the second rebound in electromyographic and maximal voluntary con-traction strength occurs (93).
Following the optimal stimuli of a training session, the recovery period, including the 
supercompensation phase, is approximately 24 h. Variations in the duration of the super-compensation phase depend on the type and intensity of training. For instance, following a medium-intensity aerobic endurance training session, supercompensation may occur after 
approximately 6 to 8 h. On the other hand, intense activity that places a high demand on 
the central nervous system may require more than 24 h—sometimes as much as 48 h—for supercompensation to occur.
Elite athletes who follow training programs that do not allow 24 h between training ses-
sions do not experience supercompensation after every training session because they must undertake a second workout before supercompensation can occur.  As suggested in figure 
1.10, the improvement rate is higher when athletes participate in more frequent training sessions (50). When long intervals exist between training sessions, such as when training 
is performed three times per week (figure 1.10a), the athlete will experience less overall 
improvement than when training is undertaken more frequently (figure 1.10b) (50, 97). When less time exists between training sessions, the coach or athlete must alternate the intensity of the training sessions, which effectively alters the energy demands of the session, 
as suggested in the planning of microcycles.
If the athlete is exposed to high-intensity training sessions too frequently, the body’s 
ability to adapt to the training stimuli will be significantly compromised and overtraining may occur (41, 44, 45). As illustrated in figure 1.1 1, frequent maximal-intensity stimuli can 
result in exhaustion or overtraining, which will lead to a decrease in performance. Research 

Periodization18
on the training adaptations experienced in response to resistance training supports this 
contention (69, 97). Specifically, the research suggests that when maximal attempts are 
undertaken too frequently, there is a significant reduction in the athlete’s ability to adapt 
to the training program (97). Coupling this finding with previous work on high-intensity overtraining (41, 44, 45) makes it clear that training at high intensities too frequently does not maximize the athlete’s performance. Some overzealous coaches, who intend to project 
an image of being tough and hardworking, believe that athletes must reach exhaustion in 
each workout (“No pain, no gain!”). Under such circumstances, athletes never have time to compensate because such high levels of fatigue have been generated. As fatigue increases, 
the athlete will require longer time for regeneration. If additional hard training sessions are 
added too frequently, the time for restoration continues to lengthen. Thus, a better practice is to intersperse lower-intensity training sessions into the training plan so that compensation and ultimately supercompensation can occur.
To maximize the athlete’s performance, the coach must regularly challenge the athlete’s 
physiology, which elevates the ceiling of adaptation and, ultimately, performance (figure 1.12). This means that the coach must alternate high-intensity training with lower-inten-
sity training. If done appropriately, this schedule will enhance compensation and lead to a 
supercompensation effect. As the athlete adapts to training, new levels of homeostasis will be achieved and higher training levels will be required for adaptation to continue (97). As the athlete adapts to new, higher levels of training, a new supercompensation cycle will begin 
(figure 1.13). Conversely, if the intensity of training is not planned well, the compensation 
curve will not surpass the previous levels of homeostasis and the athlete will not benefit from the supercompensation (figure 1.14).
High levels of fatigue resulting from continuous or too frequent high-intensity training 
will attenuate the supercompensation effects and prevent the athlete from achieving peak performance.E6954/Bompa/F01 .10/578238/mh-R1a
bStimulus
Performance
improvement
Performance
improvement
FIGURE 1.10 The sum of training effect: (a) long intervals between training sessions and (b) short 
intervals between training sessions.
Adapted from Harre 1982 (59).
E6954/Bompa/F01 .11/578239/mh-R2Decline
in
performanceMaximal stimuli
FIGURE 1.11 Decline in performance from prolonged maximal-intensity stimuli.

Basis for Training19
Sources of Energy
Energy provides an athlete the capacity to perform work. Work is the application of force—
that is, contracting muscles to apply force against a resistance. Energy is a prerequisite for 
performing physical work during training and competitions. Ultimately, we derive energy 
from converting foodstuff at the muscle cell level into a high-energy compound known as adenosine triphosphate (ATP), which is then stored in the muscle cell. ATP, as its name suggests, consists of one molecule of adenosine and three molecules of phosphate.
Energy required for muscular contraction is released by converting high-energy ATP 
into ADP + P
i (adenosine diphosphate + inorganic phosphate). As one phosphate bond is 
broken, causing ADP and Pi to split, energy is released. The amount of ATP stored in muscle 
is limited, so the body must continually replenish ATP stores to enable physical activity.
The body can replenish ATP stores by any of the three energy systems, depending on the 
type of physical activity: the anaerobic phosphagen (ATP-PC) system, the anaerobic glycolytic system, and the aerobic oxidative system (figure 1.15).E6954/Bompa/F01 .12/578240/mh-R1Improvement
E6954/Bompa/F01 .13/578241/mh-R1Start of new
supercompensation cycle
New level of homeostasis
Improvement
Previous level
of homeostasis
E6954/Bompa/F01 .14/578242/mh-R1Previous level of homeostasis
Performance deterioration
New level of homeostasis
Start of new
supercompensation cycleFIGURE 1.12 Alternating maximal- and low-intensity stimuli produces a wavelike improve-
ment curve.
FIGURE 1.13 A new, higher level of homeostasis means that the next supercom-
pensation cycle starts from that point.
FIGURE 1.14 A decreased level of homeostasis means that the next supercom-
pensation cycle starts at a point lower than the previous level.

Periodization20
Phosphagen (ATP-PC) System
The primary anaerobic energy system is the phosphagen system (ATP-PC). The phosphagen 
system contains three basic reactions that are used in the processing of ATP. The first reaction 
results in the breakdown of ATP into adenosine diphosphate  (ADP) and Pi, resulting in 
a release of energy. Because the skeletal muscle has limited ATP stores, further reactions are needed to maintain ATP availability. The second reaction is used to resynthesize ATP from 
ADP and phosphocreatine (creatine phosphate or PCr). In this scenario a phosphate is removed from the PCr, forming P
i and creatine (C). The Pi that is formed by this process is 
then added to ADP and an ATP molecule is formed. The final reaction that can occur breaks 
ADP into adenosine monophosphate and Pi, after which the Pi can again be added to ADP, 
resulting in the formation of ATP.
Because skeletal muscle can store only a small amount of ATP, energy depletion occurs in 
as little as 10 s of high-intensity work (87); PCr can be decreased by 50% to 70% of initial 
values in as little as 5 s of high-intensity exercise and can be almost completely depleted in E6954/Bompa/F01 .15/578244/mh-R400102030405060708090100
2 s 10 s 15 s
Anaerobic
ATP supply (%)Aerobic
ATP supply (%)10 30 60 2 4 10 30 60Time (s) Time (min)Anaerobic
energy
ATP supply
predominatesAerobic energy
ATP supply predominates30 s 60 s
Time2 min 6 min 15 min 60 min 120 min
3 30 50 60 80 85 95
97 73 50 40 20 15 598
2ATP
CP
Anaerobic
AerobicPower output
FIGURE 1.15 Energy provision of the three energy systems.
Adapted from K.A. van Someren, 2006, The physiology of anaerobic endurance training. In The physiology of training, edited 
by G. Whyte (Oxford, UK: Elsevier), 88, and E. Newsholme, A. Leech, and G. Duester, 1994, Keep on running: The science of training and performance (West Sussex, UK: Wiley).

Basis for Training21
response to intense exhaustive exercise (64, 73, 74). Interestingly, 
the highest contribution to ATP production by PCr occurs in 
the first 2 s of the initiation of exercise. By 10 s of exercise the 
ability of PCr to supply ATP is decreased by 50%, and by 30 s of exercise PCr contributes very little to the supply of ATP. At around 10 s, the glycolytic system’s contribution to ATP supply 
begins to increase (87).
The phosphagen system appears to be the primary energy 
source for extremely high-intensity activities, such as short sprints (e.g., 100 m dash, 40 m dash), diving, American football, 
weightlifting, jumping and throwing events in track and field, 
vaulting in gymnastics, and ski jumping.
The replenishment of the phosphagen stores is usually a rapid 
process, with 70% restoration of ATP occurring in about 30 s and complete restoration occurring within 3 to 5 min of exercise 
(65). The restoration of PCr takes longer, with 2 min for 84% restoration, 4 min for 89% restoration, and 8 min for complete restoration (58, 65, 66). Restoration of the phosphagens occurs mostly via aerobic metabolism (60). However, the glycolytic 
system may also contribute to the restoration of the phosphagen 
pool after high-intensity exercise (34, 60).
Glycolytic System
The second anaerobic energy system is the glycolytic system, which is the prevalent energy system for activities that last from 
20 s to about 2 min (87). The primary fuel for the glycolytic 
system comes from the breakdown of blood glucose and glycogen stores (107). Initially, the vast majority of ATP is supplied from fast glycolysis, and as the duration of activity approaches 2 min, the supply of ATP primarily comes from slow glycolysis.
Fast glycolysis results in the formation of lactic acid, which is rapidly converted to lactate  
(20). When glycolysis occurs at a very rapid rate, the body’s ability to convert lactic acid to 
lactate may become impaired and lactic acid will begin to accumulate, which can result 
in fatigue and ultimately a cessation of activity (107). The accumulation of lactic acid is most prevalent in repeated high-intensity exercise bouts, especially those with short rest duration (63, 76). Thus, a high concentration of lactic acid may indicate a rapid energy 
 
supply.
As the duration of the activity increases toward the 2 min mark, the supply of ATP shifts 
from fast glycolysis to slow glycolysis. Theoretically, as the intensity of the bout of exercise is 
decreased the rate of glycolytic breakdown of glucose and glycogen is slowed, thus reducing 
the buildup of lactic acid and allowing the body to buffer lactic acid to lactate and form pyruvate (20, 107). Once pyruvate is formed it is shuttled into the mitochondria, where it is used in oxidative metabolism. Lactate is also shuttled to the liver, where it is converted into glucose, or goes to active tissue such as the skeletal and heart muscle, where it is converted 
to pyruvate and ultimately used in oxidative metabolism (87).
The amount of glycogen available is related to the amount of carbohydrates present in 
the diet (26). Thus, it is easy to see that low-carbohydrate diets will result in a reduction of muscle glycogen stores, which will impair the athlete’s performance (57). The utilization 
of glycogen during exercise and competition depends on the duration and intensity of the exercise bout (56, 103, 104). Aerobic exercise (51) and anaerobic exercise such as repeated sprint intervals (3) and resistance training (56) can significantly affect muscle and liver 
glycogen stores. Following exercise, one of the major concerns for athletes and coaches is 
the time frame for glycogen resynthesis. If the athlete does not replenish glycogen stores, performance can be significantly impaired. Inadequate muscle glycogen stores have been 
To perform well, an athlete must replenish her ener-
gy sources through proper nutrition and hydration.

Periodization22
linked to exercise-induced muscle weakness (1 17), decreases in isokinetic force production 
(70), and decreases in isometric strength (62).
After the completion of an exercise bout, it generally takes 20 to 24 h for muscle glycogen 
to be completely restored (29). If, however, inadequate carbohydrate is present in the diet or 
excessive exercise-induced muscle damage occurs, the time required for glycogen restoration 
can be significantly extended (24, 26). In the 2 h after the cessation of exercise, the athlete has a great opportunity to increase muscle glycogen synthesis rates. Ivy and colleagues (68) suggested that if carbohydrates are consumed within 2 h of the completion of exercise, muscle 
glycogen storage can increase 45%. This may be particularly important when the athlete has 
only a short period of time between exercise bouts or competitive bouts on the same day (56).
Oxidative System
Much like the glycolytic system, the oxidative system has the ability to use blood glucose and muscle glycogen as fuel sources for producing ATP. The major difference between the 
glycolytic and oxidative systems is that the enzymatic reactions associated with the oxidative 
system occur in the presence of O
2, whereas the glycolytic system processes energy without 
O2 (10). Unlike the fast glycolytic system, the oxidative system does not produce lactic acid 
from the breakdown of glucose and glycogen. Additionally, the oxidative system has the 
ability to use fats and proteins in the production of ATP (107).
At rest, the oxidative system derives about 70% of its ATP yield from the oxidation of fats 
and about 30% of its ATP from the oxidation of carbohydrate (10, 107). Fuel utilization 
depends on the intensity of exercise. Brooks and colleagues (10) outlined what is termed the 
cross-over concept, in which lower-intensity exercise receives its ATP primarily from the 
oxidation of fat and some carbohydrates. As the intensity of exercise increases, the amount 
of carbohydrate used for ATP production increases whereas the utilization of fat to supply 
ATP decreases. This again gives support for the concept that higher-intensity exercise bouts 
use carbohydrate as a primary fuel source.
The oxidative or aerobic system is the primary source of ATP for events lasting between 2 
min and approximately 3 h (all track events of 800 m or more, cross-country skiing, long-dis-
tance speedskating). Conversely, activities that are shorter than 2 min rely on anaerobic 
means to meet their ATP demands (88).
The coach and athlete need to understand the bioenergetic mechanisms that supply 
energy for exercise and sport performance. A structure can be created in which the athlete is trained based on the bioenergetics of the sporting activity. This has been termed bioen-
ergetic specificity (107). Figure 1.16 illustrates the energy sources used for specific sports and events. The coach and athlete can use the bioenergetic classification of sports, which 
is based on the duration, the intensity, and the fuel used by the activity, to create effective 
training programs for specific sports.
Overlap of the Energy Systems
At all times the various energy systems contribute to the overall ATP yield. However, depending on the physiological demands associated with the exercise bout, ATP yield can be linked to 
a primary energy system (107). For example, very high-intensity events that occur in a short 
time, such as the 100 m sprint, can result in a significant reliance on the anaerobic energy systems to meet the demand for ATP (99). As the duration of the activity is extended, the reliance on oxidative mechanisms for supplying ATP increase (figure 1.17). For example, 
exercise bouts that last approximately 1 min will meet 70% of the body’s energy demand 
via anaerobic mechanisms, whereas bouts of exercise that are 4 min in duration will meet 65% of the body’s energy demand via the use of aerobic metabolism (99). Thus, there is a 
primary energy system that meets the athlete’s ATP needs during a specific sporting event, 
and understanding this will help the coach and athlete design training programs that target specific bioenergetic needs for the sporting activity (107).

23Energy pathwaysAnaerobic pathways
Aerobic pathways ATP-PC Glycolytic
Primary energy 
sourcesATP produced  
without the presence of oxygen ATP produced in the presence of oxygen
FuelPhosphagens:  
muscular stores  
of ATP and PCrBlood glucose  
Liver glycogen  
Muscle glycogen Glycogen completely metabolized  
 in the presence of oxygen Fat Protein
Duration 0 s 10 s 40 s 60 s 2 min 4 min 10 min 30 min 1 hr 2 hr 3 hr
Sports eventsSprinting  
(<100 m)Sprinting  
(200-400 m)100 m swimming Middle-distance track, swimming, speed skatingLong-distance track, swimming, speed skating, and canoeing
Throwing Speed skating (500 m)800 m track 1,000 m canoeing Cross-country skiing
Throwing Most gym events 500 m canoeing Boxing Rowing
Weightlifting Track cycling 1,500 m speedskating Wresting Cycling: road racing
Ski jumping 50 m swim Floor exercise in gymnastics Martial arts Marathon
Golf (swinging) Alpine skiing Figure skating Triathlon
Diving Cycling: track: 
 
1,000 m and pursuitSynchronized swim -
ming
Vaulting in gymnastics Cycling: pursuit
Most team sports, racket sports, sailing
Skills Mostly acyclic Acyclic and cyclic Cyclic
FIGURE 1.16 Energy sources for competitive sport.

Periodization24
The amount of lactate in the blood gives insight into which energy system is acting as the 
primary energy supplier. Higher levels of lactate formation suggest that the glycolytic system 
is operating at a very high rate, thus creating a buildup of lactic acid and lactate. In endurance 
or aerobic activities, the first point at which lactate formation begins to abruptly increase is termed the lactate threshold  (LT) and represents a shift from aerobic energy supply to 
anaerobic energy supply as intensity of exercise increases (107). In untrained individuals, 
the LT occurs somewhere between 50% and 60% of maximal aerobic capacity (V.  O
2max), 
whereas highly trained endurance athletes demonstrate an LT as high as 80% of V.  O2max  
(16, 88). The LT of an elite endurance athlete can occur somewhere between 83% and 93% of maximal heart rate (35, 67, 95). The second major increase in lactate accumulation occurs 
at about 4 mm and is termed the onset of blood lactate accumulation  (OBLA) (88). In 
trained endurance athletes, the OBLA has been demonstrated to occur between 90% and 93% of maximum heart rate (35, 67, 95).
Several researchers have offered evidence that the time point at which the LT and OBLA 
occur is affected by the training stimulus (39, 78, 79). Recent work by Esfarjani and Laursen (39) suggests that performing high-intensity intervals can result in significant elevations in 
endurance performance and in the LT, allowing the endurance athlete to work at a higher 
intensity before experiencing lactic acid buildup.
Sprint interval training has been demonstrated to increase glycolytic and oxidative enzy-
matic activity, improve maximal short-term power output, and increase maximal aerobic 
power (82). It has been suggested that a high aerobic capacity enhances the recovery from 
high-intensity anaerobic exercise because this capacity enhances removal of lactate and PCr regeneration (1 12). These findings might falsely lead coaches and athletes to think that 
aerobic training is needed to enhance the athlete’s ability to recover from repetitive bouts 
of high-intensity anaerobic exercise. However, several studies clearly demonstrate that max-imal aerobic power or capacity is of little importance in the recovery from repetitive bouts of high-intensity anaerobic exercise (8, 15, 22, 1 14). The inclusion of high-intensity interval 
training by athletes who participate in sports that are predominated by anaerobic energy 
supply will result in an aerobic capacity that is high enough to enhance postexercise recovery  
(15). Although the inclusion of aerobic training significantly increases aerobic power and 
capacity, it generally decreases anaerobic performance (37). Therefore, coaches and athletes 
should focus on enhancing the bioenergetic profile for the sporting event.E6954/Bompa/F01 .17/578247/mh-R1Percentage of ATP productionAnaerobic
Aerobic
100
80
60
40
20
010 s 30 s 60 min 2 min 4 min 10 min 30 min 60 min 120 min
Exercise duration 
FIGURE 1.17 Relationship between time and anaerobic and aerobic energy 
supply.

Basis for Training25
Table 1.2 provides information regarding the bioenergetic characteristics of many sports. In 
interval training, the rest interval between bouts of activity can significantly affect the primary 
energy system stressed (107). Shorter work-to-rest intervals (such as 1:1-1:3) will selectively 
target the oxidative system, whereas longer work-to-rest intervals (1:12-1:20) will selectively target the phosphagen system (107). Coaches should consider modeling the intensity and time characteristics of the sporting event, design conditioning drills that model the bioenergetics 
of the sporting event, and incorporate the tactical and technical components of the activity. 
If incorporated correctly, the conditioning drill will account for the time characteristics and the intensity profile of the activity. To design effective programs, the coach or athlete needs to 
understand the performance characteristics and bioenergetic demands of the sporting activity.
TABLE 1.2 Energy Delivery Systems (Ergogenesis in Percentages) for Sports
Sport Event or position Phosphagen Glycolytic Oxidative Reference
Archery 0 0 100 Mathews and Fox (86)
Athletics (track 
and field)100 m 53 44 3 van Someren (113), Newsholme and 
Duester (92b)
200 m 26 45 29 van Someren (113), Newsholme and 
Duester (92b)
400 m 12 50 38 van Someren (113), Newsholme and 
Duester (92b)
800 m 6 33 61 van Someren (113), Newsholme and 
Duester (92b)
1,500 m - 20 80 van Someren (113), Newsholme and 
Duester (92b)
5,000 m - 12.5 87.5 van Someren (113), Newsholme and 
Duester (92b)
10,000 m - 3 97 van Someren (113), Newsholme and 
Duester (92b)
Marathon - 100 van Someren (113), Newsholme and 
Duester (92b)
Jumps 90 10 0 Powers and Howley (99)
Throws 90 10 0 Powers and Howley (99)
Baseball 80 15 5 Powers and Howley (99)
Basketball 80 10 10 Powers and Howley (99)
Biathlon 0 5 95 Dal Monte (31)
Canoeing C1: 1,000 m 25 35 40 Dal Monte (31)
C2: 1,000 m 20 55 25 Dal Monte (31)
C1,2: 10,000 m 5 10 85 Dal Monte (31)
Cycling 200 m track 98 2 0 Dal Monte (31)
4,000 m pursuit 20 50 30 Dal Monte (31)
Road racing 0 5 95 Dal Monte (31)
(continued)

Periodization26
Sport Event or position Phosphagen Glycolytic Oxidative Reference
Diving 98 2 0 Powers and Howley (99)
Driving Motor sports, luge 0 0-15 85-10 Dal Monte (31)
Equestrian 20-30 20-50 20-50 Dal Monte (31)
Fencing 90 10 0 Dal Monte (31)
Field hockey 60 20 20 Powers and Howley (99)
Figure skating 60-80 10-30 20 Dal Monte (31)
Football 90 10 0 Powers and Howley (99)
Golf (swinging) 100 0 0 Powers and Howley (99)
Gymnastics 90 10 0 Powers and Howley (99)
Handball 80 10 10 Dal Monte (31)
Ice hockey Forward 80 20 0 Powers and Howley (99)
Defense 80 20 0 Powers and Howley (99)
Goalie 95 5 0 Powers and Howley (99)
Judo 90 10 0 Dal Monte (31)
Kayaking K1: 500 m 25 60 15 Dal Monte (31)
K2,4: 500 m 30 60 10 Dal Monte (31)
K1: 1,000 m 20 50 30 Dal Monte (31)
K2,4: 1,000 m 20 55 25 Dal Monte (31)
K1,2,4: 10,000 m 5 10 85 Dal Monte (31)
Rowing 20 30 50 Powers and Howley (99)
Rugby 30-40 10-20 30-50 Dal Monte (31)
Sailing 0 15 85-100 Dal Monte (31)
Shooting 0 0 100 Dal Monte (31)
Skiing Slalom (45-50 s) 40 50 10 Alpine Canada (4)
Giant slalom (70-90 s) 30 50 20 Alpine Canada (4)
Super giant (80-120 s) 15 45 40 Alpine Canada (4)
Downhill (90-150 s) 10 45 45 Alpine Canada (4)
Nordic 0 5 95 Dal Monte (31)
Soccer Goalie 80 20 0 Powers and Howley (99)
Halfback 60 20 20 Powers and Howley (99)
Striker 80 20 0 Powers and Howley (99)
Wing 80 20 0 Powers and Howley (99)TABLE 1.2 (continued)

Basis for Training27
Sport Event or position Phosphagen Glycolytic Oxidative Reference
Speedskating 500 m 95 5 0 Dal Monte (31)
1,500 m 30 60 10 Dal Monte (31)
5,000 m 10 40 50 Dal Monte (31)
10,000 m 5 15 80 Dal Monte (31)
Swimming 50 m 95 5 0 Powers and Howley (99)
100 m 80 15 5 Powers and Howley (99)
200 m 30 65 5 Powers and Howley (99)
400 m 20 40 40 Powers and Howley (99)
800 m 10 30 60 Mathews and Fox (86)
1,500 m 10 20 70 Powers and Howley (99)
Tennis 70 20 10 Powers and Howley (99)
Volleyball 90 10 0 Powers and Howley (99)
Water polo 30 40 30 Dal Monte (31)
Wrestling 45 55 0 Powers and Howley (99)
The coach or athlete should consider the durations of a rally in racket sports, a tactical 
segment of a game in basketball or ice hockey, and the rest interval between bouts of exer-
cise. For example, when designing training programs for sports such as football, soccer, or 
rugby, the coach should consider the position the athlete plays on the team. In American football, the average play lasts between 4 and 6 s and players have rest intervals of 25 to 45 s; in addition, different positions have very different physiological challenges (98). When 
looking at soccer, the coach should consider the distance covered by the various positions 
(defenders ~10 km; midfield players ~12 km; forwards ~10.5 km); these distances will affect the bioenergetic stressors placed on each athlete (7). In a soccer match, high-intensity exercise 
that taxes the anaerobic system lasts around 7 min with an average of 19 sprints that last 
about 2.0 s, with the remainder of the activity taxing the aerobic system (7).
Summary of Major Concepts
The purpose of training is to increase athletes’ working capacity, skill effectiveness, and psychological qualities to improve their performance in competitions. Training is a long-
term endeavor. Athletes are not developed overnight, and a coach cannot create miracles by 
cutting corners and overlooking scientific and methodological theories.
As athletes train, they adapt or adjust to the training load. The better the athlete’s anatom-
ical, physiological, and psychological adaptation, the higher the probability of improving 
his or her athletic performance.
Supercompensation is the most important concept in training. The dynamics of a 
supercompensation cycle depend on planned training intensities. Good planning must consider supercompensation because its application in training ensures the restoration of 

Periodization28
energy and, most importantly, helps athletes avoid critical levels of fatigue that can result 
in overtraining.
To conduct an effective training program, coaches must understand energy systems, the 
fuel used by each system, and how much time athletes need to restore energy fuels used in training and competition. A good understanding of restoration time for an energy system is the foundation for calculating rest intervals between training activities during a workout, between workouts, and after a competition.

292 Principles of Training
Since athletic training began, more than 3,000 years ago (see The Aeneid, written by
the Roman poet Virgil in the second decade BC), athletes and trainers have established and 
followed principles of training. These principles have evolved through the years as a result of research in the biological, pedagogical, and psychological sciences. These principles of sports training are the foundation of the theory and methodology of training.
The main objective of training is to increase the athlete’s sporting skills and, ultimately, 
level of sporting performance. Training principles are part of a whole concept and should not be viewed in isolated units. However, they are often examined separately to better understand the basic concepts. Correct use of these training principles will result in superior training programs and well-trained athletes.
Multilateral Development 
Versus Specialization
The overall development of athletes involves striking a balance between multilateral develop-ment and specialized training. In general, the early development of athletes should focus on multilateral development, which targets the overall physical development of the athletes. As the athlete becomes more developed, the proportion of specialized training, which focuses primarily on the skills needed in the targeted sport, steadily increases. In order to effectively develop the athlete, the coach must understand the importance of each of these two training stages and how the training focus changes as the athlete develops.
Multilateral Development
Support for the concept of multilateral development is found in most areas of education and human endeavors. In athletics, multilateral development, or overall physical development, is a necessity (9, 25, 83). The use of a multilateral development plan is extremely important during the early stages of an athlete’s development (83). Multilateral development during the athlete’s formative years lays the groundwork for later periods of training when specializa-tion becomes a greater focus of the training plan. If properly implemented, the multilateral training phase will allow the athlete to develop the physiological and psychological basis needed to maximize performance later in her career (83).
The temptation to deviate from a multilateral development plan and begin specialized 
training too soon can be very great, especially when a young athlete demonstrates rapid development in a sporting activity. In such cases, it is paramount that the instructor, coach, or parent resist this temptation; it has been well documented that a broad multilateral base of physical development is necessary to prepare the athlete for more specialized training later in his development (9, 25, 83). If training is sequenced appropriately and begins with a strong foundation of multilateral training early in the athlete’s development, the athlete 

Periodization30
1will be able to achieve much higher levels of physical prepara-
tion and technical mastery and ultimately will achieve higher 
levels of performance.
A sequential approach to an athlete’s development, pro-
gressing from multilateral to specialized training as the athlete 
matures, appears to be a prerequisite for maximizing sporting 
performance (25, 79, 84). Figure 2.1 illustrates a conceptual 
model for a long-term sequential approach to training.
The base of the pyramid in figure 2.1 represents a period 
of multilateral development, which is the foundation of the training program. This part of the training program includes 
multifaceted motor development, multisport skills, and some 
sport-specific skills. The variety of exercise that the athlete undertakes during this time allows 
for full development of the child’s physiological systems. For example, in this phase of train-
ing the neuromuscular, cardiovascular, and energy systems are activated in various ways to 
allow for balanced development. When the athlete’s development reaches an acceptable level, especially her physical development, she will progress to the second phase of development, which is marked by a greater degree of specialization.
The multilateral phase of training does not exclude specificity in the training process. On 
the contrary, training specificity is present in all stages of a training program but in varying proportions, as can be seen in figure 2.2. Figure 2.2 shows that during the multilateral phase of training, the percentage of specialized training is very small. As the athlete matures, the 
degree of specialization increases. It is believed that the multilateral base serves as a foun-
dation for future development and helps the athlete avoid overuse injuries and staleness in training (83).
Support for the benefits of multilateral development can be seen in three longitudinal 
studies performed in three countries (18, 22, 46). In a 14-year study in the former East E6954/Bompa/F02.01/578249/mh-R1Multilateral
developmentSpecialized
trainingHigh
performance
ChildhoodJunior
athletesMaturationStages of development
FIGURE 2.1 Sequential model for long-term athletic 
training.
E6954/Bompa/F02.02/578250/mh-R1Multilateral
development
Specialized
training24
22
20
18
16
14
12
10Age (years)
40
6080
20
FIGURE 2.2 Comparison between early specialization and multilateral development.

Principles of Training31
Germany (46), a large number of 9- to 12-year-olds were placed into two groups. The first 
group trained in a manner similar to the approach taken in North America, focusing on early specialization in a given sport. These athletes used exercises and training methods that were specific to a particular sport. The second group followed a generalized program that focused 
on multilateral development. This group participated in a variety of sports, learned a variety 
of skills, and undertook overall physical training in addition to sport-specific skills training. The results of this investigation support the contention that a strong foundation, which is 
established by using a multilateral approach, leads to greater athletic success.
Russian sources (22) often refer to a survey that resulted in similar findings. This longi-
tudinal study concluded that specialization should not start in most sports before the age 
of 15. Some of the major findings of this study are as follows:
• Most of the best Russian athletes had a strong multilateral foundation.
• Most athletes started training at 7 or 8 years of age. During the first few years, all athletes participated in various sports, such as soccer, cross-country skiing, running, skating, swimming, and cycling. From ages 10 to 13, the children also participated 
in team sports, gymnastics, rowing, and track and field.
• Specialized programs started at ages 15 to 17, without neglecting earlier sports and 
activities. Best performances were achieved after 5 to 8 years in the specialized sports.
• Athletes who specialized at a much earlier age achieved their best performances at a junior age level (<18 years). These performances were never duplicated when they became seniors (>18 years). Many retired before reaching senior levels. Only a minority 
of the athletes who specialized at a young age were able to improve performance at 
senior level.
Comparison Between Early Specialization  
and Multilateral Development
Early Specialization
 •Quick performance improvement
 •Best performances achieved at 15 to 16 years of age because of quick adaptation
 •Inconsistent performance in competition
 •High incidence of burnout and quitting sport by age 18
 •Increased risk of injury because of forced adaptation and lack of physiological development
Multilateral Development
 •Slower performance improvement
 •Best performances at age 18 or older when the athlete has reached physiological and 
psychological maturation
 •Consistent and progressive performance in competition
 •Longer athletic career
 •Fewer injuries as a result of more progressive loading patterns and overall physiological development
Based on Harre 1982 (46).

Periodization32
• Many top-class athletes started to train in an organized environment at the junior 
level (14-18 years of age). They had never been junior champions or held national 
records, but at the senior age many of them achieved national- and international-class 
performances.
• Most athletes considered their success attributable to the multilateral foundation built during childhood and junior age.
The third study, conducted by Carlson (18), analyzed the training background and devel-
opment patterns of elite Swedish tennis players who were very successful in international competition. The subjects were divided into a study group that consisted of elite adult tennis players and a control group that was matched by age, gender, and junior rankings. The most 
relevant findings are shown in the summary of research on page 33. Both groups of players were equal in skills up to the age group of 12 to 14; the difference in skills between the two 
groups occurred after this age. Researchers also found that, in the control group, skill devel-opment was fast during early adolescence, and these players participated in an atmosphere of high demand for success. Interestingly, the control group players specialized at age 1 1, 
whereas the study group did not begin to specialize until age 14. In fact, the study group 
participated in a wide variety of sporting activities during early adolescence, whereas the control group performed specialized, professional-like training. Although the control group demonstrated significantly greater performances as juniors, the study group demonstrated 
their highest levels of performance as senior athletes. The work of Carlson (18) supports the 
importance of a multilateral training approach that is marked by all-around sport engagement and less professional-type training during early childhood and adolescence.
The coach should consider multilateral training in the early stages of an athlete’s devel-
opment as the foundation for future specialization and athletic mastery (58). Multilateral training should be used mostly when training children and juniors (9, 58). In these stages of athlete development, it is essential that a strong vocabulary of physical and psycholog-
ical attributes be developed. Physical skill sets that are essential during this phase of train-
ing include natural movements like running, jumping, climbing, and throwing (58, 78).  
Additionally, it is important to develop speed, agility, coordination, flexibility, and overall general fitness at this phase of development. These training goals are best accomplished 
through diverse activities that allow for the development of several biomotor abilities. In 
this process, the young athlete will be taught a diverse group of exercise techniques, which include some of the technical aspects of the selected sport. All of these skill sets will be used 
as the athlete becomes more developed and as multilateral training becomes less of a focus.
All athletes should participate in multilateral training to some degree throughout their 
careers (figure 2.2). The greatest amount of multilateral training occurs during the early 
stages of development; as the athlete progresses, there is less focus on this type of training. 
Multilateral development is essential to optimize the effects of specialized training later in 
the athlete’s career.
Specialization
Whether training on a field, in a pool, or in a gymnasium, the athlete eventually will spe-cialize in a sport or event. Training for a sport results in physiological adaptations that are 
specific to the activity’s movement pattern, metabolic demand, force generation pattern, 
contraction type, and muscle recruitment pattern (28, 82, 89). The type of training used has a very specific effect on the athlete’s physiological characteristics (21). For example, endur-ance training has the ability to stimulate both central and peripheral adaptations, which can 
include altering neural recruitment patterns, modifying bioenergetic or metabolic factors, 
and stimulating significant skeletal muscle alterations (2, 48). Conversely, strength training results in significant alterations to the contractile machinery, neuromuscular system, and 
bioenergetic or metabolic pathways (1, 21). Contemporary research suggests that skeletal 
muscle exhibits a large amount of plasticity in response to different modalities of strength 

Principles of Training33
or endurance training; this results in the activation or deactivation of different molecular 
signaling pathways depending on the type of training encountered (4, 6, 7, 21, 67, 68, 100). 
Specific adaptations are not limited to physiological responses because technical, tactical, 
and psychological traits are also developed in response to specialized training. It is likely that each sporting activity can develop attributes that allow the athlete to achieve a high level of mastery.
Specialization is a complex, nonunilateral process that is based on multilateral develop-
ment. As an athlete progresses from a beginner to a mature athlete who has mastered his sport, the total volume and intensity of training progressively increase, as does the degree of 
specialization. Several authors suggest that the best training adaptations occur in response 
to exercises specific to the sporting activity and exercises that target given biomotor abil-ities only after a multilateral foundation has been developed (22, 78). The former refers to exercises that parallel or mimic the movements of the sport; the latter refers to exercises 
that develop strength, speed, and endurance. The ratio between these two exercise groups 
varies for each sport, depending on the sport’s characteristics. In long-distance running, for example, approximately 90% of the volume of training consists of sport-specific exercises. 
In other sports, like high jumping, these exercises represent only 40%; exercises that develop 
leg strength and jumping power make up the rest. When working with advanced athletes, coaches should dedicate only 60% to 80% of the total training time to sport-specific exercise (figure 2.2) and should dedicate the remainder of training to developing biomotor abilities.
Coaches should carefully plan the ratio between multilateral and specialized training, 
taking into consideration the modern tendency to lower the age of athletic maturation. In some sports, athletes achieve a high level of performance at young ages and thus must enter Summary of Research Examining the Effects  
of Early Specialization and Multilateral Training  
on Athlete Development
Control Group
 •Began to specialize at age 11, when multilateral training ceased
 •Experienced significantly less multilateral training during early development ages
 •Practiced tennis more than the study group between the ages of 13 and 15
 •Tended to lose self-confidence as they progressed through training
 •Developed faster than the study group during early adolescence
 •Experienced greater pressure for success during early stages of development from parents 
and coaches
Study Group
 •Began to specialize at age 14 or older
 •Experienced significantly more multilateral training during early development stages
 •Practiced tennis more than the control group after age 15
 •Tended to gain self-confidence as they progressed through training
 •Developed more slowly than the control group during early adolescence
 •Experienced less pressure for success during early stages of development from parents and coaches
Adapted from Carlson 1988 (18).

Periodization34
the sport at a young age (25). Examples of these sports include artistic gymnastics, gymnas-
tics, figure skating, swimming, and diving. However, recent changes to Olympic competition 
rules may increase the average age for high-level gymnastics performance. For example, to 
compete in the Olympics a female gymnast must turn 16 during the year of the Olympic Games. During the years 2005 to 2007, the average age of competitors at the gymnastics world championships was about 18 (84).
Table 2.1 presents a rough guide for the age an individual can begin to train, the age when 
specialization may start, and the age when the highest performance is usually reached. Some authors suggest that the optimal age to begin training is between 5 and 9 (9, 12). During 
these early phases of training the coach should focus on developing a physical literacy that 
includes basic skills such as running, jumping, and throwing (9). It is important to develop 
these skills at the initiation of training because young athletes seem to develop these abilities 
at a faster rate than more mature athletes. Once the athlete develops the basics skills, he can 
TABLE 2.1 Age of Starting, Specializing in, and Reaching High Performance  
 in Different Sports
SportAge to begin  
trainingAge to start  specializationAge when highest  performance is achieved
Archery 12-14 16-18 23-30
Athletics (track and field)
 Sprinting 10-12 14-16 22-26
 Middle-distance running 13-14 16-17 22-26
 Long-distance running 14-16 17-20 25-28
 High jump 12-14 16-18 22-25
 Triple jump 12-14 17-19 23-26
 Long jump 12-14 17-19 23-26
 Throws 14-15 17-19 23-27
Badminton 10-12 14-16 20-25
Baseball 10-12 15-16 22-28
Basketball 10-12 14-16 22-28
Biathlon 10-12 16-17 23-26
Bobsled 12-14 17-18 22-26
Boxing 13-15 16-17 22-26
Canoeing 12-14 15-17 22-26
Chess 7-8 12-15 23-35
Continental handball 10-12 14-16 22-26
Cycling 12-15 16-18 22-28
Diving Women 6-8 9-11 14-18
 Men 8-10 11-13 18-22

35SportAge to begin  
trainingAge to start  specializationAge when highest  performance is achieved
Equestrian 10-12 14-16 22-28
Fencing 10-12 14-16 20-25
Field hockey 11-13 14-16 20-25
Figure skating 7-9 11-13 18-25
Football 12-14 16-18 23-27
Gymnastics
 Women 6-8 9-10 14-18
 Men 8-9 14-15 22-25
Ice hockey 6-8 13-14 22-28
Judo 8-10 15-16 22-26
Modern pentathlon 11-13 14-16 21-25
Rowing 11-14 16-18 22-25
Rugby 13-14 16-17 22-26
Sailing 10-12 14-16 22-30
Shooting 12-15 17-18 24-30
Skiing
 Alpine 7-8 12-14 18-25
 Nordic 12-14 16-18 23-28
 More than 30K — 17-19 24-28
 Jumping 10-12 14-15 22-26
Speedskating 10-12 15-16 22-26
Soccer 10-12 14-16 22-26
Squash and handball 10-12 15-17 23-27
Swimming Women 7-9 11-13 18-22
 Men <7-8 13-15 20-24
Synchronized swimming 6-8 12-14 19-23
Table tennis 8-9 13-14 22-25
Tennis Women 7-8 11-13 20-25
 Men 7-8 12-14 22-27
Volleyball 10-12 15-16 22-26
Water polo 10-12 16-17 23-26
Weightlifting 14-15 17-18 23-27
Wrestling 11-13 17-19 24-27
Reprinted, by permission, from T .O. Bompa and M. Carrera, 2015, Conditioning young athletes (Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics), 9.

Periodization36
begin some specialized training for his chosen sport. This generally occurs between ages 10 
and 14 (9). As stated previously multilateral training is the primary focus until around age 
14, after which more specialized training occurs.
Individualization
Individualization is one of the main requirements of contemporary training. Individu-
alization requires that the coach consider the athlete’s abilities, potential, and learning 
characteristics and the demands of the athlete’s sport, regardless of the performance level. 
Each athlete has physiological and psychological attributes that need to be considered when 
developing a training plan.
Too often, coaches take an unscientific approach to training by literally following training 
programs of successful athletes or sport programs with complete disregard for the athlete’s training experience, abilities, and physiological makeup. Even worse, some coaches take 
programs from elite athletes and apply them to junior athletes who have not yet developed the physical literacy, physiological base, or psychological skills needed to undertake these types of programs. Young athletes are not physiologically or psychologically able to tolerate programs created for advanced athletes (26, 27, 39, 99). The coach needs to understand the 
athlete’s needs and develop training plans that meet those needs. This can be accomplished 
by following some guidelines.
Plan According to Tolerance Level
The training plan must be based on a comprehensive analysis of the athlete’s physiological and psychological parameters, which will give the coach insight into the athlete’s work 
capacity. An individual’s training capacity can be determined by the following factors:
• Biological age:  The biological age of an athlete is considered a more accurate indicator 
of the individual’s physical performance potential than his chronological age (25, 
65). One of the best indicators of biological age is sexual maturation (15, 38) because it indicates an increase in circulating testosterone levels (65, 75). Athletes who are 
more physically mature, as indicated by a higher biological age, appear to be stronger, faster, and better at team sports than their peers who exhibit a lower biological age, even when chronological age is the same (38, 65). In general children have a greater resistance to fatigue, which may explain why they respond better to higher volumes of 
training (73). On the other hand, older adults appear to exhibit a decreased motiva-
tion to train intensely (91), an increased prevalence of injuries (55), and an increased occurrence of social stressors (91), all of which may contribute to a decreased ability 
to tolerate intense training. Most junior athletes tolerate high volumes of training 
with moderate loads better than high-intensity or high-load training (27, 39, 73). The combination of heavy loading and high volume is of concern with youth athletes because this practice may increase the risk of musculoskeletal injuries (39).
• Training age: Training age is defined as the number of years an individual has been preparing for a sporting activity (12), and it is considerably different than the biological 
or chronological age. Athletes with a high training age have developed a substantial 
training base and most likely will be able to participate in a specialized training plan, especially if their early training was multilateral. An athlete who has a high chrono-logical age in conjunction with a low training age may need more multilateral and 
skill acquisition training because he lacks the training base to allow for a high degree 
of specialization in his sport.
• Training history:  The athlete’s training history influences his work capacity. An athlete 
who has undertaken substantial multilateral training is more likely to have developed her physical potential and readiness for more challenging training, compared with 
an athlete who has not been trained as well.

Principles of Training37
• Health status:  An athlete who is ill or injured will have a reduced work capacity and 
often will not be able to tolerate the prescribed training loads. The type of illness or 
degree of injury and the physiological base converge to determine the training load 
that the athlete can tolerate (89). The coach must monitor the athlete’s health status to determine an appropriate training load.
• Stress and the recovery rate:  The ability to tolerate a training load is often related to 
all of the stressors that the athlete encounters (89). Overall stressors are considered 
additive, and factors that place a high demand on the athlete can alter his ability to 
tolerate a training load (92). For example, heavy involvement in school, work, or family activities can affect the athlete’s ability to tolerate a training load. Travel to and from work, school, or training can further contribute to stress levels. Coaches 
should consider these factors and adjust the training load accordingly. For example, 
during times of high stress, such as academic examinations, a reduction in training load may be warranted.
Individualize the Training Load
The ability to adapt to a training load depends on the individual’s capacity. As outlined in the preceding section, many factors contribute to the individualized response to training loads 
and progressions: the athlete’s training history, health status, life stress, chronological age, 
biological age, and training age. Simply mimicking the training plans of elite athletes will not result in high levels of performance (89). Rather, the coach must address the athlete’s needs and capacities by developing an individualized program; this requires detailed obser-
vations of the athlete’s technical and tactical abilities, physical characteristics, strengths, and 
weaknesses. As will be discussed later in this chapter, in the section about training models, periodic testing of the athlete will allow for more specific and individualized training plans 
to be developed. If athletes are roughly at the same level of development and stage of train-
ing, less individualization of the training plan may be needed (89).
The age and skill level of an athlete, along with other factors, must be taken  
into consideration when planning training and practice sessions.

Periodization38
Account for Gender Differences
Gender differences can play an important role in performance and individualized training 
adaptations. Prepubescent boys and girls are very similar in height, weight, girth, bone width, 
and skinfold thickness (99). After the onset of puberty, boys and girls begin to develop 
substantial differences in physical attributes. After puberty girls tend to have higher levels of body fat, lower amounts of fat-free mass, and lighter total body masses (99). From a performance perspective, it is clear that men and women differ in muscle mass and strength 
(29, 35, 54, 93), anaerobic power and capacity (36, 64), and maximal aerobic capacity and 
performance (3, 19, 20, 24, 81).
Some researchers suggest that gender differences are related to anatomical or biomechani-
cal factors (60, 66), whereas others suggest that training experiences and access to specialized training partially explain gender differences in performance (60). Support for the contention that training may partially explain the difference between the genders has been offered by Kraemer and colleagues (57), who found that differences in performance between men and 
women were substantially reduced when appropriate training was undertaken by women.
After looking at elite anaerobic performances (sprinting, swimming, and speedskat-
ing) from 1952 to 2006, Seiler and colleagues (80) reported that performance differences 
between males and females initially decreased, but more recently performances differences 
between the genders have ceased to narrow. Cheuvront and colleagues (19) discovered a 
similar trend in distance running performance when they compared performance variables between men and women.
Women are able to tolerate extensive and intensive training programs (17). In fact, Cao (17) 
suggested that women are capable of handling higher volumes and intensities of resistance training than their male counterparts. However, caution should be taken when examining these data because women do have specific areas that need to be addressed. For example, 
women tend to be weaker in the upper body (17, 28) and trunk musculature (17). The 
inclusion of more exercises to strengthen these areas in female athletes may be warranted.
The performance responses of female athletes during the different phases of the men-
strual cycle appear to be very individualized (99). The scientific literature suggests that in 
most situations, maximal and submaximal aerobic performance (53) and anaerobic per-
formance (14, 53) are not affected by the menstrual cycle. However, the scientific literature suggests that temperature regulation is compromised during the luteal phase as a result of 
an increase in core temperature (53). This may be an important consideration for women 
who are exercising or training for extended periods of time in hot and humid conditions.
Incorporate Training Variation
Variation is one of the key components needed to induce adaptations in response to training. Skill acquisition and performance increase rapidly when novel tasks are first undertaken, 
but the rate of skill acquisition slows with repetition of the same training plan or loading 
structure over time (51). Stone and colleagues (86) suggested that a lack of training varia-tion can result in monotonous program overtraining. This condition occurs if the same 
training stimulus is introduced regularly for long periods of time, ultimately resulting in 
a reduction or plateau of performance, which could be defined as a form of overtraining. In support of this contention, O’Toole (69) suggested that the degree of monotony in the 
training plan is significantly related to poor performance.
Periodization of training not only decreases monotony or boredom in training but also 
sequences training phases in such a way that morphofunctional adaptations build on each other and ultimately induce greater physiological adaptations. Zatsiorsky (101) suggested 
that periodization is a balancing act between training variation and stability (monotony or repetition) of training. Thus variation of training is of paramount importance when considering periodization (72, 82, 89). Optimal training adaptations occur in response 
to a systematic variation in training load and content. If inadequate variation is provided 

Principles of Training39
and the program is monotonous, performance will not be optimized. This happens when 
the nervous system is not overloaded sufficiently to stimulate physiological adaptations 
(86, 89).
Variation can be incorporated into the training plan at many levels. For example, variation 
at the microcycle level can be added by altering training volume, intensity, frequency, and exercise selection. Usually, if a high variability of loading parameters is planned within the 
microcycle, the exercise selection stays more stable; on the other hand, if more stable loading parameters are planned within the microcycle, it is the exercise selection that varies more. Variation of exercises and loading parameters is built into the methodological concept of 
periodization of training. For example, to develop leg strength and power  for volleyball or 
track and field, the athlete can practice full back squats during the general preparation phase and half squats during the specific preparation phase. During the late preparatory phase, the 
emphasis may shift from strength development to power-generating capacity. Thus the full or the half squat might still be used for maximum strength maintenance, whereas the quarter 
speed squat or the quarter jump squat can be used for power development. Therefore, the 
exercise program may shift as follows:
Back squat ➞ 1/2 back squat ➞ 1/4 speed squat ➞ 1/4 jump squat
Another example of this concept can be seen in the preparation of cyclists. During the 
off-season, cyclists typically undertake training modalities such as 
cross-country skiing to maintain aerobic fitness and then return to 
training on the bike during the preparatory phase of training. The introduction–reintroduction structure (89) suggests that returning to bicycle training would rapidly increase cycling ability because the task 
is seminovel when reintroduced.
Training variation can be introduced within or between microcy-
cles. For example, on some days of the microcycle the athlete trains multiple times per day, but on other days the athlete undertakes only 
one training session.
Multiple training sessions in the same training day have been shown 
to induce greater physiological adaptations than only one session per 
day (41). However, reducing the training frequency during the day can 
facilitate recovery, which may allow the athlete to train harder on 
subsequent days or microcycles.
Another way to vary the training plan is to systematically alternate 
the intensity of training. Alternating training intensity across the microcycle will allow for periods of stimulation and recovery, which have been suggested to induce greater physiological adaptations (89). 
Interestingly, alternating hard and light training sessions within the 
microcycle has been used to prepare both endurance athletes (69) and strength and power athletes (89). Another variation strategy is to 
alternate both training intensity and training frequency. For example, 
when manipulating the training intensity within an individual training day, a morning session may occur at a high training intensity and the subsequent afternoon session may be performed at a lower intensity. On the next training day, the number of sessions may be decreased to 
facilitate recovery or increased to increase the training stimulus.
Training variation is limited only by the coach’s ability to apply 
scientific principles in a creative fashion. The implementation of training variation should be based on a complete understanding of 
the bioenergetics (ergogenesis) of the sport (28, 70, 89), movement patterns used in the sport (28), skills needed in the sport, and the athlete’s level of development or training age (89). Advanced athletes 
will require more loading  variation but less exercise variation than 
Changing the intensity of a training load, 
such as adding a jump to a squat,  
is one way to add variation to a training  
plan and achieve greater  
physiological adaptations.

Periodization40
novice athletes, who have a very small training base and need a multilateral approach to 
exercise selection. Novice athletes can achieve very good results with basic training models, 
even though there is significantly less variation in the training plan.
Development of the Training Model
Training models, while not always well organized and often applied randomly, have been 
used since the 1960s (1 1). Although many Eastern European sport specialists acquired 
knowledge and experience in the use of training models, a general trend toward the use of 
these tools did not occur throughout the world until the 1970s (10, 16).
It is well documented that training and performance are highly related but very indi-
vidualized (5, 49). The development of a training model centers on the notion of training specificity and individualization of training programs (1 1, 49, 74, 90). Training models that 
allow for implementation, analysis, assessment, and modification of the training plan based 
on physiological and performance parameters are of particular use in the development of athletes (90).
The development of a training model is a long-term process that is in continual flux, 
because the training model will evolve in conjunction with the athlete’s development. The 
development of a model is a labor-intensive process that relies on previous models, current 
athlete evaluations, and a strong scientific foundation. Although the process is time con-suming, the time is well spent: The better the training model, the more likely the athlete 
is to achieve a high level of performance. The model must be continually evaluated and 
modified in response to new scientific knowledge, the athlete’s level of development, and assessments of the athlete’s progress. A theoretical method for developing a training model is presented in figure 2.3.
The development of a training model begins with a detailed analysis of the scientific 
literature regarding the sport. Understanding the physiological (e.g., bioenergetics) (74), morphological (37), anatomical, biomotor (56), and psychological characteristics (76) 
associated with a sport is the foundation for the second phase of developing a training 
model. The second phase requires the development of a targeted testing program that can be used to analyze the athlete’s training state. For example, the scientific literature on throwing indicates that maximum strength and explosive power are related to high levels of 
performance (88). Therefore, physiological tests should be developed and implemented to 
evaluate the athlete’s force-generating capacity (i.e., peak force-generating capacity, rate of force development, maximum strength) and explosive strength (i.e., peak power assessments, 
one-repetition maximum (1RM), power clean 1RM). The athlete’s tactical and technical 
skills must also be evaluated to delineate areas of weakness, which can then be addressed by the training model. Tests should be developed that evaluate the athlete for areas of physical deficit or injury risk (e.g., range of motion, muscle imbalances). Other areas that can be 
evaluated include psychological traits (e.g., mood state), sleep status (e.g., quality of sleep), 
and nutritional practices. Finally, the athlete’s training logs and competitive performance results should be evaluated to determine what was effective in the previous training model.
Once the evaluation of the athlete is completed, the coach interprets all the data that 
are collected. The training model is designed to target the athlete’s needs to enhance the likelihood of a high level of performance. In this phase of the model, major training factors are established. These factors include the loading progression, training intensity, volume of training, frequency of training, and the number of repetitions necessary to stimulate the 
appropriate physiological and psychological adaptations. Additionally, the tactical, techni-
cal, and strategic components of the training model are established and integrated into the training model. The training model is very specific to the individual or team because the 
results of testing help the coach establish training parameters. After the training model is 
developed, it is then implemented.
During the implementation phase, the athlete must be continually monitored so the 
coach can detect any maladaptations. A comprehensive monitoring plan includes periodic 

Principles of Training41
evaluation of physiological attributes (i.e., physiological testing similar to that conducted 
during the evaluation phase of model development), training log data, psychological status, 
nutritional status, and technical skill development. During this phase, if the coach questions 
the effectiveness of the training model, it should be reevaluated and modified to ensure that performance goals are reached.
The primary test of the effectiveness of the training model is the athlete’s competitive results. 
If the athlete achieves success in competition, the training model is considered validated. 
After the completion of the competitive period, specifically during the transition phase, the 
model continues to evolve as the athlete is reevaluated. This reevaluation includes a critical and comprehensive examination of the past training year to determine whether training goals, objectives, and performance standards were achieved. All of the testing conducted through
-
out the training year is evaluated to determine whether trends occurred that either increased or decreased performance. How well the athlete coped with training and competitive stress 
should be evaluated to determine whether improvement in this area is needed. After conduct
-
ing this evaluation, the coach decides whether to use a new model for the next annual plan.E6954/Bompa/F02.03/578256/mh-R1Observe and analyze
scientific literature
Formulate testing battery and
observation plan
Interpret training and
testing data
Use athlete’s results to
validate the modelEvaluate athlete
Test model in competitionsNo maladaptationMaladaptationDevelop training model
Implement training model Modify training model
Reevaluate training model Monitor training model
FIGURE 2.3 Sequence of developing a training model.

Periodization42
Load Progression
Athletes' performance results have improved since 1975. There are many reasons for these 
elevations in performance, but clearl,y the ability to tolerate higher training loads is at the 
center of this phenomenon. Support for this contention is shown by the increase in training 
loads seen between 1975 and 2000 (table 2.2).
Improvements in performance are a direct result of the amount and quality of work the 
athlete achieves during training. From beginner to elite athletes, the training workload 
must increase gradually and be varied periodically according to each athlete’s physiological 
capacity, psychological abilities, and work tolerance.
The training load can be thought of as a combination of intensity, volume, and frequency of 
training (83). The training load is determined by the degree of specificity of training and the 
performance development status of the athlete (82). There is a complex interaction between 
the athlete’s preparedness, the training load, and the athlete’s ability to tolerate training (83).
The application of a training load results in a cascade of physiological responses that 
allow the athlete to adapt to the training stimulus. This adaptation elevates his preparedness 
and leads to a greater tolerance for training as well as an increase in performance capacity 
(83, 102). As the athlete adapts to the training load, the load must increase for continued physiological adaptations to occur.
Training loads can be roughly classified according to their effects on physiological adap-
tations as stimulating, retaining, or detraining (101, 102). A stimulating load is a training 
load that is higher than the athlete’s typical training load. Conversely, a detraining load is 
substantially lower than usual. A detraining load ultimately results in a loss of prepared-ness and a loss of performance capacity. In between these two loading classifications is the 
retaining load, which is the athlete’s typical workload. The retaining load allows the athlete 
to maintain preparedness while undergoing recovery. As the athlete adapts to a stimulat-ing load, that load becomes the retaining load and the previous retaining load becomes a detraining load. Thus, the loading classification is a fluid concept that changes as the 
athlete adapts, so the coach must pay attention to the sequence of the training loads in the 
periodized training plan.
A correctly sequenced training load will be increased gradually, ultimately resulting in 
an increase in performance capacity (83). If, however, the training load is suddenly and dramatically increased, it will take more time for the physiological adaptations to occur and performance gains to be realized (89, 95, 101, 102); with sudden increases, the risk of maladaptations and injury is high. The time frame needed for recovery and adaptation is 
directly proportional to the magnitude of the sudden increase in training load (89).
TABLE 2.2 Dynamics of Volume of Training From 1975 to 2000
Sport Training volumeYear
1975 1985 2000
Gymnastics (women) Elements per week 3,450 6,000 5-6,000
Routines per week 86 86 150
Rowing (women) Kilometers per year 4,500 6,800 6,500-7,000
Fencing Training hours per year 980 1,150 1,100-1,200
Football (soccer) Training hours per year 460 560 500-600
Swimming (100 m) Training hours per year 980 1,070 1,000-1,040
Boxing Training hours per year 960 1,040 1,000-1,100

Principles of Training43
The gradual, systematic manipulation of the training load is the basis for periodization of 
training and is found at all levels of the training plan (from the microcycle to the Olympic 
cycle) in all levels of athletes. The appropriate sequencing of the training load is directly 
related to the athlete’s performance improvements. Loading structures vary among different sports and geographical regions of the world. A brief examination of several loading theories is presented in the following sections.
Standard Loading
Standard loading involves the use of similar training loads and frequencies throughout the 
preparatory phase of training. When standard loading is used regularly during the preparatory 
phase, performance improvements occur only during the early part of this phase.
As the athlete shifts from the preparatory phase of training to the competitive phase, 
the training stimulus remains very similar, with the exception of a reduction in training load. If standard loading is implemented in this fashion, performance plateaus during the competitive phase (see figure 1.4 on page 9). This plateau in performance occurs as a result 
of a lack of variation in the training load. If suboptimal training loads are used during the 
competition phase, performance will most likely deteriorate, especially during the later part of this phase (52).
Because performance improves only during the early portion of the preparatory phase, 
training load must be increased each training year. Contemporary training theorists suggest 
that this type of loading is suboptimal in almost all situations and that strategies using step 
loading or conjugated sequencing may result in greater performance enhancements in the long term (71). Therefore, to optimize performance adaptations in response to the training 
load, the load must be increased year over year to create the stimulus necessary for supe-
rior physiological adaptations. These enhancements will occur only if the training plan is sequenced appropriately and includes adequate periods of recovery.
Linear Loading
The linear loading of training is a concept that appears to violate many of the tenets of periodization (71, 89); however, this type of loading structure is very popular. According 
to the original proponents of this principle (50, 59), performance will increase only if the 
athlete trains at her maximal capacity against workloads that are gradually increased and are progressively higher than those normally encountered (8, 71, 72). Conceptually, this would lead to a loading curve that depicts a continual increase 
across time (figure 2.4). Although the literature has clearly 
demonstrated that the training load should be increased across the training cycle of the athlete’s career (87, 102), this method 
of loading may only be useful during a short period of time, 
especially for beginners (23, 31, 32, 34, 45). If linear loading is undertaken for a long period of time, overtraining likely will result. If overtraining does occur, the athlete will exhibit physiological and psychological maladaptations, a decrease 
in markers of performance, and a high level of fatigue (69). 
Thus, linear loading in its purest sense is not an optimal way to train, except when implemented for short periods of time, 
because it does not allow enough time for recovery and because 
the potential for burnout and injury increases incrementally.
E6954/Bompa/F02.04/578258/mh-R1200
160
120
100
80
60
40
Training days4 8 12 16 20Load increment (%)
FIGURE 2.4 Load increments according to linear 
loading.
Based on data from Hellebrandt and Houtz 1956 (50).

Periodization44
Step Loading
The step-loading model of training allows for a progressive 
overload that is interspersed with periods of unloading. It is 
sometimes referred to as a traditional or classic periodization 
model (1 1b, 62, 63, 71). The use of unloading phases or main-tenance loads allows for regeneration, greater physiological adaptations, and periods of psychological restoration. With the 
step-loading model (figure 2.5), a wavelike increase in training 
load occurs (87, 89, 96, 102). Because one training session is insufficient to provoke noticeable physiological or psycho-
logical adaptations, it is often recommended that the same 
stimulus be repeated over several training sessions. This type of loading uses a 3:1 loading structure, in which the training load is increased across three microcycles and then is reduced 
during the fourth microcycle to allow recovery and avoid the 
problems typically associated with overtraining.
Figure 2.5 illustrates a classic 3:1 loading structure (1 1b, 
1 1c). There is much evidence to support using a 4-week mac-
rocycle of training (63, 71, 89) or a 2- to 6-week (usually 4 weeks) macrocycle of training (96, 101, 102). The load increases gradually in the first three microcycles as does the amount of accumulated fatigue, followed by an unloading phase that 
entails a decrease in training load and fatigue as depicted in 
the fourth microcycle in figure 2.5. This reduction in training load reduces fatigue, increases readiness, and induces a series 
of physiological adaptations that prepare the athlete for further 
loading in the next series of microcycles (89). A greater number of progressive loading steps can be granted at the beginning of the general preparation phase, as the starting training 
load will be low (figure 2.6). In some situations, it might be 
warranted to use only a few increasing steps. For example, a young athlete might use a 2:1 structure, with two microcycles 
of increasing training load followed by one microcycle of 
recovery (figure 2.7).
Step loading results in an intensification of workload with 
each progressive step, which develops a base for the next 
training macrocycle. This type of loading is excellent for novice 
athletes, athletes at the beginning of the general preparation 
phase, and for endurance athletes in general (71). Scientific 
support for including more microcycle variations and period-
ically including submaximal training can be found in both human (30) and animal (13) studies. This literature suggests 
that the periodic inclusion of light training days results in a 
greater potential for adaptive responses, which ultimately will increase performance.
Concentrated Loading
Short-term overloading is often classified as concentrated loading (91) or overreaching (61). The athlete usually can 
recover from this type of loading in a short period of time if 
she uses appropriate recovery loads (45). As a general rule, the greater the magnitude and duration of the concentrated E6954/Bompa/F02.05/578259/mh-R1Loading microcycle
Unloading microcycle
Fatigue
1 2 3 4Training load
Microcycle
E6954/Bompa/F02.06/578260/mh-R1Loading microcycleUnloading microcycle
1 2 3 4 5Training load
Microcycle
E6954/Bompa/F02.07/578261/mh-R1Loading microcycleUnloading microcycle
Fatigue
1 2 3Training load
MicrocycleFIGURE 2.5 A 3:1 loading structure.
FIGURE 2.6 A 4:1 macrocycle structure, indicated 
for the beginning of the general preparation phase.
FIGURE 2.7 A 2:1 loading structure.

Principles of Training45
loading phase, the more time needed for fatigue to dissipate and performance to improve 
(82, 89, 101, 102). Siff and Verkhoshansky (82) suggested that performance gains may occur 
after a period equivalent to the duration of the concentrated loading phase (figure 2.8).
Scientific support for the use of periodic concentrated loading or planned overreaching 
can be seen in studies that have explored the neuroendocrine responses to overreaching 
(40, 42, 44). Investigators have explored the hormonal and endocrine responses to short 
(1 week) and long (≥3 weeks) periods of concentrated loading followed by 2 to 5 weeks 
of recovery. The most commonly used endocrine measure is the testosterone/cortisol ratio  (T:C ratio), which indicates the anabolic–catabolic  balance. Although the T:C ratio 
is not a measure of overtraining, it does indicate readiness (72, 89, 97). Thus, a high T:C ratio often corresponds to a high level of performance (33, 71).
A significant increase in training load for 3 weeks or longer results in a decrease in the 
basal or preexercise T:C ratio, indicating a shift toward a catabolic state that corresponds to 
a reduction in performance or readiness (40, 42, 44). Conversely, if after the completion of 
a concentrated loading period the training load is returned to normal or lower levels, the T:C ratio and performance appear to supercompensate (40, 43). This phenomenon has also 
been observed in response to substantial increases in training load across one microcycle (33, 
85, 97). As noted previously, the duration of the concentrated loading block corresponds to the duration of restitution needed before the supercompensation of performance occurs (figure 2.8).
Conjugated Sequence Loading Structure
The conjugated sequence loading structure is also referred to as the coupled successive 
system (94). Viru (96), Siff and Verkhoshansky (82), and Plisk and Stone (71) suggested that 
this method of sequence loading allows for periods of concentrated loading or overreaching 
followed by periods of restitution. There are a multitude of methods for implementing this type of loading structure, but the most common method is to use blocks of four microcy-cles in which one primary emphasis is highlighted while maintenance loads are allocated 
to other areas of emphasis (71). Plisk and Stone (71) suggested that the primary goal of this type of loading is to give the athlete periods that are saturated with a specific training stimulus during which fatigue is elevated and some performance variables are decreased. 
For example, an athlete may undertake a concentrated loading block in which strength is the E6954/Bompa/F02.08/578262/mh-R1Training load Training loadStarting strength
Explosive strength
Absolute strength
Concentrated loading block
Normal training load
Taper
FIGURE 2.8 Time to adapt to concentrated loading.
Based upon Plisk and Stone 2003 (71) and Stone, Stone, and Sands 2007 (89).

Periodization46
major emphasis; then during the unloading blocks, the athlete decreases the emphasis on 
strength while slightly increasing speed work. This pattern of loading will result in a super-
compensation effect in which performance is increased dramatically (71). After completing 
this block, the athlete undertakes a block that imposes a progressively stronger specific stimulus, thus allowing the athlete to improve performance.
The literature notes several advantages to this type of loading structure (71, 77, 82, 85, 
92, 94-96, 98, 101). Proponents of this loading structure suggest that a potent stimulus 
can be delivered to the athlete and performance can be elevated to a higher level than with 
traditional loading structures. Additionally, this type of loading may alleviate the cumulative fatigue associated with parallel or concurrent training with traditional loading structures. Finally, work volumes can be reduced over the long term (71). Plisk and Stone (71) sug
-
gested that fatigue will be substantial during the accumulation or concentrated loading block, and the athlete must have the training capacity to tolerate these high training loads. 
Therefore, it is often recommended that this loading structure be used only with advanced 
athletes (71, 89).
A foundational concept that must be considered within the conjugated sequence theory 
is that training can be sequenced in such a way that performance can be elevated at given 
times. Plisk and Stone (71), in their seminal article on periodization strategies, offered a 
preseason training example in which concentrated loading blocks of training are inter-spersed with periods of restitution. In this example, 3-week blocks of concentrated loading are interspersed with 4-week blocks of recovery (table 2.3). Plisk and Stone (71) suggested that by manipulating the training frequency and duration significantly, different training loads can be used without changing the basic intensity and volume parameters. Additionally, these investigators suggested that the coach or athlete can create greater contrast between concentrated loading blocks and restitution blocks by further reducing the distribution of 
training during the restitution blocks.
TABLE 2.3 Conjugated Sequence Model of Training and a Modified Conjugated  
 Sequence Model of Training for the Preseason 
Training variableBlock of training
Conjugated loading 
block 1Recovery  block 1Conjugated loading block 2Recovery  block 2
Conjugated sequence model of training
Duration 3 weeks 4 weeks 3 weeks 4 weeks
Strength and power 
training12 total sessions
4 days/week12 total sessions3 days/week12 total sessions4 days/week12 total sessions3 days/week
Speed, agility, and  
conditioning training6 total sessions2 days/week12 total sessions3 days/week6 total sessions2 days/week12 total sessions3 days/week
Modified conjugated sequence creating more intrablock contrast
Duration 3 weeks 4 weeks 3 weeks 4 weeks
Strength and power 
training12 total sessions4 days/week8 total sessions2 days/week12 total sessions4 days/week8 total sessions2 days/week
Speed, agility, and  
conditioning training6 total sessions2 days/week12 total sessions3 days/week6 total sessions2 days/week12 total sessions3 days/week
Adapted from Plisk and Stone 2003 (71).

Principles of Training47
Flat Loading
A flat loading structure is used mainly for the specific preparation phase and 
the competitive phase in power sports (1 1d). In this model, two microcycles 
with similar loading are followed by a recovery microcycle. In the flat loading 
model (figure 2.9), the first two microcycles create a high physiological demand as a result of the load of training (which is an optimal load to stimulate the adaptations of the trained biomotor abilities, thus no overreaching is sought 
after). After the first two microcycles, the athlete undertakes a third easy micro-
cycle, called the unload or deload microcycle, during which fatigue is reduced and readiness elevates.
The step-loading model can be used in conjunction with the flat loading model 
to progressively increase the athlete’s training load. Figure 2.10 shows a prepara -
tory phase of training in which the training load changes according to the scope of the phase of training. The program shown in figure 2.10 may also be identified 
as three major subphases: general, specific, and precompetitive preparation.
In the general preparation subphase, two types of macrocycle structures (3:1 and 2:1) 
can be used to stimulate physiological and psychological adaptations that will prepare the 
athlete for the next subphase, which will involve intensive training. The training goals of 
general preparation are accomplished through a progressive increase in training load via 
the use of the step-loading model. After completing the general preparation subphase, the athlete moves to the specific preparation subphase of training.
In the specific preparation subphase, the primary goal is to elevate the athlete’s prepared-
ness, technical proficiency, and tactical skills as much as possible. This is accomplished by exposing the athlete to high training loads for a short series of microcycles followed by regenerative microcycles to offset overtraining. After the completion of this subphase, the 
focus of training shifts to stabilization and peaking, which comprise the competitive sub-
phase. Thus, the three phases prepare the athlete to perform at his highest possible level for his most important competition.
The dynamics of the loading pattern in the preparatory and competitive phases of training 
depend on the importance and frequency of competitions. The training loads in these phases are decreased to dissipate fatigue and begin to elevate the athlete’s level of performance (increase of readiness). Recent research suggests that higher intensities with less volume 
may be needed to maintain performance during the competitive phase of training (52). 
However, prior to major competitions, the training load will be decreased to allow the ath-lete to recover and, if timed correctly, supercompensate, which will maximize performance.
 
MicrocyclesL L L U L L U L L U
Macrocycle type
Step Flat Flat
Training phase
Preparatory Competitive
Training subphase
General Specific PrecompetitiveE6954/Bompa/F02.09/578264/mh-R1Loading microcycle
Unloading microcycle
1 2 3Training load
Microcycle
FIGURE 2.9 Example of a flat load-  
ing model.
FIGURE 2.10 Step and flat macrocycles within the preparatory phase. Step loading is more 
appropriate for the early preparatory phase, while flat loading is suggested for the other microcycles.

Periodization48
Sequence of the Training Load
One of the most important aspects of periodization of training is the sequencing of the 
training load. If sequenced appropriately, each phase of training will increase the effect 
(potentiate) the next phase. For example, research evidence supporting the idea of phase 
potentiation has been demonstrated for strength and power development (47). Harris and colleagues (47) demonstrated that optimal strength and power performance gains occur when basic strength development precedes the development of strength and power characteristics. 
Siff and Verkhoshansky (82) suggested that the optimal development of medium-duration 
endurance for a cyclic sport occurs by sequencing training in the following fashion:
General physical preparation ➞ strength ➞ speed ➞ endurance
As noted in figure 2.1 1, during the early portion of the training cycle, the athlete will 
undertake a large amount of aerobic training coupled with training to develop general 
physical attributes. After the first phase of training, a concentrated strength development is 
undertaken. After completing this period of concentrated loading, the athlete shifts emphasis to speed development, with a subsequent decrease in strength development in conjunction with a decrease in aerobic training. The collective effect of this shift in the training emphasis is a decrease in overall training stress, which allows for recovery to capitalize on the delayed 
training adaptations associated with concentrated loading. Finally, the athlete begins 
developing specialized endurance in the final phase of training; this is often accomplished through competition (82).
When choosing how to implement the different loading models presented in this chapter, 
the coach must consider the training status of the athlete, the goals of the training plan, the recovery interventions available to the athlete, the amount of time the athlete can dedicate to training, and the physiological responses to different loading models presented in the 
scientific literature. By using the scientific information available, the coach will be able to 
E6954/Bompa/F02.11/578266/mh-R1Fitness or preparedness
Aerobic training
GPPStrength
SpeedEnduranceRelative training load
Time
FIGURE 2.11 Sequential model for developing medium-duration endurance.
Aerobic training comprises approximately the first half of the cycle. In this example, general physical prepara-
tion (GPP) precedes a concentrated strength-loading phase. This model uses the delayed training adaptations effect while developing speed during the third block of training. The final phase is dedicated to endurance training, marked by specialized training for speed endurance, which specifically targets the competition.
Adapted, by permission, from M.C. Siff, 2003, Supertraining (Denver, CO: Supertraining International).

Principles of Training49
match the different loading models to the needs of the athlete, which will optimize training 
adaptations and lead to improved performance.
Summary of Major Concepts
Athletes must establish a strong multilateral development before specializing in a sport. If specialization occurs too soon in an athlete’s development, it is likely that the athlete will 
achieve high levels of performance only during the junior years and will experience burnout 
soon after. The incorporation of a multilateral training base is especially important for young athletes. As the athlete matures, specialized training becomes more important. Such training 
will be dominated by drills and techniques that will lead to a faster rate of adaptation and 
ultimately to greater levels of performance.
A key to performance improvement is the planning of load progression. With young ath-
letes, simple loading patterns with small amounts of loading variation can be very effective. However, advanced athletes require greater amounts of variation in loading parameters and more complex loading structures. Regardless of the athlete’s level of development, regen-eration and recovery must be included in the training program. Periods of recovery are 
essential to remove training-induced fatigue, replenish energy stores, and provide time for 
physiological and psychological adaptations to occur.

This page intentionally left blank

513Preparation for  
Training
All athletic programs should address the physical, technical, tactical, psychological, and
theoretical aspects of training. These factors are essential to any 
 training program regardless 
of the athlete’
s chronological age, individual potential, level of athletic development, train-
ing age, or phase of training. However, the emphasis placed on each factor varies according 
to the time of year, the athlete’s training age, the athlete’s biological age, and the sport. Although training factors are highly interdependent, there is a specific manner in which each is developed. Physical training is the foundation on which all of the other factors related to training are developed (figure 3.1). The stronger the physical foundation, the greater the potential for developing technical, tactical, and psychological attributes.
Coaches, especially coaches of team sports, often overlook 
the strong relationship between physical and technical training. If the physical training base is inadequately developed, high levels of fatigue can be generated and the athlete will be unable to develop the other training factors. This often occurs when the preparatory phase (e.g., the preseason) is too short and the appropriate physiological adaptations are not developed. When this happens, the ability to effectively develop tactical, technical, and psychological skills is impaired, which increases the risk of poor performances during competition. One can consider phys -
ical training the foundation for the development of technique, whereas technique is central to the ability to develop and use tactical skills in sport. Additionally, as one’s physical capacity improves, technical and tactical capacities improve as well, which will increase self-confidence and other psychological factors. Thus, physical training capacity is the cornerstone from which all training-related factors are developed, ultimately leading to the ability to excel in sport.
Physical Training
The physiological attributes necessary for sporting success are developed through appropriate physical training (37). These physiological adaptations are the basis from which technical and tactical advances are established. Without the development of physical abilities, the athlete’s capacity to tolerate training will be significantly impaired, resulting in an inability to develop the technical and tactical attributes necessary for sporting success. Impairments in technical and tactical development usually occur as a result of accumulated fatigue, which is easily avoided through development of the appropriate physiological base via structured physical training. These concepts are among the best-kept secrets of the Eastern European training system.E6954/Bompa/F03.01/578267/mh-R1Psychological
and mental 
training
Tactical training
Technical training
Physical training
FIGURE 3.1  T raining factors pyramid.

Periodization52
1Physical training has two main goals: The first is to increase the athlete’s physiological 
potential, and the second is to maximize sport-specific biomotor abilities. In a periodized 
training plan, physical training is developed in a structured, sequential pattern (figure 3.2). 
Physical training can be broken into two interdependent parts:
• General physical training (GPT)
• Sport-specific physical training (SSPT)
General physical training and sport-specific physical training are developed during the 
preparatory phase of the periodized training plan. During the early part of the preparatory phase GPT is the primary emphasis, and as the athlete moves through this phase of training 
the emphasis shifts to SSPT. Thus GPT predominates during the early parts of the preparatory 
phase, whereas SSPT is dominant at the end of this phase.
Phase of training Preparatory phase Competitive phase
Phase of development 1 2 3
Duration (weeks) ≥3 ≥6 ≥4
Objective  1. Undertake general 
physical training 1. Undertake sport-specif-ic physical training
 2. Perfect specific sport skills (biomotor abili-ties) 1. Perfect specific sport skills (biomotor  abilities)
 2. Maintain physiological base
FIGURE 3.2 A sequential approach to the development of physical training during an annual plan.
GPT begins at the initiation of the preparatory phase, where the scope of training is to 
build a solid physiological foundation. This solid foundation is established via the use of 
high volumes of training performed at moderate intensities. The amount of time dedicated 
to GPT depends on many factors such as the athlete’s training age, the athlete’s needs, and the sport. The physiological adaptations established with GPT enable the athlete to tolerate the training loads encountered during SSPT.
As SSPT becomes more dominant, training intensity increases, depending on the require-
ments of the sport. In some cases, especially at the professional level, when the preparatory phase is very short (e.g., soccer in Europe), certain elements of intensity may be emphasized 
during the early parts of the preparatory phase. The SSPT period builds on the physiological 
base established during GPT and prepares the athlete for the competitive phase of the train-ing plan. During the competitive period, the minimum objective of physical training is to maintain the sport-specific physical development established during the preparatory phase 
of training. However, in some instances it may be possible to improve sport-specific physical 
development during this phase. Conversely, if training and competition are not sequenced appropriately and adequate recovery does not occur, sport-specific physical development 
will begin to deteriorate (30, 41).
General Physical Training
The ultimate  goal of GPT is to improve the athlete’s working capacity and maximize physio-
logical adaptations to prepare the athlete for future workloads. This phase of training targets the development of every component of physical fitness to increase work capacity. The higher 
the work capacity developed by the athlete during GPT, the greater the potential to adapt to the increasing physiological and psychological demands of training and competition. As stated in chapter 2, the physical development of young athletes predominantly focuses on 
multilateral development, which is accomplished through GPT. GPT for young athletes is 

Preparation for Training53
rather uniform regardless of the sport being targeted in the training plan. Conversely, with 
advanced athletes the requirements of the sport must be addressed during GPT.
Sport-Specific Physical Training
SSPT is based on the foundation established during GPT. SSPT serves as a transition from GPT to the competitive phase. In this capacity, SSPT further develops the athlete’s physical 
capacity in a fashion that is very specific to the demands of the sport. Targeting physiological 
adaptations that correspond to a specific sporting activity is of paramount importance when attempting to maximize competitive success (38, 41). If SSPT is sequenced and planned 
appropriately, the resultant physiological adaptations will increase the athlete’s work capacity, 
which ultimately will result in higher levels of competitive performance. Well-planned SSPT 
will enhance the athlete’s ability to recover from and adapt to the training load, which will 
ultimately enhance performance capacity.
GPT and SSPT should be clearly differentiated; the incorrect implementation of either 
type of training can result in inappropriate adaptations, which ultimately will decrease 
competitive performance. One example of an incorrect understanding of GPT and SSPT can 
be seen in the concept of endurance. The scientific literature indicates that different types of endurance are needed depending on the physiological demands of the sport (9, 41). A common misconception held by coaches is that aerobic exercise, resulting in what has 
been termed low-intensity exercise endurance  (LIEE), is important for all sports (40). 
Although aerobic training is a great way to improve LIEE or aerobic fitness, it generally 
compromises an athlete’s ability to produce high forces or power outputs in a repetitive fashion, an ability required in most high-speed or strength and power sports (9, 40). These 
types of sports require a type of endurance that has been termed high-intensity exercise 
endurance (HIEE) (40). HIEE requires the athlete to sustain or repeat high-intensity exercise with exercise durations of less than 2 min (44). Therefore, for certain sports athletes must 
develop appropriate endurance to maximize performance. HIEE can be developed through 
the performance of repeated sprints (4), sprint interval training (6, 7), and resistance training (36). Recent research has shown that interval training has the potential to improve LIEE (6, 7, 19, 24) without compromising HIEE.
During the preparation phase, SSPT includes higher volumes of sprint or interval training 
and tactical drills that are specific to the sport. One strategy is to create scenarios during SSPT that model the conditions experienced in competition. For example, one might model an 
American football game by using 15 sprint intervals with a work to rest ratio of 1:10 (i.e., 
5 s work, 50 s rest) to simulate what is encountered during competition (32). The imple-mentation of SSPT in the preparatory phase of training depends on many factors including the athlete’s training age, chronological age, and the requirements of the sport (figure 3.3). 
Physiological adaptations to SSPT can occur rapidly, in as little as 2 weeks of training (6, 7, 
Preparatory phase
Elite/pro athletes General 
physical training• Sport-specific training 
• Perfecting sport-specific biomotor abilities
Beginner to intermediate athletes General physical training • Sport-specific training 
• Perfecting sport-specific biomotor abilities
Developmental athletes
General physical training • General physical training 
• Introducing sport-specific training elements
FIGURE 3.3 A basic representation of the duration of general physical training and sport-specific 
training between elite and professional athletes, beginners, and children.

Periodization54
18). SSPT may be undertaken for 2 months or more, depending on the characteristics of the 
sport and the athlete’s level of development.
Exercise for Physical Training
An exercise is a motor act that can be used to target general physiological adaptations, move-ment patterns, or specific muscle groups that are related to the performance of the athletic 
skill. To simulate maximal amounts of physiological adaptation, the athlete must train for 
8 to 12 years to optimize performance (26, 34). During these training years, exercises must be repeated systematically to stimulate adaptations that will improve performance.
Many training exercises are available to the coach when constructing a training plan. The 
coach should choose exercises that target the athlete’s needs and the demands of the sport. 
Exercises can be classified as general or specific in regard to the development of precise bio-
motor abilities. Both general and specific exercises will be used throughout the training year, but their contribution to the training plan will vary between training cycles and depending on the athlete’s training age.
Exercises for General Physical Development
Exercises for general physical development are nonspecific exercises that contribute to the athlete’s physical development. These exercises develop strength, flexibility, mobility, aerobic 
fitness, and anaerobic capacity. Exercises for general physical development lay the founda-
tion for further training by improving basic motor qualities that are central components of a multilateral program (34).
Exercises that focus on general physical development are central to the training plans of 
children and young athletes. These exercises are also important during the early part of the preparatory phase of training or with athletes who lack a solid training base. These types of exercises fall into two classifications: The first classification consists of exercises that are 
performed without implements (calisthenics) or are performed with objects that are not 
used in competition (e.g., stall bars, benches, skipping rope, medicine balls). The second classification includes exercises derived from the actual sport or related sporting events. A contemporary interpretation of this concept can be seen in cross-training: During certain 
parts of the training year, athletes participate in sporting activities that are related to the 
sport in which they compete (19). For example, a cyclist may participate in cross-country skiing in the off-season to develop cardiovascular fitness.
General physical development exercises are tools for developing overall fitness. Athletes 
need a balanced program in which muscular strength, flexibility, and endurance (HIEE or LIEE depending on the sport) are developed. For example, when strength training, an athlete can use high-volume, low-intensity training plans to target general physical development. This 
type of training, if done appropriately, can increase muscular strength, muscular endurance 
(HIEE and LIEE), and flexibility (if undertaken through a full range of motion), which can lay the foundation for specialized training that targets precise biomotor abilities.
Exercises for Specific Biomotor Development
Exercises for specific biomotor development target physiological adaptations, movement patterns, or muscle groups that are necessary for the sporting activity. This type of exercise 
is central to the concept of specificity of training. Specificity of training is the degree of 
similarity between the training exercise and the activities used in the sport (41). The more similar the characteristics of the training exercise are to the sport, the greater the transfer of training effects to the sport will be. When assessing the transferability of a training exercise 
to a sporting activity, the coach should consider the bioenergetics (29), movement patterns 
(35), and factors related to overload (41). The more similarities that are found between the 

Preparation for Training55
training exercise and sport in regard to these factors, the greater the potential for the transfer 
of training effects.
The concept of movement pattern specificity reveals that the type of muscle action, 
kinematic characteristics (i.e., movement patterns), kinetic characteristics (i.e., forces, rate of force development, power output), muscle groups activated, and acceleration or veloc-ity characteristics of the movement all contribute to the exercise’s ability to transfer to the 
sporting activity. Particularly important to training specificity are the movement pattern and 
the primary muscles used in the sporting activity. For example, the primary movers related to sprinting performance are the muscles of the lower body. Therefore, a coach who works 
with sprinters should use exercises that target the development of lower-body muscles. 
However, the coach should also consider the synergistic muscles that are used in concert 
with the muscles of the leg. The best way to accomplish this is to target movement patterns. 
For example, the sprinter might use the power clean as a training exercise, because it has a power, force, and velocity profile similar to that used in sprinting. Additionally, the power 
clean activates the muscles of the trunk and other synergistic muscles that affect running 
performance. Many exercises activate the prime movers and synergistic muscles related to sprinting performance, including jumping (plyometrics), squatting (back squat, one-leg squat, front squat), and weighted sled pulling. In the scientific literature, sprinting perfor-mance has been significantly related to power clean performance (1), back squat performance 
(1 1), and vertical jumping performance (5, 1 1).
The use of exercises that are external to the athlete’s sport is important, because sport 
performance alone will not give the athlete a great enough training stimulus to maximize performance gains (e.g., leg power, speed, or force-generating capacity). For example, the 
best high jumpers in the world do not perform more than 800 jumps per year, and this number of jumps is insufficient to develop leg power. To maximize performance gains, these athletes perform tens of thousands of exercises aimed at developing leg power (e.g., back 
squats, power cleans, plyometric exercises). However it is important to keep those exercise 
sport-specific; the higher the number of exercises, the lower the rate of specific adaptation.
Sport-specific exercises are essential to maximize the transfer of training effects from train-
ing to sport performance. These exercises are not only very important in the preparatory phase of training but also should be considered essential components of the competitive phase of training. Some coaches and athletes exclude sport-specific exercises during the competitive phase of the periodized training plan, choosing to only perform technical training during this 
time. This practice is problematic because the exclusion of sport-specific training exercises 
during the competitive phase may lead to a loss of preparedness that reduces performance as the season progresses. The coach and athlete should consider sport-specific exercises as 
essential components of every phase of the training plan because these exercises transfer 
directly to sporting performance.
Technical Training
One element that discriminates various sporting activities is the technique (i.e., motor skills) required. Technique encompasses all of the movement patterns, skills, and technical 
elements that are necessary to perform the sport. Technique can be considered the manner 
of performing a skill or physical exercise. Athletes must continually strive to establish perfect technique to create the most efficient movement patterns.
The more perfect or biomechanically sound the technique is, the more efficient or eco-
nomical the athlete will be. For example, less energy is expended when an athlete has good running economy or technique (28). Trained runners have been reported to be more eco-nomical and to consume 20% to 30% less oxygen compared with novice runners who are 
running at the same submaximal speed (10, 14, 27). Biomechanists have suggested running 
economy is affected by stride length (8), stride rate (23), vertical stiffness (13), net vertical impulse of ground reaction forces (20), and ground contact time (28). Thus, if a runner 

Periodization56
becomes technically skilled and can optimize his stride rate, ground contact time, and stride 
rate, he will be more economical and thus more efficient. The relationship between tech-
nique and movement efficiency is important in all sports. Athletes must continually strive 
to maximize technical proficiency and therefore must incorporate technical training into their overall training plan.
Technique and Style
Every sporting activity has a technical standard or technical model that is accepted as being perfect or as close as possible to perfect and represents the accepted model of performance. 
A model of performance must be biomechanically sound and physiologically efficient to be 
widely accepted. The model is generally not developed based on the technique of elite or 
champion athletes because their technique may not be biomechanically or physiologically 
sound. Therefore, simply copying the technique of a champion is not advisable.
A technical model should exhibit some flexibility because it should be constantly updated 
based on new research findings. The technical model should be used as a point of comparison for an athlete’s performance. This allows the coach to develop a training plan that targets deficiencies. Although the technical model is invaluable for training purposes, the athlete likely will develop her own individualized performance style. The structure of the skill is not different, but the athlete may make the skill look different as a result of her individual 
style of performance.
Individual technical styles are simply adaptations of an accepted model of performance 
that occur in response to technical problems in performing a motor act. For instance, the Fosbury flop (named after the American who won the high jump at the Mexico Olympic 
Games in 1968) changed the technique of high jumping dramatically. This technique requires the athlete to cross over the bar by facing it with the back rather than the front part of the body. Scientific examination revealed that this technique was more mechanically efficient 
than the classic technique. When first introduced, this individual high jumping style was 
Proper technique allows an athlete to efficiently perform a skill,  
so technical training must be included in training plans.

Preparation for Training57
not considered the optimal technique. However, in contemporary high jumping the Fosbury 
flop is considered the optimal model (43). This example depicts how an individual style 
can become a technical model.
There are also model techniques for optimal performance in team sports. For example, 
shot distribution, execution, and rally length in net sports can all be analyzed and used to 
develop a model of performance (22). In team sports, the application of a model of per-
formance can be very team specific and related to the skill set or attributes of the team. The 
style of performance can have tactical implications and can affect how the team undertakes technical and tactical preparations.
Individualization of Technique
Not all techniques are useful for all athletes. For example, a novice athlete will use a more simplified technique than a world-class athlete. Therefore, when introducing technical ele-
ments to an athlete’s training plan the coach must understand the individual athlete’s level 
of development and her technical abilities and deficiencies.
In most instances technique is developed in stages, whereby simplified techniques are 
introduced first. After the athlete masters these basic elements, the coach then adapts the technique and adds elements that increase the technical difficulty of the training exercise. 
For instance, when working with a young discus thrower, a coach begins with perfecting 
the standing throw. Once the standing throw is mastered, the coach can add other ele
-
ments, such as a 4/4 turn (i.e., step-in) or footwork drills, to begin teaching the athlete the rotational technique needed to be a successful discus thrower (16). Novice athletes 
generally use techniques that are vastly different than those of elite athletes as a result of 
their developmental status.
Variations can exist in the performance of a technical skill. Often these variations occur 
as a result of the complexity of the task or the biomechanical or physiological attributes of 
the athlete. Cyclic sports (e.g., running, cycling, rowing) often exhibit fewer interindivid-
ual technical differences, whereas acyclic sports (e.g., throwing, lifting, some team sports) have a greater potential for variations in technique. For example, Al Oerter tended to hold the discus in a lower position during his rotation than did most discus throwers, which is 
generally considered to be a technical flaw. However, this individual technical pattern was 
highly effective for Oerter because of his highly developed upper-body strength and fast leg speed (36). This example demonstrates that technique is developed based on the athlete’s 
abilities, physiological and mechanical characteristics, and level of development.
When teaching a technical element or whole technique, the coach must understand 
the athlete’s physical and psychological capacities. For example, if the thrower does not 
possess an adequate strength base, he may not be strong enough to keep his trunk vertical 
throughout the throwing movement (25). Therefore, it may not be warranted to work on 
the rotation portion of the throw until strength has been substantially increased. An inad-equately developed physical base will limit the athlete’s ability to learn technical aspects of 
the sport. This scenario strengthens the argument that physical training is the foundation 
of all training factors (figure 3.1).
Sometimes an athlete will be forced to interrupt his training schedule (e.g., because of 
illness or accidents). These interruptions in training generally affect the athlete’s physical capacity, which may result in slight alterations in technique as a result of lost preparedness. 
When athletes experience a decline in physical capacity, a concomitant deterioration in 
technique often occurs. Additionally, high levels of fatigue can negatively affect an athlete’s technique or ability to perfect technique. High levels of fatigue are usually related to low 
levels of physical work capacity. Therefore, when physical work capacity returns to normal 
or fatigue is dissipated, the athlete will be able to reestablish his technique. Because of the negative effects of fatigue on technique development, some suggest that technical training should occur before conditioning, and a heavy conditioning day should not precede a 
technique day.

Periodization58
Learning and Skill Formation
Learning technique is a process in which an athlete acquires mechanical skill, perfects the 
skill, and then ingrains the skill (34). The ability of an athlete to learn new mechanical skills 
depends on many factors including the athlete’s current technical skill and the complexity of 
the skill that is being targeted (33). The athlete’s physical attributes or level of development will affect the ability to learn new skills. However, many other factors such as the athlete’s learning style or the teaching methods used can also affect how easily the athlete acquires 
the new skill set.
The learning of a new skill set has been suggested to be a three-part process (34), which 
may not always be broken into discrete parts because the steps are often blended. During the first part of learning a new skill, the athlete should receive a detailed explanation of the 
skill and observe the skill being performed. After the initial demonstration and explana-tion, the athlete begins to develop the rough technical aspects of the skill, paying particular emphasis to the most crucial phases of the movement pattern (34). During the second phase 
of the learning process, the athlete begins to refine the skill, a long-term process in which 
many repetitions of the movement are performed. During this phase technical errors are continually addressed and the athlete strives to perfect the movement pattern and minimize or eliminate technical deficiencies (34). In the third phase of learning the skill, the athlete 
begins to ingrain the movement pattern so that the skill is automated and happens naturally; 
this requires large amounts of repetitive practice undertaken for significant amounts of time.
Evolutional Character of Technique
Technique continues to evolve as technological and creative innovations are introduced into the sporting environment. Over time, training practices and techniques change, and what 
was once an advanced technique may become outdated. Technical innovations in sport can 
come from the coach’s imagination or from scientific inquiry into the physiological and mechanical aspects of the sport. New techniques may work well in ideal situations or in practice, but they must be translated into the competitive arena before they become accepted 
as a technical model. Not all new techniques or ideas will translate into the competitive 
arena because this environment is distinctly unique, attributable to its high levels of phys-ical and psychological stress and its random nature. When coaches and athletes attempt to 
improve and perfect technique, they must model the technique not only in ideal situations 
but also in competition.
Tactical Training
Tactics and strategy are important concepts in coaching and athletics. Both terms are derived from the military vocabulary and have a Greek origin. The word tactics is derived from the 
Greek word taktika, which refers to the how things are arranged. Strategy comes from the Greek 
word strategos, which means “general” or “the art of the general.” In the theory of warfare, 
strategy and tactics are categorized separately because both terms have unique dimensions. When examined in the military context, strategies focus on wide spaces, long periods, and 
large movements of forces, whereas tactics address smaller spaces, times, and forces. When examined in a hierarchical perspective, strategies precede war planning and the actual tactics 
that are used on the battlefield.
Tactics and strategies can be used during training or in a competition with direct or indirect 
opponents. Strategy is the organization of training, play, or competition that is based on 
a philosophy or way of approaching a problem (e.g., training or competition). Within the 
strategic framework are tactics,  or the training or game plans. A good example of the interre-
lationship between strategies and tactics can be seen in the training process, where strength 
and conditioning coaches induce physiological responses by using tactics  that are organized 
into rational systems (30). When one is attempting to understand the relationship between 

Preparation for Training59
strategies and tactics, the simplest approach is to consider strategy as the art of projecting 
and directing training or competitive plans, and tactics as the organization of these plans.
Tactical training refers to training offensive and defensive objectives (e.g., scoring, a 
specific play) that are germane to a sport. For example, in soccer, skills that are considered as part of tactical training include passing, pace of attacks, tackling, pass distribution, drib-bling skills, and length of passes (22). Each sport requires certain skills, and thus tactical 
training may be different for each sporting activity. Tactical actions are part of the strategic 
framework used to train the athlete and prepare for competition. The basis of any success-ful tactical plan, regardless of the sporting activity, is a high level of technical proficiency. 
Thus, technique is a limiting factor for all tactical maneuvers, and tactics are a function of 
an athlete’s technique. Technical abilities are based on the physiological adaptations that 
occur in response to physical training. Thus, physical training is the foundation for technical 
and tactical training (figure 3.1).
Tasks and Specificity of Tactical Training
For most elite athletes, there is very little difference between their physiological development and their technical skill (31). Often, when all other factors are held equal, the winning ath-lete uses more mature, advanced, and rational tactics. Even though tactical training relies 
heavily on physical and technical training, there appears to be an important link between 
psychological and tactical training (31).
Tactical mastery is founded on deep theoretical knowledge and the capacity to apply tactics 
appropriate for the competitive environment. Tactical training may include the following:
• Studying strategic elements of the principle sport
• Studying the rules and regulations for competition in the sport or event
• Evaluating the tactical abilities of the best athletes in the sport
• Researching the strategies used by opponents
• Evaluating the physical and psychological attributes and potential of opponents
• Evaluating the facilities and environment of competition sites
• Developing individual tactics that are based on personal strengths and weaknesses
• Critically analyzing past performances against specific opponents
• Developing an individualized tactical model with appropriate variations to meet multiple competitive demands
• Practicing a tactical model in training until it becomes ingrained
The development of tactical skills is accomplished with the same basic steps outlined 
earlier in this chapter, in the section titled Learning and Skill Formation. Traditionally, ath-
letes approach tactical skills training after developing the appropriate physiological basis 
(physical training) and technical skills. However, it is also possible to develop all three factors simultaneously as a result of proper planning and training program integration.
When we examine tactical training principles, it may be helpful to classify sports into 
general categories. Most sporting activities can be classified into five basic groups as a result 
of their tactical similarities:
• Group 1: Sports in which athletes compete separately, with no direct contact with 
opponents. These sports generally require athletes to perform in a predetermined order. Examples include alpine skiing, track cycling (individual events such as the 1,000 m or 4,000 m pursuit), cycling (time trial), figure skating, gymnastics, diving, 
in-line skating, and weightlifting.
• Group 2: Sports in which athletes start the competition at the same time, in either large 
or small groups. In these sports, some cooperation with teammates is possible, thus adding a tactical element that requires some teamwork. Examples include running 

Periodization60
events in track and field, cross-country skiing, cycling (track and road cycling), Nordic 
skiing, cross country running, and swimming.
• Group 3: Sports characterized by direct competition between two opponents. Examples include boxing, wrestling, tennis, fencing, and mixed martial arts.
• Group 4: Sports in which the opponents are in teams and the athletes have direct con-
tact during the game or competition. These sports include baseball, soccer, American 
football, hockey, and rugby.
• Group 5: Sports that require athletic participation in a combination of different sport-ing activities. These sports are complex because they require tactics that are central to the individual sports and the general competitive plan. Sports in this group include 
the heptathlon and decathlon in track and field, the biathlon (shooting and Nordic 
skiing), the triathlon, and the modern pentathlon.
Classifying sports into broad groups helps us examine 
sport tactics. The innate similarities between the sports in each group can provide a deeper tactical understanding of sports with similar characteristics.
Uniform Distribution of Energy
The ability to maintain tactical proficiency under con-ditions of fatigue is an important determinant of com-
petitive success. Therefore, the athlete’s tactical training 
must include sessions that require the athlete to perform under conditions of fatigue. The coach can create such a condition by extending practice after the athlete has 
become fatigued, informing the athlete either before 
the session begins or at some point during the session. Another possibility is to use several rested sparring part-
ners during training, which would force the athlete or 
team to constantly perform at a high level. The physical training base provides the foundation for the athlete’s ability to perform under conditions of fatigue: The higher 
the physical training base, the greater the work capacity.
Another consideration is the athlete’s ability to mobi-
lize all of his resources to finish. In close races or games, success often depends on the athlete’s capacity to mobilize 
all forces and give everything for the final moments of the competition. The coach can create scenarios that require the athlete to maximize effort in simulated end-of-com-
petition situations; an example is simulating the time left 
in a game or competition and requiring the athlete to increase the tempo of his tactical practice.
Technical Solutions to Tactical Tasks
Often athletes have to perform under adverse or unusual environmental conditions, such as on a wet field, in a strong wind, in cold water, or in a noisy environment. Such condi-
tions require special preparation. The following guidelines may help athletes adapt to these 
adverse conditions:
• Perform skills and tactical maneuvers correctly and efficiently under unusual or sim-ulated conditions.
• Organize exhibition games or competitions with partners who follow the same tactics as future opponents.
Before you can create a training program, you need to 
know what kinds of tactical skills are required.

Preparation for Training61
• Create unique situations that demand each athlete to independently create tactical 
resolutions.
The ability to demonstrate tactical discipline is essential in training. However, in com-
petition the athlete may experience a tactical problem that was not addressed or simulated by the coach. In such a case, the athlete must draw on his training and experience to create 
an immediate solution to the tactical problem. This process can be facilitated by exposing 
the athlete to various situations in training and exhibition competitions so he can create a repertoire of tactical solutions to draw on when adverse situations occur during competition.
Maximizing Teammate Cooperation
The cohesive interaction of a team is essential for success in sports classified in groups 2 and 4. Using techniques such as limiting external conditions (e.g., decreasing the available 
time or playing space) can force the team to interact and cooperate. Additional stress can be 
introduced by adding fatigue to these scenarios. This will help athletes learn how to interact and cooperate during adverse situations.
An additional strategy is to perform tactical maneuvers against a conventional opponent 
who is attempting to counteract the play. This scenario can be created by using an opposing 
team or by creating an opposing team with reserve players during training. The coach should 
instruct these players to behave as if they are not familiar with the applied tactics. Reserve players should participate in the preparation of game tactics because changes in the team 
lineup increase the potential of a breakdown in cooperation and tactics. It is useful during 
practices to replace key players with spare players. This allows reserve players to become familiar with the team tactics and the other players, and it allows the existing group to see how reserve players operate and how the team's tactics will change with the reserve players’ 
presence. These techniques allow the team to develop new tactical combinations that can 
improve the team’s competitive capabilities.
Perfecting the Team’s Flexibility
To maximize team cooperation, the coach should introduce changes in the team’s tactics that will increase its tactical flexibility.  The team can use tactical flexibility to create scenarios that 
will surprise opponents. A plethora of tactical variations can be used, such as the following:
• Substitute different tactics at predetermined times or in response to signals from a coach or designated player (e.g., captain).
• Substitute players who bring a new and unexpected game change to the team.
• Expose the team to exhibition games against teams that use various styles of play. This allows the team to prepare for these scenarios in future games and develop tactical solutions to the style of play encountered.
Tactical Thinking and the Game Plan
A central component of tactical training is developing tactical thinking skills. The ability to think tactically is limited by the athlete’s knowledge and repertoire of tactical skills. To think 
tactically, the athlete must learn to do the following:
• Realistically and correctly evaluate opponents as well as himself.
• Instantly recall technical skills and combinations of skills that can be used in game 
situations.
• Anticipate his opponent’s tactics and use the appropriate tactics to counteract the 
opponent.
• Disguise or conceal tactics that may prevent the opponent from sensing and coun-teracting the plan of attack.
• Perfectly coordinate individual actions within the team tactics.

Periodization62
The competition or game plan is based on analysis of tactical trends and the opponent’s 
strengths and weaknesses. Components of the game plan are then integrated into the tactical 
training portion of the training plan. The game plan usually is introduced progressively over 
the last two or three microcycles so that it can be perfected by the time of competition. The game or competition plan is important for several reasons:
• To instill confidence and optimism about the upcoming competition
• To inform the athlete about the place, facilities, and conditions under which the contest will be organized
• To introduce the strengths and weaknesses of future opponents into each training factor
• To use the athlete’s past performance as a reference from which to build confidence 
(emphasizing the strong points from which to build a realistic optimism, without 
disregarding the athlete’s weaknesses)
• To develop realistic objectives for the competition using all of the preceding factors
The implementation of the game or competition plan occurs in several phases. First, a 
preliminary game plan is developed. The game plan and its tactical elements are then imple-mented into the game situation. After the game is completed, the plan is comprehensively analyzed, allowing for further refinement of the plan and its tactical components.
Creating the Preliminary Game Plan
The first phase of game planning involves developing the preliminary game plan prior to the competition. The coach develops this plan after comprehensively analyzing potential 
tactical difficulties that the athlete or team is likely to encounter during the game or compe-
tition. Tactical solutions or objectives are then created in response to the potential tactical difficulties revealed during the critical analysis. In the context of the tactical plan, individual tactical objectives are assigned to players based on their strengths and weaknesses. The tactical 
objectives are then practiced as part of the tactical training plan.
In the days prior to the game, the athlete should avoid changing habits because this may 
adversely affect game-time performance. Two or three days before the competition, the coach should reinforce the game plan and the tactics that have been developed, using struc-
tured practices that allow for the development of good technical and tactical performances. When possible, the training lesson should mirror the competitive model. The coach should acknowledge good performances to develop confidence, create motivation, and increase 
competitive desire.
As the competition approaches, the coach should focus only on a few major points of 
the game plan without overwhelming the athlete with too many instructions. No matter how detailed the preliminary game plan, there is always a potential for unforeseen technical 
and tactical occurrences. Therefore the plan must be flexible enough to allow the athlete to respond to these challenges.
Applying the Game Plan
The second phase of the game plan is the implementation of the general plan in an actual game situation. The initial phase of the game is generally used to test the main elements of 
the tactical plan. In this portion of the game, the team will strive to unveil the opponent’s 
game plan while hiding their own plan. The athlete will need to be able to analyze and comprehend the tactical situations that arise and choose a tactical action to apply. The abil-ity to comprehend these tactical situations will depend on the athlete’s tactical knowledge, 
experience, team dynamics, and tactical preparation. These attributes will allow the athlete 
to solve problems by instantaneously working through periods of analysis, synthesis (i.e., combining separate parts into a whole), comparison, and generalization. This process 
allows the athlete to determine the most appropriate solutions to the tactical demands of 
the game. The individual decision-making processes will occur in concert with the group 

Preparation for Training63
decision-making dynamics within the team. The coordinated efforts 
between each individual on the team allow for rational, original, 
rapid, economical, and efficient solutions to the fluctuating tactical 
challenges that arise during the game.
Analyzing the Game Plan
The third phase of game planning requires the coach to perform a systematic, critical analysis of the game plan. The coach should 
closely examine how the plan was developed, the effectiveness of 
the individual tactical roles in the plan, the success of the tactical 
plan, and, if the game plan did not succeed, the reasons why. The 
more detailed the analysis, the more it will reveal about the strengths and weaknesses of the plan.
The most appropriate time to analyze the game plan and discuss 
the results of the analysis with the athletes depends on the outcome of the game or competition. If the result was favorable, analysis of the game can occur soon after the game’s completion, and discus-sion of the results of the analysis can occur during the first practice 
session after the game. Conversely, if the outcome of the game is 
unfavorable, the analysis should be delayed to allow for a critical examination of the performance. The coach should discuss the 
analysis with the athletes 2 or 3 days after the competition to allow 
time for the psychological wounds to heal. When discussing the analysis with the athletes, the coach should be clear and reasonable and should highlight the positive aspects of the performance. The 
coach should also project optimism and propose a few tactical 
elements to emphasize in subsequent training.
Perfecting Technique  
and Tactical Training
Both technique and strategy in sport are in continual flux. Technical and tactical knowledge 
is continually changing in direct response to the evolution of sport science (50) and practical 
experience. This increase in technical and tactical knowledge increases the effectiveness of 
training. To achieve technical and tactical mastery, the coach and athlete must optimize three relationships between conflicting concepts: integration–differentiation, stability–variability, and standardization–individualization (17).
Integration–Differentiation
Learning or perfecting a skill as well as training an ability is a multifactorial process, through which the athlete can develop technical and strategic mastery. Central to the process are the concepts of integration and differentiation. Integration refers to combining the individual 
skill or tactical maneuvers into a whole process, whereas differentiation involves analytically 
processing each component of the whole process.
When learning a new technique or skill, the athlete progresses from simple technical 
or tactical elements to complex elements. To master a skill or tactical maneuver that has 
already been learned, the process is reversed: The athlete and coach must analyze the 
whole skill or tactical maneuver by breaking it down into subunits to determine whether technical errors exist. If the athlete and coach determine that each subunit is free of tech
-
nical faults, it is likely that errors exist in how the individual subunits are unified into the whole system (e.g., connective parts or two elements in a gymnastics routine or other 
sport skill). If the examination of the connections between the subunits does not reveal 
A coach needs to analyze how well a game 
plan is working during a competition. Is an 
athlete able to choose the correct tactical  
action to apply to a certain situation?
Al Pereira/Getty Images

Periodization64
technical errors, further differentiation of the skill is necessary to isolate the sources of 
error. Once the sources of error are isolated, the coach and athlete must develop strategies 
to eliminate the error.
The integration–differentiation process can be used to perfect or change the technical or 
tactical model being used. Figure 3.4 illustrates how a skill can be perfected through the use of a systematic integration (i.e. constructing whole skills) and differentiation (i.e. dissecting 
skill into subunits and determining where errors are) process. The outcome of this process is mastery of the skill.
If the coach determines that a technical skill or tactical maneuver is insufficient, it may 
be warranted to alter the performance model. The coach must determine why an error occurred and critically analyze the model to determine which components can be removed 
or modified (figure 3.5). Determining technical errors occurs with the same differentiation 
process presented earlier. Once technical errors are isolated and the coach has decided that the model of performance must be altered, the technical error must be “unlearned” and a 
new technical skill or element taught. Once the athlete learns the new element or skill, she 
must practice the skill until it becomes automatic; then the skill is reintroduced into the whole system of performance, and the athlete practices the skill until it is mastered.
Stability–Variability
When training an athlete, there is a constant trade-off between stability and variability (45, 51). The optimal training stimulus occurs in response to a systematic variation in training 
load, intensity, or content (45). If, however, the training stimulus or workloads are prescribed 
in a monotonous fashion, the athlete will experience accommodation or stagnation problems, 
E6954/Bompa/F03.04/578273/mh-R1Continual mastery of performanceCorrect technical or tactical errors
Errors present
No errors presentIsolate technical or tactical errors
Differentiate skill into subunits Critically analyze performanceAutomate system into a cohesive performanceIntegrate new skills into whole systemLearn new skillsDevelop the model of performance
FIGURE 3.4 Perfecting a model of performance.
Adapted from Teodorescu and Florescu 1971 (44).

Preparation for Training65
which will halt any improvement in performance (43, 45). Therefore, the training program 
should include planned variation, whereby novel or seminovel tasks are introduced or rein-
troduced periodically throughout the annual training plan. The introduction of novel or 
seminovel tasks will result in a greater stimulatory effect and greater adaptation (22), which will stabilize the athlete’s skill and performance level. Therefore, variability in training (e.g., changes to volume, load, exercises, and workout frequency) provides a stabilizing effect in 
regard to performance and skill acquisition.
Standardization–Individualization
There is a constant conflict between the standardization of a skill set and the individual 
traits and characteristics of the athlete. The coach must develop and stabilize the athlete’s 
technical skills while accounting for the individual’s psychological and biological charac -
teristics. In this way the coach will be able to modify the technical skill so that it becomes 
standardized.E6954/Bompa/F03.05/578274/mh-R2Inhibit performance error or
inefficient techniques
Adapt to new skill or
technique
Automate system into a
cohesive performance
Critically analyze performanceLearn new skill or
technique
Integrate new skill or technique into
whole performance
Correct technical or
tactical errors
Isolate technical or
tactical errors
Differentiate skill into subunits Errors present
No errors present
Continual mastery of performanceAltering an inefficient performance model
FIGURE 3.5 Altering an inefficient model of performance.
Adapted from Teodorescu and Florescu 1971 (44).

Periodization66
Stages of Perfecting Technical  
and Tactical Training
The athlete’s ability to perfect technique and tactics is a direct result of the coach’s knowl-
edge and teaching skill, which can include the use of preparatory and progressive drills 
and audiovisual aids. The athlete’s ability to learn new skills is also related to her ability 
to process new information and her biomotor abilities. It has been suggested that athletes improve technical and tactical skills in three distinct stages (44) (figure 3.6).
In the first stage, the main objective is to perfect the individual components and technical 
elements of a skill (differentiation). As the components are mastered, they are integrated progressively into the whole system. Skill perfection develops in concert with the develop-ment and perfection of the dominant or supporting biomotor abilities. The development of 
these biomotor abilities is essential because technique is a function of physical preparation 
or capacity. The acquisition of new skills and techniques is best suited for the preparatory phase of the annual plan. When skill acquisition is a central focus, it is inadvisable for the athlete to participate in competitions.
The main objective in the second stage is to perfect the whole skill under standardized 
conditions similar to those seen during a competition. This can be accomplished by partici-pating in either exhibition or simulated competitions. The athlete must maintain dominant biomotor abilities during this phase so he will have an adequate physical training base to 
continue skill development. This stage of perfecting a skill can be integrated into the annual 
training plan near the end of the preparatory phase.
The final stage of perfecting a skill focuses on stabilizing the whole skill and translating 
it to competitive performance. The coach must create an environment (e.g., including noise, 
E6954/Bompa/F03.06/578275/mh-R1Objective
•  Perfect the components of the skill•  Integrate the components of the
   skill into the whole system
•  Develop dominant motor
   abilities
Requirements
•  Use simple conditions to master
    the performance of a skill
•  Competitions are inadvisableObjective•  Stabilize the skill within the whole
   system under standard conditions
•  Maintain the development of the
   dominant biomotor abilities
Requirements
•  Use exhibition competitions at
   the end of the phaseObjective
•  Stabilize the skill within the whole system•  Use the skill under competitive conditions•  Optimize physical capacity for maximal
    performance
Requirements
•  Simulate competitive 
environment
(e.g., with noise, fatigue)
•  Participate in competitionsStage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3
FIGURE 3.6 Three stages of perfecting a skill.
Adapted from Teodorescu and Florescu 1971 (44).

Preparation for Training67
fatigue) that is as close to the actual competitive situation as possible. This stage of perfecting 
a skill should be implemented into the annual training plan during the competitive phase.
Correcting Technical and Tactical Errors
According to Bompa, “If a coach fails to concentrate on correcting an athlete’s technical errors, all they are doing is perfecting those errors” (3). Often technical improvement or 
skill mastery is impaired because the athlete learns the skill incorrectly. If the technical skill 
is not taught correctly, the athlete’s ability to correct technical errors is greatly impaired. The coach must strive to eliminate as many technical errors as possible to maximize the athlete’s 
development. Technical or tactical errors can occur for many reasons, but generally they fall 
into four broad areas:
1. The athlete is performing a skill incorrectly.  Many factors can impair an athlete’s ability 
to learn or perfect a skill. Two interrelated factors are an insufficient physical training 
base and lack of correlation between biomotor abilities. A poorly developed physical 
training base or insufficient development of biomotor abilities can delay skill acqui-sition and development. For example, athletes who have not adequately developed a physical training base are more apt to develop fatigue when working on skill acquisition. 
Fatigue, which can result from a poor training base or a poorly implemented training 
plan, can impede learning or result in a deterioration of technical skills. Therefore, simply improving the athlete’s physical training base may improve her ability to learn new skills. The development of biomotor abilities may also facilitate the acquisition of 
skills. One of the major biomotor abilities that can affect skill acquisition is strength. 
For example, a gymnast may not be able to learn or master a specific element (e.g., iron cross) if he does not have the appropriate level of strength to perform or practice the 
skill (15). Therefore, simply increasing strength as part of the physical training base 
will increase the athlete’s ability to learn or master the targeted skill set.
2. Psychological factors,  such as self-confidence, morale, desire, and beliefs, appear to be significantly 
related to the athlete’s ability to perform or develop skills  (12, 45). For example, athletes 
who set goals that are task oriented, such as working hard to perfect a skill, generally 
achieve greater success than athletes who are ego driven (i.e., perform for individual 
notoriety) (12, 45). Athletes who are ego driven tend to perceive failure as an inability to perform a task, which may result in a withdrawal from training (12). Conversely, task-oriented athletes will respond to failure by increasing their effort in training (12) 
because they equate success with hard work (45).
3. The coach’s teaching method causes technical faults.  The coach may use inappropriate 
teaching methods or demonstrate the technique incorrectly when introducing the 
skill or may fail to completely explain the technical aspects of the skill. Some coaches neglect to tailor skill instruction to the individual’s learning capacity and biomotor 
ability. Additionally, the coach’s personality, coaching style, and character can affect 
the athlete’s ability to acquire technical skills. For example, if the coach does not allow the athlete sufficient time to learn a skill, the potential for developing technical errors is magnified.
4. There are equipment, organizational, or environmental causes. The environment must foster the acquisition of proper technique, and the training session must be properly planned. 
Equipment must be appropriate and must function properly during each training ses-
sion. Appropriate facilities (e.g., field, court) must be available for training, because an adverse environment can impair skills acquisition.
There are many ways to correct technical errors, but it is better to prevent technical errors in 
the first place. The best way to prevent technical errors is through the utilization of appropriate 
teaching methods. If technical errors do occur, it is essential that they be addressed as soon 
as possible. The best time to dedicate to technical or tactical corrections is the preparatory 

Periodization68
phase of the annual plan, because the stress of competition is absent during this phase and 
time can be dedicated to addressing technical issues.
Learning new skills or addressing technical errors should be avoided when the athlete is 
fatigued; fatigue usually has a negative effect on learning. Thus, it is best to address technical errors or teach new skills immediately after the warm-up. Another strategy is to increase the amount of rest between repetitions of the drills used to address errors.
The first step in addressing a technical error is to isolate the error to be corrected from 
other technical skills. Once this is done the coach can introduce the correction or new ele-ment that will address the error. The athlete then practices the new skill. When the athlete 
has acquired or mastered the new skill it is integrated back into the system or whole skill. 
While this process is being undertaken, the athlete must maintain or develop the biomotor 
abilities that are necessary to support the skill being perfected.
Another issue that must be considered when addressing technical errors is the intensity 
or velocity at which the exercises are performed. In most cases, coaches concentrate on correcting technique with low-intensity or low-velocity movements. Although this is an 
important step in reeducating the athlete, sporting events often occur at higher velocities and intensities. Therefore, after the athlete becomes proficient at the new skill or corrected skill with low intensities and velocities, she must practice the skill at progressively higher velocities and intensities until the skill can be used in competition.
Visualization or mental practice is an excellent tool for correcting technical errors. The 
scientific literature has shown that athletes who use mental practice perform significantly better than those who do not (42). The coach should consider incorporating mental practice 
into the training plan to maximize the correction of technical errors and ultimately improve 
performance.
Theoretical Training
Although it is commonly accepted that athletes need to develop physical, technical, tactical, and psychological skills, whether athletes need to understand the theoretical basis of training 
and sport is of great debate. Some coaches are tied to the archaic belief that they need to 
think for their athletes and that athletes only need to concern themselves with training and competing. In fact, approaching the development of athletes in this fashion may delay the athlete’s skill and performance improvement.
The coach should consider the development of the athlete, which includes educating the 
athlete about the sport, training theory, and why they are doing certain things in training. To effectively educate athletes, the coach must stay up-to-date with theoretical knowledge 
by reading sport science literature, attending sport science and coaching conferences, and 
interacting with other coaches. The coach should educate the athlete in the following areas:
• The rules and regulations governing the sport
• The scientific basis for understanding and analyzing the technique of the sport because understanding basic biomechanics allows the athlete to analyze movement and ensure proper mechanics, thus decreasing the risk of injury
• The scientific and methodological basis of biomotor abilities
• The planning of training and how periodization of training is used to prepare the athlete for competition
• The physiological adaptations that occur in response to training
• The causes, methods of prevention, and basic treatments for injuries
• The sociology of sport (i.e., intergroup relationships)
• The psychological aspects of sport, including communication skills, behavior modi-
fication, stress management, and relaxation techniques

Preparation for Training69
• The effect of nutrition on training adaptations and how to use dietary interventions 
before, during, and after training or competition (with care undertaken to design 
nutrition strategy by consulting a nutrition specialist).
Developing the athlete’s theoretical knowledge about the sport and how to prepare for 
the sport is an ongoing process that should include discussions before, during, and after 
training. The process should include activities such as film analysis, where the coach teaches the athlete how to critically analyze performance parameters. Athletes should be encour-
aged to become students of their sport. This can be accomplished through attending clinics, 
interacting with other coaches and athletes, reading periodicals and other pertinent texts, and engaging in detailed discussions with their personal coach.
Summary of Major Concepts
The preparation of athletes includes physical, technical, tactical, psychological, and theoret-ical training. These five factors are interrelated, with physical training being strongly linked 
to the development of both technical and tactical skills. Physical training is the foundation 
of every training program. An inadequately developed physical capacity will usually result in fatigue, which impairs technical and tactical performance during training and competi-tion. Therefore, it is essential that the athlete’s physical capacity be addressed with sound physical training.
The athlete must continually strive to attain perfect technique. The more technically pro-
ficient an athlete, the more efficient she will be and the less energy she will expend during practice and performance. Technical skills also affect the athlete’s tactical capacity. Therefore, 
the training plan must provide for the continued development and refinement of technique.
The competitive game plan needs to be developed in advance of the competition to allow 
the development of the tactical training plan. The coach should integrate tactical training 
into the training plan to allow adequate time for the athlete to perfect the tactics prior to 
competition.

This page intentionally left blank

714 Variables of Training
The efficiency of a physical training program results from the manipulations of volume
(duration, distance, repetitions, or tonnage), intensity (load, velocity, or power output), and 
frequency (density), which are key variables in training. These variables should be manip-ulated according to the physiological and psychological requirements of the training goal or competition. Thus, when designing the training program, the coach must first decide which variable to emphasize to meet the performance objective. The manipulations of these variables will establish distinct training-induced outcomes that can significantly affect the athlete’s performance.
The training program should emphasize training variables in proportion to the athlete’s 
needs. The coach must continually monitor the athlete’s responses to the training program to determine whether the training variables require further adjustment.
Volume
Volume is a primary component of training because it is a prerequisite for high technical, tactical, and physical achievement. The volume of training, sometimes inaccurately called the duration of training, incorporates the following integral parts:
•
The time or duration of training
•The distance co
vered or the tonnage in strength training (Tonnage = Sets 3 Repeti-
tions 3 Load in kg)
•The number of repetitions of an exercise or technical element an athlete performsin a giv
en time
The most simplistic definition of volume is the total quantity of activity performed in 
training. Volume can also be considered the sum of work performed during a training session or phase. The total volume of training must be quantified and monitored, given its impact on adaptations and the athlete’s ability to recover from training.
The accurate assessment of training volume depends on the sport or activity. In endurance 
sports (e.g., running, cycling, canoeing, cross-country skiing, and rowing), the appropriate unit for determining training volume is the distance covered (22, 55). In weightlifting or strength training, the tonnage (60, 64, 67, 74) or metric tons of training (8, 47) expressed in kilograms (Tonnage = Sets 3 Repetitions 3 Resistance in kg) is the appropriate unit. 
Alternatively a very practical unit for determining training volume is the total number of repetitions for each intensity zone. The number of repetitions can also be used to calculate volume in activities such as plyometrics (46), throws in baseball (47), and track and field (45). Although time seems to be a common denominator for most sports, the most sensible way of expressing volume should factor in intensity zones.
Across an athlete’s career, the volume of training increases (56, 77, 78) (figure 4.1). As 
the athlete becomes better adapted to training, greater training volumes are necessary to 

Periodization72
stimulate physiological improvement to increase performance (74, 77, 78). Once the top 
level has been reached, physiological adaptations are further stimulated by increasing the 
amount of specific training within the annual plan, rather than indefinitely increasing training 
volume. An increase in volume over time is particularly important for the development of aerobic athletes. An increase in technical and tactical skills training over time is also necessary because high numbers of repetitions are needed to improve performance.
There are many methods for increasing the athlete’s volume of training. Three effective 
methods are:
• Increasing the frequency of training (i.e., density)
• Increasing the volume within the training session
• Increasing both the frequency of training and the volume within the training session
Researchers have suggested that it is important to increase the frequency of training as 
much as possible without inducing overtraining (31, 73). Other researchers have definitively stated 
that more frequent training results in significantly 
greater training-induced adaptations (31, 33, 77). Increasing the number of training sessions in a single day appears to offer a physiological benefit 
as well (33, 77, 78). It is not uncommon for elite 
athletes to perform 6 to 12 training sessions per week with multiple sessions each training day (2-5, 30, 38). The athlete’s ability to recover from the 
training volume is the most important factor dictat-
ing how much volume is used in the training plan (60). Advanced athletes can tolerate high training 
volumes because they can recover more quickly 
from the training load. Nevertheless, the prepara-tory phase in particular should not be turned into a test of the athlete’s work tolerance using general 
(not sport-specific) means, as this would lead to 
maladaptation.
The time that athletes spend training has con-
sistently increased over the decades. For example, Fiskerstrand and Seiler (24) reported that between 1970 and 2001, the volume of training increased by 22% in Norwegian international-class rowers. 
Despite this fact, mostly due to the professional-
ization of sports, more and more coaches in top and elite-level power sports have started to apply 
the methodological concept of minimum effective 
volume, which implies a smaller fluctuation of volume and intensity within the annual plan (figure 4.2), in comparison to the classical models (figure 4.3). Technology now allows for the optimization of 
training volume according to the athlete’s ability to 
recover and adapt; this also implies a smaller fluc-tuation of the athlete’s readiness status within the 
annual plan (figures 4.4 and 4.5). It is imperative 
that the planned training volume takes into account the sport, training objectives, athlete’s needs, ath-lete’s training age, athlete’s stage of development, 
and phase of the annual training plan.E6954/Bompa/F04.01/578277/mh-R11st-3rd year 4th-6th year 7th-10th yearY early training volume
Time
FIGURE 4.1 Theoretical increase in volume of train-
ing over time.
E6954/Bompa/F04.02/578278/mh-R1General
preparationSpecific
preparationVolumeIntensityPerformance
Taper
PreparatoryCompetitive
Peaking
FIGURE 4.2 The methodological concept of mini-
mum effective volume implies a smaller fluctuation 
of volume and intensity within the annual plan.

Variables of Training73
Intensity
Intensity, or the qualitative component of work an athlete performs, is another important 
training variable. Komi (39, 40) defined intensity in relation to power output (i.e., energy 
expenditure or work per unit of time), opposing force, or velocity of progression. Accord -
ing to this definition, the more work the athlete performs per unit of time, the higher the 
intensity (18, 64, 74). Intensity is a function of neuromuscular activation, with greater 
intensities (e.g., higher power outputs, higher external loads) requiring greater neuromuscu -
lar activation (32). The neuromuscular activation pattern will be dictated by external load, 
speed of performance, amount of fatigue devel -
oped, and type of exercise undertaken (32). An additional factor to consider is the psychological 
strain of an exercise. The psychological aspect of 
an exercise, even in the presence of a low physical strain, can have a high level of intensity, which is manifested as a result of concentration and 
psychological stress.
The assessment of intensity is specific to the 
exercise and the sport. Exercises that involve speed usually are assessed in meters per second, rate 
per minute, degrees per second, or power output (watts). When resistance is used in the activity, the intensity is typically quantified in kilograms, 
kilograms lifted 1 m against the force of gravity 
(kg/m), or power output (watts). In team sports, the intensity of play is often quantified as the 
average heart rate, heart rate in relation to anaer-
obic threshold, percentage of maximum heart rate (1 1, 29, 71), or, more accurately, metabolic power zones (57).E6954/Bompa/F04.03/578279/mh-R1General
preparationSpecific
preparationVolume
Intensity
PerformanceTaper
PreparatoryCompetitive Peaking
FIGURE 4.3 The traditional concept of inversely 
proportional volume and intensity implies a higher 
volume of general means during preparation and a 
big difference in performance within the annual plan.E6954/Bompa/F04.05/578281/mh-R1General
preparationSpecific
preparationPreparedness
Readiness
PreparatoryCompetitive
Peaking
FIGURE 4.4 When a high-volume preparation is 
used, the athlete has a lower level of readiness that 
increases as the training is intensified throughout 
the annual plan.
E6954/Bompa/F04.04/578280/mh-R1General
preparationSpecific
preparationPreparedness
Readiness
PreparatoryCompetitive
Peaking
FIGURE 4.5  An optimal-volume preparation allows 
the athlete to maintain a higher level of readiness 
throughout the annual plan.

Periodization74
The training program should include varied intensities within the microcycle. There are 
many methods to quantify and establish the training intensity. For example, with exercises 
that are performed against a resistance or at high velocities, the training intensity can be 
quantified as a percentage of the best performance (63). The best performance would then represent a maximum intensity. Let’s say that an athlete completes a 100 m dash in 10 s, which corresponds to a velocity of 10 m/s. If the athlete can generate a higher velocity (e.g., 10.2 m/s) over a shorter distance, the intensity would be considered supermaximal because it is more than 100% of the maximum velocity (table 4.1).
Using the intensity stratification presented in table 4.1, exercises performed with strength 
training loads greater than 105% of maximum would most likely be either isometric or eccentric muscle actions and thus would be considered supermaximal. When training for endurance (e.g., 5,000-10,000 m), the athlete may run shorter distances at a much faster rate and thus may perform at intensities greater than 125% of the mean velocity achieved during the actual race.
An alternative method of evaluating intensity is based on the primary energy system 
engaged during the activity (18, 64, 69). A six-tier intensity classification can be constructed based on the biochemical responses to different types of exercise bouts (table 4.2).
TABLE 4.1 Intensity Scale for Speed and Strength Exercises
Intensity zonePercentage of maximum  
performance Intensity
1 >100 Supermaximal
2 90-100 Maximum
3 80-90 Heavy
4 70-80 Medium-heavy 
5 50-70 Medium
6 <50 Low
TABLE 4.2 Intensity Zones Based on Bioenergetics
Intensity zoneEvent durationLevel of  intensityPrimary energy systemBioenergetic  
contributions
Anaerobic Aerobic
1 <6 s Maximum ATP-PC 100-95 0-5
2 6-30 s High ATP-PC and fast glycolysis 95-80 5-20
3 30 s-2 min Moderately high Fast and slow glycolysis 80-50 20-50
4 2-3 min Moderate Slow glycolysis and  
oxidative50-40 50-60
5 3-30 min Moderately low Oxidative 40-5 60-95
6 >30 min Low Oxidative 5-2 95-98
ATP-PC = phosphagen system.
Adapted from McArdle et al. 2007 (50), Brooks et al. 2000 (15), Stone et al. 2007 (74), and Conley 2000 (18).

Variables of Training75
• Intensity zone 1: Exercises in this zone of intensity rely almost exclusively on anaerobic 
metabolism and last for up to 6 s (e.g., short accelerations, Olympic lifts, shot put 
throw, average play in American football, discus throw). This intensity zone is marked 
by the highest power outputs and thus should be considered the highest intensity of exercise (18, 74). The intensity of work in this zone is substantially higher than the athlete’s V.  O
2max (maximal oxygen uptake), thus requiring any work in this zone 
to be supported primarily by anaerobic energy supply. The phosphagen (ATP-PC) 
system is the primary supplier of energy in this intensity zone. The ATP-PC system 
is capable of supplying energy only for very short periods of time because it relies exclusively on muscular stores of ATP and phosphocreatine (PCr) (74). The reliance on anaerobic energy supply creates a large oxygen deficit as a result of the rapid 
demand for energy that cannot be met by aerobic mechanisms (50, 74). Ultimately, an increase in oxygen consumption, or what is termed the excess  postexercise oxygen 
consumption  (EPOC), occurs following exercise to replenish the ATP and PCr stores. 
Exercise performed in this intensity zone usually is limited by the muscular stores of 
ATP and PCr (74).
• Intensity zone 2:  The second intensity zone, which is a high-intensity zone, also relies 
almost exclusively on anaerobic energy supply and includes activities that last between 
6 and 30 s (e.g., 100 m and 200 m sprint in track and field, 100 m sprint in swimming). 
In this zone, like zone 1, the rate of energy supply must be very rapid and cannot be met by aerobic mechanism. Therefore, energy demand is met by a combination of the ATP-PC and the fast glycolytic system (74). The breakdown of the muscular stores 
of ATP occurs very rapidly, and PCr must be used to maintain the supply of energy. 
Within 10 s of the initiation of high-intensity exercise, the ability of PCr to maintain ATP supply is decreased by 50%; by 30 s after initiation, PCr contributes very little 
to ATP supply (49). Therefore, as the exercise in this intensity zone extends from 10 
to 30 s in duration, the reliance on blood glucose and muscular stores of glycogen progressively increases (49). Because of the increasing reliance on fast glycolysis, there can be a substantial increase in lactic acid accumulation depending on the duration 
and intensity of the exercise bout (49, 74). As a result of the increased lactic acid pro-
duction stemming from exercise in this intensity zone, a substantial EPOC can occur.
• Intensity zone 3: Activities that last from 30 s to 2 min (e.g., 400 m run, 800 m run, 1 km in track cycling) are considered moderately high-intensity activities. These activ-ities predominantly rely on the fast and slow glycolytic systems of energy supply. As 
an activity’s duration shifts from 30 s toward 2 min, activation of the slow glycolytic 
system increases. With the activities in this zone, speed and high-intensity exercise endurance  (HIEE) are of primary concern. Depending on the duration and intensity 
of these activities, a large amount of lactic acid is produced in response to the met-abolic challenge encountered (49). The most likely limiters of performance in this intensity zone are decreases in muscular stores of ATP, PCr, and muscle glycogen. The accumulation of lactic acid may also limit performance (74).
• Intensity zone 4:  The fourth zone of intensity includes activities that last 2 to 3 min. 
The intensity in this zone is considered to be moderate, and it relies on a mix of slow 
glycolysis and oxidative metabolism. When an exercise reaches this zone of intensity, 
the body’s energy supply begins to shift from relying on anaerobic mechanisms to 
relying on aerobic means. Most of the activities classified in this zone rely evenly on both the anaerobic and aerobic energy systems.
• Intensity zone 5:  Activities in this zone last from 3 to 30 min (e.g., pursuit cycling, 
team pursuit, 2,000 m rowing, 1,500 m run, 400 m individual medley). Activities in this zone of intensity rely predominantly on the aerobic energy system and are thus of moderately low intensity. A strong cardiovascular system is essential for success in activities in this intensity zone because oxygen supply plays a crucial role in the 
oxidative pathway’s ability to supply energy (18). Events in this zone, especially the 

Periodization76
longer events, appear to require pacing strategies to maximize performance (74). In 
these events, the supply of energy (e.g., muscle and liver glycogen, fat stores) is the 
primary limiter of performance (74).
• Intensity zone 6:  The final zone consists of activities that are classified as low intensity 
because of their predominant reliance on oxidative metabolism (e.g., marathon, 
triathlon, road racing in cycling) (74). Conley et al. (19) reported that power output at V.  O
2max is about 25% to 35% of the peak power output achieved during maximal 
anaerobic exercise. Success in these activities relies on a strong cardiovascular system 
and an optimal energy supply via the oxidative system. Factors that can limit perfor-
mance in these activities center on energy supply. As the activity increases in duration, 
there is a progressive decrease in the availability of muscle glycogen, which ultimately 
leads to a decrease in blood glucose levels and an increased reliance on fat stores (49). As glycogen stores become depleted, it is increasingly difficult to maintain exercise 
intensity; therefore, the consumption of carbohydrates during exercise appears to be 
important to maintain performance.
When working with endurance athletes or team sports athletes, coaches should consider 
using the heart rate response as an indicator of intensity. Heart rate increases linearly as both workload and oxygen consumption increase (50, 61). Because of this tight relationship, heart rate has become a popular way of quantifying exercise intensity in aerobic exercise. To 
maximize the effectiveness of heart rate–based training, a graded exercise test should be used 
to determine the athlete’s maximal heart rate, anaerobic or lactate threshold, and V.  O
2max. 
Although not as accurate as a graded exercise test, an age-predicted maximum can be used 
to estimate the athlete’s maximal heart rate (61):
Maximal heart rate = 220 − Age
Once the maximal heart rate is determined, heart rate training zones can be established, 
and training can be based on those zones (tables 4.3 and 4.4). Faria and colleagues (22) suggested that the individual anaerobic threshold (IAT) is a crucial marker that can be used 
Knowing what intensity zone your activity falls in can help you better understand  
what systems your body uses to provide energy for competition.
© Anton Hlushchenko/fotolia.com

Variables of Training77
to determine basic and evolution heart rate training ranges (table 4.5). The basic training 
zone is used to stimulate increases in aerobic fitness, whereas the evolution zone is used to improve lactate tolerance (22). The basic training zone is calculated as the IAT − 50 beats per 
min, through the IAT − 30 beats per min. Thus for an athlete with an IAT of 170, the basic 
zone would be 120 to 140 beats per min. The evolution training zone is calculated as the IAT − 5 beats per min, through the IAT + 5 beats per min. For example, an athlete with an 
IAT of 170 would have an evolution training zone of 165 to 175 beats per min. Faria and TABLE 4.3 Australian Institute of Sport Heart Rate Training  
 Zones for Male Cyclists 
Training zonesHeart rate  
(% heart rate maximum) Perceived exertion
Endurance 1 <75 Recovery (easy)
Endurance 2 75-85 Comfortable
Endurance 3 85-92 Uncomfortable
Endurance 4 >92 Stressful
Adapted, by permission, from N. Craig et al., 2000, Protocols for the physiological assessment of high-performance track, road, and 
mountain cyclists. In Physiological tests for elite athletes, edited by C.J. Gore (Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics), 258-277.
TABLE 4.4 USA Cycling Heart Rate Training Zones for Cyclists 
Training zonesHeart rate  
(% heart rate maximum) Description of training
1 <65 Recovery ride (easy)
2 66-72 Basic endurance training
3 73-80 Tempo training 
4 84-90 Anaerobic threshold training
5 91-100 Maximal efforts
Courtesy of USA Cycling.
TABLE 4.5 Heart Rate Training Zones Based on Individual  
 Anaerobic Threshold
Training zones Low end High end
Basic training zone HR (IAT) − 50 HR (IAT) − 30
Evolution training zone HR (IAT) − 5 HR (IAT) + 5
Example
Basic training zone 120 140 HR (IAT) = 170
Evolution training zone 165 175
HR = heart rate; IAT = individual anaerobic threshold.
Adapted from Faria, Parker, and Faria 2005 (22).

Periodization78
colleagues (22) suggested that the evolution zone should be used after a period of basic 
training and closer to competition.
In the sport of cycling, you can also quantify intensity based on the measurement of power 
output (9, 36). When using a power-based training plan, the athlete must first determine her functional threshold, which is calculated by subtracting 5% from the average power achieved during a 20 min time trial performed on a flat surface (9). Once this is accomplished, seven 
distinct training zones can be established and used to develop a training plan (table 4.6).
High intensities of training result in rapid progress but lead to less stable adaptation, a 
lower degree of consistency, a greater incidence of high-intensity overtraining, and a plateau in performance. Conversely, low-level training loads result in slower development and mini-
mal stimulus for physiological adaptation, which correspond to a lower but more consistent 
performance. The training plan should systematically alter volume and intensity to maximize 
the physiological and performance adaptations stimulated by training.
There are two types of intensities: absolute  intensity,  which corresponds to the percent-
age of maximum necessary to perform the exercise, and relative intensity, which measures the intensity of a training session or microcycle, given the absolute intensity and the total volume of work performed in that period.
TABLE 4.6 Power-Based Training Zones for Cycling
Percentages Example calculationsb
Training 
zone Zone nameAverage power
aAverage heart rate
aAverage powerAverage heart rate
1 Active recovery <55% <68% <124 <121
2 Endurance 56%-75% 69-83% 126-129 123-148
3 Tempo 76%-90% 84-94% 171-203 150-167
4 Lactate threshold 91%-105% 95-105% 205-236 169-187
5 V.  O2max 106%-120% >106% 239-270 >187
6 Anaerobic capacity 121%-150% N/A 272-337 N/A
7 Neuromuscular power N/A N/A N/A N/A
aBased off of the functional threshold (average power for a 20-minute time trial—5%).
bBased off of a functional threshold average power of 225 and threshold heart rate of 178.
Based on Allen and Coggan 2006 (9).
Relationship Between Volume and Intensity
Fundamental to the training process is the trade-off between volume and intensity. The 
interaction of these variables is the foundation for periodized training plans because of 
their specific effects on physiological and performance adaptations. Periodization of train-
ing attempts to target performance outcomes by manipulating both volume and intensity of training in a fluctuating fashion (74). The volume and intensity of training are inversely related in most instances. For example, when the intensity of training is the highest, the 
volume is generally low. Different physiological and performance adaptations can be 
stimulated by shifting the relative emphasis on these components in training. However, because training entails both a quantity and a quality, it is impractical to consider volume 
and intensity separately because the work accomplished is considered a good indicator of 
training stress (74). The greater the workload (e.g., the higher the intensity of training and 

Variables of Training79
the longer it is maintained), the greater the physiological stress as indicated by decreases in 
energetic substrates (e.g., muscle glycogen and PCr), increases in hormonal disturbances 
(e.g., cortisol release), and increases in neuromuscular fatigue.
High workloads develop endurance, create a work capacity base, establish the duration 
and stability of corresponding training effects, and serve as a foundation for intense efforts 
that are involved in special and technical preparation (74). Many strategies can be used to 
increase workload: (a) increasing the number of repetitions per set or increasing the distance 
with a corresponding decrease in intensity; (b) increasing the number of sets, exercises, or both; and (c) manipulating the frequency (e.g., density of training within the microcycle or 
training day). A good example of using these methods to increase workload can be seen in 
long-distance swimming. In the preparatory phase of training, the swimmer can increase the 
training volume by increasing the number, length, or distance of intervals used in training or 
by increasing the load density (e.g., increasing the frequency of high-volume training) (56). To increase training volume, a decrease in training intensity will most likely occur. However, 
this low-intensity, high-volume training will serve as the base on which higher-intensity 
work will be built (56, 74).
The relationship between volume and intensity of training varies throughout a training 
year depending on the focus of the phase of the annual plan (figures 4.2 and 4.3). With many sporting activities, these fluctuations in training can include alterations in time 
or alterations in the emphasis on technical, tactical, and physical training. Typically, in 
the preparatory phase of training, the emphasis in the early portion of the phase is on developing a physical training base with the use of high workloads. High workloads are accomplished via an increase in training volume with a concomitant decrease in training 
intensity. As the athlete progresses through this phase of training, the volume of physical 
training will progressively decrease as the training intensity increases. When the workload is very high, the athlete’s readiness decreases as a result of cumulative fatigue (60, 74, 76, 
77). If the athlete continually undergoes high volumes of training, performance will not 
be optimized even though preparedness increases. However, if training intensity is not increased, the athlete will continually train at intensities below those needed for competi
-
tion. Thus, to elevate and ultimately increase performance the workload has to be decreased while intensity is increased. Therefore, it is important to consider the relationship between 
training volume and intensity in the context of the emphasis of each phase of the annual 
 
training plan.
Determining the optimal workload, which entails combinations of training volume and 
intensity, is a complex task that depends on many factors including the specifics of the sport, the phase of the annual training plan, and the athlete’s level of development. It is 
much easier to quantify volume and intensity with sports that can be assessed objectively. In weightlifting, for example, it is relatively easy to determine the volume of training (e.g., multiply the sets by repetitions and resistance) and training intensity (e.g., tonnage divided 
by total repetitions, or percentage of maximum capacity). In many team sports and sports 
like gymnastics, it is much more difficult to quantify these variables. One strategy is to use the total number of actions, elements, repetitions, and distances covered to determine 
volume. Another possibility is to quantify the duration of a training session or the number 
of repetitions of a skill to determine volume. In these sports, the velocity or speed at which the athlete performs the activities of training or the average heart rate may be used to quan-tify the intensity of training.
Dynamics of Increasing Volume and Intensity
The amount of work that international-class athletes perform has increased markedly over the past 3 to 5 decades (6, 24). This marked increase in workload has been accomplished 
via an increase in training frequency, individual training session volume, and microcycle 
volume, all of which contribute to markedly greater training loads for the yearly training plan. Contemporary athletes often increase their training load by increasing training frequency, 

Periodization80
where training is undertaken frequently during the microcycle (8 to 12 sessions per week), 
typically with multiple training sessions being used in the same day. Although distinct phys-
iological and performance benefits can occur from increasing the frequency of training (31, 
58, 77, 78), these increases in training load (volume and intensity) and frequency (density) must be implemented in a progressive and systematic fashion (as described in chapter 2).
As the athlete becomes more trained, a workload that previously was considered a stimu-
lating load (a training load high enough to induce physiological changes) is now a retaining load (a load that maintains physiological adaptations) or a detraining load (a load that is not high enough to maintain physiological adaptations and a loss of physiological adaptations 
occurs) (77, 78). For example, a novice athlete may optimize strength gains from a strength 
program with 3 days of training per week (58, 62); on the other hand, a more advanced athlete 
may require more frequent (e.g., four to eight sessions per week) strength training sessions 
to maximize the training stimulus. As the athlete becomes more developed she will need greater training variation, which comes from manipulating the training load (volume and 
intensity), frequency of training, and periodic changes in exercises or activities. These alter-
ations in the training load should not be sudden, unless one is using planned overreaching or concentrated loading strategies (60, 64, 74). As the athlete becomes more trained and her work capacity increases, she should periodically increase the training load progressively, yet in a nonlinear fashion. Coaches need to be extremely careful when attempting to increase 
training load because most training plans entail a delay in training adaptations.
When attempting to increase training load via alterations of volume and intensity, the 
coach can consider several example strategies.
Strategies for Altering the Volume of Training
• Increase the duration of the training session. This can be a useful strategy when working 
with endurance athletes. For example, if the athlete is performing three sessions of 60 
min duration, an increase in volume could be accomplished by increasing some of 
the training sessions to 75 min. In this way the athlete’s training volume progressively increases over time.
• Increase the frequency of training (i.e., density, or number of training sessions) per week. If, for example, the athlete is performing 3 sessions per week, an increase to 5 
days per week would increase the training frequency. Another possibility is to increase 
the number of sessions in the training day. For example, if the athlete is training 3 days per week, he could maintain a 3-day-a-week training plan but now include two sessions per day, for a total of six training sessions per week. When the frequency of 
weekly training is increased, the weekly training volume must be distributed over the 
new number of sessions and then gradually raised to the previous sessions’ volume, if necessary.
• Increase the number of repetitions, sets, drills, or technical elements per training session.
• Increase the distance traveled or the duration per repetition or drill.
Strategies for Altering the Intensity of Training
• Increase the velocity of movement over a given distance or the quickness or tempo of performing tactical drills.
• Increase the load (i.e., resistance or weight) in strength training.
• Increase the power output of the training activity.
• Decrease the rest interval between repetitions or tactical drills.
• Require the athlete to perform endurance, interval, or tactical work at a higher per-centage of maximal heart rate.
• Increase the number of competitions in the training phase, but only if this fits into the training plan for the athlete and does not impede the athlete’s development.

Variables of Training81
Many factors are involved in the dynamics of intensity used in training. Three factors are 
often discussed: the characteristics of the sport, the training or competitive environment, 
and the athlete’s performance level.
• Characteristics of the sport: Each sporting activity stimulates distinct physiological adap -
tations. In sports where maximal speed or power (e.g., sprinting, throwing, weight-
lifting) is of primary importance, the resultant physiological stress is considered to be high in response to the activity’s reliance on anaerobic energy supply. Conversely, 
in endurance sports (e.g., running, distance cycling, triathlon), the intensity is con-
sidered to be low as a result of the lower power outputs encountered and the reliance on aerobic energy supply (19, 74). The intensity of sporting activities that rely on 
technical mastery (e.g., gymnastics, diving, synchronized swimming) is determined 
by looking at the degree of difficulty of the individual skills performed and the pre-
dominant energy supply system. In most instances, these activities rely heavily on 
the anaerobic energy systems and require high power outputs or quick movements. Therefore, most of these activities fall on the high end of the intensity spectrum. The classification of team sports is often difficult because of the fluid changes in intensity 
that can occur. Most team sports should be considered high intensity as a result of 
their reliance on anaerobic energy supply (see table 1.2 for a summary of sporting activities and their primary energy suppliers). For any activity, the periodized training plan should include a variety of intensities because systematic variations of intensity 
result in superior physiological adaptations, which ultimately elevate the athlete’s 
performance ability.
• Training or competitive environment:  The training or competitive environment sig-
nificantly affects the intensity of a training session. For example, running in sand or uphill can significantly increase intensity, which can be seen in an increase in 
the heart rate response to the training session. Using drafting strategies in cycling, 
running, and skating to decrease drag can significantly affect intensity. In cycling, for example, drafting behind another cyclist while riding at 24.5 m/h (39.5 km/h) has been shown to result in an approximately 7.5% reduction in average heart rate and an 
Drafting during training can modify the heart rate response to the training session;  
this is an example of the training environment affecting performance.
JONATHAN NACKSTRAND/AFP/Getty Images

Periodization82
approximately 14% reduction in oxygen consumption (V.  O2) compared with cycling 
alone (35). Thus drafting has the potential to decrease the intensity of the activity 
while maintaining a very high speed of movement. Using aerodynamic devices (e.g., 
aero-handlebars, disc wheels, skin suits) can reduce the drag forces encountered in cycling and thus decrease the intensity of cycling at the same absolute speed (23).
• Preparation of the athlete’s performance level: The athlete’s physical development appears to play a very large role in determining the content of the athlete’s training program. 
When athletes of different training levels are introduced to the same training content 
(e.g., workload), differing physiological responses will most likely occur because the load represents different intensities of training for different athletes. For example, a 
training load that is of medium intensity for an elite athlete may be a supermaximal 
load for a novice athlete. Conversely, a medium load for a novice athlete may be a 
detraining load for an elite athlete. These contentions support the importance of using 
individualized training plans to optimize each athlete’s physiological adaptations and ultimately his performance.
As suggested previously in this chapter, the heart rate response to training can be a useful 
tool for prescribing and evaluating training intensities. Heart rate may be used to compute 
the intensity of training as an expression of the total demand experienced during a training 
session. The intensity of a training session can be calculated by using the following series of equations proposed by Iliuta and Dumitrescu (37). The first step of this process is to calculate the partial intensity with the following equation:
Partial intensity=HRp×100
HRmax
In this equation, HRP is the heart rate that results from performing the exercise for which 
the partial intensity is being calculated, and HRmax is the maximum heart rate achieved in 
performing the activity of that individual. Once the partial intensity is established, the 
intensity can be calculated with the following equations:
Overall intensity=Partial intensity×Volume of exercises ( ) ∑
Volume of exercises ( ) ∑
Another possible use for monitoring heart rate is the concept of training impulse (TRIMP) 
(52, 67). TRIMP is the product of training duration and intensity, where heart rate is multi-plied by a nonlinear metabolic adjustment based on the lactate curve and the training ses-
sion duration (52). Although the TRIMP method of determining training stress is useful, its application is limited to aerobic training intensities that result in heart rates below maximum.
Rating the Volume and Intensity
Because the human body has the ability to adapt to a given training stimulus, actual perfor-mance can be changed in response to the training program. Additionally, the type of training 
undertaken can result in very distinct genetic and molecular adaptations that underlie these 
performance outcomes (17). To achieve the primary goal in the development of athletes, which is to maximize performance outcomes via an appropriate training stimulus, all ele-ments of the training plan must be in line with the concept of training specificity. Coaches 
must consider the bioenergetic, mechanical, and movement characteristics of the sport and 
target these areas in the training plan. Furthermore, individualization of the training program is essential to the success of the plan. The workload should be based on the individual ath-
lete’s level of development or ability to tolerate training, the phase of the annual plan, and 
the ratio between the volume and intensity of training. If the appropriate workload dosage 

Variables of Training83
is implemented, the correct physiological responses will be stimulated and performance 
will improve. 
In training, two classifications of load have been established: external and internal (34, 
59). The external  load, or dosage, is a function of training volume and intensity. The exter-
nal load is based on the interrelationships of the volume, intensity, and frequency of the training stimuli. These factors are easily monitored, and the coach and athlete should keep 
detailed records of what has been accomplished. The external load elicits the physiological 
and psychological adaptations that occur as a result of the training program. These individual responses are at the same time affected by and specific to the internal  load, or dosage, which 
is expressed in degree and magnitude of fatigue experienced by the athlete. The magnitude and intensity of the internal load are direct results of the external dosage that is applied 
during the training plan.
Application of the same external load does not always result in the same physiological or 
psychological responses between athletes or for the same athlete (because of, for instance, accumulated fatigue). Internal responses to training are a function of the individual athlete’s 
response to the applied external load. Therefore, the internal response can only be estimated in general terms. The internal response is best tracked by using training logs or diaries and periodic physiological testing, including heart rate variability (HRV) monitoring, dynamom -
eters and accelerometers data, and psychological testing (74).
Relationship Between Volume and Adaptation
The implementation of a well-structured training plan results in very specific physiological and psychological adaptations that alter the athlete’s performance capacity (60, 67, 74). These 
adaptations are related to many factors, including the genetic endowment, health status, and 
training history of the athlete (67). The training plan is a key factor in determining perfor-mance outcomes because training intensity, volume, and frequency all play a significant role in modulating the physiological adaptations that are central to performance (17, 67, 75). 
Of particular interest is the relationship between the dosage of training and these adapta-
tions. The physiological systems must be progressively overloaded to induce the adaptations necessary to improve performance. For example, a high volume of work performed by highly 
trained endurance athletes at a low intensity does not appear to significantly improve per-
formance or related physiological adaptations (42). A higher work volume or intensity of work is necessary for continued adaptations to occur (14, 34, 42, 59). In another example, the tonnage (i.e., Tonnage = Sets 3 Repetitions 3 Resistance in kg) of training encountered 
in a strength training plan is strongly related to the muscular adaptations that occur in 
response to training. Froböse and colleagues (26) offer evidence that the greater the tonnage of training, the greater the stimulus for muscular growth and adaptation, which ultimately 
could have a profound effect on performance for some athletes.
If the work volume, training volume, or training intensity is elevated too sharply or exceeds 
the athlete’s work capacity, a maladaptive response can occur that can result in overtraining 
(see chapter 5) (27, 28, 72). If this situation occurs, performance can stagnate or even decline in response to the overtraining syndrome induced by the misapplied training stimulus. The 
training program must include variations in intensity, volume, and frequency so that the 
athlete alternates between stimulation and regeneration (i.e., work and rest); this usually happens at the macrocycle level (by placing an unloading week at the end of it) and micro-
cycle level (alternating workloads within it).
The positive adaptation to a training stimulus increases the training stimulus required by 
the athlete in training. This increased demand for training stimulus occurs as a result of phys-
iological adaptations that allow the athlete to tolerate greater training loads. Therefore, if the 
same training load is encountered again, significantly less physiological disturbance occurs, 
resulting in significantly less physiological adaptation. To continue to stimulate appropriate physiological adaptations, the external dosage or workload must be progressively increased, 
as suggested by the theory of progressive overload (25, 74). Furthermore, if the training load 

Periodization84
is substantially reduced, the training effect is diminished and an involution phase results. 
Although a reduction in workload is necessary when the athlete is attempting to dissipate 
fatigue, recover, or peak for a competition, remaining in periods of subthreshold training 
for too long will result in a loss of physiological adaptations and ultimately performance capacity as a result of detraining (53, 54). For instance, during the annual plan if the transi-tion phase is too long and contains passive recovery instead of active recovery, many of the 
adaptations stimulated by the preparatory and competitive phases of training could be lost.
Frequency
The frequency (i.e., density) of training  can be defined as the distribution of training sessions 
(74). The frequency of training can be thought of as a relationship that is expressed in units of time between working and recovery phases of training. Thus the greater the frequency of 
training, the shorter the recovery time between working phases of training. When increas-ing the frequency of training, the athlete and coach must establish a balance between work and recovery to avoid inducing excessive levels of fatigue or exhaustion, which can lead to overtraining.
It is very difficult to calculate the optimal amount of time needed between multiple training 
sessions (e.g., within the training day or microcycle) because many factors can contribute to the athlete’s rate of recovery. The intensity and volume of training encountered within 
the training session plays a major role in determining the amount of time needed before 
another training session is undertaken (74, 77). The greater the workload (i.e., intensity and volume) of the training session, the greater the amount of time needed to recover before readiness or performance capacity is restored (77, 78). Additionally, the training status of 
the athlete (77, 78), chronological age of the athlete (20, 41, 66), nutritional interventions 
used by the athlete (16), and use of recovery interventions (10, 51) can all affect the ability to recover from training bouts. Complete recovery from a training session is not needed 
before the next training session. A common strategy is to increase the frequency of training 
and promote recovery by using training sessions of differing workloads within the training day or microcycle.
Two methods are commonly used to optimize the work-to-rest interval during endur-
ance or interval-based training: (a) fixed work-to-recovery ratios (12, 43, 44, 68, 70) and (b) recovery durations that require heart rate to return to a predetermined percentage of maximum (7, 43, 44, 65). In these cases, it is the training frequency  that is manipulated. 
Training density can be defined as the frequency at which an athlete performs a series of repetitions of work per unit of time (13).
• Fixed work-to-recovery ratios: Several researchers have used fixed work-to-rest ratios when studying interval-based training (12, 43, 68, 70). By manipulating the work-to-rest interval, the coach and athlete can design a training program that targets specific 
bioenergetic adaptations (18). Work-to-rest ratios of 3:1 to 1:4 target the develop-
ment of endurance characteristics, whereas ratios of 1:5 to 1:100 target strength- and power-generating characteristics (table 4.7).
TABLE 4.7 Work-to-Rest Intervals for Sprinting
Training objective Average work time (s) Work-to-rest ratio Intensity
Acceleration (10-40 m) 2-5 1:30-1:45 Maximal
Maximum speed (50-60 m) 6-7 1:35-1:60 Maximal
Speed endurance (80-200 m) 9-24 1:40-1:110 Maximal
Special endurance (250-400 m) 30-60 1:4-1:24 Submaximal

Variables of Training85
• Predetermined heart rate:  Another method for determining the length of the recovery 
period is to establish a heart rate that must be achieved prior to performing another 
work bout (7, 43, 65). One method of using this technique is to set a heart rate range 
of 120 to 130 beats per min as the cutoff for the initiation of the next work bout (7, 65). A second method is to set the recovery period as the time it takes the athlete’s heart rate to return to 65% of maximum (43, 44).
Computing the density of a training session can be accomplished by calculating what 
is termed the relative density. The relative density is the percentage of work volume the athlete performs compared with the total volume within the training session. The relative density equation is as follows:
Relative density=Absolute volume×100
Relative volume
The absolute volume is represented by the total volume of work that the individual per -
forms, whereas the relative volume represents the total amount of time (duration) for a training session. For example, if the absolute volume of training is 102 min and the relative volume is 120 min, then the relative density of the training session would be calculated as follows:
Relative density=102×100
120=85%
This calculated percentage suggests that the athlete worked 85% of the time. Although the 
relative density has some value to the athlete and coach, the absolute density of training 
is more important. The absolute density can be defined as the ratio between the effective 
work an athlete performs and the absolute volume. The absolute density or effective work is calculated by subtracting the volume of rest intervals from the absolute volume using the following equation:
Absolute density=Absolute volume–Volume of rest intervals ( )×100
Absolute volume
For example, if the volume of rest intervals is 26 min and the absolute load is 102 min, 
then the absolute density would be calculated as follows:
Absolute density=102–26 ( )×100
102=74.5%
These calculations indicate that the absolute density of training was 74.5%. Because 
training frequency is a factor of intensity, the index of absolute density could be considered 
medium-heavy intensity (see table 4.1). Determining the relative and absolute density of 
training can be useful for establishing effective training sessions.
Complexity
Complexity refers to the degree of sophistication and biomechanical difficulty of a skill. The performance of more complex skills in training can increase training intensity. Learning a 
complex skill may require extra work, in comparison to basic skills, especially if the athlete 
possesses inferior neuromuscular coordination or is not fully concentrating on the acquisition of the skill. Assigning complex skills to several individuals who have no previous experience with those skills discriminates quickly between well-conditioned and poorly conditioned 
athletes. Therefore, the more complex an exercise or skill, the greater the athlete’s individual 
differences and mechanical efficiencies.
The complexity of previously learned skills may impose physiological stress, even though 
the skills have been mastered. For example, Eniseler (21) demonstrated that heart rate and 

Periodization86
lactate accumulation are higher with tactical training compared with technical training in 
soccer players. In that study, the technical portion of the training session centered on skill 
practice without the presence of an opponent. The addition of an opponent during tactical 
training significantly increased the complexity of the drills and thus increased heart rate and lactate production. Additionally, when simulated games were undertaken, the complexity of the activities increased again, resulting in a concomitant increase in heart rate and lactate 
production. The highest heart rates and lactate levels were seen in actual games. In light of 
this information, the coach should consider the physiological stress of the different portions of the training session in the context of the complexity of the skills or activities used.
Index of Overall Demand
Volume, intensity, frequency, and complexity all affect the overall demand (i.e., workload) an athlete encounters in training. Although these factors may complement each other, an 
increased emphasis on one factor may cause an increased demand on the athlete if the 
emphasis on the other factors is not adjusted. For instance, if the coach intends to maintain the same demand in training, and the needs of the sport require developing high-intensity endurance, the volume of training must increase. When increasing the volume, the coach must consider how this increase will affect the frequency of training and how much the 
intensity of training must be decreased.
The planning and direction of training are the primary functions of manipulations of 
volume, intensity, and complexity. The coach must guide the evolution of the curve of these components, especially volume and intensity, in direct relationship with the athlete’s index 
of adaptation, phase of training, and competition schedule. The appropriate integration of these factors in the annual training plan will enhance the athlete’s ability to peak at the appropriate times, thus resulting in optimal performances at these times.
The overall demand of a training program can be calculated with the index of overall 
demand (IOD) (37). The IOD can be calculated with the equation proposed by Iliuta and Dumitrescu (37):
Index of overall demand=OI×AD×AV
10,000
For example, if the OI (overall intensity) is 63.8%, the AD (absolute density) is 74.5%, 
and the AV (absolute volume) is 102 min, then the OI, AD, and AV can be substituted into 
the IOD equation as follows:
Index of overall demand=63.8%×74.5%×102
10,000
In this example, the IOD of training is very low (48.5%), slightly less than 50%.
Summary of Major Concepts
The amount of work encountered in training is a key variable in the success of a training 
plan. A large amount of work that encompasses and integrates physical, technical, and tactical 
training is essential to stimulate the physiological adaptations that serve as the foundation for 
improvements in athletic performance. The application of workload should be individual-ized because each athlete has a tolerance to the volume, intensity, and frequency of training.
The workload encountered in training has progressively increased over the past 50 years, 
with athletes now undertaking multiple training sessions per day and accumulating many hours of training within the microcycle. Athletes must progressively increase their training volume, intensity, and frequency across their athletic careers. If these factors are increased 

Variables of Training87
too sharply or too soon, overtraining likely will occur. Thus, an athlete’s increase in workload 
should be individualized and progressive.
The coach must monitor training loads and performance measures to determine the effec-
tiveness of the training plan. The coach should quantify the frequency of a training session or complexity of the skills practiced to account for the workload in tactical and technical training. One useful tool that has gained popularity in many sports (e.g., soccer, rugby) is 
the tri-axial accelerometer with gyroscope and GPS, which is used to quantify training and 
competitive intensities and has replaced quantification using the heart rate monitor. The coach should monitor factors that increase the workload or training stress and coordinate 
them with recovery and restoration. The coach also should consider restoration techniques 
and the time needed to restore energy stores.

This page intentionally left blank

PLANNING AND  
PERIODIZATIONPART II

This page intentionally left blank

915Periodization of  
Biomotor Abilities
The periodization of biomotor abilities and the annual plan are the tools that guide
training o
ver a year. They are the essential components of periodization because they help 
the coach divide the training year into distinct phases with very specific training objectives. 
Periodization of biomotor abilities and the annual training plan are the necessary method-ological tools to maximize physiological adaptations, as they are the intrinsic foundation necessary to improve performance. It is equally important to also acknowledge that technical, tactical training, psychological, and nutrition plans also rely on the concept of periodization and should be integrated into the annual plan in order to bring adaptations and performance to the highest possible levels. In other words, the same phases defined in the annual plan are also used for the periodization of all the activities used in an athlete’s training.
Periodization represents the basis for the compilation of any athlete’s training plan. The 
term periodization  originates from the word period, which is a way of describing a division 
of time. Periodization of training is a method by which the training process is divided into smaller, easy-to-manage segments, which are typically referred to as phases  of training. Peri-
odization of training has evolved over the centuries, with many sport scientists and authors contributing to its development.
Matveyev (25) borrowed the term of periodization from other fields of human activi-
ties, specifically from history. For instance human history is divided into specific phases (not blocks) or periods, such as the Stone Age, Bronze Age, Iron Age, Middle Ages, and the Renaissance. Periodization is also applicable to English literature (Shakespearean, Victorian), architecture (Ionian, Dorian, Roman, Gothic, Baroque), and economics (Pre-commerce, Commerce, Industrial Revolution, Capitalism, Socialism).
Perhaps without periodization, athletes’ training would still be in the guessing stages of 
pre-world War II!
Brief History of Periodization
Periodization is not a new concept, but many people are not familiar with it or do not understand its history. The origins of periodization are unknown, but an unrefined form of the concept has existed for a long time. Evidence suggests that a simplified form of peri-odization was used to train athletes for the ancient Olympic Games (776 BC to 393 AD). Greek physician Flavius Philostratus (AD 170-245) included simple forms of planning in his writings and is considered one of the early proponents of periodization. Philostratus referred to the simple annual plans used by the Greek Olympians, where a preparatory phase preceded the ancient Olympic Games with a few informal competitions before and a rest period after the Games.
Roman physician Claudius Galenus (Galen, AD 129-217) expressed concerns regarding 
the intensity of training for the Greek Olympians. He made a distinction between mind and body, the need to relax after training (a bath and psychological relaxation), and how to treat 

Periodization92
psychological problems via “talk therapy” (psychotherapy) to reveal his patients’ secrets and 
passions. In his book, De Sanitate Tuenda (Preservation of Health), Galen suggested that 
after training an athlete has to bathe to relax and then have good nutrition. Finally, Galen 
suggested a simple (periodized?) 10-month training program for the Olympic Games, with a month-long specific program prior to the games. We can assume that the 12th month was for relaxation/recovery, a phase we now call the transition period.
A similar approach was used by both American and European athletes to prepare for the 
modern Olympic Games (1896). Athletes planning for the European competitions at the beginning of the 20th century also followed a similar pattern. However, planned periodiza-
tion became more sophisticated, culminating with the Finnish runners from 1910-20 and 
the very methodic German program for the 1936 Olympic Games. Finnish long-distance 
runner Paavo Nurmi followed Galen’s structure of annual planning but greatly emphasiz-
ing the preparatory phase, with lots of over-distance aerobic work. The German specialists created the first long-term plan for the 1936 Olympic Games in Berlin. Beginning in 1932, 
coaches created a 4-year plan composed of four annual training plans. Not surprisingly, the 
German athletes were very successful in the Berlin Olympic Games.
In 1964, Tudor Bompa had the incredible chance to meet with one of the original German 
planners for the 1936 Olympics. The planner explained a few elements of the German system, specifying that after World War II, the Soviets captured most of the German planning doc-
uments as spoils of war. A great admirer of the ancient precursors of theory of training and 
that of the pre-1936 training plans created by the German specialists for the Berlin Olympics, Tudor Bompa has never used the Soviets’ terminology in planning where the macrocycle 
refers to an annual plan and mesocycle to a monthly training program.
After WWII, Soviet Russia started a state-funded sport program, using athletics as a means 
to demonstrate the superiority of their Communist political system. In 1965, Leonid P. Matve-
yev, a Russian sport scientist, published a model of an annual plan based on a questionnaire 
that asked Russian athletes how they were trained before the 1952 Olympic Games in Hel-
sinki, Finland. Matveyev analyzed the data collected on the Russian athletes and produced a model of an annual training plan that was divided into phases, subphases, and training 
cycles, similar to the plans produced by the Germans. Some refer to Matveyev’s plan as the 
“classic” model of periodization. However, the true classical model should be considered the works of Galen, Philostratus, and the Germans before Matveyev.
Even before Matveyev’s publication, Tudor Bompa created and applied a periodized 
annual plan starting in 1961 for 1964 Olympic javelin champion Mihaela Penes of Romania. During that time, Bompa also created the concepts of periodization of biomotor abilities, particularly the periodization of strength and power. This training approach, novel at the 
time, made an unknown athlete (Mihaela Penes) an Olympic champion just in 5 years! This 
concept has been refined during the years into a determinant training methodology, a tool utilized to improve sport-specific abilities that has maximized athletic performance (please refer to the Periodization of Biomotor Abilities section later in this chapter). Thus, Bompa 
has developed several aspects of periodization of dominant biomotor abilities: periodization 
of strength and power (5, 7); periodization of endurance and muscle endurance (8); and periodization of agility (9).
Matveyev’s structured training referred only to an annual plan with only one competi -
tive phase, or monocycle  (25). However, this practice did not meet the needs of all sports; 
therefore, as the theory of periodization evolved, training plans were adapted to meet the 
competitive needs of athletes who participated in more than one major competition per 
year. Thus, two main competitions per year (bi-cycle plans), three main competitions per year (tri-cycle plans), and multiple peak plans were developed (9). During the mid- to late 1900s, several Russian (e.g., Matveyev, Ozolin, and Verkhoshansky), German (D. Harre), 
Hungarian (Nádori), Ukrainian (V. Platonov), American (e.g., Stone, Kraemer, Fleck, 
O'Brian), and Romanian/Canadian (Bompa) sport scientists published books about the evolution of periodization from ancient times to the present (1-10, 18-20, 23-25, 27-30, 
32-43, 46-49).

Periodization of Biomotor Abilities93
Periodization Terminology
Periodization can be examined in the context of two important aspects of training:
1. Periodization of the annual plan, which divides the annual training plan into smaller 
training phases, making it easier to plan and manage the training program and ensure that peak performance occurs at the main competitions
2. Periodization of biomotor abilities, which allows the athlete to develop the highest 
levels of speed, strength, power, agility, and endurance possible for the main compe-titions of the year
Many are unaware of the difference between periodization as a division of the annual 
plan and periodization of biomotor abilities. In most sports, the annual training plan is divided into three main phases: preparatory, competitive, and transition. The preparatory phase is divided into two subphases, which are classified as general and specific because of 
their differing tasks. The focus of the general subphase is to develop a physiological base 
by using many nonspecific and specific training methods. The specific subphase is used to develop characteristics needed for a sport by using mainly sport-specific modalities. The competitive phase of training is subdivided into precompetitive and competitive phases. 
Each phase of the annual plan contains macrocycles and microcycles. Each of these subunits 
has objectives that contribute to objectives of the annual training plan. Figure 5.1 illustrates the division of the annual training plan into phases and cycles.
Athletic performance depends on the athlete’s physiological adaptations and psychological 
adjustments to training, combined with the ability to develop and master the skills and abil-ities required of the sport. The duration of each subphase of the annual plan depends on the time necessary to increase the athlete’s training status (preparedness) and express her physi-
ological potential (readiness) at the main competitions of the year. The main determinant of 
the duration of each phase of training is the competitive schedule. To optimize performance at the appropriate time (i.e., for major competitions), athletes undergo several months of training. The training plan must be well organized, sequentially develop physiological 
adaptations, and manage fatigue so that it does not compromise the athlete’s performance 
capabilities. The optimal periodization model for each sport, and the time required for an optimal increase in training status and readiness, have yet to be elucidated. Confounding 
the coach’s ability to optimally dose training is the individual athlete’s ability to tolerate and 
adapt to a training plan, which is influenced by many factors including genetic endowment, 
Annual Training Plan
Phases of  
trainingPreparatory Competitive Transition
SubphasesGeneral 
preparationSpecific  
preparationPrecompetitive Competitive Transition
Macrocycles
Microcycles
FIGURE 5.1 Divisions of an annual plan into phases and cycles of training.

Periodization94
psychological traits, training status, nutrition, social stressors, and recovery methods used. 
Because of this individuality of response to training, programs must be tailored to meet the 
individual's needs as well as the demands of the sporting activity.
A note of caution: In the past several years, some authors have adopted different terms 
to replace the terminology commonly used in training theory and methodology. It seems 
that training has become like fashion: This is modern, that is not! Often these changes only 
reflect the author’s desire to be perceived as trendy. For example, the usual physiological term 
of training effect is often replaced by Russian terms of long-lasting residual effect; preparedness 
is used in the wrong context, instead of being used as readiness (see chapter 9). In the same 
way, each period, with a certain training direction emphasis within a sequential training 
process, has been defined as a phase; but in the last few years, some authors and coaches have 
replaced the term phase with the term block. The term “block” was introduced to training 
theory by Prof. Yuri Verkhoshansky to define a period of concentrated load of one biomotor ability at the expense of the others (for instance, strength). This term contrasted with the 
complex or concurrent models commonly employed by his colleagues; thus in complex or 
concurrent models, there is no appropriate use of the term “block.”
Needs of Periodization
The phases of training are structured to stimulate physiological and psychological adap -
tations and are sequenced to develop specific components of performance (physical, technical, and tactical) while elevating the athlete’s performance capacity. In the context of 
periodization, training follows a sequential approach to developing the athlete’s skills and 
motor potential. This approach is undertaken for three reasons: (1) It takes time to bring to an optimal level each component of the athlete’s performance capacity; (2) such process requires an escalation of specificity of training methods and training means, eliciting mor
-
phofunctional adaptations that potentiate the training methods and training means of the next phase and ultimately the performance capacity of the athlete (figure 5.2); and (3) it 
is not possible to maintain the athlete’s physiological and psychological abilities for a pro
-
longed period of time. The athlete's readiness to perform will vary depending on the phase 
and type of training, as well as the psychological and social stress encountered. Therefore, the 
annual training plan must be subdivided into phases that sequentially and simultaneously develop specific aspects required to maximize performance.
The preparatory phase is the time when the 
physiological foundation for performance is 
established, whereas the competitive phase is 
the time when performance capacity is maxi-mized. If the preparatory phase is inadequate, performance will not be maximized during the 
competitive phase because the physiological 
adaptations necessary for optimum performance have not been developed. After the competitive phase is completed, a transition phase is nec-
essary to remove fatigue developed across the 
competitive season and enable the athlete to recover from the physiological and psychological stresses of competition. Additionally, the transi-
tion phase allows the athlete to relax and prepare 
psychologically for the next annual training plan, which will commence shortly. This phase 
of training is a transition, not an off-season. The 
term off-season is inappropriate because serious 
athletes do not have an off-season; rather, they 
E6954/Bompa/F05.02/578305/mh-R2General
preparationSpecific
preparation
PreparatoryCompetitive
phaseMorpho-functional
adaptations maximizeMorpho-functional
adaptations maximizeCompetitive
performance**
General
specific training
with emphasis
on the physical
aspectSpecific training
with specific
loading
parameters*
FIGURE 5.2 Enhancing of the training effect and performance 
potential from one phase to the next.
* While maintaining and supporting general biomotor abilities
** While maintaining and supporting general and specific biomotor abilities

Periodization of Biomotor Abilities95
transition from one annual training plan to another. Therefore, the transition is an important 
link between annual training plans.
The development of skills, strategic maneuvers, and biomotor abilities requires a special 
approach that is unique to each phase of training. Technical skill sets and tactical maneuvers are learned over time in a sequential fashion across the phases of training. The athlete attempts to perfect her technical capabilities, and as her skill level increases the complexity of tactical 
training can also increase. The sequential approach is also essential for the development 
and perfection of biomotor abilities. When attempting to improve biomotor abilities and stimulate physiological adaptations, the coach must alternate the volume and intensity of 
training, as proposed in the principle of load progression. Training should not occur in a 
linear fashion, and periodization is truly a nonlinear approach to training.
Climatic conditions and the seasons sometimes influence the duration of training phases 
within a periodized training plan. For example, seasonal sports such as skiing and rowing are restricted by climate. In a periodized plan, the phases of training are tailored to meet the 
needs of the sport and will account for climatic conditions. In cycling, rowing, canoeing, 
and rugby, the preparatory phase of training occurs during the winter, and the competitive phase typically occurs in the spring, summer, or fall. The reverse is true for winter sports such as speed skating, ice hockey, and Alpine and Nordic skiing.
Competition and intense training create a large amount of physiological stress and cumu-
lative fatigue. If this stress is applied for too long, overtraining can occur and performance capacity will decrease. Therefore, stressful training or competition phases should be alternated with periods of recovery and regeneration. These types of phases are transition phases that 
will remove fatigue and allow the athlete to prepare for the next phase of training.
Misapplication of the Term “Periodization”
As previously stated, periodization is a term used in several scientific fields and borrowed 
by training science to indicate a phase-based process of training management. Since the 
first Eastern European publications of the 1960s, the concept of training periodization has 
evolved, especially in its practical application by coaches; it has been enriched by the unique characteristics in each sport to which it was applied with undeniable success. Nevertheless, its rigid misapplication by some coaches led to a misunderstanding of the concept of peri-
odization as rigid and mechanistic. Nothing is further from the truth! The only somewhat 
rigid part of periodization is the competitive phase within the annual plan, since the compe-tition calendar is determined by each sport federation. Yet, the coach can still choose when 
to initiate the competitive phase, what competitions to attend, when to peak, and when to 
end the competitive phase.
When it comes to the actual training program, periodization is even more flexible. It is 
recommended that the coach design the detailed training program only one macrocycle at 
a time, so that the program of the next macrocycle can be based on the actual progress of 
each athlete, in each aspect of the physical, technical, and tactical preparation. Finally, the daily training program can and should be adjusted according to objective and subjective data on the athlete’s readiness to perform the planned session.
Because of the misunderstanding of the concept of training periodization, some have mis-
used the term and employed foreign meanings of periodization, such as traditional, linear, undulatory, and flexible. In our opinion these new terms betray the spirit of the scientific thought. Here is a very brief explanation of discrepancies among some of the new terms:
• Linear periodization: Since periodization has originated from the term period (of time), 
its meaning is only in this regard. In sports training the term linear has been used for 
a certain loading methodology, when training load is constantly increased (e.g., 50%, 60%, 70%, etc.). The only activity that employs such linear loading is bodybuilding. This is why bodybuilders are either overtrained or need to train quite infrequently.
• Undulatory periodization:  This term does not belong to periodization; rather it is a 
method of managing the load in training (figure 5.3). Load undulation within the 

Periodization96
microcycle is an old methodological concept that, for instance, was already used by 
weightlifters in the late 1950s. Furthermore, periodization already implies an undu-
lation of the load at microcycle level, at macrocycle level, and between macrocycles 
(figures 5.3, 5.4, and 5.5)
• Flexible periodization: As stated previously, the concept of program flexibility is implied by the concept of periodization, as objective and subjective data is collected to direct 
E6954/Bompa/F05.03/578306/mh-R1Load
High
Medium
Low
Regeneration
M T W Th F Sa Su
E6954/Bompa/F05.04/578307/mh-R1Ascending Descending Step loading Flat loadingMicrocycle 1 
Microcycle 2 Microcycle 3 Microcycle 4 6
543210FIGURE 5.3 Load undulation within a preparatory microcycle.
Reprinted, by permission, from T .O Bompa and C. Buzzichelli, 2015, Periodization train-
ing for sports, 3rd ed. (Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics), 166.
FIGURE 5.4 Four ways to design an undulating macrocycle.
Reprinted, by permission, from T .O Bompa and C. Buzzichelli, 2015, Periodization training for sports, 3rd ed. (Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics), 96.

Periodization of Biomotor Abilities97
the training process. It is not the fault of periodization of training if some coaches 
applied the same program to all the athletes, regardless of their actual progress.
• Block periodization: As stated previously, the term “phase” cannot be substituted with the term “block,” unless it is referring to a phase with a concentrated load of just one 
biomotor ability (strength, speed, or endurance) at the expense of the others. In this 
model, general preparation is composed through a strength block, and specific prepa-ration is composed through the sport-specific biomotor ability (speed or endurance), 
with no maintenance training for strength. It would seem that few elite athletes have 
been trained with the block periodization model in its pure form.
• A.T.R. (Accumulation-Transmutation-Realization): A.T.R. is a periodization model for multiple peaks, with very short phases (general preparation-specific preparation-com-petition) repeated multiple times during the year. Despite being a necessity for some 
professional athletes who compete often, this model never really maximizes the 
motor potential of athletes.
Confusion Between Periodization and Loading
Periodization is sometimes confused with loading patterns. As noted earlier in the chapter, some refer to linear and undulatory (or wavelike) periodization. However, periodization 
strictly refers to phase-based training; thus periodization cannot be linear or undulatory. 
In fact, periodization is nothing other than a sequence of training periods (hence the term periodization), or phases. Each of these phases has specific training goals with the final goal of helping athletes reach their highest-possible potentials prior to and during the 
competitive phase.
As a flexible concept of planning, periodization also has several variations from the main 
model, depending on the specifics of sports, the schedule of competitions an athlete par-ticipates in per year, and the characteristics of the athlete. There is no linear or undulatory 
periodization—these two terms refer only to the methodology of loading within the training program for an athlete or team.
While periodization has been briefly defined here, the methodology of loading has 
several variations. De Lorme and Watkins (1 1) were among the first to refer to progressive loading, which has since been referred to as the linear method of load progression, or the method of constantly increasing the load of training. Linear loading is specifically visible in 
bodybuilding training; this loading pattern is one of the reasons that athletes in this sport 
are constantly overtrained. The physiological principle of progressive adaptation to stress of a biological system is often disregarded by individuals who promote linear periodization and still believe more is better from a mathematical perspective.E6954/Bompa/F05.05/578308/mh-R1FIGURE 5.5 Placing an unloading microcycle between macrocycles undulates the load.
Reprinted, by permission, from T .O Bompa and C. Buzzichelli, 2015, Periodization training for sports, 3rd ed. (Champaign, IL: 
Human Kinetics), 97.

Periodization98
The undulatory loading method was promoted by Bompa in 1956 in Romania (5), used by 
Soviet weightlifters in those same years, and also published in the United States in 1983 (9).
Selective Periodization
Far too often the annual training plans developed for elite athletes are also used for young 
athletes who lack the training experience and physiological maturity to tolerate intensive 
competitive schedules. This is one reason why periodization of training should be individu-
alized. The coach should consider the athlete’s readiness for intensive competitive schedules, using the following guidelines:
• A monocycle is strongly suggested as the basic annual training model for novice and 
junior athletes. Such a plan has a long preparatory phase during which the athlete 
can develop foundational technical, tactical, and physical elements without the major stress of competitions. The monocycle is the typical annual plan for seasonal sports and sports for which endurance is the dominant biomotor ability (e.g., Nordic skiing, 
rowing, cycling, long-distance running).
• The bi-cycle  annual training plan is typically used for advanced or elite athletes who 
can qualify for national championships. Even in this scenario, the preparatory phase 
should be as long as possible to allow for the development of fundamental skills and physiological potential.
• The tri-cycle  annual training plan is recommended for advanced or international-level 
athletes. Presumably, these athletes have a solid foundation that allows them to handle an annual plan that contains three or more peaks. The usual scheme in individual sports is as follows: First peak for winter championships, second peak for summer 
Nationals, and third peak for Worlds or Olympics. The time lapse between Nationals 
and Worlds or Olympics should be enough to recover from the physiological and psychological stress of the Nationals, resume training, and then unload again to return to peak for the most important competition of the year.
• The multiple-peak training plan is characterized by a reduced number of weeks per 
cycle, and clearly shorter preparatory phases. This is why multiple-peak annual plans 
are suggested only for athletes with a very good training background (4-6 years), a high level of athleticism, and the capacity to tolerate many and stressful competitions. A typical example of a sport for this type of annual plan is tennis: it features many 
tournaments, short recovery times between tournaments, and an equally short number 
of weeks to prepare for the next tournament.
The duration of the training phases depends largely on the competitive schedule. Table 
5.1 provides guidelines for distributing the training weeks contained in each training phase of four examples of annual plan.
TABLE 5.1 Guidelines for the Distribution of Weeks for Each Training Phase Contained  
 in the Classic Types of Annual Training Plans
Annual plan 
structureTotal weeks  per cycleNumber of weeks per phase
Preparatory Competitive Transition
Monocycle 52 ≥28 12-22 4
Bi-cycle 26 12-16 6-12 1-4
Tri-cycle 20-24 (winter)
16-18 (spring/summer)4-6 (summer)12-20 (winter)10-12 (spring/summer)2-4 (summer)4-6 (winter)8-12 (spring/summer)2-4 (summer)1-2 (winter)1-2 (spring/summer)3-6 (summer)
Multiple-peak 11-16 9-12 1-2 1-2

Periodization of Biomotor Abilities99
Applying Periodization to the Development 
of Biomotor Abilities
The concept of periodization is not limited to the structure of the annual plan. Periodiza-
tion also applies to the development of dominant biomotor abilities for a chosen sport, 
which ultimately affects the type of training included in each training phase. The outcome 
of applying periodization principles to the development of dominant biomotor abilities assists the athlete to fully develop his motor potential and reach peak performance during the competitive phase. If the dominant abilities do not reach high levels of development 
prior to and during major competitions, the achievement of high performance is unlikely. 
Because an in-depth discussion about the development of biomotor abilities is provided in later chapters (chapters 10-12), the present discussion centers on topics related to the 
periodization of biomotor abilities within the annual training plan.
Some sports, mostly individual, have a loose structure of periodization, especially regard -
ing endurance. However, in most team sports the periodization of dominant abilities allows 
room for improvement. In many sports, the dominant biomotor ability is power. Recognizing this, some coaches focus only on exercises and drills aimed specifically at developing power 
throughout the year, from the early preparatory phase to the beginning of the competitive 
phase. This type of approach stems from a misunderstanding of exercise physiology and the concept of adaptation, as well as methodological concepts such as periodization and the 
principles of specificity. A high power output is deeply dependent on a high level of maxi-
mum strength. Therefore it is physiologically essential to first develop maximum strength (training the nervous system to voluntarily recruit a high number of motor units, includ-ing the fast-twitch muscle fibers) during the early part of the preparatory phase, and then 
convert strength gains into power-generating capacity prior to and during the competitive 
phase (figure 5.6).
Figure 5.6 refers to a monocycle; the approach for a bi-cycle or tri-cycle is similar, but 
far more condensed. Time constraints for these types of annual plans require the coach to shorten the time necessary for the development of each biomotor ability, often at the expense of reaching the highest possible level. In the case of a multiple-peak plan, the time to develop the necessary abilities is even shorter, creating some problems for athletes and 
coaches. The only sport disciplines that seem to be less affected by frequent competitions,  
Preparatory Competitive Transition
General  
preparatorySpecific preparatory Precompetitive Main competition Transition
Strength Anatomical adaptationMaximum strength Conversion• Power• Muscular endurance
• BothMaintenance• Maximum strength
• PowerCessation Compensation
Endurance Aerobic 
 
endurance• Aerobic endurance
• Specific endurance  
   (ergogenesis)Sport- or event-specific endurance(ergogenesis)Aerobic endurance
Speed Aerobic and anaerobic enduranceHIT• Anaerobic power
• Anaerobic endurance
• Lactate toleranceSpecific speedAgilityReaction timeSpeed endurance
FIGURE 5.6 Periodization of main biomotor abilities.
HIT= high-intensity training, typically interval-based training that models the sport or activity targeted by the training plan.
In this figure, the training phases are not limited to a specific duration. Rather, the focus is on the sequence and the proportions between 
the training phases.

Periodization100
are the alactic ones (such as the jumps and throws in track and field). Because of the lower 
residual fatigue, alactic events allow athletes to easily train through some of the planned 
competitions. For all the other sports, multiple-peak training plans have to be reserved for 
top class athletes who have many years of experience in training. The application of mul-tiple-peak training programs among junior athletes is not advisable because it may result in multiple injuries (particularly for sports such as soccer and tennis). Several examples of 
periodization of dominant abilities are presented in figures 5.7 through 5.1 1.
Dates Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May June July Aug.
Competitions Detroit L.A. Toronto Prov. 
OrilliaNat. championships 
Vancouver
Periodization Preparatory Competitive Transition
General prep. Specific prep. Precomp. Main competition Transition
Period. of 
strengthAnat. 
adapt.Maximum  
strengthConversion to power Maintain  
maximum strength and powerRegeneration
FIGURE 5.7 Monocycle periodization model of strength training for gymnastics.
Period. = periodization; prep. = preparation; precomp. = precompetition; anat. adapt. = anatomical adaptation.
Dates June July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May
Competitions Division 
champ.Nat. 
champ.World 
champ.
Periodization Preparatory Competitive Transition
General prep. Specific prep. Precomp. Main competition Transition
Period. of enduranceGeneral end. 
(run, bicycle)Specific endurance (run, skate) Specific endurance General endurance
Period. of strengthAnat. 
adapt.Maximum  
strengthConversion to power Maintain  
maximum strength and powerRegeneration
FIGURE 5.8 Monocycle periodization model for dominant abilities for figure skating.
Period. = periodization; prep. = preparation; precomp. = precompetition; end. = endurance; anat. adapt. = anatomical adaptation.
Dates July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May June
Training  phasesPreparatory League games R/R League games and international matches Transition
Period. of strength/ power/agilityAAMxSPowerAgilityMaintain strength, power, and agility R/R Maintain strength, power, and agility Transition
Period. of  speedAnaerobic and speedMaintain specific speed R/R Maintain specific speed Transition
Period. of  enduranceAerobic enduranceMaintain specific endurance R/R Maintain specific endurance  Transition
FIGURE 5.9 Monocycle periodization model for a European professional soccer team.
Period. = periodization; AA = anatomical adaptation; MxS = maximum strength; R/R = recovery and regeneration (a low intensity maintenance program).

Periodization of Biomotor Abilities101
Simultaneous Versus Sequential Integration 
of Biomotor Abilities
The concept of integrating the development of biomotor abilities is not a new one (5, 6, 9, 
10). Both types of integration have been successfully used. In fact, both types represent a 
training (physiological) necessity, depending on the type of plan and physiological profile of 
a sport. It is our firm opinion that they are not mutually exclusive—one type of integration cannot be used at the exclusion of the other.
However, Issurin (17) has proposed that the integration of biomotor abilities (and skills) 
has to be sequential rather than simultaneous; further, Issurin has postulated that modern sports with very long competitive phases (e.g., soccer and other team sports, or even tennis) require a sequential integration approach.
Examination of the examples of periodization of biomotor abilities shown in figures 
5.6-5.1 1 reveals that the development of each biomotor ability is sequential, but integration of these abilities is simultaneous. In addition, the development of one ability positively Dates Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May June July Aug. Sept. Oct.
Competitions League games
Periodization Preparatory Competitive Transition
Gen. prep. Specific prep. Precomp. League games Transition
Period. of 
strengthAnatomical 
adaptationMaximum strength Conversion:  
–Musc. end.  
–PowerMaintain:  
–Power  
-Muscular enduranceRegeneration
Period. of speedAerobic 
endur -
anceAnaerobic 
enduranceSpecific speed Specific speed, reaction time, and agility  
Period. of enduranceSpecific endurance Perfect specific endurance Aerobic endurance
Dates Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May June July Aug. Sept. Oct.
Competitions Winter 
champ.Summer 
champ.
Periodization Preparatory 1 Comp. 1 T Preparatory 2 Comp. 2 Trans.
General prep. Specific prep. Pre-
comp.Main. 
comp.T Gen. 
prep.Spec. prep. Pre-
comp.Main. 
comp.Trans.
Period. of strengthAnatomical 
adaptationMaximum 
strengthConv.:  
–Power  
–Musc. 
end.Maintain:  
–Power  
–Musc. end.Anat. adapt. Max strength Conv.:  
–Power  
–Musc. 
end.  Maintain:  
–Power  
–Musc. end.Regen.
Period. of speedAerobic endurance Anaero. end. 
and ergogen -
esisSpecific 
speed and 
ergogenesisAerobic and anaerobic  
enduranceAnaer. end. and 
ergogenesisSpecific speed 
and ergogenesisGamesFIGURE 5.10 Monocycle periodization model for dominant abilities for a baseball team.
Period. = periodization; prep. = preparation; precomp. = precompetition; musc. end. = muscular endurance.
FIGURE 5.11 Bi-cycle periodization model for dominant abilities in swimming (200 m) with winter and summer national 
championships.
Comp. = competitive; T or trans. = transition; prep. = preparation; precomp. = precompetition; conv. = conversion; anat. adapt. = anatomical adaptation; musc. end. = muscular endurance; regen. = regeneration; anaer. end. = anaerobic endurance.

Periodization102
influences the others (figure 5.12). For instance, high levels of speed cannot be achieved 
before maximum strength and power are highly developed. A swimmer will be faster only 
by increasing the application of force against the water resistance. Therefore, the higher the 
force application to the ground or water, the higher the velocity.
Consider just one biomotor ability, such as strength. Periodization of strength follows 
a sequential approach dictated by physiology (and not because it is in fashion now). In 
order to increase the level of power prior to the main competitive phase, the sequence of 
periodization must be the following: Start with anatomical adaptation (3 weeks or longer) to adapt the muscles and ligaments to the sport or activity and to train an injury-free ath
-
lete. Next, move into the maximum strength phase (4 weeks or longer), which involves training the nervous system to voluntarily recruit the highest number of motor units of the prime movers (muscles that perform a technical skill) and thereby overcome an external 
resistance. Finally, in order to maximize power development, a conversion phase (4 weeks 
or longer) has to be planned, in which dynamic exercises of low-medium loads are per
-
formed explosively. These exercises allow for quick application of force against resistance, which results in an increase in the discharge rate of fast-twitch muscle fibers. At the end of 
these 1 1 or more weeks of training, power will reach superior levels, resulting in maximized 
 
performance.
The development of speed, agility, and endurance has to follow a physiologically and 
methodologically sound sequence of periodization, too. Furthermore, the periodized devel-
opment of each biomotor ability has to integrate each ability with the others to maximize 
the motor potential of the athlete and ultimately, her performance (figure 5.12).
Issurin (17) asserts that because modern training has a very long competitive phase, 
training has to follow a sequential integration approach. For example, in professional soccer, the competitive phase is 10 to 10.5 months long, and it is followed by a short holiday. When 
does the coach have the time to apply sequential integration of biomotor abilities and skills 
when the preparatory phase is just 3 to 4 weeks? What is the performance of the team going to be like during the strength block? What happens to the injury rate and performance level when the accumulation block is performed multiple times during the competitive 
 
season?E6954/Bompa/F05.12/578317/mh-R4General
preparationSpecific
preparationPeriodization
of strength
Periodization
of speed
Periodization
of endurance
PreparatoryCompetitive
phaseMaintenance
General
speedAccelerationAcceleration
maximum speedMaintenance
Aerobic
powerLactic
capacityLactic power
(speed endurance)MaintenanceAnatomical
adaptationMaximum
strengthPower
endurance
Power
FIGURE 5.12 Sequential development and simultaneous integration of biomotor abilities 
for a sprinter in track and field.

Periodization of Biomotor Abilities103
Periodization of biomotor abilities must also follow the simultaneous approach when 
other biomotor abilities have to be developed (e.g., speed, agility, and endurance). If these 
abilities are not trained simultaneously, it will be almost impossible to reach the level of 
expected development. Distributing the load of each biomotor ability instead of concentrating it allows for a rational progression over time without abrupt overloads of the physiological systems of the athlete. Such sudden increases of load for one or more components of the 
training program normally leads to maladaptation, decreased performance, or injury. 
Issurin’s sequential development of biomotor abilities and skills doesn’t devote enough 
time to each component of performance to fully develop the athlete’s motor potential or retain her technical-tactical proficiency; on the other hand, such a short exposition avoids 
the potential for a lasting “residual effect.” Sequential integration with bigger blocks prob-
ably has worked in seasonal sports such as kayaking or canoeing, or for certain events in 
track and field, where long preparations of 5 to 6 months are the norm. But to suggest that sequential integration has to be used for all sports is quite unrealistic and certainly will not 
lead to the maximization of performance. In fact, Platonov found that sequential integration 
lowered the probability of peaking at the most important competition of the year to just 5% to 15% (30).
Periodization of Strength
The objectives, content, and methods of a strength training program will change throughout the phases of an annual training plan. These changes aim to maximize the developent of the 
specific type of strength required in a sport while considering the individual characteristics 
of the athlete in order to achieve optimum performance. These changes also depend on the phase of the annual training program and the targeted physiological adaptations for that phase.
Anatomical Adaptation
After the transition phase, when most athletes do very little strength training, it is advisable to begin a strength program to build a foundation from which future training practices 
are developed. This is typically accomplished during the anatomical adaptation phase of a 
strength training program. In this early preparatory phase, several key objectives are targeted:
• Stimulate involvement of most muscle groups, including the stabilizer muscles.
• Increase short-term work capacity, which will reduce fatigue in the later stages of train -
ing when intensity of training and the volume of technique-oriented work are high.
• Begin to work on the technical aspects of the fundamental lifts that will represent the 
core of the strength training program.
• Prepare the muscles, ligaments, and tendons for the stressful activities to come and, 
consequently, produce an injury-free athlete. When the preparatory phase, specifically the anatomical adaptation subphase, is inadequate, the risk of injury increases.
This phase of a strength training program is a crucial part of the general preparation sub-
phase of the preparatory phase. The anatomical adaptation phase is marked by a high volume of work (e.g., two or three sets of 8-20 repetitions) performed at low intensities (40%-65% of one-repetition maximum, or 1RM). The number of exercises performed will depend on the training experience of the athlete: Usually beginners will perform more exercises than 
experienced athletes. This subphase should last up to 12 weeks for beginners and 2 to 4 
weeks  for experienced athletes, in order to achieve the physiological adaptations targeted. 
For junior athletes or athletes who do not possess a strength training background, a longer 
anatomical adaptation phase (9-12 weeks) may be warranted; for professional team sports, 
2 to 4 weeks could be sufficient.

Periodization104
Maximum Strength Phase
All sports require power (e.g., long jump), muscular endurance (e.g., 400-800 m swim-
ming), or some combination of both (e.g., rowing, Nordic skiing). Both muscular power 
and endurance depend directly on maximum strength. In support of this contention, it 
has been shown that stronger athletes generally produce higher power outputs (38) and express higher levels of muscular endurance (26). It appears that maximum strength must be elevated before power-generating capacity can be increased because power is the product 
of both force and velocity.
The maximum strength phase is a critical component of the preparation phase because it 
builds on the general adaptations stimulated in the anatomical adaptation phase and devel-ops the neuromuscular attributes necessary for the development of muscular power (10, 43). 
The maximum strength phase can range from 1 to 3 months depending on the sport, the athlete’s needs, and the annual training plan. For athletes whose sports depend heavily on maximum strength, such as American football or shot put, this phase can be on the longer 
end of the spectrum (3 months). In a sport for which muscular endurance is the determinant 
of final performance, such as cycling, triathlon, or marathon canoeing, this phase can be shorter (1 month). The development of maximum strength is best accomplished by working first on the development of the intermuscular coordination component of strength (2 to 
6 repetitions with a load between 70% and 80% of 1RM), and then on the intramuscular 
component of strength (1 to 3 reps with a load between 80% and 90% of 1RM).
Conversion to Specific Strength Phase
The conversion phase transforms maximum strength into power or muscle endurance (chapter 10). It also provides a transition between the preparatory phase and competitive 
phase and equips athletes with the neuromuscular abilities vital for the achievement of the 
highest performance.
The athlete will gradually convert the strength developed in the maximum strength 
phase into the type of power needed for the targeted sport. This is accomplished by using 
The characteristics of the sport dictate the type of power or endurance that needs to be devel-
oped during the specific strength phase of training. This ratio may be almost equal for a wrestler.

Periodization of Biomotor Abilities105
the appropriate power training methods (e.g., medicine balls, speed training, plyometrics). 
Maximum strength levels must be maintained during this phase; if they decline, the ability 
to maximize power-generating capacity will also decline. If this occurs during the competitive 
phase, speed and agility will also decrease.
The physiological characteristics of the sport dictate the type of power or endurance that 
needs to be developed during this phase of training. Because most sports require some 
combination of power and endurance, the ratio between these two characteristics must 
match the demands of the sport. For example, the ratio may be almost equal for a wrestler, while power or endurance would dominate for a canoeist (200 m and 500 m). Muscular 
endurance should prevail for rowing (race duration 6-8 min), swimming events of longer 
duration (400-1,500 m), Nordic skiing, and the triathlon.
Maintenance Phase
This phase of the annual training plan is designed to maintain the physiological and per-formance standards achieved during previous phases. It is very difficult to maintain these 
gains, and strength has been shown to decrease across the competitive season, especially 
when inappropriate training methods are used (18). The maintenance phase must contain a high enough strength training volume to maintain strength gains while avoiding the development of high levels of fatigue.
The maintenance program depends largely on the physiological requirements of the 
targeted sport. Thus the ratio of strength, power, agility, and muscular endurance must reflect these needs. For example, an American football player or shot putter would focus his strength training on maximum strength maintenance and power development, whereas an 
endurance athlete would focus on power and endurance development. The breakdown of 
training sessions that target these attributes is difficult to recommend because it depends on the competitive season. Generally, the maintenance phase contains training units with a small number of exercises (two to five exercises) that are performed for two to four sets 
of one to six repetitions, with a wide range of training intensities (60%-80% of 1RM for 
maximum strength, 30%-80% for power, 30%-60% for muscular endurance). For instance, a top soccer player will maintain strength and power by using three essential exercises: half 
squats, back hyperextensions, and toe raises. One may also add hip thrusts (glutes). The 
frequency of strength training during this phase can be 2 days per week, for a duration of 30 minutes. In individual power sports, a common approach is planning two power sessions, on Mondays and Fridays, and a strength maintenance session on Wednesdays, during the 
weeks that do not have a competition in the weekend. For the competition week, on the 
other hand, one or two low-volume power sessions are planned.
Cessation Phase
It is usually recommended, mostly for individual sports, that the strength training program end 5 to 7 days prior to the main competition. This reduces the athlete’s level of cumulative fatigue, decreases levels of stress, and facilitates physiological and psychological supercom-
pensation. However, this recommendation may not be adequate for all sports. Athletes in 
sports with a high strength-and power requirement (field events in track and field, wrestling) may benefit from simply reducing the number of sessions during the week prior to the major competition. Such a program would contain a very low volume and a medium intensity, 
but the program should be performed explosively.
Compensation Phase
The compensation phase completes the annual training plan and coincides with the tran-
sition phase. The main objective of the transition phase is to remove fatigue and allow the 
athlete to recover (via the use of active rest) before initiating the next annual training plan, 

Periodization106
without a significant degradation of his biomotor level of development. Additionally, this 
phase is designed to induce regeneration, which is a very complex undertaking. For injured 
athletes, this phase is used for rehabilitation and restoration of movement capacity. When 
this is necessary, the athletic trainer, physical therapist, or physiotherapist should work in conjunction with the coach to treat the athlete.
During this phase, regardless of injury or rehabilitation status, all athletes should consider 
an active rest training plan that includes some strength training. This training should address the stabilizing musculature and target areas of weakness that could increase the athlete’s potential risk for injury. This is also the time to work on compensation of other muscle 
groups that are not primarily used during the competitive phase.
Periodization of Power, Agility,  
and Movement Time
Power and agility training are discussed in details in chapters 10 and 12, so this short section 
covers only the elements that pertain to the periodization of power, agility and movement time. As a determinant ability in many sports, power refers to the quick application of 
force against resistance. Agility is perceived as an athlete’s ability to swiftly accelerate and decelerate and quickly change directions during a game or other sports contests. Movement time, on the other hand, refers to an athlete’s ability to quickly move a limb in the desired direction, such as in boxing, racquet sports, and Martial arts.
According to many authors, agility evolves from speed. In other words, an athlete will 
never be agile before being fast. This isn’t completely true because the athlete will never be fast before first gaining strength. When an athlete develops a higher level of relative strength  
(i.e., the ratio between his maximum strength and his body weight), he is capable of moving his body more quickly with less effort. The training methods required to produce a high level of maximum strength normally aim to develop the ability of the nervous system to recruit a high number of fast-twitch muscle fibers; these methods also expose the nervous system to 
training with low angular velocities. Thus, in order to maximize the power capability and, 
consequently, the agility of the athlete, it is necessary to follow the maximum strength phase with a conversion to a power and agility phase. In other words, one has to:
1. increase maximum strength first, with the ability to recruit fast twitch muscle fibers, and then
2. increase the ability to increase the discharge rate of the same muscles (figure 5.13).
Simply put, agility does not evolve from speed. Agility improves visibly only after max-
imum strength is developed. In fact, as is evident in sprinting, speed will never increase 
without increasing maximum strength first.
Because athletes are exposed to heavy loads during the maximum strength phase, at 70%-
90% of 1RM, fast-twitch muscle fibers are fully recruited into action in higher amounts. This 
physiological adaptation ensures that the athlete will successfully overcome high resistance. 
During the next phase, when maximum strength is converted into power and agility, the 
athlete is exposed to training methods that result in quick application of force and quick 
 Preparatory Phase  Competitive Phase
Periodization AA MxS Power and agility Maintain MxS, power, and agility
Scope of training AA Increase the recruitment of FT Increase the discharge rate of FT Maintain MxS, power, and agility
FIGURE 5.13 Periodization of agility and movement time.
AA = anatomical adaptation; MxS = maximum strength; FT = fast-twitch muscle fibers.

Periodization of Biomotor Abilities107
changes of directions (acceleration–deceleration), which increases the discharge rate to 
fast-twitch muscle fibers. After 4 to 8 weeks of power and agility training (depending on the 
duration of the maximum strength phase), the athlete has maximized her abilities which 
increases her readiness for competitions.
Both power and agility training have a positive effect on movement time, or the capacity 
of the athlete to move a limb in the desired direction. As the arms and legs become stronger 
and react faster to a given signal, the speed of movement increases. In many cases athletes 
are just exposed to agility drills. Moreover, some of these drills, such as the speed ladder, are trained from childhood to athletic maturation. This training methodology may be challenged 
by asking why athletes have reached a plateau. To bring about change, organize a period-
ization of agility plan based on figure 5.13, which will use this method to induce results.
Another component of agility is perceptual decision making, which is related to reaction 
and movement time (e.g., visual scanning, anticipation, pattern recognition, and knowledge of situations) (50). This component has been termed reactive agility and is marked by 
the ability to react to a situation; reactive agility appears to differentiate players of different 
levels in various sports (12).
Periodization of Speed
The periodization of speed depends on the characteristics of the sport, including the perfor-mance level and the competitive schedule. The development of speed for a team sport athlete 
is very different from that of a sprinter. Team sport athletes usually follow a monocycle annual 
plan, whereas sprinters usually undergo a bi-cycle annual training plan as a result of having both indoor and outdoor championship competitions. Regardless of the type of individual or team sport, the periodization of speed training may follow several distinct subphases: 
a general speed phase; an acceleration phase; a maximum speed phase; and an anaerobic 
endurance phase. For team sports, there is also a specific speed, agility, and reactive agility phase, which directly follows the acceleration phase.
General Speed and Acceleration Phases
The first step in developing speed is to establish a physiological and technical base that provides the athlete with the skills needed for moving fast. This type of training is typical 
of the general preparation phase of the annual training plan and is designed to increase the 
technical proficiency of the athletes during the first part of the expression of speed (i.e., the acceleration phase).
Technical improvement is achieved by incorporating coordination drills (such as skip-
ping or dribbling) with speed training at various intensities: moderate intensity technical runs over step-hurdles (15-30 m), high-intensity uphill accelerations (5-30 m) with full or partial rest intervals, and heavy sled towing (20-30 m) with full recovery. For track and 
field athletes, this is the time to train on the grass several times a week, always with flats. 
According to the complex integration approach, the general speed phase (speed) is planned simultaneously with the anatomical adaptation phase (strength) and the aerobic endurance phase (endurance).
The general speed phase is followed by the acceleration phase. During the acceleration 
phase, short-distance sprints (5-30 m) are performed at high intensities (95%-100% of maximum), with long rest intervals between repetitions (1 to 4 min). Track athletes begin using spikes at this phase. Uphill short sprints or medium- to light-load sled towing can still 
be used. This type of training relies on the anaerobic alactic system.
During these phases, the previous training means are used simultaneously with tempo 
training. Tempo training progresses from extensive to intensive, in order to elevate the general 
and anaerobic endurance capacity of the athlete, thereby progressively creating the metabolic 
adaptations necessary for the maximization of specific endurance (15).

Periodization108
It is important to note that for sports where aerobic endurance is not part of its ergogen-
esis (proportions  of the systems that supply the energy for the duration of activity), such 
as sprinting in track and field, the traditional type of aerobic endurance with long steady 
runs or longer repetitions on the track (500 m or more) is not a physiological necessity. In fact, because speed of movement or sprinting ability depends largely on the rate of energy supply, it is not recommended to use methods that compromise anaerobic function (31).
The metabolic adaptations induced by tempo training have a great degree of sport speci-
ficity and translate into a physiological improvement for many individual and team sports. The use of interval-based training methods has been reported to enhance both anaerobic 
and aerobic metabolism (21).
As training progresses from the general preparatory to specific preparatory phase of train-
ing, additional sport-specific activities are incorporated. For team sports training, tactical 
drills of 2 to 5 min can be performed nonstop to develop sport-specific endurance (22).  In 
soccer this may be accomplished via the use of small-sided games in which fewer players 
participate in a game simulation (i.e., 2 versus 2; 3 versus 3; 5 versus 5); it may also be 
accomplished by use of a soccer-specific dribble track, as recent research suggests that this practice effectively develops soccer-specific endurance capacity (16).
Maximum Speed Phase
As the competitive phase approaches, training becomes more intensive, event-specific, refined, and specialized. Training will include work designed to maximize speed, mostly via specific 
technical and tactical drills.
Speed can be developed with short-distance sprints (40-80 m) performed at high inten-
sities (90%-100% of maximum), with longer rest intervals between repetitions (3 to 8 min) 
and sets (6 to 20 min). This type of training will stress the anaerobic systems, especially the 
phosphagen system. It is paramount that the athlete develops speed before he starts training 
speed endurance. Speed is the neural prerequisite for speed endurance, in the same way that aerobic power precedes lactic capacity (anaerobic endurance) and it is important to lay the 
metabolic adaptations foundation necessary to maximize this biomotor ability.
For team sport athletes, maximum speed training will also have an injury prevention 
function, especially for the hamstrings. Having maximum speed repetitions in training will 
ensure that the neuromuscular system will be ready if called upon for a long lasting maximum 
sprint during a game. Despite not being frequent, such long sprints can make the difference 
between winning and losing, so it is better to be prepared for them!
Anaerobic Endurance Phase
Speed endurance training, as noted previously, uses various distances and rest intervals. These different interval structures can be used to target physiological adaptations. For example, 
the lactic system power and lactate tolerance can be targeted via the use of high-intensity 
(95%-100% of maximum) short-distance sprints (<80 m), performed with short rest inter-vals between repetitions (1 to 2 min) and longer rest between sets (6 to 20 min). They can also be targeted via the use of high intensity (95%-100% of maximum) moderate-distance sprints (120-200 m) with long rest intervals between repetitions (lactic power: 12-20 min, 
depending on the performance level, the targeted event, and the level of intensity; lactate 
tolerance: 3-6 min, depending on the performance level, the targeted event, and the level of intensity).
Specific Speed, Agility, and Reactive Agility Phase
For most team sports, the specific speed can be described as acceleration with changes of direction. This must be reflected in the training program of the athletes engaged in such 

Periodization of Biomotor Abilities109
sports. After a previous phase dominated by linear accelerations (at sport-specific distance 
and slightly longer), strength and conditioning coaches should plan acceleration drills with 
cuts and changes of direction. Because accelerations in team sports are brief (usually less 
than 3 s or 20 m), followed by a short rest before another acceleration is performed, rest intervals in this phase will be short between repetitions (30 sec to 1 min) and longer between sets (3 to 5 min). One way to measure and progress the muscular load of agility drills is to 
calculate the total degrees of change of direction in a session.
Reactive agility can be trained by using visual and auditory stimuli (external cues) applied 
during complex agility drills. For this purpose, multicolored cones can be laid down after an agility course (e.g., slalom runs), with the coach giving the directional cue by calling out a 
color. Another drill can be performed by placing four hoops at the start of the agility course, 
assigning a number to each, and then calling a random sequence of the four numbers, 
which the players have to reproduce by rapidly stepping inside the hoop with alternating feet. Various starting positions can be utilized for agility drills: facing the other way, lying 
down, sitting, etc.
Periodization of Endurance
Endurance is developed in several distinct phases across the annual plan. Within an annual 
training plan that constrains one peak, endurance would be developed in three phases: (1) 
aerobic (oxidative) endurance, (2) aerobic and specific endurance, and (3) specific endur-
ance (ergogenesis).
Aerobic Endurance
Aerobic (oxidative) endurance is developed throughout the transition phase and the early preparatory phase (1 to 3 months). Each sport requires slight alterations, as the aerobic 
endurance developed throughout during this phase can be aerobic capacity, aerobic power, 
or both, depending on the specific endurance to be developed at later stages. Aerobic capac-ity can be achieved via the use of a uniform and steady method with moderate intensities, whereas aerobic power can be achieved via moderate- to high-intensity interval training 
(see chapter 1 1). Individual sports that require medium or long endurance might start this 
phase by incorporating long, steady runs, followed by long, moderate-intensity intervals; for team sports, combat sports, racket sports, and individual sports that require only short 
endurance, it is appropriate to start with moderate-intensity, medium to short intervals and 
progress to high-intensity, short intervals at later stages. The aerobic power developed in this phase is useful for power sports, as it allows the athlete to resynthesize phosphocreatine more rapidly between bouts of anaerobic efforts (45).
The development of aerobic endurance provides the following benefits (21, 44):
Enhanced Cardiorespiratory Function
• Increased capillarization , which allows for an increase in oxygen and nutrient delivery
• Increased hemoglobin concentration, red blood cell number, and blood volume
• Decreased submaximal heart rate and resting blood pressure
• Increased maximal aerobic power (V.  O2max)
• Increased cardiac output
• Increased stroke volume
• Increased blood flow to working muscles
• Increased oxygen exchange at the lungs
• Decreased submaximal respiratory rate

Periodization110
Enhanced Musculoskeletal System Function
• Increased type I fiber content
• Increased oxidative enzyme capacity
• Increased mitochondrial density and size
• Increased myoglobin concentration
• Increased muscular endurance capacity
These adaptations improve endurance capacity as a result of more efficient use of fuel 
substrates (carbohydrate and fat). The adaptations are stimulated in response to the work-
load, especially the training volume.
Aerobic and Specific Endurance
Aerobic endurance and specific endurance are components of the endurance capacity of the athlete. After building an endurance base to maximize the development of specific endur-
ance, training plans should introduce endurance elements that target the dominant energy 
systems used in the sport (see table 1.2). Endurance is developed in this phase of training through the use of uniform, alternative, and interval training (short, medium, and long duration). During the early part of this phase, the emphasis is on aerobic endurance; in the 
later portion of this phase, the emphasis shifts to the development of specific endurance with 
the use of high-intensity interval training or sport-specific, interval-based training methods (16). The shift to specific endurance development allows for a transfer of training effects, 
which enhances performance gains during the competitive phase of the annual training plan.
Specific Endurance Training
The development of event- or sport-specific endurance training coincides with the late pre-
paratory and competitive phases of the annual training plan. The sport-specific activity is 
the preferred training mean during this phase. The appropriate training parameters depend 
on the bioenergetic characteristics of the sport and the needs of the individual athlete. For many sports, the coach must emphasize training intensity so that it often exceeds competition or game intensity. One tool, which may be useful for team sports like soccer, is the use of 
small-sided games and a soccer-specific “dribbling track” (figure 5.14) that can be used to 
couple tactical and conditioning activities in one training session (16). For combat sports, sparring can be performed alternating “under time” days, during which the regular duration 
of rounds is fractioned, with short intra-round rest intervals, and long inter-rounds rest 
intervals; this allows for a higher mean power output and overtime days, during which the duration of rounds is longer than the duration used in official competitions. Both undertime and overtime session parameters can be progressed over time to match the specific require-
ments of the event. Of course, not all sessions should be high intensity and sport-specific; 
alternating intensities facilitates recovery between training sessions, leading to lower fatigue levels and an optimal peak for competitions.
Integrated Periodization
An athlete is a complex being who requires not only physical, technical, and tactical training, but also an integrated periodization, in which psychological training and nutrition plans 
are integrated with other activities.
To maximize the coach’s ability to construct and deliver appropriately designed training 
plans, an interdisciplinary team of experts may be needed, including sport scientists, sport 
psychologists, nutritionists, biomechanics, and sports medicine professionals. Given the 
rapidly evolving nature of sport science, the team approach may be necessary to most effec-

Periodization of Biomotor Abilities 111
tively interpret, develop, and integrate new training methods in the context of a periodized 
training plan.
The integration of all training components into a comprehensive annual training plan 
(10)  requires the coach and sports enhancement team to evaluate the athlete and the training 
goals, which will allow them to appropriately sequence training factors. Depending on the phase of the periodization plan, the training emphasis will shift to develop specific charac-
teristics and manage fatigue. A truly comprehensive plan includes dietary recommendations 
and psychological training. Sport psychologists and nutritionists work with athletes, analyzing their activities and proposing techniques and nutrition plans; without their feedback, high 
performance would be very difficult to achieve. The knowledge and enthusiasm of these 
sport scientists is present, but each professional tends to work in isolation from the others. The missing element in training is the close collaboration of athletes, coaches, and experts in nutrition and sport psychology.
The foundation of integrated periodization has to be the training program produced by 
the coach. Psychologists and nutritionists, therefore, have to analyze a coach’s programs, discuss its difficulties, and propose solutions and techniques to assist the athletes in max-
imizing performance.
Figure 5.15 illustrates an example of integrated periodization for a speed and power 
sport, where periodization of nutrition and mental training are integrated according to the E6954/Bompa/F05.14/578319/mh-R2
×××
Low hurdle
jumps
StartPole dribbleShoot
ShootBreaking
BreakingSprintQuick
feetShootCone
dribbleSprint
Sprint
FIGURE 5.14 Dribbling track for developing soccer-specific endurance.
The dribble track requires the athlete to dribble a ball around the course. The athlete should gradually increase 
intensity until achieving a heart rate between 90% and 95% of maximum and hold that heart rate for 4 min. After the 4 min time period is completed, the athlete performs 4 min of exercise at 70% of maximal heart rate. The circuit can be completed two to four times depending on the phase of the periodized training plan. Athletes must dribble around cones and sticks, jump over the hurdles, accelerate and break between discs, and shoot at pre-determined points.

112
Months 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
Training 
phases Preparatory Competitive Transition
Subphases Preparatory Specific Precompetitive Official and league competitions Unloading TransitionPeriodizationSpeed Anaerobic and aero -
bic endurance• Maximum speed
• Anaerobic endurance• Maximum speed
• Specific speed
• Agility
• Reactive agility• Sport-specific preparations
• Specific speed
• Agility
• Reactive agilityUnloading Play, fun
Strength Anatomical  
adaptationMaximal strength Power Maximal strength Conversion of power Maintenance of power or maxi -
mal strengthCompensation
Mental 
training• Evaluate mental skills
• Learn new mental skills
• Practice relax-ation• Mental training
• Visualization
• Imagery
• Relaxation
• Energy management• Mental rehearsal
• Energizing
• Positive self-talk
• Visualization
• Focus plans
• Simulation
• Coping• Mental skills to cope with opponents
• Stress management
• Relaxation
• Focus plans
• Mental rehearsal
• Motivation
• Positive self-talk• Mental skills to aid regeneration, relaxation, stress management
• Positive self-talk
• Visualization• Active rest
• De-stress
Nutrition • High  carbo hydrate
• Moderate protein• High protein
• Moderate carbo-hydrate• High  carbohydrate• High  carbo hydrate
• Moderate protein• High  carbohydrate
• Moderate protein
Fluctuates according to the competitive scheduleHigh carbohydrate Balanced diet
FIGURE 5.15 Integrated periodization plan for a speed and power sport.

Periodization of Biomotor Abilities113
athlete’s plan. Since this is just a hypothetical example, the interested parties have to make 
the necessary changes and additions, so that their solutions will consider the training plan, 
athlete’s level of development and training objectives of a given training phase. If the train-
ing plan is not completely integrated, the likelihood that the athlete will achieve successful results is significantly decreased.
Summary of Major Concepts
Periodization, or the division of an annual plan into smaller phases, along with the period-ization of the biomotor abilities, are determinant elements of planning and programming 
the training process. Without these intrinsic elements of structuring the training program, 
peak performance might be a very questionable reality.
Essential to achieving training goals is the comprehension, skills, and knowledge of peri-
odization of biomotor abilities. A peak performance will never be realized if the athlete or the team are not at the highest standards of physical development. The higher the physical 
attributes, the easier it will be for the athlete to achieve high performance.

This page intentionally left blank

1156Planning the  
Training Session
Workout planning has existed since the ancient Olympic Games. As mentioned in
chapter 5, evidence for this can be found in several manuals on planning and training writ-
ten by Flavius Philostratus (AD 170-245) for Greek Olympic athletes. Although most of his work has been destroyed, his surviving manuals, the Handbook for the Athletic Coach and Gymnasticus, teach the reader how to train for competition and the importance of recovery. 
He suggests that the coach “should be a psychiatrist with considerable knowledge in anat-omy and heritage.” Even in ancient times, science was the foundation for the development of the training plan.
The earliest evidence of an organized training session plan is mentioned in The Aeneid, 
the great work of the Roman poet Virgil (Publius Vergilius Maro, 70-19 BC). In this poem, Virgil refers to the journey of Aeneas, a Trojan hero, who decided to emigrate to Italy after the destruction of Troy (about 1 100 BC). During the trip Aeneas and his crew had to stop at several Mediterranean islands, where they were challenged by the locals to rowing races. Virgil described how Aeneas organized a training session in which the rowers did some exercises, which might be considered a warm-up, and then proceeded to row for a while. After they had completed the rowing portion of their training session, they lifted stones to improve their strength, and then concluded the training session with a bath and massage.
What is interesting about this passage is that the organization of the training session 
that Virgil describes is very similar to the composition of a modern training session. Even more interesting is that Aeneas integrated strength training into the training session, which in modern times is still a topic of debate. It is clear that training is an evolutionary process that spans back to ancient times and is in continual flux. This evolution continues as a result of the tireless work of sport scientists, who develop the scientific foundations of training, and the training theorists and coaches, who use this knowledge to continually improve the training process.
Importance of Planning
Planning is probably the most important tool a coach has. By using a methodical and scien-tifically based procedure, the coach can structure the training process in a way that will allow the athlete to optimize performance at appropriate times. The coach’s ability to effectively guide the training process is dictated by her knowledge of the physiological responses of the body to training stimuli and her planning and programming skills.
The planning of training should be based on science and perfected through practice. The 
implementation of a well-organized and scientifically based training plan eliminates random and aimless training practices, which are sometimes still practiced by ill-informed coaches. A well-devised training plan removes poor training concepts or philosophies such as “intensity all the way” and “no pain, no gain” and replaces them with the principles of sport science and training methodology, resulting in practices that are logically devised and planned. The goal of the training plan is to stimulate specific physiological responses according to a 

Periodization116
5planned design so that certain performance outcomes are achieved at the appropriate time. 
Nothing that occurs during training should happen by accident; responses should occur as 
a result of the design of the training plan. The old adage that “if you fail to plan, you plan 
to fail” is true of the training process.
Training consists of introducing a training stimulus, which causes a specific physiological 
response, and inducing recovery, which allows the athlete to adapt to the training stimulus 
(56). One might consider the training process as an adaptations management system in 
which intense periods of training, stimulating morphofunctional adaptations, are inter-spersed with periods of easier training or rest, designed to allow the athlete to recover and 
adapt. The coach must try to predict the athlete’s physiological and psychological responses 
to the training stimuli and the fatigue induced by each stimulus; to put it another way, the 
coach must consider how much fatigue a certain training intervention may elicit, how the 
athlete will respond to that fatigue, and how that training stimulus adds to the training demand as a whole.
Central to this prediction is an understanding of the physiological responses to training 
and how different actions affect recovery and adaptation. This line of reasoning suggests that it may be best to consider the planning of training as a process in which the training stimulus is systematically and logically manipulated to optimize the physiological adapta-tions to training. This process should be undertaken in accordance with the demands of the 
targeted sport, with the express goal of maximizing performance outcomes.
The effectiveness of the training plan is largely dictated 
by the coach’s expertise and experience. The coach must understand many factors related to exercise physiology and 
its relationship to training theory and methodology, as well as the practical aspects of an athlete’s development. A coach should understand the physiological and psychological 
responses of the body and mind to training and exercise, 
the recovery process and techniques necessary to induce restoration, nutrition and its importance in training, and 
motor learning and its application to skill development. 
The greater the coach’s knowledge base, the better prepared he will be to manage the training plan.
Because training is planned in accordance with the ath-
lete’s potential and rate of development, the training plan not only reflects the coach’s knowledge base, but is adjusted according to the objective and subjective data collected by 
the coach during each training session (especially during 
testing days). To optimize an athlete’s training plan, the coach must examine the athlete’s test results, competitive results, progress in all training factors, and competition 
schedule. The training plan must evolve in accordance with 
the athlete’s rate of progress and the coach’s continually expanding knowledge.
Planning Requirements
To create an effective training plan, the coach must estab-lish a long-term path of development that optimizes the 
athlete’s potential. To help the athlete achieve long-term 
training goals, the coach must monitor the athlete during training, at competitions, and periodically with specialized tests that can be interpreted and used to adjust the training 
stimuli.
A coach must have a thorough knowledge of training  
theory and athlete development to successfully  
help an athlete reach her potential.
Stuart Franklin - FIFA/FIFA via Getty Images

Planning the Training Session117
Develop a Long-Term Plan
Depending on the specifics of the sport, it can take 8 to 14 years of dedicated training to 
maximize an athlete’s competitive performance. A long-term training plan is an essential 
component of the training process because it guides the athlete’s development over many years 
of athletic activities. A major goal of long-term planning is to facilitate the progressive and continual development of the athlete’s motor potential, skills, and performance. To accom
-
plish this goal, the coach must consider the athlete’s rate of improvement and the athlete’s potential to achieve training and performance goals. The long-term training plan is at best a 
prognostication; the ultimate success of the plan depends on the coach’s ability to forecast 
future developments and implement appropriate training objectives at the correct times.
Central to the athlete’s sporting success is the ability of the coach to design and imple-
ment annual training plans that can be extracted from a long-term training structure (9). 
Age of Athlete
6  7 8 9  10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 25 30 35
Training phase InitiationAthletic 
formation SpecializationHigh  performance
Skill acquisition
Technical Basic skills Skill  
automationPerfection
Tactical Simple  
tacticsFoundation of team tacticsPerfection
Training Coordination Simple Complex Perfection
Flexibility Overall Specific Maintenance
Agility
Speed Linear
Turns/changes 
in direction
Reaction time
Strength Anatomical 
adaptation
Muscular 
endurance
Power
Maximum 
strength
Endurance General
AerobicAnaerobic
Competitions FunLocalState/provincialNational
International/professional
FIGURE 6.1 Long-term training model for volleyball.
Note: Shaded area shows the ages to start or end work on that ability. 
Reprinted, by permission, from T .O. Bompa and M. Carrera, 2015, Conditioning young athletes (Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics), 260.

Periodization118
A specific guide of training for a long-term training plan should start from early years of 
athletic involvement through all of the stages illustrated in figure 6.1 (Initiation, Athletic 
Formation, Specialization, and High Performance).
Figure 6.1 exemplifies a hypothetical, long-term training plan for volleyball. The top 
of the chart lists the duration of the plan (here, from ages 8 to 35). The chart then lists 
the four phases of training: initiation (8 to 15 years), athletic formation (15 to 18 years), 
specialization (18 to 21 years) and high performance (21 to 35 years). Following is a brief 
analysis of each phase:
• Initiation: The main scope of training for the Initiation phase is skill acquisition. Since technical skill is the factor that limits performance for young athletes, and prevents the 
young athlete from progressing and enjoying a sporting activity, the main objective 
of the Initiation phase is to learn both technical and tactical skills.
• Athletic formation: After the first few years of primarily transforming a beginner into a player (ages 15 to 18, and sometimes 1 to 2 years earlier), the coach should try to trans
-
form a player into an athlete. Following the end of this phase, performance is affected by refinement of technical and tactical skills and the ability to improve sport-specific physical attributes. Transforming a player into a top athlete (strong, powerful, faster, 
more agile and reactive) capable of playing effectively for a longer period of time (spe
-
cific endurance) is accomplished by utilizing training methods and means that start 
as multilateral and gradually increase in specificity throughout the phase.
• Specialization.  Specialization  could be considered the road to High Performance, or the 
stage of refining the position-specific technical and tactical skills and physical qualities.
• High performance. During Specialization and High Performance, the limiting factors for performance are technical and tactical excellence, maximum strength, power, and 
agility (reaction) time. The more effective the coach’s training methodology, the higher 
the chances of the athletes reaching objectives of high performance.
Following the High Performance phase, the determinant scope of training is not to have 
six volleyball players on the court, but to have six athletes playing volleyball!
Note that the suggested long-term plan in figure 6.1 refers to all elements of training: skill 
acquisition (technical and tactical), training (coordination, flexibility, agility, speed, strength, and endurance training), and the progression of competition. Take a close look at every type of training and the progression proposed for the duration of the suggested long-term plan.
Integrate Periodic Testing  
and Monitoring Programs
An often-overlooked but highly important part of the long-term plan is a comprehensive 
monitoring program in which periodic testing is conducted to track the athlete’s develop-
ment. The inclusion of a monitoring program eliminates the random approach to training 
that is sometimes present in modern athlete development. An inclusive monitoring program allows the coach to examine the effects of the training program and quantify factors that scientific literature has shown to be related to performance.
The testing program should be completely integrated into the training plan, contain tests 
that target the athlete’s development, and focus on the athlete’s objectives (i.e., performance outcomes). The testing battery for any sport should include tests that reveal the athlete’s progress toward her performance goals. Monitoring should occur continuously and at 
periodic intervals throughout the training year. For example, testing should be conducted 
at the beginning of each new training phase; on the other hand, certain factors (e.g., resting heart rate, heart rate variability, mood status, sleep patterns, and force capability measured with a hand-grip dynamometer or accelerometer) should be monitored daily as they can 
yield information about the athlete’s recovery status and readiness for the planned training 

Planning the Training Session119
stimuli. An often-overlooked tool that can shed substantial light on the athlete’s progress is 
the training log. The training log is a very simple tool to track daily responses to training 
stimuli; it yields a large amount of information, which can give the coach great insight into the athlete’s response to the training plan. The analysis of daily training logs, coupled with data collected from specialized tests and performance results, will allow the coach to help the athlete maximize her performance gains.
Establish and Emphasize the Main Training Factor
When establishing the training plan, the coach must carefully examine the results of the 
monitoring program to determine the athlete’s weaknesses. Performance results and test 
data will reveal which training factors have not improved or have deteriorated as a result of the training plan. Training factors that fall behind the athlete’s mean development rate are 
the weakest links in training and must be addressed via a redistribution of training efforts. 
The coach and athlete must determine the underlying reason for a lack of development. For example, in gymnastics, technical improvement depends on strength development. Thus, if a 
gymnast is not strong enough to perform a technical skill, the coach should increase training 
activities designed to improve muscular strength. Once the athlete’s areas of weakness are determined, the training program should be designed to target training factors that address the athlete’s weaknesses. This change in program focus must be implemented in conjunction with adjustments in volume and intensity of training dictated by the training plan.
Types of Training Plans
The coach’s ability to organize and use appropriate planning tools will dictate the success of the training programs. Many planning tools are available, including the individual training 
session,  microcycle, macrocycle, annual training plan, and long-term training plan. Long-
term plans (4 to 8 years) are essential for the multi-year development of young athletes and 
Olympic athletes.
The terms used to describe the planning of training are not consistent throughout the 
world. For example, Russian (Matveyev, 36-38; Zatsiorsky, 63-64) and many American authors refer to the annual plan as the macrocycle. Tudor Bompa, on the other hand, out of respect 
for the work of Philostratus, Galen, and the German specialists of the early 1930s (chapter 
5), uses the term annual training plan.
Annual plans are used as guides or training projections for the year to come. Especially in 
individual sports and for youth athletes, they are constructed in the context of the long-term 
training goals and plans established by the coach. The annual plan is divided into smaller 
phases, described by Russian scientists as mesocycles (Matveyev, 38). Bompa describes the 
phases as grosse or macrocycles, terminology employed by the Germans in their preparation for the 1936 Olympic Games. The macrocycle content (training direction) is based on the 
phase of the annual plan and is designed in concert with the development of the microcycle  
(small cycle, or kleine in German), which is the most important functional tool for planning. 
The fluctuation of the load within the macrocycle determines its structure. The microcycle is a short training cycle that can range from 3 to 7 days depending on the phase of training. Finally, an equally functional type of plan for a coach is the daily training session, where 
all the athletic activities are programmed.
Training Session
During an individual training session or lesson, the coach explains the scope and methods 
used in the daily program and then attempts to apply them in training. The training session can 
be classified in several different fashions depending on the tasks and structure of the session.

Periodization120
Training Sessions Classified by Task
The training session can be classified based on the tasks within the session. There are four 
basic classifications of training sessions: learning, repetition, skill perfection, and assessment.
Learning Session
The athlete’s main task in a learning session is to acquire new skills or tactical maneuvers. The coach uses a basic structure to organize this type of session. For example, the coach begins 
the session by explaining the objectives of the session and then directing the athlete through 
a warm-up. After the warm-up, the athlete focuses on acquiring a specific skill set. After com
-
pleting the main portion of the session, the athlete cools down, and the coach gives the athlete pertinent feedback regarding his progress toward developing the skill. It is very important 
that the athlete is fully recovered from previous training sessions when learning new skills or 
tactical maneuvers because any residual fatigue could impair cognitive functions and learning.
Repetition Session
A repetition session is very similar to a learning session, in that a specific skill set or tactical maneuver is practiced. The major difference is that during the repetition session, the athlete 
continues to learn the skill and attempts to improve the skill set.
Skill Perfection Session
The skill perfection session is an extension of the repetition session, in that the athlete 
attempts to improve the overall skill set. The major difference is that, at this point, the skill 
has been learned and the athlete now attempts to perfect the skill to maximize performance.
Assessment Session
Assessment sessions should be conducted periodically. These sessions can include tests that 
evaluate the athlete’s physiological responses to training and performance, or the sessions 
can include exhibition or practice competitions to gauge the athlete’s preparedness. The 
results of these sessions can be used to fine-tune an athlete’s training or as a tool for selecting athletes for competitions.
Training Sessions Classified by Structure
The coach may organize training sessions in several forms to accommodate individuals and groups of athletes.
• Group sessions: The group session is organized for several athletes, although not nec-essarily an entire team. For example, the coach may work with the offensive linemen 
from an American-style football team or a group of athletes who compete in an 
individual sport. Although group sessions are not optimal for the individualization 
of training, they can be an effective tool for developing team spirit (especially before 
an important competition) and psychological qualities.
• Individual sessions: Individual sessions allow the coach to focus attention on one athlete to address physical or psychological problems. This session provides the coach the opportunity to precisely evaluate the individual athlete and adjust her skill develop-
ment. These sessions are most appropriate during the preparatory phase of the annual 
plan. Other types of sessions may be more appropriate during the competitive phase.
• Mixed sessions: A mixed session is a combination of group and individual sessions. In this type of session, the whole team may warm up together and then divide into individualized training sessions. After completing the individualized portion of the 
training session, the athletes come back together to either practice as a team or cool 

Planning the Training Session121
down together. During the cool-down, 
the coach discusses pertinent issues to 
reinforce certain aspects of the training 
session.
• Free sessions: Free sessions minimize a coach’s control over the athlete’s training and can promote trust and 
confidence between the athlete and 
coach. This type of session develops the athlete’s conscientious participation in 
training, stimulates his independence, 
and may increase his level of matu-
rity. Free sessions can help the athlete 
develop problem-solving skills that can translate to the competitive arena, where the coach may not always be 
available. Although this type of session 
can greatly benefit the athlete, it should be used mostly with advanced and elite athletes; less developed athletes may 
not possess the physical and psycho-
logical skills to handle such a session.
Sessions generally last approximately 2 h, 
although they can be prolonged up to over 3 h, depending on the sport and the phase of 
the annual training plan. Of course, there is 
an inverted relationship between intensity and duration. Training sessions for team sports are usually consistent in duration, whereas 
training sessions for individual sports tend 
to vary in duration. Training sessions fall into three categories of duration: (a) short 
sessions, which last between 30 and 60 min; 
(b) medium sessions, which last 90 min to 2 h; and (c) long sessions, which last longer than 2 h. The duration of the training session depends on the tasks that are required during the session, the activities being performed, and the athlete’s physical potential. A sprinter may 
perform a training session that lasts only 1 to 1.5 h during the competitive phase, whereas a 
marathon runner may undertake a session that lasts 2 to 2.5 h. Training can also be broken into smaller subunits throughout the training day. When a training session is broken into 
smaller subunits, the total time spent training may be slightly longer, about 2 to 2.5 h. 
Integral to the length of the training session are the number of repetitions being performed and the rest intervals between repetitions and sets.
Structure of Training Sessions
A training session consists of several parts that are sequenced in a way that allows the coach and athlete to follow the principle of a progressive increase and decrease in work across the 
training session. The training session consists of three or four main structural components. 
A three-part training session contains a warm-up (preparation), a workout, and a cool-down (conclusion); a four-part training session consists of an introduction, a warm-up, a workout, and a cool-down.
The selection of which structure to use in a training session depends on the training task 
and content, the phase of training, and the athlete’s training level. The four-part structure 
Incorporating different types of training sessions in a training plan  
can foster team unity as well as individual growth.
Gordon Chibroski/Portland Press Herald via Getty Images

Periodization122
is used during the preparatory phase of training for most athletes, especially beginners or 
novice athletes. Advanced athletes generally use the three-part model, especially during the 
competitive period of the annual training plan, because these athletes require less explanation 
and motivation and prefer to dedicate more time to the main body of the training session. The only substantial difference between the two structures is the inclusion of an introduction.
Introduction
The introduction of a training session is initiated by gathering the athletes into a group to facilitate communication. Several managerial tasks can be undertaken during this time, such 
as taking attendance (especially in team sports), relaying any information that is pertinent to 
the athletes’ training or competitive schedules, and explaining the objectives of the training 
session. When discussing training objectives, the coach should explain the methods that 
will be used to accomplish these objectives. At this time the coach must attempt to increase the athletes’ motivation and focus on the day’s training tasks. After the general objectives 
are explained, the group should be broken into smaller subgroups according to individual 
or position-based goals.
The length of the introduction depends on the extent of the explanation and the level 
of the athlete. Beginner and novice athletes will require a 5 to 10 min introduction; as the athletes become more developed the length of the introduction can be reduced.
The coach must always be prepared and organized when explaining the training objec-
tives. Some coaches find it useful to use audiovisual aids or handouts explaining parts of the session. Handouts may cover specific goals or objectives that need to be highlighted in the 
session and may be considered an expansion of the overall training plan. Athletes should 
receive the training program well in advance of the training session so they can familiarize themselves with and mentally prepare for the session. If this is done, the coach will only need to emphasize the important parts of the training session. The training program should 
also be posted so that athletes can easily refer to it prior to and during the training session. 
Allowing the athletes to become familiar with the organization of the training session gives them a sense of shared responsibility and increases the likelihood that they will give 
a focused effort during training. It is also likely that this process will allow the athletes to 
develop dependability and willpower.
Warm-Up
It is widely accepted by athletes and coaches that a warm-up is essential for optimal perfor-mance during either training or competition. The contemporary scientific literature supports 
this contention and suggests that the composition of the warm-up can affect the degree of 
performance improvement (4, 5, 33, 51, 60). It is well documented that an appropriate warm-up will improve muscle function and prepare the athlete for the demands of exercise or competition (60).
Types of Warm-Up Warm-ups can be broadly classified as either passive or active (4, 5, 
60). A passive warm-up uses external means (e.g., saunas, hot showers, hot baths, heating pads, or diathermy) to elevate the muscle and core temperature without depleting energy 
substrates (4, 5). An active warm-up uses some form of physical activity to elevate muscle 
and core temperature (52, 60). The active warm-up can be further divided into general and specific components. General warm-up procedures include activities such as jogging, calisthenics, or cycling, whereas the specific warm-up component uses activities specific to 
the sport. For most athletes it is impractical to use passive warm-up procedures; therefore, 
athletes who are preparing for training or competition typically use active warm-ups.
Structure of a Warm-Up The composition of a warm-up depends on factors such as the 
activity being prepared for, the athlete’s physical capacity, the environmental conditions, 
and the restrictions of the sporting activity. During the general warm-up, the athlete should 
participate in activities that will elevate muscle and core temperature, such as light jogging, 

Planning the Training Session123
calisthenics, or cycling. For most athletes the general warm-up should be performed at low 
intensity (40%-60% of V.O2max) and for 5 to 10 min (4, 5). A low intensity is recommended 
because this level of activity will increase temperature while limiting the reduction in 
phosphate degradation (4, 5). Additionally, temperature begins to elevate within 3 to 5 min 
of the initiation of the warm-up and plateaus at about 10 to 20 min (52). The coach may need to tailor the warm-up to the individual athlete, because poorly conditioned athletes can achieve the same degree of temperature elevation with less warm-up time. Conversely, 
highly trained athletes may need to increase the duration and intensity of the warm-up to 
achieve the appropriate elevation of temperature (60). A good guide to determine whether the athlete is adequately warmed up is the presence of perspiration.
After completing the general warm-up, the athlete should shift to a specific warm-up. 
A specific warm-up is designed to prepare the athlete for a certain activity. The warm-up 
features progressively increasing intensities and may involve postactivation potentiation 
activities in some instances. For example, the inclusion of short, intense sprint activities has been shown to improve running and kayak performance (4, 5), provided sufficient recovery 
time is available between the cessation of the warm-up and the competition or training bout. 
It appears that at least 5 min of recovery is necessary when transitioning from the warm-up to training or competition (4, 5).
The specific warm-up is important when preparing for competition because it includes 
specific skill sets. For example, a gymnast may include certain technical elements in the 
warm-up in order to prepare physically and mentally for the competition. It has been rec-
ommended that an athlete spend 10 to 15 min undergoing specific activities during the warm-up period (29). However, as the complexity of the sport increases, the athlete may 
need to spend more time on the specific warm-up. An example of a warm-up that contains 
all of these elements is presented in table 6.1.
The total warm-up should take between 20 and 50 min and include a general warm-up 
designed to increase body temperature and a specific warm-up designed to prepare the 
athlete for his chosen sporting activity. The duration of the warm-up can be increased or 
TABLE 6.1 Warm-Up Protocol for a Power Athlete
Type of warm-up Activities contained in warm-up Duration (min)
General Jogging 5 
Static stretching (if external temperature allows) 5-10
Dynamic stretches/ 
movement assessment/
technical componentsGlutei activation exercises 2.5
A skipping ➞ lateral walking ➞ B skipping ➞ 
lateral cross-over walking ➞ back skipping ➞ 
backward lunging ➞ rear kicking ➞ straight-
knee running ➞ carioca ➞ backward running
2 3 20m, walk back recovery10
Ballistic leg stretches
2 3 20 per leg (frontal and sagittal)2.5
Specific Easy alternate bounding 5 
Jumps over medium height hurdles 5
Short accelerations 5
Transition to competition or 
trainingPassive recovery 5
Total warm-up time 45-50

Periodization124
decreased depending on the needs of the particular athlete. An athlete who participates in 
high-intensity activities such as sprinting may require up to 45 min to effectively warm up, 
although most of the activities will be interspersed with adequate rest intervals. Conversely, 
an endurance athlete will have a shorter, yet denser warm-up because her metabolic sys-tems are highly trained and her neuromuscular system does not need to be prepared for high-intensity activities. An athlete who is in poor shape will probably have to decrease 
the duration of the warm-up or use a lower frequency (longer rest intervals). An interesting 
application of the warm-up is to use longer warm-ups as conditioning tools during the preparatory phase of training.
Physiological Effects A wide variety of physiological factors are altered by an active warm-
up. The primary improvement associated with a warm-up is the elevation of muscle and core temperature (4, 5, 60). Some authors claim that the elevation in temperature likely increases the nerve conduction rate and speed metabolic reactions, which can then increase the speed 
and force of muscle contractions (4, 5, 60). Additionally, as temperature elevates, the amount 
of oxygen that is delivered to the muscle increases (2) as a result of increased vasodilation and blood flow (60). The release of oxygen from both hemoglobin (Hb) and myoglobin 
increases as well, thus increasing oxygen delivery to the working muscle (3, 4, 5).
Although most of the effects of a warm-up are related to increases in temperature, other 
factors have been suggested to be major contributors to performance improvement. Of par-ticular interest is a postactivation potentiating effect created by the warm-up protocol (40, 
55, 61). Postactivation potentiation has been defined as the increased contractile ability of a muscle after a contraction (40). Potentiation effects are most likely related to phosphory-lation of myosin regulatory chains (22, 28) or an elevation of calcium (Ca
2+) in the cytosol 
(1). The effects of postactivation potentiation appear to be most prevalent in strength and 
power performance (55, 61), and some investigators have found that these effects are limited 
to highly trained athletes (12).
Psychological Effects Another warm-up–induced response involves the athlete’s 
psychological state (4, 5). Investigators reported a lack of performance improvements 
when athletes were hypnotized to forget they had gone through a warm-up (35). Other 
investigators have shown that athletes who used mental imagery as a warm-up tool demonstrated enhanced physiological performance characteristics (34). It appears that the warm-up prepares the athlete not only physiologically but also psychologically.
Possible Effects of an Active Warm-Up
 •Increased resistance of muscle and joints
 •Increased release of oxygen from hemoglobin and myoglobin
 •Increased rate of metabolic reactions
 •Increased nerve conduction rate
 •Increased thermoregulatory strain
 •Increased vasodilation and blood flow to the muscle
 •Decreased internal viscosity
 •Increased speed and force of muscle contractions
 •Increased baseline oxygen consumption
 •Increased preparedness for competition or training

Planning the Training Session125
Injury It has been well documented that an appropriate warm-up will reduce rates 
of injury (60). It is likely that the increased temperature that occurs during a warm-up 
reduces the potential for injury. Support for this contention can be seen in animal studies 
demonstrating that a 1 °C (33.8 °F) increase in temperature reduces the occurrence of skeletal muscle injury.
Stretching Contemporary scientific literature has demonstrated that dynamic stretching 
is superior to static stretching during the warm-up period (53, 58). Performance decrements 
associated with static stretching are most noted in strength and power sports, but static 
stretching decreases performance in all activities (53). The force production inhibitory effect of static stretching can be avoided if it is placed at the end of the general component of the 
warm-up. The progressively increasing intensity of the following exercises will dissipate the 
inhibition. Such structure has been used successfully for years by the world's best sprinting 
groups. To this end, the warm-up should include dynamic stretching activities that involve 
sport-specific movements, whereas attempts to increase flexibility should be reserved for the cool-down.
Glutei Activation Exercises The gluteus maximus, a powerful monoarticular muscle, is 
the primary hip extensor that operates in conjunction with the semimembranosus muscle, the semitendinosus muscle, and long head of the biceps femoris, as synergistic movers. As 
stated by Stuart McGill (42), world-renowned expert in spine biomechanics, an increasing 
number of people suffer from what he called “gluteal amnesia,” which can be found in several populations of athletes (differentiated by geographical region and sport). This dysfunction can be defined as the inability to engage the glutei in the extension of the 
hip, thus transferring a higher workload to the hamstrings and low back. This could be 
one of the main reasons for the high incidence of hamstring injuries in sporting activities, especially in the presence of high eccentric loads.
For this reason, we suggest the implementation of glutei activation exercises within the 
warm-up, possibly before the athletic drills, in the form of a straight-knee supine march, one or two leg bridges, and quadruped hip extensions with bent knee.
Athletic Drills A variety of athletic drills should be considered and used as dynamic 
stretches, technical refinement drills, and movement assessment tools. This includes 
skipping (As, Bs); shuffling; lateral walking, crossover, and backward walks; backpedaling; 
rear kicks; straight-knee runs; and cariocas. The use of these drills as movement assessment tools is often overlooked by coaches who rely on static exercises for testing batteries, which are implemented every few months in order to assess posture and balance of athletes. 
The athletes then perform dynamically, with coaches assessing movement quality at every 
training session via athletic drills, speed training, or technical-tactical training.
Main Body of the Session
Specific training objectives are addressed in the main body of the training session. This is when the athlete learns new skills and tactical maneuvers, develops specific biomotor abil-ities, and enhances psychological qualities.
The content of this part of the training session depends on many factors including the 
athlete’s training status, gender, and age; the sporting activity; and the phase of training. The main body of the training session may stress technique while simultaneously focusing on biomotor abilities and psychological traits. For less advanced athletes, the following 
succession is a general recommendation:
1. Learn and perfect a technical or tactical element.
2. Develop speed and agility.
3. Develop strength.
4. Develop endurance.

Periodization126
The athlete should be well rested when learning new skills, and technical and tactical 
elements should be addressed early in the main body of the training session. This is par-
ticularly important because fatigue will impede the athlete’s ability to master motor skills 
(46). When the athlete is attempting to sequence learning or perfect technical and tactical elements, she should consolidate elements or skills acquired in previous lessons. She should work on perfecting the most important technical elements or skills and then conclude by 
applying those skills in simulated competitions.
If perfecting a technique requires heavy, fatiguing work, the athlete should perform these 
activities later in the main body of the training session. It is advisable to precede these activities with speed exercises. This approach may be appropriate for weightlifters or track 
and field athletes.
Activities that are designed to improve speed and agility are usually of a high intensity and 
are undertaken for relatively short durations. These types of exercise are extremely taxing, and the athlete should perform them when well rested. For this reason, these activities 
usually are performed in the early part of the session (when the athlete is still fresh) and 
precede both strength and endurance training. However, the focus of the training session will change the relative order of activities. For example, if speed development is the primary focus of the session, then speed-based exercises should immediately follow the warm-up. If coordination or agility is the major focus, it should be addressed early in the training session 
because fatigue can significantly affect motor skills (46).
Strength-developing exercises usually are placed after technique development and speed 
exercises. Although this is appropriate for most athletes, it may not be advisable in some cases. For example, several studies suggest that performing a heavy-load strength exercise 
(70%-90% of one-repetition maximum) prior to sprint activities results in a postactivation potentiation response that manifests itself as an increase in running velocity (40, 61). This technique appears to be very effective at increasing sprint performance if the volume of the 
strength activity is low. This method of sequencing strength training only appears to be 
effective with highly trained athletes (12).
Exercises for developing general or specific endurance should be placed in the last portion 
of the main body of the training session. These activities generate large amounts of fatigue, which will impede the athlete’s ability to acquire or perfect movement or tactical skills, develop speed and agility, and maximize strength development. This sequencing should not be confused with the strategy of practicing certain drills under fatigue to prepare the athlete 
for a specific game scenario.
If learning (which requires a high level of concentration) is the dominant objective for 
beginning athletes, the training sequence should be technique, speed, strength, and endur-ance. However, a single training session should rarely include all four of these elements. 
This same general sequence for training can be used with elite athletes; however, advanced athletes may benefit from altering the order of training depending on the objectives of the individual training session and the objectives of the microcycle.
The structure of the main body of training will be dictated by the objectives established 
for the individual training session. Each training session should focus on only two or three objectives, because it is very difficult to effectively target more than three training objectives. Trying to target too many objectives will likely impair the athlete’s rate of improvement and 
may result in the occurrence of overtraining. The individual training session objectives should 
be linked to the microcycle and macrocycle objectives, the athlete’s performance level, and the athlete’s potential. Although it may be advisable to plan objectives derived from different training factors (e.g., technical, tactical, physical, or psychological), these factors should be 
chosen based on the needs of the sport and the abilities of the athlete.
The coach can plan 15 to 20 min of supplementary physical development, or what is some-
times referred to as a conditioning program, to take place after the athlete has achieved the objectives of a given training session. This addition should be considered for less demanding 
training sessions that do not challenge the athlete. This supplementary development should be specific to the dominant biomotor abilities of the sport and should address factors that are limiting the athlete’s rate of improvement.

Planning the Training Session127
Cool-Down
After the conclusion of the main portion of the training session, the athlete should undergo 
a cool-down period. The cool-down begins the recovery process and facilitates the body’s 
return to homeostasis. The postexercise recovery period is a time when the body must remove 
waste products, replenish energy stores, and initiate tissue repair (30). The body usually does not return to a resting state immediately after a training bout or competition. Depending on the intensity and volume of the session, recovery can require up to 48 h (32, 41). To initiate 
and speed up the posttraining or postcompetition recovery, the athlete needs to undergo 
a structured cool-down session that is designed to stimulate recovery. This portion of the training session is often overlooked, but when implemented correctly it is a very valuable 
tool for maximizing the recovery from and adaptation to a session.
The cool-down should last for 20 to 40 min and consist of two major parts: The first part 
entails active recovery exercise and lasts for 10 to 20 min. This active recovery exercise should be of a low intensity (<50% of the athlete’s maximum heart rate). Although limited data are 
available in the scientific literature, it appears that active recovery is much more effective in inducing postexercise recovery than is passive recovery (7, 44, 45). The activities included in the active recovery will depend on the athlete’s sport. A cyclist may use a continuous bout of 
very low-intensity cycling for 20 min as the active exercise portion of the cool-down, whereas 
a soccer player might use very light jogging. A shot putter may use an interval series that con
-
tains low-intensity and short-duration jogging after a training session. Regardless of the sport, this portion of the cool-down should be low intensity and should not overly tax the athlete.
The second part of the cool-down should contain 10 to 20 min of stretching. Although static 
stretching is not usually recommended during the warm-up, the cool-down is an excellent 
Include a cool-down in your training plans. The cool-down period  
is an important part of a training workout.
Thananuwat Srirasant/Getty Images

Periodization128
time for this activity (29). There are several reasons to include stretching in the postexercise 
period. First, stretching brings the muscles back to their anatomical length progressively, 
facilitates metabolic exchanges, and speeds up recovery processes. Furthermore, stretching 
can improve flexibility without compromising performance. It appears that the stretching portion of a cool-down can improve range of motion (flexibility) as a result of increased muscle temperature (29). Second, the inclusion of a postexercise stretching protocol has 
been demonstrated to reduce the onset of muscle soreness that can be stimulated by a 
training session (1 1). Third, it has been reported that the combination of active recovery followed by a period of stretching significantly increases the rate of recovery from training 
and competitive stress (50).
While the athletes are stretching during the cool-down, the coach can ask them whether 
they achieved the training session’s objectives and how they felt about the session; the coach 
also can use this time to further the athletes’ understanding of training.
Duration of Each Part of the Session
The length of a training session depends on many factors, but sessions usually last about 2 h (table 6.2). The duration of each component of the session will depend on the type of session; the athlete’s age, gender, stage of development, and athletic experience; the char-
acteristics of the sport; and the phase of training in which the session occurs. For example, 
a novice athlete may not have the fitness to tolerate a training session for 2 h, and so the session will be modified to accommodate the athlete’s training status. The coach can use either the three- or four-component structure discussed previously to modulate the time 
commitment to each element of the training session. Examples of the three- and four-com-
ponent models are provided in table 6.2.
TABLE 6.2 Average Durations for Each Part of a Two-Hour Training Session
Training session parts Four-part training session Three-part training session
Introduction 5 min —
Preparation 30 min 30 min
Main body 65 min 70 min
Conclusion 20 min 20 min
Total time 120 min 120 min
Fatigue and Methodological Guidelines  
for Sessions
From a holistic perspective, fatigue is a multifactorial response to some sort of exercise, 
training, or competitive stress (30). Conceptually fatigue is defined as an acute impairment 
in exercise performance, which ultimately can impair the ability to produce maximal force 
or control motor function (30, 54). Fatigue can occur in response to an exercise bout or competition when one or more of the following situations arise: a reduction in energy sub-strate availability, an accumulation of metabolic by-products, neuromuscular transmission 
failure, impairments in Ca
2+ handling by the sarcoplasmic reticulum, central disruption, and 
a response to conscious perception (18, 47). Although there are numerous potential causes 
of fatigue, the two broad categories of peripheral and central fatigue are often discussed.
Peripheral fatigue has received the most attention in the scientific literature and generally 
is related to factors in the muscles themselves (18, 19). These factors can include impairments 

Planning the Training Session129
in neuromuscular transmission (including beta-2 adrenergic receptors down-regulation (20), 
impulse propagation, sarcoplasmic reticulum failure, substrate depletion, and various other 
metabolic factors that can disrupt energy production and muscular contraction (16). Research 
exploring peripheral fatigue has centered on the availability of fuel substrates during a bout of exercise or competition (13). When exercise bouts are intense or undertaken for long durations, the availability of fuel substrates such as carbohydrates can become compromised. 
This can substantially reduce the athlete’s ability to maintain high levels of performance (26).
The second type of fatigue that is discussed in the literature, central fatigue, is related to 
the brain (16). Central fatigue is often associated with a failure of the central nervous system to recruit skeletal muscle (47). It appears that fatigue-induced alterations in neurotransmit-
ters such as dopamine, serotonin, and possibly acetylcholine have the potential to alter the 
ability of neural impulses to reach the muscle (15, 47). For example, it has been suggested 
that exercise-induced increases in serotonin (5-HT) can lead to central fatigue and possibly mental fatigue, which could impair performance (14). Along these lines, it appears that 
the conscious perception of body functions such as breathing, increased cardiac output 
(pounding of the heart), body temperature, and sweating can affect fatigue. These cognitive sensations also are believed to affect motivation, which appears to be linked to previous exposure to similar situations (54).
It is clear that both central and peripheral fatigue can accumulate in response to a training 
or competitive bout. Gandelsman and Smirnov (21) suggested there are two major phases of fatigue: latent and evident. In the early portions of a competition or training bout, physio-logical changes occur in order to meet the demands of the exercise bout. During this phase, 
latent fatigue can result, in response to the increased neuromuscular activity and metabolic 
stress stimulated by the bout of exercise. If the exercise bout is prolonged at the same inten-sity, fatigue will accumulate, resulting in the occurrence of evident fatigue. Consequently, the athlete’s ability to maintain maximal work capacity will progressively decrease.
Many strategies can be used to deal with fatigue, ranging from modifying the structure of 
the training session to including dietary supplements to offset reductions in energy substrates (26). For example, increasing the length of the rest interval can decrease the occurrence of 
latent fatigue, which may facilitate the development of specific biomotor abilities such as 
power. Under some circumstances, training under conditions of latent fatigue can help prepare the athlete for the end of competitions, when fatigue is high. Such training also may enable the athlete to develop the psychological tools to deal with an accumulation of 
training-induced latent fatigue, which may improve her performance in the later stages of 
a competition (54). Strategies to deal with evident fatigue can include a structured cool-down period, as outlined previously in this chapter. Recovery techniques such as massage 
and contrast baths may alleviate this form of fatigue as well.
The intensity of the training session will affect the amount of fatigue that is developed, 
and the session should be structured to address this. A session that contains high-intensity 
activities should have only a few objectives and be of short duration. Conversely, a session 
containing lower-intensity bouts of exercise could have multiple training objectives and last 
longer. For example, the session may focus on perfecting a technical element, incorporating those elements into the team’s tactical scheme, and doing tactical drills with a high endur-ance component. Even with this format, athletes can experience latent fatigue as a result of 
the metabolic disturbances stimulated by the volume of work.
The athlete’s ability to dissipate fatigue and recover from a training session or microcy-
cle of intense training depends on many factors. The athlete’s physical preparedness and 
training age may dictate his ability to tolerate training. For example, an athlete who lacks 
the appropriate physical development will experience greater levels of fatigue, which may 
result in an inability to tolerate training stress. Therefore, the coach must modify the training lesson to accommodate this athlete’s deficiencies. This process may require more variations 
in the training plan with greater fluctuations in training intensity and volume in an attempt 
to dissipate fatigue and stimulate restoration. In the end, the recovery rate is proportional to the degree of physiological disturbance stimulated by the training session. The greater the 

Periodization130
training intensity and volume (which constitute the training load), the greater the accumu-
lated fatigue and the more time needed before readiness is elevated.
Supplementary Training Sessions
Most athletes want to maximize the time that they spend training while minimizing the occurrence of overtraining. One way to maximize training time and increase training 
volume is to use supplementary training sessions, which can consist of individual training 
sessions or special group sessions, such as training camps. These training sessions can be performed during the early morning, before school or work. Sometimes they are performed 
before breakfast, but it is probably advisable that the athlete consume a small amount of 
food before training, especially when the session lasts longer than 30 min (10). The time 
spent in these sessions depends on the athlete’s schedule. Even though each session may be 
short in duration (30-60 min), over the course of the training year these small increases in training volume can result in a substantial increase in yearly training volume. For example, an athlete who trains an extra 30 to 60 min each day will accumulate an additional 150 to 
300 training h per year, which could significantly improve her potential.
Although these sessions are considered supplemental, they must fit into the structure of 
the training plan designed by the coach. The coach will prescribe the content and dosage of 
these sessions in accordance with the athlete’s objectives, weaknesses, and phase of train-
ing. These sessions, 20 to 40 min in duration, can be structured to improve the athlete’s 
general endurance, general or specific flexibility, and even general or specific strength. One use for supplemental training sessions might be to improve an area of weakness to enhance 
certain abilities. For example, an athlete who 
lacks flexibility can undertake a supplemental 
training session that directly targets flexibility. Any resulting improvement in flexibility could 
transfer to improve a technical aspect that the 
athlete is attempting to perfect.
A supplemental training session lends itself 
best to a three-part structure (table 6.3). Because 
these training sessions may be undertaken inde-
pendently of the coach, an introduction phase is not included. Therefore, these sessions contain 
the major components of a three-part training 
session: warm-up, main body, and cool-down. The goal and format of each session are no 
different than those of a regular training session. The main body of these sessions should have no more than two objectives; one objective is optimal.
Sample Training Plan
The training plan is a tool utilized by the coach to structure and guide the training session. The written version of the training plan should contain all pertinent information and be easy to follow. It is advisable to give the athlete a copy of the training plan well in advance 
of the training session, allowing the athlete to prepare for the training session mentally and 
physically. The coach should briefly introduce the plan during the introduction portion of the session and, if space is available, post the day’s training plan so that the athletes can refer to it during the session.
There are many formats by which the training plan can be presented, but it should contain 
some basic elements. One of the most important items to include in a training plan for an individual session is the objective of that session. The session’s objective guides the training 
session, allowing the athlete to understand what happens during the training session. The 
plan should include the date and location of the training session as well as the equipment needed. The training plan should specify the exercise, drills, and activities that the athlete TABLE 6.3 Three-Part Supplemental Training Session
Training session part Duration (min)
Warm-up 5-10 
Main body 20-40 
Cool-down 5-10 
Total session time 30-60 

Planning the Training Session131
must complete during each portion of the session. The plan should provide a detailed 
explanation of the dosage (repetitions, sets, duration) and intensity (percentage maximum 
strength, heart rate range, time, and power) of the training session. Another item to include, 
especially when working with team sports, is a section detailing the most difficult drills an athlete can perform during the lesson. Finally, the training plan should note items that the athlete needs to focus on while performing the drills and exercises. These notes can be very 
specific to the individual athlete or address global needs of a group of athletes. A sample 
training session plan is presented in figure 6.2.
The length of a session plan will depend on the sport and the coach’s experience. Inex-
perienced coaches need to be as specific as possible and include as much information as possible in the training plan. This provides a blueprint to work from during the training 
session and decreases the chance they will forget an important aspect of the training session. 
More experienced coaches may be able to get away with a more generalized training plan, but it may still be worthwhile to present a detailed plan to the athletes so they can prepare 
mentally and physically for the training session.
Training Lesson Plan 148  Coach: _________________
Date: June 14 Objectives: Perfect start
Place: York Stadium  Specific endurance
Equipment: Starting blocks   Power training
 Barbells
Part Exercises Dosage Formations Notes
Introduction  1. Describe the lesson’s 
objectives.3 min
 2. Stress what the athletes should focus on during training.John: Pay attention to arm work.
Warm-up  1. Warm-up duration 20 min Rita: Put on two warm-up suits.
 2. Jogging 1,200 m
 3. Calisthenics 83
Arm rotations 83
Upper-body rotations 123
 4. Hip flexibility 8-103 Stress hip flexibility.
 5. Ankle flexibility 8-103
 6. Bounding exercises 4 3 20 m Stress weak leg.
 7. Wind sprints 4 3 40-60 m
Main body  1. Starts 6 3 30 m
Rest 1 -2 min Stress arm work.
 2. Specific endurance 3 3 120 m
3/4 (16 s)Maintain a constant velocity throughout all repetitions.
 3. Power training 60 kg
 –––––––––  4 sets
8–10 repsBetween exercises, relax arms and legs.
Cool down
 1. Jogging 800 m Stay light and relaxed.
 2. Stretching 10-15 min Focus on hip flexors.
 3. Massage 5-10 min Work with partner.
Session notes Remember that 83 = 8 times; 8-103 = 8-10 times
FIGURE 6.2 Training session plan for a sprinter.

Periodization132
Daily Cycle of Training
An important aspect of implementing a training plan is to organize the athlete’s daily schedule 
to make optimum use of her time, especially at professional level. It is important to strike 
a balance between training, personal free time, work schedules, and relaxation. This is best 
accomplished by organizing the training day into time allotments. The best organizational strategy appears to be multiple training lessons that occur on the same training day. Research by Häkkinen and Kallinen (27) suggests that splitting the day’s training volume into two 
shorter sessions results in a greater improvement in performance, compared with perform-
ing one long training session. This finding supports the practical observations of European coaches who have noted that long training sessions decrease the quality of training because 
they elicit large amounts of fatigue. This increase in fatigue appears to decrease the athlete’s 
ability to develop biomotor abilities and perfect technical and tactical skills. Therefore, when possible, the daily training volume should be broken into smaller subunits to maximally develop the athlete’s capabilities.
The actual structure of the training day depends on many factors, including the time 
available for training, the developmental status of the athlete, and the availability of training facilities. If the athlete is attending a training camp, the frequency of training sessions may be substantially greater. It appears that the training day can be broken into two training sessions, 
one in the morning and one in late afternoon or evening. An example of how training might 
be structured for an athlete who is working full time and also training two times per day is shown in the sidebar. When athletes attend training camps, they will most likely undergo a greater frequency of training, such as three to four sessions per day or more, as shown.
Time Activity
Two training sessions per day 
5:30 a.m.–6:00 a.m. Wake up, eat snack, prepare for training
6:00 a.m.–7:30 a.m. First training session
7:30 a.m.–8:00 a.m. Eat breakfast
8:00 a.m.– 8:30 a.m. Prepare for work
8:30 a.m.–9:00 a.m. Travel to work
9:00 a.m.– 10:30 a.m. Work
10:30 a.m.–10:45 a.m. Eat snack
10:45 a.m.–12:30 p.m. Work
12:30 p.m.–1:00 p.m. Eat lunch
1:00 p.m.–5:00 p.m. Work
5:00 p.m.–5:30 p.m. Travel to training
5:30 p.m.–6:00 p.m. Eat pretraining snack and prepare for training
6:00 p.m.–7:30 p.m. Second training sessionStructure for Multiple Training Sessions  
Per Day of Training

133Time Activity
Two training sessions per day (continued)
7:30 p.m.–8:00 p.m. Travel home
8:00 p.m.–8:30 p.m. Eat dinner
8:30 p.m.–10:00 p.m. Have free time
10:00 p.m.–5:30 a.m. Sleep
Three training sessions per day
6:30 a.m. Wake up
7:00 a.m.–8:00 a.m. First training session
8:30 a.m.–9:00 a.m. Eat breakfast
9:00 a.m.–10:00 a.m. Rest
10:00 a.m.–noon Second training session
12:00 p.m.–1:00 p.m. Rest and recovery session
1:00 p.m.–2:00 p.m. Eat lunch
2:00 p.m.–4:00 p.m. Rest
4:00 p.m.–6:00 p.m. Third training session
6:00 p.m.–7:00 p.m. Rest and recovery session
7:00 p.m.–7:30 p.m. Eat dinner
7:30 p.m.–10:00 p.m. Have free time
10:00 p.m.–6:30 a.m. Sleep
Four training sessions per day
6:30 a.m. Wake up
7:00 a.m.–8:00 a.m. First training session
8:30 a.m.–9:00 a.m. Eat breakfast
9:00 a.m.–10:00 a.m. Rest
10:00 a.m.–noon Second training session
Noon–1:00 p.m. Rest and recovery session
1:00 p.m.–2:00 p.m. Eat lunch
2:00 p.m.–4:00 p.m. Rest
4:00 p.m.–5:30 p.m. Third training session
5:30 p.m.–6:30 p.m. Rest and recovery session
6:30 p.m.–7:30 p.m. Fourth training session
7:30 p.m.–8:00 p.m. Recovery techniques
8:00 p.m.–8:30 p.m. Eat dinner
8:30 p.m.–10:00 p.m. Have free time
10:00 p.m.–6:30 a.m. Sleep

Periodization134
Modeling the Training Session Plan
A training model is a simulation of a competition, the goal of which is to increase certain 
training adaptations and translate those adaptations to competitive performance. The mod-
eling process can be thought of as a method for creating a training session that mimics the 
physiological, technical, tactical, and psychological elements encountered during a compe-tition. Any training session can be designed to coincide with the objectives of a given phase of training while modeling competitive performance (8).
The coach must avoid the temptation to structure the training session the same way all 
of the time. Variation of the training stimulus is very important for inducing physiological and performance gains. The model approach is one method for inserting a new or novel 
training stimulus into the training plan. This method can be used to increase the athlete’s 
motivation, induce a new physiological challenge, and present him with novel tasks that prepare him for competition. There are many ways to use the model approach, and coaches should modify the following examples to best suit their training objectives.
Model Training Session for Skill Acquisition
A model can be developed to enhance skill acquisition and refinement. New skills are best learned when athletes are rested, when they are capable of concentrating on the task, and 
when fatigue will not impede learning. Additionally, cumulative fatigue makes it more 
difficult to retain skills that have recently been acquired. Thus drills that are used to teach and develop skills should take place immediately after the warm-up. Table 6.4 presents an example of this type of model. This model can be used to develop speed, agility, and power.
TABLE 6.4 Model Training Session for Skill Acquisition
Training component Time (min) Goals
Warm-up 20-30 Get the athlete ready to train.
Technical and tactical drills 45-60 Improve and refine a specific skill set.
Physical training 30-45 Develop a specific biomotor ability in accordance 
with the daily plan.
Cool-down 10-20 Initiate the recovery.
Note: This basic model structure can be modified for agility, speed, and power training.
Model Training for Skill Refinement  
Under Conditions of Fatigue
This type of model may be used to mimic the conditions that are encountered at the end of 
a game, match, or race, where the athlete may be required to perform certain skills under 
fatigue. Although mastery of skills is best addressed when the athlete is fresh, athletes must 
also practice skills under the influence of fatigue. The objective in using this type of model is to create a situation of fatigue similar to that seen in the later part of a competition. To accomplish this objective, the coach should create technical and tactical drills that stress 
the glycolytic and oxidative energy systems in a way similar to that seen in competition (see 
chapter 1). This situation challenges the athlete’s ability to cope with and overcome fatigue, both physically and psychologically (i.e., via determination, motivation, and willpower). 
An example of how this model may be incorporated into a training session is presented in 
table 6.5.

Planning the Training Session135
This model can also be adapted to challenge the abilities of the athlete to perform fast, 
agile, and powerful athletic movements under the condition of fatigue. For this reason, its 
utilization is suggested when preparing martial artists, racket sport players, athletes in contact 
sports, or any athlete working to perform technical and tactical skills effectively during the last part of a sporting contest. The goal of this model is to improve performance at the end of the game, match, or competition when fatigue is at its highest, thus allowing the athlete 
to physiologically and psychologically adapt to this scenario.
Model Training for Controlling Precontest Arousal
To achieve maximum effectiveness during an afternoon or evening competition, the athlete 
must be in a state of arousal and psychological alertness. A short morning (e.g., 10:00 a.m.) 
session may facilitate optimal arousal for the afternoon contest, reduce anxiety, and help the 
athlete overcome feelings of excitability, nervousness, and restlessness. This type of session should be used to promote calmness and controlled confidence. The session should be rela
-
tively short and contain a brief series of short, explosive movements (table 6.6). These short actions, which should not induce fatigue, can arouse the athlete for the contest and improve 
later performance by increasing the contractility of the major skeletal muscles used in the 
sporting movements (17). These activities must be of short duration, include longer rest intervals, and not induce fatigue, since fatigue will decrease performance capacity. An addi
-
tional strategy is to use long rest intervals between each activity bout to ensure recovery (39).
TABLE 6.6 Model Training Session for Controlling Precontest Arousal 
Training component Time (min) Goals
Warm-up 10-20 Start with a short, light warm-up to prepare the 
athlete.
Technical, tactical, or speed 
drills10-15 Perform short technical, tactical, or speed drills, sep -
arated by long rest intervals; this is designed to 
prepare the athlete for an afternoon competition.
Cool-down 10-20 Initiate the recovery.TABLE 6.5 Model Training Session for Skill Refinement  
 Under the Condition of Fatigue
Training component Time (min) Goals
Warm-up 20-30 Get the athlete ready to train.
Fatigue-inducing technical 
and tactical drills45-60 Stress the athlete’s glycolytic and oxidative system. 
Induce a situation of fatigue under which the ath-lete must perform specific skills. 
Technical and tactical drills 20-30 Improve the accuracy of passing and shooting.
Develop precision and accuracy of shooting.
Work on quickness and power under conditions of 
fatigue.
Cool-down 10-20 Initiate the recovery.
Note: This model can be adapted to challenge the athlete’s ability to perform fast, agile, and precise movements under 
the condition of fatigue.

Periodization136
Summary of Major Concepts
This chapter emphasizes the benefits of organization and planning. Training effectiveness 
depends on the coach’s and athlete’s ability to organize and plan training from a single workout to a long-term plan. A workout plan is not difficult to construct, and it is a powerful tool that can maximize performance outcomes. The objectives and goals of the individual training sessions must be clearly outlined for the athlete. The athlete must receive feedback about her progress toward attaining these objectives.
The workout plan includes several key components. The warm-up is an often overlooked 
but essential component. This important segment prepares the athlete for the training ses-sion and should never be compromised or removed from the training plan. The warm-up should contain general dynamic activities and progress to dynamic muscle actions that are specific to the sporting activity.
The cool-down is another often-overlooked component that can influence the effectiveness 
of the training session. This portion of the session allows the body to return to homeostasis and initiate recovery. This is the ideal time to include static stretching and improve flexibility. If implemented correctly, the cool-down can be a very effective part of the training session.

1377Planning the  
Training Cycles
Training cycles can be structured into long-term plans such as the quadrennial (4-year)
plan and the individual annual plan (1 year). Based on the terminology used by the German 
training specialists preparing for the 1936 Olympics, the annual plan can be further subdi-vided into grosse (macrocycle) and kleine (microcycle) plans. Macrocycles can be structured in 2- to 6-week increments, whereas microcycles traditionally last 1 week.
Although some authors suggest that eight or nine microcycle variants exist, it is probably 
simpler to use four basic variants: developmental, competition, recovery–regeneration, and peaking–unloading. Although the four basic microcycle types are used most of the time, it is likely that some coaches use variations of these broad categories.
Microcycle
The term microcycle is rooted in the Greek word micros, which means “small,” and the Latin word ciclus, which refers to a regular sequence of events. In training methodology, a microcycle is a weekly training program within an annual plan. The microcycle is the most important programming tool in the training process. The content of the microcycle determines the quality of the training process. The microcycle is structured according to the objectives, volume, intensity, and methods that are the focus of the training phase. The physiological and psychological demands placed on the athlete cannot be steady. The mix of general and sport-specific stimuli must change according to the phase of the annual plan; they must also take into consideration the athlete’s working capacity, the athlete’s need for recovery, and the competition plan. The microcycle must be flexible enough that individual training sessions can be modified to address the residual fatigue of the athlete (i.e., internal load, or degree of readiness) in relation to the training objectives of the training session. When the training unit is modified, subsequent training lessons must be modified to maintain the focus of the microcycle and ensure that the training objectives of the phase are achieved.
Constructing Microcycles
The microcycle has a strong historical precedence and can be found in the works of Phi-lostratus, an ancient Greek scholar. Philostratus proposed a short-term plan that he called the “tetra system,” a 4-day training cycle:
•
Day 1: 
Undertake a short and energetic program.
•Day 2:
 Exercise intensely.
•Day 3:
 Relax to revive the activity.
•Day 4:
 Perform moderate exercise.
The tetra system structure was to be repeated continually. Such ancient training practices 
are the foundation of the microcycle structure.

Periodization138
5The main criteria determining the microcycle structure are the training goal, training fac-
tors, and desired improvements in athletic performance. The appropriate microcycle structure 
will dictate the rate of improvement in the various training factors. The sequencing within the microcycle is of particular importance because the fatigue generated in one session can significantly affect subsequent training sessions. For example, if a session focuses on endur-ance development or contains a very intense stimulus, and that session precedes a technical training session, the fatigue generated by the first session might impair the development of technique in the next session. Thus, the sequencing of the training stimuli throughout the 
microcycle must account for accumulated fatigue in order to maximize the development 
of specific performance or biomotor factors. The microcycle should be structured using the 
same concepts suggested for the training session plan:
• Technical or tactical training
• Development of speed, agility, or power
• Development of strength
• Development of specific endurance
Constructing a Microcycle
Repetition of a training stimulus is essential for the athlete to improve a technical element 
or develop a biomotor ability. Repetitia est mater studiorum  is a Roman phrase meaning “rep-
etition is the mother of study.” To maximize gains, exercises that target specific biomotor abilities must be undertaken with varying frequencies during the microcycle. Depending on the athlete’s ability, targeted training sessions with similar objectives and content may need to be repeated two or three times during a microcycle to maximize the training effect 
and its adaptations. Of particular importance is the training stimulus used, because the 
amount of fatigue generated will affect the recovery required before that stimulus can be used again. For example, in strength training a load with a 20-repetition maximum requires significantly more recovery than a set that doesn’t push the athlete to muscle failure. Thus a longer recovery period may be warranted before performing this type of strength training.
When the athlete and coach are targeting specific endurance with submaximal intensities, 
three training sessions per week will suffice. However, for specific endurance of maximum intensity during the competitive phase, the athlete should engage in endurance training twice per week and dedicate the remaining days to lower-intensity training. The athlete should use one or two training sessions per week to maintain strength, flexibility, and speed. It 
appears that 2 or 3 days per week are optimal for plyometric, speed, and agility training.
Various training loads should be alternated throughout the microcycle. The athlete should 
use maximal loads no more than twice per week, interspersed with low-intensity training days 
and active rest days. It is particularly important to schedule active rest and relaxation the day after a competition. Active rest or low-intensity exercise should be interspersed throughout the microcycle, especially after sessions that have high to maximal demand.
When planning the microcycles, the coach can repeat the basic structure across several 
microcycles, especially during the preparatory phase. Throughout a macrocycle, microcycles of similar nature (i.e., content and methods) can be repeated two or three times; this can 
result in qualitative improvements based on the athlete’s adaptation. The types of microcycle 
fluctuations will vary depending on the athlete’s level of development.
Structural Considerations
The annual training plan dictates the structure of the macrocycle and microcycle plans. 
Individual microcycle plans should be developed to meet the objectives of each phase of the 
annual and macrocycle training plans. This approach must permit flexibility in the training 
program, allowing the coach to modify the training content in response to the effects of training performed previously and the athlete’s improvement. In this approach the macro-

Planning the Training Cycles139
cycle is considered a guideline, and the daily and weekly programs can be altered to address 
the athlete’s response to the training stimuli. However, the microcycle should be constructed 
in accordance with the training objectives and the phase of training. When structuring the 
microcycles of the training plan, the coach should consider many factors:
• The objective of the microcycle and the dominant training factors
• The training demand (e.g., number of sessions, number of hours, volume, intensity, and complexity) targeted during the microcycle
• The intensity of the microcycle and the intensity fluctuations contained in the microcycle
• The methods that will be used to induce the training stimulus in each training session
• The days on which training and competition will occur (if applicable)
• The need to alter intensity each day (i.e., start the microcycle with a low- or medi-
um-intensity training session and progress intensity in a undulatory fashion)
• The timing of competitions in the context of the microcycle (i.e., when the microcycle leads into a competition, the highest intensity or peak training session for that week 
should occur 3 to 5 days prior to the event)
The coach must determine whether the athlete should perform one or more sessions per 
day. If the athlete’s development and work, school, or personal schedule allow for multiple training sessions, the coach should plan the timing of such sessions.
It is helpful to begin each microcycle with a meeting during which the coach and athlete 
discuss the objectives for each training factor contained in the microcycle and how those objectives will be achieved. The coach and athlete should discuss the volume and intensity of training, the number of training session contained in each training day, and where the most 
difficult training sessions will fall. The coach may want to target performance standards for 
the microcycle. Additional personalized information can be given to athletes at this time. Finally, if the microcycle is leading into a competition, the coach should give the athlete details about the upcoming contest and motivate the athlete to attain each competition goal.
If there is no competition at the end of microcycle, a short meeting should be held 
after the last training session of the microcycle to analyze whether the athlete achieved the microcycle training objectives and goals. The coach should use this meeting to critique the 
athlete’s performance during training, making sure to highlight the positive aspects while 
targeting others for improvement. The coach can strengthen the evaluation of the microcycle by collecting input from the athlete. The coach should then take all information obtained from the meetings and training outcomes to formulate strategies for future microcycles with 
similar objectives and goals. The meeting following a microcycle is a tool with which coaches 
and athletes can coordinate their focus on performance outcomes.
Classifying Microcycles
Several different microcycle structures are presented in this chapter, but specific training cir-cumstances result in an infinite number of structural variations. The dynamics of the micro-cycle is dictated by many factors including the phase of training, the developmental status 
of the athlete, and the training factor emphasis (technical, tactical, or physical preparation). 
One of the most important factors dictating the microcycle structure is the athlete’s level of development and training capacity. For example, a highly trained athlete may be able to tolerate a greater frequency of training sessions performed at higher intensities than a novice 
or less-developed athlete. Athletes on the same team may have different work capacities and 
training needs, so individualization of microcycle content may be warranted.
To create an individualized training stimulus, the coach must eliminate standardization 
and rigidity when structuring the microcycle. This flexibility allows the coach to use infor-mation gathered from training, assessments, or competition to modify the training program, thereby helping the athlete meet performance and training objectives.

Periodization140
One method for classifying microcycles centers on the number of training sessions per 
week. As stated previously, the number of training sessions that the athlete can tolerate 
without overtraining occurring is dictated by the athlete’s level of development and physical 
preparation. Additionally, the microcycle structure will change depending on the available time for training and whether the athlete is participating in a training camp or undergoing regular training sessions.
There are a variety of microcycle structures: 3 days per week (figure 7.1), 4 days per week 
(figure 7.2), and 5 days per week (figure 7.3) are common structures. Advanced athletes who have a high work tolerance and can meet the time requirements can undergo eight or nine 
training sessions per week (figures 7.4 and 7.5), sometimes up to 12 or 13. Microcycles with 
additional training session may be used during holidays or during training camps, when 
more time is available for training, or with more advanced athletes.
Session 
timeDay
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
a.m.
p.m. Training Training Training
Session 
timeDay
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
a.m.
p.m. Training Training Training Training
Session 
timeDay
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
a.m.
p.m. Training Training Training Training Training
Session 
timeDay
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
a.m. Training Training Training Training
p.m. Training Training Training Training
Session timeDay
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
a.m. Training Training Training Training
p.m. Training Training Training Training TrainingFIGURE 7.1 Microcycle with three training sessions per week.
FIGURE 7.2 Microcycle with four training sessions per week. A variant is to have the fourth training 
session on Friday.
FIGURE 7.3 Microcycle with five sessions per week.
FIGURE 7.4 Microcycle with eight sessions per week.
FIGURE 7.5 Microcycle with nine sessions per week.

Planning the Training Cycles141
There are many ways to increase the number of training sessions. The athlete can use a 
3+1 microcycle, training on 3 successive half days, followed by a half day of rest, for a total 
of 9 training sessions during the microcycle (figure 7.6). This model can be modified for 
an athlete whose training tolerance or potential is higher and can tolerate more intensive microcycles. A 5+1 microcycle (training on 5 days, followed by a half day of rest) (figure 7.7) and a 5+1+1 microcycle (training on 5 days, followed by a half day of rest, followed by 
a half day of work) are intensive microcycles (figure 7.8). The structure of these more inten-
sive microcycles depends on the amount of time that is available and the type of training stimulus used during each session.
The microcycle structure can be further expanded by integrating multiple training sessions 
throughout the day that target different training factors. For example, a three-component 
microcycle may be constructed where a sprint–agility or a plyometric session is conducted 
in the morning and the main training session, which targets tactical or technical develop-ment followed by strength training, may be performed in the late afternoon or early evening 
(figure 7.9).
An additional aspect of the microcycle structure relates to the variations in training inten-
sity and demand. The training dynamics should not be uniform across the microcycle. They 
Session 
timeDay
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
a.m. Training Training Training Training Training Training
p.m. Training Training Training
Session timeDay
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
a.m. Training Training Training Training Training Training
p.m. Training Training Training Training
Session timeDay
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
a.m. Training Training Training Training Training Training Training
p.m. Training Training Training Training
Session timeDay
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
7:00 a.m. Plyometric trainingPlyometric trainingPlyometric training
3:00 p.m. Sprint and agility trainingAerobic 
 
trainingSprint and agility trainingAerobic 
 
trainingSprint and agility trainingAerobic 
 
training
5:00 p.m. Strength trainingStrength trainingStrength trainingFIGURE 7.6 Microcycle with a 3+1 structure.
FIGURE 7.7 Microcycle with a 5+1 structure.
FIGURE 7.8 Microcycle with a 5+1+1 structure.
FIGURE 7.9 Microcycle with the integration of multiple training factors.

Periodization142
should vary depending on the characteristics of the training, the type of microcycle used, 
the environmental conditions (e.g., climate, weather), and the phase of the annual training 
plan. The intensity of training can alternate between the six intensity zones, ranging from 
very high (90%-100% of maximum) to a recovery day where no training is undertaken (table 7.1). These alterations are dictated by the objectives of the microcycle. For example, the objectives of an intensive microcycle may require 1 (figure 7.10), 2 (figures 7.1 1-7.15), 
or occasionally 3 (figure 7.16) high-demand to very high-demand training days depending 
on the objective of the microcycle.
When planning the modulations of intensity or training demand within the microcycle, 
the coach should consider the principles of load progression. The microcycle usually should contain only one peak, which occurs during the middle 3 days of the week. In some instances, 
a microcycle can contain two peaks that are followed by 1 or 2 days of regeneration sessions. 
An exception to this rule may occur when model training is being used; in this case, two peaks can occur on adjacent days to simulate a competitive situation.
TABLE 7.1 Intensity Zones and Training Demand 
Intensity zone Training demandPercentage of  
maximum performance Intensity
1 Very high 90-100 Maximum
2 High 80-90 Heavy
3 Medium 70-80 Medium 
4 Low 50-70 Low
5 Very low <50 Very low
Recovery Recovery No training Recovery
E6954/Bompa/F07 .10/578404/mh-R1M T W Th F Sa Su
Days of the micr ocycleTraining demand
90-100%
80-90%
70-80%50-70%
<50%
0Very high
High
Medium
Low
Very low
Recovery
FIGURE 7.10 Microcycle with one peak.

Planning the Training Cycles143
E6954/Bompa/F07 .11/578405/mh-R1M T W Th F Sa Su
Days of the micr ocycleTraining demand
90-100%
80-90%
70-80%
50-70%
<50%
0Very high
High
Medium
Low
Very low
Recovery
E6954/Bompa/F07 .12/578406/mh-R1M T W Th F Sa Su
Days of the microcycleTraining demand
90-100%
80-90%70-80%50-70%
<50%
0Very high
High
Medium
Low
Very low
RecoveryFIGURE 7.11 Two-peak microcycle.
FIGURE 7.12 Variation of a two-peak microcycle.
The microcycle structure can be modified if the athlete is training at high altitude or has 
traveled a long distance and crossed several time zones (i.e., time difference of 5-8 h). In 
these situations, it may be warranted to add an adaptation microcycle that does not contain 
a peak. The microcycle structure also should be altered when the athlete is training in a hot and humid climate. In this situation it is recommended that the peak occur at the beginning of the week when the athlete has more vigor.
The sample microcycles in figures 7.10 through 7.16 represent total training demand 
rather than the separate variables of volume and intensities. The use of total training demand 

Periodization144
E6954/Bompa/F07 .13/578407/mh-R1M T W Th F Sa Su
Days of the micr ocycleTraining demand
90-100%
80-90%
70-80%50-70%
<50%
0Very high
High
Medium
Low
Very low
Recovery
FIGURE 7.13 Two-peak microcycle with high demand.
E6954/Bompa/F07 .14/578408/mh-R1M T W Th F Sa Su
Days of the micr ocycleTraining demand
90-100%
80-90%70-80%50-70%
<50%
0Very high
High
Medium
Low
Very low
Recovery
FIGURE 7.14 Two-peak microcycle in which the second peak is a competition.
allows for the microcycle structure to be used in a variety of sporting activities because sports 
vary in their area of emphasis, with some being dominated by speed-power, maximum 
strength, or endurance. Additionally, team sports contain a complex interaction of many 
factors that can best represented by total training demand.
A microcycle can be structured many ways; some authors speculate that there are at least 
22 possible microcycle structures. This number of microcycle variants may complicate the 

Planning the Training Cycles145
E6954/Bompa/F07 .15/578409/mh-R1M T W Th F Sa Su
Days of the micr ocycleTraining demand
90-100%
80-90%
70-80%
50-70%
<50%
0Very high
High
Medium
Low
Very low
Recovery
E6954/Bompa/F07 .16/578410/mh-R1M T W Th F Sa Su
Days of the micr ocycleTraining demand
90-100%
80-90%70-80%50-70%
<50%
0Very high
High
Medium
Low
Very low
RecoveryFIGURE 7.15 Microcycle model with two adjacent peaks.
FIGURE 7.16 Three-peak microcycle with alternating training demands.
training and planning process, so it may be better for the coach to use the most common 
microcycle structures and adapt them to individual training needs.
The microcycle should be functional and, therefore, as simple as possible. The plan should 
specify the date, objectives, and content for each training session. The content should be succinct and easy to understand and should emphasize major items to target in the training session. Figure 7.17 shows a microcycle plan from the competition phase.

Periodization146
Sport/Event: Javelin Microcyle # 29
Date : 20.07-27-09 Objectives:
 1. Perform 67:00 m
 2. Perfect the rhythm of the last three strides under higher velocity conditions
 3. Develop the ability to concentrate for the morning competition
 4. Maintain leg and arm power
Time Mon. Tues. Wed. Thurs. Fri. Sat. Sun.
a.m.
10:00-11:00• 15 min warm-up
• Sprints: 
 20, 30, 40 m  6  ____________    2  3   _ ; _   4  4 Competition warm-up:  
6 throwsSame as TuesdayCompetition warm-up Competition 10:45
p.m.16:00-18:00
• Warm-up: 20 min
• Sprints: 
 30 m  3  _____
  4  _
  4  
• Technique:
• Last 3 strides
• 30 throws with 
baseball
• 15 medicine ball throws
• 2 
3 30 m 
bounds• Warm-up:  Competition
• Throws:
• 6 throws 4/4
• 15 throws, 3/4 with short approach
• Warm-up:  7 min specific warm-up
• Weight training: 30 min
• Flexibility: 5 minBasketball game: 
 
2 3 15 minSame as Monday • Warm-up: Compe-tition
• Throws: 15 medi-um approach
• Walk and throws: 15 min at different targets placed in the grass
• Relaxation: Special  exercisesBasketball game: 
 
2 3 15 min
FIGURE 7.17 Competition phase microcycle plan for a female javelin thrower.
Classification of Microcycles Based on  
Training Objectives and Phase of Training
The structure of the microcycle depends on the training objectives and thus the training phase. 
From this point of view, there are four general microcycle classifications: developmental, 
competition, recovery–regeneration, and peaking–unloading.
Developmental Microcycles
Developmental microcycles are specific to the preparatory phase of training. The objective 
is to increase the level of adaptation, improve skills, and develop biomotor abilities. Such 
cycles could have two or three peaks of medium and high demand. The microcycle uses an 
alternation of energy systems and loads, creating an undulatory loading dynamic. The actual structure of the microcycle depends on the athlete’s classification, sport characteristics, and the preparation subphase the athlete is in. Figure 7.18 illustrates a microcycle for the early part 
of the preparatory phase, presenting training sessions for early adaptation and development.
Recovery–Regeneration Microcycles
The goal of a regeneration microcycle is to dissipate residual fatigue. As a consequence, it 
can be used to elevate the athlete’s level of readiness, which will improve performance; for 
example, it can be used between the end of the preparatory phase and the beginning of 
the competitive phase for a team sport. This microcycle is marked by a significantly lower training demand, which can be created by decreasing training intensity, volume, or some combination of both. Another approach to using this type of microcycle, specific to the 

Planning the Training Cycles147
transitory phases, is to include activities that train physiological characteristics similar to 
the targeted sport but that are different than the typical training activities.
Peaking–Unloading Microcycles
Unloading microcycles are placed at the end of every macrocycle in order to dissipate fatigue and elevate the athlete’s level of athletic readiness; this ultimately increases sport-specific 
performance. Before the most important competitions of the year, two unloading microcycles 
are used back to back to allow for peaking (chapter 9). This type of microcycle is created mainly by decreasing weekly training volume (by 50% or more) and by maintaining or decreasing intensity (by 5%-10%). The reduction of training demand will result in physio-
logical responses that allow supercompensation to occur. The unloading microcycle elevates 
performance and decreases the potential for overtraining.
Microcycle Dynamics During  
the Competitive Phase
During the competitive phase, the sequencing of individual microcycles depends on the 
competitive schedule. Timing of competitions also affects the placement of regeneration 
and unloading days within the microcycle. The format used when planning a competitive 
microcycle will be affected by the requirements of the sport. In team sports there may be several competitions in 1 week, whereas in individual sports (figure 7.19) competitions may occur over several consecutive weeks. With one competition per week, 1 or 2 days of rest and 
recovery should be included each week. The bulk of training, including strength and power 
training, will be conducted during the middle of the microcycle. In this example, a medium to high training demand is used. After the bulk of training is completed, unloading should 
then be planned for the 2 days prior to the next competition.
This basic competitive microcycle can be modified when the opponent is weaker or the 
competition is of little importance. Such a competition will not present a high physiologi-
cal challenge, and the subsequent competition-induced fatigue will be markedly less than 
usual. It may be warranted in these situations to replace the recovery day that is planned for 
Monday (in this example) with an additional technical or tactical training session. Addition -E6954/Bompa/F07 .18/578504/mh-R3M T W Th F Sa Su
Days of the micr ocycleTraining demand
90-100%
80-90%
70-80%
50-70%
<50%
0Very high
High
Medium
Low
Very low
Recovery
Developmental
Developmental
Developmental
DevelopmentalAdaptation Adaptation
Recovery
FIGURE 7.18 Developmental microcycle. The scope or focus of this microcycle is adaptation.

Periodization148
ally, it is likely that only one unloading day would be needed before a minor competition. 
This schedule results in a net gain of 4 training days, with at least one of those days being 
of a high demand. Activities for maintaining the level of physical training have to also be 
planned, although they should be less challenging than during a microcycle with no com-petitions. Emphasis should be given to the maintenance of the dominant biomotor abilities in the targeted sport.
When teams have multiple competitions or games in one microcycle (see figure 7.20), 
Monday is a short regeneration session that contains a very low training demand. The second session of the microcycle (Tuesday) is a tactical day that is used to elevate performance 
during the Wednesday competition. On Thursday a regeneration day is planned, and Friday 
is the only high-demand training session of the microcycle. Strength and power training is E6954/Bompa/F07 .19/578507/mh-R2M T W Th F Sa Su
Days of the micr ocycleTraining demand
90-100%
80-90%
70-80%
50-70%
<50%
0Very high
High
Medium
Low
Very low
Recovery
Competition
Sa Su
Competition
Rest RestRegeneration
Technical and
physical training
Technical and
physical training
Unloading
Unloading
E6954/Bompa/F07 .20/578508/mh-R2M T W Th F Sa Su
Days of the micr ocycleTraining demand
90-100%
80-90%70-80%50-70%
<50%
0Very high
High
Medium
Low
Very low
Recovery
Regeneration
Tactical training
Competition
Regeneration
Unloading
CompetitionTechnical/tactical and
physical trainingFIGURE 7.19 Microcycle with weekly competitions.
FIGURE 7.20 Competitive microcycle for a team sport with two games in 1 week.

Planning the Training Cycles149
suggested for Friday, but of medium-low demand. The number of exercises must be very 
low (two to four) and they should strictly address the prime movers. To facilitate a good 
performance for the Sunday game, an unloading day is planned for Saturday.
If the competitive schedule is organized over the 2 days of a weekend (e.g., team sports 
tournament or several races in track and swimming), then the microcycle can be organized 
as depicted in figure 7.21. Two unloading training sessions are used on the 2 days (Thursday 
and Friday) prior to the weekend competition so that fatigue is dissipated and supercompen-
sation may be achieved at the time of competition. The highest training demand occurs at the beginning of the microcycle (Tuesday), thus progressively decreasing the training demand 
across the microcycle. On those days you can also plan a short session for the maintenance 
of strength and power.
If the microcycle contains a multiple-day tournament, the coach should plan regeneration 
activities that may include active recovery. Active recovery performed at very low intensities can facilitate lactate removal (1, 9, 1 1, 13, 16), dampen central nervous system activity, 
increase the tone of the parasympathetic nervous system, and reduce muscle soreness (14). 
Active recovery should include very low intensities of exercise that do not significantly affect muscle glycogen stores. Tournament play can significantly affect glycogen (8), so glycogen stores must be replenished before the next competitive match. The best method for accomplishing this is to follow a post-exercise supplementation program and to ensure 
adequate dietary intake of carbohydrate between matches (3, 7). A microcycle for a weeklong 
tournament is presented in figure 7.22. Note that the morning after every game includes a very low-intensity regeneration session that is designed to speed recovery. Additionally, 
a low-intensity tactical training session is planned for the late afternoon on the day prior 
E6954/Bompa/F07 .21/578509/mh-R3M T W Th F Sa Su
Days of the micr ocycleTraining demand
90-100%
80-90%
70-80%50-70%
<50%
0Very high
High
Medium
Low
Very low
Recovery
Regeneration
CompetitionTechnical/tactical and
physical trainingTechnical/tactical and
physical training
Unloading
CompetitionUnloading
FIGURE 7.21 Competitive microcycle for a team sport with two games in one weekend.
E6954/Bompa/F07 .22/578510/mh-R2M
GameDays of the Microcycle
Time
a.m.
p.m.T
Regeneration
Tactical
trainingGameRegeneration
Tactical
trainingGameRegeneration
Tactical
trainingGameW Th F Sa Su
FIGURE 7.22 Microcycle for a weeklong team sport tournament.

Periodization150
to each game. A microcycle formatted in this fashion will provide the athlete with the best 
potential to recover and maximize performance.
Model of a Microcycle for Competition
The vast majority of microcycles in the annual training plan target the development of skills and abilities required by the sport. However, during the competitive phase, the focus 
of the training plan shifts to maximizing performance capacity during competition. This is 
accomplished by modifying the microcycle structure in accordance with the demands of the sport and the athlete’s physiological and psychological needs. One strategy is to develop the 
microcycle based on a model of the competition (model training). This model, especially 
in individual sports, can be used repeatedly prior to main competition. The model should 
contain training sessions of various intensities and should alternate between active rest and 
recovery. The daily cycle should be identical to the day of the competition.
Many sports (e.g., regional-level track and field and swimming, tennis, some team sports, 
martial arts) have qualifying rounds followed by finals in the same day (e.g., Friday at 10:00 
a.m. and 6:00 p.m.). Models designed to address this competitive schedule would place the 
main training day on Friday, which would contain two training sessions that would occur at the same times as the targeted competition.
Other sports (e.g., some team sports, national- and international-level track and field and 
swimming, boxing, tennis, wrestling) may contain 2 to 4 days of consecutive competitions. This type of competitive format can also be modeled by modifying the microcycle structure to correspond to the demands of the competition. This model should be repeated several times prior to the contest. However, the model should only be used every 2 or 3 weeks, with devel-
opmental microcycles placed between each microcycle containing this competitive model.
Some tournaments such as the Olympic Games, World Championships, or international 
competitions are organized over 4 to 9 days. It is not feasible to model this competitive format because such a model will create a large amount of physiological stress and signifi-
cantly affect the time that can be dedicated to training. To prepare for larger tournaments, the athlete should participate in smaller tournaments that last 2 or 3 days and contain four or five competitive efforts. To prepare for these tournaments, the athlete should follow 
developmental microcycles and daily training structures that contain characteristics of the 
targeted tournament. It may also be warranted to familiarize the athlete with the compet-itive schedule by using the competitive model, altering between competition and recovery 
typically seen in a tournament. It may be recommended that training days that fall on the 
same day of a tournament involve higher demands, whereas the day after this session should be of lower intensity or contain a recovery session.
The athlete should alternate between simulated competitive days and rest and recovery 
days to maximize her ability to adapt to the competition schedule. Many athletes do not favor free days between competitions because performance during the second day of com-petition is sometimes not as good as expected. The decrease in performance seems to be 
based on postcompetition psychological reactions (e.g., overconfidence, conceit) rather than 
an accumulation of fatigue. To facilitate the athlete’s ability to tolerate the rest days between competitions, the coach can include competition-based microcycles in all macrocycles con-tained in the competitive phase of the annual training plan. If the competitive phase is short, the coach can introduce the competitive model during the last part of the preparatory phase.
Although the competitive model can be used to prepare for a major competition, the 
athlete likely will participate in several additional competitions. Such competitions may occur on a different day of the microcycle than the major competition. The microcycle 
model usually should not be modified in these situations, especially if the athlete is likely 
to qualify for the major competition.
The main goal of the microcycles preceding the major competition is to allow the 
athlete to completely recover from the physiological and psychological stress of training 
so that peak performance occurs. The athlete can peak by reducing the training load by  

Planning the Training Cycles151
approximately 40% to 60% across the microcycle before the major competition. Another 
strategy is to manipulate the training load across two microcycles. In this situation peaking 
can be accomplished in 8 to 14 days with gradual reductions in training load. Several exam-
ples of peaking strategies are presented in chapter 9.
Recovery and Regeneration Microcycles
Elevations in readiness and performance occur when fatigue is dissipated, and some authors claim that fatigue management is central to the actual training process (15). If fatigue is 
managed appropriately, a supercompensation effect will occur, elevating the athlete’s read-
iness and performance potential.
Recovery and regeneration can be integrated into a microcycle in several fashions. For 
example, by including rest days, variations in training intensity, and alternative methods of training, a coach can facilitate recovery between or within training sessions (15). A regener-
ation microcycle should be incorporated at the end of a macrocycle. Figure 7.23 presents a 
classic 3:1 (loading and unloading) step structure in which week 4 is an unloading or regen-eration microcycle. These microcycles can be structured the same as a training microcycle, but the intensity or frequency of training can be reduced.
Another restoration microcycle structure contains actual training sessions that are designed 
to stimulate recovery. These sessions can contain a slightly longer warm-up and a relatively short training session consisting of either light work applicable to the sport or complemen-tary activities followed by a series of activities designed to facilitate recovery. Table 7.2 offers 
a sample regeneration session and several regeneration techniques.
Regeneration microcycles are integral parts of the annual plan and are particularly import-
ant during the competition phase. During the competition phase of training for many sports, 
2 or 3 microcycles can be included that contain a series of competitions. The use of many 
competitions will increase the amount of fatigue experienced by the athlete. To enable the 
athlete to tolerate this high amount of physiological and psychological stress, regeneration and recovery microcycle structures should be used. An example of a regeneration micro-
cycle is presented in figure 7.24. This microcycle is designed to remove physiological and 
psychological fatigue, aid in the replenishment of energy substrates, and supercompensate the athlete at the end of the cycle.
E6954/Bompa/F07 .23/578511/mh-R1
Regeneration microcycle100%
90%
80%
70%60%50%40%30%20%10%Loading
pattern
Regeneration microcycle
Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Week 5 Week 6 Week 7 Week 8
Macrocycle 1 Macrocycle 2
FIGURE 7.23 Placement of a recovery and regeneration microcycle.

Periodization152
TABLE 7.2 Regeneration Session
Description Duration (min)
Warm-up General warm-up
Specific warm-up1020
Training session Low-intensity work from either the sport being trained for or a 
complementary activity30
Cool-down Static stretching 10
Regeneration Warm water immersion
• 37 °C-39 °C (98.6 °F-102.2 °F) for the whole body
• 37 °C-40 °C (98.6 °F-104 °F) for the legs
• 37 °C-45 °C (98.6 °F-113 °F) for the arms or hands10-20
Alternative regener-
ation techniquesTotal body massageSauna
• 60 °C-140 °C (140 °F-284 °F); 5-15% humidity
Contrast therapy
• Thermotherapy: 37 °C-44 °C (98.6 °F-111.2 °F)
• Cryotherapy: 7 °C-20 °C (44.6 °F-68 °F)
Cold water immersion
• 12 °C-18 °C (53.6 °F-64.4 °F)10-203020
4
120
E6954/Bompa/F07 .24/578513/mh-R2M T W Th F Sa Su
Days of the micr ocycleTraining demand
90-100%
80-90%
70-80%
50-70%
<50%
0Very high
High
Medium
Low
Very low
RecoveryRestoration
activitiesRestoration
activitiesTraining TrainingTraining
Recovery Recovery
FIGURE 7.24 Regeneration microcycle.
Quantifying Training
The coach and athlete should use objective methods to plan training intensities or loads. Too 
often training programs are based on subjective preferences. In the best-case scenario, the plan 
alternates heavy training days with easy days throughout the year. In the worst-case scenario, 
the plan uses a “no pain, no gain” philosophy and the loading or intensity of training is constantly very high, which ultimately leads to high levels of fatigue and even to overtraining.

Planning the Training Cycles153
Although few coaches quantify the loading parameters contained in their training pro-
grams, quantifying training is one of the most important parts of developing a training pro-
gram. In individual sports (track and field, swimming, rowing), volume is often quantified 
using mileage, as in the kilometers or miles per microcycle, macrocycle, or year of training. In throwing events volume may be quantified as the number of throws completed in the individual cycles. Intensity may be quantified as distance jumped or thrown, the percent-
age of maximum speed, or maximum power output or heart rate. In strength training, the 
volume of training is quantified as the tonnage (volume load) lifted, weekly repetitions per 
exercise, or total sets per session; intensity is determined by the athlete’s maximum strength 
or one-repetition maximum (1RM). Training intensity and volume are rarely quantified 
in team sports, which makes it difficult for coaches to monitor athletes’ training. Only in 
the last few years GPS and accelerometer devices utilized by top teams have assisted with 
the exact quantification of training. At best, time in minutes is used to specify duration of high-intensity drills.
The quantification of training is often a difficult undertaking, which is easier to accomplish 
when the training program is designed for an athlete with whom the coach is very familiar. The coach should know the athlete’s training background, ability to tolerate physiological and psychological stress, strengths and weaknesses, and training environment. Because these characteristics are different for each athlete, training programs should not be shared 
by athletes. Understanding the athlete’s needs and abilities is an essential component of 
designing a training plan. The intensity of training should be planned using established equations, and the volume of training should be quantified.
In all programs, the training intensity throughout the microcycle must be varied to 
enhance the athlete’s physiological adaptation to the training load and stimulate regenera-tion after a training session. To quantify the training intensity, the coach may identify four to five training intensities based on the physiological demands of the sport. Each intensity 
must correlate with the activity’s rhythm or tempo, the training type and method, and the 
athlete’s heart rate response (plus or minus a few beats per min). The intensity zones should be determined according to the bioenergetic characteristics of the sport or the percentage 
contribution of the various energy systems. After gathering this information, the coach can 
plan the percentage of each intensity level contained in the microcycle (table 7.3). From the late specific preparation onward, the highest percentage of the training load should target the development of the dominant ability and the bioenergetic characteristics of the sport.
Table 7.3 and figure 7.25 show this concept applied in a microcycle for rowing. In table 7.3, 
intensity zones 3 and 4 comprise 70% of the total training load for the competitive phase of 
the annual training plan. The same two intensities dominate the example in figure 7.25, which 
shows the link between the theoretical concept and its application in the training of rowers.
If an objective means of quantifying training does not exist, the coach can subjectively 
divide skills and training into more difficult (pace of game, race, or match) and less difficult 
stratifications. The pace of the game, race, or match should be simulated with intensity zone 
2; this intensity should be used for at least 50% of the training time per week.
A better quantification system contains five intensities, in which zone 5 is a low intensity 
to be used for compensation between other intensities or to facilitate supercompensation. An example of a five-category stratification follows:
1. Maximum intensity
2. Higher than the pace of the game, race, or match
3. Pace of the game, race, or match
4. Lower than the pace of the game, race, or match
5. Compensation
In either case, the intensity higher than the pace of the game, race, or match is dominated 
by anaerobic energy supply, whereas aerobic energy supply dominates intensities that are below game, race, or match pace.

154TABLE 7.3 Example of Intensity Zones for Rowing 
Intensity zones*
1 2 3 4 5
Characteristics Speed endurance Power endurance Specific racing 
enduranceAerobic endur-
ance of medium 
distanceAerobic endurance 
of long distance
Rhythm of activity Maximum Very high, greater 
than the racing rate and rhythmRapid, the opti-
mal rhythm and ratiosModerate, lower 
than the racing rhythmLow
Stroke rate >40 37-40 32-36 24-32 <24
Type of training Starts and sprints 
up to 15 s; rest 1.5 minRepetitions of 
250-1,000 m; rest 3-10 minRaces and con-
trolled racing; interval training 
of 3-4 min; rest 
4-5 minLong repetitions; 
variable rate and power; long-dis-
tance rowing 
with sprints of 30-60 sLong-distance 
(steady-state) technique
Heart rate >180 beats/min 170-180 beats/
min150-170 beats/
min120-150 beats/
min<120 beats/min
Bioenergetics
AnaerobicAerobic80%20%65%35%25%75%15%85%5%95%
Total training 
volume10% 70% 20%
*Intensity zone 1 is the most demanding, and intensity zone 5 is the least demanding.
Microcycle
Time Mon. Tues. Wed. Thurs. Fri. Sat. Sun.9:30-11:30 a.m.Intensity zone* 4 3 5 4 3 4
Distribution (km) 24 20 24 24 20 24 
Training Long repetitions: 
8 3 2 kmInterval training: 10 3 3 min, work/rest ratio 1:1Aerobic endurance, long dis
-
tanceVariable rate, variable powerInterval training: 6 3 3 min, work/
rest ratio 1:1.5Aerobic 
 
endurance:  
3 3 1 min16:00-18:00Intensity zone 2 4 1 4 2
Distribution (km) 20 24 20 24 20
Training Model training:1 3 250 m, 
 
2 3 500 m,  
2 3 1,000 m,  
2 3 500 m,  
2 3 250 mVariable rate, variable powerSprints: 500 total strokes, rest 1.5 minLong reps: 3 3 6 km, rest 5 minModel training: 
 
1 3 250 m,  
6 3 1,000 m,  
2 3 500 m,  
2 3 250 m
Weight training Maximum strengthMuscular 
 
enduranceMaximum strengthMuscular 
 
endurance
FIGURE 7.25 Example of using numeric-based intensity zones to construct a microcycle for rowing.
*Intensity zone 1 is the most demanding, and intensity zone 5 is the least demanding.

Planning the Training Cycles155
Whether using objective or subjective methods to quantify training, the coach should 
follow the correct sequence when planning the microcycle. The first step is to plan the 
intensity zones for each day of the week and indicate this on the training plan (figure 
7.25). Intensity zones should be chosen for each day of the week to provide variations in intensities, type of work, or energy system targeted. After this step of the planning process is completed, the training program should be developed (step 2). For the best results, the 
coach should include several variables of work for each intensity, irrespective of whether 
this refers to technical, tactical, or physical training. Each plan should include one to three intensity symbols, which means it is possible to train at least two types of work that tax the 
same energy system. This suggestion is mostly valid for sports of high technical and tactical 
complexity. A team sport example illustrates this sequence. Table 7.4 is an example of a 
method for quantifying training, and table 7.5 is an example of how to plan intensity zones.
TABLE 7.4 Quantification of Training for Team Sports
Intensity zones*
1 2 3 4 5
Characteristics of 
trainingT: complex; TA: 
lactic acid toler-
ance trainingT/TA: suicide 
drillsTA: V.
  O2max T/TA: phosphagen T: skills: accuracy 
in shooting,  serving, passing 
Duration 30-60 s 20-30 s 3-5 min 5-15 s 10 min  
(several bouts)
Rest interval 
(min)3-5 3 2-3 1-2 1
Heart rate 
(beats/min)>180 >180 >170 >170 120-150
Bioenergetics
Anaerobic (%) 80 90 40 90 10
Aerobic (%) 20 10 60 10 90
Total training 
volume (5)40 20 20 20
T = technical; TA = tactical.
*Intensity zone 1 is the most demanding, and intensity zone 5 is the least demanding.Note: During the rest interval, athletes can practice technical skills of low intensity (e.g., shooting the basketball).
TABLE 7.5 Example of Alternating Intensities During a Microcycle for a Team Sport 
Day
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
1* 2 4 2 1 5
3 5 5 3 4
5 5 5
*Intensity zone 1 is the most demanding and intensity zone 5 is the least demanding.Note: Several intensities are planned for a given day. As per the planned intensities, Wednesday and Saturday are compensation days.

Periodization156
Alternating Intensity and Energy System Focus 
During a Microcycle
Alternating training intensities during a microcycle is one of the most effective methods to 
prevent exhaustion, staleness, and overtraining. The higher the intensity  or power  output 
of the activity, the greater the reliance on anaerobic energy supply (phosphagen and fast glycolytic). A plan that modulates the intensity of training will target a specific energy system, thus facilitating recovery and regeneration or stimulating adaptation. The structure of this variation will be dictated by the phase of training (preparatory versus competitive) 
and the need to supercompensate a specific energy system prior to competition. This is best 
accomplished through creating microcycle variations based on the interaction of exercise physiology and training methodology. A plan that is appropriately varied will greatly increase 
the athlete’s probability of reaching peak performance at the appropriate time.
For most sports, the energy demand of the activity preferentially targets at least two 
energy systems (10, 15). Although the primary energy system targeted can be isolated, all of 
the energy systems are active at the same time and the intensity of the activity (i.e., power 
output) will dictate which energy systems are preferentially targeted (2). Therefore, a high 
intensity will increase the influence of the phosphagen and fast glycolytic systems, whereas a lower intensity will increase the emphasis on the slow glycolytic and oxidative systems (15). If the competition depletes the athlete’s energy reserves, training intensity during the 
postcompetitive training days should be reduced. Reducing the intensity of training will dis-
sipate cumulative fatigue, thus creating a microcycle that induces recovery and regeneration and thereby prepares the athlete for subsequent training.
Although it is important to alternate work and regeneration, it is not always necessary for 
the athlete to be completely recovered for the next bout of training. For example, during the preparatory phase of training, when the major focus is on developing a strong physiological foundation, the athlete will not fully recover and performance will not supercompensate. 
When the training demand is lowered in later unloading microcycles, the athlete’s level of 
athletic shape (i.e., readiness) will be elevated and performance will increase. Therefore, during the preparatory phase of training, the plan can include developmental microcycles without allowing the athlete enough time to remove all of the accumulated fatigue. This 
process will challenge the athlete’s physiological systems and result in greater performance 
improvements after future unloading microcycles. As a competition approaches, the fatigue generated in the preparatory phase can be reduced by alternating training intensities and 
lowering training volume; this stimulates physiological adaptations, removes fatigue, and 
allows physical parameters to supercompensate.
Alternating the focus on intensity and energy systems can be very difficult with complex 
sports (e.g., team sports) in which multiple energy systems play a large role in performance 
and the technical and tactical skills rely on all of those systems. Such activities can require 
the athlete to maximize power, speed, and high-intensity endurance in order to be success-ful. Thus, planning involves a conundrum in which many tasks must be trained to meet the 
demands of the sport without inducing overtraining. The best approach is to vary intensities 
of training, thereby changing the bioenergetic targets of training, to develop multiple facets of the athlete’s physiology. A two-step process can be used to vary training intensities in an 
attempt to target specific energy systems.
The first step is to classify all of the skills and types of training according to the energy 
systems that are taxed. Table 7.6 gives an example of skill classification. Although this table can be used as a guideline for classifying skills, you may still want to systematically classify 
the skills and biomotor abilities that are relevant to the sport. One method for planning the daily training session is to target a specific energy system with all skills and physical training activities. Conversely, the daily session can target one training option and leave the balance 
of the other activities for other days.
The second step is to plan a microcycle that alternates the training options from table 
7.6, in order to target specific energy systems. The alterations in training loads coupled with 

Planning the Training Cycles157
appropriate nutrition will allow the athlete to restore energy sources, facilitating physiological 
adaptations that will eventually increase performance.
In terms of microcycles that alternate energy systems, these types of training cycles are 
not planned throughout the annual plan. During some phases of training, fatigue must be dissipated to stimulate supercompensation, whereas in other phases high levels of fatigue 
are generated to challenge the athlete’s physiology to adapt. Even though the training loads 
are alternated in these microcycles, it is likely that the overall training demand will create a large amount of fatigue, which will decreases preparedness and ultimately suppress the 
supercompensation effect.
Several examples of how to manipulate the training demand are presented in this chapter 
(see the figures in the sections that follow). Alternating the training demand will challenge 
the athlete on some training days, which will induce a high level of fatigue; on other days 
fatigue will be removed in response to a less challenging training bout. Each sample micro-
cycle contains a diagram of the dynamics of fatigue or supercompensation in response to various training sessions.
Team sports are very complex, and a single training session for these sports will stress 
multiple energy systems as well as the neuromuscular system (technique, maximum speed, strength, and power). Figure 7.26 gives an example of how the microcycle can be varied. Mon-day’s session taxes the neuromuscular, phosphagen, and glycolytic energy systems. Activities 
involving speed, power, and maximum strength training performed for short durations rely TABLE 7.6 Classification of Skills and Physical Training for Alternating Energy Systems
Anaerobic alactic day Anaerobic lactic day Aerobic day
1. Technical skills (1-10 s)
2. Tactical skills (5-10 s)
3. Acceleration and maximum speed
4. Maximum strength and power1. Technical skills (10-60 s)
2. Tactical skills (10-60 s)
3. Speed endurance (10-60 s)
4. Power endurance, muscle  
endurance short1. Long-duration technical skills (>60 s)
2. Long- and medium-duration tactical skills (>60 s)
3. Aerobic endurance
4. Medium and long muscle endurance 
Reprinted, by permission, from T .O. Bompa and C. Buzzichelli, 2015, Periodization training for sports, 3rd ed. (Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics), 169.
E6954/Bompa/F07 .26/578520/mh-R1Microcycle day
Day M T W Th F Sa Su
Training
demandTechnique Tactical Technique Tactical Technique Technical
or tactical
Speed Endurance Speed Endurance Endurance
Power ormaximumstrengthPower ormaximumstrengthPower ormaximumstrength
Theoretical
fatiguecurve
FIGURE 7.26 Microcycle to be used at the end of the preparatory phase of training for a team sport.

Periodization158
on ATP-PCr as fuel. However, a large volume of these activities, requiring inadequate rest 
intervals to restore creatine phosphate, can deplete glycogen stores. Depending on the volume 
and intensity of training, the rate of recovery from Monday’s workout should be relatively 
quick, allowing the athlete to perform Tuesday’s training session without much fatigue.
In a traditional plan in which the athlete experiences high levels of physiological stress 
almost every day, the demanding session occurring on Monday in figure 7.26 could nearly 
deplete the glycogen stores and produce a high level of accumulated fatigue. Alternating 
training intensities may help the athlete better manage this fatigue. For example, in figure 7.26 Monday is a training day with a high amount of physiological stress, whereas Tues
-
day’s training session contains tactical and endurance training performed at a much lower intensity. The remainder of the microcycle alternates training stressors in order to modulate 
fatigue.
Another example of how one might alternate training stressors during a microcycle is 
presented in figure 7.27. This figure presents a hypothetical model for a sport in which speed and power are dominant. Training for speed and power occurs on the same day as power 
endurance training, which is marked by repeating power exercises 10 to 25 times per set. Two high-intensity training days, in which the phosphagen and glycolytic systems are taxed, precede a training day that focuses on tempo training and the development of endurance (compensation).
Figure 7.28 is a microcycle for a sport that is dominated by aerobic endurance capacity 
and therefore relies predominantly on oxidative metabolism. The plan simultaneously 
includes types of strength training that tax the same energy system on that particular day. 
Consequently, muscular endurance or high-volume (many repetitions) strength training 
is performed after the bout of endurance training. Higher-intensity activities (maximum strength or power endurance training) occur on the day that specifically taxes the phospha-gen and glycolytic systems. Event-specific intensity training is performed on Thursday. This 
type of targeted training is sometimes termed ergogenesis.
Figure 7.29 shows a microcycle structure for an endurance sport in which competition 
lasts between 4 and 6 min. In this example, high-intensity endurance that stresses both the phosphagen and glycolytic systems is important for a successful performance. Days that target 
the development of high-intensity endurance (i.e., produce significant glycolytic stress) are followed by low-intensity aerobic work that is used as a compensation activity. The goal is to develop the ability to produce high levels of lactic acid formation, and then buffer this 
E6954/Bompa/F07 .27/578521/mh-R1Microcycle day
Day M T W Th F Sa Su
Training
demandTacticalSpeed Speed
Power or
powerendurance
Theoretical
fatiguecurveTechnical
Maximum
strengthTempo Technical
Maximum
strengthPowerTempo
Tactical
Power
endurance
FIGURE 7.27 Alternating training stress for a sport that requires speed and power.

Planning the Training Cycles159
lactic acid and remove it quickly, inducing a faster recovery rate. In this example, days that 
follow high-intensity interval training are always followed by compensation training days 
designed to enhance recovery.
Macrocycle
The term macro is derived from the Greek word makros, meaning “large.” A training macro-
cycle is a phase that lasts 2 to 6 weeks or microcycles. The microcycle is used to plan for the 
immediate future, whereas the macrocycle projects the structure of a training program several E6954/Bompa/F07 .28/578522/mh-R1Aerobic
endurance
Muscular
enduranceAnaerobicendurance
Maximum
strength orpowerenduranceAerobicendurance
CompensationtrainingErgogenesis
Muscular
enduranceAerobicenduranceAerobicendurance
CompensationtrainingMicrocycle day
Day M T W Th F Sa Su
Training
demand
Theoretical
fatigue
curve
E6954/Bompa/F07 .29/578523/mh-R2Aerobic
enduranceof mediumdemandAnaerobic
endurance
AnaerobicthresholdtrainingCompensationtraining Anaerobicendurance CompensationtrainingMicrocycle day
Day M T W Th F Sa Su
Training
demand
Theoretical
fatiguecurveMuscular
endurance(short)Aerobic
enduranceof highdemand
Maximum
strength or powerenduranceFIGURE 7.28 Alternating training stress for a sport where endurance is dominant.
FIGURE 7.29 Alternating training stress for a sport that requires endurance for 4 to 6 min (aer-
obic power).

Periodization160
weeks in advance. Therefore, one could think of the macrocycle as the general structure of 
training and a projection for the future, whereas the microcycle is the exact plan used to 
accomplish the targeted goals.
Duration of a Macrocycle
Although the macrocycle plans used to prepare athletes for various sporting activities may 
have some similarities, it is likely that each sport will have requirements that must be 
addressed. These requirements will in most instances dictate the macrocycle structure. The 
loading structure and the duration of the macrocycles may be different depending on the 
sport and the phase of training. Therefore, the macrocycle must be crafted carefully to meet 
the individual athlete’s training objectives. Table 7.7 presents a macrocycle structure for the strength training plan of an American university women’s soccer team.
When establishing the length of the macrocycle, the coach must consider the phase of 
training. During the preparatory phase, the macrocycle is generally longer (4 to 7 weeks) than those in the competition phase to address the objectives of this portion of the annual training plan. In this context the macrocycle should be long enough to develop biomotor abilities, technical skills, or tactical elements. Therefore, one method for determining a 
macrocycle’s length is to consider the time necessary to perfect an ability or its components.
The macrocycle structure is also influenced by the competitive schedule. During the 
competitive phase, macrocycles are shorter in accordance with the competitive schedule, and contain two or three 1-week microcycles. Competitions should fall at the end of the 
unloading microcycle, which coincides with the end of the macrocycle; this will give the coach information about the athlete’s progress toward the target performance level. If the competition phase contains several competitions during the month (possibly as many as 
eight), as typically seen in team sports, the coach must decide which competitions are the 
most important. In this type of macrocycle structure, less emphasis is placed on the minor competitions because they are simply used to train through and to provide feedback on the 
TABLE 7.7 Macrocycle Structures for the Strength Training of an American University 
  Women’s Soccer Team
Month May June July August September October November
Phase Preparatory Precompetitive Competitive
Focus Anatomical 
adaptationMaximum 
strength 
(70%-85% 
1RM)Power and agility Maintenance Maintenance Peaking
Number of 
microcycles4 4 6 2 4 4 4
Emphasis 
on training objectives
Muscular 
enduranceHigh Moderate Low — Low Low —
Strength Moderate High Moderate Low Low Low Low
Power Low Moderate High Moderate Moderate Moderate Low
Speed — Low Moderate High Moderate Moderate Moderate

Planning the Training Cycles161
athlete’s preparation for the major contest. Therefore, the length of the macrocycle should 
allow for the last microcycle to lead into the major competition.
Structural Consideration for a Macrocycle
The development of the macrocycle structure is based on the objectives, the phase of train-ing, and the competition schedule. Therefore, the macrocycles of the annual training plan 
should vary according to the training objectives for each phase of the plan (i.e., preparatory, 
competitive, and transition phases).
Macrocycles for the Preparatory Phase
The main objective of the preparatory phase is to induce physiological, psychological, and technical adaptations that will serve as the foundation for competitive performances. A 
disturbing trend in some sports is the use of year-round competitive schedules. This sched-
ule will limit the athlete’s performance capacity because too little time is dedicated to the preparatory phase of training. In an appropriately constructed annual training plan, the preparatory phase is a crucial part of the plan and is the foundation for competitive success.
Developmental macrocycles are well suited for the preparatory phase of training. The 
training demand of developmental macrocycles usually follows the step-loading method. Figure 7.30 depicts two step-loading examples, the 4:1 and the 3:1 loading patterns. In the 4:1 loading pattern, the training load is increased across four microcycles, and unloading 
or regeneration is planned for the last microcycle. This loading pattern works well during 
the very early part of the preparatory phase when the athlete is attempting to develop a physiological base, correct technical habits, and learn new technical or tactical skills. A 3:1 loading pattern is also well suited for the preparatory phase and is probably the most 
common loading plan. This loading pattern fits well with the body’s natural biocycles (5). 
The 3:1 loading pattern contains three microcycles with increasing workloads, followed by a regeneration or unloading microcycle. If the level of fatigue is very high after the third 
microcycle, the load used in the fourth microcycle can be decreased even further, or a second 
regeneration microcycle can be used to create a 3:2 loading pattern. The higher the training stress during the macrocycle, the longer the time before the athlete shows improvement in 
E6954/Bompa/F07 .30/578525/mh-R1100%
90%
80%70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%Loading
pattern
a  4:1 Macrocycle b  3:1 Macrocycle1 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 4 Microcycle
FIGURE 7.30 Two examples of developmental macrocycles: (a) 4:1 model and (b) 3:1 model.

Periodization162
performance or a supercompensation effect (4). Halson and colleagues reported that after 2 
weeks of very high loading demands, 2 weeks of unloading are needed to return performance 
capacity to preloading levels.
Macrocycles for the Competitive Phase
The dynamics of the competitive macrocycles are dictated by the competition calendar. 
Because of this relationship, there are numerous sport-specific macrocycle structures.
A steady loading pattern should be used throughout the competitive season with team 
sports in which there are one or two competitions per week. Within this structure, microcycles will vary in intensity and volume, especially microcycles that contain competitions. In these 
microcycles, the contests will be interspersed with regeneration days and training days that 
fluctuate between various levels of demand (low to high). To address the unique loading 
demands of team sports, coaches should consider using various microcycle loading patterns.
The macrocycle loading pattern can be 4:1, 3:1, 2:1, 1:1, 2:2, or any other combination. 
Longer macrocycles (4:1, 3:1) are usually employed during general preparation. During specific preparation, 3:1 and 2:1 are the typical macrocycles structures, where the 2:1 is used mainly for 
power sports in the flat loading format. During the competitive phase, the unloading microcycles (which allow fatigue to dissipate and performance to elevate) are employed more frequently. Thus the most common macrocycle structures are 2:1, 1:1, and 2:2. Two consecutive unloading microcycles (to taper, as explained in the next section) can be planned to peak for an important 
competition or for when a team faces strong opponents in two consecutive weekends.
Another important consideration regarding the structure of the macrocycles is the number 
of peaks contained in the phase. For example, in the macrocycle presented in figure 7.31, the qualification competition occurs on July 9 and the main competition on August 14. No 
E6954/Bompa/F07 .31/578526/mh-R1MicrocycleVery high
High
Medium
Low
Very low
RecoveryDatesJuly August
Calendar of events9 16 23 30 7 14Competition Competition
Major
competition
Type of
training or competition
Regeneration
(removal of
fatigue)Training:- Maintenance- Model training
(all training factors)
Unloading for
supercompensation
Competition
Loading
pattern
1 2 3 4 5 6
FIGURE 7.31 Macrocycle structure for two important competitions.

Planning the Training Cycles163
other competitions are planned in the microcycles between these two important dates. The 
results of the qualification contest are used as markers of progress toward the major contest 
and serve as guidelines for modifying before the major contest. If additional contests are 
planned between these two contests, the focus will be on performing well instead of train-ing. Additionally, if the number of contests is increased during this macrocycle the athlete would experience a significant increase in fatigue, which might impede performance in the 
major contests at the end of the cycle.
In figure 7.31 the two competitions are separated by several microcycles. The first micro-
cycle after the qualifying competition is a regeneration microcycle designed to dissipate fatigue and allow the athlete to recover from the stress of the first competition. The next three 
microcycles are used to fine-tune technical skills, tactical strategies, and physical capacity. 
These microcycles are designed to build the athlete’s confidence in his abilities and develop 
the motivational levels necessary to produce a maximal performance at the major event on August 14. The 8 to 14 days prior to the August 14 competition are used for peaking (refer 
to figure 9.3 in chapter 9). During this time the training load is decreased to elevate the level 
of readiness and, as a result to decrease fatigue. If the peaking phase is structured correctly, performance will be significantly elevated.
Macrocycles for Unloading and Tapering for Competitions
The goal of unloading and tapering macrocycles is to remove fatigue to stimulate a supercom -
pensation of performance. Optimal taper or unloading durations appear to be between 8 and 14 days and require a decrease in training load of about 40% to 60% (8). Four strategies for 
decreasing the load are available: linear, slow decay, fast decay, or step taper (12). The type 
and duration of taper are largely determined by the training load encountered in the weeks before the taper period. For example, if the training load is high, the taper or unloading period may require a longer duration and a greater reduction in training load. The basic tapering 
strategies appear to be effective in many sports including weightlifting, track and field, and 
swimming. Additional information on tapering strategies can be found in chapter 9.
Macrocycles for the Transition Phase
The transition phase is an important part of the annual training plan. A basic macrocycle structure for a transition phase is presented in figure 7.32. More details about the structure 
of the transition phase are provided in chapter 8.
E6954/Bompa/F07 .32/578527/mh-R1Microcycle 4 Microcycle 3 Microcycle 2 Microcycle 1Training demand
90-100%
80-90%
70-80%50-70%
<50%
0Very high
High
Medium
Low
Very low
Recovery
FIGURE 7.32 Loading pattern for a transition macrocycle.

Periodization164
Summary of Major Concepts
The microcycle is the most important and functional part of the annual training plan. The 
macrocycle is useful for dividing the annual training plan into smaller segments. Ultimately, the macrocycle directs the focus of the microcycle to fulfill the goals of the annual training plan.
A microcycle must provide variation in the training load (volume and intensity) to facilitate 
recovery. The technique used to create this variation in training load is based on the scientific principles related to the ability of the body to recover from training stress. The application of these microcycle models is based on many physiological factors that relate to the body’s ability to tolerate, recover from, and adapt to training stress. If the training loads are varied appropriately, the athlete will be able to recover from and tolerate the training demand, which ultimately improves performance. Nevertheless, the microcycle program must not be interpreted rigidly; rather, adjustments can be made upon subjective feedback and objective data based on the athlete’s individual response to the training loads. The acceptable levels of residual fatigue vary in accordance with the objectives of the training session and the phase of the annual plan.
It is important to vary the loading patterns between the microcycles. This allows the training 
load to be varied across the macrocycle so the athlete can deal with accumulated fatigue and avoid overtraining. The coach must appropriately sequence developmental, competition, recovery–regeneration, and peaking–unloading microcycles.
The microcycle and macrocycle are structured to direct training so that the athlete will 
achieve a physiological and psychological peak at the appropriate time. The training plan should be based on the concepts of bioenergetic specificity of training, muscle physiology, hormonal physiology, and the body’s response to training stress. To better guide the train-ing program, the coach should consider quantifying the training stress with the numerical intensity and volume system outlined in this chapter.

1658Periodization  
of the Annual Plan
Efficiency is one of the most desired qualities of any professional. To be efficient,
coaches must be well organized and use periodization as a tool for planning an athlete’s 
training. Even coaches who are extremely knowledgeable can compromise their effectiveness if they lack good planning skills. For this reason, this book focuses on periodization, which can be used by sports professionals to craft a wide variety of plans.
A well-organized coach has at his disposal several types of plans, including short-term 
plans (e.g., daily session plans), microcycles and macrocycles, and annual plans. At the beginning of a new year of training, the coach should create a blueprint, or annual plan. Although this plan has to be as detailed as possible, equally important for the coach is to also apply it in a very flexible manner. This actually means that based on the results in testing, training progress and eventual competitions, the original plan might be slightly or profoundly altered. The coach should reflect on the progress or stagnation of the evolution of performance of the athlete, and as a result, make changes in the plan. Be prepared to be flexible; planning and programming should not be rigid.
Annual Training Plan and Its Characteristics
The annual plan and its training phases are essential tools used to maximize an athlete’s physiological adaptation, which is a prerequisite for improved performance. Without the progression of training demand from phase to phase, high performance cannot be achieved. During the last month of training (the transition phase), the plan will vary from the rest of the training year to reduce physiological and psychological stress, remove fatigue, induce regeneration, and prepare the athlete for the next year of training.
The goal of training is to induce physiological adaptations and maximize performance 
at specific points in time, usually during the main competitions of the year. To accomplish this goal, the athlete’s physiological potential must increase at the appropriate time, thereby ensuring a greater potential for a high level of performance. The athlete’s level of readiness for competitions requires a complex interaction of skills, biomotor abilities, psychologi-cal traits, well-planned nutrition, and the management of fatigue. The best approach for accomplishing these goals is to use periodized training that is logically constructed and appropriately sequenced.
The annual plan is the foundation for stimulating physiological and psychological adap-
tations while managing fatigue. In the context of this plan, the greatest challenge is peaking the athlete at the appropriate times throughout the training year. When working with inex-perienced athletes, the coach will direct the training plan with little input from the athletes. Conversely, with elite athletes the coach should encourage input from the athletes when establishing the annual training plan’s objectives and structure. By involving elite athletes in the planning process, the coach can create a positive environment in which the athlete can use the planning process as a motivational tool.
The annual training plan should contain at least three training phases: preparatory, com-
petitive, and transition. The number of times these three phases are performed will depend 

Periodization166
on the type of plan used (e.g., monocycle, bi-cycle, tri-cycle, multipeak). The objectives 
and characteristics of these phases remain consistent regardless of how many times they 
are repeated throughout the annual training plan. To optimize the athlete’s development 
throughout the annual training plan and elevate training potential and readiness for com-petitions, each training phase must be correctly sequenced, completely integrated, and properly structured.
Preparatory Phase
The preparatory phase is probably the most important phase of the annual training plan. 
This phase establishes the physical, technical, and psychological base from which the com-
petitive phase is developed. The adaptations developed as a result of the increased volume of training in this phase will allow the athlete to better tolerate the increase in training intensity 
that occurs in the competitive phase. However, if the preparatory phase is inadequate, the 
athlete’s ability to tolerate training and maximize performance during the competitive phase will be compromised. The preparatory phase has the following objectives:
• To acquire and improve general physical training capacity
• To improve the biomotor abilities required by the sport
• To cultivate psychological traits
• To develop, improve, or perfect technique
• To familiarize athletes with the basic strategic maneuvers mastered in the following 
phase
• To teach athletes the theory and methodology of training specific to the sport
• To develop an individualized and sport-specific nutrition plan
The preparatory phase lasts 3 to 6 months depending on the climate, sport, and type 
of annual plan used (e.g., monocycle, bi-cycle, tri-cycle, multipeak). For individual sports, especially the aerobic endurance sports (e.g., marathon, triathlon, Nordic skiing), the pre-
paratory phase is approximately twice as long as the competitive phase; for team sports the preparatory phase may be somewhat shorter, but not less than 2 to 3 months, especially for younger athletes. For international-class players, however, this phase can only be 3 to 5 
weeks long, for organizational reasons, such as their competition schedule.  The preparatory 
phase is specific to each sport and distinctive for each subphase (table 8.1). For any sport, the 
preparatory phase should be divided into two subphases: general and specific preparation. 
For international-class athletes that use a multipeak plan (e.g., team or racquet sports), the 
general subphase is very short.
General Preparation Subphase
The general preparation subphase is used to elevate the athlete’s working capacity, increase general physical preparation, improve technical elements, and enhance basic tactical abilities. The primary emphasis of this subphase is to establish a high level of physical conditioning, 
which will improve the athlete’s physiological and psychological capacity to tolerate the 
demands of both training and competition. Regardless of the sport, a sound physical base is an essential component for the athlete. Typically, the base is established through the use of general and sport-specific exercises, rather than a reliance on sport-specific skill develop-
ment. For instance, a gymnastics coach may dedicate the first two or three microcycles to the 
development of general and specific strength needed to master a certain technical element in the following cycles. This concept is valid for other sports in which certain physical attributes 
can limit technical progress. Many times the inability to develop technical skill is the result 
of an inadequately developed physical base. Therefore, it may be warranted to determine whether the athlete possesses adequate physical support for the technical performance of an element or skill.

Periodization of the Annual Plan167
Throughout this subphase the plan includes a high training volume, consisting of exer-
cises that require both general and specific effort. The goal is to improve working capacity 
and psychological drive (determination, perseverance, and willpower) necessary for the 
sport. For example, the development of aerobic endurance is the main objective for sports in which endurance is the dominant ability or a major contributor to performance (e.g., running, swimming, rowing, Nordic skiing, cycling). For these sports 70% to 80% of the 
total training time may be devoted to the development of aerobic endurance, which can be 
seen in the miles or kilometers covered in training. In sports for which strength, power, and speed are important attributes, this subphase will focus on the development of anatomical 
adaptations and maximum strength. Increasing the weight lifted or the volume load of 
training is an objective way to increase working capacity and induce adaptations necessary for the sporting activity.
The process is somewhat different for team sport athletes: While developing the physical 
base, these athletes must also spend substantial time developing technical and tactical skills. Although technical and tactical improvements are important aspects of the training process, the plan must not neglect the development of high-intensity exercise, endurance, strength, 
and speed because these components of the physical base lay the groundwork for future 
performance accomplishments.
In most sports, the type of training used in the preparatory phase, especially the general 
subphase, plays a major role in determining the athlete’s performance capacity during the 
competitive phase. Insufficient emphasis on training volume during this subphase may 
account for poor performances, lack of consistency, and a decrease in performance capacity during the later portion of the competitive phase. Consequently, 25% to 33% of the training 
for the preparatory phase should be allocated to this subphase, with the rest of the prepa-
ration phase consisting of sport-specific preparatory activities. The duration of the general TABLE 8.1 Training Objectives for Each Subphase of the Preparatory Phase
SportDominant train-
ing factorSubphase
General preparation Specific preparation
Gymnastics Physical
TechnicalGeneral and maximum 
strength
Technical elementsSpecific strength and powerElements, half and skeleton of 
full routine
Rowing Physical Aerobic enduranceAnatomical adaptationMaximum strengthMuscular enduranceAnaerobic enduranceAerobic enduranceMuscular endurance
Swimming 
(100 m)Physical Aerobic enduranceAnatomical adaptationMaximum strengthAnaerobic enduranceAerobic enduranceMaximum strength
Maximum power
Swimming 
(800 m)Physical Aerobic endurance
Anatomical adaptationMaximum strengthAerobic enduranceAnaerobic enduranceMuscular endurance
Team sports Technical
Tactical
PhysicalTechnical elements
Individual and simple team 
tactics
High-intensity exercise  
endurance
General and maximum 
strengthApply technical elements in 
game situations
Team tactics
Anaerobic endurancePower development

Periodization168
preparation phase will be longer for novice athletes and 
should be progressively reduced for advanced athletes. A 
characteristic of the general preparation phase for team 
sports is the priority given to physical training in the orga-nization of the microcycles. During this phase, coaches often plan physical training in the morning, when players 
are recovered from the training of the previous day, and 
leave the afternoon for technical and tactical training.
Increasing training volume during the general prepara-
tion subphase is the primary emphasis; although training intensity is important, it is a secondary factor in the pre-
paratory phase. Intensive training can be undertaken but 
should not exceed 40% of the total amount of training in this subphase, particularly for beginners and juniors. 
It is important to remember the objective of increasing 
working capacity during this subphase. With the increases in training, volume fatigue will increase markedly, and thus, preparedness will decrease greatly, reducing perfor-mance capacity. Therefore, it is inadvisable to compete 
during this subphase because the athlete will have a high 
level of fatigue, which will reduce performance capacity and increase the risk for injury (12). When the athlete is 
highly fatigued as a result of training, technical skills will 
be relatively unstable and the athlete’s ability to perform specific tactical maneuvers will decrease. Competition during this subphase also can negatively affect the athlete’s 
psychological status, and it decreases the amount of time 
that can be dedicated to developing the physiological base needed to expand the athlete’s capabilities.
Specific Preparation Subphase
The specific preparation subphase, or the second part of the preparatory phase, represents a transition from an emphasis on physical development to an emphasis on competition-related 
activities. Like the general preparation subphase, the specific preparation subphase has the 
objective of increasing the athlete’s working capacity. However, in this subphase training emphasizes sport-specific activities. Although the volume of work is high during this sub-phase, the primary emphasis (70% to 80% of total work) is on specific exercises related to 
the skills or technical elements of the sport. Toward the end of this phase the volume begins 
to progressively decrease, allowing for a gradual increase in the training intensity.
For sports in which intensity is important (e.g., sprinting, jumping, and team sports), the 
training volume may be lowered by as much as 40% in the later portions of this subphase. A different approach would be taken for sports that rely on technical mastery and coordinated movements (e.g., figure skating, diving, gymnastics). In these sports it is essential that the athlete continue to perfect and develop the technical proficiency necessary for success during the competitive phase. Similarly, in team sports, racket sports, and martial arts, the specific 
preparation subphase should focus on the development and improvement of sport-specific 
technical and tactical elements. This is accomplished with specific exercises that target the prime movers, movement patterns, and technical skills required by the sport. These exer-
cises must be performed in such a way as to create a link between the physical attributes 
developed in the general preparation subphase and the technical and tactical skills necessary for successful competition. Although the major emphasis is on technical and tactical skill development, a secondary emphasis should be on maintaining general physical develop-
ment. This secondary focus should contain only a few exercises for general development (a 
maximum of 20%) that contribute to the athlete’s multilateral development.
Establishing a high level of physical conditioning is  
important before beginning specific training tasks.

Periodization of the Annual Plan169
As the athlete’s training shifts toward specialized training, there should be progressive 
improvement in performance-based testing and athletic performance. In the later stages of 
this subphase, competitions can be used as evaluative tools that provide feedback about the 
athlete’s preparation for competition, specifically her technical and tactical development. Information garnered from these competitions can be used to modify training plans to address specific deficiencies.
Competitive Phase
Among the main tasks of the competitive phase is the perfection of all training factors, which 
enables the athlete to compete successfully in the main competitions or championships 
targeted by the annual training plan. Several general objectives are addressed during the 
competitive phase, regardless of the sport:
• Continued improvement or maintenance of sport-specific biomotor abilities
• Enhancing psychological traits
• Perfecting and consolidating technique
• Elevating performance to the highest level
• Dissipating fatigue and elevating readiness
• Perfecting technical and tactical maneuvers
• Gaining competitive experience
• Maintaining sport-specific fitness
• Designing an individualized nutrition plan
As the athlete progresses to the competitive phase, it is important that the level of physical 
development established during the preparatory phase be maintained. Maintenance of the 
physical attributes developed in previous phases is important because they support the other training factors that are developed during the competitive phase. This can be accomplished by dedicating 90% of the total physical preparation activities to sport-specific activities, such as skill-based conditioning exercises and tactical drills in racquet and team sports. The 
remaining 10% of the planned physical preparation activities can come from nonspecific 
or indirect activities, such as active rest or game-based activities that are not directly related 
to the sport being trained.
The objectives established for the competitive phase are met by the use of sport-specific 
training activities that can include technical and tactical exercises. Included in this process 
may be the use of simulated, exhibition, and actual competitive events. It is essential that the training activities are sport specific to stimulate performance improvement, stabilization, and consistency. As the athlete progresses through the competitive phase, training becomes more 
intensive while training volume is decreased. For sports dominated by speed, power, and 
maximum strength (e.g., sprinting, jumping, throwing, weightlifting), training intensity can increase dramatically while the volume of training is progressively decreased. In endurance sports (e.g., distance running, swimming, cross-country skiing, canoeing, rowing), training volume can be maintained or only slightly lower than that seen in the preparatory phase. An exception to this practice occurs during the competitive microcycle, when intensity decreases 
according to the number of races and the level of competition.
As the athlete progresses through the competitive phase, the alterations to the training 
plan should elevate readiness to achieve high performance. The structure of the training 
plan will play a large role in stimulating these effects; if the plan is structured correctly, the athlete will optimize performance at the appropriate time. If performance begins to decline or becomes stagnant, it is likely that the amount of work was decreased too much, reducing physical capacity, or that the work was maintained at too high a level and fatigue is masking the potential performance gains. The modulation between work and performance appears 

Periodization170
to be an art based on science, and the integration of athlete monitoring and coaching expe-
rience will guide the decisions made during this phase of training.
The length of the competitive phase depends on the sport and the type of annual training 
plan. Long competitive phases (8 to 10 months) are typically seen in team sports as a result of the set league schedules and international championships. Conversely, athletes in individ-ual sports have more freedom in determining their competitive schedule, allowing for more 
control over the length of the competitive phase and the structure of training leading into 
the major competition of the year. Regardless of the sport, one of the most important factors in determining the duration and structure of the competitive phase is the phase’s start date. 
When structuring the competitive phase and its start date consider the following parameters:
• The number of competitions required to reach the highest performance (on average 
it takes between 7 and 10 competitions to achieve the highest performance results
• The amount of time or interval between competitions
• The duration of eventual qualifying meets
• The time required for special preparation before the main competition of the year
• The time needed for recovery and regeneration
When structuring the competitive phase of the annual training plan, it may be warranted 
to divide the phase into two subphases: the precompetitive subphase and the main com-
petitive subphase.
Precompetitive Subphase
The precompetitive phase generally contains unofficial competitions or, in the case of team 
sports, exhibition games. Although this subphase is an integral part of the competitive phase, 
the objective is not to achieve the highest level of competition. This subphase should serve 
Annual training plans should be structured to account for the possibility of reaching  
a major championship competition.
Steve Nowland/NCAA Photos via Getty Images

Periodization of the Annual Plan171
as a training tool in which the athlete participates in exhibitions or unofficial competitions 
as a means of preparing for later events. One of the main reasons for the use of exhibition 
or unofficial contests is to allow for objective feedback about the athlete’s training level and 
readiness for future contests. These competitions will allow for the evaluation of all tech-nical, tactical, and physical skills under competitive conditions. Exhibitions and unofficial competitions should not significantly alter the training program, especially for elite athletes, 
because these contests provide a testing ground for the main competitive subphase, when 
the official contests begin.
Main Competitive Subphase
The main competitive subphase is dedicated strictly to maximizing an athlete’s capacity and 
readiness, thus allowing for superior performances at the main contests. The number of train-ing sessions contained in this subphase should reflect whether the athlete is participating in a loading or regeneration (unloading) microcycle. A loading microcycle may have 10 to 14 sessions per week, whereas an unloading microcycle will contain many fewer sessions, thus facilitating a decrease in fatigue and an elevation in preparedness prior to the competition. 
The training content of this subphase should be centered on sport-specific methods and the 
maintenance of specific physical development.
Although the training volume may still be high for endurance sports, the coach can 
reduce the training volume to 50% to 75% of the level of the preparatory phase for sports that require technical mastery, speed, strength, or power. While volume is decreasing, the intensity of training gradually increases, with the highest levels occurring 2 or 3 weeks prior to the main competition.
The stress curve will be elevated during the competitive phase as a result of the increased 
intensity of training and the stress of participation in competitions. The stress curve should have an undulating shape, reflecting the fluctuations between stressful activities (e.g., 
competitions, intense training sessions, social factors) and short periods of regeneration. 
The harder a competition or training session, the higher the stress curve and the longer the compensation phase needed to reduce the amount of accumulated stress or fatigue.
If possible, the coach should arrange competitions progressively in order of importance, 
concluding with the main competitions. Another organizational strategy is to introduce main competitions interspersed with lesser competitions that allow the athlete to continue to train without visible changes in the training plan (e.g., lowering volume or intensity) and without longer unloading periods to trigger peak performance.
By including six to eight microcycles prior to the main competition, the coach can focus 
the training program and daily cycle on the specific requirements of the competition. This 
will maximize the athlete’s physical, technical, tactical, and psychological preparations for 
the main competition. Preparing the athlete for the specific competitive environment and demands will prevent any surprises and enhance the athlete’s performance. In this portion of the competitive phase, 8 to 14 days of unloading will be used to peak the athlete (see chapter 9).
Unloading or Tapering Subphase The unloading or tapering subphase offers the best 
way to elevate the athlete’s readiness and stimulate a supercompensation of performance that will increase the athlete’s performance potential during the competition. Peaking is 
accomplished via manipulating both volume and intensity to reduce the accumulated 
fatigue stimulated from previous training and competition; this will allow the athlete to 
rest and regenerate before the major competition.
The unloading or tapering subphase, especially for individual sports, should last 8 to 14 
days and can include various methods of reducing volume and training intensity (see chapter 
9). The strategy for unloading during this subphase depends largely on the type of training undertaken and the individual sport. Classically, for endurance sports, it is advisable to reduce intensity and maintain volume because endurance athletes are better adapted to tolerate high-volume training than high-intensity training (figure 8.1). During the first microcycle 

Periodization172
of unloading, the process will involve reducing the number of daily training sessions and 
modulating training intensity to begin the recovery process. The coach should eliminate all 
extraneous activities that can contribute to the athlete’s fatigue and encourage the athlete to use 
free time to rest and recover for the impending competition. In this portion of the unloading period, it may be warranted to reduce the volume and frequency (two sessions per week) of strength training. Further reductions in the volume and intensity of training may be planned 
during the second microcycle of the unloading period. This can be accomplished by limiting 
strength training to one or two sessions, or by removing strength training completely depend
-
ing on the sport. The volume and intensity of other training factors also should be reduced.
The same unloading approach is used for sports dominated by speed, power, or technical 
proficiency. In the first microcycle, the training volume is reduced by 40% to 50%, depending 
on the level of training undertaken prior to the taper. This period should include several 
short but high-intensity sessions to maintain the adaptations induced by previous training phases (figure 8.2). A two-peak microcycle structure may be used during the first microcycle of this subphase, but long rest intervals need to be included between repetitions to help FIGURE 8.1 Unloading phase for an endurance sport.
Reprinted, by permission, from T .O. Bompa and C. Buzzichelli, 2015, Periodization training for sports, 3rd ed. (Champaign, IL: 
Human Kinetics), 327.
FIGURE 8.2 Unloading phase for a speed- or power-dominated sport.
Reprinted, by permission, from T .O. Bompa and C. Buzzichelli, 2015, Periodization training for sports, 3rd ed. (Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics), 327.E6954/Bompa/F08.01/596126/mh-R1Percentage
Training
parametersV V V V V V I I I I I I V V V V I I I I
Day100
9080706050403020
10
Mon. Tues. Wed.
The microcycle preceding the competition Main competition’s microcycleThurs. Fri. Sat. Sun. Mon. Tues. Wed. Thurs. Fri. Sat. Sun.Off
Off
Competition
Competition
E6954/Bompa/F08.02/596127/mh-R1Percentage
Training
parametersIntensity
Above race
pace
Below race
pace
Recovery
pace
_Race
pace
V V V V V V I I I I I I V V V V V I I I I I
Day100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
Mon. Tues. Wed.
The microcycle preceding the competition Main competition’s microcycleThurs. Fri. Sat. Sun. Mon. Tues. Wed. Thurs. Fri. Sat. Sun.Off
Competition
Competition

Periodization of the Annual Plan173
dissipate fatigue and stress. During the high-intensity training session, all exercises should 
be dynamic and of short duration and should contain medium- to high-intensity loading. 
The other sessions in the microcycle should alternate submaximal intensities between low 
and very low intensities. With these types of sports, the volume and frequency of strength training should be reduced while maintaining moderate to high intensities with slightly longer rest intervals. Complete removal of strength training may not be warranted because 
power and speed are highly dependent on strength levels.
During the second microcycle of this subphase, in which the main competition occurs, 
the coach continues to reduce training volume and the intensity of training. Only one peak occurs during the early portion of this microcycle. Across this microcycle the objective is 
to maximally reduce fatigue and stress while increasing preparedness and maintaining the 
physiological adaptations that have been established.
A slightly different approach may be used when working with team sports where both 
training volume and intensity are equally important. During the first microcycle of the unloading phase, the coach should reduce the work volume to produce the unloading 
effect (figure 8.3). This can be accomplished by progressively reducing intensity across the microcycle while having two intense training sessions of 50% to 60% of maximum. During the second microcycle of this subphase, the coach should continue to reduce the volume and intensity of training, reducing volume to a greater extent than intensity. This subphase 
can include a two-peak microcycle, where the first peak is performed at a higher intensity 
than the second (15% to 20% less than the first peak). Two days prior to the competition, the athlete should undergo short training sessions of low to very low intensities. For more 
details on tapering or peaking athletes for competition, refer to chapter 9.
Special Preparation Period The special preparation period can be organized separately 
or in concert with the unloading phase and contains activities designed to enhance performance in the most important competition of the year. The special preparation 
period can last between 3 and 7 days, depending on the characteristics of the competition. During this phase certain training aspects, especially tactical elements, are altered according to the latest information on opponents or the competitive schedule. The vast majority 
of the training in this phase follows the model concept, with the purpose of enhancing 
preparation for the upcoming competition. One aspect that has important implications for the final result is the special psychological preparations that target relaxation, confidence 
building, and motivation. However, these techniques should be used cautiously because 
overemphasis on psychological elements can impair performance. Each athlete is different and will require specific preparation activities to meet his individual needs.
FIGURE 8.3 Unloading phase for a team sport.
Reprinted, by permission, from T .O. Bompa and C. Buzzichelli, 2015, Periodization training for sports, 3rd ed. (Champaign, IL: 
Human Kinetics), 329.E6954/Bompa/F08.03/596128/mh-R1100
90
80
70605040
30
20
10Percentage
Training
parametersV V V V V I I I I I V V V V V I I I I I
Day Mon. Tues. Wed.
The microcycle preceding the competition Main competition’s microcycleThurs. Fri. Sat. Sun. Mon. Tues. Wed. Thurs. Fri. Sat. Sun.OffOff
Competition
Competition

Periodization174
Transition Phase
After long periods of training, hard work, and stressful competitions in which both phys-
iological and psychological fatigue can accumulate, a transition period should be used to 
link annual training plans or preparation for another major competition, as in the case of 
the bi-cycle, tri-cycle, and multicycle annual training plan. The transition phase serves an important role in preparing the athlete for the next training cycle. The athlete should start the new preparatory phase only when fully recovered from the previous competitive season. 
If the athlete initiates a new preparatory phase without full recovery, it is likely that perfor-
mances will be impaired in future competitive cycles and the risk of injury will increase.
The transition phase, often inappropriately called the off-season, links two annual train-
ing plans. This phase facilitates psychological rest, relaxation, and biological regeneration while maintaining an acceptable level of general physical preparation (40% to 50% of the competitive phase). Training should be low key: All loading factors should be reduced; the main training components should be centered on general training, with minimal, if any, 
technical or tactical development. The transition phase generally should last 2 to 4 weeks but 
could be extended to 6 weeks, especially for younger athletes. Under normal circumstances the transition phase should not last longer than 6 weeks.
There are two common approaches to the transition phase. The first (incorrect) approach 
encourages complete rest with no physical activity; in this case, the term off-season fits per-
fectly. This abrupt interruption of training and the complete inactivity can lead to significant detraining even if only undertaken for a short period of time (<4 weeks). This detraining effect can cause a substantial loss in the physiological adaptations established in the previ-
ous months of training.
Some authors have suggested that an abrupt cessation of training by highly trained ath-
letes creates a phenomenon known as detraining syndrome, relaxation syndrome (20, 21), exercise abstinence, or exercise dependency syndrome (18). This type of detraining appears 
to occur in athletes who either intentionally cease training or are forced to stop training in response to an injury. Detraining syndrome can be characterized by many symptoms including insomnia, anxiety, depression, alterations to cardiovascular function, and a loss 
of appetite (see the sidebar, Potential Symptoms of Detraining Syndrome, for additional 
symptoms). These symptoms usually are not pathological and can be reversed if training is resumed within a short time. If the cessation of training is prolonged, these symptoms 
can become more pronounced, indicating that the athlete’s body is unable to adapt to this 
sudden inactivity. The time frame in which these symptoms manifest themselves is highly specific to the individual athlete; generally, it can occur within 2 to 3 weeks of inactivity and varies in severity.
Simply decreasing the level of training can also stimulate a detraining effect that will 
decrease physiological (table 8.2) and performance capacity. The magnitude of the detrain-ing effects will be related to the duration of the detraining period. Short-term detraining, 
which occurs in less than 4 weeks, can result in some significant decreases in endurance and 
strength performance (15).
In endurance athletes, short-term detraining has been reported to result in a 4% to 25% 
decrease in time to exhaustion and a substantial reduction in endurance performance (20). It has been postulated that the reductions in endurance performance are largely dictated by the decline in cardiorespiratory fitness noted in response to short-term detraining (14). Maximal aerobic capacity can be reduced by 4% in as little as 4 days of detraining (28); decreased 
by 7% within 3 weeks of the cessation of training (4); and reduced by 14% in as little as 4 
weeks of detraining (20). If the detraining period is extended to 8 weeks, aerobic capacity can continue to decrease up to 20% of pre-detraining values (21). These reductions in aerobic 
capacity are most likely related to specific alterations to the cardiorespiratory system, including 
decreases in blood volume, stroke volume, and maximal cardiac output (table 8.2). These detraining-induced physiological alterations appear to occur progressively and proportionally to the training status of the athlete; this suggests that highly trained endurance athletes will 
experience a greater magnitude of decline in both physiological and performance capacity.

175TABLE 8.2 Short-Term and Long-Term Detraining Effects
Physiological factors altered 
by detraining Detraining characteristicsShort-term (<4 weeks)Long-term (>4 weeks)
Cardiorespiratory Maximal oxygen uptake ↓ ↓
Blood volume ↑ ↑
Submaximal heart rate ↑ ↑
Recovery heart rate ↑ ↑
Stroke volume during exercise ↓ ↓
Maximal cardiac output ↓ ↓
Ventricular mass and dimension ↓ ↓
Mean blood pressure ↑ ↑
Maximal ventilatory volume ↓ ↓
Submaximal ventilatory volume ↑ ↑
Oxygen pulse ↓ ↓
Ventilatory equivalent ↑ ↑
Endurance performance ↓ ↓
Skeletal muscle Capillary density ↓ ↓
Arterial-venous oxygen difference — ↓
Fiber type distribution — Altered
Fiber cross-sectional area ↓ ↓
Type II:I area ratio — ↓
Muscle mass — ↓
EMG activity ↓ ↓
Strength-power performance ↓ ↓
Oxidative enzyme capacity ↓ ↓
Glycogen synthase activity ↓ —
Mitochondrial ATP production ↓ —
Metabolic characteristics Maximal respiratory exchange ratio ↑ ↑
Submaximal respiratory exchange ratio ↑ ↑
Insulin-mediated glucose uptake ↓ ↓
Muscle GLUT4 protein content ↓ ↓
Muscle lipoprotein lipase activity ↓ ↓
Postprandial lipemia ↑ —
High-density lipoprotein cholesterol ↓ ↓
Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ↓ ↓
Submaximal blood lactate ↑ ↑
Lactate threshold ↓ ↓
Bicarbonate level ↓ ↓
Muscle glycogen level ↓ ↓
Adrenaline-stimulated lipolysis ↓ ↓
↓ = decrease, ↑ = increase, — = no data available; EMG = electromyographic; ATP = adenosine triphosphate; GLUT4 = glucose 
transporter-4.
Adapted from Mujika and Padilla 2000 (20, 21).

Periodization176
Short-term and long-term detraining can also produce marked alterations in strength 
and power performance. For example, 4 weeks of detraining in which strength training is 
completely removed from the training plan results in a 6% to 10% reduction in maximum 
muscular strength and a 14% to 17% decrease in maximum power generation capacity (15). These reductions in strength-power performance may be related to preferential atrophy of type II muscle fibers (13, 24) and a reduction in neural drive (1, 10). The reduction in the 
ability to express muscular strength and power characteristics depends on the magnitude of 
the reduction of muscle cross-sectional area and electromyographic activity.
The extent of strength and power performance and physiological detraining-induced 
maladaptation depends on several factors including the duration of detraining and the training status of the athlete. Although the largest decrease in the expression of muscular strength occurs during the first 4 weeks (10% decrease), extending the detraining period to 8 weeks will result in a continued performance reduction (1 1% to 12% decrease) (10, 20, 
21). These reductions in performance appear to occur at a greater rate and magnitude in 
highly trained individuals compared with recreational athletes and untrained people; the latter appear able to maintain both strength and power performance in response to 2 to 3 
weeks of detraining (13, 16, 22).
If training completely stops during the transition phase, it is likely, depending on the length 
of the phase, that the athlete will lose a substantial amount of the physiological adaptations 
gained from the previous training period. When this occurs, the athlete will spend a large 
portion of the next preparatory phase attempting to reestablish the physiological adaptations 
that were gained in the previous training period, which limits the athlete’s ability to continue to improve. Conversely, if the athlete uses an active rest period during the transition phase, 
she will retain a larger portion of her physiological adaptations and continue to develop 
both physiological and performance capacities during the next general preparation phase.
In the second approach to the transition phase, active rest is used to minimize the loss of 
physiological function that occurs when passive methods are used. Active rest refers to par-
ticipating in a compatible sport or using a period of low-volume and low-intensity training 
within the athlete’s sport (25). By using this approach, the athlete will be able to minimize the loss of physiological adaptation and maintain some level of general fitness.
The transition phase begins immediately after the completion of the main competition 
and can last between 2 and 4 weeks. During the first week after the competition, active or Potential Symptoms of Detraining Syndrome
 •Increased occurrence of dizziness and fainting
 •Nonsystematic precordial disturbances
 •Increased sensation or occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias
 •Occurrence of extrasystolia and palpitations
 •Increased incidence of headaches
 •Loss of appetite
 •Increased incidence of insomnia
 •Occurrence of anxiety and depression
 •Profuse sweating
 •Gastric disturbances
 Adapted from Mujika and Padilla 2000 (21).

Periodization of the Annual Plan177
passive rest can be used. Passive rest may be necessary if the athlete has injuries. If active 
rest is used during this microcycle, the volume and intensity of training are substantially 
reduced and may target movement patterns or activities that are not used in training. During 
the second to fourth microcycle of the transition phase (in a 4-week transition), the volume and intensity of training can remain low or increase slightly. The activity used for active rest must match the bioenergetic characteristics of the sport being trained for. For example, a 
cyclist may use cross-country skiing or running as a transition activity, whereas a volleyball 
player may use basketball. The transition phase is a period during which the athlete can recover physically and psychologically while minimizing the loss of fitness.
The transition phase has an additional purpose: During this phase, the coach and athlete 
should analyze the training program, performance results, and testing outcomes. This is an 
essential task because it will allow the coach and athlete to make specific changes to the 
athlete’s next annual training plan.
Classifying Annual Plans
Figures 8.4 through 8.8 illustrate different models of annual training plans. Examination of figure 8.4 reveals several characteristics:
• It is a monocycle and therefore is appropriate for seasonal sports with one major competitive phase.
• The model is based on the specifics of training for speed and power sports such as 
sprinting, jumping, and throwing events in track and field.
• The volume and intensity curves may not be appropriate for sports that are dominated by endurance.
Annual training plans differ according to the requirements of the sport, and the classifi-
cation of these plans largely depends on the number of competitive phases. Seasonal sports 
such as skiing, canoeing, cycling, triathlon, soccer, and sports with one major competition during the year usually require one competitive phase. These annual training plans can be 
E6954/Bompa/F08.04/578537/mh-R1Month
Period-
ization(phase)GeneralpreparationSpecificpreparationPrecomp-etitivePreparatory Competitive
Official (league)competitionsUC
100-
90-
80-
70-
60-
50-
40-
30-
20-
10-
0-
Volume
IntensityPeakingTrans-
itionCurves of volume, intensity,
and peaking
— Intensity % of max/week —1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
FIGURE 8.4 Monocycle for a speed and power sport. Please note that loading variations follow the concept 
of step loading.
U = unloading phase; C = competition.

Periodization178
classified as monocycles, because they contain only one competitive phase and one major 
peak (figures 8.4 and 8.5). These plans are divided into three major phases: preparatory, 
competitive, and transition phases. The monocycle plans shown in figures 8.4 and 8.5 include 
a preparatory phase in both general and specific phases of preparation. In figure 8.4, note the relationship between general and specific preparation: As one decreases, the other increases substantially. In some instances, such as in soccer, the general preparation phase can be very 
short or can be eliminated altogether, especially for national and international-class players.
The competitive phase in figures 8.4 and 8.5 is divided into several smaller subphases. The 
precompetitive subphase, which usually includes exhibition competitions only, comes before the main competition subphase in which all official competitions are scheduled. Before the 
most important competition of the year, two shorter subphases should be planned. The first 
is an unloading phase or taper, which is generally marked by lower volumes and intensities 
of training. This phase allows for the removal of fatigue and an elevation in physical and psychological potential, which creates a performance supercompensation effect. After this 
subphase a special preparation phase follows, during which technical and tactical changes 
can be made. This subphase can occur in conjunction with the unloading phase or can be a separate subphase.
The preparatory and competitive phases of the annual training plans are marked by some 
specific characteristics. During the preparatory phase and early competitive phase, training 
volume is emphasized with lower intensities according to the specifics of the sport. During 
the preparatory phase, the quantity of work is very high and the intensity of work is corre-spondingly lower. As the competitive phase approaches (figure 8.4), the training volume 
decreases to allow the athletes to use most of their energy for high-intensity training for 
speed- and power-dominant sports.
The monocycle model illustrated in figure 8.5 is an example of an annual training plan 
for endurance sports, where the bioenergetic contribution is 50%:50% (anaerobic:aerobic), 
or an even higher proportion for aerobic endurance. The dynamics of the volume of training 
demonstrate that aerobic metabolism is clearly dominant. Therefore, the training volume curve must be high throughout the competitive phase.
When working with sports that have two separate seasons (e.g., track and field, which 
has an indoor and outdoor season), a completely different approach is used to develop the 
E6954/Bompa/F08.05/578538/mh-R1Volume
IntensityPeakingIntensity % of maxVolume (km/week)200-
190-
180-
170-
160-
150-
140-
130-
120-
100-110-Month
Period-
ization(phase)1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
Preparatory Competitive
Aerobic- Aerobic
- ErgogenicErgogenic UCTrans-ition
100-
90-
80-
70-
60-
50-
40-
30-
20-
10-
0-
FIGURE 8.5 Monocycle for a sport in which endurance is the main requirement.
U = unloading phase; C = competition.

Periodization of the Annual Plan179
annual training plan. Because there are two distinct competitive phases, an annual training 
plan that contains two peaks, or a bi-cycle, is used. Figure 8.6 gives an example of an annual 
training plan with a bi-cycle structure that incorporates the following phases:
• Preparatory phase 1: The first preparatory phase, which should be the longest, lasts approximately 3 months and is broken into general and specific subphases.
• Competitive phase 1: The first competitive phase lasts about 2 1/2 months and brings 
the athlete to a peak performance.
• Transition phase 1: The first transition phase lasts approximately 1 to 2 weeks and is marked by a period of unloading to recover the athlete. This phase leads into the 
second preparatory phase.
• Preparatory phase 2: The second preparatory phase is shorter, but slightly more spe-
cific, than the first preparatory phase, lasting approximately 2 months. This phase has a much shorter general preparation subphase, with most of the training being 
performed in the specific preparation subphase.
• Competitive phase 2: The second competitive phase is slightly longer, about 3 1/2 months, and brings the athlete to a peak performance.
• Transition phase 2: The second transition phase is approximately 1 to 1 1/2 months long and is used to unload and recover the athlete. This phase links to the next annual 
training plan.
A bi-cycle plan contains two short monocycles that are linked by a very short unloading 
and transition phase. The approach is similar for each cycle except that the training volume in preparatory phase 1 is much greater than that in preparatory phase 2. Additionally, the level of readiness will be lower during competitive phase 1. For example, in track and field, 
the outdoor championships are considered to be more important that the indoor compe-
titions, and so the second competitive phase of the annual plan should target this major competition. Thus, it is warranted to bring the athlete’s readiness to its highest level of the 
year in the second competitive phase.
Although the bi-cycle annual training plan is useful for some sports, other sports such as 
boxing, wrestling, martial arts, and gymnastics may have three major competitions during 
E6954/Bompa/F08.06/578539/mh-R1UCVolume (km/week)
Intensity % of max200-
190-
180-
170-
160-
150-
140-
130-
120-
100-110-100-
90-
80-
70-
60-
50-
40-
30-
20-
10-
0-Month 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
Preparatory 1 Competitive 1 Preparatory 2 Competitive 2Period-
ization(phase)Generalprep.Specificprep.Pre-comp.Officialcomp.UCU
 
TGen.prep.Specificprep.Pre-comp.Officialcomp.Trans-ition
VolumeIntensityPeaking
FIGURE 8.6 Bi-cycle plan for a sport (track and field) in which speed and power dominate.
Prep.= preparation; comp. = competitive; U = unloading; T = transition; C = competition.

Periodization180
the annual plan (e.g., national championships, a qualifying meet, and the international 
competition itself). Assuming each competition is 3 or 4 months apart, the athlete would 
have three competitive phases, which would create a tri-cycle annual training plan struc -
ture. As illustrated in figure 8.7, a tri-cycle plan incorporates the following sequence of  
training:
• Preparatory phase 1:  Preparatory phase 1 is the longest preparatory phase of the annual 
training plan, lasting around 2 months. It contains both general and specific prepa-ration subphases.
• Competitive phase 1: Competitive phase 1 is the shortest of the three competitive phases 
in the annual training plan, lasting around 1 1/2 months.
• Transition Phase 1: The first transition phase is very short and links the first compet-itive phase with the second preparatory phase. As with all transition phases, there is a period of unloading to allow the athlete to recover.
• Preparatory phase 2: Preparatory phase 2 is shorter than the first preparatory phase, lasting around 1 1/2 months. This preparatory phase only contains a specific prepa-
ration phase.
• Competitive phase 2:  Competitive phase 2 is longer than the first competitive phase, 
lasting approximately 1 3/4 months.
• Transition phase 2: The second transition phase contains a short period of unload-
ing designed to allow the athlete to recover from the fatigue accumulated during competitions. This transition is also short because it links competitive phase 2 to 
preparatory phase 3.
• Preparatory phase 3: This preparatory phase is a short preparatory phase lasting only 
about 1 1/2 months. As with the second preparatory phase, only the specific prepa-ration subphase is used.
• Competitive phase 3: This competitive  phase is the longest of the three competitive 
phases contained in the tri-cycle annual training plan (approximately 2 months). As such, this phase should peak the athlete for the most major competition of the year.
E6954/Bompa/F08.07/578540/mh-R2100-
90-
80-
70-
60-
50-
40-
30-
20-
10-
0-Month 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
Period-
ization(phase)Preparatory 1 Comp. 1 Prep. 2 Comp. 2 Prep. 3 Comp. 3
Generalprep.SpecificpreparationU TU TU
CUCSpecific
preparationSpecificpreparationUCTrans-itionVolume (km/week)
Intensity % of max
VolumeIntensityPeaking200-
190-
180-
170-
160-
150-
140-
130-120-
100-110-
FIGURE 8.7 Annual training plan with tri-cycle structure.
Prep.= preparatory/preparation; comp. = competitive; U = unloading phase; C = competition; T = transition.

Periodization of the Annual Plan181
• Transition phase 3: This transition phase is the longest transition phase contained in 
the annual training plan, lasting approximately 1 month. It serves an important role 
in inducing recovery and preparing the athlete for the next annual training plan.
In a tri-cycle plan, the most important competition of the three should occur during the 
last cycle of the year. The first of the three preparatory phases should be the longest, during 
which the athlete builds the technical, tactical, and physical foundation from which the next two cycles are built. Because this type of plan is typically used with advanced athletes only, 
the first preparatory phase contains the general preparation subphase.
In an annual plan with a tri-cycle structure, the volume curve is the highest in the first 
preparatory phase. This highlights the importance of training volume in this phase. The intensity curve depicted in the tri-cycle structure (figure 8.7) follows a pattern similar to that 
seen in a monocycle. Both the volume and intensity curves decrease slightly for each of the 
three unloading phases that precede the main competitions. Within the annual training plan, 
the highest level of training should be planned for the third competitive phase to allow for the highest performances to occur at the main competition of the year.
Although the bi-cycle and tri-cycle structures are useful for many sports, other sports 
such as tennis, martial arts, boxing, and gymnastics may have four or more competitions that require multipeak performance (figure 8.8). In these situations, the preparatory phase, which is crucial for the development of technical and tactical skills as well as specific bio-motor abilities, is shortened significantly. Advanced athletes who have developed a strong 
foundation of training during the early years of their athletic development may find it easier 
to cope with such a heavy competitive schedule, but young athletes may have a hard time coping with such a stressful schedule. This may be a reason why so many young players burn out before winning a major tournament.
FIGURE 8.8 A hypothetical multipeak annual training plan for tennis.
1 = preparatory phase; 2 = intensification, or competition; 3 = transition/recovery.
Developing a multipeak annual plan (figure 8.8) is a challenging task. This is especially 
true for sports like professional tennis where the preparatory phase is very short and often 
planned prior to major tournaments. In figure 8.8, the 1s represents a very short preparatory 
phase that also focuses, in the early week, on regeneration. The rest of these short preparatory cycles should also have the scope of improving specific biomotor abilities. Since the dom-inant ability in tennis is power, the coach should do the utmost to train it prior to the next 
tournament. Although figure 8.8 represents a scenario often seen in tennis, coaches should 
be very selective regarding the number of tournaments a player attends. This type of plan is often used by young players whose background is quite superficial, and their capacity to 
tolerate physical and psychological stress might not be high enough for this type of annual 
plan. This is why younger and inexperienced players are exposed to injuries and losses that may make some players withdraw from tournaments.
Selective Periodization
Far too often the annual training plans developed for elite athletes are used for young athletes who lack the training experience and physiological maturity to tolerate intensive competitive 
schedules. This is one reason why periodization of training should be individualized. The 
coach should consider the athlete’s readiness for intensive competitive schedules, using the following guidelines:Month 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
Type of 
training1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 34 1 2 3 4

Periodization182
• A monocycle is strongly suggested as the basic annual training model for novice and 
junior athletes. Such a plan has a long preparatory phase during which the athlete 
can develop foundational technical, tactical, and physical elements without the major 
stress of competitions. The monocycle is the typical annual plan for seasonal sports and sports for which endurance is the dominant biomotor ability (e.g., Nordic skiing, rowing, cycling, and long-distance running).
• The bi-cycle annual training plan is typically used for advanced or elite athletes who 
can qualify for national championships. Even in this scenario, the preparatory phase 
should be as long as possible to allow for the development of fundamental skills and physiological potential.
• The multipeak annual training plan is recommended for advanced or internation-al-level athletes. Presumably, these athletes have a solid foundation that allows them to handle an annual plan that contains three or more peaks.
The duration of the training phases depends largely on the competitive schedule. Table 
8.3 provides guidelines for distributing the training weeks contained in each training phase.
TABLE 8.3 Guidelines for the Distribution of Weeks for Each Training Phase  
 Contained in the Classic Types of Annual Training Plans
Annual plan 
structureTotal weeks  per cycleNumber of weeks per phase
Preparatory Competitive Transition
Monocycle 52 ≥32 10-15 5
Bi-cycle 26 13 5-10 3
Tri-cycle 17-18 ≥8 3-5 2-3
Multipeak 52 15-18 22-30 7-8
Stress and Periodization
The ability to manage the stress that accumulates as a result of training and competition is 
an important factor that underlies successful athletic performances. Training-induced stress 
can be considered a summation of both physiological and psychological stressors and can 
be elicited by both internal and adverse external influences. Therefore, it may be warranted to focus on the training effects induced by the training plan rather than the work being com-pleted. The training plan must consider the development of fatigue, which is a by-product 
of training, and how to monitor or evaluate its effect on performance.
Periodization is an important tool in the management of fatigue that accumulates in 
response to physiological, psychological, and sociological stressors resulting from training and competition. In creating the annual plan, the coach needs to consider the effects of both 
training and competition on the development of fatigue and the level of stress experienced by the athlete. If structured carefully, the annual plan will manage this fatigue and reduce levels of fatigue during major competitions, when stress can be very high. Figure 8.9 shows 
how stress may vary across an annual training plan. Note that stress does not have the same 
magnitude throughout the annual plan, which is a distinct advantage of periodized training.
The stress curve in figure 8.9 parallels the intensity curve in that the higher the intensity, the 
higher the level of stress. The shape of the stress curve also indicates that stress is lowest during 
the transition phase and increases throughout the preparatory phase. In the competitive phase 
of training, levels of stress will fluctuate in response to competitive stress and short periods 

Periodization of the Annual Plan183
of regeneration. During the preparatory phase, the magnitude of the stress curve is a result 
of the relationship between training volume and intensity. Although the volume or quantity 
of training is high, the intensity is low because it is difficult to emphasize a high amount of 
work and an elevated intensity simultaneously (with the exception of weightlifting).
Training intensity is a prime contributor to stress. Therefore, the coach should consider 
decreasing the athlete’s level of stress during the preparatory phase by emphasizing volume 
more than intensity. However, it is likely that the high volumes of training typically seen in 
the preparatory phase also produce a significant amount of metabolic stress (19) and large hormonal disturbances (17), which can result in high levels of fatigue.
The stress curve throughout the competitive phase undulates in accordance with com-
petitive, developmental, and regeneration microcycles. The number and frequency of com-petitions during the competitive phase clearly can have a negative impact on the athlete’s level of stress. Frequent competitions can increase the athlete’s level of stress, and the coach 
must allow a few days of regeneration following these competitions. To further deal with 
the stress of the competitive phase, a short period (2 or 3 days) of unloading prior to the competition may be warranted.
In addition to alternating high- and low-stress activities, the athlete can use relaxation 
techniques to cope with stress. Equally important is having a specific nutritional plan pro-duced by a specialist; certain foods may have a positive effect on coping with fatigue and psychological stress. The ability to tolerate stress is highly individual, and athletes who have 
difficulty dealing with stress may need to use motivational and relaxation techniques. The 
athlete’s ability to tolerate stress depends largely on the training plan. The coach must struc-ture the training plan to include phases of regeneration that use relaxation and visualization techniques to help the athlete tolerate training and competitive stress.
The athlete’s psychological state depends largely on his physiological status. If the athlete 
is experiencing high levels of fatigue, this accumulated stress appears to negatively affect psychological status (6). The better physiologically prepared the athlete, the greater the 
likelihood that he has a positive psychological status. A periodized training program that is 
structured correctly will ensure superior physiological preparedness, psychological readiness, stress management, and mental training.
While an athlete may be able to manage stress during a monocycle, this is likely not the 
case for tri-cycles and it is especially not the case for multipeak annual plans. The same can FIGURE 8.9 Stress curve for a monocycle.
E6954/Bompa/F08.09/578543/mh-R4Volume
IntensityStress
Competitive Preparatory TransitionTrainingphaseCurves
of volume,intensity,andstress
Microcycles

Periodization184
be said about most team sports, which often have an annual plan that lasts 10 months. In the 
case of team sports, careful considerations should be given to each microcycle, as the players 
may experience a cumulative effect of stress that can compromise the goals planned for the 
week. Figure 8.10 suggests a plan for a two-game microcycle and the activities programmed for the players so that they can better cope with and tolerate physical and psychological stress.
Chart of the Annual Training Plan
Now that the basic concept of periodization and the main objectives of each training phase and subphase have been presented, an annual training plan can be constructed. Charting 
an annual training plan requires an understanding of the relationships between the training 
components and the stress that these factors impart upon the athlete. During this process decisions must be made that consider the timing of major competitions, the ratio of training factors contained in each phase, and the sequencing of the training phases. Successful training 
planners are able to use their knowledge about training and its physiological responses to 
develop training plans that will induce specific outcomes.
Annual training plans for all athletes are constructed with the same basic steps; however, 
each plan, and thus the chart, must be individualized to the physiological specifics of the sport and the athlete’s needs. Several examples of annual training plan charts are provided in this text. Please note that the following charts represent a progression from simple to more intricate. It is important to follow the progression presented here, to fully prepare to 
create such charts.
Chart of a Monocycle Annual Training Plan
The monocycle, the first example of a training chart, represents a very simple form of 
an annual plan for a hypothetical junior basketball team (figure 8.1 1). At the top part 
of figure 8.1 1, the planner can note the dates of the plan, the coach, and the team; in 
the second line, the planner can checkmark the weekends in each month when there are games scheduled. Since basketball is played in many countries from the fall through the spring months (October to mid-April, in figure 8.1 1), the first month in the plan is June 
and the last part of the plan ends in mid-April. The remaining weeks in April and the 
month of May are reserved for a transition phase. The month of June is the first month of an informal and flexibly applied preparatory phase. Remember that summer is also a 
vacation away from school. However, for dedicated players, summer can also be used as a 
preparatory phase, where the players can work (2 to 3 times per week) on overall flexibility Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
S/T Peak R/R Train/U Peak R/R Train Train/U Peak
a.m. Pre-game arousal 
activitiesOff (Physiotherapy) Pre-game arousal 
 
activitiesPre-game arousal 
 
activities
p.m. Game Individual physical and psychological assess
-
ment of stress; physio techniquesPre-game tacti
-
cal training and power trainingGame Same as Monday p.m.High-intensity trainingDrills for speed and agilityTechnical-tactical drills with high intensityTechnical and pre-game tactical trainingGame
FIGURE 8.10 A suggested microcycle for a team sport with games planned on Sundays and Wednesdays.
S/T= scope of training; R/R = recovery/regeneration/stress management; train/U = training and unload to reach supercompensation for the game.

185Chart of the Annual Plan
Type: Coach:
DatesMonths June July August September October November December January February March April May
WeeksCompetitionsDomestic
InternationalLocationPeriodizationTraining 
phasePreparatory Competitive
Transition Strength AA M x S P
Maintain Endurance Aerobic Ergogenesis
Speed General speed Specific speed
Nutrition
Testing dates
Medical control 
dates
FIGURE 8.11 Annual training plan for a junior basketball team. As needed, adjust the suggested plan to the specific conditions including the plan’s dura-
tion and its flexible application (e.g., length of the transition phase).
AA = anatomical adaptation type of strength training; aerob. = aerobic-type endurance training; M x S = maximum strength; P = power; nutrition = please introduce in the above chart the elements (such as a high carbohydrate intake) of the nutrition plan as suggested by a nutrition specialist.

Periodization186
and strength training (anatomical adaptation [AA] type with emphasis on strengthening 
the ligaments and tendons).
The next second in figure 8.1 1, marked “Competitions,” is used to specify the schedule of 
the games the coach has selected for the year (here, from October to mid-April as represented 
by the shaded squares). In the space reserved for the location of the competition, add the 
actual name of the place where each game is played.
Once the dates and locations of the competitions are recorded on the training chart, the 
coach has to decide the key elements of periodization. The annual training plan is divided into 
training phases, working from right to left. In figure 8.1 1 the line for periodization contains the 
three classic phases: preparatory (June to the end of September), competitive (early October to mid-April), and transition ( late April to the end of May). Next, decide the duration and 
type of training for each training phase. Since the players in this example are high schoolers, 
the periodization of strength has a longer anatomical adaptation phase, followed by two 
short maximum strength and power phases. The same types of training will be maintained 
throughout the competitive phase. Endurance training (mostly aerobic) and general speed drills start at the same dates as anatomical adaptation, followed by game-specific endurance (ergogenesis) and speed training which are necessary to ready the players for the games to come.
A very important concern for junior athletes is nutrition. Consult a nutritionist to create 
a nutrition plan for the players, or a specialist who is familiar with the nutritional needs 
during a teenager’s years of growth and physical development. Next, complete the lines for 
testing dates and medical control dates. Every coach should test the abilities of her players during the first week of the plan. Two more testing dates should be utilized at the end of December or early January and during the first week of the transition. Medical control, at the 
beginning and end of the annual plan, is necessary to evaluate the health status of each player.
Chart of a Bi-Cycle Annual Training Plan
Figure 8.12 represents an example of a bi-cycle training plan for high school swimmers. Tra-
ditionally, swimming has two major competitions and therefore two peaks per year (short 
course during winter and long course during the summer). The main criteria for deciding 
the two peaks of the year and, as such, the intrinsic training phases, depends on the dates of the main competitions of the year. Please note the two distinctive competitive phases in figure 8.12, each of them culminating with a national championship (end of February and 
end of August). All other competitions are scheduled every second week, an advantage that 
follows a training requirement: compete, recover, train, supercompensate for the next race, and compete again. This method of programming training and competitions allows the 
coach to avoid overtraining.
Periodization of training phases and of the dominant abilities follows the same method-
ology, as discussed in chapter 5. Please note that each cycle of competitions is followed by 
a transition phase. Note also the criteria for dividing each cycle into macrocycles, such as 
the schedule of competitions and the duration of training phases for strength, speed, and 
endurance training. The bottom of the chart offers a place to decide the dates for medical control and testing, which are traditionally placed at the beginning of a program and at the end of most training phases for the periodization of dominant biomotor abilities.
Chart of a Tri-Cycle Annual Training Plan
Once there is comprehension of a monocycle and bi-cycle, the coach can work on under-standing a hypothetical tri-cycle, which is often used for martial arts, artistic sports, and some 
seasonal sports. A tri-cycle can be used even in Alpine and Nordic skiing, where competitions 
such as the national championships, major international championships, World Cup, or Olympic Games can be the top three peaks of the year. Figure 8.13 represents a hypothetical tri-cycle for martial arts, where the three major peaks are scheduled for April 26, August 2, 
and December 13. Note that the peak on November 8 is a peak of intensity only, not a peak 
of shape for the year.

187Chart of the Annual Plan
Type: Coach:
DatesMonths October November December January February March April May June July August September
WeeksCompetitionsDomestic
InternationalLocation
Nat. champ.
Nat. champ.PeriodizationTraining 
phasePreparatory 1 Competitive 1 T Preparatory 2 Competitive 2 T
Strength AA MxS M-E Maintain AA MxS M-E Maintain
Endurance AE AE-AN Specific AE Event-specific AE
Speed Event-specific AN Event-specific
Psychological
NutritionMacrocycles 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14
Microcycles 12345678910111213141516171819202122232425262728293031323334353637383940414243444546474849505152
Testing datesMedical control 
dates
FIGURE 8.12 Bi-cycle training plan for high school swimmers.
AA = anatomical adaptation; AE = aerobic; AN= anaerobic; MxS = maximum strength; T= transition; M-E = muscle endurance (capacity to perfor m many repetitions against a low to medium load).
Note: Some lines in figure 8.12 are empty. This means that the coach, psychologist, and nutritionist must specify the terminology to be used in those spaces.

Periodization188
Secondary competitions have to also be planned prior to each peak. Ideally, these compe-
titions should be organized based on the difficulty of opponents, with the lowest difficulty 
planned at the beginning of the competitive phase and the most challenging opponent faced 
toward the end. To best monitor fatigue, most competitions are planned two weeks apart, with a short recovery phase immediately after each competition and 2 to 3 days of lower intensity to facilitate supercompensation.
Figure 8.13 can also be used to plan additional information, such as skill acquisition, 
psychological techniques, and nutrition. Employ the expertise of a sport psychologist and nutritionist to help define and achieve specific goals for the athlete. Underneath periodiza-tion, there is a line where peaking index can be specified for each training phase. See the 
next section for more information on the peaking index.
At the bottom of figure 8.13 are three curves: one for volume, one for intensity, and one 
for peaking. Methodologically speaking, during the early part of the preparatory phase the volume of training has to be emphasized so that a strong physiological foundation is built. E6954/Bompa/F08.13/578604/mh-R5TCompetitive 2 Preparatory 2 Competitive 3 Preparatory 3 T T
AA MxS PowerComp
Fund
Bal Protein Carbohydrate Bal Protein Carbohydrate Bal Prot Carbohydrate BalAnaerobic Aerobic SS end Anaerobic SS end Anaerobic SS endPowerGP
Adv Game simulation Game simulation Game simulation Fund Adv AdvComp T TT
T TGP SP Comp
Power
Stress man Visualization Stress man RelaxAA
Aerobic
Stress man VisualizationPreparatory 1 Competitive 1
GP PC SP PC PC
MxS MxS
Aerobic
Imag/VisualSS sp train SubphaseCompetitionsDates
Peaking index
Testing dates
Medical control dates
PeriodizationOct Nov Dec Sep Aug Jan Feb March April May June July JanAthlete’s name Training objectives
Performance Tests/Standards Physical prep Technical prep Tactical prep Psych prep
Club
Camp/Semicamp
RestStrength
Endurance
Speed
Psychological
Nutrition
Macrocycles
MicrocyclesTraining phase
Skill acquisitionMonths
Weeks
Domestic
International
Location
Volume
Intensity
Peaking
Phys prep
Tech prep
Tact prep
Psych prepTraining factors%100
90
80706050403020101
2
3
4
5Peaking1825 1522 152229 10172431 121926 162330 111825 152229 11 18 18 51219263 71421285 29 61320274 18 61320274
4 4 3 2 4 3 2 4 4 3 3 2 2 1 51 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 910 11 12 13 14 15
12345678 910111213141516171819202122232425262728293031323334353637383940414243444546474849505152Toronto
CalgaryToronto
Toronto
Toronto
Toronto
Montreal
N.Y .
Toronto
Toronto
Toronto
Frankfurt
AmsterdamXX X XX X X X X
Forms
of prepSS sp train SS sp train SS sp trainChart of the Annual Plan
FIGURE 8.13 Tri-cycle annual training plan for martial arts.
Prep. = preparations; comp. = competitive; T = transition; GP = general preparation phase; SS sp. train = sport-specific speed training; PC 
= precompetition phase; SP = specific preparation phase; AA = anatomical adaptation; MxS = maximum strength; SS end. = sport- specific endurance; fund. = fundamental; adv. = advanced; imag./visual = imagery and visualization; stress. man. = stress management; relax = relaxation; bal. = balanced.

Periodization of the Annual Plan189
This strong base will result in proper adaptation of the body and mind, so that the athletes 
will be able to tolerate work and manage fatigue during each cycle. At the same time, the intensity curve is lower since an athlete cannot tolerate high volume or high intensity at the beginning of the annual plan.
Athletes usually begin a new annual training program with workload percentages between 
30% and 50% of maximal work capacity, depending on their performance levels. The curve that represents the volume of training is progressively elevated through the preparatory phase, reaching its summit at the end of the general preparation phase. Conversely, during 
the specific preparation phase, the curve that represents the amount of volume decreases 
progressively, below the curve that depicts intensity. This curve trails the training volume 
curve through the preparatory phase, and then the gaps opens up by the middle of the 
competitive phase. Both curves undulate more during macrocycles with many competitions.
The intensity is generally higher during the early part of a microcycle that precedes a 
competition; it decreases as the competition approaches, to allow the athlete to rest and 
regenerate before the competition. When volume of training is high, intensity of training is generally lower. If both volume and intensity are high, the potential for overtraining increases markedly (7).
During the early part of the macrocycle before the main competition, volume increases, 
reflecting an emphasis on high-quality work. Toward the end of this macrocycle the volume 
decreases, usually in the last two microcycles prior to the next macrocycle. Training intensity is 
at first slightly lower than training volume but then elevates progressively as the competition 
approaches. During unloading, however, both curves may drop slightly depending on the type of taper being used. Traditionally, intensity is not elevated much for endurance sports, allowing both volume and intensity to be stressed equally. However, international-class athletes with a stronger foundation and endurance base can tolerate a higher intensity even during the competitive phase (with a slightly reduced volume). This approach to training for endurance athletes is necessary if higher performance is expected. Sports characterized by dynamic activities that express high power outputs will require that intensity be elevated 
to levels higher than the training volume curve. As for the short subphase of competitions, 
volume is down and intensity is up, signifying that most competitions are intense.
The peaking curve, or readiness curve as it is sometimes called, is a direct result of the 
interplay between volume and intensity, which will affect the athlete’s level of fitness or 
fatigue. The peaking curve generally trails both volume and intensity curves through the preparatory phase in response to the fatigue that is developed in this phase. The peaking curve then elevates during the precompetition and competitive subphases in response to the reduction of fatigue that occurs as volume is decreased. The peaking curve represents the athlete’s potential for high-level performance as well as his level of fatigue.
In the sample chart for an annual plan (figure 8.13), the magnitude (not the percentage 
of each curve) signifies the emphasis placed on volume and intensity. Expressing these curves 
in percentages rather than in relation to each other is more complicated; therefore, only 
experienced coaches training elite athletes should use that method of expression. Similarly, 
the stress curve is not included in the figure because its shape is affected by (and therefore resembles) the intensity curve; competition dates also affect the stress curve.
Peaking Index
The new parameter introduced in figure 8.13, the peaking or readiness index (2, 3, 29), 
represents the athlete’s level of readiness to compete and reflects the athlete’s physiologi-
cal, technical, tactical, and psychological status (table 8.4). To modulate the athlete’s level 
of readiness, the training factors must be manipulated to dissipate fatigue, thus elevating the athlete’s potential to perform well. In this process competitions must be prioritized. It would be impossible to peak for every competition because fitness would begin to decline, 
attributable to spending too much time at low volumes or intensities of training. Thus vary-
ing levels of emphasis should be placed on specific competitions. Except for high-priority 

Periodization190
competitions, it is not essential for the athlete (especially 
elite athletes and teams) to peak for every competition. In 
sports in which the competitive phase is long and there 
are many competitions, it is not feasible to achieve a true peak for each competition, game, or match.
The peaking index will be modulated by alterations in 
training load (volume and intensity) and will reflect the athlete’s level of fatigue, which directly affects prepared-ness. High levels of fatigue will decrease preparedness, 
whereas low levels of fatigue will increase preparedness. 
However, if fitness declines too much in response to pro-
longed periods of low volume and intensities of training, 
preparedness will decline.
The athlete should achieve her highest level of readiness (peak) for the main competition 
at the end of the competitive phase. Therefore, it may be warranted to approach many of the competitions in the competitive phase of the annual training plan without peaking, effectively training through the competition and using minimal unloading strategies prior to these competitions. If a coach used peaking strategies that include unloading for every competition in the competitive phase, it would reduce the athlete’s physiological capacity 
and readiness to perform across the season. However, this does not mean the athlete will 
not focus on each game. Rather the athlete and coach must determine the optimal approach to take or the degree of unloading to use prior to the competition.
Coaches of team sports should use the greatest amount of unloading when targeting the 
most important competitions or the three strongest opponents in the competitive schedule. 
In figure 8.13 this is indicated by peaking index level 1 and represents a situation where the 
athlete’s level of readiness must be at its highest. To achieve this level of readiness, the athlete would have to use specific peaking strategies (see chapter 9). Peaking index level 2 represents a level of readiness that is approximately 90% of that experienced in level 1. This index would 
be used when playing the top two-thirds of the league, excluding the top three to five teams. 
To achieve this level of readiness, the athlete would use less reduction in training volume and intensity compared with level 1. When playing against nonthreatening teams in a league 
game or during precompetitive games, athletes would use peaking index level 3 (70% to 80% 
of maximal readiness). The training plan should emphasize technical and tactical objectives rather than winning during precompetitive games. It may be necessary to achieve this level of readiness in the special preparation subphase of a bi-cycle or tri-cycle plan. Peaking index 
level 4, indicated as 60% of maximal readiness, represents a level of readiness typically seen 
in the preparatory phase, when the athlete is undertaking high training loads and is not pre
-
pared to compete. Peaking index level 5, which represents 50% or less of maximal readiness, is typically seen during the transition phase at the end of the annual plan, when the training 
workload is at its lowest level during the annual plan, as are levels of fitness and fatigue.
The peaking index line in figure 8.13 represents the appropriate index for each macrocycle 
and serves as a guide by which the index curve is drawn. The peaking index will fluctuate or undulate in parallel to the fatigue or stress levels generated by training, and will increase in 
correspondence with the unloading microcycles. As the training becomes more specific and intense, from general preparation to specific preparation and throughout the competitive phase, the peaking index will improve.
The peaking index can be adapted to reflect a sport-specific level of readiness. Table 8.5 
shows how the peaking index can be adapted to reflect a sport-specific level of readiness for individual sports, using the best performance of the athlete as a reference.
The peaking index will be modulated by alterations in training load (volume and intensity) 
and will reflect the athlete’s level of fatigue, which directly affects readiness. High levels of 
fatigue will decrease an athlete’s capabilities, whereas low levels of fatigue will increase readi -
ness. However, if degree of preparedness declines too much in response to prolonged periods 
of low volume and intensities of training, athlete’s performance capabilities will visibly decline.TABLE 8.4 Description of the Peaking Index
Peaking index Level of readiness (%)
1 100
2 90
3 70-80
4 60
5 ≤50

Periodization of the Annual Plan191
Chart for a Multipeak Annual Training Plan
Creating a multipeak chart for an annual plan is a very challenging task, even for experienced 
coaches. The example illustrated by figure 8.14 is a clear demonstration of the planning 
reality in professional tennis, where there are year-round opportunities to play at various 
tournaments. The prize money advertised by organizers can often be an unrealistic temp-tation for many players. This is why many players fall into the mistake of registering for TABLE 8.5 Adaptation of the Peaking Index to Individual Sport Performance
Peaking index Level of readiness (%)Sprinter
(100 m PB: 10 s) Level of readiness (%)Powerlifter(deadlift PB: 250 kg)
1 100 10.00-10.05 s 100 250-247.5 kg
2 99-99.5 10.06-10.10 s 97-98 242.5-245 kg
3 98-98.5 10.11-10.20 s 95-96 237.5-240 kg
4 97-97.5 10.21-10.30 s 93-95 232.5-235 kg
5 ≤97 ≥10.31 s ≤94 ≤230 kg
PB = personal best.
E6954/BOMPA/FIG08.14/578607/R3Competitive Transition
AA MxS NS P/A NS P/A MxS/APreparatory 1
MxS Maintain: Mxs, P, and ACompetitionsDates
Peaking index
Testing dates
Medical control dates
Camp/Semicamp
PeriodizationNov Dec Jan Feb March April May June July August Sept OctType: Year:Chart of the Annual Plan
Coach:
Strength
Psychological
Nutrition
Macrocycles
MicrocyclesTraining phaseMonths
Weeks
Domestic
International
Location
Volume
PeakingTraining factors%100
90
80
70
60504030
20
101
2
3
4
5Peaking4 3 2 2 1 4 2 1 2 1 2 1 32 1 4 2 22 51 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
12345678910111213141516171819202122232425262728293031323334353637383940414243444546474849505152Australian
Open
Madrid
Doha
French
Open
OpenWimbled
U.S.X X X X X X
FIGURE 8.14 Multipeak annual plan for tennis.
X = secondary important tournament; AA = anatomical adaptation; MxS = maximum strength; P/A = power/agility; maintain = maintain 
maximum strength, power, and agility; NS = no strength during the U.S. and Australian Opens. The same proposal is suggested for the duration of other important tournaments.
Note: In the case of tennis, speed is actually agility and endurance is actually specific training that coaches should express in duration of 
time; therefore, this chart does not include lines for speed and endurance.

Periodization192
too many tournaments, when they are unprepared for the stress associated with traveling, 
playing, and being eliminated in the early part of the tournament, then traveling again to 
another tournament. Often these illusions can result in unpleasant, frustrating injuries. Thus, 
the proposed multipeak annual plan for tennis recommends the coach and player be very discerning when selecting the number of tournaments.
The top line of figure 8.14 is used to specify the months of the plan. Remember that after 
the last tournament, the U.S. Open in this example, the player can take a deserving vacation of 7 weeks for recovery and regeneration (labeled as T, or Transition, in figure 8.14). Use the second line to specify the weekend date (Sundays) in each square.  The date of Sunday, 
which is the end of the week, always specified in a chart of an annual plan. The selected tournaments are noted in the line for domestic competitions, signified with an X for sec-
ondary importance tournaments. The fourth and fifth lines can be used to specify major 
tournaments, culminating with the U.S. Open.
The segment of the chart dedicated to periodization is used to specify training phases: 
the preparatory phase from early November to early January, the competitive phase from 
early January to first week in September, and the transition phase for the rest of September 
and all of October. The competitive phase notes the following tournament selections: Aus -
tralian Open, Madrid, Doha, French Open, Wimbledon, and the U.S. Open. An essential line is dedicated to periodization of strength, where two types of strength are proposed: 
anatomical adaptation and maximum strength, which are so essential in tennis. Without 
dedicating time to maximum strength, the player will have a hard time improving power and agility, both of which are directly dependent on the improvement of maximum strength. Note that from Madrid to after the Wimbledon tournament, there is a long 
maintenance phase  with time for maintaining maximum strength and power. Remember, 
what is not trained will detrain; if maximum strength deteriorates, power and agility will 
be directly affected, and speed and power on the court will be affected too. Periodization 
also includes two essential plans: psychological and nutrition. Coaches should use spe
-
cialists in the area of sport psychology and nutrition to determine the specific needs for  
tennis.
The line for periodization of macrocycles involves specifying the duration of each phase, 
as dictated by the periodization of strength and the dates of the tournaments. Use the line for microcycles only as a reference date for the level of training state and level of peaking of 
the athlete. To better understand peaking index, please refer to its explanation earlier in this chapter. Testing and medical control dates are also highlighted in their specific line. Finally, the curves of volume and intensity are specified at the bottom of the chart. The elevation 
of each curve reflects the level necessary to stress training volume, intensity, and peaking, 
and should follow the load dynamic of the macrocycles. Try this type of planning and learn from it to improve planning for the following year.
Criteria for Compiling an Annual Plan
Compiling an annual training plan is an essential part of the training process because this plan provides the guidelines by which training is directed. The ideal time to establish the annual training plan is at the end of the transition phase before the initiation of the next 
training year. After the athlete completes the main competition of the year, her improvement 
and physiological and psychological responses to the training plan can be analyzed and evaluated. Her rate of improvement or progress, competition performance, and tests also can be analyzed at this time. The information garnered from this analysis will influence the 
objectives established for the next training year as well as the structure of the training plan. 
The coach will use these observations coupled with the upcoming competitive schedule to establish the next year’s training plan.
Each year’s competitive schedule, including national and international events, is set by 
the national or international federation. Each regional organization bases its competition 

Periodization of the Annual Plan193
calendar on this schedule. These dates should be available by the transition phase of the 
previous year’s annual training plan; otherwise, the next year’s annual training plan cannot 
be established. In many instances individual sport federations do not issue competitive 
calendars until one or two months within the preparation phase. In that case the coach will design the annual plan by basing the competitive phase on that of the previous year. The plan will be later adjusted when the competitive calendars are out. Once the annual training 
plan is established, individual or small-group training plans can be developed. The annual 
training plan established by the coach should be clear and concise and must present the appropriate technical information.
The quality of an annual plan directly reflects the coach’s methodological knowledge, 
his experience, and the latest innovations in training theory. The coach must stay abreast of these factors by reading scientific literature, attending conferences, networking with other coaches, and closely observing the training process of his athletes. The coach will modify 
and adapt the annual training plan in parallel with his increased knowledge and experience. 
The more organized the coach, the easier this process will be.
In some instances, the coach may be asked by the national sports association or funding 
organization to present a model of the next annual training plan. Such a model should be well organized and well thought out and must account for the main parameters of training. The following sections outline a model of an annual plan that contains all of the needed elements. An outline of the components contained in the presentation of a training program 
can be found in Elements of an Annual Training Plan.
Performance Model Analysis
In the performance model analysis, the first element that should be presented is a needs 
analysis in which the scientific and methodological aspects of the sport are presented in the 
context of the training needs. To do so, a coach should take into account the biomechanical 
and physiological characteristics of the sport and analyze the contribution of each biomotor ability to performance (figure 8.15).Elements of an Annual Training Plan
1. Performance model analysis (ergogenesis, biomechanics and strength, speed, and endur-
ance characteristics for the athlete’s level of competition)
2. Retrospective analysis
3. Performance prediction
4. Objectives in the areas of performance, physical preparation, technical and tactical prepa-ration, nutrition, and theoretical and psychological preparation
5. Competition calendar
6. Tests and standards
7. Periodization model (including the chart of the annual plan and the structure of the mac-rocycles)
8. Preparation model
9. Athlete or team organization and administration model (including budget and equipment needs)

Periodization194
Strength
1. Select the type of strength. Determine which of the 
following qualities of strength are specific to the event: 
power; power endurance; or short, medium, or long 
muscle endurance. The increase of the chosen quality or qualities will be the ultimate goal of the entire peri-odization of strength. Remember that for the endurance types of strength (of a more metabolic nature), the mor-pho-functional adaptations to training require longer exposure to the stimuli than is the case for the neural 
adaptations. This factor directly affects the length of the 
conversion phase, and therefore the time remaining for 
other phases, as the program designing process works 
backward from the endpoint.
2. Determine the appropriate duration of the anatomical adaptation period based on the athlete’s characteristics (including his or her athletic development stage and strength training experience) and the time available for 
an introductory phase.
3. Decide whether or not to implement a period devoted 
to hypertrophy in light of the characteristics of the athlete and of the sporting event.
4. Select the exercises to use in training. Strength and conditioning coaches should select training exercises according to the specifics of the sport, the athlete’s needs, and the phase of training. Each athletic skill 
is performed by prime movers, which can differ from 
sport to sport, depending on the specific skill require-ments. Therefore, coaches must first identify the prime movers, then select the strength exercises that best involve those muscles. At the same time, they must consider the athlete’s needs, which depend on her 
E6954/Bompa/F08.15/578609/mh-R2Performance Model Analysis
Ergogenesis
Strength
Speed
EnduranceNonlinear Linear
Acceleration
Maximum speed
Speed endurance
RSA
Passive
Complete
Continuous
Intermittent
SpecificActive
IncompleteRest between repsDominant energy system:
Anaerobic alactic %:
Anaerobic lactic %:
Specific strength*:
Prime movers:
Muscular actions of the prime movers:
ROM:Aerobic %:
FIGURE 8.15 Chart of performance model analysis.
*Between maximum strength (MxS), power (P), power endurance (PE), 
muscle endurance short (MES), muscle endurance medium (MEM), and muscle endurance long (MEL). This is the strength that must be developed before the competitive season and then maintained.
ROM = range of motion; RSA = repeated sprint ability.
background and individual strengths and weaknesses. Because the weakest link in a 
chain always breaks first, compensation exercises (also referred to as accessory exercises) should be selected to strengthen the weakest muscles. The selection of exercises is also phase specific. Normally, during the anatomical adaptation phase, most muscle groups are employed to build a better and more multilateral foundation. As the competitive 
phase approaches, training becomes more specific, and exercises are selected specifi-
cally to involve the prime movers. Thus, coaches must analyze the sport movements in order to determine exercises and loading parameters. The following factors should be considered:
• Planes on which the movements take place (sagittal, frontal, transverse)
• Force expressed at various joint angles within the sport-specific range of motion (i.e., the zone that must be most affected by the development of the specific strength)
• Muscle groups producing the movements (i.e., the prime movers, which also must be most affected by the development of the specific strength)
• Muscle actions (concentric, eccentric, isometric)
5. Choose the methods to use in each macrocycle and the progression of training means. Details about training methods and progression are provided in chapter 10.

Periodization of the Annual Plan195
Speed
1. Evaluate the number, intensity, and duration of sprints or quick actions.
2. Consider the differences between, and the contributions of, each of the following quali -
ties of speed: alactic speed (acceleration, maximum speed); lactic speed short (repeated 
sprint ability, or RSA); and lactic speed long (speed endurance). Note: Lactic speed long 
(speed endurance) is an expression of lactic power in which speed is maintained for more 
than 8 s. In contrast, lactic speed short (repeated sprint ability or RSA) is an expression of alactic capacity in which sprints under 6 s are repeated with partial recovery until they become an expression of lactic power short, which also heavily engages aerobic power 
during short rest intervals to restore phosphates through aerobic phosphorylation.
3. Evaluate the type (active or passive) and duration of recovery between sprints or fast actions.
4. Evaluate whether speed is expressed linearly or nonlinearly.
5. Choose the methods to use in each macrocycle and the progression of training means.
Endurance
1. Use scientific literature to determine the contributions of each energy system to the 
sport activity (at the competitive level of the team or athlete):
• Anaerobic alactic (ATP-CP)
• Anaerobic lactic (LA)
• Aerobic (O2)
2. Evaluate whether an activity is continuous or intermittent.
3. Determine the working intensity zones for endurance and the progression to be used throughout the training program.
4. Choose the methods to use in each macrocycle and the progression of training means.
The coach can make use of online resources (e.g., www.pubmed.gov) to find relevant 
scientific literature about the metabolic, biomechanical, and neuromuscular characteristics of the sport. Online videos, of the competition level of the athletes being coached, can be 
used for biomechanical analysis purpose.
Retrospective Analysis
In this section the coach presents personal or team information (e.g., sport, gender, age, height, 
weight, body composition). To properly craft the performance predictions and objectives 
for the upcoming season, the coach must thoroughly analyze performance and behavior in 
the previous season. Performance achievements refer to competitive performance as well as performance on tests and standards. This information can be presented in a table (table 8.6).
TABLE 8.6 Hypothetical Analysis of Test Results for a Female Javelin ThrowerObjectivesPerformance Planned Achieved
1. Distance thrown 51.50 m 52.57 m
2. 30 m dash 4.80 s 4.7 s
3. Standing long jump 2.4 m 2.4 m
4. Overhead, two hands, medicine ball 
throws (6.6 lb, or 3 kg)18 m 21.4 m
Note: The factors presented are only examples; other factors (e.g., markers of muscular strength, changes in body 
composition, body mass) would be presented.

Periodization196
After analyzing the past year’s competitive performances, objectives, and tests or stan -
dards, the coach can determine the athlete’s state of preparation by analyzing each train -
ing factor. For physical preparation, the coach can analyze whether the indices of general 
and specific biomotor abilities development corresponded with the specific needs of the 
sport and whether they adequately supported the technical, tactical, and psychological 
preparation. Such information can be collected from competitions and test results, linking any improvement or decline in technical or tactical performance with the athlete’s rate of progress or regress as reflected in test scores. Often, improvement will prevail during 
the preparation phase, but regression occurs during the competitive phase as a result of 
inconsistent and inadequate physical preparation. Thus, the coach would continue specific physical preparation throughout the competitive phase and test the athlete’s progress con
-
sistently in each macrocycle, to collect objective data regarding the dynamics of physical preparation.
When examining technical preparation, the coach should evaluate the technical profi-
ciency of the athlete and to what extent technical training and ability affected the athlete’s 
performance. The coach should assess the effectiveness of past technical elements to deter-
mine whether to use them in the future. The time dedicated to improving technical ele-ments directly reflects the athlete’s level of technical proficiency and the fineness of the skill acquisition. Because muscular strength affects technical proficiency (5), the coach should determine whether the athlete has sufficient strength to undertake the technical elements 
required by the sport.
An analysis of tactical preparation should reveal whether tactical maneuvers were properly 
chosen and suited to the characteristics of the team, and whether they led to the solution of game problems. To conclude the retrospective analysis, the coach should indicate which, if 
any, of the past year’s strategic tools should be eliminated, maintained as part of the team’s strategies, or perfected so that the team’s efficiency will improve in the next training year.
The coach also has to investigate the athlete’s psychological preparation and behavior and 
quality of nutrition plan, and how these factors affected the final performance. In assessing the athlete’s behavior, the coach would consider what happened during and outside of train -
ing (e.g., consider social factors); often it is the case that some elements outside of training 
significantly affect training and competitive performance.
Finally, the coach needs to collaborate with training specialists (e.g., strength and con-
ditioning coaches, exercise physiologists, sport scientists, nutritionists, physiotherapists) to 
determine how the strategies used in the previous year affected the athlete’s performance 
capacity. The conclusions of the retrospective analysis are then used to predict future progress 
and performance and to establish specific training and competitive objectives for the new annual training plan.
Performance Prediction
One of the coach’s important duties is determining the skills and abilities that need to be developed and the performances that need to be achieved between the date of planning and the main contests. Performance prediction is a reference from which the objectives and 
standards for the annual training plan are generated. Achieving these objectives and standards 
increases the athlete’s likelihood of attaining the highest possible competitive performance. For instance, a gymnastics coach scores routines and technical elements to see whether they are difficult enough to warrant a 15.01 average score (total points of 120.1 in the all-around), 
which is needed for a gymnast to place in the top six at the women’s national champion-
ships. Following such an analysis, the coach decides what technical elements need to be incorporated from the previous year’s routines and the skills that may need to be added to 
achieve the predicted score during the next training year. This prediction must consider the 
gymnast’s ability and skill level in order to be realistic.
Performance prediction for team sports is more difficult than for individual sports because 
there are many more factors that can affect performance. Among the few aspects that the 

Periodization of the Annual Plan197
coach can predict are the technical elements, tactical maneuvers, and level of ability that the 
players must acquire to improve performance during the next year’s annual training plan.
For sports in which performance is objectively and precisely measured (e.g., track and 
field, weightlifting, track cycling), performance prediction is easier. With these sports the coach examines the best results achieved in the previous training year and uses the athlete’s rate of improvement to predict the level that the athlete can attain in the next training year. 
For example, the performances of men rowing in a major regatta can be predicted with this 
process (table 8.7). Using these predictions and considering the athletes’ abilities and poten-tial for improvement, the coach can set the standards for his or her crews and the placing 
expectations for a specific regatta (table 8.8). Using performance prediction, the coach sets 
realistic objectives for each training factor and prepares the chart of the annual training plan.
TABLE 8.8 Minimum Performance Prediction and Placing Expectation  
 in a Major Regatta
Event Performance (min) Predicted place
Eight 5:45 VI-VIII
Quad 5:58 VI-VIII
Coxless four 6:12 III-V
Coxed four 6:20 VII-IX
Double skull 6:30 III-V
Coxless pair 6:50 V-VI
Single skull 7:10 VII-IX
Coxed pair 7:15 VI-IXTABLE 8.7 Performance Prediction for Three Events for the Places of Male  
 Rowers in the Olympic Games (Events Listed in Speed Order)
EventPerformance (min) by place
I II-III IV-VI VI-IX
Eight 5:38 5:41 5:45 5:50
Coxless four 6:05 6:09 6:13 6:17
Single skull 6:53 6:56 6:58 7:04
Objectives
In both the annual training plan and the planning projection, the objectives must be pre-sented in a methodological sequence with precise and concise language. The objectives are 
established based on past performances, test standards achieved, the rate of improvement 
for skills and performance, and the dates of the main competitions. In setting objectives, the coach must consider the dominant training factor and the factors that are poorly developed and thus limit the athlete’s competitive and training potential. Then the coach determines 
the order of training priorities according to the limiting factors (e.g., physical, technical, 
nutrition plan, or psychological preparation).

Periodization198
The methodological sequence and presentation of each training factor are as follows:
1. Performance objective
2. Physical preparation (e.g., strength, speed, endurance, flexibility, or coordination)
3. Technical preparation (offensive and defensive skills)
4. Tactical preparation (offensive and defensive individual and team tactics)
5. Psychological preparation
6. Nutrition plan
7. Theoretical preparation
This does not mean that the coach should stress each factor in this sequence. Rather she 
should give priority to those factors for which the athlete is proportionately underdeveloped 
and those that are primary to all athletes participating in the sport.
While setting objectives, the coach should consider and state the probability (percentage 
chance) of achieving those objectives, especially the performance objective. Although this 
process relies on objective facts, it may be warranted to consider subjective assessments 
(e.g., the athlete’s reserve, improvement potential, and psychological traits). Objectives for a hypothetical volleyball player are presented in table 8.9.
TABLE 8.9 Objectives for a Volleyball Player
Performance factors
Item Objective Probability of achievement
Performance Take first place in the junior national 
championships.80%
Place in the top six in the senior 
national championships.50%-60%
Training factors
Item Factor Objective
Physical preparation Strength Improve leg strength to increase jumping ability.
Speed Improve short speed to facilitate quicker foot-
work for blocking and defense.
Endurance Improve power endurance required in long 
games and tournaments.
Flexibility Improve both shoulder and ankle flexibility.
Technical preparation Serving Improve serving consistency.
Spiking Improve spiking accuracy.
Blocking Improve blocking ability.
Tactical preparation Offense Improve spiking in a 6-0 system.
Defense Improve timing and quickness of blocking.
Psychological preparation Develop the ability to play calmly and with confi-
dence following a mistake.
Nutrition
Theoretical preparation Know all penalties that the referee may call.

Periodization of the Annual Plan199
Competition Calendar
Establishing the competition calendar is an important aspect of the annual training plan. The 
competitive schedule is established by the coach in accordance with the events scheduled by 
the national, conference, or international governing body. In this process, competitions are 
selected that best suit the athlete’s needs, level of development, performance capacity, skills, and psychological traits. Although athletes should contribute to the planning process, espe-cially elite athletes, the coach has the decisive role in establishing the competitive schedule.
The major championship or main competitive objective of the training year is the central 
factor used to establish the periodized training plan and the competitive calendar. Other official and unofficial competitions should be of secondary importance. However, these 
competitions serve an important role in allowing the coach to assess the athlete’s develop-
ment and preparation level for the main competitions targeted by the annual plan. These competitions are spread over the competitive phase and are most prominent during the precompetitive subphase. Competitions should not be scheduled early in the preparatory 
phase because the focus during this phase is on physical preparation and skill development 
rather than performance. Ideally, major competitions and secondary competitions are alter-nated in the plan. Although team sports have many league or official games, competitions are sometimes scarce in individual sports. To maintain the unity of the annual training 
plan throughout the competitive phase, the coach should consider organizing preparatory 
competitions that can be integrated into the training plan.
When arranging the competitions in the annual plan, the coach must consider the princi-
ple of progressive increase in training load, in which preparatory competitions of secondary 
importance must lead into major competitions that are more challenging. Although this 
method is ideal, it is not always possible, especially in team sports in which sport govern-ing bodies set the competition calendar. The number of competitions in the competition 
calendar can have a profound effect on the ability of the athlete to achieve the performance 
objectives. A heavy, demanding competition schedule, as often occurs in team sports, may result in a premature elevation in performance readiness that in turn leads to a less than optimal performance at the end of the competitive phase when the major contest is planned. 
Conversely, participating in too few competitions can decrease readiness for competitions and 
prevent the athlete from achieving the planned performance objective. Therefore, planning can become a delicate balancing act between too many and too few competitions in the 
calendar. Two important criteria can be used to establish the optimal number of competi-
tions: the nature of the sport and the athlete’s performance level or developmental status. For sports in which the effort is intense and for athletes with low performance capabilities, 15 to 25 competitions per year may suffice. With elite athletes, especially those involved in 
team sports (e.g., premier league soccer), more contests (>30) may be planned.
Once the competition schedule is established it should not be changed, because the 
entire annual training plan is based on this schedule. Coaches who work with high school or university athletes should not plan any competitions, especially important ones, during 
examination periods. Similarly, athletes should not participate in any official or demand-ing competitions during the last two microcycles before the main contest (tapering phase). 
During these two microcycles, the coach and athlete should focus on training and make 
relatively few changes based on results of the previous secondary competitions. Each contest, whether primary or secondary, will tax the athlete physically and mentally. Recovery and 
regeneration must be built into the training plan, especially after secondary contests that 
lead into the main competitions targeted by the annual training plan.
Tests and Standards
The evaluation of specific tests and standards related to a sport is a crucial part of devel-oping a periodized training plan. These evaluations need to be organized, systematic, and 
consistently performed across the annual training plan to garner detailed information about 

Periodization200
the athlete’s progress. Monitoring training by using tests and standards provides the coach 
an objective means with which to quantify the athlete’s evolution, potential for stagnation, 
or risk of performance deterioration. By monitoring training, the coach can evaluate the 
dose–response relationship, and thus optimize the training load to help the athlete achieve optimal performance at the appropriate time.
An athlete monitoring program can include specific physical tests that are periodically 
performed by the athlete to evaluate markers of the athlete’s progress. More specific testing can be used to identify the athlete’s strengths and weaknesses. Test results are then evaluated in relation to established performance standards. To ensure the effectiveness of a testing 
battery, the tests used must be valid (measure what they are supposed to measure), reliable 
(repeatable), and related to factors that affect the actual competitive performance. To truly 
understand the athlete’s status, the coach must select diverse tests that evaluate more than 
just competitive performance results (23). For example, swimming performance is affected by speed, stroke mechanics, and start and turning ability. In addition, physiological fac-
tors such as anaerobic power and capacity, muscle power and flexibility, and general and 
specific endurance affect swimming performance. Actual swim performance should also be evaluated, but time should not be the only focus. The coach should examine technical proficiency at each training session, as it can then offer insight into the athlete’s progress by relating technical skill level with competitive performance (23). Therefore, to monitor a 
swimmer’s preparation, the coach should periodically use tests that address these factors. A 
large amount of research has been conducted that correlates specific tests with performance in specific sporting activities, and this research can be used to establish performance-based 
testing procedures.
The testing battery should be based on metabolic specificity (bioenergetics), sport speci-
ficity (biomechanical or movement pattern), and the athlete’s training status (1 1). Athletes 
should be familiarized with the testing procedures but should not directly train to master 
the test because this distorts the evaluative ability of the test itself. Obviously, the test may 
contain an activity that is germane to the training process and is frequently encountered during the training plan. For example, a common exercise used to train lower-body strength 
is the back squat, and this same exercise is often used to evaluate lower-body strength. So 
Main Objectives of the Tests Contained  
in an Athlete Monitoring Program
 •To monitor the athlete’s rate of improvement in specific biomotor abilities or skills
 •To determine skill status and ability level, which can then be used to guide training
 •To determine the athlete’s training content
 •To determine the athlete’s strengths, weaknesses, and limitations
 •To test improvement in tactical skills or maneuvers
 •To evaluate body mechanics and movement skill (analytically, at the very beginning of the 
preparation, then at each training session afterward)
 •To determine appropriate standards in all training factors
 •To evaluate and develop psychological attributes or traits
 •To evaluate the athlete’s potential for overtraining
 •To evaluate the impact of the nutrition plan on performance and body composition
 •To monitor the dose–response relationship in the training plan

Periodization of the Annual Plan201
in this instance an athlete would train the back squat to develop leg strength and use a 
one-repetition maximum test with the back squat to evaluate maximum strength.
The testing battery should be concise (four to eight performance tests) and the tests 
should be highly related to the sport in question. For example, Stone and colleagues (27) reported that maximum strength as assessed by the snatch and isometric midthigh pull is strongly related to throwing ability in university shot put and weight bag throwers. There-
fore, it makes sense to evaluate maximum strength throughout the annual training plan of 
university throwers. Haff and colleagues (9) used a biweekly testing battery that included assessments of body mass, body fat, lean body mass, hormonal responses to training, and 
force–time curve characteristics (peak force, rate of force development with isometric and 
dynamic movements) in elite women weightlifters. The testing battery was simple to per-
form, and changes in the force–time curve characteristics were related to the training plan. 
Interestingly, the maximization of peak force and peak rate of force development were shown to be related to weightlifting performance (8). Thus, this simple battery of tests was able to 
differentiate the level of preparedness of these athletes.
The tests used across the annual training plan and the dates of testing should be decided 
when the coach constructs the annual training plan. The first tests should occur during the 
first microcycle of the preparatory phase. By conducting the test at this time, the coach can 
determine the athlete’s level of preparation and make any modifications to the annual training 
plan. Each macrocycle targets specific objectives, and testing can be conducted to determine whether these objectives are accomplished. Therefore, some form of testing should be con
-
ducted during 1 or 2 days at the end of each preparatory phase and precompetitive subphase macrocycle. This testing is used to evaluate the athlete’s preparatory status during these phases. 
If the test results reveal consistent improvement, the original training structure should be 
maintained. Conversely, if the results indicate stagnation or decrease in the specific test mea
-
sures, then the coach may need to modify the next training cycle. The coach must be careful when evaluating testing data because the phase of training may cause expected decreases in 
specific performance characteristics. For example, during the general preparation phase where 
training volume, work load, and fatigue are the highest, one might expect declines in markers of maximum power-generating capacity. On the other hand, during the competitive phase one would expect elevations in power-generating capacity. During the competitive phase of 
the annual training plan, testing sessions should be planned only if the time between two 
competitions is 4 to 5 weeks. During this phase the competitions themselves provide ideal opportunities to evaluate the athlete’s training status. Regardless of which phase of the annual 
training plan the testing sessions occur in, the coach must keep detailed records about the 
athlete’s test results. The more organized the data, the easier it is to perform a longitudinal analysis of the athlete’s rate of improvement and adaptation to the training plan.
In the written plan, the coach should indicate the test for each training factor using dif-
ferent colors or symbols. The coach should establish standards for each test, especially for 
physical and technical factors, while compiling the annual plan. Standards from the previ-
ous training year can serve as reference points for achieving each standard. This progression should reflect the athlete’s rate of improvement and level of adaptation to the program. For novice athletes who are just beginning a structured training program, the results of the first testing session can be used as the reference point for further planning.
The coach must be careful when establishing standards because they provide incentives 
for preparation and progress. Standards must present a challenge but also must be realistic enough that the athlete can achieve them. For athletes who are aiming for high levels of 
performance, the standards must resemble those of other top athletes. There are two types 
of standards; evolutionary standards and maintenance standards. Evolutionary standards are slightly superior to the athlete’s potential and stimulate increases in performance; maintenance standards aim to preserve an optimal level of preparation. The time frame of 
training that progresses the athlete toward these standards should include a maximum of 
two macrocycles between each testing period. If the athlete has not achieved the standard within two macrocycles, the coach must determine why. For simplicity, the results of the 
tests and standards can be presented in a table (table 8.10).

Periodization202
Periodization Model
The periodization of the annual plan provides the model to follow in training. The compe-
tition schedule should be used as a foundation from which the most suitable annual plan 
is constructed (monocycle, bi-cycle, tri-cycle, or multipeak structure). After selecting the 
annual plan structure in accordance with the competition calendar, the coach determines the duration of each phase and subphase of training (figure 8.16). After placing each training phase, the coach sequences the macrocycles in accordance with the periodization of biomotor 
abilities. Each macrocycle states the direction of the training process. The coach can further 
specify the training process by inserting the progression of biomotor ability development or specifying the periodization of certain training means.
Preparation Model
The preparation model is a synopsis of the entire annual training plan. It delineates the main qualities and quantitative parameters used in training and the percentage increment 
per parameter between the current and previous annual plans. The coach must link the 
preparation model with the whole structure of the annual plan and its objectives. An expe-rienced coach might predict the duration and number of workouts required to develop the necessary skills and abilities to accomplish the objectives. A preparation model can be 
structured as shown in table 8.1 1.
The model presented in table 8.1 1 assumes that to reach a higher performance level, the 
athlete must increase his aerobic and muscular endurance. This is accomplished by elevating training volume, prolonging the preparatory phase, and increasing the number of training TABLE 8.10 Tests and Standard for a Preparatory Phase of Training  
 in University Throwers
Tests Measures August 23 September 20 October 18 
Biometrics Body mass (kg) 101.0 101.5 103.0
Lean body mass (kg) 78.3 78.8 80.2
Body composition (%) 21.9 21.5 21.5
Isometric 
midthigh pullPeak force (N) 2,881 2,894 3,002
Peak rate of force 
development (N/s) 15,047 18,873 18,000
Resistance  
training Snatch (kg) 61.8 65.5 67.7
Throwing Shot put (m) 11.99 12.25 12.63
Weight bag throw (m) 11.55 12.43 12.97
Adapted from Stone et al. 2003 (26).
N/s= Newtons per second; N= Newtons

Periodization of the Annual Plan203
E6954/Bompa/F08.16/578615/mh-R11 week
After short competitive phase
2.2) Transition phase
2.2) Competitive phase
2.2) Preparatory phase
Precompetitive subphase
Standard approach
Level of athlete
Beginner
++ GP -- SPElite
-- GP ++ SPAvailable time
++ Time
++ GP -- SP-- Time
-- GP ++ SPDuration depends onFor test competitions 3) Subphases
General preparation Specific preparation2) Phases1) Dates of competition
+ number microcyclesPlanning
After there is
Before
2/3 GP
1/3 SP2 weeksAfter long competitive phase
FIGURE 8.16 Flow chart of the compiling of the annual plan.
GP = general preparation; SP = specific preparation.
Courtesy of Dott. Giovanni Altomari, ISCI-SSC.
sessions to correspond with an increase in the total number of hours spent training. Also, 
modifying the ratio between different methods and types of training will enhance muscular 
endurance and aerobic endurance.
To improve both aerobic and muscular endurance through strength training and special 
water exercises, the training content can be altered with the guidelines presented in table 
8.12. The breakdown per training phase may occur as in table 8.13. In addition to including 
these sections of an annual plan, the coach should consider the team or club’s organizational 
and administration structure, including the budget and equipment needs.

204TABLE 8.11 Preparatory Model for a 400 m Swimmer
Training factor Symbol/units Volume (%)Change over  
previous year (%)
Type of annual training plan Monocycle
Periodization
Duration of annual plan (days)
Preparatory phase (days)Competitive phase (days)
Transition phase (days)322
182119
21 100
56.537
6.5>8
<5<3
Macrocycles (n) 9
Microcycles (n)
At the clubAt national camp
Abroad 46
413
2
Competitions (n)
International
NationalRegional 7
2
41
Training lessons (n) 554 >6
Hours of training 1,122 <8.4
Tests (n) 16
Medical controls (n) 3
Specific training (days)
Swimming (km)2662,43682.6 >3>6
Nonspecific training (days)
Running (km)Strength training (kgm)Games (h)14
640
460,000284.4>2
>2
>14>1
Rest (days) 42 13 <8
TABLE 8.12 Model of Training Content for the Annual Plan and Alterations  
 of Each Element Compared With the Previous Year 
ContentContent of annual plan 
(%)Change from previous year (%)
Anaerobic endurance and speed 2 <6
Muscular endurance 16 >2
Racing tempo endurance 32 0
Aerobic endurance over medium distance 24 >2
Aerobic endurance over long distance 20 >2

Periodization of the Annual Plan205
TABLE 8.13  Alterations of Training Content and Its Percentage per Training  
 Phase Between the Previous and Current Annual Plan
ContentPreparatory 
phase (%)Change (%)Competitive phase (%)Change (%)
Anaerobic endurance and speed 5 <4 8 <2
Muscular endurance 10 >2 16 >3
Racing tempo endurance 20 <2 36 <2
Aerobic endurance over medium distance 30 >3 20 >2
Aerobic endurance over long distance 35 >5 20 >4
Summary of Major Concepts
The annual training plan is the cornerstones of a well-structured training program. Irrespective 
of the coach’s knowledge of sport science, if his planning and organizational skills are poor, 
his training effectiveness will be low. The fundamental concept for good annual planning 
is periodization, especially structuring the phases of biomotor abilities development. The periodization of strength, speed, and endurance represents the manipulation of different training phases with specific goals, organized in a specific sequence, with the ultimate scope 
of creating high levels of sport-specific adaptations. When this happens, the athlete is phys-
iologically equipped to perform at her best.
A good understanding of periodization will help the coach produce better annual train-
ing plans, using the chart to direct the training process. The competition schedule should guide the structure of the training phases. The periodization of nutrition and psychological training should be integrated into the annual training plan as well. The coach can tailor the annual plan chart to meet the needs of the athletes.

This page intentionally left blank

2079Peaking  
for Competition
Athletes, coaches, and sport scientists work continually to facilitate the development
of physiological adaptations that underlie optimal performance. Athletes undergo rigorous 
training plans that require them to train at high loads, interspersed with unloading phases, to optimize performance at major competitions. Peaking an athlete’s performance usually is accomplished by reducing the training load for a predetermined time prior to major competitions. This period of reduced training is termed a taper. To optimize performance at the appropriate time and achieve peak condition, coaches and athletes must understand how to integrate tapers and competitions into the annual training plan.
Training Conditions for Peaking
Achieving superior athletic performance is the direct outcome of an athlete’s morphofunc-tional adaptations to various types of stimuli, represented by the training process. The train-ing process is organized and planned over various phases, during which an athlete reaches certain training states. Peaking for a competition is complex, and the athlete cannot realize it on short notice; rather, the athlete attains it in a sequential, cumulative manner and must make progress through other training states before the state of peaking occurs.
Figure 9.1 displays the evolution of peaking during a monocycle annual plan. A detailed 
explanation of each term will bring better understanding of the concept of training states. Degree of training represents the foundation on which the coach may base other training states. As a result of organized and systematic training, the athlete’s biomotor abilities devel-opment reaches a high level, as does his acquisition of skills and tactical maneuvers. These improvements are reflected through above average results as well as high standards in all tests toward the end of the preparatory phase. An athlete who has reached a high degree of training is, therefore, someone who has achieved a high level of physical and psychological adaptation to the coach’s training programs and has perfected all of the pertinent biomotor abilities required by the sport or event. Thus, degree of training and preparedness are synonymous. When the level of adap-tation is low, other training states are adversely affected (e.g., psychological and readiness for competitions); this decreases the magnitude of athletic shape and, implicitly, the reachable level of peak of performance.
Preparedness may be general or specific. General prepared-
ness signifies a high adaptation to different forms of training; specific preparedness signifies the athlete has adapted to the specific training requirements of a sport. It is on such a solid base or degree of training during the competitive phase that the athlete attains the state of athletic shape. Papoti and colleagues wrote, “A high level of preparedness is determined by fairly stable factors, whose training effect realization require a long 
E6954/Bompa/F09.01/578619/mh-R2Peaking
PreparatoryDegree of training
Competitive
TransitionMain
competition
Athletic shape
FIGURE 9.1  Accumulation and ele vation of training 
states throughout training phases in a monocycle.

Periodization208
5period of time, and thus is not subject to sudden changes: the 
development of biomotor abilities, the capacity of functional 
systems, the level of technical-tactical skills, and so on” (53b).
During the competitive phase, athletes are often heard to 
say that they are in good or bad shape. The state of athletic 
shape (or readiness1) is an extension of the degree of train-
ing, during which the athletes may perform and attain results 
close to their maximum capacity, depending on the degree 
of dissipation of residual fatigue while maintaining her level of preparedness.
2 This paramount training state, which is 
achieved through specialized training programs (including the 
cycling unloading of training to reduce fatigue), precedes and 
incorporates the process of peaking for the main competition 
of the year. The state of athletic shape is the basis from which 
the athlete initiates peaking, or the moment during which a high level of preparedness and the highest level of readiness 
coincide (figure 9.2).
Peaking, as the highlight of athletic shape, results in the 
athlete’s best performance of the year. It is a temporary train-
ing state in which physical and psychological efficiencies are maximized and the levels of technical and tactical preparation 
are optimal (high preparedness), while the absence of residual 
fatigue (readiness) allows the athlete to produce the highest possible performance.
Peaking
The ultimate goal of an athlete’s training plan is to optimize performance in specific competitions throughout the training 
year. This goal is accomplished through careful sequencing of 
the annual training plan. The foundation for peaking an ath-lete’s performance is established during the preparatory and competition phases of training, when the athlete builds her 
physical, tactical, and technical training base (64, 65). During 
the later portions of the competition phase of training, the process of peaking an athlete for specific competition is initi-
ated (figure 9.3). Peaking, or tapering as it is sometimes called 
(64, 65), is a complex process that can be affected by many factors including the training volume, frequency, and intensity (19). If the taper is implemented correctly, peaking occurs in 
response to the physiological and psychological adaptations 
induced by the training plan (19, 41). The taper is one of the most critical phases of an athlete’s readiness for competition (19). Tapers are widely used by athletes from various sports 
to gain a performance edge over their competitors (10, 21, 24, 
26, 34, 35, 38, 50, 63).
1 The state of “readiness to perform” is achieved on the base of a high level of preparedness and […] its formation is 
quite rapid […]. Differently from the state of preparedness, readiness is affected by considerable fluctuations,” accord-
ing to Papoti and colleagues (53b).
2 Athletic shape is formed by stable and unstable components. The unstable components are those that affect the 
degree of readiness to perform of the athlete. The interaction between the stable and unstable components of the ath -
letic shape determines the dynamics of competition performance," according to Matveyev (32b).E6954/Bompa/F09.02/578620/mh-R21 2 3 4 Load/fatigue
Readiness
Loading
microcyclesUnloading
microcycleTraining load
FIGURE 9.2 The fluctuation of the readiness curve 
is opposed to that of the training load: as the load 
increases throughout a macrocycle, the level of read-
iness decreases; as the training load is decreased during unloading microcycles, the level of readiness 
increases. The highest level of performance is achieved 
when preparedness and readiness curves meet.
E6954/Bompa/F09.03/578621/mh-R1General
preparationSpecific
preparationVolumeIntensityPerformance
Taper
PreparatoryCompetitive
Peaking
FIGURE 9.3 Dynamics of volume, intensity, and 
performance level throughout an annual plan.

Peaking for Competition209
Defining a Taper
Many definitions have been used to describe how an athlete’s training plan is modified in 
the final days before a competition (4, 39, 41, 44, 59, 62). When attempting to peak an 
athlete for competition, the coach reduces the workload prior to the competition (41). The 
reduction in workload that is used during this time is considered a taper (4, 41, 61). Tradi-tionally, a taper is simply defined as a reduction in training workload prior to a competition (58). Mujika and Padilla (40) defined a taper as “a progressive non-linear reduction of the 
training load during a variable period of time, in an attempt to reduce the physiological 
and psychological stress of daily training and optimize sports performance” (p. 80). This definition expands on the traditional definition by including some implications for the 
design of the taper (41).
Primary Aim of a Taper
The goal of a taper is to optimize the athlete’s performance at a specific time (4, 19, 41, 59). 
This is usually accomplished by systematically reducing the training load to decrease the cumulative fatigue (both physiological and psychological) that is generated in response to 
training while maintaining sport-specific fitness (41). The taper allows the athlete to reduce 
the internal load (residual fatigue), thus elevating performance (41, 61). This contention is supported in the scientific literature, which shows that accumulated fatigue is reduced during a taper period while readiness slightly increases (35), thereby improving performance. 
As fatigue is dissipated in response to the taper, the athlete may realize significant positive 
psychological alterations, such as a reduction in perception of effort, improved mood, a reduction in sense of fatigue, and an increased sense of vigor (20, 41, 56). These findings 
indicate that at the initiation of a taper, the physiological adaptations to the training pro-
gram have already occurred (41) and are probably masked by accumulated fatigue (60), whereas the psychological adaptations will occur in response to the taper. Thus, the taper is a mechanism for decreasing both physiological and psychological fatigue, allowing for 
performance gains.
Premise of Tapering
The fitness–fatigue relationship is a central concept underlying the appropriate implemen-
tation of a taper (5, 60). An athlete’s readiness to perform is variable because it is directly affected by changes in the levels of fitness and fatigue generated in response to training (6, 
64, 65). Readiness is optimized by using training plans that maximize the fitness response while minimizing the development of fatigue (54). When training workload is high, read-iness is low as a result of a high level of accumulated fatigue.
The premise behind a taper is to dissipate accumulated fatigue (achieving a higher level 
of readiness) while retaining fitness (preparedness). Because the level of acquired fitness is relatively stable over several minutes, hours, and days, it is considered to be a slow-changing 
component of athletic preparedness. Conversely, fatigue is considered to be a fast-changing 
component because it is highly variable and is affected by physiological and psychological stressors (64, 65). Thus, when the training load is decreased during a taper, the accumulated 
fatigue is dissipated somewhat rapidly, whereas physical potential is maintained for a given 
duration depending on the type of taper used and the total workload preceding the taper (4, 5).
Although the premise behind a taper is somewhat simple, the implementation of a taper 
is complex. If the duration of the taper is too long, the level of readiness achieved by the training program can dissipate, resulting in a state of detraining (40) and a reduction in per-formance level (figure 9.4). This reduction in training load can be considered a compromise 
between the extent of the training reduction and the duration of this reduction (61), which 
combine to determine level of readiness to perform. If, for example, the training workload 

Periodization210
prior to the taper was very high, a greater reduction or duration of a taper would be necessary 
to maximize the decrease in fatigue required to elevate readiness (30, 61). Thus, the taper is 
more than simply reducing the training load; it involves integrating many factors to elevate 
the athlete’s readiness and optimize performance.
Factors Affecting a Taper
There are many strategies for including a taper in an annual training plan (4). The key compo-nent of each of these strategies is to alter the training plan to reduce training load (i.e., train-
ing volume, intensity, and even frequency). The effectiveness of these reductions in training 
load will depend on the duration of the taper (59) and its relationship to the training load that preceded the taper (61). If the taper lasts too long, both fatigue and physical potential (preparedness) will be decreased, which would lead to detraining (40). In this situation, 
performance would not increase, and the taper would be deemed ineffective. Therefore, the 
coach must understand the interactions of training intensity, volume of training, training frequency, and the duration of the taper.
Training Intensity
The scientific literature indicates that when reducing volume and frequency during a taper, it might be warranted to maintain or slightly elevate the training intensity (4, 24, 30, 34, 41, 
50, 59). It appears that the training intensity during the taper is closely related to the ability 
to maintain training-induced performance adaptations during periods of reduced training load (17, 58). It has also been suggested that the training intensity is a key factor in main-taining training-induced physiological adaptations during the taper (4, 44). When examining 
endurance training studies, researchers have noted that lower training intensities (≤70% 
V.  O
2max) during the taper period tend to result in a decrease or maintenance of endurance 
performance (25, 33). Conversely, when higher intensities (≥90% V.  O2max) are included 
in the taper, performance tends to increase (58). Similarly, when examining strength and 
power training, investigators have determined that maintaining intensity during the taper, E6954/Bompa/F09.04/578622/mh-R2Duration of taper (days or weeks)Optimal taper lengthSuboptimal taper length: taper duration too long
Taper
FatigueReadinessPreparednessTraining volumeDetraining
effect
FIGURE 9.4 Interrelationship of fatigue, preparedness, readiness, and taper length. During the 
taper fatigue decreases rapidly, while preparedness is maintained for a little longer depending on 
the composition of the taper and the preceding workload. However, if the taper extends for too long, 
preparedness will dissipate until detraining occurs.

Peaking for Competition211
while decreasing training volume, enhances strength (1 1, 27) and power performance (6b, 
31b). Thus, it seems warranted to maintain the training intensity during the taper period 
and adjust the workload by manipulating training volume or frequency or the duration of 
the taper (41, 59) (see Recommended Tapering Strategies).
Training Volume
Reducing training volume during a taper to reduce the training load is the method that is probably the most discussed in the scientific literature (4, 19, 34, 41, 59, 61). The volume 
of training can be decreased during a taper by reducing the duration of each training ses-
sion, reducing training frequency, or both (4, 41). Decreasing the duration of each training 
session is preferable to reducing the training frequency, because the former appears to exert 
a greater effect on the effectiveness of a taper (4).
The pretaper training volume will dictate how much training volume must be decreased 
during the taper period to maximize performance outcomes. Tapers that range between a 50% and 90% reduction in training volume have been reported in the scientific literature on swimming (28, 36, 37, 42, 62), running (22, 23, 25, 33, 38, 39, 58), cycling (32, 47, 48, 57), triathlon (2, 49, 63), and strength training (1 1, 27). In well-trained endurance athletes (e.g., cycling and running), a standardized 50% to 70% reduction in training volume has 
been reported to maintain or increase training-induced adaptations (22, 23, 25, 32, 33, 
57). Progressive tapers that result in a 75% reduction in training volume appear to optimize taper-induced outcomes, compared with a 50% reduction in training volume (38). It appears 
that low-volume tapers result in better physiological and performance outcomes, compared 
with moderate-volume tapers (58).
The scientific literature indicates that a 41% to 60% reduction in training volume during the 
taper results in optimal performance improvements (4). However, the percentage reduction 
in training volume is related to the pretaper training workload and the planned duration of 
the taper. If the training load prior to the taper is heavy, then a greater reduction in training volume, of the magnitude of 60% to 90% of pretaper loads, may be warranted to dissipate 
fatigue (41, 61) (see Recommended Tapering Strategies). If training volume is substantially 
reduced, a shorter duration of taper may be warranted to offset the loss of training-induced adaptations that would result in a decrease in physical potential performance (30). See table 9.1 for a summary of the factors that influence training volume during the taper.
Recommended Tapering Strategies
 •Use tapering strategies to dissipate fatigue, maintain physical capabilities, elevate readi-
ness, and improve performance.
 •Create individualized taper strategies that last between 1 and 2 weeks.
 •Maintain moderate to high training intensities during the taper to avoid detraining.
 •Decrease training volume by 41% to 60% of pretaper volumes. If extensive training precedes the taper, it may be warranted to decrease training volume by 60% to 90% of pretaper volumes.
 •Maintain training frequency at 80% or more of pretaper frequencies.
 •Use progressive, nonlinear taper models.
 •Expect performance gains of approximately 3% in response to the taper.
Adapted from Mujika and Padilla 2003 (41), Mujika 1998 (34), and Bosquet et al. 2002 (4).

Periodization212
Training Frequency
Reducing training frequency is another popular method for reducing the training load during 
a taper (14, 18, 41, 59). Several studies report that reductions of the magnitude of 50% 
of pretaper training frequencies can increase performance (18, 28). Decreases in training frequency for 2 weeks have been shown to result in maintenance of training-induced phys-iological and performance outcomes in athletic groups (22, 23, 25, 32, 33, 41, 44, 50, 57). 
This literature indicates that modulating training frequencies might be a successful method 
for altering training volume.
Although physiological adaptations can be maintained with 30% to 50% of pretaper 
training frequencies in moderately trained individuals, it has been suggested that highly trained athletes may need a greater frequency of training during the taper period to maintain technical proficiency (41). These findings indicate that training frequency should be main-tained at 80% or more of pretaper training values to optimize performance outcomes and TABLE 9.1 Factors Affecting Training Volume in the Taper
Characteristic Effect on taper volume
Load of pretaper
MacrocycleHigh Greater reduction
Low Smaller reduction
Taper duration Short Greater reduction
Long Smaller reduction
Type of load reduction Linear Higher mean volume; lower final volume
Step Lower mean volume; higher final volume
Tapering training can help an athlete peak for a key competition.
Lindsey Parnaby/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images

Peaking for Competition213
maintain technical proficiency (4, 41) (see Recommended Tapering Strategies). For alactic 
power sports (60m dash, jumps and throws in track & field, diving) a lower training frequency 
during the taper, achieved by placing more off days within the microcycles, could favour 
the myosin heavy chain rebound to the fast IIX phenotype, thus improving performance. It is a common practice in high-level team sports to plan 2 or 3 days off from training either during the first week of the taper or between the first and second weeks.
This approach is taken because team sport athletes usually enter the taper period before 
tournaments or cup finals in an overreaching state due to the long competitive season. For this reason, for professional and national teams, sports medicine practitioners are strongly 
advised to check the athlete’s testosterone-to-cortisol ratio and level of free testosterone 
(possibly checking them throughout the season for comparative purposes). The results give 
strength and conditioning coaches more information to use in establishing training load 
during the taper for each player.
Duration of Taper
The duration of a taper is probably one of the most difficult things to determine (41), because many factors affect the taper. For example, the pretaper training workload can significantly affect the length of the taper necessary to dissipate training-induced fatigue and elevate 
readiness (61). The amount of volume reduction or the pattern of reduction during the taper 
affects the duration needed to elevate readiness while maintaining high adaptation level (preparedness). If a larger reduction in training volume is used, then a shorter duration of taper would be warranted (30, 61). Other factors (e.g., body weight, gender, weekly training 
hours, and load-reduction strategy) influence the way the taper is planned (table 9.2).
Physiological, psychological, and performance improvements have been reported in the 
scientific literature for 1- to 4-week tapers (4), preferably 1-2 weeks for well-trained ath-letes . Several authors suggest that 8 to 14 days are necessary to dissipate fatigue and avoid 
the negative effects of detraining that might occur with a longer taper (4, 30). However, it appears that the duration of a taper is highly individualized (4, 41) as a result of differences in physiological and psychological adaptations to reductions in training load (4, 35, 43). 
Therefore, it is recommended that the taper duration be individualized for each athlete (see 
Recommended Tapering Strategies).
TABLE 9.2 Factors Affecting Duration of the Taper
Characteristics Effects on the duration of the taper 
Body weight High More lasting
Low Less lasting
Gender Male More lasting with less time dedicated to strength 
maintenance
Female Less lasting with more time dedicated to strength 
maintenance
Load of pretaper macrocycle High More lasting
Low Less lasting
Load reduction strategy 
during taperLinear More lasting
Step Less lasting
Weekly training hours High More lasting (>15 hours)
Low Less lasting (<10 hours)

Periodization214
Types of Tapers
Various taper formats have been proposed in the literature (4, 41). Tapers can be broadly 
defined as either progressive or nonprogressive. A progressive taper is marked by a sys-
tematic and progressive reduction in training load, whereas a nonprogressive taper uses standardized reductions in training load (41). Different loading characteristics can exist within each category of taper.
In a progressive taper, the training load is reduced in either a linear or an exponential 
fashion. Progressive tapers can be classified into three types: a linear taper, a slow exponen -
tial taper, and a fast exponential taper (figure 9.5) (41). The linear taper normally contains a higher mean training load than the loads seen in either a slow or fast exponential taper. 
A slow exponential taper tends to have a slower reduction in training load and higher 
training loads than those seen in a fast exponential taper (41). Fast exponential tapers appear to result in greater performance gains than linear or slow exponential tapers (2, 41, 63). For example, a comparison between fast and slow exponential tapers revealed 
that the fast exponential taper resulted in a 3.9% to 4.1% greater increase in markers of 
performance (41).
The nonprogressive taper, also called a step taper (2, 34, 41, 63), is accomplished with 
standardized reductions in training. This taper is often marked by sudden decreases in 
training load (61), which can increase the likelihood of a loss of physical potential during 
the taper (2). Step tapers have been shown by many studies to improve both physiological and performance adaptations to training (13, 17, 22, 23, 25, 32, 41, 51). However, the literature indicates that step tapers are less effective than either slow or fast progressive 
tapers (2, 4, 63). For example, Mujika and Padilla (41) reported that step tapers result in 
a 1.2% to 1.5% increase in markers of performance, whereas exponential tapers result in a 4.0% to 5.0% increase in performance. Authors usually recommend that an exponen
-
tial taper be used when attempting to peak an athlete’s performance for a competition  
(4, 41, 61).
The selection of the type of progressive taper will depend on many factors including the 
training load prior to the taper (61) and the duration of the taper (19). However, it appears 
that the fast exponential tapers should be selected in most instances (41) (see the Recom-
mended Tapering Strategies).
E6954/Bompa/F09.05/578627/mh-R11 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14100
90
80706050403020
10
0Exponential taper
(fast decay)Step taperExponential taper(slow decay)Linear taper
Days of taperPercentage of normal training volume
Normal training load
FIGURE 9.5 Four common types of tapers.
Adapted from Mujika and Padilla 2003 (41).

Peaking for Competition215
Expected Performance Improvements
The primary goal of any taper is to elevate performance at the appropriate time (4, 34, 41). 
Small improvements in performance may result in distinct differences in placing at the Olym-
pics. For example, Mujika and colleagues (43) reported that the difference between the gold 
medal and fourth place in swimming at the 2000 Sydney Olympics was only 1.62%, and the difference between third and eighth place was only 2.02%. At the 2004 Athens Olympics, the difference between first and third place in weightlifting was 1.96% (women = 2.21%; 
men = 1.73%). These data show that very small elevations in performance can have a great 
impact on performance outcomes and may mean the difference between winning and losing.
When examining the scientific literature, it has been reported that a properly implemented 
taper can result in significant improvements in performance (0.5% to 1 1.0%) and muscular strength and power (8% to 25%) in runners, triathletes, cyclists and swimmers (16, 24, 32, 38, 41, 48, 53, 58, 63). When specifically examining competition measures, it appears that a 0.5% to 6.0% (~3.0%) increase in performance can be expected in response to a preevent 
taper (41). Mujika and colleagues (43) reported that during a 3-week taper prior to the 2004 
Sydney Olympics, swimming performance was elevated by 2.2%. Interestingly, the magni-tude of this taper-induced increase in swimming performance was similar to the differences between first and fourth place (1.62%) and third and eighth place (2.02%) (4, 43).
Regarding muscular strength, it appears that a taper can result in a 2% to 8% increase in 
performance. Izquierdo and colleagues (27) reported that a taper protocol results in a 2.0% increase in back squat and bench press performance. A larger increase in strength performance in response to a taper protocol was reported by Coutts and colleagues (7), who found that 
a three-repetition maximum back squat strength increased by 7.2% and three-repetition 
maximum bench press increased by 5.2%. Gibala and colleagues (1 1) reported a 3% to 8% increase in maximal isometric and dynamic force-generating capacity.
A properly implemented taper can result in significant increases in performance. The 
magnitude of the performance gains will be related to many factors, especially the type of taper selected (41). The appropriate taper may result in an elevation of performance (about 3.0%) that differentiates between first and third place at the Olympic Games, because the 
magnitude of taper-induced gains in performance is similar to that of the difference between 
first and third place in many sports.
Competition Phase of the Annual Plan
The competition phase of the annual training plan is a complex training entity, with the objective of reaching the state of readiness for the major competitions of the year. This is 
facilitated by using tapering and peaking methods as well as effective planning of compe-
titions. Although the competitive period usually contains many competitions, a true peak of performance can only be maintained for about 7 to 14 days ( 52b); this suggests that the competition phase must be planned carefully to optimize the athlete’s performance.
Classifications of Competitions
Competitions can be classified into two broad categories: (1) major or official competitions and (2) preparatory or exhibition competitions.
Major competitions are the athlete’s most important competitions (e.g., national cham-
pionships, world championships, Olympic Games). These contests require the athlete to be at peak performance and often provide the guidelines for organizing the athlete’s annual training plan, especially for individual sports. Preparations for a major competition usually 
include a taper to dissipate accumulated fatigue and enhance the athlete’s readiness.
Preparatory or exhibition competitions are used to test the athlete and attain feedback 
regarding specific aspects of training. These competitions are integral to the preparation of the athlete and are an important part of the training plan. Often athletes will place these 

Periodization216
types of competitions at the end of the unloading microcycle without using any specific 
tapering strategies. Many coaches use these competitions to test some aspect of the athlete’s 
development, such as technical, tactical, or a given biomotor ability. Victory is not always 
the focus of these types of competitions; rather, they are undertaken as very high-intensity training sessions. However, victory in these competitions may yield valuable information about the athlete’s level of readiness which may then lead to alterations to the training plan.
Planning for Competition
The most important step in developing the annual training plan is to establish the compet-itive schedule for the athlete or team and to determine which competitions require peak 
form. The competition schedule is established by the sport’s governing body and culminates 
with the national, continental, or world championships. When determining the competitive schedule, the coach needs to select specific competitions that can be considered preparatory or exhibition contests and are scheduled to target specific training objectives. These contests 
are used as hard training days that target specific skill sets, so they can serve as important 
tools for preparing the athlete for major competitions.
Many coaches make two large mistakes when planning the competitive schedule for their 
athletes. The first mistake is to have the athlete participate in every available competition; this interrupts the athlete’s training and her ability to develop the physiological, technical, and tactical skills required for major competitions. The second major mistake is attempting to peak the athlete for every competition. If the athlete attempts to peak too frequently, she 
likely will need a large number of restoration-based training sessions and will not undergo 
Minor competitions and exhibition events at the beginning of the competition  
calendar are good ways to gauge how a training plan is working.
John Ewing/Portland Press Herald via Getty Images

Peaking for Competition217
enough actual training to enhance physiological, tactical, or technical characteristics. It is 
recommended that the athlete attempt to peak by using specific tapering strategies for only 
a very few competitions (two or three) and that the remainder of the competitive schedule 
consist of competitions of secondary emphasis preceded by a short unloading of 2 to 3 days (figure 9.6). Both of these common coaching errors can be avoided if the coach plans an appropriate competitive phase of training.
There are several ways to plan the competitive phase of training (52). If the athlete is 
preparing for one specific competition, the coach should use a simple competition training period; if two or more competitions are being prepared for, a complex competition training 
period is used (52). The number of macrocycles in the competitive period is dictated by the 
complexity of the competition phase of training (simple versus complex) and the athlete’s 
needs (52).
Two methods for planning the competitive phase of the annual training plan are tradi -
tionally used: the grouping and the cyclic approach. The grouping approach is a method 
of planning 2 or 3 weeks in a row, during which the athlete takes part in tournaments 
or competitions or participates in several events or races per weekend. As illustrated in 
figure 9.8, this approach is usually followed by several microcycles (3 or 4 weeks) that are dedicated to training and allow the athlete to prepare for another 2 or 3 weeks of grouped competitions.
In the example illustrated in figure 9.7, the athlete or team participates in a group of 
competitions spread over a 2-week period during the early part of the competitive schedule. 
During these 2 weeks, races or games may be held during each weekend. The first microcycle 
following these competitions is of low intensity, with the first 2 or 3 days of the cycle targeting a low training load designed to stimulate regeneration. After the first 2 or 3 days of the cycle are completed, the training load is increased, typically resulting in one peak of training load 
at the end of the microcycle. The next two and a half microcycles are dedicated to demanding 
training, followed by a short 2- or 3-day unloading period that leads into the next 3 weeks of competitions. The next major competition occurs on August 21 and is designated as the 
qualifying competition for the championships that are held on September 25. Because the 
August 21 contest is a major competition that serves as a qualifier for the championships, an 8- to 14-day exponential taper is used to elevate performance. After the athlete completes the qualifying competition, she enters a regeneration microcycle, followed by 2 to 2.5 weeks 
E6954/Bompa/F09.06/578631/mh-R1National championships (major emphasis)
World championships (major emphasis)Competition (minor emphasis)Qualifying competition (major emphasis)Training phase Competitive phase
Readiness
Dates
Macrocycles
Competitive
scheduleMay June July August September
158 1 22 29 5 12 18 26 310 17 24 31 714 21 28 4 11 18 25
6 7 8 9 10 11Peaking
FIGURE 9.6 Competitive calendar showing emphasis on readiness and peaking.

Periodization218
of hard training before undertaking another taper. If the schedule is structured correctly, 
performance will be optimized at the championships.
The grouping method usually is best suited for individual sports where only a few major 
competitions are undertaken throughout the annual training plan. With team sports, the grouping method may only be useful when teams approach national championships, inter-national competitions, or official international tournaments. Leagues of most team sports 
use a cyclic approach to determine the competitive schedule.
In the cyclic approach, competitions are spaced at regular, repeating intervals (figure 9.9). 
In figure 9.9, the vast majority of the competitions occur each weekend during macrocycles 8 and 9. This pattern of competition is often seen in American football, where competitions 
usually occur each weekend throughout the fall. The last two macrocycles (10 and 1 1) contain 
E6954/Bompa/F09.07/578632/mh-R1Regeneration UnloadingCompetition
Training
FIGURE 9.8 Cyclic pattern of the activities that 
induce good performance for competitions, while 
avoiding injuries.Competition Is Not a Substitute for Training
Many coaches maintain that participation in com -
petitions elevates an athlete’s preparation level. 
Although this is true to a certain extent, a coach should not expect to achieve an elevated level of physical potential and correct peaking through competition only, as coaches often attempt in some professional sports. Participation in com
-
petitions, especially during the precompetitive phase when exhibition contests are planned, does assist athletes with reaching a high state of readiness for the main competition of the year. During such competitions, they have the opportunity to test all training factors in the most specific way. To consider the competition as the only mean of improvement, however, deteriorates quality of training by curbing the main cycle of activity, which is training, unloading, competition, and regeneration (figure 9.8). Furthermore, some coaches, by omitting either the unloading before competitions or the regeneration afterward, are increasing the injury potential of their athletes, while never allowing them to compete in a state of readiness.E6954/Bompa/F09.08/578633/mh-R16 7 8 9 10 11158 1 22 29 5 12 19 26 310 17 24 31 714 21 28 4 11 18 25May June July August September
Competitive
scheduleMacrocyclesDatesCompetitive phase Training phase
Competition (minor emphasis)
Qualifying competition (major emphasis)Championships (major emphasis)
FIGURE 9.7 Competitive schedule based on the grouping approach.

Peaking for Competition219
the two major competitions of this competition phase. In American university football, the 
competition in macrocycle 10 would be the conference championships, whereas the contest 
in macrocycle 1 1 would be a national championship or bowl game. Because each microcy-
cle throughout macrocycle 8 and 9 ends with a game, a one-peak microcycle structure may be warranted. This peak or increased training load would occur on Tuesday or Wednesday. An unloading period would be used (1 or 2 days before each game) to dissipate fatigue 
and prepare the athlete for competition. Coaches who work with individual sports should 
consider using the cyclic approach in the lead-up to the major competitions (figure 9.10). In this approach the coach may take the athlete to competitions that occur every 2 weeks to 
E6954/Bompa/F09.09/578634/mh-R17 8 9 10 11158 1 22 29 5 12 19 26 310 17 24 31 714 21 28 4 11 18 25August September October November December
Competitive
scheduleMacrocyclesDatesCompetitive phase Training phase
Competition (minor emphasis)
Qualifying competition (major emphasis)Championships (major emphasis)
E6954/Bompa/F09.10/578635/mh-R21 2 3 4 5 61581 2229 512 19 26 2 916 23 30 714 21 28 4 11 18 25July August September October November
7 8 929 1623 30December
Competitive
scheduleMacrocyclesDatesCompetitive phase PreparatoryTraining
phase
Qualifying competition (major emphasis)
Championships (major emphasis)Competition (minor emphasis)Strong opponentKey:
FIGURE 9.10 Cyclic approach for a cross-country skier.FIGURE 9.9 Competition schedule for a team sport based on a cyclic approach.
gain information about the athlete in competitive situations. This will allow the coach to 
modify the training plan based on the feedback garnered from the periodic competitions.
In the cyclic approach, the first half of the week after a competition would contain a 
lower training load to enhance recovery, whereas the second half of the week would con-tain higher training loads (figure 9.1 1). The microcycle preceding the next competition would be structured so that the higher training loads are encountered earlier in the week 
(i.e., Tuesday or Wednesday) and unloading would occur in the second half of the week to 
facilitate recovery for the weekend competition. However, this is only an example of how a microcycle could be formatted; many different formats are available based on the type of 
taper and the competitive season. Although these two major approaches are often used to 
design the competitive phase of training, it is likely that the cyclic and grouped approaches can be combined when planning for competitions.
Competition Frequency
Determining the frequency of competitions is a complex undertaking. Factors such as the athlete’s characteristics, training age, and sport contribute to the frequency and number of 

Periodization220
competitions undertaken each year. The coach also must consider the length of the com-
petition phase, given that a longer phase would allow a greater number of competitions.
A primary determinant of the number of competitions undertaken by athletes is their 
age and training experience (9). The less experienced the child or youth athlete, the less frequently he should compete (9). If the athlete’s training is centered on multilateral devel-opment, the young athlete will increase the number of competitive starts progressively as 
his skills develop and as his training plan increases the emphasis on specialization (45, 55). 
Kauhanen (29) suggested that as the young athlete becomes more trained, the number of major competitions should increase each year (table 9.3). During these years, secondary or 
minor competitions are still undertaken to help develop the athlete’s skills in competition. 
With young athletes the primary emphasis is the development of the skills that will be used in competition as they become more trained.
TABLE 9.3 Suggested Types and Number of Competitions  
 for Young Athletes
Age (yr) Type of competitions Organized competitions/yr
4-7 No formal competition; just for fun —
8-11 Informal competitions to stress skill form rather 
than winning; participate in other sports just for 
funTeam sports: 5-10
12-13 Organized competitions in which the goal is to 
achieve certain physical, technical, or tactical 
goals rather than winningTeam sports: 10-15Individual sports: 5-8
14-16 Participate in competitions without pushing to reach 
the best performance possibleTeam sports: 15-20Individual sports: 8-10
17-19 Participate in junior competitions to qualify for state 
and national championships; get ready to reach 
peak performance at the senior competitionsTeam sports: 20-35
Individual sports: short duration, 
20-30; long duration, 6-8
Reprinted, by permission, from T .O. Bompa and M. Carrera, 2015, Conditioning young athletes (Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics), 220.E6954/Bompa/F09.11/578636/mh-R1Training load
    90-1 00%
80-90%
70-80%
50-70%
0%Very high
High
Medium
Low
Rest
Microcycle 1 Microcycle 2Competition day
Rest dayTraining day
M T W Th F SaSu M T W Th F SaSu Su
Race
Race
FIGURE 9.11 Microcycle structure for training between competitions during the cyclic approach.

Peaking for Competition221
A second factor determining the frequency of competitions is the characteristics of the 
sport. In team sports the length of the season can have a great impact on the number of 
competitions held. For example, a top team in the football Premier League may compete in roughly 60 competitions over approximately 270 days, which roughly equates to competing every 3 1/2 to 4 1/2 days (8).
Individual sports athletes usually have greater flexibility in the selection of competitions 
because these athletes usually compete less frequently than athletes in team sports. Dick (8) suggested that the buildup and principle competition period in track and field should consist of about 7 to 10 competitions. Any additional competitions would be used for low-er-level training (8). Table 9.4 offers some very rough guidelines concerning the number of 
competitions for novice and advanced athletes. Regardless of the athlete or sport, the coach 
must consider the interrelationships of training, recovery, and peaking.
When constructing the training plan for the competitive phase, the coach must consider 
the sequence and frequency of competitions and how they relate to the time allowed for 
recovery after competition (46). The more frequently the athlete competes, the less time she 
will have to train for the next competition (8, 15). Therefore, overly frequent competitions can impede the athlete’s development because each competition undertaken can result in fatigue, which must be dealt with by reducing training loads.
The coach should plan for two to four major competitions during the competitive phase 
of the training year. These competitions will most likely include qualifying meets for the year’s main competition. The training plan should also include secondary competitions that are used as hard training sessions and to test the athlete’s ability. The coach and athlete should think of the competitive schedule as a buildup to the major competition (table 9.5). 
However, the schedule must allow time between the preparatory (exhibition) competitions 
and the major competitions. The optimal sequencing between training, competition, and recovery during this phase will depend on the time interval between each competition.
Regarding the time interval between competitions, Bompa (3) and Harre (15) recom-
mended the following:
• Undertake competitions only when the athlete is capable of achieving set objectives for each training factor: physical, technical, tactical, and psychological.
TABLE 9.4  Suggested Number of Competitions per Year in Athletics  
 (Track and Field)
Novice athletes Elite athletes
Event Winter Summer Winter Summer
Sprinters, hurdlers, jumpers, and throwers
Specialized event
Other events and sports3-42-312-164-63-51-316-203-5
Middle distance
800-1,500 mShort distances—2-34-88-102-32-410-168-10
Distance running and walking
Marathon31 mi (50 km) walk— 16-8——2-38-10
Combined events
Decathlon
Heptathlon
Individual events—
—
2-41-2
1-2
10-12—
—
3 -52-3
2-4
12-16

Periodization222
• Carefully select and schedule competitions so that they progressively increase in 
difficulty.
• Select challenging competitions because unchallenging competitions do not motivate the athlete.
• Challenge the athlete by placing him against opponents with superior capabilities.
• Avoid entering too many competitions. Participating in too many competitions, espe-cially those that require substantial travel, will result in an improperly dosed compet-
itive and training schedule, which will reduce physical and psychological potential.
• Sequence the competitive schedule in a progressive fashion, allowing for readiness 
to be maximized at the main competition of the season. This will allow the athlete every possibility to perform at her highest level at this contest.
• Allocate adequate time between competitions to allow the athlete time to train and correct any technical flaws noted in secondary or exhibition competitions.
• Instruct the athlete to perform at his highest level only in the main competitions of the training year. Think of the other competitions as sequential progressive steps that 
bring the athlete’s physiological capacity, technical skill, tactical ability, and psycho-
logical state (and thus performance) to the very highest level.
As shown in table 9.6, the progressive decrease in volume and intensity of all training 
activities during the competitive phase, as well as the increased use of recovery techniques, helps the athlete replenish energy stores, achieve supercompensation, relax mentally, and 
build motivation to attain her best possible results in the competition targeted for peak 
performance. The strategy presented in table 9.6 must be applied for the duration of the tapering period, to ensure maximum neuromuscular benefits prior to major competitions. 
During this time, the focus shifts to recovery and regeneration through proper rest, nutrition, 
supplementation, and soft tissue therapies (e.g., deep massage, myofascial release). In terms of training, this is a time to reap the benefits of well-planned preparation and competitive periods.TABLE 9.5 Objectives for the Competitive Subphase 
Competitive  
subphase Objectives Means of implementation
Precompetitive 1. Improve performance.
2. Gain experience.
3. Determine strengths and 
weaknesses.
4. Test technique and tactics.1. Enter competitions of lower difficulty.
2. Increase frequency of competitions 
(team sports).
3. Use short unloading (3 to 7 days).
Competitive (league or  
official competitions) 1. Elevate readiness.
2. Prepare for qualifying 
competitions.1. Adjust the macrocycle structure to the 
level of the opponent (team sport).
2. Use different unloading strategies 
according to the importance of the competition (individual sports).
3. Participate in competitions of increasing demands (individual sports).
Taper
(major competitions)1. Maximize readiness.
2. Compete at highest level 
in major competitions.1. Use specialized preparation methods 
such as a taper to prepare for major 
competitions.

Peaking for Competition223
Identifying Peaking
To identify peaking, specifically in individual sports, one of the most objective criteria 
seems to be the dynamics of the athlete’s performances (32c). Researchers used athletes 
from sprinting and mid-distance running as subjects (N = 2,300) for a longitudinal study 
about establishing zones of calculation for peaking. Considering the past year’s personal best performance as a reference point (or 100%), zone 1, or the zone of high results, consisted of performances not more than 2.0% lower than the reference point. Medium results were 
those within 2% to 3.5% deviation of best performance. Low performances within 3.5% to 
5% deviation were in zone 3. Finally, zone 4 consisted of poor results, or performances with a deviation of more than 5% from the previous year’s best. The authors concluded that when 
an athlete can achieve performances within 2% (zone 1) of best, then she is in high athletic 
shape, close to a peak performance. From this point on, athletes easily facilitate peaking and achieve outstanding performances. Of course, these percentages can be adapted to reflect the significance to the event (tables 9.7 and 9.8).TABLE 9.6 Training and Recovery Strategies and Benefits During the Taper
Strategies Benefits
Dynamics of 
volume• Decrease total distance or duration by 40% to 
60%.
• Decrease number of reps.
• Increase rest interval to full recovery.
• Don’t introduce new exercises.• Achieve supercompensation of all physiological systems.
• Increase readiness of the neuromuscular system.
• Facilitate replenishment of energy stores.
Dynamics  
of intensity• Reduce intensity by 5% to 10% for power sports and 20% to 30% for endurance sports, especially in the first week.
• Raise intensity a few days before competition.
Neuromuscular 
stimulation• Use neuromuscular system potentiation methods.• Induce pre-peaking neuromuscular state.
• Increase recruitment of fast-twitch (FT) muscle 
fibers.
• Increase discharge rate of FT fibers.
• Maximize arousal of the neuromuscular system.
• Increase reactivity of the neuromuscular system.
Recovery  
methods• Use soft tissue management techniques (e.g., deep massage, myofascial release).
• Control heart rate variability (HRV) values to 
ensure proper recovery dynamics.
• Control sleep quality (e.g., use the Sleep as Android app).
• Use psychological relaxation, motivation, and visualization techniques (e.g., hypnosis, which can induce a deep state of relaxation and faster nervous system recovery).
• Ensure proper nutrition and sport- specific food supplementation.• Improve soft tissue compliance and joint mobility.
• Increase readiness of the neuromuscular system.
• Relax mentally.
• Increase confidence.
• Increase arousal.
• Replenish energy stores.
• Sustain maximal power output throughout competition.

Periodization224
TABLE 9.8 Peaking Zones Adapted for  
 an International-Level Sprinter
100m Sprinter
PB 10.00 (s) Peaking zone
10.00-10.10 1 (up to 1%)
10.11-10.20 2 (1-2%)
10.21-10.30 3 (2-3%)
>10.30 4 (>3%)
PB = personal best.
Maintaining a Peak
The time required to reach zone 1 is an important factor for peaking. Although this might 
differ according to each athlete’s abilities, the average time an athlete needs to elevate the 
capacity from a precompetitive level to the aptitude of zone 1 is four to six microcycles. The 
athlete may not see dramatic increases during the first three or four microcycles because hard work that stresses intensity results in a high level of fatigue, which restricts the achieve-ment of good performances. Following the last one or two microcycles, however, when the 
athlete has adapted to the training load and a slight decrease in the stress of training allows 
supercompensation to occur, higher performance is feasible. Although the duration of this transitory phase from lower performances to zone 1 varies according to many factors, it also 
varies according to the specifics of each sport and the coach’s approach to training.
The duration of peaking, as well as zone 1, may be affected by the number of starts or 
competitions the athlete experiences. The longer the phase with weekly competitions, the lower the probability of duplicating high results. Many competitions do not necessarily 
lead to good and progressively higher performances. Often, there is a contrary effect, and results decrease toward the end of a competitive phase, when championship competitions are usually planned. A critical phase often begins after the eighth microcycle with com
-
petitions. This does not necessarily mean that performance is compromised toward the end of the competitive phase. On the contrary, it should draw the coach’s attention to the 
need for better alternation of stressful exercises with regeneration activities. In addition, it 
should bring the coach’s attention to the methods and means of selecting and planning competitions during precompetitive and competitive phases. This should be significant to some university coaches, especially for team sports, in which the competition schedule 
is loaded with many games, even during the preparatory phase. The individual training 
program each athlete follows, and the duration and type of training performed during the preparatory phase, have substantial influence on the duration of peaking. The longer and 
more solid the preparatory phase, the higher the probability of prolonging the athletic 
shape and peaking.
Assuming that the coach led and organized an adequate training program, the duration 
of zone 1 may be 1 to 2 months. During this time, the athlete may facilitate two or three 
peaks, in which he achieves high or even record performances. Researchers suggest that 
the duration of peaking may be up to 7 to 10 days because the nerve cells  can maintain 
optimal working capacity for that long (52b). As previously stated, following each peak -
ing for a top competition, a short phase of regeneration is strongly desirable, followed by training. Failure to do this will likely reduce the duration of zone 1. This approach is a 
reminder that there is a need to alternate stress with regeneration, an interplay of dramatic 
importance in training.TABLE 9.7  Peaking Zones for an  
 International-Level Marathoner*
Marathoner
PB 2:10:00 (h/min/s) Peaking zone
2:10:00-2:12:36 1 (up to 2%)
2:12:37-2:14:33 2 (2%-3.5%)
2:14:34-2:16:30 3 (3.5%-5%)
>2:16:30 4 (>5%)
*According to the classification of Matveyev, Kalinin, and Ozolin (32c).
PB = personal best.

Peaking for Competition225
Summary of Major Concepts
Throughout the training phases, an athlete reaches higher levels of biomotor abilities devel-
opment and technical and tactical skills, which form a training state called degree of training 
or preparedness. This training state is the stable component of the athletic shape, which is 
also affected by the exposure to high-intensity, specific training and competition, as well as the presence of residual fatigue. Residual fatigue greatly influences the athlete’s readiness to perform, or her capability of manifesting preparedness through high performance, and 
ultimately her ability to reach a peak of performance.
The appropriate use of tapering strategies is essential for the athlete to achieve peak per-
formance. The athlete cannot achieve a true peak for every competition he enters. Therefore, the coach must carefully craft the competitive schedule to include two to three major com-
petitions per competitive phase. All other competitions should be considered preparatory competitions in which the athlete uses the competitive environment as a training tool to reach his best athletic shape. If, however, a team sport athlete participates in competitions 
that occur in a cyclic pattern, the coach should consider training strategies that allow the 
athlete to recover, train, and dissipate fatigue before each contest. As with individual sports, the culmination of the competitive team sports calendar should be a major contest, such as conference or national championship, at which the athlete reaches a physiological and 
performance peak.
The goal of a tapering strategy is to reduce training-induced fatigue and elevate readiness. 
When appropriately applied, the taper can improve performance approximately 3%, which 
can make a large difference in the competitive outcome. To implement the taper, the coach 
should decrease the training load in an exponential fashion and decrease training volume 
as well, by about 41% to 60% in most instances. If, however, the pretaper training load is very high, a greater reduction in training volume (60% to 90%) may be warranted. When 
training volume is reduced, training frequency should be maintained at 80% or more of the 
pretaper values. The taper should last approximately 8 to 14 days. If the pretaper training workload is excessive, a longer taper may be warranted; however, another strategy is to use a fast exponential taper that involves larger decreases in volume. During the taper period the 
training intensity should be maintained or slightly increased to allow the athlete to maintain 
the physiological adaptations achieved during the pretaper training.

This page intentionally left blank

TRAINING 
METHODSPART III

This page intentionally left blank

22910Strength and Power 
Development
Strength and power-generating capacity are critical factors in determining success in a
wide variety of sports, particularly in all team sports and sports that are dominated by speed. 
Contemporary scientific data reveal that strength and power are also important for sports with a large endurance component, such as long-distance running or cross-country skiing. Given the importance of muscular strength and power in so many sports, the coach and athlete must understand how the development of strength and power can affect performance. The coach and athlete need to understand the principles associated with resistance training to effectively use resistance training to enhance performance.
The Relationship Between the Main 
Biomotor Abilities
Athletic performance is dominated by combinations of strength, speed, and endurance. Most sport activities can be classified as having a predominant biomotor ability. Figure 10.1 illustrates a theoretical structure where strength or force, speed, or endurance is the dominant biomotor ability. For example, endurance is generally considered the dominant biomotor ability necessary for success in long-distance running. Every sporting activity has a dominant biomotor ability (figure 10.2). However, contemporary research suggests that sporting activ -
ities can be affected by several of the biomotor abilities (137, 140). This can be clearly seen by the fact that strength appears to influence both running speed (13, 24, 36) and endurance (1 14). For example, leg strength and power appear to be significantly related to sprint speed, with the strongest and most powerful athletes being able to run the fastest (13, 24, 36). Support for the influence of strength on endurance can be seen in the literature. Research shows that adding strength training to the training programs of long-distance runners  
Physiological Bases for Speed and Agility
Nobody can be fast and agile before being strong. The start in sprinting and changes of direction 
in racquet and team sports are typical strength actions. The fastest sprinters apply a great deal of strength against the starting blocks at the instant of starting the race. Changes of direction, on the other hand, rely on strong eccentric force to decelerate and equally strong concentric force to accelerate. Do you want to be a fast and agile athlete? Increase your strength.

Periodization230
(106, 140), Nordic skiers (91, 139, 141), or cyclists (15) results in significantly greater 
improvements in performance, compared with focusing only on endurance training. Recent 
evidence suggests that stronger, more powerful athletes perform better on performance tests 
designed to evaluate agility (21, 143).
Based on this data, a hypothetical model can be constructed in which strength is connected 
with many of the factors that have been shown in the literature to improve performance 
in a variety of sporting activities (figure 10.3). Because strength affects the other biomotor 
abilities and almost all facets of athletic performance, strength should be considered to be E6954/Bompa/F10.01/578656/mh-R1S E S EF F F
a
b c
S E
E6954/Bompa/F10.02/578657/mh-R1S E S EF F F
S EF
S EF
Speedskating
1,000 m Gymnastics
(male)Canoeing
10,000 mDiscus Ice hockeyS E S EF F F
S EF
S EF
Rowing Marathon Wrestling Sprinting WeightliftingS E
S EFIGURE 10.1 Relationships between the main biomotor abilities, in which (a) strength, (b) speed, and (c) 
endurance dominate. 
F = strength or force; S = speed; E = endurance.
From Florescu, Dumitrescu, and Predescu 1969 (50).
FIGURE 10.2 The dominant composition among the biomotor abilities of various sports.
F = strength or force; S = speed; E = endurance.

Strength and Power Development231
the crucial biomotor ability (20). Therefore, to maximize athletic performance, strength 
should always be trained in concert with the other biomotor abilities.
Strength
Strength can be defined as the maximal force or torque (rotational force) that a muscle or muscle group can generate. Strength is better defined as the ability of the neuromuscular 
system to produce force against an external resistance. For example, muscular strength has 
been related to sprint performance (13, 24, 36), American football performance (14, 55), soccer performance (32, 62, 90, 170), volleyball performance (47, 130), ice hockey perfor-mance (92), rugby league performance (58), and aerobic exercise performance (15, 91, 106, 
140). These data seem to support the contention that muscular strength is a major contrib-
utor to most sport activities. Therefore, the appropriate application of resistance training can alter the neuromuscular system in a way that improves the athlete’s capacity to produce 
force and improves sporting performance (69, 175, 176).
Force, Velocity, Rate of Force Development,  
and Power
When examining sport activities, the ability to generate force against an external resistance 
seems very important (127). Newton’s second law of motion supports the importance 
of force-generating capacity (i.e., strength) (see the Equations sidebar), in that this law 
reveals that the product of mass and acceleration is equal to force (equation 1). If one rearranges this equation, it is easy to see that to increase the acceleration of an object, 
one must apply a greater force. Because increases in acceleration result in increases in 
velocity, it is also easy to conclude that a high force-generating capacity or strength level 
is needed to achieve high velocities of movements (180). Support for this idea can be seen in the literature, which demonstrates significant relationships between speed and 
muscular strength (13, 24, 36).E6954/Bompa/F10.03/578658/mh-R1Muscular
endurance
Aerobic
endurance
Speed
enduranceAgility
Power
Maximum
speedStrength
SpeedAnaerobic
enduranceEndurance
Maximum
strength
FIGURE 10.3 Interaction of biomotor abilities and various aspects of sport performance.

Periodization232
Further examination of the interaction between force and velocity suggests that an inverse 
relationship exists, whereas external resistance increases the movement velocity subsequently 
decreases (figure 10.4) (1 10, 208). The application of a periodized strength training pro-
gram has the potential to alter the force–velocity curve (43, 104, 109, 1 10, 128, 135). The 
literature suggests that heavy strength training induces adaptations that are different than those seen with explosive strength training (74, 75, 1 10, 202). For example, the implemen-
tation of a strength training program that focuses on the use of heavy loading has a greater 
potential to alter the high-force portion of the force–velocity curve (figure 10.5), whereas Equations
Equation 1 F = M 3 A + W
F = Force
M = Mass of an objectA = Acceleration of an objectW = Weight of mass attributable to the effects of gravity
Equation 2 RFD = DF / DT
RFD = Rate of force developmentDF = Change in forceDT = Change in time
Equation 3 Power = F 3 D/T
Power = W/TPower = F 3 VF = ForceW = WorkT = TimeV = Velocity
E6954/Bompa/F10.04/578659/mh-R1Velocity (m/s)
Force (N)
E6954/Bompa/F10.05/578660/mh-R2Velocity (m/s)
Force (N)After heavy strength training
Before heavy strength training
FIGURE 10.4 Force–velocity relationship. FIGURE 10.5 Theoretical alterations to the 
force–velocity curve by heavy strength training.

Strength and Power Development233
the implementation of explosive strength training exercises will alter 
the high-velocity portion of the curve (figure 10.6) (1 10).
The effect of explosive strength training on the high-velocity por-
tion of the force–velocity curve is supported by evidence suggesting that explosive strength training has the potential to alter an athlete’s explosive strength or rate of force development (RFD) (2, 66, 75, 
76, 94). The RFD indicates how fast force is developed and is cal-
culated by dividing the change in force by the change in time (193) (see equation 2). It appears that the ability to generate a high RFD is 
very important for sport activities that involve explosive movements 
(e.g., sprinting, jumping, throwing) and require force to be generated 
during a limited time frame (~70 to 250 ms). In general, this time is 
substantially less than the time necessary to reach maximum force (>250 ms) (9, 67, 159). However, maximum strength and the RFD 
are interrelated (9, 133) and both are associated with sporting per-
formance, as both variables appear to relate to the ability to cause acceleration, which affects movement velocity (180).
Both force and velocity are important in human movement, 
because the product of these two variables is power (1 10, 180) (see equation 3 on p. 232). 
Maximum force-generating capacity appears to be a major effector of power-generating 
capacity (157, 159). Schmidtbleicher (157, 159) suggested that as the load (which the athlete is overcoming) decreases, the effect that maximum strength has on power generation also 
decreases. He suggested that as this occurs, the RFD becomes more important (157, 159, 180).
It has been speculated that power-generating capacity, or the rate of performing work, is 
the single most important characteristic in sport (69, 1 10, 127, 157, 180). In fact, the pow-
er-generating capacity of various athletes appears to differentiate between levels of sporting 
performance (14, 55). Two types of power output are relevant in sporting performance: 
maximum power output and average power output. Maximum power output is most related to short-duration maximal performances such as jumping, sprinting, weightlifting, changing 
direction, and striking (1 1, 12, 69, 1 10, 127, 180, 188). Conversely, average power output 
is related to the performance of repetitive tasks such as endurance running (136), cycling (183), and Nordic skiing (139).
Factors Affecting Strength
Strength can be defined as the ability of the neuromuscular system to produce force against an external resistance (180). The maximum strength that an athlete can exhibit depends on 
seven key concepts: (1) the number of motor units involved (recruitment), (2) the motor 
unit firing rate (rate coding), (3) the amount of motor unit synchronization, (4) the use of the stretch shortening cycle, (5) the degree of neuromuscular inhibition, (6) the muscle fiber type, and (7) the degree of muscle hypertrophy (174, 180).
Motor Unit Recruitment
Motor unit recruitment relates to the number of motor units called into play (39, 86). When more motor units are activated, the amount of force generated by the muscle then increases 
(69). Recruitment usually occurs in an orderly pattern from smaller to larger motor units 
(86). Henneman and colleagues (86) in their seminal work established what is known as the Henneman size principle, which suggests that the size of the motor unit dictates its 
activation. This work established that larger motor units have a higher activation threshold 
and are activated after smaller motor units. It is also widely accepted that larger motor units 
are activated in response to higher external loads (48, 69). However, the motor unit recruit-ment pattern is affected not only by the force exerted (69) but also by the contraction speed 
(69), type of muscle contraction (44), and the metabolic state of the muscle (103, 134).E6954/Bompa/F10.06/578661/mh-R1After explosive strength training
Before explosive strength training
Force (N)Velocity (m/s)
FIGURE 10.6 Theoretical alterations to the  
force–velocity curve by explosive strength  
training.

Periodization234
Motor Unit Rate Coding
Rate coding deals with the motor unit firing frequency (39). One unique aspect of rate 
coding is that the force generated by a muscle increases without recruiting additional motor 
units (69). Van Cutsem and colleagues (192) suggested that rate coding plays a significant 
role in determining the speed of voluntary contractions. Support for this contention can be seen in several investigations showing that higher motor unit firing rates are associated with higher rates of force development (2, 51, 192, 194). It appears that explosive high–power 
output exercises (e.g., plyometrics, power throws, jump squats) have the potential to alter 
the rate coding of motor units because these exercises tend to increase the motor unit firing rate (39, 69).
Motor Unit Synchronization
Motor units fire in response to low-intensity muscle actions with brief dynamic twitches that result in an asynchronous motor unit firing patterns (180). Asynchronous motor unit 
firing occurs as a result of one motor unit deactivating while another activates. Conversely, 
motor unit synchronization occurs as a result of the simultaneous activation of numerous motor units (59, 1 16) and historically has been suggested to result in an increased force 
output (135). Recent research suggests that motor unit synchronization may not directly 
enhance maximum force output or maximum strength (160, 204). The relationship between motor unit synchronization and force production capacity is partially supported 
by the literature, which demonstrates a higher incidence of motor unit synchronization 
in strength-trained athletes (162). However, it appears that motor unit synchronization may exert a stronger influence on the rate of force development (160). Support for this contention can be seen in recent research, which suggests that motor unit synchronization 
plays a role in force development during rapid muscle contractions (160). Motor unit 
synchronization may exert its greatest influence on performance of activities that require the simultaneous activation of multiple muscles at the same time, such as running, where 
during the propulsion (push off) phase, the gastrocnemius, soleus, glutei, hamstrings and quadriceps muscles all participate (160).
Stretch Shortening Cycle
A stretch shortening cycle (SSC) is defined as a combination of eccentric and concentric muscle actions (1 14, 1 15). A stretch shortening cycle could be considered a plyometric muscle 
action (180) because an eccentric muscle action (lengthening of the muscle) occurs prior 
to the concentric muscle action (shortening of the muscle) (1 15). The most well-known effect of the stretch shortening cycle is an enhancement in performance (concentric muscle action) during the final phase of the cycle (37, 1 14, 1 15). The performance enhancement 
resulting from a stretch shortening cycle most likely occurs because of storage of elastic 
energy during the eccentric phase (28, 1 15), activation of the stretch reflex (1 16), and opti-mization of muscle activation (3, 19). Several investigations have suggested that strength 
training improves maximum strength as a result of an improved ability to activate stretch 
shortening cycles (3, 37).
Neuromuscular Inhibition
Neural inhibition can occur as a result of neural feedback from various muscle and joint receptors that can reduce force production (59, 180). For example, it appears that the Golgi 
tendon organ, which operates as a protective mechanism, prevents the generation of harmful 
muscular forces during maximum or near-maximum efforts (59). If neural activation patterns of these protective mechanisms are altered, disinhibition may occur, and force-generating capacity may increase (107). Support for this argument can be seen in the work of Aagaard 
and colleagues (3), in which 14 weeks of strength training with heavy loads significantly 
reduced neuromuscular inhibitory responses. The resultant decrease in inhibition may 

Strength and Power Development235
partially explain some of the increases in 
force-generating capacity seen as a result of 
training (3).
Muscle Fiber Type
Cross-sectional studies suggest that strength 
and power athletes have high percentages 
of type II muscle fibers (fast-twitch; 53% 
to 60%) (56, 57, 77, 80, 148, 184). This is 
important because the muscle fiber type 
characteristics of an athlete play a significant 
role in the athlete’s ability to exhibit maxi-
mum strength and power-generating capac-
ity (56, 57, 148, 149, 185). For example, Fry and colleagues (56) reported that the type II fiber concentration of weightlifters 
is significantly correlated to the maximum 
weight lifted in the snatch (r = 0.94) and the clean and jerk (r = 0.78). The fiber type distribution of an athlete also appears to be 
significantly related to the athlete’s vertical 
jump ability (r  = 0.79). Conversely, ath-
letes who participate in endurance sports generally have higher percentages of type 
I muscle  fibers (slow-twitch) (17, 185), 
which have been shown to correspond to 
higher maximum oxygen consumption rates 
(17) and lower maximum force-generating 
capacities. Thus, the athlete who possesses higher concentrations of type II muscle fibers appears to have an advantage in sport 
activities that require high levels of strength and power. Conversely, having a higher percent-
age of type I muscle fibers is advantageous to endurance exercise performance.
Muscle Hypertrophy
An increase in muscle cross-sectional area is thought to contribute to the increases in muscle hypertrophy seen in response to strength training (1, 51). Increases in the cross-sectional area 
of a muscle increases the number of contractile units and thus increases force-generating 
potential (10, 51, 198). Type II muscle fibers exhibit a greater plasticity, which is demon-strated by the faster rate of hypertrophy seen in response to training and the faster rate of atrophy seen with detraining (51, 78).
Physiological Adaptations to Strength Training
The physiological adaptations to a strength-training program can be categorized as being either neurological or morphological (51). Neurological adaptations include factors such 
as changes in motor unit recruitment patterns (69), motor unit synchronization (108, 132, 
161-163), motor unit firing rate (39), and reflex activation (51). Morphological changes relate to changes in whole muscle size (34), muscle hypertrophy (34, 138), muscle fiber type transitions (200), and alterations to muscle architecture (164). The degree to which 
these two broad categories contribute to adaptations can be influenced by many factors such 
as training status (156), type of exercises used in the training program (29, 138), genetic makeup (23, 33, 100, 142, 189), age (101), and gender (101).
Strength is affected by many factors, including fiber type  
and the degree of muscle hypertrophy.
GOH CHAI HIN/AFP/Getty Images

Periodization236
It has been suggested that the development of strength in the early phase of training is 
most affected by neurological factors, whereas in the longer term training adaptations are 
limited by the morphological factors (156, 196). The time when neurological factor adap -
tation predominates seems to be between 6 and 20 weeks from the initiation of a strength 
training program, depending on the type of exercise and the structure of the strength train -
ing program (29, 156, 196). This time frame can be altered depending on the complexity of the exercises used in the strength training program (29). Chilibeck and colleagues (29) 
suggested that complex exercises that involve more than one joint (e.g., squat, power clean, 
pulls) may require more time for neural adaptations to be manifested. Those investigators 
noted that the neurological adaptations in the upper arm occurred very rapidly, because hypertrophy was noted after 10 weeks of performing the biceps curl. Conversely, signifi
-
cant hypertrophy was not noted in the legs until after 20 weeks of leg press training. These data indicate that the exercises used in strength training may mitigate the degree to which 
neurological or hypertrophic factors predominate. The experience with intermediate and 
advanced strength athletes (powerlifters, weightlifters), increasing their strength and power levels year after year despite not gaining in body mass, indicates that neurological factors, especially intermuscular coordination, may have a predominant role in force production over the long term.
Neurological Adaptations
With the initiation of a strength training program, the primary adaptations that affect per-formance relate to motor learning and coordination (153). These adaptations appear to be 
very specific to the movement pattern and the sequence of muscle contraction (51), which 
suggests that the expression of strength requires a degree of skill.
Strength training has the potential to alter the motor unit recruitment patterns (69, 
192), motor unit rate coding (2, 39, 69), and degree of motor unit synchronization (162). 
The type of training undertaken in a strength training program plays a role in determining 
neurological adaptations. For example, explosive strength training with high loads (e.g., jump squats) has been shown to lower the motor unit recruitment thresholds (69, 192) and 
increase the motor unit rate coding (2, 39, 192). A high loads strength training program has 
the potential to increase motor unit synchronization (160) and reduce neural inhibition (3). These neurological adaptations appear to alter force-generating capacity and the rate of force generation, which both can affect sports performance.
Morphological Adaptations
The occurrence of muscle hypertrophy in response to a strength training program results in changes to the muscle architecture (164). These architectural alterations can increase 
contractile material, which in turn can increase force production capacity (51). The most 
significant morphological change noted in most strength training studies is an increase in muscle hypertrophy (3, 51, 71, 79, 87, 164, 172). Most short-term strength training studies demonstrate significant hypertrophy of type II muscle fibers (1, 41, 95, 190, 198, 200), 
whereas long-term studies demonstrate hypertrophy of both type II and type I fibers (78, 
123). Muscle hypertrophy is marked by significant increases in the cross-sectional area of the skeletal muscle fibers, which can result in an increase in contractile material (51) and an increase in the angle of pennation of the muscle (1). These two morphological adapta-
tions significantly enhance muscular strength adaptations in response to a strength training 
program (1, 51).
A further consideration when looking at the morphological adaptations of the muscle is 
the training intervention (53). It appears that explosive strength training has the potential 
to significantly increase type II fiber size, significantly altering the ratio of type II to type I 
muscle fiber cross-sectional area, which favors maximum strength and power-generating capacity (53, 70, 180). Support for this contention is presented by Fry (53), who demonstrated 
that the ratio of type II to type I content is greater in weightlifters than in powerlifters and 

Strength and Power Development237
bodybuilders. These data suggest that the type of strength training used has the potential to 
dictate the types of morphological changes expressed by the skeletal muscle.
Another potential positive morphological adaptation to a strength training program is 
an alteration in the muscle fiber type (51, 200). The most consistent fiber type adaptation seen in response to a training program is a reduction in type IIx fiber distribution with a concomitant increase in type IIa distribution, especially if the training is anaerobic lactic (27, 
79, 172, 200). The results of these studies may be predicated by the analytical techniques 
used. Newer analytical techniques suggest that muscles exhibit an even greater plasticity and thus may express greater alterations in response to training or detraining (60, 124, 191, 200).
Contemporary research has examined myosin heavy chain (MHC) content when identify -
ing muscle composition (51, 53, 124, 200). MHC composition is closely associated with the 
classic fiber typing methods (53). However, current literature reveals that in addition to the 
major categories of MHC (type I, type IIa, and type IIx), there exists a pool of hybrid fibers (type I/IIa, type I/IIa/IIx, and type IIa/IIx). This pool of hybrids can be altered by strength 
training (200), endurance training (191), and bed rest (60). As this pool is modified, the 
percentage of type IIx, IIa, or I fibers can be altered, which partially explains the fiber type compositions of different classifications of strength athletes (table 10.1).
TABLE 10.1 Fiber Type Distributions of Various Strength-Trained Athletes
Fiber type distribution (%)
Population I IIa IIx Hybrids
Recreationally active young people (39, 172, 203) 41 33 6 20
Strength-trained men (9, 172, 203, 205) 34 58 <1 8
Strength-trained women (205) 35 53 <1 12
Bodybuilders (39) 27 47 9 17
Weightlifters (58) 35 64 1 NA
NA = not available.
Note: All percentages based on myosin heavy chain data.
Type of Strength
Various types of strength can be targeted within a strength training program. Understanding 
the relationship between strength and the performance characteristics of the sport will allow 
the coach to construct training programs that transfer strength development into performance 
gains. Some types of strength to consider are as follows:
• General strength: General strength refers to the strength of the whole muscular system. This strength is the foundation for the strength program and must be developed for ultimate performance to be achieved. Coaches can focus on general strength during 
the preparatory phase of training or during the first few years of training in novice 
athletes. If general strength is not adequately developed, the athlete’s progress may be impeded.
• Specific strength:  Specific strength relates to the motor patterns of muscle groups that 
are essential to a sport activity, as well as their ergogenesis. Athletes usually work on 
specific strength at the end of the preparation phase.
• Power: Power  is the ability to develop force rapidly and at high velocities. This is 
essential in most sports, especially in athletics, team, and racquet sports. This type 

Periodization238
of strength is best developed during the specific preparation phase and within the 
competition phase of training.
• Maximum strength: Maximum strength refers to the highest force the neuromuscular system can generate during a maximum voluntary contraction. Maximum strength is 
demonstrated by the highest load that an athlete can lift one time. Maximum strength 
has been related to factors such as muscle endurance, weightlifting performance, and speed.
• Muscle endurance: Muscle endurance is the ability of the neuromuscular system to produce force in a repetitive fashion over extended periods of time. The total number 
of repetitions that can be lifted with a specific load is a marker of muscle endurance.
• Absolute strength: Absolute strength refers to the amount of force that can be gener-
ated regardless of body weight. In some sports (shot put, American football, or the 
super-heavy weight class in weightlifting and wrestling), the athlete must achieve a 
very high level of muscular strength. An athlete’s absolute maximal strength capacity can be measured with one repetition maximum testing (one-repetition maximum). 
Knowledge of the athlete’s maximum capacity is necessary to calculate the training 
loads needed within a periodized training system.
• Relative strength: Relative strength is the ratio between an athlete’s maximum strength 
and his body weight. The ratio for evaluating relative strength is calculated by the 
athlete’s absolute strength divided by his body weight (178).
Methods of Strength Training
Strength training entails using various loads and methods to develop muscular strength and power. Depending on the goals of a strength training program, various methods of 
applying resistance can be used (see Methods of Strength Training Application). The pre
-
ferred method of strength training combines the use of free weights with other methods 
of developing strength and power such as plyometrics, medicine ball work, and agility 
training. Using multijoint, large muscle mass exercises (e.g., cleans, arm pulls, squats) 
provides greater transfer to the athlete’s sporting events compared with single-joint, small muscle mass exercises.
When designing a strength training program, the coach should consider the concept of 
progressive overload. In progressive overload, the loading structure is altered as the muscle 
adapts to the training stimulus (49). Progressive overload can be accomplished through the 
manipulation of many of the training variables, such as changing the loads used, altering the number of repetitions or sets in the training program, varying the frequency of train-ing, altering the rest interval between sets or repetitions, and changing the exercises in the 
training program.
Manipulation of Training Variables
An effective strength training program systematically manipulates many training factors in 
a periodized fashion. Coaches can optimize the training plan by methodically managing 
the volume and the intensity of training. Early in the training plan, during the preparatory 
phase, volume will be higher, intensity will be lower, and sport-specific training will be min -
imized. As the athlete moves closer to the competitive phase, there is a general downward shift in training volume and an increase in training intensity and sport-specific training. 
Although the manipulation of volume and intensity of training is extremely important, it 
is also important to manipulate other variables associated with the training plan, such as the frequency of training, the order of exercises, the interset rest intervals, and the exercises selected.

239Methods of Strength Training Application
 •Body weight: Body weight resistance can be used to increase strength because of the 
actions of gravity on the body. Body weight exercises include a vast variety of exercises, all of which use the body as a resistive load. Some examples are push-ups, pull-ups, chin-ups, dips, and stair climbing.
 •Elastic bands: When they are stretched, elastic bands can create resistive forces. A potential problem with this strength training device is that as forces exerted against the elastic band increase, the resistance becomes greater and the movement slower (83). With activities such as jumping, these devices apply less force at the initiation of the jump and greater force before the athlete has left the ground, which does not model the loading patterns typically found in sport. Similarly, since the resistance of the bands increases as the ath-lete stretches them, acceleration, so essential in sports, is impeded. Conversely, using a weighted vest or jumping with free weights applies the force consistently throughout the movement, which better translates to sports performance and is a more effective training practice (83). The only applications for elastic bands in sport training are in water sports, as they mimic the increase of resistance encountered as the arm of the swimmer or the oar of the rower get deeper in the water, or as a tool for accommodating resistance in strength exercises used for power training if the ballistic method is not utilized.
 •Weighted objects: Weighted objects can include medicine balls, power balls, kettlebells, and bags of sand. Resistive force is created mostly by the force of gravity.
 •Weight stack machines: With weight stack machines, resistance is provided by the action 
of gravity on the resistance. The direction of the force is controlled by the use of pulleys, cables, cams, and gears. It has been suggested that such machines do not match human strength curve patterns (83).
 •Fluid resistance machines: Fluid resistance machines create resistive forces by moving the body or apparatus through a fluid, moving fluid past an object, moving fluid around an object, or moving fluid through an orifice (83). The fluid used in these devices can be either a liquid or a gas. One problem with fluid-based resistive devices is that they do not provide for eccentric muscle actions, nor for acceleration, which may limit the device’s effectiveness (20, 83).
 •Free weights: Free weights, such as dumbbells and barbells, are considered the gold stan-dard of strength training. Free weights most closely match the human strength curve (83, 174) and use gravity to apply the resistive forces.
 •Isometric: Isometric methods apply resistive forces in which the contractile forces equal the resistive forces. An example of an isometric muscle action is pushing with maximal forces against an immovable object.
In past years some training equipment producers have promoted many gadgets that are far from effective in sports training: from balance training (e.g., BOSU balls) to gadgets and machines that use elastic bands resistance. Under the guise of modern training, the new devices are strongly promoted on the market, misleading many novice coaches. This exaggeration goes so far as to suggest that even for a warm-up or some flexibility exercises (e.g., hurdles), the ath-lete needs to purchase a new device! Many gadgets are very ineffective and strain the budget of most sports clubs.

Periodization240
Volume
Volume of training can be quantified as the amount of work performed and can incorporate 
total training hours, number of kilograms lifted, metric ton or short tons lifted per training session, phase of training or per year, and the number of sets and repetitions completed. In 
the literature, volume is traditionally represented as a metric ton. A metric ton is equivalent 
to 2,204.6 lb (1,000 kg), whereas a short ton is equal to 2,430.2 lb (1,102.3 kg). The volume of a training session is calculated by multiplying the weight lifted by number of sets and the number of repetitions, which yields a volume load value (table 10.2).
The total workload in an annual training plan can approach 3,726 metric tons for elite 
weightlifters (7), with 2,789 metric tons in the preparatory phase and 937 metric tons in the competition phase. The number of metric tons encountered in a training session depends 
on the sport being trained for, the developmental status of the athlete, and the phase of 
training. As the athlete becomes more developed, he can tolerate higher training session or microcycle volume loads. It is common for weightlifters to train with 10 to 60 metric tons in a microcycle (7, 45). The microcycle volume can vary drastically depending on the sport 
and the phase of training (table 10.3).
Training Intensity
The training intensity, or load, relates to the amount of weight or resistance being used. 
The intensity of a training session can be calculated by dividing the volume load by the total number of repetitions completed.
The load used in strength training is best expressed as a percentage of one-repetition 
maximum (1RM) (1 1 1). Some strength and conditioning professionals recommend using 
repetitions to failure with repetition maximum zones (e.g., 1-3RM, 8-12RM, or 13-15RM) 
as a method for determining training intensity (27, 49). However, using training to failure 
in the development of maximum strength has been consistently questioned and is not the optimal method for loading during strength training (20, 102, 144, 173). This contention 
is supported by research from Izquierdo and colleagues (102), who suggested that training 
to failure brings about fewer improvements in muscular strength compared with not train-ing to failure. Additional support for this argument was offered by Peterson and colleagues (144), who clearly showed in their meta-analysis that training to failure does not maximize 
strength gains. Thus, it appears that loading is best determined as a percentage of 1RM.
Examining different percentages of 1RM can help in the creation of a loading structure 
(table 10.4). In this structure, loading intensity zones (figure 10.7) can be quantified in relationship to their emphasis on muscle endurance, power generation, and maximum 
strength. Maximum strength is most likely emphasized with loads 70% of 1RM or greater, whereas muscle endurance is emphasized with loads between 20% and 50% of 1RM. Mus-TABLE 10.2 Example of Volume Calculation
Exercise Sets Repetitions Load (kg) Volume load (kg) Metric ton Short ton
Power clean 3 35 125 1,875 1.875 1.701
Squat 3 35 160 2,400 2.400 2.177
Clean grip Romanian 
deadlift3 35 140 2,100 2.100 1.905
Total 6,375 6.375 5.783
To calculate the number of metric tons divide the volume load by 1,000. To calculate the number of short tons, divide the volume load 
by 1,102.3.

241TABLE 10.3 Suggested Volume in Metric Tons of Strength Training per Year
Volume per microcycle Volume per year
Sport or event Preparatory Competitive Transition Minimum Maximum
Baseball and cricket 20-30 8-10 2-4 900 1,450
Basketball 12-24 4-6 2 450 850
Boxing and martial 
arts8-14 3 1 380 500
Cycling 16-22 8-10 2-4 600 950
Downhill skiing 18-36 6-10 2-4 700 1,250
Figure skating 8-12 2-4 2 350 550
Football 30-40 10-12 6 900 1,400
Golf 4-6 2 1 250 300
Gymnastics 10-16 4 4 380 600
High jump 16-28 8-10 2-4 620 1,000
Ice hockey 15-25 6-8 2-4 600 950
Javelin 12-24 4 2 450 800
Jumps 20-30 8-10 2 800 1,200
Kayaking and  
canoeing20-40 10-12 4 900 1,200
Lacrosse 14-22 4-8 2-4 500 900
Rowing 30-40 10-12 4 900 1,200
Rugby 10-20 4-6 4 320 600
Shot put 24-40 8-12 4-6 900 1,450
Speedskating 14-26 4-6 2-4 500 930
Sprinting 10-18 4 2 400 600
Squash 8-12 4 4 350 550
Swimming 20 8-10 2-4 700 1,200
Tennis 8-12 2-4 2 350 550
Triathlon 16-20 8-10 2-4 600 1,000
Volleyball 12-20 4 2 450 600
Wrestling 20-30 10 4 800 1,200
Adapted, by permission, from T .O Bompa and M.C. Carrera, 2005, Periodization training for sports, 2nd ed. (Champaign, IL: Human 
Kinetics), 65.

Periodization242
TABLE 10.4 Intensity Zones for Strength Training
Intensity zone Loading Intensity (% of 1RM) Muscle action
1 Supermaximum >100 Eccentric overload
Isometric
2 Maximum 90-100 Concentric/eccentric
3 Heavy 80-90 Concentric/eccentric
4 Medium-heavy 70-80 Concentric/eccentric
5 Medium 50-70 Concentric/eccentric
6 Low 20-50 Concentric/eccentric
Adapted, by permission, from T .O Bompa and M.C. Carrera, 2005, Periodization training for sports, 2nd ed. (Champaign, IL: Human 
Kinetics), 66.
E6954/Bompa/F10.07/578667/mh-R30%10%20%30%40%50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
110%
120%   Muscular
  enduranceLowMedium
PowerMediumheavy
Heavy       M
axim
um
                   Supermaximum Maximum
 strength
FIGURE 10.7 Load magnitude and abilities developed by using various loads.
cular power appears to be maximized somewhere between 30% and 80% of 1RM depending 
on the exercise (1 10).
Intensities between 100% and 125% of 1RM are classified as supermaximum loads; ath-
letes can use these loads when using eccentric overload or forced repetition techniques (42). Although eccentric overload or forced repetition training appears to have a place in strength training, it may not result in significant increases in muscular strength compared with regular 

Strength and Power Development243
training (42). Supermaximum loads should be attempted only by highly strength trained 
athletes and should be used infrequently.
Training loads that range from 90% to 100% of 1RM are classified as maximum loads. 
Heavy loads range in intensity from 80% and 90% of 1RM. Loads of 70% to 80% of 1RM can be classified as medium-heavy intensities; loads of 50% to 70% are classified as medium intensity; and loads from 20% to 50% are classified as low intensity. The vast majority of 
the loading should come from medium and medium-heavy intensities (50% to 80% of 
1RM). Support for this can be seen in the training loads undertaken by weightlifters, where the following intensity breakdown can be seen: low = 8%, medium = 59%, heavy = 26%, 
and maximum = 7% (207). The load encountered in training will vary depending on the 
training phase and the loading structure used.
Repetitions
The number of repetitions that can be performed is usu-
ally a function of the load used (table 10.5). The higher the load, the lower the number of repetitions that can be 
performed. However, it is difficult to make definitive con-
nections between a percentage of 1RM and the number of 
repetitions that can be performed because it appears that 
training status, muscle mass engaged, gender, and type of exercise can change the number of repetitions that can 
be performed at a given load. For example, Shimano and 
colleagues (167) reported that at 60% of 1RM, untrained 
individuals can perform 35.9 ± 13.4 repetitions in the 
back squat, 21.6 ± 4.2 repetitions in the bench press, and 17.2 ± 3.7 repetitions in the arm curl. Conversely, trained 
individuals were reported to have performed 29.9 ± 7.4 
repetitions in the back squat, 21.7 ± 3.8 repetitions in the bench press, and 19.0 ± 2.9 repetitions in the arm curl at 
training loads that corresponded to 60% of 1RM. Hoeger 
and colleagues (88) reported that exercise type, training 
status, and gender resulted in differences in the number of 
repetitions that could be performed at various percentages of 1RM. For example, at an intensity of 40% of 1RM, untrained 
men performed 80.1 ± 47.9 repetitions on the leg press and 34.9 ± 8.8 repetitions on the 
machine bench press. When the same protocol was repeated with untrained women, 83.6 ± 38.6 repetitions were performed on the leg press; no repetitions were performed on the 
machine bench press because the load could not be set on the machine. The coach needs to 
consider the athlete’s training status and gender, the muscle mass involved, and the mode 
of strength training when determining how many repetitions can be performed at various 
percentages of 1RM. Generally speaking, the higher the neuromuscular efficiency of the subject, the lower the number of possible repetitions at any given percentage of 1RM.
The repetition scheme used results in specific physiological adaptations (27). As illustrated 
in figure 10.8, low-repetition schemes (1-6 repetitions) are better for the development of 
maximum muscular strength. Higher numbers of repetitions (>15 repetitions) appear to 
be more suited for stimulating muscle endurance (15, 27). High-intensity endurance (short 
duration) appears to be enhanced with repetition schemes of 15 to 30 (27, 49), whereas 
low-intensity endurance (long duration) is improved with more than 50 repetitions (27). 
Power-based adaptations are best realized with low-repetition schemes (1-10 repetitions) 
depending on the phase of training. The repetition scheme should be selected based on the 
goal of the phase of training and the loading scheme being used. In a periodized training 
plan, the repetition scheme is manipulated to facilitate specific adaptations.TABLE 10.5 Load–Repetition Relationship  
 for a Power Athlete
Percentage of 1RM Number of repetitions
100 1
95 2
90 3
85 5
80 6
75 8-10
70 12-15
65 15-20
60 20-25
50 30-50
40 50-100
30 100+

244
Repetitions
123456789101112131415161718192021222324252627282930313233343536373839404142434445464748495050+
Maximum 
strength
Power
Power  
endurance
Muscle 
endurance (short)
Muscle 
endurance (medium)
Muscle 
endurance (long)
FIGURE 10.8 Number of repetitions required for developing various types of strength.

Strength and Power Development245
Buffer
The number of repetitions per set is very much linked to the percentage of 1RM used and 
the desired buffer. Buffer is the difference between the percentage of 1RM necessary to go 
to failure with the number of repetitions performed in a set, and the percentage of 1RM actually used for that number of repetitions. For example, performing a set of 3 repetitions 
with 80% of 1RM translates into a buffer of 10%, as 3 repetitions to failure necessitate a 
percentage of 90% of 1RM. A high buffer allows the athlete to perform more technically correct repetitions (because the load is less challenging) and more explosive concentrics; 
it also elicits a lower residual fatigue. Thus, sets with a high buffer are used especially for 
intermuscular coordination work (technique), for power development, and during unload
-
ing microcycles.
Throughout a macrocycle, the coach can decrease the buffer by increasing intensity, while 
maintaining the same number of repetitions. Doing so makes each workout progressively 
harder, while maintaining the same number of sets and repetitions (a preferred method for 
maximum strength development, figure 10.9). The coach can also keep the buffer the same 
while increasing or decreasing one of the other parameters. Usually, the coach would not 
increase the buffer throughout a macrocycle. During unloading or peaking microcycles, the buffer is increased via a reduction of repetitions per set, while maintaining or only slightly reducing intensity.
As depicted in figure 10.10, buffer 0 means going to concentric failure, a preferred modal-
ity for hypertrophy (bodybuilding) training. Doing multiple sets of 1 to 3 repetitions to 
failure or close to failure (5% buffer) elicits gains in relative strength that represents an 
increase of strength without an accompanying increase of body weight. Going to failure or getting close to failure with a slightly higher time under tension per set and performing 
3 to 6 repetitions will elicit gains in absolute strength that are gains in both strength and 
muscle size. Performing sets of 1 to 3 reps with a buffer of 10% to 20% will increase both maximum strength and power with high loads (e.g., strength-speed). Performing 3 to 6 reps 
with a buffer of 25% to 40% will increase both maximum strength, via an improvement of 
the intermuscular coordination, and power with low loads.
E6954/Bompa/F10.09/578670/mh-R4Reps
Buffer
Week
Macrocycle575%77 .5%80%
70% 50% T82.5%85%90%
70% 50% T
10%
15
7 .5%
25
5%
33
20%340%10%
4
137 .5%
53
5%
62
5%
73
20%3
40%10%
8
2
Macrocycle
type
AdaptationemphasisMaximum strength (intermuscular coordination) Maximum strength (intramuscular coordination)3+1 3+1
FIGURE 10.9 Suggested load progression for an 8-week maximum strength phase (the latter part of the 
unloading week is devoted to finding the new 1RM on which to base the next cycle).
T = maximum strength testing.

246
FIGURE 10.10 The relationship between load (percentage of 1RM), repetitions, buffer, and the resulting training effect.
Reprinted, by permission, from T .O. Bompa and C. Buzzichelli, 2015, Periodization training for sports, 3rd ed. (Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics) 
115.% 1RMBuffer
0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25-40%
Intramuscular coordination100 1* Relative strength95 2 1* Relative strength
90 3 Absolute/
 
relative strength2 1* Maximum strength and power (high load)
85 5 Absolute strength3 Absolute/
 
relative strength2 1* Maximum strength and power (high load)
Intermuscular coordination80 6 5 Absolute strength3 2 1* Maximum strength and power (high load)75 8 Hypertrophy 6 5 Absolute strength3 2
70 12 5 Absolute strength3
65 3* Intermuscular coordination and power (low load)60 3-5
55 3-5
50 3-6
*The numbers in this column refer to the number of repetitions.

Strength and Power Development247
Barbell Velocity
Power is the main ingredient for all sports that require a high rate of force, speed, and agility. 
Sports that are speed and power dominant include sprinting, jumping, and throwing events 
in track and field; team sports; racket sports; gymnastics; diving; and martial arts. If an athlete 
desires to increase his level of performance, he has to improve power. Indeed, power is the main ingredient necessary to produce a fast, quick, and agile athlete.
Any increase of power must be the result of improvements in either strength or speed, or 
a combination of the two. An athlete can be very strong, yet unable to display power because of an inability to contract already strong muscles in a very short time. To overcome this defi-ciency, the athlete must undergo power training to improve her rate of force development. In 
the same way, in a sport that requires power endurance or muscle endurance, performance 
correlates with the ability to maintain the highest power output for the duration of the event.
Today it is possible to conveniently measure the power output of each repetition of a 
strength training session, thanks to affordable monitoring devices that utilize the technology 
of an accelerometer with a gyroscope. Such devices measure the peak and mean velocity as 
well as the peak and mean power output of each repetition of a set. This has been a great advancement in the monitoring of strength training.
Table 10.6 provides the mean velocity suggested for strength lifts (squat, bench press, deadlift, 
chin-ups), according to the desired training effect. For Olympic lifts, please refer to table 10.7.
TABLE 10.6 Suggested Mean Velocity of Strength Lifts
Mean velocity (m/s) Suggested utilization
0.1-0.2 One-repetition maximum velocity
0.3-0.4 Maximum strength development (intramuscular coordination) 
Maximum strength maintenance during the competitive phase
(heavy load day), at least 2 weeks from competition
0.4-0.5 Maximum strength development (intramuscular coordination)
Post-activation potentiation training, 6-24 h before competition
0.5-0.6 Maximum strength development (intermuscular coordination) 
Maximum strength maintenance (heavy load day)
0.6-0.7 Maximum strength development (intermuscular coordination) 
Power (high loads) maintenance during the competitive phaseMaximum strength maintenance (medium load day)
0.8-0.9 Power development
0.9+ Power developmentStrength maintenance, 48-72 h before an important competition (taper)
TABLE 10.7 Suggested Peak Velocity  
 of Olympic Lifts
Olympic lift Peak velocity (m/s)
Clean 1.8-2.0
Snatch 2.4-2.8The accelerometer can be used as a power training monitoring 
device, allowing the athlete to cut repetitions within sets, and 
sets of an exercise within a session, whenever a marked drop-off 
in power output becomes evident. It can be used as a testing 
tool, too, both for absolute power (peak velocity for ballistic exercises and Olympic lifts, and mean velocity for strength 
lifts) as well as power output stability for power endurance and 

Periodization248
muscle endurance purposes. The accelerometer can also be used as an internal load or central 
nervous system residual fatigue monitoring device; for example, it can be utilized through 
jump testing before a training session or monitoring the power output during the strength 
training warm-up sets, and then comparing the data with the best performance of the season.
Sets
Traditionally a set consists of a series of repetitions performed continuously, followed by a rest interval. A single-set training program is insufficient for identifying any visible strength 
improvements. Rather, a multiple-set protocol is necessary to significantly improve adaptation 
and, as a result, improve strength in both athletes and nonathletes (144, 151). Peterson and 
colleagues (144) reported dose–response data that suggested that single-set protocols offer 
minimal stimulus for strength gains and that between 4 and 8 sets are needed to optimize training-induced strength gains. Rhea and colleagues (151) also reported that a minimum 
of three sets are needed to maximize strength gains in both trained and untrained individ-
uals. The literature indicates that untrained individuals receive the most benefit from three or four sets, whereas trained individuals will gain the most adaptations from four to eight sets (144, 151). Therefore, when constructing a training program, coaches must consider the training status of the individual; highly trained athletes are able to tolerate and may benefit 
from higher numbers of sets. The more sets an athlete can tolerate, the greater the stimulus 
for adaptation and the greater the strength gains.
Regardless of how the set is configured, the phase of training will dictate the makeup of 
the training set. For example, during the preparation phase of training, when greater numbers of repetitions and exercises are performed, fewer sets may be performed. As the competitive phase approaches, the number of exercises will decrease, whereas the number of sets usually increases. During the competitive phase, everything will decrease, including the number of 
repetitions and number of sets, so that the athlete has recovered and can focus on technical 
and tactical training.
A special concern is represented by multiplanar (i.e., acting on multiple planes of movement) 
sports, such as team sports, contact sports, and martial arts. For these sports, a higher number 
of exercises and a lower number of sets per exercise has to be employed to address, for instance, 
the high force demands in the sagittal plane as well as in the frontal and transverse planes.
Interset Rest Intervals
The rest interval between sets is a function of the load being used, the goal of the training plan, the type of strength being developed, and the degree of explosiveness of the training 
exercise (20). The rest interval must be long enough to allow for the restoration of adenosine 
triphosphate (ATP) and phosphocreatine (PCr), the clearance of fatigue-inducing substrates, and the restoration of force-generating capacity (199).
The time selected for the interset rest interval may play a distinct role in the replenishment 
of substrates used during the set. After 30 s of rest, 70% of ATP has been restored, although complete ATP resynthesis does not occur until 3 to 5 min into rest (97). Two minutes of rest is needed to restore approximately 84% of PCr, 4 min of rest is need to restore approximately 89% of the PCr stores, and 8 min of rest is needed for complete restoration of PCr (85, 97, 
98). Thus, during high-volume training, rest intervals of less than 1 min may not be long 
enough to allow for restoration of substrates and may result in inadequate recovery (199). Force- and power-generating capacity have been shown to be almost completely restored after 2 to 5 min of recovery between sets (4, 18, 155). Conversely, when less than 1 min of 
recovery is allowed between sets, force- and power-generating capacity can be decreased by 
12% to 44% (4, 145, 181). These data indicate that short recovery periods (<1 min) should be avoided in favor of longer recovery periods (2 to 5 min) when the athlete is attempting 
to maximize force- and power-generating capacity.
Clearly, short rest intervals do not allow for enough recovery to sustain training intensities 
across several sets and are not advantageous when the athlete is attempting to maximize 

Strength and Power Development249
muscular strength and power development (199). However, when the strength training pro-
gram is designed to emphasize muscle endurance, short rest intervals may be advantageous. 
It is plausible that when short rest intervals are coupled with high volumes of training, phys-
iological adaptations occur that can facilitate endurance performance. These adaptations may include increases in capillary density, mitochondrial density, and buffer capacity (199).
Short rest interval programs have also been suggested to result in significant hormonal 
responses that provide a greater stimulus for the improvement of body composition (64, 129, 199). In particular, it appears that when short rest intervals are included in a strength training program that uses higher repetitions (~10 repetitions) with moderate loads, greater 
levels of growth hormone are released (64, 1 18, 129). Short rest intervals do not allow for 
complete recovery, and they decrease the total workload that the athlete can accomplish. 
Frobose and colleagues (52) suggested the work accomplished (i.e., tonnage or volume load) 
is the primary stimulus for muscular hypertrophy. Thus, depending on the athlete’s ability to recover, various rest interval lengths may be used when targeting muscular hypertrophy.
Order of Exercises
The order of exercises in a strength training program can significantly influence the effective-ness of the training session. Large mass, multijoint exercises should be placed early in the 
training session (8, 165) because these exercises are fundamental to strength development 
and need to be trained when the athlete has a minimal amount of fatigue. After completing the large mass, multijoint exercises, the athlete can then progress to smaller mass, single-joint exercises (8). Alternatively, it has been suggested that the athlete should alternate between 
upper body and lower body exercises to facilitate recovery (197).
When an athlete is attempting to maximize strength and power development, it may be 
advantageous to perform either an explosive exercise (128, 195) or a heavy load, multijoint, large mass exercise (128) before performing an explosive exercise such as a jump or a sprint. 
This can be termed a postactivation potentiation complex. Postactivation complexes have been shown to significantly increase the rate of force development (RFD), jumping height (206), sprinting performance (128), and sprint cycle performance (171). However, if the 
initial exercise creates large amounts of fatigue, performance most likely will be impaired 
during the second exercise of the series (30). The postactivation complex appears to be effective only when used with highly trained individuals (31). There are numerous examples 
of postactivation complexes in the scientific literature, but some examples that may have 
significant performance effects can be seen in table 10.8. Potentiation complexes need to 
TABLE 10.8 Postactivation Complexes
Study Postactivation potentiation complex Results
Chiu et al. 
(31)Back squats 5 × 1 at 
90% of 1RM18 1/2 min 
restJump squats Power output ↑ with 
jumps at 30% of 1RM
McBride et 
al. (128)Back squat 1 × 3 at 
90% of 1RM4 min rest 40 m sprint 0.87% ↓ in sprint time
Smith et 
al.(171)Back squats 10 × 1 
at 90% of 1RM5 min rest 10 s sprint cycle 
test4.8% ↑ in average 
power output
Yetter and 
Moir (205)Back squat 3 × at 
70% of 1RM4 min rest 40 m sprint 2.3% ↓ in sprint time
Young et al. 
(206)Back squat 1 × 5RM 4 min rest Loaded counter-
movement jump2.8% ↑ in jump height
↓ = decrease; ↑ = increase.

Periodization250
have a heavy-load activity (≥80% of 1RM) such as a back squat for minimal repetitions (one 
to three repetitions) performed 4 to 5 min prior to an explosive activity, such as jumping 
or sprinting.
Training Frequency
Training frequency is usually measured as the number of times per week a certain muscle 
group is trained or how often the athlete trains the whole body. The greater the training 
frequency, the greater the strength gains. For novice and intermediate weight trainers who 
are training the whole body during each training session, training 2 or 3 days per week 
appears to be optimal. As the athlete becomes more developed, the frequency of training 
may need to be increased.
Support for higher frequencies of training with advanced athletes can be found in the 
scientific literature. For example, university-level American football players who participated in four or five training sessions per week experienced significantly greater gains in muscular strength than those who participated in fewer training sessions (93). It appears that higher frequencies of training are necessary for maximum muscular strength adaptations (8). It is thought that breaking the training volume into short sessions, followed by periods of recov-
ery in which dietary nutrients and supplements are supplied, will increase training quality. 
This concept is supported by the work of Häkkinen and Kallinen (72), who demonstrated that increasing the frequency of training to two sessions per day, even when the volume was 
maintained, results in significantly greater increases in muscle hypertrophy and neuromus-
cular adaptations, compared with a frequency of one training session per day.
The optimal frequency of training is determined by many factors: training status, the type 
of strength needed, the phase of the periodized training plan, and the athlete’s goal influence 
the frequency of strength training. For example, most athletes undertake strength training to 
improve their performance in other activities. Therefore, these athletes may perform two to four strength training sessions per week in conjunction with their other training activities. 
The phase of training must be considered when selecting a training frequency. For example, 
during the preparation phase, the frequency of training might be substantially higher than in the later portion of the competition phase. The number of training sessions often is reduced, in order to taper training and dissipate fatigue.
Loading Patterns
The loading pattern used in the training program is particularly important because it will stimulate physiological adaptations. The most effective loading pattern to stimulate maximal 
strength gains is the flat pyramid (20). In the flat pyramid, the athlete begins with several 
warm-up sets and works toward a prescribed load at which all of the training sets are per-formed (table 10.9). The flat portion of the pyramid generally uses an intensity between 70% and 90% of 1RM when the athlete is specifically targeting maximum strength. It appears that 
performance is maximized when the majority of training is undertaken with intensities of 
about 70% to 85% of 1RM (63, 207). This is seen in the data presented by Zatsiorsky (207), who reported that 35% of the training volume of Soviet weightlifters was between 70% and 80% of 1RM, 26% of the training volume was between 80% and 90% of 1RM, and only 7% 
of the training volume was between 90% and 100% of 1RM throughout the training year. 
Conversely, Häkkinen and colleagues (73) reported that when training volume is increased from 80% to 90% of 1RM and 90% to 100% of 1RM, maximal strength increases signifi-cantly. When too much of the training volume is in the 90% to 100% range, performance 
may not be optimized and overtraining may occur (56).
A second loading pattern is the pyramid loading pattern (20, 169), or an ascending pyra-
mid loading scheme. In this loading scheme, with each set the percentage of 1RM increases and the number of repetitions decreases (table 10.10). The load range of the ascending 

Strength and Power Development251
pyramid has been suggested to range from 10% to 15% (20). Load ranges greater than 15% 
are not recommended because the cumulative fatigue that accumulates may impair strength 
development (20).
A modification of the ascending pyramid loading pattern is what some have termed the 
double pyramid (20, 65). The traditional loading pattern for the double pyramid would be an increase of resistance up to a maximal attempt followed by a progressive decrease 
(207, 208). A better approach, which can be utilized to peak strength, is to leave the volume constant, typically at one repetition, and then use an ascending intensity pattern followed by a descending pattern (table 10.1 1). This pattern elicits a potentiation effect 
on the descending intensity portion of the pyramid. However, the number of sets must be 
limited (five to six), and the top intensity must not go beyond 90% of the 1RM; otherwise, the amount of fatigue established in this type 
of loading structure might result in a lack of 
potentiation (30).
Another modification to the pyramid load-
ing pattern is the skewed pyramid (20). In this 
loading pattern, the intensity is increased for 
a series of sets, and on the last set a down set is performed (table 10.12). Lowering the load in that last set (e.g., the back-off set or down 
set) and taking it to failure has been proven to 
retain muscle hypertrophy when the majority of 
high-intensity, low-repetition sets would only 
stimulate relative strength (64). This method 
could be used during the strength maintenance TABLE 10.9 Loading Pattern for a Flat Pyramid Using the Back Squat
Warm-up Target sets
Load (kg) 60 100 140 155 170 170 170 170 170 170
Repetitions 5 5 3 3 2 2 2 2 2 2
Percentage  
of 1RM 30 50 70 77.5 85 85 85 85 85 85
Buffer (%) 55 35 20 12.5 10 10 10 10 10 10
Note: Loading based on a maximum back squat of 200 kg.
TABLE 10.10 Loading Pattern for an Ascending Pyramid  
 Using the Back Squat
Warm-up Pyramid
Load (kg) 60 100 140 155 160 165 175 185 
Repetitions 5 5 5 5 4 3 2 1
Percentage of 
1RM30 50 70 77.5 80 82.5 87.5 92.5
Buffer (%) 55 35 15 7.5 7.5 7.5 7.5 7.5
Note: Loading based upon a maximum back squat of 200 kg.
TABLE 10.11 Loading Pattern for a Double Pyramid  
 Using the Back Squat
Double pyramid
Load (kg) 160 170 180 170 160
Repetitions 1 1 1 1 1
Percentage of 1RM 80 85 90 85 80
Buffer (%) 20 15 10 15 20
Note: Loading based on a maximum back squat of 661.4 lb (200 kg). An appropriate 
warm-up is required to prepare the athlete for the training bout.

Periodization252
phase of the annual plan. If the last, lighter set is not taken to failure, it can exploit a postac-
tivation potentiation effect to stimulate power development (186). This concept is supported 
by work by Stone and colleagues (179), who demonstrated that greater barbell velocities 
are achieved during the back-off set.
Yet another loading pattern is the wave-loading model (182), which is sometimes referred 
to as segment work (105). In this model the training load increases in an undulating or 
wavelike fashion (table 10.13). The wave-loading method may be useful because it allows 
for a potentiating effect, with a light load undertaken after a heavy load.
The traditional format of a set may be modified to change the training stimulus by incor-
porating a short interrepetition rest interval, creating a cluster set (68, 121, 122). During traditional set configurations, with each repetition there is a decrease in repetition velocity, power, and quality. The addition of a 10 to 30 s interrepetition rest interval can allow for 
partial recovery between each repetition, thus allowing for higher repetition quality (61, 
68, 81, 82, 122).
Cluster sets can be structured in several different fashions, depending on the goal of 
training (table 10.14). Additional variation in the cluster set can be accomplished by 
changing the loading structure (68). Four distinct repetition schemes can be constructed: 
a straight cluster set that uses the same intensity across all repetitions, an ascending cluster 
where the intensity of each repetition is increased, an undulating cluster where loading is 
implemented in a pyramidal fashion, and a waving cluster where three ascending sets are repeated twice (table 10.15). Contemporary literature suggests that the most effective use 
of the cluster set is with ballistic or explosive exercise (122) and that traditional sets may 
be better for the development of muscular hypertrophy or maximum muscular strength 
 
(152).TABLE 10.12 Loading Pattern for a Skewed Pyramid Using the Squat 
Skewed pyramid
Load (kg) 100 120 140 160 170 180 160
Repetitions 6 5 4 3 2 1 8 to failure
Percentage  
of 1RM50 60 70 80 85 90 80
Buffer (%) 30 25 17.5 10 10 10 0
Note: Loading based on a maximum squat of 200 kg. An appropriate warm-up is required to prepare the athlete for 
the training bout.
TABLE 10.13 Wave-Loading Model Using the Deadlift
Warm-up Wave segment
Load (kg) 60 100 140 160 165 170 160 165 170
Repetitions 5 3 2 3 2 1 3 2 1
Percentage  
of 1RM30 50 70 80 82.5 85 80 82.5 85
Buffer (%) 55 40 20 10 12.5 15 10 12.5 15
Note: Data calculated for a 1RM deadlift of 200 kg.

Strength and Power Development253
Implementation of  
a Strength Training Program
Continual monitoring of the training process is an often overlooked but essential part of 
implementing a periodized strength training plan. Monitoring the athlete’s progress allows 
the coach to determine whether the goals of the training plan are being achieved. The fol-
lowing steps will allow the coach to conceptualize, design, and implement a periodized strength training program.
1. Determine the phases of training: Like any other periodized training plan, a strength training program has preparatory, competitive, and transition phases of training. Each TABLE 10.14 Cluster Set Configurations Using Various Configurations for the Clean Pull 
Type of 
trainingSets 3 
repsRest  
interval (s) Repetition load (kg)
Cluster 1Power 
training 
with 
Olympic 
lifts23(103 1)30/180 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 110
Cluster 2Power 
training with 
strength 
lifts33(531) 1-3/180 110 110 110 110 10
23(1031) = two sets of 10 repetitions performed with a 30 s rest between each repetition of the set and 3 min between sets; 33(531) = three 
sets of five repetitions with 1 to 3 s rest and 3 min between sets.
Note: Loads are based on of a 1RM clean of 150 kg and a 1RM back squat of 200 kg.
TABLE 10.15 Intensity Variations for Cluster Set Configurations  
 Using the Clean Pull
Sets 3 
repetitionsInterrepetition 
rest interval (s) Repetition load (kg)
Straight 
cluster3 3 6/1 30 120 120 120 120 120 120
Undulating cluster 3 3 5/1 30 120 130 140 130 120
Ascending cluster 3 3 5/1 30 120 130 140 150 160
Waving cluster 3 3 6/1 30 120 130 140 120 130 140
3 3 5/1 = three sets of five repetitions performed with 30 s between each repetition of the set.
Note: Loads are based on of a 1RM clean of 150 kg.

Periodization254
phase is essential to maximize training outcomes. This concept can be considered phase 
potentiation, which suggests that activities of the general preparatory phase facilitate 
the athlete’s development in both the specific preparatory phase and the competition 
phase. Thus, the coach must structure the phases of training so the athlete develops the appropriate biomotor abilities.
2. Determine the training goal: The most important step in establishing a periodized strength training program is to set separate training objectives for the annual plan as well as 
for each training phase. This refers not only to performance objectives, but also to the 
goals for each dominant physical abilities. Remember that performance objectives may be impeded if the goals of the dominant abilities are not achieved.
3. Determine the athlete’s needs: During the last phase of the annual training program (tran-sition phase), the coach has to analyze whether the objectives for the year have been 
achieved and, based on this analysis, set realistic objectives for the next annual plan. 
This is important both for performance, but also for the objectives for each dominant ability. The coach must also analyze the physiological demands needed to achieve superior performance and what the athlete needs in order to achieve it. Remember that 
the weakest link of a chain always breaks first.
4. Consider the characteristics of all components of the training plan: The goals for strength training must be integrated with all of the other components important to the selected 
sport, including technical, tactical, and physical components (22). Therefore, the coach must consider the strength training program and how it may affect other attributes, 
such as conditioning agility and technical and tactical training activities (i.e., all of the 
components that contribute to performance).
5. Select the exercises: The training exercises selected must be related to the requirements 
of the sport. When examining a sport during 
the needs analysis, the coach can determine the muscles that act as prime movers and match exercises to these activities. For exam
-
ple, analyzing a 100 m sprinter’s technique may shows that lower body strength is 
impeding optimal performance outcomes. 
Thus, the coach may select exercises such as back squats and kettlebell swings in an attempt to target the prime movers employed 
during the propulsion phase in sprinting. 
Support for this idea can be seen in several studies, which suggest that maximum strength 
capacity in the squat and power clean is sig
-
nificantly related to running performance  
(13, 24, 36).
  An additional consideration when selecting 
exercises is the phase of training. Certain exer-cises are best used at specific times during the 
periodized plan (22, 84, 146). For example, early in the general preparation phase of train-ing it may be warranted to use general strength 
exercises. As the athlete moves toward the 
specific preparation and competitive phases of training, more specific exercises can be used.
6. Test performance: After selecting the exercises that are needed to develop the performance 
Kettlebell swings work the stretch short-
ening cycle in a more specific way.

Strength and Power Development255
attributes needed by the athlete, the coach must test the athlete’s maximum strength. 
Knowledge of the athlete’s 1RM capabilities in at least the primary or dominant exercises 
will allow the coach to establish the training loads. The 1RM will continually change 
as the athlete adapts to the physiological stressors of the training program. Therefore, the athlete must be tested at the end of each macrocycle to individualize the loading parameters.
  Many coaches wrongly believe that performing a 1RM test is dangerous and will 
increase the athlete’s risk of injury (20, 26, 1 19, 125, 150). In fact, 1RM testing is very safe for most populations (154, 166) and is considered the gold standard in the assessment 
of muscular strength (99). Some authors suggest that testing strength with multiple 
repetition tests is a better way to establish the training intensity (25, 26, 46, 125), but it has been consistently shown that many of the prediction equations misrepresent the 1RM (125). This is a major problem because using an estimate of 1RM capabili-
ties that is too high may increase injury risk during training or induce high-intensity 
overtraining from consistently training at high intensities (54). Conversely, training with an intensity that is underpredicted will result in inadequate strength development 
because the athlete will train using suboptimal loads.The Specificity of Strength Training Exercises
Under normal conditions an exercise has to be selected based on the needs to target the prime 
movers (the muscles that contract to perform the technical skills). In addition, the muscle con-traction has to be performed along the line of pull  (median direction of contraction of the main 
muscles involved in the technical skill). In other words, the exercise has to be very specific to the needs of the selected sport.
However, some strength training coaches with a background in Olympic weightlifting (OL) 
believe that if you want to be as strong as their athletes, you must use the same exercises. This isn’t correct: The OL athletes are strong not because of the exercises they do, but rather because of the heavy loads they use (especially in the back squat). In sport training, the OL exercises have far fewer applications than popularly thought because they are not force-vector specific and do not properly target the prime movers employed in many sports. Yet, in many gyms in the United States and the United Kingdom, the only means of training are Olympic lifts. For example, strength coaches can still be seen working with some swimmers and rowers on snatches and military presses.
These exercises are not specific to swimming, where the prime movers are scapular depres-
sors, and shoulder and elbow extensors. The military press and snatches target the shoulder flexors, exactly the opposite muscles used in swimming and other sports. Furthermore, because most sport activities require a fast application of force, in less than 300 ms, once an athlete reaches triple extension (ankle, knee, hip), it does not matter what he does with his arms, if he catches in a clean or snatch position. For this reason, coaches who work in sports that require fast force applied vertically are better off using low or high pulls. Finally, exercises such as plyometrics and kettlebell swings work the stretch shortening cycle in a more specific way and at a greater extent than OL, making them preferable for the sprinting athlete (in track and field and team sports).
In other words, do not allow the athletes to be robots and do just OL moves—it might do a 
disservice to them.

Periodization256
7. Develop the strength training program: After establishing the athlete’s physical perfor-
mance capabilities, the coach can establish the number of exercises, sets, repetitions, 
and loading (percentage of 1RM) that will be used during the microcycles within the 
macrocycle. Throughout the training plan the coach will need to alter volume, intensity, 
and the exercises selected to allow for continued physiological adaptations that will 
lead to the maximization of specific strength. As muscular strength increases across the annual plan, the coach will need to periodically retest the 1RM to optimize the 
training load. It is essential for the coach to test the 1RM before each new macrocycle. 
A detailed training program will be written down only for one macrocycle at a time.
8. Record the training plan: The coach must record the exercises, number of sets, number 
of repetitions, and training load (table 10.16). The load, number of repetitions, and 
sets usually are noted as follows:
% of 1RM / number of repetitions 3 sets
  Noting the load as a percentage of 1RM is useful when working with many athletes 
because this allows the coach to calculate the load for every athlete. By using a percent-
age notation, the coach can individualize the program for each athlete, and athletes 
can use their own 1RM to establish their training loads.
9. Create a training log: One of the most important steps is to record what was done in 
the training sessions. If the coach and athlete keep detailed records, they will be able to evaluate the athlete’s progress and chart her performance. Things to record in the 
training log include the exercise, the number of repetitions completed, the number of 
sets performed, the load lifted in lb or kg, and the duration of the training session (figure 10.1 1). This record will allow the coach to calculate the volume load, tons, and training 
intensity (volume load divided by total repetitions performed). By using a spreadsheet 
software program such as Microsoft Excel, the coach can easily calculate the volume 
load, tons, and training intensity and create figures depicting the volume and intensity 
of training. Those strength and conditioning coaches who have an accelerometer can record the peak velocity, average velocity, peak power, and average power of the best 
repetition of each set (figure 10.12). Average velocity during the first sets of a session 
can be utilized as an indicator of daily internal load, and the training session load or direction can be adjusted accordingly. If the training log is accurate and inclusive, it 
provides an excellent tool for monitoring training.
TABLE 10.16 Sample Chart of a Strength Training Program  
 for a Sprinter (3+1 Macrocycle)
Exercise 
number Exercise LoadingRest 
interval
1 Back squat 80 3385 3285 3270 323 min
2 Bench press 80 3385 3285 3280 223 min
3 Kettlebell swing (48 kg) 3 3 6 4 3 6 4 3 6 2 3 6 3 min
4 Narrow supinated grip 
lat pulldown80 3385 3285 3270 323 min
5 Toe raise/ankle press 75 2580 2585 2570 253 min
Loading = % 1RM / repetitions for the number of sets.

257Name:  ___________________________  Time in:  _______________
Day:  _____________________________  Time out:  _____________
Date:  _____________________________
Exercise Set 1 Set 2 Set 3 Set 4 Set 5 Set 6 Set 7 Set 8 Set 9 Set 10 Volume load Training intensity
Back squat Weight
Repetitions601080101101013010130 10130106,400 106.67
1/3 front squat WeightRepetitions1601016010160104,800 160.00
Military press WeightRepetitions6010601060101,800 60.00
Incline bench press WeightRepetitions7010701070102,100 70.00
WeightRepetitionsWeight
Repetitions
Weight
Repetitions
Weight
Notes: Total volume load 15,100
Metric tons 15.1
Training intensity 99.167
FIGURE 10.11 Training log for a single training session.

258
Name:  ___________________________  Time in:  _______________
Day:  _____________________________  Time out:  _____________
Date:  _____________________________
Exercise Set 1 Set 2 Set 3 Set 4 Set 5 Set 6 Set 7 Set 8 Set 9 Set 10 Volume load
1/4 squat 100 kg 5 reps 3 min rest 
interval2,000
Peak velocity 1.00 1.19 1.20 1.16
Average velocity 0.55 0.70 0.72 0.65
Peak power 2,080 2,265 2,588 2,108
Average power 902 1,276 1,296 1,154
Deadlift 100 kg 3 reps 3 min rest interval1,200
Peak velocity 1.18 1.31 1.22 1.28
Average velocity 0.66 0.83 0.75 0.77
Peak power 1,978 2,560 2,026 2,240
Average power 989 1,240 1,126 1,190
Jump squat 40 kg 5 reps 3 min rest interval800
Peak Velocity 2.20 2.40 2.55 2.38
Average Velocity 1.09 1.15 1.17 1.11
Peak Power 7850 8655 9522 8317
Average Power 3820 4325 4766 4102
Notes: Total volume load 4,000
Metric tons 4
FIGURE 10.12 Training log for a training session during the power phase.

Strength and Power Development259
Periodization of Strength
Periodization of strength offers a seven-phase approach that follows the physiological 
rhythm of the neuromuscular system’s response to strength training (table 10.17). The 
seven phases are anatomical adaptation, hypertrophy, maximum strength, conversion, 
maintenance, cessation, and compensation. Depending on the physiological demands of the sport, the periodization of strength involves combining, in sequence, at least four of the phases: anatomical adaptation, maximum strength, conversion to specific strength 
(power or muscle endurance), and maintenance. All models for periodization of strength 
begin with an anatomical adaptation phase. The seven phases are discussed briefly in the following sections.Testing the One-Repetition Maximum (1RM)
Some coaches believe that testing for 1RM is dangerous and that lifting 100% can result in 
injury. However, it is not dangerous for trained athletes to lift 100% once every 3 or 4 weeks. Most injuries occur during training and competition, not during testing. Sometimes the body of an athlete is subjected to forces up to five times body weight during the sport activity, so testing maximum strength should not constitute a safety concern. Consider, as well, that testing is performed at the end of the unloading microcycle of a macrocycle, when the athlete has recovered from the fatigue of the previous loading microcycles. However, a test for 1RM must follow a thorough, progressive warm-up, such as the one suggested here for the squat (projected 1RM at 150 kg):
1st set: 20 kg 3 10 reps, 30 s rest interval, 13% of 1RM
2nd set: 60 kg 3 4 reps, 60 s rest interval, 40% of 1RM3rd set: 80 kg 3 2 reps, 90 s rest interval, 53% of 1RM4th set: 100 kg 3 2 reps, 2 min rest interval, 67% of 1RM5th set: 120 kg 3 1 rep, 2 min rest interval, 80% of 1RM6th set: 130 kg 3 1 rep, 3 min rest interval, 87% of 1RM7th set: 140 kg 3 1 rep, 4 min rest interval, 93% of 1RM8th set: 145 kg 3 1 rep, 5 min rest interval, 97% of 1 RM9th set: 150 kg 3 1 rep, 6 min rest interval, 100% of 1RM
TABLE 10.17 Periodization of Strength and Its Phases
Preparatory Competitive Transition
Anatomical 
adaptationHypertrophy  
(if necessary)Maximum 
strengthConversion to 
specific strength 
(power; power 
endurance; or 
short, medium, or long muscle endurance)Maintenance 
of maximum strength 
and specific 
strengthCessation 
of strength trainingCompensation 
training

Periodization260
Phase 1: Anatomical Adaptation
The anatomical adaptation phase lays the foundation for the other phases of training. The 
name of this phase reflects the fact that the main objective of strength training is not to achieve 
an immediate overload, but to elicit a progressive adaptation of the athlete’s anatomy. The 
anatomical adaptation phase emphasizes prehabilitation in the hope of preventing the need for rehabilitation. The main physiological objectives of this phase are to (1) strengthen the tendons, ligaments, and joints, which is doable through a higher volume of training than 
in the remainder of the year; and (2) increase bone mineral content and the proliferation 
of the connective tissue. In addition, regardless of the sport, this phase improves cardiovas-cular fitness, adequately challenges muscular strength, and tests and assists the athlete with 
practicing and improving neuromuscular coordination for strength movement patterns. 
Although this phase does not focus on increasing the cross-sectional area of muscle, some gains in the hypertrophy of some muscles may be visible, especially for novice athletes.
Tendons are strengthened by implementing a time under tension per set that falls between 
30 and 70 s (the time under tension that sees the anaerobic lactic system as the main energy system). The hydrogen ions released by lactic acid have been proven to stimulate the release of growth hormone and therefore collagen synthesis, which is also stimulated by eccentric load (10, 35, 40, 1 12, 1 13, 120, 131). For this reason, the majority of the time under tension 
is spent in the eccentric phase of the exercise (3 to 5 s per repetition). Muscular balance is 
achieved both by using an equal training volume between agonist and antagonist muscles around a joint and by making greater use of unilateral exercises, rather than bilateral ones.
Phase 2: Hypertrophy
Hypertrophy, or the enlargement of muscle size, is one of the most visible signs of adaptation to strength training. The two main physiological objectives of this phase are (1) to increase the 
muscle cross-sectional area by increasing muscle protein content and (2) to increase storage capacity for high-energy substrates and enzymes. Many principles used in hypertrophy training are similar to those used in bodybuilding, but there are also some differences. In comparison with bodybuilding programs, athletic hypertrophy programs use a lower average number 
of repetitions per set, a higher average load, and a longer average rest interval between sets.
In addition, athletes should always try to move the weight as fast as possible during the 
concentric phase of the lift. Bodybuilders train to exhaustion using relatively light to moderate loads, whereas athletes from different sports rely on heavier loads and focus on movement 
speed and rest between sets. Although hypertrophic changes occur in both fast-twitch and slow-twitch muscle fibers, more changes take place in the fast-twitch fibers (186, 187). This form of hypertrophy is desired for athletes who use strength training to improve their athletic 
performance. In this manner, muscular adaptations result in a stronger muscular engine that 
is prepared to receive and apply nervous system signals. When hypertrophy training produces chronic changes, it provides a strong physiological basis for nervous system training.
Hypertrophy training is indicated mostly for athletes who desire an overall increase in 
body weight (e.g., throwers in track and field) or for tall athletes, specifically those who play in scrums in rugby and American football or who fall in the heavyweight category in combat 
sports or martial arts. For most other athletes, this strength training phase is not necessary 
unless the coach is training beginners.
Phase 3: Maximum Strength
In most sports, the development of maximum strength is probably the single most import-ant variable. Maximum strength depends on the diameter of the cross-sectional area of the 
muscles, the capacity to recruit fast-twitch muscle fibers, the frequency of activation, and 
the ability to simultaneously call into action all the primary muscles involved in a given movement (96). These factors involve both structural and neural flow changes that occur 

Strength and Power Development261
as a function of training with moderate weights lifted explosively, as well as heavy loads 
(up to 90% of 1RM or more). These adaptive responses can also be elicited by eccentric 
training with loads greater than 100% of 1RM, although its practical application is limited 
to very few situations.
The popularity of maximum strength training is rooted in the positive increase in rela-
tive strength. Many sports (e.g., volleyball, gymnastics, combat sports) require greater force 
generation without a concomitant increase in body weight. In fact, an increase in maximum 
strength without an associated increase in body weight characterizes the maximum strength phase as central nervous system training (158).
An athlete could benefit from traditional maximum strength training methods, such as 
performing high loads with maximal rest (3 to 5 min) between sets. However, to increase 
the weight lifted in an exercise over the long term, the key is intermuscular coordination 
training (technique training). With time, as the nervous system learns the gesture, fewer motor units are activated by the same weight, thereby leaving more motor units available 
for activation by higher weights. In addition, the concentric action should be explosive in 
order to activate the fast-twitch muscle fibers (responsible for the highest and fastest force generation) and to achieve the highest specific hypertrophy.
The most commonly employed methods entail the use of moderately heavy (MxS-I) and 
heavy (MxS-II) loads, applied in this sequence (see figure 10.13). Improving intermuscular 
coordination (i.e., coordination of muscle groups) depends strictly on learning (technique), 
which requires many sets of repetitions of the same exercise using a moderate load (40% to 80% of 1RM) and performed explosively with perfect technique (MxS-I). Intramuscu-
lar coordination, or the capacity to recruit fast-twitch fibers, depends on training content 
in which high loads (80% to 90% of 1RM) are moved explosively (MxS-II). Both of these types of strength training, MxS-I and MxS-II, activate the powerful fast-twitch motor units.
The physiological benefits for sport performance lie in an athlete’s ability to convert gains 
in strength, and possibly muscle size, to the specific strength demanded by her particular sport. Building the foundation sets the stage, adding muscle generates force, and adapting the body to use heavy loads improves the capability to voluntarily involve its largest engines 
(the fast-twitch motor units). Once the mind–muscle connection is made, the physical 
requirements of the sport determine the next phase.
AA MxS MxS MxS P P
3+1 3+1
Intermuscular coordination loads are used 
 
(70%-75% of 1RM)3+1Intermuscular coordination loads are used 
 
(75%-80% of 1RM)2+1Intramuscular coordination loads are used 
 
(85%-90% of 1RM)2+1 2+1
FIGURE 10.13 Sequence of MxS-I and MxS-II methods within the maximum strength phase.
Digits (e.g., 3+1) refer to three microcycles of progressive increase of load, followed by one regeneration or recovery cycle. AA = anatomical adaptation; MxS = maximum strength; P = power.
Phase 4: Conversion to Specific Strength
Depending on the sport, a maximum strength phase of training can be followed by one of 
three fundamental options: conversion to power, power endurance, or muscle endurance. 
Conversion to power or power endurance is accomplished by using relatively moderate to 
heavy loads (40% to 80% of 1RM) with the intention of moving the weight as quickly as pos-sible, the difference being the duration of the sets. By engaging the nervous system, methods such as ballistic training and upper or lower body plyometric training improve an athlete’s 
high-velocity strength or ability to recruit and engage the high-powered, fast-twitch motor 
units. A strong foundation of maximum strength is a must for maximizing the rate of force production. In fact, even maximum strength training with high loads moved at low velocity 

Periodization262
has been shown to transfer to gains in power if the athlete attempts to move the weight as 
quickly as possible (16). Depending on the demands of the sport, muscle endurance can 
be trained for short, medium, or long duration. Short muscle endurance as the main energy 
system is the anaerobic lactic, whereas medium and long muscle endurance are predomi-nately aerobic. Conversion to muscle endurance requires more than performing 15 to 20 repetitions per set; in fact, it can require as many as 400 repetitions per set, implemented 
concomitantly with metabolic training. Indeed, metabolic training and muscle endurance 
training pursue similar physiological training objectives.
Recall that the body replenishes energy for muscular contractions through the combined 
efforts of three energy systems: anaerobic alactic, anaerobic lactic, and aerobic. Training for conversion to muscle endurance requires heightened adaptation of the aerobic and the 
anaerobic lactic systems. The main objectives of aerobic training include improvement in 
physiological parameters, such as heart efficiency; biochemical parameters, such as increased mitochondria and capillary density, which result in greater diffusion and use of oxygen; and 
metabolic parameters, which result in greater use of fat as energy and an increased rate of 
removal and reuse of lactic acid. Adapting the neuromuscular and cardiovascular systems physiologically, biochemically, and metabolically provides invaluable benefit to athletes in many endurance sports. To maximize performance in muscle endurance sports, maximum strength training must be followed by a combination of specific metabolic training and 
specific strength training to prepare the body for the demands of the sport.
Phase 5: Maintenance
Once the neuromuscular system has been adapted for maximum performance, it is time to 
put the gains to the test. Unfortunately, most athletes and coaches work hard and strategically 
as the competitive season approaches but cease to train strength once the season begins. In 
reality, maintaining the strong and stable base formed during precompetitive phases requires the athlete to continue training during the competitive season. Failure to plan at least one weekly session dedicated to strength training results in decreased performance or early onset 
of fatigue as the season wears on.
Staying up is always easier than falling down and then attempting to get back up. Peri-
odization of strength involves planning phases to optimize physiological adaptation and planning to maintain the benefits for as long as the season lasts. When the season is over, 
serious athletes can take 2 to 4 weeks off to regenerate their minds and bodies.
Stimulating the body for optimal performance takes time, planning, and persistence. 
Physiology is helpful in planning the program, but performance improvement is achieved 
through practical application of the many principles and methods of training inherent in 
the periodization of strength.
Phase 6: Cessation
As the main competition of the year approaches, most of the athlete’s energy must be directed to the main sport-specific biomotor ability or mix of biomotor abilities. Again, the purpose of the cessation phase is to conserve the athlete’s energy for competition and peak his or 
sport-specific biomotor abilities. For this reason, the strength training program should end at 
least 3 to 14 days before the main competition. The exact timing depends on multiple factors:
• The athlete’s gender: Female athletes, who retain strength gains less easily than males do, should usually maintain strength training until 3 days before competition.
• The chosen sport: A longer cessation phase, 1 to 2 weeks long, may result in improved alactic speed performance due to overshooting of the fast-twitch type IIx muscle fibers. For long endurance sports for which strength is not as important as for anaerobic 
sports, strength training can be ended 2 weeks before the main competition.

Strength and Power Development263
• Body type: Heavier athletes tend to retain both adaptations and residual fatigue longer 
and therefore should end strength training earlier than lighter athletes.
Phase 7: Compensation
Traditionally, the last phase of the annual plan has been inappropriately called the off- season; 
in reality, it represents a transition from one annual plan to another. The main goal of this 
phase is to remove fatigue acquired during the training year and replenish the exhausted 
energy stores by decreasing both volume (through a decrease in frequency) and intensity of training. During the months of training and competition, most athletes are exposed to 
numerous psychological and social stressors that drain their mental energy. During the 
transition phase, athletes can relax psychologically by getting involved in various physical 
and social activities they enjoy.
The transition phase should last no longer than 4 weeks for serious athletes. A longer 
phase results in detraining effects, such as the loss of most training gains, especially strength 
gains. The detraining that results from neglecting strength training in the off-season can be 
detrimental to athletes’ rate of performance improvement in the following year. Athletes 
and coaches should remember that strength is hard to gain and easy to lose. Athletes who perform no strength training at all during the transition phase may experience decreased muscle size and considerable power loss (201). Because power and speed are interdependent, 
such athletes also lose speed. Some authors claim that the disuse of muscles also reduces 
the frequency of discharge rate and the pattern of muscle fiber recruitment; thus, strength and power loss may be the result of not activating as many motor units.
Although physical activity volume is reduced by 50% to 60% during the transition phase, 
athletes should find time to work on the maintenance of strength training. Specifically, it can be beneficial to work on the antagonists, stabilizers, and other muscles that may not necessarily be involved in the performance of the sport-specific skills. Similarly, compensation 
exercises should be planned for sports in which an imbalance may develop between parts 
or sides of the body (e.g., pitching, throwing events, archery, soccer, cycling).
Summary of Major Concepts
Strength is one of the most important biomotor abilities for most sports. Strength is the foundation for both generating maximum power and maintaining repetitive muscular 
contractions (i.e., muscle endurance). A periodized strength training program can be an 
excellent tool for maximizing performance outcomes. The physiological adaptations to the neuromuscular system that strength training can bring about are very specific to the training program that the athlete uses. Athletic performance can be maximized only if the training 
program provides appropriate variation. Many methods for inducing training variation are 
available, and many of them can result in very specific physiological adaptations. Finally, to truly maximize the effectiveness of a strength training program, it must be integrated into the 
comprehensive periodized training plan developed for the athlete. Simply adding strength 
training to an athlete’s training plan without considering the other training activities will not maximize performance outcomes.

This page intentionally left blank

26511 Endurance Training
Endurance can be classified several ways. For example, aerobic endurance,
sometimes called low-intensity exercise endurance, allows a person to perform activi -
ties continuously for a long duration, whereas anaerobic endurance, or high-intensity 
exercise endurance, provides the ability to repetitively perform bouts of high-intensity exercise. Although most sports rely on some form of endurance, the type of endurance developed (high or low intensity) can significantly affect performance outcomes. Therefore, the coach and athlete must consider the type of endurance that the athlete needs for the sport and how the appropriate endurance will be targeted within the training plan. The coach and athlete must also consider the athlete’s physiological responses to the methods for developing endurance. Once the type of endurance and the physiological responses are understood, the coach can develop a training plan to enhance sport-specific endurance.
Classification of Endurance
The concept of endurance differs distinctly between various sporting activities and thus can be defined in several different ways. For example, the type of endurance that an elite marathon runner needs provides the ability to continuously perform at a specific power output or velocity for a long duration of time. Conversely, an elite ice hockey player needs to repetitively perform periods of high-velocity movements for 30 to 80 s, interspersed with periods of recovery lasting between 4 and 5 min (106). Although some form of endurance affects the performance of both types of athletes, the development of endurance in these athletes will be distinctly different. If the wrong type of endurance training is implemented, the athletes might develop endurance characteristics that do not meet the needs of their sports, and thus perfor-mance capacity can be reduced (45, 147). To understand the correct application of endurance training, the coach and athlete must differentiate between the two major types of endurance reported in the contemporary literature: low-intensity exercise endurance (LIEE) and high-intensity exercise endurance (HIEE) (147).
Low-Intensity Exercise Endurance
Activities that are predominated by aerobic energy supply tend to exhibit lower peak powers and thus can be classified as being of lower intensities (29, 148). These activities require the athlete to perform continuously, at a low intensity, for a sub-stantial duration. Thus, this type of endurance is often termed LIEE (148) or aerobic endurance. Many activities rely predominantly on oxidative or aerobic metabolism (see chapter 1 and table 1.2) and require the athlete to develop a high level of LIEE. For such activities, developing LIEE can greatly improve the athlete’s performance.

Periodization266
10Conversely, the development of LIEE in sports that rely on anaerobic energy supply (e.g., 
sprinting, American football, ice hockey, volleyball) can result in several maladaptations that 
reduce the athlete’s performance capacity (45). When LIEE is used to improve endurance in 
athletes who participate in sports that rely predominantly on anaerobic energy supply, marked decreases in power-generating capacity are noted and performance usually is impaired (42, 45, 63, 83). One reason researchers have proposed this explanation of impaired anaerobic 
performance is that the development of LIEE can reduce the athlete’s ability to produce 
force in the high-velocity region of the force–velocity curve (12). Changes to this region of the force–velocity curve can interfere with the athlete’s ability to develop explosive strength, 
which is required by many anaerobic activities (45). In par-ticular, the ability to achieve high rates of force development 
and to generate high levels of peak force can be impaired by 
the implementation of the LIEE program (figure 1 1.1). There also appears to be a fiber type shift resulting in a decrease in 
the number of type II muscle fibers and an increase in type I 
fibers when LIEE is the focus of the endurance development program (154). LIEE training can also impede muscular growth (108), which will impair an athlete’s ability to generate high rates of force development (81), maximize peak force-gen-
erating capacity (81), and optimize peak power generation 
(45). The contemporary literature indicates that LIEE training should not be used for athletes in sports that predominantly 
rely on anaerobic energy supply, require high levels of force 
production, require high rates of force development, call for fast velocities of movement, or require high levels of power output. LIEE training should be restricted to long-duration 
activities that rely on aerobic energy supply; other methods 
for developing endurance should be used by athletes in other types of sports.
High-Intensity Exercise Endurance
Sports that rely on anaerobic metabolism (see chapter 1 and table 1.2) usually require high power outputs or the repetitive performance of high-velocity movements. Because anaerobic 
activities require higher power outputs than those seen in aerobic activities, anaerobic activ-
ities can be classified as being of high intensity (29, 148). Therefore, the ability to sustain and repeat high-intensity exercise bouts is termed high-intensity exercise endurance (HIEE) (147). The development of HIEE does not impair force-generating capacity, as typically occurs 
when LIEE is developed. One explanation why HIEE does not reduce maximum strength 
and power development is that HIEE training tends to maintain type II muscle fiber content (45). Because type II fiber content is related to the maximal rate of force development (81, 
85), maximal force-generating capacity (81), and the ability to generate peak power outputs 
(149), it is easy to conclude that HIEE may be more beneficial for sports that rely on these performance factors, especially if high-velocity or high-power movements are performed repetitively. Several authors report that the use of high-intensity intervals can significantly increase markers of both anaerobic and aerobic exercise endurance (95, 126, 152). Therefore, 
it is recommended that an HIEE or interval training approach be used to develop endurance 
for sports that require the repetitive performance of high-intensity exercise (e.g., American football, soccer, basketball, ice hockey) (147).
HIEE training should not be limited to the development of anaerobic endurance, because 
this type of training also has the potential to improve LIEE (87). The development of HIEE with the use of high-intensity interval training appears to have a profound effect on aerobic activities that typically rely on LIEE. For example, it has been shown that 3 km (+3%) and 10 E6954/Bompa/F11 .01/578689/mh-R1Force (N)
Time (ms)Pre-LIEE training
Post-LIEE trainingPeak force (N)
Peak rate of forcedevelopment
FIGURE 11.1 Force–time curve alterations to the 
development of low-intensity exercise endurance 
(LIEE).
Adapted from Häkkinen and Myllyla 1990 (61) and Häkkinen 
et al. 1989 (60).

Endurance Training267
km running performance can be significantly improved with high-intensity interval training 
(4, 142). Similarly, time-trial performance in the 40 km cycle has been increased significantly 
(+2.1% to +4.5%) with high-intensity interval training (144, 145, 158). Several authors have 
suggested that increasing the quantity of traditional LIEE training with elite athletes may not result in the necessary physiological adaptations needed to improve performance (31, 64). Laursen and Jenkins (87) suggested that high-intensity interval training or HIEE training 
may be warranted for athletes who have established LIEE training as a base. Therefore, it 
may be beneficial to consider using HIEE training methods for athletes who participate in aerobic sports that require repetitive performance over a long duration of time, especially 
closer to or during the competitive phase.
Factors Affecting Aerobic  
Endurance Performance
Several aspects of aerobic endurance are central to determining the athlete’s endurance capac-
ity (35, 75). These factors include the athlete’s aerobic power, lactate threshold, economy of movement, and muscle fiber type (figure 1 1.2). Each factor can be improved significantly 
with appropriate training methods. To develop appropriate aerobic endurance training 
programs, the coach and athlete must understand the physiological responses associated with endurance performance.
E6954/Bompa/F11 .02/578690/mh-R1Endurance performance
Pulmonary
functionO2max Lactate threshold
  O2
Oxygen
transport Muscle force +
elasticityV
V
Maximal
cardiac output
Skeletal muscle
functionAerobic enzyme
activityMuscle fiber type
(%Type I)Anthropometry
Neural controlMovement economyPerformance   O2 Lactate threshold power or velocity VPerformance velocity or power
FIGURE 11.2 Model of the relationships between physiological factors and endurance performance.
Adapted from Bassett and Howley 2000 (9), Coyle 1995 (35), Paavolainen et al. 1999 (110), and Joyner and Coyle 2008 (76).

Periodization268
Aerobic Power
Maximal aerobic power has long been considered to be a major factor in determining success 
in endurance sports (33, 131). However, aerobic power is not the only determinant of sport 
performance. Aerobic power is measured as the highest rate at which oxygen can be taken 
up and used by the body during maximal exercise (56) and can also be defined as maximal oxygen uptake (V.  O
2max) (9, 35). V.  O2max values between 70 and 85 ml·kg-1·min-1 have 
been reported for elite endurance athletes (34, 76. Women exhibit a V.  O2max approximately 
10% lower than their male counterparts, as a result of lower hemoglobin concentrations and 
higher body fat percentages. Regardless of gender, the ability to achieve a high V.  O2max appears 
to be affected by the functioning of the pulmonary system, maximum cardiac output, oxy -
gen-carrying capacity, and factors associated with the skeletal muscle system (figure 1 1.3) (9).
Pulmonary System
The pulmonary system appears to limit V.  O2max in very specific circumstances (9, 120). 
For example, oxygen (O2) desaturation can occur in elite athletes who are performing max-
E6954/Bompa/F11 .03/578691/mh-R1Maximal oxygen
consumption
(   O2max)
Pulmonary diffusion
capacity
Maximal
heart 
rateMaximal
stroke
volume
[Plasma volume]
Oxygen extraction
(a-  O2 difference)Aerobic
enzyme
activity
Fiber type
(Type I)
Mitochondrial
densityV
VPulmonary system Maximal cardiac output Oxygen transport Skeletal muscle
Capillary
density
O2 saturation[Hemoglobin]
FIGURE 11.3 Factors affecting maximal aerobic power or maximal oxygen consumption.
a-V.
  O2 difference = arterial–mixed venous oxygen difference.
Adapted from Bassett and Howley 2000 (9), Coyle 1995 (35), and Joyner and Coyle 2008 (76).

Endurance Training269
imal work (39), because a high exercise cardiac output (Q = stroke volume × heart rate) 
decreases the red blood cell (RBC) transit time through the pulmonary capillary (9, 39). 
The decreased transit time for the RBC  decreases the time available to saturate the blood 
with O2, potentially limiting performance. Support for the contention that the pulmonary 
system can limit V.  O2max can be seen in studies that have explored the effects of hyperoxia 
(120). If supplemental O2 is supplied, there is an increased O2 “driving force,” which elevates 
V.  O2max as a result of increased oxygen saturation (109, 120).
Similar performance impairments can be seen when exercise is performed at moderately 
high altitudes (3,000 to 5,000 m) (9, 49). This altitude-induced reduction in performance 
can be experienced in response to short-term (1 to 3 days) altitude exposure, which can stimulate a reduction in O
2 saturation (23). A similar reduction in performance and oxygen 
desaturation response can be seen in individuals who have asthma (9). Like athletes, people 
with asthma who use supplemental O2 experience an increased driving force for O2 diffu-
sion (9). These data suggest that pulmonary gas exchange can significantly limit an athlete’s ability to express a high V.  O
2max (9).
Cardiac Output
Maximal aerobic power is strongly related to maximal cardiac output (Qmax) (75). This 
relationship can be seen when comparing the typical Qmax and V.  O2max of athletes with 
those values in untrained individuals (figure 1 1.4) (164). The Qmax is a function of both 
the maximal heart rate and the volume of blood (stroke volume) pumped by the heart 
(92, 164). Lower-level athletes and untrained individuals exhibit a linear increase in both stroke volume and exercise heart rate until approximately 40% of V.  O
2max (1 19, 160, 164), 
after which stroke volume plateaus or slightly increases, and increases in heart rate deter-
mine increases in cardiac output (164). It is believed that the plateau in cardiac output is a 
direct function of a decreased left ventricular diastolic filling time, which can be seen with increasing exercise intensity (128). Conversely, elite endurance athletes exhibit increases in both heart rate and cardiac output in response to increasing exercise intensity (59, 164). 
The reason for this discrepancy in stroke volume response between elite endurance athletes 
and trained or untrained individuals has yet to be determined, but it is generally accepted that elite athletes exhibit higher Qmax values (9).
Because elite athletes exhibit a higher Qmax, it might be speculated that the difference 
between elite athletes, trained athletes, and untrained individuals rests in either the ability to achieve maximal heart rates or the ability to increase stroke volume (9, 92). Maximal heart rate is slightly lower in elite athletes compared with nonathletes (92, 164); therefore, 
it is likely that the main factor differentiating the Qmax between athletes and nonathletes is 
the training-induced alterations in stroke volume (92). The increase in stroke volume seen 
E6954/Bompa/F11 .04a/578692/mh-R190
8070
60
5040
30
20
10
0O2max (ml · kg-1 · min-1)
Untrained Trained Elite
a V
E6954/Bompa/F11 .04b/578693/mh-R140
35
302520
15
10
5
0
b Qmax (L/min)
Untrained Trained Elite
FIGURE 11.4 Comparison of (a) maximal oxygen consumption and (b) maximal cardiac 
output between untrained, trained, and elite male distance runners.
Adapted from Zhou et al. 2001 (164).

Periodization270
in athletes is likely related to an increase in end-diastolic volume that occurs as a result of 
improved cardiac chamber compliance or an increase in the distensibility of the pericar-
dium (92). These data indicate that the Qmax partially explains the differences in V.  O2max 
between athletes and nonathletes.
Oxygen Transport
Another factor that can explain individual differences in V.  O2max is the capacity of the 
cardiorespiratory system to transport oxygen (9). Alterations to the hemoglobin (Hb) concentration can have a profound effect on O
2 transport to the working muscle (15). For 
example, if athletes use blood transfusions to artificially increase their Hb concentrations, a concomitant increase in V.  O
2max and Qmax is seen (44). These interrelationships of Hb 
concentration, V.  O2max, and Qmax partially explain why blood doping is effective (15). 
Although doping appears to exert a profound effect on the body’s ability to transport oxygen (15), it also appears that aerobic endurance training can alter this ability (134).
Endurance training appears to reduce Hb concentration, hematocrit (Hct), and RBC 
count as a result of plasma volume expansion, which can begin to occur after several days of 
prolonged training (135). Although there is a general decrease in Hct and Hb concentration in response to endurance training, there is an absolute increase in the Hb mass (133). The 
plasma volume increase noted with endurance training decreases blood viscosity, which 
increases V.  O
2max as a result of an increase in cardiac output that improves oxygen delivery 
to the working muscles (134).
Skeletal Muscle
Skeletal muscle can play a very important role in determining an athlete’s V.  O2max (9). 
V.  O2max appears to be related to the rate at which O2 can be delivered to the mitochon-
dria (100). Several factors associated with skeletal muscles can affect their ability to use 
O2, including the skeletal muscle fiber type (type I or type II), mitochondrial density, and 
capillary density.
Muscle Fiber Type Muscle fiber type appears to be significantly related to the V.  O2max of 
elite athletes (98). Athletes who express higher V.  O2max  values also appear to have higher 
type I fiber content. This phenomenon may be related to the different capillary densities, mitochondrial content, and aerobic enzyme capacities seen between type I and type II 
fibers. Type I fibers, which have a higher oxidative capacity, have a greater capillary–fiber ratio as a result of being surrounded by more capillaries, compared with type II fibers (165). Type I fibers also display a greater mitochondrial density (127) and a greater reliance on 
aerobic enzyme activity (51, 70, 156). Finally, there appears to be a general shift from type 
II to type I fiber content, an increase in mitochondrial content, and an increased reliance on aerobic metabolism in response to endurance training (127, 154). These endurance 
training–induced adaptations appear to be related to the athlete’s training age. Athletes 
who have trained longer experience greater increases in capillary density and type I fiber content as well as a greater reliance on aerobic enzyme activity (127).
Mitochondrial Density The mitochondria are the sites within the muscle where O2 is 
consumed during oxidative metabolism (9). An increase in mitochondrial content of the 
skeletal muscle may contribute to an increased V.  O2max as a result of a greater extraction 
of O2 from the blood (69). Exercise appears to be a powerful stimulator for mitochondrial 
biogenesis (69, 161), and exercise-induced increases in mitochondrial density may partially explain the improvements in V.  O
2max seen with endurance training (69). Theoretically, if 
the mitochondrial density is increased, a proportional increase in O2 extraction from the 
blood should occur (9). However, this does not appear to be the case because only modest increases in V.  O
2max occur in response to training (20% to 40%), even though there are 
marked increases in mitochondrial enzymes (69). It is likely that training induces increases in mitochondrial enzymes, which improves endurance performance (9). These enzymatic 

Endurance Training271
adaptations may improve endurance performance via decreased lactate production during 
exercise and an increase in fat oxidation, which results in a sparing of muscle glycogen 
and blood glucose (69). Although mitochondrial enzyme adaptations to training result in 
increases in endurance V.  O2max during whole-body exercise, it appears that performance is 
most affected by oxygen delivery, not mitochondrial density (9).
Capillary Density Investigators have reported that a greater capillary density or number 
corresponds to a higher V.  O2max (9, 26, 35, 132). It has been speculated that V.  O2max 
depends on capillary density, or the number of capillaries per unit of cross-sectional area of 
muscle (100). An increase in capillary density allows for a maintenance or elongation of the 
RBC’s transient time through the capillary bed (130), which would increase O2 extraction 
at the tissue—called the arteriovenous oxygen difference (a-v– O2 difference)—even 
when blood flow is elevated (9). Investigators also have reported that athletes who possess 
higher capillary densities are able to exercise for longer durations as a result of being able 
to tolerate anaerobic metabolism and lactate formation better than athletes with lower capillary densities (76). This suggests that capillary density plays an important role in the delivery of O
2 to working tissue and the removal of waste products created by the muscle.
Capillary density is increased in response to endurance training (36, 71, 130, 136, 151). 
This increase in capillary density appears to be tightly linked to the training age of the athlete, 
where a greater training age relates to greater increases in capillary density (127).
Lactate Threshold
It is well accepted that V.  O2max plays a role in endurance performance capabilities. However, 
with elite athletes there is a narrow range between the V.  O2max of individual athletes (18, 
27), which suggests that the V.  O2max does not differentiate between the performances of 
these athletes (14, 18). If, for example, two elite athletes with different V.  O2max values are 
competing, the athlete who possesses the lower V.  O2max may be able to compensate for this 
by working at a higher percentage of her maximal capacity (figure 1 1.5) (18, 33, 140). The percentage of V.  O
2max at which an athlete can work may be a more accurate predictor of 
performance. This percentage is called the performance oxygen uptake, and it is limited 
by a combination of the individual’s lactate threshold and V.  O2max (14, 35).
The performance oxygen uptake can also be considered as the highest amount of work 
at which an equilibrium between lactate formation and buffering exists. This equilibrium 
has also been termed the maximal lactate steady state (150). The point at which this equilibrium becomes out of balance, and lactate accumulation begins to outweigh buff-ering capabilities, is the anaerobic threshold (150). The anaerobic threshold represents 
an intensity of exercise at which the body cannot meet its energy demand through aerobic 
mechanisms and the anaerobic energy supply begins to increase to maintain the intensity of exercise. In this scenario, the increase in lactate production occurs as a result of an increased 
rate of formation of pyruvate from the glycolytic system, which cannot be incorporated into 
oxidative metabolism. Instead it is rapidly converted into lactic acid and then lactate (150).
A graded exercise test in which intensity is periodically increased coupled with blood 
sampling can be used to create a lactate accumulation curve (figure 1 1.6). The lactate accu-mulation curve shows that breakpoints in the formation of lactate occur as the intensity of 
exercise increases (148). The intensity of exercise at which a substantial increase in lactate 
accumulation begins to occur has been termed the lactate threshold (14, 148, 150). The lactate threshold is defined as a 1 mm increase in blood lactate accumulation above resting levels 
in response to a graded exercise test (35, 162). In untrained subjects the lactate threshold 
occurs at approximately 50% to 60% of V.  O
2max (25, 76, 148), whereas in trained subjects 
the lactate threshold can occur between 75% and 90% of V.  O2max (76). The power output 
or velocity of movement that can be maintained at the lactate threshold is a strong predictor 
of endurance performance (43, 75). Dumke and colleagues (43) reported that the heart rate 
at lactate threshold is similar to the heart rate during a 60 min cycle time trial performed 

Periodization272
by trained cyclists. Strong evidence exists suggesting that the speed or power output at the 
lactate threshold explains the vast majority of performance variance seen in distance racing 
(9, 47, 48). It appears that coaches who work with endurance athletes should quantify the 
lactate threshold and the heart rate and power or velocity values associated with it.
A second breakpoint on the lactate accumulation curve is called the onset of blood lactate 
accumulation  (OBLA),  which occurs at a fixed lactate value of 4 mm (138) (figure 1 1.6). 
OBLA is much higher than the lactate threshold and corresponds to an intensity of exercise that is much higher than that seen at the lactate threshold. As with the lactate threshold, OBLA has been suggested to be a strong indicator of endurance performance capabilities 
(14, 43, 79). Dumke and colleagues (43) reported that the heart rate at OBLA is similar to 
the heart rate during a 30 min time trial.
Both the lactate threshold and OBLA are sensitive to training (40, 75). Endurance training 
has been shown to shift the lactate threshold to the right, which suggests that a greater inten-
sity of exercise (power or speed) can be performed without the accumulation of lactate (75). 
It appears that continuous training at or slightly above the lactate threshold is important to improve endurance performance as a result of shifting OBLA and the lactate threshold (24, 
65, 78, 139, 157). Anecdotal evidence suggests that a well-balanced endurance training plan 
requires periodic training at the lactate threshold via the use of threshold or tempo training to optimize performance (75).E6954/Bompa/F11 .05/578694/mh-R1Athlete A
Athlete B
180 200 220 240 280 300 320 340 360 380 400Onset of blood lactate
accumulation
Lactate thresholdBlood lactate (mM)
012345678910
Watts
FIGURE 11.5 Comparison of two athletes with the same V.
  O2max with different lactate 
threshold and onset of blood lactate accumulation (OBLA) values.
Athlete A can produce 300 W at his lactate threshold, whereas athlete B can produce 320 W. Thus, 
athlete B can work at a 6.7% higher workload. Power at lactate threshold has been strongly correlated to endurance performance capacity (75).

Endurance Training273
The lactate threshold and OBLA can also be shifted in response to high-intensity interval 
training performed at intensities that are substantially higher than the lactate threshold 
power, velocity, or heart rate (40, 65). High-intensity interval training can require multiple 
high-intensity efforts (>80% of peak aerobic power) of various durations (30 s to 8 min) interspersed with lower-intensity recovery (60 s to 4 1/2 min) (87). The use of strength training in the preparation of endurance athletes also has been shown to improve the lactate 
threshold (77). The lactate threshold is a primary determinant of endurance performance; 
understanding what heart rate, power, or velocity corresponds to in the lactate threshold can be very useful in designing endurance training programs.
Exercise Economy
Exercise economy is a key factor dictating endurance exercise performance. Exercise economy, or economy of movement, has been defined as the oxygen uptake required to perform exercise 
at a given intensity (75), or the ratio of mechanical work done to energy expended (9). The 
economy of movement and its effect on the energy cost of an exercise bout may partially explain some of the differences in performance noted between athletes who possess similar V.  O
2max values (10). Close examination of athletes with similar V.  O2max values suggests that 
there is a large interindividual variability in the oxygen cost of submaximal exercise (75).
This large interindividual difference is clearly seen when examining the variations 
among oxygen costs when individuals run at a given submaximal speed (9, 19, 107). These individual differences appear to be affected by training status, because running economy is significantly related to training status (75, 97, 103, 107). Trained individuals express a E6954/Bompa/F11 .06/578695/mh-R110
9
8
7
6
5
43
2
10
180 200 220 240 280 300 320 340 360 380 400200
180
140160
120
100
80
6030 35 45 50 55 60 70 80 90 100
Maximum heart rate
Heart rate at OBLA
Heart rate at
lactate threshold
LactatethresholdOBLA
MaximumpoweroutputOBLApower
output
Lactate threshold power output
WattsBlood lactate (mM)O2max (%)
Heart rate (beats/min)Lactate
Heart rateV
FIGURE 11.6 Lactate threshold and onset of blood lactate accumulation (OBLA) response to a 
graded cycle ergometer test.

Periodization274
greater exercise economy compared with their untrained 
counterparts (107). In fact, the number of training years 
appears to be significantly correlated (p < .05, r = .62) 
with running economy (97). It is speculated that over 
time, running economy improves as a result of long-term skeletal muscle adaptations, such as the transition of 
type II fibers to type I (1 17, 154), and metabolic changes 
that reduce the energy cost for developing a particular repetitive level of force (103). Long-term training has 
also been suggested to affect running economy as a 
result of changes to anthropometric, biomechanical, and 
technical factors (5).
Training stimulus appears to play a significant role 
in the development of exercise economy (9, 75, 103). The highest movement economies appear to occur at 
the speeds or power outputs at which the athlete usually trains (75). It has been suggested that these changes to running economy are related to the athlete’s volume of training (75). This is clearly seen by the fact that more 
experienced athletes or athletes who have accumulated 
more training miles express higher levels of exercise economy (74, 75).
High-intensity interval training has been suggested 
to significantly improve running economy and V.  O
2max, 
which are usually associated with improvements in 
endurance performance (87). Performing interval run-
ning with intensities that range between 93% and 106% of V.  O
2max has been shown to improve running economy 
(103). Support for this contention can be found in the 
work of Franch and colleagues (53); in their study, 6 
weeks of long intervals, which consisted of four to six sets of 4 min intervals (4.6 m/s) sep-
arated by 2 min of rest, resulted in a 6% increase in V.  O2max and a 3% increase in running 
economy. In a study of soccer players, 8 weeks of aerobic interval training that consisted of 
four sets of 4 min high-intensity intervals (90% to 95% of maximum heart rate) separated 
by 3 min of light jogging performed two times per week resulted in a 6.7% increase in run-ning economy, a 10.7% increase in V.  O
2max, a 15.9% increase in the lactate threshold; it also 
resulted in a 24% increase in involvements with the ball during a game and a 3.5% increase 
in the ability to perform at a higher average heart rate during a soccer match (62). Although 
this preliminary data suggest that high-intensity intervals can improve running economy, more research is needed to clarify the types of interval training that are most effective. It does appear that high-intensity interval training should be incorporated into the training plans 
of both team sport athletes and more traditional endurance athletes.
Another method for improving running economy in distance runners is the addition of 
strength or low-impact plyometric training (73, 1 10, 155). These improvements in running 
economy may occur as a result of an increased mechanical efficiency caused by improved 
motor unit recruitment patterns, and increased muscular strength (specifically the propulsion 
phase of running). Although strength training appears to offer a great benefit for the endur-ance athlete, many athletes worry about gaining weight because of training. This, however, should not be of major concern because the contemporary literature on cell signaling sug-
gests that endurance training blunts the signaling pathways that would need to be activated 
to induce significant gains in muscle mass (108). This can be clearly seen in the literature exploring the effects of strength training on endurance performance, where athletes typically 
see less than 1.0% increase in body mass as a result of an increase in lean body mass (68, 1 10). 
Therefore, it may be warranted for endurance athletes to include strength and low-impact plyometric training to optimize exercise economy and ultimately endurance performance.
High-intensity interval training can improve running  
economy, increase V.
  O2max, raise the lactate threshold, 
and improve soccer playing ability.
ANTHONY DEVLIN/AFP/Getty Images

Endurance Training275
Factors Affecting Anaerobic  
Endurance Performance
Several factors affect the athlete’s ability to repetitively perform high-intensity, anaerobic 
bouts of exercise (3, 50, 84). These factors include the ability to preferentially activate the 
anaerobic energy systems, the ability to buffer lactic acid, the functioning of the cardiovascular 
system, and the ability to maintain neuromuscular characteristics related to performance.
Bioenergetics
HIEE depends on the ability to repetitively perform high–power output activities that pref-erentially activate the anaerobic energy systems (1 13). When the athlete incorporates HIEE 
training into his training plan, he will experience physiological adaptations that increase the 
concentration or activity of key enzymes of the phosphagen and glycolytic energy systems (3, 50).
Increases in muscular stores of ATP, phosphocreatine (PCr), and muscle glycogen have 
been reported to occur in response to sprint or interval training (3, 50, 84). These alterations 
in enzymatic properties appear to allow for a more rapid supply of energy during high-in-
tensity bouts of exercise, thus allowing the athlete to maintain a higher level of performance.
Lactic Acid–Buffering Capacity
One of the most important factors affecting an athlete’s ability to develop HIEE is the ability to buffer lactic acid to lactate. The ability to buffer lactic acid or H
+ ions has been suggested 
to be related to sprint performance ability (93, 159). It is well documented that increases in 
H+ ion concentration result in an inhibitory effect on phosphofructokinase (PFK) (143). 
If these H+ ions are not buffered, the concomitant reduction in PFK activity will reduce the 
ATP yield from glycolysis, thus reducing the power output that can be maintained during the activity (87).
HIEE training methods such as high-intensity tempo or interval training have been demon-
strated to increase the athlete’s buffering capacities (101, 159). These increases in buffering 
capacity enable the body to maintain energetic flux at a rapid rate and thus maintain high-
power performance typically seen in sports that rely on HIEE. Therefore, if the bioenergetic 
profile of the sporting activity indicates a need for HIEE, the training program must include interventions that increase the athlete’s ability to buffer lactic acid while maintaining the 
rate of energetic flux.
LIEE or aerobic training does not allow for the maximal development of the lactic acid–
buffering capacity (1 13). To increase this buffering capacity, the training plan must stimulate 
the accumulation of H
+ ions, which only occurs if the fast glycolytic system is repetitively 
stimulated. Because LIEE primarily activates the aerobic energy supply system, especially 
when undertaken at intensities under the lactate threshold, this training method holds little 
merit for the athlete who requires HIEE. In fact, it is likely that incorporating LIEE training methods in the training plans of anaerobic athletes will decrease HIEE (125).
Cardiovascular System
Oxidative metabolism and the cardiovascular system play an integral role in recovery from high-intensity interval training, such as resistance or sprint interval training (148). How-
ever, athletes who participate in sports that rely on HIEE should not undergo LIEE training, 
because this training impairs anaerobic performance capacity (45).
Recent evidence clearly demonstrates that high-intensity interval training can increase 
V.  O
2max, stroke volume, and the ability to use oxidative metabolism during recovery from 
interval training (87, 1 13). These adaptations appear to play an integral role in the athlete’s 

Periodization276
ability to recover from repetitive bouts of high-intensity exercise. Interestingly, the use of 
high-intensity interval training does not impair anaerobic energetic supply during exercise 
or alter the neuromuscular activation patterns typically seen in response to LIEE. Therefore, 
high-intensity interval training, when implemented correctly, will allow for the cardiovas-cular system adaptations needed for the development of HIEE. Accordingly, athletes who require HIEE in their sports should not use LIEE training methods, because high-intensity 
interval training will supply the necessary adaptive stimulus need to optimize performance.
Neuromuscular System
High-intensity interval training does not interfere with the development of high force or 
power outputs necessary for performance in sports that rely on HIEE. Conversely, LIEE 
training decreases the athlete’s ability to produce force at the high-velocity, low-frequency 
region of the force–velocity curve (13, 45). The force–time curve can be shifted in response to LIEE training (figure 1 1.1). The impact of HIEE and LIEE training can be clearly seen in the differences in the force–time curve and electromyographic activation patterns seen in 
endurance, strength, and power athletes (61).
The rate of force development  (RFD)  appears to be affected by the type of training used. 
For example, LIEE methods will substantially decrease the RFD and the ability to generate 
peak forces (61). The ability to express high RFD appears to depend on the energy system 
activated, the muscle fiber type, and the neuromuscular recruitment pattern (45, 61).
The ability to rapidly release energy from ATP depends on the activity of adenosine tri-
phosphatase (ATPase), which is related to the myosin heavy chain  (MHC) isoforms (fiber 
type) (163). Muscle fibers that contain MHC type X and IIa are considerably faster than those containing MHC type I (55). Endurance athletes usually contain a higher MHC type I 
concentration than sprint or strength athletes (163). LIEE training appears to increase MHC type I isoforms (154), which could decrease the rate of ATPase activity. This shift would impair 
the athlete’s ability to produce the high-force and high-velocity movements that are necessary 
to maintain HIEE capabilities. Conversely, the use of interval training methods will increase MHC type IIa isoforms, which allows the athlete to maintain force- and power-generating capacities (45). The ability to generate force rapidly is an important component of HIEE. 
Thus, sprints and interval training are the preferred methods of developing endurance for 
athletes who participate in strength- and power-based sports.
Methods for Developing Endurance
Athletes can develop endurance by using a variety of methods that produce very specific physiological and performance responses. When developing a training plan, the coach 
must determine the type of endurance that the plan will target because methods of devel-
oping endurance are vastly different in their implementation and physiological outcomes. For example, traditional methods to develop LIEE call for continuous training performed at a variety of intensities ranging from 60% to 90% of maximal heart rate (141). The use of high-intensity intervals has been reported to improve LIEE (20, 21, 57, 58, 86-91), thus 
increasing the training options available to the coach and athlete. Conversely, LIEE training 
methods appear to decrease HIEE capacity, which would ultimately impede the performance of athletes who must perform repetitive high-intensity or high-power movements during 
competition. The coach and athlete must be aware of the different methods used to develop 
both LIEE and HIEE and which kind of endurance is needed for various sports.
Low-Intensity or Aerobic Exercise
Several methods are available to develop endurance, and the choice usually depends on the time of year and the athlete’s training goals (table 1 1.1). The development of LIEE is a 

Endurance Training277
function of stimulating physiological adaptations that improve performance. Traditionally, 
aerobic endurance is developed via the use of long slow distance (LSD) training. However, 
other methods such as pace or tempo, interval, and resistance training appear can be used 
to develop LIEE.
Active Rest
Active rest or recovery exercise is often used to stimulate recovery from high-intensity training or competition. This type of activity requires a low exercise heart rate (<65% of maximal 
heart rate) and lasts around 30 to 60 min (1, 141). This method can be used several times 
per week, depending on the structure of the microcycle.
Long Slow Distance (LSD) Training
Long slow distance  (LSD) training can be considered “conversation” exercise, where the 
athlete is able to carry on a conversation without undue respiratory stress (1 18). LSD training 
involves relatively high training mileages or distances that are performed for a long duration 
(30 to 120 min or greater depending on the sport) at moderate to low intensities (66% to 80% of maximal heart rate; 50% to 70% of V.  O
2max; table 1 1.2) (103, 1 18, 129). LSD 
training has been suggested to improve cardiovascular function, thermoregulatory abilities, 
mitochondrial energy production, and oxidative capacity of the skeletal muscle (30, 32, 41, 
52, 69, 80, 1 18). These physiological adaptations to LSD training have been consistently demonstrated in untrained individuals (87); however, these physiological changes do not appear to occur as readily in highly trained endurance athletes (31, 64, 87). It is likely that 
advanced endurance athletes will need higher intensities of training, which may be accom-
plished via the use of interval training methods (87).TABLE 11.1 Methods Used to Develop Low-Intensity Exercise Endurance
Intensity
Training methodRecommended 
frequency  (times per week)*Duration of  training portionHeart rate  (% max) V.  O
2max (% max)
Active rest 1 or 2 30-60 min <60% <40%
Long slow distance 
(LSD)1 or 2 ≥30 min (race dis-
tance or longer)60%-70% 42%-56%
Continuous pace or 
tempo training1 or 2 20-30 min At lactate threshold heart rate and V.
  O2
Interval training
Aerobic intervals 1 or 2 20-40 min total time 
(depending on 
structure)80%-100% 70%-100% 
Anaerobic intervals 1 or 2 <2 min work bouts 
(work rest interval 
1:0.5-1:5) Maximal Supermaximal
Fartlek 1 >30 min Varies Varies
*Other training days contain other training methods or rest and recovery.

Periodization278
The intensity of exercise during LSD training is markedly lower than that experienced 
during competition (1 18). This suggests that higher-intensity training methods, such as inter-
val and fartlek (speed play, or continuous runs with intensity alternations) training, must be 
included in the training plan to optimize performance. This is not to say that LSD training should be excluded from the training plan of endurance athletes; this type of training appears to be very important in developing aerobic endurance (46). For example, Esteve-Lanao and 
colleagues (46) suggested that LSD training should make up a large portion of the training 
volume, provided that high-intensity training is sufficient.
During the preparatory phase of an endurance training program, the main objective is 
to establish a physiological base (54, 141). The development of this physiological base is accomplished via the use of LSD and aerobic interval training (steady pace or tempo train-ing) interspersed with active rest, passive rest, and resistance training. A microcycle with an emphasis on establishing a base is presented in table 1 1.3.
Interval Training
Interval training involves the repeated performance of short to long bouts of exercise usually performed at or above the lactate threshold, or at the maximal lactate steady state, 
interspersed with periods of low-intensity exercise or complete rest (16). Although interval 
training is not a new training method (it was made popular in the 1930s by the German middistance runner Rudolf Harbig), contemporary sport science literature (20, 21, 86, 87, 91) has stimulated an increased interest in the concept. This literature has revealed many 
physiological reasons why interval training should be an integral part of the annual training 
plan for athletes ranging from novice to elite (87). Interval training can be subdivided into two broad categories: aerobic and anaerobic intervals.TABLE 11.2 Relationship Between Heart Rate, Oxygen Consumption, and Ergogenesis
Percentage of FMax Percentage of V.  O2max Ergogenesis Training modality
50 28 Oxidative/glycolytic aerobic Active rest
60 42
66 50
70 56 Glycolytic aerobic Extensive training of aerobic 
capacity74 60
77 65
80 70 Glycolytic anaerobic/aerobic Intensive training of aerobic 
capacity or extensive training 
of aerobic power85 75
88 80
90 83 Glycolytic aerobic/anaerobic Intensive training of aerobic 
power92 85
96 90 Glycolytic anaerobic/aerobic Intensive training of aerobic 
power and extensive training of 
anaerobic capacity100 100
Adapted from M.L. Micheli, E. Castellini, and M. Marella, 2008, "Il condizionamento aerobico," L’allenatore, A.I.A.C. (102b), and R. Proietti, 1999, La corsa: 
Valutazione e allenamento della potenza aerobica e della resistenza alla velocità nel calcio (Città di Castello, Italy: Edizioni Nuova Prhomos) (120b).

Endurance Training279
Aerobic Intervals
Aerobic interval training preferentially stresses the aerobic energy system and involves 
intensities that are at or slightly above the lactate threshold or those seen during compe -
tition. Aerobic interval training has also been termed threshold training or pace or tempo training (1 18). Pace or tempo training can be performed continuously or intermittently. 
For example, in a continuous pace or tempo training session, the athlete would maintain 
a steady pace at or slightly above the lactate threshold for the duration of the exercise 
bout. Conversely, pace or tempo intervals contain periods of steady-state exercise, as seen in tables 1 1.4 and 1 1.5.
When the coach is designing an aerobic interval workout, it is recommended that a graded 
exercise test be performed to establish the athlete’s maximal heart rate, maximal power output or velocity at V.  O
2max, and lactate threshold. Integral to this process is determining 
the time at which V.  O2max power output or velocity can be maintained, which has been 
termed the Tmax (17b, 87, 91). Once the Tmax and the maximal aerobic power output 
or velocity (i.e., MAS) are established, then the interval durations and intensities can be 
determined. It has been recommended that the duration of each interval correspond to 
50% to 60% of Tmax and be performed at peak power or velocity (17c, 91). The rest interval 
can be set as the time to reach 65% of the athlete’s maximal heart rate, or a lower intensity 
(usually at 50% of Pmax or MAS) the  exercise bout is performed for a duration equal to 
that of the higher-intensity bout (for example, 3 min at 100% of MAS, followed by 3 min at 50% of MAS) (17c).
Aerobic intervals can also be set by prescribing a heart rate range or power range that is 
performed for a predetermined duration (145). The rest interval can be preset to specifically target the development of the aerobic system. For example, an athlete may perform eight 
sets of aerobic intervals that last 5 min and are separated by 1 min of low-intensity active 
recovery. The intensity for this type of interval would be between 80% and 85% of maximal 
heart rate or some percentage of the lactate threshold heart rate.TABLE 11.3 General Preparation Microcycle Emphasizing LSD Training 
Day Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Workout Rest day
Endurance training LSD Recovery Aerobic  
intervals Recovery LSD Fartlek
Strength training Strength 
trainingStrength 
training
Total duration 120 min 60 min 80 min 60 min 150 min 60-120 min
Interval duration 120 min 60 min 15 min 60 min 150 min —
Recovery — — 5 min — — —
Work-to-rest ratio 1:0 1:0 3:1 1:0 1:0 —
Intensity 131-139 
beats/min<131  
beats/min140-146 
beats/min<131 
beats/min131-139 
beats/min—
LSD = long slow distance.
Note: The microcycle example is based on a weekly training volume of 10 h, where the athlete’s heart rate at the lactate threshold is 153 beats/min.
Based on Friel 2006 (54) and Potteiger 2000 (118).

Periodization280
Regardless of the method used, aerobic intervals can stimulate significant performance 
gains and concomitant physiological adaptations when performed two times a week for up 
to 4 weeks (87, 91, 145). Because of the large amount of physiological and psychological 
stress that can be generated by aerobic interval training, the coach should integrate recovery 
methods and lower-intensity training into the microcycle to avoid overtraining the athlete. A sample microcycle is presented in table 1 1.6.TABLE 11.4 Two Aerobic Interval Workouts
Aerobic interval format
Interval series 1 Interval series 2
Warm-up 10-15 min 10-15 min
Number of work intervals 8 8
Intensity 80% peak power*
80%-85% of maximal heart rate100% peak power output at 
V.
  O2max (413 W)
Duration 5 min 50% of Tmax (~3 min)
Rest interval 1 min Time to achieve 65% of maximal 
heart rate (~2-4 min)
Work-to-rest interval 5:1 1:0.5-1:1
Cool-down 10-15 min 10-15 min
Total workout time 67-77 min 66-90 min
Frequency (times per week) 1 or 2 1 or 2
Tmax = time to exhaustion at maximum velocity or power output.
*Peak power at V.  O2max.
Adapted from Stepto et al. 2001 (145) and Laursen et al. 2005 (89).
TABLE 11.5 Pace or Tempo Workouts
Continuous pace  
or tempo trainingIntermittent pace  or tempo training
Warm-up 15-20 min 15-20 min
Work bouts
Number
Duration
Intensity1
30 min
153-156 beats/min2
10 min
153-156 beats/min
Recovery bouts
Number
Duration
Intensity0
0 min
<131 beats/min2
10 min
<131 beats/min
Note: Based on a lactate threshold heart rate of 153 beats/min.
Adapted from Potteiger 2000 (118) and USA Cycling 2002 (1).

Endurance Training281
TABLE 11.6 Microcycle With Aerobic Intervals or Pace or Tempo Training 
Day Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Workout Rest day
Endurance training LSD Pace tempo 
ride Recovery Aerobic 
intervalsLSD Fartlek
Resistance training
Total duration 120 min 80 min 60 min 65 min 150 min 60-120 
min
Interval duration 120 min 15 min 60 min 5 min 150 min —
Recovery — 5 min — 1 min — —
Work-to-rest ratio 1:0 3:1 1:0 5:1 1:0 —
Intensity 131-139 
beats/min140-146 
beats/min<131 
beats/min80%-85% of 
maximal 
heart rate131-139 
beats/min—
LSD = long slow distance.
Note: This microcycle is based on a weekly training volume of 9 to 10 hours where the athlete’s heart rate at the lactate threshold is 153 beats/min.
Adapted from Friel 2006 (54) and Potteiger 2000 (118).
Anaerobic Intervals
Anaerobic interval training for the endurance athlete has recently received a large amount 
of attention in the scientific literature. In this type of interval training, the work duration is 
very short (<2 min) and the intensity is supramaximal (all-out or above the power output 
achieved during the assessment of V.  O2max). Anaerobic interval training bouts that use 4 
to 10 sets of 15 to 30 s of all-out work, interspersed with 45 s to 12 min of recovery, have 
been shown to significantly increase V.  O2max and anaerobic endurance, and stimulate many 
physiological adaptations that improve performance in as little as 2 weeks (87). These types of training sessions are usually very intense and require the use of recovery methods and 
appropriate program variations to avoid overtraining. It is likely that this type of training can be very effective when performed one or two times per week and integrated into the training plan. A microcycle that incorporates anaerobic intervals is presented in table 1 1.8.
Repetition
Another interval training method, characterized by full-recovery rest periods, has been termed the repetition method. The distances used with this method can be either longer 
or shorter than the distance seen in competition. Longer-duration intervals will shift the 
emphasis toward the development of the aerobic energy systems, similar to aerobic interval training. Conversely, intervals of shorter duration will increase the stress on the anaerobic energy systems, similar to anaerobic interval training. Short bouts of very high intensity 
will require longer rest intervals (1 18). The repetition method allows the athlete to improve 
running speed, running economy, and HIEE.
Fartlek
Fartlek is the Swedish word for “speed play” and is a classic method for developing endur-ance. This method of training is a rather unscientific combination of interval and continuous 
training. For example, a runner may intersperse periods of fast running with slow running 

282Field Test for Maximum Aerobic Speed
Maximum aerobic speed (MAS) is the lowest speed at which maximum oxygen consumption 
(V.  O2max) occurs. A practical way to assess the maximum aerobic speed is to perform a 6 
min running test, possibly on an oval-shaped track. Research suggests 6 min as the time to exhaustion at V.  O
2max power output (Tmax) (17d, 17e). The test is self-paced, but it is proposed 
to request an all-out effort in the last minute (blow a whistle to signal the last minute to the athlete). The distance covered by the athlete is then multiplied by 10 and converted into miles. The resulting value is the maximum aerobic speed.
Example:
Distance covered: 4 laps = 1,600 m1,600 m × 10 = 16,000 m = 10 mi × 10 mph is the speed at V.  O
2max or maximum aerobic 
speed (MAS).
Use table 11.7 to find the time necessary to cover the most common training distances at 
the desired speed.
TABLE 11.7 Time Necessary to Cover the Most Common Training Distances, in Rela-
tion to the Maximum Aerobic Speed
Maximum 
aerobic speed(MAS) in mphRepetitions distance
100 m 200 m 300 m 400 m 500 m 600 m 800 m 1000 m
Time (min/s)
8.7 0:25.7 - - 1:43 2:08 2:34 3:25 4:17
9 0:24.8 - - 1:39 2:04 2:29 3:18 4:08
9.3 0:24 - 1:12 1:36 2:00 2:24 3:12 4:00
9.6 0:23.2 - 1:10 1:33 1:45 2:19 3:06 3:52
10 0:22.5 0:45 1:07 1:30 1:52 2:15 3:00 3:45
10.3 0:21.8 0:43.6 1:05 1:27 1:49 2:11 2:54 3:38
10.6 0:21.2 0:42.3 1:03 1:24 1:46 2:07 2:49 3:32
10.9 0:20.6 0:41.1 1:02 1:22 1:43 2:03 2:44 3:25
11.2 0:20 0:40 1:00 1:20 1:40 2:00 2:40 3:20
11.5 0:19.5 0:38.9 0:58.4 1:18 1:37 1:57 2:35 -
11.8 0:19 0:37.9 0:57 1:16 1:35 1:54 2:31 -
12.1 0:18.5 0:36.9 0:55.4 1:14 1:32 1:51 2:27 -
12.4 0:18 0:36 0:55 1:12 1:30 - - -
12.7 0:17.5 0:35.1 0:52.6 1:10 - - - -
13 0:17.1 0:34.3 0:51.4 1:08 - - - -
13.3 0:16.7 0:33.5 - - - - - -
13.7 0:16.4 0:32.7 - - - - - -
14 0:16 0:32 - - - - - -
14.3 0:15.7 - - - - - - -
14.6 0:15.3 - - - - - - -
14.9 0:15 - - - - - - -

Endurance Training283
TABLE 11.8 Microcycle for a 10K Runner With Anaerobic Interval Training 
Day Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Workout Rest day
Endurance training Interval Recovery LSD Interval LSD Fartlek
Resistance training
Total duration 30-40 
min*1 hr 2 hr 30-40 
min*45 min 45 min-1 
hr
Interval duration 30 s 1 hr 2 hr 30 s 45 min —
Recovery 60 s 0 0 60 s 0 —
Number of intervals 6 6
Work-to-rest ratio 1:2 1:0 1:0 1:2 1:0 —
Intensity Maximal <131  
beats/min131-139 
beats/minMaximal 131-139 
beats/min—
*Includes 15 min of warm-up and cool-down.
LSD = long slow distance.Note: This microcycle is based on a weekly training volume of 5-6 h, where the athlete’s heart rate at the lactate threshold is 153 beats/min.
Adapted from Friel 2006 (54) and Potteiger 2000 (118).
(98, 1 18, 141). This type of training can be undertaken on flat ground or up and down hills 
(141). Fartlek does not call for specific workloads or heart rates. Instead, this type of train-
ing relies on the subjective sense of how the bout feels (98). Fartlek training may be most 
useful during the general conditioning or preparatory phase of the annual training plan because it challenges the physiological systems of the body while eliminating the boredom and monotony associated with daily training (98, 1 18).
Strength Training
Strength training can enhance the development of endurance. Traditionally, resistance training has not been considered to be a very important part of the development of LIEE 
(77). However, recent research suggests that strength training has the potential to improve 
cycling (1 1, 96), running (73, 1 10, 153), and Nordic skiing (68, 1 1 1) performance. Strength training has been suggested to affect V.  O
2max, the lactate threshold, economy of movement, 
and neuromuscular characteristics of endurance athletes depending on their levels of training 
(77). For example, untrained individuals can experience improvements in LIEE as a result of 
improvements in V.  O2max, lactate threshold, and movement economy (77). In highly trained 
endurance athletes, improvements in LIEE performance are most likely related to changes 
in the lactate threshold (96), improvements in movement economy (1 10), and alterations 
to neuromuscular function (104, 153) (figure 1 1.7). It appears that incorporating resistance training into the annual training plan for the endurance athlete holds some merit.
Incorporating resistance training into the annual training plan of an endurance athlete 
appears to produce favorable performance responses (77, 147, 153). However, care must be taken when introducing resistance training in an attempt to improve LIEE performance. When resistance training is simply added to the preexisting endurance training plan, performance 
usually is not improved (72). It is likely that adding the resistance training load to the overall 
training load results in excessive training stress, which then elevates fatigue and decreases readiness. Support for this contention can be seen in the work of Jackson and colleagues (72), who reported that the addition of resistance training to a cycling program results in a 

Periodization284
higher sense of fatigue, which corresponds to a lack of performance gains. Investigators who 
report enhancement of LIEE performance with concurrent resistance and endurance train-
ing typically reduce some of the endurance training volume to accommodate the resistance 
training load (1 1, 104, 1 10). It is likely that a 19% to 37% reduction in endurance training load is warranted when adding resistance training to the overall training plan to stimulate performance gains (1 1, 104, 1 10).
Methods for Developing  
High-Intensity Endurance
The use of LIEE techniques will decrease performance capacity for athletes who partici -
pate in sports that require the ability to repetitively produce high power outputs (28, 45). Power-based sports fall into two classifications: (1) sports such as American football and 
baseball, which require brief, intermittent tasks—involving very large power outputs with 
long rest intervals between them—and derive most of their energy from phosphate energy system; and (2) sports such as soccer, handball, rugby, and basketball, which require repet
-E6954/Bompa/F11 .07/578706/mh-R1Endurance performance
⇑    O2maxV ⇑  lactate threshold ⇑  movement economy ⇑  high-intensity exercise endurance
Aerobic power and capacity
⇑  oxygen transport
⇑  oxygen utilization
Strength training Aerobic trainingAnaerobic power and capacity
⇑  glycolytic capacity⇑  lactic acid production and buffering capacity⇑  PCr stores and utilizationNeuromuscular capacity
⇑  motor control⇑  muscular strength⇑  elasticity⇑  rate of force development
FIGURE 11.7 Structure for concurrent resistance and endurance training in endurance athletes.
PCr = phosphocreatine.
Adapted from Paavolainen et al. 1999 (110) and Stone et al. 2006 (147).

Endurance Training285
itive high-intensity activities with short, mostly active, rest intervals, thus tapping both the 
anaerobic alactic and the anaerobic lactic energy substrates. In both types of sports, oxidative 
metabolism is important during recovery because the replenishment of phosphocreatine 
and removal of lactate is an oxidative process (22, 45, 153b). This reliance on oxidative metabolism during recovery is the foundation for the classic argument that LIEE techniques are needed by athletes who participate in anaerobic-based sports (28, 45). 
Although LIEE training enhances several physiological factors that may improve the rate 
of recovery between bouts of exercise, the corresponding decreases in anaerobic abilities 
and corresponding performance capacities appear to outweigh the benefits of this training 
intervention (45). Anaerobic athletes should avoid LIEE training and use other strategies that enhance performance and recovery (1 13, 1 15). However, the development of HIEE can 
actually improve LIEE performance, and thus the methods used by anaerobic athletes may 
benefit the aerobic endurance athlete (87, 147).
One strategy for developing endurance is the use of high-intensity interval training, which 
allows for improvements in anaerobic power, anaerobic capacity, and also aerobic power (87, 1 13). Interval training is usually conducted by using sets of repetitions of sprints inter-spersed with recovery intervals. The duration of these recovery intervals varies depending on the bioenergetic system being targeted (28) (table 1 1.9). For example, an interval training 
program with a work-to-rest ratio of 1:1 would target the oxidative system (50), whereas a 
work-to-rest ratio of 1:20 would target the anaerobic energy systems (28). The use of an inter-val training program will be dictated by several factors including the bioenergetic demands 
of the sport, the performance model established for the sport, and the phase of the annual 
training plan. These factors can be addressed via the manipulation of work-to-rest intervals, interval intensities, interval duration or distance, interval exercise volume, interval training duration, interval training frequency, interval training progression, in-season maintenance, 
and resistance training.
TABLE 11.9 Bioenergetic Characteristics of Interval Training 
Typical interval 
formatSample interval 
format
Interval ratio 
(work to rest) Work (s) Rest (s) Work (s) Rest (s)Primary energy  system usedMaximum power (%)
1:12-1:20 2-8 60-200 5 60 ATP-PC, fast glycolysis 90-100
1:3-1:5 10-30 45-150 30 90 Fast glycolysis, slow  
glycolysis75-90
1:3-1:4 60-180 180-720 60 180 Fast glycolysis, slow  
glycolysis, and oxidative*50-75
1:0.5-1:1 >180 >180 240 120 Oxidative metabolism 30-50
*The primary energy system used will vary depending on the length of the interval and the duration of recovery.
Intermittent Runs
This modality of fartlek training is employed in particular for the preparation of team sports 
in which high intensity bouts are followed by continuous activities of lower intensity, such 
as soccer, handball, or basketball (i.e., intermittent sports). In this case the combination 
of high-intensity and low-intensity intervals is structured in a way that will have a specific training effect (table 1 1.10).

Periodization286
TABLE 11.10 Ergogenesis of Different Durations of Intermittent Runs, in  
 Relation to the Percentage of the Maximum Aerobic Speed
Modality Ergogenesis 
Intensity: 100% maximum aerobic speed
10"-10" Aerobic 
20"-20" Aerobic 
30"-30" Aerobic 
Intensity: 105% maximum aerobic speed
10"-10" Slightly anaerobic lactic 
20"-20" Slightly anaerobic lactic 
30"-30" Slightly anaerobic lactic 
Intensity: 110% maximum aerobic speed
10"-10" Slightly anaerobic lactic 
20"-20" Anaerobic lactic 
30"-30" Predominantly anaerobic lactic 
Intensity: 115% maximum aerobic speed
10"-10" Anaerobic lactic 
20"-20" Predominantly anaerobic lactic 
30"-30" Predominantly anaerobic lactic 
" = seconds
Reprinted, by permission, from G.N. Bisciotti, 2002, "Utilizziamo bene l’intermittente," Il Nuovo Calcio 114: 110-114.
Work-to-Rest Intervals
The work-to-rest interval may be dictated by the demands of the sport. It has been reported 
that the average work-to-rest interval in American football is around 1:6, which is depicted 
as a work-to-rest (s/s) interval of 4.3:27.9 for rushing plays and 5.8:36.8 for passing plays 
(1 15). One study reported that there were 12 to 13 plays per game (3.1-3.3 per quarter) with an average play length of 2 to 12 s (1 13). The vast majority of the plays lasted between 3 and 6 s (1 13) for an average play length of around 4 s (1 12). This information suggests 
that a series of 10 to 16 sprints, performed with a 3 to 5 s work interval and a 20 to 45 s 
recovery (1:6 work-to-rest interval), was an ideal interval training program for this pop
-
ulation (1 15) .
Soccer provides another example of matching the work-to-rest interval in training. The 
literature suggests that a work-to-rest ratio of 1:6 is similar to that seen in competition (7, 8) and demonstrates similar speed decrements as seen in a soccer match (94). Soccer demon-strates work-to-rest ratios of approximately 1:7 to 8 with 3 to 4 s of work interspersed with lower-intensity exercise (94). Little and Williams (94) suggested that 40 reps of 15 m sprints 
performed at a 1:6 work-to-rest ratio simulates the physiological stress seen in soccer match 
play. The work-to-rest interval should be prescribed based on the individual demands of the sport and in the context of the phase of the training plan.
Once the coach has determined the work-to-rest interval required by a sport, the athlete 
can choose from several ways to implement an interval session into the training plan. The first method is to use predetermined performance times to calculate the appropriate rest 

287Sport-Specific Metabolic Test for Intermittent Sports
Among the many fitness tests available are continuous and intermittent tests. Intermittent tests 
are certainly more specific to intermittent sport such as soccer, handball, basketball, and tennis. The Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test (YYIRT) (figure 11.8) is one of the many beep tests available to test an athlete’s ability to repeatedly perform intervals over a prolonged period of time; however, because of the long (10 s) rest interval between reps, the YYIRT mimics more closely the metabolic dynamics of intermittent sports (8b, 83b). Tables 11.11 and 11.12 can be used to evaluate the fitness level of your athletes. A coach can create her own chart, specific to the athlete’s sport and competition level, by correlating the competition performance and the YYIRT results of her players.
E6954/Bompa/F11 .08/578709/mh-R1Turning line
Run
Start line
Jog for
recovery20 m
5 mTABLE 11.11 Grading of Male Professional League Soccer Players’ 
Fitness Levels, According to Their Positions on the Field and Results in 
the Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test Level 1
LevelPosition
Center back,  
center forwardCenter midfielder, wingerSide back,  side midfielder
Grade
<17 Poor Poor Poor
17.5-18 Fair Poor Poor
18-18.5 Good Fair Poor
18.5-19 Very good Good Fair
19-19.5 Excellent Very good Good
19.5-20 * Excellent Very good
20.5-21 * Excellent Excellent
>21 * * Excellent
*Metabolic training can be kept at maintenance level, while devoting more time to developing the 
neuromuscular aspects.
TABLE 11.12 Grading of Female Professional League Volleyball Play-
ers’ Fitness Levels, According to Their Results in the Yo-Yo Intermittent 
Recovery Test Level 1
Level Grade
<14 Poor
14-14.5 Below average
14.5-15 Fair
15-15.5 Good
15.5-16 Very good
16-16.5 Excellent
>16.5 *
*Metabolic training can be kept at maintenance level, while devoting more time to developing the 
neuromuscular aspects.FIGURE 11.8 Setup for the Yo-Yo 
Recovery Intermittent Test
Adapted, by permission, from M. Mc-Guigan, 2016, Administration, scoring, and interpretation of selected tests. In Essentials of strength training and condi-tioning, 4th ed., edited by G.G. Haff and N.T . Triplett for the National Strength and Conditioning Association (Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics), 278.

Periodization288
interval duration (50, 1 13). Another method for determin-
ing the rest interval is to use the time to a specific heart 
rate, such as 1 10 to 120 beats/min (1 16). The rest intervals 
should be individualized as much as possible to give each 
athlete the appropriate recovery duration and allow for 
the training stimulus needed to target the bioenergetic factors specified by the training plan.
A classic mistake that many coaches make is to train 
all their athletes in one large group and base the recovery duration on the fastest athlete. If this practice is under-taken, the slower athletes will most likely be forced to 
work at a lower work-to-rest ratio than the fastest athlete, 
which would result in a harder training session and shift 
the bioenergetic focus of the training session for these athletes (table 1 1.13). This practice can increase the chance 
of overtraining and impedes an athlete’s development. It may be warranted to group the athletes based on their maximum aerobic speed, so that the repetitions’ duration and work-
to-rest ratio are individualized. Then the coach can establish the training volume according to the position played. This practice will ensure that each athlete is using the appropriate 
work-to-rest ratio and receiving the planned physiological stimulus.
Interval Intensities
The prescription of interval training intensities can significantly affect the performance outcomes stimulated by the training plan. Using heart rate as an indicator of performance 
intensity during an anaerobic interval training program is not recommended because heart rate is poorly related to intensity in this scenario (1 13). It is better to set training time goals 
based on the individual athlete’s maximal capacity, which would then allow the coach to 
manipulate training intensity and determine the rest interval (50, 1 13). For example, when 
attempting to develop a fitness base, the athlete may perform a high volume of sprints at 
60% to 80% of maximal capacity. Conversely, when shifting to more specific work in the 
later stages of the preparatory phase of training, the athlete could increase the intensity of 
interval training to 80% to 90% of maximal or competitive needs (1 16).
Establishing target times for a specific distance is an excellent tool for individualizing 
the intensity of the training bout. However, the athlete should be tested periodically so the 
coach can adjust the intensity of training. When using this method to determine interval 
intensities, the coach should group athletes of similar capacities (e.g., sprint times) because 
this will help the coach determine the appropriate work-to-rest intervals and maximize each 
athlete’s physiological and performance gains.
Interval Duration or Distance
The quality of HIEE training is more important than the quantity (1 13). The duration 
and distance of the work portion of the interval training plan will depend on the tactical 
model established for the individual sport (1 14). For example, Plisk (1 14) reported that 
three sets of six or seven 43.7 yd (40 m) sprints with a work-to-rest ratio of 1:6 would 
meet the metabolic demands of American football. It appears that this intensity targets the phosphagen and glycolytic energy supply mechanisms better than does the duration 
(148), so extending the duration or distance beyond that required by the sport would be impractical and would likely induce maladaptive responses (1 13). Therefore, the distance 
or duration of the interval should be matched to the competitive model established for 
the sporting activity.TABLE 11.13 Comparison of Two Athletes’  
 Interval Training Plans
Variable Athlete A Athlete B
Intended work-to-rest ratio 1:4 1:4
Maximal 40 m time 5.2 s 6.0 s
Recovery duration 20.8 s 20.8 s
Actual work-to-rest ratio 1:4 1:3
These athletes are performing five sets of 40 m sprints, and the time 
for recovery is based on the faster athlete. Athlete B is experiencing a harder training session because he has a shorter recovery period.

Endurance Training289
Interval Exercise Volume
The interval training volume will be dictated by the phase of the annual training plan, 
the targeted physiological adaptations, and the sport. The volume of interval training will 
be higher during the early preparatory phase and decrease during the competitive phase 
of the annual training plan. The scientific literature provides limited information about the optimal volume of interval training needed to induce physiological and performance adaptations.
Investigators have explored interval training volume schemes that require between 2 
and 24 repetitions (87, 94) and as high as 40 repetitions (94). Some empirical evidence 
has suggested that sprinters need between 6 and 12 repetitions per workout, whereas 
middle-distance runners may need between 1.5 and 2 repetitions when performing fast intervals and 2 to 3 repetitions when performing slow interval workouts (1 13). Not enough scientific evidence is available regarding the effects of different interval training volumes 
on performance to make volume-based recommendations. Therefore, decisions about how 
to manipulate the training volume should be based on the athlete’s needs and response to training-induced stress.
Duration of Interval Training Phase
Anaerobic interval training has been shown to stimulate significant physiological adap-tations in 2 to 15 weeks in previously untrained individuals depending on the frequency, 
duration, and intensity of the interval program used (37b). Elite cyclists have demonstrated 
significant physiological adaptations and performance gains in as little as 2 weeks of using a high-intensity interval training plan (86, 87, 144). Although the literature has shown sig-nificant performance enhancement in both cyclists and runners as a result of as little as 2 
weeks of high-intensity interval training, further research is needed to establish guidelines 
for the duration of training needed to optimize performance. However, both research and practice suggest use of higher-intensity interval training after a period of moderate-intensity 
endurance training (4, 46b, 135b, 162b).
Interval Training Frequency
The scientific literature on high-intensity interval training has explored a variety of training 
frequencies ranging from 2 to 7 days per week (16, 87). According to a research study by 
Billat and colleagues, when athletes have passed from six running sessions (using the steady 
state method at low to moderate intensity) to four sessions, plus an anaerobic threshold training session and a high-intensity interval training session, both the speed at V.  O
2max 
and running economy have improved (but not the V.  O2max). When athletes increase the 
high-intensity interval training sessions to three, there is no further improvement of perfor-
mance, while the overtraining markers increase (17c). In another study, 2 to 8 weeks with 
frequent high-intensity interval training sessions (3 to 4 times per week) also resulted in a worsening of the performance and an increase of overtraining markers (61b).
Thus, both empirical and scientific evidence suggest that it may be practical to limit HIEE 
training to 1 or 2 days per week (17c, 141b, 142). This general recommendation is warranted because HIEE training increases the risk of overtraining, as it is inherently intense and research 
showed an increase in stress markers at the increase of HIEE weekly frequency (17c); HIEE 
training must be considered in conjunction with the other training modalities (e.g., strength, plyometric, agility, tactical, technical training) that are included in the training program. If integrated appropriately, HIEE can be addressed with skill, technique, or agility drills that can 
also stimulate improvements in endurance (1 13). The coach should modulate the training 
stimulus to allow for appropriate restoration while continuing to stimulate physiological and performance-based adaptations across the microcycle.

Periodization290
Interval Training Progression
Creating an HIEE training plan involves integrating several training factors (e.g., tactical, 
technical, strength, power, endurance) into the periodized program. The coach can establish 
the basic progression of training after determining the work-to-rest interval and endurance 
demands of the sport (1 14). The intensities and volumes used in the interval training plan depend on the phase of the annual training plan and the method being used to develop HIEE. When the athlete is attempting to develop a fitness base during the early portion 
of the preparatory phase of training, the interval intensities should be lower and contain 
more extensive methods (table 1 1.9) (1 13). As the athlete progresses toward the season, she can use higher intensities and lower volumes of training (table 1 1.14) (1 13, 1 14). In 
the later stages of the preparatory phase and the early part of the competition phase of the 
annual training plan, the athlete will begin to incorporate elements from the competitive trial method of developing HIEE, which has also been termed special endurance (1 14, 1 16) (table 1 1.15). As the competitive phase of the season progresses, the athlete uses specific 
strategies, including various interval training and competitive trial methods, to maintain 
HIEE capacity across the season.
TABLE 11.14 Interval Characteristics for the Development of Speed Endurance
Characteristic
Interval method Variable Novice athlete Advanced athlete
Extensive Relative intensity 60%-80% of competitive speed 60%-80% of competitive speed
Intensity classification Low to medium Low to medium
Duration or distance 20-100 s or 100-400 m 14-180 s or 100-1,000 m
Volume 5-12 repetitions 8-20 repetitions
Target recovery heart rate 110-120 beats/min 125-130 beats/min
Recovery duration 60-120 s 45-90 s
Intensive Relative intensity 80%-90% of competitive speed 80%-90% of competitive speed
Intensity classification High High
Duration or distance 14-95 s or 100-400 m 13-180 s or 100-1,000 m
Volume 4-8 repetitions 4-12 repetitions
Target recovery heart rate 110-120 beats/min 125-130 beats/min
Recovery duration 120-240 s 90-180 s
Adapted from Plisk and Stone 2003 (116).
TABLE 11.15 Competitive Trial Methods of Developing High-Intensity  
 Exercise Endurance
Method Intensity Duration or distance Example for a 400 m sprinter
Supramaximal training Competition < Competition 100-200 m sprint intervals
Maximal training > Competition = Competition 200-400 m sprint intervals
Submaximal training < Competition ≥ Competition 400-600 m sprint intervals

Endurance Training291
Interval Training During the Competitive Phase
Over the course of the competitive phase, the athlete can fall into a state of deconditioning 
if special attention is not paid to integrating conditioning activities into his competitive 
training schedule (84, 105, 1 13, 137). Support for this contention can be found in the 
scientific literature, which suggests that when the volume of anaerobic interval training 
(e.g., sprint and agility training) is significantly reduced or when this training is eliminated altogether during the competitive season, there is a concomitant reduction in markers of 
fitness and muscle mass (105). The magnitude of these decreases is likely to be different when comparing starters and nonstarters (84). Thus, specific HIEE conditioning strategies 
must be implemented in the in-season training plan.
When examining in-season responses, the coach must first consider what happened in 
the 6 to 8 weeks before the initiation of the season. If acute overtraining is induced during this time, a general catabolic state will predominate during the season and performance 
capacity will decline (84). Even if the preseason training plan is implemented appropriately, performance can decline during the season if the HIEE is not appropriately incorporated 
into the in-season training plan (105). The best approach is to include a combination of sport-specific practices, strength training, and HIEE-based conditioning (49b, 137). When 
the frequency of competition is more than once a week, though, those players that are going 
to play three games within 7 days would be better off training in LIEE modality, to avoid 
overtraining and foster recovery.
HIEE can be trained in conjunction with sport-specific skills to maximize training time. In 
soccer, for example, soccer-specific drills can be used as a conditioning tool (121). Rampinini 
and colleagues (121) reported that using a three-sided training game on a large pitch can 
increase the exercise intensity to a level similar to that seen in actual game play. Using this 
type of strategy will allow the athlete to develop specific endurance that is closely related to 
the demands of a soccer game. The training stimulus can be modified by manipulating the 
field dimensions, number of players, duration of plays, and skills used during a small-sided soccer game (table 1 1.16), in an attempt to target conditioning goals while still practicing 
sport-specific skills in an environment that models game play (121).
Although skill-based conditioning drills are important, it is equally important to include 
strength training (105) in conjunction with HIEE and sprint agility training to avoid the 
TABLE 11.16 How Manipulation of Loading Parameters Changes the  
 Training Effect of Small-Sided Games for Soccer 
Rules Training effect
Number of players per team + Less frequency of play per player
− More frequency of play per player
Field dimensions + Less frequency of play per player
− More frequency of play per player
Ball touches + More reasoning time and lower speed of play
− Less reasoning time and more speed of play
Duration of play + Lower mean play intensity
− Higher mean play intensity
Duration of rest intervals + Higher mean play intensity
− Lower mean play intensity

Periodization292
typical losses in performance capacity seen across a season (137). Different training factors 
(e.g., HIEE, drills, and strength training) should be integrated to avoid overtraining, because 
overtraining would only compound the typical degradation in performance seen across 
the season. The coach must allow for recovery between training sessions and competitive events. The coach must perform a balancing act by providing an adequate training stimulus to maintain fitness and performance while avoiding overtraining.
Monitoring Team Sport Players Using  
an Accelerometer With Gyroscope and GPS
In the early 2000s, motion video analysis was used to monitor the performance of players 
during training and, especially, games. At that time, each player’s performance was catego -
rized into speed brackets (figure 1 1.9). Although it was an advance in sport science, the speed bracket categorization was insufficient in its depiction of a player’s performance during a game, 
because intermittent sports are characterized by numerous accelerations and decelerations 
which do not necessarily lead to high speed, yet constitute high-intensity efforts (figure 1 1.10).
In 2005, Di Prampero and colleagues conducted a research study in which they demon-
strated that “sprint running on flat terrain, during the acceleration phase is biomechanically 
equivalent to uphill running at constant speed, the slope being dictated by the forward 
acceleration and that, conversely, during the deceleration phase, it is biomechanically equiv-alent to running downhill (40c).” This allowed the creation of an algorithm to measure the metabolic power of each action during an intermittent activity, typical of team sports (109b). 
Accelerometer devices with GPS and gyroscope became more practical and cheaper than 
video analysis tools, accessed in order to represent the performance of team sports’ players. The performance could then be categorized in power output brackets: minimum power (0 
to 10 W
.Kg-1), low power (10 to 20 W.Kg-1), intermediate power (20 to 35 W.Kg-1), high power 
(35 to 55 W.Kg-1), and maximum power (55 W.Kg-1 and higher) (figure 1 1.1 1). These devices 
allow for a better depiction of the physical demands of match play (4b, 56b); they also allow 
strength and conditioning coaches to quantify the work performed by each player during 
the ever-increasing utilization of game-based training activities (i.e., small-sided games), as 
a means of improving the skill and physical fitness levels of team sport athletes (56b, 56c).
The competitive phase is an important part of any training plan.  
Do not let deconditioning occur during the competitive season.
© Stockbyte

Endurance Training293
As of today, scientific literature indicating training standards 
according to such performance monitoring devices is quite 
scarce; thus, strength and conditioning coaches using this tech-
nology are building their own database and performing data analysis to estimate the workload profile of specific drills and the individual players’ readiness fluctuation. This process is, 
in fact, paramount when substituting general training means 
(e.g., runs) with specific drills (e.g., small-sided games) and increasing the load over time. Furthermore, a good technical 
level of the team is required for the specific drills to reach 
a high enough intensity, which, in certain cases, is easier to 
reach with general means.
Strength Training
Investigators have repeatedly shown that strength training 
improves HIEE (66, 67, 99, 125, 147) and that gains in HIEE performance are likely related to increases in muscular 
strength, morphological adaptations, or metabolic adapta-
tions that increase buffering capacity (102, 125).
HIEE performance is improved when the training plan 
includes resistance training with 12 or more repetitions per 
set (125). This improvement in performance is most noted as 
the intensity of exercise is increased (66). Higher repetitions per set (more than eight repetitions) performed for multiple E6954/Bompa/F11 .09/578717/mh-R1St W J*
*** *
LS MS HS Sp BRTime (min)40
35
30
25
20
15
10
50
Activity categories
E6954/Bompa/F11 .10/578718/mh-R2Walk
0 | 868,3
40,9
19,128,3
6,312,8
3,38,3
1,74,9
1,34,866,9
42,9
31,1
Jog
8 | 13LS Run
13 | 16Run
16 | 19HS Run
19 | 226.3%43.1%
MS Run
>22(%)80
7060
50
403020
10
0
Speed categories (Km/h) Power categories (W • kg
-1)P min
<1020,631,2
26,9
P low
10 | 208,115,519,4
P mid
20 | 352,96,311,5
P high
35 | 551,64,111,2
P max
>55(%)70
605040
30
20
10
0
a bFIGURE 11.9 Locomotor categories of top-level 
players (black columns) and mid-level players (white 
columns) during a soccer game.
St = standing; W = walking; J = jogging; LS, MS, and HS = running 
at a low, moderate, and high speed, respectively; Sp = sprinting; BR = backwards running; *= significant difference (P <0.05) between groups.
From M. Mohr, P . Krustrup, and J. Bangsbo, 2003, "Match 
performance of high-standard soccer players with special ref-erence to development of fatigue," Journal of Sports Sciences 21(7): 519-528. Reprinted by permission of the publisher (Taylor & Francis Ltd., www.tandfonline.com).
FIGURE 11.10 (a) Power output categorization gives a better depiction of the level of effort during a soccer game, 
compared to (b) speed categorization.
LS, MS, and HS = running at a low, moderate, and high speed, respectively; P = power.
Data from C. Osgnach, S. Poser, R. Bernardini, R. Rinaldo, and P .E. di Prampero, 2010, "Energy cost and metabolic power in elite 
soccer: A new match analysis approach," Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise 42: 170-178. Used courtesy of P .E. di Prampero, C. Osgnach, and S. Poser.

Periodization294
sets appear to improve HIEE more than do lower-repetition protocols or single-set protocols 
(51, 99, 146). HIEE performance seems to be improved to a greater extent with high volumes 
(volume loads) of resistance training.
Several authors have suggested that short rest intervals between sets of resistance training 
can increase HIEE capacity (51, 146). This theory was recently supported by Hill-Haas and 
colleagues (67), who demonstrated that a resistance training program that includes short 
rest intervals (20 s) results in significantly greater HIEE performance gains (+12.5%) com-
pared with a resistance training program that uses longer rest intervals (80 s). It is likely that the program that includes short rest intervals increases the lactate-buffering capacity in 
response to resistance training due to repeated exposure to high lactate levels that allows for 
a greater HIEE performance. Conversely, Robinson and colleagues (125) reported that short rest intervals (30 s) do not result in greater improvements in HIEE performance compared with longer rest intervals (180 s). Their findings suggest that simply increasing the volume 
of resistance training is more effective at improving HIEE without compromising other 
training-induced adaptations.
Both studies found muted strength gains in response to short rest intervals (67, 125). 
Because sprinting speed is highly correlated with muscular strength (6, 37), the validity of decreasing the rest interval between sets may be questionable because increasing volume and intensity of training appears to improve HIEE (99, 125). Therefore, the coach and the athlete should be cautious when manipulating rest interval lengths because drastic decreases 
in interset rest intervals appear to impair the development of strength.
Periodization of Endurance
Although the methodology for developing biomotor abilities for sport has been improving 
constantly, some antiquated methods are still in use, especially in the area of developing 
endurance. In speed- and power-based sports, the role of aerobic endurance is less import-
ant (except for some team sports, such as soccer, lacrosse, and water polo). Yet, in sports such as American football, cricket, baseball, hockey, and basketball, long-distance jogging E6954/Bompa/F11 .11/578719/mh-R166,9
42,9
31,1
Power categories (W • kg-1)Power categories
LP (from 0 to 10 W•kg-1)
IP (from 10 to 20 W•kg-1)
HP (from 20 to 35 W•kg-1)
EP (from 35 to 55 W•kg-1)
MP (>55 W•kg-1)
P min
<1020,631,2
26,9
P low
10 | 208,115,519,4
P mid
20 | 352,96,311,5
P high
35 | 55% Total time
% Total distance% Total estimated
    energy expenditure
1,64,111,2
P max
>55(%)70
605040
30
20
10
0
FIGURE 11.11 Mean data on match play power output during 56 games of professional 
soccer in Italy.
Reprinted, by permission, from C. Osgnach, S. Poser, R. Bernardini, R. Rinaldo, and P .E. di Prampero, 2010, 
"Energy cost and metabolic power in elite soccer: A new match analysis approach," Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise 42(1): 170-178.

Endurance Training295
is still prescribed to develop aerobic endurance, although this work does not correspond to 
sport-specific performance demands and the energy systems dominant in these sports. During 
a game, for instance, an American football linebacker performs 40 to 60 short accelerations 
of 3 to 6 s each with rest intervals of 1 to 3 min. This performance will not be improved by running 5 miles. For these power sports, the first macrocycle of the general preparation can consist of tempo training (400-600 m) in sets of repetitions of the same distance or 
descending ladders (varying intensity according to the distance of each repetition; figure 
1 1.12) or lower-intensity intermittent runs. In both cases, there is a weekly variation of dis-tances and intensities, from general to more specific training parameters. Distances can be 
broken down to perform more sport-specific shuttle runs, too.
The progression from aerobic-dominant types of training (intensity zones 5 to 3) to 
anaerobic lactic system training (zone 2) should follow the natural progression of the annual 
plan, beginning with the preparatory phase and moving into the competitive phase (see the example in figure 1 1.13).
E6954/Bompa/F11 .12/578720/mh-R1FC (bpm)200
150
100
50
FIGURE 11.12 Heart rate variations during an aerobic power training session in ladder fashion, consisting of 
three sets of 600-500-400-300-200 m repetitions, at 95%-95%-100%-100%-100% of maximum aerobic speed, with 
a 1:1 rest interval between reps.
Endurance Training Programming  
With Six Intensity Values
In all athletic programs, the coach must alter the intensity of training throughout a micro-
cycle to enhance the athletes’ physiological adaptation to training and regeneration after 
a demanding training session. Such alternation of intensities depends, however, on the 
ergogenesis of the event and the characteristics of the training phase.
As most sports use fuel produced by all of the energy systems, training has to be more 
complex, exposing athletes to all energy systems, especially during the last part of the pre-
paratory and throughout the competitive phases.
We propose six intensity values in table 1 1.17, 
to assist coaches in achieving scientific and well-planned training that considers the physiological 
profile and the energy requirements of a sport. These intensities are listed in order of magnitude of power output, with number 1 being the energy 
system with the highest power output and 6 being 
the system with the lowest power output.
Zone 1: Alactic System Training (AST)
The intent of AST is to increase an athlete’s ability to be faster with less effort. AST should improve the 
start and acceleration. This is possible by applying TABLE 11.17 Six Intensity Zones of Endurance  
 Training
Intensity 
zone Type of training
1 Alactic System Training (AST)
2 Lactic Acid Training (LAT)
3 Maximum Oxygen Consumption Training (V.
  O2maxT)
4 Anaerobic Threshold Training (AnTT)
5 Aerobic Threshold Training (ATT)
6 Aerobic Compensation Training (CoT)

296
Chart of the Annual Plan
Type: Coach:
Date Month October November December January February March April May June July August
Phases Preparation Competition Transition
Subphases General Specific Pre- 
competitionCompetitive Transition
Macrocycles 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
Microcycles
1
23
4
567
8
9
1011121314151617181920
21
2223
24
25262728293031323334353637383940414243444546
Periodization 
of enduranceEndurance Tempo Aerobic intervals Anaerobic intervals Specific endurance Maintenance LSD
Intensity  
(% V.  O2max)
70
7580
75
808590
85
909590
9590
100
90
100+
90
100+
90
100/60
95/60
100/60
95/60
100/60
95/60
100/60
95/60
100/60
95/60
100/60
90/60
60
6560657065
FIGURE 11.13 Hypothetical periodization of endurance annual plan for a team sport with a 20-week preparation phase.
LSD = long slow distance training.

Endurance Training297
short work periods of 2 to 8 s, with a speed in excess of 95% of maximum. Such a training 
program employs the phosphate energy system; the outcome is an increase in the quantity 
of creatine phosphate (CP) stored in the muscle and increased activity of the enzymes that 
release energy through the ATP-CP system.
Long recovery intervals between work periods (work to recovery interval ratio = 1:50-
1:100) are necessary to completely refill the muscles’ CP supply. If the rest interval is short, 
the restoration of CP will be incomplete; as a result, anaerobic glycolysis will become the 
major source of energy, rather than the phosphate reaction. This in turn will produce lactic acid that will reduce speed, and the athlete will not realize the desired training effect. AST 
or sprint training should not, therefore, cause muscle acidosis because this is a sign of 
anaerobic glycolysis.
Zone 2: Lactic Acid Training (LAT)
LAT increases an athlete’s ability to perform during lactic efforts and tolerate lactic acid buildup; it is useful for fast repetitions of 15 to 90 s. Very high levels of lactic acid buildup 
can result from high-intensity reps of 40 to 50 s, although the fastest rate of lactic acid 
accumulation happens with maximum effort between 12 and 16 s. Power output during lactic efforts is improved via the increase of the lactic energy system’s metabolic enzymes, as well as adaptations of the nervous system. In fact, performance in lactic power events (10 to 20 s in duration) seems to be subject to a major limitation involving the nervous 
system’s ability to maintain the frequency of discharge to the muscles rather than any 
metabolic reasons (155b).
On the other hand, lactic acid tolerance increases as a result of skeletal muscles repeatedly 
removing lactic acid from the bloodstream. Studies have demonstrated that lactate trans-
porters increase in number as a function of high-intensity training (17g). The ability to clear 
lactic acid from the bloodstream and transport it to slow-twitch muscle fibers for energy usage is an adaptive response that delays fatigue and inevitably improves performance in sports that require lactic acid tolerance.
An athlete can perform better for longer if his nervous system is trained to maintain the 
frequency of discharge for the duration of a lactic effort or if he can tolerate the pain of acidosis (high lactic acid concentrations in the blood). Therefore, the purposes of training 
in intensity zone 2 are to adapt to the nervous strain of longer maximum-intensity efforts, 
to resist the acidic effect of lactic acid buildup, to buffer the effects of lactic acid, to increase lactic acid removal from the working muscles, and to increase the athlete’s physiological and psychological tolerance of the pain of training and of challenging competitions.
Training for intensity zone 2 comes in the following variations:
1. Lactic power short: Organize a series of shorter, near-maximum and maximum- intensity repetitions or drills (3 to 10 s) with shorter rest intervals (15 s to 4 min, depending on duration of effort, number of repetitions, and relative intensity) that result in only partial removal of lactic acid from the system. The physiological consequence of this 
type of training is that the athlete tolerates increased amounts of lactic acid while pro-
ducing high levels of anaerobic power under the condition of extreme acidosis. This method is often used as the competitive season approaches and the athlete’s system is challenged to the maximum capacity.
2. Lactic power long: Organize near-maximum and maximum-intensity repetitions of longer duration (10 to 20 s) that make the lactic acid energy system work at its maximum 
rate of energy production. This method is one of the highest possible stressors for the 
neuromuscular system. Therefore, to repeat the same quality of work, the athlete needs very long rest intervals (12 to 30 min, depending on the athlete’s performance level 
and the number of repetitions) to facilitate an almost complete removal of lactic acid 
and the recovery of the central nervous system. If the rest interval is not long enough, recovery is incomplete and injury risk is high.

Periodization298
3. Lactic capacity: Organize high-intensity repetitions of longer duration (20 to 60 s) that 
result in increased amounts (well over 12 mmol) of lactic acid. To repeat the same 
quality of work, the athlete needs moderate rest intervals (4 to 8 min, depending on 
duration of effort, number of repetitions, and relative intensity) to facilitate near-com-plete removal of lactic acid. If the rest interval is not long enough, removal is incomplete and acidosis is severe. Under these conditions, the athlete is forced to slow the speed 
of a repetition or drill below the intended level. Consequently, the athlete does not 
achieve the planned training effect, which is to increase her ability to tolerate lactic acid buildup. Rather, the athlete will end up training the aerobic system.
Psychologically, the purpose of lactic tolerance training is to push the athlete beyond the 
pain threshold. However, this type of training should not be used more than two times per week, because it exposes the athlete to critical levels of fatigue. Overdoing it may bring the 
athlete closer to the undesirable effects of injury, overreaching, and overtraining.
Zone 3: Maximum Oxygen Consumption Training (V.  O2maxT)
During training and competition, both parts of the oxygen transport system—central (heart) 
and peripheral (capillaries at the level of the working muscle)—are heavily taxed to supply the required oxygen. Because the supply of oxygen at the working muscle level represents 
a limiting factor in performance and because athletes with large V.  O
2 capacity have demon-
strated better performances in endurance events, V.  O2maxT must be an important concern 
for both coaches and athletes.
Increased V.  O2max results from improved transportation of oxygen by the circulatory 
system, and increased extraction and use of O2 by the muscular system. Consequently, you 
must dedicate a large portion of the training program to developing V.  O2max. Achieving 
these effects requires training periods of 1 to 6 min at 90% to 100% of maximum oxygen consumption (higher intensity for shorter repetitions and slightly lower intensity for longer 
repetitions). The number of repetitions performed in a training session depends on the specific duration of the sporting event: the longer the duration, the lower the number of (longer) repetitions. Therefore, in a given training session, an athlete might derive similar 
benefits from performing, say, six repetitions of 3 min each at 100% of V.  O
2max or eight 
repetitions of 5 min each at 95 % of V.  O2max, with a 1:1 rest interval.
Athletes can improve V.  O2max through shorter work periods (30 s to 2 min), provided 
the rest interval is short as well (10-30 s) and the intensity above the V.  O2max. Under such 
conditions, training effect will result through the accumulative effect of several repetitions (4 to 12) that will reach V.  O
2max and not from one or two repetitions, which may primarily 
solicit the anaerobic system.
Zone 4: Anaerobic Threshold Training (AnTT)
AnTT refers to the intensity of an exercise at such a level that the rate of lactic acid diffusion 
in the bloodstream equals the rate of its removal (AnTT = 4-6 mmol). The lactic acid pro-duced in the muscles diffuses into adjacent resting muscles, thus lowering its concentration 
level. It is metabolized in the working muscle and is removed from the blood by the heart, 
liver, and muscles at the rate it is accumulated.
This training can use shorter repetitions of 1 to 6 min with an intensity between 85% 
and 90% of V.  O2max or 92% to 96% of maximum heart rate, but with slightly longer rests 
between bouts (work-to-rest ratio between 1:0.5 and 1:1). Such training can stimulate both 
the aerobic and the anaerobic metabolism without a significant rise in lactic acid produc -
tion. This effect can also be achieved through longer repetitions: five to seven repetitions 
of 8 to 15 min at 80% to 85% of V.  O2max or 87% to 92% of maximum heart rate with a 
work-to-rest ratio between 1:0.3 and 1:0.5. During such training programs, the subjective 
feeling of the athlete should be mild distress, with the speed slightly faster than what is 
comfortable.

Endurance Training299
Zone 5: Aerobic Threshold Training (ATT)
High aerobic capacity is a decisive factor for all events of medium and long duration. Sim-
ilarly, it is a determinant for all sports in which the oxygen supply represents a limiting 
factor. Using ATT is beneficial for most sports because it enhances quick recovery following 
training and competition; develops the functional efficiency of the cardiorespiratory and nervous systems; and enhances the economical functioning of the metabolic system. It also increases the capacity to tolerate stress for long periods.
ATT is performed mostly through a high volume of work without interruption (uniform 
pace), or interval training using repetitions longer than 10 min. The duration of an ATT session could be between 1 and 2 h. The athlete achieves the intended training effect only 
when the lactic acid concentration is between 2 and 3 mmol, with a heart rate of 130 to 150 
beats/min. If the figures are less than this, the training effect is questionable.
During the competition phase, you can plan ATT one or two times per week as a method 
of maintaining aerobic capacity and as a recovery session to reduce intensity but maintain 
the general fitness level.
Zone 6: Aerobic Compensation Training (CoT)
CoT facilitates athletes’ recovery following competitions and the high-intensity training 
sessions characteristic of intensity zones 2 and 3. Specifically, to eliminate metabolites from 
the system and speed recovery and regeneration, workouts must be planned using very light 
intensity (45% to 60% of V.  O2max).
High-intensity endurance training is a necessary component of adaptation and perfor-
mance enhancement. However, strenuous exercise often negatively affects the body before it can recover and strengthen. Recovery and regeneration can be aided by active recovery methods such as cycling or running for 5 to 20 min at about 50% of maximum capacity.
In contrast, following strenuous endurance-type training with static rest (such as lying or 
sitting down) can delay regeneration of the body’s systems and removal of the by-products of training. Recovery and regeneration are slowed by elevated levels of plasma cortisol and adrenaline, and by decreased levels of white blood cells and low levels of immune system 
catalysts (e.g., neutrophils and monocytes) (66b, 72b, 159b).
On the other hand, active recovery (along with proper postworkout nutrition) has been 
shown to counteract the increase in cortisol and adrenaline, override the drop in white blood 
cell count, and eliminate the drop in neutrophil and monocyte count (66b, 72b, 159b). In 
other words, active recovery reignites immune system function following strenuous training, 
which in turn allows the body to regenerate faster.
Therefore, by the end of the training session, the difficult part of the workout is complete, 
but athletes who are willing to live with the sacrifice needed for improvement and adaptation should devote another 15 to 20 min to foster healing and regeneration. Choosing not to do so slows the recovery process and may negatively affect the next training session; it also leads to overtraining and injury. During very demanding weeks of training, intensity zone 
6 may be used one to three times, sometimes in combination with other intensities (in that 
case, at the end of a workout).
Designing the Weekly Program
Now that we have illustrated the six intensities of training, the critical question is how to incorporate them within a training program. Traditionally, a coach designs a training program 
by assigning certain physical, technical, or tactical objectives to certain days of a microcycle. 
Yet the critical element is training the energy systems, which represent the foundation of good performance. The coach must do this in conjunction with the technical and tactical elements, based on knowledge of the physiological profile prevailing in an event. When 
planning a microcycle, the coach does not need to write down the training content, but the 
mathematical values of the intensities needed in the cycle. This will suggest the components 

Periodization300
of the energy systems to emphasize in that training session. The distribution per microcycle 
of the six intensities depends on the phase of training, the athlete’s needs, and whether a competition is planned at the end of the cycle.
A major training concern for distributing intensity values in a microcycle is the athlete’s 
physiological reaction to training and the level of fatigue a given intensity generates. An intensity from the top of the intensity scale will constantly generate higher levels of fatigue. Such a training session can be followed, therefore, by one session at intensity five, which facilitates supercompensation by being less demanding. This is the principle of alternation of intensity and energy systems within the microcycle. On the other hand, for a purely aer-obic sport (marathon running, cross-country skiing), you will plan just the alternation of intensities, as almost all sessions will be of aerobic ergogenesis.
Combinations of various intensities in a training session are often a necessity. For instance, 
a combination of intensities one and three or two and six suggests that after working an anaerobic component (i.e., intensities one and two), which are the most taxing and fatiguing, the coach can plan a less demanding intensity (i.e., intensity six). Such a combination will enhance the development or maintenance of aerobic endurance and will especially facilitate the recovery rate between training sessions.
Physiological adaptation to the profile of an event may result in other possible combina-
tions as well. One such possibility could be 1 + 3 + 2. Such a combination models a race in which the beginning (an aggressive start) relies on the energy produced by the phosphate system (1); the body of the race uses the energy produced by the lactic and oxygen systems (3); and the finish, in which the athlete can tolerate the increased levels of lactic acid (2), makes the difference between winning and losing.
It is necessary to incorporate a scientific basis in the methodology of planning if a coach 
expects high efficiency from the time invested in planning the training. Applying the six intensities to the training plan incorporates the entire spectrum of energy systems necessary in all endurance-dominant or endurance-related sports—from the phosphate, to the lactic acid, to the aerobic system. In this method, the coach plans numerical values, which he rations and distributes in a microcycle depending on the ergogenesis of the sport, the phase of training, and the athlete’s needs.
To avoid the undesirable effects of overtraining, consider the sequence and frequency of 
the intensity symbols while strictly adhering to the concept of supercompensation. Under such circumstances, planning becomes more scientific, has a logical sequence, and observes the important training requirement of alternating high-intensity and low-intensity stimuli so that fatigue is constantly succeeded by regeneration.
Summary of Major Concepts
All sports require some level of endurance. The coach must determine the type of endurance needed to optimize performance in a given sport. Endurance is classified as low-intensity exercise endurance (LIEE) and high-intensity exercise endurance (HIEE). LIEE is typically needed in aerobic sports that require work to be continuously performed for a long dura-tion. Conversely, HIEE requires the repetitive performance of high-intensity activities inter-spersed with periods of recovery. Sports that rely on HIEE also appear to rely on the ability to express high power outputs or generate high levels of force. Interestingly, HIEE training methods appear to improve LIEE performance, but LIEE training methods can reduce HIEE performance. When training in a team sport setting, the coach must tailor the endurance program according to the played position—its dominant energy system, its match running volume at different speeds or power outputs, and ultimately, the player’s maximum aerobic speed—to adjust intensity and rest intervals. Only an individualized training program can maximize the development of the sport-specific endurance of an athlete.

30112Speed and Agility 
Training
Speed, agility, and speed endurance are crucial abilities that can affect performance
in a variety of sports. These abilities are related and depend in large part on the athlete’s 
muscular strength. Integrating speed, agility, and speed endurance training into the annual training plan and manipulating specific training variables can optimize performance capacity. Therefore, understanding the factors that affect speed, agility, and speed endurance enables coaches to develop sport-specific training plans that maximize performance.
Speed Training
Speed is the ability to cover a distance quickly. The ability to move quickly in a straight line or in different directions (changes of direction) is an integral component of successful perfor -
mance in a wide variety of sports. Straight-line sprinting can be broken down into three phases: acceleration, attainment of maximum speed, and maintenance of maximum speed (27, 75).
Acceleration is the ability to increase maximum velocity in a minimum amount of time. 
Acceleration determines sprint performance abilities over short distances (e.g., 5 m and 20 m) and is usually measured in m/s or simply as a unit of time (e.g., s). The ability to accel-erate differentiates between athletes for a variety of sports. For example, during a 100 mrace, untrained sprinters achieve maximum speed within 20 to 30 m (27), whereas highlytrained sprinters do not attain maximum speed until around 50 to 60 m (65). It is likelythat maximum strength levels for the knee extensors, hip extensors, and plantar flexors (calfmuscles) explains the acceleratory abilities of various athletes because strength is stronglyrelated to sprinting ability. Support for this contention can be garnered from the literature,which reports that faster sprinters are significantly stronger and are able to accelerate at fasterrates than their slower counterparts (6, 24, 69, 1 10).
In many sports, such as soccer, the ability to accelerate underlies successful game play. 
During soccer game play, the average sprint length is around 17 m (9) and ranges from 5 to 50 or 60 m. Often, these sprints are initiated while the athlete is moving at slower speeds (1 10) or when the athlete is making a breakaway or initiating a tackle. Therefore, the abilityto accelerate rapidly in the first few steps is essential to effective game play. These data revealthat a sprint training program that targets the acceleration phase should develop specificstrength (maximum strength and power) characteristics and mechanical skills (1 10).
After completing the acceleration phase of a sprint, the athlete achieves maximum run-
ning velocity. Athletes may have great acceleratory capacity but lack the ability to achieve high velocities in this phase of a sprint, which suggests that acceleration and the maximum speed of running are very specific sprinting qualities (26). Differences in the kinematics of the acceleratory and maximum velocity portions of a sprint support this observation and suggest that running mechanics (78, 1 10) and specific strength qualities (69) play a role in developing maximum running speed.
The final phase of a straight-line sprint requires the athlete to maintain maximum speed, 
described among sprinters as speed endurance. Although the athlete is moving at maximum 

Periodization302
speed, the development of fatigue begins to affect the athlete’s ability to maintain force 
output, effective running mechanics, and thus speed. During a bout of maximum sprinting, 
insufficient rest intervals can lead to depletion of phosphocreatine and accumulation of lactic 
acid, which is formed in response to the rapid glycolytic rate (91). As phosphocreatine levels decrease, there is a higher reliance on the anaerobic lactic system; as lactic acid increases, there is an accumulation of hydrogen ions (H
+), which can reduce the athlete’s capacity to 
exert force (99) and lead to a breakdown in running mechanics and mechanical efficiency. 
Both short-repetitions sprinting programs with incomplete rest intervals and long-repeti-
tions sprinting programs with complete rest intervals appear effective in improving muscle buffering capacity and reducing fatigue (25, 57, 91). Maximum speed, on the other hand, should be trained with short repetitions and complete rest intervals.
Speed is the expression of a set of skills and abilities that allow for high movement veloc-
ities. Although it is often suggested that skills and abilities are unrelated, they are highly related and thus can be developed with specific training practices (91, 92). The application 
of appropriate sprint training methods in conjunction with a periodized training plan can 
improve sprint performance (e.g., acceleration, achievement of maximum velocity, and maintenance of high velocities) and thereby improve competitive performance.
Factors Affecting the Development of Speed
To develop speed, the coach and athlete must understand the factors that affect an athlete’s ability to generate high movement speeds. Several physiological and performance factors 
affect sprinting ability, as described in the following paragraphs.
Speed training isn’t just for track athletes; it should be incorporated  
into training plans for athletes in all sports.

Speed and Agility Training303
Energy Systems
Sprinting involves a rapid release of energy that allows for a high rate of cross-bridge cycling 
within the muscle and a rapid and repetitive production of muscular force. The body meets 
the energy demands of muscle under sprinting conditions by (1) altering the enzymatic 
activity of specific energy-producing pathways, (2) increasing the amount of energy stored within the muscle, and (3) increasing the muscles’ ability to overcome the accumulation of fatigue-inducing metabolites (91).
Enzymatic Activity All three of the body’s energy systems (phosphagen, glycolytic, 
and oxidative) contribute to energy supply (67). However, the phosphagen and glycolytic 
systems predominate during most sprinting activities. The degree of contribution of the 
oxidative energy system depends on the duration, length, and number of sprints performed as well as the rest interval between repetitions. For example, if the sprinting activity is long (≥30 s in duration) and repeated several times with short rest intervals between bouts, the 
contribution of the oxidative energy system will progressively increase (67). Therefore, the 
enzymatic adaptations will be very specific to the sprinting tasks performed in training (91).
The response of the phosphagen system (ATP-PC) to sprinting activities shows that mus-
cular stores of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and phosphocreatine (PCr) can be significantly reduced in response to bouts of sprint training (45). The rate of PCr breakdown is signifi-
cantly higher in the fastest sprinters (45), which may occur as a result of an increased rate 
of creatine phosphokinase (CPK) activity in response to sprint training (78, 83, 102). To 
meet the increased demand for ATP during sprint training, an increased myokinase (MK) 
enzyme activity is stimulated, which may increase the rate of ATP resynthesis (25, 93). This 
increase in MK activity has been reported to occur in response to training with both short- and long-duration sprints (25, 83).
Several key enzymes associated with the glycolytic system also are affected by various 
forms of sprint training (91). For example, glycogen phosphorylase (PHOS), the enzyme 
responsible for stimulating muscle glycogen breakdown, is increased in response to both short (<10 s) and long (>10 s) bouts of sprinting (25, 51, 66, 83, 91). Phosphofructoki-
nase  (PFK) activity (the enzyme that regulates the rate of the glycolytic system) appears to 
increase in response to short-duration, long-duration, or combination sprinting activities. 
Changes in PFK activity may be of particular importance because the rate of PFK activity has been related to performance in high-intensity exercise such as sprinting (101). Finally, 
lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity has been shown to increase in response to both 
short- and long-duration sprinting (19, 47, 66, 79, 90, 91).
The contribution of the oxidative system to an acute 10 s bout of sprinting is considered 
to be minimal (~13%) (1 1). However, during multiple sprints of a longer duration (≥30 s) there is a significant decrease in the glycolytic energetic supply and a concomitant decrease in maximum power output and speed (10). This may occur in response to elevated H
+ con-
centrations slowing the glycolytic rate and allowing for a decreased production of lactate. To 
meet the energy demands of the exercising muscle, the contribution of oxidative metabo-
lism increases (8, 10, 97). However, the contribution of oxidative metabolism to the energy supply is affected largely by the duration of the sprint (8, 97) and the rest interval between bouts (7). For example, longer sprints performed multiple times with short rest intervals will increase the contribution of the oxidative systems to energy supply. With this increased 
energy supply from oxidative metabolism, it is not surprising that there are increases in 
succinate dehydrogenase and citrate synthase activity (key enzymes of the oxidative system) in response to sprinting (19, 47, 66).
Short and long sprint interval training bouts can significantly increase the athlete’s aerobic 
power (V.  O
2max) (57, 97). Thus, high-intensity interval training is an important tool for the 
development of sport-specific fitness for sports dominated by both anaerobic (e.g., soccer, 
American football, basketball) and aerobic (e.g., long-distance running, cycling, skiing) 
energy supplies. Although repetitive sprint bouts, similar to those seen in competition, may 

Periodization304
have a large aerobic contribution, this does not mean that long-distance aerobic training is 
the best way to develop fitness (44, 46). For example, Helgerud and colleagues (44) reported 
that high-intensity interval training resulted in significantly greater increases in V.  O2max than 
traditional aerobic training. This interval-based training increase in V.  O2max was related to 
significant increases in running economy, distances covered, number of involvements with the ball, and average work intensity during a soccer game (43).
The enzymatic alterations stimulated by sprint training may play an integral role in facilitat -
ing rapid muscular contractions by allowing for a faster rate of ATP supply from the glycolytic 
systems. Adaptation to multiple bouts of high-intensity sprint intervals seems to produce a 
superior training stimulus, which appears to translate to team sports play better than does 
traditional endurance training. High-intensity interval training should be, then, the preferred 
endurance training modality for team sports, especially during the specific preparation phase.
Energy Substrate Storage An increased availability of metabolic substrates (PCr, ATP, 
and glycogen) prior to the initiation of an exercise bout may enhance the athlete’s ability to perform or maintain high-intensity exercise (91, 106). Parra and colleagues (83) reported 
that a short sprint protocol elevated resting PCr and glycogen levels, whereas a long protocol elevated only resting glycogen levels. This suggests that the sprint training program may alter the energy substrates stored in the muscle. These changes to energy substrate storage may have contributed to the increases in sprint performance noted in the investigation (83).
Accumulation of Fatigue-Inducing Metabolites Lactic acid accumulation as a result of 
multiple sprint bouts appears to contribute to impaired sprinting performance (62, 107). 
With an increase in lactic acid accumulation, there is an increase in H+ ion concentration 
(which can inhibit PFK activity) (41), a decrease in the Ca+ transport rate (59), and a 
decrease in the rate of cross bridge cycling within the skeletal muscle (100). If the H+ ions 
are not buffered, the ability to sprint, and more importantly to repetitively sprint, will be impaired (57).
The use of high-intensity interval training has been demonstrated to result in an increased 
buffering capacity (70, 107). With this increased buffering capacity, there is an increased 
ability to maintain energetic flux and thus to maintain high power output performance, 
such as sprinting. Therefore, when developing a physiological base for sprint and agility 
performance, it is important to include high-intensity interval training in the overall training plan as it has the ability to increase buffering capacity, which allows the body to deal with 
the accumulation of metabolic fatigue inducing factors (e.g., lactic acid or H
+). For more 
information on the increasing endurance and buffering capacity, refer to chapter 1 1.
Neuromuscular Systems
The morphological characteristics of the muscle as well as adaptations to neural activation 
patterns can play a significant role in the expression of high-velocity movements. Late 20th 
century literature has suggested that performance in sprinting activities depends largely on 
genetic factors, yet recent literature suggests that muscle fiber characteristics as well as neural activation patterns can be altered in response to various training stimuli (92, 103-105, 108, 109).
Muscle Composition Muscle fiber type or composition appears to play a role in 
determining sprint performance abilities. A higher percentage of type IIb or IIx myosin 
heavy chain (MHC) isoforms (fast-twitch) is advantageous for activities that require the 
expression of high power outputs or forces (17, 84), such as those seen in sprinting. A continuum of muscle fiber MHC isoforms ranging from type I (slow-twitch) to type IIa, IIb, or IIx can be delineated, along with specific hybrids that exist as transitional states (e.g., 
I/IIa, I/IIa/IIx, IIa/IIx) between the major subtypes (5, 85, 108). Within this continuum 
of individual MHC isoforms, a spectrum of force- and power-generating capacity can be created (figure 12.1). In this spectrum, type I fibers exhibit the lowest force- and power-
generating capacity, whereas type IIb or IIx MHC isoforms are associated with the highest 

Speed and Agility Training305
power- and force-generating capacity (16, 17).
Because of the interrelationships of power, force, and fiber type, it appears that sprinting 
performance capacity may be partially explained by the athlete’s fiber type. Support for this 
contention can be seen in the scientific literature, which suggests that sprint performance is significantly correlated with the athlete’s percentage of type II fibers (25, 32, 73). Sprint-
trained athletes appear to exhibit greater rates of force development and force output than 
either untrained or endurance-trained individuals (39, 68), which may be related to a higher percentage of type II fibers. In fact, sprinters have been shown to have a high percentage of 
type II fibers (23). Thus, a potential explanation for improved sprinting performance may 
center on specific training-induced adaptations to the muscle fiber composition.
The ability of sprint training to alter the muscle fiber depends partially on individual dif -
ferences and genetic predisposition to different types of training (31, 59, 61, 91). Prolonged endurance training usually induces a shift from type II to a type I fiber composition (e.g., IIx or 
IIb → IIa → I), which is disadvantageous for sprinting performance (104). Conversely, sprint 
training can increase type II fiber content (25, 31, 47, 48). A sprint training program that entails 
a frequent exposure to lactic bouts induces a bidirectional shift toward type IIa fibers (I → IIa → IIb or IIx) (3, 4, 91). However, it appears that this favorable adaptation to the muscle fiber 
composition can be muted if endurance training is included in the training plan (91). Providing 
insufficient rest between repetitions or sets of sprinting efforts (42, 60, 91) and including only long-duration sprints (19, 58, 91, 96) results in a fiber type transition similar to that seen with 
endurance training. Given this information, coaches must carefully consider the content of the 
periodized training program. The first program concern is that traditional endurance training, such as long slow distance (LSD) work, should be avoided by athletes who must express high levels of sprinting speed. Second, depending on the needs of the athlete and the sport being 
trained for, the use of short rest intervals and longer sprinting bouts should be reserved for 
the general preparatory phase of the annual training plan. As the athlete progresses through the specific preparatory phase and into the competitive phase, the use of shorter sprints with 
longer rest intervals will help the athlete produce higher speeds of movement.
Neural Factors High-velocity training, such as maximum intensity sprints, requires a 
high level of neural activation (29, 52, 81, 92). Several neural factors influence sprinting ability, include the sequencing of muscle activation, the stretch reflex, and the development 
of neural fatigue (92).
Muscle Activation When performing a sprinting motion, a multitude of different 
muscles are activated at specific times and intensities to optimize movement speed (92). 
It appears that training results in a refinement of neural innervations’ patterns and a more 
developed and efficient motor program (72, 92). It appears that the ratio of contribution of co-agonist muscles is altered with changes in muscle contraction speed (20, 92). Alterations to the stretch shortening cycle (SSC) have also been reported (92) and appear to contribute 
to propulsive forces during running (29). Finally, the ability to fully or selectively recruit E6954/Bompa/F12.01/578764/mh-R2Type IIb or Type IIx (MHC) Type IIa (MHC) Type I (MHC)
1 .  Highest power output
2.  Highest force-     generating capacity1 .  Intermediate power     output2.  Intermediate force-     generating capacity1 .  Lowest power output
2.  Lowest force-
     generating capacity
FIGURE 12.1 Power output and force-generating capacity by the myosin heavy chain (MHC) muscle fiber 
subtype.

Periodization306
type II muscle fibers may be important when optimizing sprint performance capacity 
(92). Engaging in training practices that use ballistic or explosive activities (e.g., sprinting, 
weightlifting, plyometrics) may alter the motor unit recruitment pattern so that type II 
fibers are recruited sooner (38).
Stretch Reflex Short latency stretch reflexes appear to influence sprint running 
performance (92). In particular, the stretch reflex appears to enhance force production 
when the athlete is sprinting. During the nonsupport phase of sprinting (discussed further 
in the section titled Technique), the numerous muscles involved in the development of force are activated (35), and there is an increase in muscle spindle sensitivity (36, 40, 92). Training-induced adaptations to muscle spindle sensitivity may occur in response to sprint 
training (55, 56) and can improve muscle stiffness upon ground contact (92). Increases in muscle stiffness appear to be related to both maximum running velocity and speed 
maintenance (21, 64). Increases in stiffness also appear to decrease contact time during the support phase of sprinting by increasing the rate of force development and the peak forces generated during this time (92).
Neural Fatigue Neural fatigue can affect sprint performance by reducing voluntary force-
generating capacity (90). As fatigue manifests itself during a maximum 100 m sprint there is a slight decline in speed, especially in the later stages of the race, which corresponds to 
a decrease in stride rate (2, 92). Ross and colleagues (92) suggested that this reduction 
in stride rate is the result of neural fatigue, whereby motor unit recruitment patterns are altered and change the motor-unit firing rate.
During sprinting, such as the 100 m dash, there is a preferential recruitment of  type II 
(fast-twitch) muscle fibers, which are particularly susceptible to acute neural fatigue as a result of their short contraction times and high axial conduction velocities (74). As the 100 m dash progresses, there is a progressive reduction in recruitment that probably occurs as a 
result of a less-than-optimal output from the motor cortex (92). A 4.9% to 8.7% reduction 
in muscle activation has been noted once maximum velocity has been achieved during a 100 m dash. This reduction in recruitment may occur as a result of fatigue of the neuromuscular junction, a decreased firing rate, or a reduction in the recruitment of higher threshold motor 
units (type IIb or IIx) (92).
Ross and colleagues (92) postulated that acute neural fatigue may decrease reflex sensitivity. 
Even though it has yet to be demonstrated in response to sprint exercise, it is possible that large volumes of traumatic stretch shortening can reduce reflex sensitivity, which could reduce force 
output during running (92). This reduction in force output could impair sprint performance.
Technique
Sprinting is a ballistic activity in which a series of running strides launch the body forward with maximum velocity over some distance. Sprinting contains two major phases: a non-
support (or flight) phase and a support phase. The nonsupport phase contains recovery and 
ground preparations, whereas the support phase includes both landing or eccentric breaking and concentric propulsion subphases (1). As an athlete sprints, she alternates between the nonsupport and support phases. As the athlete enters the support phase, a force-absorbing eccentric action precedes an explosive concentric contraction (propulsion phase). With 
increasing running speed, the time spent in the nonsupport phase generally increases and 
the time spent in the support phase decreases (1). As the time spent in the support phase decreases, it becomes particularly important that the athlete demonstrate a high rate of 
force development (RFD) to maintain or continue to elevate running speed. The decrease 
in duration of the supporting phase is essential for success in any high-velocity activities and directly depends on the improvement of the athlete’s maximum strength and power capabilities. This is why we can say that:
• Nobody can be fast before being strong (strength training makes you fast).
• If you want to be fast you have to shorten the duration of contact phase. Only gains in 

Speed and Agility Training307
maximum strength and power will decrease the duration of the contact (supporting) 
phase. To achieve that, you have to improve maximum strength and power of the 
quadriceps, gastrocnemius, and soleus muscles.
The speed at which an athlete runs or sprints depends largely on an interaction between 
stride rate and stride length. As the athlete accelerates and approaches maximum velocity, 
stride rate increases to a greater extent than stride length. Stride length is related to both body height and the force exerted during the propulsion phase. However, elite sprinters tend 
to achieve a greater stride rate and stride length in a shorter amount of time, which suggests 
that both stride rate and length can be optimized with appropriate training interventions. The phases of a sprint are the start, acceleration, and maximum velocity.
Start The optimal starting position is a medium heel-to-toe stance, regardless of whether 
the athlete is in a two-point (standing) or three- or four-point (crouching) stance. Initiating 
a sprint from the starting stance is then accomplished by overcoming inertia through the 
explosive application of force against the ground with both legs. The front leg extends while the rear leg swings forward with what is called a low heel recovery, which will be maintained for at least two steps before gradually raising (figure 12.2). As the rear leg comes forward, the hip is flexed to at least 90° and the ankle is dorsiflexed, preparing the foot to apply force 
down to the ground. At the same time, the arm opposite the leg initiates starting actions by 
swinging forward and up, with the elbow flexed at approximately 90°, and the hand moves past the head. As the front leg moves through the support phase and extends, the opposite 
arm should swing backward with the elbow fully extended. When the start is performed 
correctly, the body is at an angle of 45° or less from horizontal, the head is aligned with the back, and the push-off is performed with perfect alignment from the tip of the foot to the 
FIGURE 12.2 Low heel recovery for the first two steps.
Sandra Mu/Getty Images

Periodization308
shoulder. Figure 12.3 shows the sprinting technique for the starting position.
Acceleration During the initial acceleration period from a static start, both stride rate 
and length will increase during the first 15 to 20 m or 9 to 12 strides. Analysis of elite 
sprinters show that stride length increases more than stride frequency during the first 20 
m of a 100 m dash (65). However, it appears that stride frequency is the performance discriminant among fast and slow team sports athletes (78). During the preliminary portion of the acceleration period, the body will have a forward lean (≤45°), which will 
progressively move to a more upright position as the athlete approaches maximum velocity. 
The forward lean position allows the athlete to have the vertical projection of the center of gravity ahead of the supporting legs, a technical position that is favorable to higher 
acceleration. During the whole acceleration phase, the leg is fully extended and in line 
with the body’s longitudinal axis at push-off. From this position, the recovery of the leg is performed by passing the foot progressively higher at each step, always ending with the thigh perpendicular to the trunk. As the leg enters the support phase, it extends downward 
and back; at the same time, the elbow angle of the arm simultaneously swinging backward 
will close a little more with each step, finally staying at 90° for the whole cycle when the athlete is in the upright position typical of the maximum speed phase.
The arm motion should always originate from the shoulder and move backward and 
forward. These arm motions offset the axial momentum generated by the contralateral leg and hip.  During the support phase, the athlete will transition between an eccentric and con-
centric subphase with the use of a stretch shortening cycle (SSC) action (87). As the athlete 
accelerates, greater ground reaction forces must be developed to continue to accelerate (54, 
77). These data seem to suggest that strength training, especially activities that improve the rate of force development, is an essential component of a training program designed 
to enhance sprinting performance. Horizontal ground reaction forces, in particular, seem 
FIGURE 12.3 The optimal angles for the sprinting start.
ERIC FEFERBERG/AFP/Getty Images

Speed and Agility Training309
E6954/Bompa/F12.04/578768/mh-R1L v
iii iviii
Ri ii
FIGURE 12.4 Technique for sprinting at maximum velocity.
i = early nonsupport; ii = mid nonsupport; iii = late nonsupport; iv = early support; v = late support.
Reprinted, by permission, from G. Schmolinsky, ed., 1993, Track and field: The East German textbook of athletics (Toronto: Sport 
Books).
to be the discriminant between slower and faster sprinters (18, 18b, 53, 71, 77, 82), which 
suggests that more emphasis should be granted to training means with anteroposterior force 
vector (kettlebell swing versus Olympic lifts, hip thrust versus squat [22]) or requiring more 
horizontal force application (horizontal jumps versus vertical jumps) than traditionally used.
Maximum Velocity When maximum velocity is achieved (within 30 to 60 m, depending 
on the athlete), the trunk position will be more upright (figure 12.4), and the stride rate 
and length will both contribute to the velocity of movement. During this phase, the time 
spent in the nonsupport phase will be maximized by the application of vertical ground reaction forces during the initial support phase, allowing sufficient time for the swinging leg to be repositioned in preparation 
for the transition into the next support phase. Athletes who are able to 
apply higher horizontal ground reaction forces during the support phase of the maximum velocity portion of a sprint, though, are able to reach 
and maintain higher velocities of movement (18, 18b, 53, 71, 77, 82). 
This further strengthens the contention that strength and power training are essential components of a periodized training plan that emphasizes speed development.
As the athlete enters the support phase, he will contact the ground 
directly beneath his center of gravity. While moving into the support phase, the athlete will transition from an eccentric braking action into a 
concentric action with the use of an SSC action. During the concentric 
phase, the athlete will perform a “triple extension” of the hip, knee, and ankle to properly apply forces against the ground. After the triple extension is performed, the athlete will then initiate a triple flexion of 
the ankle, knee, and hip, which will place the heel close to the buttocks. 
At this point, the heel of the recovery leg will pass above the knee (figure 12.5). This triple flexion motion allows the athlete to rapidly move the 
knee to a position in front of the hip, effectively positioning the leg on 
the front side of the body. This movement prepares the foot for a rapid descent and allows the athlete to maximize ground reaction forces as the foot moves down and back during ground strike (87).
Fatigue
During sprint training, the athlete should be conscious of fatigue because the development of fatigue can reduce sprint performance capacity. As FIGURE 12.5  Over the knee heel recovery 
and upright position at maximum speed.

Periodization310
fatigue is manifested, stride rate can be decreased, while stride length increases and the 
duration of the ground support phase can increase. These events effectively decrease the 
effectiveness of the SSC that is applied between the eccentric and concentric subphases 
of the support phase. High levels of fatigue may also reduce ranges of leg extension (87). These breakdowns in running mechanics may be partially explained by the occurrence of metabolic fatigue (91).
Fatigue can reduce sprinting capacity, especially when a series of maximum sprints are 
performed (92). This type of fatigue may occur as a result of supraspinal failure, segmental afferent inhibition, depression of motor neuron excitability, loss of excitation branch points, 
and a decreased ability of the neuromuscular junction to fully activate the muscle (92). 
Neuromuscular fatigue can play a large role in reducing sprinting speed.
Methods for Developing Speed  
and Speed Endurance
Speed and speed endurance can be developed by manipulating a multitude of training 
factors. For example, the acceleration phase can be developed by targeting the ATP-PC system and performing short sprints (10 to 40 m) at 95% to 100% of maximum speed with 
longer recovery periods between repetitions and sets. Conversely, extensive tempo work in 
which longer distances (>200 m) are covered and lower intensities (<70% of maximum) are interspersed with short rest intervals (<60 s) will develop the athlete’s aerobic capacity (33). Table 12.1 gives examples of manipulations for the development of several different 
aspects of speed and speed endurance.
TABLE 12.1 Methods for Developing Speed and Speed Endurance
Type of trainingTarget energy system
ObjectivesDistance 
(m) % of BestRecovery time
Global Specific Repetitions Sets
Speed Anaerobic ATP-PC Acceleration 10-40 95-100 1 min per  
10 m/yd—
Maximum 
speed50-60 95-100 1 min per  
10 m/yd—
Speed endurance Anaerobic ATP-PC and 
glycolytic Short 
speed 
endurance5-30 95-100 0.5-1.5 min 3-5 min
Glycolytic Short 
speed endurance60-100 90-95 1-3 min 3-6 min
Long speed 
endurance120-200 90-95 3-5 min 6-10 min
95-100 12-30 min —
Anaerobic/
aerobicGlycolytic 
and  oxidativeSpecial 
endurance250-400 90-95 5-6 min 8-12 min
95-100 10-20 min —
Tempo Intensive Anaerobic/
aerobicGlycolytic 
and  oxidativeAnaerobic 
capacity80 80-90 30 s-5 min 3-5 min
Extensive Aerobic Oxidative 
metabolismAerobic 
power100 50-70 <1 min <3 min

Speed and Agility Training311
Agility Training
Straight-line sprinting ability is important for track and field athletes and athletes who par-
ticipate in other field-based sports (e.g., soccer, American football, baseball); but the ability 
to rapidly accelerate, decelerate, and change direction is quite determinant for court-based 
and team sports. Often these athletes have to quickly decelerate, stop, and reaccelerate in other directions in response to external cues. These abilities are usually considered an expression of agility. Some literature uses the term quickness synonymously with agility or 
change-of-direction speed (76, 94). However, Sheppard and Young (94)  suggested that the 
definition of quickness does not consider deceleration or a change of direction and that 
quickness in and of itself contributes to agility. The term cutting has been used to describe 
change-of-direction capabilities (94) and is sometimes falsely used to describe agility. This 
term only considers the change of direction initiated by the foot’s ground contact (94) over-looking the determinant role played by the extensors' eccentric strength.
Agility is a complex set of interdependent skills that converge for the athlete to respond to an 
external stimulus with a rapid deceleration, change of direction, and reacceleration. Young and 
colleagues (1 1 1) and Sheppard and Young (94) suggested that agility is affected by the athlete’s 
perceptual and decision-making ability and her ability to quickly change direction (figure 12.6).
E6954/Bompa/F12.06/578772/mh-R1Agility
Perceptual and decision-making factors
Visual focus
Anticipation
Pattern recognition
Tactical knowledgeTechnique
Body
position
Leg 
action
Arm
action
Braking
mechanicsChange-of-direction speed
Sprinting speed Muscle characteristics
Power
Maximum
strengthReactive
strength
Rate of force
developmentStretch
shortening
cycle
characteristics
FIGURE 12.6 Model of factors affecting agility.
Adapted from Young, James, and Montgomery 2002 (111) and Sheppard and Young 2006 (94).

Periodization312
Perceptual and Decision-Making Factors
During competition, the athlete must be able to perceive a situation, make a decision, and 
then change his direction of movement and speed in response to some external stimulus. 
The ability to engage in this process involves a complex interaction of visual interpretation, 
anticipation, recognition of patterns, and knowledge of tactical situations (94, 1 1 1).
The ability to visually scan or focus while performing multidirectional tasks appears to 
positively influence performance (86). The ability to visually recognize a specific action, pro -
cess the ramifications of that action, and respond with the appropriate change of direction or movement pattern differentiates between athletes. Knowledge of the tactical situation and the 
ability to anticipate the potential movements of the opponent also affect the athlete’s ability 
to change direction appropriately (94). Although it appears that perceptual decision-making factors can affect competition agility, there is a paucity of scientific data on this relationship.
Because there appears to be a relationship between visual interpretation and changes in 
direction, it may be warranted to include activities or drills that require the athlete to perform 
a specific movement in response to a visual or auditory stimulus (58). These activities can 
be integrated into both speed and agility training and may translate into competitive play. However, research exploring the efficacy of such training practices is limited.
Change-of-Direction Speed
Three key factors affect the athlete’s ability to perform change-of-direction tasks: technique, sprinting speed, and muscle characteristics (94, 1 1 1).
Technique
Leg action, arm action, and braking mechanics can all affect an athlete’s ability to express agility in movements. When the athlete is accelerating or decelerating, the body lean must 
increase to allow the base of support to move away from the athlete’s center of gravity (87) 
while the center of gravity is lowered. These actions allow the athlete to maintain dynamic stability and change direction rapidly (94). When initiating the deceleration action prior to the change of direction, the athlete will decrease her stride length (93). Upon reacceleration, 
the athlete will progressively increase both stride length and rate while the body position 
becomes more vertical or incline in the new direction of movement. It may be warranted for the athlete to run with a lower center of gravity and a more pronounced forward lean when 
participating in sports that require frequent changes in direction (93, 94).
Powerful arm actions are a fundamental component of multidirectional movements, since 
the arm’s drive directly affects the athlete’s leg frequency during acceleration or reaccelera-
tion. This is not true during deceleration, when the arms’ frequency and radius are visibly 
reduced, effects that favor a quick deceleration and change of direction. Force is essential for 
both acceleration and deceleration. In the case of acceleration, propulsion force is performed concentrically, while during deceleration force is expressed eccentrically. The latter requires 
more force since the athlete has to also overcome inertia (12).
For successful deceleration, the athlete has to contact the ground with the full foot to 
maximize the surface area that is contacting the ground and reducing the eccentric load by engaging the entire lower extremity (86).
Sprinting Speed
Some coaches believe that straight-line sprint training directly affects the athlete’s ability to 
change direction (94). This is far from being the case in field and court-related sports. Straight-
line sprinting ability explains only a small amount of the variance seen with change-of-di-
rection activities (94, 1 1 1, 1 12). When only straight-line sprinting is used, there is very little improvement in performance of multidirectional change-of-direction tasks. The addition of the ball (e.g., a soccer ball or basketball) and agility drills can significantly improves the 

Speed and Agility Training313
athlete’s ability to perform multidirectional tasks such as change-of-direction movements 
(94, 1 12). Therefore, both straight-line sprinting and change-of-direction tasks with and 
without implements must be incorporated at various stages of the athlete’s development 
and preparation for competition.
Muscle Characteristics
For many years it was commonly accepted that muscular strength and power characteris-tics determined the athlete’s ability to sprint. There appears to be a relationship between 
muscular strength and power and change-of-direction performance. The literature indicates 
that this relationship may be stronger with distinct change-of-direction movements than 
with directional changes performed at  speed over longer durations (as is often the case for a 
soccer forward) (94). The athlete should always strive to become stronger and more powerful 
because this will translate into change-of-direction ability.
Reactive strength, or the ability to engage the stretch shortening cycle (SSC), also appears 
to contribute to the athlete’s ability to change direction (34, 1 1 1). The ability to engage the SSC in response to eccentric loading allows for greater forces to be generated during the concentric phase of a change-of-direction task (56). The ability to engage this mechanism may allow for a more rapid acceleration when changing direction. Therefore, it is strongly 
recommend to incorporate plyometric activities into training, given their strong relationship 
to change-of-direction performance (1 1 1).
Program Design
Developing a training plan involves planning at several distinct levels. These include the microcycle, macrocycle and  annual training plan.  At each level of planning, the coach must 
consider the principles of developing speed and agility and understand the physiological and performance responses to specific training variables.
Principles of Speed and Agility Development
When considering the development of speed, several principles must be considered (28).
Quality Over Quantity
Speed training places a large physiological stress on the athlete. To maximize training effects, speed training needs to be meticulously dosed and incorporate low training volumes inter-
spersed with long periods of restoration. Excessive use of sprint activities will eventually 
result in overtraining. It is not wise to perform sprint and agility training under conditions of fatigue or with excessively short rest intervals.
Proper Technique at All Times
To develop the appropriate movement patterns, the coach must emphasize proper technique in all training activities. If the athlete performs drills with inadequate technique, she will 
stabilize inappropriate movement patterns that will hinder the development of speed and 
the expression of agility. Focus on proper technique should begin during the warm-up and continue into the main body of the training session. If fatigue causes technical breakdowns, it may be warranted to reduce the training volume of that session.
Specificity of Speed and Agility Development
When developing speed and agility, the athlete should develop skills in relationship to the demands of his sport. For example, it may be warranted for soccer players to perform some 
speed and agility activities with a ball because this will be a major component of competitive 

Periodization314
performance. Coaches also should consider the bioenergetics, the work-to-rest ratio, and 
the dynamics of the targeted sport when designing specific sprint and agility sessions. The 
coach should develop specific sprint and agility activities based on the needs of the sport. For 
example, the coach can use short side games or the dribble track (see figure 5.14 in chapter 5) in soccer because these activities will more closely model what occurs in competition (45).
Development of Supporting Characteristics
Many factors can contribute to the athlete’s ability to exhibit speed and effectively perform change-of-direction movements. Coaches must understand the bioenergetic demands of 
different sprint and agility training activities and how they relate to the athlete’s targeted 
sport. Additional aspects to consider are the role of strength training in the expression of 
speed and the development of change-of-direction abilities.
Feedback
It is important to record the athlete's objective and subjective feedback throughout the 
training process. Objective feedback can include recorded times and video analysis of per-formance; subjective feedback may include the concept of perceived maximum speed (28). 
With novice athletes or when the skill set is complex, the coach should provide constant 
feedback and reinforcement. This feedback appears to be essential during the early stages of skill development; as the athlete develops, less feedback is necessary. Consider providing information on proper performance and methods for correcting errors. Try to address one 
or two technical corrections per session, following a priority sequence. As the skill develops, 
feedback should be less frequent and should progress from qualitative to quantitative.
Motivation
To develop speed or agility, the athlete must be highly motivated. High power output activities always require a high level of motivation and maximum concentration. Furthermore, sprint 
and agility training produces a large amount of fatigue, especially when targeting speed 
endurance (86). A motivated athlete is more likely to tolerate this type of training. Motiva
-
tion can be cultivated by providing feedback, especially feedback that emphasizes the positive 
aspects of the athlete’s training, and by including the athlete in the planning process. If the 
plan is implemented correctly, the athlete will be more likely to push himself to higher levels.
Cater agility training to the sport. In this way, the athlete can develop sport-specific skills  
at the same time that she develops speed and agility.

Speed and Agility Training315
Variables Associated With Training for Speed  
or Agility
When integrating speed or agility training into the annual periodized training plan, the 
coach should consider manipulating several training variables (87).
Density
The density of training is the amount of training that occurs within a given time period (training session). When considering a sprint, sprint endurance, or agility session, the den-
sity is a ratio of the interval of exercise and rest within a set or series of sprints. If quality 
of work is expected, longer rest intervals are necessary to facilitate good recovery between sets of sprints or agility drills. This is why density of training for both sprinting and agility training has to be low.
Duration and Distance
A run can be calculated in either seconds or minutes to determine the duration of exercise. The distance traveled can also be quantified in meters or yards. For example, if an athlete sprints 100 m (distance) in 12 s (duration), both distance and duration have been deter-
mined and can be used to calculate an intensity factor.
The duration or distance of an activity determines the bioenergetic pathway and the 
specific quality targeted. Short-duration or short-distance activities tend to target the phos -
phagen system and the development of acceleration or speed. For example, acceleration 
is emphasized when the athlete runs short sprints (10 to 40 m), whereas maximum speed 
is targeted with longer sprints (50 to 60 m). If, on the other hand, the objective is to train 
speed endurance, the distance is increased from 80 to 150  meters. Elite sprinters appear 
to reach maximum velocities after 5 to 6 s in about 50 to 60 m, whereas novice sprinters attain top speeds by 20 to 30 m (65, 87). If the sprint is extended, reliance on the oxidative 
energy system will increase. Therefore, the distance and duration of the sprint are important 
considerations when an athlete is targeting acceleration, maximum speed, or endurance characteristics.
In the case of agility training, duration has to be selected depending on the energy systems 
dominant in the selected sport and should be position-specific. In most cases the type and 
duration of an agility drill is relatively short and very intensive (between 5 and 10 s). This 
might be advisable for some but sports, such as volleyball and American football, where the dominant energy system is the phosphagen system. However, in other team sports where the oxidative system is the main supplier of the energy (e.g., soccer, rugby), the total duration 
of the agility drills can be much longer or the short agility drills can be separated by very 
short rest intervals.
A similar discrepancy has to be envisioned for specific positions in team sports. For instance 
the duration of agility drills for full or central back players in soccer has to be shorter (10 to 15 s), very intense, and to incorporate reaction time and movement time exercises. On the other hand, for midfielders, for whom the dominant energy system is aerobic, the coach has 
to create an agility drill of longer duration, such as 20 to 40 s or longer.
Exercise Order
The exercise order is the sequence in which specific training tasks are performed. When 
prescribing the order of exercises in a speed, speed endurance, or agility session, the coach 
must consider both the management of fatigue and the development of fitness. Because 
sprint and agility training activities impose large metabolic, neuromuscular, and coordina-tive demands, they should be conducted when the athlete has a minimal level of fatigue.
A multitude of factors that can contribute to the generation of fatigue should be consid-
ered when sequencing a training session. The activities are best undertaken after a dynamic 

Periodization316
warm-up that primes that athlete for the training bout and before more fatiguing bouts of 
training are undertaken. It may be advisable to separate the training session into specific 
segments within the daily training plan. For example, the morning session (9:00 a.m.) after 
a recovery day may focus on speed training, and the afternoon session (4:00 p.m.) may target speed endurance or strength training. However, sessions in which maximum speed or 
high-intensity agility is the goal are best performed in the afternoon, especially they follow 
a restful morning.
Ideally, the athletes should be in a state of supercompensation, since maximum speed 
is a determinant quality in speed training. It is also  recommended that speed and agility 
training sessions are best structured with brief work periods separated by frequent rest intervals that last between 3 and 5 min. An effective method for performing this type of activity is the repetition method, which contains very short, high-intensity work bouts performed for low volumes and long rest intervals that maximize recovery and the devel
-
opment of speed and technical proficiency (table 12.1). It is possible to create sessions that target speed and speed endurance, but the coach must take care in ordering the exercises 
in these sessions
.
Intensity
When an athlete is training for speed, speed endurance, or agility, the intensity is often 
quantified in relation to maximum velocity or speed of movement.
Intensitym/s( )=Distancem()
Times()
According to this equation, if an athlete runs 100 m in 12 s, she would have an intensity 
of 8.33 m/s. Additional examples of the calculation of intensity for individual sprints are 
presented in tables 12.2 and 12.3. The coach must consider that short sprints performed at 
high velocities provide a higher-intensity bout of exercise.
When designing the training plan, the coach can establish intensity zones based on 
the athlete’s best times in a prescribed distance (table 12.3). To create the intensity zones, 
the coach can use the following formula to determine the percentage maximum intensity 
(velocity):
Percentage maximum velocity (m/s) = Maximum intensity 3 Percentage
If the athlete ran a maximum 100 m in a time of 1 1 s, his maximum intensity of 90% 
would be represented by the following equation:
90% maximum velocity = 9.1 m/s 3 0.90 = 8.2 m/sDuration of Agility Drills
An agility drill must not be of standard duration (i.e., the same for every athlete). On the con-
trary, agility drills have to be created based on the dominant energy system in the selected sport and should also be position-specific. Therefore the duration and intensity of agility drills is directly dependent on the desired sport-specific adaptation. The same is true for the position an athlete plays.

Speed and Agility Training317
If the training zone were set at 90% to 100% of maximum, the limits for time would be 
calculated with the following equations:
Training time (s) = Distance (m) / Percentage maximum velocity (m/s)
Training time at 90% intensity  = 100 m / 8.2 m/s = 12.2 s
Therefore, in a 4-week macrocycle, the three loading microcycles could progress from 90% 
to 92.5% to 95%, requiring this athlete to run 100 m at 12.2 s, 1 1.9 s, and 1 1.6 s respectively. 
Further examples of the training zones can be found in table 12.3.
Rest Intervals
Manipulation of the interrepetition and interset rest interval can significantly affect the 
physiological stress and performance outcomes of a speed, speed endurance, or agility train -
ing session. Long rest intervals (work/rest = 1:50-1:100) should be used when targeting the development of absolute speed because they allow for a greater replenishment of stored 
phosphagens and allow for the expression of maximal power outputs. When targeting high-in
-
tensity interval endurance, the coach should use shorter rest intervals (work/rest = 1:4-1:24).   TABLE 12.2  Determination of Volume Load and Average Intensity  
 for a Sprint Training Session
Workout 1 Workout 2
Distance (m) Time (s)Intensity 
(m/s)Volume load Distance (m) Time (s)Intensity (m/s)Volume load
200 48 4.17 833.33 400 79 5.06 2,025.32
200 35 5.71 1,142.86 400 89 4.49 1,797.75
200 36 5.56 1,111.11 200 42 4.76 952.38
200 39 5.13 1,025.64 200 40 5.00 1,000.00
Training intensity = 5.14 Training intensity = 4.83
Training session volume load = 4,112.94 Training session volume load = 5,775.45
Note: Volume load is in arbitrary units. Training intensity is the average velocity of the workout. This concept is based on methods 
presented by Plisk (87).
TABLE 12.3 Training Zone Intensities for Sprint Training 
ZonePercentage  maximalVelocity (m/s) Time (s) Intensity
1 >100 >9 <11.0 Maximum
2 95-100 8.6-9 11.6-11.0 High
3 90-95 8.1-8.5 12.2-11.7 Medium-high 
4 85-90 7.6-8 12.8-12.3 Medium
5 80-85 7.1-7.5 13.4-12.9 Low 
Note: Times are based on a best 100 m time of 11 s.

Periodization318
Finally, short rest intervals (work/rest = 1:0.3-1:1) are used when targeting the oxidative 
system (aerobic) (13). A summary of the effect of manipulating rest intervals can be found 
in chapter 1 1 and in tables 1 1.9, 1 1.13, and 1 1.14.
When establishing the work-to-rest ratio, the coach can examine the work-to-rest ratios 
that occur in the sporting event. For example, the work-to-rest ratio in rugby games is between 
1:1-1.9 and 1-1.9:1 (30), whereas American football generally has a work-to-rest ratio of 1:6 
(88) and soccer exhibits a 1:7 to 1:8 work-to-rest ratio (63). By determining these ratios, the 
coach can design the training program to target the metabolic demands of the sport while 
also developing the appropriate speed characteristics required for successful performance.
Training Intensity
The training intensity is associated with the rate of performing work or the rate at which 
energy is expended (100). The higher the training intensity, the higher the rate of performing work, which corresponds to higher energy expenditures. The training intensity during sprint and agility training can be calculated as follows:
Training intensitym/s( )=Training session vol ume load
Total distance covered in training
In table 12.2, an example training series is presented in which an athlete’s volume load 
is 4,1 12.94 and the total distance covered during the training session is 800 m.
Training intensitym/s( )=4,192.94
800=5.14 m /s
Therefore, the training intensity of this session is 5.14 m/s. Note that as the volume load 
increases, there is a general trend for the intensity or velocity of movement to decrease.
Volume
The volume of training represents the amount of work performed in a training session or training phase and is often expressed as the total repetitions of a prescribed workload or task assignment. The most accurate method for determining the volume of workload completed in a training session is the volume load, which is a product of the intensity and distance 
completed per repetition (87).
Volume Load
When looking at the interactive effects of intensity and volume, coaches and athletes must have a quantifiable method for estimating training stress (87). Volume load is an excellent indicator of training stress and is generally calculated as a product of work volume and intensity (87, 100). In the context of sprint or agility training, the volume load of training can be determined 
using running speeds (intensity) and distances covered (87), as in the following formula:
Sprint or agility training volume load = Velocity (m/s) 3 Distance (m)
As with resistance training (see chapter 10), when the intensity (speed) of the session 
decreases, the volume load can be increased. An example calculation of volume load can be found in table 12.2.
When the coach is designing the training plan, it may be warranted to predict the volume 
load fluctuations for sprint training and integrate the volume loads with those established 
for resistance training activities. If done appropriately, the integration of the training loads will allow for a superior management of fatigue while maximizing fitness and preparedness for competition.

Speed and Agility Training319
Periodization of Speed and Agility Training
A key aspect of implementing a speed and agility training plan is ensuring that the training 
factors are integrated to allow the athlete to attain the training goals. Developing a sprint 
program for a track athlete is somewhat easier than developing a plan for a team sport ath-
lete that must include agility, technical skills, and tactics. Please note the periodization of the main biomotor abilities in each annual plan, exemplified below.
Annual Training Plan
Developing a plan for speed and agility training begins with the development of the annual training plan. As noted in chapter 6, key information needed when developing the annual 
plan includes dates of important competitions and the individual preparation, competition, 
and transition phases. The annual training plan will be structured based on the sport’s char-acteristics. For example, a sprinter will typically use a bi-cycle annual training plan, whereas a team sport athlete may not, depending on league requirements.
The annual training plan for an elite sprinter uses a tri-cycle model in which three major 
peaks are planned, whereas a monocycle structure may be warranted for less developed sprinters. In the tri-cycle model presented in figure 12.7, the first peak (for the indoor season) occurs on March 20; the second peak (for the National Trials) is planned for July 7; and the 
final peak (for the Olympics) is planned for August 17.
The dynamics of the annual plan structure for team sports can be vastly different com-
pared with an individual sports athlete, such as a sprinter. The competitive phase is generally 
dictated by the league or conference in which the athlete’s team competes, and it entails 
weekly competitions.
Figure 12.8 is an example of an annual training plan for a collegiate soccer program. 
The annual training plan presented in figure 12.8 has a bi-cycle structure in which major competitive emphasis occurs in competition phase 1. Note that as with traditional annual 
training plans, the year is broken into preparatory, competition, and transition phases.
Macrocycle
In the annual training plan presented for a sprinter in figure 12.7, preparatory phase 1 is substantially longer than preparatory phase 2. Preparatory phase 1 contains two subphases, 
which are classified as general and specific preparation. The general preparation phase 
targets conditioning with an emphasis on anatomical adaptation, or what is also referred to as strength endurance. A secondary emphasis is placed on tempo work, which targets both anaerobic and aerobic development. In the early part of the general preparation work, 
long tempo work or aerobic intervals are completed; in the later stages of the phase, short- 
duration tempo work (anaerobic intervals) is used. As the athlete transitions into the spe-cific preparation subphase, a greater emphasis is placed on the development of maximum 
strength and the use of anaerobic interval work. Anaerobic interval work is then used to 
develop repetitive speed endurance. As the athlete transitions into the competitive phase, the focus shifts to developing maximum speed while increasing power-generating capacity 
and maintaining speed endurance.
The annual training plan can be structured to target aspects of the athlete’s development, 
depending on the phase of training. For example, during the general preparation phase, the primary emphasis is developing strength and general endurance, whereas in the specific 
preparation phase anaerobic endurance as well as short speed endurance is emphasized. When structuring the phases of the annual training plan, the coach must consider the goals of each phase because this will dictate which factors associated with sprinting are targeted. 
For example, in the general preparation phase, aerobic capacity and power development is a 
secondary development emphasis. Selecting extensive tempo work early in the phase would 

320
Date Months Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May June July Aug.
Weekends 
(Sunday)
11
1825
1
8
152229
6
132027
3
10172431
7
142128
6
1320
27
7
14
2128
5
121926
29
162330
7
14
21
28
3
10172431
Competitions International
National
X
X
X
X
X
X
Location
Torun
Glasgow
Birmingham
Portland WIC
Albuquerque
Clovis
Eugene Trials
London DL
Rio OG
Phases Preparatory 1 Competition 1 T Preparatory 2 Competition 2 TCompetition 3 T
Subphases GP SP PC C T SP C T C T
Macrocycles 1 2 3 4 5 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18
Microcycles
1
23
4
56789
101112131415161718192021222324
2526
27282930313233343536373839
4041
424344454647
Periodization 
of biomotor abilitiesStrength
AA MxS MxS P Maintenance Co MxS P-E P-E Maintenance Co Maintenance Co
SpeedUphill sprints 
and  
techniqueAccelerationAcceleration/maximum 
speedMaintenance –Acceleration/maximum speed Maintenance – Maintenance –
Endurance
Ext. tempo Int. tempoSpecial 
enduranceSpecial 
enduranceMaintenance ET Speed endurance Maintenance IT Maintenance ET
FIGURE 12.7 Periodization model for an Olympic-level sprinter.
X = secondary important tournament; T = transition; GP = general preparation; SP = specific preparation; PC = precompetition; C = competition; AA = anatomical adaptation; MxS = maximum strength; P = power; Co = compensation; P-E = power endurance; ET = extensive tempo; IT = intensive tempo.

321Date Months May June July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May
Weekends 
(Sunday)
5
12
1926
29
1623
30
7
14
2128
3
10172431
4
11
1825
2
9
162330
6
132027
4
111825
18
152229
5
121926
5
121926
29
162330
7
Competitions
Phases Preparatory 1 Competition 1 T Preparatory 2 Competition 2 T
Subphases GP SP PC C T GP SP PC C T
Macrocycles 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
Microcycles
1
2345678
9
10
1112131415161718
19
202122
23
242526272829303132333435363738394041424344454647484950515253
54
Periodization 
of biomotor abilitiesStrength
AA MxS P P Maintenance Co MxS MxS P P Maintenance Co
Speed
Linear  
accelerationLinear  
accelerations 
and decelera -
tions/CODCOD/agility Maintenance –Linear accelerations and 
decelerations/CODCOD/agility Maintenance –
Endurance
ET IT Speed endurance short Maintenance ET ITSpeed endurance 
shortMaintenance ET
FIGURE 12.8 Annual training plan for an American university soccer team.
T = transition; GP = general preparation; SP = specific preparation; PC = precompetition; C = competition; AA = anatomical adaptation; MxS = maximum strength; P = power; Co = compensation; COD = change of direction; ET = extensive tempo; IT = intensive tempo.

Periodization322
accomplish this goal. As the athlete progresses through the phase, the distance covered can 
be shortened and intensive tempo work can be used to tap both aerobic and anaerobic 
energy supply. Once the athlete shifts into the specific preparation phase, speed endurance 
activities (e.g., short speed activities) can be selected.
One important factor to consider is that the use of long slow distance (LSD) to develop 
aerobic capacity is detrimental to the development of speed (88). It is best to develop aerobic 
capacity and power or speed endurance by using extensive and intensive tempo methods, 
which may also be termed aerobic and anaerobic intervals (87,88). Recent research sug-gests that these methods result in physiological adaptations that improve speed endurance 
performance (57).
The dynamics of working with team sports creates additional issues at the macrocycle 
level; this is because the training plan must include both technical and tactical activities in 
conjunction with activities that are designed to develop endurance, strength, and sprint and agility capabilities. In the team sport example presented in figure 12.8, preparatory phases 
one and two have an equal length, whereas competition phase one is longer than compe-
tition phase two due to the specifics of the schedule of games. As it happens in most team sports today, preparatory phase one contains a shorter general preparation subphase, with greater emphasis placed on specific preparation. Each subphase is broken into macrocycles of training that have specific emphasis in figure 12.8. For example, in macrocycle one, the 
primary emphasis is placed on anatomical adaptation, linear speed, and aerobic endurance. 
Macrocycle two focuses primarily on maximum strength, linear speed and agility, and aer-obic or anaerobic endurance. Macrocycles three and four focus primarily on power, agility, 
and specific endurance.
Microcycle
Once the characteristics of the macrocycle are established, the individual microcycles 
can be constructed. One of the main factors dictating the construction of the microcycles 
contained in a speed, agility, or speed endurance portion of an annual training plan is the 
management of fatigue (87). The management of fatigue is important because high levels of fatigue can affect the athlete’s ability to effectively perform speed- and agility-based drills with appropriate technique and power output. In fact, it is advisable that the athlete 
perform speed- and agility-based activities under a minimal amount of fatigue to maximize 
technical proficiency, allow for the mastery of skills, and maintain a high power output. This requires that the athlete perform these activities after completing an appropriate 
warm-up that emphasizes a combination of general and specific warm-up activities (50); 
in addition, the coach must incorporate adequate rest between repetitions or sets. It may be warranted to organize the different training components into multiple sessions within the training day (figure 12.9).
Unlike speed and agility training, speed endurance training is designed to increase the 
athlete’s ability to resist and tolerate fatigue. This is accomplished by specifically taxing 
the metabolic systems by manipulating training variables, such as the work-to-rest inter-
val, duration, and intensity of the sprint bout. Increasing the volume of multiple bouts of sprinting can result in very specific metabolic adaptations that can aid in the development of speed endurance.

Speed and Agility Training323
Month Macrocycle Weeks Emphasis Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
May 1 1-3 Strength training ST ST ST ST
Speed and agility SA SA
Speed endurance SE SE
June 2 4-7 Strength training ST ST ST
Speed and agility SA SA
Speed endurance SE SE SE
July 3 8-10 Strength training ST ST ST ST
Speed and agility SA SA
Speed endurance
4
(deload)11-14 Strength training ST ST
August Speed and agility SA
Speed endurance SE
FIGURE 12.9 Microcycle structure for a 14-week sequenced preparation phase of training plan for university or profes-
sional American football.
ST = strength training; SA= speed agility; SE= speed endurance.
Note: On days when multiple activities are scheduled, the activities must be separated so that one factor is addressed in a morning session and 
the other at least 4 h later. If time constraints dictate that both factors must be trained in the same session, the priority item should be addressed 
first. On days when SA and ST occur, the ST generally is performed afterward.
Summary of Major Concepts
The development of speed, agility, and speed endurance is important for the majority of 
sports. It must reflect the physiological characteristics of the selected sport or position, and 
ultimately it must be integrated into the periodized training plan. Long-distance training 
methods will impede the development of both speed and agility and should be avoided when attempting to maximize these performance abilities. Both maximum strength and power are important characteristics, which emphasizes the need for an integrated strength 
training program for athletes who are attempting to maximize speed performance.
Some very specific movement mechanics are essential to maximizing an athlete’s speed 
of movement and facilitate change-of-direction activities. Although speed plays a role in change-of-direction performance, agility activities must also be included in the training 
plan. In several sports, speed is considered a straight-line running activity (as with track or wide receivers in American football). In other sports (e.g., racquet sports), quickness or swift movement is, in fact, agility. Many athletes spend large amounts of time performing 
straight-line training tasks, but it may be warranted to use more change-of-direction tasks 
that emphasize acceleration, deceleration, changes in direction, and reacceleration activities. It also may be warranted to include the implements used in competition (e.g., a soccer ball 
or basketball).

This page intentionally left blank

325Glossary
absolute density—The ratio between the effective 
work an athlete performs and the absolute volume 
(duration) of the training session.
absolute strength—The amount of force that can be 
generated regardless of body size.
absolute volume—The total volume or duration of 
the work that the individual performs in a session, including rest intervals.
acceleration—The ability to increase movement 
velocity in a minimum amount of time.
acidosis—A condition in which an accumulation of 
H
+ increases muscles acidity.
acyclic combined skills—Cyclic skills followed by 
an acyclic skill.
acyclic skills—Integral functions performed in one 
action.
adenosine diphosphate (ADP)—A high-energy 
phosphate compound that can be used to form ATP.
adenosine triphosphate (ATP)—A high-energy 
phosphate compound that allows for the release of energy when its phosphate bounds are broken.
aerobic intervals—Intervals that are designed to 
stress the aerobic system and are also referred to as pace-tempo training. Aerobic intervals can be per-formed in a continuous or intermittent fashion.
aerobic power—Maximum rate of ATP production 
via the aerobic energy system.
agility—Ability to rapidly change direction and accel-
erate or decelerate in response to an external cue.
anabolic—An environment in which building of 
tissue can occur.
anaerobic intervals—A form of interval training 
in which very high-intensity bouts are retentively performed for short periods of time, with periods of rest interspersed between efforts.
anaerobic threshold—The intensity of exercise at 
which the body cannot meet its energy demand with aerobic means; the point at which lactate produc-tion outweighs buffering capacities.
annual training plan—A long-term training plan 
that typically lasts for 1 year.
arteriovenous oxygen difference (a-
V.
  
O2 differ-
ence)—The oxygen difference between the arterial and mixed venous blood. This reflects the amount of oxygen used by the tissue.asynchronous—Asynchronous motor unit firing oc-
curs as a result of one motor unit deactivating while another activates.
athletic shape--See readiness.
bi-cycle plan—An annual training plan with two 
major peaks.
bioenergetics—The process by which the body con-
verts foods such as carbohydrates, proteins, and fats 
into a biologically useable form of energy.
bioenergetic specificity—Training the specific 
bioenergetic characteristics of a specified sport or activity.
biological age—An indication of age based upon 
sexual maturation.
biomotor abilities—Abilities whereby the body can 
perform a range of activities, such as strength, speed, and endurance. Biomotor abilities are influenced by training and may be genetically determined.
block—A period of training that usually last 4 weeks 
and is sometimes referred to as a mesocycle.
block training—A sequential approach to structur-
ing training in which individual blocks of training (which contain a distinct focus) are linked together.
bodybuilding—A sport in which muscle size, defini-
tion, and symmetry determine the winner.
buffer—The difference between the percentage of 
1RM necessary to go to failure with the number of repetitions performed in a set, and the percentage of 1RM actually used for that number of repetitions.
capillarization—An increase in the capillary net-
works that bring oxygen and nutrients to the tissues of the body.
carbohydrate—A compound composed of carbon, 
hydrogen, and oxygen.
cardiac output (Q)—The volume of blood pumped 
by the heart per minute. Calculated as stroke volume multiplied by heart rate.
chronological age—The age of the individual.
cluster set—A series of repetitions interspersed with 
a short rest interval.
complexity—Degree of sophistication and biome-
chanical difficulty of a skill.
concentrated loading—A short-term period in 
which training loads are increased dramatically.

Glossary326
conjugated sequence—A method of sequencing 
training to take advantage of training residuals de-
veloped with periods of concentrated loading; also 
called the coupled successive system.
cortisol—A corticosteroid hormone released from 
the adrenal cortex that stimulates the catabolism 
of proteins, the sparing of glucose utilization, an 
increase in gluconeogenesis, and an increase in free 
fatty acid mobilization.
creatine phosphokinase (CPK)—An enzyme 
contained in the phosphagen system that adds a 
phosphate to taken from phosphocreatine to and 
adenosine diphosphate to create ATP.
cross-bridges—Projections around the myosin fila-
ment that latch onto the binding site on actin.
cross-over concept--Lower-intensity exercise receives 
its ATP primarily from the oxidation of fat and some carbohydrates.
cyclic skills—Sporting activities that contain repeti-
tive movements of the same motor skill.
degree of training—See preparedness.
delayed-onset muscle soreness (DOMS)—Muscle 
soreness or pain that occurs 24 to 48 hr after a heavy 
bout of exercise.
density of training—The frequency at which an 
athlete performs a series of repetitions of work per 
unit of time.
detraining—Reversal of the adaptations stimulated 
by training. The effects of detraining can occur very 
rapidly when workloads are significantly reduced.
detraining syndrome—A syndrome that occurs 
when training is intentionally or unintentionally stopped and results in several maladaptations in-
cluding insomnia, anxiety, depression, and alter-
ations to the cardiovascular system; also known as 
relaxation syndrome, exercise abstinence, or exercise 
dependency syndrome.
differentiation—The process of dissecting skill into 
subunits and determining where errors are.
discharge rate—The average number of action po-
tentials per unit of time.
enzyme—A protein compound that speeds a chemi-
cal reaction.
ergogenesis—Literally translated as “energy cre-
ation,” it indicates the dominant energy systems of an activity.
excess postexercise oxygen consumption 
(EPOC)—The oxygen debt; an oxygen consumption that is elevated above resting after exercise.
exhaustion—Training to the point of momentary 
muscular failure.
fartlek—The Swedish word for “speed play;” a classic 
method for developing endurance.
fast glycolysis—One of the two ways in which glycolysis proceeds. Fast glycolysis results in the 
formation of lactic acid from the breakdown of 
glucose and has a faster rate of energy supply when 
compared to slow glycolysis.
fatigue—A general sense of tiredness that is often ac-
companied by a decrease in muscular performance.
fitness–fatigue relationship—The relationship 
between fitness and fatigue and how they modulate 
athlete preparedness. This concept is a major factor 
associated with periodization.
flexibility—The range of motion of a joint or set 
of joints, dependent on the length of the muscles crossing the joints.
force–velocity curve—A graphic representation of 
the relationship between force and velocity.
frequency of training—The number of training 
sessions within a given time frame.
general adaptation syndrome (GAS)—A syndrome 
conceptualized by Hans Selye that explains the 
body’s response to stressors, including physiological 
and psychological stress. The GAS is often cited as 
being a foundational component of periodization 
theory.
general strength—The strength of the whole muscu-
lar system.
glucose—The most common mechanism for trans-
porting carbohydrates in the body; primarily broken 
down by the glycolytic energy system.
glucose transporter-4 (GLUT4)—A contraction-sen-
sitive glucose transport protein that aids in the 
uptake of glucose by working skeletal muscle.
glycogen—A storage form of carbohydrate that is 
found in the skeletal muscle and liver.
glycolytic system—The energy system that provides 
energy via the breakdown of glucose; also known as glycolysis. It generally supplies energy for higher-in-
tensity activities lasting 20 s to 2 min.
Golgi tendon organ—A sensory receptor that moni-
tors tension and is located in the muscle tendon.
growth hormone—An anabolic hormone that can 
enhance cellular amino acid uptake and stimulate 
protein synthesis; also known as somatotropin.
hemoglobin (Hb)—The iron-containing compound 
in blood that binds oxygen.
Henneman size principle—A principle which 
suggests that the size of the motor unit dictates its 
activation.
high-intensity exercise endurance (HIEE)—A type 
of endurance that requires the athlete to sustain 
or repeat high-intensity or high-power movements 
with exercise durations lasting 2 min or less.
hypertrophy—Index indicating the systemic impact 
of a training session.
index of overall demand (IOD)—Index indicating 
the systematic impact of a training session.

Glossary327
inflammation—A local cellular response that is 
marked by leukocytic infiltration, pain, swelling, 
and often loss of function.
insulin—An anabolic hormone that facilitates the 
uptake of glucose and can stimulate protein synthe-
sis.
integration—A process of constructing whole skills.
intensity—The qualitative element of training such 
as speed, maximum strength, and power. In strength 
training, intensity is often expressed in load related 
to the 1RM.
interexercise recovery—The form of recovery that 
occurs during the exercise bout and relates to the bioenergetics of the activity being performed.
intermuscular coordination—The strategy of the 
nervous system in the organization of a kinetic 
chain, in terms of timing of activation and deactiva-
tion of agonist and antagonist muscles.
interval training—The repeated performance of 
short to long bouts of exercise usually performed at 
or above the lactate threshold interspersed with peri-
ods of rest or low-intensity exercise.
intramuscular coordination—The strategy of the 
nervous system in the recruitment of a muscle group.
involution—Also known as a decay or detraining.
lactate—A salt formed from lactic acid. Lactate is not 
believed to be associated with fatigue but can be 
used to create energy.
lactate dehydrogenase—An enzyme contained in 
the glycolytic energy system that converts pyruvate 
to lactate.
lactate threshold (LT)—The point at which lactate 
formation begins to abruptly increase above base-
line.
lactic acid—The end product of the fast glycolytic 
system that is often associated with fatigue because it can inhibit calcium binding to troponin or inter-
fere with cross-bridge formation.
line of pull—Median direction of contraction of the 
main muscles involved in the technical skill.
long slow distance (LSD)—Endurance training that 
can be classified as conversational exercise, where 
the athlete can carry on a conversation without respiratory stress.
low-intensity exercise endurance (LIEE)—A form 
of endurance that relates to the ability to continu-
ously perform work for a long duration of time.
macrocycle—A medium-term training cycle that lasts 
between 2 and 6 weeks.
maximal aerobic capacity—The maximal capac-
ity for oxygen consumption; also known as the 
V.
  O
2max, maximal oxygen uptake, or maximal 
aerobic power.
maximal lactate steady state—A balance between 
lactate production and lactate buffering.maximum strength—The highest force that the neu-
romuscular system can generate during a maximal 
voluntary contraction.
metabolism—The sum of the anabolic and catabolic 
reactions occurring in the body.
metric ton—A tonne, which is equivalent to 1,000 
kg.
microcycle—A short training cycle that lasts 3 to 7 
days.
mitochondria—Specialized cell organelles in which 
oxidative production of ATP occurs.
monocycle—An annual training plan with one major 
peak.
monotonous program overtraining—A form of 
overtraining that occurs in response to a lack of training variation and results in a reduction or stag-
nation of performance gains.
motor unit—The motor nerve and all of the muscle 
fibers it innervates.
movement time—The athlete’s ability to quickly 
move a limb in the desired direction.
multipeak plan—An annual plan with multiple 
competition phases.
muscle endurance—The ability of the neuromuscu-
lar system to produce force in a repetitive manner.
myoglobin—A compound found in muscle that 
carries oxygen from the cell membrane to the mito-chondria.
myokinase (MK)—An enzyme of the phosphagen 
system that takes a phosphate from an adenosine 
diphosphate and adds the phosphate and adenosine 
diphosphate to make adenosine triphosphate.
myosin heavy chain (MHC)—MHC consists primar-
ily of the head of the cross-bridge and is typically associated with the fiber type of the muscle.
nonprogressive taper—A taper that is marked 
by standardized reductions in training load; also 
known as a step taper.
onset of blood lactate accumulation (OBLA)—
Point at which the blood lactate concentration 
reaches 4 mmol/L.
overreaching—A short-term period during which the 
athlete intentionally overtrains.
overtraining—A long-term decrement in perfor-
mance that occurs in response to accumulation of training and non-training stressors.
oxidative metabolism—The metabolism that occurs 
during the aerobic (oxidative) energy system.
oxidative system—The primary source of ATP at rest 
and during low-intensity exercise, also known as the aerobic system. The system is active in the mito-
chondria and requires oxygen to make energy.
oxygen deficit—The anaerobic contribution to the 
total energy cost of an exercise.

Glossary328
peaking—An athlete’s high physiological and 
psychological state of competitiveness prior to an 
important competition, characterized by no residual 
fatigue and maximum adaptations to the previous 
training phases.
peaking curve—The line depicting the dynamic of 
the athlete’s athletic shape throughout the annual 
plan.
performance oxygen uptake—The highest value of 
oxygen consumption during the performance of an 
exercise without the accumulation of lactate.
periodization—The logical and systematic sequenc-
ing of training factors in an integrative fashion in order to optimize specific training outcomes at 
pre-determined time points.
phosphagen system (ATP-PC)—An anaerobic ener-
gy system that primarily provides energy for short-
term, high-intensity activities and contains three major enzymatic reactions including the ATPase, 
creatine kinase, and myokinase reactions.
phosphocreatine (PCr)—A component of the ATP-
PC system that provides energy for muscle actions by maintaining ATP stores.
phosphofructokinase (PFK)—The rate-limiting 
enzyme of the glycolytic system.
phosphorylase (PHOS)—The enzyme responsible 
for stimulating muscle glycogen breakdown. 
postactivation potentiation complex—Performing 
a heavy or an explosive exercise to excite the neuro-
muscular system before jumping or sprinting, thus 
obtaining a short-term performance improvement.
postexercise recovery—A form of recovery that 
occurs after the cessation of exercise.
power—The quick application of force against resis-
tance. This unit of work is expressed per unit of time (i.e., power = work/time) and is often considered a 
factor of intensity. It may also be calculated by mul-
tiplying force 3 displacement.
power clean—A weightlifting movement in which 
the barbell is lifted from the ground to the shoul-
ders in one movement.
power snatch—A weightlifting movement in which 
the barbell is lifted from the ground to a position an 
arms-length over the head in one movement.
preparedness—The stable component of the ath-
lete’s athletic shape, representing his physical prepa-ration, as well as the acquisition of skills and tactical 
maneuvers. For this reason, it is the foundation on 
which to base other training states.
prime movers—The muscles that contract to perform 
the technical skills.
progressive overloading—A progressive increase 
in the training load (i.e., intensity, volume) above a normal magnitude.progressive taper—A systematic reduction in train-
ing load.
proteins—Combinations of linked amino acids, all 
of which contain nitrogen.
pulmonary system—A series of structures that work 
together to ventilate the body.
quadrennial plan—A 4-year training plan, typical-
ly used with high school, collegiate, and Olympic 
athletes.
rate coding—The firing rate of a motor unit.
rate of force development (RFD)—The rate at 
which force is developed; it is calculated by dividing 
the change in force by the change in time.
reactive agility—Agility training where reactive exer-
cises predominate.
readiness—The ability of the athlete to display his 
preparation level in the specific performance.
recovery—Process of returning to preexercise state.
recruited—Activated.
relative density—The percentage of work volume the 
athlete performs compared with total volume in the 
training session.
relative strength—The ratio between the athlete’s 
maximum strength and his body weight or lean 
body mass.
repetitions—The number of work intervals within a 
set.
repetition maximum (RM)—The heaviest weight 
that can be lifted for a predetermined number of repetitions. A 1RM is the heaviest weight that can 
be lifted one time, whereas a 10RM is the heaviest 
weight that can be lifted 10 times.
repetition method—A higher intensity, longer rest 
interval type of interval training.
sarcoplasmic reticulum—An extensive, lattice-like, 
longitudinal network of tubules and structures that 
store Ca
2+.
sequenced training—See block training.
set—The total number of repetitions an athlete per-
forms before taking a rest.
short ton—The unit that equals 1,102.3 kg.
slow glycolysis—One of the two ways in which 
glycolysis proceeds. Slow glycolysis results in the for-
mation of pyruvate from the breakdown of glucose 
and proceeds with a rate slower than fast glycolysis.
specific strength—The strength that is related to the 
movement patterns of a specific sport.
speed—The ability to cover a distance in the fastest 
time possible.
speed-endurance—The ability to maintain speed or 
repetitively express high speeds of movements.
speed-strength—The ability to develop force rapidly 
and at high velocities.

Glossary329
stability (of training stimuli)—The body needs a 
certain number of exposures to a training stimulus 
for an adaptation to be induced; the repetitiveness 
of the training stimulus defines its stability.
step taper—See nonprogressive taper.
strength—The maximal force or torque a muscle or 
muscle group can generate.
stretch reflex—The contraction of a muscle in 
response to a stretch; also known as the myototic 
reflex.
stretch shortening cycle (SSC)—A combination of 
eccentric and concentric muscle actions.
stroke volume (SV)—The amount of blood ejected 
from the left ventricle during contraction.
supercompensation—See general adaptation syn-
drome (GAS).
sympathetic nervous system—The part of the 
automatic nervous system that affects, among other things, the cardiovascular system. This system re-
leases norepinephrine from its postganglionic nerve 
endings.
synchronization—The simultaneous activation of 
numerous motor units.
taper—An unloading phase of training prior to a 
major competition that generally lasts between 8 
and 14 days.
testosterone—The predominant male sex hormone, 
which is produced in the testes in men and the 
adrenal cortex and ovaries in women. Testosterone is often used as an index of anabolism or the anabolic 
status of the body.
testosterone/cortisol ratio (T:C ratio)—An indica-
tor of the anabolic-to-catabolic balance.
Tmax—The duration at which maximal velocity or 
power can be maintained during an endurance bout.
tonnage—A method for quantifying volume in re-
sistance training; it is calculated by multiplying the 
number of repetitions performed by the number of 
sets and the resistance in kilograms used.
tonne—See metric ton.
torque—The rotational force a muscle or muscle 
group can generate.total training demand—A summation of all the 
training factors contained in the plan.
training—A structured exercise program that is 
designed to develop specific performance character-
istics related to sports performance.
training age—The number of years an individual has 
been training.
training effect—A physiological, performance, or 
psychological response to a training program.
training intensity—The intensity determined by 
dividing the total volume load by the total number of repetitions.
training log—A document used to record training 
information.
tri-cycle plan—An annual training plan that contains 
three major peaks.
type I muscle fiber—Fibers that have a low 
force-generating capacity; also known as slow-twitch 
fibers. These fibers tend to be smaller, have higher 
concentrations of oxidative enzymes, and be more 
fatigue resistant than type II fibers.
type II muscle fiber—Fibers that have a high 
force-generating capacity; also known as fast-twitch 
fibers. These fibers tend to be larger, have higher 
concentrations of anaerobic enzymes, and be more 
fatigue sensitive than type I fibers.
V.
  O
2max—See maximal aerobic capacity.
variability—Changes or variations in training vol-
ume, intensity (load), and frequency in order to 
stimulate an athlete’s improvement.
velocity—The speed of movement of the body or an 
object.
volume—A quantitative element of training that 
can be measured as time or duration of training, 
the distance covered, the volume load of resistance 
training, or the number of repetitions performed.
volume load—A method for quantifying volume 
in speed and agility training; it is calculated by the intensity and distance completed per repetition.
work—This unit is calculated by multiplying force by 
displacement.

This page intentionally left blank

331References
Chapter 1
1.ABERNETHY , P.J., J. JURIMAE, P.A. LOGAN, A.W.
TAYLOR, and R.E. THAYER. Acute and chronic
response of skeletal muscle to resistance exer-cise. Sports Med 17:22-38, 1994.
2.ABERNETHY
, P.J., R. THAYER, and A.W. TAYLOR.
Acute and chronic responses of skeletal muscleto endurance and sprint exercise: a review.  Sports
Med 10:365-389, 1990.
3.AHTIAINEN, J.P
., A. PAKARINEN, W.J. KRAE-
MER, and K. HÄKKINEN. Acute hormonal andneuromuscular responses and recovery to forcedvs maximum repetitions multiple resistance exer-cises. Int J Sports Med 24:410-418, 2003.
4.Alpine Canada Alpin. 
Physiological Profile of Skiing
Events. Alpine Canada News Letter 32, Calgary,Alberta, Canada, 1990.
5.B
AAR, K. Training for endurance and strength:
lessons from cell signaling.  Med Sci Sports Exerc
38:1939-1944, 2006.
6.B
ALOG, E.M., B.R. FRUEN, P.K. KANE, and C.F.
LOUIS. Mechanisms of P(i) regulation of theskeletal muscle SR Ca(2+) release channel.  Am J
Physiol Cell Physiol 278:C601-61 1, 2000.
7.B
ANGSBO, J. The physiology of soccer—with
special reference to intense intermittent exer-cise. Acta Physiol Scand Suppl 619:1-155, 1994.
8.BISHOP, D., and M. SPENCER. Determinants ofrepeated-sprint ability in well-trained team-sportathletes and endurance-trained athletes
. J Sports
Med Phys Fitness 44:1-7, 2004.
9.BOND
ARCHUK, A.P. Constructing a Training
System. Track Tech. 102:254-269, 1988.
1
0.BR
OOKS, G.A., T.D. FAHEY, T.P. WHITE, and
K.M. BALDWIN. Exercise Physiology: Human Bio-energetics and Its Application. 3rd ed. MountainView, CA: Mayfield, 2000.
1
1.BURGOMASTER, K.A., G.J. HEIGENHAUSER,and M.J. GIB
ALA. Effect of short-term sprint in-
terval training on human skeletal muscle carbo-hydrate metabolism during exercise and time-tri-al performance.  J Appl Physiol 100:2041-2047,
2006.
12.BURKE, L.M. Nutrition for post-exercise reco
v-
ery. Aus J Sci Med Sport 29:3-10, 1996.13.BURKE, L., and V. DEAKIN. Clinical Sports Nutri -
tion. Roseville, Australia: McGraw-Hill A ustralia,
2
000.
14.BURLESON, M.A., Jr ., H.S. O’BRYANT, M.H.
STONE, M.A. COLLINS, and T. TRIPLETT-MC-BRIDE. Effect of weight training exercise andtreadmill exercise on post- exercise oxygen con-sumption.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 30:518-522, 1998.
15.CAREY
, D.G., M.M. DRAKE, G.J. PLIEGO, and
R.L. RAYMOND. Do hockey players need aerobicfitness? Relation between VO2max and fatigueduring high-intensity intermittent ice skating.  J
Strength Cond Res 21:963-966, 2007.
16.CERRETELLI, P
., G. AMBROSOLI, and M. FUM-
AGALLI. Anaerobic recovery in man.  Eur J Appl
Physiol Occup Physiol 34:141-148, 1975.
17.CHESLEY, A., J.D. MACDOUGALL, M.A. TARNOP -
OLSKY, S.A. A TKINSON, and K. SMITH. Changes
in human muscle protein s
ynthesis after resistance 
exercise. J Appl Physiol 73:1383-1388, 1992.
18.CLOSE, G.L., T . ASHTON, A. MCARDLE, and
D.P. MACLAREN. The emerging role of free rad-icals in delayed onset muscle soreness and con-traction-induced muscle injury.  Comp Biochem
Physiol 142:257-266, 2005.
19.COFFEY
, V.G., and J.A. HAWLEY. The molecular
bases of training adaptation.  Sports Med 37:737-
763, 2007.
2
0.CONLEY, M. Bioenergetics of exercise training.In: Essentials of 
Strength Training and Conditioning.
T.R. Baechle and R.W. Earle, eds. Champaign, IL:Human Kinetics, 2000, pp. 73-90.
2
1.COOKE, S.R., S.R. PETERSEN, and H.A. QUIN
-
NEY. The influence of maximal aerobic power onrecovery of skeletal muscle following anaerobicexercise.  Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 75:512-
519, 1997.
 
22a.
 COOPER, 
K.H. Aerobics. New York, NY: Bantam 
Books, 1968.
22b.
 COOPER, K.H. 
The New Aerobics. New York, NY: 
M. Evans and Company, 1970.
23.COSTILL, D.L., P
.D. GOLLNICK, E.D. JANSSON,
B. SALTIN, and E.M. STEIN. Glycogen depletionpattern in human muscle fibres during distancerunning. Acta Physiol Scand 89:374-383, 1973.

References332
 24. COSTILL, D.L., and J.M. MILLER. Nutrition for 
endurance sport: carbohydrate and fluid bal-
ance. Int J Sports Med 1:2-14, 1980.
 25. COSTILL, D.L., D.D. PASCOE, W.J. FINK, R.A. 
ROBERGS, S.I. BARR, and D. PEARSON. Im-
paired muscle glycogen resynthesis after eccentric 
exercise. J Appl Physiol 69:46-50, 1990.
 26. COSTILL, D.L., W.M. SHERMAN, W.J. FINK, C. MARESH, M. WITTEN, and J.M. MILLER. The role of dietary carbohydrates in muscle glycogen 
resynthesis after strenuous running.  Am J Clin 
Nutr 34:1831-1836, 1981.
 27. COYLE, E.F. Physical activity as a metabolic 
stressor. Am J Clin Nutr 72:512S-520S, 2000.
 28. COYLE, E.F. Substrate utilization during exercise 
in active people.  Am J Clin Nutr 61:968S-979S, 
1995.
 29. COYLE, E.F. Timing and method of increased carbohydrate intake to cope with heavy train-
ing, competition and recovery.  J Sports Sci 9(Spec 
No):29-51, discussion 51-22, 1991.
 30. DAHLSTEDT, A.J., A. KATZ, B. WIERINGA, and H. WESTERBLAD. Is creatine kinase responsible 
for fatigue? Studies of isolated skeletal muscle 
deficient in creatine kinase.  FASEB J 14:982-990, 
2000.
 31. DAL MONTE, A. The functional values of sport. Fi-rente: Sansoni, 1983.
 32. DAVIS, J.M. Central and peripheral factors in fa-tigue. J Sports Sci 13(Spec No):S49-S53, 1995.
 33. DAVIS, J.M., Z. ZHAO, H.S. STOCK, K.A. MEHL, J. 
BUGGY, and G.A. HAND. Central nervous system 
effects of caffeine and adenosine on fatigue.  Am J 
Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol 284:R399-R404, 2003.
 34. DI PRAMPERO, P.E., L. PEETERS, and R. MAR -
GARIA. Alactic O 2 debt and lactic acid produc-tion after exhausting exercise in man.  J Appl Physi-
ol 34:628-632, 1973.
 35. DUMKE, C.L., D.W. BROCK, B.H. HELMS, and G.G. HAFF. Heart rate at lactate threshold and cy-
cling time trials.  J Strength Cond Res 20:601-607, 
2006.
 36. DUNLAVY, J.K., W.A. SANDS, J.R. MCNEAL, 
M.H. STONE, S.A. SMITH, M. JEMNI, and G.G. 
HAFF. Strength performance assessment in a sim-
ulated men’s gymnastics still rings cross.  J. Sports. 
Sci. Medicine 6:93-97, 2007.
 37. EDGE, J., D. BISHOP, C. GOODMAN, and B. DAWSON. Effects of high- and moderate-in-
tensity training on metabolism and repeated 
sprints.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 37:1975-1982, 2005.
 38. ENDEMANN, F. Teaching Throwing Events. In: 
The Throws: Contemporary Theory, Technique, and 
Training. J. Jarver, ed. Mountain View, CA: Taf-
news Press, 2000. pp. 1 1-14.
 39. ESFARJANI, F., and P.B. LAURSEN. Manipulating 
high-intensity interval training: effects on VO
2max, the lactate threshold and 3000 m running per-formance in moderately trained males.  J Sci Med 
Sport 10:27-35, 2007.
 40. FEBBRAIO, M.A., and J. DANCEY. Skeletal mus-cle energy metabolism during prolonged, fatigu-
ing exercise. J Appl Physiol 87:2341-2347, 1999.
 41. FRY, A.C. The role of training intensity in resis-
tance exercise overtraining and overreaching. In: 
Overtraining in Sport. R.B. Kreider, A.C. Fry, and 
M.L. O’Toole, eds. Champaign, IL: Human Kinet-
ics, 1998, pp. 107-127.
 42. FRY, A.C., and W.J. KRAEMER. Resistance exercise 
overtraining and overreaching: neuroendocrine 
responses. Sports Med 23:106-129, 1997.
 43. FRY, A.C., W.J. KRAEMER, M.H. STONE, B.J. 
WARREN, S.J. FLECK, J.T. KEARNEY, and S.E. 
GORDON. Endocrine responses to overreaching 
before and after 1 year of weightlifting.  Can J Appl 
Physiol 19:400-410, 1994.
 44. FRY, A.C., W.J. KRAEMER, F. VAN BORSELEN, J.M. LYNCH, J.L. MARSIT, E.P. ROY, N.T. TRIPLETT, 
and H.G. KNUTTGEN. Performance decrements 
with high-intensity resistance exercise overtrain-
ing. Med Sci Sports Exerc 26:1 165-1 173, 1994.
 45. FRY, A.C., B.K. SCHILLING, L.W. WEISS, and 
L.Z. CHIU. Beta2-Adrenergic receptor down-
regulation and performance decrements during 
high-intensity resistance exercise overtraining.  J 
Appl Physiol 101:1664-1672, 2006.
 46. GALLIVEN, E.A., A. SINGH, D. MICHELSON, S. BINA, P.W. GOLD, and P.A. DEUSTER. Hormon-
al and metabolic responses to exercise across 
time of day and menstrual cycle phase.  J Appl 
Physiol 83:1822-1831, 1997.
 47. GARCIA-LOPEZ, D., J.A. DE PAZ, R. JIMENEZ-JIMENEZ, G. BRESCIANI, F. DE SOUZA-TEIXEI-
RA, J.A. HERRERO, I. ALVEAR-ORDENES, and J. 
GONZALEZ-GALLEGO. Early explosive force re-
duction associated with exercise-induced muscle 
damage. J Physiol Biochem 62:163-169, 2006.
 48. GARRANDES, F., S.S. COLSON, M. PENSINI, and 
P. LEGROS. Time course of mechanical and neu-
romuscular characteristics of cyclists and triath-
letes during a fatiguing exercise.  Int J Sports Med 
28:148-156, 2007.
 49. GARRANDES, F., S.S. COLSON, M. PENSINI, O. SEYNNES, and P. LEGROS. Neuromuscular 
fatigue profile in endurance-trained and pow-
er-trained athletes.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 39:149-
158, 2007.
 50. GILLAM, G.M. Effects of frequency of weight training on muscle strength enhancement.  J 
Sports Med 21:432-436, 1981.
 51. GOLLNICK, P.D., R.B. ARMSTRONG, B. SALTIN, C.W.T. SAUBERT, W.L. SEMBROWICH, and R.E. 
SHEPHERD. Effect of training on enzyme activity 
and fiber composition of human skeletal mus-
cle. J Appl Physiol 34:107-1 1 1, 1973.

References333
 52. GOTO, K., M. HIGASHIYAMA, N. ISHII, and K. 
TAKAMATSU. Prior endurance exercise attenu-
ates growth hormone response to subsequent 
resistance exercise.  Eur J Appl Physiol 94:333-338, 
2005.
 53. GRANTIN, K. Contributions regarding the sys-tematization of physical exercises.  Theory and 
Practice of Physical Culture 9:27-37, 1940.
 54. GUEZENNEC, Y., L. LEGER, F. LHOSTE, M. AYMONOD, and P.C. PESQUIES. Hormone and 
metabolite response to weight-lifting training 
sessions. Int J Sports Med 7:100-105, 1986.
 55. HAFF, G.G., A.J. KOCH, J.A. POTTEIGER, K.E. KUPHAL, L.M. MAGEE, S.B. GREEN, and J.J. JA -
KICIC. Carbohydrate supplementation attenu-
ates muscle glycogen loss during acute bouts of 
resistance exercise.  Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab 
10:326-339, 2000.
 56. HAFF, G.G., M.J. LEHMKUHL, L.B. MCCOY, 
and M.H. STONE. Carbohydrate supplementa-
tion and resistance training.  J Strength Cond Res 
17:187-196, 2003.
 57. HAFF, G.G., and A. WHITLEY. Low-carbohy-drate diets and high-intensity anaerobic exer-
cise. Strength Cond 24:42-53, 2002.
 58. HALSON, S.L., M.W. BRIDGE, R. MEEUSEN, B. 
BUSSCHAERT, M. GLEESON, D.A. JONES, and 
A.E. JEUKENDRUP. Time course of performance 
changes and fatigue markers during intensified 
training in trained cyclists.  J Appl Physiol 93:947-
956, 2002.
 59. HARRE, D. Principles of sports training. Berlin, Ger-many: Democratic Republic: Sportverlag, 1982.
 60. HARRIS, R.C., R.H. EDWARDS, E. HULTMAN, 
L.O. NORDESJO, B. NYLIND, and K. SAHLIN. 
The time course of phosphorylcreatine resynthe-
sis during recovery of the quadriceps muscle in 
man. Pflugers Arch 367:137-142, 1976.
 61. HEIDT, R.S., JR., L.M. SWEETERMAN, R.L. CAR -
LONAS, J.A. TRAUB, and F.X. TEKULVE. Avoid-ance of soccer injuries with preseason condition-
ing. Am J Sports Med 28:659-662, 2000.
 62. HEPBURN, D., and R.J. MAUGHAN. Glycogen 
availability as a limiting factor in performance of 
isometric exercise. J Physiol 342:52P-53P, 1982.
 63. HERMANSEN, L., and I. STENSVOLD. Produc-
tion and removal of lactate during exercise in 
man. Acta Physiol Scand 86:191-201, 1972.
 64. HIRVONEN, J., S. REHUNEN, H. RUSKO, and 
M. HARKONEN. Breakdown of high-energy 
phosphate compounds and lactate accumulation 
during short supramaximal exercise.  Eur J Appl 
Physiol 56:253-259, 1987.
 65. HULTMAN, E., J. BERGSTROM, and N.M. AN-DERSON. Breakdown and resynthesis of phos-
phorylcreatine and adenosine triphosphate in 
connection with muscular work in man.  Scand J 
Clin Lab Invest 19:56-66, 1967. 66. HULTMAN, E., and H. SJØHOLM. Biochemical 
causes of fatigue. In: Human Muscle Power. N.L. 
Jones, ed. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 1986, 
pp. 343-363.
 67. 
IMPELLIZZERI, F., A. SASSI, M. RODRI -
GUEZ-ALONSO, P. MOGNONI, and S. MARCO -
RA. Exercise intensity during off-road cycling com -
petitions.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 34:1808-1813, 2002.
 68. IVY, J.L., A.L. KATZ, C.L. CUTLER, W.M. SHER -
MAN, and E.F. COYLE. Muscle glycogen synthe-
sis after exercise: effect of time of carbohydrate 
ingestion. J Appl Physiol 64:1480-1485, 1988.
 69. IZQUIERDO, M., J. IBANEZ, J.J. GONZALEZ-BA -
DILLO, K. HÄKKINEN, N.A. RATAMESS, W.J. KRAEMER, D.N. FRENCH, J. ESLAVA, A. ALTA -
DILL, X. ASIAIN, and E.M. GOROSTIAGA. Differ-ential effects of strength training leading to fail-
ure versus not to failure on hormonal responses, strength, and muscle power gains.  J Appl Physiol 
100:1647-1656, 2006.
 70. JACOBS, I. Lactate, muscle glycogen and exercise performance in man.  Acta Physiol Scand Suppl 
495:1-35, 1981.
 71. JAMURTAS, A.Z., Y. KOUTEDAKIS, V. PASCHA -
LIS, T. TOFAS, C. YFANTI, A. TSIOKANOS, G. 
KOUKOULIS, D. KOURETAS, and D. LOUPOS. 
The effects of a single bout of exercise on resting 
energy expenditure and respiratory exchange ra-
tio. Eur J Appl Physiol 92:393-398, 2004.
 72. KARLSSON, J. Lactate in working muscles after 
prolonged exercise.  Acta Physiol Scand 82:123-
130, 1971.
 73. KARLSSON, J., L.O. NORDESJÖ, L. JORFELDT, and B. SALTIN. Muscle lactate, ATP, and CP levels 
during exercise after physical training in man.  J 
Appl Physiol 33:199-203, 1972.
 74. 
KARLSSON, J., and B. OLLANDER. Muscle metab -
olites with exhaustive static exercise of different 
duration. Acta Physiol Scand 86:309-314, 1972.
 75. KJAER, M., B. KIENS, M. HARGREAVES, and E.A. RICHTER. Influence of active muscle mass on 
glucose homeostasis during exercise in humans.  J 
Appl Physiol 71:552-557, 1991.
 76. KRAEMER, W.J., B.J. NOBLE, M.J. CLARK, and 
B.W. CULVER. Physiologic responses to heavy-re-sistance exercise with very short rest periods.  Int J 
Sports Med 8:247-252, 1987.
 77. LAFORGIA, J., R.T. WITHERS, and C.J. GORE. Effects of exercise intensity and duration on the 
excess post-exercise oxygen consumption.  J Sports 
Sci 24:1247-1264, 2006.
 78. LAURSEN, P.B., and D.G. JENKINS. The scientif-ic basis for high-intensity interval training: op-
timising training programmes and maximising 
performance in highly trained endurance ath-
letes. Sports Med 32:53-73, 2002.
 79. 
LAURSEN, P.B., C.M. SHING, J.M. PEAKE, J.S. COOMBES, and D.G. JENKINS. Interval training 

References334
program optimization in highly trained endurance 
cyclists. Med Sci Sports Exerc 34:1801-1807, 2002.
 80. LEBON, V., S. DUFOUR, K.F. PETERSEN, J. REN, B.M. JUCKER, L.A. SLEZAK, G.W. CLINE, 
D.L. ROTHMAN, and G.I. SHULMAN. Effect of 
triiodothyronine on mitochondrial energy cou-
pling in human skeletal muscle.  J Clin Invest 
108:733-737, 2001.
 81. MACDOUGALL, J.D., M.J. GIBALA, M.A. TAR -
NOPOLSKY, J.R. MACDONALD, S.A. INTERI-
SANO, and K.E. YARASHESKI. The time course 
for elevated muscle protein synthesis follow-
ing heavy resistance exercise.  Can J Appl Physiol 
20:480-486, 1995.
 82. MACDOUGALL, J.D., A.L. HICKS, J.R. MAC-DONALD, R.S. MCKELVIE, H.J. GREEN, and 
K.M. SMITH. Muscle performance and enzymat-
ic adaptations to sprint interval training.  J Appl 
Physiol 84:2138-2142, 1998.
 83. MACDOUGALL, J.D., S. RAY, D.G. SALE, N. MC-
CARTNEY, P. LEE, and S. GARNER. Muscle sub-
strate utilization and lactate production during 
weightlifting.  Can J Appl Physiol 24:209-215, 
1999.
 84. MACINTOSH, B.R., and D.E. RASSIER. What is fatigue? Can J Appl Physiol 27:42-55, 2002.
 85. MACINTYRE, D.L., S. SORICHTER, J. MAIR, 
A. BERG, and D.C. MCKENZIE. Markers of in-
flammation and myofibrillar proteins following 
eccentric exercise in humans.  Eur J Appl Physiol 
84:180-186, 2001.
 86. MATHEWS, D., and E. FOX. The Physiological Basis of Physical Education and Athletics. Philadelphia: 
Saunders, 1976.
 87. MAUGHAN, R., and M. GLEESON. The Biochem-
ical Basis of Sports Performance. New York: Oxford 
University Press, 2004.
 88. MCARDLE, W.D., F.I. KATCH, and V.L. KATCH. 
Exercise Physiology: Energy, Nutrition, and Human 
Performance. 6th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott, Wil-
liams & Wilkins, 2007.
 89. MCCANN, D.J., P.A. MOLE, and J.R. CATON. 
Phosphocreatine kinetics in humans during ex-
ercise and recovery.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 27:378-
389, 1995.
 90. MCMILLAN, J.L., M.H. STONE, J. SARTIN, R. KEITH, D. MARPLE, C. BROWN, and R.D. LEW -
IS. 20-hour physiological responses to a single weight-training session.  J Strength Cond Res 7:9-
21, 1993.
 91. MELBY, C., C. SCHOLL, G. EDWARDS, and R. BULLOUGH. Effect of acute resistance exercise 
on postexercise energy expenditure and rest-
ing metabolic rate.  J Appl Physiol 75:1847-1853, 
1993.
 92. MICHAUT, A., M. POUSSON, G. MILLET, J. BEL-LEVILLE, and J. VAN HOECKE. Maximal volun-tary eccentric, isometric and concentric torque 
recovery following a concentric isokinetic exer-
cise. Int J Sports Med 24:51-56, 2003.
 92b. NEWSHOLME, E., A. LEECH, and G. DUESTER. 
Keep on Running: The Science of Training and Per-
formance. West Sussex, UK: Wiley, 1994.
 93. NICOL, C., J. AVELA, and P.V. KOMI. The stretch-shortening cycle: a model to study natu-rally occurring neuromuscular fatigue.  Sports Med 
36:977-999, 2006.
 94. NIEMAN, D.C., and B.K. PEDERSEN. Exercise and 
immune function: recent developments.  Sports 
Med 27:73-80, 1999.
 95. PADILLA, S., I. MUJIKA, F. ANGULO, and J.J. GOIRIENA. Scientific approach to the 1-h cycling 
world record: a case study.  J Appl Physiol 89:1522-
1527, 2000.
 96. PAROLIN, M.L., A. CHESLEY, M.P. MATSOS, L.L. SPRIET, N.L. JONES, and G.J. HEIGENHAUSER. 
Regulation of skeletal muscle glycogen phos-
phorylase and PDH during maximal intermittent 
exercise. Am J Physiol 277:E890-E900, 1999.
 97. PETERSON, M.D., M.R. RHEA, and B.A. ALVAR. 
Applications of the dose-response for muscular 
strength development: a review of meta-analytic 
efficacy and reliability for designing training pre-
scription. J Strength Cond Res 19:950-958, 2005.
 98. PINCIVERO, D.M., and T.O. BOMPA. A physio-
logical review of American football.  Sports Med 
23:247-260, 1997.
 99. POWERS, S.K., and E.T. HOWLEY. Exercise Physi-ology: Theory and Application to Fitness and Perfor-
mance. 5th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2004.
 100. PRATLEY, R., B. NICKLAS, M. RUBIN, J. MILLER, 
A. SMITH, M. SMITH, B. HURLEY, and A. GOLD-
BERG. Strength training increases resting meta-bolic rate and norepinephrine levels in healthy 
50- to 65-yr-old men.  J Appl Physiol 76:133-137, 
1994.
 101. RAHNAMA, N., T. REILLY, and A. LEES. Injury 
risk associated with playing actions during com-petitive soccer.  Br J Sports Med 36:354-359, 2002.
 102. SELYE, H. The Stress of Life. New York: Mc-
Graw-Hill, 1956.
 103. SHERMAN, W.M. Carbohydrates, muscle glyco-
gen, and muscle glycogen supercompensation. 
In: Ergogenic Aids in Sport. M.H. Williams, ed. 
Champaign IL: Human Kinetics, 1983, pp. 3-26.
 104. SHERMAN, W.M., and G.S. WIMER. Insufficient 
dietary carbohydrate during training: does it im-
pair athletic performance? Int J Sport Nutr 1:28-
44, 1991.
 105. SIFF, M.C., and Y.U. VERKHOSHANSKY. Super-
training. Denver, CO: Supertraining Internation-
al, 1999.
 106. STEPTO, N.K., D.T. MARTIN, K.E. FALLON, and 
J.A. HAWLEY. Metabolic demands of intense aer-

References335
obic interval training in competitive cyclists.  Med 
Sci Sports Exerc 33:303-310, 2001.
 107. STONE, M.H., M.E. STONE, and W.A. SANDS. 
Principles and Practice of Resistance Training. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2007.
 108. STONE, M.H., W.A. SANDS, and M.E. STONE. 
The downfall of sports science in the United 
States. Strength and Cond J 26:72-75, 2004.
 109. SUH, S.H., I.Y. PAIK, and K. JACOBS. Regulation 
of blood glucose homeostasis during prolonged 
exercise. Mol Cells 23:272-279, 2007.
 1 10. TESCH, P. Muscle fatigue in man: with special 
reference to lactate accumulation during short 
term intense exercise.  Acta Physiol Scand Suppl 
480:1-40, 1980.
 1 1 1. TESCH, P.A., L.L. PLOUTZ-SNYDER, L. YSTRÖM, M. CASTRO, and G. DUDLEY. Skeletal muscle 
glycogen loss evoked by resistance exercise.  J 
Strength Cond Res 12:67-73, 1998.
 1 12. TOMLIN, D.L., and H.A. WENGER. The relation-
ship between aerobic fitness and recovery from 
high intensity intermittent exercise.  Sports Med 
31:1-1 1, 2001.
 1 13. K.A. VAN SOMEREN. The physiology of anaero-bic endurance training. In: The Physiology of Train-
ing. G. Whyte, ed. Oxford, UK: Elsevier, 2006, pp. 
88.
 1 14. WADLEY, G., and P. LE ROSSIGNOL. The rela-tionship between repeated sprint ability and the 
aerobic and anaerobic energy systems.  J Sci Med 
Sport 1:100-1 10, 1998.
 1 15. WESTERBLAD, H., D.G. ALLEN, and J. LANNER -
GREN. Muscle fatigue: lactic acid or inorgan-
ic phosphate the major cause? News Physiol Sci 
17:17-21, 2002.
 1 16. YAKOVLEV, N. Sports Biochemistry. Leipzig: 
Deutche Hochschule für, Körperkultur, 1967.
 1 17. YASPELKIS, B.B.D., J.G. PATTERSON, P.A. AN-DERLA, Z. DING, and J.L. IVY. Carbohydrate 
supplementation spares muscle glycogen during 
variable-intensity exercise.  J Appl Physiol 75:1477-
1485, 1993.
 1 18. ZAINUDDIN, Z., P. SACCO, M. NEWTON, and K. NOSAKA. Light concentric exercise has a tem-porarily analgesic effect on delayed-onset muscle 
soreness, but no effect on recovery from eccen-
tric exercise.  Appl Physiol Nutr Metab 31:126-134, 
2006.
 1 19. ZATSIORSKY, V.M., and W.J. KRAEMER. Science and Practice of Strength Training. 2nd ed. Cham-
paign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2006.
Chapter 2
 1. ABERNETHY, P.J., J. JURIMAE, P.A. LOGAN, A.W. 
TAYLOR, and R.E. THAYER. Acute and chronic 
response of skeletal muscle to resistance exer-
cise. Sports Med 17:22-38, 1994. 2. ABERNETHY, P.J., R. THAYER, and A.W. TAYLOR. Acute and chronic responses of skeletal muscle 
to endurance and sprint exercise: a review.  Sports 
Med 10:365-389, 1990.
 3. ARMSTRONG, N., B.J. KIRBY, A.M. MCMANUS, and J.R. WELSMAN. Aerobic fitness of prepubes-
cent children. Ann Hum Biol 22:427-441, 1995.
 4. ATHERTON, P.J., J. BABRAJ, K. SMITH, J. SINGH, 
M.J. RENNIE, and H. WACKERHAGE. Selective 
activation of AMPK-PGC-1alpha or PKB-TSC2-
mTOR signaling can explain specific adaptive re-
sponses to endurance or resistance training-like 
electrical muscle stimulation.  FASEB J 19:786-
788, 2005.
 5. AVALOS, M., P. HELLARD, and J.C. CHATARD. Modeling the training-performance relationship 
using a mixed model in elite swimmers.  Med Sci 
Sports Exerc 35:838-846, 2003.
 6. BAAR, K. Training for endurance and strength: 
lessons from cell signaling.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 
38:1939-1944, 2006.
 7. 
BAAR, K., G. NADER, and S. BODINE. Resistance 
exercise, muscle loading/unloading and the con -
trol of muscle mass.  Essays Biochem 42:61-74, 2006.
 8. BAKER, D. Cycle-length variants in periodized strength/power training.  Strength Cond 29:10-17, 
2007.
 9. BALYI, I., and A. HAMILTON. Long-term athlete 
development: trainability in childhood and ado-
lescence. Olympic Coach 16:4-9, 1993.
 10. BANISTER, E.W., T.W. CALVERT, M.V. SAVAGE, 
and A. BACK. A system model of training for ath-
letic performance.  Aus J Sports Med 7:170-176, 
1975.
 1 1. BILLAT, L.V., J.P. KORALSZTEIN, and R.H. MOR -
TON. Time in human endurance models: from 
empirical models to physiological models.  Sports 
Med 27:359-379, 1999.
 1 1b. BOMPA, T.O. Antrenamentul in perioada pre-gatitoare [Training methodology during the pre-
paratory phase]. Caiet pentru sporturi nautice 3:22-
28, 1956.
 1 1c. BOMPA, T.O. Theory and Methodology of Training. 
Dubuque, Iowa: Kendall/Hunt Publishing Com-
pany, 1983.
 1 1d. BOMPA, T.O. Periodization of Strength: The New 
Wave in Strength Training. Toronto: Veritas, 1993.
 12. BREWER, C. Athlete development: principles into practice. In: SPEC: Coaches and Sports Scienc-
es Symposium. Johnson City, TN: East Tennessee 
State University, 2007, pp. 1-44.
 13. BRUIN, G., H. KUIPERS, H.A. KEIZER, and G.J. VANDER VUSSE. Adaptation and overtraining in horses subjected to increasing training loads.  J 
Appl Physiol 76:1908-1913, 1994.
 14. BUSHMAN, B., G. MASTERSON, and J. NELSEN. 
Anaerobic power performance and the menstrual 

References336
cycle: eumenorrheic and oral contraceptive us-
ers. J Sports Med Phys Fitness 46:132-137, 2006.
 15. CAINE, D.J., and J. BROEKHOFF. Maturity as-sessment: available preventive measure against physical and psychological insult to the young 
athlete? Phys Sportsmed. 15:70, 1987.
 16. CALVERT, T.W., E.W. BANISTER, and M.V. SAV -
AGE. A systems model of the effects of training 
on physical performance.  SMS Systems, Man, and 
Cybernetics 2:94-102, 1976.
 17. CAO, W. Training differences between males and females. In: Proceedings of the Weightlifting Sympo-
sium: Ancient Olympia, Greece, A. Lukácsfalvi and 
F. Takács, eds. International Weightlifting Federa-tion: Budapest, Hungary.1993, pp. 97-101.
 18. CARLSON, R. The socialization of elite tennis players in Sweden: an analysis of the players’ 
background and development. Sociol Sport J 
5:241-256, 1988.
 19. CHEUVRONT, S.N., R. CARTER, K.C. DERUIS-
SEAU, and R.J. MOFFATT. Running performance 
differences between men and women: an up-
date. Sports Med 35:1017-1024, 2005.
 20. COAST, J.R., J.S. BLEVINS, and B.A. WILSON. Do 
gender differences in running performance dis-
appear with distance? Can J Appl Physiol 29:139-
145, 2004.
 21. COFFEY, V.G., and J.A. HAWLEY. The molecular 
bases of training adaptation.  Sports Med 37:737-
763, 2007.
 22. COLIBABA, E.D., and I. BOTA. Jocurile Sportive: 
Teoria si Medodica. Bucuresti: Editura Aldin, 1998.
 23. COUTTS, A.J., L.K. WALLACE, and K.M. SLAT -
TERY. Monitoring changes in performance, phys-iology, biochemistry, and psychology during 
overreaching and recovery in triathletes.  Int J 
Sports Med 28:125-134, 2007.
 24. DENCKER, M., O. THORSSON, M.K. KARLS-SON, C. LINDEN, S. EIBERG, P. WOLLMER, and 
L.B. ANDERSEN. Gender differences and deter-
minants of aerobic fitness in children aged 8-1 1 
years. Eur J Appl Physiol 99:19-26, 2007.
 25. DRABIK, J. Children and Sports Training. Island 
Pond, VT: Stadion, 1995.
 26. FAIGENBAUM, A.D. Strength training for chil-
dren and adolescents.  Clin Sports Med 19:593-
619, 2000.
 27. FAIGENBAUM, A.D., and W.L. WESTCOTT. Strength and Power for Young Athletes. Champaign, 
IL: Human Kinetics, 2000.
 28. FLECK, S., and W.J. KRAEMER. Designing Resis-
tance Training Programs. 3rd ed. Champaign, IL: 
Human Kinetics, 2004.
 29. FORD, L.E., A.J. DETTERLINE, K.K. HO, and W. CAO. Gender- and height-related limits of mus-cle strength in world weightlifting champions.  J 
Appl Physiol 89:1061-1064, 2000. 30. FOSTER, C. Monitoring training in athletes with reference to overtraining syndrome.  Med Sci 
Sports Exerc 30:1 164-1 168, 1998.
 31. FRY, A.C. The role of training intensity in resis-tance exercise overtraining and overreaching. In: 
Overtraining in Sport. R.B. Kreider, A.C. Fry, and 
M.L. O’Toole, eds. Champaign, IL: Human Kinet-
ics, 1998, pp. 107-127.
 32. FRY, A.C., and W.J. KRAEMER. Resistance exercise 
overtraining and overreaching: neuroendocrine 
responses. Sports Med 23:106-129, 1997.
 33. FRY, A.C., W.J. KRAEMER, M.H. STONE, L.P. KO-ZIRIS, J.T. THRUSH, and S.J. FLECK. Relation-
ships between serum testosterone, cortisol, and weightlifting performance.  J Strength Cond Res. 
14:338-343, 2000.
 34. FRY, A.C., W.J. KRAEMER, M.H. STONE, B.J. 
WARREN, S.J. FLECK, J.T. KEARNEY, and S.E. 
GORDON. Endocrine responses to overreaching 
before and after 1 year of weightlifting.  Can J Appl 
Physiol 19:400-410, 1994.
 35. FUSTER, V., A. JEREZ, and A. ORTEGA. Anthro-pometry and strength relationship: male-female 
differences. Anthropol Anz 56:49-56, 1998.
 36. GARHAMMER, J. A comparison of maximal 
power outputs between elite male and female 
weightlifters in competition.  Int J Sport Biomech 
7:3-1 1, 1991.
 37. GRGANTOV, Z., D. NEDOVIC, and R. KATIC. In-tegration of technical and situation efficacy into 
the morphological system in young female vol-
leyball players. Coll Antropol 31:267-273, 2007.
 38. GURD, B., and P. KLENTROU. Physical and pu-
bertal development in young male gymnasts.  J 
Appl Physiol 95:101 1-1015, 2003.
 39. HAFF, G.G., M. BURGENER, A.D. FAIGENBAUM, 
J.L. KILGORE, M.E. LAVALLE, M. NITKA, M. RIP-PETOE, and C. PROULX. Roundtable discussion: 
youth resistance training.  Strength Cond J 25:49-
64, 2003.
 40. HÄKKINEN, K. Neuromuscular and hormonal 
adaptations during strength and power training: a review. J Sports Med Phys Fitness 29:9-26, 1989.
 41. HÄKKINEN, K., and M. KALLINEN. Distribution of strength training volume into one or two dai-ly sessions and neuromuscular adaptations in 
female athletes.  Electromyogr Clin Neurophysiol 
34:1 17-124, 1994.
 42. HÄKKINEN, K., K.L. KESKINEN, M. ALEN, P.V. KOMI, and H. KAUHANEN. Serum hormone 
concentrations during prolonged training in 
elite endurance-trained and strength-trained ath-
letes. Eur J Appl Physiol 59:233-238, 1989.
 43. 
HÄKKINEN, K., A. PAKARINEN, M. ALEN, H. KAU -
HANEN, and P.V. KOMI. Daily hormonal and neu -
romuscular responses to intensive strength training in 1 week. Int J Sports Med 9:422-428, 1988.

References337
 44. HÄKKINEN, K., A. PAKARINEN, M. ALEN, H. 
KAUHANEN, and P.V. KOMI. Neuromuscular 
and hormonal adaptations in athletes to strength 
training in two years.  J Appl Physiol 65:2406-2412, 
1988.
 45. HALSON, S.L., M.W. BRIDGE, R. MEEUSEN, B. BUSSCHAERT, M. GLEESON, D.A. JONES, and 
A.E. JEUKENDRUP. Time course of performance 
changes and fatigue markers during intensified 
training in trained cyclists.  J Appl Physiol 93:947-
956, 2002.
 46. HARRE, D. Trainingslehre. Berlin, Germany: 
Sportverlag, 1982.
 47. HARRIS, G.R., M.H. STONE, H.S. O’BRYANT, 
C.M. PROULX, and R.L. JOHNSON. Short-term 
performance effects of high power, high force, or 
combined weight-training methods.  J Strength 
Cond Res 14:14-20, 2000.
 48. HAWLEY, J.A. Adaptations of skeletal muscle to 
prolonged, intense endurance training.  Clin Exp 
Pharmacol Physiol 29:218-222, 2002.
 49. HELLARD, P., M. AVALOS, L. LACOSTE, F. BARA -
LE, J.C. CHATARD, and G.P. MILLET. Assessing 
the limitations of the Banister model in monitor-
ing training. J Sports Sci 24:509-520, 2006.
 50. HELLEBRANDT, F., and S. HOUTZ. Mechanisms 
of muscle training in man: experimental demon-
stration of the overload principle.  Phys Ther Rev 
36:371-383, 1956.
 51. HODGES, N.J., S. HAYES, R.R. HORN, and A.M. WILLIAMS. Changes in coordination, control 
and outcome as a result of extended practice on 
a novel motor skill.  Ergonomics 48:1672-1685, 
2005.
 52. HOFFMAN, J.R., M. WENDELL, J. COOPER, and J. KANG. Comparison between linear and non-
linear in-season training programs in freshman 
football players.  J Strength Cond Res 17:561-565, 
2003.
 53. JANSE DE JONGE, X.A. Effects of the menstru-al cycle on exercise performance.  Sports Med 
33:833-851, 2003.
 54. JANSSEN, I., S.B. HEYMSFIELD, Z.M. WANG, and R. ROSS. Skeletal muscle mass and distribu-
tion in 468 men and women aged 18-88 yr.  J Appl 
Physiol 89:81-88, 2000.
 55. KALLINEN, M., and A. MARKKU. Aging, physi-cal activity and sports injuries: an overview of 
common sports injuries in the elderly.  Sports Med 
20:41-52, 1995.
 56. KATIC, R., M. CAVALA, and V. SRHOJ. Biomotor structures in elite female handball players.  Coll 
Antropol 31:795-801, 2007.
 57. KRAEMER, W.J., S.A. MAZZETTI, B.C. NINDL, L.A. GOTSHALK, J.S. VOLEK, J.A. BUSH, J.O. 
MARX, K. DOHI, A.L. GOMEZ, M. MILES, S.J. 
FLECK, R.U. NEWTON, and K. HÄKKINEN. Ef-fect of resistance training on women’s strength/
power and occupational performances.  Med Sci 
Sports Exerc 33:101 1-1025, 2001.
 58. KURZ, T. Science of Sports Training. 2nd ed. Island Pond, VT: Stadion, 2001.
 59. LANGE, L. Uber Funktionelle Anpassung. Berlin, 
Germany: Springer Verlag, 1919.
 60. LAUGHLIN, N.T., and P.L. BUSK. Relationships 
between selected muscle endurance tasks and 
gender. J Strength Cond Res 21:400-404, 2007.
 61. MACKINNON, L.T., and S.L. HOOPER. Over-
training and overreaching: causes effects and 
prevention. In: Exercise and Sport Science. W.E. 
Garrett and D.T. Kirkendall, eds. Philadelphia: 
Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2000, pp. 487-
498.
 62. MATVEYEV, L.P. Fundamentals of Sports Training. 
Moscow: Fizkultua i Sport, 1977.
 63. MATVEYEV, L.P. Periodisterung Des Sportlichen 
Trainings. Moscow: Fizkultura i Sport, 1972.
 64. MAUD, P.J., and B.B. SHULTZ. Gender compari-
sons in anaerobic power and anaerobic capacity 
tests. Br J Sports Med 20:51-54, 1986.
 65. MERO, A., H. KAUHANEN, E. PELTOLA, T. 
VUORIMAA, and P.V. KOMI. Physiological per-
formance capacity in different prepubescent ath-
letic groups.  J Sports Med Phys Fitness 30:57-66, 
1990.
 66. MILLER, A.E., J.D. MACDOUGALL, M.A. TAR -
NOPOLSKY, and D.G. SALE. Gender differences 
in strength and muscle fiber characteristics.  Eur J 
Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 66:254-262, 1993.
 67. NADER, G.A. Concurrent strength and endur-ance training: from molecules to man.  Med Sci 
Sports Exerc 38:1965-1970, 2006.
 68. NADER, G.A., T.J. MCLOUGHLIN, and K.A. ESS-ER. mTOR function in skeletal muscle hypertro-
phy: increased ribosomal RNA via cell cycle regu-
lators.  Am J Physiol Cell Physiol 289:C1457-C1465, 
2005.
 69. O’TOOLE, M.L. Overreaching and overtraining in endurance athletes. In: Overtraining in Sport. R.B. 
Kreider, A.C. Fry, and M.L. O’Toole, eds. Cham-
paign, IL: Human Kinetics, 1998, pp. 3-18.
 70. PLISK, S.S., and V. GAMBETTA. Tactical metabol-ic training: part 1. Strength Cond 19:44-53, 1997.
 71. PLISK, S.S., and M.H. STONE. Periodization strategies. Strength Cond 25:19-37, 2003.
 72. POLIQUIN, C. Five steps to increasing the effec-
tiveness of your strength training program.  NSCA 
J. 10:34-39, 1988.
 73. RATEL, S., N. LAZAAR, C.A. WILLIAMS, M. BEDU, and P. DUCHE. Age differences in human 
skeletal muscle fatigue during high-intensity in-
termittent exercise.  Acta Paediatr 92:1248-1254, 
2003.

References338
 74. RHEA, M.R., R.L. HUNTER, and T.J. HUNTER. 
Competition modeling of American football: 
observational data and implications for high 
school, collegiate, and professional player condi-
tioning. J Strength Cond Res 20:58-61, 2006.
 75. RILLING, J.K., C.M. WORTHMAN, B.C. CAMP-
BELL, J.F. STALLINGS, and M. MBIZVA. Ratios of 
plasma and salivary testosterone throughout pu-
berty: production versus bioavailability.  Steroids 
61:374-378, 1996.
 76. ROBAZZA, C., L. BORTOLI, and Y. HANIN. Per-ceived effects of emotion intensity on athletic 
performance: a contingency-based individual-
ized approach.  Res Q Exerc Sport 77:372-385, 
2006.
 77. SATORI, J., and P. TSCHIENE. The further devel-opment of training theory: new elements and 
tendencies.  Sci Period Res Technol Sport 8:Physical 
Training 8(4):W-1. 1988.
 78. SCHMOLINSKY, G. Track and Field: The East Ger-
man Textbook of Athletics. Toronto, ON, Canada: 
Sports Book Publisher, 2004.
 79. SEILER, K.S., and G.O. KJERLAND. Quantifying 
training intensity distribution in elite endurance 
athletes: is there evidence for an “optimal” distri-
bution? Scand J Med Sci Sports 16:49-56, 2006.
 80. SEILER, S., J.J. DE KONING, and C. FOSTER. The 
fall and rise of the gender difference in elite an-
aerobic performance 1952-2006.  Med Sci Sports 
Exerc 39:534-540, 2007.
 81. SHARP, M.A., J.F. PATTON, J.J. KNAPIK, K. HAURET, R.P. MELLO, M. ITO, and P.N. FRYK -
MAN. Comparison of the physical fitness of men and women entering the U.S. Army: 1978-
1998. Med Sci Sports Exerc 34:356-363, 2002.
 82. SIFF, M.C., and Y.U. VERKHOSHANSKY. Super-
training. Denver, CO: Supertraining Internation-
al, 1999.
 83. SMITH, D.J. A framework for understanding 
the training process leading to elite perfor-
mance. Sports Med 33:1 103-1 126, 2003.
 84. STEYERS, J. Liukin good at 18. www.nbcolympics.
com/gymnastics/news/newsid=100218.html.
 85. STONE, M.H., and A.C. FRY. Increased training volume in strength/power athletes. In: Over-training in Sport. R.B. Kreider, A.C. Fry, and M.L. 
O’Toole, eds. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 
1998, pp. 87-106.
 86. STONE, M.H., R. KEITH, J.T. KEARNEY, G.D. 
WILSON, and S. FLECK, J. Overtraining: a review 
of the signs and symptoms of overtraining.  J Appl 
Sport Sci Res 5:35-50, 1991.
 87. STONE, M.H., H. O’BRYANT, and J. GARHAM-MER. A hypothetical model for strength train-
ing. J. Sports Med 21:342-351, 1981.
 88. STONE, M.H., K. SANBORN, H.S. O’BRYANT, M. 
HARTMAN, M.E. STONE, C. PROULX, B. WARD, and J. HRUBY. Maximum strength-power-per-formance relationships in collegiate throwers.  J 
Strength Cond Res 17:739-745, 2003.
 89. STONE, M.H., M.E. STONE, and W.A. SANDS. Principles and Practice of Resistance Training. 
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2007.
 90. SUZUKI, S., T. SATO, A. MAEDA, and Y. TAKA -
HASHI. Program design based on a mathemati-
cal model using rating of perceived exertion for an elite Japanese sprinter: a case study.  J Strength 
Cond Res 20:36-42, 2006.
 91. TANAKA, H., and D.R. SEALS. Endurance exercise 
performance in masters athletes: age-associated 
changes and underlying physiological mecha-nisms. J Physiol 586:55-63, 2008.
 92. TSCHIENE, P. A necessary direction in training: the integration of biological adaptation in the 
training program. Coach Sport Sci J 1:2-14, 1995.
 93. VANDERBURGH, P.M., M. KUSANO, M. SHARP, 
and B. NINDL. Gender differences in muscular 
strength: an allometric model approach.  Biomed 
Sci Instrum 33:100-105, 1997.
 94. VERKHOSHANSKY, Y.U. Fundamentals of Special Strength Training in Sport. Livonia, MI: Sportivy 
Press, 1986.
 95. VERKHOSHANSKY, Y.U. Programming and Orga-nization of Training. Moscow: Fizkultura i Sport, 1985.
 96. VIRU, A. Adaptations in Sports Training. Boca Ra-ton, FL: CRC Press, 1995.
 97. VIRU, A., and M. VIRU. Biochemical Monitoring of 
Sport Training. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 
2001.
 98. WERCHOSHANSKI, J. Specific training princi-
ples for power.  Mod Athlete Coach 17:1 1-13, 1979.
 99. WILMORE, J.H., D.L. COSTILL, and W.L. KEN-
NEY. Physiology of Sport and Exercise. 4th ed. 
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2008.
 100. ZANCHI, N.E., and A.H. LANCHA, JR. Mechan-
ical stimuli of skeletal muscle: implications on 
mTOR/p70s6k and protein synthesis.  Eur J Appl 
Physiol 102:253-263, 2008.
 101. ZATSIORSKY, V.M. Science and Practice of Strength 
Training. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 1995.
 102. ZATSIORSKY, V.M., and W.J. KRAEMER. Science 
and Practice of Strength Training. 2nd ed. Cham-
paign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2006.
Chapter 3
 1. BAKER, D., and S. NANCE. The relation between 
running speed and measures of strength and 
power in professional rugby league players.  J 
Strength Cond Res 13:230-235, 1999.
 2. BOMPA, T.O. Periodization: Theory and Methodol-
ogy of Training. 4th ed. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 1999.

References339
 3. BOMPA, T.O. Total training for coaching team sports. 
Toronto: Sport Books Publisher, 2006, page 22.
 4. BRAVO, D.F., F.M. IMPELLIZZERI, E. RAMPINI-
NI, C. CASTAGNA, D. BISHOP, and U. WISLOFF. Sprint vs. interval training in football.  Int J Sports 
Med 29:668-674, 2008.
 5. BRET, C., A. RAHMANI, A.B. DUFOUR, L. MES-
SONNIER, and J.R. LACOUR. Leg strength and 
stiffness as ability factors in 100 m sprint run-ning. J Sports Med Phys Fitness 42:274-281, 2002.
 6. BURGOMASTER, K.A., G.J. HEIGENHAUSER, and M.J. GIBALA. Effect of short-term sprint in-
terval training on human skeletal muscle carbo-
hydrate metabolism during exercise and time-tri-al performance.  J Appl Physiol 100:2041-2047, 
2006.
 7. BURGOMASTER, K.A., S.C. HUGHES, G.J. HEI-
GENHAUSER, S.N. BRADWELL, and M.J. GIBA -
LA. Six sessions of sprint interval training increas-es muscle oxidative potential and cycle endurance 
capacity in humans.  J Appl Physiol 98:1985-1990, 
2005.
 8. CAVANAGH, P.R., and K.R. WILLIAMS. The ef-fect of stride length variation on oxygen uptake 
during distance running.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 
14:30-35, 1982.
 9. CHIU, L.Z., A.C. FRY, B.K. SCHILLING, E.J. JOHNSON, and L.W. WEISS. Neuromuscular fa-
tigue and potentiation following two successive 
high intensity resistance exercise sessions.  Eur J 
Appl Physiol 92:385-392, 2004.
 10. CONLEY, D.L., and G. KRAHENBUHL. Running economy and distance running performance 
of highly trained athletes.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 
14:357-360, 1980.
 1 1. CRONIN, J.B., and K.T. HANSEN. Strength and power predictors of sports speed.  J Strength Cond 
Res 19:349-357, 2005.
 12. CURY, F., S. BIDDLE, P. SARRAZIN, and J.P. FA -
MOSE. Achievement goals and perceived ability 
predict investment in learning a sport task.  Br J 
Educ Psychol 67:293-309, 1997.
 13. DALLEAU, G., A. BELLI, M. BOURDIN, and J.R. LACOUR. The spring-mass model and the energy 
cost of treadmill running.  Eur J Appl Physiol Occup 
Physiol 77:257-263, 1998.
 14. DANIELS, J.T. A physiologist’s view of running economy.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 17:332-338, 1985.
 15. DUNLAVY, J.K., W.A. SANDS, J.R. MCNEAL, M.H. 
STONE, S.A. SMITH, M. JEMNI, and G.G. HAFF. 
Strength performance assessment in a simulated 
men’s gymnastics still rings cross.  J Sports Sci Med 
6:93-97, 2007.
 16. ENDEMANN, F. Teaching throwing events. In: The Throws: Contemporary Theory, Technique, and 
Training. J. Jarver, ed. Mountain View, CA: Taf-
news Press, 2000, pp. 1 1-14. 17. FLORESCU, C., V. DUMITRESCU, and A. PRE-
DESCU. Metodologia Desvoltari Calitatilor Fizice 
[The Methodology of Developing Physical Quali-ties]. Bucharest: National Sports Council, 1969.
 18. GIBALA, M.J., J.P. LITTLE, M. VAN ESSEN, G.P. 
WILKIN, K.A. BURGOMASTER, A. SAFDAR, S. 
RAHA, and M.A. TARNOPOLSKY. Short-term 
sprint interval versus traditional endurance train-
ing: similar initial adaptations in human skele-
tal muscle and exercise performance.  J Physiol 
575:901-91 1, 2006.
 19. GODFREY, R.J. Cross-training.  Sports Exercise & 
Injury 4:50-56, 1998.
 20. HEISE, G.D., and P.E. MARTIN. Are variations 
in running economy in humans associated with 
ground reaction force characteristics? Eur J Appl 
Physiol 84:438-442, 2001.
 21. HODGES, N.J., S. HAYES, R.R. HORN, and A.M. WILLIAMS. Changes in coordination, control 
and outcome as a result of extended practice on 
a novel motor skill.  Ergonomics 48:1672-1685, 
2005.
 22. HUGHES, M.D., and R.M. BARTLETT. The use of performance indicators in performance anal-
ysis. J Sports Sci 20:739-754, 2002.
 23. KANEKO, M., A. ITO, T. FUCHIMOTO, Y. SHI-
SHIKURA, and J. TOYOOKA. Influence of run-
ning speed on the mechanical efficiency of 
sprinters and distance runners. In: Biomechanics 
IX-B. D.A. Winter et al., eds. Champaign, IL: Hu-
man Kinetics, 1985, pp. 307-312.
 24. LAURSEN, P.B., C.M. SHING, J.M. PEAKE, J.S. 
COOMBES, and D.G. JENKINS. Interval training 
program optimization in highly trained endur-
ance cyclists.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 34:1801-1807, 
2002.
 25. MALTSEVA, N. Instructing young throwers. In: The Throws: Contemporary Theory, Technique, and 
Training. J. Jarver, ed. Mountain View, CA: Taf-
news Press, 2000, pp. 15-17.
 26. MEDVEDEV, A.S. Sistema Mnogoletnyei Trenirovki 
V Tyazheloi Atletikye. Moscow: Fizkultura i Sport, 
1986.
 27. MORGAN, D.W., and M. CRAIB. Physiological 
aspects of running economy.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 
24:456-461, 1992.
 28. NUMMELA, A., T. KERANEN, and L.O. MIKKELS-SON. Factors related to top running speed and 
economy. Int J Sports Med 28:655-661, 2007.
 29. PLISK, S.S., and V. GAMBETTA. Tactical metabol-
ic training: part 1. Strength Cond 19:44-53, 1997.
 30. PLISK, S.S., and M.H. STONE. Periodization 
strategies. Strength Cond 25:19-37, 2003.
 31. RAGLIN, J.S. The psychology of the marathoner: 
of one mind and many.  Sports Med 37:404-407, 
2007.

References340
 32. ROBINSON, J.M., M.H. STONE, R.L. JOHNSON, 
C.M. PENLAND, B.J. WARREN, and R.D. LEWIS. 
Effects of different weight training exercise/rest 
intervals on strength, power, and high intensity 
exercise endurance.  J. Strength Cond Res 9:216-
221, 1995.
 33. SCHMIDT, R.A., and C.A. WRISBERG. Motor Learning and Performance. 3rd ed. Champaign, IL: 
Human Kinetics, 2004.
 34. SCHMOLINSKY, G. Track and Field: The East Ger-
man Textbook of Athletics. Toronto, ON, Canada: 
Sports Book Publisher, 2004.
 35. SIFF, M.C., and Y.U. VERKHOSHANSKY. Super-training. Denver, CO: Supertraining Internation-al, 1999.
 36. SINITSIN, A. A few hints for novice discus throw-ers. In: The Throws: Contemporary Theory, Tech-
nique, and Training. J. Jarver, ed. Mountain View, 
CA: Tafnews, 2000, pp. 95-97.
 37. SMITH, D.J. A framework for understanding 
the training process leading to elite perfor-
mance. Sports Med 33:1 103-1 126, 2003.
 38. STONE, M.H., and H.O. O’BRYANT. Weight Train-
ing: A Scientific Approach. Edina, MN: Burgess, 
1987.
 39. STONE, M.H., R. KEITH, J.T. KEARNEY, G.D. WILSON, and S. FLECK, J. Overtraining: a review of the signs and symptoms of overtraining.  J Appl 
Sport Sci Res 5:35-50, 1991.
 40. STONE, M.H., W.A. SANDS, K.C. PIERCE, R.U. 
NEWTON, G.G. HAFF, and J. CARLOCK. Maxi-
mum strength and strength training: a relation-ship to endurance? Strength Cond J 28:44-53, 
2006.
 41. STONE, M.H., M.E. STONE, and W.A. SANDS. Principles and Practice of Resistance Training. 
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2007.
 42. SUINN, R.M. Mental practice in sport psycholo-
gy: where have we been, where do we go? Clin 
Psychol Sci Pract 4:189-207, 1997.
 43. TAN, J.C., and M.R. YEADON. Why do high jump-
ers use a curved approach? J Sport Sci 23:775-780, 
2005.
 44. TEODORESCU, L., and C. FLORESCU. Some di-rections regarding the perfection and mastery of 
technique and strategy. In: The Content and Meth-
odology of Training. E. Ghibu, ed. Bucharest, Hun-
gary: Stadion, 1971, pp. 66-81.
 45. VAN-YPEREN, N.W., and J.L. DUDA. Goal orien-
tations, beliefs about success, and performance 
improvement among young elite Dutch soccer 
players. Scand J Med Sci Sports 9:358-364, 1999.
 46. WILLIAMS, S.J., and L.R. KENDALL. A profile of 
sports science research (1983-2003).  J Sci Med 
Sport 10:193-200, 2007.
 47. ZATSIORSKY, V.M. Science and Practice of Strength Training. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 1995.Chapter 4
 1. 2002 USA Cycling Club Coach Manual. Colorado 
Springs, CO: USA Cycling, 2002.
 2. ABADEJEV, I. Basic training principles for Bulgar-ian elite. Int Olympic Lifter 3:12-13, 1976.
 3. ABADEJEV, I. Basic training principles for Bulgar-
ian elite.  Canadian Weightlifting Federation Official 
Newsletter 5:13-18, 1976.
 4. ABADEJEV, I. Basic training principles for Bulgar-ian elite.  New Brunswick Weightlifting Association 
Newsletter 4:19-24, 1977.
 5. ABADEJEV, I. Preparation of the Bulgarian weightlifters for the Olympic Games 1984.  Aus-
tralian Weightlifter October:25-29, 1981.
 6. ABADJIEV, I., and B. FARADJIEV. Training of Weight Lifters. Sofia, Bulgaria: Medicina i Fizkul-
tura, 1986.
 7. ACEVEDO, E.O., and A.H. GOLDFARB. Increased 
training intensity effects on plasma lactate, venti-
latory threshold, and endurance.  Med Sci Sports 
Exerc 21:563-568, 1989.
 8. AJÁN, T., and L. BAROGA. Weightlifting: Fitness for All Sports. Budapest: International Weightlifting 
Federation, 1988.
 9. ALLEN, H., and A.R. COGGAN. Training and Rac-
ing with a Power Meter. Boulder, CO: Velo Press, 2006.
 10. BARNETT, A. Using recovery modalities between 
training sessions in elite athletes: does it help? 
Sports Med 36:781-796, 2006.
 1 1. BEN ABDELKRIM, N., S. EL FAZAA, and J. EL ATI. Time-motion analysis and physiological data of 
elite under-19-year-old basketball players during competition.  Br J Sports Med 41:69-75; discussion 
75, 2007.
 12. BILLAT, V.L., B. FLECHET, B. PETIT, G. MURI-
AUX, and J.P. KORALSZTEIN. Interval training 
at VO2max: effects on aerobic performance and overtraining markers.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 31:156-
163, 1999.
 13. BOMPA, T.O. Periodization: Theory and Methodol-
ogy of Training. 4th ed. Champaign, IL: Human 
Kinetics, 1999.
 14. BOMPA, T.O., and M.C. CARRERA. Periodization 
Training for Sports: Science-Based Strength and Con-
ditioning Plans for 20 Sports. 2nd ed. Champaign, 
IL: Human Kinetics, 2005.
 15. BROOKS, G.A., T.D. FAHEY, T.P. WHITE, and 
K.M. BALDWIN. Exercise Physiology: Human Bio-
energetics and Its Application. 3rd ed. Mountain 
View, CA: Mayfield, 2000.
 16. 
BURKE, L., and V. DEAKIN. Clincial Sports Nutrition. Roseville, Australia: McGraw-Hill Australia, 2000.
 17. COFFEY, V.G., and J.A. HAWLEY. The molecular bases of training adaptation.  Sports Med 37:737-
763, 2007.

References341
 18. CONLEY, M. Bioenergetics of exercise training. 
In: Essentials of Strength Training and Conditioning. 
T.R. Baechle and R.W. Earle, eds. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2000, pp. 73-90.
 19. CONLEY, M.S., M.H. STONE, H.S. O’BRYANT, 
R.L. JOHNSON, D.R. HONEYCUTT, and T.P. 
HOKE. Peak power versus power at maximal oxy-
gen uptake. In: Proceedings of the National Strength 
and Conditioning Association Annual Convention, 
Las Vegas, NV, 1993.
 20. DEDRICK, M.E., and P.M. CLARKSON. The ef-
fects of eccentric exercise on motor performance 
in young and older women.  Eur J Appl Physiol Oc-
cup Physiol 60:183-186, 1990.
 21. ENISELER, N. Heart rate and blood lactate con-centrations as predictors of physiological load on 
elite soccer players during various soccer training 
activities. J Strength Cond Res 19:799-804, 2005.
 22. FARIA, E.W., D.L. PARKER, and I.E. FARIA. The science of cycling: physiology and training—part 
1. Sports Med 35:285-312, 2005.
 23. FARIA, E.W., D.L. PARKER, and I.E. FARIA. 
The science of cycling: factors affecting perfor-
mance—part 2. Sports Med 35:313-337, 2005.
 24. FISKERSTRAND, Å., and K.S. SEILER. Training 
and performance characteristics among Norwe-
gian international rowers 1970-2001.  Scand J Med 
Sci Sports 14:303-310, 2004.
 25. FLECK, S., and W.J. KRAEMER. Designing Resis-tance Training Programs. 3rd ed. Champaign, IL: 
Human Kinetics, 2004.
 26. FROBÖSE, I., A. VERDONCK, F. DUESBERG, and 
C. MUCHA. Effects of various load intensities in 
the framework of postoperative stationary endur-
ance training on performance deficit of the quad-
riceps muscle of the thigh.  Z Orthop Ihre Grenzgeb 
131:164-167, 1993.
 27. FRY, A.C., and W.J. KRAEMER. Resistance exercise overtraining and overreaching: neuroendocrine 
responses. Sports Med 23:106-129, 1997.
 28. FRY, R.W., A.R. MORTON, and D. KEAST. Over-training in athletes: an update. Sports Med 12:32-65, 1991.
 29. GABBETT, T.J. Science of rugby league football: a review. J Sports Sci 23:961-976, 2005.
 30. GARHAMMER, J., and B. TAKANO. Training for weightlifting. In: Strength and Power in Sport. P.V. 
Komi, ed. Oxford, UK: Blackwell Scientific, 2003, 
pp. 502-515.
 31. GILLAM, G.M. Effects of frequency of weight 
training on muscle strength enhancement.  J 
Sports Med 21:432-436, 1981.
 32. HAFF, G.G., A. WHITLEY, and J.A. POTTEIGER. A brief review: explosive exercises and sports 
performance.  Natl Strength Cond Assoc 23:13-20, 
2001. 33. HÄKKINEN, K., and M. KALLINEN. Distribution of strength training volume into one or two dai-
ly sessions and neuromuscular adaptations in 
female athletes.  Electromyogr Clin Neurophysiol 
34:1 17-124, 1994.
 34. HARRE, D. Trainingslehre. Berlin, Germany: 
Sportverlag, 1982.
 35. HAUSSWIRTH, C., D. LEHENAFF, P. DREANO, and K. SAVONEN. Effects of cycling alone or in a sheltered position on subsequent running per-
formance during a triathlon.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 
31:599-604, 1999.
 36. HOWE, C., and A.R. COGGAN, The Road Cyclist’s 
Guide to Training by Power. 2003, Training Smart Online. http://www.trainingsmartonline.com/
images/Free_Triathlon_Articles/Power_Cycling_
Training.pdf
 37. ILIUTA, G., and C. DUMITRESCU. Medical and physiological criteria for the assessing and direct-
ing of athletes’ training.  Sportul de Performanta 
Bucareti 53:49-64, 1998.
 38. JONES, L. Training programs: do Bulgarian meth-ods lead the way for the USA? Weightlifting USA 
9:10-1 1, 1991.
 39. KOMI, P.V. Strength and Power in Sport. Oxford, 
UK: Blackwell Scientific, 1991.
 40. KOMI, P.V. Strength and Power in Sport. 2nd ed. 
Malden, MA: Blackwell Scientific, 2003.
 41. LANIER, A.B. Use of nonsteroidal anti-inflam-matory drugs following exercise-induced muscle 
injury. Sports Med 33:177-186, 2003.
 42. LAURSEN, P.B., and D.G. JENKINS. The scientif-
ic basis for high-intensity interval training: op-
timising training programmes and maximising 
performance in highly trained endurance ath-
letes. Sports Med 32:53-73, 2002.
 43. LAURSEN, P.B., C.M. SHING, J.M. PEAKE, J.S. 
COOMBES, and D.G. JENKINS. Interval training 
program optimization in highly trained endur-
ance cyclists.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 34:1801-1807, 
2002.
 44. LAURSEN, P.B., C.M. SHING, J.M. PEAKE, J.S. COOMBES, and D.G. JENKINS. Influence of 
high-intensity interval training on adaptations in 
well-trained cyclists.  J Strength Cond Res 19:527-
533, 2005.
 45. LEUTSHENKO, A.V., and A.L. BERESTOVSKAYA. 
The main elements in the planning of training 
for elite discus throwers. In: The Throws: Contem-
porary Theory, Technique, and Training. J. Jarver, 
ed. Mountain View, CA: Tafnews Press, 2000, pp. 
106-108.
 46. LUEBBERS, P.E., J.A. POTTEIGER, M.W. HULVER, 
J.P. THYFAULT, M.J. CARPER, and R.H. LOCK -
WOOD. Effects of plyometric training and recov-ery on vertical jump performance and anaerobic 
power . J Strength Cond Res 17:704-709, 2003.

References342
 47. LYMAN, S., G.S. FLEISIG, J.W. WATERBOR, E.M. 
FUNKHOUSER, L. PULLEY, J.R. ANDREWS, E.D. 
OSINSKI, and J.M. ROSEMAN. Longitudinal 
study of elbow and shoulder pain in youth base-
ball pitchers.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 33:1803-1810, 
2001.
 48. MATVEYEV, L.P. Fundamentals of Sports Training. Moscow: Fizkultua i Sport, 1977.
 49. MAUGHAN, R., and M. GLEESON. The Biochem-
ical Basis of Sports Performance. New York: Oxford 
University Press, 2004.
 50. MCARDLE, W.D., F.I. KATCH, and V.L. KATCH. Exercise Physiology: Energy, Nutrition, and Human 
Performance. 6th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott, Wil-liams & Wilkins, 2007.
 51. MONEDERO, J., and B. DONNE. Effect of recov-ery interventions on lactate removal and subse-
quent performance.  Int J Sports Med 21:593-597, 
2000.
 52. MORTON, R.H., J.R. FITZ-CLARKE, and E.W. BANISTER. Modeling human performance in 
running. J Appl Physiol 69:1 171-1 177, 1990.
 53. MUJIKA, I., and S. PADILLA. Detraining: loss of 
training-induced physiological and performance 
adaptations: part I: short term insufficient train-
ing stimulus. Sports Med 30:79-87, 2000.
 54. MUJIKA, I., and S. PADILLA. Detraining: loss of 
training-induced physiological and performance 
adaptations: part II: long term insufficient train-
ing stimulus. Sports Med 30:145-154, 2000.
 55. NOAKES, T.D. Lore of Running. 4th ed. Cham-
paign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2001.
 56. OLBRECT, J. The Science of Winning: Planning, 
Periodizing, and Optimizing Swim Training. Luton, UK: Swimshop, 2000.
 57. OSGNACH, C., S. POSER, R. BERNARDINI, R. 
RINALDO, and P.E. DI PRAMPERO. Energy cost 
and metabolic power in elite soccer: a new match 
analysis approach. Med Sci Sports Exerc 42:170-
178, 2010.
 58. PETERSON, M.D., M.R. RHEA, and B.A. ALVAR. 
Applications of the dose-response for muscular 
strength development: a review of meta-analytic 
efficacy and reliability for designing training pre-
scription. J Strength Cond Res 19:950-958, 2005.
 59. PLATONOV, V.N. Teoria General del Entrenamiento Deportivo Olimpico. Badalona, Spain: Paidotribo 
Editorial, 2002.
 60. PLISK, S.S., and M.H. STONE. Periodization strategies. Strength Cond 25:19-37, 2003.
 61. POTTEIGER, J.A. Aerobic endurance exercise 
training. In: Essentials of Strength Training and 
Conditioning. T.R. Baechle and R.W. Earle, eds. 
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2000, pp. 495-
509.
 62. RHEA, M.R., B.A. ALVAR, L.N. BURKETT, and S.D. 
BALL. A meta-analysis to determine the dose re-sponse for strength development.  Med Sci Sports 
Exerc 35:456-464, 2003.
 63. SCHMOLINSKY, G. Track and Field: The East Ger-
man Textbook of Athletics. Toronto, ON, Canada: Sports Book Publisher, 2004.
 64. SIFF, M.C., and Y.U. VERKHOSHANSKY. Super-training. Denver, CO: Supertraining Internation-
al, 1999.
 65. SIMONEAU, J.A., G. LORTIE, M.R. BOULAY, M. 
MARCOTTE, M.C. THIBAULT, and C. BOUCH-
ARD. Effects of two high-intensity intermittent 
training programs interspaced by detraining on 
human skeletal muscle and performance.  Eur J 
Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 56:516-521, 1987.
 66. SKURVYDAS, A., V. DUDONIENE, A. KALVE-NAS, and A. ZUOZA. Skeletal muscle fatigue in 
long-distance runners, sprinters and untrained 
men after repeated drop jumps performed at 
maximal intensity.  Scand J Med Sci Sports 12:34-
39, 2002.
 67. SMITH, D.J. A framework for understanding the training process leading to elite perfor-
mance. Sports Med 33:1 103-1 126, 2003.
 68. SMITH, T.P., L.R. MCNAUGHTON, and K.J. 
MARSHALL. Effects of 4-wk training using Vmax/
Tmax on VO
2max and performance in athletes.  Med 
Sci Sports Exerc 31:892-896, 1999.
 69. SPENCER, M., D. BISHOP, B. DAWSON, and 
C. GOODMAN. Physiological and metabolic 
responses of repeated-sprint activities: specific 
to field-based team sports.  Sports Med 35:1025-
1044, 2005.
 70. STEPTO, N.K., D.T. MARTIN, K.E. FALLON, and J.A. HAWLEY. Metabolic demands of intense aer-
obic interval training in competitive cyclists.  Med 
Sci Sports Exerc 33:303-310, 2001.
 71. STOLEN, T., K. CHAMARI, C. CASTAGNA, and U. WISLOFF. Physiology of soccer: an update.  Sports 
Med 35:501-536, 2005.
 72. STONE, M.H., R. KEITH, J.T. KEARNEY, G.D. WILSON, and S. FLECK, J. Overtraining: a review 
of the signs and symptoms of overtraining.  J Appl 
Sport Sci Res 5:35-50, 1991.
 73. STONE, M.H., and H.O. O’BRYANT. Weight Train-ing: A Scientific Approach. Edina, MN: Burgess, 1987.
 74. STONE, M.H., M.E. STONE, and W.A. SANDS. 
Principles and Practice of Resistance Training. 
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2007.
 75. WERNBOM, M., J. AUGUSTSSON, and R. 
THOMEE. The influence of frequency, intensity, 
volume and mode of strength training on whole 
muscle cross-sectional area in humans.  Sports 
Med 37:225-264, 2007.
 76. ZATSIORSKY, V.M. Intensity of strength training fact and theory: Russian and Eastern European 
approach. NSCA J 14:46-57, 1992.

References343
 77. ZATSIORSKY, V.M. Science and Practice of Strength 
Training. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 1995.
 78. ZATSIORSKY, V.M. and W.J. KRAEMER. Science and Practice of Strength Training. 2nd ed. Cham-paign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2006.
Chapter 5
 1. BOMPA, T.O. Periodization: Theory and Methodol-ogy of Training. 4th ed. Champaign, IL: Human 
Kinetics, 1999.
 2. BOMPA, T.O. Theory and Methodology of Training: The Key to Athletic Performance. Dubuque, IA: Ken-
dall/Hunt, 1994.
 3. BOMPA, T.O. Total Training for Coaching Team 
Sports: A Self Help Guide. Toronto, CA: Sports 
Books Publisher, 2006.
 4. BOMPA, T.O., and M.C. CARRERA. Periodization 
Training For Sports: Science-Based Strength and Con-
ditioning Plans for 20 Sports. 2nd ed. Champaign, 
IL: Human Kinetics, 2005.
 5. BOMPA, T.O. Antrenamentul in perioada pre-
gatitoare [Training methodology during the pre-
paratory phase]. Caiet pentru sporturi nautice 3:22-
28, 1956.
 6. BOMPA, T. Antrenamentul in Diferite Perioade de Pregatire [Training Content in Different Stages of 
Preparation]. Timisoara, Romania: Cjefs, 1960.
 7. BOMPA, T. Periodization of Strength for Power Sports. In: International Conference on Advance-
ments in Sports Training. Moscow, 1965.
 8. BOMPA, T. Periodization of strength. Sports Re-
view 1:26–31, 1965b.
 9. BOMPA, T.O. Theory and Methodology of Training. 
Dubuque, Iowa: Kendall/Hunt Publishing Com-
pany, 1983.
 10. BOMPA, T.O. Periodization of Strength: The new 
wave in Strength Training. Toronto: Veritas, 1993.
 1 1. DE LORME, T.L., and A.L. WATKINS. Progression 
Resistance Exercises. New York: Appleton-Centu-
ry-Crofts, 1951.
 12. FARROW, D., W. YOUNG, and L. BRUCE. The 
development of a test of reactive agility for net-
ball: a new methodology.  J Sci Med Sport 8:52-60, 
2005.
 13. FLECK, S.J., and W.J. KRAEMER. Designing Resis-tance Training Programs. 2nd ed. Champaign, IL: 
Human Kinetics, 1997.
 14. FLECK, S., and W.J. KRAEMER. Designing Resis-
tance Training Programs. 3rd ed. Champaign, IL: 
Human Kinetics, 2004.
 15. FREEMAN, W.H. Peak When It Counts Periodiza-
tion for American Track & Field. 4th ed. Mountain 
View, CA: Tafnews Press, 2001.
 16. HOFF, J., U. WISLØFF, L.C. ENGEN, O.J. KEMI, 
and J. HELGERUD. Soccer specific aerobic endur-
ance training. Br J Sports Med 36:218-221, 2002. 17. ISSURIN, V. Block periodization versus tradition-
al training theory: a review.  J Sports Med Phys Fit-
ness 48:65-75, 2008.
 18. KRAEMER, W.J., D.N. FRENCH, N.J. PAXTON, K. HÄKKINEN, J.S. VOLEK, W.J. SEBASTIANEL-
LI, M. PUTUKIAN, R.U. NEWTON, M.R. RUBIN, 
A.L. GOMEZ, J.D. VESCOVI, N.A. RATAMESS, 
S.J. FLECK, J.M. LYNCH, and H.G. KNUTTGEN. 
Changes in exercise performance and hormon-
al concentrations over a big ten soccer season 
in starters and nonstarters.  J Strength Cond Res 
18:121-128, 2004.
 19. KRAEMER, W.J., L.P. KOZIRIS, N.A. RATAMESS, K. HÄKKINEN, T.R.-M. NT, A.C. FRY, S.E. GOR -
DON, J.S. VOLEK, D.N. FRENCH, M.R. RUBIN, A.L. GOMEZ, M.J. SHARMAN, J. MICHAEL 
LYNCH, M. IZQUIERDO, R.U. NEWTON, and S.J. FLECK. Detraining produces minimal chang-
es in physical performance and hormonal vari-ables in recreationally strength-trained men.  J 
Strength Cond Res 16:373-382, 2002.
 20. KRAEMER, W.J., J.S. VOLEK, J.A. BUSH, M. PU-TUKIAN, and W.J. SEBASTIANELLI. Hormonal 
responses to consecutive days of heavy-resistance 
exercise with or without nutritional supplemen-
tation. J Appl Physiol 85:1544-1555, 1998.
 21. LAURSEN, P.B., and D.G. JENKINS. The scientif-
ic basis for high-intensity interval training: op-
timising training programmes and maximising 
performance in highly trained endurance ath-
letes. Sports Med 32:53-73, 2002.
 22. MALLO, J., and E. NAVARRO. Physical load im-
posed on soccer players during small-sided train-
ing games.  J Sports Med Phys Fitness 48:166-171, 
2008.
 23. MATVEYEV, L.P. Fundamentals of Sports Training. Moscow: Fizkultua i Sport, 1977.
 24. MATVEYEV, L.P. Periodisterung Des Sportlichen 
Trainings. Moscow: Fizkultura i Sport, 1972.
 25. MATVEYEV, L. Periodization of Sports Training. 
Moscow: Fizkultura i Sport, 1965.
 26. MIKKOLA, J., H. RUSKO, A. NUMMELA, T. POL-LARI, and K. HÄKKINEN. Concurrent endurance 
and explosive type strength training improves 
neuromuscular and anaerobic characteristics in young distance runners.  Int J Sports Med 28:602-
61 1, 2007.
 27. NÁDORI, L. Training and Competition. Budapest: Sport, 1962.
 28. NÁDORI, L., and I. GRANEK. Theoretical and 
Methodological Basis of Training Planning With Spe-
cial Considerations Within a Microcycle. Lincoln, 
NE: NSCA, 1989.
 29. OZOLIN, N. Sovremennaia Systema Sportivnoi Tre-
nirovky [Athlete’s Training System for Competi-
tion]. Moscow: Fizkultura i Sport, 1971.

References344
 30. PLATONOV, B.H. Theory of annual training: 
background, status, discussions, ways to modern-
ize. In: Theory and Practice of Physical Culture 9:18-
34, 2009.
 31. SIEGLER, J., S. GASKILL, and B. RUBY. Chang-
es evaluated in soccer-specific power endurance 
either with or without a 10-week, in-season, in-
termittent, high-intensity training protocol.  J 
Strength Cond Res 17:379-387, 2003.
 32. STONE, M.H., and C. KARATZEFERI. Connective tissue and bone response to strength training. In: 
Encyclopaedia of Sports Medicine: Strength and Pow-
er in Sports. P.V. Komi, ed. Oxford, UK: Blackwell, 
2003. pp. 343-360.
 33. STONE, M.H., R. KEITH, J.T. KEARNEY, G.D. 
WILSON, and S. FLECK, J. Overtraining: a review 
of the signs and symptoms of overtraining.  J Appl 
Sport Sci Res 5:35-50, 1991.
 34. STONE, M.H., and H.S. O’BRYANT. Letter to the 
editor. J Strength Cond Res 9:125-127, 1995.
 35. STONE, M.H., and H.O. O’BRYANT. Weight Train-
ing: A Scientific Approach. Edina, MN: Burgess, 
1987.
 36. STONE, M.H., H. O’BRYANT, and J. GARHAM-
MER. A hypothetical model for strength train-
ing. J. Sports Med. 21:342-351, 1981.
 37. STONE, M.H., H.S. O’BRYANT, and J. GAR -
HAMMER. A theoretical model of strength train-ing. NSCA J. 3:36-39, 1982.
 38. STONE, M.H., H.S. O’BRYANT, L. MCCOY, R. COGLIANESE, M. LEHMKUHL, and B. SCHIL-
LING. Power and maximum strength relation-ships during performance of dynamic and static 
weighted jumps.  J Strength Cond Res 17:140-147, 
2003.
 39. STONE, M.H., K. SANBORN, H.S. O’BRYANT, M. 
HARTMAN, M.E. STONE, C. PROULX, B. WARD, and J. HRUBY. Maximum strength-power-per-
formance relationships in collegiate throwers.  J 
Strength Cond Res 17:739-745, 2003.
 40. STONE, M.H., W.A. SANDS, J. CARLOCK, S. 
CALLAN, D. DICKIE, K. DAIGLE, J. COTTON, S.L. SMITH, and M. HARTMAN. The importance 
of isometric maximum strength and peak rate-
of-force development in sprint cycling.  J Strength 
Cond Res 18:878-884, 2004.
 41. STONE, M.H., W.A. SANDS, K.C. PIERCE, J. CAR -
LOCK, M. CARDINALE, and R.U. NEWTON. Re-
lationship of maximum strength to weightlifting 
performance.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 37:1037-1043, 
2005.
 42. STONE, M.H., W.A. SANDS, K.C. PIERCE, R.U. NEWTON, G.G. HAFF, and J. CARLOCK. Maxi-
mum strength and strength training: a relation-
ship to endurance? Strength Cond J 28:44-53, 
2006. 43. STONE, M.H., M.E. STONE, and W.A. SANDS. 
Principles and Practice of Resistance Training. 
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2007.
 44. TANAKA, H., and T. SWENSEN. Impact of resis-
tance training on endurance performance: a new 
form of cross-training? Sports Med 25:191-200, 
1998.
 45. TOMLIN, D.L., and H.A. WENGER. The relation-
ship between aerobic fitness and recovery from high intensity intermittent exercise. Sports Med 
31(1):1-1 1, 2001.
 46. VERKHOSHANSKY, Y.U. Fundamentals of Special Strength Training in Sport. Livonia, MI: Sportivy 
Press, 1986.
 47. VERKHOSHANSKY, Y.U. Perspectives in the de-
velopment of speed-strength preparation in the 
development of jumpers.  Track and Field 9:1 1-12, 
1966.
 48. VERKHOSHANSKY, Y.U. Programming and Orga-nization of Training. Moscow: Fizkultura i Sport, 
1985.
 49. VERKHOSHANSKY, Y.U. Special Strength Training: 
A Practical Manual for Coaches. Muskegon, MI: Ul-
timate Athlete Concepts, 2006.
 50. YOUNG, W.B., R. JAMES, and I. MONTGOMERY. Is muscle power related to running speed with 
changes of direction? J Sports Med Phys Fitness 42:282-288, 2002.
Chapter 6
 1. ALLEN, D.G., J.A. LEE, and H. WESTERBLAD. In-tracellular calcium and tension during fatigue in 
isolated single muscle fibres from Xenopus lae-
vis. J Physiol 415:433-458, 1989.
 2. BARCROFT, H., and O.G. EDHOLM. The effect of temperature on blood flow and deep tempera-ture in the human forearm.  J Physiol 102:5-20, 
1943.
 3. BARCROFT, J., and W.O. KING. The effect of tem-
perature on the dissociation curve of blood.  J 
Physiol 39:374-384, 1909.
 4. BISHOP, D. Warm up I: potential mechanisms and the effects of passive warm up on exercise 
performance. Sports Med 33:439-454, 2003.
 5. BISHOP, D. Warm up II: performance changes following active warm up and how to structure 
the warm up. Sports Med 33:483-498, 2003.
 6. BISHOP, D., D. BONETTI, and M. SPENCER. The 
effect of an intermittent, high-intensity warm-
up on supramaximal kayak ergometer perfor-
mance. J Sports Sci 21:13-20, 2003.
 7. BOGDANIS, G.C., M.E. NEVILL, H.K. LAKOMY, 
C.M. GRAHAM, and G. LOUIS. Effects of active 
recovery on power output during repeated maxi-
mal sprint cycling.  Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 
74:461-469, 1996.

References345
 8. BOMPA, T.O. Total Training for Coaching Team 
Sports: A Self Help Guide. Toronto, ON, Canada: 
Sports Books Publisher, 2006.
 9. BOMPA, T.O., and M. CARRERA. Conditioning 
Young Athletes. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 
2015.
 10. BURKE, L., and V. DEAKIN. Clinical Sports Nutri-tion. Roseville, Australia: McGraw-Hill Australia, 
2000.
 1 1. CHEUNG, K., P. HUME, and L. MAXWELL. De-
layed onset muscle soreness: treatment strategies 
and performance factors.  Sports Med 33:145-164, 
2003.
 12. CHIU, L.Z., A.C. FRY, L.W. WEISS, B.K. SCHIL-LING, L.E. BROWN, and S.L. SMITH. Postactiva-
tion potentiation response in athletic and recre-
ationally trained individuals.  J Strength Cond Res 
17:671-677, 2003.
 13. COGGAN, A.R., and E.F. COYLE. Carbohydrate ingestion during prolonged exercise: effects on 
metabolism and performance.  Exerc Sport Sci Rev 
19:1-40, 1991.
 14. DAVIS, J.M. Central and peripheral factors in fa-tigue. J Sports Sci 13(spec no):S49-S53, 1995.
 15. DAVIS, J.M., N.L. ALDERSON, and R.S. WELSH. Serotonin and central nervous system fatigue: 
nutritional considerations.  Am J Clin Nutr 
72:573S-578S, 2000.
 16. DAVIS, J.M., and S.P. BAILEY. Possible mecha-nisms of central nervous system fatigue during 
exercise. Med Sci Sports Exerc 29:45-57, 1997.
 17. ENOKA, R.M. Activation order of motor axons 
in electrically evoked contractions.  Muscle Nerve 
25:763-764, 2002.
 18. ENOKA, R.M. Neuromechanics of Human Move-
ment. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2015.
 19. 
ENOKA, R.M., and D.G. STUART. Neurobiology of muscle fatigue. J Appl Physiol 72:1631-1648, 1992.
 20. FRY, A.C., B.K. SCHILLING, L.W. WEISS, and L.Z. CHIU. Beta2-adrenergic receptor downregulation 
and performance decrements during high-inten-
sity resistance exercise overtraining, J Appl Physiol 
101(6):1664-72, 1985.
 21. GANDELSMAN, A., and K. SMIRNOV. Physiolog-
icheskie Osnovi Metodiki Sportivnoi Trenirovki [The 
Physiological Foundations of Training]. Moscow: 
Fizkultura i Sport, 1970.
 22. GRANGE, R.W., C.R. CORY, R. VANDENBOOM, 
and M.E. HOUSTON. Myosin phosphorylation 
augments force-displacement and force-velocity 
relationships of mouse fast muscle.  Am J Physiol 
269:C713-C724, 1995.
 23. GRANGE, R.W., R. VANDENBOOM, J. XENI, and M.E. HOUSTON. Potentiation of in vitro con-
centric work in mouse fast muscle.  J Appl Physiol 
84:236-243, 1998. 24. GRODJINOVSKY, A., and J.R. MAGEL. Effect of 
warming up on running performance.  Res Q Ex-
erc Sport 41:1 16-1 19.
 25. HAFF, G.G., R.T. HOBBS, E.E. HAFF, W.A. SANDS, K.C. PIERCE, and M.H. STONE. Cluster training: 
a novel method for introducing training program 
variation. Strength Cond 30:67-76, 2008.
 26. HAFF, G.G., M.J. LEHMKUHL, L.B. MCCOY, 
and M.H. STONE. Carbohydrate supplementa-
tion and resistance training.  J Strength Cond Res 
17:187-196, 2003.
 27. HÄKKINEN, K., and M. KALLINEN. Distribution of strength training volume into one or two dai-
ly sessions and neuromuscular adaptations in 
female athletes.  Electromyogr Clin Neurophysiol 
34:1 17-124, 1994.
 28. HODGSON, M., D. DOCHERTY, and D. ROB-BINS. Post-activation potentiation: underlying 
physiology and implications for motor perfor-
mance. Sports Med 35:585-595, 2005.
 29. HOLCOMB, W.R. Stretching and warm-up. In: Essentials of Strength and Conditioning. T.R. Baech-
le and R.W. Earle, eds. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2000. pp. 321-342.
 30. HORNERY, D.J., D. FARROW, I. MUJIKA, and W. YOUNG. Fatigue in tennis: mechanisms of 
fatigue and effect on performance.  Sports Med 
37:199-212, 2007.
 31. IVY, J., and R. PORTMAN. The Future of Sports Nu-trition: Nutrient Timing. North Bergan, NJ: Basic 
Health, 2004.
 32. LAFORGIA, J., R.T. WITHERS, and C.J. GORE. 
Effects of exercise intensity and duration on the 
excess post-exercise oxygen consumption.  J Sports 
Sci 24:1247-1264, 2006.
 33. LITTLE, T., and A.G. WILLIAMS. Effects of differ-ential stretching protocols during warm-ups on 
high-speed motor capacities in professional soc-
cer players.  J Strength Cond Res 20:203-207, 2006.
 34. MALAREKI, I. Investigation of physiological jus-
tification of so-called “warming up.” Acta Physiol 
Pol 5:543-546, 1954.
 35. MASSEY, B.H., W.R. JOHNSON, and G.F. KRAM-
ER. Effect of warm-up exercise upon muscular 
performance using hypnosis to control the psy-chological variable.  Re. Q Exerc Sport 32:63-71, 
1961.
 36. MATVEYEV, L. About the construction of train-ing. Modern Athlete and Coach 32:12-16, 1994.
 37. MATVEYEV, L.P. Fundamentals of Sports Training. Moscow: Fizkultua i Sport, 1977.
 38. MATVEYEV, L.P. Periodisterung Des Sportlichen 
Trainings. Moscow: Fizkultura i Sport, 1972.
 39. MAUGHAN, R., and M. GLEESON. The Biochem-ical Basis of Sports Performance. New York: Oxford 
University Press, 2004.

References346
 40. MCBRIDE, J.M., S. NIMPHIUS, and T.M. ERICK -
SON. The acute effects of heavy-load squats and 
loaded countermovement jumps on sprint per-
formance. J Strength Cond Res 19:893-897, 2005.
 41. MCMILLAN, J.L., M.H. STONE, J. SARTIN, R. 
KEITH, D. MARPLE, C. BROWN, and R.D. LEW -
IS. 20-hour physiological responses to a single weight-training session.  J Strength Cond Res 7:9-
21, 1993.
 42. MCGILL, S.M. Low Back Disorders: Evidence-Based Prevention and Rehabilitation. 2nd ed. Champaign, 
IL: Human Kinetics, 2007.
 43. MEDVEDEV, A.S. Sistema Mnogoletnyei Trenirovki V Tyazheloi Atletikye. Moscow: Fizkultura i Sport, 1986.
 44. MIKA, A., P. MIKA, B. FERNHALL, and V.B. UN-NITHAN. Comparison of recovery strategies on 
muscle performance after fatiguing exercise.  Am J 
Phys Med Rehabil 86:474-481, 2007.
 45. MONEDERO, J., and B. DONNE. Effect of recov-ery interventions on lactate removal and subse-
quent performance.  Int J Sports Med 21:593-597, 
2000.
 46. NAGANE, M. Relationship of subjective chron-ic fatigue to academic performance.  Psychol Rep 
95:48-52, 2004.
 47. NOAKES, T.D. Physiological models to under-stand exercise fatigue and the adaptations that 
predict or enhance athletic performance.  Scand J 
Med Sci Sports 10:123-145, 2000.
 48. PETERSEN, J., K. THORBORG, M.B. NIELSEN, E. 
BUDTZ-JERGENSEN, and P. Hölmich. Preventive effect of eccentric training on acute hamstring in-
juries in men's soccer: a cluster-randomized con-
trolled trial. Am J Sports Med 39(1 1):2296-2303, 
2011 .
 49. RADCLIFFE, J.C., and J.L. RADCLIFFE. Effects 
of different warm-up protocols on peak power 
output during a single response jump task [ab-
stract]. Med Sci Sports Exerc 28:S189, 1996.
 50. REILLY, T., and B. EKBLOM. The use of recovery methods post-exercise.  J Sport Sci 23:619-627, 
2005.
 51. SAEZ SAEZ DE VILLARREAL, E., J.J. GONZA -
LEZ-BADILLO, and M. IZQUIERDO. Optimal warm-up stimuli of muscle activation to en-
hance short and long-term acute jumping perfor-
mance. Eur J Appl Physiol 100:393-401, 2007.
 52. SALTIN, B., A.P. GAGGE, and J.A. STOLWIJK. 
Muscle temperature during submaximal exercise 
in man. J Appl Physiol 25:679-688, 1968.
 53. SHRIER, I. Does stretching improve perfor-
mance? A systematic and critical review of the 
literature. Clin J Sports Med 14:267-273, 2004.
 54. ST CLAIR GIBSON, A., D.A. BADEN, M.I. LAM-
BERT, E.V. LAMBERT, Y.X. HARLEY, D. HAMP-SON, V.A. RUSSELL, and T.D. NOAKES. The 
conscious perception of the sensation of fa-
tigue. Sports Med 33:167-176, 2003.
 55. 
STONE, M.H., W.A. SANDS, K.C. PIERCE, M.W. 
RAMSEY, and G.G. HAFF. Power and power po -
tentiation among strength power athletes: prelim -
inary study.  Int J Sports Physiol Perf 3:55-67, 2008.
 56. STONE, M.H., M.E. STONE, and W.A. SANDS. Principles and Practice of Resistance Training. 
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2007.
 57. THORBORG, K., C. COUPPÉ, J. PETERSEN, S.P. MAGNUSSON, and P. Hölmich. Eccentric hip 
adduction and abduction strength in elite soccer players and matched controls: a cross-sectional 
study. Br J Sports Med 45(1):10-13, 201 1.
 58. WINCHESTER, J.B., A.G. NELSON, D. LANDIN, M.A. YOUNG, and I.C. SCHEXNAYDER. Static 
stretching impairs sprint performance in colle-
giate track and field athletes.  J Strength Cond Res 
22:13-19, 2008.
 59. WOODS, C., R.D. HAWKINS, S. MALTBY, M. HULSE, A. THOMAS, and A. HODSON. The 
Football Association Medical Research Pro-
gramme: an audit of injuries in professional foot-
ball—analysis of hamstring injuries. Br J Sports 
Med 38(1):36-41, 2004.
 60. WOODS, K., P. BISHOP, and E. JONES. Warm-up and stretching in the prevention of muscular 
injury. Sports Med 37:1089-1099, 2007.
 61. YETTER, M., and G.L. MOIR. The acute effects of 
heavy back and front squats on speed during for-
ty-meter sprint trials.  J Strength Cond Res 22:159-
165, 2008.
 62. YOUNG, W.B., and D.G. BEHM. Effects of run-ning, static stretching and practice jumps on 
explosive force production and jumping perfor-
mance. J Sports Med Phys Fitness 43:21-27, 2003.
 63. ZATSIORSKY, V.M. Science and Practice of Strength 
Training. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 1995.
 64. ZATSIORSKY, V.M., and W.J. KRAEMER. Science and Practice of Strength Training. 2nd Cham-paign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2006.
Chapter 7
 1. ARAZI, H. S.S. MOSAVI, S.S. BASIR, and M.G. KARAM. The effects of different recovery condi-
tions on blood lactate concentration and physi-
ological variables after high intensity exercise in 
handball players. Sport Sci 5:13-17, 2012.
 2. BROOKS, G.A., T.D. FAHEY, T.P. WHITE, and 
K.M. BALDWIN. Exercise Physiology: Human Bio-
energetics and Its Application. 3rd ed. Mountain 
View, CA: Mayfield, 2000.
 3. BURKE, L., and V. DEAKIN. Clinical Sports Nutri-tion. Roseville, Australia: McGraw-Hill Australia, 2000.

References347
 4. HALSON, S.L., M.W. BRIDGE, R. MEEUSEN, B. 
BUSSCHAERT, M. GLEESON, D.A. JONES, and 
A.E. JEUKENDRUP. Time course of performance 
changes and fatigue markers during intensified 
training in trained cyclists.  J Appl Physiol 93:947-
956, 2002.
 5. HELLARD, P., M. AVALOS, G. MILLET, L. LA -
COSTE, F. BARALE, and J.C. CHATARD. Model-
ing the residual effects and threshold saturation 
of training: a case study of Olympic swimmers.  J 
Strength Cond Res 19:67-75, 2005.
 6. HEYMAN, E., B. DE GEUS, I. MERTENS, and R. MEEUSEN. Effects of four recovery methods on 
repeated maximal rock climbing performance. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc 41:1303-1310, 2009.
 7. IVY, J., and R. PORTMAN. The Future of Sports Nu-
trition: Nutrient Timing. North Bergan, NJ: Basic 
Health, 2004.
 8. KRUSTRUP, P., M. MOHR, A. STEENSBERG, J. BENCKE, M. KJAER, and J. BANGSBO. Muscle 
and blood metabolites during a soccer game: im-
plications for sprint performance.  Med Sci Sports 
Exerc 38:1 165-1 174, 2006.
 9. MARTIN, N.A., R.F. ZOELLER, R.J. ROBERTSON, and S.M. LEPHART. The comparative effects of 
sports massage, active recovery, and rest in pro-
moting blood lactate clearance after supramaxi-
mal leg exercise. J Athl Train 33:30-35, 1998.
 10. MCARDLE, W.D., F.I. KATCH, and V.L. KATCH. 
Exercise Physiology: Energy, Nutrition, and Human 
Performance. 6th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Wil-
liams & Wilkins, 2007.
 1 1. MENZIES, P., C. MENZIES, L. MCINTYRE, P. PAT -
ERSON, J. WILSON, and O.J. KEMI. Blood lactate clearance during active recovery after an intense 
running bout depends on the intensity of the ac-
tive recovery. J Sports Sci 28:975-982, 2010.
 12. MUJIKA, I., and S. PADILLA. Scientific bases for 
precompetition tapering strategies.  Med Sci Sports 
Exerc 35:1 182-1 187, 2003.
 13. REILLY, T., and B. EKBLOM. The use of recovery methods post-exercise.  J Sport Sci 23:619-627, 
2005.
 14. REILLY, T., and M. RIGBY. Effect of an active warm-down following competitive soccer. In: 
Science and Football IV. W. Spinks, T. Reilly, and A. 
Murphy, eds. London: Routledge, 2002, pp. 226-229.
 15. STONE, M.H., M.E. STONE, and W.A. SANDS. 
Principles and Practice of Resistance Training. 
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2007.
 16. WHITE, G.E., and G.D. WELLS. The effect of on-hill active recovery performed between runs on 
blood lactate concentration and fatigue in al-
pine ski racers. J Strength Cond Res 29, 800-806,  
2015.Chapter 8
 1. ANDERSEN, L.L., J.L. ANDERSEN, S.P. MAG-NUSSON, C. SUETTA, J.L. MADSEN, L.R. CHRIS-
TENSEN, and P. AAGAARD. Changes in the 
human muscle force-velocity relationship in re-
sponse to resistance training and subsequent de-
training. J Appl Physiol 99:87-94, 2005.
 2. BOMPA, T.O. Theory and Methodology of Training. 
Dubuque, Iowa: Kendall/Hunt Publishing Com-
pany, 1983.
 3. BOMPA, T.O. Periodization: Theory and Methodol-ogy of Training. 4th ed. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 1999.
 4. COYLE, E.F., W.H. MARTIN, III, D.R. SINACORE, M.J. JOYNER, J.M. HAGBERG, and J.O. HOL-
LOSZY. Time course of loss of adaptations after 
stopping prolonged intense endurance training.  J 
Appl Physiol 57:1857-1864, 1984.
 5. DUNLAVY, J.K., W.A. SANDS, J.R. MCNEAL, M.H. STONE, S.A. SMITH, M. JEMNI, and G.G. HAFF. 
Strength performance assessment in a simulated 
men’s gymnastics still rings cross.  J Sports Sci Med 
6:93-97, 2007.
 6. FRY, R.W., A.R. MORTON, and D. KEAST. Over-training in athletes: an update. Sports Med 12:32-
65, 1991.
 7. FRY, A.C. The role of training intensity in resis-
tance exercise overtraining and overreaching. In: 
Overtraining in Sport. R.B. Kreider, A.C. Fry, and 
M.L. O’Toole, eds. Champaign, IL: Human Kinet-
ics, 1998. pp. 107-127.
 8. HAFF, G.G., J.M. CARLOCK, M.J. HARTMAN, 
J.L. KILGORE, N. KAWAMORI, J.R. JACKSON, 
R.T. MORRIS, W.A. SANDS, and M.H. STONE. 
Force-time curve characteristics of dynamic and 
isometric muscle actions of elite women Olym-
pic weightlifters.  J Strength Cond Res 19:741-748, 
2005.
 9. HAFF, G.G., J.R. JACKSON, N. KAWAMORI, J.M. CARLOCK, M.J. HARTMAN, J.L. KILGORE, R.T. 
MORRIS, M.W. RAMSEY, W.A. SANDS, and M.H. 
STONE. Force-time curve characteristics and hor-monal alterations during an eleven-week train-
ing period in elite women weightlifters.  J Strength 
Cond Res 22:433-446, 2008.
 10. HÄKKINEN, K., and P.V. KOMI. Electromyo-
graphic changes during strength training and de-training. Med Sci Sports Exerc 15:455-460, 1983.
 1 1. HARMAN, E., and C. PANDORF. Principles of test selection and administration. In: Essentials 
of Strength Training and Conditioning. T.R. Baechle 
and R.W. Earle, eds. Champaign, IL: Human Ki-netics, 2000, pp. 275-286.
 12. HAWLEY, J.A. Interaction of exercise and diet to maximise training adaptation.  Asia Pac J Clin 
Nutr 14:S35, 2005.

References348
 13. HORTOBAGYI, T., J.A. HOUMARD, J.R. STE-
VENSON, D.D. FRASER, R.A. JOHNS, and R.G. 
ISRAEL. The effects of detraining on power ath-
letes. Med Sci Sports Exerc 25:929-935, 1993.
 14. HOUMARD, J.A., T. HORTOBAGYI, R.A. JOHNS, 
N.J. BRUNO, C.C. NUTE, M.H. SHINEBARGER, 
and J.W. WELBORN. Effect of short-term training 
cessation on performance measures in distance 
runners. Int J Sports Med 13:572-576, 1992.
 15. IZQUIERDO, M., J. IBANEZ, J.J. GONZALEZ-BA -
DILLO, N.A. RATAMESS, W.J. KRAEMER, K. HÄK -
KINEN, H. BONNABAU, C. GRANADOS, D.N. 
FRENCH, and E.M. GOROSTIAGA. Detraining 
and tapering effects on hormonal responses and 
strength performance.  J Strength Cond Res 21:768-
775, 2007.
 16. KRAEMER, W.J., L.P. KOZIRIS, N.A. RATAMESS, K. HÄKKINEN, T.R.-M. NT, A.C. FRY, S.E. GOR -
DON, J.S. VOLEK, D.N. FRENCH, M.R. RUBIN, 
A.L. GOMEZ, M.J. SHARMAN, J. MICHAEL 
LYNCH, M. IZQUIERDO, R.U. NEWTON, and 
S.J. FLECK. Detraining produces minimal chang-
es in physical performance and hormonal vari-
ables in recreationally strength-trained men.  J 
Strength Cond Res 16:373-382, 2002.
 17. KRAEMER, W.J., J.S. VOLEK, J.A. BUSH, M. PU-TUKIAN, and W.J. SEBASTIANELLI. Hormonal 
responses to consecutive days of heavy-resistance 
exercise with or without nutritional supplemen-
tation. J Appl Physiol 85:1544-1555, 1998.
 18. KUIPERS, H., and H.A. KEIZER. Overtraining in 
elite athletes: review and directions for the fu-
ture. Sports Med 6:79-92, 1988.
 19. MAUGHAN, R. Physiology of sport.  Br J Hosp 
Med (Lond) 68:376-379, 2007.
 20. MUJIKA, I., and S. PADILLA. Detraining: loss of training-induced physiological and performance 
adaptations: part I: short term insufficient train-
ing stimulus. Sports Med 30:79-87, 2000.
 21. MUJIKA, I., and S. PADILLA. Detraining: loss of 
training-induced physiological and performance 
adaptations: part II: Long term insufficient train-
ing stimulus. Sports Med 30:145-154, 2000.
 22. MUJIKA, I., and S. PADILLA. Muscular charac-
teristics of detraining in humans.  Med Sci Sports 
Exerc 33:1297-1303, 2001.
 23. SMITH, D.J., S.R. NORRIS, and J.M. HOGG. Performance evaluation of swimmers: scientific 
tools. Sports Med 32:539-554, 2002.
 24. STARON, R.S., M.J. LEONARDI, D.L. KARAPON-
DO, E.S. MALICKY, J.E. FALKEL, F.C. HAGER -
MAN, and R.S. HIKIDA. Strength and skeletal muscle adaptations in heavy-resistance-trained 
women after detraining and retraining.  J Appl 
Physiol 70:631-640, 1991.
 25. STONE, M.H., and H.O. O’BRYANT. Weight Train-ing: A Scientific Approach. Edina, MN: Burgess, 
1987. 26. STONE, M.H., K. SANBORN, H.S. O’BRYANT, M. 
HARTMAN, M.E. STONE, C. PROULX, B. WARD, 
and J. HRUBY. Maximum strength-power-per-
formance relationships in collegiate throwers.  J 
Strength Cond Res 17:739-745, 2003.
 27. STONE, M.H., W.A. SANDS, K.C. PIERCE, J. CAR -
LOCK, M. CARDINALE, and R.U. NEWTON. Re-
lationship of maximum strength to weightlifting 
performance.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 37:1037-1043, 
2005.
 28. VIRU, A. Adaptations in Sports Training. Boca Ra-ton, FL: CRC Press, 1995.
 29. ZATSIORSKY, V.M., and W.J. KRAEMER. Science and Practice of Strength Training. 2nd ed. Cham-paign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2006.
Chapter 9
 1. AJÁN, T., and L. BAROGA. Weightlifting: Fitness for 
All Sports. Budapest: International Weightlifting 
Federation, 1988.
 2. BANISTER, E.W., J.B. CARTER, and P.C. ZARKA -
DAS. Training theory and taper: validation in tri-athlon athletes.  Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 
79:182-191, 1999.
 3. BOMPA, T.O. Theory and Methodology of Training: The Key to Athletic Performance. Dubuque, IA: Ken-
dall/Hunt, 1994.
 4. BOSQUET, L., L. LEGER, and P. LEGROS. Meth-
ods to determine aerobic endurance.  Sports Med 
32:675-700, 2002.
 5. BUSSO, T. Variable dose-response relationship between exercise training and performance.  Med 
Sci Sports Exerc 35:1 188-1 195, 2003.
 6. BUSSO, T., K. HÄKKINEN, A. PAKARINEN, H. 
KAUHANEN, P.V. KOMI, and J.R. LACOUR. Hor-
monal adaptations and modeled responses in elite weightlifters during 6 weeks of training.  Eur 
J Appl Physiol 64:381-386, 1992.
 6b. CHTOUROU, H., A. CHAOUACHI, T. DRISS, 
M. DOGUI, D.G. BEHM, K. CHAMARI, and N. 
SOUISSI. The effect of training at the same time of day and tapering period on the diurnal vari-
ation of short exercise performances. J Strength 
Cond Res 26(3):697-708, 2012.
 7. COUTTS, A., P. REABURN, T.J. PIVA, and A. MUR -
PHY. Changes in selected biochemical, muscular strength, power, and endurance measures during 
deliberate overreaching and tapering in rugby 
league players.  Int J Sports Med 28:1 16-124, 2007.
 8. DICK, F.W. Sports Training Principles. 4th ed. Lon-
don: A & C Black, 2002.
 9. DRABIK, J. Children and Sports Training. Island 
Pond, VT: Stadion, 1995.
 10. FLYNN, M.G., F.X. PIZZA, J.B. BOONE, JR., F.F. 
ANDRES, T.A. MICHAUD, and J.R. RODRI-
GUEZ-ZAYAS. Indices of training stress during 

References349
competitive running and swimming seasons.  Int 
J Sports Med 15:21-26, 1994.
 1 1. GIBALA, M.J., J.D. MACDOUGALL, and D.G. 
SALE. The effects of tapering on strength per-formance in trained athletes.  Int J Sports Med 
15:492-497, 1994.
 12. GJURKOW, D. Annual competition and training 
program for senior weightlifters. In: Proceedings 
of the Weightlifting Symposium: Ancient Olympia/Greece 1993. Á. Lukácsfalvi and F. Takács, eds. 
Budapest: International Weightlifting Federation, 
1993, pp. 103-1 15.
 13. GRAVES, J.E., M.L. POLLOCK, D. FOSTER, S.H. LEGGETT, D.M. CARPENTER, R. VUOSO, and A. JONES. Effect of training frequency and specifici-
ty on isometric lumbar extension strength.  Spine 
15:504-509, 1990.
 14. GRAVES, J.E., M.L. POLLOCK, S.H. LEGGETT, 
R.W. BRAITH, D.M. CARPENTER, and L.E. BISH-
OP. Effect of reduced training frequency on mus-
cular strength. Int J Sports Med 9:316-319, 1988.
 15. HARRE, D. Trainingslehre. Berlin, Germany: 
Sportverlag, 1982.
 16. HELLARD, P., M. AVALOS, G. MILLET, L. LA -
COSTE, F. BARALE, and J.C. CHATARD. Model-
ing the residual effects and threshold saturation 
of training: a case study of Olympic swimmers.  J 
Strength Cond Res 19:67-75, 2005.
 17. HICKSON, R.C., C. FOSTER, M.L. POLLOCK, T.M. GALASSI, and S. RICH. Reduced training 
intensities and loss of aerobic power, endurance, 
and cardiac growth.  J Appl Physiol 58:492-499, 
1985.
 18. HICKSON, R.C., and M.A. ROSENKOETTER. Reduced training frequencies and maintenance 
of increased aerobic power.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 
13:13-16, 1981.
 19. HOOPER, S.L., L.T. MACKINNON, and E.M. GINN. Effects of three tapering techniques on the 
performance, forces and psychometric measures 
of competitive swimmers.  Eur J Appl Physiol Occup 
Physiol 78:258-263, 1998.
 20. HOOPER, S.L., L.T. MACKINNON, and A. HOW -
ARD. Physiological and psychometric variables 
for monitoring recovery during tapering for ma-
jor competition.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 31:1205-
1210, 1999.
 21. HOUMARD, J.A. Tapering for the competitive cyclist.  Performance Conditioning for Cyclists 2:1-8, 
1996.
 22. HOUMARD, J.A., D.L. COSTILL, J.B. MITCHELL, S.H. PARK, W.J. FINK, and J.M. BURNS. Testoster-
one, cortisol, and creatine kinase levels in male 
distance runners during reduced training.  Int J 
Sports Med 1 1:41-45, 1990.
 23. HOUMARD, J.A., D.L. COSTILL, J.B. MITCH-ELL, S.H. PARK, R.C. HICKNER, and J.N. ROEM-MICH. Reduced training maintains performance 
in distance runners.  Int J Sports Med 1 1:46-52, 
1990.
 24. HOUMARD, J.A., and R.A. JOHNS. Effects of taper on swim performance: practical implica-
tions. Sports Med 17:224-232, 1994.
 25. HOUMARD, J.A., J.P. KIRWAN, M.G. FLYNN, and J.B. MITCHELL. Effects of reduced training on 
submaximal and maximal running responses.  Int 
J Sports Med 10:30-33, 1989.
 26. HOUMARD, J.A., B.K. SCOTT, C.L. JUSTICE, and T.C. CHENIER. The effects of taper on perfor-
mance in distance runners.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 
26:624-631, 1994.
 27. IZQUIERDO, M., J. IBANEZ, J.J. GONZALEZ-BA -
DILLO, N.A. RATAMESS, W.J. KRAEMER, K. HÄK -
KINEN, H. BONNABAU, C. GRANADOS, D.N. FRENCH, and E.M. GOROSTIAGA. Detraining 
and tapering effects on hormonal responses and 
strength performance.  J Strength Cond Res 21:768-
775, 2007.
 28. JOHNS, R.A., J.A. HOUMARD, R.W. KOBE, T. HORTOBAGYI, N.J. BRUNO, J.M. WELLS, and 
M.H. SHINEBARGER. Effects of taper on swim 
power, stroke distance, and performance.  Med Sci 
Sports Exerc 24:1 141-1 146, 1992.
 29.  KAUHANEN, H. Organization of the coaching system of young weightlifters in Finland. In: Pro -
ceedings of International Conference on Weightlift-ing and Strength Training. Lahti, Finland, 1998, p. 
137-140.
 30. KUBUKELI, Z.N., T.D. NOAKES, and S.C. DEN-
NIS. Training techniques to improve endurance 
exercise performances.  Sports Med 32:489-509, 
2002.
 31. KUKUSHKIN, G.I. System of Physical Education in the USSR. Moscow: Raduga, 1983.
 31b. LACEY, J., M. BRUGHELLI, M. MCGUIGAN, K. 
HANSEN, P. SAMOZINO, and J.B. MORIN. The 
effects of tapering on power-force-velocity profil-
ing and jump performance in professional rugby 
league players, J Strength Cond Res 28(12):3567-
3570, 2014.
 32. MARTIN, D.T., J.C. SCIFRES, S.D. ZIMMERMAN, 
and J.G. WILKINSON. Effects of interval training 
and a taper on cycling performance and isokinet-
ic leg strength.  Int J Sports Med 15:485-491, 1994.
 32b. MATVEYEV, L.P. Teorii postroenija sportivnoj tre-
nirovki [Sport Training Design Theories]. Teorija 
i praktica fiziceskoj kul’turi [Theory and Practice of 
Physical Kulture]12:1 1-20, 1991.
 32c. MATVEYEV, L., V. KALININ, and N. OZOLIN. 
Characteristics of athletic shape and methods 
of rationalizing the structure of the competitive 
phase. In: Scientific Research Collection. Moscow, 
1974, pp. 4-23. 

References350
 33. MCCONELL, G.K., D.L. COSTILL, J.J. WIDRICK, 
M.S. HICKEY, H. TANAKA, and P.B. GASTIN. Re-
duced training volume and intensity maintain 
aerobic capacity but not performance in distance 
runners. Int J Sports Med 14:33-37, 1993.
 34. MUJIKA, I. The influence of training character-
istics and tapering on the adaptation in highly 
trained individuals: a review.  Int J Sports Med 
19:439-446, 1998.
 35. MUJIKA, I., T. BUSSO, L. LACOSTE, F. BARALE, A. GEYSSANT, and J.C. CHATARD. Modeled re-
sponses to training and taper in competitive 
swimmers.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 28:251-258, 
1996.
 36. MUJIKA, I., J.C. CHATARD, and A. GEYSSANT. Effects of training and taper on blood leucocyte 
populations in competitive swimmers: relation-
ships with cortisol and performance.  Int J Sports 
Med 17:213-217, 1996.
 37. MUJIKA, I., J.C. CHATARD, S. PADILLA, C.Y. 
GUEZENNEC, and A. GEYSSANT. Hormon-
al responses to training and its tapering off in 
competitive swimmers: relationships with per-
formance.  Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 74:361-
366, 1996.
 38. MUJIKA, I., A. GOYA, S. PADILLA, A. GRIJALBA, E. GOROSTIAGA, and J. IBANEZ. Physiologi-
cal responses to a 6-d taper in middle-distance 
runners: influence of training intensity and vol-
ume. Med Sci Sports Exerc 32:51 1-517, 2000.
 39. MUJIKA, I., A. GOYA, E. RUIZ, A. GRIJALBA, J. 
SANTISTEBAN, and S. PADILLA. Physiological 
and performance responses to a 6-day taper in 
middle-distance runners: influence of training 
frequency. Int J Sports Med 23:367-373, 2002.
 40. MUJIKA, I., and S. PADILLA. Detraining: loss of 
training-induced physiological and performance 
adaptations: part I: short term insufficient train-
ing stimulus. Sports Med 30:79-87, 2000.
 41. MUJIKA, I., and S. PADILLA. Scientific bases for 
precompetition tapering strategies.  Med Sci Sports 
Exerc 35:1 182-1 187, 2003.
 42. MUJIKA, I., S. PADILLA, A. GEYSSANT, and J.C. CHATARD. Hematological responses to training 
and taper in competitive swimmers: relation-
ships with performance.  Arch Physiol Biochem 
105:379-385, 1998.
 43. MUJIKA, I., S. PADILLA, and D. PYNE. Swimming performance changes during the final 3 weeks of training leading to the Sydney 2000 Olympic 
Games. Int J Sports Med 23:582-587, 2002.
 44. MUJIKA, I., S. PADILLA, D. PYNE, and T. BUSSO. Physiological changes associated with the pre-
event taper in athletes.  Sports Med 34:891-927, 
2004.
 45. NABATNIKOWAS, M.Y. Osnovy upravlienya pod-
gotovki yunyky sportsmenov. Moscow: Fizkultura i 
Sport, 1982. 46. NÁDORI, L., and I. GRANEK. Theoretical and 
Methodological Basis of Training Planning With Spe-
cial Considerations Within a Microcycle. Lincoln, 
NE: NSCA, 1989.
 47. NEARY, J.P., Y.N. BHAMBHANI, and D.C. MCK -
ENZIE. Effects of different stepwise reduction ta-per protocols on cycling performance.  Can J Appl 
Physiol 28:576-587, 2003.
 48. NEARY, J.P., T.P. MARTIN, and H.A. QUINNEY. Effects of taper on endurance cycling capacity 
and single muscle fiber properties.  Med Sci Sports 
Exerc 35:1875-1881, 2003.
 49. NEARY, J.P., T.P. MARTIN, D.C. REID, R. BURN-
HAM, and H.A. QUINNEY. The effects of a re-duced exercise duration taper programme on 
performance and muscle enzymes of endurance 
cyclists.  Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 65:30-36, 
1992.
 50. NEUFER, P.D. The effect of detraining and re-
duced training on the physiological adaptations 
to aerobic exercise training.  Sports Med 8:302-
320, 1989.
 51. NEUFER, P.D., D.L. COSTILL, R.A. FIELDING, M.G. FLYNN, and J.P. KIRWAN. Effect of reduced 
training on muscular strength and endurance 
in competitive swimmers.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 
19:486-490, 1987.
 52. OLBRECT, J. The Science of Winning: Planning, 
Periodizing, and Optimizing Swim Training. Luton, 
UK: Swimshop, 2000.
 52b. OZOLIN, N. Sovremennaia Systema Sportivnoi Tre-
nirovky [Athlete’s Training System for Competi-
tion]. Moscow: Fizkultura i Sport, 1971.
 53. PAPOTI, M., L.E. MARTINS, S.A. CUNHA, A.M. 
ZAGATTO, and C.A. GOBATTO. Effects of taper 
on swimming force and swimmer performance 
after an experimental ten-week training pro-
gram. J Strength Cond Res 21:538-542, 2007.
 53b. PLATONOV, V.N. L’Organizzazione dell’Allenamen-
to e dell’Attività di Gara [General Training Theory of Olympic Sports].Perugia, Italy:  Calzetti & Mar-
iucci, 2004.
 54. PLISK, S.S., and M.H. STONE. Periodization strategies. Strength Cond 25:19-37, 2003.
 55. RACKZEK, J. Szkolenie mlodziezy w systemie sportu 
wyczynowego [Youth Training in the Competitive 
Sport System]. Katowice, Poland: AWF, 1989.
 56. RAGLIN, J.S., D.M. KOCEJA, J.M. STAGER, and C.A. HARMS. Mood, neuromuscular function, 
and performance during training in female swim-
mers. Med Sci Sports Exerc 28:372-377, 1996.
 57. RIETJENS, G.J., H.A. KEIZER, H. KUIPERS, and 
W.H. SARIS. A reduction in training volume and 
intensity for 21 days does not impair performance 
in cyclists. Br J Sports Med 35:431-434, 2001.
 58. SHEPLEY, B., J.D. MACDOUGALL, N. CIPRIA -
NO, J.R. SUTTON, M.A. TARNOPOLSKY, and 

References351
G. COATES. Physiological effects of tapering in 
highly trained athletes.  J Appl Physiol 72:706-71 1, 
1992.
 59. SMITH, D.J. A framework for understanding the training process leading to elite perfor-
mance. Sports Med 33:1 103-1 126, 2003.
 60. STONE, M.H., M.E. STONE, and W.A. SANDS. Principles and Practice of Resistance Training. 
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2007.
 61. THOMAS, L., and T. BUSSO. A theoretical study 
of taper characteristics to optimize perfor-
mance. Med Sci Sports Exerc 37:1615-1621, 2005.
 62. TRAPPE, S., D. COSTILL, and R. THOMAS. Effect 
of swim taper on whole muscle and single mus-
cle fiber contractile properties.  Med Sci Sports Ex-
erc 32:48-56, 2000.
 63. ZARKADAS, P.C., J.B. CARTER, and E.W. BAN-ISTER. Modelling the effect of taper on perfor-
mance, maximal oxygen uptake, and the anaer-
obic threshold in endurance triathletes.  Adv Exp 
Med Biol 393:179-186, 1995.
 64. ZATSIORSKY, V.M. Science and Practice of Strength Training. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 1995.
 65. ZATSIORSKY, V.M., and W.J. KRAEMER. Science and Practice of Strength Training. 2nd ed. Cham-
paign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2006.
Chapter 10
 1. AAGAARD, P., J.L. ANDERSEN, P. DYHRE-
POULSEN, A.M. LEFFERS, A. WAGNER, S.P. 
MAGNUSSON, J. HALKJAER-KRISTENSEN, and 
E.B. SIMONSEN. A mechanism for increased 
contractile strength of human pennate muscle in 
response to strength training: changes in muscle 
architecture. J Physiol 534:613-623, 2001.
 2. AAGAARD, P., E.B. SIMONSEN, J.L. ANDERS-
EN, P. MAGNUSSON, and P. DYHRE-POULSEN. 
Increased rate of force development and neural 
drive of human skeletal muscle following resis-
tance training.  J Appl Physiol 93:1318-1326, 2002.
 3. AAGAARD, P., E.B. SIMONSEN, J.L. ANDERSEN, 
S.P. MAGNUSSON, J. HALKJAER-KRISTENSEN, 
and P. DYHRE-POULSEN. Neural inhibition 
during maximal eccentric and concentric quad-
riceps contraction: effects of resistance training J 
Appl Physiol 89:2249-2257, 2000.
 4. ABDESSEMED, D., P. DUCHE, C. HAUTIER, G. 
POUMARAT, and M. BEDU. Effect of recovery 
duration on muscular power and blood lactate 
during the bench press exercise.  Int J Sports Med 
20:368-373, 1999.
 5. ADAMS, G.R., B.M. HATHER, K.M. BALDWIN, and G.A. DUDLEY. Skeletal muscle myosin heavy 
chain composition and resistance training.  J Appl 
Physiol 74:91 1-915, 1993.
 6. AHTIAINEN, J.P., A. PAKARINEN, M. ALEN, W.J. KRAEMER, and K. HÄKKINEN. Muscle hyper-trophy, hormonal adaptations and strength de-
velopment during strength training in strength-
trained and untrained men.  Eur J Appl Physiol 
89:555-563, 2003.
 7. AJÁN, T., and L. BAROGA. Weightlifting: Fitness for All Sports. Budapest: International Weightlifting 
Federation, 1988.
 8. American College of Sports Medicine position 
stand: progressive models in resistance training 
for healthy adults.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 34:364-
380, 2002.
 9. ANDERSEN, L.L., and P. AAGAARD. Influence of maximal muscle strength and intrinsic muscle 
contractile properties on contractile rate of force 
development. Eur J Appl Physiol 96:46-52, 2006.
 10. BABRAJ et al., Collagen synthesis in human mus-
culoskeletal tissues and skin. Am J Physiol Endo-
crinol Metab. 289 (5): E864-E869, 2005. 10.1 152/
ajpendo.00243.2005
 1 1. BAKER, D. Comparison of upper-body strength and power between professional and college-aged 
rugby league players.  J Strength Cond Res 15:30-
35, 2001.
 12. BAKER, D. A series of studies on the training of high-intensity muscle power in rugby league 
football players.  J Strength Cond Res 15:198-209, 
2001.
 13. BAKER, D., and S. NANCE. The relation between running speed and measures of strength and 
power in professional rugby league players.  J 
Strength Cond Res 13:230-235, 1999.
 14. BARKER, M., T.J. WYATT, R.L. JOHNSON, M.H. STONE, H.S. O’BRYANT, C. POE, and M. KENT. 
Performance factors, physiological assessment, 
physical characteristic, and football playing abili-
ty. J Strength Cond Res 7:224-233, 1993.
 15. BASTIAANS, J.J., A.B. VAN DIEMEN, T. VENE-
BERG, and A.E. JEUKENDRUP. The effects of re-
placing a portion of endurance training by explo-
sive strength training on performance in trained 
cyclists. Eur J Appl Physiol 86:79-84, 2001.
 16. BEHM, D., and D.G. SALE. Intended rather 
than actual movement velocity determines ve-
locity-specific training response. J Appl Physiol 
74:359-368, 1993.
 17. BERGH, U., A. THORSTENSSON, B. SJODIN, B. HULTEN, K. PIEHL, and J. KARLSSON. Maximal 
oxygen uptake and muscle fiber types in trained 
and untrained humans.  Med Sci Sports 10:151-
154, 1978.
 18. BILCHECK, H.M., W.J. KRAEMER, C.M. MARESH, and Z. M.A. The effect of isokinetic fatigue on 
recovery of maximal isokinetic concentric and 
eccentric strength in women.  J Strength Cond Res 
7:43-50, 1993.
 19. BOBBERT, M.F., and A.J. VAN SOEST. Why do people jump the way they do? Exerc Sport Sci Rev 
29:95-102, 2001.

References352
 20. BOMPA, T.O., and M.C. CARRERA. Periodization 
Training for Sports: Science-Based Strength and Con-
ditioning Plans for 20 Sports. 2nd ed. Champaign, 
IL: Human Kinetics, 2005.
 21. BOMPA, T.O. Total Training for Coaching Team 
Sports: A Self Help Guide. Toronto, CA: Sports 
Books Publisher, 2006.
 22. BOMPA, T.O., and C.A. BUZZICHELLI. Period-ization Training for Sports. 3rd ed. Champaign, IL: 
Human Kinetics, 2015.
 23. BOUCHARD, C., F.T. DIONNE, J.A. SIMONEAU, and M.R. BOULAY. Genetics of aerobic and an-
aerobic performances.  Exerc Sport Sci Rev 20:27-
58, 1992.
 24. BRET, C., A. RAHMANI, A.B. DUFOUR, L. MES-SONNIER, and J.R. LACOUR. Leg strength and 
stiffness as ability factors in 100 m sprint run-
ning. J Sports Med Phys Fitness 42:274-281, 2002.
 25. BRYZYCHI, M. Assessing Strength.  Fitness Man-
age June:34-37, 2000.
 26. BRYZYCHI, M. Strength testing: predicting a one 
rep max from reps to fatigue.  JOPERD 64:88-90, 
1993.
 27. CAMPOS, G.E., T.J. LUECKE, H.K. WENDELN, K. TOMA, F.C. HAGERMAN, T.F. MURRAY, K.E. 
RAGG, N.A. RATAMESS, W.J. KRAEMER, and R.S. 
STARON. Muscular adaptations in response to three different resistance-training regimens: spec-
ificity of repetition maximum training zones.  Eur 
J Appl Physiol 88:50-60, 2002.
 28. CAVAGNA, G.A., F.P. SAIBENE, and R. MAR -
GARIA. Effect of negative work on the amount of 
positive work performed by an isolated muscle.  J 
Appl Physiol 20:157-158, 1965.
 29. CHILIBECK, P.D., A.W. CALDER, D.G. SALE, 
and C.E. WEBBER. A comparison of strength and 
muscle mass increases during resistance training in young women.  Eur J Appl Physiol 77:170-175, 
1998.
 30. CHIU, L.Z., A.C. FRY, B.K. SCHILLING, E.J. 
JOHNSON, and L.W. WEISS. Neuromuscular fa-
tigue and potentiation following two successive high intensity resistance exercise sessions.  Eur J 
Appl Physiol 92:385-392, 2004.
 31. CHIU, L.Z., A.C. FRY, L.W. WEISS, B.K. SCHIL-LING, L.E. BROWN, and S.L. SMITH. Postactiva-
tion potentiation response in athletic and recre-
ationally trained individuals.  J Strength Cond Res 
17:671-677, 2003.
 32. CHRISTOU, M., I. SMILIOS, K. SOTIROPOU-LOS, K. VOLAKLIS, T. PILIANIDIS, and S.P. TOK -
MAKIDIS. Effects of resistance training on the physical capacities of adolescent soccer players.  J 
Strength Cond Res 20:783-791, 2006.
 33. CLARKSON, P.M., J.M. DEVANEY, H. GORD-ISH-DRESSMAN, P.D. THOMPSON, M.J. HUB-
AL, M. URSO, T.B. PRICE, T.J. ANGELOPOULOS, P.M. GORDON, N.M. MOYNA, L.S. PESCATEL-
LO, P.S. VISICH, R.F. ZOELLER, R.L. SEIP, and 
E.P. HOFFMAN. ACTN3 genotype is associated 
with increases in muscle strength in response 
to resistance training in women.  J Appl Physiol 
99:154-163, 2005.
 34. COFFEY, V.G., and J.A. HAWLEY. The molecular bases of training adaptation.  Sports Med 37:737-
763, 2007.
 35. CRAMERI, R.M., H. LANGBERG, B. TEISNER, P. MAGNUSSON, H.D. SCHRÿDER,  J.L. OLESEN, 
C.H. JENSEN, S. KOSKINEN, C. SUETTA, and M. KJAER. Enhanced procollagen processing in skel-
etal muscle after a single bout of eccentric load-
ing in humans. Matrix Biol 23 (4):259–64, 2004.
 36. CRONIN, J.B., and K.T. HANSEN. Strength and 
power predictors of sports speed.  J Strength Cond 
Res 19:349-357, 2005.
 37. CRONIN, J.B., P.J. MCNAIR, and R.N. MAR -
SHALL. The role of maximal strength and load on initial power production.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 
32:1763-1769, 2000.
 38. D’ANTONA, G., F. LANFRANCONI, M.A. PEL-LEGRINO, L. BROCCA, R. ADAMI, R. ROSSI, 
G. MORO, D. MIOTTI, M. CANEPARI, and R. 
BOTTINELLI. Skeletal muscle hypertrophy and 
structure and function of skeletal muscle fibres in 
male body builders. J Physiol 570:61 1-627, 2006.
 39. DESCHENES, M. Short review: rate coding and 
motor unit recruitment patterns.  J Appl Sports Sci 
Res 3:33-39, 1989.
 40. DOESSING, S. and M. KJAER. Growth hormone and connective tissue in exercise. Scand J Med Sci 
Sports 15(4):202–210, 2005.
 41. DONS, B., K. BOLLERUP, F. BONDE-PETERSEN, 
and S. HANCKE. The effect of weight-lifting ex-
ercise related to muscle fiber composition and 
muscle cross-sectional area in humans.  Eur J Appl 
Physiol 40:95-106, 1979.
 42. DRINKWATER, E.J., T.W. LAWTON, M.J. MCKEN-NA, R.P. LINDSELL, P.H. HUNT, and D.B. PYNE. 
Increased number of forced repetitions does not 
enhance strength development with resistance 
training. J Strength Cond Res 21:841-847, 2007.
 43. DUCHATEAU, J., and K. HAINAUT. Isometric or 
dynamic training: differential effects on mechan-
ical properties of a human muscle.  J Appl Physiol 
56:296-301, 1984.
 44. DUCHATEAU, J., J.G. SEMMLER, and R.M. ENO-KA. Training adaptations in the behavior of hu-
man motor units.  J Appl Physiol 101:1766-1775, 
2006.
 45. EL-HEWIE, M.F. Essentials of Weightlifting & 
Strength Training. Lodi, NJ: Shaymaa, 2003.
 46. EPLEY, B. The Path to Athletic Power. Champaign, 
IL: Human Kinetics, 2004.

References353
 47. FERRIS, D.P., J.F. SIGNORILE, and J.F. CARUSO. 
The relationship between physical and physio-
logical variables and volleyball spiking velocity.  J 
Strength Cond Res 9:32-36, 1995.
 48. FLECK, S.J., and W.J. KRAEMER. Designing Resis-tance Training Programs. 2 ed. Champaign, IL: Hu-
man Kinetics, 1997.
 49. FLECK, S., and W.J. KRAEMER. Designing Resis-tance Training Programs. 3rd ed. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2004.
 50. FLORESCU, C., V. DUMITRESCU, and A. PRE-DESCU. Metodologia Desvoltari Calitatilor Fizice 
[The Methodology of Developing Physical Quali-ties]. Bucharest: National Sports Council, 1969.
 51. FOLLAND, J.P., and A.G. WILLIAMS. The ad-
aptations to strength training: morphological 
and neurological contributions to increased 
strength. Sports Med 37:145-168, 2007.
 52. FROBOSE, I., A. VERDONCK, F. DUESBERG, and 
C. MUCHA. Effects of various load intensities in 
the framework of postoperative stationary endur-
ance training on performance deficit of the quad-
riceps muscle of the thigh.  Z Orthop Ihre Grenzgeb 
131:164-167, 1993.
 53. FRY, A.C. The role of resistance exercise intensity on muscle fibre adaptations.  Sports Med 34:663-
679, 2004.
 54. FRY, A.C. The role of training intensity in resis-tance exercise overtraining and overreaching. In: 
Overtraining in Sport. R.B. Kreider, A.C. Fry, and 
M.L. O’Toole, eds. Champaign, IL: Human Kinet-
ics, 1998, pp. 107-127.
 55. FRY, A.C., and W.J. KRAEMER. Physical perfor-
mance characteristics of American collegiate 
football players.  J Appl Sport Sci Res 5:126-138, 
1991.
 56. FRY, A.C., B.K. SCHILLING, R.S. STARON, F.C. HAGERMAN, R.S. HIKIDA, and J.T. THRUSH. 
Muscle fiber characteristics and performance 
correlates of male Olympic-style weightlifters.  J 
Strength Cond Res 17:746-754, 2003.
 57. FRY, A.C., J.M. WEBBER, L.W. WEISS, M.P. HAR -
BER, M. VACZI, and N.A. PATTISON. Muscle fi-
ber characteristics of competitive power lifters.  J 
Strength Cond Res 17:402-410, 2003.
 58. GABBETT, T.J. Science of rugby league football: a review. J Sports Sci 23:961-976, 2005.
 59. GABRIEL, D.A., G. KAMEN, and G. FROST. 
Neural adaptations to resistive exercise: mecha-
nisms and recommendations for training practic-
es. Sports Med 36:133-149, 2006.
 60. GALLAGHER, P., S. TRAPPE, M. HARBER, A. 
CREER, S. MAZZETTI, T. TRAPPE, B. ALKNER, 
and P. TESCH. Effects of 84-days of bedrest and 
resistance training on single muscle fibre myosin 
heavy chain distribution in human vastus latera-lis and soleus muscles.  Acta Physiol Scand 185:61-
69, 2005.
 61. GARCÍA-RAMOS, A., P. PADIAL, G.G. HAFF, J. ARQÜELLES-CIENFUEGOS, M. GARCÍA-RA -
MOS, J. CONDE-PIPÓ, and B. FERICHE. Effect 
of different interrepetition rest periods on barbell 
velocity loss during the ballistic bench press exer-
cise. J Strength Cond Res 29(9):2288-2296, 2015.
 62. GISSIS, I., C. PAPADOPOULOS, V.I. KALAPO-
THARAKOS, A. SOTIROPOULOS, G. KOMSIS, 
and E. MANOLOPOULOS. Strength and speed 
characteristics of elite, subelite, and recreational 
young soccer players.  Res Sports Med 14:205-214, 
2006.
 63. GONZALEZ-BADILLO, J.J., M. IZQUIERDO, and E.M. GOROSTIAGA. Moderate volume of 
high relative training intensity produces greater 
strength gains compared with low and high vol-umes in competitive weightlifters.  J Strength Cond 
Res 20:73-81, 2006.
 64. GOTO, K., M. NAGASAWA, O. YANAGISAWA, T. KIZUKA, N. ISHII, and K. TAKAMATSU. Mus-
cular adaptations to combinations of high- and 
low-intensity resistance exercises.  J Strength Cond 
Res 18:730-737, 2004.
 65. GROSSER, M., and A. NEUMEIER. Tecnicas de 
Entrenamiento [Training Techniques]. Barcelona, 
Spain: Martinez Roca, 1986.
 66. HAFF, G.G., J.M. CARLOCK, M.J. HARTMAN, J.L. KILGORE, N. KAWAMORI, J.R. JACKSON, 
R.T. MORRIS, W.A. SANDS, and M.H. STONE. 
Force-time curve characteristics of dynamic and 
isometric muscle actions of elite women Olym-
pic weightlifters.  J Strength Cond Res 19:741-748, 
2005.
 67. HAFF, G.G., M.H. STONE, H.S. O’BRYANT, E. HARMAN, C.N. DINAN, R. JOHNSON, and K.H. 
HAN. Force-time dependent characteristics of 
dynamic and isometric muscle actions.  J Strength 
Cond Res 1 1:269-272, 1997.
 68. HAFF, G.G., A. WHITLEY, L.B. MCCOY, H.S. O’BRYANT, J.L. KILGORE, E.E. HAFF, K. PIERCE, 
and M.H. STONE. Effects of different set config-
urations on barbell velocity and displacement 
during a clean pull.  J Strength Cond Res 17:95-
103, 2003.
 69. HAFF, G.G., A. WHITLEY, and J.A. POTTEIGER. 
A brief review: explosive exercises and sports 
performance.  Natl Strength Cond Assoc 23:13-20, 
2001.
 70. HÄKKINEN, K. Neuromuscular adaptations during strength training, aging, detraining, and 
immobilization.  Crit Rev Phys Rehabil Med 6:161-
198, 1994.
 71. HÄKKINEN, K., M. ALEN, M. KALLINEN, M. IZQUIERDO, K. JOKELAINEN, H. LASSILA, E. 
MALKIA, W.J. KRAEMER, and R.U. NEWTON. 

References354
Muscle CSA, force production, and activation of 
leg extensors during isometric and dynamic mus-
cle actions in middle-aged and elderly men and 
women. J Aging Phys Act 6:232-247, 1998.
 72. HÄKKINEN, K., and M. KALLINEN. Distribution 
of strength training volume into one or two dai-
ly sessions and neuromuscular adaptations in 
female athletes.  Electromyogr Clin Neurophysiol 
34:1 17-124, 1994.
 73. HÄKKINEN, K., H. KAUHANEN, and T. KUOP-PA. Neural, muscular and hormonal adaptations, 
changes in muscle strength and weightlifting re-
sults with respect to variations in training during 
one year follow-up period in Finnish elite weight-
lifters. World Weightlifting (IWF) 87:2-10, 1987.
 74. HÄKKINEN, K., and P.V. KOMI. Changes in elec-
trical and mechanical behavior of leg extensor 
muscles during heavy resistance strength train-ing. Scand J Sports Sci 7:55-64, 1985.
 75. HÄKKINEN, K., and P.V. KOMI. Effect of explo-
sive type strength training on electromyograph-
ic and force production characteristics of leg 
extensor muscles during concentric and various 
stretch-shortening cycle exercises.  Scand J Sports 
Sci 7:65-76, 1985.
 76. HÄKKINEN, K., and P.V. KOMI. Training-in-duced changes in neuromuscular performance 
under voluntary and reflex conditions.  Eur J Appl 
Physiol Occup Physiol 55:147-155, 1986.
 77. HÄKKINEN, K., P.V. KOMI, M. ALEN, and H. KAUHANEN. EMG, muscle fibre and force pro-
duction characteristics during a 1 year training 
period in elite weight-lifters.  Eur J Appl Physiol 
56:419-427, 1987.
 78. HÄKKINEN, K., P.V. KOMI, and P.A. TESCH. Effect of combined concentric and eccentric 
strength training and detraining on force-time, 
muscle fiber and metabolic characteristics of 
leg extensor muscles.  Scand J Sports Sci 3:50-58, 
1981.
 79. HÄKKINEN, K., R.U. NEWTON, S.E. GORDON, M. MCCORMICK, J.S. VOLEK, B.C. NINDL, L.A. 
GOTSHALK, W.W. CAMPBELL, W.J. EVANS, A. 
HÄKKINEN, B.J. HUMPHRIES, and W.J. KRAE-
MER. Changes in muscle morphology, electro-myographic activity, and force production char-
acteristics during progressive strength training in 
young and older men.  J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med 
Sci 53:B415-423, 1998.
 80. HÄKKINEN, K., A. PAKARINEN, M. ALEN, H. KAUHANEN, and P.V. KOMI. Neuromuscular 
and hormonal adaptations in athletes to strength 
training in two years.  J Appl Physiol 65:2406-2412, 
1988.
 81. HARDEE, J.P., M.M. LAWRENCE, K.A. ZWET -
SLOOT, N.T. TRIPLETT, A.C. UTTER, and J.M. 
MCBRIDE. Effect of cluster set configurations on power clean technique. J Sports Sci 31(5):488-
496, 2013.
 82. HARDEE, J.P., N.T. TRIPLETT, A.C. UTTER, K.A. ZWETSLOOT, and J.M. MCBRIDE. Effect of in-terrepetition rest on power output in the power 
clean. J Strength Cond Res 26(4):883-889, 2012.
 83. HARMAN, E. Resistance training modes: a bio-mechanical perspective.  Strength Cond 16:59-65, 
1994.
 84. HARRIS, G.R., M.H. STONE, H.S. O’BRYANT, C.M. PROULX, and R.L. JOHNSON. Short-term 
performance effects of high power, high force, or 
combined weight-training methods.  J Strength 
Cond Res 14:14-20, 2000.
 85. HARRIS, R.C., R.H. EDWARDS, E. HULTMAN, L.O. NORDESJO, B. NYLIND, and K. SAHLIN. 
The time course of phosphorylcreatine resynthe-
sis during recovery of the quadriceps muscle in 
man. Pflugers Arch 367:137-142, 1976.
 86. HENNEMAN, E., G. SOMJEN, and D.O. CAR -
PENTER. Excitability and inhibitability of moto-neurons of different sizes.  J Neurophysiol 28:599-
620, 1965.
 87. HIGBIE, E.J., K.J. CURETON, G.L. WARREN, III, and B.M. PRIOR. Effects of concentric and 
eccentric training on muscle strength, cross-sec-
tional area, and neural activation.  J Appl Physiol 
81:2173-2181, 1996.
 88. HOEGER, W.W.K., D.R. HOPKINS, S.L. BAR -
ETTE, and D.F. HALE. Relationship between repe-
titions and selected percentages of one repetition 
maximum: a comparison between untrained and 
trained males and females.  J Appl Sport Sci Res 
4:47-54, 1990.
 89. HOFF, J., A. GRAN, and J. HELGERUD. Maximal strength training improves aerobic endurance 
performance.  Scand J Med Sci Sports 12:288-295, 
2002.
 90. HOFF, J., and J. HELGERUD. Endurance and strength training for soccer players: physiological 
considerations. Sports Med 34:165-180, 2004.
 91. HOFF, J., J. HELGERUD, and U. WISLOFF. Max-
imal strength training improves work economy 
in trained female cross-country skiers.  Med Sci 
Sports Exerc 31:870-877, 1999.
 92. HOFF, J., O.J. KEMI, and J. HELGERUD. Strength and endurance differences between elite and ju-
nior elite ice hockey players: the importance of 
allometric scaling.  Int J Sports Med 26:537-541, 
2005.
 93. HOFFMAN, J.R., W.J. KRAEMER, A.C. FRY, M. DESCHENES, and M. KEMP. The effects of 
self-selection for frequency of training in a winter 
conditioning program for football.  J Appl Sport 
Sci Res 4:76-82, 1990.
 94. HOLTERMANN, A., K. ROELEVELD, B. VEREI-JKEN, and G. ETTEMA. The effect of rate of force 

References355
development on maximal force production: 
acute and training-related aspects.  Eur J Appl 
Physiol 99:605-613, 2007.
 95. HOUSTON, M.E., E.A. FROESE, S.P. VALERIOTE, H.J. GREEN, and D.A. RANNEY. Muscle per-
formance, morphology and metabolic capacity 
during strength training and detraining: a one leg 
model. Eur J Appl Physiol 51:25-35, 1983.
 96. HOWARD, J.D., M.R. RITCHIE, D.A. GATER, D.R. 
GATER, and R.M. ENOKA. Determining factors 
of strength: physiological foundations. Nation-
al Strength and Conditioning Journal 7(6):16-21, 1985.
 97. HULTMAN, E., J. BERGSTROM, and N.M. AN-
DERSON. Breakdown and resynthesis of phos-
phorylcreatine and adenosine triphosphate in 
connection with muscular work in man.  Scand J 
Clin Lab Invest 19:56-66, 1967.
 98. HULTMAN, E., and H. SJOHOLM. Biochemical 
causes of fatigue. In: Human Muscle Power. N.L. 
Jones, ed. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 1986, 
pp. 343-363.
 99. HUMPHRIES, B., E. DUGAN, and T.L. DOYLE. 
Muscular fitness. In: ACSM’s Resource Manual for 
Guidelines for Exercise Testing and Prescription. L.A. Kaminsky, ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & 
Wilkins, 2006, pp. 206-224.
 100. HUYGENS, W., M.A. THOMIS, M.W. PEETERS, 
R.F. VLIETINCK, and G.P. BEUNEN. Determi-
nants and upper-limit heritabilities of skeletal 
muscle mass and strength.  Can J Appl Physiol 
29:186-200, 2004.
 101. IVEY, F.M., S.M. ROTH, R.E. FERRELL, B.L. TRA -
CY, J.T. LEMMER, D.E. HURLBUT, G.F. MARTEL, 
E.L. SIEGEL, J.L. FOZARD, E. JEFFREY METTER, 
J.L. FLEG, and B.F. HURLEY. Effects of age, gen-
der, and myostatin genotype on the hypertrophic 
response to heavy resistance strength training.  J 
Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci 55:M641-M648, 2000.
 102. IZQUIERDO, M., J. IBANEZ, J.J. GONZALEZ-BA -
DILLO, K. HÄKKINEN, N.A. RATAMESS, W.J. 
KRAEMER, D.N. FRENCH, J. ESLAVA, A. ALTA -
DILL, X. ASIAIN, and E.M. GOROSTIAGA. Differ-ential effects of strength training leading to fail-
ure versus not to failure on hormonal responses, strength, and muscle power gains.  J Appl Physiol 
100:1647-1656, 2006.
 103. JENSEN, B.R., M. PILEGAARD, and G. 
SJOGAARD. Motor unit recruitment and rate 
coding in response to fatiguing shoulder abduc-
tions and subsequent recovery.  Eur J Appl Physiol 
83:190-199, 2000.
 104. JONES, K., P. BISHOP, G. HUNTER, and G. 
FLEISIG. The effects of varying resistance-training 
loads on intermediate- and high-velocity-specif-
ic adaptations.  J Strength Cond Res 15:349-356, 
2001. 105. JONES, L. Coaching platform: advanced training 
programs.  Weightlifting USA volume x issue 4: 
8-1 1, 1992.
 106. JUNG, A.P. The impact of resistance training 
on distance running performance.  Sports Med 
33:539-552, 2003.
 107. KAMEN, G. The acquisition of maximal isomet-
ric plantar flexor strength: a force-time curve 
analysis. J Motor Behav 15:63-73, 1983.
 108. KAMEN, G., and A. ROY. Motor unit synchro-
nization in young and elderly adults.  Eur J Appl 
Physiol 81:403-410, 2000.
 109. KANEKO, M., T. FUCHIMOTO, H. TOJI, and K. 
SUEI. Training effect of different loads on the 
force–velocity relationship and mechanical pow-
er output in human muscle.  Scand J Sports Sci 
5:50-55, 1983.
 1 10. KAWAMORI, N., and G.G. HAFF. The optimal training load for the development of muscular 
power . J Strength Cond Res 18:675-684, 2004.
 1 1 1. KEMMLER, W.K., D. LAUBER, A. WASSERMANN, and J.L. MAYHEW. Predicting maximal strength in trained postmenopausal woman.  J Strength 
Cond Res 20:838-842, 2006.
 1 12. KJAER, M., H. LANGBERG, B.F. MILLER, R. 
BOUSHEL, R. CRAMERI, S. KOSKINEN, K. 
HEINEMEIER, J.L. OLESEN, S. DÿSSING, M. HANSEN, S.G. PEDERSEN, M.J. RENNIE, and 
P. MAGNUSSON. Metabolic activity and colla-
gen turnover in human tendon in response to 
physical activity. J Musculoskelet Neuronal Interact 
5(1):41-52, 2005.
 1 13. KJAER, M., P. MAGNUSSON, M. KROGSGAARD, 
J. BOYSEN MÿLLER, J. OLESEN, K. HEINEMEIER, 
M. HANSEN, B. HARALDSON, S. KOSKINEN, B. 
ESMARCK, and H. LANGBERG. Extracellular ma-
trix adaptation of tendon and skeletal muscle to 
exercise. J Anat 208(4):445-450, 2006.
 1 14. KOMI, P.V. Strength and Power in Sport. 2nd ed. 
Malden, MA: Blackwell Scientific, 2003.
 1 15. KOMI, P.V. Stretch-shortening cycle: a powerful 
model to study normal and fatigued muscle.  J 
Biomech 33:1 197-1206, 2000.
 1 16. KOMI, P.V. Training of muscle strength and pow-er: interaction of neuromotoric, hypertrophic, and mechanical factors.  Int J Sports Med 7:10-15, 
1986.
 1 17. KRAEMER, W.J., A.C. FRY, B.J. WARREN, M.H. STONE, S.J. FLECK, J.T. KEARNEY, B.P. CONROY, 
C.M. MARESH, C.A. WESEMAN, N.T. TRIPLETT, 
and S.E. GORDON. Acute hormonal responses in 
elite junior weightlifters.  Int J Sports Med 13:103-
109, 1992.
 1 18. KRAEMER, W.J., L. MARCHITELLI, S.E. GOR -
DON, E. HARMAN, J.E. DZIADOS, R. MELLO, 
P. FRYKMAN, D. MCCURRY, and S.J. FLECK. 
Hormonal and growth factor responses to heavy  

References356
resistance exercise protocols.  J Appl Physiol 
69:1442-1450, 1990.
 1 19. KRAVITZ, L., C. AKALAN, K. NOWICKI, and S.J. 
KINZEY. Prediction of 1 repetition maximum in high-school power lifters.  J Strength Cond Res 
17:167-172, 2003.
 120. LANGBERG et al. Eccentric rehabilitation exer-
cise increases peritendinous type I collagen syn-
thesis in humans with Achilles tendinosis, Scand J Med Sci Sports 17(1):61-6, 2007.
 121. LAWTON, T., J. CRONIN, E. DRINKWATER, R. 
LINDSELL, and D. PYNE. The effect of continu-
ous repetition training and intra-set rest training 
on bench press strength and power.  J Sports Med 
Phys Fitness 44:361-367, 2004.
 122. LAWTON, T.W., J.B. CRONIN, and R.P. LIND-
SELL. Effect of interrepetition rest intervals 
on weight training repetition power output.  J 
Strength Cond Res 20:172-176, 2006.
 123. MACDOUGALL, J.D., G.C. ELDER, D.G. SALE, 
J.R. MOROZ, and J.R. SUTTON. Effects of 
strength training and immobilization on human 
muscle fibres. Eur J Appl Physiol 43:25-34, 1980.
 124. MALISOUX, L., M. FRANCAUX, and D. THE-
ISEN. What do single-fiber studies tell us about 
exercise training? Med Sci Sports Exerc 39:1051-
1060, 2007.
 125. MAYHEW, J.L., J.L. PRINSTER, J.S. WARE, D.L. 
ZIMMER, J.R. ARABAS, and M.G. BEMBEN. Mus-
cular endurance repetitions to predict bench 
press strength in men of different training lev-
els. J Sports Med Phys Fitness 35:108-1 13, 1995.
 126. MCBRIDE, J.M., S. NIMPHIUS, and T.M. ERICK -
SON. The acute effects of heavy-load squats and 
loaded countermovement jumps on sprint per-
formance. J Strength Cond Res 19:893-897, 2005.
 127. MCBRIDE, J.M., T. TRIPLETT-MCBRIDE, A. 
DAVIE, and R.U. NEWTON. A comparison of 
strength and power characteristics between pow-
er lifters, Olympic lifters, and sprinters.  J Strength 
Cond Res 13:58-66, 1999.
 128. MCBRIDE, J.M., T. TRIPLETT-MCBRIDE, A. DA -
VIE, and R.U. NEWTON. The effect of heavy- vs. 
light-load jump squats on the development of 
strength, power, and speed.  J Strength Cond Res 
16:75-82, 2002.
 129. MCCALL, G.E., W.C. BYRNES, S.J. FLECK, A. 
DICKINSON, and W.J. KRAEMER. Acute and 
chronic hormonal responses to resistance train-
ing designed to promote muscle hypertro-
phy. Can J Appl Physiol 24:96-107, 1999.
 130. MELROSE, D.R., F.J. SPANIOL, M.E. BOHLING, 
and R.A. BONNETTE. Physiological and perfor-
mance characteristics of adolescent club volley-
ball players.  J Strength Cond Res 21:481-486, 2007.
 131. MILLER, B.F., J.L. OLESEN, M. HANSEN, S. DÿSS-
ING, R.M. CRAMERI, R.J. WELLING, H. LANG-BERG, A. FLYVBJERG, M. KJAER, J.A. BABRAJ, K. 
SMITH, and M.J. RENNIE. Coordinated collagen 
and muscle protein synthesis in human patella 
tendon and quadriceps muscle after exercise. J 
Physiol 567(3):1021-1033, 2005.
 132. MILNER-BROWN, H.S., R.B. STEIN, and R.G. 
LEE. Synchronization of human motor units: 
possible roles of exercise and supraspinal reflex-
es. Electroencephalogr Clin Neurophysiol 38:245-
254, 1975.
 133. MIRKOV, D.M., A. NEDELJKOVIC, S. MILA -
NOVIC, and S. JARIC. Muscle strength testing: 
evaluation of tests of explosive force produc-
tion. Eur J Appl Physiol 91:147-154, 2004.
 134. MORITANI, T., W.M. SHERMAN, M. SHIBATA, 
T. MATSUMOTO, and M. SHINOHARA. Oxy-
gen availability and motor unit activity in hu-
mans.  Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 64:552-
556, 1992.
 135. MOSS, B.M., P.E. REFSNES, A. ABILDGAARD, K. 
NICOLAYSEN, and J. JENSEN. Effects of maximal 
effort strength training with different loads on dy-
namic strength, cross-sectional area, load-power 
and load-velocity relationships. Eur J Appl Physiol 
75:193-199, 1997.
 136. NOAKES, T.D. Implications of exercise testing for 
prediction of athletic performance: a contempo-
rary perspective.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 20:319-330, 
1988.
 137. NOAKES, T.D., K.H. MYBURGH, and R. SCHALL. 
Peak treadmill running velocity during the VO2 
max test predicts running performance.  J Sports 
Sci 8:35-45, 1990.
 138. NORRBRAND, L., J.D. FLUCKEY, M. POZZO, 
and P.A. TESCH. Resistance training using eccen-
tric overload induces early adaptations in skeletal 
muscle size.  Eur J Appl Physiol 102:271-281,  2008.
 139. ØSTERÅS, H., J. HELGERUD, and J. HOFF. Max-
imal strength-training effects on force–velocity 
and force-power relationships explain increases 
in aerobic performance in humans.  Eur J Appl 
Physiol 88:255-263, 2002.
 140. PAAVOLAINEN, L., K. HÄKKINEN, I. 
HAMALAINEN, A. NUMMELA, and H. RUSKO. 
Explosive-strength training improves 5-km run-
ning time by improving running economy and muscle power.  J Appl Physiol 86:1527-1533, 1999.
 141. PAAVOLAINEN, L., K. HÄKKINEN, and H. 
RUSKO. Effects of explosive type strength train-ing on physical performance characteristics in 
cross-country skiers.  Eur J Appl Physiol Occup 
Physiol 62:251-255, 1991.
 142. PAPADIMITRIOU, I.D., C. PAPADOPOULOS, 
A. KOUVATSI, and C. TRIANTAPHYLLIDIS. The ACTN3 gene in elite Greek track and field ath-
letes. Int J Sports Med 29:352-355, 2008.

References357
 143. PETERSON, M.D., B.A. ALVAR, and M.R. RHEA. 
The contribution of maximal force production 
to explosive movement among young collegiate 
athletes. J Strength Cond Res 20:867-873, 2006.
 144. PETERSON, M.D., M.R. RHEA, and B.A. ALVAR. 
Applications of the dose-response for muscular 
strength development: a review of meta-analytic 
efficacy and reliability for designing training pre-
scription. J Strength Cond Res 19:950-958, 2005.
 145. PINCIVERO, D.M., W.S. GEAR, N.M. MOYNA, 
and R.J. ROBERTSON. The effects of rest interval 
on quadriceps torque and perceived exertion in 
healthy males.  J Sports Med Phys Fitness 39:294-
299, 1999.
 146. PLISK, S.S., and M.H. STONE. Periodization 
strategies. Strength Cond 25:19-37, 2003.
 147. POLLOCK, M.L., J.E. GRAVES, M.M. BAMMAN, 
S.H. LEGGETT, D.M. CARPENTER, C. CARR, J. 
CIRULLI, J. MATKOZICH, and M. FULTON. Fre-
quency and volume of resistance training: effect 
on cervical extension strength.  Arch Phys Med Re-
habil 74:1080-1086, 1993.
 148. PRINCE, F.P., R.S. HIKIDA, and F.C. HAGER -
MAN. Human muscle fiber types in power lifters, 
distance runners and untrained subjects.  Pflugers 
Arch 363:19-26, 1976.
 149. PRINCE, F.P., R.S. HIKIDA, F.C. HAGERMAN, 
R.S. STARON, and W.H. ALLEN. A morphometric 
analysis of human muscle fibers with relation to 
fiber types and adaptations to exercise.  J Neurol 
Sci 49:165-179, 1981.
 150. REYNOLDS, J.M., T.J. GORDON, and R.A. 
ROBERGS. Prediction of one repetition maxi-
mum strength from multiple repetition maxi-
mum testing and anthropometry.  J Strength Cond 
Res 20:584-592, 2006.
 151. RHEA, M.R., B.A. ALVAR, L.N. BURKETT, and S.D. 
BALL. A meta-analysis to determine the dose re-
sponse for strength development.  Med Sci Sports 
Exerc 35:456-464, 2003.
 152. ROONEY, K.J., R.D. HERBERT, and R.J. BAL-
NAVE. Fatigue contributes to the strength train-
ing stimulus.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 26:1 160-1 164, 
1994.
 153. RUTHERFORD, O.M. and D.A. JONES. The role 
of learning and coordination in strength train-
ing. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 55:100-105, 
1986.
 154. RYDWIK, E., C. KARLSSON, K. FRANDIN, and 
G. AKNER. Muscle strength testing with one rep-
etition maximum in the arm/shoulder for peo-
ple aged 75 +: test-retest reliability.  Clin Rehabil 
21:258-265, 2007.
 155. SAHLIN, K., and J.M. REN. Relationship of con-
traction capacity to metabolic changes during re-
covery from a fatiguing contraction.  J Appl Physiol 
67:648-654, 1989. 156. SALE, D.G. Neural adaptation to resistance train-
ing. Med Sci Sports Exerc 20:S135-S145, 1988.
 157. SCHMIDTBLEICHER, D. Strength training, part 
2: structural analysis of motor strength qualities and its application to training. Science Periodical 
on Research and Technology 5:1-10, 1985.
 158. SCHMIDTBLEICHER, D. 1984. Sportliches Kraft-
training. Berlin: Jung, Haltong, und Bewegung bei 
Menchen.
 159. SCHMIDTBLEICHER, D. Training for power 
events. In: Strength and Power in Sport. P.V. Komi, 
ed. Oxford, UK: Blackwell, 1992, pp. 381-385.
 160. SEMMLER, J.G. Motor unit synchronization and 
neuromuscular performance.  Exerc Sport Sci Rev 
30:8-14, 2002.
 161. SEMMLER, J.G., K.W. KORNATZ, D.V. DINEN-
NO, S. ZHOU, and R.M. ENOKA. Motor unit 
synchronisation is enhanced during slow length-
ening contractions of a hand muscle.  J Physiol 
545:681-695, 2002.
 162. SEMMLER, J.G., and M.A. NORDSTROM. Mo-
tor unit discharge and force tremor in skill- and strength-trained individuals.  Exp Brain Res 
1 19:27-38, 1998.
 163. SEMMLER, J.G., M.V. SALE, F.G. MEYER, and 
M.A. NORDSTROM. Motor-unit coherence and 
its relation with synchrony are influenced by training. J Neurophysiol 92:3320-3331, 2004.
 164. SEYNNES, O.R., M. DE BOER, and M.V. NARICI. 
Early skeletal muscle hypertrophy and architec-
tural changes in response to high-intensity resis-
tance training. J Appl Physiol 102:368-373, 2007.
 165. SFORZO, G.A., and P.R. TOUEY. Manipulat-
ing exercise order affects muscular performance 
during a resistance exercise training session.  J 
Strength Cond Res 10:20-24, 1996.
 166. SHAW, C.E., K.K. MCCULLY, and J.D. POSNER. 
Injuries during the one repetition maximum 
assessment in the elderly.  J Cardiopulm Rehabil 
15:283-287, 1995.
 167. SHIMANO, T., W.J. KRAEMER, B.A. SPIERING, 
J.S. VOLEK, D.L. HATFIELD, R. SILVESTRE, J.L. 
VINGREN, M.S. FRAGALA, C.M. MARESH, S.J. 
FLECK, R.U. NEWTON, L.P. SPREUWENBERG, 
and K. HÄKKINEN. Relationship between the number of repetitions and selected percentages 
of one repetition maximum in free weight ex-
ercises in trained and untrained men.  J Strength 
Cond Res 20:819-823, 2006.
 168. SHOEPE, T.C., J.E. STELZER, D.P. GARNER, and 
J.J. WIDRICK. Functional adaptability of muscle 
fibers to long-term resistance exercise.  Med Sci 
Sports Exerc 35:944-951, 2003.
 169. SIFF, M.C., and Y.U. VERKHOSHANSKY. Super-
training. Denver, CO: Supertraining Internation-
al, 1999.

References358
 170. SILVESTRE, R., W.J. KRAEMER, C. WEST, D.A. 
JUDELSON, B.A. SPIERING, J.L. VINGREN, 
D.L. HATFIELD, J.M. ANDERSON, and C.M. 
MARESH. Body composition and physical per-
formance during a National Collegiate Athlet-
ic Association Division I men’s soccer season.  J 
Strength Cond Res 20:962-970, 2006.
 171. SMITH, J.C., A.C. FRY, L.W. WEISS, Y. LI, and S.J. 
KINZEY. The effects of high-intensity exercise on 
a 10-second sprint cycle test.  J Strength Cond Res 
15:344-348, 2001.
 172. STARON, R.S., E.S. MALICKY, M.J. LEONARDI, 
J.E. FALKEL, F.C. HAGERMAN, and G.A. DUD-
LEY. Muscle hypertrophy and fast fiber type con-
versions in heavy resistance-trained women.  Eur J 
Appl Physiol 60:71-79, 1990.
 173. STONE, M.H., T.J. CHANDLER, M.S. CONLEY, 
J.B. KRAMER, and M.E. STONE. Training to mus-cular failure: is it necessary? Strength Cond 18:44-
51, 1996.
 174. STONE, M.H., and H.O. O’BRYANT. Weight Train-
ing: A Scientific Approach. Edina, MN: Burgess, 
1987.
 175. STONE, M.H., H.S. O’BRYANT, B.K. SCHILLING, 
R.L. JOHNSON, K.C. PIERCE, G.G. HAFF, A.J. 
KOCH, and M. STONE. Periodization: effects 
of manipulating volume and intensity, part 
1. Strength Cond 21:56-62, 1999.
 176. STONE, M.H., H.S. O’BRYANT, B.K. SCHILLING, 
R.L. JOHNSON, K.C. PIERCE, G.G. HAFF, A.J. 
KOCH, and M. STONE. Periodization: effects 
of manipulating volume and intensity, part 
2. Strength Cond J 21:54-60, 1999.
 177. STONE, M.H., K. PIERCE, W.A. SANDS, and M. 
STONE. Weightlifting: program design.  Strength 
Cond 28:10-17, 2006.
 178. STONE, M.H., W.A. SANDS, K.C. PIERCE, J. CAR -
LOCK, M. CARDINALE, and R.U. NEWTON. Re-
lationship of maximum strength to weightlifting 
performance.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 37:1037-1043, 
2005.
 179. STONE, M.H., W.A. SANDS, K.C. PIERCE, M.W. 
RAMSEY, and G.G. HAFF. Power and power po-
tentiation among strength power athletes: pre-
liminary study. Int J Sports Physiol Perf in press.
 180. STONE, M.H., M.E. STONE, and W.A. SANDS. 
Principles and Practice of Resistance Training. 
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2007.
 181. STULL, G.A., and D.H. CLARKE. Patterns of re-
covery following isometric and isotonic strength 
decrement. Med Sci Sports 3:135-139, 1971.
 182. TAN, B. Manipulating resistance training pro-
gram variables to optimize maximum strength in 
men: a review.  J Strength Cond Res 13:289-304, 
1999.
 183. TANAKA, H., and T. SWENSEN. Impact of resis-
tance training on endurance performance: a new form of cross-training? Sports Med 25:191-200, 
1998.
 184. TERZIS, G., G. GEORGIADIS, E. VASSILIADOU, 
and P. MANTA. Relationship between shot put performance and triceps brachia fiber type com-
position and power production.  Eur J Appl Physiol 
90:10-15, 2003.
 185. TESCH, P.A., and J. KARLSSON. Muscle fiber 
types and size in trained and untrained muscles of elite athletes.  J Appl Physiol 59:1716-1720, 
1985.
 186. TESCH, P.A., A. THORSSON, and P. KAISER. 
Muscle capillary supply and fiber type character-
istics in weight and power lifters. J Appl Physiol Respir Environ Exerc Physiol 56(1):35-38, 1984.
 187. TESCH, P.A., and L. LARSSON. Muscle hyper-
trophy in bodybuilders. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup 
Physiol 49(3):301-306, 1982.
 188. THOMAS, M., M.A. FIATARONE, and R.A. FIELD-
ING. Leg power in young women: relationship to 
body composition, strength, and function.  Med 
Sci Sports Exerc 28:1321-1326, 1996.
 189. THOMPSON, P.D., N. MOYNA, R. SEIP, T. PRICE, 
P. CLARKSON, T. ANGELOPOULOS, P. GOR -
DON, L. PESCATELLO, P. VISICH, R. ZOELLER, J.M. DEVANEY, H. GORDISH, S. BILBIE, and E.P. 
HOFFMAN. Functional polymorphisms associat-
ed with human muscle size and strength.  Med Sci 
Sports Exerc 36:1 132-1 139, 2004.
 190. THORSTENSSON, A., B. HULTEN, W. VON DO-
BELN, and J. KARLSSON. Effect of strength train-
ing on enzyme activities and fibre characteristics 
in human skeletal muscle.  Acta Physiol Scand 
96:392-398, 1976.
 191. TRAPPE, S., M. HARBER, A. CREER, P. GALLA -
GHER, D. SLIVKA, K. MINCHEV, and D. WHIT -
SETT. Single muscle fiber adaptations with mara-
thon training. J Appl Physiol 101:721-727, 2006.
 192. VAN CUTSEM, M., J. DUCHATEAU, and K. 
HAINAUT. Changes in single motor unit be-
haviour contribute to the increase in contraction 
speed after dynamic training in humans.  J Physiol 
513(1):295-305, 1998.
 193. VIITASALO, J.T. Rate of force development, mus-
cle structure and fatigue. In: Biomechanics VII-A: 
Proceedings of the 7th International Congress of Bio-
mechanics. A. Morecki, et al. eds. Warsaw, Poland: 
PWN, 1981, pp. 136-141.
 194. VIITASALO, J.T., and P.V. KOMI. Interrelation-
ships between electromyographic, mechanical, 
muscle structure and reflex time measurements 
in man. Acta Physiol Scand 1 1 1:97-103, 1981.
 195. VOROBYEV, A.N. A Textbook on Weightlifting. Bu-
dapest: International Weightlifting Federation, 1978.
 196. WERNBOM, M., J. AUGUSTSSON, and R. 
THOMEE. The influence of frequency, intensity, 

References359
volume and mode of strength training on whole 
muscle cross-sectional area in humans.  Sports 
Med 37:225-264, 2007.
 197. WESTCOTT, W.L. Strength Fitness. Boston: Allyn & 
Bacon, 1982.
 198. WIDRICK, J.J., J.E. STELZER, T.C. SHOEPE, and 
D.P. GARNER. Functional properties of human 
muscle fibers after short-term resistance exercise 
training.  Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol 
283:R408-R416, 2002.
 199. WILLARDSON, J.M. A brief review: factors affect-
ing the length of the rest interval between resis-
tance exercise sets.  J Strength Cond Res 20:978-
984, 2006.
 200. WILLIAMSON, D.L., P.M. GALLAGHER, C.C. 
CARROLL, U. RAUE, and S.W. TRAPPE. Reduc-
tion in hybrid single muscle fiber proportions 
with resistance training in humans.  J Appl Physiol 
91:1955-1961, 2001.
 201. Wilmore and Costill, Training for Sport and Activ-
ity: The Physiological Basis of the Conditioning Pro-
cess. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 1993.
 202. WILSON, G.J., R.U. NEWTON, A.J. MURPHY, 
and B.J. HUMPHRIES. The optimal training load 
for the development of dynamic athletic perfor-
mance.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 25:1279-1286, 1993.
 203. YAMAMOTO, L.M., R.M. LOPEZ, J.F. KLAU, D.J. 
CASA, W.J. KRAEMER, and C.M. MARESH. The 
effects of resistance training on endurance dis-
tance running performance among highly trained 
runners: a systematic review. J Strength Cond Res 
22:2036-2044. 2008.
 204. YAO, W., R.J. FUGLEVAND, and R.M. ENOKA. 
Motor-unit synchronization increases EMG am-
plitude and decreases force steadiness of simulat-
ed contractions.  J Neurophysiol 83:441-452, 2000.
 205. YETTER, M. and G.L. MOIR. The acute effects of 
heavy back and front squats on speed during for-
ty-meter sprint trials.  J Strength Cond Res 22:159-
165. 2008.
 206. YOUNG, W.B., A. JENNER, and K. GRIFFITHS. 
Acute enhancement of power performance from heavy load squats.  J. Strength Cond Res 12:82-84, 
1998.
 207. ZATSIORSKY, V.M. Science and Practice of Strength 
Training. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 1995.
 208. ZATSIORSKY, V.M., and W.J. KRAEMER. Science 
and Practice of Strength Training. 2nd ed. Cham-
paign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2006.
Chapter 1 1
 1. 2002 USA Cycling Club Coach Manual. Colorado Springs, CO: USA Cycling, 2002.
 2. AAGAARD, P., E.B. SIMONSEN, J.L. ANDERS-EN, P. MAGNUSSON, and P. DYHRE-POULSEN. 
Increased rate of force development and neural drive of human skeletal muscle following resis-tance training.  J Appl Physiol 93:1318-1326, 2002.
 3. ABERNETHY, P.J., R. THAYER, and A.W. TAYLOR. 
Acute and chronic responses of skeletal muscle 
to endurance and sprint exercise. A review.  Sports 
Med 10:365-389, 1990.
 4. ACEVEDO, E.O., and A.H. GOLDFARB. Increased training intensity effects on plasma lactate, venti-
latory threshold, and endurance.  Med Sci Sports 
Exerc 21:563-568, 1989.
 4b. AKENHEAD, R., P.R. HAYES, K.G. THOMPSON, and D. FRENCH. Diminutions of acceleration 
and deceleration output during professional 
football match play. J Sci Med Sport 16(6):556-
561, 2013.
 5. BAILEY, S.P., and R.R. PATE. Feasibility of im-
proving running economy.  Sports Med 12:228-
236, 1991.
 6. BAKER, D., and S. NANCE. The relation between 
running speed and measures of strength and 
power in professional rugby league players.  J 
Strength Cond Res 13:230-235, 1999.
 7. BALSOM, P.D., J.Y. SEGER, B. SJÖDIN, and B. EKBLOM. Maximal-intensity intermittent exer-
cise: effect of recovery duration.  Int J Sports Med 
13:528-533, 1992.
 8. BALSOM, P.D., J.Y. SEGER, B. SJÖDIN, and B. EKBLOM. Physiological responses to maximal 
intensity intermittent exercise.  Eur J Appl Physiol 
65:144-149, 1992.
 8b. BANGSBO, J., F.M. IAIA, and P. KRUSTRUP. The Yo-Yo intermittent recovery test: a useful tool for 
evaluation of physical performance in intermit-
tent sports. Sports Med 38(1):37-51, 2008.
 9. BASSETT, D.R., Jr., and E.T. HOWLEY. Limiting 
factors for maximum oxygen uptake and deter-
minants of endurance performance.  Med Sci 
Sports Exerc 32:70-84, 2000.
 10. 
BASSETT, D.R., Jr., and E.T. HOWLEY. Maximal oxygen uptake: “classical” versus “contemporary: 
viewpoints. Med Sci Sports Exerc 29:591-603, 1997.
 1 1. BASTIAANS, J.J., A.B. VAN DIEMEN, T. VENE-
BERG, and A.E. JEUKENDRUP. The effects of re-
placing a portion of endurance training by explo-
sive strength training on performance in trained 
cyclists. Eur J Appl Physiol 86:79-84, 2001.
 12. BEHM, D.G., and D.G. SALE. Intended rather 
than actual movement velocity determines ve-
locity-specific training response.  J Appl Physiol 
74:359-368, 1993.
 13. BEHM, D.G., and D.G. SALE. Velocity specifici-ty of resistance training.  Sports Med 15:374-388, 
1993.
 14. BENTLEY, D.J., J. NEWELL, and D. BISHOP. In-cremental exercise test design and analysis: im-
plications for performance diagnostics in endur-
ance athletes. Sports Med 37:575-586, 2007.

References360
 15. BERGLUND, B., B. EKBLOM, E. EKBLOM, L. BER -
GLUND, A. KALLNER, P. REINEBO, and S. LIN-
DEBERG. The Swedish Blood Pass project.  Scand 
J Med Sci Sports 17:292-297, 2007.
 16. BILLAT, L.V. Interval training for performance: a scientific and empirical practice. Special recom-
mendations for middle- and long-distance run-
ning. Part I: aerobic interval training.  Sports Med 
31(1):13-31, 2001.
 17. BILLAT, L.V. Interval training for performance: a scientific and empirical practice. Special recom-
mendations for middle- and long-distance run-
ning. Part II: anaerobic interval training.  Sports 
Med 31:75-90, 2001.
 17b. BILLAT, V., J.C. RENOUX, J. PINOTEAU, B. PE-
TIT, and J.P. KORALSZTEIN. Times to exhaus-
tion at 90, 100 and 105% of velocity at VO2 
max (maximal aerobic speed) and critical speed in elite long-distance runners, Arch Physiol Bio-
chem.103(2):129-35, 1995.
 17c. BILLAT, V., B. FLECHET, B. PETIT, G. MURIAUX, 
and J.P. KORALSZTEIN. Interval training at VO-
2max: effects on aerobic performance and over-
training markers. Med Sci Sports Exerc 31(1):156-
163, 1999.
 17d. BILLAT, V., J.C. RENOUX, J. PINOTEAU, B. PE-
TIT, and J.P. KORALSZTEIN. Times to exhaustion 
at 100% of velocity at VO2max and modelling 
of the time-limit/velocity relationship in elite 
long-distance runners. Eur J Appl Physiol 69:271-
273, 1994.
 17e. BILLAT, V., and J.P. KORALSZTEIN. Significance 
of the velocity at VO2max and time to exhaustion 
at this velocity. Sports Med. 22(2):90-108, 1996.
 17f. BISCIOTTI, G.N. Utilizziamo bene l’intermittente. Il 
Nuovo Calcio 1 14:1 10-1 14, 2002.
 17g. BONEN, A. The expression of lactate transport-
ers (MCT1 and MCT4) in heart and muscle. Eur J 
Appl Physiol 86(1):6-1 1, 2001.
 18. BOSQUET, L., L. LEGER, and P. LEGROS. Meth-ods to determine aerobic endurance.  Sports Med 
32:675-700, 2002.
 19. BRANSFORD, D.R., and E.T. HOWLEY. Oxygen cost of running in trained and untrained men 
and women. Med Sci Sports 9:41-44, 1977.
 20. BURGOMASTER, K.A., G.J. HEIGENHAUSER, 
and M.J. GIBALA. Effect of short-term sprint in-
terval training on human skeletal muscle carbo-
hydrate metabolism during exercise and time-tri-
al performance.  J Appl Physiol 100:2041-2047, 
2006.
 21. BURGOMASTER, K.A., S.C. HUGHES, G.J. HEI-GENHAUSER, S.N. BRADWELL, and M.J. GIBA -
LA. Six sessions of sprint interval training increas-es muscle oxidative potential and cycle endurance 
capacity in humans.  J Appl Physiol 98:1985-1990, 
2005. 22. BURLESON, M.A., JR., H.S. O’BRYANT, M.H. 
STONE, M.A. COLLINS, and T. TRIPLETT-MC-
BRIDE. Effect of weight training exercise and 
treadmill exercise on post-exercise oxygen con-
sumption.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 30:518-522, 1998.
 23. BURTSCHER, M., M. FAULHABER, M. FLATZ, R. 
LIKAR, and W. NACHBAUER. Effects of short-
term acclimatization to altitude (3200 m) on 
aerobic and anaerobic exercise performance.  Int 
J Sports Med 27:629-635, 2006.
 24. CARTER, H., A.M. JONES, and J.H. DOUST. Effect of 6 weeks of endurance training on the 
lactate minimum speed.  J Sports Sci 17:957-967, 
1999.
 25. CERRETELLI, P., G. AMBROSOLI, and M. FUM-AGALLI. Anaerobic recovery in man.  Eur J Appl 
Physiol Occup Physiol 34:141-148, 1975.
 26. COGGAN, A.R., R.J. SPINA, M.A. ROGERS, D.S. 
KING, M. BROWN, P.M. NEMETH, and J.O. 
HOLLOSZY. Histochemical and enzymatic char-
acteristics of skeletal muscle in master athletes.  J 
Appl Physiol 68:1896-1901, 1990.
 27. CONLEY, D.L., and G.S. KRAHENBUHL. Run-ning economy and distance running perfor-
mance of highly trained athletes.  Med Sci Sports 
Exerc 12:357-360, 1980.
 28. CONLEY, M. Bioenergetics of exercise training. In: Essentials of Strength Training and Conditioning. 
T.R. Baechle and R.W. Earle, eds. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2000, pp. 73-90.
 29. CONLEY, M.S., M.H. STONE, H.S. O’BRYANT, 
R.L. JOHNSON, D.R. HONEYCUTT, and T.P. 
HOKE. Peak power versus power at maximal ox-
ygen uptake. In: Proceedings of National Strength 
and Conditioning Association Annual Convention. 
Las Vegas, NV, 1993.
 30. COSTILL, D.L., W.J. FINK, and M.L. POLLOCK. 
Muscle fiber composition and enzyme activities 
of elite distance runners.  Med Sci Sports 8:96-100, 
1976.
 31. COSTILL, D.L., M.G. FLYNN, J.P. KIRWAN, J.A. HOUMARD, J.B. MITCHELL, R. THOMAS, and 
S.H. PARK. Effects of repeated days of intensified 
training on muscle glycogen and swimming per-
formance.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 20:249-254, 1988.
 32. COSTILL, D.L., R. THOMAS, R.A. ROBERGS, D. 
PASCOE, C. LAMBERT, S. BARR, and W.J. FINK. 
Adaptations to swimming training: influence of 
training volume.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 23:371-377, 
1991.
 33. COSTILL, D.L., H. THOMASON, and E. ROB-ERTS. Fractional utilization of the aerobic capaci-
ty during distance running.  Med Sci Sports 5:248-
252, 1973.
 34. COYLE, E.F. Improved muscular efficiency dis-played as Tour de France champion matures.  J 
Appl Physiol 98:2191-2196, 2005.

References361
 35. COYLE, E.F. Integration of the physiological fac-
tors determining endurance performance abili-
ty. Exerc Sport Sci Rev 23:25-63, 1995.
 36. COYLE, E.F., A.R. COGGAN, M.K. HOPPER, and 
T.J. WALTERS. Determinants of endurance in well-
trained cyclists.  J Appl Physiol 64:2622-2630, 1988.
 37. CRONIN, J.B. and K.T. HANSEN. Strength and 
power predictors of sports speed.  J Strength Cond 
Res 19:349-357, 2005.
 37b. DAUSSIN, F.N., E. PONSOT, S.P. DUFOUR, E. 
LONSDORFER-WOLF, S. DOUTRELEAU, B. 
GENY, F. PIQUARD, and R. RICHARD. Improve-ment of VO2max by cardiac output and oxygen 
extraction adaptation during intermittent versus 
continuous endurance training. Eur J Appl Physiol 
101: 377-383, 2007.
 37b. WUNDERSITZ, D.W., C. JOSMAN, R. GUPTA, K.J. 
NETTO, P.B. GASTIN, and S. ROBERTSON. Clas-
sification of team sport activities using a single wearable tracking device, J Biomech 48(15):3975-
3981, 2015.
 38. DAWSON, B., M. FITZSIMONS, S. GREEN, C. 
GOODMAN, M. CAREY, and K. COLE. Chang-
es in performance, muscle metabolites, enzymes 
and fibre types after short sprint training.  Eur J 
Appl Physiol 78:163-169, 1998.
 39. DEMPSEY, J.A., P.G. HANSON, and K.S. HEN-DERSON. Exercise-induced arterial hypoxaemia 
in healthy human subjects at sea level.  J Physiol 
355:161-175, 1984.
 40. DENADAI, B.S., M.J. ORTIZ, C.C. GRECO, and M.T. DE MELLO. Interval training at 95% and 
100% of the velocity at VO2 max: effects on 
aerobic physiological indexes and running per-
formance.  Appl Physiol Nutr Metab 31:737-743, 
2006.
 40b. DI PRAMPERO, P.E., and C. OSGNACH. Im-
pegno metabolico del calciatore: teorie e realtà. 
[Metabolic effort of the soccer player: theories 
and reality], Milan, 2013, Slideshare. https://
www.slideshare.net/exelio/impegno-metaboli -
co-del-calciatore.
 40c. DI PRAMPERO, P.E., A. BOTTER, and C. OS-
GNACH. The energy cost of sprint running and 
the role of metabolic power in setting top perfor-
mances, Eur J Appl Physiol 1 15(3):451-469, 2015.
 41. DUDLEY, G.A., W.M. ABRAHAM, and R.L. TER -
JUNG. Influence of exercise intensity and dura-
tion on biochemical adaptations in skeletal mus-
cle. J Appl Physiol 53:844-850, 1982.
 42. DUDLEY, G.A., and R. DJAMIL. Incompatibility of endurance- and strength-training modes of ex-ercise. J Appl Physiol 59:1446-1451, 1985.
 43. DUMKE, C.L., D.W. BROCK, B.H. HELMS, and G.G. HAFF. Heart rate at lactate threshold and cy-
cling time trials.  J Strength Cond Res 20:601-607, 
2006. 44. EKBLOM, B., G. WILSON, and P.O. ASTRAND. 
Central circulation during exercise after vene-
section and reinfusion of red blood cells.  J Appl 
Physiol 40:379-383, 1976.
 45. ELLIOTT, M.C., P.P. WAGNER, and L. CHIU. Pow-er athletes and distance training: physiological 
and biomechanical rationale for change.  Sports 
Med 37:47-57, 2007.
 46. ESTEVE-LANAO, J., C. FOSTER, S. SEILER, and A. LUCIA. Impact of training intensity distribution 
on performance in endurance athletes.  J Strength 
Cond Res 21:943-949, 2007.
 46b. ESTEVE-LANAO, J., A.F. SAN JUAN, C.P. EAR -
NEST, C. FOSTER, and A. LUCIA. How do endur-
ance runners actually train? Relationship with 
competition performance. Med Sci Sports Exerc 
37(3):496-504, 2005.
 47. FARRELL, P.A., J.H. WILMORE, E.F. COYLE, J.E. BILLING, and D.L. COSTILL. Plasma lac-tate accumulation and distance running perfor-
mance. Med Sci Sports 1 1:338-344, 1979.
 48. FARRELL, P.A., J.H. WILMORE, E.F. COYLE, J.E. 
BILLING, and D.L. COSTILL. Plasma lactate ac-
cumulation and distance running performance. 
1979.Med Sci Sports Exerc 25:1091-1097; discus-
sion 1089-1090, 1993.
 49. FAULKNER, J.A., J. KOLLIAS, C.B. FAVOUR, E.R. 
BUSKIRK, and B. BALKE. Maximum aerobic ca-
pacity and running performance at altitude.  J 
Appl Physiol 24:685-691, 1968.
 49b. FAVERO, T.G., and K.J. STOLL. Seasonal improve-
ments in VO2Max among women’s college soccer 
players with one-day per week aerobic interval 
training. Kinesiologia Slovenica 22(2):14-21, 2016.
 50. FLECK, S. Bridging the gap: interval training: 
physiological basis. NSCA J 5:40-63, 1983.
 51. FLECK, S., and W.J. KRAEMER. Designing Resis-
tance Training Programs. 3rd ed. Champaign, IL: 
Human Kinetics, 2004.
 52. FOSTER, C., L.L. HECTOR, R. WELSH, M. 
SCHRAGER, M.A. GREEN, and A.C. SNYDER. 
Effects of specific versus cross-training on run-
ning performance.  Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 
70:367-372, 1995.
 53. FRANCH, J., K. MADSEN, M.S. DJURHUUS, and P.K. PEDERSEN. Improved running economy 
following intensified training correlates with re-
duced ventilatory demands.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 
30:1250-1256, 1998.
 54. FRIEL, J. Total Heart Rate Training. Berkley, CA: Ul-ysses Press, 2006.
 55. FRY, A.C., C.A. ALLEMEIER, and R.S. STARON. 
Correlation between percentage fiber type area 
and myosin heavy chain content in human 
skeletal muscle.  Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 
68:246-251, 1994.

References362
 56. GABBETT, T., T. KING, and D. JENKINS. Applied 
physiology of rugby league.  Sports Med 38:1 19-
138, 2008.
 56b. GABBETT, T.J. GPS analysis of elite women’s field 
hockey training and competition. J Strength Cond 
Res 24(5):1321-1324, 2010.
 56c. GABBETT, T.J. Skill-based conditioning games as 
an alternative to traditional conditioning for rug-
by league players. J Strength Cond Res 20:309-314, 2006.
 57. GIBALA, M.J. High-intensity interval training: a time-efficient strategy for health promotion? 
Curr Sports Med Rep 6:21 1-213, 2007.
 58. GIBALA, M.J., J.P. LITTLE, M. VAN ESSEN, G.P. 
WILKIN, K.A. BURGOMASTER, A. SAFDAR, S. 
RAHA, and M.A. TARNOPOLSKY. Short-term 
sprint interval versus traditional endurance train-
ing: similar initial adaptations in human skele-
tal muscle and exercise performance.  J Physiol 
575:901-91 1, 2006.
 59. GLEDHILL, N., D. COX, and R. JAMNIK. Endur-ance athletes’ stroke volume does not plateau: 
major advantage is diastolic function.  Med Sci 
Sports Exerc 26:1 1 16-1 121, 1994.
 60. 
HÄKKINEN, K., A. MERO, and H. KAUHANEN. 
Specificity of endurance, sprint and strength train -
ing on physical performance capacity in young athletes. J Sports Med Phys Fitness 29:27-35, 1989.
 61. HÄKKINEN, K. and E. MYLLYLA. Acute effects of muscle fatigue and recovery on force production 
and relaxation in endurance, power and strength 
athletes. J Sports Med Phys Fitness 30:5-12, 1990.
 61b. HALSON, S.L., and A.E. JEUKENDRUP. Does 
overtraining exist? an analysis of overreaching and overtraining research. Sports Med 34:967-
981, 2004.
 62. HELGERUD, J., L.C. ENGEN, U. WISLOFF, and J. HOFF. Aerobic endurance training improves soc-
cer performance.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 33:1925-
1931, 2001.
 63. HENNESSY, L.C. and A.W.S. WATSON. The inter-ference effects of training for strength and endur-
ance simultaneously.  J Strength Cond Res 8:12-19, 
1994.
 64. HENRIKSSON, J. Effects of physical training on 
the metabolism of skeletal muscle.  Diabetes Care 
15:1701-171 1, 1992.
 65. HENRITZE, J., A. WELTMAN, R.L. SCHURRER, and K. BARLOW. Effects of training at and above 
the lactate threshold on the lactate threshold and 
maximal oxygen uptake.  Eur J Appl Physiol Occup 
Physiol 54:84-88, 1985.
 66. HICKSON, R.C., B.A. DVORAK, E.M. GOROSTI-AGA, T.T. KUROWSKI, and C. FOSTER. Potential 
for strength and endurance training to amplify 
endurance performance.  J Appl Physiol 65:2285-
2290, 1988. 66b. HICKSON, R.C., J.M. HAGBERG, R.K. CONLEE, 
D.A. JONES, A.A. EHSANI, and W.W. WINDER. 
Effect of training on hormonal responses to ex-
ercise in competitive swimmers. Eur J Appl Physiol 
Occup Physiol 41(3):21 1-219, 1979.
 67. HILL-HAAS, S., D. BISHOP, B. DAWSON, C. 
GOODMAN, and J. EDGE. Effects of rest inter-
val during high-repetition resistance training 
on strength, aerobic fitness, and repeated-sprint 
ability. J Sports Sci 25:619-628, 2007.
 68. HOFF, J., A. GRAN, and J. HELGERUD. Maximal 
strength training improves aerobic endurance 
performance.  Scand J Med Sci Sports 12:288-295. 
2002.
 69. HOLLOSZY, J.O. and E.F. COYLE. Adaptations of 
skeletal muscle to endurance exercise and their metabolic consequences.  J Appl Physiol 56:831-
838, 1984.
 70. HOWALD, H., H. HOPPELER, H. CLAASSEN, 
O. MATHIEU, and R. STRAUB. Influences of en-
durance training on the ultrastructural compo-
sition of the different muscle fiber types in hu-
mans. Pflugers Arch 403:369-376, 1985.
 71. INGJER, F. Capillary supply and mitochondrial 
content of different skeletal muscle fiber types 
in untrained and endurance-trained men. A his-
tochemical and ultrastructural study.  Eur J Appl 
Physiol Occup Physiol 40:197-209, 1979.
 72. JACKSON, N.P., M.S. HICKEY, and R.F. REISER, II. High resistance/low repetition vs. low resis-
tance/high repetition training: effects on per-
formance of trained cyclists.  J Strength Cond Res 
21:289-295, 2007.
 72b. JEZOV¡, D., M. VIGAS, P. TAT¡R, R. KVETNANSK›, 
K. NAZAR, H. KACIUBA-UŚCILKO, and S. KO-
ZLOWSKI. Plasma testosterone and catechol-
amine responses to physical exercise of different 
intensities in men. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 
54(1):62–66, 1985.
 73. JOHNSTON, R.E., T.J. QUINN, R. KERTZER, and 
N.B. VROMAN. Strength training in female dis-
tance runners: impact on running economy.  J 
Strength Cond Res 1 1:224-229, 1997.
 74. JONES, A.M. A five year physiological case study of an Olympic runner.  Br J Sports Med 32:39-43, 
1998.
 75. JONES, A.M., and H. CARTER. The effect of en-durance training on parameters of aerobic fit-
ness. Sports Med 29:373-386, 2000.
 76. JOYNER, M.J., and E.F. COYLE. Endurance exer-
cise performance: the physiology of champions.  J 
Physiol 586:35-44, 2008.
 77. JUNG, A.P. The impact of resistance training on distance running performance.  Sports Med 
33:539-552, 2003.
 78. KEITH, S.P., I. JACOBS, and T.M. MCLELLAN. Ad-aptations to training at the individual anaerobic 

References363
threshold.  Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 65:316-
323, 1992.
 79. KINDERMANN, W., G. SIMON, and J. KEUL. The 
significance of the aerobic-anaerobic transition for the determination of work load intensities 
during endurance training.  Eur J Appl Physiol Oc-
cup Physiol 42:25-34, 1979.
 80. KLAUSEN, K., L.B. ANDERSEN, and I. PELLE. 
Adaptive changes in work capacity, skeletal mus-cle capillarization and enzyme levels during 
training and detraining.  Acta Physiol Scand 1 13:9-
16, 1981.
 81. KORHONEN, M.T., A. CRISTEA, M. ALEN, K. 
HAKKINEN, S. SIPILA, A. MERO, J.T. VIITASALO, L. LARSSON, and H. SUOMINEN. Aging, mus-
cle fiber type, and contractile function in sprint-
trained athletes.  J Appl Physiol 101:906-917, 2006.
 82. KRAEMER, W.J., D.N. FRENCH, N.J. PAXTON, K. HÄKKINEN, J.S. VOLEK, W.J. SEBASTIANEL-
LI, M. PUTUKIAN, R.U. NEWTON, M.R. RUBIN, 
A.L. GOMEZ, J.D. VESCOVI, N.A. RATAMESS, 
S.J. FLECK, J.M. LYNCH, and H.G. KNUTTGEN. 
Changes in exercise performance and hormon-
al concentrations over a big ten soccer season 
in starters and nonstarters.  J Strength Cond Res 
18:121-128, 2004.
 83. KRAEMER, W.J., J.F. PATTON, S.E. GORDON, E.A. HARMAN, M.R. DESCHENES, K. REYN-
OLDS, R.U. NEWTON, N.T. TRIPLETT, and J.E. 
DZIADOS. Compatibility of high-intensity 
strength and endurance training on hormonal 
and skeletal muscle adaptations.  J Appl Physiol 
78:976-989, 1995.
 83b. KRUSTRUP, P., M. MOHR, T. ARMSTRUP, T. 
RYSGAARD, J. JOHANSEN, A. STEENSBERG, 
P.K. PEDERSEN, and J. BANGSBO. The Yo-Yo 
intermittent recovery test: physiological re-
sponse, reliability, and validity. Med Sci Sports Ex-
erc 35(4):697-705, 2003.
 84. KUBUKELI, Z.N., T.D. NOAKES, and S.C. DEN-
NIS. Training techniques to improve endurance 
exercise performances.  Sports Med 32:489-509, 
2002.
 85. KYROLAINEN, H., J. AVELA, J.M. MCBRIDE, S. KOSKINEN, J.L. ANDERSEN, S. SIPILA, T.E. TAKALA, and P.V. KOMI. Effects of power training 
on muscle structure and neuromuscular perfor-
mance. Scand J Med Sci Sports 15:58-64, 2005.
 86. LAURSEN, P.B., M.A. BLANCHARD, and D.G. 
JENKINS. Acute high-intensity interval training 
improves Tvent and peak power output in high-
ly trained males.  Can J Appl Physiol 27:336-348, 
2002.
 87. LAURSEN, P.B., and D.G. JENKINS. The scientif-ic basis for high-intensity interval training: op-
timising training programmes and maximising 
performance in highly trained endurance ath-
letes. Sports Med 32:53-73, 2002. 88. LAURSEN, P.B., E.C. RHODES, R.H. LANGILL, D.C. MCKENZIE, and J.E. TAUNTON. Relation-
ship of exercise test variables to cycling perfor-
mance in an Ironman triathlon.  Eur J Appl Physiol 
87:433-440, 2002.
 89. LAURSEN, P.B., E.C. RHODES, R.H. LANGILL, J.E. TAUNTON, and D.C. MCKENZIE. Exer-
cise-induced arterial hypoxemia is not different 
during cycling and running in triathletes.  Scand J 
Med Sci Sports 15:1 13-1 17, 2005.
 90. LAURSEN, P.B., C.M. SHING, J.M. PEAKE, J.S. COOMBES, and D.G. JENKINS. Influence of 
high-intensity interval training on adaptations in 
well-trained cyclists.  J Strength Cond Res 19:527-
533, 2005.
 91. LAURSEN, P.B., C.M. SHING, J.M. PEAKE, J.S. COOMBES, and D.G. JENKINS. Interval training 
program optimization in highly trained endur-ance cyclists.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 34:1801-1807, 
2002.
 92. LEVINE, B.D. V/od/O2max: what do we know, and what do we still need to know? J Physiol 
586:25-34, 2008.
 93. LINOSSIER, M.T., D. DORMOIS, C. PERIER, J. 
FREY, A. GEYSSANT, and C. DENIS. Enzyme ad-
aptations of human skeletal muscle during bi-
cycle short-sprint training and detraining.  Acta 
Physiol Scand 161:439-445, 1997.
 94. LITTLE, T., and A.G. WILLIAMS. Effects of sprint duration and exercise: rest ratio on repeated 
sprint performance and physiological responses 
in professional soccer players.  J Strength Cond Res 
21:646-648, 2007.
 95. MACDOUGALL, J.D., A.L. HICKS, J.R. MAC-DONALD, R.S. MCKELVIE, H.J. GREEN, and 
K.M. SMITH. Muscle performance and enzymat-
ic adaptations to sprint interval training.  J Appl 
Physiol 84:2138-2142, 1998.
 96. MARCINIK, E.J., J. POTTS, G. SCHLABACH, S. WILL, P. DAWSON, and B.F. HURLEY. Effects of 
strength training on lactate threshold and endur-
ance performance.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 23:739-
743, 1991.
 97. MAYHEW, J.L. Oxygen cost and energy expendi-ture of running in trained runners.  Br J Sports Med 
1 1:1 16-121, 1977.
 98. MCARDLE, W.D., F.I. KATCH, and V.L. KATCH. Exercise Physiology: Energy, Nutrition, and Human 
Performance. 6th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Wil-liams & Wilkins, 2007.
 99. MCGEE, D., T.C. JESSEE, M.H. STONE, and D. BLESSING. Leg and hip endurance adaptations 
to three weight-training programs.  J Appl Sport Sci 
Res 6:92-85, 1992.
 100. MCGUIRE, B.J., and T.W. SECOMB. Estimation of 
capillary density in human skeletal muscle based 
on maximal oxygen consumption rates.  Am J 
Physiol Heart Circ Physiol 285:H2382-2391, 2003.

References364
 101. MCKENNA, M.J., A.R. HARMER, S.F. FRASER, 
and J.L. LI. Effects of training on potassium, cal-
cium and hydrogen ion regulation in skeletal 
muscle and blood during exercise.  Acta Physiol 
Scand 156:335-346, 1996.
 102. MEDBO, J.I., and S. BURGERS. Effect of train-ing on the anaerobic capacity.  Med Sci Sports 
Exerc 22:501-507, 1990.
 102b. MICHELI, M.L., E.CASTELLINI, and M. MAREL-LA. Il condizionamento aerobico. L’ Allenatore, 
2008.
 103. MIDGLEY, A.W., L.R. MCNAUGHTON, and 
A.M. JONES. Training to enhance the physio-
logical determinants of long-distance running performance: can valid recommendations be 
given to runners and coaches based on current 
scientific knowledge? Sports Med 37:857-880, 
2007.
 104. MIKKOLA, J., H. RUSKO, A. NUMMELA, T. POLLARI, and K. HÄKKINEN. Concurrent en-
durance and explosive type strength training 
improves neuromuscular and anaerobic charac-
teristics in young distance runners.  Int J Sports 
Med 28:602-61 1, 2007.
 105. MILLER, T.A., R. THIERRY-AGUILERA, J.J. CON-GLETON, A.A. AMENDOLA, M.J. CLARK, S.F. 
CROUSE, S.M. MARTIN, and O.C. JENKINS. 
Seasonal changes in VO2max among Division 
1A collegiate women soccer players.  J Strength 
Cond Res 21:48-51, 2007.
 105b. MOHR, M., P. KRUSTRUP, and J. BANGSBO. Match performance of high-standard soccer 
players with special reference to development 
of fatigue. J Sports Sci 21(7):519-528, 2003.
 106. MONTGOMERY, D.L. Physiology of ice hock-
ey. Sports Med 5:99-126, 1988.
 107. MORGAN, D.W., D.R. BRANSFORD, D.L. COS-
TILL, J.T. DANIELS, E.T. HOWLEY, and G.S. 
KRAHENBUHL. Variation in the aerobic de-
mand of running among trained and untrained 
subjects.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 27:404-409, 1995.
 108. NADER, G.A. Concurrent strength and endur-
ance training: from molecules to man.  Med Sci 
Sports Exerc 38:1965-1970, 2006.
 109. NIELSEN, H.B. Arterial desaturation during ex-ercise in man: implication for O2 uptake and 
work capacity.  Scand J Med Sci Sports 13:339-
358, 2003.
 109b. OSGNACH, C., S. POSER, R. BERNARDINI, R. RINALDO, and P.E. DI PRAMPERO. Energy 
cost and metabolic power in elite soccer: a new 
match analysis approach. Med Sci Sports Exerc 
42:170-178, 2010.
 1 10. PAAVOLAINEN, L., K. HÄKKINEN, I. 
HAMALAINEN, A. NUMMELA, and H. RUS-
KO. Explosive-strength training improves 5-km running time by improving running economy 
and muscle power.  J Appl Physiol 86:1527-1533, 
1999.
 1 1 1. PAAVOLAINEN, L., K. HÄKKINEN, and H. RUSKO. Effects of explosive type strength train-
ing on physical performance characteristics in 
cross-country skiers.  Eur J Appl Physiol Occup 
Physiol 62:251-255, 1991.
 1 12. PINCIVERO, D.M., and T.O. BOMPA. A physio-logical review of American football.  Sports Med 
23:247-260, 1997.
 1 13. PLISK, S.S. Anaerobic metabolic conditioning: 
a brief review of theory, strategy and practical 
application. J Appl Sport Sci Res 5:22-34, 1991.
 1 14. PLISK, S.S. Speed, agility, and speed-endurance 
development. In: Essentials of Strength Training 
and Conditioning. T.R. Baechle and R.W. Earle, 
eds. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2008.
 1 15. PLISK, S.S., and V. GAMBETTA. Tactical meta-
bolic training: part 1.  Strength Cond 19:44-53, 
1997.
 1 16. PLISK, S.S., and M.H. STONE. Periodization strategies. Strength Cond 25:19-37, 2003.
 1 17. POLLOCK, M.L. The quantification of endur-ance training programs.  Exerc Sport Sci Rev 
1:155-188, 1973.
 1 18. POTTEIGER, J.A. Aerobic endurance exercise training. In: Essentials of Strength Training and 
Conditioning. T.R. Baechle and R.W. Earle, eds. 
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2000, pp. 
495-509.
 1 19. POWERS, S.K., and E.T. HOWLEY. Exercise 
Physiology: Theory and Application to Fitness and 
Performance. 5th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 
2004.
 120. POWERS, S.K., J. LAWLER, J.A. DEMPSEY, S. 
DODD, and G. LANDRY. Effects of incomplete 
pulmonary gas exchange on VO2 max.  J Appl 
Physiol 66:2491-2495, 1989.
 120b. PROIETTI, R. La Corsa. Città di Castello, Italy: 
Edizioni Nuova Prhomos, 1999.
 121. RAMPININI, E., F.M. IMPELLIZZERI, C. CAST -
AGNA, G. ABT, K. CHAMARI, A. SASSI, and S.M. MARCORA. Factors influencing physio-logical responses to small-sided soccer games.  J 
Sports Sci 25:659-666, 2007.
 122. REILLY, T., C.N. DOWZER, and N.T. CABLE. The physiology of deep-water running.  J Sports 
Sci 21:959-972, 2003.
 123. REILLY, T., and B. EKBLOM. The use of recovery methods post-exercise.  J Sports Sci 23:619-627, 
2005.
 124. REINDELL, H., and H. ROSKAMM. Ein Beitrag 
zu den physiologischen Grundlagen des Inter-
vall training unter besonderer Berücksichtigug des Kreilaufes. Schweiz Z Sportmed 7:1-8, 1959.

References365
 125. ROBINSON, J.M., M.H. STONE, R.L. JOHN-
SON, C.M. PENLAND, B.J. WARREN, and R.D. 
LEWIS. Effects of different weight training exer-
cise/rest intervals on strength, power, and high 
intensity exercise endurance.  J Strength Cond Res 
9:216-221, 1995.
 126. RODAS, G., J.L. VENTURA, J.A. CADEFAU, R. CUSSO, and J. PARRA. A short training pro-
gramme for the rapid improvement of both 
aerobic and anaerobic metabolism.  Eur J Appl 
Physiol 82:480-486, 2000.
 127. RODRIGUEZ, L.P., J. LOPEZ-REGO, J.A. CAL-BET, R. VALERO, E. VARELA, and J. PONCE. Ef-
fects of training status on fibers of the musculus 
vastus lateralis in professional road cyclists.  Am 
J Phys Med Rehabil 81:651-660, 2002.
 128. RUBAL, B.J., J.M. MOODY, S. DAMORE, S.R. BUNKER, and N.M. DIAZ. Left ventricular per-formance of the athletic heart during upright 
exercise: a heart rate-controlled study.  Med Sci 
Sports Exerc 18:134-140, 1986.
 129. RUBIO, J. Devising an efficient training plan. In: Run Strong. K. Beck, ed. Champaign, IL: Hu-
man Kinetics, 2005, pp. 41-58.
 130. SALTIN, B. Hemodynamic adaptations to exer-cise. Am J Cardiol 55:42D-47D, 1985.
 131. SALTIN, B., and P.O. ASTRAND. Maximal ox-
ygen uptake in athletes.  J Appl Physiol 23:353-
358, 1967.
 132. SALTIN, B., J. HENRIKSSON, E. NYGAARD, P. ANDERSEN, and E. JANSSON. Fiber types and 
metabolic potentials of skeletal muscles in sed-
entary man and endurance runners.  Ann N Y 
Acad Sci 301:3-29, 1977.
 133. SCHMIDT, W., N. MAASSEN, U. TEGTBUR, and K.M. BRAUMANN. Changes in plasma volume 
and red cell formation after a marathon compe-
tition.  Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 58:453-
458, 1989.
 134. 
SCHUMACHER, Y.O., D. GRATHWOHL, J.M. 
BARTUREN, M. WOLLENWEBER, L. HEINRICH, 
A. SCHMID, G. HUBER, and J. KEUL. Haemo -
globin, haematocrit and red blood cell indices 
in elite cyclists. Are the control values for blood 
testing valid? Int J Sports Med 21:380-385, 2000.
 135. SCHUMACHER, Y.O., A. SCHMID, D. GRATH-
WOHL, D. BULTERMANN, and A. BERG. He-
matological indices and iron status in athletes 
of various sports and performances.  Med Sci 
Sports Exerc 34:869-875, 2002.
 135b. SEILER, K.S., and G.O. KJERLAND. Quantifying 
training intensity distribution in elite endur-
ance athletes: is there evidence for an “optimal” 
distribution? Scand J Med Sci Sports 16(1):49-
56, 2006.
 136. SHONO, N., H. URATA, B. SALTIN, M. MIZU-
NO, T. HARADA, M. SHINDO, and H. TANA -KA. Effects of low intensity aerobic training on 
skeletal muscle capillary and blood lipoprotein 
profiles. J Atheroscler Thromb 9:78-85, 2002.
 137. SILVESTRE, R., W.J. KRAEMER, C. WEST, D.A. 
JUDELSON, B.A. SPIERING, J.L. VINGREN, 
D.L. HATFIELD, J.M. ANDERSON, and C.M. 
MARESH. Body composition and physical per-
formance during a National Collegiate Athletic 
Association Division I men’s soccer season.  J 
Strength Cond Res 20:962-970, 2006.
 138. SJÖDIN, B., and I. JACOBS. Onset of blood lac-tate accumulation and marathon running per-
formance. Int J Sports Med 2:23-26, 1981.
 139. SJÖDIN, B., I. JACOBS, and J. SVEDENHAG. 
Changes in onset of blood lactate accumulation 
(OBLA) and muscle enzymes after training at 
OBLA.  Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 49:45-57, 
1982.
 140. SJÖDIN, B, and J. SVEDENHAG. Applied phys-
iology of marathon running.  Sports Med 2:83-
99, 1985.
 141. SLEAMAKER, R., and R. BROWNING. Serious 
Training for Endurance Athletes. 2nd ed. Cham-
paign, IL: Human Kinetics, 1996.
 141b. SLETTALÿKKEN, G., and B.R. RÿNNESTAD. 
High-intensity interval training every sec-
ond week maintains VO2max in soccer play-
ers during off-season, J Strength Cond Res.; 
28(7):1946-1951, 2014.
 142. SMITH, T.P., L.R. MCNAUGHTON, and K.J. 
MARSHALL. Effects of 4-wk training using 
Vmax/Tmax on V/od/O2max and performance 
in athletes.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 31:892-896, 
1999.
 143. SPRIET, L.L., M.I. LINDINGER, R.S. MCKELVIE, G.J. HEIGENHAUSER, and N.L. JONES. Muscle 
glycogenolysis and H+ concentration during 
maximal intermittent cycling.  J Appl Physiol 
66:8-13, 1989.
 144. STEPTO, N.K., J.A. HAWLEY, S.C. DENNIS, and W.G. HOPKINS. Effects of different in-
terval-training programs on cycling time-trial 
performance.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 31:736-741, 
1999.
 145. STEPTO, N.K., D.T. MARTIN, K.E. FALLON, and J.A. HAWLEY. Metabolic demands of in-tense aerobic interval training in competitive 
cyclists. Med Sci Sports Exerc 33:303-310, 2001.
 146. STONE, M.H., and H.O. O’BRYANT. Weight Training: A Scientific Approach. Edina, MN: Bur-
gess, 1987.
 147. STONE, M.H., W.A. SANDS, K.C. PIERCE, R.U. 
NEWTON, G.G. HAFF, and J. CARLOCK. Maxi-
mum strength and strength training: a relation-
ship to endurance? Strength Cond J 28:44-53, 
2006.

References366
 148. STONE, M.H., M.E. STONE, and W.A. SANDS. 
Principles and Practice of Resistance Training. 
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2007.
 149. SUTER, E., W. HERZOG, J. SOKOLOSKY, J.P. 
WILEY, and B.R. MACINTOSH. Muscle fiber 
type distribution as estimated by Cybex test-
ing and by muscle biopsy.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 
25:363-370, 1993.
 150. SVEDAHL, K., and B.R. MACINTOSH. Anaero-bic threshold: the concept and methods of mea-
surement. Can J Appl Physiol 28:299-323, 2003.
 151. SVEDENHAG, J., J. HENRIKSSON, and A. JUH-LIN-DANNFELT. Beta-adrenergic blockade and 
training in human subjects: effects on muscle metabolic capacity.  Am J Physiol 247:E305-31 1, 
1984.
 152. TABATA, I., K. IRISAWA, M. KOUZAKI, K. 
NISHIMURA, F. OGITA, and M. MIYACHI. Met-
abolic profile of high intensity intermittent ex-
ercises. Med Sci Sports Exerc 29:390-395, 1997.
 153. TANAKA, H., and T. SWENSEN. Impact of re-
sistance training on endurance performance. A 
new form of cross-training? Sports Med 25:191-
200, 1998.
 153b. TOMLIN, D.L., and H.A. WENGER. The rela-
tionship between aerobic fitness and recovery 
from high intensity intermittent exercise. Sports 
Med 31(1):1-1 1, 2001.
 154. TRAPPE, S., M. HARBER, A. CREER, P. GALLA -
GHER, D. SLIVKA, K. MINCHEV, and D. WHIT -
SETT. Single muscle fiber adaptations with marathon training.  J Appl Physiol 101:721-727, 
2006.
 155. TURNER, A.M., M. OWINGS, and J.A. SCHWANE. Improvement in running economy 
after 6 weeks of plyometric training.  J Strength 
Cond Res 17:60-67, 2003.
 155b. VITTORI, C. Velocista resisti. Universo Atletica 
17:19-20, 1991.
 156. WANG, N., R.S. HIKIDA, R.S. STARON, and J.A. SIMONEAU. Muscle fiber types of women after 
resistance training−quantitative ultrastructure and enzyme activity.  Pflugers Arch 424:494-502, 
1993.
 157. WELTMAN, A., R.L. SEIP, D. SNEAD, J.Y. WELT -
MAN, E.M. HASKVITZ, W.S. EVANS, J.D. VELD-
HUIS, and A.D. ROGOL. Exercise training at 
and above the lactate threshold in previously 
untrained women.  Int J Sports Med 13:257-263, 
1992.
 158. WESTGARTH-TAYLOR, C., J.A. HAWLEY, S. RICKARD, K.H. MYBURGH, T.D. NOAKES, 
and S.C. DENNIS. Metabolic and performance 
adaptations to interval training in endurance- 
trained cyclists.  Eur J Appl Physiol 75:298-304, 
1997. 159. WESTON, A.R., K.H. MYBURGH, F.H. LIND-SAY, S.C. DENNIS, T.D. NOAKES, and J.A. 
HAWLEY. Skeletal muscle buffering capacity 
and endurance performance after high-intensi-
ty interval training by well-trained cyclists.  Eur J 
Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 75:7-13, 1997.
 159b. WIGERNAES, I., A.T. HOSTMARK, S.B. STROM-
ME, P. KIERULF, and K. BIRKELAND. Active re-
covery and post-exercise white blood cell count, 
free fatty acids, and hormones in endurance 
athletes. Eur J Appl Physiol 84(4):358-66, 2001.
 160. WILMORE, J.H., D.L. COSTILL, and W.L. KEN-
NEY. Physiology of Sport and Exercise. 4th ed. 
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2008.
 161. WRIGHT, D.C., D.H. HAN, P.M. GAR -
CIA-ROVES, P.C. GEIGER, T.E. JONES, and J.O. 
HOLLOSZY. Exercise-induced mitochondrial 
biogenesis begins before the increase in muscle PGC-1 alpha expression.  J Biol Chem 282:194-
199, 2007.
 162. YOSHIDA, T., M. CHIDA, M. ICHIOKA, and Y. SUDA. Blood lactate parameters related to aer-
obic capacity and endurance performance.  Eur J 
Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 56:7-1 1, 1987.
 162b. ZAPICO, A.G., F.J. CALDERON, P.J. BENITO, 
C.B. GONZALEZ, A. PARISI, F. PIGOZZI, and V. 
DI SALVO. Evolution of physiological and hae-
matological parameters with training load in 
elite male road cyclists: a longitudinal study. J 
Sports Med Phys Fitness 47:191-196, 2007.
 163. ZAWADOWSKA, B., J. MAJERCZAK, D. SEMIK, 
J. KARASINSKI, L. KOLODZIEJSKI, W.M. KILAR -
SKI, K. DUDA, and J.A. ZOLADZ. Characteris-tics of myosin profile in human vastus lateralis 
muscle in relation to training background.  Folia 
Histochem Cytobiol 42:181-190, 2004.
 164. ZHOU, B., R.K. CONLEE, R. JENSEN, G.W. FELLINGHAM, J.D. GEORGE, and A.G. FISHER. 
Stroke volume does not plateau during graded 
exercise in elite male distance runners.  Med Sci 
Sports Exerc 33:1849-1854, 2001.
 165. ZOLADZ, J.A., D. SEMIK, B. ZAWADOWSKA, J. MAJERCZAK, J. KARASINSKI, L. KOLODZIE-
JSKI, K. DUDA, and W.M. KILARSKI. Capillary 
density and capillary-to-fibre ratio in vastus lat-eralis muscle of untrained and trained men.  Fo-
lia Histochem Cytobiol 43:1 1-17, 2005.
Chapter 12
 1. ADRIAN, M.J., and J.M. COOPER. Biomechanics of Human Movement. 2nd ed. New York: WCB 
McGraw-Hill, 1995.
 2. AE, M., A. ITO, and M. SUZUKI. The men’s 100 metres. New Studies in Athletics 7:47-52, 1992.
 3. ALLEMEIER, C.A., A.C. FRY, P. JOHNSON, R.S. 
HIKIDA, F.C. HAGERMAN, and R.S. STARON. 

References367
Effects of sprint cycle training on human skele-
tal muscle. J Appl Physiol 77:2385-2390, 1994.
 4. ANDERSEN, J.L., H. KLITGAARD, and B. SALTIN. Myosin heavy chain isoforms in single fibres 
from m. vastus lateralis of sprinters: influence of 
training. Acta Physiol Scand 151:135-142, 1994.
 5. ANDERSEN, J.L., and S. SCHIAFFINO. Mis-match between myosin heavy chain mRNA and 
protein distribution in human skeletal muscle 
fibers. Am J Physiol 272:C1881-1889, 1997.
 6. BAKER, D., and S. NANCE. The relation be-tween running speed and measures of strength and power in professional rugby league play-
ers. J. Strength Cond. Res 13:230-235, 1999.
 7. BALSOM, P.D., J.Y. SEGER, B. SJODIN, and B. EKBLOM. Maximal-intensity intermittent exer-
cise: effect of recovery duration.  Int J Sports Med 
13:528-533, 1992.
 8. BALSOM, P.D., J.Y. SEGER, B. SJODIN, and B. EKBLOM. Physiological responses to maximal 
intensity intermittent exercise.  Eur J Appl Physiol 
65:144-149, 1992.
 9. BANGSBO, J. The physiology of soccer−with special reference to intense intermittent exer-
cise. Acta Physiol Scand Suppl 619:1-155, 1994.
 10. BOGDANIS, G.C., M.E. NEVILL, L.H. BOOBIS, 
and H.K. LAKOMY. Contribution of phospho-
creatine and aerobic metabolism to energy sup-
ply during repeated sprint exercise.  J Appl Physi-
ol 80:876-884, 1996.
 1 1. BOGDANIS, G.C., M.E. NEVILL, H.K. LAKO-MY, and L.H. BOOBIS. Power output and mus-
cle metabolism during and following recovery 
from 10 and 20 s of maximal sprint exercise in 
humans. Acta Physiol Scand 163:261-272, 1998.
 12. BOMPA, T.O. Total Training for Coaching Team 
Sports: A Self Help Guide. Toronto, CA: Sports 
Books Publisher, 2006.
 13. BOMPA, T., and C. BUZZICHELLI. Periodization 
Training for Sports.  3rd ed.  Champaign, IL: Hu-
man Kinetics, 2015.
 14. BONDARCHUK, A.P. The role and sequence of using different training-load intensities.  Fit 
Sports Rev Int 29:202-204, 1994.
 15. BONDARCHUK, A.P. Track and Field Training. 
Kiev: Zdotovye, 1986.
 16. BOTTINELLI, R., M.A. PELLEGRINO, M. 
CANEPARI, R. ROSSI, and C. REGGIANI. Spe-
cific contributions of various muscle fibre types 
to human muscle performance: an in vitro 
study. J Electromyogr Kinesiol 9:87-95, 1999.
 17. BOTTINELLI, R., S. SCHIAFFINO, and C. 
REGGIANI. Force-velocity relations and my-
osin heavy chain isoform compositions of 
skinned fibres from rat skeletal muscle.  J Physiol 
437:655-672, 1991. 18. BRUGHELLI, M., J. CRONIN, and A. CHAOUA -
CHI. Effects of running velocity on running 
kinetics and kinematics. J Strength Cond Res 
25(4):933-939, 201 1.
 18b. 
BUCHHEIT, M., P. SAMOZINO, J.A. GLYNN, B.S. MICHAEL, H. AL HADDAD, A. MENDEZ-VIL
-
LANUEVA, and J.B. MORIN. Mechanical deter -
minants of acceleration and maximal  sprint -
ing speed in highly trained young soccer players. J Sports Sci 32(20):1905-1913, 2014.
 19. CADEFAU, J., J. CASADEMONT, J.M. GRAU, J. FERNANDEZ, A. BALAGUER, M. VERNET, 
R. CUSSO, and A. URBANO-MARQUEZ. Bio-
chemical and histochemical adaptation to 
sprint training in young athletes.  Acta Physiol 
Scand 140:341-351, 1990.
 20. CARPENTIER, A., J. DUCHATEAU, and K. HAINAUT. Velocity dependent muscle strategy during plantarflexion in humans.  J Electromyogr 
Kinesiol 6:225-233, 1996.
 21. CHELLY, S.M., and C. DENIS. Leg power and hopping stiffness: relationship with sprint run-
ning performance.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 33:326-
333, 2001.
 22. CONTRERAS, B., A.D. VIGOTSKY, B.J. SCHOENFELD, C. BEARDSLEY, D.T. MCMAS-
TER, J.H. REYNEKE, and J.B. CRONIN. Effects 
of a six-week hip thrust vs. front squat resistance 
training program on performance in adolescent 
males: a randomized controlled trial. J Strength 
Cond Res 31(4):999-1008, 2017.
 23. COSTILL, D.L., J. DANIELS, W. EVANS, W. 
FINK, G. KRAHENBUHL, and B. SALTIN. Skel-
etal muscle enzymes and fiber composition in 
male and female track athletes.  J Appl Physiol 
40:149-154, 1976.
 24. CRONIN, J.B., and K.T. HANSEN. Strength and power predictors of sports speed.  J Strength 
Cond Res 19:349-357, 2005.
 25. DAWSON, B., M. FITZSIMONS, S. GREEN, C. GOODMAN, M. CAREY, and K. COLE. Changes 
in performance, muscle metabolites, enzymes 
and fibre types after short sprint training.  Eur J 
Appl Physiol 78:163-169, 1998.
 26. DELECLUSE, C. Influence of strength training on sprint running performance. Current find-ings and implications for training.  Sports Med 
24:147-156, 1997.
 27. DELECLUSE, C.H., H. VAN COPPENOLLE, E. 
WILLEMS, R. DIELS, M. GORIS, M. VAN LEEM-
PUTTE, and M. VUYLSTEKE. Analysis of 100 m sprint performance as a multi-dimensional 
skill.  Journal of Human Movement Studies 28:87-
101, 1995.
 28. DICK, F.W. Planning the programme. In: Sports 
Training Principles. London: A&C Black, 1997, pp. 253-304.

References368
 29. DIETZ, V., D. SCHMIDTBLEICHER, and J. NOTH. 
Neuronal mechanisms of human locomotion.  J 
Neurophysiol 42:1212-1222, 1979.
 30. DUTHIE, G., D. PYNE, and S. HOOPER. Ap-plied physiology and game analysis of rugby 
union. Sports Med 33:973-991, 2003.
 31. ESBJORNSSON, M., Y. HELLSTEN-WESTING, P.D. BALSOM, B. SJODIN, and E. JANSSON. Mus-
cle fibre type changes with sprint training: effect of training pattern.  Acta Physiol Scand 149:245-
246, 1993.
 32. ESBJORNSSON, M., C. SYLVEN, I. HOLM, and E. 
JANSSON. Fast twitch fibres may predict anaero-
bic performance in both females and males.  Int J 
Sports Med 14:257-263, 1993.
 33. FREEMAN, W.H. Peak When it Counts: Periodiza-tion for American Track & Field. 4th ed. Mountain 
View, CA: Tafnews Press, 2001.
 34. GABBETT, T.J., J.N. KELLY, and J.M. SHEPPARD. 
Speed, change of direction speed, and reactive 
agility of rugby league players.  J Strength Cond Res 
22:174-181, 2008.
 35. GOLLHOFER, A., A. SCHOPP, W. RAPP, and V. STROINIK. Changes in reflex excitability follow-
ing isometric contraction in humans.  Eur J Appl 
Physiol Occup Physiol 77:89-97, 1998.
 36. GOTTLIEB, G.L., G.C. AGARWAL, and R.J. JAE-GER. Response to sudden torques about ankle in 
man. IV. A functional role of alpha-gamma link-
age. J Neurophysiol 46:179-190, 1981.
 37. GRAY, H., and M.H. STONE. Players Guide to ETSU Men’s Soccer: Athlete Development. Johnson City, TN: East Tennessee State University, 2008, p. 
40.
 38. HAFF, G.G., A. WHITLEY, and J.A. POTTEIGER. A brief review: explosive exercises and sports 
performance.  Natl Strength Cond Assoc 23:13-20, 
2001.
 39. HÄKKINEN, K. and E. MYLLYLA. Acute effects of muscle fatigue and recovery on force production 
and relaxation in endurance, power and strength 
athletes. J Sports Med Phys Fitness 30:5-12, 1990.
 40. HAMADA, T., D.G. SALE, and J.D. MACDOU-
GALL. Postactivation potentiation in endur-
ance-trained male athletes.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 
32:403-41 1, 2000.
 41. HARGREAVES, M., M.J. MCKENNA, D.G. JEN-
KINS, S.A. WARMINGTON, J.L. LI, R.J. SNOW, 
and M.A. FEBBRAIO. Muscle metabolites and 
performance during high-intensity, intermittent 
exercise. J Appl Physiol 84:1687-1691, 1998.
 42. HARRIDGE, S.D., R. BOTTINELLI, M. CANEPA -
RI, M. PELLEGRINO, C. REGGIANI, M. ESB-JORNSSON, P.D. BALSOM, and B. SALTIN. 
Sprint training, in vitro and in vivo muscle func-
tion, and myosin heavy chain expression.  J Appl 
Physiol 84:442-449, 1998. 43. HELGERUD, J., L.C. ENGEN, U. WISLØFF, and J. HOFF. Aerobic endurance training improves soc-
cer performance.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 33:1925-
1931, 2001.
 44. HELGERUD, J., K. HOYDAL, E. WANG, T. KARLSEN, P. BERG, M. BJERKAAS, T. SIMON-
SEN, C. HELGESEN, N. HJORTH, R. BACH, and 
J. HOFF. Aerobic high-intensity intervals improve 
VO2max more than moderate training.  Med Sci 
Sports Exerc 39:665-671, 2007.
 45. HIRVONEN, J., S. REHUNEN, H. RUSKO, and M. HARKONEN. Breakdown of high-energy 
phosphate compounds and lactate accumulation 
during short supramaximal exercise.  Eur J Appl 
Physiol 56:253-259, 1987.
 46. HOFF, J., U. WISLØFF, L.C. ENGEN, O.J. KEMI, and J. HELGERUD. Soccer specific aerobic endur-
ance training. Br J Sports Med 36:218-221, 2002.
 47. JACOBS, I., M. ESBJORNSSON, C. SYLVEN, I. HOLM, and E. JANSSON. Sprint training effects 
on muscle myoglobin, enzymes, fiber types, and 
blood lactate.  Med Sci Sports Exerc 19:368-374, 
1987.
 48. JANSSON, E., M. ESBJORNSSON, I. HOLM, and I. JACOBS. Increase in the proportion of 
fast-twitch muscle fibres by sprint training in 
males. Acta Physiol Scand 140:359-363, 1990.
 49. JEFFREYS, I. Total Soccer Fitness. Monterey, CA: 
Coaches Choice, 2007.
 50. JEFFREYS, I. Warm-up and stretching. In: Essen-
tials of Strength Training and Conditioning. T.R. 
Baechle and R.W. Earle, eds. Champaign, IL: Hu-
man Kinetics, 2008, pp. 296-276.
 51. JENKINS, D.G., S. BROOKS, and C. WILLIAMS. 
Improvements in multiple sprint ability with 
three weeks of training.  NZ J Sports Med 22:2-5, 
1994.
 52. JONHAGEN, S., M.O. ERICSON, G. NEMETH, and E. ERIKSSON. Amplitude and timing of elec-
tromyographic activity during sprinting.  Scand J 
Med Sci Sports 6:15-21, 1996.
 53. KAWAMORI, N., K. NOSAKA, and R.U. NEW -
TON. Relationships between ground reaction 
impulse and sprint acceleration performance in 
team sport athletes, J Strength Cond Res 27(3):568-
573, 2013.
 54. KELLER, T.S., A.M. WEISBERGER, J.L. RAY, S.S. 
HASAN, R.G. SHIAVI, and D.M. SPENGLER. Re-
lationship between vertical ground reaction force 
and speed during walking, slow jogging, and 
running.  Clin Biomech (Bristol, Avon) 1 1:253-259, 
1996.
 55. KOMI, P.V. Stretch-shortening cycle. In: Strength and Power in Sport. P.V. Komi, ed. Oxford, UK: 
Blackwell Science, 2003, pp. 184-202.
 56. KOMI, P.V. Training of muscle strength and pow-
er: interaction of neuromotoric, hypertrophic, 

References369
and mechanical factors.  Int J Sports Med 7(suppl 
1):10-15, 1986.
 57. LAURSEN, P.B., and D.G. JENKINS. The scientif-
ic basis for high-intensity interval training: op-timising training programmes and maximising 
performance in highly trained endurance ath-
letes. Sports Med 32:53-73, 2002.
 58. LILJEDAHL, M.E., I. HOLM, C. SYLVEN, and E. JANSSON. Different responses of skeletal muscle following sprint training in men and women.  Eur 
J Appl Physiol 74:375-383, 1996.
 59. LINNAMO, V., K. HAKKINEN, and P.V. KOMI. 
Neuromuscular fatigue and recovery in maximal 
compared to explosive strength loading. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 77:176-181. 1998.
 60. LINOSSIER, M.T., C. DENIS, D. DORMOIS, A. GEYSSANT, and J.R. LACOUR. Ergometric and 
metabolic adaptation to a 5-s sprint training pro-
gramme. Eur J Appl Physiol 67:408-414, 1993.
 61. LINOSSIER, M.T., D. DORMOIS, A. GEYSSANT, 
and C. DENIS. Performance and fibre characteris-
tics of human skeletal muscle during short sprint 
training and detraining on a cycle ergometer.  Eur 
J Appl Physiol 75:491-498, 1997.
 62. LINOSSIER, M.T., D. DORMOIS, C. PERIER, J. FREY, A. GEYSSANT, and C. DENIS. Enzyme ad-
aptations of human skeletal muscle during bi-
cycle short-sprint training and detraining.  Acta 
Physiol Scand 161:439-445, 1997.
 63. LITTLE, T., and A.G. WILLIAMS. Specificity of acceleration, maximum speed, and agility in 
professional soccer players.  J Strength Cond Res 
19:76-78, 2005.
 64. LOCATELLI, E. The importance of anaerobic gly-colysis and stiffness in the sprints (60, 100, 200 
metres) N. Stud Athletics 1 1:121-125, 1996.
 65. MACKALA, K. Optimisation of performance 
through kinematic analysis of the different phases 
of the 100 metres, N. Stud Athletics 22(2):7-16, 
2007.
 66. MACDOUGALL, J.D., A.L. HICKS, J.R. MAC-DONALD, R.S. MCKELVIE, H.J. GREEN, and K.M. SMITH. Muscle performance and enzymat-
ic adaptations to sprint interval training.  J Appl 
Physiol 84:2138-2142, 1998.
 67. MAUGHAN, R., and M. GLEESON. The Biochem-ical Basis of Sports Performance. New York: Oxford 
University Press, 2004.
 68. MCBRIDE, J.M., T. TRIPLETT-MCBRIDE, A. 
DAVIE, and R.U. NEWTON. A comparison of 
strength and power characteristics between pow-
er lifters, Olympic lifters, and sprinters.  J Strength 
Cond Res 13:58-66, 1999.
 69. MCBRIDE, J.M., T. TRIPLETT-MCBRIDE, A. DA -
VIE, and R.U. NEWTON. The effect of heavy- vs. 
light-load jump squats on the development of strength, power, and speed.  J Strength Cond Res 
16:75-82, 2002.
 70. MCKENNA, M.J., A.R. HARMER, S.F. FRASER, and J.L. LI. Effects of training on potassium, calci-um and hydrogen ion regulation in skeletal mus-
cle and blood during exercise.  Acta Physiol Scand 
156:335-346, 1996.
 71. MCKENNA, M., and P.E. RICHES. A comparison 
of sprinting kinematics on two types of treadmill and over-ground. Scand J Med Sci Sports 17:649-
655, 2007.
 72. MERO, A., and P.V. KOMI. Effects of supramax-imal velocity on biomechanical variables in 
sprinting. Int J Sport Biomech 1:240-252, 1985.
 73. MERO, A., P. LUHTANEN, J.T. VIITASALO, and 
P.V. KOMI. Relationships between maximal 
running velocity, muscle fiber characteristics, 
force production and force relaxation of sprint-
ers. Scand J Sports Sci 3:16-22, 1981.
 74. MILLER, R.G., R.S. MOUSSAVI, A.T. GREEN, P.J. 
CARSON, and M.W. WEINER. The fatigue of rap-
id repetitive movements.  Neurology 43:755-761, 
1993.
 75. MOIR, G., R. SANDERS, C. BUTTON, and M. GLAISTER. The effect of periodized resistance 
training on accelerative sprint performance.  Sports 
Biomech 6:285-300, 2007.
 76. MORENO, E. Developing quickness, part II. Strength Cond J 17:38-39, 1995.
 77. MORIN, J.B., P. EDOUARD, and P. SAMOZINO. New insights into sprint biomechanics and de-
terminants of elite 100m performance. N. Stud 
Athletics 28(3/4):87-104, 2013.
 78. MURPHY, A.J., R.G. LOCKIE, and A.J. COUTTS. Kinematic determinants of early acceleration in 
field sport athletes.  J Sports Sci Med 2:144-150, 
2003.
 79. NEGRETE, R., and J. BROPHY. The relationship between isokinetic open and closed chain lower 
extremity strength and functional performance.  J 
Sport Rehabil 9:46-61, 2000.
 80. NEVILL, M.E., L.H. BOOBIS, S. BROOKS, and C. WILLIAMS. Effect of training on muscle metab-
olism during treadmill sprinting.  J Appl Physiol 
67:2376-2382, 1989.
 81. NUMMELA, A., H. RUSKO, and A. MERO. EMG 
activities and ground reaction forces during fa-
tigued and nonfatigued sprinting.  Med Sci Sports 
Exerc 26:605-609, 1994.
 82. NUMMELA, A., T. KERÄNEN, and L.O. MIKKELS-SON. Factors related to top running speed and 
economy. Int J Sports Med 28(8):655-661, 2007.
 83. PARRA, J., J.A. CADEFAU, G. RODAS, N. AMIGO, 
and R. CUSSO. The distribution of rest periods 
affects performance and adaptations of energy 
metabolism induced by high-intensity training 

References370
in human muscle.  Acta Physiol Scand 169:157-
165, 2000.
84.PETTE, D. The adaptiv
e potential of skeletal mus-
cle fibers. Can J Appl Physiol 27:423-448, 2002.
85.PETTE, 
D., and R.S. STARON. Myosin isoforms,
muscle fiber types, and transitions.  Microsc Res
Tech 50:500-509, 2000.
86.PLISK, S.S. The angle on agility
. Training and Con-
ditioning 10:37-43, 2000.
87.PLISK, S.S. Speed, agility, and speed-endurance
dev
elopment. In: Essentials of Strength Training
and Conditioning. T.R. Baechle and R.W. Earle,eds. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2008.
88.PLISK, S.S., and V
. GAMBETTA. Tactical metabol-
ic training: part 1. Strength Cond 19:44-53, 1997.
89.PLISK, S.S., and M.H. ST
ONE. Periodization
strategies. Strength Cond 25:19-37, 2003.
9
0.RA
CINAIS, S., D. BISHOP, R. DENIS, G. LATTIER,
A. MENDEZ-VILLANEUVA, and S. PERREY. Mus-cle deoxygenation and neural drive to the muscleduring repeated sprint cycling.  Med Sci Sports Ex-
erc 39:268-274, 2007.
9
1.R
OSS, A., and M. LEVERITT. Long-term metabol-
ic and skeletal muscle adaptations to short-sprinttraining: implications for sprint training and ta-pering. Sports Med 31:1063-1082, 2001.
92.R
OSS, A., M. LEVERITT, and S. RIEK. Neural in-
fluences on sprint running: training adaptationsand acute responses.  Sports Med 31:409-425,
2001.
93.SA
YERS, M. Running technique for field sport
players. Sports Coach Autumn: 26-27, 2000.
94.SHEPP
ARD, J.M., and W.B. YOUNG. Agility lit-
erature review: classifications, training and test-ing. J Sports Sci 24:919-932, 2006.
95.SIFF
, M.C. Supertraining. 6th ed. Denver, CO: Su-
pertraining Institute, 2003.
96.SIMONEA
U, J.A., G. LORTIE, M.R. BOULAY, M.
MARCOTTE, M.C. THIBAULT, and C. BOUCH-ARD. Human skeletal muscle fiber type alteration with high-intensity intermittent training.  Eur J
Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 54:250-253, 1985.
97.SPENCER, M., D. BISHOP
, B. DAWSON, and
C. GOODMAN. Physiological and metabolicresponses of repeated-sprint activities : specificto field-based team sports.  Sports Med 35:1025-
1044, 2005.
98.SPRIET
, L.L., M.I. LINDINGER, R.S. MCKELVIE,
G.J. HEIGENHAUSER, and N.L. JONES. Mus-cle glycogenolysis and H+ concentration duringmaximal intermittent cycling.  J Appl Physiol 66:8-
13, 1989.
99.ST
ACKHOUSE, S.K., D.S. REISMAN, and S.A.
BINDER-MACLEOD. Challenging the role of pHin skeletal muscle fatigue.  Phys Ther 81:1897-
1903, 2001. 1
00.ST
ONE, M.H., M.E. STONE, and W.A. SANDS.
Principles and Practice of Resistance Training.Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2007.
 1
01.TESCH, P
.A., J.E. WRIGHT, J.A. VOGEL, W.L.
DANIELS, D.S. SHARP, and B. SJODIN. The influ-ence of muscle metabolic characteristics on phys-ical performance.  Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol
54:237-243, 1985.
 1
02.THORSTENSSON, A., B
. SJÖDIN, and J. KARLS-
SON. Enzyme activities and muscle strength af-ter “sprint training” in man.  Acta Physiol Scand
94:313-318, 1975.
 1
03.TRAPPE, 
S., M. GODARD, P. GALLAGHER, C.
CARROLL, G. ROWDEN, and D. PORTER. Re-sistance training improves single muscle fibercontractile function in older women.  Am J Physiol
Cell Physiol 281:C398-406, 2001.
 1
04.TRAPPE, S., M. HARBER, A. CREER, P
. GALLA -
GHER, D. SLIVKA, K. MINCHEV, and D. WHIT -
SETT. 
 Single muscle fiber adaptations with mara
-
thon training. J Appl Physiol 101:721-727, 2006.
 1
05.TRAPPE, S., D. WILLIAMSON, M. GODARD,D. PORTER, G. R
OWDEN, and D. COSTILL. Ef-
fect of resistance training on single muscle fibercontractile function in older men.  J Appl Physiol
89:143-152, 2000.
 1
06.V
OLEK, J.S., and W.J. KRAEMER. Creatine sup-
plementation: its effect on human muscular per-formance and body composition.  J Strength Cond
Res 10:200-210, 1996.
 1
07.WEST
ON, A.R., K.H. MYBURGH, F.H. LINDSAY,
S.C. DENNIS, T.D. NOAKES, and J.A. HAWLEY.Skeletal muscle buffering capacity and enduranceperformance after high-intensity interval trainingby well-trained cyclists.  Eur J Appl Physiol Occup
Physiol 75:7-13, 1997.
 1
08.WILLIAMSON, D.L., P
.M. GALLAGHER, C.C.
CARROLL, U. RAUE, and S.W. TRAPPE. Reduc-tion in hybrid single muscle fiber proportionswith resistance training in humans.  J Appl Physiol
91:1955-1961, 2001.
 1
09.WILLIAMSON, D.L., M.P
. GODARD, D.A. POR -
TER, D.L. COSTILL, and S.W. TRAPPE. Progres-sive resistance training reduces myosin heavychain coexpression in single muscle fibers fromolder men. J Appl Physiol 88:627-633, 2000.
 1
10.Y
OUNG, W., D. BENTON, G. DUTHIE, and J.
PRYOR. Resistance training for short sprints andmaximum-speed sprints.  Strength Cond 23:7-13,
2001.
 1
1 1.Y
OUNG, W.B., R. JAMES, and I. MONTGOMERY.
Is muscle power related to running speed withchanges of direction? J Sports Med Phys Fitness42:282-288, 2002.
 1
12.
 YOUNG, W.B., M.H. MCDOWELL, and B.J. SCAR -
LETT. Specificity of sprint and agility training
methods
. J Strength Cond Res 15:315-319, 2001.

371Index
Note: The italicized f and t following page numbers refer to figures and tables, respectively.
A
absolute density  85
absolute intensity  78absolute strength  238absolute volume  85acceleration phase  107-108, 301, 
308-309
accelerometers  247-248, 292-293accessory (compensation)  
exercises  194
Accumulation-Transmutation- 
Realization (A.T.R.)  97
active rest or recovery
for aerobic training  277
in competitiv
e microcycle  149-
150
 in transition phase  176-177
acy
clic combined skills  6
acyclic skills  6adaptation
in endurance training  1
09-1 10
fatigue and  15
1
maladaptation  8, 83
performance gains and  1
0, 1 1f
specialization and  33
in strength training  235-237
supercompensation and  12-19, 
14
f
training load and  8-9, 9
f
training phases and  1
0-1 1
training planning and  1
16
types of  1
0
v
olume and  83-84
adenosine diphosphate (ADP)  20adenosine triphosphate (ATP)
described  19
in metabolic adaptation  1
0
in sprint training  3
03
Aeneid, The (Virgil)  1 15aerobic compensation training 
(CoT)  299
aerobic endurance
v
ersus anaerobic  53, 265
anaerobic training for  266-267
exercise econom
y in  273-274
lactate threshold in  27
1-272, 
272f, 273fmuscles in  27
0-271
performance factors o
verview  
267f
 
V.
  
O2max in  268-271, 272f
aerobic endurance training
activ
e rest in  277
in competitiv
e phase  169-170, 
171
in general subphase  167
interv
al training in  266-267, 
275, 278-283, 280t, 281t, 283t
long slo
w distance training in  
277-278, 279t
methods o
verview  276-277, 
277t
microcy
cles for  158, 159f
periodization of  1
09-1 10, 294-
300, 296f
strength training in  283-284, 
284
f
 tapers in  17
1-172, 172f
aerobic energy system. See oxida-
tive system
aerobic interval training  279-280, 
280t, 281t
aerobic power. See V.
  
O2max
aerobic threshold training (ATT)  
299
age
for specialization b
y sport  34, 
34t-35t
 training capacity and  36
agility
defined  1
06
factors affecting  3
1 1f, 312-313
strength and  229
terms confused with  3
1 1
agility training
in daily training sessions  126
in microcy
cles  138
periodization of  1
06-107, 106f, 
319-322, 320f, 321f, 323f
principles of  3
13-314
in speed training  1
08-109
training v
ariables in  315-318, 
317t
alactic system training (AST)  295-
297altitude exposure  269American football
competitiv
e phase planning in  
218-219
energy sources in  27
microcy
cle model for  323f
rest interv
als in  286-288
anaerobic endurance
v
s. aerobic  53, 265
 aerobic training and  284-285
anaerobic endurance phase  1
08
anaerobic endurance training
for aerobic endurance  266-267
competitiv
e trial methods  290, 
290t
factors affecting  275-276
interv
al training in  285-292, 
285t, 286t, 288t
periodization of  294-3
00, 296f
 strength training in  293-294
anaerobic energy s
ystems. See 
glycolytic system; phosphagen (ATP-PC) system
anaerobic interval training  281, 
283t
anaerobic threshold  271anaerobic threshold training 
(AnTT)  298
anatomical adaptation phase  103, 
260
annual plans. See also specific 
phases
athlete readiness and  98, 18
1-
182
bi-cy
cle  178-179, 179f, 186, 
187f
competition calendar and  192-
193, 199
competitiv
e phase  169-173, 
172f, 173f
compiling  192-193, 2
03f
described  165-166
elements o
verview  193
individualization of  98, 184
monocy
cle  177-178, 177f, 178f, 
184-186, 185f
multiple-peak  18
1, 181f, 191-
192, 191f

Index372
annual plans. See also specific 
phases (continued)
 objectives in  197-198, 198t
 performance model analysis in  
193-195, 194f
 performance prediction in  196-
197, 197t
 periodization model in  202
 phase duration by plan type  
182, 182t
 phases and cycles overview  93, 
93f
 preparation model in  202-203, 
204t, 205 t
 preparatory phase  166-169, 
167t
 retrospective analysis in  195-
196, 195t
 for speed and agility training  
319, 320f, 321f
 term usage  1 19
 test results and standards in  
199-201, 202t
 transition phase  174-177
 tri-cycle  179-181, 180f, 186-
189, 188f
 types overview  98, 98t
 when to create  192
AnTT (anaerobic threshold train-
ing)  298
arteriovenous oxygen difference  
271
ascending pyramid loading  250-
251, 251t
assessment sessions  120
AST (alactic system training)  295-
297
asynchronous motor unit firing  
234
athletic drills, in warm-ups  125
athletic formation phase  1 18
athletic shape  208
athletic testing and monitoring
 in annual plan  199-201, 202t
 in long-term plan  1 18-1 19
 in strength training  254-255, 
259
 training models and  40-41
 using technology  292-293, 
293f, 294f
 Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test  
287, 287t
ATP (adenosine triphosphate). See 
adenosine triphosphate
ATP-PC system. See phosphagen 
(ATP-PC) system
A.T.R. (Accumulation-Trans-
mutation-Realization)  97
ATT (aerobic threshold training)  
299B
barbell velocity  247-248, 247t
baseball monocycle  101f
basic training zone  77
basketball monocycle chart  184-
186, 185f
bi-cycle plans
 athlete readiness and  98, 182
 chart of  186, 187f
 in history of periodization  92
 model plans  101f, 178-179, 
179f
bioenergetics. See also energy 
systems
 in anaerobic endurance  275
 defined  3
 intensity zones based on  74-76, 
74t
 in interval training  285t
bioenergetic specificity  22, 23f, 
25, 25t-27t
biological age  36
biomotor abilities. See also specific 
abilities
 defined  5
 dominance by sport  230f
 integration of  101-103, 102f
 periodization of  93, 99-101, 99f
 relationship between  229-231, 
230f, 231f
 retrospective analysis of  196
 sport-specific training for  54-55
 in technical or tactical errors  67
 in training goal  3
block (term)  94block periodization  97
body temperature, and warm-ups  
123, 124
body weight exercises  239
Bompa, Tudor  92
Bondarchuk, A.P.  6-7
buffer, in strength training  245, 
245f, 246f
buffering, of lactic acid  275, 304
C
calisthenics  54
capillary density  271
carbohydrates  21-22, 76
cardiac output  269-270, 269f
cardiorespiratory adaptation  10, 
109
cardiovascular system  275-276
central fatigue  129cessation phase  105, 262-263
change-of-direction speed  31 1f, 
312-313
chronological age  36
cluster sets  252, 253tcompensation (accessory)  
exercises  194
compensation phase of adaptation  10-1 1
 in strength training  105-106, 
263
 of supercompensation  16-17
competition calendar
 as aspect of annual plan  192-
193, 199
 competition frequency  219-222, 
220t, 221t
 in competition phase planning  
216-217, 217f
competition classification  215-216
competition readiness
 as adaptation  1 1
 annual plan selection and  98, 
182
 term usage  94
 volume and intensity in  72, 73f, 
79
competitive training phase
 adaptation and  1 1
 in bi-cycle plans  179
 competition frequency and  219-
222, 220t, 221t
 interval training during  291-
292, 291t
 macrocycles for  162-163, 162f
 main competitive subphase  
171-173
 microcycle dynamics  146f, 147-
151, 148f
 in monocycle plans  178
 objectives of  94, 94f, 169, 222t
 planning methods  217-219, 
218f, 219f, 220f
 precompetitive subphase  170-
171
 rest and recovery in  149, 150
 special preparation period  173
 stress curve in  183, 183f
 structure of  170
 tapering subphase  171-173, 
172f, 173f, 222, 223t
 in tri-cycle plans  180
competitive trial methods  290, 
290t
complexity  85-86
concentrated loading  44-45, 45f
conjugated sequence loading  45-
46, 46t
conversion phase  104-105, 261-
262
cool-downs  127-128Cooper, H.K.  1 1, 12, 12t
CoT (aerobic compensation train-
ing)  299

Index373
coupled successive system  45-46, 
46t
creatine phosphokinase (CPK)  
303
cross-country skiers competitive 
phase  219f
cross-over concept  22
cross-training  54
cumulative effect  1 1-12
cutting (term)  31 1
cyclic method of planning  218-
219, 218f, 219f, 220f
cyclic skills  5-6
cycling
 drafting in  81-82
 heart rate-based training zones  
77t
 power-based training zones  78, 
78t
D
daily training sessions
 classification of  120-121
 cool-down in  127-128
 duration of  121, 128, 128t
 goals of  126
 introductions in  122
 main body of  125-126
 multiple daily sessions  132-133
 regeneration sessions  152t
 structure of  121-122
 supplementary  130, 130t
 warm-ups in  122-125, 123t
decision making, in agility  31 1f, 
312
degree of training  207-208
delayed-onset muscle soreness 
(DOMS)  16
delayed training effect  1 1
density. See frequency
detraining load  42
detraining syndrome  174-176, 
175t, 263
developmental macrocycles  161-
162, 161f
developmental microcycles  146, 
147f
differentiation  63-64DOMS (delayed-onset muscle 
soreness)  16
double pyramid loading  251, 251t
duration (time)
 daily training sessions  121, 128, 
128t
 interval training  289
 macrocycles  160-161
 peaking  224
 preparatory phase  166
 taper  213, 213tduration (training variable)
 as component of volume  71
 energy sources and  22, 24f
 intensity zones  74-76, 74t
 in interval training  288
 in speed and agility training  
315, 316
dynamic stretching  125
E
elastic bands, for strength training  
239
endurance. See also aerobic endur-
ance; anaerobic endurance
 detraining effects on  174-176
 muscle fiber type and  235
 strength and  229-230
 types of  265-267
endurance training. See also 
aerobic endurance training; 
anaerobic endurance training
 in daily training sessions  126
 intensity zones for  295-299, 
295f
 microcycles for  138
 misconception about  53
 needs analysis of  195
 periodization of  109-1 10, 294-
300, 296f
energy systems. See also specific 
systems
 energy provision of  19, 20f
 exercise duration and  22, 24f
 glycolytic  21-22
 in interval training  285t, 286t
 microcycle intensities and  155f, 
156-159, 157f, 157t, 158f, 159f
 overlap of  22-25
 oxidative  22
 phosphagen (ATP-PC)  20-21
 in specific sport activities  22, 
23f, 25, 25t-27t, 27
 in speed development  303-304
environment intensity and  81-82
 in tactical training  60-61
 in technical or tactical errors  67
EPOC (excess postexercise oxygen 
consumption)  16-17
ergogenesis  25t-27t, 158, 286t
evaluations
 of athletes  40-41, 1 18-1 19, 199-
201, 202 t, 254-255, 259
 of training system  7
 as transition phase purpose  177
 using technology  292-293, 
293f, 294f
 Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test  
287, 287tevident fatigue  129
evolutionary standards  201
evolution training zone  77-78
excess postexercise oxygen con-
sumption (EPOC)  16-17
exercise economy  55-56, 273-274
exercise order
 in speed and agility training  
315-316
 in strength training  249-250, 
249t
exercises
 compensation (accessory)  194
 defined  54
 for general physical develop-
ment  54
 for sport-specific training  54-55
 in strength training program  
254
 variation in  39
 in warm-ups  125
exhibition competitions  170-171, 
215-216
exponential tapers  214, 214fexternal load  83
F
fartleks  281-283, 285, 286t
fast exponential tapers  214, 214f
fast-twitch muscle fibers. See mus-
cle fiber types
fatigue adaptation and  8, 12, 151
 annual plan and  182
 athlete readiness and  190
 defined  128
 injury risk and  5
 model training and  134-135, 
135t
 speed and  301-302, 309-310
 in speed and agility training  
322
 in supercompensation  15-16
 tapers and  209-210, 210f
 in technical or tactical errors  67, 
68
 in technical training  60
 training session plans and  129-
130
 types and phases of  128-129
feedback, in speed and agility 
training  314
female athletes. See gender differ-
ences
figure skating monocycle  100ffitness–fatigue relationship  209-
210, 210 f
fixed work-to-recovery ratios  84flat loading  47, 47f

Index374
flat pyramid loading  250, 251t
flexibility training, in microcycles  
138
football. See American football; 
soccer
force  231, 232
force development (RFD)  233, 
266, 276
force–velocity curve
 aerobic endurance and  266, 
266f
 muscular strength and  232-233, 
232f, 233f
Fosbury flop  56-57
free sessions  121
free weights  239
frequency
 calculating  84-85
 defined  84
 in interval training  289
 in speed and agility training  315
 in strength training  250
 supercompensation and  17-18, 
18f
 during taper  212-213
 training load increases and  79-
80
 variation in  39
G
Galen  91-92
game plan  61-63
GAS (general adaptation syn-
drome)  12-13, 13f
gender differences
 individualization and  38
 in strength-training cessation  
262
 V.
  O2max  268
general adaptation syndrome 
(GAS)  12-13, 13f
general fitness. See multilateral 
physical development
general physical training (GPT)  
52-53, 53f, 54, 166-168, 167t. 
See also multilateral physical development
general speed phase  107-108general strength  237
Germany, in periodization history  
92
glucose uptake  16
gluteal amnesia  125
glutei activation exercises  125
glycogen stores  21-22, 76
glycolytic system
 described  21-22
 in intensity zones  75
 in metabolic adaptation  10 microcycle intensity and  158, 
158f
 in speed development  303
goals and objectives
 in annual plan  197-198, 198t
 of competitive training phase  
94, 94f, 169, 222t
 in daily training sessions  126
 as paramount to training  3
 of physical training  4-5, 29, 52, 
165
 of preparatory training phase  
94, 94f, 166, 167t
 in strength training  254
 of tapers  209
 of training plan  1 15-1 16
Golgi tendon organ  234GPS technology  292-293
GPT. See general physical training 
(GPT)
Greece, ancient  91, 1 15
grouping method of planning  
217-218, 218f
group sessions  120
gymnastics monocycle  100f
H
Handbook for the Athletic Coach 
(Philostratus)  1 15
health maintenance  5
health status, and work capacity  
37
heart rate-based recovery periods  
85
heart rate-based training  76-78, 
77t, 82
heavy loads  243
Henneman size principle  233
high-intensity exercise endurance 
(HIEE). See anaerobic endur-
ance; anaerobic endurance 
training
high performance phase  1 18hormone response, in strength 
training  249
hypertrophy in metabolic adaptation  10
 strength training and  235, 236
hypertrophy phase  260
I
IAT (individual anaerobic thresh-
old)  76-77
immediate training effect  1 1
index of overall demand (IOD)  86
individual anaerobic threshold 
(IAT)  76-77
individualization
 of annual plan  98, 184 gender differences and  38
 versus standardization  65
 of tapers  21 1, 213
 of technique  57
 training capacity and  36-37
 of training load  37
 variation in  38-40
individual sessions  120initiation phase  1 18
injury rehabilitation  106, 177
injury risk and prevention
 1RM testing and  255, 259
 speed training and  108
 training patterns and  218
 warm-ups and  125
 in youth  5, 36
integration versus differentiation  63-64
 simultaneous versus sequential  
101-103, 102 f
 of training plan  1 10-1 13, 1 12f
intensity
 alternating in microcycle  155f, 
156-159, 157f, 158f, 159f
 assessment of  73-74, 74t
 bioenergetic-based zones  74-76, 
74t
 in competitive phase  169, 171-
173
 defined  73
 endurance training zones  295-
299, 295f
 factors in  81-82
 heart-rate zones  76-78, 77t, 82
 in interval training  288
 in microcycle structure  141-142, 
142f, 142t, 143f
 power-based zones  78, 78t
 quantifying in microcycle  152-
155, 154f, 154t, 155f
 rating  82-83
 relation to volume  78-79
 in speed and agility training  
316-317, 317t, 318
 strategies for increasing  80
 in strength training  240-243, 
242f, 242t
 stress and  183
 supercompensation and  17-18, 
18f, 19f
 during taper  171-173, 210-21 1, 
222
 types of  78
 variation in  39
intermittent runs (fartleks)  281-
283, 285, 286t
intermuscular coordination  104, 
261
internal load  83

Index375
interval training
 for aerobic endurance  266-267, 
278-283, 280t, 281t, 283t
 for anaerobic endurance  276, 
285-292, 285t, 286t, 288t
 in competitive phase  291-292, 
291t
 descending ladder model  295, 
295f
 energy sources and  24, 285t, 
286t
 enzymatic alterations from  303-
304
 for exercise economy  274
 lactate threshold and  273
 progression of  290, 290t
 rest intervals in  286-288, 288t
 training variables in  288-289
intramuscular coordination  104, 
261
introduction, in training session  
122
involution  15, 17IOD (index of overall demand)  86
isometric strength training  239
Issurin, V.  101-103
J
javelin throwers
 competition phase microcycle 
for  146
 retrospective analysis of  195t
junior athletes. See youth
L
lactate accumulation curve  271, 
273f
lactate dehydrogenase (LDH)  303
lactate threshold (LT)  24, 271-
273, 272f
lactic acid
 buffering capacity  275, 304
 glycolysis and  21
 in intensity zones  75
 role in fatigue  16, 302
lactic acid training (LAT)  297-298
latent fatigue  129LDH (lactate dehydrogenase)  303
learning sessions  120
LIEE (low-intensity exercise endur-
ance). See aerobic endurance; aerobic endurance training
linear loading  43, 43f, 97linear periodization  95
linear tapers  214, 214f
load progression. See training 
loads
long-lasting residual effect  94long slow distance (LSD) training  
277-278, 279tlong-term plans  1 17-1 18, 1 17flow-intensity exercise endurance 
(LIEE). See aerobic endurance; aerobic endurance training
LSD (long slow distance) training  
277-278, 279t
LT (lactate threshold)  24, 271-
273, 272f
M
macrocycles
 competitive phase  162-163, 
162f
 defined  159-160
 duration of  160-161
 preparatory phase  161-162,  
161f
 for speed and agility training  
319-322
 structure of  160-161, 160t
 for tapers  163
 term usage  1 19
 transition phase  163, 163f
main competitive subphase  171-
173
maintenance phase  105, 262
maintenance standards  201
major competitions  215
maladaptation  8, 83
martial arts tri-cycle chart  186-
189, 188f
MAS (maximal aerobic speed) test  
282, 282t
Matveyev, Leonid P.  92maximal aerobic capacity. See 
V.
  O
2max
maximal aerobic speed (MAS) test  
282, 282t
maximal heart rate  76
maximal lactate steady state  271
maximum loads  243
maximum oxygen consumption 
training (V.
  O2maxT)  298
maximum speed phase  108, 301, 
309, 309 f
maximum strength defined  238
 periodization phase  104, 260-
261, 261f
menstrual cycle, and performance  
38
mental practice (visualization)  68, 
183
metabolic adaptation  10
MHC (myosin heavy chain) con-
tent  237
microcycles
 with aerobic intervals  281t
 alternating intensity in  155f, 
156-159, 157f, 158f, 159f with anaerobic intervals  283t
 competition phase  146f, 147-
151, 148f
 in cyclic approach  219, 220f
 defined  1 19, 137
 developmental  146, 147f
 intensity variation in  141-142, 
142f, 142t, 143f
 with LSD emphasis  279t
 peaking-unloading  147
 quantifying training in  152-
155, 154f, 154t, 155f
 recovery-regeneration  146-147, 
151, 151f, 152f, 152t
 sessions per week in  140-141, 
140f, 141f
 for speed and agility training  
322, 323f
 for stress management  184, 
184f
 structure of  137-139
 total training demand in  142f, 
143-144, 143f, 144f, 145f
minimum effective volume  72, 
72f
mitochondrial density, in V.
  O
2max  
270-271
mixed sessions  120-121
MK (myokinase)  303
models of performance  56-57
monocycle plans
 athlete readiness and  98, 182
 for biomotor abilities by sport  
100f, 101 f
 chart of  184-186, 185f
 in history of periodization  92
 model plan  177-178, 177f, 178f
 stress curve for  182-183, 183f
monotonous program overtraining  
38
morphological adaptations  235-
237
motivation, in speed and agility 
training  314
motor unit activity, in strength  
233-234, 236
movement economy  55-56, 273-
274
movement time  106-107, 106f
multilateral physical development. 
See also general physical training
 defined  4
 research studies in  30-32, 33
 versus specialization  29-36, 30f
multiple daily training sessions  
132-133, 141
multiple-peak plans athlete readiness and  98, 182
 for biomotor abilities  99-100

Index376
multiple-peak plans (continued)
 chart of  191-192, 191f
 model plan  181, 181f
muscle activation, in sprinting  
305-306
muscle damage  16
muscle endurance  238
muscle fiber types
 endurance training and  266, 
270
 in speed development  304-305, 
305f
 strength, strength training and  
235, 236-237, 237t
muscle hypertrophy
 in metabolic adaptation  10
 strength training and  235, 236
muscular balance  260musculoskeletal adaptation  1 10
myokinase (MK)  303myosin heavy chain (MHC) con-
tent  237, 304, 305f
N
neurological adaptation  235-236
neuromuscular adaptation  10
neuromuscular inhibition  234-
235
neuromuscular system
 in anaerobic endurance  276
 in speed development  304-306
Newton's second law  231, 232nonprogressive tapers  214
nutrition
 in integrated training plan  1 1 1-
1 13, 1 12f
 recovery and  14
 for stress management  183
 for young athletes  186
O
objectives. See goals and objectives
OBLA (onset of blood lactate accu-
mulation)  24, 272, 272f
off-season (term)  94-95, 174
Olympic lifts
 in strength training  255
 velocity of  247t
Olympic traditions  3, 91-921RM testing  255, 259
onset of blood lactate accumula-
tion (OBLA)  24, 272, 272f
overall demand  86
overreaching
 adaptation and  8
 concentrated loading as  44-45, 
45f
overtraining
 adaption and  8 in competitive season  291-292
 linear loading and  43
 program monotony and  38
 volume and  83
oxidative system described  22
 intensity zones  75-76
 in metabolic adaptation  10
 microcycle intensity and  158, 
159f
 in speed development  303
oxygen transport, in V.
  O
2max  270
P
pace training  279-280, 280t, 281t
partial intensity  82
passive rest  177
PCr (phosphocreatine). See phos-
phocreatine
peaking in competitive phase  150-151
 defined  208
 duration of  224
 factors affecting  208, 208f
 in macrocycles  162-163, 162f
 training conditions for  207-208, 
207f, 208f
 zones of  223, 224t
peaking curve  189peaking index  188f, 189-190, 
190t, 191t
peaking-unloading microcycles  
147
perception, in agility  31 1f, 312
performance model analysis  193-
195, 194f
performance oxygen uptake  271performance plateaus
 program monotony and  38
 standard loading and  8, 9f, 43
performance prediction  196-197, 
197t
performance standards  199-201, 
202t
periodization. See also specific 
biomotor abilities, cycles, or 
phases
 of annual plan  93, 93f, 98, 98t, 
202
 of biomotor abilities  93, 99-
101, 99f
 defined  91, 97
 history of  91-92
 integrated  1 10-1 13, 1 12f
 versus loading  97-98
 load undulation in  96, 96f, 97f
 phases of  94-95
 term origin  91
 terms misused  94, 95-97peripheral fatigue  128-129
personality development training  
5
phases of training. See also specific 
phases
 adaptation and  10-1 1
 duration by annual plan type  
182, 182t
 sequence of  94-95, 94f
 for strength training  259-263, 
259t
 term usage  94
Philostratus, Flavius  91, 1 15, 137
phosphagen (ATP-PC) system
 described  20-21
 in intensity zones  75
 microcycle intensity and  158, 
158f
 in speed development  303
phosphocreatine (PCr)
 in intensity zones  75
 in metabolic adaptation  10
 in sprint training  303
phosphorylase (PHOS)  303
physical perfection  3
physical skill classification  5-6
physical training
 as cornerstone  51
 exercises for  54-55
 general  52-53, 53f
 goals of  4-5, 29, 52, 165
 sequence of  52, 52f
 sport-specific  53-54, 53f
planning. See training plans
Plisk, S.S.  46, 46t
plyometric training
 for change-of-direction speed  
313
 for exercise economy  274
postactivation potentiation  123, 
124
postactivation potentiation com-
plex  249-250, 249t
power
 defined  106, 237-238
 gains from taper  215
 maximun versus average output  
233
 muscle fiber type and  235
 strength and  233
power-based training zones  78, 
78t
power training barbell velocity in  247-248, 
247t
 in competitive phase  169, 171
 detraining  176
 in general subphase  167
 microcycles for  158, 158f

Index377
 periodization of  106-107
 tapers in  172-173, 172f
preadaptation  10
precompetitive adaptation  1 1
precompetitive subphase  170-171
precontest arousal sessions  135, 
135t
predetermined heart rate  85
preparation model  202-203, 204t, 
205t
preparatory training phase
 adaptation and  10-1 1
 in bi-cycle plans  179
 duration of  166
 general subphase  166-168
 macrocycles for  161-162, 161f
 in monocycle plans  178
 objectives of  94, 94f, 166, 167t
 physical training in  52, 52f
 specific subphase  168-169
 stress curve in  183, 183f
 training load models in  43, 47, 
47f
 in tri-cycle plans  180
preparedness described  207-208
 tapers and  209-210, 210f
 term usage  94
 training load and  42
progressive overloading adaptation and  83-84
 GAS theory and  12-13, 13f
 in strength training  238
progressive tapers  214psychological factors
 in performance  5
 in technical or tactical errors  67
 warm-ups and  124
psychological training  1 1 1-1 13, 
11 2f
pulmonary system, in V.
  O
2max  
268-269
pyramid loading  250-251, 251t
Q
quickness (term)  31 1
R
rate coding
 in metabolic adaptation  10
 strength, strength training and  
234, 236
rate of force development (RFD)  
233, 266, 276
reactive agility  107, 108-109readiness
 described  208
 tapers and  209-210, 210f
readiness curve  189readiness index  188f, 189-190, 
190t, 191t
recovery. See also active rest or 
recovery
 in competitive phase  149, 150
 glycogen resynthesis  21-22
 in supercompensation cycle  14
 during taper  222, 223t
 training frequency and  39
recovery-regeneration microcycles  
146-147, 151, 151f, 152f, 152t
relative density  85relative intensity  78
relative strength  238
relative volume  85
relaxation techniques  183
repetition method  281
repetitions, in strength training  
243, 243t, 244f
repetition sessions  120residual fatigue  209
resting metabolism  17rest intervals
 anaerobic endurance training  
286-288, 288t
 speed and agility training  317-
318
 strength training  248-249, 294
 training frequency  84-85, 84t
retaining load  42
retrospective analysis  195-196, 
195t
RFD (rate of force development)  
233, 266, 276
Rome, ancient  91-92, 1 15
rowers
 performance prediction for  197, 
197t
 quantifying training for  153, 
154f, 154t
running economy  55-56, 273-274Russia, in periodization history  92
S
scientific disciplines
 axillary  4, 4f
 sport science  6-7
Selye, Hans  12-13, 13fsets, in strength training  248-249
size principle  233
skeletal muscle, in V.
  O
2max  270-
271
skewed pyramid loading  251-252, 
252t
skill acquisition. See also tactical 
training; technical training
 in long-term plan  1 18
 in training sessions  120, 134, 
134tskill perfection
 in daily training  120
 under fatigue  134-135, 135t
 technical, tactical abilities  63-
67, 64f, 65f, 66f
slow exponential tapers  214, 214f
slow-twitch muscle fibers. See 
muscle fiber types
soccer
 annual plan model for  321f
 competition frequency in  221
 endurance training for  1 10, 1 1 1f
 energy sources in  27
 interval training in  291, 291t
 macrocycle for  160t
 monocycle for  100f
 rest intervals in  286-288
 speed training for  108
 Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test  
287t
special endurance training  1 10, 
290, 290t
specialization. See sport-specific 
physical training
specific endurance  1 10
specific speed phase  108-109
specific strength  237
speed
 defined  301
 energy systems in  303-304
 fatigue and  309-310
 neuromuscular systems in  304-
306, 305 f
 phases of  301-302
 strength and  229, 231-233, 
232f, 233f, 301, 308, 309
 technical skill in  306-309
speed endurance  301-302speed training
 in competitive phase  169, 171
 in daily training sessions  126
 in general subphase  167
 methods of  310, 310t
 microcycles for  138, 158, 158f
 needs analysis of  195
 periodization of  107-109, 319-
322, 320f, 321f, 323f
 principles of  313-314
 tapers in  172-173, 172f
 training variables in  315-318, 
317t
sports, sporting activities
 age for specialization  34, 
34t-35t
 bi-cycle model for  101f
 biomotor abilities of  230f
 energy sources for  22, 23f, 25, 
25t-27t, 27
 intensity of  81

Index378
sports, sporting activities (contin-
ued)
 monocycle models for  100f, 
101f
 preparatory phase objectives for  
167t
 strength, strength training for  
231, 241t
 tactical classification  59-60
sport science  6-7
sport-specific physical training 
(SSPT)
 adaptation in  33
 age for by sport  34, 34t-35t
 in competitive phase  169
 defined  4
 exercises for  54-55
 versus general physical training  
29-36, 30f, 53-54, 53f
 in long-term plan  1 18
 as preparation subphase  168-169
 speed and agility training  313-
314
 strength training  255
sprint phases  307-309, 307f, 308f, 
309f. See also speed; speed 
training
SSC (stretch shortening cycle)  234
stability, versus variability  64-65
stable adaptation  1 1
standardization  65
standard loading  8, 9f, 43
standards of performance  199-
201, 202 t
start phase of sprint  307, 307f, 
308f
static stretching  125, 127-128
step loading  44, 44f, 47, 47f, 161, 
161f
step tapers  214, 214f
stimulating load  42Stone, M.H.  46, 46t
strategies, defined  58-59
strength
 change-of-direction speed and  
313
 defined  231
 factors affecting  233-235
 role in performance  229-231, 
230f
 speed and  231-233, 232f, 233f, 
301, 308, 309
 types of  237-238
strength training
 adaptations to  235-237, 237t
 for aerobic endurance  273, 274, 
283-284, 284f
 for anaerobic endurance  293-
294 
barbell velocity in  247-248, 247t
 buffer in  245, 245f, 246f
 in competitive phase  169, 171
 in daily training sessions  126
 detraining  176
 exercise order in  249-250, 249t
 frequency in  250
 gains from tapers  215
 in general subphase  167
 heavy versus explosive  232-233
 intensity in  240-243, 242f, 242t
 loading patterns in  250-253, 
251t, 252t, 253t
 macrocycle model  160t
 methods of  239
 in microcycles  138
 needs analysis of  194
 periodization of  103-106, 259-
263, 259t
 program implementation  253-
259
 records and logs of  256, 256t, 
257f, 258f
 repetitions in  243, 243t, 244f
 sets and rest intervals in  248-
249
 specificity of  255
 training to failure  240
 volume in  240, 240t, 241t
stress periodization and  182-184, 
183f, 184f
 work capacity and  37
stretching
 cool-down  127-128
 warm-up  125
stretch reflex  306
stretch shortening cycle (SSC)  234
supercompensation
 benefits of  13
 cycle and adaptation  12-14, 14f
 fatigue and  151
 intensity and frequency in  17-
18, 18f, 19f
 phases of  15-18, 15f
supermaximum loads  242-243supplementary training sessions  
130, 130t
swimmers
 bi-cycle chart for  186, 187f
 bi-cycle model for  101f
 preparatory model for  202-203, 
204t
synchronous motor unit firing  
234, 236
T
tactical abilities
 defined  5 perfecting  63-67, 64f, 65f, 66f
 retrospective analysis of  196
tactical errors  67-68
tactical training
 for adverse conditions  60-61
 in daily training sessions  126
 defined  59
 energy distribution in  60
 factors in  59
 game plan  61-63
 in long-term plan  1 18
 specificity of  59-60
 tactical thinking  61
 for team cooperation  61
tactics
 defined  58-59
 sports classified by  59-60
tapers
 defined  209
 factors affecting  210-213, 212t, 
213t
 goal of  209
 individualization of  21 1, 213
 macrocycles for  163
 in main competitive subphase  
171-173, 172f, 173f
 peaking and  208
 performance gains from  215
 premise of  209-210, 210f
 strategies and benefits  21 1, 222, 
223t
 for stress management  183
 types of  214, 214f
T:C ratio  45, 213
team sports
 competition frequency in  221
 competitive microcycle for  147-
150, 148f, 149f
 competitive phase planning in  
218-219
 endurance training for  284-285, 
294-295
 exhibition games  170-171, 215-
216
 general subphase for  167
 interval training for  304
 macrocycle issues in  322
 microcycle intensities for  155f, 
156, 157-158, 157f
 peaking index and  190
 quantifying training in  153, 
155f
 stress management in  184, 184f
 tactical training for  61-63
 tapers in  173, 173f, 213
technical errors  67-68technical skills (technique)
 defined  4-5, 55
 perfecting  63-67, 64f, 65f, 66f

Index379
 retrospective analysis of  196
 sprinting  306-309
 in training activities  313
technical training
 in daily training sessions  126
 exercise economy and  55-56
 individualization of  57
 learning process in  58
 in long-term plan  1 18
 model techniques and  56-57
 technique evolution and  58
technique. See technical skills; 
technical training
temperature, and warm-ups  123, 
124
tempo training  107-108, 279-280, 
280t, 281t
tennis multiple-peak chart  191-
192, 191f
testosterone in biological age  36
 cortisol ratio (T:C ratio)  45, 213
tests and testing. See athletic test-
ing and monitoring
tetra system  137
theoretical knowledge  5, 68-69
Tmax  279
tonnage, defined  71
total training demand  142f, 143-
144, 143f, 144f, 145f
track and field. See also javelin 
throwers
 competition frequency in  221t
 peaking zones for  224t
training versus competitions  218
 defined  4
 objectives of  4-5, 29, 52, 165
 quality of  7, 8f, 313
 scope of  3
 sequential model of  30, 30f
 supercompensation in  12-19, 
14f, 15f
 system of  6-7, 7f
training age  36training effect
 categories of  1 1, 12t
 term usage  94
training factors physical training  51-55
 pyramid  51f
 tactical training  58-68
 technical training  55-58
 theoretical training  68-69
training history, and work capacity  
36-37
training impulse (TRIMP)  82
training loads
 adaptation and  8-9, 9f classification of  42
 concentrated loading  44-45, 45f
 conjugated sequence loading  
45-46, 46t
 external versus internal  83
 flat loading  47, 47f
 historical increases in  42, 42t, 
79
 individualized  37
 linear loading  43, 43f, 97
 in macrocycles  161-162, 161f
 in microcycles  138
 versus periodization  97-98
 readiness and  208, 208f
 sequence of  42-43, 48-49, 48f
 standard loading  8, 9f, 43
 step loading  44, 44f, 47, 47f
 strategies for increasing  80
 in strength training  240-243, 
242f, 243t, 245, 245f, 246f, 
250-253, 251t, 252t, 253t
 tapering  209-210
 undulation of  96, 96f, 97f, 98
training logs in long-term plans  1 19
 in strength training  256, 257f, 
258f
training model development  40-
41, 41 f
training phases. See phases of 
training
training plans. See also daily train-
ing sessions
 importance of  1 15-1 16
 model approach to  134-135, 
134t, 135t
 multiple daily sessions  132-133
 records of  256, 256t
 required components  1 16-1 19
 sample plan  130-131, 131f
 types of  1 19
training principles. See individual-
ization; multilateral physical development; training loads; 
training model development
training sessions. See daily training 
sessions
training tolerance
 individualization and  36-37
 training plans and  93-94
training variables. See complexity; 
frequency; intensity; volume, volume load
transition phase in bi-cycle plans  179
 detraining and  174-176, 175t, 
263
 macrocycles for  163, 163f
 in monocycle plans  178 passive vs. active recovery in  
176-177
 purpose of  94-95, 105-106, 174, 
177
 in tri-cycle plans  180-181
tri-cycle plans athlete readiness and  98
 chart of  186-189, 188f
 in history of periodization  92
 model plan  179-181, 180f
TRIMP (training impulse)  82
type I and II muscle fibers. See 
muscle fiber types
U
undulatory loading  96, 96f, 97f, 
98
undulatory periodization  95-96
unloading. See tapers
unofficial competitions  170-171, 
215-216
V
variables of training. See com-
plexity; frequency; intensity; 
volume, volume load
variation in training individualization and  38-40
 versus stability  64-65
 in training session structure  
134-135
Virgil  1 15visualization  68, 183
V.
  O
2max
 athlete comparisons  271, 272f, 
274
 gender differences in  268
 interval training and  303-304
 lactate threshold and  24
 in metabolic adaptation  10
 physiological factors in  268-
271, 268f
 training zone for  298
V.
  O2maxT  298
volleyball long-term training model  1 17f
 sample objectives for  198t
 Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test  
287t
volume, volume load
 adaptation and  83-84
 assessment of  71
 in competitive phase  169, 171-
173
 defined  71
 historical increases in  42, 42t, 
72, 79-80
 increases in training  71-72, 72f, 
73f, 80

Index380
volume, volume load (continued)
in interv
al training  289
quantifying in microcy
cle  153
rating  82-83
relation to intensity  78-79
relativ
e versus absolute  85
in speed and agility training  
31
7t, 318
in strength training  240, 240
t, 
241t
during taper  17
1-173, 21 1, 212t, 
222W
warm-ups  122-125, 123t
wave loading  252, 252tweighted objects, for strength 
training  239
weight-training machines  239women. See gender differenceswork, defined  19work capacity
individualization and  36-37
 training plans and  93-94
w
orkload. See training loads
work-to-rest intervals. See rest 
intervalsY
youth
age for specialization  34, 
34
t-35t
annual plans for  98
competition frequency for  22
0, 
220t
injury risk and prev
ention in  5, 
36
multilateral dev
elopment in  29-
32, 30f
 nutrition for  186
Y
o-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test 
(YYIRT)  287, 287t

381About the Authors
Tudor O. Bompa, PhD, revolutionized Western training methods when 
he introduced his groundbreaking theory of periodization in his native Romania in 1963. After adopting his training system, the Eastern Bloc countries dominated international sports through the 1970s and 1980s. In 1988, Bompa began applying his principles of periodization to the sport of bodybuilding. He has personally trained 1 1 Olympic medalists (including four gold medalists) and has served as a consultant to coaches and athletes worldwide.
Bompa’s books on training methods, including Theory and Methodology 
of Training: The Key to Athletic Performance and Periodization of Training for Sports, have been translated into 19 languages and used in more than 180 countries for training athletes and educating and certifying coaches. Bompa has been invited to speak about training in more than 30 countries and has been awarded certificates of honor and appreciation from such prestigious organizations as the Ministry of Culture of Argentina, the Australian Sports Council, the Spanish Olympic Committee, NSCA (2014 Alvin Roy Award for Career Achievement), and the International Olympic Committee.
A member of the Canadian Olympic Association and the Romanian National Council of 
Sports, Bompa is a professor emeritus at York University, where he taught training theories since 1987. In 2017, Bompa was awarded the honorary title of doctor honoris causa in his home country of Romania. He and his wife, Tamara, live in Sharon, Ontario.
Carlo A. Buzzichelli is a PhD candidate at the Superior Institute of 
Physical Culture and Sports of Havana (Cuba), a professional strength and conditioning coach, the director of the International Strength and Conditioning Institute, a consultant for the Cuban track and field Olym-pic team, an adjunct professor of theory and methodology of training at the University of Milan (Italy), and a member of the President’s Program Advisory Council of the International Sports Sciences Association (ISSA). Buzzichelli has held seminars and lectures at various universities and sport institutes worldwide and was an invited lecturer at the 2012 International Workshop on Strength and Conditioning of Trivandrum (India), the 2015 Performance Training Summit of Beijing (China), the 2016 International Workshop on Strength and Conditioning in Bucharest (Romania), and the 2017 Track and Field National Team Coaches Forum in Havana.
Buzzichelli’s coaching experience includes the 2002 Commonwealth 
Games, the 2003 and 2017 World Track and Field Championships, and the 2016 Summer Olympics. As a strength and conditioning coach for team sports, his senior teams have achieved a first place and a second place in their respective league cups, and his junior teams have won two regional cups. As a coach of individual sports, Buzzichelli’s athletes have won 23 medals at national championships in four different sports (track and field, swimming, Brazilian jiujitsu, and powerlifting), set nine national records in powerlifting and track and field, and won 10 medals at international competitions. In 2015, Buzzichelli coached two Italian champions in two different sports; in 2016, two of his athletes earned international titles in two different combat sports.
Courtesy of Tudor Bompa.

Find more 
outstanding 
resources at
www.HumanKinetics.com
In the U.S. call 1-800-747-4457
Canada 1-800-465-7301
U.K./Europe +44 (0) 113 255 5665
International 1-217-351-5076