In Fitness and In Health
A Practical Guide to Healthy Diet and Nutrition,
Exercise, Injury Prevention and Avoiding Disease
Fifth Revised Edition
© 2009 Dr . Philip Maf fetone
All rights reserved
Editor: Hal Walter
Cover Design: Cheri Zanotelli
Text Design and Typography: Out There
Printed in the United States
Library of Congress Control Number: 2001012345
ISBN: 1-4392-3282-2
The information contained in this book is from the
author’s experiences and is not intended to replace
medical advice. It is not the intent of the author to
diagnose or pr escribe.
Befor e beginning any pr ogram you should consult
with your physician, and addr ess any questions to
your physician.
Case studies in this book are those of real people
whose names have been changed to pr otect
confidentiality. 

Table of Contents
1. Defining Fitness and Health  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11
2. Unlimited Physical and Mental Energy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
3. Assessing Function and Preventing Disease  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
4. Welcome to the Human Race  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
5. Choose Your Food Wisely  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
6. The Carbohydrate Trend  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
7. The Two-Week Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
8. Carbohydrates: The Good and the Bad . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
9. The Big Fat Lie  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
10. Balancing Your Fats  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
11. The Power of Protein  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
12. Making Wise Protein Choices  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
13. Vital Vegetables and Fruits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
14. Organic Foods  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
15. The Full Spectrum of Fiber  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
16. Water, Water Everywhere . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
17. Dietary Supplements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128
18. Real “Real-Food” Dietary Supplements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 138
19. Let the Sun Shine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 153
20. Eat, Drink and Be Merry  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 157
21. One Last Bite . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 174
22. Developing Maximum Aerobic Function  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 186
23. The Anaerobic Epidemic  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 191
24. Taking the Guesswork Out of Exercise  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 196
25. Your Exer cise Progr am  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 213
26. Sports Shoes: The Danger Underfoot  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 227
27. Self-Health Care  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 234
28. Br ain P ower  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 243
29. The Gut  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 258
30. Mechanical Fitness and Health  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 277
31. Simplifying Stress  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
32. The Overfat Epidemic  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
33. Chronic Inflammation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 309
34. The Big Picture of Heart Disease  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 315
35. Beating the Cancer Odds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 326
36. Aging Gracefully  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 337
Epilogue  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352

“Now I see the secr et of the
making of the best persons.
It is to gr ow in the open air, and
to eat and sleep with the earth.”
— Walt Whitman, Leaves of Grass 

Introduction
With this new edition of “In Fitness and In Health,” it’s more
obvious than ever that we have entered a new era in health care. The
responsibility for personal health has shifted from a broken health-
care system back to each of us. It’s a time when we demand higher
quality of life now and for the future. In this age of true prevention,
we seek to avoid the illnesses we almost accept as part of the aging
process. We want to postpone — effectively preventing — cancer,
heart disease and Alzheimer’s rather than settle for early detection.
We would rather be full of life in our “golden years” than spend a
decade or mor e at the end of life in dysfunction. The tools to do this
are contained in this newly rewritten and expanded fifth edition.
I continue sharing my experiences on improving health as a bal-
ance of art and science. This stems from my clinical practice in com-
plementary medicine, which began in 1977, and — previous to that —
being a patient. The art facet entails a unique understanding of both
fitness and health. I compiled the actual science thr ough my early
education, then extensive clinical research. In this book I combine this
art with this science in hopes of helping you to fully understand and
simplify many of the complex mechanisms of fitness and health.
I have worked with patients fr om all walks of life, fr om the most
healthy to the most frail, from professional athletes to couch potatoes.
Many had unique imbalances that not only caused dysfunction, but
detracted from their quality of life, reducing what I call “human per-
formance.” Many of these pr oblems wer e the result of dietary and
nutritional imbalances, and others stemmed from deficiencies in the
aerobic system or the stress-coping mechanisms. It was clear that
addressing these problems immediately and individually was the key
not only to improving health in the short term, but also avoiding seri-
ous disease in the long run.
This reorganized and extensively updated edition addresses
steps you can take to improve your health and fitness for a better
quality of life now , and a longer life and higher human performance
in your later years. It opens by defining key issues, terms and philoso- 

phies important in understanding how to achieve a balance of health
and fitness, and optimal human performance. Since your health is so
dependent upon the food you eat, this book extensively discusses
food and nutrition, with some of the material challenging many long-
held popular beliefs. Exercise is basic not only to fitness but also to
health, and thus several chapters of this book discuss developing or
modifying physical activity that is most appr opriate for your needs.
Lastly, the final chapters on self-health management tie together all
the wisdom in the book. Included is the newest information that is
scientifically based and clinically relevant, presented in a user-friend-
ly format, with specific actions you can take to understand and pre-
vent the most dangerous diseases facing modern humankind. By cor-
recting and diverting seemingly subtle problems, you can prevent
disease, modify the aging process, and drastically improve the quali-
ty of your life. We have more control over our health — through food,
nutrition, stress control, exercise and other factors — than ever imag-
ined. The remedies for the greatest of ailments have been with us all
along. By r edirecting and r ethinking your r esponsibility in health
care, you can immediately begin reaping the benefits. 
With all the changes through these five editions of “In Fitness and
In Health,” the basic principles are the same as when the very first
version of this book was cr eated in the early 1980s. Then, talking
about “good fats” and “bad carbohydrates” was blasphemy, and
“easy exercise” was difficult to explain in an era of “no pain, no gain.”
Most of these old tenants are being put aside by science, yet many
continue to thrive in the public eye because tradition is so powerful.
But along the way, many authors and companies started promoting
similar ideas, pr ograms and pr oducts (and some were essentially
copies of what I presented). I am always happy to see the sharing of
ideas since the ultimate goal is to help people achieve optimal health
and fitness.
While many so-called health programs and diets come and go
there is no one appr oach for everyone, except one that teaches how to
individualize health and fitness to meet each of our unique needs.
This book will help you do just that — determine which lifestyle fac-
tors best match your particular needs. By the end of the book you will
know not only how to live most healthfully, and full of enjoyment,
but also how to die most successfully. 

You’ll want to read this book from beginning to end, then contin-
uously refer to it. Each time you read from it you’ll understand more
about your particular needs. In doing so, you’ll want to share the
information with friends and family, perhaps influencing others in
their quest for better health and fitness.
Good health and fitness forever!
— Dr. Phil Maffetone 

1
Defining Fitness and Health
It was the summer of 1976, and I wanted to watch the Olympic
sprinters in Montreal. I was in a hospital bed with an undiagnosed ill-
ness that caused me to drop 60 pounds in less than a year. Now,
weighing only 97 pounds, I was barely able to reach the switch for the
TV and too weak to turn it on. The nurse came in to help me. While
watching the Olympic games, I remembered the days when I was a
national-class sprinter. And I wondered how my health could so rap-
idly deteriorate.
The r oad to full r ecovery fr om that illness was long, and r equired
that I learn mor e about how my body works. In a sense I’m still on
that road, continually and now intuitively assessing my food, nutri-
tion, physical activity and lifestyle in or der to stay healthy . By tuning
in mor e closely to my body’s needs after my illness I began to see the
immediate benefits of impr oved health and also began to feel well for
the first time in several years. During this period I began going for a
walk every day. In April 1980, I found myself admiring the finishers
of the Boston Marathon, thinking that these runners must be really
healthy in order to run more than 26 miles. As I watched the
marathoners finish I developed a desire to test my own health. I had
been walking regularly for more than two years. The New York City
Marathon was six months away and that seemed like plenty of time
to train for it. After all, I mused, I ran in high school and in college.
It was a cool, over cast morning as I began my journey to the New
York City Marathon. The race started with a cannon blast so loud it
shook the Verrazano Bridge. The crowd of 18,000 runners began to
move and I was among them, r eady to pr ove to myself that I r eally
was healthy. All went well through the first 10 miles. The excitement
swept me along at a slightly quicker pace than planned, yet I felt
great. As expected, by 15 miles I felt tired but was able to continue. 

Within the next couple of miles, however, I began to shiver. Despite
drinking plenty of water, I felt dehydrated. And I was craving cotton
candy. At 18 miles, I stopped to check my feet. They were numb, and
I wanted to be sure they were still there. “My hamstrings are cramp-
ing,” I said out loud. Suddenly I realized I wasn’t thinking rationally
and all I could remember was my goal to finish the race and prove my
health.
Alarmed by how bad I looked, two paramedics tried to take me
off the course. But I wouldn’t stop. Somehow, I fought my way
onward. I have very little memory of those last few miles, but I’ll
always remember the finale. A minor collision with a TV camera in
Central Park made me realize I was close to the end of the race. As the
pain became more intense, the crowds got louder, and I finally had a
clear view — the finish line. 
A medal was hung around my neck, and I cried. I thought the les-
son was over, but would soon be struck by a more meaningful one.
The next moment I discovered myself in the first-aid tent. It looked
like a war zone. There were casualties all around me. Doctors and
nurses were running around. People on cots groaned in pain.
Ambulances came and went.
Looking around I had to wonder: “Are these people really
healthy?” I r ealized then that r unning the marathon had not proven
my health at all. I was fit enough to r un 26.2 miles. But clearly fitness
was something quite different from health. The next morning, sore
but happy , I ponder ed my new goal to impr ove my health. Achieving
this would not be so simple as r unning a marathon. Optimal health
would be something that I would continually strive to attain for the
rest of my life.
The real lesson from my marathon experience was not one of
proving health, but rather that I became fit enough to run a marathon.
Clearly this had nothing to do with my health. Fitness and health,
though many think the terms ar e inter changeable, ar e actually two
different, but mutually dependent states. 
Later, in treating patients who were very athletic, I would see
individuals who wer e very fit but at the same time unhealthy;
injuries, illness and other unhealthy conditions often accompanied
their quests to be faster or go farther. Clearly, some athletes would be12• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH

healthier had they stayed couch potatoes! On the other hand, I saw
many sedentary people who attempted to get healthy without an ade-
quate level of fitness — also a condition that was not ideal. The main
reason for the dysfunction in both types of patient is an imbalance
between fitness and health. Let us define these two important terms
as follows:
Fitness : The ability to perform physical activity. You define the
limits of your fitness; you can walk a mile a day or train for the
Ironman Triathlon.
Health : The optimal balance of all systems of the body — the
nervous, muscular, skeletal, circulatory, digestive, lymphatic,
hormonal and all other systems.
Impr oving fitness is associated with physical activity . Only a cou -
ple of generations ago, most people were naturally active, working
hard physically to accomplish their daily chores. Today, we have esca-
lators, micr owaves and r emote contr ols. Some people drive ar ound a
parking lot for 10 minutes to get a parking space closer to the door.
Others wait minutes for an elevator just to go to the first floor. We can
fulfill most of our needs literally at the push of a button. This radical
change fr om a vigor ous to an inactive lifestyle has taken place, genet -
ically speaking, in a very short time frame. The human body can’t
adapt to such a major change without dir e consequences. Our r elative
inactivity has resulted in an overweight and obese society and an
entire host of other functional disorders from blood-sugar problems
and overfat bodies, to fatigue and low-back pain. This is followed by
increased rates of diabetes, heart disease, cancer and other diseases.
Dysfunction and disease ar e, in lar ge part, due to not taking car e of
the body .
Since most of us have lost the natural tendency to be active like
our very recent ancestors, we must satisfy that need artificially, by
exercising. Without some fitness activity, you can’t improve your
level of health. And don’t forget the issue of balance; too much activ-
ity can also impair your health.
Steps to improving your health may include eating real foods
rather than processed, obtaining real vitamins and other nutrientsDEFINING FITNESS AND HEALTH • 13

from foods rather than synthetic vitamin supplements, and control-
ling stress. These and other specifics are discussed throughout this
book.
With the realization that fitness and health are different also came
the conclusion that these states are elements of an even larger concept
— human performance. When health and fitness are balanced, the
result is optimal human performance. We often associate human per-
formance with the fulfillment of some athletic feat, like winning an
Olympic gold medal. But in the true sense, human performance per-
tains to all aspects of life, including personal, family, social and work
functions. Performance pertains to either physical or mental activi-
ties, or both. The benefits of improved human performance include
increased energy, productivity, creativity, and better relationships
with people. In my practice I had the pleasur e and excitement to actu-
ally see people impr ove their human performance, and thus succeed
at whatever their primary goal in life was at the time. These goals
included winning the Ironman Triathlon, achieving career success,
and being the best-possible par ent. The secret to reaching any of these
goals is optimal human performance, and its foundation is balanced
fitness and health . Thus, we can define human performance as the opti-
mal balance between health and fitness that allows a person to
achieve success in all ar eas of life. Or , the simple equation:
Fitness + Health =Human Performance
This is a r elatively simple concept to understand, but it’s impor-
tant to note that this equation is not one-dir ectional, as its effects are
actually cyclical and exponential. In other words, increased human
performance can, in return, also bring about even greater improve-
ments in the foundational elements of fitness and heath. Thus, as you
improve your fitness and health, thereby improving your human per-
formance, this additional human performance can fuel even further
improvements in your fitness and health. There’s virtually no end to
this cycle, meaning that a person can achieve virtually unlimited
physical and mental energy. It’s really just a matter of how far you are
willing to go to impr ove your fitness and your health.14• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH

2
Unlimited Physical and Mental Energy
The human body must produce large amounts of energy for all
physical and mental activities. With proper balance between health
and fitness, the body will have no trouble meeting the energy require-
ments for optimal human performance. But where does this energy
come from? The answer is both simple and complex. Basically, ener-
gy comes from the sun. Light energy from the sun comes to earth and
is converted to chemical ener gy in plants through the process of pho-
tosynthesis. W e eat the plants, and most of us eat animals that eat
plants. The chemical ener gy we take in is converted to mechanical
ener gy that fuels all our physical and mental activities. 
More directly, the energy produced by the body comes from the
foods we eat. This ener gy is obtained fr om the basic macr onutrients
in food — carbohydrate, fat and pr otein. Though many foods contain
all thr ee, ther e’s usually a predominance of one of these in each food.
Consider the following examples:
• Carbohydrates are predominant in bread, sugar, rice,
pasta, fr uit and fr uit juice, cer eal.
•Fats ar e dominant in oil, butter , cheese, egg yolk.
•Protein is highest in meat, fish, poultry, eggs, cheese.
The majority of energy is produced from two of these food groups
— carbohydrate and fat. Only a small amount, up to 15 per cent of
total energy, is produced from protein (by conversion of certain amino
acids into glucose). 
All three macronutrients are converted into energy in two steps.
First, they ar e broken down in the intestine and absorbed into the
blood as glucose from carbohydrates, fatty acids from fats, and amino
acids from protein. 

In the second step, the blood ultimately carries these elements to
the cells, where the molecules of glucose, fatty acids and amino acids
are further broken down. The hydrogen atom, the common building
block of all three, is released as a result of further chemical break-
down. This atom contains one electron that is highly charged with
energy. This electron is finally converted to a substance called ATP ,
which the body uses as energy.
So, to get more specific, we could say the body’s energy comes
from hydrogen’s electron. Carbohydrates, fats and proteins each have
different amounts of hydrogen molecules, and, therefore, potential
energy. Fats have by far the most hydrogen, one reason we can get
much more energy from the fats in food. Fats can actually provide
more than twice the potential energy you get from either carbohy-
drates or protein. 
Wher e does all this ener gy-generating activity take place? Mostly
it is produced by your metabolism in the cells, especially in aerobic
muscle fibers, which primarily use fat as a fuel. When these muscles
are functioning optimally, you can derive even more energy from fat.
In fact, up to 90 percent of your energy at any given time can come
from fat, and the energy supply is virtually endless — the average
lean person has enough stored fat to endure a 1,000-mile trek! 
The mor e ener gy you derive from fat the better your fitness,
health and human performance. By impr oving your fat-burning sys -
tem, you’ll improve metabolic efficiency and have more physical and
mental ener gy. In addition, your body will stor e less fat, and you’ll
maintain a more stable blood-sugar level because you won’t need as
much sugar for energy.
When you don’t produce the required amount of energy from fat,
your body instead relies too heavily on sugar, usually producing
fatigue. This common symptom, fatigue, is one of the most common
complaints hear d by doctors. It comes in physical and mental forms,
or in a combination of both. Some people say they just can’t perform
as they did when they were younger. But age is no excuse for a lack
of energy. Physical fatigue may strike at a particular time of the day,
or it may make you feel exhausted fr om the time you awaken. You
may feel you don’t have the energy to do extra chores, go out at night
or even get up in the morning. Mental fatigue is also common, mak -
ing it difficult to think clearly or make decisions. This can affect any-16• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH

one from students and executives to children and adults at all ages.
To avoid fatigue and instead access unlimited energy from your
fat-burning system, two things must occur. First, you need to develop
and utilize the body’s aerobic system. Second, you need to provide
that system with the proper fuel in the form of food. These items are
discussed in the coming chapters.
To maintain efficient fat-burning, you also must burn some sugar.
Herein lies another example of balance. Both fat and sugar are almost
always being burned for ener gy at all times. It’s a question of how
much of each we use. Right now, you may be getting half of your
energy from fat and half from sugar. When you improve your aerobic
system and fat-burning capabilities, you may be able to obtain 70 per-
cent of your energy from fat and 30 percent from sugar. But many
people only get 10 per cent of their energy from fat, forcing a full 90
percent to come fr om sugar. That’s a very inefficient and unhealthy
way to get energy. This is the typical situation in people who are
fatigued and attempt to obtain more energy from sugar because they
can’t get much fr om fat. And when fat is not used for energy, it is
stored in the body. This book explains how to reverse this situation
and improve your fat-burning system.
This mix of fuels used for ener gy can be easily measur ed in a per -
son, and is something I have done during my years in practice and
during other research. So when I say you can improve your fat-burn-
ing capability , it is because I have seen and r ecorded these changes in
actual patients. These measurements are taken using a gas analyzer,
which measures the amount of oxygen a person inhales and the
amount of carbon dioxide exhaled. The ratio of carbon dioxide to oxy-
gen gives the percentage of fat and sugar that is used for energy. This
is referred to as the respiratory quotient, or RQ. I usually don’t recom-
mend getting tested because for most people, when fat-burning is
poor , there are plenty of signs and symptoms. These include the obvi-
ous — incr eased fat storage. Others include fatigue, blood sugar prob-
lems, hormone imbalance, poor cir culation and even common physi-
cal injuries. Others are discussed throughout this book. In general, as
fat-burning improves the body is able to correct many of its own
problems. The bottom line — mor e fat-burning impr oves health, fit -
ness and human performance.UNLIMITED PHYSICAL AND MENTAL ENERGY • 17

3
Assessing Function
and Preventing Disease
We’ve now seen how balancing your health and fitness can lead
to greater human performance, and provide for more energy for all
aspects of your life. But more often than not, some piece of this equa-
tion gets out of balance. The result is some type of bodily dysfunction
that, over time, can become some named disease. We’re all too famil-
iar with the common diseases, such as heart disease, cancer and
stroke. But how do these diseases begin? The truth is most diseases
don’t just happen overnight. They have their beginnings as some rel-
atively minor functional problem due to some imbalance of health
and fitness. Reducing these problems in their earliest stages, which is
relatively easy to do and a key focus of this book, is the best way to
avoid disease. These seemingly innocent functional pr oblems, often
erroneously associated with aging, ar e termed functional illnesses.
Functional Illness
There are often no particular names for various early stages of disease
development. There are simply signs and symptoms, and previous to
that you may get no clues that a pr oblem is arising. These signs and
symptoms, as subtle as they may be, ar e known as functional pr oblems,
or functional illness. They ar e sometimes r eferred to as pre-disease, pre-
clinical or, in the case of cancer, pre-malignant. Functional illness is that
gray ar ea between optimal health and disease.
Many people have some signs and symptoms of functional ill-
ness, such as fatigue, headaches, indigestion, back pain, allergies and
dozens of other complaints. Not only can functional illness be the
early stage of disease, it can also interfere with present quality of life.
It’s not normal to have these pr oblems; it’s a sign that something is
wrong. The shelves of grocery stores and pharmacies are loaded with 

products made to medicate and mask these minor illnesses. But cov-
ering the problem does not make it go away, and worse yet, it turns
off the body’s attempt to tell you there’s something wrong. These
types of signs and symptoms aren’t really addressed by mainstream
medicine, which usually deals only with disease, the after-effect of
functional illness.
Case History
John went to the company doctor for his annual physical exam-
ination. Many tests were performed — a very complete evalu-
ation. The next week when John returned for the results, the
doctor said, “Good news, everything looks great, there’s noth-
ing wrong.” True, everything from blood pressure to choles-
terol, clear lungs to strong heart was great news, but John was
now more confused. He asked, “T hen w hy do I ha ve these
headaches, and why is my energy so low? And why does my
stomac h alw ays hurt after eating?” The doctor had no answer
other than to sa y that he had ruled out disease.
In ruling out disease, John’s doctor performed a vital service. But
it was only the first step in evaluating John’s fitness and health.
Though John didn’t have any disease, he had symptoms that made
him uncomfortable and were interfering with his quality of life.
What’s mor e, these symptoms could be pointing to bigger problems
down the r oad. This is a common example of functional illness.
Such functional illness — or dysfunction — is often the precursor
to disease. By assessing your level of function you can find and cor-
rect many problems before they become diseases. As a clinician, a sig-
nificant part of my initial examination of a patient was listening to his
or her problems. I heard the main complaints of “I’m tired all day” or
“my back hurts,” but I mor e closely tuned in to other details such as
waking in the middle of the night and being unable to get back to
sleep, or exactly at what time of day the back felt worse, and when it
was OK. Most of what I needed to know came from the patient telling
me things of which he or she was not fully aware. These kinds of
clues, the subtle and the obvious ones, and what they mean, are func-
tional problems discussed throughout this book.ASSESSING FUNCTION AND PREVENTING DISEASE • 19

One way to know if you have a functional illness is through self-
assessment. When we start listening to ourselves we will begin to get
many clues. Once we have collected these clues, sorting them out
becomes another art form. The most important distinction to make is
the difference between primary and secondary problems. This is asso-
ciated with what I call the domino effect.
The body tends to accumulate problems, often beginning with
one small, seemingly minor imbalance. This problem causes another
subtle imbalance, which triggers another, then several more. In the
end, you get a symptom. It’s like lining up a series of dominoes. All
you need to do is knock down the first one and many others will fall
too. What caused the last one to fall? Obviously it wasn’t the one
before it, or the one before that, but the first one. The body works the
same way. The initial problem is often unnoticed. It’s not until some
of the later “dominoes” fall that mor e obvious clues and symptoms
appear. In the end, you get a headache, fatigue or depression — or
even disease. When you try to treat the last domino — treat just the
end-r esult symptom — the cause of the pr oblem isn’t addr essed. The
first domino is the cause, or primary pr oblem, and is often asympto-
matic, meaning that you don’t notice it. The next dominoes are the
main complaint, or secondary pr oblem, which pr oduces the symptom
but is merely the result of the first domino. The final domino is dis-
ease itself. Being able to differentiate between primary and secondary
problems is important for all of us, including health-care profession-
als. The classic example is treating a diseased organ. A heart-bypass
operation or r emoving a cancerous growth satisfies the end result. But
what about the cause of the problem? If it’s not found, how long will
it take before another major problem arises, if it hasn’t already?
As you become mor e intuitive about your health, you will begin
to understand the signs and symptoms your body is pr oviding in its
desire to get your attention and your help. Once you develop your
instincts, you’ll be able to take responsibility to care for your own
health. For those who can’t or won’t assess for functional illness and
take appropriate actions to correct problems, there’s always disease.
Disease
We can define disease quite simply as a gross imbalance of normal
body function. Disease is the end r esult of dysfunction, usually20• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH

expressed by signs and symptoms, of something in the body that has
gone wrong. Heart disease, for example, begins many years or
decades before the first sign of its presence appears (the most com-
mon one, unfortunately, being death). For almost all diseases there’s
a buildup of imbalances, and this eventually causes the end-result
diagnosable disease. 
Perhaps the most important question you should ask yourself is:
Are there indications of these diseases earlier, in the pre-disease state?
The answer is most definitely, yes! Your body usually tells you when
something is going out of balance. In the case of heart disease, for
example, abnormal blood cholesterol ratios or chronic inflammation,
as discussed in later chapters, could be indications you are at risk.
Both can be assessed through simple blood tests. These signs of dys-
function may exist years before the disease. What about even before
your cholesterol goes askew? It’s well known that men who develop
even moderate amounts of abdominal fat ar e at much higher risk for
a heart attack. And, symptoms like sleepiness and intestinal bloating
after meals begin long before the fat begins showing up on the
abdomen. Even early clues such as being overfat in childhood, and
even birth weight, may be predictive.
Diet and Genes
The maturing field of genetics is showing us what many clinicians
have suspected for years — foods can immediately influence the
genetic blueprint. This information helps us better understand that
genes are under our control and not something we must obey.
Consider identical twins, both individuals are given the same
genes. In mid-life, one twin develops cancer, and the other lives a long
healthy life without cancer . Aspecific gene instructed one twin to
develop cancer, but in the other the same gene did not initiate the dis-
ease. One possibility is that the healthy twin had a diet that turned off
the cancer gene — the same gene that instr ucted the other person to
get sick. For many years, scientists have recognized other environ-
mental factors, such as chemical toxins (tobacco for example), can
contribute to cancer through their actions on genes. The notion that
food has a specific influence on gene expression is relatively new.
From the moment of conception, the genes our par ents give us
provide continuous molecular instructions to cells and tissues, andASSESSING FUNCTION AND PREVENTING DISEASE • 21

ultimately the heart, lungs, brain, muscles and the rest of the body. In
doing so, your health is regulated by what would seem to be a prede-
termined set of plans. However, genes, along with their diverse set of
detailed instructions, are significantly influenced by the very foods
you eat, and at each meal. In fact, the whole process of aging — how
well we age and how long we live — is controlled throughout our
lives through the impact on genes by nutrition. 
The foods we eat can actually turn on, or turn off specific genes,
and with it, detailed instructions regarding specific diseases. The bot-
tom line: A good diet turns off genes that cause disease, and a bad diet
turns on disease-causing genes. While we all have genes for diseases,
they act like a light switch — they can be turned on, or turned off. The
diet is like a finger controlling the switch. So what you eat — the qual-
ity and quantity of food at each meal — can dictate whether you turn
on a particular genetic switch for diabetes, for example. The same is
true for virtually all the pr oblems that reduce quality of life, and for
the diseases that kill us. This also includes being overweight —
whether your parents were overfat or not isn’t the issue but rather
how and what you eat. 
Many people use “genetics” as an excuse for their health prob-
lems — "my parents had this problem," "my grandfather had that
problem." This attempt to justify ill health is no longer valid.
Unfortunately, this defense is propagated throughout our culture,
with the media partly to blame. Headlines touting “research shows
addiction is genetic” or “obesity gene discover ed” is a distortion of
the truth promoted to sell newspapers and magazines. 
Let’s look at the facts. We may be predisposed to addiction or
obesity, predisposed to diabetes, heart disease, cancer or many other
problems, but if we become addicted, fat, diabetic etc., we ar e to
blame, not our genes.
Gene Exceptions
A handful of true genetic disorders are the exception to this rule, and
are rar e. These include damage or other unwanted changes to genet-
ic materials that occur soon after fertilization (some of these changes
may even be part of the “natural selection” process humans continue
to experience). After fertilization when mom and dad’s cells shar e
their genetic materials and begin to divide, changes in the genetic22• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH

code no longer occur. At this point, the information in the genes no
longer changes. From that point on it’s the diet that controls the
genetic switches. Conditions not considered to have a strong dietary
or other environmental influence on genes include Rh incompatibili-
ty, sickle cell anemia and hemophilia. In addition, genetic injury can
occur anytime throughout life, such as with radiation damage. Even
though so-called genetic diseases may exist in an individual, whether
that disease is genetically expressed — and whether it is severe or
mild, or not evident at all — may be mostly influenced by diet, and
other environmental factors such as toxic exposures. 
Foods that can dramatically affect our genes include high-
glycemic carbohydrates, especially processed starches and other
grains, and sugar — bread, bagels, cereals, muffins, potatoes, and
sugar and sugar-containing products including all popular soft
drinks. In addition to the poor nutritional value of these foods, they
release specific hormones, such as insulin, that adversely af fect the
body’s metabolism. These foods also trigger genetic switches, turning
on diseases such as diabetes, cancer, Alzheimer's disease, heart dis-
ease and many others. Alow-glycemic meal, one without r efined
flours and sugars, can switch off the genes for these diseases.
A recent study published in the American Journal of Clinical
Nutrition (May 2007) demonstrated how a high-glycemic meal
switches on the genes that increase stress and inflammation (condi-
tions that pave the way for most chronic disease) while turning off the
genes that pr omote health.
Currently, billions of dollars are being spent in hopes of develop-
ing new drugs that will “switch” our genes in a certain direction.
However, we already have the power to control our genetics in a nat-
ural way with diet. And, we have the ability to contr ol futur e gener-
ations as well. Consider, for example, a couple starting a family — if
one or both parents switch off healthy genes or turn on unhealthy
genes the childr en can be even mor e vulnerable to disease.
Assessing for these signs in or der to pr event disease is an impor-
tant aspect of maintaining your fitness, health and human perform-
ance. We’ll discuss more specifics about assessing for functional prob-
lems and avoiding disease thr oughout life’s journey , which I call the
human race.ASSESSING FUNCTION AND PREVENTING DISEASE • 23

4
Welcome to the Human Race
Most people don’t think of themselves as athletes or competitors.
The fact is, we’re all in a race: the human race. We run to work, rush
through business, race through lunch, dash to the store and tear
through our errands. As we get older, life seems to get more compli-
cated rather than easier, and more time-consuming. We wonder how
we’ll keep up this pace for the r est of our lives. The tr uth is, most peo-
ple don’t. The average person spends the last dozen or mor e years of
life in a state of gr oss dysfunction, r elying on others for car e and just
waiting to die. Many spend a lifetime of savings to maintain a few
more moments of a poor-quality life. Instead of enjoying the road to
life’s finish line, most people reach it only after an agonizing death
march.
Welcome to the human race. It’s analogous to a very long journey,
say, of 1,000 miles. If you were going to go that distance, you’d have
to pr epar e for it, following certain rules. You’d have to find the foods
that best match your individual needs for optimal energy. It would
requir e physical preparation. You would need to assess for dysfunc-
tion to prevent injury and disease. You would have to make lifestyle
adjustments along the way that incr ease your fitness, health and
human performance. If your life is like a 1,000-mile journey, just how
are you preparing for it?
A healthy person has enough body fat to fuel a 1,000-mile jour-
ney. And, I’ve actually trained athletes who successfully completed
long endurance races, including 1,000-mile ultramarathons, Ir onman
triathlons and others. And many, including Mark Allen and Colleen
Cannon, continue to be successful following their car eers as pr ofes-
sional athletes. T o achieve their athletic feats, their training wasn’t
excessive. In many ways, these athletes employed a basic pr ogram
similar to the one you can use in your life’s journey as discussed in
this book.

The human race is a true test of endurance. We are all endurance
animals, and must use the natural endurance we all possess by unlock-
ing our aerobic and fat-burning systems through proper nutrition and
conditioning. Most patients I’ve seen — athletes and non-athletes alike
— initially had gross deficiencies in their endurance. They could not
keep up in life’s journey .
Endurance is fueled by the aerobic system, encompassing, in part,
the heart, lungs, blood vessels and especially the aerobic muscle
fibers. Here, the energy is provided by nutrients obtained from the
right kinds of foods, including fats, and generated by aerobic activity.
If you “turn on” this aerobic system with easy exercise and the right
foods, you will burn more fat and perform well in the human race.
There’s another system at work in the body, which burns mostly
sugar: This is the anaerobic system used for short-term speed. This is
what you use when sprinting for the train, or chasing after a toddler.
It’s also the system that r evs up when you’r e under str ess. T oo much
anaerobic activity will cause the body to burn more sugar, and reduce
the burning of fat and even stor e it. This fat may accumulate in the
blood vessels, abdomen or hips. Overuse of the anaerobic system will
produce symptoms that may include mental and physical fatigue,
moodiness, low blood sugar and recurrent or chronic injury, to name
a few . And, it r educes your endurance. If you try to get thr ough life’s
journey using this system, you’re apt to have a very hard time.
Imbalances in the aerobic and anaerobic systems result from poor
lifestyle habits, including under- and over-training, and are often
instigated by popular but danger ous social tr ends and misinforma-
tion. Examples include “get fit quick” programs and fast weight-loss
scams. We must all run our own race. Beyond the basic rules, every-
one has individual requirements. Each of you can discover your own
needs for a personal best in life’s journey. 
If you try to r un life’s race in a random way, things won’t go well.
But if you’r e properly prepared for life’s long journey, you can
achieve a world-class performance. This is a book about preparing for
life’s journey .
In the following chapters I’ll discuss specifics of food and nutri-
tion, physical activity and self-health management that can help you
succeed in the human race. I hope to see you at the finish line.WELCOME TO THE HUMAN RACE • 25

5
Choose Your Food Wisely
All animals on earth know how to eat. However, most humans
have lost their instinctive ability to make wise food choices and
instead look elsewhere for advice. Unfortunately, we are inundated
with messages about how and what to eat — mostly from unreliable
sources.
Food is the foundation of everything you do. Without the right
fuel for the aerobic system, fat-burning will be limited. Without the
thousands of nutrients from food, the immune system can’t stop the
process of disease. And without the necessary balance of macronutri-
ents, the brain can’t continue to thrive.
In order to achieve optimal human performance, wise decisions
about the foods you eat are essential. The best foods help the body
produce nearly unlimited ener gy, increase fat-burning and lead to a
healthy life. In addition, the body is constantly making new cells,
and, in fact, always replacing itself, so you’re really making a new
body all the time. The building blocks for this new body come from
the foods you eat. So, in a very real sense, you really are what you eat.
Just as each of us has a different set of fingerprints, the specific
requirements for carbohydrates, fats and proteins, along with the
right amounts of vitamins, minerals and fiber, can vary from person
to person. T o build and maintain optimal health you must supply
your body with the right mix of fuels and nutrients that matches your
individual needs. This is much easier than you think, and what you’ll
learn in this book. 
Unfortunately, many people obtain information about food and
nutrition, and other key lifestyle issues as well, through newspapers,
magazines, radio and TV . With few exceptions, this information is
usually misguided — packaged and processed junk food disguised as
healthy is continuously pushed on the public. While these sour ces

may be entertaining, they’re usually not an accurate source of health
information. The goal of these media sources is to sell newspapers
and magazines, and keep you listening or watching a certain pro-
gram. One reason for the slanted information is the editorial process
— many articles, interviews and other bits of information never get
reported because the information clashes with advertisers. But in
addition to their ads, these same advertisers get their information to
the public in the form of articles, interviews and other media — even
through sponsored “scientific studies” — often with the public not
suspecting there’s a conflict of interest. 
There is a lot of money behind this campaign to sell you
unhealthy food. Large corporations spend billions of dollars telling us
to be hungry for unhealthy foods. And it works — how many times
have you seen a commer cial on TV and suddenly had an intense crav -
ing for whatever was being advertised? And how often did you feel
the need to buy a certain product because the announcer or writer
said it was the best thing for your health? The answer to both ques-
tions is often — that’s the power of advertising and the way the media
is intricately connected with advertisers. 
Likewise, we cannot r ely on the government to make our menu.
Over the years and decades, the United States Department of
Agricultur e (USDA) has come up with many dif ferent recommenda-
tions — I often r eferr ed to these as pyramid schemes. While these ar e
often associated with updates in scientific information, there is a
heavy dose of special inter est gr oups and lobbyists behind the r ecom -
mendations. These include lobbyists for the dairy industry , from com -
panies that make breakfast cereals and from those who have directly
contributed to our current obesity epidemic — the sugar industry.
From the old four food groups to the many changing pyramids, these
recommendations include many unhealthy foods, such as refined car-
bohydrates and sugar , but have de-emphasized fr esh vegetables and
fruits. The best r ecommendation is for each of us to know our own
food needs.
The truth is each person has his or her own food pyramid because
we’r e all unique with individual r equirements. However, there are
some basic recommendations that may be helpful, and these will be
emphasized throughout the book. These are the foundations of a foodCHOOSE YOUR FOOD WISELY• 27

plan to build and maintain optimal human performance. The first is
to only eat real food — not processed, not artificial, but foods provid-
ed by nature. Instead, common recommendations and the largest
component of most people’s diet include refined foods, especially
carbohydrates — cereal, bread, bagels, rolls and rice — and sugar and
sugar-containing foods. Another key feature of a healthy food plan is
balancing fats by eating sufficient amounts of good fats and avoiding
all bad fats. In addition, we all need moderate amounts of high qual-
ity protein. And, we all require sufficient amounts of fresh vegetables
and fruits. We also need adequate amounts of pure water, something
many people fail to achieve.
What’s the basic recipe? Choose your food wisely.28• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH

6
The Carbohydrate Trend
As companies began refining healthy foods, making them sweet-
er and increasing shelf life, sometimes to months and years, the nutri-
tional quality of these foods diminished significantly. This is true of
carbohydrate foods more than any other. This includes the mass pro-
duction of sugar that has grown dramatically as its use in many foods
continues to increase. The result is that over the past few generations
most people consume too much carbohydrate. Today, one obvious
result is that overfat people now make up the majority! One reason is
the fact that a significant portion of carbohydrate foods turns to fat in
the body.
The trend in carbohydrate overconsumption continues today,
propelled by companies selling refined carbohydrates and sugar.
They’ve been so successful that the newest epidemic includes obese
babies. This is due to the promotion of highly refined baby cereals,
which are actually worse for babies than pure sugar.
For many generations, the common recommendations have been
to eat a large amount of carbohydrates. And, if you’ve followed the
USDA food pyramids through the years most of your diet is carbohy-
drate, and you’ve gotten fat. The problem goes beyond being fat —
highly refined carbohydrate diets are unhealthy on all levels, signifi-
cantly r educing human performance. Today, the term “carbohydrate”
is almost always synonymous with “refined carbohydrate.”
One reason for this imbalance is that the human body has not
adapted to processing this amount of carbohydrates, especially in
refined forms. For 99.6 percent of our existence on earth, humans con-
sumed diets that were relatively low in almost all carbohydrates but
higher in fat, protein and vegetables. During most of evolutionary his-
tory, humans lived near the sea and consumed significant amounts of
fish, seafood, and other land-animal pr oteins. Mor e importantly, sig- 

nificant amounts of plant foods were also consumed. These included
vegetables, fruits, nuts and seeds, which help protect against the
potential effects of high intakes of saturated fat. In addition, our ances-
tors were very active physically. Only in the last 5,000 years has this
changed. The Agricultural Revolution brought a dramatic increase in
carbohydrate foods, and the Industrial Revolution brought highly
refined carbohydrates to the table. The intake of carbohydrates by
humans has never been so dramatically high as it has been in just the
last 100 years. This r elatively short period of significant dietary change
has contributed to many problems leading to heart disease, cancer,
obesity and other diseases.
For most people, eating such a high-carbohydrate diet can reduce
fat-burning and energy production, increase body-fat storage, signifi-
cantly reduce overall health, and greatly diminish human performance.
Carbohydrates and Insulin
Common foods including breads and other items made with flour
such as r olls, muf fins, pancakes, waffles, cereals and pasta are among
the highest in carbohydrates. Also included in this category ar e all
sweets, including the hidden sugars found in many foods. One of the
main problems associated with eating carbohydrates has to do with
insulin.
Insulin is a hormone made by the pancr eas. When you eat carbo -
hydrate foods, they ar e digested and the carbohydrate is absorbed
into the blood as glucose (blood sugar). This stimulates the release of
insulin, which has many dif ferent jobs. Thr ee key actions of insulin on
blood sugar include the following:
• About 50 percent of the carbohydrate you eat is quickly
used for ener gy in the body’s cells. (Earlier we talked
about getting ener gy fr om both sugar and fat — this is
the part that comes from sugar.)
•About 10 percent of the carbohydrate you eat is convert-
ed to and stored as glycogen, a reserved form of sugar.
When blood sugar is low, glycogen stored in the muscles
and liver is converted back to glucose and used for ener -
gy. (Muscle glycogen is used for energy by the muscles30• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH

containing it, and liver glycogen is used mostly to main-
tain blood-sugar levels between meals and during night-
time sleep.)
• About 40 percent of the carbohydrate you eat is convert-
ed to fat and stored.
Insulin production occurs as a normal process each and every
time you eat a meal containing carbohydrates. Small amounts of
insulin may also be produced if you consume a protein-only meal,
and in some people, a high-protein meal can stimulate significant
amounts of insulin. But for most people, it’s predominantly carbohy-
drates that trigger the insulin mechanism. 
The more carbohydrates consumed, the more insulin produced.
For many people — especially those who are overfat and those who
have consumed a high carbohydrate diet for a long time — eating car-
bohydrates results in production of too much insulin. This leads to a
condition r eferr ed to as insulin resistance, and it’s associated with the
inability of insulin to ef ficiently fuel the cells, especially the muscle
cells, with glucose. As a result, the cells do not get all the glucose they
need for energy. When these people eat carbohydrates, the brain can
get the message that the cells don’t have enough sugar and it tells the
pancreas to make more insulin. Finally, insulin is produced beyond
normal limits, a condition referred to as hyperinsulinism — too much
insulin. While it takes more insulin to get glucose into the insulin-
resistant cells efficiently, this hormone still performs its other tasks,
including converting carbohydrates to fat. As mentioned previously,
in a normal person, 40 percent of the carbohydrates eaten is convert-
ed to fat. In a person who produces too much insulin, that number
may be much higher, perhaps 50 to 60 percent.
In many people, this excess production of insulin may be ampli-
fied due to genetics, or it may be a normal r esponse to eating too
much carbohydrate. If you have a family history of diabetes, heart
disease, high blood pressure or stroke, the odds are greater that you
have less tolerance for carbohydrate consumption. Lifestyle also con -
tributes to this problem, including poor dietary habits such as eating
too much carbohydrate, too little pr otein, lack of exer cise and stress.THE CARBOHYDRATE TREND • 31

But even if diabetes runs in your family, you still may be able to con-
trol the problem with the proper lifestyle factors.
In addition to causing even more carbohydrates to convert and
store as fat, excess insulin can lower the blood sugar too drastically.
Since the brain exclusively relies on glucose for fuel, this can result in
impaired mental function, including loss of memory, reduced concen-
tration and other cognitive function. Low blood sugar also often
results in hunger, sometimes only a couple of hours, or less, after the
meal. Cravings, often for sweets, are frequently part of this cycle, and
resorting to snacking on more carbohydrates maintains the cycle. And
if you don’t eat, you just feel worse. Eventually, the fat-storage
deposits get bigger. 
High insulin levels also suppress two important hormones:
glucagon and growth hormone. Glucagon has the opposite effect of
insulin and is produced following protein consumption. While
insulin pr omotes storage, glucagon pr omotes the utilization of fat and
sugar for energy. Growth hormone is also important for sugar- and
fat-burning, the regulation of minerals, and amino-acid action on
muscle development. 
If your goal is to burn more body fat, improve your health and
increase human performance, you must eliminate refined carbohy-
drates, and determine how much natural carbohydrate your body can
effectively metabolize. This will vary from person to person. Before
discussing how that is accomplished, let’s look at some other impor -
tant aspects of carbohydrates and insulin.
Measuring the Insulin Response
The glycemic index (GI) is an indicator of how much your blood
sugar increases after eating specific carbohydrate foods. However, it
must be noted that glycemic index is only a very general measur e of
responses to food, and individual variation is not considered in stud-
ies of foods and their glycemic effects. High-GI foods, which produce
the greatest glucose response, include bagels, breads, potatoes, sweets
and other foods that contain refined flour and sugar. Many processed
cereals, especially those containing the sugar maltose, which has a
very high GI, produce an even stronger glucose response. Even foods
you may think are good for you can trigger high amounts of insulin,32• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH

including fruit juice and bananas. The biggest problems in most diets
may be wheat products, potatoes, fruit juice and sugar or sugar-con-
taining products.
Carbohydrates with a lower GI include some fruits, such as
grapefruits and cherries, and legumes such as lentils. Non-carbohy-
drate foods, proteins and fats, usually don’t cause a glycemic prob-
lem, although in some people even meals high in protein and/or fat
can trigger an abnormal insulin response. In these situations, eating
smaller and more frequent low-glycemic meals often solves the prob-
lem, as discussed later.
Most vegetables contain only small amounts of carbohydrates
(except very starchy ones like potatoes and corn). Carrots were at one
time believed to be a high-glycemic food, but studies have shown the
glycemic ef fect of this root vegetable to be relatively low.
Insulin responses to carbohydrate intake and the ensuing blood-
sugar rise can vary greatly from person to person. But generally, more
refined carbohydrates evoke a str onger and more rapid production of
insulin. One r eason for this, as discussed earlier , is that humans ar e
not adapted to diets high in carbohydrates, so our metabolism is not
meant to process these foods. Another reason is that refined carbohy-
drates lack the natural fiber that helps moderate the
carbohydrate/glucose and insulin responses. Consumption of natu-
ral fiber with carbohydrates can reduce the dietary stress associated
with high-carbohydrate meals.
In practical terms, this means that eating r efined foods like a
cookie or piece of cake will cause more problems than eating a piece
of fruit or whole-grain crackers with the same amount of carbohy-
drate and calories. Low-fat foods or low-fat meals containing carbo -
hydrates have a relatively higher glycemic index. This is due to quick-
er digestion and absorption of sugar when less fat is pr esent.
Eating carbohydrate foods in combination with some fats, such as
olive oil or butter, slows digestion and absorption, thus moderating
the insulin response. Moderate protein levels in a meal also can lower
the glycemic index of the meal. Artificial sweeteners should also be
avoided as even these foods can trick the brain and cause insulin
responses through what is known as the cephalic phase of digestion.THE CARBOHYDRATE TREND • 33

By moderating carbohydrate intake to control insulin production,
you can increase your ability to burn fat as an optimal and efficient
source of almost unlimited energy. Rather than using the glycemic
index as a guide, which has become more common, especially among
diabetics, all individuals should learn which foods and food combina-
tions work best for their individual needs. This is most easily accom-
plished by performing the Two-Week Test, along with proper follow-
up, as discussed in the next chapter.
Carbohydrate Intolerance
With generations of people over-consuming carbohydrates, many now
have a problem I call carbohydrate intolerance, or CI. It’s now an epi-
demic. CI begins as a functional problem that negatively affects quali-
ty of life and gradually r esults in serious illness and disease. Though
most people ar e unawar e such a condition even exists in its early
stages, a high per centage of the population suffers from CI in its early
and later stages. The symptoms of early CI are very common and
include sleepiness after meals, intestinal bloating, incr eased body fat,
fatigue and many others listed in the survey that follows.
CI is referred to by other names, but it is best viewed as one long
progression of the same problem. In the early stages, the symptoms
can be elusive, often associated with blood-sugar pr oblems, fatigue,
intestinal bloating and loss of concentration. In the middle stages, the
worsening condition may be referred to as carbohydrate-lipid metab-
olism disturbance, and cause more serious conditions such as hyper-
tension, elevations of LDL and lowering of HDL cholesterol, elevated
triglycerides, excess body fat and often obesity . In the long term, CI
manifests itself as various diseases, including diabetes, cancer and
heart disease. These end-stage conditions are part of a set of diseases
now well recognized and referred to as Syndrome X, or the Metabolic
Syndrome. To make this process easy to understand, the full spectrum
of these problems can simply be referred to as CI.
Young people with CI are at much higher risk for disease later in
life. For example, those with CI have an estimated tenfold greater risk
for developing diseases such as diabetes. Some individuals who ulti-
mately become diabetic display symptoms of carbohydrate intoler -34• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH

ance 20 years or more before the onset of disease. Even birth weight
can be a predictor of CI.
Like many problems, CI is an individual one, affecting different
people in different ways. Only you can determine how intolerant you
are to carbohydrates, and to what degree. Blood tests will diagnose
the problem only in the middle and latter stages, but the symptoms
may have begun years earlier. The key to avoiding the full spectrum
of CI is to be aware of it in its earliest stage, and to make the appro-
priate diet and lifestyle changes. This will improve quality of life
immediately and prevent the onset of disease later. However, for
those already in a disease state, significant immediate improvements
can still be made with the proper adjustments.
Following is a list of some common complaints of people with CI.
Many occur immediately following a carbohydrate meal, and others
are constant. While keeping in mind that these signs and symptoms
may also be related to other causes, ask yourself if you have any of
these problems:
JPhysical fatigue . Whether you call it fatigue or exhaus -
tion, the most common feature of CI is that it wears peo-
ple out. Some are tired just in the morning or afternoon;
others are exhausted all day.
JMental fatigue. Sometimes the fatigue of CI is physical,
but often it’s mental (as opposed to psychological); the
inability to concentrate is the most evident symptom.
Loss of creativity, poor memory, and failing or poor
grades in school often accompany CI, as do various forms
of “learning disabilities.” This is much mor e pronounced
immediately after a meal, or if a meal is delayed or
missed. The worker who r eturns to his or her job site after
lunch, only to be unable to concentrate due to mental
fatigue, is a very common example. Some actually fall
asleep at their desk after lunch.
JBlood-sugar problems. The blood sugar may be normal
until a carbohydrate meal is consumed, or if meals are
not eaten on a regular schedule. Periods of erratic blood
sugar, including abnormal hypoglycemia, accompaniedTHE CARBOHYDRATE TREND • 35

by many of the symptoms listed here, are not normal.
Feeling jittery, agitated and moody is common with CI,
and is relieved almost immediately once food is eaten.
Dizziness is also common, as is the craving for sweets,
chocolate or caffeine. These symptoms are not necessari-
ly associated with abnormal blood-sugar levels, but may
be related to neurological stress, possibly due to the
changes in blood sugar and insulin.
JIntestinal bloating. Foods that produce the most intes-
tinal gas are complex carbohydrates, specifically starches,
such as wheat products and potatoes, and other non-
starch carbohydrates such as sugar. People with CI often
suffer from excessive gas production. Antacids, or other
remedies for symptomatic r elief, ar e not very successful
in dealing with the problem. The gas tends to build and
is worse later in the day and at night.
JSleepiness. Many people with CI get sleepy immediate-
ly after meals containing mor e than their limit of carbo -
hydrates. This is typically a pasta meal, or even a meat
meal that includes bread, potatoes or dessert.
JIncreased body fat. For most people, too much weight is
too much fat. In males, an increase in abdominal fat is
more evident and an early sign of CI (I call this the “carbo
belly”). In females, it’s more prominent in the upper body
compared to the thighs and legs. In the face, “chipmunk
cheeks” may be a telltale sign.
JIncreased triglycerides. High triglycerides in the blood
are often seen in people with CI. These triglycerides are
the dir ect result of dietary carbohydrates being converted
by insulin into fat. In my experience, fasting triglyceride
levels over 100 mg/dl may be an indication of a carbohy -
drate-intolerance pr oblem (even though 100 is in the so-
called normal range).
JHigh blood pressure. Most people with hypertension
have CI. There is often a direct relationship between36• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH

insulin levels and blood pressure — as average insulin
levels elevate, so does blood pressure. For some, regard-
less of whether the blood pressure is elevated, sodium
sensitivity is common and eating too much sodium caus-
es water retention along with elevated blood pressure.
JDepression. Because carbohydrates can be a natural
“downer,” depression is common among people who have
CI. Carbohydrates do this by adversely affecting levels of
neurotransmitters made in the brain, producing feelings of
depression. Many people have been taught that sugar is
stimulating, but actually the opposite can be true. Some
people have a short, initial burst of energy after eating
sugar, but it does not last. This is a significant considera-
tion for children or adults trying to function optimally at
school, home or work.
In addition to the signs and symptoms listed above, carbohy-
drates, especially sugar, can be addicting. Some people have trouble
accepting that notion as ther e are no clear scientific studies to demon -
strate the claim. Many professionals have struggled trying to help
patients who could not r educe or eliminate sugar despite its
unhealthy hold on them. 
We still don’t have a clear scientific study that shows sugar or
other refined carbohydrate foods can be addicting. However, some
studies do show that certain foods, like sugar, can trigger the brain’s
reward centers — the same brain areas stimulated by cocaine, nico-
tine and other well-accepted addicting substances.
The fact that food can be addicting is well accepted — and even
proven — by the very companies who use addiction as a powerful
tool to sell these products. Food advertisers, who spend billions of
dollars each year , know very well about addiction, and how to tease
you with foods that can kill you. These ad campaigns are especially
successful with children, and they are not unlike those used by the
tobacco industry for so many decades.
If society placed sugar in the same category as cigarettes, there
would be a revolution. State, city and even federal government agen-
cies would ban sugar and refined carbohydrate foods due to theTHE CARBOHYDRATE TREND • 37

astronomical cost of health care associated with its addiction.
Companies that make cereals, candies, cookies and sugar itself would
be sued, much like the tobacco class-action lawsuits of recent history.
I can imagine the secret after-school cookie deals, sugar at $650 a
pound, or by prescription only, and the growth of sugar addiction
clinics where the treatment of choice would be artificial sweeteners.
Well, things may be heading that way.
With some countries banning sugar food ads on children’s TV ,
banning of soda in schools, restaurants being required to post calories
in their meals, and other restrictions, the war has begun. Science is
catching up too. But let’s not rely on the government, science or any-
thing or anyone else to get us to act. Like other addictions we are the
responsible parties. There is help if we need it, but after a long time in
clinical practice it’s clear to me that each of us holds the key to control
or eliminate (depending on the definitions) addiction despite the
ongoing pr opaganda from big corporations who continue to peddle
their deadly foods. 
Not only can carbohydrates be addictive, but CI is a prevalent
problem in persons addicted to alcohol, caffeine, cigarettes or other
drugs. Often, the drug is the secondary problem, with CI being the
primary one. Treating this primary problem should obviously be a
major focus of any addiction therapy , which can make r ecovering
from other dr ugs more successful.
Other gr oups of people ar e very vulnerable to CI, including those
who ar e inactive, under stress, taking estrogen, dark skinned and
those with a family history of diabetes and other diseases of the meta -
bolic syndrome. In addition, aging is frequently accompanied by
increased carbohydrate intolerance. 
The Metabolic Syndrome
If CI is not corrected in the early stages, your signs and symptoms,
and your overall health can easily worsen and even lead to disease.
There is a whole complex of related diseases that include some of the
biggest killers of today: heart disease, cancer, stroke, diabetes and oth-
ers. These diseases kill more people in the United States each year
than died in all of our wars combined. This disease complex is38• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH

referred to as the Metabolic Syndrome (or Syndrome X). The specific
disorders include:
• Hyperinsulinemia
• Diabetes (type 2)
• Hypertension
• Obesity
• Polycystic ovary
• Stroke
• Breast cancer
• Coronary heart disease
• Hyperlipidemia (high blood cholesterol and triglycerides)
These problems don’t necessarily all develop or even evolve in
this order. But all are related to CI. Unfortunately, once some of these
diseases develop, many of the changes are more difficult to treat con-
servatively , and mor e extr eme car e may be needed. However , even
these conditions can impr ove with the right dietary contr ol, which
includes solving the problem of excess carbohydrate intake.
How do you adjust your lifestyle so that carbohydrate intolerance
is not a problem? Before you do anything, you need to know just how
sensitive you ar e to carbohydrates. Your doctor may do some tests,
including checking insulin and glucose levels, to see if the problem
can be detected. You could just follow a low-carbohydrate diet, but
the better choice is to determine your own specific needs.
Finding your optimal level of carbohydrate intake is the first step
to balancing the rest of your diet. In the mid 1980s I developed an
effective method of finding the optimal level of carbohydrate intake.
It’s called the Two-Week Test and is detailed in the following chapter.THE CARBOHYDRATE TREND • 39

7
The Two-Week Test
If you have some or all the signs and symptoms of carbohydrate
intolerance, the next step is to evaluate how your body functions
without high amounts of carbohydrates. The T wo Week Test begins
with a period of time in which your insulin levels are moderated
because your carbohydrate intake is decreased. Based on your signs
and symptoms, this can help determine if you ar e carbohydrate intol-
erant, and if so, how to remedy it. I must emphasize that this is only
a test, and it will only last two weeks — you will not be eating like
this forever. And most importantly, this is not a diet. You should not
be hungry as you can eat as much of the non-carbohydrate foods as
you want, and as often as you need.
I developed the Two-Week Test almost 25 years ago. Thousands
of people have used it to get healthy , lose body fat and significantly
improve human performance. Others have found it the best way to
jumpstart their metabolism because it quickly shifts the body into a
high fat-burning state. Still others have r educed or eliminated med -
ications they once required. For many, it has turned their lives
around. Of all the tools I’ve used through my career, the Two Week
Test continues to surprise me — at how a person can go from one
extreme of poor health to great health in such a short time. It’s simply
a matter of removing a major stress in a person’s life and allowing the
body to heal and function at a very healthy level.
It is not the purpose of the test to r estrict calories or fat. It merely
restricts moderate- and high-glycemic carbohydrates. Nor is its pur-
pose to avoid all carbohydrates, or go into ketosis like other diet
regimes. And, there’s no need to weigh food or count grams or calo-
ries. Just eat what you’r e allowed, and avoid what should be avoided
for two weeks. 
Let’s discuss all the aspects of the Two Week Test, and at the end
of the chapter I’ll summarize them so you have a concise list to follow. 

Before you start the test, ask yourself about the signs and symptoms
of carbohydrate intolerance described in the previous chapter. Write
down the problems that you have from this list, along with any and
all other complaints you have. This may take you a few days as many
people are so used to certain problems they can’t recall them all at
once. This is very important because after the test, you will review
these complaints to see which ones have improved. 
Next, weigh yourself before starting the test. This is the only
instance I r ecommend using the scale. During the test you may lose
some excess water your body is holding, but you’ll also go into a high
fat-burning state and lose body fat. I’ve seen some people lose only a
few pounds during the test, and some 20 or more pounds. This is not
a weight-loss regime, and the main purpose of weighing yourself is
to have another sign of how your body is working, especially after the
test. 
Before you start the test, make sure you have enough of the foods
you’ll be eating during the test — these are listed later in the chapter.
Go shopping and stock up on these items. This requires a little plan-
ning, so make a list of the foods you want to eat and the meals and
snacks you want to make available. In addition, go through your cab-
inets and refrigerator and get rid of any sweets in your house, or
you’ll be tempted. Remember , many people are addicted to sugar and
other carbohydrates, and for the first few days you may crave these
foods. 
Planning is very important. Make sure you do not go hungry dur-
ing the test! Schedule the test during a two-week period that you are
relatively unlikely to have distractions — the holidays or times when
social engagements ar e planned can make it too easy to stray fr om the
plan. Ther e are many foods to select fr om so you don’t ever need to
go hungry . Eat as much of the allowable foods as you want — there
are many of them. Don’t worry about cholester ol, fat or calories, or
the amount of food you’r e eating. This is only a test, not the way
you’ll be eating all the time.
Plan to eat as much as you need to never be hungry . This means
planning your meals and having snacks available. Most importantly,
eat br eakfast within an hour of waking. THE TWO-WEEK TEST • 41

Following the diet for less than two weeks probably will not give
you a valid result. So, if after five days, for example, you eat a bowl
of pasta or a box of cookies, you will need to start the test over.
Foods to Eat During the Test
You are allowed to eat as much of these foods as you like during the
Two-Week Test:
Eggs (whites and yolk), unprocessed (real) cheeses,
heavy (whipping) cream, sour cream.
Unprocessed meats including beef, turkey, chicken,
lamb, fish, shellfish and others.
Tomato, V-8 or other vegetable juices such as carrot
juice.
Water.
Cooked or raw vegetables except potatoes and corn.
Nuts, seeds, nut butters.
Oils, vinegar, mayonnaise, salsa, mustard and spices.
Sea salt, unless you are sodium sensitive.
All coffee and tea (if you normally drink it). 
Be sur e to r ead the ingr edients for many of these foods if they ar e
packaged, as some form of sugar is commonly added. 
Foods to Avoid During the Test
You may not eat the following foods during the Two-Week Test:
/not/notBread, r olls, pasta, pancakes, cer eal, muf fins, chips,
crackers, rice cakes and similar carbohydrate foods.
/not/notSweets, including products that contain sugar such
as ketchup, honey, and many other prepared foods
(read the labels).
/not/notFruits and fruit juice.
/not/notHighly pr ocessed meats such cold cuts, which often
contain sugar .
/not/notPotatoes (all types), corn, rice and beans.
/not/notMilk, half-and-half and yogurt.
/not/notSo-called healthy snacks, including all ener gy bars
and drinks.
/not/notAll soda, including so-called diet types.42• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH                                                                 

A Note on Alcohol 
If you normally drink small to moderate amounts of alcohol, some
forms are allowed during the test.
Alcohol allowed: dry wines, and pure distilled spirits (gin,
vodka, whiskey, etc.), and those mixed with plain carbonated water,
including seltzer.
Alcohol not allowed: Sweet wines, all beer, Champaign, alcohol
containing sugar (rum, liqueurs, etc.), and those mixed with sweet
ingredients such as tonic, soda or other sugary liquids. If in doubt,
avoid it.
Helpful Suggestions
Below are some other suggestions for eating, food preparation and
dining out which may be helpful during the T wo-W eek T est. You may
find these suggestions helpful after completing the test as well.
Meal Ideas
Eggs
• Omelets, with any combination of vegetables, meats
and cheeses.
• Scrambled with guacamole, sour cream and salsa.
• Scrambled with a scoop of ricotta cheese and tomato
sauce.
• Boiled or poached with spinach or asparagus and
hollandaise or cheese sauce.
•With bacon or other meats.
• Soufflés.
Salads
•Chef — leaf lettuce, meats, cheeses, eggs.
• Spinach — with bacon, eggs, anchovies.
• Caesar — Romaine lettuce, eggs, Parmesan cheese,
anchovies.
• Any salad with chicken, tuna, shrimp or other meat
or cheese.THE TWO-WEEK TEST • 43               

Salad Dressings
• Extra-virgin olive oil and vinegar (balsamic, wine,
apple cider). Plain or with sea salt and spices.
• Creamy — made with heavy cream, mayonnaise,
garlic and spices.
Fish and Meats
• Pot roast cooked with onions, carrots and celery.
• Roasted chicken stuffed with a bulb of anise, celery
and carrots.
• Chili-type dish made with fresh, chopped meat and a
variety of vegetables such as diced eggplant, onions,
celery, peppers, zucchini, tomatoes and spices (no
beans).
• Steak and eggs.
• Any meat with a vegetable and a mixed salad.
• Chicken parmigiana (not breaded or deep-fried) with
a mixed salad.
• Fish (not breaded or deep-fried) with any variety of
sauces and vegetables.
• Tuna melt on a bed of broccoli or asparagus.
Sauces
• Plain melted butter.
•Aquick cr eam sauce can be made by simmering
heavy cr eam with mustar d or curry powder and
cayenne pepper, or any flavor of choice. It’s delicious
over eggs, poultry and vegetables.
• Italian-style tomato sauce helps make a quick parmi-
giana out of any fish, meat or vegetables. Put this
over spaghetti squash for a pasta-like dish. Or make
lasagna with sliced grilled eggplant or zucchini
instead of pasta.
Snacks
• Hard-boiled eggs.
• Slices of fresh meat and/or cheese wrapped in lettuce.44• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH          

• Vegetable juices.
• Almonds, cashews, pecans.
• Celery stuffed with nut butter or cream cheese.
• Guacamole with vegetable sticks for dipping.
• Leftovers from a previous meal.
Dining Out
• Let the waiter know you do not want any bread, to
avoid temptation.
• Ask for an extra vegetable instead of rice or potato.
• Chinese: Steamed meat, fish or vegetables (no rice or
sweet sauce).
• Continental: steak, roast beef, duck, fish or seafood.
• French: Coquille Saint-Jacques, boeuf a la
Bour guignonne.
•Italian: V eal parmigiana (not breaded or deep-fried),
seafood marinara.
• Avoid all fried food as it usually has breading or is
coated in flour .
After the Test
Re-evaluate your original list of complaints after the Two-Week Test.
Is your energy better? Are you sleeping better? Less depressed? If you
feel better now than you did two weeks ago, or if you lost weight, you
probably have some degr ee of CI, and you’r e unable to eat as much
carbohydrate as you did befor e the test. Some people who have a high
degree of CI will feel dramatically better than they did before the test,
especially if ther e was a lar ge weight loss. Some people say they feel
like a new person after taking this test. Others say after a few days of
the test, they feel young again.
Check your weight. Any weight loss during the test is not due to
reduced calories, as many people eat more calories than usual during
this two-week period. It’s due to the increased fat-burning resulting
from reduced insulin. While there may be some water loss, especially
if you are sodium sensitive, there is real fat loss.
If your blood pr essur e has been high, and especially if you are on
medication, ask your health-care professional to check it several timesTHE TWO-WEEK TEST • 45       

during the test, and especially right after the test. Sometimes blood
pressure drops significantly and your medication may need to be
adjusted, or eliminated, which should only be done by your health-
care professional. For many people, as insulin levels are reduced to
normal, blood pressure normalizes too.
Finding Your Carbohydrate Tolerance
If nothing improved during the test — and it was done exactly as
described above — then you may not be carbohydrate intolerant. But
if the Two-Week Test improved your signs and symptoms, the next
step is to determine how much carbohydrate you can tolerate, with-
out a return of these problems. This is done by adding a single-serv-
ing size of natural unprocessed carbohydrates to every other meal or
snack. The purpose is to determine if any of these carbohydrates
cause the r eturn of any of the original signs or symptoms, including
weight gain, or even new problems. At this stage, having just com-
pleted the test, your body and brain will be more aware of even slight
reactions to carbohydrate foods — basically , you’ll be mor e intuitive
to how your body r esponds to food. This is done in the following
manner over the next one to two weeks:
Begin adding single-serving amounts of natural, unpr ocessed
carbohydrates at every other meal or snack. This may be plain yogurt
sweetened with a little honey for breakfast, or an apple after lunch or
dinner. For a snack, try tea with honey or a healthy homemade ener-
gy bar (see the Phil’s bar recipe). Avoid all refined carbohydrates such
as sugar and r efined-flour products (like white bread, cereals, rolls or
pasta). In addition to fresh fruit, plain yogurt and honey, other sug-
gestions include brown rice, sweet potatoes, yams, lentils and beans. 
Most br ead, crackers, cer eals and other grains ar e processed and
should be avoided — even those stating “whole grain” or “100%
whole wheat.” Read the ingredients carefully. If you can find real-
food whole grain products, they can be used. These include sprouted
breads, whole oats (they take 30-45 minutes to cook) and other dense
products made with just ground wheat, rye or other grains. If in
doubt, avoid them during this one- to two-week period. 
I want to emphasize again not to add a carbohydrate in back-to-
back meals or snacks, as insulin production is partly influenced by
your pr evious meal.46• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

With the addition of each carbohydrate, be aware of any symp-
toms you had previously that were eliminated by the test, especially
symptoms that develop immediately after eating, such as intestinal
bloating, sleepiness or feelings of depression. 
Most importantly, if any signs or symptoms that disappeared
during or following the Two Week Test have now returned, you’ve
probably exceeded your carbohydrate limit. For example, if your
hunger or cravings were greatly improved at the end of the test, and
now they’ve returned, you probably added too many carbohydrates.
If you lost eight pounds during the test, and gained back five pounds
after adding some carbohydrates for a week or two, you’ve probably
eaten too many carbohydrates. Likewise, if blood pressure rises sig-
nificantly after it was reduced, it may be due to excess carbohydrate
intake. If any of these situations occur , reduce the carbohydrates by
half, or otherwise experiment to see which particular foods cause
symptoms and which don’t. Some people return to the Two Week Test
and begin the process again.
In some cases, people can tolerate simple carbohydrates, such as
fresh fruits, plain yogurt and honey, but not complex carbohydrates
such as sweet potato, whole grains, beans or other star ches. In other
situations, some individuals don’t tolerate any wheat products.
During this post-test period, these factors ar e often easy to determine.
After this one- to two-week period of experimenting with natural
carbohydrates, you’ll have a very good idea about your body’s level
of carbohydrate tolerance. You’ll better know which foods to avoid,
which ones you can eat and those that must be limited. You’ll become
acutely aware of how your body feels when you eat too many carbo-
hydrates. From time to time, you may feel the need to go through a
Two-Week Test period again to check yourself, or to quickly get back
on track after car eless eating during the holidays, vacations or at
other times.
Many people find the loss of grains in the diet leaves the diges -
tive tract sluggish and a little constipated. After years of eating lots of
carbohydrates, your intestine gets used to that type of bulk. If you
become constipated during the T wo-W eek Test, or afterwards when a
lower amount of carbohydrate in the diet is maintained, it could be
due to a number of reasons. First, you may not be eating enough fiberTHE TWO-WEEK TEST • 47   

(this topic is discussed in more detail in a later chapter). Bread, pasta
and cereals are significant sources of fiber for many people. 
Psyllium is a high-fiber herb that is a very effective promoter of
intestinal function. Adding plain unsweetened psyllium to a glass of
water, tomato juice or healthy smoothie can keep your system run-
ning smoothly — start with one teaspoon a day for a few days to
make sure it’s tolerated, then use up to about one tablespoon a day.
Another way to add psyllium to your diet is to use it in place of flour
for thickening sauces or in place of bread crumbs to coat meats and
vegetables. If you require a fiber supplement, be sure to use the ones
that do not contain sugar, so read the labels. There are some sugar-
free psyllium products on the market and you should not have trou-
ble finding one. 
Another reason for constipation at this time may be dehydration.
If you don’t drink enough water, you could be predisposed to consti-
pation. During the Two-Week Test, you’ll need more water — up to
two to thr ee quarts or mor e per day . After the test, vegetables,
legumes, such as lentils, and fruits are also great sources of fiber. So if
you become constipated, it may simply be that you need to eat more
vegetables and fruits as tolerated. In addition, adequate intake of nat-
ural fats, discussed later in this book, can also be helpful.
Occasionally , some people get very tir ed during or after the T wo-
Week T est. This can be due to a number of pr oblems. Most common -
ly it’s fr om not eating enough food, and/or not eating often enough.
The most common problem is not eating breakfast. And many people
should not go more than three to four hours without eating some-
thing healthy.
Case History
Bob w as determined to renew his health in a natural
way. He was overweight and overfat, always exhaust-
ed, and his blood pressure, cholesterol and triglyc-
erides were too high. He started the Two-Week Test
and initially felt very good. But within a few days he
began getting tired and irritable. After talking with Bob
for just a few minutes, it was clear that he was doing
several things wrong. Because it caused him to spend48• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

more time in bathrooms, he did not drink much water
during the day. In addition, since he thought about
how many calories he was eating he became calorie
conscious and ate less. To make matters worse, he
thought that yogurt was in the cheese group, and was
eating two or three containers of fruit yogurt each day.
When I told Bob that the yogurt had 6 to 7 teaspoons
of sugar in each container, and to forget about the
calories for now and plan his water intake better, he
started his test again. After the first week he was feel-
ing great. Within a month, his energy remained high,
and a couple of months after that, his visit to the doc-
tor showed his blood pressure and blood fats were
back to normal, and he had lost 14 pounds.
Maintaining Your Balance
Once you successfully finish the Two-Week Test, and add back the
right amount of tolerable carbohydrate foods, you should have a very
good idea of your carbohydrate limits — the amount of carbohydrate
you can eat without producing symptoms. This is best accomplished
by asking yourself about your signs and symptoms on a regular basis:
ener gy, sleepiness and bloating after meals, etc. You may want to
keep a diary so you can be more objective in your self-assessment. In
time, you won’t need to focus as much on this issue as your intuition
will take over and you’ll automatically know your limits.
Once you find your level of carbohydrate tolerance, you’re on
your way to balancing your whole diet. Now that you know how
much carbohydrate you can tolerate, in the next chapter I’ll discuss
which types of carbohydrate foods ar e the healthiest to eat.
In review, here are the basics of the Two Week Test:
Write a list of all your signs and symptoms.
Weigh yourself.
Plan your meals and snacks — buy sufficient foods
allowed on the test, and get rid of those not allowed
so you’re not tempted. THE TWO-WEEK TEST • 49           

Eat as much as you need, and as often as you need to
never get hungry.
Always eat breakfast.
After the test, re-evaluate your signs and symptoms,
including weight.
Begin adding natural, unprocessed carbohydrates to
every other meal or snack, and evaluate whether this
causes any of your pr evious signs or symptoms
(including weight) to return.
Enjoy your newfound health!50• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH            

8
Carbohydrates: The Good and the Bad
After you determine the amount and type of healthy carbohy-
drates you can tolerate it’s likely that these types of foods will remain
a part of your diet. When choosing carbohydrate foods it’s important
to realize that not all are created equal. Some carbohydrates are more
natural than others, thus the response they evoke in the body is less
dramatic. In general, the more highly processed the carbohydrate
food, the worse it is for you. Highly processed carbohydrates gener-
ally have a higher glycemic index than those that are processed less
or not processed at all. Most commercially processed bread, bagels,
rolls, cereals and other grain products, and those containing sugar,
are so highly processed with virtually no nutritional value they can
only harm your body and brain, impairing human performance. This
does not mean you can’t enjoy eating — in fact, ther e are many ways
to create gourmet meals, including desserts, which are not only deli-
cious but healthy. 
So what carbohydrates should you eat? At the top of the list of
unprocessed carbohydrates is fruit. In addition to containing vita-
mins and minerals, fruit also contains important phytonutrients.
Though fruit is a carbohydrate food, the glycemic index of most fruit
is low to moderate because fruit contains substantial amounts of fiber,
and because fr uit sugar, or fructose, has the lowest glycemic index of
all sugars. Most fruits contain a combination of fructose and glucose,
and those with the most fructose have a lower glycemic index. At the
low end of the glycemic index are cherries, plums, grapefruits, apri-
cots, cantaloupe, berries and peaches. Apples, pears and baby
bananas have a more moderate glycemic index, with grapes, oranges
and large bananas scoring higher. Pineapple, watermelon and dried
fruits are among the highest-glycemic fruits and should be eaten
sparingly , if at all. Most people who ar e CI can tolerate some amount   

of fresh fruits, although sometimes they can only eat from the low
glycemic group.
Legumes or beans can be tolerated by many people, but often in
small amounts. These foods are thought by many to be a protein food,
but most contain much more carbohydrate than protein. For instance
a serving of red beans typically may have 6 grams of protein and 16
grams of carbohydrate, with 5 of these carbohydrate grams as fiber.
Because of the presence of both protein and fiber, the glycemic index
of red beans and other legumes remains relatively low for a carbohy-
drate food. In addition, other legumes may have even lower glycemic
effects. Overall, because of their composition, most beans, including
lentils, have a moderate glycemic effect, and are a good alternative to
refined-carbohydrate foods.
Vegetables also contain carbohydrates, though most have only
small amounts. Vegetables are an extremely important item in the diet
and are discussed in detail in a later chapter. Some vegetables, how-
ever, contain moderate to high amounts of carbohydrates and there-
fore warrant discussion here. Among the higher-carbohydrate vegeta-
bles are corn and potatoes, which should be eaten sparingly, if at all.
In fact, a baked potato has a whopping 37 grams of carbohydrate —
as much as a serving of cooked pasta — and a higher glycemic index
than some cakes and candy . New potatoes have a much lower
glycemic index than other varieties. The r eason potatoes and corn ar e
such high glycemic foods is because they have been genetically
changed to be sweeter than the same foods a generation or two ago.
Many people consume the bulk of their carbohydrates as grains.
Whole grains, and products made from them, are more healthful than
their refined counterparts, and contain more of the nutrients and fiber
from the original grain. For instance, whole oat groats are better than
the common pr ocessed oatmeal cereals, especially the “quick” oats.
Long-grain br own rice is better than short-grain white rice. W ild rice,
which isn’t r eally a rice but a seed fr om a r eedy grass, is fairly low in
carbohydrate and has a moderate glycemic index as well. There are a
number of breads on the market made from whole, sprouted grains,
and most have a lower glycemic index. Pr ocessed wheat flour (white
flour) can increase insulin levels two to three times more than true
whole-grain products. But whether whole or processed, grains are52• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

starches and more difficult to digest than most foods, and many peo-
ple, often unknowingly, are intolerant to wheat of any kind. Wheat is
such a common problem for many people that I devoted the section
below to it.
Wheat: The Shaft of Life
Wheat may be the most unhealthy food staple of the Western diet
next to sugar, contributing significantly to ill health and disease. We
all know how bad sugar is for health due to its high glycemic nature
— but wheat and wheat products can actually be worse due to an
even higher glycemic index, so eating that piece of bread is not unlike
eating a couple of spoons of white table sugar! And, much of this
wheat, and sugar, turns to fat. For example, almost half of that so-
called fat-fr ee bagel can turn to stored fat.
Wheat is a lobbying success story, like the tobacco industry, as it’s
found in most people’s media-driven diets. It’s certainly not recom-
mended for its nutritional r easons as we can obtain whatever benefits
wheat contains (some fiber and nutrients) in many other healthy
foods. And, considering the health risks, wheat’s place on any food
pyramid is a scheme that serves those who are addicted and the com-
panies that sell it. 
The facts ar e clear: Wheat is unhealthy . It’s a common cause of
intestinal problems, allergy and asthma, skin problems; it prevents
absorption of various nutrients, contributes to weight gain and the
obesity epidemic — and occasionally causes death.
The r eason for wheat’s failur e as a healthy item is twofold; the
protein component of wheat, called gluten, is highly allergenic in
many people, including infants who are unfortunately given this as
their first food. And many people are adversely affected by gluten
without r ealizing it, with a slow, silent buildup of chronic illness.
Gluten is what makes bread rise, so most baked goods and packaged
foods ar e full of it. 
The second reason wheat is unhealthy is that almost all wheat
products are high glycemic — from bread, bagels and muffins to cere-
als and additives to many packaged foods to wheat flour itself, a sta-
ple in almost all kitchens and recipes. High-glycemic foods contributeCARBOHYDRATES: THE GOOD AND THE BAD • 53     

to chronic disease, weight gain and other ills, and along with sugar
wheat ranks among the worst.
Gone are the days when people would buy real whole-wheat
berries, grind them and make flour or sprout them for use in food
products. While the berries still contain gluten, they’re not high
glycemic. But almost all wheat used today is processed, making it
high glycemic. 
Consider too that wheat makes up a significant part of most peo -
ple’s diet. In doing so it also replaces many potentially healthy foods
such as vegetables, fr uits, protein foods such as eggs and meat, nuts
and seeds, and others. For example, instead of unhealthy cereal for
breakfast, a vegetable omelet would be a much healthier choice for
most people.
The list of specific conditions associated with wheat keeps gr ow-
ing — from autoimmune diseases (such as arthritis, Type 1 diabetes,
lupus, MS) and chronic inflammation to infertility and skin disorder
(such as eczema, acne and psoriasis); and even cancer. 
Some people are more sensitive to the harmful effects of wheat
than others. Wheat allergy is among the common allergies in children
and adults, along with milk, soy, peanuts and corn. The most practi-
cal way to assess this is to note how you feel after ingesting wheat.
The most common symptom is intestinal bloating, but signs and
symptoms are associated with skin, breathing and edema, and may
be immediate or delayed. If you’re sensitive to wheat, significantly
reducing or eliminating it from your diet is the most effective
remedy. 
Here are some other points about how wheat can harm us:
• In the intestines, wheat can bind important minerals
from food and prevent their absorption. These include
calcium, magnesium, iron, zinc and copper — all essen-
tial for good health. 
• Wheat can reduce digestive enzymes, especially those
from the pancreas, rendering key foods less digestible —
including protein and fats. By not digesting protein,
amino acid absorption is impair ed, and whole protein
absorption could cause allergies. And by not digesting54• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

fat, essential fatty acids may not be absorbed, adversely
affecting a whole spectrum of problems from skin quali-
ty to inflammation and hormonal balance.
• Since wheat is high glycemic, it can lead to the produc-
tion of higher amounts of insulin by the pancr eas. In
addition to causing more fat storage, this can also
increase your risk of various diseases including diabetes,
cancer and heart disease.
• Combining exercise and wheat can trigger allergic reac-
tions in some people, although it’s not common. This
occurs when a person eats some form of wheat, and exer-
cises within a given time period. This is followed by
some allergic reaction, from mild problems (sometimes
so mild people ar e used to it) like skin rash or hives to
more sever e problems including anaphylaxis and even
death. This may also include br eathing difficulty. It is
sometimes dif ficult to diagnose because of the need for
both triggers (wheat and exer cise) around the same time
period. It’s conceivable that some of the deaths reported
in athletes are due to this problem.
• High-glycemic wheat products, which are often sweet-
ened with more sugar, can result in a sweet-tooth — or
addiction — that not only perpetuates the desir e for mor e
sweets, but the dislike for health-pr omoting less sweet-
tasting and bitter foods, like vegetables.
• Wheat can sometimes cause mental or emotional symp-
toms, including depression, mood swings, attention prob-
lems in children and anxiety. Long-term illness associated
with wheat allergy includes dementia due to cerebral
(brain) atrophy.
• Osteoporosis may be strongly associated with wheat
allergy.
•Other health issues can also be associated with wheat
consumption. These include belching or gas, diarrhea orCARBOHYDRATES: THE GOOD AND THE BAD • 55   

other abdominal discomfort; reduced mental focus and
poor concentration, and fatigue — some people actually
fall asleep after a meal containing wheat, even just a
sandwich.
The extreme condition of wheat intolerance is celiac disease, and
patients must avoid any amount of wheat or risk serious, sometimes
life-threatening reactions. Many professionals now agree that even
mild forms of wheat allergy are really the same thing — a sub-clinical
celiac condition.
If you’re in doubt about what wheat may be doing to your health,
consider strictly avoiding it for a couple of weeks or a month. You just
may become a new, healthier person.
What about Sweeteners?
Sweeteners are carbohydrates, or sugars, in their purest form. They
range from highly processed and higher-glycemic products such as
maltodextrin and table sugar , to the lower glycemic sour ces such as
honey and agave nectar . As with other carbohydrate foods, the least
processed and more natural sugars are the healthiest sweeteners. 
Most sweeteners are complex carbohydrates — high glycemic
and more difficult to digest. These include all maltose sugars (mal-
todextrin, malt sugar, maple sugar and syrup), corn sugars and
syrups (high-fructose corn syrup), all cane sugars whether white or
brown, rice syrups and molasses.
Perhaps the best sweeteners to use are low-glycemic simple car-
bohydrates that don’t require digestion and are unprocessed. These
include agave nectar and honey. I recommend honey for many rea-
sons as discussed below, but in moderation and not to exceed your
carbohydrate tolerance.
Honey has been used for centuries as both a sweetener and a rem-
edy, and r emains today as the most natural sweetener available.
Honey contains a variety of vitamins, minerals and amino acids,
including antioxidants. In addition, honey has anti-inflammatory and
antimicr obial ef fects. Recently a large volume of scientific literature
has substantiated honey’s therapeutic value, as well as its ability to
impr ove endurance in athletes.56• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

Honey is also perhaps the only carbohydrate food that does not
promote tooth decay through acidity. In general, proteins and fats
raise salivary pH, making it more alkaline, while carbohydrate foods
lower pH, making it more acidic. Honey is the sweet exception — a
carbohydrate that may raise pH levels. In addition, honey has an
overall beneficial effect on oral health due to its antibacterial effect
and ability to reduce dextran, a sticky, sugary substance that helps
bacteria adhere to the teeth.
Like fruit, honey is primarily a blend of fructose and glucose.
Different types of honey have different ratios of each type of sugar.
Those that crystallize fastest have the highest glucose content, and
thus the higher glycemic index. Since fructose has the lowest glycemic
index of all sugars, honey with higher fructose content will have the
lowest glycemic index. Sage and tupelo honey , for example, ar e
known for their high fructose content, while clover honey has a medi-
um fructose content, and alfalfa honey is higher in glucose.
When shopping for honey, look for a number of attributes. Dark
honey may be the most therapeutic and have the most nutrients.
Buckwheat honey is said to contain the highest amounts of antioxi-
dants. Raw , unfilter ed honey r etains mor e beneficial qualities. Heat,
light and filtering remove some of the beneficial properties of honey.
Agave nectar is very high in fr uctose with a very low glycemic
index. But it lacks the therapeutic benefits that honey contains. Due to
its high fructose content, some individuals don’t tolerate it. Intestinal
distr ess is the most common symptom, and in those with high triglyc -
eride levels, high fr uctose intake may worsen the condition.
What about Artificial Sweeteners?
I recommend avoiding artificial sweeteners in virtually all situations
because I believe fake sugars can have an adverse ef fect on your
health. Some say the r esear ch is still not clear on this issue. But I say
why wait when ther e’s enough information about it? Artificial sweet -
eners are used in many food items: diet soda, chewing gum, ice
cream, iced-tea mixes and many other products. If you want to avoid
them you must r ead the labels.
While substances such as saccharin are not recommended for
children or pregnant women, and aspartame has been related to anCARBOHYDRATES: THE GOOD AND THE BAD • 57     

increased incidence of migraine headaches and allergic reactions,
another fact has been ignored: The use of artificial sweeteners is most
often accompanied by increased consumption of food. In other
words, if you use artificial sweeteners, studies show you often end up
eating more food, usually sweets. What’s worse is that you may store
more fat as well. Researchers are unclear why this happens, but cer-
tain factors seem to be implicated. It may be a learned process by the
body . The tasting of sweet substances may cause the body to store,
rather than burn, fat. Or, it may be related to the dehydration that
accompanies consumption of artificial sweeteners. This may trigger
the brain to increase the appetite and food intake as a means of restor-
ing water balance. Eating low-calorie substances will lower the
body’s metabolism. This will not only cause the body to store more fat
but also activate the need to eat more food.
Some people argue that artificial sweeteners reduce calories. You
may be fooled into believing that you ar e buying a more-healthful,
low-calorie food when you choose a pr oduct made with fake sugar .
But you’re avoiding only 15 calories per teaspoon when using an arti-
ficial sweetener. This is not a significant caloric factor. Not only that,
counting calories, as discussed elsewher e, is unhealthy .
Clearly if you want to be healthy and continually improve human
performance, you need to understand how carbohydrates can affect
overall health, especially in r elation to your particular needs. In gen -
eral, refined carbohydrates are best eliminated. The best choices are
fruits, legumes and whole grains if tolerated, with small amounts of
honey as a sweetener. As you begin to choose your carbohydrate
foods more wisely, you will notice that you feel better. This is part of
becoming mor e intuitive about your diet and individual needs. In
addition to making wise choices about carbohydrate foods, you need
to do the same when it comes to eating fat, which is discussed in the
following chapters.58• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

9
The Big Fat Lie
For decades, fat has been seen as the “bad” component of the diet.
Low- and no-fat has become synonymous with being healthy. These
ideas, of course, are untrue. In fact, fat is one of the most beneficial
substances in your diet, and is often the missing ingredient in devel-
oping and maintaining optimal health and human performance. But
an ongoing, well-financed misinformation campaign against fat has
misled the public to an epidemic of fat phobia. Just think of the bil -
lions of dollars spent each year on low-fat and fat-fr ee foods and
you’ll understand why you might not have been told the whole truth
about fat. In addition, this anti-fat campaign has contributed to actu-
al deficiencies in fat that have contributed to various diseases. The
bottom line on dietary fat: T oo much or too little is danger ous. It’s
simply a question of balancing your intake. 
First, let’s define fat — a term that also includes oil. Fats are found
in concentrated forms such as vegetable oils, butter , egg yolk, cheese
and other naturally occurring foods, and in less concentrated forms
that make up the content of almost all natural foods. And some foods
contain very small fat components that ar e as essential as all other
nutrients.
Virtually all natural fats are healthy. As noted above, eating a bal-
ance of fats is most important. In general, eating too much of one type
of fat, such as too much saturated fat fr om dairy pr oducts or too much
omega-6 fat fr om vegetable oil, is an example of a fat imbalance that
can adversely af fect health. In addition, eating “bad” fats — those that
are artificial and highly processed, such as trans fat and overheated
fats in fried foods, can cause serious health problems. Foods such as
chips, French fries and fried chicken, to name just a few, are examples
of those containing bad fat.
Dietary fats have been a staple for humans throughout evolution.
Ironically many people are learning of the true importance of fats in   

the diet only since the low-fat trend of the last few decades. This is not
news, really. Scientists have known of the importance of fat in the diet
since the discoveries in 1929 by researchers who demonstrated the
necessity of dietary fat. Before discussing these issues — which fats
are best and how can they be balanced — let’s highlight some of the
many healthy functions of fat.
•Disease Prevention and Treatment. Certain dietary fats
consumed in balanced proportions can actually help pre-
vent many diseases. For instance, we now know that
dietary fats are central to controlling inflammation,
which is the first stage of most chronic diseases. And,
selectively increasing certain dietary fats has been shown
to reduce the growth or spreading of cancer and improv-
ing recovery in heart disease. Many brain problems,
including cognitive dysfunction such as Alzheimer’s dis-
ease, can also be treated with fats. A healthy brain is more
than 60 per cent fat.
•Energy. The aerobic system depends on fat as the fuel for
the aerobic muscles, which power us through the day. Fat
produces energy, and prevents excessive dependency
upon sugar , especially blood sugar . Fat pr ovides mor e
than twice as much potential energy as carbohydrates do,
9 calories per gram as opposed to only 4 calories. Your
body is capable of obtaining much of its energy from fat,
up to 80 or 90 percent, if your fat-burning mechanism is
working efficiently. The body even uses fat as a source of
energy for heart-muscle function. These fats — called
phospholipids — normally ar e contained in the heart
muscle and generate ener gy to make it work more effi-
ciently .
•Hormones. The hormonal system is responsible for con-
trolling virtually all healthy functions of the body. But for
this system to function pr operly , the body must pr oduce
proper amounts of the appropriate hormones. These are
produced in various glands, and dependent on fat for60• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH         

production of hormones. The adrenal glands, the thy-
mus, thyroid, kidneys and other glands use fats to help
make hormones. Cholesterol is one of the fats used for
the production of hormones such as progesterone and
cortisone. The thymus gland regulates immunity and the
body’s defense systems. The thyroid regulates tempera-
ture, weight and other metabolic functions. The kidney’s
hormones help regulate blood pressure, circulation and
filtering of blood. Some hormonal pr oblems are associat-
ed with body fat content that’s too low. For example,
some women with very low body fat, from too much
exercise or very poor diet habits, experience disruptions
in their menstrual cycle. In older women, this may also
affect menopausal symptoms
•Eicosanoids. Hormone-like substances called
eicosanoids, discussed in the next chapter, are necessary
for such normal cellular function as regulating inflamma-
tion, hydration, circulation and free-radical activity.
Produced from dietary fats, eicosanoids are especially
important for their r ole in contr olling inflammation —
the pr ecursor of many chr onic diseases including cancer ,
heart disease and Alzheimer ’s. Many people who have
inflammatory conditions, such as arthritis, colitis, ten -
dinitis — conditions with names ending in “itis” — prob-
ably have an eicosanoid imbalance. But in many more
people, chronic inflammation goes on silently.
Eicosanoids are also important for regulating blood pres-
sure and hydration. An imbalance can trigger constipa-
tion or diarr hea. Eicosanoid imbalance may also be asso -
ciated with menstr ual cramps, blood clotting, tumor
growth and other problems.
•Insulation. The body’s ability to stor e fat permits
humans to live in most climates, especially in areas of
extreme heat or cold. In warmer areas of the world,
stored fat pr ovides pr otection fr om the heat. In colder
lands, increased fat stored beneath the skin prevents tooTHE BIG FAT LIE • 61       

much heat from leaving the body. An example of fat’s
effectiveness as an insulator is in the Eskimo’s ability to
withstand great cold and survive in good health.
Eskimos eat a high-fat diet, and despite this have a very
low incidence of heart disease and other ailments. In
warmer climates, fat prevents too much water from leav-
ing the body, which can result in dehydration that causes
dry, scaly skin. Some evaporation is normal, of course,
but fats under the skin r egulate evaporation and can pre-
vent as much as 10 to 20 times more water from leaving
the body.
•Healthy Skin and Hair. Fat has protective qualities that
also give skin the soft, smooth and unwrinkled appear-
ance that many people try to achieve through expensive
skin conditioners. The healthy look of skin comes from
the fat inside. The same is true for your hair. Fats, includ-
ing cholesterol, also serve as an insulating barrier within
the skin. Without this protection, water and water-solu-
ble substances such as chemical pollutants would enter
the body thr ough the skin. W ith the pr oper balance and
amounts of fats in your diet, your skin and hair develop
a healthy appearance. If you’ve been looking for the ideal
skin and hair pr oduct, you can have it by balancing the
fats in your diet.
•Pregnancy and Lactation. The effective functioning of
the hormonal system is important to both would-be par-
ents. Once conception does take place, fats are important
to the continued good health of the mother and child.
The uterus must maintain the health of the newly con-
ceived embryo by pr oviding nutrition until the placenta
can begin to function, usually a period of a week or more.
If ther e is an adequate level of progesterone, which is
produced from fats, there should be enough nutrients for
the embryo to survive the first critical week. Without
enough pr ogester one, the embryo could die. The placen -
ta must also form and produce hormones that affect the62• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH       

developing fetus. The estrogens and progesterone are fat-
dependent and are produced in increasing quantities as
the pregnancy continues. Together they promote the
growth of the uterus and the storage of nutrients for the
fetus. The pr oper development of the fetus has obvious
hormonal relationships, which are dependent upon fats.
Following birth, breastfeeding helps protect the baby
against allergies, asthma and intestinal problems through
its high fat content, particularly cholesterol. The baby is
highly dependent upon the fat in the milk for survival,
especially during the first few days. During this time, the
fatty colostrum from breast milk is of vital nutritional
importance. 
•Digestion. Bile from the gall bladder is triggered by fat in
the diet, which helps aid in the digestion and absorption
of important fats and fat-soluble vitamins. Most of the
fats in the diet ar e digested in the small intestine — a
process that involves breaking the fat into smaller parti-
cles. The pancreas, liver, gall bladder and large intestine
are also involved in the digestive process. Any of these
organs not working properly could have an adverse
impact on fat metabolism in general, but the two most
important organs are the liver, which makes bile, and the
pancreas, which make the enzyme lipase. Without suffi-
cient fat in the diet, the gall bladder will not secrete
enough bile for proper digestion. Fat also helps regulate
the rate of stomach emptying. Fats in a meal slow stom-
ach emptying, allowing for better digestion of proteins. If
you are always hungry it may be because your meal is
too low in fat and your stomach is emptying too rapidly.
Fats also slow the absorption of sugar fr om the small
intestines, which keeps insulin from rising too high and
too quickly — essentially, fat in the meal lowers its
glycemic index. Additionally , fats protect the inner lining
of the stomach and intestines from irritating substances
in the diet, such as alcohol and spicy foods.THE BIG FAT LIE • 63     

•Support and Protection. Stored fat offers physical sup-
port and protection to vital body parts, including the
organs and glands. Fat acts as a natural, built-in shock
absorber, cushioning the body and its various parts from
the wear and tear of everyday life, and helps pr event
organs from sinking due to the downward pull of gravi-
ty.  Fats also may protect the body against the harmful
effects of X-rays. This occurs through physical protection
of the cell, and by controlling free-radical production,
generated as a result of X-ray exposure. In addition to
medical X-rays, we are constantly exposed to X-rays from
the atmosphere. This cosmic radiation penetrates most
objects, including airplanes. The average person gets
more cosmic radiation exposur e during an airline flight
from New York to Los Angeles than from a lifetime of
medical X-rays.
•Vitamin and Mineral Regulation. Most people know
that vitamin D is pr oduced by exposure of the skin to the
sun. However, it is actually cholesterol in the skin that
allows this reaction to occur. Sunlight chemically changes
cholesterol in the skin through the process of irradiation
to vitamin D-3. This newly formed vitamin D is then
absorbed into the blood, allowing calcium and phospho-
rous to be properly absorbed from the intestinal tract.
Without the vitamin D, calcium and phosphorous would
not be well absorbed and deficiencies of both could occur.
But without cholesterol, the entire process would not
occur. Besides vitamin D, other vitamins, including A, E
and K, rely on fat for proper absorption and utilization.
These important vitamins are present primarily in fatty
foods, and the body cannot make an adequate amount of
these vitamins to ensure continued good health. In addi-
tion these vitamins require fat in the intestines in order to
be absorbed. So a low-fat diet could be deficient in these
vitamins to begin with and also could further restrict
their absorption. Certain fats ar e important for transport -64• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH       

ing calcium into the bones and muscles. Without this
action, calcium levels in bones and muscles can be
reduced resulting in the risk for stress fractures, osteo-
porosis, muscle cramps and other problems. Unused cal-
cium may be stor ed, sometimes in the kidneys increasing
the risk of stones, or in the muscles, tendons or joint
spaces as calcium deposits.
•Taste. My favorite function of fat is that it makes food
delightfully palatable. Want to make a recipe tastier? Add
some healthy fat. Low- and no-fat products are usually
quite bland, and often manufacturers add sugar to
improve taste. Fat also satisfies your physical hunger by
increasing satiety (the signal given to the brain that the
meal is satisfying and you can stop eating). With a low-fat
meal, the brain just keeps sending the same message over
and over: Eat more! Because you never really feel satis-
fied, the temptation to over eat is irr esistible. In fact,
there’s a good chance you can actually gain weight on a
low-fat diet by overeating to try and get that “I’m not
hungry anymore” feeling. 
Types of Body Fat
The human body possesses two distinct types of body fat, referred to
as brown and white. Both forms of body fat are active, living parts of
us, heavily influencing our metabolism, protecting our organs, glands
and bones, and offering many other health benefits mostly from our
stores of white fat. This body fat content ranges from five percent in
some male athletes to more than 50 percent of total body weight in
obese individuals. Brown fat makes up only about 1 percent of the
total body fat in healthy adults, although it’s much more abundant at
birth in healthy babies. 
Brown fat helps us burn white fat; this is an important aspect of
overall health. (Even in athletes, it’s an important energy source for
better performance.) W ithout adequate br own fat, we can gain body
fat and become sluggish in the winter like a hibernating animal.
Ther e are a number of ways to increase brown fat activity.THE BIG FAT LIE • 65       

Certain foods can stimulate brown fat and increase overall fat-
burning. Eating several times a day, five to six smaller healthy meals
instead of one, two or three larger ones, for example, can trigger a
process called thermogenesis — an important post-meal metabolic
stimulation for fat-burning. However, if caloric intake is too low,
brown fat can slow the burning of white fat. This can happen on a
low-calorie diet and when we skip meals.
Brown fat is also stimulated by certain dietary fats. The best ones
are omega-3 fats, especially from fish oil, and olive oil (use olive to
replace all vegetable oils in the diet). 
This works in part because a moderately high healthy-fat diet can
stimulate brown fat. 
Other foods that increase brown fat activity include caffeine. Tea,
coffee and chocolate contain small to high amounts of caf feine.
However, if under stress, the adrenal glands become overworked,
which can promote fat storage and reduce fat-burning; caffeine may
worsen adrenal stress in many individuals. Also, avoid coffee, tea and
chocolate products if they contain sugar, which can reduce fat-burning.
While supplements of fish oil may be the only way to obtain ade-
quate amounts of EP A, some supplements can be harmful. Apopular
supplement, CLA (conjugated linoleic acid), can actually reduce
brown fat activity . 
Brown fat is gr eatly contr olled by skin temperatur e. If you get too
hot during the day, or overdress during exercise, brown-fat activity can
lead to less burning of white fat. This is why exer cising in extra clothes
or “sweatsuits,” a common but unhealthy weight-loss r outine, can be
dangerous.
Even sitting in a hot tub, sauna or steam room regularly after
exercise may offset some of the fat-burning benefits of physical activ-
ity. These activities can increase sweating, resulting in some water-
weight loss, but the sacrifice is actually less fat-burning. Hot tubs and
saunas do come with health benefits, but to avoid the r eductions in
fat-burning take a minute or two to cool the body in a cold shower or
tub afterwards.
In contrast, br own fat is stimulated by cold. Cooling the body’s
brown-fat areas can help stimulate more fat-burning. Brown fat is
found around the shoulders and underarms, between the ribs and at66• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

the nape of the neck. These are important areas to keep from over-
heating and cool after exercise. (Low body temperature is associated
with reduced fat-burning; this is often related to low thyroid
function.)
Of course, exercise can increase fat-burning too. The best kind
being the easy aerobic type, such as walking, which trains the body to
burn mor e body fat all day and night. This issue is discussed in detail
in later chapters.
Unfortunately, most research in the area of brown fat comes from
the pharmaceutical industry, which is looking for a new drug to stim-
ulate br own fat. But a healthy diet, the right exercise and other
lifestyle habits already can do this!
The role of brown fat is just another of the many examples of
healthy functions of fat in the body. But to make sure we have healthy,
balanced fats, we must be very car eful with the types and amounts of
fats we consume.
It’s time to look at fat as our friend. Good fats can greatly help in
the quest to impr ove optimal health and human performance.THE BIG FAT LIE • 67     

10
Balancing Your Fats
Now that we’ve discussed the importance of natural dietary fats
for human performance and the necessity of healthy body fat, it’s just
as important to outline how to balance your consumption of certain
fats in the diet. It’s accomplished in three simple steps. When using
fats and oils:
• For cooking, use only olive oil, butter, coconut oil or lard.
• Avoid all vegetable oil and trans fat.
•Balance consumption of omega-6 and omega-3 fats in a 
2:1 ratio.
The issue of balancing fat consumption is quite complex; volumes
have been written on the subject and many scientists have devoted
their entire careers to this topic. But I have simplified the explanations
to help you achieve this important task. First, let’s look at three com-
mon types of fats: monounsaturated, polyunsaturated and saturated. 
Monounsatur ated F at 
This fat is associated with impr oved health and disease pr evention
and should make up the bulk of fat in your diet. Monounsaturated
fat, also r eferr ed to as oleic or omega-9, has been shown to have many
health benefits, including helping pr event cancer , heart disease, obe -
sity and other chr onic illnesses. The Mediterranean diet, with its
lower incidence of obesity and diseases, is relatively high in monoun-
saturated fat, which may be the key reason for the health benefits. In
some cases, we know how monounsaturated fat can pr event disease.
For example, this fat is known to raise “good” HDL cholesterol and
lower “bad” LDL cholester ol, which can gr eatly impr ove cardiovas-
cular health.     

Monounsaturated fat is also very stable. As discussed later,
polyunsaturated fat is easily oxidized and can form dangerous oxy-
gen free radicals from exposure to air, light and heat. These free radi-
cals can lead to bodily dysfunction and even disease. Due to its chem-
ical structure, monounsaturated fat is virtually immune to oxidation
through cooking or exposure to air and light.
Monounsaturated fat is found in many foods, and some oils are
predominantly this type of fat. Foods highest in monounsaturated
fats are avocados, almonds and macadamia nuts, with other nuts and
seeds containing moderate amounts. Olive oil is very high in
monounsaturated fat and is the best oil for both cooking and use on
salads or other foods. 
The best olive oil to use is the least pr ocessed and most nutritious
— extra virgin olive oil. This is obtained from the whole fruit by using
the cold-press technique, which does not alter the natural antioxi-
dants, phytonutrients or quality of the oil. The most potent phytonu-
trients are phenols, which give the oil its slight bitter taste. Very high
amounts of phenols are found in extra-virgin olive oil.
Phytonutrients, including phenols, are virtually absent in almost all
other oils, including olive oils that are not extra-virgin. The benefits of
phytonutrients are discussed in more detail in a later chapter. 
Most olive oil comes from Spain, Greece and Italy. Graded by
international standar ds, much like fine wine, for flavor, aroma and
acidity, extra-virgin olive oil is the tastiest and has less than 1 percent
natural acid. Highly acidic oils (above 3.3 per cent acidity) have an
offensive taste and are neutralized by added chemical agents, so
avoid other forms of olive oil including “pure” and “light” versions. 
By using extra-vir gin olive oil for most of your oil needs, as well
as eating foods that ar e high in health-pr omoting monounsaturated
fat such as avocados and almonds, you’ll be taking an important step
to balancing your dietary fats.
Polyunsaturated Fat
Many foods naturally contain polyunsaturated fat. They include
omega-6 and omega-3 essential fatty acids that play a vital role in reg-
ulating inflammation as well as performing other key functions.
Concentrated and potentially dangerous amounts of omega-6 fat areBALANCING YOUR FATS • 69     

in vegetable oil, with the highest levels contained in safflower,
peanut, corn, canola and soy oil, and many processed foods including
infant formulas. Too much omega-6 polyunsaturated fat, whether
from vegetable oil, processed food or dietary supplements, can
adversely affect health in two significant ways. First, an excess of
omega-6 oil can convert to a fatty acid called arachidonic acid. Too
much of this fatty acid may contribute significantly to chronic inflam-
mation, the first stage of all chronic diseases and other problems. This
is detailed below.
Second, polyunsaturated fat is easily oxidized to chemical free
radicals, making it a potentially dangerous food. Oxidation occurs
when this type of fat is heated, or exposed to light and air. When we
consume oxidized fat, this free-radical stress can damage cells any-
wher e in the body , speed the aging process, turn LDL cholesterol
“bad” and significantly increase the need for antioxidant nutrients.
The fat content of most people’s diet is very high in concentrated
omega-6 fats from vegetable oils and dairy products, a serious
imbalance.
One way to make polyunsaturated fat work toward optimal
health, rather than contributing to disease, is to balance consumption.
To accomplish better balance, avoid all vegetable oils and processed
food; instead, use extra-vir gin olive or other r ecommended fats.
Befor e discussing this issue in mor e detail, let’s discuss saturated fat
because it’s part of the balancing act.
Satur ated F at
Of all the dietary fats, saturated fat is always considered the least
healthful. But saturated fat is important for energy and hormone pro-
duction, cellular functioning and other important actions much like
other fats. 
Like other fat, saturated forms ar e made up of many dif ferent
fatty acids, some of which have been linked to ill health when con -
sumed in excess. The worst may be palmitic acid, high in dairy fat.
This fatty acid can raise cholesterol, and some of the dietary carbohy-
drate that converts to fat becomes palmitic acid. High blood levels of
palmitic acid may predict type 2 diabetes, heart disease, stroke and
carbohydrate intolerance. However, when fats are balanced, palmitic70• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

acid does not seem to be such a health problem. (Palm-kernel oil is
also high in palmitic acid, but palm-fruit oil is not, and actually con-
tains important tocotrienols that can lower LDL cholesterol.) 
Arachidonic acid — AA — is another component of saturated fat
that gives it a bad name. While small amounts are essential for health,
high AA levels are very unhealthy. AA is found in dairy, egg yolks,
meats and shellfish. However, the amounts in these foods are rela-
tively small compared to the amount of AA produced by the conver-
sion of omega-6 fatty acids from vegetable oils in the average diet.
Like many other situations regarding fat, balance is the key. In the
case of AA, it’s an essential fatty acid, especially for the brain, for the
fetus, newborns and growing children. But in larger amounts it can
cause problems. Too much AA, either from saturated fat or vegetable
oil, can cr eate chr onic inflammation, bone loss, increased pain and
other problems discussed later.
The good side of saturated fat is important too. Stearic acid, for
example, has various health benefits for the immune system. This sat-
urated fatty acid is found in cocoa butter and grass-fed beef. And,
stearic acid can be converted within the body to monounsaturated
fat. Another healthy saturated fatty acid is lauric, which plays an
important role in energy production and has anti-viral and anti-bac-
terial actions, especially in the intestine (and the stomach in particu -
lar, against H. pylori). Coconut oil, high in saturated fat, is also high
in healthy lauric acid (and contains very little polyunsaturated fat,
making it an ideal fat for cooking).
In animal foods, which contain r elatively high amounts of satu -
rated fat, the most important factor that determines the fatty acid pro-
file is the food consumed by the animal. Grass-fed beef, for example,
contains a much healthier content of fatty acids compared to corn-fed
beef. For the same r eason, wild animals usually contain healthier
fatty-acid pr ofiles than animals that ar e fed grain in confinement. In
plants, the soil plays a certain r ole in determining fatty acid content.
Before discussing a key feature in balancing dietary fats, it’s
worth looking at the fat content of various foods to demonstrate the
mixtur e of mono, poly and saturated fat in each. A few foods contain
predominantly one type of fat or another, but most foods, even oils,
contain a combination of all three. Many people are surprised toBALANCING YOUR FATS • 71   

learn, for instance, that the fat in an average steak is about half
monounsaturated and half saturated, with a small amount of polyun-
saturated. 
The following table shows approximately how much of each type
of fat is contained in some foods.
The ABCs of Fats: Optimal Balance
Together , polyunsaturated and saturated fats contain thr ee important
fatty acids I’ll call A, B and C fats. In the body , each of these fats is con-
verted to three different groups of hormone-like substances called
eicosanoids (pr onounced i-cos-an-oids). I’ll call these gr oups 1, 2 and
3. Basically , Afats make gr oup 1 eisosanoids, B fats gr oup 2, and C
fats group 3. This is a very simplified explanation, but fairly accurate;
and it’s important to understand the basics of fat metabolism because
of its powerful effect on overall health and human performance. All
these fats are important for optimal health. But when there’s an
imbalance, the result is reduced health and higher risk of disease.
An imbalance of eicosanoids resulting in too much of group 2
promotes inflammation, pain, bone loss, muscle problems, allergy,
asthma, and potentially, disease such as cancer, Alzheimer’s, diabetes,72• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH
Food % Mono % Poly % Saturated
Olive oil 77 9 14  
Canola oil 62 32 6
Peanut oil 49 33 18  
Corn oil 25 62 13  
Soybean oil 24 61 15  
Safflower oil 13 77 10  
Coconut 6 2 92  
Egg yolks 48 16 36  
Steak 49 4 47  
Cheese 30 3 67 
Butter 30 4 66 
Almonds 68 22 10  
Cashews 61 18 21  
Peanuts 50 32 18       

stroke and heart disease. The right balance of eicosanoids can pre-
vent, postpone, and even treat these conditions. Eicosanoid balance is
so powerful — so influential to overall health — that billions of dol -
lars are spent by pharmaceutical companies to research and develop
new drugs that attempt to balance the eicosanoids. But you can do it
for pennies by eating the right foods! And while drugs that attempt
to balance fats have some short-term success, they come with signifi-
cant unhealthy , and sometimes deadly , side ef fects. Balancing fats by
eating right only has healthy — nearly miraculous — benefits. 
The term eicosanoid is a general one that encompasses a variety
of very different compounds with names such as prostaglandins,
leukotrienes and thromboxanes. They’re involved in complex reac-
tions fr om moment to moment in all cells thr oughout the body . For
now just r emember that balanced eicosanoids regulate certain bodily
functions that ar e central to optimal human performance and disease
prevention. With this in mind, understanding how to balance the A,
B and C fats, and the 1, 2 and 3 gr oups of eicosanoids, is vital. First
let’s discuss A, B and C fats in more detail.  
Afats ar e found in vegetables with the highest amounts in their
oils: saf flower , soy, corn, peanut and canola. These fats are referred to
as omega-6, and contain an essential fatty acid called linoleic acid that
I’ll call LA for short. Like all essential fatty acids, they are “essential”
because the body can’t make them and we must eat them to be
healthy . When we do, LA is converted to other fats, including GLA
(gamma-linolenic acid), with the end result being the series 1
eicosanoids. These are powerful substances for promoting and main-
taining health. Among the benefits are powerful anti-inflammation
effects that can reduce the risk of many problems and prevent chron-
ic illness throughout the body. Common dietary supplements of
omega-6 pr oducts include black-currant-seed, borage and primr ose
oils that contain high amounts of GLA.BALANCING YOUR FATS • 73
The ABCs of Fats
A Fats B Fats C Fats
↓↓ ↓↓ ↓↓
Group 1 Group 2 Group 3
Eicosanoids Eicosanoids Eicosanoids        

While group 1 eicosanoids from A fats can produce powerful
health effects, there are potential problems. One is that conversion of
A fats to group 1 can be impaired by a variety of things; these include
reduced nutrients, including niacin, vitamin B6, magnesium, protein
and others. In addition, trans fats can reduce the conversion, as can
too much stress. And, as we age, the process tends to slow down. The
remedy? Eat the best diet possible to ensure you obtain all the nutri-
ents, avoid bad fats and moderate stress (a topic discussed in detail in
later chapters). 
Another more serious problem is that, as noted above, A fats can
convert to B fats and inflammatory eicosanoids, which can wreck
health and destroy human performance if produced in excess. These
are the B fats and group 2 eicosanoids.
The B fats are sometimes considered bad fats because of the
effects they can have in the body. But these effects are only bad when
in excess. B fats contain the essential fat AA (arachidonic acid), as
noted above, and produce group 2 eicosanoids. Among the effects
these eicosanoids promote are inflammation and pain. But these so-
called pr oblems can actually be important for health at the right time.
For example, inflammation is a vital first stage of the healing process.
Following this acute inflammatory process, as healing proceeds, anti-
inflammatory eisocanoids in gr oup 1 and 3 ar e produced to r educe
inflammation. Another example is pain; the body uses pain to help
you be aware of problems so you can remedy it. Chronic pain is not
normal, or healthy , and usually associated with an unr esolved pr ob-
lem associated with an imbalance of eicosanoids. 
Another important function of AA (which is also considered an
omega-6 fat) is that it’s very important for the repair and growth of
the brain. This is especially vital in the fetus, newborns and develop -
ing children, but as adults, we continually should be repairing and
growing the brain as well.
B fats ar e highest in dairy pr oducts such as butter , cream and
cheese, and in lesser amounts in the fat of meats, egg yolks and shell-
fish. However , for most people, the lar gest source of AA is from A
fats. This is especially a problem when too many A fats are consumed,
usually from vegetable oils, or if too much GLA is taken as a supple-
ment. By eliminating vegetable oil and using only olive or coconut
oil, the overall balance of fats is usually greatly improved. In addition74• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

to the common use at home, vegetable oils are often used in packaged
foods and in restaurants.
The C fats are termed omega-3, and are found mostly in ocean
fish, with lesser amounts in beans, flaxseed and walnuts. Smaller
amounts are found in vegetables and wild and grass-fed animals.
These fats contain ALA (alpha-linolenic acid), an essential fatty acid
that is converted in the body to EPA (eicosapentaenoic acid), with the
final production of group 3 eicosanoids. This conversion can be
impaired by the same problems that impair the conversion of A fats
to group 1 eicosanoids — poor nutrition, trans fat, stress and aging.
Fish oils derived from cold-water ocean fish already contain EPA
and are very useful for people who require an omega-3 supplement
to balance fats. Flaxseed oil is also common, but does not contain EPA
and therefore requires other nutritional factors to convert to EPA.
And, in humans, conversion of flax to EPA is very inefficient. Flax oil
is also very unstable and can turn unhealthy if not fresh and refriger-
ated. (EPA also exists in conjunction with another important fatty
acid, DHA, which is especially important for the fetus through child-
hood.)
It’s relatively easy to balance A, B and C fats to promote a balance
of the 1, 2 and 3 gr oups of eicosanoids. This can be accomplished first
by eating appr oximately equal amounts of A, B and C fats. It does not
necessarily have to be at each meal, but in the course of a day or week,
balance is of prime importance. And, by eating a balance of A, B and
C fats, you’ll consume polyunsaturated and saturated fats in the opti -
mal ratio of 2:1. In the typical W estern diet, many people consume
ratios of 5, 10 or even 20:1! It’s no wonder there’s an epidemic of pain
and chronic disease. (If you don’t eat meat or dairy, consume approx-BALANCING YOUR FATS • 75
The ABCs of Fat: A Summary
Type of Fat A B C
Food source: vegetable oils animal fats fish, flax 
Contains: LA AA ALA
Converts to: GLA EPA
Eicosanoids: Group 1 Group 2 Group 3    

imately an equal ratio of A and C fats; in this case, some of the A fats
will convert to B fats.)
Fat imbalance typically occurs from some combination of eating
too much A or B fats, and too little C fats; but it can also can be affect-
ed by certain foods, vitamins and drugs. The most common food that
does this is refined carbohydrates, including sugar. Recall that insulin
can be produced in higher amounts when these carbohydrates are
consumed. This causes mor e A fats to convert to B fats, as AA, and
into the group 2 eicosanoids. This is another reason refined carbohy-
drates are so unhealthy. Two foods can prevent too much A fats from
converting to group 2 eicosanoids. These are EPA found in fish, and
raw sesame oil, which contains the phytonutrient sesamin.
An important item mentioned above is that a number of other
dietary and lifestyle factors can impair the conversion of A and C fats
to their respective group 1 and 3 eicosanoids as summarized in the
following table:
A Note about Inflammation
I’ve mentioned inflammation often in this book so far , and will con -
tinue to do so (including a whole separate chapter) because it’s such
an important issue. Balancing the body’s inflammatory/anti-inflam-
matory mechanism can help you attain optimal health and human
performance — that’s what balancing fats is all about. 
Inflammation is the body’s way of responding to and repairing
itself from daily wear and tear, and injury. For example, just going for
a walk, working on the computer, washing the dishes, or any other
repetitive motion, not to mention exer cise, pr oduces chemicals that
cause inflammation as part of the body’s complex recovery process.
More serious injury pr oduces inflammation, too — a cut hand, a dam-76• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH
Factors that Increase
Group 1 & 3 Eicosanoids 
Vitamins B6, C and niacin, low
doses of vitamin E, magnesium,
zinc and calcium , alcohol
in moderationFactors that Inhibit
Group 1 & 3 Eicosanoids
Trans fats, excess B fats, stress,
aging, high-glycemic
carboh ydrates, low-protein diet,
cigarette smoke, fever         

aged joint, or an irritated stomach. The reddish, swollen, hot area of
a cut finger is an example of this normal inflammatory process. Once
the initial inflammation (from group 2 eicosanoids) has got the heal-
ing under way, anti-inflammatory chemicals (groups 1 and 3) are pro-
duced to stop the inflammation process and allow the healing to be
completed. 
One problem with this mechanism is that sometimes the cause of
the initial problem is never resolved. For example, continued physi-
cal overuse of the shoulder, or irritation of the stomach with too much
alcohol, perpetuates inflammation because the body is not allowed to
heal. Another common problem is that the body is unable to make
sufficient anti-inflammatory substances because there is too little
group 1 and 3 eicosanoids; or there is too much of the inflammatory
group 2 eicosanoids.
When inflammation becomes chronic a variety of end result signs
and symptoms prevail, from arthritis and colitis to chronic muscle
and joint injuries. Along the way, the process of disease may also
develop. In time, the end result may be any type of ulcer or cancer,
heart disease, cognitive brain disorders such as Alzheimer’s and
other chr onic illness. Quality of life is gr eatly diminished and health
and human performance are gradually destroyed. 
Anti-inflammatory Drugs
In the conversion of A, B and C fats to eicosanoids, an important
enzyme called cyclooxygenase, or COX, is r equir ed. Ther e are actual -
ly two COX enzymes, and many people ar e familiar with the term
“COX-2 inhibitors.” These are drugs that act on these enzymes.
Aspirin, and all other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
(NSAIDS), including Advil, Motrin, Naprosyn and Nuprin, tem-
porarily block the COX enzyme, so much less of the inflammatory
series 2 eicosanoids ar e formed. While this r educes the inflammatory
group 2 eicosanoids, these dr ugs can also eliminate gr oups 1 and 3,
along with their beneficial properties. This may result in an improve-
ment of symptoms, but it also turns off the important anti-inflamma-
tory mechanism. In addition, the cause of the pr oblem — fat imbal -
ance — goes untreated. If aspirin makes you feel better, it usually
indicates that your fats are not balanced.BALANCING YOUR FATS • 77     

In addition to controlling inflammation and pain, eicosanoids
have many other important functions. Both groups 1 and 3 decrease
blood clotting and dilate blood vessels, which lowers blood pressure
and increases circulation. Group 2 eicosanoids, however, do almost
the opposite, increasing blood clotting, constricting blood vessels and
increasing blood pressure. But these activities can be healthy when
balanced. For example, without the constricting of blood vessels and
the raising of blood pressure during stress, blood circulation would
be poor and not enough oxygen and other nutrients would be circu-
lated to where these things are needed. Or, without blood clotting,
you could bleed to death from a small cut. Balance is key.
But excess group 2 eicosanoids can be deadly: they constrict
blood vessels too much, and clot blood too much. They can also trig-
ger tumor growth, atherosclerosis (fat deposits), asthma and allergy,
bone loss and even promote menstrual cramps.
Many people ar e unaware that their fats are not balanced. Certain
signs, symptoms and lifestyle habits may offer powerful clues that
your eicosanoids may be out of balance. The following survey can
help you determine the likelihood that you have an imbalance in fats
and eicosanoids. Check the items below that apply to you:
JAspirin or non-ster oidal anti-inflammatory dr ugs
improve symptoms.
JChronic inflammation or “itis”-type conditions such as
arthritis, colitis, tendinitis.
JHistory or incr eased risk of heart disease, str oke or high
blood pr essur e.
JOften eat r estaurant, take-out or fast food.
JLow-fat diet.
JFeelings of depr ession.
JHistory of tumors or cancers.
JPeriods of reduced mental acuity.
JDiabetes or family history of diabetes.78• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH                     

JOver age 50.
JBlood tests show increased triglycerides or cholesterol.
JCarbohydrate intolerance.
JSeasonal allergies.
JIntestinal pr oblems such as diarrhea, constipation, ulcers.
If you checked one or more of these items there’s a chance that
you have a fat imbalance. The more items you check off, the more
likely you have a problem. 
Most people find they are too high in A and B fat and low in C
fats because omega-6 fat and dairy foods are so prevalent in most
diets. This can be remedied by balancing dietary fats — eating less A
and more C fats. The greatest problem for many people is consuming
enough C fats, especially EP A. Most foods high in C fats such as
almonds, walnuts, pecans, flaxseeds and green vegetables, don’t con-
tain EP Aand their conversion to EP Ais very limited in humans, so we
must rely on fish. Wild ocean fish — including salmon, sardines, tuna,
anchovies and macker el — ar e high in EP A. Unfortunately, the
world’s oceans continue to be seriously polluted, especially with mer -
cury, and fish intake should be limited, especially by children and
pregnant women. Farmed fish should be avoided — they are a poor
sour ce of EP Aand have other pr oblems discussed in a later chapter. 
One remedy that can significantly help balance fats is fish-oil sup-
plements. These contain high amounts of EPA, and in combination
with reducing vegetable oils can make fat balance a reality. EPA also
helps pr event some of the Afats fr om converting to B fats. In addi -
tion, raw sesame-seed oil helps pr event this pr ocess too. Be sur e to
buy small amounts of only raw sesame oil, don’t cook it, and keep it
refrigerated because it’s a relatively unstable polyunsaturated oil. 
How Much Fat Should We Eat?
Equipped with the knowledge of how important balanced fats ar e for
the body , you ar e in a position to impr ove your diet in accor dance
with your body’s particular needs. How much fat should you have in
a healthy diet? The amount of fat in a healthy diet depends on the
individual.BALANCING YOUR FATS • 79              

You must first get over the idea that the less fat the better, or a diet
that’s 10 percent or 20 percent fat is ideal. Actually, a low-fat diet can
be very unhealthy. For example, studies show that people following
a very low-fat diet can increase their risks for heart disease. This is
due to the fact that their intake of essential fatty acids could be too
low. There are many populations in which fat intake exceeds 40 per-
cent, like the Eskimos and people living in the Mediterranean region,
who on average are healthier than people who eat a lower-fat diet. In
addition, the American Heart Association, the World Health
Organization (WHO), the Surgeon General, the USDA and many pro-
fessional health organizations have recommended a diet that’s 30 per-
cent fat.
I have found that most people ar e healthier with at least this
much fat in the diet. Some may need more — 35 or even 40 percent.
But rather than follow these numbers, experiment and find what
works best for you. In general, once you’ve found your optimal level
of carbohydrates, and balanced your fats, the amount of protein you
need to eat is fairly easy to determine; this is the subject of the next
chapter .80• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

11
The Power of Protein
Once you’ve determined the right amount of carbohydrates for
your body, and balanced your fats, proper protein intake is relatively
easy to determine. For example, if you find that 40 percent of your
macronutrients are carbohydrates, and 30 percent fat, the remaining
30 percent as protein would probably be the optimal amount for you.
As convenient and oversimplified as that may sound, that’s how it
turns out for most people. Find the first two pieces of the puzzle and
the thir d falls neatly into place. 
However, there’s no need to determine percentages — or grams,
calories or any other quantity. Instead, make the appropriate changes
as outlined in these chapters, beginning with carbohydrates, and let
it all fall into place; your intuition will become a powerful ally .
Coralee Thompson, M.D., simplifies pr otein needs even mor e. “At
each meal eat the amount of dense pr otein food such as meat, fish or
eggs that fits in the palm of your hand.”
We all need protein every day for optimal health and increased
human performance. This is true at all ages, for males and females,
and whether you are walking 30 minutes a day or training for a 1,000-
mile race.
Larger body frames and those performing a lot of physical work
usually need more protein. Growing children also need relatively
higher amounts of pr otein for development. In fact, throughout life
there is still a significant and continuous need for protein. 
Protein is necessary for so many healthy bodily functions, dis-
cussing it all would fill several books. Here are just a few examples:
•Enzymes important for balancing fats, digestion and
hundr eds of other metabolic activities necessary for opti -
mal health require protein.    

• Protein is essential for maintaining neurotransmitters —
the chemical messengers used by the brain, the rest of the
nervous system and gut for communication. 
• Protein is a key element for building new cells, especial-
ly for muscles, bones, organs and glands, throughout life.
• Oxygen, fats, vitamins, hormones and other compounds
are regulated and transported throughout the body with
the help of protein.
• Protein is necessary to make natural antibodies for the
immune system. 
• Protein contains key amino acids for health. For example,
cysteine is necessary for the body to make its most pow-
erful antioxidant, glutathione, and glutamine is used to
fuel the intestine for optimal function, especially for
digestion and absorption of nutrients. 
• Protein is important for the production of glucagon in
relation to controlling insulin and blood sugar.
Studies continue to show that the protein recommendations by
the USDA are too low. These recommendations have resulted in
reductions in protein intake by some people, with dire health conse-
quences. Even the ar gument that protein can harm the kidneys, espe-
cially those with kidney problems, is losing ground as new studies
show that restricting dietary protein in those with kidney problems
can actually increase the risk of death.
Most of this confusion about protein requirements comes from
old and outdated r esearch. When determining protein needs,
researchers measured the amount of protein taken in through food,
then measured protein by-products to determine the amount lost.
Many studies on pr otein r equir ements, especially r esear ch that estab -
lished today’s RDA levels, only measured the protein by-product
nitrogen, excreted in the urine. They failed to consider the amount
lost in sweat. This is clearly an important means for excr eting the
nitrogen fr om pr otein breakdown. Urea production alone may not82• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

accurately reflect all aspects of protein breakdown. This is one reason
many earlier studies on protein requirements showed such low num-
bers. Today, there are better, more accurate ways of determining pro-
tein needs through more elaborate measurements. These show that
for most people, protein needs are higher than the old recommenda-
tions indicate.
How Much Protein?
The answer to this question depends on you — your lean body mass,
your level of physical activity and other factors, including what
makes you feel best. There is a wide range of healthy and safe protein
intake that can provide many benefits. In addition to what has
already been stated about finding your protein needs, for those who
still need help understanding this important issue I’ll discuss protein
needs in grams using the USDA’s recommendations to further put
this subject into perspective.
The problem with this level of protein is that it’s the bare mini-
mum for an inactive person. And, it’s based on body weight and not
lean muscle mass. This amount is 0.8 grams of dietary protein per
kilogram (2.2 pounds) of body weight. Based on this, a person weigh-
ing about 70 kilograms or 150 pounds should consume 60 grams of
protein per day. This can be obtained with two eggs at breakfast, a
salad with fish at lunch and a small steak at dinner . 
But for most active, healthy people, this amount is insufficient.
Recent studies show that pr otein r equir ements should be twice that of
the USDA suggestion. Based on these studies performed over the past
several years, and my clinical experience, I prefer to recommend a
range of normal that includes the minimum amount of 0.8 grams to
about 1.6 grams per kilogram of body weight. For most athletes, and
those with very physical jobs, the amount of pr otein may still need to
be increased above this level. Those involved in jogging/running,
biking, swimming and other aerobic-type exercise, usually need more
protein because the normal continual process of building muscle may
actually be gr eater than that of weight-lifters. 
For most active, healthy people, a normal pr otein intake over 1.0
grams per kilogram of body weight, usually closer to the 1.6 number,THE POWER OF PROTEIN • 83     

is best. Following are some examples of food servings that provide
these amounts of protein:
• For a 175-pound person, the daily protein intake may be
128 grams. The protein foods that would provide this
include thr ee eggs and cheese at breakfast, a salad with a
hefty serving of turkey at lunch and salmon for dinner. 
• For a 145-pound person, the requirement may be about
106 grams: two eggs for br eakfast, a chef’s salad for lunch
and a sirloin steak for dinner. 
• And for the person weighing 125 pounds, who would
minimally require about 90 grams of protein: two eggs at
breakfast, tuna salad for lunch and lamb for dinner.
If you’re 200 pounds or more, or appreciably under 125 pounds,
just estimate the protein requirements based on the above numbers.
For example, at 200 pounds, that’s 25 per cent heavier, so 25 percent
more than 128 grams of protein is 160 grams. 
Clearly , eating mor e pr otein than the body can utilize can be
unhealthy . But if you require more than 100 grams a day, that’s not
excessive, it’s what your body needs. Eating the amount of protein
your body r equir es is not a high-pr otein diet, it’s getting your pr oper
requirements!
Sometimes, when unhealthy people consume normal amounts of
protein they won’t feel good because something else is wr ong. For
example, as protein intake increases, so does your need for water,
which helps eliminate the normal by-products of protein through the
kidneys. That’s part of the old argument that protein is a stress on the
kidneys; it most certainly is if you ar e dehydrated.
Or, if you’re under significant stress and your stomach does not
make sufficient amounts of natural hydrochloric acid — the first
chemical stage of protein digestion — protein digestion can be a prob-
lem that could give you symptoms of intestinal distress. Addressing
the cause of the pr oblem — the str ess and stomach, not the pr otein —
is the best remedy. Or, another potential protein problem may occur if84• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

you combine a steak with some bread or a potato — this is a signifi-
cant stress for the stomach, and indigestion often follows.
Amino Acids
Just as carbohydrates are made up of sugars, and fats are composed
of fatty acids, dietary protein is made up of building blocks called
amino acids. In order to obtain these vital components, the intestine
must do its job. First, protein must be efficiently digested in the intes-
tine, resulting in breakdown into amino acids. Second, these amino
acids must be absorbed into the body. Once absorbed, the amino acids
are used either as individual products, or recombined as proteins. For
example, the amino acid tryptophan is used to make certain neuro-
transmitters in the brain. Or , recombining many amino acids provides
for the manufactur e of new muscle cells.
There are at least 20 amino acids necessary to human nutrition, all
of which are indispensable for optimal health and human perform-
ance. While some amino acids can be manufactur ed in the body by
other raw materials fr om food, others called “essential amino acids”
must be taken in through the diet. While amino acids that are made
in the body are sometimes referred to as “non-essential,” this is mis-
leading as all amino acids are essential. 
In general, animal foods are the best sources of protein and con-
tain all the amino acids. Overall, the highest-rated protein food is
eggs, followed by beef and fish. W ith the exception of soybeans,
which ar e mostly carbohydrate, vegetable foods individually contain
only some of the amino acids. Combining the right non-animal foods
can provide a complete amino-acid meal. But eating all the amino
acids at one meal is not necessary .
For those who don’t eat animal products, obtaining all the amino
acids is accomplished by combining enough variety , since no one
plant-based food, except soybeans, contains all the amino acids
(although soy is very low in the amino acid methionine). Certain com-
binations of plant foods, such as beans and rice, or whole grains and
legumes, can provide a complete protein. However, combining meals
high in carbohydrates (such as rice, beans, grains, etc.) with pr otein
can reduce digestibility, with the result that some protein will notTHE POWER OF PROTEIN • 85     

digest into amino acids, and some amino acids won’t get absorbed.
This is discussed in a later chapter. In the next chapter I’ll discuss
some of best ways to obtain protein from the diet.86• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

12
Making Wise Protein Choices
For most people getting enough protein should not be a problem
as there are many healthy options. These include eggs, meats, fish
and dairy foods. For those who won’t eat these foods, getting enough
protein can be a challenge. Soybeans and certain combinations of
legumes and grains can supply all essential amino acids, but you risk
not getting adequate protein, and generally must eat more carbohy-
drate than needed. For most people obtaining sufficient protein is rel-
atively easy, especially when choosing animal sources. 
Choosing the best animal proteins means finding the best
sources. This may be organic, grass-fed, free-range, kosher and what-
ever other labels ar e used to dif ferentiate the highest quality eggs,
meats, fish and dairy foods from those obtained from poorly treated
animals. In some cases, visiting a smaller local farm, for example, will
help you decide. Some of today’s local farmers are not only health-
conscious but actually car e about their animals and how their opera -
tions impact the environment.
The human body, especially the intestine, is well adapted for
digesting animal-source foods, having evolved on a high-meat/fish,
low-carbohydrate diet with varying amounts of vegetables, fruits and
nuts. While the popular tr end in r ecent decades has been toward the
misconception that meat consumption is unhealthy, there are a vari-
ety of unique features of an animal-food diet that are vital for health
and fitness. Here are some of them:
•Animal foods contain high levels of all essential amino
acids. 
• Vitamin B12 is an essential nutrient found only in animal
foods.    

• EPA, the most powerful fatty acid, and the one preferred
by the human body, is almost exclusively found in animal
foods. 
• Iron deficiency is a common worldwide problem and is
prevented by eating animal foods, which contain this
mineral in its most bioavailable form. 
• Vitamin A is found only in animal products (conversion
of beta carotene in plant foods to vitamin A is not always
efficient in humans). 
• Animal products are dense protein foods with little or no
carbohydrate to interfere with digestion and absorption.
•People who consume less animal protein have greater
rates of bone loss than those who eat larger amounts of
animal protein.
I will highlight the main animal protein sources below, and will
comment about soy products and protein powders.
The Incredible, Edible Egg
Eggs are not just incredible, but what I would call the perfect food all
wrapped up in one single cell. Yes, that’s right, an egg is an individ-
ual cell, and contains the most complete and highest pr otein rating of
any food, including all amino acids. T wo eggs contain more than 12
grams of protein, just over half in the white and the rest in the yolk.
In addition, eggs also contain many essential nutrients, including sig-
nificant amounts of vitamins A, D, E, B1, B2, B6, folic acid and espe-
cially vitamin B12. Eggs also contain important minerals including
calcium, magnesium, potassium, zinc and ir on. Choline and biotin,
also important for energy production and stress management, are
contained in large amounts in eggs. Most of these nutrients are found
in the yolk of the egg.
The fat in egg yolks is also nearly a perfect balance, containing
mostly monounsaturated fats, and about 36 percent saturated fat.
And, egg yolks contain linoleic and linolenic acids — both essential
fatty acids. Eggs have almost no carbohydrate (less than 1 gram),88• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

MAKING WISE PROTEIN CHOICES • 89
Some Facts about Eggs
The taming of chickens and other fowl for egg production dates back
to before 1500 B.C. in China. Today, eggs come in many sizes and
shell colors, not just white and brown. Depending on the type of
chicken that laid them, some eggs have tints of green, blue and red.
Eggs, of course, should always be stored in the refrigerator. Because
of their porous shell, there is slight evaporation of moisture from the
inner egg through the shell, which changes its flavor and freshness.
If you are not using them quickly, store your eggs in a sealed con-
tainer to prevent loss of moisture. Never store eggs next to highly fla-
vored foods, such as onions and fish, because they will easily absorb
odors from these foods. Always store eggs with the large side up,
which suspends the yolk effectively within the egg white.
Chefs kno w that room-temperature eggs are easier to work with;
when boiled, they don’ t crack, the whites are easier to whip, and the
yolks “stand up” more w hen fried. If y ou’re separ ating eggs, ho wev-
er, the colder ones are easier to work with.
Speaking of boiled eggs, they should never really be boiled but kept
just at a slight simmer until done. Furiously boiling them results in
rubbery whites and less-tasty yolks. One way to prevent the shells
from breaking during boiling is to use a pin. Prick the shell on the
large end of the egg with a pin. This allows the air pocket, found in
the large end of the egg, to escape during cooking. Otherwise, if the
air can’t escape, the pressure builds and it may crack the shell. The
best way to cook soft- or hard-boiled eggs is to place them in cold
water ( 1/2-inch above the eggs) and bring to a boil. Take off the heat
immediately. For soft-cooked eggs, remove after 2-4 minutes,
depending on your taste, and run under cold water. For hard-cooked
eggs, co ver and let sit for 15 minutes, then rinse in cold water and
keep refrigerated until ready to use. (An egg that is less than two
days old is very difficult to peel when hard-boiled.)
Finally, before you buy eggs make sure they are relatively fresh by
looking at the date. Or , you can shake them close to y our ear; if y ou
hear a sloshing sound, it means they’ve lost a lot of moisture over
time and there’ s a big air space in them — a void these. Eggs also
contain a natur al barrier — an invisible protective coating that keeps
out bacteria. Nev er w ash eggs before storing because y ou will
remo ve this natural protection.   

making them the perfect meal or snack for the millions who are car-
bohydrate intolerant. Ounce per ounce, eggs are also your best food
buy with hardly any waste. And, with so many ways of preparing
them, eggs are delicious. While most people love the taste of eggs,
many are still concerned about eating them because of cholesterol.
For most people, eggs can be part of a healthy food plan. I eat sever-
al whole eggs every day. In the chapter on heart disease I’ll address
the issue of cholesterol, and how adding more eggs to your diet can
actually decrease your cardiovascular risk.
Eggs are only as healthy as the hens that lay them, since the nutri-
tional make-up of eggs, especially the fat, depends upon what the
chickens eat. For this reason you should avoid run-of-the-mill gro-
cery-store eggs that have been produced in chicken factories.
Unfortunately this includes most eggs on the market. The healthiest
eggs come from organic, free-range hens. Even better; buy eggs from
a local farmer who lets chickens eat healthy, wild food and organic
feed. Free-range means that the hens are allowed to roam where they
can eat bugs and vegetable matter, yielding eggs with a better fat pro-
file, with more monounsaturated fat and more essential fatty acids.
So-called “omega 3” eggs come fr om chickens fed flaxseeds. Often
these hens are not free-range nor certified organic and are still housed
in very cr owded hen factories. 
Here’s the Beef
It’s no bull — if you want to be healthy , beef r eally is “what’s for din -
ner.” Consider that just 3 ounces of lean porter house contains 20
grams of protein, and just 6 grams of saturated fat, balanced by a
healthy 7 grams of heart-friendly monounsaturated fat. In addition to
being an excellent source of high-quality protein, beef is also rich in B
vitamins, glutamine, calcium, magnesium, ir on, zinc and other vital
nutrients. Or ganic and natural beef have not been tr eated with antibi-
otics or given gr owth-stimulating hormones. 
You can buy naturally raised meats in some grocery and health-
food stores, and local sources may be even better. Look for nearby
farms and ranches that sell meat fr om animals that have been raised
on grass, not fed corn and without the use of growth hormones,
antibiotics and other chemicals used by most stock-growers. Whether90• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

you live near a farm that sells natural or organic meat, or order from
a ranch that can ship to you, you may wish to save money and buy a
large quantity of beef so that you always have some on hand. The
meat will keep well in a freezer until it’s time to make another order.
When cooking beef, keep it on the rare side. Studies show that
beef cooked medium, medium well, or well done is associated with
higher rates of stomach cancer. This is due to the production of car-
cinogens (certain nitrogen compounds) created during cooking. Heat-
sensitive nutrients, such as the amino acid glutamine, ar e also signif-
icantly reduced in meat cooked beyond rare. The less cooked the bet-
ter. Bacteria in beef is usually due to the food-handling process. While
bacteria can r eside on the surface of meat, it won’t get inside unless
the meat is ground. Almost all cases of food poisoning involving meat
are from sources that have been ground ahead of time. For this rea-
son, gr ound meat should be thor oughly cooked unless it’s fr eshly
ground just before eating it.
The Poultry Flap 
I rate eggs and beef as the best sour ces of pr otein but give poultry a
poor rating due to how most of these animals are raised and
processed. If you find an excellent source of chicken and turkey, and
you really enjoy eating it, these are great protein foods. 
The poultry industry has done such a good job telling you on
paper how healthy chicken is over other meats, but this is untr ue. In
fact, because of lower standards, chickens are generally raised in
more unhealthy environments than cattle and other animals. Today’s
chicken house is really an overpopulated filthy city, containing
100,000 birds or more, cooped up in tiny boxes or very crowded con-
ditions. Because of this, most chickens ar e given many chemicals and
drugs to counter common diseases and infections. 
The best bir ds for the table are organically raised — they’ve not
been treated with or fed any chemicals or drugs; instead, they are
given certified-organic feeds and filtered water. This may be the safest
of all poultry . Many grocery stores and health-food stores carry
organic chickens and turkeys. In addition, you may be able to find
birds such as these from a local farm.MAKING WISE PROTEIN CHOICES • 91     

The Catch to Fish
Fish can also be a great source of protein and some contain significant
quantities of essential fatty acids, especially omega-3 fats. However,
just as with other protein foods, some fish are healthier choices over
others. The best sources are wild fish, not farm-raised. 
In general, avoid seafood that includes the so-called bottom feed-
ers, those fish and other sea species that eat from the ocean’s floor,
where the potential for consuming toxic material is highest. This is
especially true for those species that feed close to shore. Flounder,
sole, catfish and crab are some examples of foods to avoid eating reg-
ularly. Oysters, clams, mussels and scallops are also sources of poten-
tial pollutants. Clams are perhaps the worst seafood to eat, especially
when raw, since they normally filter out and concentrate viruses and
bacteria, heavy metals and other chemical pollutants from the waters
in which they live. If you enjoy eating seafood, here are some tips for
doing so more safely and more nutritiously:
• Choose fish caught in waters farther away from polluted,
industrial areas. Some examples are Canadian salmon,
sardines and herring.
• Look for cold-water fish like salmon, dark tuna, sardines
and other small fish that contain higher amounts of
omega-3 fat and EPA.
•Eat smaller fish and cr ustaceans: tr out, bass and shrimp
and avoid marlin, white tuna and swordfish. Smaller and
younger fish have not accumulated the toxins found in
larger fish and older species.
• Limit your intake of shellfish, and choose smaller species
such as smaller shrimp.
•Avoid pr ecooked fish, and prepared or processed
seafood such as breaded fish or seafood, fish cakes,
ground fish and imitation crabmeat.
•If you catch your own fish, ask local authorities about the
limits of safety. Some regions recommend limiting how
much of certain species you should eat in a year.92• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH    

Unfortunately, the oceans, rivers and lakes are becoming so
contaminated that wild fish are containing levels of toxins that
are dangerous. I recommend limiting fish to once or twice a
month or less, and even less than that for children and pregnant
women.
The picture is worse for farm-raised seafood — this should
always be avoided. These foods often include antibiotics, pesticides,
steroids, hormones and artificial pigments. Unfortunately, they are
becoming popular due to availability and cost. For example, farm-
raised salmon makes up 95 percent of the salmon on the market
today. Since these fish are raised in confined, crowded and unsanitary
conditions, the threat of disease and parasites is great. To combat dis-
ease and parasites, some fish farmers add antibiotics to salmon feed,
and tr eat the salmon and their pens with pesticides. Some fish ar e also
treated with steroids to make the fish sterile, and growth hormones to
speed them to market size and reduce production costs. In addition,
since farm-raised salmon do not naturally eat crustaceans that natu-
rally make the flesh pink or orange, salmon growers often feed color
additives to pigment the flesh.
Other Meaty Matters
In addition to beef, poultry and fish, other meats ar e also good
sour ces of pr otein. Pork and lamb ar e popular meats, and r ecently
meats such as buffalo and elk have appeared in some groceries. When
choosing these meats use the same guidelines as with beef and poul -
try — buy those that ar e organic or raised naturally at a local farm.
Wild game, including big-game animals such as deer as well as
small game such as rabbits and game birds, is also another great
source of protein. Wild-game meat is generally leaner but higher in
essential fatty acids than domestic meats. While hunting your own
meat is nearly ideal, ther e is a gr owing concern in some areas like the
northeastern United States that the use of pesticides and other envi -
ronmental chemicals has affected wild animals. But in general, wild
game is much safer than store-bought meat.
Generally avoid gr ound meat of any kind unless it has been fr esh-
ly ground right before deep freezing or eating it. Ground meat is a
haven for bacteria and can ferment in your intestine much worse thanMAKING WISE PROTEIN CHOICES • 93     

whole meat. If you like ground meat or have a recipe that requires it,
it’s best to buy a large piece of meat and then grind it up just before
cooking — most butchers, even those in large groceries, will do this
for you. Also beware of other meats that have already been cut, such
as sliced meat, chopped meat and stew meat. Try to buy as large a
piece of meat as possible and cut it yourself.
Processed meats can also be unhealthy choices. Most sausage,
lunch meats and other processed meats are not only ground, but also
may contain high amounts of sugar and chemicals that you don’t
want to eat. However, it is possible to find organic bacon and hams
that have been cured with honey and with no harmful chemicals. 
The most nutritious parts of the animal to eat are the organs and
glands. In our society, the liver is the most common organ food, with
stomach, brains, kidneys and others only rar ely eaten. However ,
when a lion kills his prey, it’s the organs and glands that are first
devoured. The muscle, what we refer to as the “meat,” is often left for
the scavengers. Unfortunately, with our polluted environment, organ
meats such as liver are becoming more dangerous since it’s the liver’s
job to filter the blood and remove toxins from the body. If you enjoy
liver and other or gan and gland meats, be sur e to find a very good
source.
Say Cheese!
Cheese and plain yogurt are dairy products that contain quality pro-
tein without many of the pr oblems associated with milk. This is espe -
cially tr ue if you can find or ganic pr oducts made fr om raw milk. Also
consider that goat and sheep milk are much more compatible for
humans than cow milk. These cheeses can be found in many stores
and on the Internet.
Whichever type of milk they’r e made from, cultured products
such as cheese and yogurt ar e good sour ces of complete protein with
the lactose, or “milk sugar” r educed by friendly bacteria in the cultur -
ing process. To be sure that an item is fully cultured, check the
“Nutrition Facts” on the label; the carbohydrate should be very low.
(Of course you want to avoid the fr uit-flavor ed and sweetened vari-
eties of yogurt that are always full of sugar — sometimes a half-dozen
teaspoons or more!)94• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

It’s important to remember that dairy is also high in B fat. So you
must be careful to eat cheese in a way that maintains balance with
your intake of A and C fats. If you are recovering from an inflamma-
tory-related illness, such as cancer, heart disease and the others dis-
cussed in this book, limit or avoid dairy products. In addition, avoid
so-called “American” cheese, cheese spreads and other processed
cheeses. These highly processed products, which outsell natural
cheese, are usually several types of unripe cheeses, ground up with
added chemical stabilizers, preservatives and emulsifiers.
Curds and Whey
Remember Little Miss Muffet, eating her curds and whey? These are
the two proteins found in milk. Whey protein is the thin liquid part of
milk r emaining after the casein (the cur ds) and fat are removed. Whey
is the part of the milk containing most of the vitamins and minerals,
including calcium, and it’s a complete protein. During the making of
cheese, which mostly is produced from curds, whey is often fed back
to the animals for nutritional reasons. 
The whey component of milk contains a group of natural sulfur-
containing substances called biothiols that help pr oduce a key antiox -
idant in your cells (called glutathione). Because it helps the immune
system, whey has been used to help pr event and tr eat many chronic
conditions, fr om asthma and aller gies to cancer and heart disease. It
can also help improve muscle function. Most people who are allergic
to cow’s milk can usually consume whey without pr oblems. Small
amounts of lactose ar e found in whey (much less than is found in liq -
uid milk) but this is usually too little to cause intestinal problems,
even in most people sensitive to lactose. In those who are truly lac-
tose-intolerant (probably less than 5 percent of the population), this
amount of lactose could be a pr oblem.
Most cheeses ar e made fr om curds, but some are made from
whey . Italian ricotta is the most common one; check the ingr edient
label on ricotta to make sure the main ingredient is whey. Whey is
also made into powders for use in baked goods and smoothies as dis-
cussed below .
The curds from milk are used for most cheese making. Cottage
cheese is the best example of what curds look like. However, the curdMAKING WISE PROTEIN CHOICES • 95     

is the protein in milk most people are allergic to when there’s a dairy
allergy. Newborns and young children are especially vulnerable to
curds because their intestines and immune systems are too immature
to tolerate this protein. 
The Soy Story
While soy is a vegetarian source of a complete protein, it’s often a
problem for most people. One reason is that most soy in use today is
highly processed and concentrated. Whole green soybeans or
edamame are an example of a whole food, and a good source of pro-
tein. With a relatively small amount of simple processing soy can be
made into tofu, also a good food. This is how most soy has been con-
sumed for many years, and studies of these populations seem to show
that soy has health benefits when consumed as a food. 
But most soy today highly processed and concentrated. For exam-
ple, many soy powders used in food products and supplements are so
concentrated that a serving or two would be like eating a pound or
more of real soybeans — something most people would never even
consider. For this reason, it’s best to avoid all processed soy products,
including soy-pr otein isolates and caseinates and hydr olyzed soy . The
more soy is processed, the worse it can be. Monosodium glutamate
(MSG), a one-time commonly used powder that makes food seeming -
ly taste better (still used in Chinese and other r estaurants) is made by
processing soy. So products containing isolated or hydrolyzed soy
also include some MSG (but it is not r equir ed to be listed in the ingr e-
dients). 
Many people, especially children, may be intolerant and even
allergic to soy in all forms. In addition concentrated soy isoflavones,
used in dietary supplements can pose serious dangers, including hor-
monal imbalance, which can incr ease the risk of cancer, particularly
for post-menopausal women, the very audience these pr oducts ar e
marketed to by the big companies.  
Protein Powders
Soy, milk, whey , egg and other foods are commonly sold to supple-
ment the diet. These have value when used cautiously. Certainly
avoid any of these powders if you’re intolerant to those foods. In96• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH       

addition, avoid all powders that have been isolated, caseinated or
hydrolyzed. These products are touted as being highest in protein —
which is true, but at the expense of being highly processed and con-
taining MSG. Those marked “concentrated” are the least processed of
the powders and are an acceptable part of a healthy diet. Egg white
powder is the least processed of all the powders. This and whey con-
centrate are the best and healthiest of all these products. (If you use
egg white powder in a blender, you must include a small amount of
fat otherwise it will cr eate a large volume of foam — great for
meringue but not for smoothies and other recipes.)
Most importantly, when choosing protein sources look for real
food. Fr esh whole eggs, whole pieces of meat and fish, raw-milk
cheese as tolerated. Avoid the processed protein products — cold
cuts, fr ozen foods, processed cheese, etc. If you need to increase pro-
tein intake with a food supplement, use egg white powder or a whey
concentrate. These foods also contain a variety of important vitamins,
minerals and phytonutrients. Another key food group — which com-
plements these protein foods rather well — are vegetables, the topic
of the next chapter. MAKING WISE PROTEIN CHOICES • 97   

13
Vital Vegetables and Fruits
So far we’ve looked in depth at the three macronutrients — car-
bohydrate, proteins and fats — as the basis of good nutrition. Now
let’s shift gears and take a look at a group of foods that really should
have their own distinct classification — vegetables and fruits. Plant
foods should make up the bulk of your dietary intake because they
contain vitamins, minerals and, just as important, phytonutrients.
And, there are thousands of phytonutrients that scientists believe
may have an even mor e important r ole than vitamins in pr omoting
health and preventing disease. Fruits and vegetables also contain
small amounts of pr otein and essential fatty acids, and ar e a key
source of fiber and prebiotics, which are both essential for good
health, as we will learn in the following chapter. 
Generally fruits are foods that contain a seed within, whereas
vegetables have a separate seed. Both contain some carbohydrates,
some high enough for those who are carbohydrate intolerant to avoid.
These include most potatoes, corn, watermelon, pineapple and dried
fruits. 
Some foods that are technically fruits are usually thought of as
vegetables — these include avocados, tomatoes, eggplant, peppers,
squash and other fruits that are not sweet. But basically, vegetables
and fruits are all plant foods that should make up the bulk of the diet.
Most people don’t eat enough vegetables and fr uits, and there are
very , very few who eat too much of this good thing. I often r ecom -
mend as a general guideline that people try to eat at least 10 servings
of vegetables and fr uits per day . Many of these should be raw , and
most, if not all, should be fresh. 
What is a serving? Traditionally many have considered a serving
to be a half-cup. Mor e recently, however, many dietary guidelines
have recommended different approaches for measuring servings. For   

instance, a serving of lettuce might be a cup and a half; a serving of
carrots might be one medium carrot; a serving of broccoli is one medi-
um stalk, and a serving of asparagus is five spears. Using guidelines
like these will help you to eat more vegetables than using the tradi-
tional half-cup serving.
Vegetables: The Main Course
Many people think of vegetables as a tedious side dish. But it’s best
to consider vegetables part of a main dish. This may require adjusting
the way you think about your meals. Think first what your main-
course vegetable will be, and then make your other foods the side
dishes — usually some sort of protein or an unrefined carbohydrate.
In this way you can make vegetables the bulk of your diet.
Experiment in cr eating other types of meals around vegetables. For
instance a vegetable omelet with onions, red and yellow peppers and
zucchini makes a meal out of eggs at breakfast. A vegetable-based
organic-chicken soup with garlic, leeks, carr ots, celery, and even
green beans and yellow squash, is a bowl full of nutrition for lunch.
Even Mom’s meat loaf can be adjusted to include half vegetables —
start with chopped onions, red or yellow bell peppers, zucchini, fresh
parsley and garlic, and then add freshly chopped meat and at least
two whole eggs, and season with sea salt and spices of your choice.
In choosing your vegetables don’t overlook cooked greens. Some
of the most neglected vegetables, such as kale, mustar d greens, rapi -
ni, Swiss char d, collar ds and the common spinach, ar e also some of
the most nutritious. These bitter leafy vegetables are full of valuable
phytonutrients, as well as a host of vitamins and minerals. Once you
get used to the idea of cooking gr eens, some meals just won’t seem
complete without them — truly, cooked greens can be served as a
delicious bed for just about any pr otein food, from beef to fish. Greens
can simply be steamed and served with a little butter or extra-virgin
olive oil and sea salt. Or, add other vegetables to the mix, such as
leeks, chopped white onions, mushrooms or red and yellow peppers.
Cook your greens until they are slightly tender, but be careful not to
over cook, lest you lose the vital nutrients. Just when they turn bright
green is about right. VITAL VEGETABLES AND FRUITS • 99     

Choose a Rainbow of Colors
In addition to eating enough vegetables it is important to eat a vari-
ety of these foods as well. The reason is that different vegetables con-
tain varying amounts of specific nutrients. For instance a serving of
leaf lettuce supplies a high amount of beta carotene but only a small
amount of vitamin C, while a serving of Brussels sprouts contains
high levels of vitamin C with a small amount of beta car otene. 
One of the easiest ways to ensure that you eat enough variety in
vegetables is to use the “rainbow” technique. Choosing vegetables in
a rainbow of colors will help ensure a variety of nutrients. For exam-
ple, carrots and winter squash, which are orange, are high in beta
carotene, which is converted by the body to vitamin A. Many green
vegetables are high in vitamin C — a serving of broccoli, for example,
is very high in vitamin C. In addition to orange and green vegetables,
consider purple eggplant and cabbage, red peppers, white, green and
red onions, white cauliflower , yellow summer squash, br own mush -
rooms and many others. Each of these colorful vegetables contains its
own unique set of vitamins, minerals and phytonutrients.
A Salad a Day
In reaching your goal of 10 servings of vegetables and fr uits per day ,
it’s important to make sure much of this is raw. In fact, each meal
should contain some raw food. Salads, large and small, can easily pro-
vide this raw food. Your salad can be a snack, a side dish or, with
some added protein, it can be a meal in itself. Salad is a low-stress
food, with no cooking involved and minimal cleanup. The base for a
great salad, of course, is something gr een — fr esh lettuce, spinach or
even young kale. Buy or ganic and buy often, but avoid iceber g lettuce
as it has one of the lowest overall nutritional  values of all vegetables.
The little bags of baby greens are fine so long as you eat them quick-
ly. You can also buy whole heads of green- or red-leaf, Romaine, Bibb
and endive lettuces. Then, for a few days of really quick salads, clean
a whole head of lettuce, dry the leaves well (spinning works great)
and refrigerate them in an airtight container with a piece of paper
towel. Your lettuce will be ready to go when you need it.
Use a variety of raw vegetables such as carrots, chopped red and
yellow peppers, purple cabbage, tomatoes and avocados. Separately,100• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH      

these can be used for meals that don’t contain a salad. In addition,
steamed and chilled green beans and asparagus also liven up a salad.
Chopped walnuts, slivered almonds, piñon nuts, gourmet olives,
capers and artichoke hearts make a salad even more exotic.
To make your salad into a true meal, add some protein. Lightly
grilled tuna, wild shrimp, sliced beefsteak, hard-boiled eggs or shred-
ded goat cheese are some options. Of course, a great salad requires a
delicious dr essing. My healthy salad dressing is great (recipe follows),
but simple extra-virgin olive oil and vinegar is fine too. Always use
your own homemade dr essing and avoid the additives that come out
of a bottle.
The best way to add fruits to your diet, including berries, is to use
them as they are — as a snack, a healthy dessert, or made into recipes
such as smoothies. Some of these are discussed in the chapter on
snacks. Fruits are also a delicious part of a salad; for example, an
arugula salad with sliced pears and goat cheese, or an apple walnut
salad with greens.
Phil’s Health y Salad Dressing
Mix in a glass jar with tight-fitting lid: 
• 8 ounces extra-virgin olive oil
• 2 cloves finely chopped garlic
• 2 ounces or more apple-cider vinegar 
• 1 tablespoon fresh or dried parsley 
• 2 teaspoons sea salt
• 1/2teaspoon mustard 
Option: Add 1 to 2 tablespoons plain yogurt, or sour cream. 
Use other good-quality oils for v ariations in taste.
Shake well before serving. Refriger ate. 
The Bitter Truth 
It’s now clear that naturally occurring substances known as phytonu-
trients, or phytochemicals, found in vegetables and fruits, may be
more important to good nutrition than vitamins and can help preventVITAL VEGETABLES AND FRUITS • 101       

and treat cancer and other diseases. Their actions halt the production
of cancer-causing agents in the body, blocking activation of these
chemicals, or suppressing the spread of cancer cells that already exist.
The vegetables and fruits researchers think are most capable of pre-
venting cancer and other diseases, including heart disease, are green
leafy vegetables, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, onions, citrus
fruit (not the juice), grapes, red wine, green tea and others. The more
bitter, the better.
How many times have you heard that if something tastes good
then it must not be good for you, or vice-versa? While this is a gross
generalization, many people avoid eating bitter-tasting vegetables
and fruits, which are particularly high in the natural disease-prevent-
ing phytonutrients that cause their bitterness. In general, the more bit-
ter the taste, the mor e rich the food is in these phytonutrients.
For plants, these bitter-tasting substances — the healthy phytonu-
trients — serve as natural insect repellents and pesticides. Some are
even toxic to small animals like birds, mice and rats, including some
compounds in cabbage and Brussels sprouts. Generally, higher
amounts of bitter-tasting phytonutrients are found in sprouts and
seedlings than in matur e plants. This pr ovides young plants with a
type of natural protection from being eaten at an early stage of life,
befor e the chance of r eproduction. But you would have to consume
pounds and pounds of vegetables daily to ingest toxic amounts of
phytonutrients. 
Despite the therapeutic and nutritive value of phytonutrients, the
food industry is solving the so-called “pr oblem” of bitterness in fr uits
and vegetables by removing these healthful chemicals through genet-
ic engineering and selective breeding. Unfortunately, our culture has
associated bitterness with bad taste instead of health promotion. Now
many agricultural scientists, who want foods sweeter , are changing
our food supply for us — they ar e literally r emoving the healthy com-
ponents fr om certain foods in or der to sell mor e food products. And
they are succeeding. Canola oil, for example, contains significant
reductions of phytonutrients due to selective breeding. And trans-
genic citr us is now a r eality — it’s sweeter, but it’s also free of
limonene, the bitter substance that can help prevent and treat skin
cancer.102• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

Cancer researchers propose that a heightened sense of bitterness
might be a healthy trait, allowing people to select foods with the
highest phytonutrient content. This view contrasts with the food
industry’s practice of measuring the content of these bitter phytonu-
trients mer ely as a way of developing new non-bitter, phytonutrient-
deficient strains. So while some nutrition scientists propose enhanc-
ing phytonutrients in foods for better health, the standard industry
practice has been to remove them for better taste. Indeed, the lower
amount of bitter compounds in the modern diet reflects the “achieve-
ment” of the food industry. The irony is that as agricultural scientists
remove more phytonutrients from plants, farmers have to use even
more chemical pesticides to protect their crops; thus consumers are
left with the double-whammy of vegetables and fruits with less nutri-
tion and more harmful pesticides.
In addition to bitterness, an astringent taste is also associated
with healthy phytonutrients. These tastes can actually be quite attrac-
tive. Consider a fine aged Bordeaux wine or a high-quality green tea.
Unfortunately , these ar e exceptions and sweetness is a dominant taste
preference, or perhaps “addiction” is a better word. 
You can get more phytonutrients into your diet by eating foods
that have a natural bitter or astringent taste. Zucchini and other
squashes, pumpkins, cucumbers, melon, citr us and many other veg -
etables and fruits, along with almonds and many types of beans, con-
tain natural phytonutrients, as do r ed wine, gr een tea and cocoa.
Eat as much of as many types of vegetables and fruits as you can,
both cooked and raw. Making these healthy vegetable choices is just
another journey on the road to optimal health and human perform-
ance. In addition to variety , the highest quality vegetables and fr uits
may be those that are organically grown, as discussed in the next
chapter .VITAL VEGETABLES AND FRUITS • 103   

14
Organic Foods
Today’s consumers may find a large variety of certified-organic
produce, meats and other foods in traditional “health food” stores,
and now even in conventional grocery stores. Two common questions
are whether it’s worth the extra price to buy organic food versus con-
ventional, and whether we can trust the sign that says “certified
organic.” 
With great hesitation my answer to both questions is yes, but with
an asterisk. The USDA organic program is now part of an internation-
al phenomenon. The regulations are better than the previous unregu-
lated or ganic movement, when anyone could say a pr oduct was
organic. Many of the guidelines ar e potentially good for consumers —
organic animals must be raised with or ganic feed, filter ed water and
certified organic pastures, and many commonly used drugs can’t be
used. Or ganic pr oduce must be gr own without commonly used pes -
ticides, herbicides and other chemicals. Many food product ingredi-
ents — additives, chemicals, pr eservatives and others ar e not allowed
in organic foods. And, the program is relatively strict, helping to rid
the market of dishonest vendors. So if a product has the USDA organ-
ic label, it’s as good as the USDA’s ability to police the program, just
like the rest of what the agency does for all foods sold to consumers.
But like the rest of our food supply, you have to be a careful consumer,
reading labels and being aware of and avoiding organic junk food,
which makes up most of today’s organic products.
True to Jerome Irving Rodale’s ideas of the mid 1900s, organic
food is better , whether certified or not. For example, or ganic vegeta -
bles and fruits usually taste better. They’ve not been genetically
altered, and contain much smaller amounts of chemical fertilizers, or
none at all. Moreover, many studies indicate that organic produce is
more nutritious, containing mor e vitamins, minerals and phytonutri -   

ents. Some of the nutrients studied in organic produce were twice
that of conventional equivalents. Many vegetables have been studied,
including carrots, cabbage, lettuce, kale, tomatoes and spinach, with
a variety of fruits studied by various researchers. The increased nutri-
ents found in certified-organic vegetables and fruits are most likely
due to better care of the soil through organic farming methods,
including composting, crop rotation and cover crops.
I’ve also conducted my own research and found that some organ-
ically grown vegetables had significantly higher levels — 10 times or
more — of certain nutrients such as folic acid, compared to the same
vegetables tested and listed in the USDA database. 
For years, nutritionists insisted that today’s conventionally
grown foods were as high in vitamins and minerals as the meals of
our grandpar ents. Ther e is now sufficient evidence indicating this is
not necessarily the case. Reductions in food quality have taken place
since the mid-1940s, when the use of chemical fertilizers and pesti-
cides rapidly became the norm in U.S. farming. A study in the British
Food Journal compared the 1930s nutrient content of 20 fruits and veg-
etables with foods grown in the 1980s. Significant reductions were
found in the levels of calcium, copper and magnesium in vegetables;
and magnesium, iron, copper and potassium in fruit. Similar trends
can be found in foods pr oduced in the United States, with r eductions
in some nutrients of as much as 30 per cent.
Most foods are farmed with chemical fertilizers and pesticides,
with the exception of certified or ganic foods, which contain signifi -
cantly less nitrates and heavy metals, both of which can be very
harmful, especially to children. Heavy metals enter the plants
through certain chemical fertilizers — some of these fertilizers are
even derived from industrial waste. As discussed earlier, important
phytonutrients have been genetically engineer ed out of some com-
mon foods to make them less bitter . Organically grown foods don’t
contain genetically engineer ed ingr edients or genetically modified
organisms, making them a better choice.
Then there’s another factor to consider when choosing organic
food. Many of the foods in gr ocery stor es are imported. The countries
of origin may not have as stringent restrictions regarding the use of
fertilizers and especially pesticides as we have in this country. In fact,ORGANIC FOODS • 105     

some countries still allow the use of pesticides that were banned
decades ago in the United States. Choosing organic produce elimi-
nates this potential problem.
When shopping for organic food, watch out for the organic junk
food — it’s all over the store! Buy the basics — real food. This includes
vegetables, fruits, meats, nuts, seeds, cheese and eggs.
Buy Local?
With the problems in the organic industry, including the dilution of a
strict standard in growing and producing the cleanest and highest
quality foods, and the added costs due to the certification process,
many truly health-conscious consumers once again are looking for
healthy options. They’re seeing the potential of the traditional
farmer ’s markets, community or ganic cooperatives, roadside farm
stands, and “pick-your-own” programs. Internet shopping for organ-
ic food is growing, especially in bulk quantity. These modern markets
feature products grown in a “green” way — produced in line with the
original organic movement despite having the name taken away by
the USDA and other agencies worldwide. And, they often include a
“buy local” slogan. 
The problem is there is no regulation regarding whether it’s
“green,” or ganic or beyond organic. One result is that, in some cases,
authorities have stopped farmers fr om selling their pr oducts. Another
problem is the notion that products that are better than organic — the
“beyond or ganic” movement — should be mor e expensive. But just
because pr oducts ar e grown with car e, without chemicals, doesn’t
mean they should be more expensive. Without the “middlemen” —
typically two, three or more of them taking a share before products
get to the retail stores, most of these products should be less expen-
sive than the same or similar pr oducts in retail stores.
Despite these issues, if you’r e a car eful consumer and talk to the
farmers and those pr oducing these pr oducts, and even visit their
farms, you can usually find high-quality healthy products that are
often better than the organic versions in retail stores, often for less
cost. Supply and demand will help weed out the overpriced pr oducts.
Virtually all the food I buy is organic, although more and more is
not USDA-certified organic. And I buy the basics — vegetables, fruits,106• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

meat, eggs, cheese, nuts and seeds. The most impressive operation
I’ve seen is the Double Check Ranch in central Arizona, where I buy
all my beef. While they don’t participate in the national organic pro-
gram, I have inspected their ranch and would certify them as
“beyond organic.” This ranch is clean, efficient, inspected by local
government, and has a philosophy of not just producing healthy
food, but incorporates an approach to farming that’s good for the
land as well. (Their website pr ovides many informative articles —
www.DoubleCheckRanch.com.) 
I buy fresh eggs from a local producer that’s not certified organ-
ic, but the eggs are better than the ones that are certified. I also buy
food fr om local farmer’s markets if I know the food is from a good
source. And I have bulk items shipped. Most of these foods are cheap-
er than the or ganic versions in the retail stores. And, my large garden
provides a significant amount of food that is also “beyond organic.”
The Organic Mo vement
We’re not sure just when the organic movement started. That would
depend, in part, on how you define it. Certainly in the early stages,
the word “organic” was not part of it. This word would not be intro-
duced until around 1941 by a British chemist Sir Albert Howard. But
by then, the movement was decades old and had more than one front.
Ther e wer e those who pr omoted the scientific r easons for farming
with a natural pr ocess; those who had mor e spiritual r easons to car e
for the land; small farmers who were being left out of big business;
those with strong social attitudes who wanted to help the “little guys”
get a fair share of the profits; and consumers, who eventually had the
greatest numbers and created the real change. But even before the
movement was noticed, there were those few who made the observa-
tions that growing food in the most natural soils produced better food
and healthier people.
In the 1830s German chemist Justus von Liebig was formulating
his agricultural biochemistry theories, which he published in the
1840s, discussing how plants utilize nitrogen in the soil along with
various minerals. Natural fertilizers, he theorized, including manur e,
would pr ovide these nutrients. This was the beginning of modern
farming, and the movement soon branched into two: One became bigORGANIC FOODS • 107     

business farming, with newly developing chemical fertilizers and
pesticides, and the other was the organic movement. Sir Albert
Howard may be one of the earliest “organic” farmers — he was from
a British farming family but learned about natural soil production
and organic gardening in India in 1905.
With the influence of Howard’s writings — he called the intro-
duction of chemical fertilizers and pesticides a great threat to the
future of human health — there was a clear separation of the organic
movement and conventional farming. His writing spread throughout
Europe and eventually to America.
By the early 1900s, American food manufacturers, as an integral
part of the “modern farming” movement, began mass-producing the
first packaged foods. This coincided with a major change from the
farmer ’s markets with its many single food stands, to one store that
would sell all types of food — a “super market” — complete with the
latest technology of packaged foods. Small gr oups of concerned citi-
zens immediately and openly protested against the mass packaging
of food. Some, including Dr . Royal Lee, began growing high quality
food with natural composting, and in 1929 he began manufacturing
the first dietary supplements in America using these foods. 
By the 1930s, with the influence of Howard’s writings and others
in America, the or ganic movement was or ganized, albeit small. One
person who jumped on boar d was an engineer named Jer ome Irving
Rodale. He not only bought a farm and began organic gardening but
started publishing a magazine on organic methods in the 1940s —
and Sir Albert Howard would contribute articles. Rodale also started
a printing business that would also publish books — a business that
thrives today as a multi-million-dollar corporation.
I was introduced to Rodale’s books on organic gardening in the
1960s, and soon after planted my first organic garden. As a student
working part time in a health-food store, and, having studied basic
chemistry, I realized almost all the vitamins on the shelves were syn-
thetic, not natural as they claimed. Seeing a growing market in the
organic industry, the pharmaceutical companies had quietly jumped
on board by producing virtually all the synthetic vitamins for the
health food industry , a pr oblem that continues today .108• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

After studying organic gardening and natural health, and many
different health-care philosophies, I decided to go back to college,
become a doctor and focus on helping people get healthy.  
Into the 1970s and ‘80s, the organic movement continued to hold
its social, fair trade and health-oriented subgroups. Even up to the
time when the USDA decided to take charge of the movement by cre-
ating a National Organic Program (NOP) in 1990 that would define
organic and certify growers, manufacturers and others involved in
the organic movement, there continued to be different philosophies
associated with organics. 
The NOP would spend the next decade gathering information
from the organic movement, create standards, rules, regulations and
a system to certify all those it would allow into the organic movement
— often for a hefty price — under the guise that the USDA needed to
regulate the process. The result was the “certified organic” regula-
tions, released in 2002, complete with a seal of authenticity. USDA
established three levels of organic: 100 percent, 95 percent, which
allowed 5 percent non-organic material, and 70 percent organic.
There was one problem: During this decade big business lobbied
heavily for r egulations that would make it easier and cheaper to jump
on the “certified organic” bandwagon. Not only that, the large manu-
factur ers of pr ocessed foods, the sugar industry, large food chains and
a variety of other lobbyists made sur e they wer e part of the pr ocess.
The result was a massive growth of organic junk food that coincided
with the NOP’s “or ganic” launch in 2002. 
Just befor e the NOP became law , I cr eated, in 1999, the first line of
certified-organic dietary supplements made from real food. I fol-
lowed the developments of the USDA’s certified organic program and
prepared my formulas based on what I thought would be the require-
ments for or ganic certification. These were easily met, and today,
these dietary supplements ar e sold by First Or ganics, Inc.
The Or ganic T rade Association (OTA) evolved from part of the
movement that was the political tail. Its goal was to help companies
involved in certified organic activities work with other companies
and the NOP . Unfortunately , it was a political organization not orient-
ed to health. At its first national trade show, I was shocked at the
number of organic junk food companies represented — you couldORGANIC FOODS • 109   

sample organic cookies made from organic white flour and organic
white sugar, eat processed organic corn chips, drink organic beer, and
even smoke organic cigarettes. This was the modern health food
industry! But the worst was yet to come.
There were a number of speakers discussing the value of organic
certification. A keynote speaker was JI Rodale’s granddaughter, who
was a main player in the Rodale publishing empire. She was so excit-
ed to see the organic movement get this far and be so successful. After
her talk, she took questions. I asked, “Are you concerned that the
organic industry is made up of so much junk food that adversely
affects people’s health?” Her answer was an emphatic no. She said
that people can make their own choices.
Marie Rodale’s grandfather, JI, promoted the relationship
between or ganic farming and optimal health, and helped launch the
organic movement. But now, companies making organic junk food
have become the biggest advertising revenue for the modern Rodale
publishing empire. In joining with big business and the USDA, the
small farmers and start-up companies making healthy foods were
left out.
Meanwhile, consumers jumped in too. They wer e the ones eating
all the organic junk food. This was evident just by looking — at the
owners, employees and others working in the “health food” industry ,
including those in the stor es. Go into Whole Foods, for example, and
you’ll see the shelves full of organic junk. And a large part of the store
is the bakery section — complete with white flour and sugar cakes,
cookies and pies. 
My level of disappointment in the organic movement has reached
a high. My first article after returning home from the OTA show,
“organic junk,” brought praise by a few but anger from industry peo-
ple. Making money , it seemed, was the goal of certified organics, even
if it contributed to the explosion of obesity not only in adults, but
young childr en. Along the way , the large companies, including man-
ufacturers and grocery stores, along with the two “new” health food
chains, successfully pushed for the NOP regulations to be diluted —
many unhealthy foods, food additives and other ingr edients would
now be allowed in organic foods. I began writing and lecturing more
on the dangers of organic junk food, and “beyond organic” — those110• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

small farmers, companies and consumers left out of the original
organic movement who were still there hoping for healthy changes.
The organic movement had left them behind. And many legitimate
farmers, manufacturers and food companies that were too small to
pay the thousands of dollars to be part of the USDA’s organic move-
ment were actually creating healthier food. 
Where are we now? At the time of this writing, early in 2009, I’m
very disillusioned with the government-sponsored organic pro-
grams. And because the USDA took the word “organic” for itself,
products or companies would not be allowed to use the word “organ-
ic” unless it was certified by the USDA. In addition, small farms,
legitimate companies producing healthy foods and others involved in
the organic movement are even being harassed by federal and local
authorities because they have not embraced the movement. The
result is that a small but growing movement continues, made up of
consumers and health-care professionals like me, seeking the best
food from good and honest people all working together for a health-
ier planet.
If you really want the highest-quality produce, the best option is
to grow your own. If you have any yard space at all, a small vegetable
plot, properly tended, can yield enough vegetables in season for your
entir e family. Many areas have community gardens, where many
individuals share in a larger plot of land. By growing your own veg-
etables you can ensur e their quality , reduce the price of your pr oduce
and revel in the enjoyment of producing your own food, not to men-
tion the extra exercise you get from working in your garden.ORGANIC FOODS • 111   

15
The Full Spectrum of Fiber
Vegetables, fruits and other plant materials contain certain types
of food particles that ar e not digestible or absorbable, but have pow-
erful health-promoting effects. These include fiber and prebiotics;
both improve function of the colon, a part of the large intestine, by
promoting bulk growth of healthy bacteria. Fiber and prebiotics have
a symbiotic r elationship that not only promotes healthy colon activi-
ty but also is important to overall body function. Dietary fiber and
prebiotics are found in vegetables, fruits, herbs and grains, and are
the elements that give structure to the cell walls of these plant foods.
Fiber F oods
Ther e are various types of fibers with dif ferent names, depending on
the part of the plant and type of plant from which they are derived.
By eating a variety of natural foods, you can obtain the full spectr um
of these fibers. They include pectin, cellulose, beta-glucans, mucilages
and a variety of gums including guar , arabic and locust bean.
Pectin is the substance partly responsible for the ripening of fruit.
It is especially high in apples, citrus and most berries and is used as a
gelling agent in foods such as jam. Applesauce is a high-pectin food
that works as a remedy for diarrhea by adding bulk to the intestinal
contents. Cellulose, such as found in wheat bran, is a component of
cell walls of most plants. Beta-glucans from oats have become popu-
lar because of their positive association with reducing the risk of car-
diovascular disease. Mucilages, such as psyllium and seaweed, are
very functional fibers rich in minerals. Natural gums, as extracted
from certain plants, have been used for thousands of years as thick-
ening agents and emulsifiers, and can also benefit the intestine.
It’s not so important to remember all the different names of these
natural fibers. But it is important to r emember to eat a variety of veg -     

etables and fruits, which will provide you with the full spectrum of
fiber important not only for your intestines but for your entire system.
When, and if, you eat too much of one particular type of fiber, and
consume it apart from those in natural foods, you risk creating an
imbalance. It’s analogous to the ABCs of fat — balance is the key. Try
to get all the fiber you need by eating a variety of healthy food, espe-
cially vegetables and fruits. At least one, preferably two or even three,
semi-solid bowel movements per day is a general indication that
you’re eating enough fiber. 
If you still feel you need more fiber after eating adequate fiber-
rich foods and drinking enough water, you can supplement your diet
with additional concentrated sources. Different people respond dif-
ferently to specific types of fiber, but generally the herb psyllium per-
forms very well in most people. This is especially useful in those peo -
ple who have reduced grains and other carbohydrate foods.
Physical Aspects of Fiber
Fiber, by definition, is not absorbable. This has certain specific and
important implications for the intestines. First, fiber acts as a vehicle,
helping to transport food thr ough the intestines at a healthy rate. The
more-rapid transit time that results from fiber in the diet also limits
the amount of time cancer -causing chemicals ar e in contact with the
intestine’s cells. After the body absorbs whatever nutrients it can get
from the non-fiber portion of the meal, that food (now referred to as
waste) is eliminated via the lar ge intestine with gr eat assistance fr om
fiber . In addition, fiber af fects the viscosity of the food, beginning in
the stomach, and controls the rate of digestion. Too little fiber results
in a too-rapid digestion in the upper intestine.
Fiber also is capable of holding water in the intestine, which has
an important function of diluting potential toxins, including car cino-
gens, and pr eventing constipation. These toxins may also attach to the
fiber and be r emoved fr om the body .
In the large intestine, fiber provides the proper environment for
the growth of “friendly” bacteria, which have a very important func-
tion. These micr o-organisms ferment some of the fiber substances,
improving the health of the intestine and other areas of metabolism.
Intestinal bacteria also produce important fatty acids. These fats reg-THE FULL SPECTRUM OF FIBER • 113     

ulate the acid-alkaline balance in the large intestine and in turn con-
trol the bacteria themselves. Some fatty acids serve as an important
energy source for the cells in the lower intestine. One specific fatty
acid, butyric, may also play a protective role against cancer by main-
taining a low colon pH and directly inhibiting tumor formation. 
The process of fermentation also results in intestinal gas (mostly
hydrogen and methane). If there’s too much gas, causing discomfort or
pain, it’s a sign that there’s a problem. Some of this gas is actually
absorbed via the large intestine into the body, and is released through
the lungs. Those individuals with bad breath usually have too much
fermentation or gas from unfriendly bacteria. In any of these instances,
stress, the wrong foods (typically too much carbohydrate) or too little
fiber, among other problems, can be the cause. Antibiotic use, which
kills the friendly micr oorganisms in the intestine, can also be a cause.
This destruction of the normal bacteria results in a “re-colonization” of
the large intestine with unfriendly bacteria. Yogurt, which contains
friendly bacteria, can be helpful in these situations. Furthermore, eat-
ing foods that contain prebiotics helps promote the growth of healthy
bacteria in the colon, as discussed later in this chapter.
The beneficial ef fects of fiber on bile (fr om the liver and gall blad -
der) may also help prevent intestinal cancers. Excess amounts of bile
in the colon may cause normal cells to convert to cancer ous ones. By
eating enough fiber and enough variety of fiber , the concentration of
bile in the colon remains lower.
Fiber and Absorption of Nutrients
Another important function of fiber is how it affects the absorption of
nutrients from your diet. For example, fiber in your meal can slow
sugar (glucose) absorption, and lower the glycemic index of that
meal. Remember that the glycemic index is a measur e of the blood-
sugar r esponse to certain foods or meals. Fiber -rich foods generally
have a lower glycemic index and when consumed r esult in less
insulin production. This makes fiber especially important for anyone
with carbohydrate intolerance. Pectins, mucilages, and especially
gums, seem to do this very well. 
Absorption of minerals is also influenced by fiber, but in a nega-
tive way. Phytic acid, a natural substance present in the fibers of114• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

grains and in much smaller amounts in fruits, can inhibit the absorp-
tion of calcium, iron, zinc and copper, and possibly other nutrients.
For those who may have problems getting enough of these minerals,
limiting grains can be helpful.
In addition to their relationship to mineral absorption, some
fibers may have an adverse effect on digestive enzymes. Wheat bran,
for example, can inhibit the production of pancreatic enzymes
responsible for digesting carbohydrates, proteins and fats. The fiber
in legumes may inhibit the enzyme amylase, which is important for
carbohydrate digestion. Other studies show that the fiber in many
cereals contains pancreatic inhibitors that can diminish protein diges-
tion. In addition, the fiber in unprocessed soybeans can induce an
allergy-type reaction in some people, accounting for the intestinal
discomfort some may have with soy . 
Energy from Fiber 
Since fiber is not absorbed, it does not directly count as an energy
source. For this reason, if you eat a slice of whole-grain bread that
contains 15 grams of carbohydrate, you really can’t count it as 15
grams of usable ener gy, since some of that carbohydrate is fiber . If
that slice of bread contains four grams of fiber, subtract four grams
from the 15 grams of total carbohydrate, giving a total of 1 1 grams of
usable carbohydrate.
While the fiber grams are not directly counted as energy calories,
the body does indir ectly obtain ener gy fr om fiber thr ough fermenta -
tion by bacteria in the lar ge intestine. As mentioned pr eviously , fiber
provides the environment for this bacterial activity. The bacteria pro-
duce short-chain fatty acids, typically butyric, acetic and propionic,
which are absorbed and used by the body as fuel. Some fibers, such
as pectin, ar e more capable of producing energy than others, such as
fiber fr om grains. Approximately two calories of energy can be pro-
duced per gram of fiber . This is compar ed to four calories for other
dietary carbohydrates, four for protein and nine for dietary fats. 
Prebiotics — the Other ‘F iber’
Most of us have heard about the many benefits of dietary fiber, but
certain fiber-like foods called prebiotics can even more dramaticallyTHE FULL SPECTRUM OF FIBER • 115       

improve the function and health of the colon. Prebiotics include one
group of natural non-digestible carbohydrates called fructans.
Fructan-rich foods should be eaten daily, if possible. Fructans are con-
tained in small amounts in most plant foods, but high levels are found
in asparagus, onions, leeks, garlic, chicory and bananas. Dandelion
greens are one of the highest sources of fructans, as are Jerusalem arti-
chokes, or products made from them. Barley, rye and wheat are also
good sources, although wheat comes with its own set of other draw-
backs as discussed earlier. Fructans act similarly to fiber, but do not
actually create bulk themselves; instead they promote bulk by
encouraging the growth of healthy bacteria in the colon — as much as
popular probiotics such as acidophilus cultures in supplements and
yogurt. In many people, prebiotics can actually help healthy colonic
bacteria r eplace unhealthy bacteria that commonly cause disease.
While improved colon health can help prevent constipation, diar-
rhea and other functional problems, it can also help prevent intestin-
al diseases including cancer, and serious inflammatory conditions
such as ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease. Other bodywide bene-
fits may include prevention of heart disease, other cancers and even
osteopor osis. In addition, fr uctans help the colon pr oduce certain
nutrients, including biotin, vitamin K and some of the B vitamins. As
opposed to some fibers, such as wheat fiber , which can pr event calci-
um, ir on and other minerals fr om being absorbed, fr uctans can actu -
ally improve mineral absorption. This is the reason for a positive rela-
tionship between fr uctan intake and pr evention of osteopor osis. 
Cooking can r educe the availability of pr ebiotics in a food by 25
to 30 percent, so try to eat enough of the raw vegetables noted above.
Loss of fructans occurs in cooking water, so when cooking these foods
be sure to consume the water too. 
Fructan supplements have appeared on the market over the last
few years, as both inulin and oligosaccharides. The natural version of
inulin is extracted fr om chicory r oot using only hot water , filtration
and drying. Unfortunately, most versions are highly processed and
have been synthesized from sugar. Synthesized fructans are also used
in the manufactur e of fake food ingr edients — both for artificial fats
and low-carbohydrate foods. For most people, obtaining sufficient
fructans can be accomplished by eating more foods containing them.116• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

How Much Do You Need?
So how much fiber and prebiotics should you eat? By now you
should know the answer to this question — it depends on your indi-
vidual needs. On average, between 15 and 25 grams of fiber per day
is the absolute minimum most people require. This works out to be
about 10 grams per 1,000 calories. Many people need more fiber than
this, and some people may need twice this much, or even more, to
have optimal health. As you determine your carbohydrate needs, bal-
ance your fats and start eating 10 or more servings of vegetables and
fruits per day, you should notice whether your intestines are working
better, or if you need more fiber and/or prebiotics.
Prebiotics should not be counted as part of the fiber requirement
— instead, they should be consumed in addition to fiber. The symbi-
otic relationship of prebiotics and fiber mean that consuming proper
amounts of these substances will impr ove the functionality of both.
While there are no specific recommendations for the amount of pre-
biotics you should consume, Americans eat on average only about 1
to 3 grams of fr uctans daily , while our healthier Eur opean friends
consume three times that amount. This does not necessarily mean
that more is better, but most people will benefit by eating more food
fructans. 
If you don’t get enough fiber naturally from foods in your daily
diet, you may need a dietary supplement. The best way to do this is
to make your own mix of fibers. This may r equir e some experimenta-
tion, but it will be worth the ef fort. For many people, plain psyllium
is all that’s needed. Others, for example, may try a mixture of psylli-
um and oat bran, mixed with applesauce (a good source of pectin). A
quick analysis of your diet should give you an idea of how much fiber
you’r e getting, and how much more you’ll need. 
Both fiber and pr ebiotic foods are very important aspects of
health and human performance. As you go through this book making
changes in your own diet you’ll most likely have little tr ouble deter -
mining whether you need more fiber and prebiotic foods based on the
function of your intestines.THE FULL SPECTRUM OF FIBER • 117    

16
Water, Water, Everywhere
The thr ee macronutrients — carbohydrate, protein and fat — are
often the key focus in discussions on nutrition. In this book, we’ve
expanded on those to discuss vegetables and fiber as other very
important dietary components. But there’s another nutritional com-
ponent that’s at least as important as these others. This nutrient is
water . Pure, clean water can be the most essential of all nutrients. You
can live for weeks without consuming food, but go more than a few
days without water and your very survival will be at risk. Proper
intake of water is so vital to optimal function that a deficiency of less
than 1 per cent can begin pr oducing signs and symptoms of dysfunc-
tion. Slightly mor e dehydration can pr oduce serious health pr oblems.
The key to maintaining pr oper hydration is to drink plenty of water
throughout the day.
Water is the key ingr edient in maintaining chemical balance in
your body. This includes transporting nutrients to the cells, maintain-
ing the function of blood, and eliminating wastes fr om the lungs, skin
and colon. Water also plays a major role in hormone regulation and
balancing acid-base levels. More importantly, water is like your car’s
radiator, cooling the reactions that create heat in your body. For exam-
ple, muscle contraction, digestion and the processing of nutrients pro-
duce large amounts of heat, which must be cooled by water. If this
regulation did not occur effectively, your temperature would rise to a
level that would destroy your enzymes and other protein-based sub-
stances, and you would die. The water literally absorbs the excess
heat and carries it to the skin, wher e it is dissipated thr ough evapora -
tion and other means.
About 60 percent of the body is made up of water, with different
areas accounting for various percentages. For example, about 80 per-
cent of your blood, heart, lungs and kidneys is water; your muscles,   

brain, intestines and spleen are about 75 percent. Even areas like your
bones, which are 22 percent water, and fat stores, 10 percent water,
require a specific level, which, if not maintained, results in poor
function. 
One of the biggest problems of dehydration is that it decreases
blood volume. Maintaining blood volume is important because so
many vital functions are associated with it:
• Transport of oxygen-carrying red blood cells to muscles.
• Transport of nutrients, including glucose, fats and amino
acids.
• Removal of carbon dioxide and other waste products.
• Transport of hormones that help regulate muscular
activity.
• Neutralization of lactic acid to maintain proper pH.
• Maintenance of efficient cardiovascular function.
Most of the body’s water is contained inside the cells of muscles,
nerves, or gans and even the bones. This water helps r egulate the
intracellular envir onment. W ater also functions in between the cells
by helping to carry nutrients and hormones into the cells. One of the
most significant functions of water is to regulate the balance of potas-
sium (on the inside of the cell) and sodium (outside the cell). This bal -
ance is most important in nerve and muscle cells, producing nervous-
system function and muscle contraction.
Preventing Dehydration
Thirst is how most people remember to drink water. But this is a prob-
lem, since the brain’s thirst center does not send a message until you
are almost 2 percent dehydrated. By then, you already have problems
associated with dehydration. The kidneys, however, respond to dehy-
dration much sooner than the brain tells you you’re thirsty, another
good example of your body giving you signals. In this case, if your
urine output is diminished, you’re beginning to dehydrate. What is
meant by diminished? If you’re not urinating at least six to eight times
each day, you may be dehydrated. But the color of your urine may beWATER, WATER, EVERYWHERE • 119     

the best and earliest indicator that you need more water. Urine should
be clear, except for the first urine in the morning because you’re mild-
ly dehydrated then and drinking water should be one of the first
things you do upon awakening. If your urine has a yellow color, it
probably means you need more water. The darker the yellow the
more water you need.
Water input must balance water loss, which occurs from several
areas of the body. Most water is lost through the kidneys. This water
is used to help eliminate waste products from the body. But during
vigorous activity, such as exercise, the body attempts to conserve
water, and loss through the kidneys is very limited. Evaporation from
the skin, important for controlling body temperature, is also a major
source of water loss. Even under cool, resting conditions, about 30
percent of water loss occurs here. But sweating, from exercise or nor-
mal daily activity , incr eases this amount dramatically — during exer -
cise, it’s about 300 times the amount lost during r est! Water loss in
exhaled air is also significant. The air going in and out of your lungs
needs to be humidified. And a small but significant water loss (about
5 percent) occurs through the intestine.
The amount of water loss is determined in part by air tempera-
ture (the higher the temperature the more water loss), humidity (drier
climates r esult in mor e water loss) and body size (the lar ger the per -
son the mor e water loss). If you’r e dehydrated, just drinking a glass
of water won’t solve the problem. Complete water replacement
throughout the body may take 24 to 48 hours no matter how much
you drink at one time. Unfortunately , the human body does not func-
tion like that of many other animals. By drinking a lar ge volume of
water, dehydrated animals can consume 10 percent of their total body
weight in a few minutes, and rehydrate. Humans need to drink water
in smaller amounts much more frequently to correct dehydration and
maintain proper hydration.
What should you do to prevent dehydration and maintain prop-
er hydration? Here are some general everyday guidelines:
• Don’t wait until you’re thirsty to drink water. Drink
water every day , throughout the day .120• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

• Drink smaller amounts every couple hours rather than
two or three large doses a day.
• Have a water bottle near you at all times, and get into the
habit of drinking water. Especially keep water near your
immediate area during work hours or where you spend
much of your time (at your desk, by the phone, in your
car).
• Avoid carbonated water as your main source; the carbon-
ation may cause intestinal distr ess.
• Get used to drinking water before and immediately after
exercise. If you exercise for more than about an hour,
drink small amounts of water during the workout.
• Learn to drink water without swallowing air — drink
slowly and without tilting your head up and back.
• Remember that the average person may need about three
quarts of water each day.
•Avoid chlorinated and fluoridated water.
In addition to the above recommendations, get used to drinking
water as your main source of liquid. While it’s true you obtain some
of your water needs through food and other beverages, most should
come fr om plain water , consumed between meals. Certain drinks
such as coffee, tea and alcohol can actually increase your need for
water because of their diuretic effect (causing the body to lose water).
So don’t count these beverages as part of your water intake. (Even
decaf coffee and tea can contain small amounts of caffeine.)
Is Your Water Safe?
Only 1 percent of the world’s water is safe to drink. Today, more peo-
ple ar e questioning not only the quality of their drinking water, but
the container it comes in. If you ar e concerned about your health, you
should not just assume your water is safe to drink — you need to take
active steps to find out for sure. And if there is a problem you need to
correct it. Most contaminants in water fall into four categories:WATER, WATER, EVERYWHERE • 121     

• Environmental chemicals, including pesticides, herbi-
cides and trihalomethanes, a by-product of chlorination,
and chemicals that can leach out of plastic bottles.
• Heavy metals including lead, copper, and nitrates.
•Bacteria, including the most common coliform bacteria.
• Radiological pollution, including radon, radium and
uranium.
If you’re concerned about your water, the first step is to analyze
it to find out what, if any , contamination exists. Once any questions
about the quality of the water are answered, necessary steps to
improve it can be taken more logically. The first question to ask is in
regar d to the sour ce of your water. For most people, this is either a
public water system or a well.
Individuals on public systems have the legal right to ask for and
obtain the r esults of past water tests fr om their water supplier . The
supplier must also inform you of any problems, past or present, in
meeting federal requirements for safety. The supplier can also tell you
if your water contains chlorine or fluoride.
If your sour ce of water comes fr om a well, you’ll have to take the
initiative and have the water tested yourself. If you’ve recently pur-
chased your home, a water test should have been done befor e the
sale. At other times, the health department may do certain tests, espe-
cially if there are local pollution problems. Deeper wells generally
have less contamination than more shallow, often older, wells. Even if
your area has a safe environment, many problems can come from
water r unof fs and chemical leaks far away fr om your well.
Whether you drink public or well water , another potential source
of contamination is your pipes. The biggest problem is potentially
found in older houses. Because lead is a serious health hazard, lead
pipes and lead-containing materials were outlawed in 1986. However,
in older houses (built before 1930), the plumbing may include lead
pipes, lead-containing solder or other lead-based materials. These
soft, dull-gray metal pipes are very dangerous, especially with soft
water. Some cities, like Chicago and New York, may have lead con-122• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

nector pipes, which connect the city water supply to homes. The
water department or city engineer should be able to tell you whether
this is the case with your home.
Copper pipes can also leach copper into your drinking water.
High copper levels occur in areas where there is soft water (some-
times referred to as a low pH or high acidity). Although not as seri-
ous as lead, excess copper can cause health problems, including dis-
turbances of mineral balance, especially zinc, iron and manganese,
with excess copper being stored in the liver and brain.
Some homes, especially in the northwestern United States, have
older pipes or tanks made of galvanized steel. This metal can leach
cadmium, and, as with copper, this may pose health dangers.
Corrosion of pipes can also cause excess contamination. This is
typical in ar eas wher e basements are damp year-round. The most
common source of corrosion is from the grounding of a home’s elec-
trical system. This is easy to inspect. Electrical ground wires should
never be attached to your water pipes, but to a separate ground.
Although the most accurate method of analyzing your water is
through a lab, observing the stains in your sink may be a clue to some
contaminants. The exception is lead, which won’t r ender any discol -
oration. Copper, however, will produce a blue-green stain, and iron a
brown str eak. 
Having your water tested by a competent laboratory will r emove
all the guesswork regarding its safety. Samples should be taken from
a frequently used sour ce, such as the kitchen sink. Amorning sample
would generally have the highest levels of mineral contamination, as
water sitting in the pipes all night tends to accumulate these sub-
stances. For this reason, let your water run a few seconds or more in
the morning or whenever water has stayed in the pipe more than six
hours, to allow that water to be discar ded. If water sources in your
area have been contaminated, or if several members of your house -
hold have symptoms which may r elate to contaminated water (such
as recurring diarrhea or vomiting) the health department may do test-
ing. The health department may also give you names of reputable
labs that can test your water . These labs use Envir onmental Protection
Agency (EPA) standards, and although some feel the EPA’s ranges of
normal are too conservative, at least you are ensured accurate testing.WATER, WATER, EVERYWHERE • 123   

The lab may want to provide you with special collection containers,
as some samples need to be properly preserved.
In some instances, such as in the case of high lead content, you
may ask your doctor about testing the levels in your blood. The EPA
has changed the standard for this toxic metal from 50 parts per billion
(ppb) to 10 ppb when testing home water. But even at low levels, a
long-term buildup in the body is always a possibility. Children are
most susceptible to lead toxicity.
If you still have questions about your water, the EPA has a
“Drinking Water Hotline” in Washington, D.C.: 800-426-4791. It can
provide you with a list of contaminants and the allowable levels. If
you find contaminants in your water supply, there are several things
you can do to remedy the problem. If the source can be corrected,
such as your septic or lead pipes, this becomes an obvious priority . If
the source cannot be found, a water-filtering system can usually solve
your problem.
Fluoride Safety
The issue of fluoride and its safety is lengthy and complex, and I won’t
attempt to cover the debate her e. But I do want to addr ess the use of
fluoride as an additive to drinking water. I’m basically opposed to hav-
ing fluoride in the water supply because it is a high-dose synthetic sup -
plement used out of its natural envir onment. And, we’r e all for ced to
consume it, whether we need it or not. Instead of treating everyone
with fluoridated water , an attempt should be made to tar get those who
really need it. In the case of cavity pr evention, it would be better to tr eat
susceptible individuals than to treat entire water supplies. 
More effective than fluoride in the prevention of tooth decay is
maintaining proper oral pH. Some foods, mainly carbohydrates, are
acid-forming. Many commer cial toothpastes also make the mouth
more acidic. An acidic environment in the mouth promotes tooth
decay . Conversely , a mor e alkaline environment prevents decay.
Certain foods, such as cheese, some toothpastes, and baking soda, as
well as natural fats and oils will leave the mouth more alkaline.
Honey is one carbohydrate food that can also make the mouth mor e
alkaline, and also help reduce dextran, a sticky substance that enables
bacteria to stick to the teeth. Oral pH is especially important before124• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

bedtime. For children, a glass of apple juice or milk just before bed
can promote tooth decay, and fluoride won’t necessarily remedy that
problem.
Despite what most people think, fluoride is no longer considered
an essential nutrient. Natural fluoride is found in most foods, espe-
cially chicken, fish, seafood and tea, and it’s found naturally in most
drinking water. Through a healthy diet, enough fluoride can be con-
sumed to have a positive effect on cavity prevention. The National
Institutes of Health (NIH) says tooth decay has declined sharply in
recent years, even in areas without fluoridated water. British
researchers also found, after studying people from eight different
countries, that tooth decay was declining equally in both fluoridated
and non-fluoridated areas.
Fluoride can also negatively af fect other ar eas of the body —
especially the bones. Some studies show that fluoride can substantial-
ly increase bone loss, producing bone fractures in the spine, wrist and
arm. Other studies have shown that in communities that have fluori-
dated water, hip fractures are more common.
Fluoride also interferes with energy production. This occurs in
the anaer obic biochemical pathways that convert sugar to ener gy.
About half the water systems in the U.S. have fluoridated water. If
you wish to avoid fluoride, either use bottled water or filter what
comes thr ough the tap. However , some bottled water contains fluoride
(ask the company or read labels), and most water filters don’t remove
fluoride. The best filter for this purpose is a r everse-osmosis system.
Filter Your Water
The first step in considering a water filter is learning what contami-
nants are in the water. Once you know what needs to be filtered, you
can use the appr opriate system. Unfortunately, there is no single
water filter that will solve all your potential water pr oblems. Keep in
mind that toxins also can enter the body thr ough the skin or lungs
when taking a shower. For example, the inhalation of tri-
halomethanes, a cancer-causing chemical, during showering in chlo-
rinated water is a common pr oblem. This can be r emedied by using a
system that filters all water entering your house, or by installing a
water filter on your showerhead.WATER, WATER, EVERYWHERE • 125     

The three best water filters include activated-carbon systems,
reverse-osmosis systems and distillation units. Each one will filter
specific contaminants. 
Carbon filters, dating back to the ancient Greeks and Romans,
trap contaminants as the water passes through the filter. Solid-car-
bon-block filters are the most effective for this process (as opposed to
granular-carbon devices). Carbon filters remove most organic chemi-
cals, such as pesticides and herbicides, chlorine, bacteria, metals
(lead, iron, copper) and radon, but they do not remove all minerals
(so they won’t soften water), or other compounds like arsenic,
nitrates, viruses and radioactive particles. Carbon filtration usually
improves the taste of the water. Some carbon filters contain silver
nitrate to prevent bacterial build-up; these filters may have the poten-
tial to leak silver , which is toxic. Ideally, the carbon cartridge must be
replaced periodically to maintain ef fectiveness and normal water
flow . Small carbon-filter units for water bottles are also available,
making safer water possible when you are away from home.
Reverse osmosis has been used for lar ge-scale projects, such as
industrial desalination of seawater. Essentially, it’s a more complex
filtration system that includes carbon. Reverse osmosis removes toxic
metals and radiation contamination, except radon, but does not
remove many or ganic chemicals. 
Distillation, like carbon filtration, is also an ancient method of
treating water. This is the best all-around method, as it “filters” more
items than any other single device, although it is not technically a fil-
ter pr ocess (it’s more like rain water, made from evaporating water
that becomes clouds). The pr ocess involves boiling the water to be
treated, and capturing and cooling the steam, which gives you clean-
er water. Distillation removes toxic metals and radiation contamina-
tion, except radon, and also removes minerals and thus softens the
water. It may not remove all organic chemicals.
Manufacturers of these different filtering devices can provide you
with more information on which contaminants they remove as well as
proper use, installation and maintenance costs. Also, it’s well worth
testing your water again after installing a water filter to be certain it
is performing pr operly .126• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

Water (and other foods) stored in plastic containers may not be as
safe to drink as once thought. For many years, plastic has been sus-
pect regarding the possibility that harmful chemicals contained in
many plastic materials can leach into water. As research continues
showing this is a real hazard, there are a variety of things we can do.
Here are some recommendations:
• Avoid using plastic as long-term storage containers for
water or other foods. Instead, save all your glass contain-
ers to use for food storage.
• Certain foods react strongly with plastic. Avoid buying
vinegar, tomato, alcohol and similar products contained
in plastic. 
•Remove the plastic parts to bottles containing these
foods. For example, some bottles of vinegar contain plas -
tic pouring spouts which can be r emoved. 
• Use glass bottles for water when away from home.
Drinking adequate amounts of clean water is another key to
building optimal health and human performance. WATER, WATER, EVERYWHERE • 127   

17
Dietary Supplements
Throughout this book I have emphasized the need to eat real food
and avoid processed, synthetic and artificial products. The same
holds true when it comes to dietary supplements. However, the most
important focus on nutrients should be the diet, not supplements.
Always try to obtain all your nutrients from healthy, real-food. When
there is a need for supplements, because of an increased nutritional
need or the inability to obtain certain nutrients in adequate amounts
from a healthy diet, supplementing with products made from real
foods is the next most effective approach.
There are several distinctions you need to make before deciding
to supplement your diet. The first is whether you actually need a sup-
plement. This can be accomplished in a variety of ways. The first is
with the help of a health-care professional who may determine this
through a variety of ways; from a good history, blood and urine tests
and other evaluations. However , with some exceptions, blood and
urine tests generally are not the best ways to determine nutritional
needs — although they can uncover serious deficiencies. Other ways
to determine your potential needs for supplementation include exper -
imentation, diet analysis, and symptom surveys. These options ar e
discussed below.
Some people may ef fectively determine the need for a dietary
supplement through careful experimentation. Even a doctor, who
may determine the need for a particular nutrient, is experimenting by
giving or r ecommending a certain nutrient. Whether fr om a health-
care professional or done by yourself, the best determination that you
need a particular nutrient is that it makes something better; this may
include the successful treatment of a particular problem or the elimi-
nation of an abnormal finding in a blood test or other evaluation. In   

almost all cases, this should not take much time. For example, if you
have asthma symptoms and want to see if the nutrient choline is
needed by your body to help improve your asthma, taking choline for
a month or two will almost always either help, or do nothing. If it
helps, you may want to continue taking choline but also find the
foods high in choline so your diet may provide more of it (in this case
the best food source is egg yolks). 
Another way to determine the need for a dietary supplement is to
analyze your diet. This is a common tool used by health-care profes-
sionals, researchers and even individuals to evaluate nutrient intakes.
This makes use of a computerized program and provides your level
of nutrients compar ed to the recommended daily allowance (RDA) or
other standard reference (such as the USDA’s Dietary Reference
Intakes or DRIs). Large national surveys are also taken the same way,
and these continue to show seriously low intakes of many nutrients.
For example, a Department of Agriculture survey showed that 80 per-
cent of American women did not achieve RDA levels of folic acid,
iron, zinc, vitamin B-6, magnesium and calcium. 
I used various computerized diet analysis programs during my
years in practice, and tested almost all patients. Just as other surveys
have shown, most people had serious nutritional imbalances. Today
there are many computerized diet analysis pr ograms available, and
the USDA website (www.usda.gov) provides a simple online pro-
gram that is free.
If specific nutrients ar e found to be below a minimum level, then
first you ar e in need of dietary improvement to include or increase
foods containing these nutrients. Second, you may need additional
nutrients fr om a dietary supplement. 
Another approach that can help determine the potential need for
a dietary supplement, and one used thr oughout this book, is the use of
health surveys. This appr oach is based not on nutrient levels in the
body or in food but on how your body uses its nutrients. These sur -
veys utilize certain signs and symptoms associated with too much or
too little of specific nutrients. They may offer clues that point to a spe-
cific nutrient, or a condition that may be associated with a nutrient. For
example, sleepiness after meals, a larger waist size and frequent
hunger and craving for sweets may indicate an excess intake of carbo-DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS • 129   

hydrates, a macronutrient. Fatigue, excess blood loss and the habit of
chewing on ice may indicate the need for iron, a micronutrient. 
Unfortunately, many people are led to believe they need a dietary
supplement through other unreliable means — advertising, newspa-
per and magazine articles, a next-door neighbor (“it works for me!”).
If you determine that you do need to supplement for a particular
nutrient, there are several things to consider. The fact that a dietary
supplement contains nutrients does not mean it’s natural, or even
safe. The vitamins in most dietary supplements, for example, are syn-
thetic. And, research is showing that many forms of dietary supple-
ments are dangerous.
Beware of HSAIDS
First, most dietary supplements on the market do not pr ovide vita -
mins and minerals as they naturally occur in real food. Although
these supplements may be labeled “natural,” their vitamins are typi-
cally synthetic. And, they often provide doses much higher than
foods in nature, isolated from other key parts of the food complex in
which they would occur naturally. Specifically, these high-dose, syn-
thetic and isolated supplements usually don’t contain important asso -
ciated phytonutrients found in real foods. I call these supplements
HSAIDS, which stands for “High-Dose Synthetic and Isolated Dietary
Supplements.” When consumed, HSAIDS act mor e like dr ugs than
like food, thus the first major difference between HSAIDS and truly
natural nutrients fr om foods.
HSAIDS ar e not necessarily bad, although some can be dead -
ly, but they’re not what most people think they are — equivalent to
the same nutrient counterpart in food. The most important nutrients
are those contained in foods, and if you supplement, products made
from food are the best and safest choice. In some instances, such as
with the car eful dir ection of a health-care practitioner who has expert-
ise in nutrition, HSAIDS may be r equir ed. In this case, it may be for a
relatively short period of time to correct a specific condition, such as
anemia. Others may have long term needs or require a very high dose
of a particular nutrient, such as folic acid, to addr ess a genetic pr ob-
lem. While these issues are not that uncommon, they are the excep-
tions. Most people do not need HSAIDS.130• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

The primary difference between HSAIDS and products made
from real food, which contain truly natural nutrients in food doses, is
how the body responds to them when consumed.
Biological vs. Pharmacological Effects of Supplements
When you take a dietary supplement, there are particular physiolog-
ical responses by the body. In general, nutrients in their natural state
and natural dose have a biological effect, and HSAIDS have a phar-
macological effect in the body. 
Examples of dietary supplements that clearly act in more of a bio-
logical fashion include products made from foods, including veg-
etable and fruit concentrates, fish oil and brewer’s yeast. These sup-
plements provide nutrients in a concentrated form, acting essentially
the same as when you consume the r eal food. They pr ovide natural
doses of vitamins, minerals and/or phytonutrients helping to gener-
ate energy, regulate immunity, control aging and perform billions of
other functions that improve health and human performance.
Nutrients with pharmacological effects generally include
HSAIDS and have actions like those of drugs rather than foods.
Dietary supplements that have pharmacological ef fects include such
common items as synthetic vitamin C (ascorbic acid), isolated high-
dose vitamin E (alpha-tocopher ol) and popular ir on supplements.
These ar e almost always in doses much higher than a person could
possibly consume during a meal or even a day’s worth of food intake
— even when consuming foods naturally high in these nutrients.
Many contain doses that would take weeks of eating foods rich in
these nutrients to get to the same levels — in other words, five, 10,
even 100 times normal amounts. By looking at the labels of supple-
ments in a store or catalog, you will see that most, even those labeled
“natural,” contain doses much higher than you would get fr om real
food and significantly higher than the RDA. 
Dietary supplements that pr omote pharmacological activity , like
most drugs, are capable of modifying body function, often in power-
ful ways, and are also accompanied by the risk of adverse side effects.
The actions of dietary supplements with pharmacological ef fects can
vary with individuals, and many actions are not clearly known.
HSAIDS with pharmacological actions can also interfere with otherDIETARY SUPPLEMENTS • 131     

nutrients, whether from the diet or from other supplements. They can
also interfere with over-the-counter or prescription drugs. 
As an example of the difference between HSAIDS and truly nat-
ural nutrients, consider vitamins C and E. Dietary sources of natural-
ly occurring vitamin C, for example, have biological effects, acting as
antioxidants and protecting DNA from oxygen damage. The dose in
the best of meals may be 100 mg of vitamin C or less. However, the
synthetic counterpart (ascorbic acid), found in almost all dietary sup-
plements, may function differently. High doses of synthetic vitamin
C, typically 500 to 1,000 mg tablets for example, can perform as an
antioxidant, but can also transform to a deadly pro-oxidant — which
can cause excess free-radical activity and inflammation. 
Another illustration of the difference between HSAIDS and truly
natural nutrients is found in vitamin E. A natural dose of vitamin E is
really quite small. For example, the amount of naturally occurring
alpha-tocopher ol in a loaf of whole-wheat bread — a relatively high
source of natural vitamin E — may be only 2 to 4 IU. In contrast, vita-
min E supplements typically come in extr emely high doses of 400 to
800 IU. You’d have to eat 200 loaves to reach these supplement doses.
This unnatural dose of vitamin E can interfere with other more effec-
tive antioxidants and is discussed later in this chapter. And worse,
these doses of vitamin E have been shown to significantly incr ease
mortality!
Vitamins C is often sold under the “natural” label as are many
other synthetic vitamins. In nature these vitamins occur with other
chemical components and with associated phytonutrients as dis -
cussed later in this chapter . These supplements don’t have the same
function as nutrients that contain all complementary components as
they occur in real food. In addition, synthetic supplements have lower
bioavailability. Synthetic vitamin C, for example, is not as biological-
ly available, and the body gets rid of it more quickly, in comparison
to vitamin C in real foods. Studies have shown that vitamin C from
food was 35 percent better absorbed, and excreted more slowly, than
synthetic vitamin C.
There are also many potential side effects associated with
HSAIDS. Consider the following:132• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

• A cell’s sensitive DNA, vital for normal function, can be
damaged by consuming as little as 500 mg of synthetic
vitamin C (ascorbic acid), which may be an early trigger
for cancer development.
•Doses as low as 200 mg of synthetic vitamin C can act as
a pro-oxidant, causing oxidative stress.
• Popular doses of vitamin C supplements can be toxic
when they react with the iron in the body or iron in
dietary supplements. This is because of the powerful free
radicals produced by iron.
• Consuming popular doses of iron can result in excess fer-
ritin (the body’s storage form of iron), which has been
associated with an increased risk of heart disease and
liver str ess. High iron intake can also produce damaging
excess free radicals.
• Common preparations of copper, zinc or selenium sup-
plements can be toxic and can even cause disease.
• Popular doses of vitamin K and B6 can be toxic.
• Consuming popular high doses of vitamin A can result in
bone loss and may incr ease the risk of hip fractur e in the
elderly.
• Many popular HSAIDS can adversely interact with over-
the-counter and prescription medications.
•In smokers, supplementation with alpha-tocopher ol has
been shown to increase the incidence of lung cancer.
• Consuming popular doses of beta-carotene has been
shown to increase lung cancer.
• Consuming popular doses of vitamin E could increase
the risk of death.
In addition to the possible side ef fects, ther e’s another potential
problem with taking dietary supplements — a false sense of security
against the illnesses and diseases they are purported to prevent andDIETARY SUPPLEMENTS • 133   

treat. While researchers have found for decades that consumption of
fruits and vegetables significantly decrease the risk of many diseases,
most studies have concluded that dietary supplements containing the
same vitamins and minerals do not. 
Natural vs. Synthetic
Consumers of dietary supplements are often confused as to what is a
truly “natural” product and what is not. Many synthetic vitamins are
erroneously referred to as “natural” because their chemical structures
are sometimes identical or similar to the real thing. Even if you don’t
take a daily vitamin pill, you’re probably eating some synthetic vita-
mins. They are added to breads, cereals and almost all packaged
foods that are “fortified,” as mandated by federal law since 1939.
Another good r eason to avoid pr ocessed and packaged foods. 
As noted above, high-dose, synthetic dietary supplements occa-
sionally may be useful, and under certain circumstances I have rec-
ommended these to patients for many years. These products can be
useful in specific health conditions, serve as a stepping stone while
you improve your diet to include the nutrients you’re lacking, and
can tr eat certain genetic conditions.
Isolated vs. the Whole-F ood Complex
Another pr oblem with most dietary supplements, even those made
from natural nutrients, is that they have been isolated from their
whole-food complexes. Not only is this quite unnatural, but in many
cases the nutrients left behind ar e mor e potent therapeutically than
the one that is isolated. A common example is alpha-tocopherol, also
called vitamin E. Alpha-tocopherol does not normally exist alone in
nature but occurs with three other tocopherols — beta, delta and
gamma — and four tocotrienols — alpha, beta, delta and gamma.
Together these seven other components of the vitamin E “complex”
can be mor e important than alpha-tocopher ol alone. For example,
gamma-tocopherol is commonly found in natural foods and is more
effective than alpha-tocopherol as an antioxidant. The common use of
alpha-tocopher ol supplements can be a pr oblem since popular doses
of alpha-tocopherol can displace gamma-tocopherol in the body, low-
ering the overall oxidative protection of the vitamin E complex.134• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH       

In addition, tocotrienols are powerful substances that have
potent anti-cancer actions, reduce cholesterol and perform other vital
tasks. Too much alpha-tocopherol can interfere with some of these
functions. For example, even moderate amounts, such as 100 IU of
alpha-tocopherol, can block the ability of tocotrienols to control cho-
lesterol.
Unbalanced, isolated high doses of alpha-tocopherol can interfere
with body chemistry in other ways too. They can have a negative
effect on anti-inflammatory chemical production, cause generalized
muscle weakness, lower thyroid hormone levels and slightly increase
fasting triglyceride levels. Like high-dose vitamin C, alpha-toco-
pherol may also become a pro-oxidant — which would be counter-
productive to its antioxidant function.
Phytonutrients
There are thousands of nutritional components in natural foods that
may even be mor e important than the micr onutrients themselves.
Many studies show that a variety of foods can pr otect us fr om cancer ,
heart disease and other degenerative conditions. While some assume
that specific nutrients such as vitamins are responsible, it is now clear
that other substances may be much more important. 
These phytonutrients or phytochemicals are made by plants from
sunlight (via photosynthesis) when grown in good-quality soil. These
substances have been known in clinical r esear ch for decades and by
practitioners of old for centuries. Scientists now know ther e are thou -
sands of these natural chemicals that have potent therapeutic actions.
Some examples of these nutrients are listed in the following table. 
Phytonutrients comprise thr ee main gr oups of plant compounds
that include phenols, terpenes and nitrogen-containing alkaloids.
Some of the names ar e familiar. I mentioned seven of them above that
are part of the vitamin E complex. Other common phytonutrients
include a group of carotenes (including alpha and beta, and
lycopene), a group of bioflavanoids (including hesperetin and lutein),
isothiocyanates that includes sulforaphan and many others. Don’t be
concerned about r emembering all the names, but do r emember to
consume a variety of foods — such as vegetables, fruits, nuts andDIETARY SUPPLEMENTS • 135     

unhulled seeds such as flax and sesame — that contain the best
sources of all the phytonutrients.
Some plant compounds in this category that are commonly syn-
thesized as drugs include caffeine, nicotine, morphine and cocaine.
These compounds are not considered nutrients, so the term “phyto-
chemical” would best apply.
One r eason studies continue to show that eating fruits and veg-
etables prevents cancer and most other chronic diseases, while the
common dietary supplements don’t, is the pr esence of phytonutri -
ents. Likewise, dietary supplements made from these same foods also
contain the naturally occurring phytonutrients. 
More than 15 years ago, epidemiologist John Potter of the
University of Minnesota, was quoted in the April 25, 1994, issue of
Newsweek , providing us with a snapshot of the bigger scientific pic -
ture: “At almost every one of the steps along the pathway leading to
cancer, there are one or more compounds in vegetables or fruit that
will slow up or r everse the process.” Unfortunately, most people
don’t eat enough of the foods that contain these powerful nutrients.136• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH
Some Examples of Phytonutrients
Carotenoids
– alpha- and beta-carotene
– lutein
– lycopene
– zeaxanthin
Limonene
Tocopherols
– beta, delta, gamma
Tocotrienols
– alpha, beta, delta, gamma
Isoflavones
Lignans
– sesamin
Tannins
AnthocyaninsFlavonoids
– lutein
– hesperetin
– diadzein
– naringin
– tangeretin
Isothiocyanates
– sulfor aphan
– indol-3-carbinol
– crambene 
Cyano-glycoside s
– cocaine
– nicotine
– morphine
– caffeine                   

This information is not new to many in the natural health field.
Going back more than 100 years, a key part of the organic movement
included the theory that natural was better than synthetic and artifi-
cial. The true natural approach is to keep yourself healthy by eating
real food that supplies the full spectrum of nutrients — from micronu-
trients to phytonutrients. Unfortunately, if you’re trying to get your
micronutrients from supplements, they’re most likely HSAIDS — like
the majority of vitamin and mineral preparations on the market. By
taking these you not only risk side effects and may not be getting the
whole vitamin complex, but you’re missing out on the phytonutrients
that accompany the natural versions.DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS • 137   

18
Real ‘Real-Food’ Dietary Supplements
While many are familiar with the term “designer drugs,” the
same marketing hype exists in the dietary supplement industry. This
is true in part because the biggest players — those that manufacture
the synthetic vitamins and raw materials used to make HSAIDS —
are the pharmaceutical companies themselves. The natural foods
companies that make r eal food dietary supplements are generally
very small and not yet as welcomed into the natural foods market.
However , the image that dietary supplements ar e “natural” is preva-
lent, as is the marketing of supplements as “real food.” But most of
these claims ar e untr ue when you r ead the fine print or know how
products are made.
Because of the image of “natural foods,” some supplements may
contain food concentrates such as blueberry, broccoli, spinach, etc.
However, these plant materials are not only added in minuscule
amounts, they also ar e made fr om foods cooked at very high temper-
atures. The reason for their inclusion, as market researchers tell us, is
that it looks good on the label; advertising can even include “contains
real food,” or some other claim about being made from fruits and veg-
etables. But a careful look at the label shows that the vitamins in these
products, for example, are synthetic, being added separately and not
from the foods. Discerning and uncovering these hidden tricks is
often not easy , and many consumers ar e taken advantage of for a long
time befor e learning the tr uth about certain products. 
Another technique — I call it a trick — commonly used in the
supplement industry is the use of yeast that’s been fed synthetic vita-
mins. The technique is simple: feed a nutrient to living yeast, then dry
the yeast and add it to a dietary supplement as a source of nutrients.
In the case of minerals, it may be a useful technique, and claims of
“natural” can be honestly made since all minerals — from calcium   

and magnesium to manganese and zinc — exist on earth in a natural
form (most came from the sun during the earth’s creation). But feed-
ing a synthetic vitamin made by a drug company to yeast, adding the
yeast to a supplement and then calling it “natural” and “real-food” is
misleading to me. 
Now that you better understand the difference between HSAIDS
and truly natural dietary supplements, let’s look at some different
types of products and how they might be useful for improving health.
These are some of the types of supplements I have found useful for
my patients, my children and grandchildren, and that I take myself.
These products include those made from whole foods, many certified
organic, that have been concentrated without heat, through freeze-
drying in the case of vegetables and fruits, and distillation in the case
of fish and other oils. They contain therapeutic food ingr edients like
that of a meal or a day’s worth of food. In addition to containing the
specific nutrients, such as in a vitamin C product, they also contain
the associated vitamins, minerals and phytonutrients normally found
in the foods as they occur in nature. 
Most companies don’t produce supplements made from whole
foods. It’s dif ficult and costly to find foods dried with a low-heat
process that preserves heat-sensitive nutrients, including the phy-
tonutrients. It’s even mor e dif ficult to find supplements made from
certified-or ganic materials. In addition to these issues, many dietary
supplements contain unwanted added ingredients. These fillers,
binders and other chemicals ar e very common; avoid pr oducts con -
taining casein, gluten, soy , wheat, artificial colorings, artificial flavor -
ings and sugar.
Vitamin C Complex
As discussed above, vitamin C in natur e is accompanied by many
nutrients, per haps thousands if we include the important phytonutri -
ents that also af fect fitness and health. V itamin C is found in r elative-
ly high concentrations in certain foods, including acerola berries, cit-
rus peel and vegetables such as broccoli. Supplements made from real
food obtain all their vitamin C fr om these foods, as compar ed to syn-
thetically manufactured vitamin C called ascorbic acid (or other ver-
sions of synthetic vitamin C).REAL ‘REAL-FOOD’ DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS • 139     

Vitamin E Complex
Vitamin E is also called alpha-tocopherol. However, as discussed in
the previous chapter, alpha-tocopherol is only one of eight com-
pounds in the vitamin E “complex.” The alpha-tocopherol fraction of
the E complex does not normally exist alone in nature but usually
occurs with three other tocopherols — beta, delta and gamma — and
four tocotrienols that include alpha, beta, delta and gamma. 
Almost all vitamin E supplements come in this isolated form of
alpha-tocopherol, or sometimes in a synthetic version. Some products
are labeled “mixed tocopherols” which usually is mostly alpha with
very little of the other tocopherols and no tocotrienols.
Immune System
Immune-system support is the most important role of antioxidants
and other immune-r elated compounds. Nutrients that help support
the immune system provide maximum protection against the onset of
cancer and other chronic disease. As discussed later in this book, one
important purpose of certain immune nutrients is to help the body
produce its most powerful antioxidant called glutathione. In addition
to natural forms of vitamin C and E, other nutrients that pr omote glu -
tathione antioxidant activity include lipoic acid, the amino acid cys -
teine (sometimes in the form of N-acetyl-cysteine) and sulforaphan, a
sulfur compound in cruciferous vegetables such as broccoli, kale,
Brussels sprouts and cabbage.
Two- to thr ee-day-old br occoli sprouts (before their leaves turn
green) have the highest levels of sulforaphan. T raditional antioxidant
supplements are void of these naturally occurring powerful com-
pounds. Both alpha-tocotrienol and gamma-tocopherol are also more
powerful antioxidants than either alpha-tocopher ol or vitamin C. 
Other phytonutrients, including limonene, naringin and tan-
geretin support the process of apoptosis — a reaction that triggers the
death of cancer cells. These compounds are found in the skins of cit-
rus fr uits. An ideal supplement to support immune function may also
contain key elements in r eal foods such as the full spectr um of
carotenoids, including lycopene, along with health-promoting com-
pounds found in turmeric and ginger .140• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH      

Whole-Food Multiple Supplements
The natural counterpart to the synthetic multiple vitamins is the
whole-food multiple-vitamin/mineral supplement made from real
foods. Ingredients for these products include a variety of vegetables
such as kale, Brussels sprouts, beets, carrots, broccoli, spinach and
parsley; fruits such as citrus and berries; and natural brewer’s yeast,
which contains B vitamins. These supplements contain a food dose of
vitamins, minerals and phytonutrients, and, since they’re made from
real food, they probably contain nutrients not yet discovered! 
Omega-3 Fats
Omega-3 fat from fish oil is one of the best nutrients to improve fat
balance. In my practice, I found through dietary analysis that signifi-
cant numbers of patients were deficient in omega-3 fat. It has been
estimated that more than 50 million people in the United States are
affected by essential-fatty-acid imbalance. Omega-3 oils are most use-
ful in reducing the condition of chronic inflammation. Fish oil con-
tains both EPA and DHA, vital for many aspects of optimal health
and fitness, especially combating inflammation. A variety of other
foods complement this task, including ginger , garlic, turmeric, citr us
peel and sesame oil. When buying oil-based dietary supplements,
read the labels: make sure the oil has been tested for oxidation and for
heavy metals and other potential toxins found in the oceans. Agood
guide is to use fish oil labeled as containing “0” cholester ol. Many
have levels of only 2 or 4 mg of cholester ol, but this may infer they
may not have been cleaned of potential toxins.
Some people take flaxseed oil as an omega-3 supplement.
However, there are two important factors to mention again. Since
flaxseed oil is extremely susceptible to oxidation when exposed to air
or heat, it is best to purchase it in capsules. And, flax oil does not con-
tain EPA. Conversion to EPA in the body is not very effective, and
requires vitamins C, B6, niacin, and the minerals magnesium
and zinc. 
Black-Currant-Seed Oil
Black-currant-seed yields a high-quality omega-6 oil containing
gamma-linolenic acid (GLA) which is converted to the group 1 anti-
inflammatory eicosanoids. People with allergies, especially in theREAL ‘REAL-FOOD’ DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS • 141        

spring when natural series 1 eicosanoid levels are low, often need this
supplement. GLA is also essential for carrying calcium to muscle and
bone cells. Without it, the calcium in your diet won’t be as useful and
some may be stored as calcium deposits. Borage oil and evening
primrose oil also contain GLA. It’s important when taking any prod-
uct containing GLA to also take EPA (fish oil) or raw sesame-seed oil.
These oils help prevent GLA from ultimately converting to arachi-
donic acid, which promotes inflammation. Both sesame and all the
GLA-containing oils are also very sensitive to oxygen, and should be
purchased in capsule form.
Vitamin B Complex
Along with vitamin C, the B vitamins ar e the most common synthet-
ic vitamins in the marketplace. Almost all B vitamins in health and
drug stores, whether the whole B complex or single vitamin products,
are synthetic. In the case of the B vitamins, those that ar e synthetic ar e
also referred to as inactive — in order for the body to utilize these
vitamins they must be converted to an active form, which takes other
nutrients and energy, and is not always effective. 
As is the case with natural vs. synthetic vitamin C, the body may
not utilize the synthetic B vitamins as well. In fact, up to 30 percent of
the population may be unable to utilize synthetic folic acid.
Below is a list of some truly natural/active forms of B vitamins:
• Thiamine (B1): thiamine pyrophosphate and thiamine
triphosphate
• Riboflavin (B2): riboflavin-5-phosphate
• Niacin (B3): nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH)
•Pantothenic acid (B5): pantethine 
•Pyridoxine (B6): pyridoxal-5-phosphate
• Folic acid: 5-methyl tetrahydrofolate and folinic acid
• Cobalamin (B12): methylcobalamin
The B vitamins ar e important for so many functions thr oughout
the brain and body . If levels become low, virtually any body area can
break down. Those who don’t get enough vitamins B1 and B2 typical-142• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

ly are low in other B vitamins too. Here are two important surveys
associated with the need for more B vitamins. The first specifically
related to B1 and the second, B2.
Survey 1: Check the items below that apply to you:
JCarbohydrate intolerance, including diabetes.
JBody temperature below normal.
JDiuretic use (typically used for patients with high blood
pressure and heart problems).
JRegular alcohol use.
JRegular caffeine use (coffee, tea, cola).
JRegular anaerobic exercise or athletic competition.
JFatigue.
JRegular headaches.
JReduced mental productivity.
JHeart problems.
JPoor appetite.
JTendency to anxiety, phobia, panic disorder.
JSleep problems.
Survey 2: Check the items below that apply to you:
JSkin pr oblems.
JGingivitis (gum pr oblems).
JDiscomfort or pain on lips, tongue or in mouth (non-dental).
JCataracts.
JHair loss.
JAnxiety, tension or personality changes.
JSleep less than six to seven hours per night.REAL ‘REAL-FOOD’ DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS • 143                                             

JUse of antacids.
JPregnant (current or recent).
JOver age 50.
JIncreased need for antioxidants (reduced immune
function).
JFrequently short of breath or low hemoglobin.
The more items that apply to you, the more your levels of B1 or
B2 may be too low. 
High doses of the B vitamins are not well absorbed or utilized. So
if a supplement is needed, it’s best to take lower doses two or three
times daily than one larger dose. For B1 and B2, doses above 5 mg are
considered high.
Foods high in B vitamins vary considerably and ar e not dif ficult
to obtain in a healthy diet. Good sour ces include eggs and meats; nuts
and seeds, legumes, whole grains and some vegetables such as broc-
coli, spinach and mushrooms have moderate amounts. Significant
losses occur in cooking and freezing, so raw vegetables are important
sources. However, avoid the following foods in their raw state: red
chicory, Brussels sprouts, red cabbage, clams, oysters, squid and other
mollusks — these all contain thiaminase which destr oys thiamine.
Some antibiotics can also destroy thiamine. Light (especially the sun)
can destr oy B2, and sunlight on the skin can r educe some of the
body’s folic acid.
Folic Acid Folly?
Two of the man y natur ally occurring forms of folic acid include
folinic acid and 5-meth yl tetr ahydrofolate (5-MTHF), the most
common forms found in the foods we eat. Unfortunately, the
most common form of folic acid in our food supply is synthet-
ic folic acid. Because it is muc h cheaper, it is used in food for-
tification and virtually all dietary supplements on store shelves.
This synthetic form of folic acid is inactive and must first be
converted to an active form to be useful in the body.
A significant number of people are unable to absorb or other-144• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH              

wise utilize synthetic folic acid. The numbers are difficult to
determine, but scientists have estimated that perhaps up to 30
percent of the population has this inability (which is genetical-
ly determined). These individuals must rely on natural folic acid
from food, or the 5-meth yl or folinic acid versions in supple-
ments.
Natural folic acid is not just for prevention of neural tube
defects, one of many types of birth defects in pregnant women.
It’s a necessary nutrient with bodywide benefits for all adults
and children. These include the following:
• Brain function — the natural forms of folic acid are the
only ones that can get into the brain. It is especially impor-
tant for those who don’t sleep well or are depressed.
• Intestinal function to help food digestion and absorption,
heal the intestines and, as studies ha ve shown, in prevent-
ing colon cancer.
• Important in the detoxification of substances like estrogens
in both men and women to remove their harmful metabo-
lites (this is the mechanism of breast cancer prevention as
it pertains to folate).
•For protein metabolism and for regulation of certain amino
acids.
•For the formation of new blood cells, w hich is a continu -
ous process. 
•For cardio vascular health by reducing homocysteine. 
•Unlike synthetic inacti ve folic acid, natural folic acid does
not mask anemia if not taken with adequate vitamin B12. 
Calcium
Few people in industrialized societies have true calcium deficiencies,
regar dless of what the advertisements tell us. The bigger pr oblem is
that most people are unable to utilize the calcium they already have
in their bodies. Poor calcium metabolism, rather than deficiency, isREAL ‘REAL-FOOD’ DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS • 145     

almost at epidemic proportions. The end result is that not enough cal-
cium gets into the cells, including the bones, muscles and other tis-
sues, with the remaining excess calcium depositing in the joints, ten-
dons, ligaments or even the kidneys as stones. Plaque that clogs the
arteries can also contain calcium.
In order for your body to properly metabolize calcium, and more
effectively absorb calcium from food, you must have sufficient vita-
min D. This nutrient is free and plentiful, yet most people don’t have
enough. That’s because it comes fr om the sun and the public is told
that the sun is dangerous. This issue is so important that it’s discussed
separately in the following chapter. Just remember that without suffi-
cient vitamin D, calcium cannot be properly regulated, and that most
problems of insufficient calcium are really due to low levels of vita-
min D.
Another important issue regarding calcium is to consume enough
calcium-rich foods; this is easily done without supplementation
through good dietary practices. And it does not necessarily mean eat-
ing a lot of dairy foods. Consider the high amounts of calcium in the
following single servings of non-dairy foods:
• Salmon: 225 mg
•Sardines: 1 15 mg
• Almonds: 100 mg
• Seaweed: 140 mg
•Rainbow tr out: 100 mg
•Spinach: 135 mg 
• Green beans: 100 mg
• Collards: 125 mg
Two other important issues regarding calcium are absorption (the
most important part is also having suf ficient vitamin D), and getting
the calcium into the bones and muscles once it’s absorbed.
Absorption is the first step to utilizing calcium in the body . In
general, smaller amounts are better absorbed than larger amounts,
whether from food or supplements. If a small amount of calcium is146• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

present in the intestine, 70 percent may be absorbed, for example,
while a larger amount of calcium may have only a 30 percent absorp-
tion rate. If you’re taking calcium supplements, it may be best to take
a lower dose several times a day rather than a large dose once daily.
Even though vegetables contain smaller amounts of calcium, larger
percentages are absorbed compared to milk. So in some situations, a
serving of broccoli may result in more calcium getting into the body
than a serving of milk. 
The stomach’s natural hydrochloric acid is also very important in
making calcium more absorbable. Neutralizing stomach acid has a
negative effect on calcium absorption, and a serious impact on diges-
tion and absorption of all nutrients. Once absorbed, calcium is uti-
lized best when the body is in a slightly acidic state. Otherwise, calci-
um that is absorbed may be mor e easily deposited in joints, muscles
or arteries rather than inside the cells where it’s needed. The cells that
are calcium-starved cause symptoms such as muscle tightness and
irritability, identical to those of calcium deficiency. Morning stiffness,
which loosens up only after moving around for a while, is one of the
most common symptoms of this calcium problem. Signs of an
advanced pr oblem include so-called bone spurs (a deposit of calcium
in the ligament) or kidney stones. Rather than needing more calcium,
these people need mor e acidity (and vitamin D) to utilize the calcium.
Two teaspoons daily of apple-cider vinegar may help maintain the
proper pH to help calcium work properly. This can be taken as part of
your salad dr essing, or even mixed into a 4-ounce glass of water . 
Excess phosphor us intake can be very detrimental for calcium
utilization, pulling it out of bones and muscles. Most soft drinks con-
tain large amounts of phosphorus — and the people who drink them
risk significant calcium loss from their teeth and bones.
The type of calcium supplement may be associated with absorba -
bility . For example, calcium carbonate is mor e poorly absorbed than
calcium lactate or calcium citrate. This is due to the alkaline natur e of
carbonate, and the acid nature of lactate and citrate. 
Taking too much calcium in supplement form can disturb the
body’s complex chemical makeup. For example, too much calcium
can reduce magnesium. Most people may be in need of more magne-
sium than calcium — it’s necessary for most enzymes to work, includ-REAL ‘REAL-FOOD’ DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS • 147   

ing the ones important for fat metabolism. And the best sources of
magnesium are vegetables. 
A Note on Osteoporosis
Osteoporosis is usually a multifactorial problem, meaning there’s
hardly ever just one cause. We know that a lack of calcium is usually
not the cause, nor is low estrogen. Methods that are effective in treat-
ing or preventing osteoporosis in one person may have very different
results in someone else. In addition, osteoporosis may not be as much
of a problem as it has been made into, as Susan Brown, Ph.D., author
of “Better Bones, Better Body” emphasizes:
• Osteoporosis itself doesn’t cause bone fractures; half of
those with osteoporosis never get fractures. 
• Severely osteoporotic vertebrae are strong enough to
withstand five times the normal weight-bearing.
• Menopause does not, per se, cause osteoporosis, and only
15 per cent of a woman’s bones ar e affected by estr ogen.
• Zinc and magnesium may be as important as calcium for
bones.
• Up to 80 percent of all hip-fracture patients may have a
vitamin D deficiency.
Iron
Most people think of anemia when the mineral iron is discussed. But
iron is an important nutrient for all ar eas of the body , especially the
brain and the aerobic muscles; it aids in the production of neurotrans-
mitters and other brain chemicals, is in the protective covering of
nerves and helps carry oxygen in the blood to all parts of the body .
Most people can obtain sufficient iron from a healthy diet, especially
from beef and other meats. If supplements are necessary, because a
blood test shows low levels for example, a relatively low daily dose,
such as 10 mg, for a month or two may be enough. Higher doses of
iron can be irritating to the intestine and very unhealthy for the whole
body as discussed below. If you have a continuous need for iron,
something more important may be missing.148• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH       

Iron is efficiently recycled in the body, with some loss occurring
through sweating during exercise, or for women, through menstrua-
tion. Excess iron loss or decreased intake may produce a serious
deficiency. 
Excess iron in the body can be the result of taking iron found in
various dietary supplements. Iron can be deposited in the liver,
resulting in cirrhosis of the liver. Excess iron is also associated with
certain neurological problems including Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s
disease, and multiple sclerosis. Since the early 1980s, scientists have
known of important relationships between high levels of stored iron
and heart disease. Excess iron, even moderate amounts, may even
prove to be a more significant risk factor for heart disease than excess
cholesterol.
When the body has enough ir on for normal use, the r emainder is
stored in the form of ferritin. Evidence shows that ferritin may pro-
mote the formation of free radicals. These may injure cells lining the
arteries and damage heart muscle, as well as increase the level of
LDL, the so-called bad cholesterol.
The marketing of iron to treat fatigue (“iron-poor, tired blood”)
may be one r eason for excess accumulation of ir on in some people, as
iron supplements are still very popular. Almost all multiple-vita-
min/mineral pr eparations contain too much of it, and many foods ar e
fortified with ir on. Certainly , if you ar e iron deficient, taking an ir on
supplement is necessary. But without knowing whether it’s needed,
traditional ir on supplementation should be avoided. If a blood test
for ferritin shows you have too much stor ed ir on, the first thing to do
is assess whether you are consuming too much. Often, excess iron
stores are the result of an accumulation of iron over several years. The
use of iron cookware also can contribute to high iron stores. In some
situations, the body’s metabolism may not be functioning pr operly,
resulting in excess ferritin. Donating blood may be one way to help
reduce excess ir on stor es.
A Note on Choline
Like all essential nutrients, choline is r equir ed for most of the body’s
basic functions, but one out of 10 Americans don’t get enough.
Choline is critical for proper fat metabolism, preventing the depositREAL ‘REAL-FOOD’ DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS • 149     

of fat in the liver, transporting of other nutrients throughout the body,
and is associated with the adrenal glands’ regulation of stress.
Choline is also very important for the brain in the production of
acetylcholine, and in particular with memory. Egg yolks and fish are
excellent sources of choline in the diet. A common indication for the
need for choline supplementation is asthma. Wheezing, coughing
from bronchial spasm, and excessive mucous production during exer-
cise has been termed “exercise-induced asthma” (although it occurs
more in those who don’t exercise) and is typically associated with a
need for choline. Normally, the body’s response to activity or exercise
is to dilate the airway passages to allow for better air passage. In exer-
cise-induced asthma, this dilation is followed by excessive narrowing
of the air passages. Choline can help the nervous system control prop-
er br onchial action. In this situation, a high dose of choline may be
needed initially; for example, 500 mg several times daily until breath-
ing improves.
Case History
Roy was a slim, 44-year-old construction worker who wanted
to “run with the guys” after w ork, though he could run with
them for only about 15 minutes due to his severe asthmatic
reactions. This was due in part to the stress of running at too
high a heart r ate without proper tr aining, but also a need for
choline. After two weeks of taking choline, his symptoms were
gone. Eighteen months later , after impro ving his aerobic system
and eating eggs daily to keep his c holine intake adequate, Ro y
qualified for and competed in the world masters’ track and field
meet in Australia, where he won a box full of medals.
Skin and Hair Care
The best nutrition for healthy skin and hair starts with a gr eat diet,
especially balanced fats, adequate pr otein, good intestinal function
and proper hydration. Adequate circulation of blood, discussed later,
is also very important. If your skin or hair is very dry and unhealthy,
or you have other skin pr oblems, this is usually a sign of r educed
health, including the need to improve the diet. Focus on total health,
not just skin and hair. While this topic could fill a whole book, this150• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH       

book is about getting and staying healthy, which would include skin
and hair. 
Here are some specific recommendations for skin and hair care:
• For sun protection, a number of nutritional substances
can be effective. These are nutrients you can take inter-
nally rather than topically as a sunscreen. Your body uses
up a number of substances rapidly after sun exposure.
These include folic acid, beta-carotene and lycopene.
Tocotrienols, from nuts and seeds, and a part of the vita-
min E complex, can help protect the skin directly, and
limonene, found in citr us peel, can protect against skin
cancer. All the antioxidants also help with sun exposure
since increased free radicals are one harmful effect of too
much sun. In addition, fish oil, by mouth, helps pr otect
the skin during sun exposure. 
•Many skin pr oblems are associated with low or deficient
levels of vitamin B2.
•Pure shea butter is a unique skin-car e product made from
an African nut extract (similar to a coconut) and has been
used for centuries as a beauty product. European studies
have shown that shea butter is remarkably active against
skin blemishes and irritation. It’s also useful as a daily
hand, face or body ointment. As a moisturizer, it is help-
ful against the damaging effects of the sun and also helps
maintain the skin’s elasticity .
• Pure coconut oil is also great for the skin.
•The omega-6 fat GLA is perhaps the best remedy for
localized skin problems. Breaking open a gel cap of
black-currant-seed oil and rubbing it into the skin is a
great r emedy for dry skin, wrinkles, or even the most
stubborn skin pr oblems, as good if not better than other
expensive skin remedies on the market. It’s also good for
burns, including sunburn, but only after the skin has
been thoroughly cooled.REAL ‘REAL-FOOD’ DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS • 151   

• Finally, don’t put anything on your skin you’re not will-
ing to eat! That’s because you absorb most ointments,
creams, lotions, soaps and other items commonly used
on the skin and scalp. Most especially avoid fragrance,
which is listed on the label as such. Use only plain, pure
liquid and solid soaps without chemicals — not an easy
task when shopping but these products are available.
Some are scented with lemon, peppermint and other nat-
ural oils.
The most important factor associated with dietary supplements is
not any particular supplement, but that you should try obtaining all
your nutrients from a healthy diet. Only after you’ve done the best job
with your food intake should a dietary supplement be considered.152• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

19
Let the Sun Shine!
We should love the sun because we can’t be healthy without it.
Humans have been in sunny envir onments since the beginning. The
sun offers a free source of vitamin D, and is the primary source of this
important nutrient that has powerful effects in the body. Vitamin D
allows us to more effectively use calcium, improves the immune sys-
tem and helps pr events cancer and other diseases. 
Not until the past few decades has the incidence of skin cancer
become such a pr oblem. This period also corr esponds with the devel -
opment of sunscr een and other pr oducts that attempt to block the
sun’s rays. William Grant, Ph.D., who has published many papers on
this issue, says that sunscr een is overrated and gives a false sense of
security. Other research shows the use of sunscreen can actually
increase the risk of malignant melanoma (the most common and
deadly form) and other skin cancers. Grant and other researchers
describe the pr oblem this way: Most sunscr eens block ultraviolet B
waves (UVB) very effectively, but do not block longer-wave more
dangerous UVA well. We obtain vitamin D through UVB, and if we
block that wave sun-stimulated vitamin D pr oduction is r educed.  
The false sense of security that sunscreen gives many people
causes some to stay in the sun longer , exposing the skin to mor e dan -
gerous UVA, and increasing risk of skin cancer. For this and other rea-
sons, the growing list of research supports the notion that we can pre-
vent a significant number of many types of cancers by spending some
time in the sun, without sunscreen. This includes the prevention of
skin cancer.
Some studies show a relationship between sunscreen use and
cancer prevention while others have not. Unfortunately, sunscreen
manufacturers and cosmetic companies spend millions on marketing,
using popular scare tactics to convince people to use their products.    

Based on recent scientific studies, currently recommended vita-
min D levels are inadequate, even with the recent increase in recom-
mendations. The average daily need for vitamin D is about 4,000 IUs,
but the current recommendation is still only in the 400 IU range from
birth to age 50. Recent studies show that more than half the popula-
tion has inadequate levels of vitamin D — and some of these studies
were done in the sunny states of Florida and Arizona!
In addition to calcium regulation and prevention of cancer, vita-
min D specifically helps reduce pain caused by various types of mus-
cle and bone problems. The sun also plays an important role in immu-
nity, especially in children. And, the sun is good for the brain — get-
ting natural sunlight helps the brain work better. No, not staring into
the sun, but allowing the eyes to be exposed to natural outdoor light
(contact lenses, eyeglasses, sunglasses and windows block the helpful
sun rays). 
Children and the Sun
Coralee Thompson, M.D., says “many children, especially those with
brain problems, are deprived of vitamin D and some are outright defi-
cient, which sever ely af fects brain function.” Disabled childr en, for
example, also have a very high incidence of osteoporosis due to calci-
um wasting secondary to low vitamin D levels. (The same scenario
can occur in anyone at any age.) Acommon pr oblem that’s not often
discussed is the fact that bone loss later in life is significantly related
to a lack of sun exposur e and vitamin D levels during childhood.
And, most of the damage that causes skin cancer in adults occurs dur -
ing childhood.
“Kids need to be in the sun without sunscreen for short periods
of time based on individual needs,” says Dr. Thompson. “This may be
15 minutes building to 30 minutes a day for the average skin type, but
never allow a child to get sunburned.” Most clothing allows some sun
to get thr ough for vitamin D pr oduction. Dr . Thompson cautions that,
“dietary supplements of vitamin D are not as effective because the
oral dose is usually too low, and higher levels of vitamin D are poten-
tially toxic.” Inter estingly , high amounts of vitamin D obtained from
the sun are not toxic.154• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

Stay Tan
For most of my career I have recommended getting a good tan to pro-
tect the skin against excess sun damage. In fact, tanning provides pro-
tection similar to sunscreen, and with protection specifically against
the potentially dangerous UVA. A recent issue of Science (March 2,
2007) says the same: “A dark natural tan offers unparalleled protec-
tion against skin cancer.” Not everyone can tan. Very fair-skinned
people, those with red hair and those with freckles, can burn quite
easily, and these individuals must be very cautious.
Following are three important factors to consider when it comes
to the sun:
• Use the Sun Wisely. Everyone knows that spending the
afternoon lying on the beach in the strong summer sun is
not healthy (although people continue doing it). But we
need sun exposure. Children need sun too, from an early
age. But like adults, they should never stay in the sun
long enough to burn. If you work in the midday summer
sun you should cover yourself — a hat and light, long
sleeves are usually sufficient, but some people may need
more protection. Those who are sun-sensitive should
avoid midday sun, and sometimes even late morning
and mid-afternoon summer sun. Most people who are
sun-sensitive already know it. In this case it’s important
to take a natural vitamin D supplement as food sources
of this nutrient ar e inadequate.
•Eat Right. The very best skin car e products ar e nutrients
found in the healthy foods we eat. Essential fats, antioxi -
dants, vitamin A and other dietary nutrients offer the
greatest skin care and the best protection from natural
sun. Vegetables and fruits provide most of these nutri-
ents, with fish oil, egg yolks and whey products offering
other valuable factors.
• Don’t Eat Sunscreen! Again, my recommendation has
always been to not put anything on your skin you’re not
willing to eat! That’s because sunscr een, along with soLET THE SUN SHINE! • 155              

many things people put on their skin, gets absorbed into
the body. A tan can protect skin from sun overexposure,
as can a hat and light clothing, and avoiding midday sun
during summer months.
The sun is our primary source of vitamin D, and the only way to
get it is by spending some quality time outdoors. Vitamin D not only
helps us utilize calcium better but helps prevent disease, including
skin cancer and many internal cancers.156• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

20
Eat, Drink and Be Merry
Now that I’ve covered many issues about foods, this chapter dis-
cusses how to further implement this understanding into your daily
life. Topics such as snacks, shopping, cooking and food preparation
and other eating and drinking issues are in this chapter. Healthy food
should be tasty, easy to buy and prepare, and most importantly, every
meal and snack should be a joyous occasion! While many people take
great pride in the car, entertainment center or front lawn, it’s most
important to take pride in your health.
Food should not only be healthy, but festive — among the top
pleasures in life is a delicious, satisfying and healthy meal. Too many
people have lost their natural inclination for this sensation. W e
should eat, drink and be merry if we want to live long and healthy
lives. That does not mean we should abuse food and drink. Instead
we should know what and how much to eat and drink, and our mer -
riness should be genuine. At one time, people instinctively knew
what to eat. Today, large corporations spend billions of dollars telling
us what we’r e hungry for . And it works. But the responsibility you
have is to your body — making it healthy and maintaining it for a
long and wonderful life
Snacking Your Way to Health
Thus far we’ve discussed what to eat, and how to balance it, but
there’s yet another component to healthy eating habits that can make
a positive difference in your health — how often you eat. Specifically,
eating more frequently, or snacking between major meals, can
improve your health in many ways. In fact, perhaps no other single
dietary habit can make a mor e positive dif ference in your health than
healthy snacking.
In our society, snacks are generally seen as an unhealthful addi-
tion of unwanted calories and fat, and something to avoid. This can     

be quite true if you snack on junk food such as candy bars, snack
cakes, chips and crackers that are full of sugar, refined carbohydrates
and unhealthy fats. But healthy, real-food snacks have many health
benefits and can help provide you with a continuous supply of the
fuel necessary for optimal human performance. Research clearly
shows that healthy snacking can help you control blood-sugar levels,
improve metabolism, reduce stress and cholesterol, burn more body
fat and increase energy levels.
A healthy snack is just a small meal. And, the key to healthful
snacking is to reduce the amount of food eaten at regular meals, and
distribute this nutritional wealth throughout the day. Eat five or six
smaller meals that add up to the same amount of food that you would
normally consume in a typical two- or three-meal-a-day routine. The
ideal plan is to start the day with a good balanced breakfast that
includes an adequate serving of quality protein. For example, a veg-
etable egg omelet, a bowl of plain yogurt and fr uit or a healthy
smoothie can get your day of f to a good start. Skipping breakfast may
be one of the worst nutritional bad habits, but worse yet is eating a
high-carbohydrate breakfast of cereal or a bagel, which can be coun-
terproductive, negating all the effects of this more healthy style of eat-
ing. Fr om br eakfast on, plan to eat every two to four hours, based on
how good it makes you feel. Those under more stress or with blood
sugar pr oblems usually need to eat mor e frequently — especially ini -
tially, when eating every two hours can quickly make significant
changes in overall health. 
An example of a daily meal schedule starts with breakfast, a mid-
morning snack, lunch, a mid-afternoon snack, a light dinner, and if
necessary a small snack (which can be a healthy dessert) later in the
evening.
Healthy snacks can be almost anything you like, just as long as
they ar e made from real, healthy food. For many people, snacks, like
regular meals, should contain protein. Experiment to discover how
much food you need and which types work best. Some people may
need to eat much larger snacks but others can get by on minimal
amounts like just a small handful of raw almonds. Snacks should be
just like any other healthy meal, just smaller, and still supplying ade-
quate nutrition. This might include:158• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

• Vegetables and fruits such as an apple or pieces of carrot
and celery.
• Raw almonds or cashews, or combine almond butter
with apple slices.
• Leftovers are always easy snacks.
•Plain yogurt and fresh fruit.
• Cheese and fruit.
• A boiled egg.
• Homemade energy bar or healthy smoothie as discussed
later.
The benefits of healthy snacking are many. They quickly suppress
cravings, especially for junk foods, they impr ove physical and mental
energy, and can even stimulate fat-burning by changing your metab-
olism. Since snacking stabilizes blood sugar and prompts your body
to produce less insulin, your body will store less fat and use more of
it to fuel all your daily activities from work to play. Many people find
that they have much mor e ener gy when following a pr ogram of
healthy snacking.
Snacking can also help your body counteract the harmful effects
of daily stress. In this way you reduce the over-production of the
stress hormone cortisol, as well as insulin. Both pr ompt your body to
store more fat. 
Snacking also helps to r educe cholester ol. Studies show that eat -
ing mor e frequently can lower blood cholester ol, specifically LDL, the
“bad” cholesterol. In addition, studies show a staggering 30 percent
increase in heart disease in those eating three meals or less per day.
While snacking has received a bad rap over the years, experts
now agr ee that it was the type of food, not the frequency of eating,
that caused problems. In addition, just piling on the calories by
adding snacks to an already unhealthy diet is clearly dangerous. Now
we know that eating healthy, balanced snacks throughout the day can
help you improve your health in many ways. 
A favorite snack food is my homemade Phil’s Bar. Use it as an in-
between meal snack, as a meal when traveling, and even as a healthyEAT, DRINK AND BE MERRY • 159   

dessert. It’s a complete meal, low glycemic, high in protein and con-
tains good fats. The recipe follows:
Phil’s Bars
3 cups whole raw almonds
2/3cup powdered egg white
4 tablespoons pure powdered cocoa 
1/2cup unsweetened shredded coconut 
Pinch of sea salt
1/3cup honey 
1/3cup hot water
1 to 2 tablespoons vanilla 
Grind dry ingredients. Mix honey, hot water and vanilla. Blend
into dry ingredients (at this point, you may have to mix it all by
hand if your mixer isn’t real efficient). Shape into bars, cookies
or lightly press into a buttered muffin tin. You can also press the
batter into a dish (about one inc h deep) and cut into squares.
Sometimes these are better when allowed to dry. Adjust the
water/honey ratio for less or more sweetness. Keep refrigerated
(they’ll still last a week or more out of the refrigerator). For
other flavor options, use fresh lemon instead of cocoa, or use
more coconut. 
Need a fast snack — right now? Grab an apple. Or make a “bar in
a cup” — a tablespoon of almond butter in a cup with some honey.
Healthy options are endless, so create your own list. 
Tips for Healthy Cooking
How and if you cook your food can be just as important as how you
select it, since even the healthiest ingredients can be reduced in qual-
ity through improper kitchen practices. The biggest problems are
over cooking, using too-high heat, and over heating certain types of
oils. Following are some guidelines that can help make your work in
the kitchen become a work of health.160• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH        

The worst method for cooking anything is deep-fat or high-heat
frying, especially using vegetable oils. While many healthy foods
may be lightly sautéed in butter or olive oil, deep-frying overheats
the oil and can be deadly. In addition, the high heat may destroy other
nutrients in the food itself. Meats, fish and poultry can be grilled,
roasted or cooked in their own juices with sea salt. Less oil or butter
is needed for pan-cooking meats because they often contain sufficient
fats. Additionally, most people overcook meats and destroy some of
the valuable nutrients. It’s also important to not use too-high heat for
too long. For instance when grilling a steak, remember to turn it every
minute or so to prevent the excess formation of chemicals that can be
harmful to your health. This goes for vegetables as well — if using
high heat, turn them often.
Vegetables can be steamed, stir-fried in olive oil, roasted, baked
or grilled. Cook vegetables minimally to avoid destroying vitamins
and phytonutrients — they also taste better when not over cooked. If
boiling or steaming, use as little water as possible to avoid leaching of
nutrients.
Eggs can be soft- or har d-boiled, or cooked sunny-side up, over -
easy, poached or lightly scrambled. Use low heat to avoid “tough” or
rubbery eggs. 
If using oils for cooking it’s important to r emember that all oils
contain varying ratios of monounsaturated, saturated and polyunsat-
urated fats. Monounsaturated and saturated fats are not sensitive to
heat, but polyunsaturated oils ar e very pr one to oxidizing when
exposed to heat. This oxidation produces free radicals, which are
related to many health problems. Butter is one of the safest oils for
cooking, as it contains a low amount of polyunsaturated fat. Olive oil
can also be used for cooking but its polyunsaturated content is a little
higher. Another fat you may consider for cooking is coconut oil. In
addition, try lard, which contrary to popular belief may be a healthi-
er choice for cooking than butter .
Eat Ra w Foods
Consuming a significant amount of fresh, raw food is very important
for optimal health. You need not be obsessed with raw food, but make
sure you’r e getting some at each meal and that the majority of foods
on your menu are fresh and raw.EAT, DRINK AND BE MERRY • 161     

Mention raw foods and most people think of a big salad. But
there are so many different ways to add not only raw vegetables and
fruits to your diet, but other foods as well. Her e are some ideas:
• A garnish for any dish — parsley, large leaves of lettuce
or cabbage under a cooked piece of meat or fish.
•Asmall serving of fr uit between appetizer and entrée to
“clear the pallet.”
• Fruits or berries for dessert. 
• Chopped raw nuts or seeds on top of various foods,
including healthy desserts.
•Raw milk cheese and yogurt.
•Olive and coconut oils.162• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH
Rediscovering Lard
You’ve probably been programmed to believe that the absolute
“worst” fat you can consume is lard. Well, that’s a commonly
held belief, but consider the facts. Many people are surprised
to learn that compared to butter, lard contains more heart-
healthy monounsaturated fat, and less saturated fat and choles-
terol. A tablespoon of lowly lard contains 5.7 grams of
monounsaturated fat compared to 3.3 for butter. Lard weighs in
at 5 grams of saturated fat compared to 7.1 for butter. And lard
contains less than half the cholesterol of butter — 12 mg com-
pared to 31 mg. Lard also contains less heat-sensitive polyun-
saturated fat than olive oil — 1.4 grams compared to 2. 
For these reasons, lard may be a better choice for cooking than
butter or oli ve oil. Many chefs prefer it for its flavor and its abil-
ity to withstand heat. And it’s relatively inexpensive, too.
However, if you decide to use lard for cooking, it’s important to
seek out an organic sour ce, since toxins often accumulate in
the fats of animals that are not organically r aised.     

• Raw honey.
• Foods that are slightly cooked on the outside, but raw on
the inside: rare or medium-rare beef, lamb or fish, and
eggs (lightly fried, poached or soft boiled).
The nutritional quality of foods is affected by cooking, and by
deep freezing and other common factors associated with food stor-
age. Individual nutrients may be adversely affected by a number of
factors that r educe their levels in food. Consider the following:
• Many nutrients are affected by cooking, including vita-
mins A, C, thiamine (B1), riboflavin (B2), pantothenic
acid (B5), pyridoxine (B6), and E, as well as biotin, the
carotenoids and folic acid.
• Glutamine, lysine and threonine are amino acids unstable
to heat. The more they are heated, the more is lost.
• During cooking, significant amounts of nutrients may be
lost in liquids that are not consumed. 
• Compared to fresh foods, both freezing and canning can
reduce nutrients. For example, niacin loss in fr ozen veg -
etables may be 25 percent and in canning 50 percent.
• Foods stored for longer periods may lose nutrients, even
when they are still “fresh.” After 48 hours, for example,
lettuce may lose 30-40 percent of its vitamin C content.
• Ripened foods generally have higher levels of nutrients.
Tomatoes have more vitamin C and beta carotene when
ripe compar ed to unripe; bananas have mor e vitamin C
when ripe compar ed to medium ripe.
• Some vitamin E is destroyed by cooking, food processing,
and deep-fr eezing.
•Dietary supplements should also be made fr om raw
foods. These should be labeled as such — not just veg-
etable and fr uit concentrates, but freeze-dried concen-
trates, which are made through a slow, cold evaporativeEAT, DRINK AND BE MERRY • 163   

process. Most supplements don’t use foods carefully con-
centrated because they cost up to 10 times the prices of
foods dried with high heat. The most common process is
a high-heat (400° F) process.
Kitchen Tips and Equipment
Preparing food should be enjoyable and result in delicious meals. A
problem for many people is they are not familiar with real food
preparation, or don’t have the right tools to make the work easy.
While there’s nothing like experience, jump right in. Here are some
helpful tips.
A well-stocked kitchen also contains various hand utensils, elec-
tric items and other gadgets to accomplish interesting things. For
example, a simple spiral vegetable slicer can cr eate long thin
“spaghetti-like” pieces of raw zucchini. Top it with a beef and tomato
sauce for a delicious Italian meal. 
Other useful utensils include a mandolin slicer, glass bowls for
mixing and storing, wooden cutting boards, high-quality knives, a
garlic press, a grater (including a fine one for fresh ginger), a citrus
peel slicer , and a small hand citr us juicer for use in r ecipes.
In addition, the two most frequently used appliances in my
kitchen ar e a food pr ocessor (I have a Cuisinart but any good brand
will work) and a very good blender (I have a V ita-Mix). If you’r e buy -
ing organic meat in bulk, a grinder (to make fresh ground meat)
and/or a slicer is very useful.
Glass and heavy-duty stainless steel pots and pans pr ovide the
cookware. Avoid all aluminum, copper and non-stick products due to
the potential for food contamination. Iron cookware is also good
except avoid using high-acid foods in them, including tomato and
vinegar .
Shopping for Health
An important step you can take for better dietary habits is to proper-
ly shop for the food items that will bring about the greatest health.
Bad food has less of a chance of getting into your body if it never gets
into your grocery cart. With proper planning, you can make sure only
healthy items get into your cart and your body.164• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH       

Begin planning your shopping trip before you leave home. Never
shop or make a shopping list when you are hungry because you will
tend to buy unhealthy items. Instead, have a snack, make a list and
decide which store or stores offer you the healthiest choices. Many
cities now have health-food supermarkets, and many of the larger
chain groceries now carry higher-quality foods, such as organic pro-
duce. Just beware of organic junk food and other tricks of the trade.
In most grocery stores, you will find that the real-food items are
usually stocked on the store’s perimeter. While making this loop, try
to buy as few items in packages as possible. If you do buy items in
packages, always be sure to read the label and study the list of ingre-
dients and nutritional facts. If the item contains anything that does
not promote health, it belongs back on the shelf and not in your cart.
In addition, choose or ganic items when available. Stick to your list.
Remembering everything on it will keep you focused and help you
avoid such dietary pitfalls as the fresh-baked French bread (full of
refined white flour and fake vitamins) that grocers place strategically
and aromatically at the ends of store aisles.
Your most important stop on the store perimeter is the produce
section. Choose a variety of fr esh gr eens and vegetables for salads
and cooking. Avoid starchy potatoes and corn. Once again, look for
organic pr oduce, especially if you are buying spinach or celery, as
these cr ops ar e often heavily sprayed and can r etain high pesticide
residues. Also in the produce section are fresh fruits. Minimize the
high-glycemic fr uits such as lar ge bananas and watermelon, and
instead choose fiber -rich apples, pears and grapefr uits, and phytonu -
trient-rich berries.
Next stop is the meat section. Seek out natural or organic grass-
fed beef, pork and lamb, free-range poultry and wild-caught ocean
fish. These mor e-natural meats can be found in many supermarkets
and health-food gr oceries. 
Bakeries ar e usually located on the stor e perimeter — pass them
by. The deli counter may have some items that are whole and healthy,
but most are not; be careful.
Also on the outer edge of the gr ocery you will find the dairy sec -
tion. If you must buy milk, consider goat milk. Cream, butter, plain
yogurt and cheese are items to consider. Look for organic items, sinceEAT, DRINK AND BE MERRY • 165   

toxins such as pesticides and hormones often bind to the fat in dairy
products.
Near the dairy section are the eggs. Most stores now carry organ-
ic eggs. They cost a little more but are still an inexpensive protein bar-
gain.
If you stick to the perimeter of the store, you’ll find that you only
rarely need venture up an aisle. Usually the only food items you’ll
need up the aisles are extra-virgin olive oil, raw unfiltered honey,
beans, nuts, nut butters, spices and sea salt.
Milking Your Health
A wise old axiom is “cow’s milk is for calves, human milk is for
humans.” Unfortunately, most people hear the “Got Milk?” ads
and ignore professional recommendations. Milk consumption
is up, and so are the problems created by it. In many people,
milk can cause various types of gastrointestinal stress, skin
problems and lowered immunity to infections and allergies.
And worse is the potential for hormones and chemicals, so
especially avoid milk and milk products that are not organic.
Milk allergy is common in adults and children. In most people,
milk allergy symptoms are delayed and not obvious until it’s
eliminated from the diet. These delayed reactions come in
many forms; eczema, asthma, constipation, chronic nasal con-
gestion, gastroesophageal reflux and others. In some people,
there is an immediate allergic reaction by the body’s immune
system, usually to the casein protein. Symptoms typically
include s welling, itc hing, hi ves, abdominal cramping, breath-
ing difficulty and diarrhea. In a severe reaction, hypotension or
shock can result. Lactose, or milk sugar, poses another poten-
tial problem with milk, as many people have difficulty digest-
ing this sugar and some cannot digest it at all. Those who have
difficulty digesting lactose do not produce enough of an
enzyme called lactase, which breaks down the complex lac-
tose into simple sugars. In these people, the lactose ferments in
the small intestine, producing gas, bloating, cramps and diar-
rhea. Lactose-digestion problems are also associated with more166• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

serious problems such as irritable bowel syndrome, premen-
strual syndrome and mental depression.
Many people who have problems with cow milk find that they
can tolerate milk from sheep and goats much better. Goat milk
is widely available in many grocery stores and is lower in lac-
tose. The fat in both goat and sheep milk is made up of small-
er fat globules that are easier to digest. The protein structure of
goat and sheep casein is also less allergenic than cow casein.
Wine, Alcohol and Your Health
Wine is not only the oldest alcoholic beverage but the oldest medici-
nal agent in continuous use throughout human history. The use of
wine dates back more than 6,000 years, and is attributed to physi-
cians, scientists, poets and peasants. Even today, wine and other alco-
holic beverages are classified as foods and used daily in most cul-
tures. More healthful benefits have been bestowed upon wine than
any other natural substance. For instance, drinking wine with meals
can help with r elaxation and digestion.
There are few known unhealthy effects from moderate amounts of
alcohol consumption, with negative consequences seen mostly in
those who go beyond moderation. In fact, as we’ve all hear d for a long
time, there are many positive health benefits associated with wine con-
sumption. Drinking wine and other alcohol in moderation significant-
ly lowers the risk of cor onary heart disease. Moderate drinkers have
healthier cholesterol ratios as alcohol raises the HDL and lowers LDL.
This may be one reason for the lower incidence of heart disease in con-
sumers versus abstainers. Another may be that alcohol incr eases blood
flow to the heart. In addition, alcohol reduces the tendency to form
blood clots, a major cause of heart attacks (and strokes). Alcohol also
lowers the risk of Alzheimer’s disease and other types of dementia,
and improves bone health. Moreover, those who don’t drink actually
have greater risk for heart disease. Some scientists say that people who
have one or two drinks per day may add three to four years of life
expectancy, as compared to those who don’t drink.
Scientists also say that r ed wine may be a potent cancer inhibitor .
Resveratrol, a substance found in red wine (due to the fact that grapeEAT, DRINK AND BE MERRY • 167     

skins are used to make red wine, but not white), grapes, and thou-
sands of medicinal plants from South America and China, not only
interferes with cancer’s development, but may also cause precancer-
ous cells to reverse to normal. Resveratrol also has anti-inflammatory
properties. 
Most wine contains about 12 percent alcohol (mostly ethanol, with
only a very small percentage of other types of alcohol). Sweet dessert
wines may contain up to 20 percent alcohol. This compares to 40 per-
cent (80 pr oof) and 50 percent (100 proof) alcohol in distilled products
such as vodka and gin. Wine also contains vitamins B1, B2, B6 and
niacin, as well as traces of most minerals, including iron. Most red table
wine contains iron in the easily usable ferrous form. The pH of wine is
low, like that of the stomach; perhaps one reason wine improves
appetite and digestion. Eating natural fats with wine slows the absorp-
tion of alcohol and protects the intestine from possible irritation. 
Once in the blood, alcohol is broken down in the liver. About 3.5
ounces of pure alcohol can be safely metabolized by the body if
spread out over the day. This translates to about a bottle of wine —
not something I’m r ecommending. T o a Eur opean, this may not seem
like excess, but to an American it might. In the United States, the aver-
age annual per -capita consumption of wine is just a few teaspoons,
while in Italy, it’s about a half bottle.
As a gr oup, women ar e mor e susceptible to negative ef fects of
alcohol because of their smaller size, and because they have less
amount of alcohol dehydr ogenase in their stomachs and livers. This
enzyme br eaks down much of the alcohol befor e it’s absorbed, and in
the blood.
If you enjoy wine and want the health benefits associated with it,
drink only what you enjoy and can tolerate, and no mor e than one or
two glasses. The simplest recommendation is a 4-ounce glass or two
with meals. For most people a glass of wine will be completely metab-
olized in about an hour and a half. Some people, however , should
never consume alcohol. But a moderate amount for those who can,
and want to, is now considered to be 4 to 8 ounces of wine per day.
An obvious side effect of alcohol is that it impairs your senses, so
it should be avoided within four hours of driving a vehicle. One drink
increases the risk of an accident by 50 percent, two drinks by 100 per-168• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

cent. Also, wine should not be taken with other drugs, or by people
with certain illnesses, and is not recommended for pregnant women.
Although wine gives a relaxed feeling, any alcohol can disturb sleep
if consumed shortly before bedtime. Studies of biological circadian
rhythms in humans show that alcohol is best metabolized between 5
and 6 pm. If you enjoy wine, be sure to ask your doctor whether it
poses any health problems for you.
Caffeine: Coffee and Tea
Many people use caffeine as a drug, as a means of getting more “ener-
gy.” If this is the case with you, you may be addicted. And if you need
a drug to give you a pick-up, your fat-burning system may not be
working very well. Caffeine can also induce adrenal, liver and nerv-
ous-system stress, and create unstable blood-sugar levels in many
people. As with everything else, you must determine whether your
body can tolerate caf feine fr om coffee or tea. If you can, there are
some important considerations. Buy your coffee beans as freshly
roasted as possible, keep enough in your cabinet in a tightly sealed
glass container and the r est in the fr eezer . Grind them just befor e you
make the coffee. The lighter roasts have more caffeine, and the dark-
er roasts less. Just as with fruits and vegetables, it’s best to choose
organic cof fee to avoid pesticides and other chemicals.
Many health benefits have been associated with both green and
black tea, including anti-cancer properties, since they contain a vari-
ety of antioxidants and phytonutrients. Once again, or ganic tea is bet -
ter than conventional as tea growers may use many pesticides.
Good News for Cocoa Lovers
The evidence is gr owing that cocoa is a powerful therapeutic food.
Including this treat in the diet may do more than satisfy a craving —
it may also help to improve health. Cocoa can help lower blood pres-
sure and impr ove car diovascular health. The flavanols found in
cocoa, purple grape juice and tea can stimulate processing of nitric
oxide, which pr omotes healthy blood flow and blood pr essure, and
cardiovascular health. In addition, recent research confirms other
studies indicating that flavanol-rich cocoa may work much like
aspirin to pr omote healthy blood flow by pr eventing blood platelets
from sticking together. EAT, DRINK AND BE MERRY • 169       

Real, unsweetened cocoa typically contains significant protein,
about 7 or 8 grams per ounce. It is also low in carbohydrate —
between 8 and 13 grams per ounce, with 50 to 60 percent or more of
that carbohydrate coming in the form of fiber. Like other beans, cocoa
contains many vitamins and minerals, including folic acid, niacin,
zinc and magnesium. The fats in natural cocoa also have healthy
attributes. More than a third of the fat in cocoa is monounsaturated.
An equal amount of fat in cocoa is in the form of stearic acid. Though
saturated, stearic acid is a good fat, as it can reduce LDL cholesterol.
Cocoa also contains the essential fat linoleic acid.
Cocoa also has str ong antioxidant benefits, which have also been
shown specifically to protect against LDL-cholesterol damage. One
study showed that when a cocoa snack was substituted for a high-car-
bohydrate snack, it increased the “good” HDL cholesterol and
reduced blood triglycerides. And, it did not increase LDL cholesterol
despite being a higher-fat snack. Polyphenols in cocoa, similar to
those in red wine, provide protection against blood-vessel problems,
including heart disease.
While cocoa has some very healthy attributes, eating it in a candy
bar is not recommended since this usually includes a lot of sugar, bad
fats and chemicals. Only buy pure cocoa — without sugar or dairy —
and use it to make your own healthy desserts, sweetened with honey .
Caffeine content of some single-serving drinks
(Amounts in milligr ams of caffeine. Amount varies with how
you make it, product and size.)
Regular coffee  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85-300
Double espresso  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
Decaf coffee  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3-5
Black tea  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50-140
Green tea  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20-50
Real cocoa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25-50
Most herb teas don’ t contain caffeine. But some o ver-the-
counter drugs do in a r ange of 15-300 mg (read labels). 170• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

Salt of the Sea
If you use this universal ingredient, sea salt can be a flavorful and
healthful addition to your food. Sea salt usually tastes better than reg-
ular salt, and contains other minerals as well. Early humans obtained
much of their food from the salt-water ocean, and we still require
many of the sea’s vital minerals.
People have come to fear sodium these days, almost as much as
fats. However , like certain fats, sodium is an essential nutrient.
Sodium is necessary for water regulation, the nervous system, muscle
activity, adrenal gland function and many other healthy activities.
Sodium intake thr ough a healthy diet, with the addition of added salt,
is the best way to obtain sufficient amounts for most healthy people.
For those who sweat a lot, or perform high levels of exer cise, sodium
loss increases through sweat. Those under excess stress, and athletes
who are overtrained, may have hormone imbalances that can cause
too much sodium loss through the urine. These individuals some-
times crave salt, and usually need to consume more.
Sodium can incr ease blood pr essure in susceptible individuals.
This occurs in about one-thir d to one-half of those with hypertension.
In these cases, too much sodium can cause edema and/or further ele-
vation of blood pressure. This sensitivity can be discovered through
an examination by a health-care professional, and by avoiding salt
and sodium for a week and checking how blood pressure changes.
Most patients with high blood pressure can correct the problem when
the pr oper amounts of carbohydrates ar e determined, especially
beginning with the Two Week Test. This can often reduce or eliminate
sodium sensitivity . 
Spice Up Your Health
Spices have been used in food preparation for thousands of years. The
right spice, or combinations, can make foods tempting and delicious
by boosting the appearance, smell and taste. Spices also ar e useful as
natural preservatives, and many have powerful therapeutic and
health-promoting properties, too. In food, spices can prevent the
growth of dangerous bacteria and other organisms. And when ingest-
ed, they can fight against cancer, heart disease and other chronic con-EAT, DRINK AND BE MERRY • 171      

ditions. All these benefits come from the healthy oils, antioxidants
and phytonutrients. Here are some examples:
• Oregano, thyme and bay leaf can protect against poten-
tially harmful infectious agents such as Candida, E. coli,
Salmonella and Staph, and even the potentially deadly
Klebsiella pneumoniae.
• Turmeric contains the antioxidant curcumin and has
powerful anti-inflammatory (and cancer preventive)
properties, as does rosemary.
• Ginger has powerful anti-inflammatory properties, and
can inhibit the r hinovirus — one of the viruses responsi-
ble for the common cold. Hot ginger tea, made fr om fresh
ginger and a small amount of honey, is one of the best
remedies when those around you are getting a cold or
you feel it coming on. Ginger ’s antioxidant pr operties ar e
at least as effective as those of vitamin C, can be very use-
ful for nausea and motion sickness, and help pr otect the
intestine from ulcers. In addition, ginger may have prop-
erties that pr omote fat-burning.
•Capsaicin, found in hot r ed chili peppers, also has anti-
inflammatory properties, and can stimulate increased
oxygen uptake, which is one reason it may also increase
fat-burning capability . 
• Wasabi, a hot root used with Japanese foods, also protects
against potential food poisoning by bacteria and fungus.
It also contains anti-cancer properties, including power-
ful antioxidants. 
•Parsley and cilantro not only add a visual pleasure to a
plate of food but ar e full of therapeutic phytonutrients. 
• Fenugreek (the seed) contains high levels of flavanoids,
which are important antioxidants, and has been shown to
have cholesterol-lowering capabilities. This spice can also
reduce platelet aggregation (important for proper blood
flow) and reduce blood sugar in diabetics.172• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

Many other herbs and spices have therapeutic value as well,
including cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg, cloves, dill and basil. These
can be found fresh in groceries or can be grown in your garden, win-
dow box or even an inside window sill. Dried spices can lose not only
their flavor but also their therapeutic value over time, as many potent
substances break down. And, since they contain polyunsaturated oils,
they can go rancid. Buy spices in small packages, and keep them
sealed tightly and stored in a cool, dark place. 
Deadly Doughnuts
Love the taste of doughnuts? If you want to be healthy you bet-
ter get over it. Even though some are “cholesterol-free,” these
crispy items are one junk food to avoid. Their bad ingredients
include trans fats, sugar, refined flour, artificial flavors and col-
ors, and many other chemicals with names you can’t
pronounce.
But there’s more danger — the ingredients tell nothing of what
really gives doughnuts their unique crispy flavor. Most dough-
nut makers buy oil that other fast-food oper ations ha ve alread y
used to fry their products. This tired oil often has been used to
fry other foods for weeks. The intense heat breaks do wn the oil
and turns some of it to soap. This combination gi ves doughnuts
their special crispy taste and texture; something that fresh oil
fails to do. There are many other flour products made with used
oil out there as well, so beware.
The main problem is that these oils — including trans fats —
adversely affect the delicate balance of fats in your body, pro-
ducing too many cancer-promoting eicosanoids. Along the
way, inflammation, increased blood pressure and other prob-
lems can be triggered too. Even just one doughnut contains
enough of these dangerous fats to remain in the bod y and trig-
ger unhealthy actions for months.EAT, DRINK AND BE MERRY • 173    

21
One Last Bite
Ther e are always questions and other topics that just cannot be
addr essed in a book, and that’s one reason for this new 5th edition. As
new research helps confirm earlier ideas or if modifications and addi-
tions are made, these are left for another time and place. My website
— www.philmaffetone.com — addresses many of these other issues
including new topics. For now , I want to highlight some common top-
ics regarding food that need mentioning, and offer more tips to get
you on your way to a new you.
The concept of individuality is very important, yet people still
either miss it or use it as an excuse to not eat in a healthy way . No one
“diet” can work for all individuals. And clearly , this book does not of fer
any one diet but instead, information and ideas that you can use to help
individualize your eating plan. It’s really an education in intuition.
Some people say they feel better eating junk food, and so, they
rationalize, that must be the best way for them to eat. Sorry, if you
really believe that notion then not only is this book not for you but all
that junk food adversely affected your brain. There are basic, natural
rules we all must follow when it comes to eating right. For example,
we must all drink adequate amounts of water for good health as one
day of low intake can put stress on many areas of the body. Avoiding
processed food is another natural law as even one serving of refined
sugar, for example, can have a significant adverse effect on your
health. Avoiding bad fats is equally important considering that a meal
with hydrogenated fat, for example, can remain in the body and do
damage for a couple of months. Nor do we want to be obsessed with
eating; the stress created by being fanatical about minor details, for
example, can outweigh some of the benefits.  The answer? Balance all
of the healthy things in life while avoiding the unhealthy ones — a
basic foundation of this book.    

Beware of advertising! It distracts us in our efforts to live health-
fully. It’s negative education — propaganda. These shameful activi-
ties, frequently directed at children, have completely reshaped the
modern world’s eating habits. In less than a century we’ve gone from
a diet high in natural foods to one made mostly of highly processed
harmful items. No one should be surprised at the prediction that in
the next decade 75 percent of our population will be overfat; chronic
life-threatening diseases are already affecting people at younger ages
than ever before, including children.
Unfortunately, the so-called “natural foods” movement of today
is not helping. Synthetic vitamins, processed and packaged conven-
ience items, and organic junk food is now the norm, making up most
of the items in health food stores. 
Your job, should you choose to accept it, is to avoid all the hype.
For every bad food, it seems like there’s a new diet associated with it.
While the low-calorie, low-fat and other diet plans don’t work very
well, they’re still the most popular. Let’s look at some of them.
Counting Calories
The calorie-counting theory is based on the idea that the calories in
the food you eat minus the calories you burn for energy equals the
weight you lose or gain. The idea is that balancing ener gy intake and
output r esults in stable weight. If you eat fewer calories than you
burn, you lose weight, or, if you take in more than you use, you gain.
The pr oblem with this theory is that it does not work as simply as it
seems for most people. This is because everyone has a slightly dif fer-
ent metabolism, food is utilized differently, and fat and sugar are
burned at different ratios from person to person. For example, some
people get 60 percent of energy from fat and 40 percent from sugar,
while others ar e just the opposite. When you hear “burning calories,”
your question should be, “calories of what — fat or sugar?” (This
issue is r elated to your aer obic system as discussed later .)
In addition to the number of calories taken in, the amount of car-
bohydrates, fats and proteins eaten also significantly affects how the
body burns ener gy. So to use only the total calories as a guide may be
misleading. More importantly, counting calories doesn’t work in real
life for most people, and the side effects can be significant — the leastONE LAST BITE • 175     

damaging being long-term weight gain as a result of slowing down
your metabolism on a calorie-restricted diet.
Case History 
When Sally turned 30, she decided to get serious about taking
off the excess weight. So she followed a low-calorie diet that
limited her intake to 1,000 calories per day. Within three
months, Sally felt more tired, but finally reached her goal of los-
ing 20 pounds. Within six months, she gained about 25 pounds
back. She went back on her diet, and it was just as successful
as before, although it took a little longer to lose the 25 pounds.
This vicious cycle continued for about five years. Sally was now
not only tired, but depressed, had insomnia, and had PMS for
two weeks each month. During my initial consultation with
Sally, I explained how she was continually suppressing her
metabolism and getting more unhealthy with each vicious
cycle. Sally was weaned off her calorie-counting and eventual-
ly was able to eat as much as her body required. In time she got
down to the same size clothes she wore when she was at her
“ideal” weight at 22 y ears of age. And to her surprise, she was
eating about 2,000 calories eac h day!
Calorie counting almost always r esults in eating less food. When
you eat less food, especially less fat, which contains the most calories,
one of the significant results can be that your metabolism slows down
and you can eventually stor e mor e fat, despite your initial (short-
term) weight loss. That’s why so many people eventually gain more
weight and fat after being on a calorie-r estricted diet. The best way to
speed up metabolism is to eat the amount of good-quality food you
need each day, including fats, and be physically active. 
Low-Fat Diets 
One of the most popular and health-damaging diet plans is the low-
fat diet. The basic idea is built on the fallacy that calorie-dense dietary
fat causes the most weight gain and is detrimental to health. Many
people on low-fat diets have a “fat-phobia.” Low-fat diets ar e popu-
lar among calorie-counters because they are a seemingly easy way to
reduce calories.176• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH        

There are several problems associated with low-fat diets, many of
which are the same as those associated with low-calorie diets. Low-fat
diets can slow metabolism, and also increase hunger through reduced
satiety. People on low-fat diets tend to eat more carbohydrate; as you
may recall, 40 percent or more of carbohydrate is directly converted
to fat for storage by the body. And, many low-fat packaged foods are
higher in sugar; with the fat content lowered, the flavor is gone too,
and manufacturers must add sugar to make it more palatable. 
The worst problems associated with low-fat diets are essential-
fatty-acid imbalances, hormonal problems and disease. Essential fatty
acids are usually deficient in low-fat diets, along with all the benefits
previously explained. Women who are on or who have been on low-
fat diets are especially vulnerable to hormonal imbalances. And final-
ly, contrary to popular belief, low-fat diets do not pr event disease. In
fact, some types of fat are associated with prevention of heart disease
and cancer. 
The Gram Counter
Knowing the weight in grams of each food eaten at a meal can have
more practical meaning. I’ve used it in this book, but primarily for r ef-
erence. In addition, knowing the approximate grams of macronutri-
ents — and the ratio between carbohydrates, pr otein and fat — can
make it easier to r elate to how the body r esponds, metabolically , espe -
cially in relation to insulin as previously discussed. Gram counting
also includes the popular 40-30-30 plan, which suggests people eat 40
percent of their calories fr om carbohydrates, and 30 per cent each fr om
protein and fat. Soon after starting private practice, I used this ratio as
a starting point — not as a “cookbook” diet — but to help people fur-
ther determine their individual needs. Calculating the percentages of
macr onutrients involves multiplying the grams of each macronutri-
ent by 4 calories for carbohydrate, 4 for pr otein, and 9 for fat, and
dividing each subtotal by the total calories of the food or meal. (Fats
have 9 calories per gram, and carbohydrates and proteins each have
4 calories per gram.)
But counting grams, like counting calories, can also maintain the
dieting obsession. Each time you eat something you have to think
about how much it weighs or you have to look it up in a food table.ONE LAST BITE • 177     

Most people eventually get tired of doing that and fall off their “diet.”
There’s a better way: Follow what makes you feel the best. Follow
your intuition. Why blindly follow some menu when you can do
what every other animal on earth does — eat small amounts often,
stop eating when you’re satisfied, and eat what your body needs and
what makes you feel the best.
Unfortunately, none of the popular diet approaches consider how
you respond to your meals. Do they make you feel more hunger?
Tired? Energized? Pay attention to how you feel immediately after a
meal, and for the next few hours; one of the best indicators of whether
that type of meal works well for your needs. As you consider this and
other factors we’ve discussed in previous chapters, you’ll be on your
way to knowing what works best for you. What is really happening,
is you’r e developing your natural intuition.
For many people a plan that makes sense is to determine the
types and amounts of foods that work best for you, and then devise a
schedule that divides this food up over the course of the day.
Typically this means three regular meals with two or three healthy
snacks. Eating right is often a matter of planning. You plan your day,
often writing it down in your planner; you plan the clothes you’r e
going to wear and you plan vacations. If you plan your meals as care-
fully , you’ll be much healthier . Let’s plan a sample day’s menu, begin-
ning with the br eaking of your all-night fast, br eakfast.
Breakfast
Ther e’s no better way to start your day than with a healthy br eakfast.
This includes real food, including some quality protein. Keeping your
carbohydrates to the proper level will help optimize blood sugar,
which will give you more physical and mental energy for the day’s
tasks ahead. 
Of course, eggs ar e the perfect br eakfast food. While they’re not
just for br eakfast, they just could make your first meal of the day
ideal, and a bit easier to prepare — whether poached, scrambled, soft-
boiled, fried, hard-boiled or in an omelet, eggs are a quick meal.
I begin my day with a delicious smoothie. I soft boil a dozen eggs
at a time and keep them refrigerated, so preparation for this is about
five minutes. Here’s my large, one-serving recipe:178• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

2 soft cooked eggs.
1 large apple, pear, peach or the best in-season fruits.
1/2cup blueberries or more per person.
1 teaspoon plain psyllium.
1 tablespoon raw whole sesame or flaxseeds.
8 ounces water .
Add all ingredients to a good blender and blend.
(The best blenders will do a great job on the whole fruits, core
and all the seeds, and I include a raw whole carrot, raw
spinach, kale or cilantro or other vegetables.)
Omelets are also quick, and can include a serving or two of veg-
etables. Just sauté some vegetables, dr op in some eggs and cook either
by scrambling or slowly cooking and flip. When you have more time
to prepare breakfast, a fancy omelet with a sauce makes for a nice
change. Another version of the omelet is quiche, made with vegeta-
bles, meat or fish. Avoid the cr ust and save time — just butter the dish
befor e adding the quiche mixtur e. Make one or two ahead of time for
another quick breakfast.
Don’t have time for breakfast? Make time for being healthy. There
are several things you can do to ensure you get this most important
first meal of the day . First, do as much pr eparation as possible the
night befor e. Not just br eakfast pr ep, but things you do in the morn -
ing, like pack your briefcase, set out your clothes or pack your bags.
As for meal preparation, get everything out and ready to go, except
for the food itself; put water in the kettle, pan on the stove, plate, sil-
verware, etc.
I have eggs every day, and with so many varieties of egg dishes
there’s no need to be bored with them. But maybe you still want more
variety , so her e’s another healthy br eakfast variation: yogurt or real
ricotta cheese with fresh fruit. Or, leftovers. Whatever you choose to
have for br eakfast, just r emember it’s the most important meal of the
day, so don’t cheat yourself or your family out of it.ONE LAST BITE • 179   

Lunch
If you eat a good breakfast, and a mid-morning snack, getting to
lunch without crawling on your knees from hunger should not be a
problem. And like breakfast, a healthy lunch is a matter of proper
planning. If you’re away from home, packing your own lunch usual-
ly makes for a more healthful midday meal. Arrange for that to be
done the evening before so it’s not another job you need to do in the
morning. Plan ahead by cooking extra food at dinner so that you can
include some for lunch. Eating more protein and less carbohydrate
during lunch will keep you from getting sleepy or losing concentra-
tion after lunch. 
A large salad is a great foundation of a healthy lunch. Use a vari-
ety of different vegetables, and dressing made from simple oil and
vinegar to more elegant dressings made ahead of time. On different
days you can add different proteins: meat, cheese, fish, eggs or
combinations. 
Leftovers from a balanced dinner make for a perfect lunch — per-
haps a few slices of beef or a chunk of fish with steamed vegetables. 
If you’re going out for lunch, make sure you take enough time so
you’r e not r ushed, and be car eful of r estaurant food. T oday , ther e are
more healthy foods, including organic items, to make it easier, but ask
about what’s used in the kitchen. Don’t be afraid to have eggs again
as an option; they’r e a quick meal you can get almost anywher e.
Dinner
If you start the day with a r eal br eakfast, have a good lunch, and eat
healthy snacks, dinner should be your smallest meal. This is the ideal
scenario. Too often, however, people do just the opposite. They skip
breakfast, have a skimpy lunch and then pile on the food in the
evening. Your dinner could include items from the refrigerator that
you combine for a sampling of tasty leftovers you’ve accumulated
over the past few days. Or, once again, eggs can be a great dinner. Or
it could be just a small salad and some protein. Either way, dinner
should be easy, delicious and relaxing.
Healthy Sauces for Tasty Meals
Whether it’s breakfast, lunch or dinner, any meal can be made more
savory and even romantic with a sauce. When you think of a sauce,180• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH        

the thought of preparation time first comes to mind. But some basic
sauce recipes are quick, easy and store well. They can turn your seem-
ingly simple and boring meals into culinary delights. Below are three
basic sauce recipes that you can make with very little preparation
time, and the results will keep well for use a second or third time. You
may also find yourself feasting on just the sauce!
A Note About Recipes
I learned to cook by intuition, “throwing ingredients into the
pot” r ather than by following a recipe and measuring every-
thing. I recommend you do the same. Over time, you’ll make
more delicious meals in less time and without the anxiety often
associated with following a recipe. I do, however, highly rec-
ommend reading through cookbooks to get more ideas about
combining ingredients.
Basic Butter Sauce
The most basic of sauces is also the easiest to make — a butter sauce.
When you make your vegetables, put some “sweet” butter on the
vegetables when they’r e still hot, along with some sea salt. (“Sweet”
butter is made without salt — the cr eam used to make this butter is a
higher quality and mor e tasty than that used for salted butter.) Even
those who never liked vegetables will usually eat them with a butter
sauce. Don’t be afraid to use generous amounts of both ingredients,
unless there’s a real reason to limit these ingredients in your diet. This
is the real key to a great butter sauce. If you have the time and want
to get more fancy, sauté some garlic or onions, or add some other
spices (tarragon works well) into the butter. The addition of olive oil
is another nice option. Pr ep time is just 30 seconds for the basic sauce,
and less than 5 minutes for the fancy butter sauce with garlic.
Basic Tomato Sauce
This is an easy, tasty and healthy all-around red sauce. Just put some
chopped tomatoes in an uncovered pot, add some sea salt and let it
boil for an hour or two to reduce the water content for a thick sauce.
Blending the tomatoes ahead of time is a nice option. If you can’t getONE LAST BITE • 181         

fresh, vine-ripened tomatoes, use canned, whole, peeled organic
tomatoes which are vine-ripened and packed without preservatives.
The canned ones are easier and quicker to make. When cooked down
to a thicker puree, tomatoes take on a unique taste all their own and
even without adding anything but salt, you’ll have a great-tasting
sauce. If you like tomato sauce, you’ll love this simple way of making
it. It’s a guarantee that people who taste it will ask for the recipe! You
can freeze this sauce in small containers and use it when you want.
Once you have the basic sauce, if time permits, you can add other
ingredients, like garlic, parsley, or a sprinkle of Parmesan or Romano
cheese, or even a touch of sour cream. 
Basic Cheese Sauce
This is simply made fr om heavy cr eam, butter, cheese and salt. Melt
about a quarter-stick of butter, add about a cup of heavy cream, and
when hot, add enough cheese to make it taste delicious — about two
or three tablespoons or more. Add sea salt to taste. Grated Parmesan
or Romano works great, or use your favorite cheese. 
Eating on the Run
The realities of life dictate that you won’t always be able to eat the
way that’s best. When you travel, ar e late for work, or somehow find
you can’t get a good meal when you need it, you’ll have to find the
best alternative. There are some acceptable options. If you’re away
from home and ar e having tr ouble finding good food, consider going
to a deli for a chef ’s salad, or just some sliced meats and cheeses. Or ,
go to a diner for some eggs with a side of vegetables. In some restau-
rants, prepackaged liquid eggs are used for scrambled eggs and
omelets, so get them “sunny-side up.” 
Agreat alternative is to eat a healthy energy bar. Since you’ll have
a dif ficult time finding one in the stor e that is acceptable, always have
a batch of homemade Phil’s Bars on hand. 
Foods for Children
One of the most common dietary questions I r eceive fr om people
relates to feeding their children. The answer, in principle, is relatively
simple. From baby’s first foods, they eat much the same things adults182• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH         

eat, sometimes in a different form. The implementation is not always
so easy, mostly due to the marketing of junk foods to children. Let’s
start at the beginning.
From birth, mother’s milk provides everything the baby needs,
including water. It’s not unusual for a baby to rely exclusively on
breastfeeding for all its nutritional needs through 6 or 8 months of
age, or longer. I’ve never seen a situation where the mother was phys-
ically unable to breastfeed. If you’re expecting a baby and would like
more information and support on breastfeeding, contact La Leche
League International (www.lalacheleague.org).
The general recommendation is to wait until at least 6 to 8 months
of age before introducing outside sources of food for babies (although
baby-food companies want you to think differently). A baby’s intes-
tinal tract is not yet developed to pr ocess food other than mother ’s
milk, and the immune system could have adverse reactions to foreign
foods if they’re introduced too early. This could lead to intestinal dis-
tress, allergies and other problems, often for a lifetime. When babies
start wanting to experiment with food after 6 to 8 months of age, you
can begin trying different foods individually. If you combine more
than one food at a time in the beginning and the baby has an adverse
reaction, you may not know which food is the culprit. And, it’s best
to give the baby a choice, letting him or her choose fr om a variety of
healthy options.
Babies are born as instinctive and intuitive geniuses; they know
just what they need to be healthy . And when they start eating foods,
they can self-select very well, when not influenced by adults or other
kids. Studies by Dr. Clara Davis in the 1920s and ’30s showed that
once children are weaned, they will naturally select the foods their
bodies need the most. In Davis’ studies, the children developed very
different dietary patterns. In the end, the children were psychological-
ly and physically healthier than average.
Practically speaking, most par ents ar e not willing to pr epare a
smorgasbord for the baby every time he or she wants to eat. But there
are some patterns I discuss below that can be followed — mainly that
certain foods, like carbohydrates and dairy pr oducts, should be post -
poned until they are more easily tolerated, and more-often selected
foods should be eaten first. And, always use organic foods.ONE LAST BITE • 183   

The best first foods to introduce are vegetables. Letting the baby
play with a fresh raw carrot, zucchini or other raw vegetable (except
potatoes since even a small amount of hidden sprout can be toxic) can
be a great way to introduce food. Use larger vegetables, or pieces, so
the baby can’t get it stuck in the mouth. Regardless, you’ll want to
keep close — infants seem to get any size item into their mouths one
way or another. Eventually they’ll figure out they can get pieces of the
vegetables with their new teeth. Try one vegetable at a time and see
which they like, which, if any, they react badly to, and if they really
have an interest. Some babies just want to play with food, just as with
everything else around them. If they don’t seem ready to eat, don’t
push it. Wait a couple of weeks and introduce some raw vegetables
again.
Next move on to cooked vegetables — peas, squash, carr ots or
whatever you’r e eating. Just mash up the vegetables you cook for
yourself and feed them to the baby . Hold the butter and salt until a
couple of months later. Also keep away from rough or hard-to-digest
vegetables like those in the cabbage family , including broccoli, cauli-
flower and Brussels sprouts. You’ll gradually see what your baby
likes and dislike, especially when you change diapers.
Once a variety of vegetables are tolerated, start next with fruits.
Try a lar ge piece of apple, pear or peach. Don’t for get, the baby’s goal
is to get it into his or her mouth — whole, of course. Move on to
homemade applesauce, and try pear and peach sauce too. Avoid
using fruit juice; it’s too concentrated, and even if you dilute it you’ll
increase acidity in the baby’s mouth that can have a devastating effect
on the teeth, leading to tooth decay later .
Now that the baby is eating fresh vegetables and fruits, you’re
ready to experiment with cooked eggs. Initially, try the yolk and
white separately in case there’s a reaction to either. Next, organic
meats. Buy everything as fresh as possible, avoiding processed meats
and canned foods. Make dairy and grains the very last foods you
introduce. Milk and wheat are the most common allergies in children,
followed by soy and corn. Why not hold off on these potential prob-
lems as long as possible since the baby will get everything he or she
needs nutritionally fr om the other foods?184• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

So much of the food preferences people develop later in life were
acquired at an early age from what their parents fed them as babies.
Starting off right makes feeding your older, potentially more picky
children much easier. The bottom line is this: If your kids are not eat-
ing right it’s usually your fault. In their early years, take the respon-
sibility to buy and prepare all the food they eat. Don’t let the
processed-food companies and the lure of convenience dictate how
your child will eat for the r est of his or her life. The quality of your
child’s entire life depends on it.ONE LAST BITE • 185   

22
Developing Maximum
Aerobic Function
Earlier in this book I defined fitness as a crucial element to human
performance. In the purest sense, fitness is the ability to perform
physical activity. For most of their existence humans were extremely
active, expending vast amounts of energy just to accomplish the basic
tasks that kept them alive, like walking for miles in search of food.
These early people had tremendous endurance based on aerobic sys-
tems that were built by their daily tasks of living. Suddenly, in just a
short span of a few generations, today’s humans have become much
less active and as a consequence we are much more prone to dysfunc-
tion and disease. For the relative few who are physically active it’s in
the form of exercise, leaving the majority in a state of aerobic deficien-
cy. But most of those who do exercise get too much of the anaerobic
type, which can be very str essful, causing injury and illness. 
All through this book I’ve emphasized the importance of burning
fat for ener gy and optimal health. This important activity takes place
in the aerobic system, which uses mostly fat as fuel. A different part of
us — the anaerobic system — uses mostly sugar for energy. It follows
that to impr ove your level of fitness, enhance your ability to burn fat,
obtain unlimited ener gy and corr ect most bodily imbalances, the aer o-
bic system must be turned on. It’s up to you to develop the aer obic sys-
tem optimally . I refer to this as maximum aer obic function , or MAF . 
Your muscles have two important types of cells, or fibers. These
are key parts of the aerobic and anaerobic systems. In some animals,
such as chickens, the aerobic and anaerobic muscle fibers are separate,
with entir e muscle gr oups composed of one or the other type. When
cooked, a chicken clearly shows this distinction — dark meat is com-
posed of aerobic muscle, while white meat is anaerobic muscle.     

In humans, muscles have a mixture of both aerobic and anaerobic
fibers. The aerobic muscles make up the foundation of the aerobic
system. These fibers account for the majority of muscle bulk in the
human body, more than 80 percent. This fact corresponds to the abil-
ity of humans to be better endurance animals than sprinters. 
Aerobic muscles have two general functions: physical activity,
which helps us move and support our skeleton, and metabolic func-
tion, generating energy and other tasks. Aerobic muscle fibers physi-
cally get us through the day and they’re the ones we want working
during physical performance; they have the ability to work well for
long periods. They allow us to sit, type and walk throughout the day;
they protect the spine, hips and all other joints and bones. Without
good aer obic muscle function, we’re more vulnerable to joint prob-
lems, bone str ess and other mechanical injuries.
Aerobic muscles thrive on physical activity. Without it, we can’t be
as healthy. Since most people are no longer naturally active, artificial
activity , otherwise known as exer cise, is necessary. The intensity of
your exer cise is a key factor , which I’ll discuss shortly . Briefly, aerobic
muscles are relatively slow-action muscles, capable of enduring easy
to moderate levels of activity for long periods of time. This means you
should be able to endure a long day’s work without getting exhaust-
ed, and still have energy to spare. They are well endowed with blood
vessels, so the more these muscles are used, the more blood flows
through them and the entir e body . This improvement in circulation
brings mor e oxygen to all cells, and r emoves waste pr oducts, which
are always being produced. Conversely, the person who is very inac-
tive may have 70 percent of his or her blood vessels closed down!
The metabolic aspects of the aer obic muscle ar e the other key
components of the aerobic system. Within these fibers we produce
long-term ener gy through the conversion of fat in the muscle’s fat-
burning engines, the mitochondria. As fat-burning improves, the
body gets an unlimited supply of energy, and the fat deposits on your
hips, thighs, abdomen and even in your arteries can diminish. The
aerobic muscles also help antioxidants break down potentially dan-
gerous fr ee radicals. Taking all the antioxidants you need won’t help
if your aerobic system is not working efficiently. The make-up of theDEVELOPING MAXIMUM AEROBIC FUNCTION • 187   

diet also influences aerobic function, with high-glycemic foods
(refined carbohydrates and other sugars) practically turning this sys-
tem off.
Rescuing Your Aerobic System
To get your aerobic system working correctly, you must diminish or
avoid factors that suppress it, and increase the factors that help it.
Stress has a negative impact on your aerobic system. The different
types of stress and how to control them are discussed in a later chap-
ter. For now it’s important just to know that stress of any kind pro-
grams your body to burn less fat and more sugar. The more stress, the
worse this problem will be.
Dietary or nutritional factors that cause excess stress can especial-
ly inhibit aer obic function. The most common of these stresses is eat-
ing too much r efined carbohydrate foods and pr oducts containing
sugar . Deficiencies of essential fats or other nutrients can also inhibit
aerobic development. Over-exercising is another stress that can
reduce aerobic function. 
If the aerobic system is impaired, energy needs switch from fat-
burning toward using more sugar. This results in a real deficiency in
aerobic function, resulting in a variety of signs and symptoms I call
the aerobic deficiency syndr ome.
Aerobic Deficiency Syndrome — ADS 
The ADS is not an epidemic so easily defined that it makes big news
each day , like AIDS, cancer or heart disease, but this problem is
destr oying the quality of life for many millions of people. It’s one of
the major causes of functional illness, and a significant contributing
factor to chronic diseases such as cancer, diabetes and heart disease.
ADS occurs when the aerobic system is not well developed and
maintained. This becomes a major risk factor for disease. It’s no dif-
ferent from vitamin C deficiency, or being deprived of any other
necessity of life. It can cause problems in any area of the body
dependent upon the aerobic system, which is most of the body. It can
affect your body chemistry causing hormonal imbalance, your physi-
cal body causing hip, knee or back pr oblems, or your brain r esulting188• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH         

in depression. By now, you know what causes ADS. In general, the
two most common causes of ADS are:
•The underuse of aerobic muscles . It’s the simple rule of
“use it or lose it.” Only a small percentage of the popula-
tion is naturally active — their day-to-day work activity
is relatively high. And, few people perform proper aero-
bic exercise.
•The overuse of anaerobic muscles . Most exercisers over-
train not by volume but by performing too much anaero-
bic activity, such as weight-lifting, or activities performed
at too high an intensity. 
Other common causes of ADS, as noted above, include consump-
tion of too much carbohydrate, including sugars; low-fat diets; and
stress.
When asking yourself about the status of your aerobic system, do
an inventory of all the functions with which the aerobic system is
associated. The symptoms of ADS are many; the most common ones
include:
•Fatigue. This is usually physical, but often can be mental in
the form of poor concentration or lack of creative energy .
•Recurrent injuries. Do you know many people who
don’t have any type of physical complaints? Shoulder
and back pain, knee and wrist problems, weak ankles. It’s
not normal to have any injury at any age, even for people
who exer cise. When you have an injury , it means some -
thing went wrong, typically in the aerobic system and
most often in the aerobic muscle fibers, and the end result
is dysfunction in a joint, muscle, ligament or tendon. 
•Excess storage of fat. When the aerobic system doesn’t
work effectively, the body stores more fat. 
•Blood-sugar stress. The many symptoms include fr e-
quent hunger , cravings for sweets or caf feine, tir edness
after meals, moodiness, etc.DEVELOPING MAXIMUM AEROBIC FUNCTION • 189               

•Hormonal imbalance. Premenstrual syndrome and
menopausal symptoms are common in women with aer-
obic deficiency. But both men and women can develop
hormonal imbalances, including low levels of sex hor-
mones (discussed later).
•Poor circulation. Since so many of the body’s blood ves -
sels ar e found in the aerobic muscle fibers, a lack of aero-
bic function r esults in fewer operating blood vessels and
diminished blood flow. 
In addition, ADS is associated with an increased production of
lactic acid. The body is always making lactic acid, and it’s always reg-
ulated. But the combination of poor aerobic function and an over-
active anaerobic system may result in too much lactic acid. This can
not only further reduce aerobic function but also contribute to depres-
sion, anxiety , phobias and even suicidal tendencies. It’s even been
shown that raising lactic-acid levels in normal, healthy people can
produce these symptoms. This is probably due to the effect of lactic
acid on the nervous system. Excess lactic acid can also disturb coordi-
nation. It’s a cause for concern, especially in athletes and others who
requir e a more finely tuned, coordinated body for their work or sport.
Ahigh-carbohydrate diet, too much r efined-sugar intake and a low-
fat diet can also aggravate high lactic-acid levels, as can various nutri -
tional imbalances such as low levels of thiamine (vitamin B1).
Other symptoms related to higher lactic-acid levels include angi-
na pectoris, seen in patients with certain heart problems. The heart is
a muscle, and it’s not immune to the damaging ef fects of lactic acid.
High levels of lactic acid cr eate a major stress on the heart and blood
vessels and may aggravate existing pr oblems such as high blood pres-
sure and heart disease. This may be one reason why the incidence of
heart attacks in people who are running or jogging is relatively high
— a combination of ADS and excess lactic acid. (It should be noted
that anaerobic muscles normally produce lactic acid, and when enter-
ing the bloodstream lactic acid is converted to lactate.)
Optimal aerobic function is the foundation of fitness and another
key to great human performance. And, as you’ll see in the coming
chapters, it’s relatively easy to perform.190• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH       

23
The Anaerobic Epidemic
Many people use the body’s anaer obic system in an effort to keep
up with the fast pace of a str essful life, often leaving the healthy aer-
obic system behind. Anaerobic muscle fibers provide us with the
power and speed we sometimes need in the course of the day. When
we see great athletes on TV or in ads, it’s often their anaerobic quali-
ties that we find so impr essive — speed, power and big muscles. The
problem is that many people seek out this type of body at the expense
of their aer obic systems, and ther efore their health. 
In or der to be both fit and healthy , anaerobic function must be
balanced with aerobic function. Unfortunately, many who exercise are
willing to impr ove their anaerobic systems even at the risk of losing
aerobic function. Muscle machines, gyms with mirrors, and promises
of “abs of steel” attract many customers. Bulking up has become anal -
ogous with health but often ends with poor health. Worse yet, we are
educating our childr en to follow the same path by pr omoting no-
pain, no-gain philosophies.
The anaerobic system includes the anaerobic muscle fibers, along
with the r elated mechanisms used during high-str ess activity . This
includes increased sugar-burning, reduced fat-burning, and stress.
While we can’t survive without this mechanism, it’s the imbalance
that’s the problem.
The imbalances caused by excess anaerobic function, physically
developed through anaerobic exercise, can result frequently in
injuries, illness, metabolic and hormonal imbalances, and added
stress on the nervous system. You don’t want to turn off this system,
or neglect it; but balance it with the aerobic system.
Interestingly, the same type of imbalance can also occur in some-
one who is physically inactive. The out-of-shape person must rely on
one of the energy systems, but because the aerobic system is not   

turned on, the anaerobic system becomes active to supply the energy
needs. It’s not unlike an overtrained athlete who builds the anaerobic
system with too much hard work and too little aerobic exercise. In
both instances the same type of imbalance occurs — too little aerobic
and too much anaerobic activity.
Excess anaerobic activity, through some combination of over- or
under-exercise, work stress or diet, inhibits the aerobic system
through several mechanisms:
• Increased anaerobic function can change your muscle
fibers, resulting in more anaerobic fibers and fewer aero-
bic ones. 
•Increased anaerobic function produces more lactic acid
which can inhibit the enzymes necessary for the aerobic
fibers to function properly.
• Eating too much carbohydrate, especially refined sugar,
increases the sugar -burning anaer obic system while
decreasing fat-burning.
• Too much anaerobic function can be a significant stress,
and, like any stress, can increase stress hormones to dan-
gerous levels.
It’s possible to improve both aerobic and anaerobic function, with
the r esult of high levels of both. But the first step must be impr oving
your aer obic system. Since the human body is made up of mostly aer -
obic muscle fibers, most of your physical activity should be aerobic.
There is also a lifestyle factor to consider: For many people, from the
time they get up in the morning until they finally drop back into bed
at night, they are rushing, hurrying and continuously under stress.
We need to learn to better pace our lives for the 1,000-mile journey.
Aerobic exercise, along with good nutrition, can correct common
anaer obic system excesses, allowing you to build better health.
Case History
Gary, a high-lev el executi ve in a stressful job, started exercising
at his compan y’s gym. At first he felt great. He lifted weights
three or four times a week, jogged on the treadmill and played192• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

squash. But after a few months his shoulder began hurting.
Then his knee started to hurt and he felt much more tired dur-
ing the day, unable to concentrate on his work. My examina-
tion found Gary to be in a state of anaerobic excess. He was
placed on an easy aerobic program of the same duration, with
walking, easy stationary cycling and swimming, and was asked
to do no anaerobic exercise. Within three weeks, Gary was
much more energetic, and his shoulder and knee problems
were gone. After three months of building up his aerobic sys-
tem, Gary was ready to add weights to his routine. 
Gary had to do two things to improve his fitness and health. First,
he had to temporarily stop all anaerobic exercise. By doing this, a sig-
nificant inhibiting stress was taken off the aerobic system. Second, he
had to develop his aerobic system. In Gary’s case, it took three
months to build his aerobic system to a level that was balanced with
his anaerobic system. Only then could he return to anaerobic work. 
Anaerobic Exercise and Wasting Disease
Some people obtain important benefits from lifting weights or
performing other hard anaerobic exer cise, w hen performed in
balance with aerobic function. However, for most people,
ongoing anaerobic exercise creates a body state similar to can-
cer, HIV or other wasting diseases. Studies show that the bio-
chemical changes seen in chronic disease states are similarly
found in people who perform anaerobic exercise in as little as
three times a week for one hour over a four- to eight-week peri-
od. The problems include low amino acids (such as glutamine
and c ysteine), low T-cell counts (from reduced immune func-
tion) and the loss of lean body tissue (muscle). Even in those
who lost weight, it was found that most of what was lost was
muscle, not fat. These same problems were not observed in aer-
obic exercisers.
Another problem associated with both anaerobic tr aining and
chronic disease is oxidati ve stress (discussed in a later c hapter).THE ANAEROBIC EPIDEMIC • 193     

The significant production of oxygen free radicals can cause
damage to virtually all bodily systems. This significantly
increases the need for antioxidants, something of which most
people don’t get enough.
The time necessary to develop the aerobic system is sometimes
referred to as building an aerobic base, and it’s the foundation of your
fitness. To do this efficiently, it takes time, about three months mini-
mally , or for many people, up to six months or more. It takes disci-
pline to not train harder than your aerobic system wants, thereby
becoming anaerobic when working out, and to pay attention to all
lifestyle factors related to improving the aerobic system. The majority
of a yearly pr ogram should be made up of aer obic exer cise, with
shorter periods of anaerobic training, if any. Most people — from
casual exercisers to highly competitive athletes — can obtain tremen-
dous benefits from aerobic activity with little or no need for anaero-
bic training. Anaerobic athletes can carefully learn how to weave in
sufficient anaerobic training without damaging the aerobic base. On
the dietary and nutritional side, be sure to eat enough protein to meet
the needs for glutamine, cysteine and other amino acids, with fr esh
vegetables and fruits for antioxidants, and take supplements if these
nutrients are not obtained from the diet. For athletes, more details can
be found in my other books on eating and training for endurance.
Lifting Weights? Do It Right
The various types of weight-resistant exercise, whether you use
machines, free-weights or push/pull/sit ups, and whether you
perform more or less reps, are alw ays anaerobic. They can help
you maintain strength and muscle mass, especially as you age.
But incorporating this type of anaerobic training into an overall
healthy conditioning program can be tricky. Start your weight-
training program by doing none at all — first build a strong aer-
obic base as discussed in the next chapter. Walk, run, jog, cycle
or perform other aerobic activity before introducing anaerobic
training. 194• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH      

Once your aerobic system is ready to handle anaerobic exer-
cise, you must determine how much it can handle. Everyone is
different, and stress from all other areas in life should be a con-
sideration as stress is like anaerobic exercise. For some people
one anaerobic workout per week is sufficient; others with low-
stress lifestyles may be able to handle up to three weekly anaer-
obic workouts.
For most people, the bulk of anaerobic benefits will be gained
in three to four weeks, at which point it’s time to focus again on
the aerobic system. In this way you will be able to reap the ben-
efits of anaerobic training with less chance for illness, injury or
compromised body chemistry.THE ANAEROBIC EPIDEMIC • 195  

24
Heart-Rate Monitoring
Consistently performing aer obic exercise is a key to developing
the aer obic system. You can walk, jog, run, bike, swim, dance or do
almost anything aerobically. Unfortunately, these activities can also be
anaerobic. You can take the guesswork out of your workout and be
assured you’re truly aerobic by understanding your heart rate.
Throughout this book I’ve talked about fat- and sugar-burning. I
previously discussed measuring oxygen and carbon dioxide during
exercise to determine the respiratory quotient (RQ), which indicates
how much fat and sugar a person is burning. As accurate as this may
be, laboratory testing for RQ is also very impractical for the average
person. The best option — the most useful and least expensive way —
to make sur e your exer cise is training the aer obic system is with a
heart-rate monitor.
I began using heart rate monitors soon after entering private
practice in the late 1970s. Today, many people use heart monitors
while r unning, walking, dancing or riding a bike. As you attain high -
er levels of exercise intensity, your heart rate increases, and less fat
and more sugar is burned for energy. Most importantly, the level of
exercise intensity will dictate how your body reacts to that exercise
session during the next 24 hours. Higher levels of intensity, and high-
er heart rates, train your body to burn more sugar and less fat, while
easier exercise and lower heart rates do just the opposite. You can
monitor this with your heart rate.
There are two ways to check your heart rate, by hand or using a
monitor . Trying to obtain your heart rate by stopping to take your
pulse is often very inaccurate. If you are just one or two beats off in a
six-second count, that’s a difference of 10 to 20 beats per minute!
When you stop to take a pulse, your heart rate decreases rapidly. In
six seconds, the rate may dr op by 10, 15 or 20 beats per minute. In   

addition, even the light pressure used to take your pulse from the
carotid artery in the neck can trigger a more rapid slowing of the heart
rate. Besides getting an inaccurate count, you run the risk of fainting.
Using a heart monitor is the answer to these problems. 
The best heart monitors employ a strap around the lower chest
and sense the heart rate by picking up vibrations of the heartbeat
through the ribs. The heart rate is then transmitted to a watch worn
on the wrist. They usually have an alarm that sounds when you exer-
cise above or below your individually set heart rate. 
Other heart monitor devices measure a distal pulse. These
include monitors with sensors that attach to your fingertip or earlobe
to pick up pulses. They are less accurate and not as convenient to use
for walking or jogging, but may be useful for working on a stationary
apparatus, such as a bike. 
Heart rate monitors are simple biofeedback devices, telling you
what’s going on inside your body. In this case, the goal is to be aero-
bic to train your body’s fat-burning system.
As a student involved in a biofeedback research project, I meas-
ured responses in human subjects to various physiological inputs:
sounds, visual ef fects and various physical stimulations, including
exercise. The observed reactions were evaluated by measuring tem-
peratur e, sweating, heart rate and other factors. It became evident
that using the heart rate to objectively measur e body function was
simple, accurate and useful. Its application in exercise was obvious.
This information became important as I developed various biofeed -
back-based pr ograms including tr eatment of muscle pr oblems,
improving brain function and individualizing exercise programs. 
When I began using heart monitors to evaluate the quality of
workouts done by patients, and correlated these observations with
other clinical measur ements of patients, it led to the development of
a formula for determining the best heart rate to use for building the
aerobic system.
The 180 Formula
The first step in the ideal exer cise pr ogram is to find what level of
effort is best for you. This corresponds to a particular heart rate,
which, when not exceeded, will give you optimal aerobic benefits.HEART-RATE MONITORING • 197     

This is the 180 Formula, and it’s been a solid, time-tested method of
training the aerobic system in beginners, world class and profession-
al athletes, and for the rehabilitation of many types of patients since
the early 1980s. 
Many people are familiar with the 220 formula, and others think
the talk test works well. But neither are effective, and the 180 Formula
replaces both.
The talk test assumes you are exercising within your aerobic
range if you can comfortably talk to an exercise partner during a
workout. This test is unreliable and in fact often maintains someone
in a mild anaer obic state. 
The 220 formula is still widely used despite its inaccuracy. You
subtract your age from 220 and multiply the difference by a figure
ranging fr om 65 to 85 per cent. The r esulting number supposedly pro-
vides you with an aer obic training heart rate. This formula contains
two serious errors. It assumes that 220 minus your age is your maxi-
mum heart rate. In reality, most people who obtain their maximum
heart rate by pushing themselves to exhaustion (I don’t recommend
you do this) will find it’s probably not 220 minus their age. About a
third find their maximum is above, a thir d will be below and only a
third may be close to 220 minus their age. The second inaccuracy is
the multiplier , which can range between 65 to 85 percent. This arbi-
trary figure doesn’t consider a person’s overall health or fitness. Do
you use 65 or 75 percent? How about 80 or 70 percent? Without a
more precise indicator, you are leaving your training heart rate to a
very wide range, and your fitness to chance. 
Rather than guess, it’s best to use a formula that is not only mor e
sensible, but has a pr oven success r ecord and is mor e scientific: the
180 Formula. This method also considers physiological rather than
just chronological age. To find your maximum aerobic exercise heart
rate, there are two important steps. First, subtract your age from 180.
Next, find the best category for your present state of fitness and
health, as follows.
Calculating Y our Maximum Aerobic Heart Rate:
1. Subtract your age from 180 (180 – age) 198• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

2. Modify this number by selecting one of the following cat-
egories: 
a. If you have a history of a major illness, are recovering
from any surgery or hospital stay, or if you are taking
any regular medication, subtract 10.
b. If you have been exercising but have an injury, are
regressing in your efforts (not showing much
improvement), if you often get more than one or two
colds or flu a year, have allergies or asthma, or if you
have not exercised before, subtract 5. 
c. If you have been exercising for at least two years and
four times a week without any injury, and none of the
above items apply to you, subtract 0. 
d. If you are a competitive athlete, have been training
for more than two years without any injury, and have
been making progress in both training and competi-
tion, add 5. 
For example, if you ar e 30 years old and fit into category “b”:
180 – 30 = 150, then 150 – 5 = 145 beats per minute
The r esult of the equation is your maximum aer obic heart rate. In
this example, exer cising at a heart rate of 145 beats per minute will be
highly aerobic, allowing you to develop maximum aerobic function.
Exercising at heart rates above this level can quickly add a significant
anaer obic component to the workout, and stimulate your anaerobic
system, exemplified by a shift to mor e sugar-burning and less fat-
burning. 
If you prefer to exercise below your maximum aerobic heart rate,
you will still derive good aerobic benefits, but progress at a slightly
slower pace.
Note: it always pays to be conservative, so if your r esulting num -
ber is lower, it’s also safer compared to guessing it may be a higher
number.HEART-RATE MONITORING • 199     

The only exceptions for this formula are for people over the age
of 65, and those under the age of 16, as follows:
For seniors in category “c” or “d,” you may have to add up to 10
beats after obtaining your maximum aerobic heart rate. That doesn’t
mean you must add 10 beats. This is such an individualized category,
getting assistance from a professional would be very helpful. 
For children under the age of 16, there’s no need to use the 180
Formula. Instead, use 165 as the maximum aerobic heart rate. 
If you’re used to exercising, when you first work out at your max-
imum aerobic heart rate, it may seem too easy. Many people have told
me initially they can’t imagine it’s worth the time. I tell them to not
only imagine it will help, but to understand how the body really
works. In a short time, exercise will become more enjoyable, and
you’ll find more work is needed to maintain your heart rate. In other
words, as your aerobic system builds up, you’ll need to walk, ride or
dance faster to attain your maximum aerobic heart rate. If you’re a
runner, your minute-per-mile pace will get faster; bikers will ride at
higher miles per hour at the same heart rate; and so on.
Case History
Sally was very dedicated to her exercise routine. She went to
aerobic dance class four mornings a week, and walked twice
weekly with friends. But her time was not well spent, she
thought, since her weight and bod y fat didn’ t change muc h in
the two years she worked out. She also was very tired on the
days she did aerobics. I asked Sally to wear a heart monitor
during her aerobics class and when she walked. Not surprising-
ly, her heart r ate exceeded 180 beats per minute during aero -
bics, and averaged 155 on her walks. But Sally’s maximum aer-
obic heart r ate w as 140. Thus she had programmed her body to
burn more sugar and less fat.
After seeing that she couldn’t physically perform the aerobic
routine during an advanced class without her heart rate going
over 140, Sally went to an easier class where she was able to
control her heart r ate at 140. She also began w alking on her
own, at a much slower pace. Within a couple of months, Sally200• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

lost more weight than in the previous two years, and her work-
outs now gave her energy. In time she was able to go back to
the advanced aerobics class and walk with her friends while
maintaining a 140 heart rate.
Using a heart monitor during weight training won’t show that
you’re aerobic or anaerobic; you’re always anaerobic when lifting
weights or doing push ups, pull ups or sit ups. When wearing a heart
monitor during weight-lifting, for example, your heart rate continues
to increase as you lift the weight. But before your heart rate reaches
its normal peak, your muscle has fatigued and you’ve stopped the
repetition.
Once you find your maximum aerobic heart rate, you can create
a convenient range that starts 10 beats below that number. Most heart
monitors can be set for your range, providing you with an audible
indication if your heart rate goes over or under your preset levels. Set
yours at the maximum aerobic rate you determined. Most monitors
also provide for a low setting, which could be 10 below the high. This
gives you a comfortable range. For example, if your maximum aer o-
bic heart rate is 145, then the low would be 135; set the monitor for a
range between 135 and 145. It’s not absolutely necessary to work out
in your range — you just don’t want to exceed it. If you’re more com-
fortable exercising under that range, you will still derive good aerobic
benefits.
Perceived Exertion
The 180 Formula applies to all activities (except weight-lifting and
other strictly anaerobic training). At the same heart rate, different
types of exer cise r equir e about the same levels of metabolic activity .
So whether you’re swimming, biking or walking, many physiological
parameters are the same, and the 180 Formula applies to all of them.
However , ther e’s a dif ference in how you feel between different activ-
ities while exer cising at the same heart rate. This is called the per -
ceived exertion; it’s a subjective feeling you have about how easy or
hard the workout seems. Running at a heart rate of 140, for example,
has a perceived exertion that’s lower than swimming at that rate. That
is, swimming at a 140 heart rate (given the same physical know-how)HEART-RATE MONITORING • 201      

usually feels more difficult. This difference has to do with gravity
stress. The gravity-stress difference between swimming and running
is significant; there is very little gravity influence in the water, but
gravity maximally affects your body during running. A lot of energy
may not have to go into countering gravity stress in the pool but just
the opposite is true during a run. Another way of looking at this phe-
nomenon is that the heart rate during swimming is lower compared
to running at the same perceived effort, since the stress level is dimin-
ished in the water.
Riding a bike falls between the two extremes of swimming and
running, along with cross-country skiing, skating and most other
endurance activities. In these actions, there is some gravity stress
along with mechanical factors, which relates to technique.
Technique can influence the heart rate significantly . For the begin-
ning swimmer, the heart rate is usually much higher. As your tech-
nique improves, you waste less energy and the same intensity (pace)
results in lower heart rates. Looking at this another way, you need to
swim faster to maintain your maximum aerobic heart rate.
The benefits of training with a heart monitor are many, and only
with time and experience will you come to tr uly appr eciate them. One
other significant benefit of applying the 180 Formula to your exercise
is the body’s chemical r esponse to exer cise at a relatively lower level
of intensity . Normally , the body pr oduces oxygen fr ee radicals in
response to many stresses, especially anaerobic exercise. Too many of
these fr ee radicals contribute to degenerative pr oblems such as
inflammatory conditions, heart disease and cancer . Incr eased fr ee
radicals also speed the aging process. Exercising above your maxi-
mum aerobic level causes the body to produce large amounts of free
radicals, even if you’re only a little above the level. Using the 180
Formula as your guide minimizes fr ee-radical production. Studies
show that training at this ef ficient intensity is ideal when fr ee-radical
stress is a concern.
The MAF Test
Another important benefit of using a heart monitor is the ability to
objectively measure your aerobic progress. Feeling good is one of the
benefits of aerobic exercise. And feeling like you’re improving is good202• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

too, but subjective. A very objective measure of progress is accom-
plished using the maximum aerobic function test , or MAF Test.
The MAF Test measures the improvements you make in the aero-
bic system. Without objective measurements, you can fool yourself
into thinking all is well with your exercise. More importantly, the
MAF Test tells you if you’re headed in the wrong direction, either
from too much anaerobic exercise, too little aerobic exercise or any
imbalance that is having an adverse effect on the aerobic system (for
example, from stress or poor diet).
The MAF Test can be performed using any exercise except
weight-lifting. During the test use your maximum aerobic heart rate
found with the 180 Formula. While working out at that heart rate,
determine some parameter such as your walking, jogging or running
pace (in minutes per mile), cycling speed (miles per hour) or repeti-
tions (laps in a pool) over time. The test can also be done on station-
ary equipment such as a tr eadmill or other apparatus that measures
output. If you want to test your maximum aerobic function during
walking, for example, go to the high school track and walk at your
maximum aerobic heart rate. Determine how long it takes to walk one
mile at this heart rate. Recor d your time in a diary or on your calen -
dar. If you normally walk two or three miles, you can record each
mile. 
Below is an actual example of an MAF T est performed by walk-
ing on a track, at a heart rate of 145, calculating time in minutes per
mile: 
Mile 1: 16:32 (16 minutes and 32 seconds)
Mile 2: 16:46
Mile 3: 17:09
During any one MAF Test, your times should always get slower
with successive repetitions. In other words, the first mile should
always be the fastest, and the last the slowest. If that’s not the case, it
usually means you haven’t warmed up enough, as discussed later .
The MAF T est should indicate faster times as the weeks pass. This
means the aerobic system is improving and you’re burning more fat,HEART-RATE MONITORING • 203            

enabling you to do more work with the same effort. Even if you walk
or run longer distances, your MAF Test should show the same pro-
gression of results, providing you heed your maximum aerobic heart
rate. Below is an example showing the improvement of the same per-
son from above:
September October November December
Mile 1 16:32 15:49 15:35 15:10
Mile 2 16:46 16:06 15:43 15:22
Mile 3 17:09 16:14 15:57 15:31
Performing the MAF Test on a bike is similar. When riding out-
side, the easiest method is to pick a bike course that initially takes
about 30 minutes to complete. Following a warm-up, ride at your
maximum aerobic heart rate, and record exactly how long it takes to
ride the test course. As you pr ogress, your times should get faster.
Riding your course today , for example, may take 30 minutes and 50
seconds. In three weeks it may take you 29:23 and in another three
weeks 27:35. After three months of base work, the same course may
take you 26 minutes. Another option is to ride on a flat course and see
what pace you can maintain while holding your heart rate at your
max aerobic level. This works best on a stationary apparatus. As you
progress, your miles-per-hour should increase. If you start at 12 mph,
for example, following a three-month aerobic base you might be rid-
ing 17 mph at the same heart rate.
Perform the MAF Test regularly, throughout the year, and chart
your results. I recommend doing the test every month. Testing your-
self too often may result in obsession. Usually, you won’t improve sig-
nificantly within one week.
For those who walk, or do other activities that, over time, will not
raise the heart rate to the maximum aerobic level, it’s possible to do the
MAF T est without using the maximum aerobic heart rate. Since it’s
usually too difficult to reach that heart rate, choose a lower rate for your
MAF T est. For example, if you have difficulty reaching 150, your max
aerobic rate, use 125 during your walk as the rate for your MAF Test.
Performing the test irregularly or not often enough defeats one of
its purposes — knowing when your aer obic system is getting of f
course. One of the great benefits of the MAF Test is its ability to objec-204• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH          

tively inform you of an obstacle long before you feel bad or get
injured. If something interferes with your progress, such as exercise
itself, diet or stress, you don’t want to wait until you’re feeling bad or
gaining weight to find that out. In these situations where your aero-
bic system is no longer getting benefits, your MAF Test will show it
by getting worse, or not improving.
Phases of Aerobic Function 
An important element of the MAF Test is knowing what is normal
and what isn’t. During your exercise program, you could encounter
three different phases: progression, plateau and regression.
When you successfully develop your aerobic system, you will
have more energy and better aerobic function, with corresponding
impr ovements in your MAF T est. This is the progressive phase, and it
can and should continue for many years without regression. As you
improve, further progression will happen more slowly. For example,
the first year your walking may improve from 18 minutes to 13 min-
utes per mile. The second year, your improvement may only go from
13 minutes per mile, walking, to 10 minutes per mile, jogging.
Ther e will also be periods of plateaus. Actually , ther e are two dif-
ferent kinds of plateaus, one normal and the other unhealthy. With
impr ovement, you will eventually arrive at a normal leveling of f —
almost as if your body needs a r est fr om the pr ogress it’s making. The
metabolic, neurological and muscular aspects of the body require a
period of adjustment, and the body may need some time for a r ecov -
ery. These normal plateaus shouldn’t last too long, per haps a few
weeks to a few months. Then, progress should resume, as measured
by the MAF Test. If you stay in your plateau for longer periods, it may
be abnormal.
An abnormal plateau is due to some obstacle that pr events
progress. The MAF Test can help diagnose an abnormal plateau. Once
your test has stayed the same for too long, the next step is to find out
why. There could be many factors. 
The most common reason for an abnormal plateau is stress.
Remember , stress can be physical, chemical or mental. Typically, some
lifestyle stress or stresses could cause your aerobic system to plateau.
The weather may also be a stress that can halt progression.HEART-RATE MONITORING • 205     

Another common reason for an abnormal plateau is the food
you’re eating. Too much high-glycemic carbohydrates are the worst;
not enough fats, poor hydration, or any nutritional problems can con-
tribute too.
Even worse than not making progress is regressing. Indeed, that’s
just what happens if your plateau is prolonged — an abnormal
plateau will eventually cause your MAF Test to get worse each time
you check it. If this happens, your body is in a “red alert” and you
should be very cautious. This is when you become most vulnerable to
injury and ill health. One recommended strategy is to cut your over-
all exercise time by 50 percent until you find the problem. This will at
least ensure you get more rest and recovery. If you don’t respect the
advice of your body, you may ultimately need to seek first-aid advice
from a pr ofessional. Exhaustion, injury, illness or some other major
breakdown, possibly including mental breakdown, can occur. 
Factors That Affect the MAF Test
There are a number of factors that may affect your MAF Test results.
When walking, for example, the type of track surface may have a
slight influence on your pace. The modern high-tech track surfaces
result in a slightly faster pace, whereas the old cinder and dirt tracks
will slow your pace at the same heart rate. Uneven tracks will give
slower times compar ed to perfectly flat surfaces. On your bike, the
roughness of the road surface, varying grades and traffic can affect
your test r esults. Hills usually r esult in a slowing of pace, unless ther e
are significantly mor e downhills. Agood option is to use a stationary
apparatus on your test days.
To ensure the MAF Test is accurate, be consistent; use the same
course or method each time you test yourself. If you change your test
course, be sur e to note it in your diary or chart.
Other factors that could af fect your test include weather conditions
such as wind, rain, snow , temperatur e and humidity; altitude; hydra -
tion; and your equipment. Most of these factors can work against you
by increasing your physical effort, which raises the heart rate. Since you
are working at a specific heart rate, the r esult is a slower pace.
One other factor worth mentioning is ill health. When you are
sick, your body’s immune system is working hard to recover, and it206• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

needs all the energy it can get. The last thing your body wants to do
at this time is work out, especially when you have an elevated tem-
perature. Don’t exercise if you are ill. If you’ve ever attempted it and
worn a heart monitor, you know what happens: your heart rate ele-
vates, sometimes drastically. The same effect is observed if you are
anemic: less oxygen can be delivered to the muscles, and your tests
will worsen. For women, menses can also increase heart rate.
By using the 180 Formula and regularly performing the MAF Test
you will be on the right road for improving fitness and health. But
there’s one more bonus — warming up and cooling down.
An Aerobic Bonus: Warm-Up and Cool-Down 
Most people think that warming up means stretching. This isn’t true.
A real warm-up provides many important benefits, most of which
stretching can’t give. What’s more, stretching can often do more harm
than good.
Warming up aer obically is the first step of exer cise; it’s the slow
shifting of blood into the working muscles. The key word is slow.
Shifting the blood into the muscles too quickly can be a significant
stress on the rest of the body. Specifically, the blood going into the
muscles comes fr om other important ar eas of the body including the
nervous system, adrenal glands and intestines. Diverting the blood
out of these areas and circulating it into the muscles too quickly can
be much like going into shock. When a warm-up is done slowly, the
organs and glands can properly compensate for this normal activity.
Warming up provides three important benefits:
•It incr eases the blood flow , bringing oxygen and nutrients
into the muscles, and removes waste products. 
•It incr eases the fats in the blood that ar e used for muscle
energy.
• It increases flexibility in all the joints by gently warming
and lengthening the muscles.
The warm-up can be any easy aer obic, low-heart-rate activity .
Begin your exercise by slowly raising your heart rate from its starting
point of say, 75 beats per minute. Slowly elevate the heart rate, over aHEART-RATE MONITORING • 207     

12- to 15-minute period, arriving at your maximum aerobic level only
after 15 minutes. At this point, you can maintain your maximum aer-
obic heart rate until nearing the end of your workout, when you begin
to cool down.
The Cool-Down 
The final 12 to 15 minutes of your workout are also important; it’s
vital to slowly r e-establish nearly normal circulation without “pool-
ing” blood in the muscles. You want to re-establish the normal circu-
lation in the organs and glands to begin the 24-hour process of recov-
ery and obtaining the benefits from your exercise. This slow lowering
of the heart rate from the maximum aerobic level back to near-resting
level is called the cool-down. Carefully bring the heart rate back
down by slowing down your activity. Attempt to reach your starting
heart rate, which is often not possible — but at least get within 10
beats of your starting heart rate.
The following graph shows heart-rate changes in relation to time
during a 45-minute workout — A: Warming up, B: Maintaining the
maximum aer obic level of 140 , and C: Cooling down.
Stretching and Flexibility
From your earliest years in school you were probably taught to
stretch before exercising. Even people who don’t work out sometimes
think stretching is a good way to get rid of body aches and pains and208• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH
160
140
120
100
80
60Warm Up, Cool Down
Like the w arm-up, the cool-do wn is important. 
It allo ws for reco very of muscles and organs.
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45AB
C       

so-called tight muscles. Go to any fitness center and you’ll see that
many people do it. Many think if they can touch their toes, they’re fit. 
There’s very little, if any, scientific information demonstrating
that static stretching is beneficial, especially the way most people do
it. As a matter of fact, there’s quite a bit of evidence showing it’s
harmful. One of the most common reasons people give for stretching
is injury prevention. But studies show static stretching can actually
increase the risk of injury! One of many examples given is the ham-
string muscle gr oup. It is both the most frequently injured muscle and
the most stretched.
Many people need flexibility, and I often recommend that increas-
es in flexibility be made to prevent injury and create a more stable
physical body. This increased flexibility can be accomplished with a
proper warm-up, rather than with stretching. Even patients with
debilitating arthritis can impr ove flexibility with an easy aer obic
warm-up of 15 minutes, and be as flexible as if they had str etched,
without the risk. Befor e addr essing the potential dangers, I’d like to
talk about the two different kinds of stretching, referred to as static
and ballistic.
Static Stretc hing
This is a very slow, deliberate movement, lightly stretching a muscle
and holding it unchanged for up to 30 seconds. When pr operly done,
static str etching pr omotes relaxation of the muscle fibers being
stretched. But static stretching requires that each muscle group
throughout the body be sequentially r epeated thr ee to four times. It
also demands that the activity be done slowly . Note some of the key
words: slow, deliberate, lightly stretched. And also note the need to
stretch each muscle gr oup thr ee to four times. All this takes time and
discipline, which most people just don’t think they have or don’t
make time for . There are two different types of static stretching, active
and passive:
•Active stretching is safer than passive and is accom -
plished by contracting the antagonist muscle (the one
opposite the muscle you’re stretching). For example, to
actively stretch the hamstring muscles, the quadriceps
are contracted.HEART-RATE MONITORING • 209       

•Passive stretching uses either gravity or force by another
body part or person to move a body segment to the end
of its range of motion or beyond — the reason this form
of stretching can so easily cause injury. We sometimes see
football players stretching one leg by having another
player lean on it.
Ballistic Stretching
The second basic type of stretching is called ballistic. This is a “bounc-
ing” method, and is the most common type done by both beginners
and seasoned athletes. It makes use of the body’s momentum to
repeatedly stretch a joint position to or beyond the extreme ranges of
motion. Because this method is more rapid than static stretching, it
activates the str etch r eflex, which increases tension in the muscle,
rather than relaxation. This can result in micro-tearing of muscle
fibers with resultant injury. Ballistic stretching is the type most people
say they don’t do, but really are doing. That’s because most people
are in a hurry when stretching.
Flexibility refers to the relative range of motion in a joint. This is
related to the tension in the muscles ar ound the joint, those that move
or restrict the joint. The risk of injury is increased when joint flexibil-
ity is incr eased too much or is gr eatly diminished, or when imbalance
in joint flexibility exists between left and right (or fr ont and back)
sides of the body (which usually corresponds to muscle imbalance as
discussed later).
When it comes to flexibility , don’t assume mor e is better . Studies
show that the least flexible and the most flexible individuals were
more than twice as likely to get injured compared to those whose
joints had moderate flexibility.
People who str etch generally are injured more often than those
who don’t str etch. That’s been my observation during mor e than 30
years of tr eating patients, and the opinion and observation of many
other professionals in all fields. In addition, scientific studies support
our observations. Halbertsma and Goeken, in a study of men and
women 20 to 38 years of age with tight and stif f hamstrings, state that
“stretching exercises do not make short hamstrings any longer or less
stiff.”210• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH       

Richard Dominguez, an orthopedic surgeon at Loyola University
Medical Center and author, also disapproves of stretching.
“Flexibility should not be a goal in itself, but the result of . . . training.
Strengthening the muscles around a joint naturally increases flexibil-
ity. If you can bend a joint beyond your ability to control it with mus-
cle strength, you risk either tearing the muscles, tendons or ligaments
that support the joint, or damaging the joint through abnormal pres-
sure on it.” Among the specific stretches Dominguez says are most
damaging are the yoga plow, hurdler’s stretch, toe touching and the
stiff-leg raise. The types of injury created by stretching aren’t associ-
ated with just the muscle being stretched. The tendons and ligaments
associated with that muscle, and even the joint controlled by that
muscle, are at risk. 
There’s also a chemical factor to consider. Repetitive exercise,
such as walking, swimming, biking and other activities, results in the
production of chemicals that increase inflammation. Adding stretch-
ing incr eases the potential for even mor e inflammation.
Many athletes stretch to help performance. But studies show stat-
ic stretching doesn’t improve athletic performance and may actually
hinder it. For those who require a wider range of motion, proper
stretching may be necessary. These include dancers, sprinters and
gymnasts, but usually not most people doing aer obic exer cise.
Case History
Randy began his morning with 10 minutes of stretching. The
first 15 minutes of his bike workout was spent riding up hills
from his house out of the valley. When he first used a heart
monitor , his rate surged to 180 within five minutes. Randy
couldn’t imagine how any of that was related to his low-back
pain. But b y performing manual muscle testing, we discovered
that Randy’s hamstring muscles were overstretched, and there-
fore were not helping to support his low back. The first recom-
mendation was to stop stretching his already overstretched
hamstrings. Within a couple of weeks Randy’s low-back pain
impro ved. This was followed by the difficult task of adjusting
his morning ride to include a warm-up, and to avoid going
directly to the hills, with the resultant high heart r ate. The solu -HEART-RATE MONITORING • 211    

tion was for Randy to ride indoors on a stationary apparatus for
about 15 minutes before going outside, then riding very slowly
until getting past the hills. When he was able to accomplish
this, both his back pain and his chronic asthma disappeared.
Yoga and other “whole-body” flexibility activities are very differ-
ent from stretching as I’ve described it above. When properly done, in
a very slow, deliberate and easy motion, whole-body flexibility activ-
ities are healthy, safe and very effective. They’re also recommended as
a source of relaxation and meditation. If you wish to learn yoga or
other flexibility activities find a course or an instructor who won’t
rush the sessions or push you beyond your limits. Don’t attend if you
can’t put in the appropriate amount of time, and never go beyond
your needs. Too many people try to rush into yoga positions that nor-
mally take a long time to establish.212• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH    

25
Your Exercise Program
It’s clear that regular aerobic exercise is essential for you to attain
optimal fitness and health. But I want to re-emphasize that I’m not
talking about a no-pain, no-gain exercise program that will fall by the
wayside as quickly as you start it. Instead, incorporate into your
lifestyle an ongoing, long-term natural aerobic exercise routine that
will greatly improve your energy levels, stamina and endurance,
while helping you tone the aerobic muscles and train your body to
burn mor e fat for ener gy. Physical activity should be something that
you look forward to continuing for a lifetime. 
Exer cise pr ograms ar e quite individual. Some people just want to
stay fit and healthy, and keep their weight in check. Others have goals
such as training for the Ir onman T riathlon. For either of these types,
and for everyone in between, many basic principles are the same. All
people who exercise want to gradually build up to a specific level,
using the 180 Formula to improve aerobic fitness. Additionally, any-
one on an exercise plan needs to balance this program with every-
thing else in his or her life, including proper rest and recovery. I’ve
trained many world class and pr ofessional athletes using these same
principles outlined in this book; likewise for those just beginning. The
volume of training is the dif ference. For serious athletes, training
paces get significantly faster as their aerobic systems improve. 
Walking Your Way to Fitness
Nothing is better than walking for overall fitness and health. Of all the
types of exercise, walking is the one I recommend the most, and not
just for beginners, but for r egular exer cisers and even professional ath-
letes. It’s the most fail-safe exercise. Scientific studies show that walk-
ing burns a higher percentage of fat than any other activity because of
its low intensity. Walking activates the small aerobic muscle fibers,
which often are not stimulated by higher-intensity aerobic workouts.     

Walking also helps circulate blood, process lactic acid and improve
lymph drainage (important to the body’s waste-removal
system).
Walking is one of the best ways to get started on an exercise pro-
gram since it’s a simple, low-stress workout that is not easily over-
done. Walkers generally have little difficulty keeping their heart rates
from getting too high, though there are exceptions. If there’s a prob-
lem with walking, it’s that the heart rate won’t go high enough into
the maximum aerobic range (which isn’t absolutely necessary). The
mechanics of walking result in less gravity stress than you experience
jogging or running, but still enough to give you the important fat-
burning benefits, and others such as bone-strengthening effects.
We’ve all heard and read about the many wonderful benefits of
exercise. But did you know most studies that demonstrate these great
benefits were done using walking? You don’t need to make exercise
complicated, expensive or intense. And I’m talking about just an easy
walk — not power walking, race walking or carrying weights. Here
are some of the facts about the benefits of easy walking:
•Regular, easy walking increases life expectancy. It also
helps older adults maintain their functional independ -
ence, an important concern for society. Currently, the
average number of non-functional years in our elderly
population is about 12. That’s a dozen years at the end of
a lifespan of doing nothing: unable to car e for yourself,
walk, be pr oductive or just enjoy life. 
• Regular, easy physical exercise such as walking can help
prevent and manage coronary heart disease, the leading
cause of death in the United States, as well as hyperten -
sion, diabetes, osteoporosis and depression. This occurs
through improved balance of blood fats, better clotting
factors, improved circulation and the ability to more effi-
ciently regulate blood sugar.
•Regular exer cise like walking decr eases your risk of
developing degenerative disease. The lack of exercise
places more people at risk for coronary heart disease than
all other risk factors. Aerobic deficiency is an independ-214• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

ent risk factor for coronary heart disease, doubling the
risk. Inactivity is almost as great a risk for coronary heart
disease as cigarette smoking and hypertension.
• Walking is associated with a lower rate of colon cancer,
stroke and low-back injury.
All this can be accomplished with easy aerobic exercise. How
easy? The equivalent of a sustained 30-minute walk, four or five times
a week. Less than 30 percent of Americans are this active, including
children who spend most of their spare time watching TV .
For some people, especially those who have been very inactive,
very overweight or have chronic illness, even walking may pose
overexercise problems. Whether 18 or 80, if you’re beginning an exer-
cise program, or have been inactive for a period of time and now
want to start walking, consider using a heart monitor to take the
guesswork out of your walk. I’ve seen too many beginners walking
with too high a heart rate. It’s often because they’re with other people
and the instinct to be competitive comes into play. Talking while
walking also incr eases the heart rate, and so does walking up a hill
too fast befor e some level of fitness has been achieved. Former ath -
letes seeking to r estore their fitness can benefit from walking; it keeps
them fr om being too aggressive early in their programs. The most
important thing for a walker to realize is that it’s a fat-burning and
endurance routine. Don’t worry about speed; instead, concern your-
self with endurance. Base your walking on time rather than miles.
Case History 
Dave, a former college All-American, was in his middle-40s,
overweight and feeling the effects of work stress. Since he was
in the athletic-apparel business, he wanted to appear more fit.
He began walking on the high-school track almost every
evening. He got out of breath and tired easily, so he kept his
pace relati vely slo w. After a couple of months with virtually no
results, Dave asked for help. I told him to perform his walk as
he usually does, but with a heart monitor . To our surprise, his
heart rate exceeded 170 and stayed there for nearly the entire
workout. Once Da ve began using a heart monitor regularly andYOUR EXERCISE PROGRAM • 215    

kept his rate at the prescribed level of 130, it was only a cou-
ple of weeks before he felt some positive results. And within a
couple of months, Dave was thinner, had more energy and was
walking faster.
Walking for the Non-Walking Competitor
Walking is also valuable to the competitive athlete whose sport may
be cycling, running or any other more intense aerobic or anaerobic
activity. Walking can be used as part of a warm-up and cool-down.
Competitive athletes, when they’re in a rush or working out with oth-
ers, often don’t warm up and cool down enough or properly. One
way to ensure this is done is to walk for 5 or 10 minutes before each
workout. Even if you bike or swim, a walk is a good way to warm up.
The same is true for cooling down. When you get off your bike or get
out of the pool, go for an easy walk to cool down. If you make it a
habit, you won’t feel right missing it.
Besides the cross-training effect on your muscles and nervous
system, walking helps train muscle fibers you might not normally use
in your workout. These ar e the very small aerobic fibers used during
low-intensity activity . Many trained athletes say their weekly walk
initially made them sore. That’s due to the lack of use of these small
muscle fibers, which also help break down lactic acid and bring more
blood to the anaer obic fibers. 
Walking is also a useful physical therapy following an injury or a
period in which you have decreased your workouts for any reason. If
you’re injured, you may be unable to run or ride but have no trouble
walking. Doing an easy aer obic workout is much better than doing
nothing. And walking is a good way to come back from a period of
time of f without thr owing your body back into high-level workouts.
Sometimes, even walking is difficult due to an injury or some
other problem. Try walking in a pool in waist- or chest-high water.
Gradually walk in shallower water before trying it on dry land.
As great as walking can be, many people feel uncomfortable
about doing it. They somehow feel it’s not enough of a workout, or
it’s too easy. It’s that no-pain, no-gain feeling your nervous system
has recorded in its memory. It’s time to add some new memory.216• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

Balanced Fitness and Health
Working out adds many new dimensions to your life — an important
component of optimal human performance. Much like diet and nutri-
tion, each person must find an individualized program to meet his or
her particular needs. So start out as simply as possible. Then consid-
er joining a group to get some psychological encouragement, as long
as you can exercise within your own limits. Through this habit
change, the exercise program becomes a positive addiction. Your rou-
tine will ultimately become a part of your day, like brushing your
teeth. 
There are a number of important factors to consider when start-
ing or modifying your exercise routine:
•Scheduling. Create a realistic schedule of exercise that
fits in with family, work and your other commitments.
This will allow you to be more consistent, and help make
it part of a new lifestyle. 
• Physical factors. Be sure you can withstand the minor
stress of exercise. Do you have some physical imbalances
that may be aggravated by exer cise? T ake into considera -
tion a history of prior injuries or conditions. Consider
your workout surface — blacktop, wood and carpet are
preferable to concrete, marble and steel. Grass and dirt
surfaces may be safe, but they also can be stressful if they
are uneven or too soft. 
•Chemical factors. The pr oper nutrients, especially fats,
are necessary for aerobic efficiency. High-sugar foods and
drinks can be detrimental when consumed befor e work-
outs. Proper hydration is a must; drink water all day, not
just after working out.
•Psychological factors. Studies have shown that people
who exer cise in the morning find it easier to maintain a
regular program. But whether you exercise in the morn-
ing, midday or evening, be consistent. Write out a simple
exercise program, if necessary. You are more apt to follow
something you can see. Keep a log on a calendar or in aYOUR EXERCISE PROGRAM • 217            

diary to see your success as the days, weeks and months
go by.
• Goals. Set realistic goals. Some people merely want to
progress to exercising 30 minutes a day. Be conservative,
but don’t hesitate to dream. Running a marathon after six
months of training may be realistic only for very disci-
plined people who can control their stress. You won’t
break any records, and completing the marathon should
be your only goal. I’ve worked with many patients who
successfully, and in a healthy way, met that goal. 
• Habit change. Starting an exercise program is, first of all,
a change of habit. And as we all know, a habit change can
be the most difficult change to make — even more diffi-
cult than the exercise itself. Generally, there are two bar-
riers. One is just getting started and the other shows up
two to four weeks later, when your enthusiasm wears off
a bit. (Although being aware of this is usually incentive
enough to keep you going.)
• Time. Most exercise should be measured in time, and not
miles, laps or repetitions (except when performing your
MAF Test). At the onset, a minimal time is best, since the
purpose initially is to develop an exer cise habit. The only
exception may be if you progress to anaerobic workouts,
such as weight-lifting, wher e a range of measur ements
should always be used. This gives you mor e choice,
allowing for daily fluctuations in energy level and time
restraints. For example, when using weights, the number
of repetitions may be 10 to 15, rather than doing a pre-
determined exact number based on some pr ogram not
meant for you.
• Intensity. The intensity of your workout is an important
consideration, as measured by the heart rate. Make sure
you understand how to find your maximum aer obic
heart rate using the 180 Formula. Base your exercise pro-
gram on time and intensity (as per heart rate); e.g., 30218• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH           

minutes of walking at a heart rate not to exceed 140 beats
per minute, five times per week.
A Word for Beginners
Even if you’ve never been active, aerobic exercise is easy and simple.
If you are in reasonably good health and have no serious problems or
injuries, it can be done with a simple 30-minute walk a minimum of
four to five times per week. You can do this on your way to work, or
on your way home, as part of your lunch break or anytime. It can be
performed walking indoors or outdoors. Or you can use a treadmill
or stationary bike, either in your home or at the gym. A simple aero-
bic workout will easily fit into your curr ent work schedule and
requires no special equipment, clothing or gear. Here is a typical start-
ing program for a beginner:
• 30 total minutes easy walking.
•12-minute warm-up period, 12-minute
cool-down period.
• Heart rate not to exceed the maximum aerobic level.
• Monday through Friday schedule.
•Satur day and Sunday of f.
You can always fit in a 30-minute workout at some point during
the day. Within that time, include at least a 12-minute warm-up peri-
od, where your activity level is very easy. For the next 6 minutes move
at a faster pace, but not so fast that it becomes uncomfortable —
there’s no need to break a sweat and you should be able to carry on a
conversation. The remaining 12 minutes is your cool-down, another
period of very easy activity . This is an optimal aerobic workout — one
you can do in your work clothes during the course of the day.
Remember, your basic beginning program should be tailored to
your specific needs. While most people are capable of at least 30 min-
utes of walking, perhaps 45 minutes is a good starting point. The
maximum starting point for any beginner is an hour. Still others may
benefit starting with 20 minutes per session. If you ar e recovering
from a chronic illness, or have been very inactive all your life, youYOUR EXERCISE PROGRAM • 219     

should consider only 15 minutes of exercise, or even 10 minutes, as a
start, and also consult your doctor.
Case History
Alice was about to celebrate her 50th birthday, and thought it
was time to get into shape. She was never physically active in
sports, although she raised four children. She began a simple
program of walking for 20 minutes, Monday through Friday,
taking Saturday and Sunday off. After two months, Alice was
ready to increase to 30 minutes each day, and after another two
months progressed to 45 minutes. After a couple of years, Alice
had the desire to take a couple of long walks a week, gradual-
ly working up to about 90 minutes each time.
How rapidly you incr ease the time period depends on your
response. Whatever the starting point, assuming the proper time is
chosen, maintain that time for at least thr ee weeks. Listen to your
body; it will tell you if and when you can increase. This is also true for
any change: Maintain the new time for at least three weeks before
increasing it if that’s desir ed and there’s no difficulty.
Don’t increase more than 50 percent at any one time in a program
of up to 45 minutes, and not mor e than 15 minutes when the program
is 45 minutes or more. Some people are quite content remaining at 45
minutes. This is fine, since you can obtain many benefits when exer -
cising at this level five times per week.
Perform the MAF Test every three to four weeks. If any problems
develop, stop. A professional may be helpful in determining what’s
wrong.
What type of exercise should you do? When starting out, do
almost anything, as long as it’s aerobic. This may include, besides
walking, riding a stationary bike, dancing, rebounding (trampoline),
outdoor biking, swimming, hiking, cross-country skiing, and using
various exer cise machines, such as r owing and skiing. Jogging, or
running, when done aerobically, is a healthy exercise. There is no uni-
versally accepted scientific distinction between running and jogging.
For the purposes of this book, I refer to jogging when I mean a much220• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH      

slower pace. Running occurs with progression and more speed, and
involves a slightly different gait. Any combination of these activities
is also acceptable, as long as your heart rate doesn’t exceed your max-
imum aerobic level. If you wish, do two or three types of exercise
throughout the week, or even in one workout. For example, you can
walk for 15 minutes, ride a stationary bike for 20 minutes and dance
for 15 minutes. This “cross-training” routine is actually healthier than
doing just one exercise each session.
Anaerobic activities, including any type of weight-lifting, sit-ups,
pushups or activities that raise the heart rate above your maximum
aerobic heart rate are not acceptable substitutes for aerobic exercise.
They shouldn’t be started until after you have developed your aero-
bic system. For the beginner , my recommendation is to wait at least
six months, and for those modifying their pr ogram, wait at least three
to four months before performing any anaerobic work.
Tennis, racquetball and similar sports often end up being anaero-
bic for the beginner , because of the type of muscle fibers used and the
high heart rates pr oduced. They’r e fun to do, but should be consid -
ered “games” and not exercise unless they’re performed regularly;
e.g., if you walk four times per week, play tennis once a week, or 18
holes of golf once a week. In that case, a proper warm-up and cool-
down is important, as well as regulating aerobic and anaerobic levels.
Once you have progressed through a certain number of weeks
without any pr oblems, you may want to further develop your health
and fitness. The following section is for people who wish to take their
fitness to another level.
Progressi ve Fitness Progr ams
To further increase your level of aerobic fitness, you may wish to
spend mor e time at or just below your maximum aerobic heart rate.
Be sure to pay close attention to your heart-rate monitor to make sure
you are not going over the maximum. If you can’t reach your maxi-
mum aerobic heart rate by walking, you can jog or run, or perform
other activities. Other types of aerobic activity, such as biking, swim-
ming or dancing, can also be used to impr ove your aer obic fitness. Be
conservative, and begin this phase slowly.YOUR EXERCISE PROGRAM • 221     

Case History
Kelly didn’t like jogging, but wanted to do a variety of exercis-
es. After walking regularly for more than a year, she joined an
aerobics class. She continued to wear her heart monitor, walk-
ing three da ys a week and going to aerobics three days. After a
few months, when the weather turned cold, she bought a sta-
tionary bike and rode it instead of walking, only venturing out-
doors to w alk if the temperature was tolerable. In time, Kelly
had no need for her heart monitor; she only was able to get her
heart rate to about 130 despite her maximum aerobic level
being 145 beats per minute. She still performed her MAF Test,
but at a lower heart rate. Kelly was very happy maintaining her
activity at this level. 
Basic Training
For many people, just exercising to be fit and healthy isn’t enough. At
some point in time this type of casual exercise program crosses over
to a training program. Some people train to reach a certain goal, such
as walking or running a certain distance or climbing a mountain.
Others want to be competitive. While this information goes beyond
the scope of this book, her e are some basic training guidelines for
those who wish to go beyond casual exercise:
•Take at least one or two days of f per week for r est and
recovery.
• Once per week, if time allows, do two workouts in one
day, preferably one in the morning and one in the
evening. Both should be relatively easy, below the maxi-
mum aerobic level.
•Once per week, do one longer -than-normal workout.
If after several weeks of building aerobic base your MAF Tests are
continuing to show improvement, you may wish to add some anaer-
obic activity. Many people benefit by performing some anaerobic
activity, as long as the aerobic system is well developed first, though
for some with a high str ess level, maintaining an aerobic schedule
throughout the year works well. Anaerobic exercise may include lift-222• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH      

ing light weights, faster running, jogging, dancing, biking, or any-
thing that raises the heart rate higher than the aerobic maximum. The
following factors should be considered when scheduling an anaerobic
workout:
• For most, one or two anaerobic workouts per week
is sufficient.
• Anaerobic sessions should never be on consecutive days.
• Anaerobic workouts should be preceded by a day off, or a
short, easy aerobic day.
• Anaerobic workouts should be followed by a day off, or a
short, easy aerobic day.
• An aerobic warm-up and cool-down should surround
anaerobic workouts.
• This anaerobic period should last no more than three to
five weeks.
Caution!
Anaerobic exercise is a very common cause of injury, ill health and
overtraining. It is also the most common r eason so many who exer cise
have poorly functioning aer obic systems; they ar e anaer obic during
many , if not most, of their exer cise sessions. Be cautious when per -
forming anaer obic workouts. Do your MAF Test during anaerobic
periods. If you perform too much anaer obic work, you will know it
by the r esults of your MAF T est.
Most people don’t really need to do anaerobic workouts. Their
lives have enough str esses that stimulate the neurological, metabolic
and muscular systems to satisfy the minimal anaer obic requirements
of the body . So don’t be pressured into anaerobic workouts if you’re
not absolutely sure you want to. 
An important rule is worth mentioning here again: Have fun in
your workouts. If your exer cise routine has become a stress, then
something is wrong. Maybe it’s time to change what you’re doing.
Maybe you shouldn’t exercise with the people you’re with. Whatever
the case, if exercise isn’t fun, find out why and correct it.YOUR EXERCISE PROGRAM • 223     

Aerobic Sex
One important and enjoyable function of human performance is the
act of making love. Good aerobic function is a key ingredient for a
good sex life. But for millions of people, poor sexual function is com-
mon. There are many physiological reasons for this, discussed below,
and some that may be psychological (which go beyond the scope of
this book and ar e not addressed). 
In general, when you’re fit and healthy, you should be physiolog-
ically and psychologically interested in sex. Specifically, a healthy aer-
obic system with good adrenal function (where many sex hormones
are produced) plays a role in healthy sexual function. 
If we look at the act of making love as a workout, we see a truer
picture of what is happening. If one partner is always too tired in the
evening, the problem often is aerobic deficiency. This may be caused
by eating too many sweets or carbohydrate snacks in the course of the
evening, or thr oughout the day .
Suppose the unr esponsive partner isn’t r eally tir ed. Perhaps
that’s the excuse used because he or she isn’t especially ar oused sex -
ually . This aspect of lovemaking is, for the most part, hormonal in
nature, and sex hormones are affected by stress. Estrogen, for exam-
ple, plays important r oles, fr om ar ousal to lubrication. T estoster one
also plays a vital role in sexual desire. Excess stress, a low-fat diet or
other factors can reduce these hormones and have a devastating
effect.
It is no coincidence that complaints of a lack of interest in sex
often coincide with high stress states. In many people, this “sexual
deficiency” then contributes even mor e to the alr eady high str ess
level, and pr events the person fr om getting a much-needed str ess
reduction. Sexual activity can be very therapeutic. In the course of
your day and week, all kinds of stress can accumulate. That tension,
the increased sympathetic activity often associated with stress, if not
balanced, can be harmful. The act of making love, specifically, having
an orgasm, can eliminate that tension.
What of the complaint, often heard from women, that “he never
lasts long enough?” Among the factors associated with this occur-
rence is a lack of stamina. This translates to endurance, or the lack of
it. The inability to endure sexually is another symptom of aerobic224• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH    

deficiency. Correcting aerobic deficiency often eliminates these com-
plaints.
Another factor associated with the person who “doesn’t last long
enough” is that he is usually not sufficiently warmed up. Many peo-
ple, more often men, choose to make lovemaking a sprint rather than
an endurance activity. A slow warm-up of activity is vital to any
workout, including lovemaking. In this instance, the warm-up is very
important, and can be accomplished with foreplay. Spending enough
time warming up will allow the hormonal system to properly evoke
the normal, healthy response in both partners. Without a warm-up,
you may not be ready to continue effective, enjoyable sexual activity.
Cooling down is another aspect of sex too often neglected, just as
in exercise; it’s vital to the complete workout. Like warming up, or
foreplay , cooling down is essential and should include a slow wind-
ing down, with easy, light-touch activity that produces even more
feelings of relaxation. Using exercise as a pattern, making love
requires the same elements: a slow increase in activity, followed by
the peak of the workout, and ending with a cool-down.
There are a variety of dietary and nutritional factors that can help
sexual performance. No, ther e’s no magic pill despite all the ads for
such gimmicks. The factors that really work happen to be the same
ones that help impr ove overall aer obic and hormonal function as dis-
cussed thr oughout this book. Mor e importantly , ther e are a number of
factors that can have a negative impact on sexual performance — the
same factors that can inhibit aer obic function. 
One aspect of sexual performance worth mentioning her e is that
of fertility. This problem can affect both males and females as poten-
tial parents. Women who want to conceive but are unable often suffer
from a tremendous amount of stress. The first step for a woman who
cannot conceive (after several months of trying) is to be sur e that ovu-
lation is taking place, and that inter course is taking place at the same
time as ovulation. This can be done using a kit available fr om dr ug
stores. If that doesn’t result in success, make sure both partners have
been examined and all physical or chemical reasons have been elimi-
nated. If ther e are clear problems, your doctor will most likely have
some recommended therapy. If no clear problems exist, you may be
on your own again, unless you are willing to undergo more extremeYOUR EXERCISE PROGRAM • 225   

hormonal therapy. This type of therapy never made sense to me for
two reasons: It’s not very successful; and it’s relatively easy to balance
the hormonal status, often resulting in conception. If the more conser-
vative approach fails, one still has the option to try more extreme
measures.
The most common cause of infertility I have seen is carbohydrate
intolerance, probably by reducing the important sex hormones estro-
gen and progesterone. Alleviating carbohydrate intolerance through
dietary changes helps remove stress from the adrenal glands, which
can increase DHEA and other sex hormones. Ultimately, this
improves fertility, sometimes even in the most stubborn cases. (And
sometimes when conception isn’t wanted — so if you’re of child-bear-
ing age doing the Two Week Test — be careful.)
In the case where fertility takes place but maintaining pregnancy
is difficult, similar problems may exist. The difference is in the hor-
mones that are most deficient. In many cases of early miscarriage,
progesterone is too low. The same dietary factors may be important,
but in addition, a natural pr eparation of pr ogester one may also be
needed. 
Sexual function is a normal, natural and healthy aspect of human
performance, one that should take place thr oughout life, not just dur -
ing youth. Imbalances in the aer obic system or the adr enal glands can
adversely affect the sex hormones, resulting in sexual problems.
Many common side ef fects of aerobic or stress-related dysfunction,
such as fatigue, poor circulation or depression, can adversely affect
sexual performance as well.226• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

26
Sports Shoes: The Danger Underfoot
Just like finding the proper formula for nutrition and exercise, it’s
up to you to find the right shoes for your feet. That may sound sim-
ple, but the truth is most shoes — even the ones in the impressive tel-
evision ads — can be hazardous to your health. Most modern exercise
shoes of fer too much support, are too heavy, and have too-thick soles.
What’s mor e, many people are wearing the wrong size. The result is
a formula for injury .
Biomechanically incorrect shoes can cause physical stress
throughout your body, and contribute to injuries from the foot, ankle
and knee to the hips, spine and other areas. Scientific studies show
that the so-called pr otective featur es found in many shoes, including
shock absorption and motion control, actually increase the likelihood
of injury . For instance, some support systems can weaken your
ankles, and soft, cushioned shoes can potentially lead to instability of
the knee joint and other areas. Furthermore, the thicker the sole, the
more unstable your foot and ankle become.
Many of these oversupported shoes are also overweight. The
seemingly insignificant weight added to your feet, in the course of the
day or workout, pr oduces large negative effects in the economy of
locomotion. For example, for every 3 ounces of shoe weight, a 1 per-
cent increase in oxygen uptake is required for the same performance. 
The soles of your feet have millions of nerve endings that sense
the gravitational stress of standing and each step you take. This infor-
mation is sent to the brain, which works together with your body to
adapt to this stress by constantly adjusting your body during move-
ment. This normal protective mechanism is meant to keep you from
accumulating excess wear and tear, and from being injured. When
you cover the foot with a shoe, you risk interfering with this adaptive
mechanism by preventing the nerve endings on the bottoms of your   

feet from sensing and sending vital information to the brain. The
more the foot is covered with thick, insulating materials, the more
interference with the body’s natural mechanisms. The result is a
diminished ability by the foot and the rest of the body to adapt to nor-
mal activity, with potential damage to the ligaments, fascia, cartilage
or bones in the foot. Because your feet are your foundation, any insta-
bility there could have dire consequences in the legs, knees, pelvis,
low back or other areas. 
The issue of impact is important, and shoe companies often infer
their products protect you against this problem. But impact is normal;
it occurs in the foot during walking or training whether a shoe is
worn or not. Without a shoe, the body can adapt naturally to impact.
With a shoe, there may be interference in that adaptation process.
Barefoot is best because there is no interference with the nerves
that sense contact with the gr ound. Overall, those who ar e often, or
always, bar efoot have much fewer foot problems. For example, ath-
letes who run barefoot are injured much less often than those who
wear shoes. Unfortunately , this is not practical for most people,
though you can still be barefoot whenever possible, such as in your
home or backyard. And if you live near a beach or a grassy area you
can also do some barefoot walking or running on these surfaces.
What to Wear?
The reality is that most people will have to wear shoes when going
outside. When buying shoes, there are some things to consider. Look
for shoes that ar e relatively flat and natural, ones that don’t oversup-
port your foot or raise it of f the ground too much. Many companies
make these shoes, but in lesser numbers than the oversupported ones.
In addition, a few running shoes called “racing flats” are built with
less sole to come between your foot and the ground. Above all, forget
the hype you hear about shoes. Consider the fact that one study of
5,000 runners showed that those using more-expensive running shoes
with more shock-absorbing materials had a higher incidence of injury.
It seems there is less chance of developing problems in less-expensive
shoes. The main reason for wearing them is not support, but rather to
protect the bottoms of your feet. 228• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

Excess heel height can also increase pronation, especially in shoes
with heels that are thicker than about 1 inch. Too much heel height
can also causes the entire body to move abnormally. 
A significant problem with thicker heels and soles is foot strike.
The natural running gait results in mid- to forefoot strike, depending
on how fast the pace. But the thick soles used in today’s running
shoes, for example, forces you to land on your heels — this is not nat-
ural and a significant mechanical stress. Try running barefoot, and no
matter how slow or fast you go it will be almost impossible to land on
your heel. (Landing on the heel is a normal walking gait.)
In general, shoes with more cushioning are also likely to produce
excessive pronation, a falling inward of the foot’s inner, medial arch.
This is especially true of shoes with added soft midsole material.
Many shoe-support systems, including orthotics, can interfere with
the normal functioning of the medial arch, the most important of
three main ar ches in the foot. I have only on rare occasions recom-
mended orthotics, and only for a short time while the cause of the
problem was being corrected.
Sorbothane and similar materials commonly used in exer cise shoes
and after-market insoles can also be counter-productive. While tests on
machines demonstrate Sorbothane’s great energy-absorbing abilities, a
study on humans shows that insoles made of this material actually
increase leg stress by 26 percent, enough to cause stress fractures.
Beware: The muscles of your foot and leg, especially the calf mus-
cles, have adapted to the thickness of your shoe. If you suddenly
change your shoe style by wearing flatter shoes, your muscles may
have to re-adjust their length. This may take a couple of weeks, dur-
ing which you may experience some calf discomfort.
Sizing Up Your Shoes
A significant number of people are wearing everyday, dress or exer-
cise shoes that ar e too small. In addition to foot pr oblems, this can
cause pain or dysfunction in the ankle, leg, knee, hip, low back, and
at times as high up as the neck or TMJ (jaw) joint. And most often, the
feet don’t even hurt. A study done in my clinic over an 18-month peri-
od found 52 percent of all athletes were training in shoes that were too
small. Once the pr oblem was diagnosed, these patients usually
required a change from one-half to one-and-one-half sizes larger.SPORTS SHOES: THE DANGER UNDERFOOT • 229       

Another study by orthopedic surgeons showed that 88 percent of
women wore everyday shoes that were too small.
Case History 
Jim had seen eight different professionals for his problems.
Because his symptoms were in both knees, most of their thera-
peutic attention was directed there. But it was Jim’s workout
shoes that told the real story. His right shoe had an area where
the large toenail had worn through. Upon measuring his foot,
it was found that his shoes were one entire size too small. “I
thought they should be snug,” he said. After wearing the cor-
rect-size shoes for a week, Jim was able to exercise painlessly
for the first time in two-and-a-half years.
You might think that the size of your feet is set by age 20, but
that’s not true. Normal increases in size, as a result of changes in
weight, muscular imbalance or pregnancy, often occur regardless of
age. Just being on your feet a lot can increase their size. This is due to
the str etching or elongation of the ligaments and tendons, followed
by a spr eading of the bones in the foot. If you don’t keep up with
these changes by wearing lar ger-size shoes, you can create a major
physical str ess.
Wearing a shoe that’s too small can cause a slow inward jamming
of the toes, characteristically causing a backwar d subluxation of the
first metatarsal joint, though any toe can be involved. This creates a
mechanical instability in the foot which, if left uncorrected, can lead
to other foot and ankle pr oblems such as hammertoes and bunions. In
time, the toes become spring-like; when a small shoe is slipped on, the
toes spring in, and the tightness of the shoe is not obvious. The first
metatarsal joint, however , is not as flexible as the joints of other toes,
and therefore takes most of the abuse.
Due to the slow onset of this common problem, the first
metatarsal jam is often asymptomatic; if you have it you usually don’t
complain of pain in that first toe joint. But visual examination of your
feet will often r eveal trauma, or micro-trauma (long-lasting mild
stress) to the tips of the toes. This often includes discoloration of the
nail bed (a darkened toenail), blistering or callousing of the toes, or230• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH      

swelling of the first metatarsal joint (the “ball” of the foot). In more
extreme cases, inspection of your shoe will reveal wear and tear,
inside and out, as a result of the nail or front of the toe trying to push
out of the shoe, sometimes causing a hole in the shoe.
Looking inside the shoe helps diagnose the problem. If you have
a removable insole, take it out and study it. Look at the wear pattern
(especially the indentation made from the toes), and see if the areas
compressed by the toes are not completely on the insert, as they
should be. Toes that overlap the top of the insert obviously indicate a
too-small shoe.
The importance of proper-fitting shoes can’t be overemphasized.
Here are some tips on finding an ideal-fitting shoe.
Always measure your foot when buying shoes. After a certain
age, many people don’t have their feet measur ed when buying new
shoes, since they don’t realize their size could have changed. As a
result, the same shoe size is worn for years, or even decades. 
Have both feet measured by a competent shoe-store salesperson,
in a standing position on a hard floor. Do this at the end of the day,
since most people’s feet are slightly larger then, compared to the
morning. (Of course, any meaningful daily size fluctuations must be
differentiated from serious health problems, such as edema and cer-
tain pathological changes.) Use these sizes only as a gauge — the
devices used for this measur ement ar e consistent, but the sizes
marked in the shoes aren’t. A size 9 from one company may be more
like an 8 fr om another . Don’t buy shoes by their size but how they fit
each foot. Even the same company may be very inconsistent when it
comes to its own size standard.
Spend adequate time trying on shoes in the store. Find a hard sur-
face rather than the thick soft carpet in shoe stores, where almost any
shoe will feel good. If ther e’s no sturdy floor to walk on, ask if you can
walk outside. If this is not allowed, shop elsewher e. 
Try on the size you think you normally wear . Even if that feels
fine, try on a half-size larger. If that one feels the same, or even better,
try on another half-size larger. Continue trying on larger half-sizes
until you find the shoes that ar e obviously too lar ge. Then go back to
the previous half-size; usually that’s the one that fits best. You may
need to try different widths when available to get a perfect fit.SPORTS SHOES: THE DANGER UNDERFOOT • 231   

Don’t let anyone say you have to break them in before they feel
good — the best shoes for you are the ones that feel good right away.
Even though you may develop the reputation of being a nuisance at
your shoe store, your body will benefit. While many salespeople are
aware of how to find the right shoe size, many are not.
For those who have a significant difference of more than a half-
size between their two feet, fit the larger foot.
Many women fit and function better in men’s sports shoes than in
women’s. The first rule, though, is that the shoe must fit properly.
Some women don’t fit into men’s shoes, and some stores don’t carry
men’s shoes in sizes that are small enough. 
You may not find the right shoe in the first store you visit. Most
outlets carry only a few of the many shoes in the marketplace. Often,
shoes fr om mail-or der outlets cost less. But be prepared to ship them
back if they don’t fit just right.
Remember, manufacturers design new shoes based on trends of
style, color and fancy gimmicks to market the shoe. That’s why shoe
styles come and go. If you find the shoe that fits perfectly, buy sever-
al pairs. Just be sure to try them all on, since the same shoe style may
vary in size.
Some patients I worked with bought larger shoes after their ini-
tial pr oblem was diagnosed, only to find that their feet kept getting
larger. At some point in time, they ended up with an incr ease of a full
size or more. I have occasionally seen increases of two-and-a-half
sizes over a two-year period in adults!
This situation is especially a concern for kids, whose feet always
seem to be growing. When in doubt, get new shoes. Too expensive?
Don’t be afraid to buy some of the inexpensive shoes on the market.
The $15 models wear just as long as the fancy ones for $150.
Unfortunately , once kids see enough shoe commercials on TV , they
may only want the expensive brands.
Actually , childr en should go bar efoot as much as possible. When
shoes are necessary for children, find them the best-fitting, thinnest
shoes with the least support. And that goes for grown-ups too —
don’t be afraid to spend as much time as possible bar efoot. It not only
helps to correct existing problems, but also prevents common foot
problems seen in many older people.232• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

This information on the potential dangers of shoes is not new. The
first published research to show these problems dates back to 1954;
electromyographic studies demonstrated poor muscle function in the
foot when shoes are worn. Modern shoes are even worse, as many
newer studies continue to show.
“High-Tops” 
Popular basketball shoes — “high-tops” — are promoted as a
way to protect the ankles against injury. However, since high-
tops were made ankle injuries ha ve become the most common
injury in the sport of basketball, where almost all athletes use
this type of shoe. High-tops are also w orn by many people who
don’t play basketball. And, like most commonly used “over-the-
counter” supports, whether for the ankle, knee or other joints,
they often weaken the muscles around the joint, ultimately
contributing or even causing a chronic problem.
One study showed that during a two-year period, 78 percent of
basketball pla yers experienced some type of ankle injury . Of
these, 83 percent were recurrent. Studies have not demonstrat-
ed that high-top shoes are able to prev ent ankle sprains. In fact,
Brizuela and colleagues (1997) showed that high-top shoes
produced more ankle injuries. These same shoes also reduced
the a verage jump height, and they increased the time needed
to complete a short running course in comparison to those w ho
wore lo w-support shoes — something to consider if y ou’re
playing basketball!SPORTS SHOES: THE DANGER UNDERFOOT • 233      

27
Self-Health Care
Most likely you’r e reading this book because you want to take
more control of your health. The rampant problem of chronic disease,
including the epidemic of overweight and obese people, now encom-
passes the majority of all the people in the industrialized world. As
this problem continues to rise, no health-care system will be able to
keep up with the medical needs of all these individuals. The health-
care systems of all countries are already overspending while the
explosion in costs has only just begun. The answer to the problem is
self-health care.
Ther e is a primary issue missing fr om the health-care discussions
that come up at each election; an issue that would help ensur e success
and significantly r educe costs. If we ar e to tr uly impr ove the health-
care system for the long term, each one of us must take more person-
al responsibility for health. Health car e must have a primary pr oac-
tive component — in which individuals avoid ill health and disease
— instead of the curr ent r eactive appr oach wher e we wait for disease
to occur then treat it.
Experts generally agree that most health problems, including
most diseases, are preventable. In its truest definition, prevention
refers to “outlasting disease” by being healthier at an earlier age.
While “screening for disease” is important, it’s a separate issue, and
does not take the place of true prevention. As individuals, we are the
only ones who can truly prevent disease. 
Taking personal responsibility for health is a significant step
towar d impr oving the overall health of our own bodies, our families,
our communities and the world. In doing so, health-care costs can
begin to drop after year one, and dramatically be reduced further
over time. The process is not unlike getting people to wear seat belts
or quit smoking — both examples of tr ue pr evention. But the pr ocess   

must be expanded to include factors associated with chronic disease
and ill health. These include the food people consume, levels of phys-
ical activity and stress.
How can we change a population’s eating and activity habits?
Much the same way that most people have been convinced to wear
seat belts and smoking has been significantly reduced — with educa-
tion. But that process cannot include lobbyists from the food industry
and others who have conflicts of interest. There is a consensus of sci-
entific and medical information that could serve as the foundation for
education and r ecommendations. 
The remaining chapters in this book continue the process of learn-
ing about fitness and health. They highlight some very important
issues that put into focus the information from all previous chapters.
This includes discussions about some of the problems people fear
most — cancer , heart disease and poor aging, as well as the issues that
are the causes of these and other health problems — stress, being
overfat and chronic inflammation. These chapters also address areas
of the body that ar e primary for physical, chemical and mental health
— the muscles and bones, gut and brain.
Today there’s a revolution afoot in the world of health care.
Growing numbers of people are beginning to realize they must take
personal r esponsibility for health. This r evolution finds people shift -
ing their efforts from crisis intervention to disease prevention. Instead
of just regular visits to the doctor, these people are seeking informa-
tion that can help them not only live longer but also enjoy a higher
quality of life. Disease is not an unavoidable option for these people.
The pr ospect of spending 12 completely dysfunctional years at the
end of a lifetime is just not acceptable to them. In fact many people
now rank longevity and quality of life as their No. 1 goal, and also
recognize the enormously important role that diet, nutrition and exer-
cise play in reaching this goal. I call this revolutionary movement self-
health car e.
In addition to longevity and quality-of-life issues, many people
also ar e fed up with the expense of the modern health-care system.
Health care is the single largest sector in the U.S. economy. In 2008,
health-car e spending r eached $2.4 trillion, and is pr ojected to exceed
$3 trillion in 2012. This is 17 percent of the gross domestic productSELF-HEALTH CARE • 235   

(GDP), and more than four times the U.S. military budget. This cost is
even more than other industrialized nations who provide health
insurance to all their citizens (many of them spend only about 10 per-
cent of their GDPs on health care). Despite this, the U.S. is ranked 37th,
just above Cuba, in health care by the World Health Organization.
Without adequate changes, things will only continue to worsen.
Baby boomers that today make up approximately 28 percent of the
U.S. population will represent 67 percent of all those over 50 in
America by 2010, posing even more challenges to the entire health-
care system.
As the patient base grows, the “waiting for disease” model of
health care will continue to fund an ever-expanding array of medical
technology, devices and drugs enabling more patients to undergo
more diagnostic procedures, take more drugs, see more specialists
and be subjected to incr easingly aggr essive tr eatments. The advances
in medical technology have incr eased the life expectancies of an
increasingly large number of medically complex patients, many of
whom r equire a high degree of monitoring and specialized care as
well as rehabilitative therapy. However, this model of health care has
failed and small numbers of health-conscious people are looking at
real alternatives.
The cornerstone to pr omoting health, maintaining wellness and
preventing illness is information that empowers individuals to
assume personal responsibility for healthy diet and lifestyle practices,
and the self-discipline to incorporate these practices into daily living.
Despite this tr end in the health-care system, the overwhelming evi-
dence of the r evolution toward self-health management is the increas-
ing recognition and acceptance by the general public of the effects of
diet, nutrition and lifestyle on achieving and maintaining optimal
health and human performance.
Your Mission: Outlast Rather than Conquer Disease
Many experts point out that there is a maximum biological limit to
aging. By shifting health-care strategy toward ongoing prevention
rather than last-minute intervention, we seek to defer the onset of
degenerative diseases to a point beyond the maximum age limit.236• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

For example, an individual who is on a course of degeneration
leading toward the onset of cancer at age 60 may be treated with ther-
apies designed to delay the onset to age 130. If that person dies natu -
rally at age 110, the onset of the cancer will have been avoided. This
is “outlasting” disease. The r esult is a phenomenon called “squaring
the survival curve,” a concept pr omoted by James Fries of Stanfor d
University, who says: “. . . many people with the early stages (of dis-
ease) never pr ogress to the later stages during their lifetimes.” SELF-HEALTH CARE • 237
Health Care Failure
Almost everyone has a horror story about the health-care sys-
tem, from procedures to insurance (not to mention the many
scams in this sector). But when health-care fails to deliver, let’s
not forget our part. Health care can fail us when:
• We don’t take responsibility by not taking care of our-
selves. This involves eating exceptionally well; being phys-
ically active; significantly reducing environmental stressors
(such as the chemicals in our air, food and water); control-
ling mental and emotional stress; and controlling body fat.
• We allow others to dictate our care — from insurance
companies and emplo yers, to the go vernment and even
our relati ves.
• We don’t have a health professional that matches our
unique needs; e.g., you wouldn’t go to a podiatrist for a
sinus problem. Despite attempts to restrict our options by
insurance companies, we do have a choice. 
• We give health professionals free reign of our body and
mind. We should w ork with health professionals in
addressing our needs; they should also be our teac hers, but
we are always in charge.
• We cling to one particular health-care approach or philos-
ophy and risk losing objectivity regarding personal health.       

Delaying the course of what is known as the universal degenera-
tive process means an individual need not expect a life of slow
declines and failing capacities — as they often saw with their parents
and grandparents. Instead, robust health can be maintained into old
age. The bottom-line benefits? Better, cheaper and user-friendly
health care. The National Science Foundation agrees: “Postponing
universal decline would lower, strikingly, per-capita costs for older
persons, starting with the 45 to 49 cohort. Chronic costs would be
delayed and their duration reduced. Individuals would tend to stay
healthy longer and decline more abruptly.”
Many people are slowly dying of the very diseases they were led
to believe could be conquered through research and development of
new drugs while waiting for this idea to be realized. Along the way,
quality of life crashes. The world is no closer to a cur e for cancer , heart
disease, Alzheimer’s and most other killers, while we’ve known how
to prevent and postpone them, in most cases, for decades. 
A Classic Case History
All this philosophy sounds great, but is it real? Many in all areas of
health car e say yes. Let’s look at an example of a person who is born
relatively healthy, then falls into a long period of dysfunction with
subtle but gr owing symptoms, ending with a diagnosis of disease.
This case history is drawn fr om many cases I’ve r ead about and vir -
tually a summation of most patient histories I’ve taken. This person is
carbohydrate intolerant and will follow the curr ent health-car e
model.
Some babies begin life with stress. Our future patient may have
been adversely affected by being fed formula or sugar water shortly
after birth, or by excess maternal stress. This stress, coupled with
genetic pr ogramming (perhaps a grandparent was diabetic), may pre-
dispose the baby to develop a less-stable blood-sugar mechanism,
adversely af fecting the nervous system.
Within the first three years of life the baby’s nervous, hormonal,
immune and digestive systems develop significantly. Also during this
time, psychological makeup is developed. The nervous system, at any
stage of development, is especially vulnerable to periods of low blood
sugar, sure to occur in this child. During the early years of life, a num-238• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

ber of unhealthy patterns and physiological imbalances may develop.
By age 10, this carbohydrate-intolerant child begins to develop symp-
toms. These include behavioral problems, various types of “learning
disabilities,” allergies, and asthma. If female, she may start to devel-
op menstrual problems. As time goes on, intestinal symptoms and
fatigue set in, and blood sugar may remain unstable. Some experts
have linked blood-sugar problems to drug use and criminal activity.
If brought to the attention of a mainstream medical doctor, he or she
would probably rule out disease, and conclude that the problem may
be psychological. Perhaps counseling would be recommended.
Before reaching age 20, this person — now somewhat overfat —
attempts to lose weight through dieting. This vacillates from starving
to lowering fat intake, accompanied by increased consumption of car-
bohydrates. It begins the pr ocess of yo-yo dieting, in which a lower
caloric intake decreases metabolism, which results in some short-term
weight loss, with the final consequence of weight gain.
To this point, this person would probably not have sought tradi-
tional health care for these seemingly minor but annoying problems.
Over-the-counter drugs and other remedies provide symptomatic
relief; ef fective marketing strategies pr omise help is just a pill away . 
By the second through third decade of life, the carbohydrate-
intolerant person usually becomes a patient. And at this point, many
of the symptoms have worsened: fatigue, intestinal bloating and
decreased concentration. Addictions to sweets, caffeine, alcohol,
tobacco or other dr ugs ar e quite possible.
Many symptoms ar e now observable and measurable. Dizziness,
caused by a significant blood-pressure drop upon standing, is com-
mon. Blood pressure may begin to elevate. Abnormal glucose-toler-
ance tests are sometimes found, but more often still appear normal.
Other signs include incr eased fat stores, especially in the upper half
of the body . Blood fats, especially triglycerides but also cholester ol,
may begin to incr ease. Mor e common and dif ficult to measure early is
a clogging of the arteries with fat. 
If seen by a traditional doctor, the patient may be put on a diet to
help r elieve the symptoms. This diet may be high in carbohydrates,
and low in fat, red meat, eggs and cheese. And the symptoms just get
worse. SELF-HEALTH CARE • 239   

Exercise is sometimes recommended. But with no direction, the
patient frequently exercises too intensely in the hope of burning more
calories. This leaves this patient worse off, usually with a more pro-
nounced aerobic deficiency.
Soon after this stage, around the fifth decade of life, measurable
pathological, or disease states appear. They may include high blood
pressure, high blood fats (triglycerides and/or cholesterol) and prob-
lems handling blood sugar. These signs may now be accompanied by
named diseases: hypertension, hyperlipoproteinemia and diabetes.
There is now a very high risk for coronary artery disease and if fat
accumulates, blocking the flow of blood to the heart, bypass surgery
may be the only way to prevent death. At this stage, conservative
measures such as exercise, diet and nutrition require more stringency
to be ef fective, but still can play a major r ole in therapy. If disease is
too advanced, more extreme countermeasures may be needed, such
as surgery.
The last stage of life, the so-called golden years of the 60s and up,
can literally be quite painful for both patient and family, and a great
expense for all, including society. Our patient, now a medicated,
hypertensive, overweight diabetic on the ver ge of r equiring bypass
surgery, remains at high risk until the end. But modern medicine has
helped lengthen the life span. When death comes, it comes not only
with pain and suf fering, but also with gr eat expense. 
Could this scenario be changed? Could the suffering and expense
be pr evented? Clearly the answer is yes. And it’s not just a philoso -
phy. We can see it in action in people who follow the right path
towards fitness and health.
Treating Functional Illness
Recognition of functional illness early in life, when it’s mor e easily
and inexpensively tr eated with conservative measur es, including
lifestyle changes, is one of the keys to self-health car e. This is the tr ue
meaning of prevention. In medicine, prevention is thought of as a
screening process, such as “screening for cancer” to find it early when
it’s mor e treatable. I prefer to think of prevention as postponing that
cancer and not allowing it to progress to a diagnosis during your life-
time.240• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

We are not fated to live and die with a game plan we don’t control.
We can alter the quality of our lives, and influence the quality of our
children’s lives. In these later chapters about managing our fitness and
health — self-health care — I discuss many topics regarding dysfunc-
tion and disease and how you can take a proactive approach to true
prevention. By effectively managing your own health you may not
only be able to avoid disease, but also limit your exposure to the
health-care system, attain greater quality of life and reach the finish
line of your life journey in good health rather than in dysfunction. The
most powerful tool you have in this quest is real information that
works, and is user-friendly. The only thing left for you to do is embody
this information by applying it to your own self-health care strategy.
Finding a Health-Care Professional
The concept of self-health care is fairly straightforward: You manage
your own health. But sometimes along life’s journey you need advice
or treatment. This is when finding a good health-care professional
may be helpful.
Good health-care professionals are in great demand because there
are too few of them. The first thing to do when seeking a health-car e
professional is to ask around. Mention to your friends or relatives that
you’r e looking for a certain type of health-car e professional. This may
be a nutrition-oriented practitioner , massage therapist, chir opractor ,
medical doctor or any number of different professionals with various
expertise. Agood place to start is with what used to be called a “gen -
eral practitioner ,” now called a family physician. He or she may be a
medical doctor, osteopath or other professional who is knowledge-
able in treating the whole person. If more specific care is needed, this
person should also have the ability to refer you to a specialist. 
Once you have a name you can find out mor e by talking with cur-
rent patients. Find out what they like and dislike about the pr ofes-
sional they see. The important questions include those about how
much time is spent on typical visits, if questions were adequately
answered, and if the professional took the time to treat the person as
an individual rather than a number . Also seek out information about
philosophical compatibility — you don’t want to work with someone
who is opposed to how you have chosen to live your life. SELF-HEALTH CARE • 241     

Before making an appointment, don’t be afraid to call a profes-
sional’s office for information about how he or she practices. This is
not unlike an interview: You want to know about someone before
developing a professional relationship.
Once you make an appointment, take note of how this practition-
er addresses your needs and concerns. If you have a good feeling
about your visit, plan another as necessary. But if you don’t feel com-
fortable, whether you can explain it or not, search for another health
professional. It may take some time to find a person that best match-
es your particular needs. 
One problem with our current health-care system is that by going
to see a particular doctor or other professional, you’re most likely
only going to get that person’s specialty as treatment. For example, if
you visit an acupuncturist, you’ll get acupuncture; visit a surgeon,
you often get sur gery; visit a dietitian, you’ll get diet advice. But what
if you have both surgical and nutritional needs for the same problem?
It’s uncommon to find a practitioner who can address all your needs,
or who will r efer you to another specialist, although these health-car e
professionals do exist and ar e worth seeking out. This is why you
must actively manage the entire process. It’s up to you to find the best
health-care practitioners that match your needs. In my practice I per-
formed a variety of therapies, but most importantly took suf ficient
time to assess the patient using a variety of forms (sent to the patient
ahead of time), past medical records, diet analysis, a long oral history
and a physical examination. An effective assessment is a key to suc-
cessful tr eatment. My therapies included various forms of neur omus-
cular biofeedback, individualized diet and nutrition r ecommenda -
tions, stress management, exercise guidelines and others.
And finally, finding a health-care professional who is fit and
healthy is very important.242• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

28
Brain Power
To paraphrase the great singer-songwriter Bob Dylan, if we’re not
busy being born we’re busy dying. This sums up the remedy for opti-
mal brain function throughout life. Unfortunately, too many people
start dying at a very early age.
It’s estimated that one in four people in the United States suf fers
from some form of mental or emotional disorder. Many more have
diminished brain function, which is often transient. Human err or is a
common result of diminished brain function, and the cause of the
majority of automobile, airplane, rail, boating and other tragic acci-
dents r eported in the popular pr ess every day . Medical mistakes,
which kill and maim millions of people, ar e also usually due to
human error. Whether it’s poor memory, such as not remembering
that phone call you wanted to make, or getting lost in your own
neighborhood due to a serious cognitive condition such as
Alzheimer ’s, most cases of these problems are preventable through
proper food and nutrition, stress regulation and lifestyle. And, the
problem isn’t just about avoiding cognitive problems — you want
your brain to function at a high level until you die!
Do you r emember wher e you wer e when Pr esident Kennedy was
assassinated? Maybe you hadn’t been born yet. How about when the
space shuttle Challenger exploded? Or when the World Trade Center
collapsed? Most people have vivid memories of where they were
when these intense events occurred. At the same time, many people
can’t recall a simple five- or seven-digit phone number, for example, or
the name of someone they just met. The memory of traumatic events
is so clear because the powerful adr enal r esponse pr ovides optimal
blood sugar levels. It’s also possible to harness this great and valuable
function of the body and brain through proper diet and nutrition.   

Your Brain on Blood Sugar
There’s nothing magical about it, learning, memory, and all other cog-
nitive functions have an undeniable relationship with stable blood
sugar. Whether you’re healthy or not, blood-sugar irregularities can
hit you at any time, adversely affecting brain function. 
While the body utilizes both fat and sugar for energy, the brain is
primarily dependent upon sugar. If the level of blood sugar rises too
much, or falls too low, the brain has an immediate reduced capacity.
This means you don’t remember as well, don’t respond as well to
external stimuli, and can’t learn as easily. Reductions in overall men-
tal performance can follow. From early in life a child’s poor learning
can be a problem. As adults we joke about “brain damage.” In older
adults cognitive dysfunction such as Alzheimer’s disease is on the
rise. Cr eativity , in both childr en and adults, is another mental pr ocess
that can be compromised when blood sugar is not balanced. 
As I have discussed in detail thr oughout this book, blood sugar is
controlled by a number of factors, especially food, nutrition, exercise
and stress. Here’s a quick review:
•High-glycemic carbohydrates, especially sugar and
processed flour products, can reduce and impair brain
function due to the effects of insulin. The application of
this fact is simple: Don’t go to work or send your kids to
school after a breakfast of high-glycemic cereal or other
sweets. Most adults know not to drink and drive, but
many still go to work, operate vehicles or embark on
other activities that r equire optimal brain function with-
out the right fuel. 
• Blood sugar can be controlled exceptionally well by
snacking on healthy items. By eating five or six meals
daily you can help stabilize blood sugar, allowing the
brain to do its job properly.
• Stress can wreak havoc on blood sugar and reduce brain
function (str ess is discussed in mor e detail in Chapter 31).
• Physical activity can help improve brain function in
many ways. Aerobic exercise can help improve blood-244• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH    

sugar regulation and blood flow, control stress and influ-
ences overall brain function.
Brain Pain
When we consider mental energy, it’s clear thinking and creativity we
want, rather than that foggy feeling or depression. When you have a
thought or feel a sensation from the outside world, it’s the result of
major chemical reactions in your brain. Billions of messages are sent
throughout the brain and the nerves on a regular basis by brain chem-
icals called neurotransmitters. Different neurotransmitters make you
feel different ways: high, low, sleepy, awake, happy and sad.
Sometimes the brain may have too many of one type of neurotrans-
mitter or not enough of another. As a result, you may feel too high or
low, or too sleepy . A common end-result symptom may be depression
or anxiety. When these problems develop, antidepressant drugs are
sometimes prescribed to manipulate brain chemistry in hopes of bal-
ancing neurotransmitters and relieving symptoms.
For most people, diet can have a profound effect on brain chem-
istry, often as much effect as drugs but easier to regulate and without
side ef fects. What you eat, or don’t eat, for dinner can influence your
sleep, your dreams, and how you feel upon waking. And what you
eat, or don’t eat, for br eakfast can determine your human perform -
ance for the day .
Most of the 40 or more types of neurotransmitters are made from
amino acids derived fr om the pr otein in your diet. Certain vitamins
and minerals ar e also r equir ed for their pr oduction, including vitamin
B6, folic acid, niacin, iron and vitamin C. There are many important
neurotransmitters related to mental function. They include serotonin
and norepinephrine — the two most commonly discussed substances.
Let’s look at how a traditional meal af fects most brains, and why the
confusion surr ounding this issue continues.
Most people think getting sleepy after Thanksgiving dinner is
due to the turkey — more specifically, the tryptophan content of the
turkey that can sedate the brain. Tryptophan, an amino acid that can
produce a sleepy feeling when consumed in high amounts, is r elative-
ly high in turkey. But while this notion is promoted year after year in
the media, it’s completely false.BRAIN POWER • 245     

The reason so many people get sleepy after Thanksgiving dinner
— like many other meals and snacks — is not caused by eating turkey,
but rather by eating all the trimmings made from refined carbohy-
drate and sugar. In the case of a typical holiday meal, it’s the bread,
potatoes (including sweetened sweet potatoes), gravy (made with
flour), cranberries (sweetened with sugar), and of course those extra
servings of pie (there’s always more than one type to taste). Throw in
some alcohol and it’s no wonder you’re craving more than just one
pot of coffee. 
While turkey does have a high amount of tryptophan, it has
many other amino acids that prevent tryptophan levels from elevat-
ing in the blood (thereby not affecting the brain). The foods that
reduce brain function the most are the carbohydrates which cause a
rise in a brain neurotransmitter, serotonin — this has a calming, relax-
ing, sedating ef fect on the brain, with the more carbohydrates you eat,
the more sedating its action.
Sleepiness after any meal may be indicative of carbohydrate intol-
erance. So if you often feel this way , it’s time to evaluate, or r e-evalu -
ate your eating habits as I discussed in the chapters on carbohydrates.
High-carbohydrate foods cause the brain to produce more serotonin.
The individual who is easily agitated or mentally overactive may ben -
efit from a meal with natural carbohydrates that are not high-
glycemic. Too many carbohydrates, however, can produce too much
serotonin in many people, causing oversedation or even depression.
If you’re a student, executive, or just want to use your brain better,
you might find that eating suf ficient carbohydrate to adversely affect
brain chemistry is counterproductive.
While sweets are traditionally thought of as providing energy,
they ar e in actuality mentally sedating. Sometimes sweets may give
the feeling of a pick-up, but that is very short-lived, until insulin low -
ers the blood sugar, resulting in more fatigue.
If you need a mental pick-up, try eating some protein. A protein-
based meal with little or no carbohydrates causes your body to pro-
duce less insulin, and provides a higher amount of tyrosine and
increased nor epinephrine levels. This neur otransmitter has a stimu-
lating effect on the brain. The person who needs a mental pick-up or
who gets sleepy after a meal could benefit from eating a high-protein
meal with little or no carbohydrate.246• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

Drugs are often prescribed to balance brain chemistry. Depressed
patients are given medication to restore balance to the neurotransmit-
ters. Prozac, Elavil, Buspar, Aventyl, Tofranil and Zoloft are antide-
pressants that affect the balance of serotonin and norepinephrine.
(Tranquilizers, such as Valium and Ativan, have a different function
and affect other neurotransmitters.) But these medications have side
effects, including reductions in glutathione, the most powerful
antioxidant that protects the brain from damage.
Brain Function and EPA
One of the most important brain nutrients is the omega-3 fat EPA
(along with DHA). Most people won’t get enough from food, so sup-
plementation is often necessary. The omega-3 fats are key ingredients
for the development and r epair of the brain, especially the eyes.
Imbalances in essential fatty acids — particularly deficiencies in
omega-3 fats — have been implicated in depressive disorders in
adults and behavioral problems in children and adolescents, includ-
ing Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, difficulties with learn-
ing, impulsivity , hyperactivity , aggr ession and anger .
Researchers continue to identify the positive effects of EPA on the
brain and also have established a direct link between an imbalance in
fatty acids and depressive disorders. In fact, it appears that these fats
regulate neurotransmitters in ways that mimic the effect of some anti-
depr essant medications. These fats coat the brain-cell membrane,
serving a protective function when neurotransmitters are fired in the
synaptic phase.
EPAand DHA have other benefits in brain function as well. They
are most vital for the fetus and child during development of the brain.
They may also help control the release of the stress hormone cortisol,
resulting in improved brain function. And, they may help reduce the
severity of degenerative brain diseases that lead to memory loss and
dementia, including Alzheimer’s disease. 
Other Brain Requirements
The brain’s 200 billion cells also have numer ous nutritional r equir e-
ments for good function. These include a number of vitamins and
minerals, and most importantly, water. Any dietary inadequacy canBRAIN POWER • 247       

potentially have a dramatic impact on brain function. Numerous neu-
rological symptoms have been associated with a deficient diet,
including aggression, learning disabilities, depression, hyperactivity
and memory problems.
There is an important relationship between folate levels and
depression. Numerous studies show that many people with depres-
sion also have low levels of folate. Consuming foods containing this
nutrient can significantly improve depression in these people. For this
reason, anyone considering antidepressant medication should first be
screened for folate levels through a blood test for homocysteine, the
best indicator of folate levels in the body. For depressed individuals
who have low folate levels, adequate folate intake and utilization may
be as effective as Prozac or other antidepressant drugs for treating
mild, moderate and severe depression. Folate is contained in green,
leafy vegetables and fr uits; in some cases, fr uit, especially citr us, can
be a better source than leafy vegetables. For many people, synthetic
folate, or folic acid, from most supplements may not be as effective or
as well utilized as folate obtained from real food sources.
Other micronutrients are important for the brain too:
• Sodium, potassium, magnesium and calcium are also
important for sending messages through the brain. 
• Iodine has an important role in brain maturation, begin-
ning in the fetus soon after conception. 
•In childr en, a strong association has been made between
iron deficiency and Attention Deficit Hyperactivity
Disorder. 
•Zinc is important for growth and maturation of the brain
and is used for many chemical reactions in the brain,
especially those r elated to behavior . 
• Copper is also related to growth and maturation of the
brain. While copper deficiency has been associated with
deterioration of mental function and physical coordina-
tion, too much of this mineral can have the same r esults. 248• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

• Manganese, like copper, is both important for proper
brain function and has potential for adversely affecting
the brain if taken in excess. 
• Lead, arsenic and mercury are all toxic to the brain and
pose real health problems throughout the world. Lead
poisoning has been known for centuries. For years scien-
tific literature has described mercury poisoning, ranging
from contamination of fish through accumulated methyl
mercury (introduced to the food chain by industrial
waste) to consumption of grain treated with mercury
fungicide. The debate over dental fillings is still a concern
to many in the scientific community . 
• Vitamin B6 is another important brain nutrient, and is used
in the regulation of certain neurotransmitters. Because
estrogen can r educe the levels of vitamin B6, this may be
important for some women, especially those taking birth-
contr ol pills and on estr ogen-replacement therapy.
Though caffeine isn’t considered a nutrient, it is a drug with
potential brain ef fects. This is obvious to those who r egularly con -
sume caffeine. One main effect is increased mental performance and
alertness, though negative brain effects can appear soon afterwards
when the drug wears off and you crave more, especially if your food
intake is not adequate. The physical side ef fects of caffeine can be
unhealthy for some while others can tolerate relatively small amounts
of caf feine each day . It’s up to you to determine if your body can tol -
erate caf feine, and if so, how much.
As you can see, a variety of dietary and nutritional factors can
help improve brain power — beginning at fetal development and
continuing throughout your life and into old age. Both children and
adults can improve their brain function by choosing foods that match
their needs. For example, eating a balanced ratio of protein, unrefined
carbohydrate and fat can help optimize blood sugar, thereby improv-
ing cognition, learning and memory . Certain dietary supplements can
also be very helpful, especially EP A. Making dietary choices that
ensure proper nutrient intake, such as adequate folate levels, can alsoBRAIN POWER • 249   

be helpful in regulating brain function and improving conditions
such as depression. In addition to these dietary considerations, anoth-
er factor that can improve brain function is proper management of
stress levels.
In addition to nutrition, hormone balance is important for brain
function too. In particular, sex hormones. They help regulate protein
balance in the brain. Sex hormones are part of the big picture of hor-
mone balance and stress discussed in more detail in Chapter 31 .
Ritalin Works Just Like Cocaine
Scientists ha ve found that Ritalin acts just like cocaine by
chemically manipulating the br ain’s dopamine system to
reduce distraction and increase attention signaling.
Ritalin was one of the first in what would become a group of
drugs used to treat ADHD and related behavioral problems.
These drugs are prescribed to millions of children. Many adults
also take the drug, along with untold numbers of illicit users.
Like cocaine, Ritalin is classified as a Schedule II controlled
substance by the Drug Enforcement Administration. It is among
the most addictive and abused prescription drugs.
Despite its widespread use, Ritalin does not address the cause
of the problem, but merely offers symptomatic relief. The side
effects of Ritalin are numerous and include decreased appetite,
which can ad versely affect the child’s nutritional state, as well
as retarded gro wth, insomnia, increased irritability and
rebound hyperactivity when the drug wears off.
In addition, while ADHD is often associated with abnormal
brain chemistry, it is important to note that these types of
behavioral problems often have other contributing factors,
including psychological dynamics and social stress. 
Psychotropic drugs ha ve a reported effecti veness r ate of about
75 per cent. Ho wever, the effectiveness of natural remedies that
include the use of dietary supplements and diet modification is250• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

also reported in scientific studies to be about 75 percent.
Children diagnosed with ADHD have been found to have low
levels of omega-3 fats in their cells. Omega-3 fatty acids — par-
ticularly EPA and DHA — are key components in the brain and
are central to neurological function and visual acuity. Studies
show low omega-3 levels correlate with poor behavior scores
and teacher scores of academic abilities.
This is due not only to lack of omega-3 fats in the diet, but may
also be the result of having trans fats in the diet, which could
displace omega-3 fats in cells. Trans fats come from hydro-
genated and partially hydrogenated oils found in many food
products, especially junk food. In addition, excess intake of
omega-6 fats from common vegetable oils can result in low
omega-3 levels in the body. Since most children don’t eat foods
containing omega-3 fats, taking an EP A fish oil supplement ma y
be essential.
A variety of over-the-counter and prescription drugs can impair
brain function. Many of these drugs won’t give obvious symptoms
that your brain is adversely affected. Alcohol can depress brain func-
tion, although in small amounts it can improve social activity — this
may be a great thing for the brain. Balance is key — if a small amount
of alcohol makes you feel bad after drinking it, especially if you don’t
feel right the next morning as well, it’s best avoided.
Brain Waves
The brain generates electrical activity that when measur ed results in
waves of different frequencies and amplitudes depending upon the
level of consciousness, balance of neurotransmitters, and overall nor-
mal or abnormal function. Sensation, attention (self-awareness), intel-
lectual activity and the planning of physical movement have distinct
electrical correlates in the brain that can be measured with a device
called an EEG (electroencephalogram).BRAIN POWER • 251      

There are four commonly measured brain waves, associated with
specific states of consciousness:
• Beta waves (12-32 Hz) are associated with full awareness
and a busy brain, such as during a business meeting,
planning a trip or multitasking.
• Alpha waves (8 -12 Hz) are associated with a sense of
“relaxed alertness” and high creativity, typical during
meditation, listening to music, and when eyes are closed.
The ability to generate alpha waves is associated with the
self-regulation of stress and may contribute to an expand-
ed state of consciousness.
• Theta waves (4-8 Hz) are seen in the awake but dreamy
state common just before the onset of sleep. These waves
are most prevalent in youth but occur during deep cre-
ativity and meditation in adults at any time.
• Delta waves (0.5-4 Hz) are very slow waves occurring
during most stages of sleep, but abnormal if occurring
while awake and may indicate a lack of adequate blood
sugar or oxygen, medication side ef fects, or poorly func-
tioning neurons due to nutritional problems or illness.
The brain should make specific waves in certain brain regions at
appr opriate times. An abnormality might include a normal wave
occurring at the wr ong time. For example, delta waves that ar e seen
during reading or performing a simple math problem are abnormal
and could account for errors. And the appearance of theta waves
while in a classr oom setting or driving on the highway is abnormal
and could account for poor compr ehension or “human error.” 
The ability to pr oduce alpha waves is associated with an overall
healthy brain and body, especially in relation to controlling stress. It
is one reason people have, for thousands of years, pursued medita-
tion, the use of psychedelics and other drugs, prayer and other activ-
ities that seek to pr omote the alpha state. Specifically , alpha waves can
reduce high levels of the stress hormone cortisol, and help balance the
autonomic nervous system. These alpha waves can have dramatic252• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH           

effects on the entire body, such as improved memory, learning and
comprehension, better blood-sugar regulation, improved gut func-
tion, and balanced hormones. When we’re relaxed, creative, meditat-
ing and happy, the brain produces large amounts of alpha waves. 
The inability to produce alpha waves is abnormal. Blood sugar
problems, inadequate sleep, nutritional imbalance and very high lev-
els of stress hormones can impair the ability to produce alpha waves.
Even certain mechanical imbalances, such as those in the jaw joint or
neck muscles can significantly reduce the ability to generate healthy
alpha waves.
An easy method of promoting alpha wave production is called
respiratory biofeedback . I developed this procedure, sometimes called
the 5-Minute Power Break , by combining two powerful therapies: the
first is manual biofeedback that helps muscles function better (and
discussed in Chapter 30), and the second is neurofeedback, or EEG
biofeedback, which helps improve brain function. 
Respiratory Biofeedback
One of the most powerful brain and body remedies I’ve ever
used is called respiratory biofeedback. You can perform it your-
self as a quic k, effective daily therapy to reduce stress, relax
and improve overall health. Here are some of its significant
health benefits:
• It can increase oxygen to the brain, potentially improving a
variety of neurological imbalances. This is accomplished
through more efficient breathing that brings more air into
the lungs.
• It can increase the brain’s production of alpha waves. These
brain waves can help reduce harmful stress hormones, bal-
ance the nervous system and promote relaxation — very
important features for a healthier brain and body.
• Respiratory feedback can help restore normal breathing.
Improper breathing is often associated with brain and
spinal cord injuries, and is sometimes a hidden problem
even in relati vely health y people.BRAIN POWER • 253          

• It can improve the function of the diaphragm and abdomi-
nal muscles. In addition to breathing, these muscles play a
significant role in physical movement, improving posture
and supporting the spine and pelvis.
• Because of its effect on the brain and nervous system, res-
piratory biofeedback can improve the function of other
muscles in the body as well, and help reduce pain.
Here are the steps for respiratory biofeedback:
• It’s best performed in a lying position, although slightly
reclined while sitting is also effective.
• Place the hands or arms on the middle of the abdomen,
and keep them relaxed. This provides a biofeedback effect
on the diaphragm and abdominal muscles during
movement. 
• Closing the eyes can increase healthy alpha brain waves.
• Listening to enjoyable music is also a great way to increase
alpha waves, especially if headphones are used which
keeps out distracting noise. 
•Breathe easy . Most people can comfortably , slowly inhale
for about fi ve to seven seconds; then, exhale for the same
five to seven seconds. If five to seven seconds makes you
feel out of breath or dizzy, adjust the time — try three to
four seconds during inhalation, for example, and the same
for exhalation.
•Continue respir atory biofeedback for about five minutes. 
Caution : It’s very important to not fall asleep, or not ev en start
drifting into sleep. If this happens, discontinue the respiratory
biofeedbac k session. Sleep produces very different brain waves
(delta w aves, as noted abo ve) that should be a voided during254• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

respiratory biofeedback. If you start getting sleepy after two
minutes, perform respiratory biofeedback for just less than that
time and gradually work up to five minutes — but always avoid
getting sleepy. If you consistently get sleepy during respiratory
biofeedback, there may be other sleep-related issues such as
sleep deprivation or sleep apnea.
Respiratory biofeedback can be performed once or twice daily,
or even more if necessary. Many people feel so much better
afterw ard, and can tell when it’s time to perform it. And, before
the implementation of other therapies (massage, yoga, chiro-
practic, etc.), it’s best to perform respiratory biofeedback first
because it can help make these therapies more successful.
Rest and Stimulation
Two other very important factors for optimal brain function ar e rest
and stimulation. Brain rest comes in the form of sleep. For the aver-
age adult, sleeping uninterrupted for at least seven and no more than
nine hours is normal; childr en need mor e. Some people believe they
could function well on less sleep, but they pr obably can’t. And too
much sleep may be associated with certain disorders, including
depression.
The best envir onment for a sleeping brain (and body) is in a dark
and quiet comfortable clutter-free bedroom. The sensations of light
and sound can keep the brain from resting. Creating this environment
is usually easy to do.
No other body area responds better than the brain to the notion
of “use it or lose it.” This comes in the form of mental stimulation. In
addition to food and nutrition, exer cise and controlling stress, contin-
ually using the brain is important. This includes pr oviding it with
new information such as a language or touch-typing, or reading inter-
esting information with which you’re not familiar. It also means
doing physical things your brain is not familiar with such as using
your opposite hand for eating, changing physical r outines or per-
forming other uncommon tasks. In addition, easy aerobic exercise is
one of the most powerful brain therapies because many of the nervesBRAIN POWER • 255     

in the muscles begin in the brain — each muscle contraction and
relaxation is a unique and healthy brain stimulation. 
In addition, one of the best brain therapies is to follow your pas-
sion. If that’s painting, pottery, climbing a mountain or whatever —
pursue it and do it! Included in this is a simple motto: Do the things
you’re good at doing; avoid things you don’t do well (or if you love
them, learn to do them well).
And don’t forget music — just listening is a powerful way to
stimulate the brain. W atching music videos, playing music and writ-
ing it are also great workouts for the brain. Music can stimulate more
areas of the brain at one time than almost anything else.
Music Matters
Do y ou w ant to know a secret? Like food, nutrition and exer-
cise, music can play an eloquent role in improving your quali-
ty of life. There’s nothing like listening to Mozart, the Beatles or
Cat Stev ens to reduce stress or meditatively ponder life. There’s
a place for Chopin, and Dylan. Matc h the music and y our
mood, and you’re on your way. 
Music may not always be a magical mystery tour, but it sure
can do something unique. Scientists ha ve shown beneficial
effects of music on controlling stress, reducing pain, and
impro ving immune and br ain function. Music around mealtime
can help digestion, too. After a hard day’s night, or if you’ve
been working eight days a week, relaxing and listening to some
good music can help. Everything seems to come together, emo-
tionally , in a healthy, therapeutic way.
Music as therapy is thousands of years old. Perhaps the first
written therapeutic use came from Chinese medicine about
5,000 years ago. About 2500 BC, followers of Pythagoras
developed a science of musical psyc hother apy. Today, the long
and winding road of music includes treatment for many types
of patients, including those with depression, autism, learning
disabilities, Alzheimer’s and others. But almost anyone can
enjoy the music as well as its health benefits.256• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

It’s not necessary to know the musical key associated with par-
ticular areas of the body, as taught in Chinese medicine,
because the particular music that is most therapeutic is the
music you like. Most likely, the music you find most comfort-
ing includes tunes from yesterday — those associated with
good memories, typically from when you were younger. This is
the basis for using music in the treatment of brain disorders,
from simple memory problems to more serious diseases.
Stimulating auditory sense is just one way to trigger emotions
with potentially therapeutic outcomes. Another way is visual —
watching a music video, or being at a concert may even be
more powerful. Applying the kinesthetic sense — the act of
playing music, for example — can even be more potent. Add
some dancing (you can even twist and shout) and now you’ve
added more brain stimulation with an aerobic complement.
Directed at consumers, music equals money: Studies sho w that
background music can bring increased sales. This subliminal
use of music has been used for centuries. And many of the suc-
cessful r adio and TV commer cials use well-kno wn music to sell
products.
Just as we can use a health y snac k in place of junk food, so too
can music rescue us from things like television, unpleasant get-
togethers and other unhealth y activities. So pull those old
records out of the attic, or buy some new CDs — think of it like
you’re buying organic vegetables or grass-fed beef. Dig it.
The End.BRAIN POWER • 257  

29
The Gut
The main function of the gastr ointestinal tract — the gut — is
digestion of food and absorption of nutrients. Most people ar e well
aware of these activities, but the gut is also home to most of the adult
immune system. It also assists the liver by eliminating toxins, pro-
duces vitamins and hormones, has an extensive nervous system of its
own and is in constant communication with the brain. When the gut
is under stress, all these areas can be significantly disturbed. For
example, even if you eat the right foods, if they’re not digested, and if
the small intestine does not absorb nutrients, malabsorption can
cause nutritional imbalances. This could cr eate a pr oblem identical to
those associated with not eating the right foods. 
Although a variety of supplements can help r emedy intestinal
dysfunction and are described in this chapter, it’s important to avoid
the temptation to use the many pr oducts on the market — fr om
dietary supplements to drugs — that claim to fix your gut. That’s
because getting your whole body healthy with the topics discussed
throughout this book can improve intestinal function — often dra-
matically.  
Symptoms of gut dysfunction are another epidemic in today’s
high-stress, bad food society. Among the biggest sellers of drugs, both
over-the-counter and prescriptions, are those that cover the symp-
toms of an improperly functioning gut. And it should not be a sur-
prise to learn that many of these drugs, prescriptions too, are given to
children (despite not being approved for them). But the majority of
gut pr oblems can be significantly impr oved or eliminated by making
some relatively easy changes in your food intake and controlling
stress. These problems include issues in the mouth, such as cavities
and other tooth problems, indigestion, ulcers, reflux and other chron-
ic diseases such as Cr ohn’s and ulcerative colitis. Among the common   

problems are inflammatory conditions — those names ending in
“itis.” From the mouth (gingivitis) to the large intestine (colitis),
inflammation is the end result of a chronic condition that includes an
imbalance of fats as previously discussed. Restoring fat balance is a
key step to eliminating inflammatory problems. In addition, ulcers
are specifically part of the inflammatory process; treating an ulcer
begins with restoring a balance of fats.
The Mouth 
We use it for talking, singing, screaming, kissing and even making
odd noises. It’s the mouth, and it serves another important function
that many people neglect — helping us get more nutrients from our
food and keep our gut working well.  Many gut problems begin in the
mouth, and many can be significantly impr oved by using the mouth
more. Gut problems can come from not chewing food, which may be
due to problems with the teeth or jaw joint (TMJ), and low salivary
pH. Most often, however, it’s due to rushing meals, poor eating habits
or never having learned to properly chew your food.
Chewing
Russian physiologist Ivan Pavlov’s groundbreaking research into the
importance of chewing and human digestion won him a Nobel Prize
in 1904. After mor e than a century , physiologists continue building on
that understanding of the benefits of chewing.
The taste r eceptors on the tongue detect extr emely small concen -
trations of substances within a fraction of a second of tasting it — one
reason we love the taste of food. This stimulation elicits a variety of
immediate responses throughout the body, including stimulating
heat production and fat-burning, and improving digestion, absorp-
tion and even the use of nutrients fr om foods. Chewing our food,
called the “cephalic phase” of digestion, can also help contr ol blood
sugar and contr ol fluid and mineral balance. 
Chewing of foods with various tastes, textures and temperatures
is an important oral stimulation for everyone, especially for the very
young and the elderly . Infants with incr eased oral stimulation grow
better with fewer medical complications, and the elderly benefit with
improved digestive function and better overall health. And, exercis-THE GUT • 259       

ing the TMJ and other mouth and face muscles keep them fit and
improve the vital circulation around teeth and in the gums for opti-
mal oral hygiene. 
All food should be chewed. But those that require the most chew-
ing include concentrated carbohydrates — bread and other starchy
grain products, including pasta, rice and beans, all cereals, starchy
vegetables such as potatoes and corn, and all sugars (the exceptions
are fruit and honey which don’t require chemical digestion). An
important enzyme in saliva starts digestion of these foods, and with-
out it normal digestion of these carbohydrates may not occur, with
the risk of producing gas, indigestion and other intestinal problems. 
Keep it simple: Rather than counting each mouthful, just chew
and enjoy the tastes and textures of the food you’re eating. Once it has
turned into very small pieces and well moistened, swallow it and
enjoy another bite. Rushing meals, eating while working and other
poor habits makes it almost impossible to chew and digest well.
Listening to music during meals in a relaxed environment can help all
phases of digestion.
Oral pH
The environment of the mouth is an important part of its overall
health, especially the acid-alkaline balance — the pH — of the saliva.
The pH can be measured with pH paper, available at a pharmacy,
health store or online. The pH of the mouth should be slightly alka-
line, in the range of about 7.2 to 7.6 (slightly higher in childr en). You
may hear or r ead that the mouth should be an acid pH, but this is con -
fused by the fact that most people have a mouth with a pH in the acid
range — 6.0, 6.5, 6.8, etc. (A pH of 7.0 is neutral; above is alkaline and
below is acid.)
Here’s the procedure to test your pH:
1. Wait at least 15 minutes after eating or drinking.
2.Use a small strip of pH paper and thoroughly moisten it
in your mouth for about five to 10 seconds.
3. Immediately compare the color on your test strip with260• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

the color on the pH paper container to determine the
approximate pH.
Initially, perform this test two or three times a day, then again a
few days later to establish your average pH level, although it should
not vary by much. If your pH is consistently too high (above 7.6), it
may indicate a need to increase natural carbohydrates such as fruits
and whole grains. But if your pH is too low it may indicate two
things: You’re eating too much carbohydrate and you also need to
add more protein and fat to the diet. After making the appropriate
dietary changes, check the pH twice a week to follow progress as
improvements in pH could take up to a month or more.
In children and adults, low pH — less than 7.0 — promotes tooth
decay . While in practice I noticed childr en (and adults) with proper
pH did not get cavities, and those who had tooth decay almost always
had low pH. (Low pH may also indicate reduced fat-burning, excess
stress or sometimes other nutritional problems.)
The Stomach
Of all the pr oblems associated with the stomach, per haps most ar e
related to hydrochloric acid. This normal acid is a vital part of the
digestive pr ocess. W ithout its action, nutrient availability may be
greatly diminished due to poor digestion and malabsorption, and the
risk of disease is increased. 
These pr oblems ar e usually due to low levels of hydr ochloric acid
(hypochlor hydria) or a lack of acid (achlor hydria). Str ess, illness and
aging are the most common reasons for reduction of natural
hydrochloric acid in the stomach. This results in diminished digestion
of a variety of nutrients, from calcium and zinc, to iron, vitamin B12
and pr otein. Problems are not limited to the stomach, but throughout
the gut. For example, hydr ochloric acid in the stomach stimulates the
production of pancr eatic and other digestive enzymes in the small
intestine — without adequate stomach acid poor small intestine func-
tion follows. Another problem associated with low stomach acid is
the pr esence of bacteria, vir uses, parasites, yeast or fungus — the
stomach should not contain any of these organisms and normal stom-
ach acid is a defense against these organisms. In addition to manyTHE GUT • 261     

types of gut problems, low stomach acid is found in people with other
conditions including rheumatoid arthritis, asthma, atherosclerosis
and candida yeast infections.
Most problems associated with hydrochloric acid are related to
diminished production. However, sometimes an excess of stomach
acid is produced. This is one of the rationales for giving antacids. In
some people, str ong emotional stress can overproduce hydrochloric
acid between meals when the stomach is empty. This is not normal
and is clearly a health problem. In these cases, the stress must be
addressed, and eating more frequently, as often as six times a day, is
usually very helpful.
Other acids can also be overproduced in the stomach due to low
hydrochloric acid levels. This occurs when food is eaten and the stom-
ach has too little hydr ochloric acid. This may be followed by forma-
tion of other acids fr om fermentation and poor digestion, and can
result in a condition of “too much acid” — caused by too little normal
acid. Antacids can relieve discomfort caused by these unnatural acids,
and this has resulted in an explosion of antacid products both in over-
the-counter and prescription forms. 
Taking antacids may be counterproductive for efficient digestion
and absorption, especially when low stomach acid alr eady exists. The
drugs used to “neutralize” stomach acids don’t really accomplish
this. They just temporarily reduce the acids, the reason you have to
continue taking the drug. Improving the diet and reducing stress,
however , can help r emedy this pr oblem in most people. For those
who need more help, a dietary supplement can be very effective.
For those who require more stomach acid, betaine hydrochloride
is the name of the ingredient in dietary supplements that can increase
the normal stomach acid. This is a natural pr oduct — it’s actually the
salt of hydr ochloric acid in dry form, which turns into the same stom-
ach acid when swallowed. It’s best taken after meals and snacks until
intestinal function returns to normal. In some people a long-term
need for betaine hydr ochloride exists, especially in the elderly .
Betaine hydr ochloride is typically supplemented at a dose of 100-600
mg after each meal and snack. 
Many supplements containing betaine hydr ochloride also
include digestive enzymes, such as pancreatic and other small intes-262• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

tine enzymes. Because the normal stomach acid stimulates the pro-
duction of pancreatic enzymes in the small intestine, I prefer to use
betaine hydrochloride without additional digestive enzymes in most
cases.
Reflux
GERD — gastroesophageal reflux — has become a commonly diag-
nosed problem in both children and adults. Drugs to treat the symp-
toms are among the biggest sellers, yet people still have the symp-
toms. In true cases of GERD, stomach contents back up into the
esophagus, causing irritation, with symptoms occurring mostly after
meals, or when lying down or bending over with the head below the
waist. In sever e cases, ulceration can occur in the esophagus. Most
people have less serious but sometimes very uncomfortable symp -
toms associated with bloating due to gas. This often comes from eat-
ing starchy or processed carbohydrates, especially at the same time as
eating dense pr oteins, over eating and other causes of gas (see sidebar
on gas). Reducing or eliminating carbohydrates, including lactose
from dairy, often eliminates the symptoms of GERD. In other cases,
poor stomach digestion (not enough stomach acid) causes the symp-
toms as discussed above.
Don’t Water-Down Your Meals
Maintaining a healthy stomach is important during meals. Str ess may
be the biggest and most common culprit. But drinking water with
meals adds another stress to stomach function. People commonly
consume a glass or two of water during a meal. This can reduce the
stomach’s ability to ef fectively digest its food and incr ease the
amount of air in the stomach, another potential stress that reduces
digestion. For many people, drinking water with meals becomes a
habit because they do not chew their food well. Proper chewing mois-
tens food sufficiently eliminating the need for additional liquids.
Small amounts of wine or other non-sweetened alcohol as a liquid can
help digestion, but other than that, liquids should be consumed
between, not during meals. Drink water about 15 or 20 minutes befor e
meals and about an hour after meals. THE GUT • 263           

Be Careful with Food Combinations
Another important consideration for healthy stomach function is the
rate of digestion of different foods, the main issue underlying the
notion of proper food combining. The worst foods to combine in the
stomach at the same time are proteins and carbohydrates.
Concentrated protein foods, such as meat, fish, eggs and cheese,
digest at much dif ferent rates than concentrated carbohydrate foods
such as grains, potatoes and most sugars. Since fruit, honey and fiber
don’t require chemical digestion, they won’t interfere with protein
foods in the stomach during digestion. Common combinations of
foods in our society contribute to the epidemic of gut problems: eggs
and toast, a cheese sandwich, spaghetti and meatballs, a sugary
dessert after a protein meal, and so many other unhealthy habits. 
Instead of these meals, have a vegetable omelet, a salad with
cheese, spaghetti squash with meatballs, and fruit or a honey-based
dessert. Or , if you’r e eating a carbohydrate meal such as beans and
brown rice, mostly carbohydrates with little pr otein, combine it with
vegetables and avoid the cheese. 
When food completes its digestion in the stomach, which may
take up to two hours depending on the foods, with high-fat meals tak-
ing longer , it enters the small intestine.
The Small Intestine
The digestion of food continues in the small intestine, where most
nutrients get absorbed into the bloodstream. In addition to enzymes
made in the small intestine, pancreatic enzymes and bile from the gall
bladder ar e added to the food to help in the pr ocess. Poor digestion in
the stomach usually pr oduces poor digestion in the small intestine.
And poor digestion r esults in poor absorption of nutrients called mal-
absorption.
Malabsorption is not an uncommon problem stemming from
stress, antibiotic use, poor stomach function or other causes. The
diminished ability of the small intestine to absorb nutrients, from cal-
cium and zinc to vitamin B12, iron and protein, leads to numerous
health issues.
Many patients who consulted me through the years showed a
need for additional nutrients. While it was tempting to urge my264• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH      

patients to take all these nutrients in supplement form, the problem
was often not the lack of nutrients but the inability of the body to
absorb them. In fact, some patients showed the need for certain nutri-
ents they had been taking in supplement form for months or even
years! Improving stomach and intestinal function, including absorp-
tion, eliminated the need for most of these supplemental nutrients
because the patient could now obtain them from food.
An effective dietary supplement to help protect against and rem-
edy the common problem of malabsorption is the amino acid L-glut-
amine. This nutrient is the primary energy source for the villi of the
small intestine — the structures that actually absorb nutrients from
food. These delicate villi are easily damaged or destroyed under
stress, by poor eating habits, by fasting or illness, and glutamine helps
restor e their function. Glutamine also reduces intestinal distress,
improves immunity, has an anti-inflammatory effect, and can protect
the intestines from the dangers of aspirin and other harmful chemi-
cals. 
Glutamine is available in powder form or capsules. But if you add
glutamine to liquids, be sure to consume it right away; if it remains in
liquid it begins to lose potency . Most people don’t need to take gluta -
mine for long periods. Once the gut is healed and working well it
should be discontinued. About 500 to 1,000 mg once or twice daily is
a common dose. The need for glutamine is another example of a high-
dose supplement that can be valuable in some individuals.
Liver Detox
The liver plays an important role in intestinal function. One of the
most important of the liver’s thousands of jobs is disarming toxins by
chemically breaking them down and removing them through the
intestine — via bile thr ough the gall bladder. 
By filtering the blood, the liver br eaks down and eliminates an
untold number of toxins that ar e produced within the body during
normal metabolism, and those that enter the body through food and
the environment. This is accomplished through a complex process
referr ed to as detoxification , which r equir es a variety of nutrients that
must come from the diet. Many scams lure the public with their mir-
acle liver detox potions, but the very best way to promote healthyTHE GUT • 265       

liver function comes from eating real food and avoiding environmen-
tal toxins as much as possible.
Of the many nutrients required for liver detox, how do we know
which are needed most? The answer is they’re all important — with
many more valuable nutrients in foods yet to be discovered. So a diet
full of a variety of organic, unprocessed foods — fresh vegetables and
fruits, whole nuts and seeds, and high-quality protein (including
whole eggs) — should contain adequate amounts to support liver
detox. Or ganic foods have more of these important nutrients and
fewer toxins such as pesticides (an additional burden for the liver). 
The signs and symptoms of poor liver detox may be very subtle.
So how do you know if your liver function needs more support? Ask
yourself the following questions:
JAre you sensitive to caffeine (can consume only small
amounts or none at all)?
JAre you sensitive to perfumes, paints and other chemical
smells?
JAre you sensitive to certain dr ugs: benzodiazepines
(Valium, Ativan, Xanax), antihistimines (Benadryl,
Claritin), certain antibiotics (Bactrim, Erythr omycin) and
antifungals (Lotrimin)?
JAre you sensitive to certain foods: grapefr uit, turmeric,
curry, chili (capsaicin) or cloves?
JDo you eat less than two servings a day of animal pr otein
(meat, fish, whole eggs)?
JAre you taking non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
(Advil, Aleve)?
JAre you taking mor e than one dose of T ylenol or aspirin
per week?
JAre you sensitive (even to the smell) to high sulfur-con-
taining foods such as egg yolks, onions, garlic, broccoli or
cabbage?
JDo you consume more than two alcoholic drinks per day?266• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH                     

JDo you eat less than about eight serving of vegetables
and fruits per day?
If you answered “yes” to even one or two of these questions, it
could indicate poor liver detoxification. Liver function also slows
down with age if you don’t keep it going with adequate healthy food.
Note: For ease of study, biochemists discuss liver detox as two
chemical pathways, called Phase I and Phase II. Each is associated
with specific toxins and nutrients. For simplicity, we’re grouping
them together as “liver detox.” It is important to understand that too
much of one nutrient, even as a food dose, may help one phase while
hurting the other. Balance and moderation are key.
Glutathione: The Detox Key
The single most important compound for liver detox is a substance
called glutathione, the most powerful of antioxidants that the body
produces. No single food is high in this natural substance, nor can we
take it in supplement form because it’s unstable. Fortunately , the
body makes glutathione when we eat a variety of foods and food-
based supplements rich in specific nutrients. Some of the key nutri -
ents the body needs to make glutathione include:
• Lipoic acid found in spinach, broccoli, peas, Brussels
sprouts and many other bitter vegetables.
• Sulforaphan from broccoli and kale (highest in broccoli
sprouts).
• Gamma tocopherol and alpha tocotrienol from fresh veg-
etables, nuts and seeds.
•The amino acid cysteine, highest in certain animal pro-
teins, especially whey . 
Free Radical Fallout
The pr ocess of detoxification normally produces large amounts of
unstable chemicals called oxygen free radicals. A diet rich in antioxi-
dants helps sweep up this radical “fall-out” of liver detox. Potent
antioxidants found in brightly colored vegetables and fruits includeTHE GUT • 267          

the carotenoids (lycopene, beta carotene, zeaxanthin, lutein) and the
full vitamin E complex, especially beta, delta and gamma tocopherol.
Food doses of vitamin C (found in the whites of red peppers and cit-
rus, and many other fruits and vegetables) also work with other
antioxidants.
To spice up your healthy meals, include foods rich in phytonutri-
ents that also assist liver detox. These include citrus peel (make a cit-
rus peel zest, or a marmalade with honey), caraway seeds (grind them
just before use), turmeric, ginger, garlic and dill, just to name a few.
Liver detoxification also r equires B vitamins, especially thiamine
(B1), niacin (B3) and the folates. But avoid the synthetic forms because
these have to be detoxed and eliminated through the liver too. Alcohol,
in small amounts, can actually help liver detox. In moderation, alco-
hol is br oken down in the liver but by a dif ferent mechanism that also
requir es B vitamins. But excessive alcohol taps into Phase II detoxifi -
cation where it can cause significant stress.
Other Li ver Stresses
If you have a history of liver problems, there are certain foods and
drugs best avoided. These include iron from dietary supplements,
alcohol and products containing acetaminophen (including Tylenol,
Excedrin and other aspirin-free products). These substances can add
significant chemical stress to the liver. In addition, avoid the foods
you’re sensitive to, and be especially aware of caffeine; if you don’t
tolerate it, avoid it!
The liver eliminates toxins through the gall bladder and trans-
ports them into the intestines with the help of bile. Fatty foods keep
bile flowing, helping the liver do this job. Very low fat diets can
reduce bile production and can be dangerous. Likewise, very high fat
diets can overwork the gall bladder . 
Improving liver function is a key to helping the entire intestine
function in a normal healthy way , especially the large intestine.
Large Intestine
The colon, or large intestine, also plays a significant role in overall
health. Problems can arise within the colon, or because the foods
passing into it have not been properly digested. For example, low lev-268• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH         

els of hydrochloric acid can cause stress in the colon from undigested
food. This can cause irritation directly, or influence the “friendly” bac-
teria that should be living ther e.
While most of the gut — from stomach through the small intes-
tine — is sterile, the large intestine is home to various types of bacte-
ria that normally reside there. They help create an important environ-THE GUT • 269
Food Intolerance
I’ve discussed carbohydrate intolerance in great detail, but var-
ious other foods can also cause problems generally labeled as
food intolerance. Symptoms come from various reactions in the
body, although the gut is usually the main area of involvement.
Intestinal gas, nausea, diarrhea and abdominal discomfort are
the most common indications. More serious food intolerances
can cause skin reactions, such as a rash or welts, breathing dif-
ficulties, such as wheezing and asthma symptoms, head and
sinus problems including inflammation, runny eyes and nose,
and headache, and whole body reactions such as edema (fluid
retention) or even shock.
In addition to carbohydrates, including lactose (milk sugar),
fructose and the so-called “sugar-free” sugars sorbitol, manni-
tol and xylitol, other foods can sometimes cause bad reactions.
These include:
• Monosodium glutamate (MSG), commonly used in
packed foods and in restaur ants;
• Sulfites, which naturally occur in red wine, but are
sometimes sprayed on vegetables and fruits (another
reason to eat organic).
• Histamine-containing foods, including beer, wine,
cheese, chocolate, tomatoes, saurkraut, vinegar, egg-
plant, spinac h, some fish (tuna and mac kerel) and y east.
• A variety of additives and other agents used to make
dietary supplements, medications, and cosmetics can
also trigger reactions.    

ment for making nutrients, including biotin, some of the B vitamins
and vitamin K, and for generating ener gy. Many strains of bacteria
have been used for centuries as cultur ed foods such as yogurt and
kefir, and in more recent times dietary supplements containing
freeze-dried forms. These bacteria strains include lactobacillus (con-
taining acidophilus, rhamnosus and salivarius), bifidobacterium
bifidum and streptococcus thermophilus. Supplements containing
these types of bacteria are called “probiotics.” (Prebiotic foods, which
help feed these bacterial, were discussed in a previous chapter.)270• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH
Intestinal Gas 
When too much gas accumulates in the intestine, it can cause
more than discomfort. Pockets of gas anywhere in the gut can
trigger a sympathetic nervous system response — a stress reac-
tion. Small amounts of gas in the gut are normal. But larger vol-
umes of gas are not normal, usually indicating something is
wrong with your diet or even the way you’re eating. Here are
the four most common causes of intestinal gas:
• The most common cause is starchy carbohydrates —
bread, cereal, the man y products made from wheat
flour — and sugar and sugar-containing foods. This
includes milk sugar (lactose) from dairy products.
Review the carbohydrate chapters if you’re not sure
which carbohydrates can adversely affect digestion
and health. 
• Another common cause of intestinal gas is swallowing
air. This occurs during eating and drinking liquids,
especially w ater, as people tend to drink sev eral
ounces or more at one time. Drink liquids slowly to
avoid swallowing air, and most importantly keep your
head lev el — not tilted bac kward — to a void swallow-
ing air . In addition, c hewing food and not rushing
meals will help you avoid swallowing large amounts of
air. Once air is swallowed, if it doesn’t come back up     

The most common indication for the need of a probiotic supple-
ment is when the friendly bacteria ar e replaced by other unhealthy
bacteria. This occurs with antibiotic use. Stress associated with travel,
and excess stress in general, poor diet and other problems also con-
tribute to poor intestinal function associated with the need for probi-
otics. Signs and symptoms associated with poor intestinal bacteria
include diarrhea and constipation, foul-smelling gas and stool, indi-
gestion and many of the common illnesses such as irritable bowl syn-
drome, colitis and ileitis, and others.THE GUT • 271
soon as a burp, most of it must travel through the gut
and come out the other end.
• Stomach dysfunction is a common cause of gas. This is
typically due to low levels of hydrochloric acid as dis-
cussed above.
• Large intestine dysfunction — often due to the wrong
bacteria residing in the gut (also discussed above) may
cause excess gas. This can also cause bad breath as
some of this gas is absorbed into the blood and
released through the lungs.
•Combinations of these problems also may result in sig-
nificant gas in the gut.
Other foods that promote gas include c hewing gum, especial -
ly the “sugar -free” products containing sorbitol and other alco -
hol sugars. In addition, some individuals are sensitive to the
natural fruit sugar fructose found in fruits, and especially high
in fruit juice. 
Drugs to reduce gas don’t work. The American College of
Gastroenterology states, “Despite the man y commer cials and
advertisements for medications w hich reduce gas pains and
bloating, very few have any proven scientific value.” If you
have excess gas, addressing the causes as discussed here can
usually significantly reduce the problem.     

In seeking the best probiotic products, consider these factors:
• Read the label for the numbers of each bacteria strain per
serving (not per bottle). These should be listed in billions,
not millions.
• Be sure there are enough varieties of bacteria, especially
the ones noted above.
• Check the expiration date as even freeze-dried bacteria
eventually die. 
• Bacterial cultures that last the longest are those that are
kept refrigerated. 
• A healthy diet helps these supplemental bacteria main-
tain the friendly bacteria in the intestine, especially the
“prebiotics” food as previously discussed.
The gut also has many far-reaching influences throughout the
body. The gut is the home of much of an adult’s immune system, and
the health of the overall body is influenced by the intestine. The
potential for allergy is gut-related as absorption of undigested pro-
teins can trigger allergic reaction, which can affect the skin, sinuses,
immune system and even the gut itself. Food intolerances, pr evious -
ly discussed, are also gut-related. And in recent years, the idea of a
“gut-brain” connection has begun to develop, with significant influ-
ence on the brain from the gut’s overall health. 
How do you know when the gut is working best? The answer
seems obvious but it’s a common question. Most people don’t feel dif-
ferent after taking a probiotic supplement, for example, or imple-
menting other seeming healthy habits for the gut. Clearly, you should
not just feel better , but function better when the proper combinations
of food changes, dietary supplements and other lifestyle factors are
implemented. You should not have indigestion or large amounts of
gas. You should have one, two or three bowel movements per day
that are not foul-smelling. In addition, if you start taking a probiotic
supplement, or otherwise improve gut bacteria (such as with yogurt
or other cultur ed foods), the r esult should be a noticeable incr ease in
stool bulk. Consider that almost half of the stool may be bacteria.272• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

With the wrong bacteria residing in the gut, stool content may be low.
But with the proper bacteria in the large intestine, stool bulk can
increase by as much as 45 percent.
Case History
CR was diagnosed with ulcerative colitis more than 10 years
before coming to my clinic. This chronic inflammatory condi-
tion, including significant losses of blood, frequent diarrhea
and extreme fatigue not only was a serious health problem but
it was wrecking her entire life. The medications that were keep-
ing CR alive had many side effects, and each year, on one or
two occasions, she would get so ill that hospitalization was the
only option. She resisted surgery, and as a last resort was will-
ing to try a more natural approach one more time. 
After extensive evaluations, I recommended that CR strictly
adhere to a healthy lifestyle to quickly pull her out of the vis-
cous c ycle she w as in for most of her adult life. She made sig -
nificant dietary c hanges beginning with the Two-Week Test. It
was evident that CR had to eliminate all grains and starchy car-
bohydrates, eat smaller more frequent meals, and eliminate all
processed and packaged foods. She started taking a number of
supplements, including fish oil, L-glutamine, betaine
hydrochloride, a natural form of folic acid, and probiotics. She
listened to the music she lo ved w henev er possible during the
day, and made a great effort to a void the people and activities
in her life that caused her stress.
Within a couple of weeks, CR was noticeably improved, and
after a month her intestinal function was significantly better.
After another month she quic kly weaned off all medication. By
six months she claimed there were no symptoms of colitis —
no discomfort, no bleeding and normal bowel movements. A
visit to her gastroenterologist showed significant healing of her
colon, and blood tests were dramatically improved. CR contin-
ued to see me about twice a y ear without return of an y prob-
lems, except on occasion when she would eat improperly dur-
ing tr avel or holida ys — but ev entually she was able to resolve
these problems too.THE GUT • 273    

Acid-Alkaline Balance
Nutritionally, a healthy diet does more than provide nutrients.
Through digestion of these foods, an important biochemical acid-
alkaline balance occurs, which significantly helps maintain overall
health. The kidneys play a vital role in this pH balance too.
There are many hyped-up products and diets in the marketplace
claiming to save us fr om dietary acidosis by making the body alka-
line. Certainly an imbalance in our acid-alkaline state can seriously
disrupt your health, but simply balancing the foods consumed
accomplishes this better than any so-called “miracle product” (at 10
times the cost of real food), and this addresses the cause of the prob-
lem rather than taking a supplement to treat symptoms. 
For almost all of human existence a slightly alkaline diet has been
the norm. This is considered to be optimal. With the agricultural rev-
olution of the past five to 10 thousand years came a dramatic rise in
processed grain consumption, which significantly added mor e acid-
producing foods to the diet, disturbing the balance. Grain foods also
replaced many vegetables and fr uits in the diet, which were primari-
ly those needed to maintain a healthy alkaline state. T oday , most
“Westernized” diets are full of highly processed grains, especially
wheat, contributing to an over -acid state. Excessive animal pr otein
intake can also make the body more acidic. 
Most foods produce either an acid or alkaline residue. This affects
the whole body via the bloodstream. Foods that are most acid-pro-
ducing include grains (both whole and processed), milk products,
meat, fish, eggs and salt. Foods most alkaline include vegetables,
fruits and nuts. Fats and legumes ar e neutral. If we eat too much acid
or too much alkaline food, we risk cr eating an imbalance. For most
people, the risk comes fr om eating too much acid food. Typically this
is from too many grains such as bread and cereal, but too much milk
and meat also contribute. When the body becomes too acid, many
problems can arise. Because the kidneys must work hard to re-estab-
lish the acid-alkaline balance, they can become overworked, especial-
ly if water intake is not sufficient. Eating too many acid-producing
foods can result in a general bodywide imbalance — a state of chron-
ic acidosis. This can cause bone and muscle problems, such as frac-
tures, osteoporosis, muscle weakness and muscle wasting. With274• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH    

aging, this increases the risk of falls, fractures and disability, and also
leads to the loss of independence, all of which contributes to
increased mortality and reduced quality of life. Many other problems
can develop too, such as kidney disease, high blood pressure, poor
mineral balance (with significant loss of magnesium), asthma, cardio-
vascular disease and other conditions. 
The answer to the problem of acid-alkaline imbalance is not to
create an opposite imbalance by over-consuming a high alkaline
product or eliminating all acid foods. Such is the case, for example,
when high-quality animal protein is eliminated from the diet (which
can actually worsen bone and muscle problems). Rather, establishing
balance in the diet is a key to an optimal acid-alkaline state. It means
eating sufficiently from both the healthy acid and alkaline food
groups. For most people, this means eating more fresh vegetables and
fruits; 10 servings a day for adults, and proportional amounts for chil-
dren based on body weight. It may also mean eliminating refined
grain pr oducts. 
All areas of the gastrointestinal tract — the gut — are vital for
optimal health and human performance. Any area not functioning
well needs attention. Improving gut function not only can help the
intestine work better, but you’ll absorb more nutrients from foods,
and the whole body and brain will work better . 
Constipation and Diarrhea
Constipation and diarrhea are among the most common gut
complaints. Most people can avoid or resolve these problems
by being fit and healthy. Constipation technically refers to
excess straining with bowel movements and the passage of
small hard stools. It can occur w hen the waste (stool) moves too
slowly through the lower gut. The most common causes include
dehydration, changes in diet (this may occur initially, even
when improving your diet), physical inactivity and a variety of
drugs. Treatment and prevention includes drinking sufficient
water between meals, 10 servings of v egetables & fruits (prunes
are very effective — one to three per day with a large glass of
water), psyllium taken with a large glass of w ater and ph ysicalTHE GUT • 275    

activity such as regular walking. In almost all cases, these
habits will result in normal gut function (having at least one to
three bowel movements a day). However, if more remedies are
needed to treat constipation, it’s best to see your doctor.
Diarrhea is an abnormal looseness of the stools, usually with
increased frequency. Acute watery diarrhea, with symptoms of
gas, cramping and intestinal pain, is usually associated with
some illness . When severe it can lead to dehydration and dan-
gerous losses of electrolytes (including sodium, potassium, cal-
cium and magnesium). Acute diarrhea is often caused by a viral
infection, and sometimes by drugs, especially antibiotics.
Bacterial infections are sometimes the cause, especially when
blood is present. Artificial sweeteners, especially the alcohol
sugars sorbitol, xylitol and others, can also cause acute diar-
rhea. If you have acute diarrhea lasting more than 10 days or
two weeks see y our doctor. When acute diarrhea becomes
chronic it may be associated with more serious problems.
NSAIDS, antibiotics and antacids can also cause chronic diar-
rhea, as can dairy foods and gluten-containing gr ains — espe -
cially wheat. Finding and eliminating the cause of the problem
is the best remed y. In the meantime, keeping well hydrated is
important, and pectin, best consumed from fresh apples or
applesauce, can be effective as well. The use of pre- and pro-
biotics, as discussed earlier, can also be helpful.276• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

30
Mechanical Fitness and Health
It seems like almost everyone you meet has some type of physi -
cal pr oblem with a muscle or joint. Mechanical pain, discomfort and
disabilities affect many in the modern world. Back and neck prob-
lems, shoulder and wrist pain, chronic hip and knee dysfunction, and
other muscle and joint problems are part of the long list of popular
complaints.
As common as these conditions are, most are preventable and rel-
atively easy to r emedy by impr oving fitness and health. For example,
through the implementation of pr oper food and nutrition, inflamma-
tion can be better controlled (helping to heal and repair physical
problems), and building the aerobic system improves muscle func-
tion and support of joints and bones. The result often is that many
mechanical pr oblems will disappear because the body will corr ect
them. Some get better very quickly, while others may require more
time as the body needs to make significant changes in its chemistry
and physical structure. Of the remaining mechanical problems, most
can be remedied by conservative means, often with the help of the
appr opriate health-car e professional. 
This chapter highlights some of the issues related to the common
problem of mechanical imbalance. The vast majority of these pr ob-
lems are not permanent. In fact, in addition to allowing the body to
correct many of these problems, some can be remedied at home with
some simple guidelines. From head and neck, to shoulder, elbow and
wrist problems, and down the spine to the hips, knees and feet, most
problems are associated with muscle imbalance. This comes from
overuse, trauma, or other imbalance caused by brain, spinal or local
injury. And, in most chronic situations, muscle imbalance also has a
chemical relationship — there is usually an inflammatory factor in the
joint, muscle or other area that’s part of the problem. Correcting this   

part of the problem was discussed in relation to balancing fats to con-
trol inflammation.
Muscle Imbalance
The combination of muscle weakness and tightness is called muscle
imbalance. The most common cause of muscle imbalance is muscle
weakness. When this occurs, another muscle or muscles become tight.
This pattern of weak and tight can occur anywhere in muscles
throughout the body, on the front and back of the arm, thigh, leg, foot
or other areas. The result is reduced movement in joints and reduced
strength, often leading to pain and disability.
For a better perspective, let me explain about normal muscle
movements. In the course of normal activity , muscles become tight as
they contract, and looser when relaxed. We can easily feel this in our
own muscles. While sitting, place one of your hands under your
thigh, with your elbow bent. Then, pull up with your hand, and main-
tain that contraction. With the fingers of your other hand feel the mus-
cle on the front of your arm, the biceps, and feel how tight it is. Now
feel the back of the arm, the triceps muscle, and feel how loose it is.
This is a normal pattern of muscle function during most movements. 
When there is an imbalance, muscles become abnormally weak
(too loose) and too tight; and they feel somewhat similar to the ones
in the example above. This state of weakness and tightness can
remain for weeks, months or years following some injury. The origi-
nal injury that first causes muscle weakness can be from a fall, trau-
ma dir ectly to the muscle, overstr etching or over use. But in many
cases the cause of the original weakness is well hidden and people
don’t recall any event that would have caused a problem. And, the
severity of the original injury is often not related to level of disability.
I’ve seen sever e low back pain that was debilitating — the patient was
unable to move much, couldn’t get out of bed and was in constant
severe pain. But the cause was due to a muscle imbalance that was
easily corrected, and the patient did not recall any event and I could
not find what caused the pr oblem. (In this case, the patient r ecover ed
quickly once the imbalance was corr ected and the pr oblem never
returned.)
It should be noted that muscles attach to bones thr ough tendons.
So when a muscle is not functioning pr operly , the tendons don’t278• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

either. Most tendon problems are secondary to muscle imbalance.
Likewise, ligaments connect bones to other bones. And, muscles have
an important support relationship with both ligaments and bones,
directly and indirectly. So when a ligament or bone problem exists,
there is usually an associated muscle imbalance.
The cause of muscle imbalance must be addressed if normal mus-
cle balance is to be restored. Sometimes the body can accomplish this,
especially when it’s fit and healthy overall. In fact, we are always cor-
recting problems because normal wear and tear frequently produces
relatively minor imbalances not only in the muscles, but throughout
the body. Even without knowing it, the body is always working to
restore balance. During the process of correcting its own problems,
the body may show relatively minor symptoms, but often none at all.
When your body can’t fix a particular problem, symptoms develop
and you may need additional help. Manual biofeedback is a tech-
nique used to help balance muscles. 
Manual Biofeedback
Over the past 30-plus years I’ve developed various biofeedback pr o-
cedures to help people improve physical balance, reduce stress,
increase fat-burning and achieve other benefits. Manual biofeedback
is one of these pr ocedur es. It encompasses most of the hands-on ther -
apies I’ve employed and taught to health professionals and lay peo-
ple thr oughout my career. Manual biofeedback can help improve
muscle imbalance by evaluating and correcting muscle weakness
whether from local muscle problems, or brain or spinal cord injury.
It’s a safe and ef fective, and r elatively easy, approach for use by many
individuals, usually producing a rapid response. Manual biofeedback
is very useful for almost everyone, including those with common
aches and pains and patients with mor e serious physical ailments,
special-needs children and disabled adults.
Most people with mechanical problems fall into at least one of
three categories:
•Local muscle injury is the most common cause of physical
problems, and is often associated with trauma to the mus -
cle itself, such as the result of a fall, a so-called pulled mus-MECHANICAL FITNESS AND HEALTH • 279       

cle, a twisted ankle or other injury. Micro-trauma is even
more common; it’s the accumulation of minor physical
stress in a muscle or joint, often unnoticed while it’s hap-
pening, eventually causing a more obvious muscle prob-
lem. Too much sitting, repetitive motion and walking in
poor-fitting shoes are common examples of micro-trauma
that can ultimately cause muscle problems. Local muscle
injuries can result in anything from minor annoying achi-
ness to serious or chronic debilitating condition. 
• Brain injury can occur at any age, even before birth.
Trauma, reduced oxygen or nutrient supply, and infec-
tions can easily cause brain damage resulting in poor
muscle function. A stroke is a common form of brain
injury; others include cerebral palsy, Down syndrome
and Parkinson’s disease. Some brain injuries produce
only relatively minor physical problems, such as being
uncoor dinated or “clumsy .” 
• An incomplete spinal cord injury is often due to physical
trauma such as from a serious head or back injury, but a
tumor or infection can also be a cause. A spinal cord
injury can adversely af fect nerves that go to muscles
reducing their function. Like a brain injury, spinal cord
injuries can cause a wide range of pr oblems, fr om r ela-
tively minor physical ones, to very serious disabilities.
Not long ago, it was assumed that once injured, the brain and
spinal cord could not recover. As a result, many of these muscle prob-
lems wer e not successfully tr eated. But over the last 30 years we’ve
learned that the brain and body , at any age, has an incredible ability
to repair itself, even in cases of severe damage. The goal of manual
biofeedback is to help the brain and body recover from injury.
Manual biofeedback can help promote and restore muscle bal-
ance, and in doing so help improve overall physical movement.
Increased movement is a powerful therapy in itself as I pr eviously
discussed in relation to the aerobic muscle fibers. Improved move-
ment not only helps locomotion, posture, independence and other280• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH       

areas of fitness, but can also help improve most other areas of the
body and brain, including speech, vision, balance, memory and even
intellect. And because muscles have other important functions, such
as energy production, circulation and immune activity, increasing
physical movement can improve overall health.
Manual biofeedback utilizes procedures very similar to standard
manual muscle testing — they are part of both the assessment and
treatment aspect. Muscle testing is a commonly employed procedure
first introduced in 1949 to evaluate muscle weakness in polio
patients. Since then, many forms of muscle testing methods have
evolved, for both evaluation purposes and treatments. Manual
biofeedback incorporates the best of these into one system.
While traditional EMG (electromyography) biofeedback uses
computer equipment, including mechanical sensors and electr odes
attached to the skin, manual biofeedback does not use any equip-
ment. Instead, manual biofeedback uses another person’s neurologi-
cal sense to convey information and help the patient’s brain and body
work better. This is a more personalized approach, recruiting more
brain-body stimulation with verbal, visual, tactile and other sensory
cues that further enlist the patient’s participation and motivation.
(Much more information on manual biofeedback is available from my
website: www .philmaf fetone.com.)
Fix Thyself
The concept that the body can fix itself is centuries old. As noted, the
first step is to impr ove overall fitness and health so the body can per -
form its normal job of correcting imbalances. While many problems
can get in the way, two body areas that often interfere with its ability
to fix itself are the feet and breathing. 
The feet ar e our physical foundation, and if they are unstable
every str uctur e above can become unbalanced, especially the muscles
and joints. I discussed two important issues about the feet: the first
was finding the best shoes to wear and the second is going barefoot.
Both are associated with improving muscle function in the foot, ankle
and leg to help maintain a stable foundation. In other wor ds, you’ll
strengthen chronically weak muscles which will allow tight muscles
to relax and restore muscle balance.MECHANICAL FITNESS AND HEALTH • 281     

Breathing Mechanics
We take breathing for granted, until we have a breathing difficulty.
But many people breathe improperly and don’t even realize it.
Normal breathing is associated with proper muscle movement — the
most important being the abdominal muscles in the front and sides of
the abdomen, and the diaphragm muscle, which is on top of the
abdomen and under the lungs. These muscles move together allow-
ing us to ef ficiently breathe in and out. With improper breathing, the
abdominal and diaphragm muscles work improperly, and many
other muscles may not work as well either . In addition, body move-
ment is impaired, oxygen can be reduced and many other problems
can occur. 
Let’s look at the two components of normal breathing, inhalation
and exhalation:
• During inhalation the abdominal muscles relax and
extend outward, while the diaphragm muscle contracts
and moves downward. This allows air to enter the lungs
more easily, and is accompanied by a slight whole-body
backwar d extension, especially the spine. 
• During exhalation the abdominal muscles contract and
tighten, and ar e gently pulled inwar d; the diaphragm
muscle relaxes with an upward movement. This helps
push air out of the lungs, with a slight whole-body flexion.
We can observe or feel another person’s br eathing and often tell if
it’s corr ect, especially watching the belly or feeling it move out on
inhalation and in on exhalation. We can also evaluate our own breath-
ing by feeling muscles move:
•Place the palm of one or two of your hands on the
abdomen — in the area of your belly button. 
• Slowly breathe in and feel the abdominal muscles expand
outward. The belly should get bigger during inhalation.
• Now exhale, and feel the abdominal muscles tighten and
be pulled inwar d. The belly is mor e flat on exhalation.282• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH    

This is normal breathing. Most movement occurs in the abdomi-
nal areas with only slight movement of the chest, which expands
more with much deeper breathing.
Those who breathe improperly often move their muscles opposite
that of normal. This happens for various reasons. Brain, spinal cord
and local muscle injuries can disturb normal movement of the breath-
ing muscles. In some individuals, poor breathing can come from
stress, the stigma of not showing a big belly, and even over-exercising
the abdominal muscles, making them too tight to relax.
Improving the breathing mechanism can help many areas,
including movements of the spine and pelvis, getting more oxygen
and eliminating carbon dioxide, and reducing or even eliminating
pain.
Pain is an Emotion
There’s nothing that interferes with life more than pain. It changes
people, their lives and society itself. Pain is often the symptom asso-
ciated with muscle imbalance, but other causes, such as gut pain are
common. Pain medications, which only treat the symptoms not the
cause, ar e among the best selling pr escription and over -the-counter
drugs. 
Pain is an emotion. It originates in nerve endings found in the
skin, blood vessels, nerve fibers, joints and bone coverings. Pain nerve
endings send messages to the part of the brain responsible for emo-
tions (called the limbic system), wher e you interpr et the feeling as
pain. This is why pain is r elatively subjective, and an emotion as
opposed to a sense, such as the sense of smell, taste, vision or hearing.
If pain was a sense, it would be much more difficult, if not practical-
ly impossible, to control it by physical (e.g., cold), chemical (e.g.,
aspirin), or mental (e.g., hypnosis) measur es.
The cause of the pain is often in the same physical ar eas as the
pain itself, but at times may be associated with pr oblems elsewher e in
the body, or with problems that don’t produce symptoms. Referred
pain, for example, is felt in one location on the body while the cause is
somewher e else. A common referred-pain pattern is associated with a
heart attack, where pain is felt in the lower neck, shoulder and arm
usually on the left side. Or, pain in the middle of the spine may comeMECHANICAL FITNESS AND HEALTH • 283       

from an irritation in the stomach. Differentiating the two is sometimes
difficult. Referred pain occurs because signals from the stomach and
those from the skin (the referred-pain area) “cross” in the spinal cord
and when the message gets to the brain it’s impossible to differentiate
between the origins of the signals. 
A mechanical problem in the foot, for example, may not produce
pain or other symptoms in the foot itself. But because many foot prob-
lems cause instability in the areas above, it may cause pain to occur in
the knee. More than half the patient’s I’ve seen with knee pain didn’t
have primary pr oblems in the knee, but in an asymptomatic foot.
One benefit of pain is that it informs us there’s a problem. By
doing so, it can help the body compensate (by shifting weight-bear-
ing), and can prevent us from continuing activities that should be
avoided. Pain patterns can also help health-care professionals find the
cause of a hidden problem. 
Pain comes in different forms, depending on its location. For
example:
• Mechanical pain can be associated with physical pres-
sure, such as swelling. This type of pain is often
described as “stabbing” or “knife-like.” Or if associated
with blood vessels as “throbbing” or “pounding.” 
• Chemical pain often comes from inflammation and mus-
cle fatigue. This type of pain is often described as “burn-
ing” or “hot.”
•Thermal pain fr om cold or hot temperatur es can also pr o-
duce pain. 
And, pain can come fr om more than one source. Muscle pain, for
example, may be fr om a physical stress, such as swelling, and chemi-
cal str ess of inflammation. Sunburn pain can come from three types:
thermal stress, physical damage to skin and chemical inflammation.
Pain and NSAIDs
Nonster oidal anti-inflammatory dr ugs (NSAIDs), including aspirin,
ibuprofen (such as Advil) and naproxen (such as Aleve), are common-
ly used for pain relief. An important observation to make is that if you284• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

have pain that improves by taking NSAIDs, it probably indicates you
have a fat imbalance as previously discussed.
NSAID side effects often come with many potential problems.
These include intestinal bleeding, delayed healing, including bone
and cartilage, interference of fat balance, muscle dysfunction, liver
and kidney damage, headaches, skin rash, tinnitis (ringing in ears),
drowsiness and poor sleep (suppression of melatonin).
Some people continue taking aspirin for pain despite the fact that
they do not obtain significant relief or no longer need it. One study
showed that 20 of 44 patients who had osteoarthritis were able to stop
their regular NSAIDs without return of significant pain, and without
other therapy .
Other Muscle Pains
In addition to pain caused by muscle imbalance, other types of mus-
cle pain are common. There are three general types of pain associat-
ed with muscles: 1.) Pain experienced during or immediately after
physical activity; 2.) Delayed-onset muscle sor eness; and 3.) Pain
induced by muscle cramps:
• Pain experienced during or immediately after activity
usually has a chemical origin. Lactic acid does not cause
pain directly, but may be responsible for pH changes
associated with pain. Reduced blood flow may also be
linked to this type of muscle pain, which will subside
quickly once activity is stopped.
• Delayed-onset muscle soreness usually develops within
24 to 48 hours after activity, with a peak in discomfort
between 48 and 72 hours. This pain is usually associated
with muscle damage. Diminished ranges of motion
accompany pain (although muscle dysfunction often
continues after pain has resolved). 
• Muscle cramps may be due to some type of muscle
imbalance, and the r eason for the imbalance must be
addressed. Proper hydration and the use of sodium or
magnesium may be helpful in correcting and preventingMECHANICAL FITNESS AND HEALTH • 285     

muscle cramps, and rarely is potassium or calcium need-
ed. Proper breathing can help prevent and treat
diaphragm problems associated with the common “side
stitch” type spasms. 
Pain Remedies
Prevention of pain is best accomplished by avoiding the stresses that
cause it. Over-working, overtraining or otherwise abusing the body
typically causes pain. Invariably, many people develop pain, especially
related to muscle activity. Here are some factors to consider:
• Home treatment of pain associated with physical activity
is best accomplished with cold stimulation — soaking the
body area(s) in cold water for 10-15 minutes can be
miraculous. Ice is not always needed as cold tap water
works great and sometimes ice can cause excessive irrita-
tion due to freezing the skin. Use the cold stimulation
two or three times the first day, once or twice the second.
In most cases, pain is significantly impr oved quickly .
• The use of heat for pain is a common remedy. However,
it can do more harm than good. Inflammation can be
worsened with the application of heat. Unless you’r e
quite sure an area is not inflamed, avoid using heat. Most
areas of pain, including the joints associated with muscle
imbalance, are accompanied by some degree of
inflammation.
•Inflammatory pain occurs when fat imbalance pr oduces
more pain chemicals — balancing dietary fats (discussed
elsewher e) helps pr event chronic inflammation.
•Low-fat diets can worsen pain and incr ease the risk of
other muscular injury.
• The use of NSAIDs should not be a casual thing. Try to
avoid any drugs unless absolutely necessary. However,
the str ess associated with pain may be worse than the
drug; in this case the smallest dose for the shortest peri-
od of time necessary may be best.286• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

• Many people use alcohol when pain is present, but it can
just as easily amplify pain. The pain-reducing ability of
alcohol occurs with high doses, something that also cre-
ates fat imbalance ultimately increasing pain.
• Simple rubbing of the skin — tactile stimulation — can
also contr ol pain. This is accomplished by lightly stroking
the skin at or near an area of pain. If you bump your
head, you probably subconsciously rub the area. This
stimulates large nerve endings in the skin that can block
pain sensation in the brain (the same mechanism as elec-
trical nerve stimulation devices).
Pain can be a serious issue, but its cause must be found and elim-
inated. It may be important to seek pr ofessional help to r ule out mor e
serious conditions and find the cause. Most pain is due to some
mechanical problem and associated with inflammation; these often
arise fr om muscle imbalance. Mechanical pr oblems can often be
remedied by improving overall fitness and health.MECHANICAL FITNESS AND HEALTH • 287   

31
Simplifying Stress
Stress is such an incredibly powerful influence that even if you
are doing everything right in terms of diet, nutrition and exercise, it
can still crush your efforts to stay healthy. Prolonged periods of too
much stress can contribute significantly and directly to many condi-
tions, ranging from reduced quality of life to deadly diseases such as
cancer, heart disease, Alzheimer’s and many others.
Stress contributes to fatigue, bacterial and viral infections, inflam -
matory illness, blood-sugar pr oblems, weight gain, intestinal distress,
headaches and most other disorders. Stress-related problems account
for mor e than 75 per cent of all visits to primary-car e physicians and
are responsible each day for millions of people needing to take time
off work and school. So stress comes with a monetary price tag as
well as a toll on your health. 
Charles Darwin said it’s not the fittest who survive, nor the most
intelligent, but those who can best adapt to their environment. Today,
we refer to this adaptation as coping.
It’s important to remember that stress is a normal part of life and
health, and excess stress is not without a remedy. The body has a
great coping mechanism for stress — the hormones of the adrenal
glands and related nervous system function. However, when the
adrenal glands are overworked, bodywide problems can result. 
Before discussing the adrenal glands and how we can help pro-
tect ourselves from stress, I want to describe what stress is. To simpli-
fy stress, I will address the three main types: physical, chemical and
mental/emotional. These types of stress can have many different
effects. Moreover, each individual responds differently to various
combinations of types of stress.   

Physical Stress
Physical stresses are strains on the mechanical body. Overworking
your muscles is an example of a physical stress. Slight physical stress
is what makes exercise beneficial, and is an example of how some
stress can help promote health. However, too much physical stress
without adequate r ecovery can potentially result in many problems.
Another physical stress is wearing shoes that don’t fit right; while you
don’t always feel it in your feet, it may cause problems elsewhere in
your body. Likewise, dental stress can affect more than your mouth,
often causing stomach dysfunction, shoulder, neck or head pain.
Other physical stresses include poor posture, eye strain and many
other situations that adversely impact the mechanical body. Physical
stress can result in physical problems, but also in chemical or men-
tal/emotional problems.
Chemical Stress
Chemicals fr om any sour ce can af fect body chemistry and cause
stress. This includes dietary and nutritional imbalances such as too
much or too little food or nutrients, excess caffeine or drugs, and
ingestion of chemicals from food and water supplies. Other sources of
chemical stress include those in the air — second-hand smoke, indoor
and outdoor air pollution and many others. Chemical stresses can
cause indigestion, fatigue, insomnia, or even physical and emotional
problems. 
Mental and Emotional Stress
Mental and emotional str ess is the type with which most people ar e
familiar. This includes tension, anxiety and depression. Mental stress
may contribute to pain, moods of anxiety or depr ession, and loss of
enthusiasm or motivation, and can lead to physical and chemical prob-
lems as well. Mental stress also affects cognition, including sensation,
perception, learning, concept formation and decision-making. 
Stress can come fr om anywhere: your job, family, other people,
your emotions, infections, aller gic r eactions, physical trauma and
exertion, even the weather. Remember, not all stress is negative. Since
it evokes a reaction in the body, the outcome may be a positive one —
the benefit of exercise is one example. By mildly stressing your body,SIMPLIFYING STRESS • 289        

over time and through adaptation, your body performs better. But
that same stressor — your workout — can become negative if you go
too far beyond the body’s ability to recover from it.
Usually people are stressed in more than one area, and frequent-
ly by all three types. And, stress is cumulative. The response to a
physical stress from the weekend’s yard work may be amplified by
Monday’s chemical stress of too much coffee or the wrong foods, fur-
ther compounded with a family-related mental stress on Tuesday and
another with the boss on Wednesday. All of this will affect your per-
formance at an important meeting on Friday. 
The weather is also a potential stressor, with certain people more
vulnerable. Weather stress may affect us physically, chemically or
mentally. Extremes in temperature or humidity, very low barometric
pressur e, and the sun are stressors. Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD)
is a good example of how the weather at certain times of year (typical-
ly in the fall and winter) can have a dramatic effect on many people.
Some people accumulate so much stress they lose track of it,
which becomes more of a stress. The first thing to do with stress is to
make sure you’re aware of it. The remedy? Write it all down. 
Making Your Stress List
Being mor e awar e of your physical, chemical and mental stress is a
big step for impr oving health. Reducing or eliminating individual
stresses is easier if you write them down on paper. On a page, make
three columns, one each for physical, chemical and mental str esses. In
each category , write down your str esses. This may take several days
to complete since you probably won’t think of all your different
stresses right away. When you’re done, prioritize by placing the
biggest stress of each category on top. Then, work on reducing or
eliminating one str ess at a time. Or, if you can handle it, work on one
stress at a time fr om each category. Reducing or eliminating unneces-
sary str ess fr om your life will give your body a better chance to cope
with other stresses you may not be able to change right now.
As you make your list put a star by the stresses over which you
have some contr ol. This may include unhealthy eating habits like
rushing or skipping your meals, drinking too much coffee or not tak-
ing time to exercise.290• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

Simply draw a line through those stresses that you can’t control.
If there’s nothing you can do about them anyway, don’t worry about
them for now. Many people expend lots of energy on stresses they
can’t or won’t do anything about. This may include job stress or the
weather, though in reality, almost any stress can be modified or elim-
inated — it’s just a question of how far you’re willing to go for opti-
mal health. As time goes on, you may want to reconsider some of the
items you’ve crossed off. You’ll realize that changing jobs is a must,
or moving to a more compatible climate is necessary for your health.
Once you can “see” your stress listed on paper, it will be easier to
manage. Start with your starred stresses first, because you have con-
trol over them — not that it’s always easy. Circle the three biggest
stresses from the starred list and begin to work on them. You may be
able to improve on some and totally eliminate others. Some will
requir e habit changes. It’s a big task, but one that will r eturn gr eat
benefits. When you’ve succeeded in eliminating or modifying each
one, cross it off your list and circle the three next most stressful ones,
so you always have thr ee to work on.
In addition to your stress list, you’re probably familiar with other
strategies for dealing with stress, though you may not use them.
Here’s a reminder:
• Learn to say “no” when asked to do something you real-
ly don’t want to do. Ask yourself if you r eally want to do
this.
• Decide not to waste your time worrying about the past or
the futur e. That’s not to say you should ignor e the past or
not plan for the future. Live in the present.
• Learn some relaxation techniques, and perform them
regularly. The most powerful one is respiratory biofeed-
back described pr eviously . An easy walk by yourself can
also be a great way to relax.
• When you’re concerned about something, talk it over
with someone you tr ust.
• Simplify your life. Start by eliminating trivia. Ask your-
self: “Is this really important?”SIMPLIFYING STRESS • 291   

• Prioritize your busy schedule; do the most important
things first. But don’t neglect the enjoyable things. Before
getting out of bed in the morning, ask yourself: “What
fun things do I have planned for today?”
• Know your passion and pursue it. 
What’s most important about stress is that too much of it inter-
feres with rest. Or more accurately, recovering from excess stress
requires more rest. If you don’t get enough rest, usually in the form of
sleep, the effects of stress will continue accumulating. One of the
questions to ask yourself is whether you’re getting enough sleep, con-
sidering the amount of stress you have. As you will see, one of the
symptoms of excess stress is insomnia.
By learning to take control of the various types of stress in your
life, you can improve the quality of your life, reduce the risk of dys-
function and disease, and also help your adrenal glands regulate
stress. Maintaining proper adrenal function is central to optimal fit-
ness and health.
Case History
Dave had numerous complaints — physical, chemical and
mental. A Wall Street executive, he was building a new home
and had spring and fall allergies that nearly incapacitated him
each year. Dave spent more than two weeks making and pon-
dering his stress list. After discussing all the issues with family
and friends, he decided to make some changes. Dave and his
family sold their partially built house, moved to a nicer climate,
and he secured a job with less stress. Though the pa y was less,
so were the taxes and other stresses. Within six months, Dave
felt 15 y ears younger. Even his family was healthier, and they
felt closer .
The Adrenal Glands
No matter what type of str ess you encounter during your life journey
— be it physical, chemical or mental/emotional — your body has an
efficient mechanism for coping. This is the important job of the adr e-
nal glands. On the top of each kidney , these small glands work with292• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH       

SIMPLIFYING STRESS • 293
The General Adaptation Syndrome
Our knowledge about stress and adrenal function began in the
early 1900s, when famous stress-research pioneer Hans Selye
began to piece together the common triad of signs resulting
from excess adrenal stress. They include adrenal-gland
enlargement, depressed immunity and intestinal dysfunction.
Selye eventually showed how the adrenals react when con-
fronted with excess stress. This General Adaptation Syndrome
has three distinct stages. 
Stage 1: The first stage begins with the alarm reaction, in which
there is an increase in adrenal hormone production. This is an
attempt by the adrenals to battle the increased stress. If it is suc-
cessful, adrenal function returns to normal. During this stage, a
variety of mild symptoms may occur: spotty tiredness during
the day, mild allergies or even some nagging back, knee or foot
pain. If, over time, the adrenals fail to meet the needs of the
body to combat the stress, they enter the second stage, called
the resistance stage.
Stage 2: During this period, the adrenal glands themselves get
larger through a process called h ypertroph y. Since the
increased hormone production of the first stage couldn’ t count -
er the stress, the glands enlarge in an attempt make even more
cortisol to do the same. During this stage, more advanced
symptoms may occur, including fatigue, insomnia and more
serious bac k, knee or foot pain. Most people with stress prob -
lems are stuc k in this stage. But if the stress persists and is still
not controlled, the adrenals eventually can enter the third
stage, called exhaustion.
Stage 3: If a person enters this stage he or she is exhausted. The
adrenal glands are unable to adapt to stress and produce ade-
quate lev els of hormones, including cortisol. The person is usu-
ally seriously ill, physically, chemically or mentally.         

the nervous system to regulate the important coping mechanisms,
including the “fight or flight” reactions. The adrenal glands accom-
plish their work through the production of certain hormones, making
them not only essential for stress coping and optimal human per-
formance, but also for life itself. These hormones help with stress reg-
ulation, sex and reproduction, growth, aging, cellular repair, elec-
trolyte balance and blood-sugar control.
The nervous system also helps in coping with stress. This occurs
through messages sent throughout the brain and nervous system, and
through two other important stress hormones, epinephrine and nor-
epinephrine. 
Cortisol is the key adrenal stress hormone, and commonly meas-
ured by simple blood and saliva tests. When your body is under high
stress, cortisol levels can increase dramatically, and when the stress
passes it returns to normal levels. In chronic stress states — the con-
tinuation of stress without relief — high cortisol levels can become
dangerous. This can adversely affect the brain, especially memory,
create blood sugar problems, reduce fat-burning, suppress immune
function, lowering the body’s defense against not just cold and flu but
any infections, and cause intestinal distress. Long-standing stress can
result in a “burning out” of adrenal function, with a serious loss of
normal hormone pr oduction. In this state, cortisol levels become dan -
gerously low, along with other hormones made by the adrenals.
The sex hormones, including estrogens, progesterone and testos-
terone, are also important adrenal hormones that help both males and
females maintain proper sexual function and reproductive health.
The adrenals also make dehydroepiandrosterone, or DHEA, which is
the pr ecursor to the estr ogens, and testoster one.
This discussion is not about adrenal disease, rather, the gray area
between normal adrenal function and disease. Addison’s disease
occurs when the adr enal glands ar e unable to pr oduce suf ficient cor -
tisol to sustain life. It can occur in men and women of all age gr oups;
symptoms include severe weight loss, muscle weakness, fatigue, low
blood pr essur e, and sometimes darkening of the skin. The disease is
also called adrenal insufficiency, or hypocortisolism.294• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

Are You ‘Stressed Out?’
Excess adrenal stress — or an insufficient adrenal response to adapt
to stress — is a common problem. It is often the result of chronically
overstimulated adrenal glands, in some cases to the point of exhaus-
tion. The popular lingo is usually the notion that you’re “stressed-
out.” If you’re in business, “burn-out” is the common name, with
“nervous breakdown” used in the past. If you’re an athlete, it’s called
“overtraining.” Whatever the name, it’s essentially the same problem
of adrenal dysfunction, with serious implications for fitness and
health that can dramatically reduce quality of life.
Ten common symptoms of adrenal dysfunction are listed below.
Check off any that pertain to you. They can be caused by other imbal-
ances in the body . But taken together, they make up the most common
symptoms of adrenal dysfunction.
JLow energy. This is common especially in the afternoon,
but could happen anytime, or all the time. The fatigue
can be physical, mental or both. When the adrenals are
too str essed, the body uses mor e sugar for energy, but
can’t access fat very well for energy use. This can signifi-
cantly limit your energy. 
JDizziness upon standing. Standing up from a seated or
lying position can make you dizzy because not enough
blood is getting to the head quickly enough. Check your
blood pressure while lying down, and then immediately
after you stand. If you suffer from adrenal dysfunction,
you will notice the systolic blood pr essur e (the first num -
ber) doesn’t rise normally — it should be higher when
you’r e standing by about 6 to 8 mm.
JEyes sensitive to bright light. Adrenal stress often caus-
es light sensitivity in your eyes. You may need to wear
sunglasses or have dif ficulty with night driving because
of the oncoming headlights. You may even misinterpret
this as having bad night vision. Some people find their
nearsightedness (ability to see distances) improves after
impr oving adr enal function.SIMPLIFYING STRESS • 295             

JAsthma and allergies. Whether you call it exercise-
induced asthma, food allergies or seasonal allergies, they
are similar symptoms of adrenal dysfunction. 
JMechanical imbalance. Problems in the low back, knee,
foot and ankle are often associated with adrenal prob-
lems. These areas can become mechanically unstable and
produce symptoms such as low-back pain, sciatica and
excess pronation in the foot, leading to foot and ankle
problems. 
JStress-related syndromes. The problems referred to as
burnout, stressed-out, overtraining (overexercising) and
nervous br eakdown ar e almost always the result of adre-
nal exhaustion. While occasionally these pr oblems
become serious enough to warrant medication or hospi-
talization, adrenal dysfunction occurs long before this
point.
JBlood-sugar-handling stress. With adrenal dysfunction,
the body is unable to properly control blood sugar.
Symptoms include constantly feeling hungry, being irri-
table befor e meals or if meals ar e delayed, and having
strong cravings for sweets or caffeine.
JInsomnia. Many people with adr enal dysfunction fall
asleep easily (often because of exhaustion) but wake in
the middle of the night with dif ficulty getting back to
sleep. This may be due to high levels of cortisol occurring
at the wrong time (levels should be low during sleeping
hours). Many people say they wake up in the night to uri-
nate. But it’s usually the adr enal problem that awakens
them, and then they get the urge to urinate.
JDiminished sexual drive. This is a common symptom of
adrenal dysfunction due to low levels of the hormone
DHEA, which makes estrogen and testosterone. (Low
levels of these hormones can also adversely affect the
strength of bones and muscles.)296• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH                    

JSeasonal Affective Disorder (SAD). This is a common
problem, especially in the fall and winter. As the hours of
daylight lessen and the temperature drops, many people
go into a mild state of hibernation. The metabolism
slows, and the body and mind become sluggish, some-
times resulting in a mild or moderate depression. (This
corresponds with a combination of stresses: the weather,
lack of sunlight and even the start of the holiday season
— people don’t eat well, are less active, and weight gain
is common.)
Recognizing these 10 common symptoms of adrenal dysfunction
can be useful in your self-assessment. You may also want to test some
of your adrenal-hormone levels with the help of a professional. The
best test for adrenal hormones measures cortisol and DHEA, and is
usually performed over the course of a typical day and evening using
four saliva test samples, rather than just a single test. 
With an awareness of the signs and symptoms of adrenal stress,
you can make some appr opriate lifestyle changes to impr ove adrenal
function and possibly solve many of your pr oblems. Earlier I dis -
cussed the importance of making your stress list. Now, let’s look at
some of the other factors r elated to impr oving adrenal function: diet,
exercise and lifestyle. Many of these have been addressed in earlier
chapters but presented here in the context of adrenal dysfunction. 
Diet and Adrenal Stress
One of the most important dietary factors r elated to adr enal str ess is
the consumption of r efined carbohydrate and sugar . This includes
hidden sugars in many foods. How much is too much? Perform the
Two-Week Test if you’re not sure.
Caffeine is a common source of adrenal stimulation, a main rea-
son people consume it. Coffee, tea and colas are the main sources. If
you have an adrenal problem, assess your caffeine intake. For many,
no caf feine is best; for others, a single cup or two of cof fee or tea may
be tolerable. You must determine, as objectively as possible by listen-
ing to your body, how much caffeine you can tolerate.SIMPLIFYING STRESS • 297       

Always eat a healthy breakfast. This includes protein but void of
refined carbohydrates. An egg-based meal can be the cornerstone of
an ideal breakfast.
People with adrenal stress often need to snack between the three
main meals, even every two hours in the early stages of recovery.
Healthy snacking habits were discussed in Chapter 20. Low-carbohy-
drate snacks include almonds and cashews, cheese, vegetables and
hard-boiled eggs. Avoid fruit juice.
Nutrients for Adrenal Stress
Your nutritional needs may vary with adrenal stress. These include
factors to help the immune system, gut and the adrenal glands them-
selves. Since the hormonal system is very complex, it’s recommended
that you seek the input of a health-car e professional to corr ect a hor -
monal imbalance. Below are some possible supplemental nutrient
needs:
•For many types of adr enal str ess, especially those that
cause insomnia, zinc may be useful. Studies show this
important mineral can help lower high cortisol levels that
accompany adrenal stress. Taken right before bed, for
example, zinc may improve sleep patterns. A metallic
taste in your mouth may mean that you’r e taking too
much zinc, so be careful with zinc supplementation.
•Choline is a nutrient commonly needed by some people
with adrenal stress, in part due to the relationship of
choline with the nervous system. Individuals who ar e
always on the go, overworked and trying to do too much
are examples of those who may benefit from choline.
Small amounts several times a day may be very helpful.
The best source of choline in the diet is egg yolks. Those
with asthma symptoms generally need even more
choline.
•Intestinal dysfunction almost always accompanies adr e-
nal stress. This issue is discussed in Chapter 29.298• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

Exercise and Adrenal Stress
In general, easy aerobic activity is helpful for all except the person in
the end stage of adrenal exhaustion. In this case rest may be most
important until adrenal function begins to improve. Anaerobic exer-
cise can worsen adrenal problems at any stage.
If you do not already exercise, a 20- to 30-minute easy walk, five
times per week, is a great adrenal therapy. If you already work out,
maintain easy aerobic exercise, such as walking. It will build the small
aerobic muscle fibers, promoting more fat-burning and increasing cir-
culation, both of which will help adrenal function.
Avoid all anaerobic workouts, including weight-lifting and any
exercise that raises the heart rate above your aerobic level. Once adre-
nal function is impr oved, anaerobic exercise can be resumed, though
the balance of aerobic and anaerobic exercise must be maintained as
discussed in previous chapters. In addition to these factors, other
lifestyle issues ar e worth considering:
• A relaxing massage, such as a Swedish massage, can help
reduce high cortisol levels. Avoid massages that cause
pain, which could increase stress. 
• Sunlight on the skin and through the eyes is important
for proper adrenal function and can help improve dys-
function. Do not star e directly into the sun; just spending
time outdoors pr ovides suf ficient photo stimulation
through the skin and eyes. Natural, full-spectrum light
from the sun can help the brain, which influences adrenal
function. W indow glass, pr escription and non-pr escrip-
tion glasses and contact lenses can filter out the stimulat -
ing part of the light spectr um. If you normally are
exposed to little or no sun, take a walk during your lunch
break to get some natural light (even on a cloudy day).
For indoor use, consider replacing your regular light
bulbs and tubes in locations wher e you spend consider-
able time with full spectrum lights. 
• Evaluate your sleeping habits. Are you getting at least
seven to eight hours each night? If not, you may needSIMPLIFYING STRESS • 299    

more. Adrenal stress increases the need for recovery.
Decide what changes are needed to ensure that you are
getting enough sleep.
• Research shows that enjoyable music can lower high cor-
tisol levels. Play music while in your car, at work or at
home. Choose music you like but avoid the radio with its
stressful commercials and commentary. Play the music
you liked during the mor e stress-free and happiest times
of your life.
• Various meditation methods can counter stress, especial-
ly respiratory biofeedback discussed in Chapter 28. 
Other Natural Hormones
Hormones play a major r ole in your physical, chemical and mental
well-being. The key to optimal hormonal performance is balance, and
adrenal health is primary. Three key hormones, important for and
produced by both men and women, include the estrogens, testos-
terone and progesterone. As you age, and with increased stress, the
production of these hormones is diminished. This occurs especially
when cortisol rises, diminishing the production of DHEA, and subse-
quently, diminishing estrogen, testosterone and progesterone. 
If you think your hormones are diminishing, the first step is to
assess them. Salivary hormone tests are performed by many health-
care professionals. If your hormones are not balanced (some may be
high while others are low), the next step is to consider all the adrenal-
related issues discussed in this chapter. Replacing your natural hor-
mones with synthetic versions has been a topic of major controversy
due to dangerous side effects, and should not be a first option. Many
people can restore normal hormone balance by improving adrenal
gland function, which usually includes other issues discussed in this
book. When this is not sufficient, natural hormone supplements may
be necessary .
Estrogen
This most well known of hormones is actually a gr oup of about 20
compounds. The most important estrogens are estrone, estradiol and300• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH       

estriol. The different estrogens have unique roles in the body. For
example, estradiol is the most stimulating to the breast, and is the
estrogen related to increased risk of breast cancer. Estriol protects
against breast cancer. Normal production of both by the body is the
right balance. A variety of benefits are attributed to the effects of nat-
ural estrogens, including prevention of hot flashes, better memory
and concentration, slowing of the aging process, and reduced depres-
sion and anxiety.
Synthetic estradiol (Premarin) is the estrogen that places you at
high risk for breast cancer. This is due to the fact that it’s not broken
down in the liver as quickly as your own natural estrogens (affecting
the cells for a longer time). Premarin, made from the urine of preg-
nant horses, simply doesn’t function exactly like the estrogens made
in the human body . In addition to natural estradiol, other natural
estrogens have synthetic companions and are marketed under vari-
ous brand names.
One of the common risks of taking synthetic estrogen is the high-
er dosage compared to what your body would normally produce. The
most common symptom of too much estrogen in your system is water
retention. This can lead to br east tenderness and swelling, weight
gain and headaches. Excess estrogen can also lower blood sugar and
increase your cravings for sweets. T oo much estrogen also increases
your risk of uterine cancer and gall bladder disease.
While the idea of synthetic estrogen replacement is often “sold”
to patients by touting the benefits of building str ong bones, estr ogen
doesn’t actually do this. Rather , it decr eases the rate of bone loss that
occurs naturally throughout life. The hormones that have the greatest
impact on new bone growth — something your body is always doing
— are progesterone and testosterone.
Progesterone and Testosterone
Unlike estr ogen, which is a gr oup of hormones, pr ogesterone is the
only hormone in its class. Progesterone has many functions in the
body. It improves sleep, builds bone mass, protects against breast and
uterine cancer , impr oves carbohydrate tolerance, helps burn fat, pre-
vents water retention, increases sex drive and in many people has a
calming effect on the nervous system. SIMPLIFYING STRESS • 301     

Provera is a synthetic version of progesterone, one that is given to
many women. However, it doesn’t have the same functions as the nat-
ural hormone. While natural progesterone acts like a diuretic, Provera
can increase salt and water retention, and increase body fat. Too much
of this synthetic hormone can cause bloating, depression, fatigue,
increased hair on the body, and increased weight gain. Provera can
also cause your body to diminish its own production of natural prog-
esterone, forcing you to rely more on outside sources. Other synthet-
ics can cause birth defects, epilepsy, asthma and heart problems.
It’s important to note that both estrogen and progesterone work
together. In a real sense, they balance each other when in their natu-
ral state. Taking one form without the balance of the other often cre-
ates stress.
Testoster one is also a naturally occurring hormone made by both
men and women. This hormone is important for healing, helps build
and maintain muscles and bones, increases sex drive and overall
energy, and is a very important hormone for other areas of the metab-
olism. The synthetic version is methyltestosterone, with side effects
including hormonal imbalance, intestinal distress, increased choles-
terol, hair loss, depr ession, anxiety and others.  
Getting Yours Naturally
The ideal scenario is to have your body make the types and amounts
of hormones necessary for you. That amount varies from day to day
and year to year (even fr om minute to minute). If r educed health
interfer es with this delicate mechanism, imbalances can occur . I can’t
emphasize enough that preventing and correcting hormone imbal-
ance by improving adrenal function and overall fitness and health is
the most effective and best first option. 
If you have signs and symptoms r elated to hormone imbalance,
measuring your hormone levels, by testing the blood and/or saliva,
is very important. Are-evaluation of any abnormal test results will
help you know whether improved lifestyle habits or any replacement
therapy is successful.
If you’r e still pr oducing too little hormone after trying all the
healthy habits discussed in previous chapters (especially balancing
dietary carbohydrate, fat and protein), taking natural hormones to302• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

replace what you’re not making may be the next best option. It’s
important to ask your health-car e professional about these alterna -
tives as many ar e by pr escription. For mor e information, contact the
Women’s International Pharmacy (800-279-5708, www.womensinter-
national.com), Hopewell Pharmacy (800-792-6670, www.hopewell-
rx.com) or other reliable sources. 
Some non-prescription products are also available. Pro-Gest, for
example, is a natural progesterone cream that can be absorbed
through the skin rather than taken by mouth (your liver breaks down
much of the natural hormone taken orally). For those who require
both natural estrogen and progesterone, a product called OstaDerm
cream is also a non-prescription preparation of both natural
hormones. 
For menopause, pr emenstrual syndrome, or other hormone-relat-
ed imbalances, the use of natural hormones can impr ove your quali-
ty of life. What’s most important is to understand that no one has to
live with the pain, displeasure and discomfort that too many doctors
have told patients are normal with aging.SIMPLIFYING STRESS • 303
Plants to the Rescue
Another potential natural hormone therapy is to use natural
plants. These are sometimes effective in people with relatively
minor hormone imbalance. Many plants contain natural hor-
mones, and a variety of products are made from them in con-
centrated forms. These include wild yams, soy products and
licorice root. However, there are two possible problems with
these products, which have become very popular. Their levels
of hormones are generally very low; and some unscrupulous
companies make products with hardly any or no measurable
hormones. In the case of soy, there could be unwanted side
effects. And in the case of licorice, it could raise your cortisol
levels — a problem that ma y alread y exist and be the cause of
hormone imbalance.     

Case History
Sally was in her early 40s and had a variety of hormone-relat-
ed symptoms, including hot flashes, insomnia and body-fat
increase, all beginning over the previous two years. Her doctor
wanted her to start taking synthetic hormones, but she was
uneasy since her family history included breast cancer. My first
choice was to try to get Sally’s adrenal function improved, as
tests showed her cortisol and DHEA levels to be far from nor-
mal. After several months of making lifestyle changes, Sally’s
symptoms improved by about 50 percent. At this time, I recom-
mended she begin using a natural progesterone cream, once
per day after showering. Within three months, Sally began feel-
ing better, and within six months, felt more like she did when
she was 30.
Stress-induced adrenal dysfunction is one of the major problems
associated with a wide range of fitness and health problems.
Impr oving adr enal function can quickly r esolve many common signs
and symptoms that r educe quality of life.304• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

32
The Overfat Epidemic
Weight loss is a primary concern of most people. Trillions of dol-
lars have been spend on it without r eal success. Millions of dollars are
spent each year to research the problem of being overweight. The
result is a threatening of the industrialized world with an epidemic of
overfat people. We can discuss how much body fat is too much, the
definitions of obesity and other commonly discussed issues, but the
fact is, too much body fat is unhealthy. Rather than dancing around
the issues of per cent body fat and the latest definitions of obesity , let’s
just call the pr oblem what it is: overfat. 
By 2015, scientists say, 75 percent of Americans will be overfat,
with the r est of the world not far behind. In the U.S., women 20-34
years old are the fastest growing group of overfat people. And in
some populations — individuals with darker skin — the numbers of
overfat people are generally much worse. For example, more than 80
percent of black women ar e overfat. At one time the overfat problem
affected adults almost exclusively. But today, overfat children are
everywhere.
The primary pr oblem is simple; for most people it’s the over con-
sumption of sugar and refined carbohydrates. It’s not necessarily the
over consumption of calories of these foods, but even so-called low-
calorie sugar foods can overproduce insulin with the result of storing
more of this low-fat food as body fat. Companies creating these foods,
and those selling them, are the next targets of government and
lawyers — much like the attack on cigarette companies of recent
decades.
Most of the issues about being overweight fail to address the
problem. It’s not about weight, it’s about being overfat. Excess body
fat is unhealthy for two reasons. First, it’s unhealthy because of the
reason it accumulated in the first place — for most, it’s unhealthy eat-   

ing habits, for example, as I just noted regarding sugar and refined
carbohydrates. Second, stored body fat produces inflammatory chem-
icals that are a very serious threat to overall health. Chronic inflam-
mation is the first step in the process of development of most chronic
diseases, fr om Alzheimer’s and cancer to diabetes and heart disease.
What is Weight?
Most people consider excess body weight and body fat as synony-
mous. But this is untrue: what most really want to do is lose body fat.
We live in a weight-conscious society, and stepping on the scale each
morning is a powerful ritual, one difficult to break. Most of the
weight the scale measures is water, and most of this water is in the
muscles and other body areas, not fat. Body fat weighs much less.
However , body fat takes up much mor e space than water . Everyone
knows this: as we gain or lose fat, our clothes fit dif ferently. In fact,
many of the patients I helped lose body fat often didn’t lose weight —
and some actually gained weight while getting healthy and losing
inches off their waist. As body fat is reduced, improved muscle func-
tion adds more weight, a healthy sign. So if we want to address the
real issue — reducing body fat — the best way to evaluate is by meas-
uring body size. 
There are many ways to measure body size, and even percent
body fat. Many weight-loss pr ograms sell various gadgets for deter -
mining this issue. But in keeping with simplifying the str ess in your
life, my suggestion is to avoid the task of trying to focus on these
more detailed measur ements — and avoid the risk of creating a new
obsession of measuring yourself. The most simple and practical way
to calculate changes in body fat is by periodically measuring your
waist with a tape measure. Do this at the level of the umbilicus, the
belly button. No other appr oach will provide you with more informa-
tion about what you need to do — either reduce or maintain body fat
levels.
For most people, it’s body fat that should be the focus. Reducing
body fat should be done in a healthy way , and fortunately, for the
majority of people, this is not difficult to accomplish. Essentially, this
whole book is about burning body fat, so this chapter will refer the
reader to other chapters for mor e detailed discussions of certain306• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

aspects of fat-burning. For most people, this begins with the Two-
Week Test described earlier. In that chapter I suggest weighing your-
self before and after the test only, just for reference. 
Calorie Restriction
Restricting calories as a means of losing body weight is the most com-
mon approach used in the weight-loss industry. And 95 percent of
those who go on a calorie-restricted diet will fail. This includes many
who lose weight initially. Most will gain it back — plus more — in the
end. Moreover, many will not lose significant body fat but instead
will lose muscle.
By performing a computerized dietary analysis on almost every
patient I’ve seen in practice, it’s clear that most people who r estrict
calories also r estricted nutrients. This results in a loss of health and
human performance. Dehydration, nutrient loss, muscle and bone
loss, lowered metabolism that shifts to more sugar- and less fat-burn-
ing and other health issues ar e most often the r eal result of weight loss
from calorie r estriction. In some, the r esult has been an eating disor-
der that can be even more difficult to treat.
Throughout this book I’ve emphasized the importance of fat-
burning — especially how reducing sugar and refined carbohydrates
increases it, and how building the aerobic system increases it. By
increasing fat-burning, you’ll lose inches on your waist, reduce body
fat, have unlimited ener gy, and not just look and feel fit and healthy
but actually live it. 
The ABCs of Burning Body Fat
This is the shortest chapter in the book because most of what I’ve
written is a review of the other chapters. For almost everyone who
has too much body fat, following these thr ee steps will result in the
loss of significant body fat (there will always be a very few exceptions
with unusual metabolic disorders or other rare problems).
A: Perform the Two-Week Test. Read about carbohydrates
and sugars, perform the test and determine your toler -
ance to carbohydrate foods.THE OVERFAT EPIDEMIC • 307         

B: Balance your fats. Don’t avoid them, unless they’re bad.
Eat sufficient amounts of good fats. 
C: Build your aerobic system through easy exercise. For
most people, walking is sufficient.
By focusing on improving health and aerobic fitness, there is
almost always an appropriate loss of body fat. 
Thyroid Troubles
Thyroid dysfunction may be a problem in some people who
have difficulty losing body fat. Low thyroid function leads to
symptoms that include mental and physical fatigue, increased
body fat, depression and skin problems (especially cracking
around the heels and on the hands). Hair loss is also common,
especially thinning of the lateral one-third of the eyebrow. 
The first step is to evaluate thyroid function through blood tests;
free T3 and T4, and TSH levels. If these are not normal, thyroid
antibodies should be measured. But blood tests don’t always
show the relati vely minor functional thyroid problems. Saliva
tests may be more important for detecting subclinical thyroid
dysfunction. You can also take your temperature — those with
low thyroid function usually have low temperatures. Below-
normal temperatures — less than about 98.6˚ Fahrenheit or 37˚
Celcius — may indicate thyroid dysfunction. (Note that
NSAIDS — nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs — including
aspirin, ibuprofen and others, can also disturb metabolism and
decrease bod y temperature.)
As you improve the quality of your diet and build the aerobic
system, and fat-burning begins to increase, thyroid function
will improve too. This will be reflected in more normal body
temperature and improvements in any other abnormal blood or
saliva tests.308• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH        

33
Chronic Inflammation:
The Other Epidemic
Inflammation is typically thought of as swelling, pain or discom-
fort, perhaps in your joints, sinuses or intestines. But for many people
chronic inflammation occurs without symptoms and may be the
cause of other health problems. A full spectrum of disorders is associ-
ated with chronic inflammation — from severe functional problems
such as fatigue, hormonal imbalance and reduced immunity, to seri-
ous diseases such as osteopor osis, heart disease and cancer . Balancing
fat intake is one of the key factors to controlling chronic inflammation.
There are two forms of inflammation — acute and chronic. Acute
inflammation is a normal healthy action, helping to heal more than
just that little cut on our finger. Without it, you would not recover
from a day at the of fice, your easy walk, or even the minor bumps and
bruises you acquire during your life. But acute inflammation can also
be triggered more significantly by various traumas such as a fall,
more intense exercise such as weight-lifting, infections, toxins in food
and air, synthetic hormones and excess stress. 
There are three important functions of acute inflammation. One is
the first step in the healing or r epair process after some physical or
chemical injury or str ess, no matter how minor . The second is that it
prevents the spread of damaged cells that could cause secondary
problems in other ar eas of the body . Alocal infection, for example, can
be contained due to the inflammatory r esponse, instead of causing a
bodywide infection. Thir d, inflammation rids the body of damaged
and dead cells.
Normally, the inflammatory cycle is almost like an “on-off”
switch. It’s turned on by inflammatory chemicals when it is needed
for healing and repair. Then it’s turned off by anti-inflammatory
chemicals when it’s not needed. It’s when these anti-inflammatory
chemicals ar e not pr esent in sufficient quantity, or there’s too much   

inflammatory-causing stress, that the switch stays on. The outcome is
chronic inflammation.
Chronic Inflammation 
When inflammation continues into the chronic state, many health
problems can begin developing. This may include those all-too-famil-
iar “itis” conditions such as tendinitis, colitis, sinusitis and arthritis.
Chronic inflammation is also a precursor to ulceration, and it could
ultimately lead to disease.
For some people, the presence of inflammation is obvious. But
most people with chronic inflammation are not aware of it because
the signs and symptoms may not be apparent. Therefore, some type
of evaluation is important. The following survey may help guide you
in determining your potential for inflammation. Check the items that
pertain to you:
JDo you eat restaurant, take-out or prepared food daily?
JDo you consume milk, cream, butter or cheese regularly?
JDo you consume corn, soy, safflower or peanut oils
regularly?
JDo you consume margarine or products that contain
hydrogenated or partially hydrogenated oils regularly?
JIs your diet low in fresh salmon, sardines and other cold-
water fish?
JDo you have a history of atherosclerosis, stroke or heart
disease?
JDo you have a history of osteopor osis?
JDo you have a history of ulcer or cancer?
JDo you have a history of “itis” conditions such as arthri-
tis, colitis, tendinitis, etc.?
JDo you have allergies, asthma or recurring infections?
JDo you have chronic fatigue?310• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH                           

JDo you have increased body fat?
JDo you perform weekly anaerobic exercise, such as
weight-lifting, hard training or competition?
JDo you perform regular repetitive activity (jogging,
cycling, walking, typing, etc.)?
Even if you check only one or two of the above items, it indicates
an increased chance of having chronic inflammation. 
A simple blood test can confirm the presence of inflammation.
The C-r eactive protein (CRP) test is the most accurate screen for
inflammation and can detect very low levels. This test can also predict
future risk of coronary heart disease and stroke even in otherwise
healthy individuals. The best suggestion is to have a CRP performed
regularly, when other blood tests are ordered. If the result is not nor-
mal, r etest every six months until it’s normal. CRP levels should be
lower than 1.0 mg/L, which is the lowest risk of developing cardio-
vascular disease. Between 1.0 and 3.0 mg/L, a person has average risk
and CRP levels higher than 3.0 mg/L are associated with a high risk.
Other blood tests include the erythrocyte sedimentation rate
(ESR). This common blood test for inflammation can be performed
when blood is taken for other tests, or with a finger prick. A complete
blood count measures white blood cells and may also indicate inflam-
mation. Compare your results to the reference ranges given by the lab.
Diet and Inflammation
Many of the chemicals involved in both inflammation and anti-
inflammation are heavily influenced by your diet. This was discussed
in Chapter 10 and is reviewed here because of its importance. The
four items below can have a dramatic effect on reducing unwanted
inflammation.
• Balance your intake of dietary fats as discussed in
Chapter 10. To accomplish this it may be necessary to
supplement your diet with EPA from fish oil.
• Make sure you have all the nutrients necessary for main-
taining balanced fats, including vitamins B6, E, C andCHRONIC INFLAMMATION: THE OTHER EPIDEMIC  • 311          

niacin and the minerals magnesium and zinc. These are
best obtained from a healthy diet.
• Avoid specific foods and lifestyle factors that disturb the
balance of fats. These include trans fat, refined carbohy-
drates and sugars, and overexercise.
• Certain foods can fight inflammation. Ginger and
turmeric are powerful foods that can help control inflam-
mation. These are common spices used in many types of
foods. While fresh turmeric is more difficult to find in
stores, fresh ginger is common. Ginger can be used in sal-
ads, or to make tea, or is added to many dishes for its
pungent flavor. And it can be pickled. Developing a habit
of using ginger regularly in your meals can be very help-
ful in controlling inflammation. Turmeric is in the ginger
family , and pr obably on your spice shelf. It’s commonly
used as a natural coloring agent, and is a major ingredi-
ent in curry powder.
Many people eat citr us fr uit but toss the peel. They ar e throwing
out some of the most important nutritional factors. The oil in citrus
peel contains limonene, a powerful phytonutrient. When eating the
fruit, eat the skin, or at least the white parts. This is more enjoyable
when the fr uit is tree-ripened, which makes for a much sweeter skin.
Foods in the onion family can also help r educe inflammation,
especially garlic and onions. In our cultur e, garlic and onions ar e
often avoided due to the odor after eating them. But both have great
therapeutic benefits and should be part of your daily diet, even if it’s
just in your evening meal. Other foods in the onion family include
shallots and chives. 
Functional Illness
Chronic inflammation that’s allowed to continue unchecked can lead
to a full spectrum of functional problems, such as fatigue, hormonal
imbalance and r educed immunity . Fatigue may be among the mor e
common results of chronic inflammation. Other problems associated
with chronic inflammation include:312• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

•Lowered immunity. Indicated by frequent infections,
including colds and flu, and yeast and fungal infections
such as Candida. Asthma, allergies and other issues also
may be due to low immunity and chronic inflammation.
•Hormonal imbalance. This can include many aspects of
the hormonal system, especially the adrenal stress hor-
mones, reducing your ability to cope with stress. Sex hor-
mones — estrogen, progesterone and testosterone — can
also be adversely af fected, resulting in diminished sex
drive, reproductive function and muscle and bone health.
Reduced thyroid function can also result due to inhibi-
tion of thyr oid-stimulating hormone.
•Nervous-system imbalance. This includes increased
activity of the sympathetic nervous system, potentially
leading to incr eased tension, rising blood pr essur e, dis -
turbed blood sugar , anxiety or depr ession, or other
problems.
•Digestive distress. Among the problems that can result
are poor digestion, gas formation, heartburn and various
inflammatory conditions such as colitis and ileitis. Poor
absorption of nutrients can be another r esult, cr eating an
entir e series of potential pr oblems thr oughout the body .
•Chronic pain. Inflammation pr oduces pain-stimulating
chemicals thr oughout the body . This also r esults in a
reduced pain threshold.
•Cataracts. Another common condition that develops
with age is cataracts, and inflammation plays a major r ole
in the development of this eye disease. Chronic inflam-
mation has been shown to predispose healthy individu-
als to future risk of age-related cataracts.
•Gingivitis and periodontal disease. These oral condi -
tions are also associated with inflammation, and may be
a silent cause of chronic bodywide inflammation.CHRONIC INFLAMMATION: THE OTHER EPIDEMIC  • 313                 

•Hair loss. Loss of hair may be associated with inflamma-
tion in the scalp, specifically the hair follicles.
Chronic Diseases
In the long term, chronic inflammation can lead to more serious dis-
eases. It is now considered a major risk factor for cardiovascular dis-
ease, for example. A variety of other disease states may be an end
result of chronic inflammation, including ulcers and cancer, athero-
sclerosis, stroke, osteoporosis and even type 2 diabetes.
Other common diseases associated with inflammation have “itis”
at the ends of their names: arthritis (inflammation of the joints), coli-
tis (inflammation of the colon), tendinitis (inflammation of a tendon),
etc. Even chronic fatigue syndrome and anorexia may be part of the
chronic inflammation problem.
Balancing fats is the key to maintaining the balance of inflamma-
tory chemicals. This may mean making some changes in your diet,
nutrition and lifestyle, or finding ways to reduce stress levels.
Controlling your inflammation is an important step forward for your
health. Not only will it impr ove your quality of life now , it will also
pay off bigger benefits later in life by warding off dangerous, life-
threatening illnesses.314• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH       

34
The Big Picture of Heart Disease
Heart disease is a leading cause of death in the United States, and
a major pr oblem throughout the industrialized world. Despite the
abundance of low-fat and low-cholesterol foods and diets, the num-
bers of new cases, and deaths, keep growing. 
Chronic inflammation may be the most common cause of heart
disease. If you have chr onic inflammation, your risk for having a heart
attack is doubled. Studies show that the more inflammation — as indi-
cated with a simple blood test (C-r eactive pr otein as discussed in the
previous chapter) — the gr eater your risk of having a heart attack. In
fact, each of the many stages of cardiovascular disease is associated
with inflammatory factors. In addition, ther e is a strong association
between chronic inflammation and other cardiovascular problems
including sudden car diac death, peripheral arterial disease, str oke
and other conditions.
Of course, other unhealthy lifestyle factors significantly incr ease
the risk of heart disease. These include smoking, being overfat, hyper-
tension and others. Diabetes, an end-stage problem of carbohydrate
intolerance, is a major risk factor . These pr oblems, however , con -
tribute to heart disease because they also are associated with and/or
increase chr onic inflammation. Aerobic exer cise is also very important
for the heart; inactivity puts you at nearly as great a risk as smoking.
Cholesterol 
One of the most misunderstood subjects related to heart disease is
cholesterol. Abnormally high levels of cholesterol can also be a risk
factor for heart disease, although your total cholesterol is not the best
— or only — measure for heart-disease risk. Many people who die of
heart disease have normal total cholesterol numbers, and many with
high cholesterol never develop heart disease.      

Perhaps the greatest misconception about cholesterol is that eat-
ing foods containing it significantly raises levels in the blood. In truth,
most studies have shown that eating cholesterol does not alone sub-
stantially increase blood-cholesterol levels. Moreover, some studies
show that not eating cholesterol can prompt your body to make more
— and that eating eggs can improve your cholesterol numbers! 
While there is a correlation between higher total cholesterol in the
blood and incidences of heart attacks, evaluating cardiac risk calls for
a complete fasting blood-lipid pr ofile that measures at least total,
HDL and LDL cholesterol, and triglycerides.
The most important thing to know about cholesterol is that cho-
lesterol itself isn’t “bad,” but rather something to be kept in balance.
It’s also important to understand that most of the cholesterol in the
bloodstream is actually made by the liver. If you eat more cholesterol,
your body prompts the liver to make less of it. But if you take in less,
your liver makes more. That’s why many people on a low-cholesterol
diet still have high blood-cholesterol levels.
Actually, all cells in the body — including those of the heart —
make cholester ol every day . That’s because cholester ol is necessary
for many essential processes that keep us healthy. For example, the
outer surfaces of cells contain cholester ol, which helps r egulate which
chemicals enter and exit. Cholester ol is also used to make many hor-
mones, including sex hormones and those that control stress.
Cholester ol is also a key component of the brain and nerve str ucture
throughout the body, and a key compound in the skin allowing us to
make vitamin D from the sun. As you can see, cholesterol is necessary
— and good — for optimal health. It’s only bad when out of balance.
The Good Cholesterol
HDL cholesterol — high-density lipoprotein — is called “good” cho-
lester ol because it pr otects against disease by r emoving accumulated
deposits of cholesterol and transporting them back to the liver for dis-
posal. So higher HDL numbers are generally healthier. It’s best if you
can divide your total cholesterol figure by your HDL number and get
a ratio below 4.0, which is about the average risk for heart disease.
Aerobic exercise, monounsaturated fats, fish oil and moderate alcohol
can incr ease HDL. Excess str ess and anaerobic exercise, hydrogenat-316• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

ed fats and excess consumption of saturated fats and refined carbohy-
drates lower HDL.
More importantly, the recommendation that people substitute
polyunsaturated fats for saturated can be devastating for HDL levels.
If the ratio of polyunsaturated fat to saturated fat exceeds 2 (a ratio of
2:1), HDL levels usually diminish, raising your cardiac risk. If your A,
B and C fats are balanced, as discussed in Chapter 10 ,you avoid dis-
turbing this ratio. Due to the heavy marketing of polyunsaturated oils
since the 1970s, American diets now contain twice the polyunsaturat-
ed oil compared to diets of the 1950s and 60s. In addition, body-fat
samples today show that levels of linoleic acid (an A fat) are at twice
what they were 40 years ago.
The ‘Bad’ Cholesterol
LDL cholesterol — low-density lipoprotein — is known as the “bad”
cholesterol. A recent trend in preventative medicine is to stress lower-
ing LDL cholesterol with drugs. But it’s really not the LDL itself that
causes the potential harm or risk. It’s only when LDL oxidizes that it
deposits in your arteries. Oxidation of LDL results fr om fr ee radicals,
in much the same way that iron rusts. While lowering LDL levels can
make less of it available for oxidation, antioxidants fr om vegetables
and fr uits can help pr event oxidation. In addition, many of the factors
just mentioned that raise HDL also lower LDL, the reason these plant
foods can significantly lower your risk of heart disease. LDL is best
measured when blood is drawn after a 12-hour fast for an accurate
evaluation.
Excess dietary carbohydrates can especially adversely affect LDL
levels. This is due to excess triglycerides fr om carbohydrates pr oduc -
ing more, smaller, dense, LDL particles, which are even more likely to
clog arteries.
In addition, a lower intake of dietary cholester ol is linked to an
increase of these more dangerous LDL particles. And to make matters
worse, these types of LDL particles are also associated with the inabil-
ity to tolerate moderate to high levels of dietary carbohydrates (i.e.,
insulin resistance) even in relatively healthy individuals.THE BIG PICTURE OF HEART DISEASE • 317     

Factors that Affect Cholesterol Ratios
One of the worst scenarios for your cholesterol is if the HDL is low-
ered and the LDL and total cholesterol are elevated. Hydrogenated
and partially hydrogenated fats (trans fat) do this, and that is the rea-
son trans fat is a risk factor for heart disease. So read labels and avoid
all products containing this dangerous substance.
Eating too much saturated fat can raise LDL and total cholesterol
levels. The worst offenders are dairy foods such as butter, cream,
cheese and milk. Red meat such as beef, while it does contain saturat-
ed fat, can actually improve cholesterol levels. This is partly because,
just as in eggs, about half the fat in beef is monounsaturated. Grass-
fed beef has the best balance of fats compared to most beef which is
corn fed and contains higher levels of stearic acid, a saturated fatty
acid that won’t raise cholesterol and may actually help reduce it. (The
fat in cocoa butter also contains high amounts of stearic acid.)
The Fiber Factor
Fiber and fiber-like substances are also an important factor in decreas-
ing total cholesterol and improving total cholesterol/HDL ratios.
Most people don’t eat enough fiber, especially from fresh vegetables
and fruits, as discussed in Chapter 15. Eating at least one large raw
salad daily in addition to other raw and cooked vegetables and one to
three servings of fresh fruit or berries — totaling 10 servings — will
provide significant amounts of fiber . These foods also pr ovide natural
phytoster ols, which help r educe cholester ol, and may be the r eason
early humans, who ate very lar ge amounts of saturated fat, may have
been well pr otected.
Studies also demonstrate that more-frequent eating lowers blood
cholesterol, specifically LDL cholesterol. This means eating healthy
snacks, of course, as was discussed in Chapter 20.
Case History
Fred had a long history of high blood cholesterol. His many
blood tests rev ealed some interesting numbers. When first test -
ed three years previous, his total cholesterol was 288, and his
HDL w as 52. That’s a ratio of 5.5 — too high a risk factor. Fred
tried lo wering his dietary c holesterol for six months, then had318• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH        

his cholesterol tested again. This time, the total was very simi-
lar, 276, but the HDL diminished too much, down to 41. That
drastically increased his risk to 6.7. His doctor recommended
taking a cholesterol-lowering drug. Six months later, the tests
showed his total cholesterol down to 213, along with his HDL,
which decreased to 31. Now his risk was even worse, with a
ratio of about 6.9. Fred was finally convinced to try another
approac h. After six months of easy aerobic exercise, lowering
his carbohydrate intake and eating the right fats, including
eggs, his blood test sho wed total cholesterol of 191, and HDL
of 58, giving a much better ratio of 3.3. A year later, Fred’s test
was even a little better.
Eating Eggs
Most people love the taste of eggs, whether scrambled, poached, soft-
or hard-boiled or in a fancy soufflé. Eggs are one of the best sources
of quality pr otein and also contain a wide variety of other important
nutrients, including choline, important to help control stress (another
risk for heart disease). But, as everyone knows, egg yolks contain cho -
lesterol. Today, most experts agree that for most people, eating eggs
every day is not going to worsen blood cholesterol. (If you’re one of a
very small number of people who can’t metabolize cholesterol, it
could be a pr oblem. But if that’s the case, most likely you already
know your cholesterol is too high — above 250 or 300.)
After decades of medical r esearch, studies have never linked egg
consumption to heart disease. Stephen Kritchevsky, Ph.D., director of
the J. Paul Sticht Center on Aging at W ake For est University states:
“People should feel secure with the knowledge that the [medical] lit-
erature shows regular egg consumption does not have a measurable
impact on heart disease risk for healthy adults. In fact, many countries
with high egg consumption are notable for low rates of heart disease.”
In most healthy people, the body normally compensates to balance
cholesterol, even when you eat whole eggs every day. In fact, when
you eat more cholesterol your body absorbs a smaller percentage. 
Consider the following points about consumption of eggs and
other foods high in cholester ol:THE BIG PICTURE OF HEART DISEASE • 319     

• Data from the Framingham Study, the largest ongoing
medical study, revealed no relationship between choles-
terol consumption and blood levels in 16,000 participants
tracked over the course of six years.
• The fat in egg yolks is nearly a perfect balance, contain-
ing mostly monounsaturated fats, and about 36 percent
saturated fat. Monounsaturated fat has been shown to
raise HDL cholesterol levels. Studies published in the
New England Journal of Medicine and the Journal of Internal
Medicine indicate that eating whole eggs daily significant-
ly raised the good HDL cholesterol.
• Egg yolks contain linoleic and linolenic acids, which are
as important as all other vitamins and minerals, and are
crucial in the regulation of cholesterol. The study also
showed that without these fats in your diet, your risk for
heart disease is increased.
• Egg yolks are high in lecithin, which assists the action of
bile fr om the gall bladder in regulating cholesterol.
Cholesterase, an important enzyme in egg yolks, may
also help control cholesterol.
With all this scientific evidence, there seems to be little logical rea-
son to avoid eating eggs. But if that’s not enough for you, consider the
clinical case of the “Egg Man.” As reported in the New England Journal
of Medicine , and on popular talk shows a few years ago, an 88-year-old
man with a documented history of eating 25 eggs per day was evalu -
ated and found to be in excellent health, including normal weight and
no signs, symptoms or history of heart disease, stroke or gall bladder
problems. His serum cholesterol over the years has ranged from 150
to 200, despite the fact that he eats about 5,000 mg of cholesterol per
day! He is an example of the fact that incr easing cholesterol intake,
even by significant amounts, may not affect serum cholesterol levels.
And, he’s one of the few people I’ve heard of who eats more eggs a
day than I do!
Will egg phobia end soon? More people are realizing that eating
eggs doesn’t raise their cholesterol, and that consuming too many car-
bohydrates and trans fats can be much more of a risk factor for heart320• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH         

disease. For those who still want more information, visit the Egg
Nutrition Center’s website at www.incredibleegg.org.
Triglycerides
Another fat that’s just as important to measure is triglycerides. High
triglycerides can increase the risk of cardiovascular disease. Some
studies show that the increase in heart disease risk from elevated
triglycerides may rival that of LDL cholesterol.
Triglycerides include the fats converted from carbohydrates you
have eaten. Normally, 40 percent or more of carbohydrates are con-
verted to fat. Some of these triglycerides end up stored as plaque on
your artery walls. Many people focus on eliminating saturated fat
and ar e unaware that eating too many carbohydrates is also associat-
ed with a higher risk for heart disease. 
Triglycerides, like LDL cholesterol, must be measured in the fast-
ing state for accuracy. Levels ideally should be under 100 mg/dl,
though 150 is consider ed normal by most labs. If your triglyceride
level is above 100, and especially 150, ther e’s a good chance you’r e
carbohydrate intolerant and need to cut back on eating these types of
foods, especially those made with refined flour and highly processed
sugars. Those with very high triglycerides often will see a dramatic
reduction, sometimes to normal, after a successful Two-Week Test.
Hypertension
One factor associated with car diovascular disease is high blood pr es-
sure, or hypertension. It’s not only a risk factor for heart disease, but
overall mortality. Hypertension is generally defined as blood pres-
sures above about 140/90 (the first number is the systolic pr essur e,
and the second diastolic as measured in millimeters of mercury or
mm Hg). 
Intense marketing of hypertension drugs, corresponding with
newer definitions of hypertension, have resulted in more people
being medicated, and even those with normal blood pressure being
told they are in a pre-hypertensive state. Indeed, doctors are now
reading in medical journals that car diovascular risk begins with
blood pressures as low as 115/75, and that the blood pressure classi-THE BIG PICTURE OF HEART DISEASE • 321       

fication of “prehypertension” is a systolic pressure between 120–139
and diastolic between 80–89 mm Hg.
To make matters worse, most patients are prescribed medication
for hypertension without seeking the cause of the problem. And, most
patients are not given appropriate diet and lifestyle guidelines that
may reduce their blood pressure to the point where medication may
no longer be needed.
Among the problems that may contribute to hypertension is car-
bohydrate intolerance due to its influence of raising insulin levels.
During the Two-Week Test it was recommended that, if your blood
pressure is high, have it evaluated before, during and after the Test.
That’s because for many people, significantly reducing refined carbo-
hydrates and sugars, which reduces insulin levels, will reduce blood
pressure — often dramatically. As a result, if you’re taking medication
to contr ol blood pr essur e, your doctor may need to r educe, or even
eliminate it. 
The vast majority of hypertensive patients I initially saw in prac-
tice wer e able to reduce their blood pressure significantly just by
strictly avoiding refined carbohydrates and sugars, especially when
easy aerobic exercise was implemented. Most of these patients were
able to eliminate their medication. Other important factors include
balancing fats, various nutrients that can be obtained fr om a healthy
diet, and contr olling str ess. 
Poor aerobic conditioning can also contribute to hypertension.
Recall that those who are inactive have a significant amount of blood
vessels shut down (these ar e the vessels in the aerobic muscle fibers).
Aerobic exercise is an important factor in both prevention and treat-
ment of hypertension. Even one easy aerobic workout can reduce
blood pressure for up to 24 hours. Anaerobic exercise may not be
nearly as effective and could even aggravate high blood pressure. It’s
important to discuss your particular exercise needs with a health-care
professional — especially one who is aware of the potential benefits
of food, nutrition and exercise.
Other dietary factors that can prevent or help hypertension
include eating sufficient amounts of vegetables and fruits. When cer-
tain nutrients ar e low , such as calcium and vitamins A and C, the322• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

blood pressure may elevate. Basically, by increasing overall fitness and
health, blood pressure can be normalized in the majority of people. 
It’s important to look at the whole person, as hypertension can
mean other problems exist. For example, kidney problems and nar-
rowed or “clogged” arteries are often associated with hypertension.
Sodium and Blood Pressure
A common notion about high blood pressure is that sodium causes it.
In some people with existing high blood pressure, excessive sodium
intake can magnify the problem. About 30 to 40 percent of those with
hypertension are sodium-sensitive. For these individuals, even moder-
ate amounts of sodium can increase their blood pressure further.
Obviously , these people should regulate their sodium intake. But salt
modification for those who have normal blood pressure is not neces-
sary, as sodium will not raise blood pressure in healthy individuals.
Sodium is a necessary nutrient, essential for good health. An
average healthy man of 150 pounds has about 9,000 milligrams of
sodium in his body. One-third of this is contained in healthy bones
and most of the r emaining two-thir ds surrounds the cells throughout
the rest of the body, where sodium is a major player in their regula-
tion. Balanced with potassium, sodium acts as an “electrochemical
pump.” Sodium also helps r egulate the acid/alkaline balance, water
balance, the heartbeat and other muscle contractions, sugar metabo -
lism and even blood-pressure balance.
Cholesterol-Lowering Drugs
Studies show that some cholesterol-lowering drugs (the statins)
can reduce inflammation. But considering the potential side
effects of these drugs, and their high cost, statins are an ineffi-
cient way to lower cardiac risk by reducing inflammation. The
study found the popular drugs Pravachol, Zocor and Lipitor sig-
nificantly reduced inflammation, thereby reducing the risk of
heart attac k and stroke.
However, the long list of side effects for these drugs include
liver damage and problems with neurological, intestinal andTHE BIG PICTURE OF HEART DISEASE • 323      

muscular function, to name just some. In addition, patients
must take this medication for many years and avoid alcohol.
These drugs are also contraindicated for children, nursing
mothers and women of childbearing age.
The irony is that the anti-inflammatory actions of these drugs
may be more important than lowering cholesterol. It’s a lot less
expensive and safer to use appropriate dietary and lifestyle
adjustments in combination with omega-3 fat supplementation
to reduce inflammation. Indeed, the American Heart
Association recommends first using more conservative means
before prescribing medication, including the right foods, bal-
anced nutrition and exer cise.
Other Nutritional Factors
When the topic of nutrition and the heart comes up, many people still
think taking a vitamin E (alpha tocopherol) supplement is a healthy
habit for their heart. But r esear ch shows that the typical dose of vita -
min E, 400 IU, can significantly incr ease the risk of death! High-dose
vitamin supplements were discussed in Chapter 17. Like other nutri-
ents, food doses of vitamin E are very important for the heart (and the
whole body), but as part of the whole E complex, which includes
three other tocopher ols and four tocotrienols.
Lower levels of certain B vitamins can significantly incr ease your
risk of heart disease. Inadequate folic acid especially , and also vita -
mins B6 and B12, can elevate homocysteine levels in the blood, itself
a significant risk for heart disease. High homocysteine r eflects inade -
quate levels of these nutrients. Folic acid may be the most important,
but many people are unable to benefit from synthetic folic acid and
only respond to natural versions as discussed in Chapter 18.
Vitamin D is also important for the heart, with low levels associat-
ed with an incr eased risk of heart disease. The best source of vitamin
D is fr om the sun, with fortification of foods being quite inadequate. 
Other nutrients ar e important for optimal heart function, includ-
ing vitamins B1 (thiamin) and B2 (riboflavin), magnesium and many324• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

others. I could make a good argument that all the vitamins and min-
erals have a significant impact on the heart and blood vessels. 
On paper it’s relatively simple: Get more fit and healthy, and
you’ll significantly lower your risk for heart disease. Two of the key
issues are carbohydrate intolerance and chronic inflammation.THE BIG PICTURE OF HEART DISEASE • 325   

35
Beating the Cancer Odds
Just the word “cancer” strikes fear in most people. However, a
better understanding of the earliest stages of cancer will help you pre-
vent it — or mor e accurately slow a process we all have to some
degree. Putting this disease into proper perspective can help many
people reduce their risk and, in fact, postpone a diagnosis of cancer in
their lifetimes.
Detecting cancer in its earliest stages, then treating it through rad-
ical medical intervention such as chemotherapy, radiation, surgery or
some combination of these, has impr oved survival statistics of those
diagnosed with cancer in recent years. But this has done nothing to
reduce actual rates at which people develop the disease. We are
approaching the point where almost half the population will be given
a diagnosis of cancer .
The fact is most cancers ar e preventable. They’re due to food and
environmental factors, especially those associated with fat imbalance,
chronic inflammation, chemical toxins and other issues discussed in
this book. Genetic factors are not a primary issue in most cancers
since we control the susceptibility of getting cancer through these
dietary and environmental factors as discussed in Chapter 3.
Our efforts — from researchers and educators, to each of us as
individuals — should be directed at understanding how and where
cancer begins, and how to slow or block that process. Fortunately, we
know enough to form a logical plan for avoiding cancer by making
the appropriate lifestyle changes.
Here are the four basic steps you can take to help prevent and
avoid cancer at the earliest stages:
1. The first is avoiding the tidal wave of toxic chemicals in
your environment. These contaminants trigger the pro-
duction of oxygen free radicals in the body, which, as part   

of the inflammatory problem, are one of the primary
causes of cancer. Environmental chemicals include the
tens of thousands of synthetic compounds used every
day by unsuspecting men, women and children. They’re
on our lawns and in our cars, under our kitchen and bath-
room sinks, and in our food and water — we live in a sea
of toxicity. We can’t eliminate them all because our air and
oceans are polluted, but we can significantly reduce their
presence in our local environment. Once inside your
body, many of these chemicals reside in body fat — by
reducing and maintaining body fat to healthy levels you
can eliminate their buildup in the body . The issue of free
radicals is discussed separately in the next chapter. 
2. The second cause of cancer is chronic inflammation. If
you control inflammation — by balancing fats and all the
other factors discussed throughout this book — you sig-
nificantly contr ol the pr ocess of cancer.
3. The third cause includes nitrogen-containing chemicals.
These are commonly produced, for example, from foods
during cooking. The most commonly discussed problem
is barbecuing meat, but many foods pr oduce these nitr o-
gen compounds when cooked. Preventing overheating
can easily be done — turning your steak every minute,
avoid very high heat and not overcooking foods can pre-
vent much of this problem. 
4. The forth step is to provide your body with raw materials
it needs to stop and slow the pr ocess of cancer . We can do
our best to r educe environmental chemicals, but we can’t
create a toxic-free environment. We are constantly
exposed to triggers that start the process of cancer.
Fortunately, the body can control this, but it needs various
nutrients to accomplish the task. This includes nutrients
that help contr ol inflammation, a balance of fats, antioxi -
dants for the immune system to stop or slow the process
of cancer, and phytonutrients such as sulphoraphan, forBEATING THE CANCER ODDS • 327   

example, found in broccoli, that negates nitrogen com-
pounds in cooked foods such as meats.
There are other triggers of cancer, from radiation and chronic
infections to synthetic hormones. But there remains the question of
which came first, or what part of the process do we blame. All these
examples can cause excess fr ee radicals and chronic inflammation.
Let’s look at a real example of this process. Certain pesticides and
chlorine compounds can disr upt the body’s normal hormone balance.
This imbalance can promote a cancer-causing process to begin in hor-
mone-dependent areas such as the breast and prostate. The most suc-
cessful way to prevent these cancers, for example, is to avoid expo-
sure to the chemical triggers — in this example, by avoiding as much
as possible pesticides and chlorine compounds.
In addition, keeping body fat to normal levels keeps higher
amounts of these chemicals out of the body , and excess body fat fur -
ther increases the chance of more serious hormone imbalance. And,
providing the body with suf ficient nutrients to stop or slow the
process of cancer in the breast and prostate itself, for example, is
another key. It’s important to look at the earliest stage of cancer and
intervene at that point, but also consider other ways to slow or stop
the process.
To better understand these ideas, it’s helpful to know how cancer
evolves, from onset to metastases. 
Three Phases of Cancer
In most cases, regardless of what triggers cancer, there are three phas-
es. In cancer ’s initiation phase, a normal cell is changed to an alter ed
cell through a process called mutation. Early in this first phase, for
example, free radicals can outweigh antioxidants, triggering DNA
alterations. It is in this initiation phase that a person may have the
most control over the process through food and nutrition.
The next step is the proliferation phase, in which the cancer cells
rapidly multiply , partly as a r esult of increased blood vessels that sup-
port such rapid cell gr owth. At this point, the af fected ar ea is r eferred
to as a tumor. Free radicals and group 2 eicosanoids promote tumor
growth. Antioxidants can impair tumor growth at this stage; balanc-328• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

ing fats can do the same. In addition, carbohydrate intolerance can
promote tumor growth through the action of excess insulin. Hormone
imbalance can also contribute; for example, excess estrogens may pro-
mote tumor growth in the proliferation stage.
These first two stages of cancer evolution are also termed pre-can-
cerous or pre-malignant. They may be accompanied by signs or symp-
toms, and sometimes discovered through medical tests. But more
often they are difficult to detect and usually go unnoticed. Most peo-
ple have these two phases going on all the time, and they can last
decades. During these two phases, your best chance to avoid a diagno-
sis of cancer is through diet, nutrition and lifestyle improvements. So
you have plenty of time to eat right and avoid chemical stresses if you
start early .
Give the body enough time and eventually a cancer ous area
enters the third step, the invasion phase. Here, tumor growth increas-
es significantly, and is more commonly accompanied by signs and
symptoms. And, the cancer is r elatively easy to diagnose. Also in this
phase the cancer can metastasize, spr eading to other ar eas of the
body. While this is the most common time period in which people
turn to nutrition for help, it is also the phase in which this approach
is least effective. Not that food and nutrition can’t help a person in
this phase of cancer, but relative to how much benefit a person can
obtain by eating well in phases one and two, when the cancer can be
avoided, it’s the phase in which these measur es have the least thera -
peutic value. Depending on the person, overall level of health, age
and other factors, more radical therapy is usually necessary.
How Foods Can Prev ent Cancer
We live in a “pill for every ill” world, and many people want to know
which vitamin pill pr events cancer. But in fact, there is none.
Pharmaceutical companies continue looking for this magic pill — a
silver bullet to stop cancer in the early stages. If they find it, it will be
something that already exists in foods we should be eating regularly
as part of a healthy diet.
Rather than any one nutrient that can be obtained fr om a pill, it’s
the combination of nutrients from a variety of healthy foods that is byBEATING THE CANCER ODDS • 329     

far the best protection to keep cancer from developing in the first
place. While billions of dollars are being spent on research each year
to find “the cure for cancer,” nature has always provided it.
Without question, the first place to start a cancer prevention
lifestyle is to eat 10 servings of a variety of vegetables and fruits every
day. About 25 percent of those who eat the fewest fruits and vegetables
have approximately double the cancer rate compared to those with the
highest intake of these cancer-fighting foods. More frightening is that
80 percent of American children and adolescents, and almost 70 per-
cent of adults, do not eat even five portions a day of these foods. The
result is a significantly reduced intake of key nutrients that help pre-
vent cancer. It’s estimated that at least half the population obtains too
little of these important nutrients; the World Health Organization esti-
mates that by the year 2020, 50 per cent will be diagnosed with cancer.
Key nutrients such as vitamins B6, B12, niacin and folate, vita -
mins C and E, and zinc, along with phytonutrients, ar e just a few of
the thousands of nutrients that can prevent cancer. But don’t look for
the answer in the popular high-dose synthetic vitamins — they won’t
work like real food. In some cases, they can actually contribute to can-
cer promotion. As mentioned in our discussion of dietary supple-
ments in Chapter 17, common vitamin C products are one such exam-
ple, since these synthetic vitamins can cause the same type of DNA
damage that leads to the development of cancer .
Remember that food and nutrition are not the only key factors in
preventing cancer. Others include controlling certain lifestyle stresses,
such as smoking, poor aer obic function, high body fat, and excess
hormones such as insulin and estr ogens.
A Cancer-Fighting Plan for Eating
A dietary plan that provides a balance of protein, carbohydrate and
fat, as well as vitamins, minerals and phytonutrients from vegetables,
fruits and other health-promoting foods, can dramatically reduce the
risk of cancer. It is important to obtain these nutrients from real foods
or from supplements made from real foods, as it is the combined ben-
efits of these items that reduce the risk, rather than any single vitamin
or mineral. So wher e do you begin with pr evention? Most of the330• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

lifestyle, dietary and nutritional principles discussed throughout this
book are those that will help you avoid cancer. Here is a review: 
• Consume antioxidant-rich foods. This should include 10
servings of vegetables and fruits a day. Eat a rainbow of
these foods — a variety will ensure the presence of ade-
quate micro- and phytonutrients to help control inflam-
mation and provide antioxidants, fiber and other anti-
cancer substances. Include cruciferous vegetables such as
broccoli, cabbage and Brussels sprouts. Also choose veg-
etables and fruits with bright colors such as carrots,
squash and tomatoes, and leafy greens for the variety of
folate compounds that are present in nature but not in
synthetic-vitamin supplements. Berries and the whites of
citrus ar e good sour ces of cancer -fighting natural sub-
stances too. Eat many of these foods in a raw state. 
• Include other raw antioxidant-rich foods such as
almonds and cashews, sesame and flaxseeds, extra-virgin
olive oil and garlic, turmeric and ginger. 
• Other foods include green and black tea, and red wine.
• Beef and other meats from grass-fed, organic animals
contain antioxidants.
• Consume anti-inflammatory food supplements if neces-
sary. Most people don’t get enough omega-3 fats to con-
trol inflammation. Adietary supplement containing EP A
from fish oil may be necessary.
• Eliminate refined carbohydrates and sugars.
• Avoid environmental chemicals at home and work. This
includes chemicals from household cleaners, cosmetics
and toiletries, paints, and other chemicals stored within
your home. (This issue is discussed in the next chapter.)
• Control physical, chemical and mental/emotional stress. 
• Maintain proper levels of body fat.BEATING THE CANCER ODDS • 331   

• Maintain optimal aerobic fitness.
• Spend time in the sun!
The Sun and Cancer
Do you avoid the sun or use chemical sunscreens because you fear
skin cancer? The fact is, avoiding the sun can leave you at risk for
other types of cancer, and using sunscreen may actually contribute to
cancer itself.
Research shows that the lack of sun poses a much more serious
threat than skin cancer by dramatically increasing risk factors for
breast, colon, ovarian and other cancers. After extensive examination
of cancer-mortality rates in 506 geographic regions in Europe and
North America, a study published in the journal Cancer suggests that
the likely trigger for these digestive- and r eproductive-system cancers
is low levels of ultraviolet B light, essential for the body to produce
vitamin D. Naturally pr oduced vitamin D protects against these types
of cancer — but vitamin D from supplements has not been shown to
be effective. The study also linked 25 percent of the breast cancer in
Europe to insufficient sunlight exposure, and found rates of cancers
of the reproductive and digestive systems twice as high in the New
England states as the sunny Southwest, despite similar dietary habits.
Other cancers related to lack of natural vitamin D due to decreased
sunlight exposure include those of the bladder, uterus, esophagus,
rectum and stomach.
Furthermor e, researchers projected that Americans would experi-
ence 85,000 additional cases and 30,000 additional deaths in a single
year fr om digestive- and r eproductive-system cancers that otherwise
would be pr evented if all r esidents received the same amount of sun
as those who live in the southern tier of states. While this additional
sunlight exposur e would lead to 3,000 additional skin-cancer deaths,
it would result in 27,000 fewer cancer deaths overall. (These 3,000
additional skin-cancer deaths would be associated with conditions
such as chr onic inflammation, carbohydrate intolerance, poor diets
and other preventable factors as well.)
While we’re meant to be in the sun, there are some common-sense
ways to do so in a healthy manner . First, avoid sunburn. This does not332• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH       

mean slathering on the sunscr een, which may actually incr ease your
risk of skin cancer, but rather limit exposure to the midday summer
sun and avoid sunbathing. And, gradually build up your natural tan.
Tanning is the body’s natural defense against sunburn and skin cancer.
Second, be mindful of your diet and how this af fects your skin
and its reactions to the sun. Certain antioxidants, phytonutrients and
oils have a profound effect on how your body reacts to sunshine.
Naturally occurring antioxidants in foods (and r eal-food supple -
ments), including vitamins C and E, the car otenoids, selenium, and
the phytonutrient lycopene, help pr otect both the skin — and the eyes
— from damaging effects of the sun. Folate is also important since sig-BEATING THE CANCER ODDS • 333
Sunscreen 
Many people use sunscreen to prevent cancer. Actually, sun-
screen may promote cancer in two ways. First, using sunscreen
when spending a lot of time in the sun gives people the false
sense that it’s OK to stay in the sun for longer periods of time.
Since sunscreen won’t block all the sun’s rays, increased expo-
sure increases your risk of sun damage. Second, there is a rela-
tionship between the chemicals used in sunscreen and cancer
development.
Early in their development, sunscreens contained PABA (para-
aminobenzoic acid) to absorb sunlight, but these sunscreens
quietly disappeared from the market when it was learned that
this substance causes DNA damage. Subsequent products were
found to promote free radicals, which also contribute to cancer.
The latest sunscreens contain elements such as titanium diox-
ide or zinc oxide to scatter or reflect sunlight, but unfortunate-
ly these chemicals can also form free radicals on the skin; tita-
nium dioxide has been linked to DN A damage as well.
The next generation of sun-protection products may simply be
natural compounds such as antioxidants, carotenoids,
flavonoids, phytonutrients and essential fatty acids. These, cou-
pled with a good tan and common sense when it comes to sun
exposure, will do the most to prevent skin cancer.    

nificant losses of this vitamin occur during sun exposure. I must con-
tinue to emphasize that these same nutrients obtained from high-dose
synthetic and isolated dietary supplements may not offer as much
protection.
There are also several factors to consider about dietary fats and
sunshine. The most prevalent fat in the typical American diet is veg-
etable oil, including soy, corn, peanut and safflower. These oils find
their way into the skin and with sun exposure can cause excessive
free-radical stress — a first step in cancer formation. However, other
fats have protective properties. Citrus-peel oil, for example, contains
limonene, a phytonutrient that has been shown to help prevent and
treat skin cancer. In addition, omega-3 fats offer ultraviolet protection
and can help control inflammation, which may be a trigger to
skin cancer. 
Functional Screening Helps Fight Disease
Routine testing for disease is a hallmark of modern medicine,
but falls short of true prev ention. By the time y ou test positi ve
for a disease suc h as cancer , you’ve already had it for some
time. Unfortunately , some screening tests ma y pose additional
serious health risks.
Certainly , finding cancer in its earliest stages can result in a
more successful resolution of the problem. But there are too
many other times w hen the same type of evaluation results in
more problems, including an increased risk of death. A suspi -
cious growth in the lungs, for example, could ultimately lead to
unnecessary surgery , which ma y pose more risk of death than
the growth itself, especially if it’s benign, which is the case in
most of these situations.
A hot item of discussion is colonoscopy — a procedure for
detecting colon cancer recommended b y man y health profes -
sionals, the media and some celebrities. Colonoscopy, like
most other tests, is a v aluable ev aluation w hen matched with
an individual’s need. However, the risks that accompany
colonoscopy are significant. Perforation of the colon occurs in334• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

up to 30 of every 10,000 patients during this procedure, with
death occurring in 1 in 10,000. But the death rate of colon can-
cer itself is only about 1.8 per 10,000.
Herein lies one of the stories left untold by the popular media.
With these evaluations come real risk of injury and death. The
harm could also come in the form of follow-up care, including
unnecessary surgery or drugs, significant psychological stress,
or the recommendation for yet more tests. Rather than screen-
ing the entire population, those at high risk should be the ones
screened.
An option for everyone is to use low-risk, non-invasive screen-
ing practices such as blood, urine and saliva tests to reveal risk
factors or functional problems. By revealing problems that can
be corrected before they become a full-blown disease, these
tests are muc h more effecti ve screening procedures than other
tests that are suited only for ruling out already-existing diseases.
And there are virtually no health risks associated with these
tests themselves.
Besides the type of tests already mentioned, examples include
a CBC blood test to assess both red and white blood cells, and
blood-chemistry profiles that measure substances such as
blood sugar (glucose); proteins (globulin and albumin); fats
(cholesterol and triglycerides); minerals (sodium, potassium,
calcium, iron); li ver enzymes; vitamin D lev els, and others. In
addition, a simple blood test for C-reactive protein measures
chronic inflammation, a precursor to more serious problems
including cancer and heart disease. Salivary hormone tests and
certain urine tests can more accurately reveal functional adre-
nal problems than blood tests.
If the need for further tests arise, it’s important that the need is
genuine; too man y patients are told b y doctors, “y our insur ance
covers it anyway.” Matching your particular need with a given
test should be the determining factor. BEATING THE CANCER ODDS • 335  

Treat your body as if the process of cancer has begun — because
it has. This approach will enable you to begin slowing or stopping the
process of cancer in its earliest stages instead of waiting for the later
stage of diagnosing a malignancy.
The best treatment for cancer is preventing it altogether. By eating
foods that have been shown to fight cancer, following an eating plan
to reduce the risk of disease and making certain lifestyle adjustments,
you could ward off the development of cancer in your lifetime.336• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

36
Aging Gracefully
Recently , I ran into someone I had not seen in almost 20 years.
“Wow,” he said, “you haven’t changed a bit!” My temptation was to
say what I thought, that he looked much older than his age. But dare
I? Here I was, a professional, seeing someone I would want to help.
Certainly, if he were down in the street bleeding to death, I would do
what was necessary to help r evive him. If starving, I would give him
something nourishing to eat. But now, would my comment be misin-
terpr eted as being judgmental?
The r eal point I want to make is that we all age dif ferently, but not
randomly; we have a lot to say about the process. I made the choice to
follow a path of healthy aging, and my old friend chose a dif ferent
path. We all have to make that decision, every day, whether con-
sciously or not. 
The marketplace is full of “anti-aging” scams: powders, pills and
potions that claim to stop aging, which, of course can’t be done.
Cosmetic companies make products with chemicals that attempt to
cover the effects of aging. These companies make billions of dollars
on pr oducts that don’t work. Instead, the danger ous synthetic com -
pounds contained in virtually all of them actually can increase aging.
Graceful aging is what we all want. The age-old yearning to be
youthful is to have a body full of vigor and a vibrant brain; basically,
by being optimally fit and healthy. Before asking my friend if he was
feeling OK, he said, “It’s so nice to run into you again . . . I need to get
healthy . . . I can’t keep feeling this way . . .” He was making the right
choice. “It’s never too late,” I added.
Each of us has two different ages. Chronological age refers to how
young or old we are by the calendar; physiological age refers to how
young or old we are relative to average chronological ages. When
comparing a person’s physiological with chronological age, we find         

some are younger and others older than their age in years. No one can
control the years as they pass, but we all can control physiological
aging. 
All the issues I’ve addressed in this book relate to physiological
aging. The balance of fats, controlling chronic inflammation, adequate
protein intake, aerobic fitness and other issues all can keep our phys-
iological age much lower than what the calendar says. One very
important issue I’ve mentioned but not yet fully discussed is oxygen’s
effect on aging.
Oxygen and Free Radicals
Overall, one of the most important issues regarding aging is oxygen.
Too much of it, or too little, and we age very fast. Most people are
awar e of oxygen’s benefits, but many people don’t r ealize its poten-
tial harm: the conversion of the stable O 2molecule to its very unsta-
ble and destructive cousin, the superoxide or free radical. When this
occurs inside the body, it can lead to serious health problems.
Scientists now associate excess oxygen free radicals, also called oxida-
tive stress, with every major chronic disease, including heart disease
and cancer . Free radicals also play a major r ole in the aging pr ocess.
Aging is the result of continuous reactions of the body’s cells with free
radicals. It is important to become awar e of these potentially harmful
substances, what incr eases their pr oduction and how to contr ol them,
in order to reduce the devastating effects of disease and control the
process of aging.
Normally , the body pr oduces fr ee radicals to pr otect against
harmful bacteria, viruses, chemical pollutants and even toxic sub-
stances produced within the body. However, in this chemical-saturat-
ed world, it is possible to produce too many free radicals. When this
occurs, fr ee radicals can react with and damage any cell in the body.
The most vulnerable part of the cell is the part containing unstable
polyunsaturated fats, as these fats ar e easily destr oyed by fr ee radi-
cals. This destruction is called lipid peroxidation and it’s associated
with chronic inflammation. Together, this is the first step in the dis-
ease pr ocess. For example, befor e LDL cholesterol can be stored in the
coronary arteries, damage from lipid peroxidation must first take
place. Lipid peroxidation can produce toxins capable of traveling338• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

throughout the body, creating damage anywhere. These toxins are
known to be carcinogenic and even have the potential to cause genet-
ic mutations.
The damage from free radicals, oxidative stress, results in what
we know as aging. The more of this damage, the more physiological-
ly older we become. Fortunately, the body has an effective way to
combat this problem. The antioxidant system controls free radicals by
chemically changing them to harmless compounds. This system
requires raw materials to function — nutritional antioxidants from
food — and key places in the body to perform this task — the aerobic
muscle fibers. Too much free-radical activity, too little antioxidant
activity, or both, speeds the aging process, sometimes significantly.
Antioxidants to the Rescue
Throughout this book I’ve mentioned the importance of antioxidants
(sometimes called free-radical scavengers). But there are two key
groups of them. The most common group of antioxidants includes
vitamins A, C and E, beta-carotene, selenium, the bioflavanoids, and
phytonutrients such as phenols. As powerful as these are, there’s a
more potent antioxidant: glutathione.
Glutathione is not found in food and can’t be taken in a pill (it’s
broken down in the stomach), although now intravenous and trans -
dermal forms ar e being used. The best way to get enough glutathione
is to give the body what it needs to make it — certain other antioxi-
dants. The most potent of these include the amino acid cysteine,
found in animal pr otein (especially whey); the phytonutrient
sulphoraphan, high in cruciferous vegetables such as broccoli but
very high in broccoli sprouts (before their leaves turn green); lipoic
acid found in many dark vegetables and even beef (lipoic acid can
also be pr oduced in a healthy body); and both gamma-tocopherol and
alpha-tocotrienol, parts of the vitamin E complex (however , too much
alpha tocopher ol, such as the typical 400 IU dose, can r educe levels of
these other nutrients in the vitamin E complex).
The following is a list of the most potent antioxidants in order of
their ef fectiveness — the most powerful being those that help the
body make glutathione. As you can see, some of the most popular
nutrients, such as vitamins C and E, and especially the over-hypedAGING GRACEFULLY • 339     

quercetin and Co-Q10, are not the most potent. And, these are food
sources of nutrients, not synthetic vitamins or unnatural doses and
forms of nutrients that may not work as well.
Sulforaphan Lipoic acid
Cysteine Alpha-tocotrienol
Gamma-tocopherol Alpha-tocopherol
Vitamin C Lycopene
Beta-tocopherol Beta-carotene
Zeaxanthin Delta-tocopherol
Lutein Canthaxanthin
Astaxanthin Quercetin
Co-Q10 
It’s not necessary to remember the names of these antioxidants,
but you do need to remember to eat as many antioxidant-rich foods
as possible. V egetables and fr uits, berries, raw sesame seeds and
almonds, extra-virgin olive oil, green and black tea, and red wine are
excellent sources of antioxidants. Meats, especially grass-fed beef,
contain significant amounts of certain antioxidants, as does whey. Of
course there are now hundreds of antioxidant products available in
pill, liquid, powder and other forms. If needed, be sur e to take only
supplements made fr om r eal, raw foods. 
Signs and symptoms of a need for mor e antioxidants may include
immune problems such as lingering cold or flu, frequent illness, sen-
sitivity to chlorine or other chemicals, and chronic inflammation.
Case History
Alice was in her mid-30s, and had a variety of very vague prob-
lems. One of her previous doctors told me he thought she w as
a hypochondriac. She had joint pain, but only on some days,
was sensitive to perfumes, soaps and other substances contain-
ing certain chemicals, and when she got a cold (a half-dozen a
year), it would last two to three weeks. In addition, she had skin
rashes that the dermatologist could not identify , had burning
eye pain several times each week, and looked about 50 years
old. Her unusual history and m y evaluations, led me to recom -340• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH       

mend some antioxidants. My dietary advice included six serv-
ings of fresh vegetables and a couple of low-glycemic fresh
fruits each day. Within about 10 days, Alice was noticeably
improved. Within a month, she claimed to be 80 percent bet-
ter. A year later, she reported only one cold, lasting three to four
days. And, her friends were telling her she looked much
younger; and she certainly felt younger.
Exercise and Free-Radical Activity
A well-developed aerobic system is a key to making the antioxidant
system work best. Even if you obtain all the best antioxidants, the
body needs a place to put them to work. Improved circulation that
accompanies aerobic fitness helps antioxidant activity. And, free-rad-
ical breakdown occurs in the mitochondria contained within aerobic
muscle fibers. Therefore, people in better aerobic shape, those who
have more aerobic muscle fibers and mitochondria, are more capable
of controlling free radicals compared to those who are out of shape. 
But exercise itself produces free radicals. Different levels of exer-
cise intensity can pr oduce varying amounts of free radicals. Easy aer-
obic exercise, especially at the heart rate determined by the 180
Formula outlined in this book, pr oduces little or insignificant amounts
of free radicals, and this smaller amount is most likely well controlled
through the body’s natural defense system, especially if enough
antioxidants ar e present. However , exercising at higher intensities or
lifting weights — any anaerobic exercise — can have the opposite
effect. Anaerobic activity can produce more oxidative stress — some
studies show a 120 percent increase over resting levels. This is the
result of physical damage to muscles, lactic-acid production and high-
er oxygen uptake, which may incr ease tenfold during the activity .
Higher injury rates are also associated with increased free-radical pro-
duction. In addition, the development of more anaerobic muscle fibers
means less aer obic mitochondria for fr ee-radical elimination.
Reduce Exposure to Chemicals
In addition to eating foods that contain antioxidants, and perhaps tak-
ing them in a natural supplement form, you can reduce free-radical
production by simply avoiding exposur e to certain substances.AGING GRACEFULLY • 341       

Taking in chemical pollutants, via your lungs, skin or through food,
increases free-radical production by the body. Keep your home and
work environment as free from pollutants as possible. Here are some
tips for cleaning up your environment:
• New building materials, even new carpet and furniture,
may pollute the indoor air you breathe. If you’ve just
done some remodeling, redecorating, or if you have
tightly sealed your home to save on heating or cooling
costs (thereby sealing potential pollutants inside), keep
two windows open just a bit to let in fresh air and vent
your environment.
• Clean out your attic, basement, closets or other areas in
which you may have stored potential pollutants, such as
old cans of paint, aerosols and cleaners. There is constant
leakage of vapors fr om these pr oducts. Stor e all needed
chemical products in an outside detached garage or shed,
and discard the items you don’t need or want and those
too old to use. 
• If your garage is attached to the house, try to vent the
garage, as your car leaks fumes from gasoline, oil and
other chemicals. In most homes, these chemicals from the
garage can easily find their way into your living ar eas. 
•The best way to filter your indoor air is natur e’s way —
plants! Besides being attractive, they ar e very ef fective,
often more so than any mechanical filtering device.
Through photosynthesis, plants absorb carbon dioxide
along with other gases, including the chemicals given of f
from furniture, cleaners and insulation. The plant’s
leaves filter air , and roots neutralize toxic chemicals with
their natural bacteria and fungi. The best plants for the
job include elephant ear and lacy tree philodendrons,
golden pathos and the spider plant. Any green plant will
work well. About 10 plants per 1,000 squar e feet of living
space are adequate. That’s one to three plants per room,
depending on room and plant size.342• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

• Dietary pollution is another factor to consider. Avoid the
use of chemical products in foods, and avoid all fried and
charred fats that can generate excess free radicals. 
• Certain natural foods in large amounts can also increase
free-radical production. These include sassafras (used in
root beer) and black pepper.
•Reduce — ideally eliminate — cosmetics and toiletries,
which contain fragrances (most are synthetic chemicals)
and other potential toxins. These include most soaps in
your house and of fice, deodorant, before-, during- and
after-shave lotions and foams, hair spray, mouthwash,
etc. Use only plain organic soaps without fragrance. 
Wearing Your Free Radicals
Among the very toxic substances you may be exposed to is the
solvent used in dry cleaning. This chemical, tetrachloroethyl-
ene (also kno wn as per chloroethylene, or “perc”) is classified as
a hazardous air pollutant by the Environmental Protection
Agency. It has been associated with cancer and kidney prob-
lems, and has a detrimental effect on the nerv ous system.
Wearing freshly dry-cleaned clothing can be a danger since the
residue of this chemical can remain in your clothing long after
the dry-cleaning process. As such, you continue to inhale perc,
and it can continue producing a free-radical problem. 
To avoid exposure to perc, avoid dry-cleaning whenever possi-
ble. Man y garments that sa y “dry clean only” can still be hand
washed. Buy clothes that don’t require dry cleaning. If you
must dry clean, hang your garment outside for as long as pos-
sible — at least a day or more — to allow the perc to escape or
until the “dry-cleaning smell” is gone. If y ou’re lucky enough to
have in your neighborhood a professional “wet cleaner,” which
uses only detergents and water, use this alternative — it’s the
future of the cleaning industry. Perc is also used for metal-
degreasing, and to make other chemicals and is used in some
consumer products.AGING GRACEFULLY • 343    

Cleaning up your environment does not mean being obsessive,
which can introduce even more damaging stress. Just do your best to
make your environment clean and safe. This, coupled with adequate
intake of antioxidants and a regular aerobic exercise program, will
help keep oxidative stress from speeding up your aging process. In
time we all will age. The trick is to do so gracefully and healthfully.
Prescription drugs are also chemicals commonly given to the eld-
erly in excess as we see in the case of musician Johnny Cash.
Johnny Cash — Health, Drugs and Rock ‘n’ Roll
A flood of media reports and even a feature-length film have
appeared about Johnny Cash since his death in 2003. Many of these
accounts have mentioned, highlighted or otherwise brought to light
his many health pr oblems. Refer ences to his health problems even
appear in his own music, including the very last song he wrote about
his difficulty in getting a good breath — a tune called “Asthma Like
the 309.” I was privileged to be with Johnny Cash when this song, the
last of a life too short, was written.
My association with Johnny began soon after the death of his wife
June Carter Cash. Johnny’s health had been failing and was now
worsening. He asked me for help in restoring as much health as pos-
sible and bring him back to life so he could complete his mission.
I explained to him initially that ther e are many things that can be
done to help enhance the life of someone so ill — improve blood-
sugar regulation, muscle function and brain function including
vision, increase movement and help the voice and creative drive. I
devised a strategy to improve his diet, stimulate his physical and
mental capacities, and set goals, including playing and writing music
— things Johnny had not done in a long while. T o him, the idea he
could improve his health and human performance, and accomplish
more at this point in his life was exciting.
However, for me, the task would be quite difficult. This was not
because he was so frail, or because Johnny had many years of well-
publicized substance abuse, especially pills and alcohol. In fact, he
had not used illicit drugs or alcohol for many years. Rather, the
biggest challenge I faced was integrating my philosophy of improv-344• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

ing health with his ongoing medical treatments, especially the many
pharmaceutical drugs prescribed by doctors.
Johnny was being chased by what I call the “Medical Devil.”
Sure, modern medicine had saved his life more than once. But at the
same time, Johnny’s health was being destroyed by legal prescription
drugs. Johnny was regularly taking more than 30 prescriptions, and
at the time of his death, that number had incr eased to more than 40.
Why? The philosophy behind this high-volume drug approach,
the same approach used to justify all other legal drug use, was that
there’s a drug to treat each sign or symptom. Over the years, supply-
ing a drug to cover or control various symptoms has become com-
monplace, not just with a person like Johnny Cash, but for anyone
who can afford it or who has health insurance. This problem has
become a serious one, especially in the elderly.
On one hand, Johnny had been convinced by his doctors that he
needed the many prescriptions he was given. On the other, he strong-
ly felt the need for better contr ol and that he was taking too many
pharmaceuticals — something we discussed many times. It was an
ironic approach to health management, not unlike themes in his
songs.
Personally, and professionally, I am not opposed to the use of pre-
scription drugs when the necessity exists. However, as the number of
prescriptions increases, the possibility of drug interactions rises dra-
matically. This can significantly reduce quality of life, and can also be
potentially deadly. Needless to say, when a person is taking dozens of
prescriptions, we are beyond rationalizing drug interaction, as the
possibilities are so exponential that they would baffle even more
aggr essive medical clinicians.
In my opinion, the case with Johnny was a serious breach of com-
mon medical sense and may also have played a role in his death.
After hearing my philosophy , Johnny continued to talk with me about
how he could reduce or eliminate many of these drugs.
So, while my work with Johnny Cash was a difficult task because
of the prescription drugs, his strong will and work ethic enabled him
to improve many aspects of his physical, chemical and mental health.
When I first saw Johnny, he was 71 and relegated to invalid sta-
tus. He had been sent to a wheelchair, given leg braces, and pre-AGING GRACEFULLY • 345   

scribed special shoes that cost thousands of dollars. In addition to the
obvious difficulty this posed for a man who had been extremely
active, it was restricting him from regaining any part of his health,
and as he said to me more than once, it was even embarrassing. The
result of these popular devices was that Johnny could no longer walk.
The first day of therapy with Johnny yielded a few unsteady but
pain-free steps, primarily utilizing manual biofeedback. Within two
more days, he was able to take upwards of 100 steps. More improve-
ments came in the following weeks. Performing these exercises bare-
foot was part of my approach and something Johnny enjoyed. As he
was able to venture outdoors, he wore a comfortable $7 pair of flat
sandals, which replaced his expensive, embarrassing footgear.
Other therapy included sitting outside, a place he previously
would only go when he had to go to a hospital or dentist, for some
healthy sunrays, riding a stationary bicycle and eventually walking
up and down steps.
To help improve Johnny’s nervous system, I recommended cer-
tain eye-hand coor dination activities. This was easy enough since it
meant playing the guitar to stimulate the small muscles and nerves in
the fingers and hands. I also got him a large pad and felt-tip marker
to start writing. He began making little sketches and large letters and,
as he could see better , eventually wor ds — then one day , a new song.
In addition to these physical activities, Johnny’s body chemistry
needed help. He was a diabetic, but by improving his diet — finding
the foods that best matched his specific needs — his blood-sugar lev-
els impr oved greatly. I worked with his home chef to develop an
organic kitchen and focus on real, healthy foods, including more veg-
etables, fruits and quality protein foods, while reducing refined foods
and sugars.
The result was his nervous-system function and circulation
improved significantly. Along with improved muscle activity, Johnny
was starting to feel better. But the problem with the prescribed drugs
remained.
The medical approach was to name the end-result conditions he
had — many the result of diabetes, itself a secondary/preventable con-
dition — and tr eat these conditions with dr ugs. This philosophy is so346• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

ingrained that some news reports even stated that Johnny Cash died
of diabetes, a notion not compatible with physiology and pathology.
My approach was to improve body function with physical activi-
ty and proper diet, and let nature take her course. I never talked of
“diabetes” but discussed the importance of controlling blood sugar so
the nerves and muscles would be ready to work when asked.
Oddly enough, despite Johnny’s more-recent intake of so many
prescription drugs, his final months of life were of a higher quality
than those of the average person. Many people may find this surpris-
ing considering all the attention devoted to his ill health and previous
substance abuse, but the fact is people spend an average of 12 years
in a state of dysfunction. By comparison, Johnny became very func-
tional at the end of his life. And, despite the prescriptions, his condi-
tion had actually impr oved leading up to the time of his death.
So why did Johnny pass on when his health was actually improv-
ing? Maybe he died because it was his time, or as he stated to me, it
was time to go see June. Certainly this issue can be debated, some -
thing I have no intention of doing. However , what’s clear is that
Johnny’s body was severely lashed by 40 or more drugs he was given
in the name of health. It was quite obvious to me, despite their legal
use, the prescriptions were causing interactions that seriously dis-
rupted his life.
Death at age 71 is too young. Considering that we know how to
naturally pr event and tr eat the kinds of pr oblems Johnny Cash had,
we all should be physically and mentally active far past that age.
The day Johnny Cash died, I was sitting with him in his office. He
suddenly but casually turned to me and just said it was time. I was
not r eally sur e what he meant until a couple hours later when he was
on his way to the hospital where he would pass on a few hours later.
Perhaps the most important lesson we can learn from Johnny
Cash’s life and death is that it’s never too late to improve your health,
and also that when it is time to move on it’s better to go out with some
remaining vitality and dignity. In his last few weeks he had arisen
from the wheelchair and continued his passion. Up until just a few
days prior to his death, he worked in the studio on new songs,
because that’s what he longed to do.AGING GRACEFULLY • 347   

Though ultimately Johnny’s escape from the Medical Devil
proved to be death itself, the lesson leaves us wondering what might
have been possible had there been more time and fewer pharmaceu-
tical drugs. I think the health improvements he achieved during the
final weeks of his life may provide an important clue to this unan-
swered question.
Johnny’s Last Song
As a singer and songwriter , Johnny Cash could bare his soul.
His very last song portrayed taking a deep breath — perhaps a
deeper allegorical tune than the song itself portrays — “Asthma
Like the 309.” I was privileged to be with Johnny when this
song came to life, and in fact it was part of our plan to improve
his body, brain and mind. I was helping Johnny walk again,
play his guitar, use his fingers to express, his eyes to see and
bring out the great creati vity that had been buried deep inside.
Neurological exercise helped to improve his vision, and even-
tually he read well enough to write. To further help him, we’d
walk outside barefoot for some healing sunlight and the light
breezes on his skin made him sigh with relief. Combined with
other acti vities, in time he could hold the guitar and strum
chords again. On that day I could sense creativity blooming.
One morning I walked in and he was so excited. He said, “Dr.
Phil, listen to this . . . ” and he pla yed and sang a verse to what
would be his first new song in some time. It also w ould be his
last.
Sitting in his cabin studio a few weeks later I watched and lis-
tened as he recorded his v ocals for the now completed song.
His song still breathes deep in my soul.
Keys to Successful Aging
Almost all mammals on earth have a lifespan six times their skeletal
maturity. If we apply this animal model to humans, who reach skele-348• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH       

tal maturity at about age 20, we should expect to live, on average, to
age 120. In our society, the average human animal barely reaches four
times his or her skeletal maturity. But with modern technology, natu-
ral hygiene, and the awareness of chemicals that speed the aging
process, there will soon be hundreds of thousands of people in the
United States over the age of 100. Will you be one of them? And if so,
will you welcome it, considering what your quality of life might be?
While there is a genetic aspect to how long you will live, there also are
many lifestyle factors even more important. How well you care for
yourself from the earliest age has a significant impact on both the
length and quality of your life.
As life expectancy rapidly increases in modern cultures, we’ll
soon have many centenarians. Unfortunately, most people don’t
think they’ll live that long, and many actually hope they won’t.
Others, however , welcome the challenge and excitement of seeing a
fifth-generation descendant graduate from some futuristic high
school, per haps home-schooled by a certain wise old gr eat-great-
great-grandparent.
But who wants to attend this celebration in a wheelchair,
unaware of where you are, what the name of the descendant is, or
who his or her parents are? If you do happen to live to be 120 years
young, you want to be fully functional. Throughout this book I have
offered information and insight to help you improve and maintain fit-
ness and health, to achieve optimal human performance and to avoid
or postpone disease. It’s no coincidence that all of these concepts also
apply to successful and healthy aging.
The term “successful aging” is not a catchy phrase or new pro-
gram. It’s a very r eal concept with practical applications for people of
all ages. Scientists note three common paths for people as they age.
“Successful aging” results in a higher quality of life. “Usual aging”
would be consider ed “average.” “Diseased aging” results in low
quality of life and slow death. Average is unacceptable, and diseased
is no way to live or to die. The better you age, the higher your quali-
ty of life, the more productive you are throughout life, and the less
likely you will die a slow death.
The younger you are, the more you can do to control how well
you age. The older you are, the more you want to control aging.AGING GRACEFULLY • 349   

Regardless of your age now, your actions can have significant impact
on the way you age. In my years of practice and research I have iden-
tified seven key factors that can have a direct and powerful impact on
how successfully you age. As you read this list you’ll notice it’s a
review of many concepts that I have put forth in this book. Return to
the chapters that address each item for a review of what you should
consider for a new you, but only after you finish the book. While
these seven keys to successful aging may be a review for many,
they’re also a wake-up call for others who set less-significant priori-
ties for day-to-day living rather than living well today for a healthy
life tomorr ow.
1. Brain nutrients and brain stimulation.
2. Anti-inflammatory foods.
3. Antioxidant foods.
4. Blood-sugar control and eliminating refined carbohy-
drates and sugars.
5.Eating pr otein foods.
6.Physical activity to get aer obically fit.
7. Emotional and social health. Successful aging also
includes the issues involving a person’s mental and emo-
tional health — the need to love, have fun, to socialize
and feel good about life. While volumes have been writ-
ten about this subject, my contention is that when people
take the necessary steps to better health, they feel better
mentally and emotionally, and tend to socialize and enjoy
life mor e, which leads to better overall mental health.
You can influence aging as much as you can influence disease
prevention and most other factors associated with fitness and health.
It’s less about the information — there’s enough in this book to keep
you busy for some time — and more about another important factor.
The first step in this whole process is in your hands — you decide to
increase your fitness and health, or, often through inaction, decide not
to pursue fitness and health. It’s my hope that you follow through on350• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH   

the affirmative. Once that decision is made, you begin the exciting
journey through the rest of your life.
At the beginning of this book I described living a healthy life in
terms of a 1,000-mile journey. Throughout I have put forth the ideas
that I think will help you to achieve a lifetime of fitness, health and
human performance. We are now at the end of this book but this is
not the finish line. It’s only the starting line. Throughout my life’s
journey, I plan on continuing my quest to “spread the word” about
food, nutrition, exercise, disease prevention and healthy living past
age 100. And I plan to do it while having as much fun as possible.
Once again, I hope to see you at the finish line. But ther e’s one last
item as my epilogue describes.AGING GRACEFULLY • 351   

Epilogue
Your Optimal Death
An old proverb says we should approach death with dignity.
While living a long and healthy life past age 100, your physical and
mental activity should be relatively high right up to the time of death
— an event that should also be optimal. Perhaps on that day, you
wake with the sunrise to a freshly made cup of organic coffee. You set-
tle in for a vegetable omelet and, after reading e-mail from your chil-
dren, grandchildren, great-grandchildren and their younger ones,
you correspond to all. You spend some time writing in your diary,
then head out for a beautiful hike thr ough the woods. After r eturning
for a healthy lunch, you nap for an hour or so. You dally in the gar-
den that afternoon, and follow that up with some easy paddling in the
canoe. You watch the sun set with your significant other during a fine
dinner complemented by a glass or two of Bordeaux, then share a
healthy but delicious homemade dessert. You head to bed, make love
and fall asleep by 10:30. Just past midnight, you die peacefully during
a sound sleep.   

180 Formula: 197, 198, 200-203,
207, 213, 218, 341
40-30-30: 177
5-Minute Power Break: 253
A
A fat: 59, 79, 285, 317
ABCs of fat: 75, 113
Abdominal muscles: 254, 282, 283
Addiction: 22, 37, 38, 55, 103, 217
Adrenal: 61, 66, 150, 169, 171, 207,
224, 226, 243, 288, 292-300,
302, 304, 313, 335
Adrenal glands: 61, 66, 150, 207,
226, 288, 292-295, 298
Adrenal hormones: 294, 297
Adrenal stress: 66, 293-295, 297-
300, 313
Aerobic: 3, 7, 16, 17, 25, 26, 60, 67,
148, 150, 175, 186-205, 207-
209, 211, 213-226, 240, 244,
255, 257, 277, 280, 299, 307,
308, 315, 316, 319, 322, 330,
332, 338, 339, 341, 344
Aerobic Deficiency Syndrome (ADS):
188
Aerobic muscle fibers: 16, 25, 187,
189, 190, 192, 213, 280, 299,
322, 339, 341
Aerobic sex: 224
Aerobic system: 7, 17, 25, 26, 60,
150, 175, 186-189, 191-198,
200, 203-205, 221, 222, 224,
226, 277, 307, 308, 341
Aging: 3, 7, 8, 18, 22, 38, 70, 75,
76, 131, 202, 235, 236, 261,
275, 294, 301, 303, 319, 337-339, 341, 343-345, 347-351
Alcohol: 38, 43, 63, 76, 77, 121,
127, 143, 167-169, 239, 246,
251, 263, 268, 271, 276, 287,
316, 324, 344
Allergies: 18, 54, 63, 79, 95, 142,
166, 183, 184, 199, 239, 292,
293, 296, 310, 313
Almonds: 45, 69, 72, 79, 101, 103,
146, 158-160, 298, 331, 340
Alpha brain waves: 254
Altitude: 206
Amino acids: 15, 16, 56, 82, 85-88,
119, 145, 163, 193, 194, 245,
246
Anaerobic: 3, 25, 125, 143, 186,
187, 189-196, 198, 199, 201-
203, 216, 218, 221-223, 299,
311, 316, 322, 341
Anaerobic excess: 193
Anaerobic system: 25, 186, 190-193,
199
Anemia: 23, 130, 145, 148
Antacids: 36, 144, 262, 276
Anti-inflammatory: 56, 74, 76-78,
135, 168, 172, 265, 266, 284,
308, 309, 324, 331, 350
Antidepressants: 247
Antioxidants: 56, 57, 69, 132, 140,
144, 151, 155, 169, 172, 187,
194, 267, 268, 317, 327, 328,
331, 333, 339-341, 344
Anxiety: 55, 143, 181, 190, 245,
289, 301, 302, 313
Apoptosis: 140
Arachidonic acid: 70, 71, 74, 142Index    

Artificial sweeteners: 33, 38, 57, 58,
276
Ascorbic acid: 131-133, 139
Aspirin: 77, 78, 169, 265, 266, 283-
285, 308
Asthma: 53, 63, 72, 78, 95, 129,
150, 166, 199, 212, 239, 262,
269, 275, 296, 298, 302, 310,
313, 344, 348
Attention Deficit Hyperactivity
Disorder (ADHD): 250, 251
B
Beef: 42, 45, 71, 85, 90, 91, 93, 99,
107, 148, 163-165, 180, 257,
318, 331, 339, 340
Beta-carotene: 133, 136, 151, 339,
340
Betaine hydrochloride: 262, 263, 273
Biofeedback: 197, 242, 253-255,
279-281, 291, 300, 346
Birth-control: 249
Black-currant-seed oil: 141, 151
Blood: 15-17, 19, 21, 25, 30-32, 35-
37, 39, 45-49, 60, 61, 64, 70,
78, 79, 82, 94, 118, 119, 124,
128, 130, 143, 145, 148-150,
158, 159, 167-173, 178, 187,
190, 207, 208, 214, 216, 239,
240, 243-246, 248, 249, 252,
253, 259, 265, 271, 273, 275,
276, 283-285, 294-296, 301,
302, 308, 311, 313, 315-325,
328, 335, 347
Blood pressure: 19, 31, 36, 37, 45-
49, 61, 78, 143, 169, 171, 173,
190, 239, 240, 275, 294, 295,
313, 321-323
Blood tests: 21, 35, 79, 273, 308,
311, 318, 335
Body: 11, 13, 15-17, 19-26, 29, 30,32, 34, 36, 40, 41, 46, 47, 51,
58, 60-62, 64-68, 70-77, 79, 81-
85, 87, 88, 94, 100, 102, 112-
115, 118-121, 124, 125, 129,
131-135, 140-144, 146-151,
153, 156-159, 164, 166, 168,
169, 173-178, 187-193, 195-
197, 200, 202, 205-210, 213,
214, 216, 220, 223, 227-229,
232, 235, 237, 239, 243, 244,
246, 248, 249, 251-255, 257-
259, 265, 267, 269, 272, 274,
275, 277-284, 286, 288-290,
292-297, 301, 302, 305-309,
311, 313, 316, 319, 323, 324,
326-333, 336-339, 341, 342,
346-348
Body fat: 24, 32, 34, 36, 40, 41, 61,
65, 67, 68, 158, 200, 237, 302,
305-308, 311, 327, 328, 330,
331
Body temperature: 67, 120, 143, 308
Bone: 71, 72, 78, 88, 125, 133, 142,
147, 148, 154, 167, 187, 274,
275, 279, 283, 285, 301, 307,
313
Borage oil: 142
Bowel movements: 113, 272, 273,
275, 276
Brain: 3, 22, 26, 31-33, 37, 46, 51,
55, 58, 60, 65, 71, 74, 77, 82,
85, 119, 123, 142, 145, 148,
150, 154, 174, 188, 197, 227,
228, 235, 243-258, 272, 275,
277, 279-281, 283, 284, 287,
294, 299, 316, 337, 344, 348,
350
Brain chemistry: 245-247, 250
Brain waves: 251-254
Breathing: 54, 55, 150, 166, 253,
254, 269, 281-283, 286INDEX • 355    

Brown fat: 65-67
Butter: 15, 33, 44, 45, 59, 68, 71,
72, 74, 99, 151, 159-162, 165,
179, 181, 182, 184, 310, 318
C
Caffeine: 36, 38, 66, 121, 136, 143,
169, 170, 189, 239, 249, 266,
268, 289, 296, 297
Calcium: 54, 64, 65, 88, 90, 95, 105,
115, 116, 129, 138, 142, 145-
148, 153, 154, 156, 248, 261,
264, 276, 286, 322, 335
Calories: 33, 38, 40, 41, 45, 49, 58,
60, 81, 115, 117, 157, 159,
175-177, 240, 305, 307
Cancer: 3, 7, 13, 18, 21-23, 30, 34,
38, 39, 54, 55, 60, 61, 68, 72,
77, 91, 95, 96, 102, 103, 114,
116, 133, 135, 136, 140, 145,
151, 153-156, 167, 168, 171,
172, 177, 188, 193, 202, 215,
235, 237, 238, 240, 241, 288,
301, 304, 306, 309, 310, 314,
326-336, 338, 343
Carbohydrate intolerance: 34, 38-41,
70, 79, 114, 143, 226, 246,
269, 315, 322, 325, 329, 332
Cash, Johnny: 344-348
Cashews: 45, 72, 159, 298, 331
Cataracts: 143, 313
Cheese: 15, 43-45, 49, 59, 72, 74,
84, 94, 95, 97, 101, 106, 107,
124, 159, 162, 165, 179, 180,
182, 240, 264, 269, 298, 310,
318
Chicken: 42-44, 59, 89-91, 125, 186
Chlorine: 122, 126, 328, 340
Cholesterol: 19, 21, 34, 39, 41, 48,
61-64, 68, 70, 71, 79, 90, 135,
141, 149, 158, 159, 162, 167,170, 239, 240, 302, 315-321,
324, 335, 338
Choline: 88, 129, 149, 150, 298,
319
Chronic fatigue syndrome: 314
Citrus peel: 139, 141, 151, 164, 268,
312
Cocoa: 71, 103, 160, 169, 170, 318
Coconut oil: 68, 71, 74, 151, 161
Coffee: 42, 66, 121, 143, 169, 170,
246, 290, 297, 352
Colostrum: 63
Cool-down: 207, 208, 216, 219,
221, 223, 225
Copper: 54, 105, 115, 122, 123,
126, 133, 164, 248, 249
Coronary heart disease: 39, 167,
214, 215, 311
Cortisol: 159, 247, 252, 293, 294,
296-300, 303, 304
Cravings: 32, 47, 159, 189, 296, 301
Curds: 95, 96
Cysteine: 82, 140, 193, 194, 267,
339, 340
D
Dehydration: 48, 58, 62, 118-120,
275, 276, 307
Depression: 20, 37, 47, 55, 78, 167,
189, 190, 214, 226, 245, 246,
248, 250, 255, 256, 289, 297,
301, 302, 308, 313
DHA: 75, 141, 247, 251
DHEA: 226, 294, 296, 297, 300, 304
Diabetes: 13, 22, 23, 31, 32, 34, 38,
39, 54, 55, 70, 72, 78, 143,
188, 214, 240, 306, 314, 315,
346, 347
Diaphragm muscle: 282
Diet analysis: 128, 129, 242
Dietary: 3, 7, 23, 30, 31, 33, 36, 39,356• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH       

59-61, 66, 68-71, 73, 76, 79,
82, 83, 85, 96, 98, 108, 109,
112, 115, 117, 118, 128-139,
141, 143-147, 149, 151, 152,
154, 155, 157, 163-165, 176,
182, 183, 188, 194, 225, 226,
247, 249, 250, 258, 261, 262,
265, 268-270, 272-274, 286,
289, 297, 302, 307, 311, 317,
318, 322, 324, 326, 330-332,
334, 341, 343
Dietary fat: 59, 60, 176
Dietary fiber: 112, 115
Dietary supplements: 3, 70, 73, 96,
108, 109, 128-139, 141, 143-
145, 147, 149, 151, 152, 154,
163, 249, 250, 258, 262, 268-
270, 272, 330, 334
Digestion: 33, 56, 63, 81, 82, 84, 88,
113, 115, 118, 145, 147, 167,
168, 256, 258-264, 270, 274,
313
DNA: 132, 133, 328, 330, 333
Doughnuts: 173
Drugs: 23, 38, 73, 76-78, 91, 104,
130-132, 136, 138, 169, 170,
236, 238, 239, 245, 247, 248,
250-252, 258, 262, 263, 266,
268, 271, 275, 276, 283, 284,
286, 289, 308, 317, 321, 323,
324, 335, 344-348
E
Eggs: 15, 42-44, 54, 81, 83-85, 87-
91, 97, 99, 101, 106, 107, 144,
150, 161, 163, 166, 178-180,
182, 184, 240, 264, 266, 274,
298, 316, 318-320
Eicosanoids: 61, 72-78, 142, 173,
328
Eicosapentaenoic acid (EP A): 66, 75,76, 79, 88, 92, 141, 142, 247,
249, 251, 311, 331
Energy: 3, 14-19, 24-26, 30-32, 34,
37, 42, 45, 46, 49, 60, 65, 70,
71, 88, 114, 115, 125, 131,
142, 158, 159, 169, 175, 178,
182, 186-189, 191, 192, 196,
201, 202, 205, 207, 213, 216,
218, 244-246, 265, 270, 281,
291, 295, 302, 307
Essential fatty acids: 55, 69, 73, 80,
88, 90, 92, 93, 98, 177, 247,
333
Estrogen: 38, 148, 224, 226, 249,
296, 300-303, 313
Exercise: 2, 3, 8, 25, 31, 55, 61, 66,
67, 76, 83, 111, 120, 121, 143,
149, 150, 171, 186, 187, 189,
191-203, 205-208, 211, 213-
215, 217-223, 225, 227, 229,
230, 235, 240, 242, 244, 255,
256, 288-290, 297, 299, 308,
309, 311, 315, 316, 319, 322,
324, 341, 344, 348, 351
Exhalation: 254, 282
F
Fat: 3, 15-17, 21, 22, 24, 25, 29-34,
36, 40, 41, 45, 53, 55, 58-72,
74-81, 88, 90, 92, 95, 97, 113,
118, 119, 141, 148-151, 157-
159, 161, 162, 166, 167, 170,
174-177, 186-189, 193, 196,
200, 203, 213, 237, 239, 240,
244, 247, 249, 259, 261, 268,
285-287, 295, 301, 302, 305-
309, 311, 312, 317, 318, 320,
321, 324, 326-328, 330, 331,
334
Fatigue: 13, 16-18, 20, 25, 34, 35,
56, 130, 143, 149, 189, 226,INDEX • 357      

239, 246, 273, 284, 288, 289,
293-295, 302, 308-310, 312,
314
Fatty acids: 15, 16, 55, 69-73, 80,
85, 88, 90, 92, 93, 98, 113-115,
177, 247, 251, 333
Fiber: 3, 26, 33, 47, 48, 51-53, 98,
112-118, 170, 264, 318, 331
Fish: 15, 29, 42, 44, 45, 66, 75, 76,
79, 81, 83, 85, 87, 89, 92, 93,
97, 99, 125, 131, 139, 141,
142, 150, 151, 155, 161-163,
165, 179, 180, 249, 251, 264,
266, 269, 273, 274, 310, 311,
316, 331
Fitness (definition): 13
Flaxseed: 75, 141
Fluoride: 122, 124, 125
Folic acid: 88, 105, 129, 130, 142,
144-145, 151, 163, 170, 245,
248, 273, 324
Folate: 142, 144-145, 248-249, 268,
330, 331, 333
Food: 3, 8, 11, 15-17, 21, 22, 25-29,
32-34, 36-38, 40, 41, 43, 45,
46, 48, 51-54, 57, 58, 65, 70-
72, 75, 76, 78, 81, 82, 84, 85,
88, 90, 91, 94, 96, 97, 99, 100,
102-113, 116-118, 121, 124,
127-132, 137-139, 141, 144-
146, 152, 155, 157-161, 163-
166, 169, 171-180, 182-186,
206, 235, 237, 243, 244, 247-
249, 251, 255-260, 262-270,
272, 274, 275, 277, 289, 296,
305, 309, 310, 322, 324, 326-
331, 339, 340, 342, 351
Food additives: 110
Food pyramid: 27, 53
Free radicals: 69, 70, 133, 149, 151,
161, 187, 194, 202, 267, 317,326-328, 333, 338-339, 341,
343
Fructans: 116, 117
Fructose: 51, 57, 269, 271
Functional illness: 18-20, 188, 240,
312
G
Gamma linoleic acid (GLA): 73, 141
Garlic: 44, 99, 101, 116, 141, 164,
181, 182, 266, 268, 312, 331
Gas analyzer: 17
Ginger: 140, 141, 164, 172, 268,
312, 331
Gingivitis: 143, 259, 313
Glands: 60, 61, 64-66, 82, 94, 150,
207, 208, 226, 288, 292-295,
298
Glutathione: 82, 95, 140, 247, 267,
339
Glycemic index: 32-34, 51-53, 57,
63, 114
Growth hormone: 32
H
Hair: 62, 143, 150, 151, 155, 302,
308, 314, 343
Headaches: 18, 19, 58, 143, 285,
288, 301
Health (definition): 13
Heart rate: 150, 196-204, 206-208,
211, 214, 215, 218, 219, 221-
223, 299, 341
Heart-r ate monitor: 196, 221
Heavy metals: 92, 105, 122, 141
Hemoglobin: 144
Histamine: 269
Homocysteine: 145, 248, 324
Honey: 42, 46, 47, 56-58, 94, 124,
160, 163, 166, 170, 172, 260,
264, 268358• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH       

Hormones: 23, 32, 60-62, 82, 90,
93, 119, 166, 190, 192, 224,
226, 250, 253, 258, 288, 293,
294, 296, 297, 300-304, 309,
313, 316, 328, 330
HSAIDS: 130-133, 137-139
Human race: 3, 23-25
Hydr ation: 61, 118, 120, 150, 206,
217, 285
Hydrochloric acid: 84, 147, 261,
262, 269, 271
Hypertension: 34, 36, 39, 171, 214,
215, 240, 315, 321-323
Hypoglycemia: 35
I
Imbalance: 13, 17, 18, 20, 29, 59,
61, 70, 72, 74, 76-79, 96, 113,
141, 188, 190-192, 203, 210,
230, 247, 253, 259, 274, 275,
277-279, 283, 285-287, 296,
298, 302, 303, 309, 312, 313,
326, 328, 329
Immune system: 26, 71, 82, 95, 140,
153, 166, 183, 206, 258, 272,
298, 327
Immunity: 61, 131, 154, 166, 265,
293, 309, 312, 313
Indigestion: 18, 85, 258, 260, 271,
272, 289
Inflammation: 3, 21, 23, 54, 55, 60,
61, 69-72, 74, 76-78, 132, 141,
142, 173, 211, 235, 259, 269,
277, 278, 284, 286, 287, 306,
309-315, 323-328, 331, 332,
334, 335, 338, 340
Inhalation: 125, 254, 282
Injury: 23-25, 76, 186, 189, 195,
199, 206, 209-211, 215, 216,
223, 227, 228, 233, 277-280,
286, 309, 335, 341Insulin resistance: 31, 317
Iodine: 248
Iron: 54, 88, 90, 105, 115, 116, 123,
126, 129-131, 133, 148, 149,
164, 168, 245, 248, 261, 264,
268, 317, 335
J
Joints: 146, 147, 187, 207, 210, 230,
233, 277, 278, 281, 283, 286,
309, 314
K
Ketosis: 40
Kidney: 61, 82, 147, 275, 285, 292,
323, 343
L
L-glutamine: 265, 273
Lactation: 62
Lactic acid: 119, 190, 192, 214, 216,
285
Lactose: 94, 95, 166, 167, 263, 269,
270
Lard: 68, 161, 162
Lead: 18, 26, 38, 55, 66, 69, 122-
124, 126, 183, 227, 230, 247,
249, 276, 289, 301, 310, 312,
314, 332, 334, 338
Learning disabilities: 35, 239, 248,
256
Limonene: 102, 136, 140, 151, 312,
334
Linoleic acid: 66, 73, 170, 317
Linolenic acid: 73, 75, 88, 141, 320
Lipoic acid: 140, 267, 339, 340
Liver detox: 265-268
Low blood sugar: 25, 32, 239
Lycopene: 135, 136, 140, 151, 268,
333, 340INDEX • 359          

M
Macronutrients: 15, 26, 81, 98, 118,
177
MAF Test: 202-207, 218, 220, 222,
223
Magnesium: 54, 74, 76, 88, 90, 105,
129, 139, 141, 147, 148, 170,
248, 275, 276, 285, 312, 324
Malabsorption: 258, 261, 264, 265
Manganese: 123, 139, 249
Manual muscle testing: 211, 281
Margarine: 310
Menopause: 148, 303
Menstrual cramps: 61, 78
Metabolic syndrome: 34, 38, 39
Metabolism: 16, 23, 33, 34, 40, 58,
63, 65, 72, 113, 145, 148, 149,
158, 159, 175-177, 239, 265,
297, 302, 307, 308, 323
Micronutrients: 135, 137, 248
Milk: 42, 54, 63, 94-96, 125, 147,
162, 165-167, 183, 184, 269,
270, 274, 310, 318
Minerals: 26, 32, 51, 54, 56, 88, 95,
97-100, 104, 105, 107, 112,
114-116, 126, 130, 131, 134,
138, 139, 141, 168, 170, 171,
245, 247, 312, 320, 325, 330,
335
Monounsaturated fat: 68, 69, 71, 90,
162, 320
Mood swings: 55
Muscles: 16, 22, 30, 60, 65, 82, 118,
119, 146-148, 186, 187, 189-
191, 207-211, 213, 216, 229,
233, 235, 253, 254, 256, 260,
278-283, 285, 289, 296, 302,
306, 341, 346, 347
Music: 252, 254, 256, 257, 260,
273, 300, 344N
Nervous system: 82, 150, 171, 190,
191, 207, 216, 238, 252-254,
258, 270, 288, 294, 298, 301,
313, 343, 346
Neurotransmitters: 37, 82, 85, 148,
245, 247, 249, 251
Niacin: 74, 141, 142, 163, 168, 170,
245, 268, 312, 330
Norepinephrine: 245-247, 294
NSAIDs: 77, 276, 284-286, 308
O
Obesity: 22, 27, 30, 34, 39, 53, 68,
110, 305
Oils: 42, 59, 66, 68-71, 73-75, 79,
101, 124, 139, 141, 142, 152,
160-162, 172, 173, 251, 310,
317, 333, 334
Olive oil: 33, 44, 66, 68-69, 72, 99,
101, 161, 162, 166, 181, 331,
340
Omega-3: 66, 68, 69, 75, 92, 141,
247, 251, 324, 331, 334
Omega-6: 59, 68-71, 73, 74, 79,
141, 151, 251
Onion: 312
Optimal death: 352
Oral pH: 124, 260
Organic: 3, 87, 90, 91, 93, 94, 100,
104-111, 126, 137, 139, 162,
164-166, 169, 175, 180, 182-
184, 257, 266, 269, 331, 343,
346, 352
Orthotics: 229
Osteoporosis: 55, 65, 116, 148, 154,
214, 274, 309, 310, 314
Over-the-counter drugs: 170, 239,
283
Overfat: 3, 13, 21, 22, 29, 31, 48,360• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH        

175, 235, 239, 305, 307, 315
Overtraining: 223, 286, 295, 296
Oxidative stress: 133, 193, 338, 339,
341, 344
Oxygen free radicals: 69, 194, 202,
267, 326, 338
P
Pain: 8, 12, 13, 18, 71, 72, 74, 75,
78, 114, 143, 154, 189, 211,
212, 229, 230, 240, 245, 254,
256, 276-278, 283-287, 289,
293, 296, 299, 303, 309, 313,
340
Pancreas: 30, 31, 54, 55, 63
Pavlov: 259
Perceived exertion: 201
Perchloroethylene (Perc): 343
pH: 57, 114, 119, 123, 124, 147,
148, 153, 168, 259-261, 274,
285, 319
Phil’s Bar: 46, 159
Phobias: 190
Phytochemicals: 101, 135
Phytonutrients: 51, 69, 97-103, 105,
130-132, 135-137, 139-141,
161, 169, 172, 268, 327, 330,
331, 333, 339
Polyunsaturated fat: 69-71, 161, 162,
317
Potassium: 88, 105, 119, 248, 276,
286, 323, 335
Prebiotics: 98, 112, 114-117, 272
Pregnanc y: 62, 63, 226, 230
Premenstrual syndrome: 167, 190,
303
Prevention: 2, 7, 60, 68, 73, 116,
124, 125, 145, 153, 154, 177,
209, 234-236, 240, 241, 275,
286, 301, 322, 330, 334, 350,
351Probiotics: 116, 270, 271, 273, 276
Progesterone: 61-63, 226, 294, 300-
304, 313
Protein powders: 88, 96
Psyllium: 48, 112, 113, 117, 179,
275
R
Raw foods: 161-163, 340
Recovery: 11, 60, 76, 205, 206, 208,
213, 222, 289, 298, 300
Referred pain: 283-284
Respiratory: 17, 196, 253-255, 291,
300
Respiratory biofeedback: 253-255,
291, 300
Respiratory quotient (RQ): 196
S
Saliva: 260, 294, 297, 302, 308, 335
Salivary hormone test: 300, 335
Saturated fat: 30, 59, 70, 71, 88, 90,
162, 317, 318, 320, 321
Sauces: 44, 48, 180, 181
Sea salt: 42, 44, 99, 101, 160, 161,
166, 171, 181, 182
Seasonal affecti ve disorder (SAD):
290, 297
Selenium: 133, 333, 339
Self-Health Management: 8, 25, 236
Serotonin: 245-247
Sesame: 76, 79, 136, 141, 142, 179,
331, 340
Sesame oil: 76, 79, 141
Sesame seeds: 340
Sesamin: 76, 136
Shoes: 3, 227-233, 280, 281, 289,
346
Skin: 53-55, 61, 62, 64, 66, 102,
118, 120, 125, 143, 144, 150-
156, 166, 269, 272, 281, 283-INDEX • 361        

287, 294, 299, 303, 305, 308,
312, 316, 332-334, 340, 342,
348
Sleep: 5, 19, 31, 143-145, 169, 245,
252-255, 285, 292, 296, 298,
300, 301, 352
Sleepiness: 21, 34, 36, 47, 49, 129,
246
Small intestine: 63, 166, 258, 261,
263-265, 269
Smoothie: 48, 158, 159, 178
Snacking: 32, 157-159, 244, 298
Sodium: 37, 42, 45, 119, 171, 248,
276, 285, 323, 335
Soy: 54, 70, 73, 85, 88, 96, 115,
139, 184, 303, 310, 334
Spices: 42, 44, 99, 166, 171, 173,
181, 312
Spine: 125, 187, 227, 254, 277, 282,
283
Steroids: 93
Stomach: 19, 63, 71, 77, 84, 85, 91,
94, 113, 147, 168, 261-265,
269, 271, 284, 289, 332, 339
Strength: 194, 211, 278, 296
Stress fractures: 65, 229
Stretc hing: 207-212, 230
Subluxation: 230
Sulforaphan: 135, 136, 140, 267,
340
Sun: 3, 15, 64, 139, 144, 146, 151,
153-156, 290, 299, 316, 324,
332-334, 352
Swimming: 83, 193, 201, 202, 211,
220, 221
Symptoms: 17-21, 25, 34-38, 40, 41,
46, 47, 49, 50, 54, 55, 61, 77,
78, 84, 118, 123, 129, 147,
150, 166, 188-190, 230, 238-
240, 245, 248, 251, 258, 263,
266, 269, 271, 273, 274, 276,279, 283, 284, 292-298, 302,
304, 308-310, 320, 329, 340,
345
Syndrome X: 34, 39
Synthetic vitamins: 108, 132, 134,
138, 142, 175, 330, 340
T
Taste: 65, 69, 89, 90, 96, 101-104,
126, 161, 171, 173, 182, 246,
259, 283, 298, 319
Tea: 42, 46, 66, 102, 103, 121, 125,
143, 169, 170, 172, 297, 312,
331, 340
Temperature: 61, 66, 67, 118, 120,
143, 197, 206, 207, 222, 290,
297, 308
Tendinitis: 61, 78, 310, 314
Testosterone: 224, 294, 296, 300-
302, 313
Thyroid: 61, 67, 135, 308, 313
TMJ: 229, 259, 260
Tocopherols: 134, 136, 140, 324
Tocotrienols: 71, 134-136, 140, 151,
324
Tomato: 42-44, 48, 127, 164, 181,
182
Training: 24, 81, 150, 193-196, 198,
199, 201, 202, 211, 213, 218,
222, 228, 229, 311
Triglycerides: 34, 36, 39, 48, 79,
170, 239, 240, 316, 317, 321,
335
Turmeric: 140, 141, 172, 266, 268,
312, 331
Two-Week Test: 3, 34, 39-43, 45-49,
297, 321, 322
Tylenol: 266, 268362• IN FITNESS AND IN HEALTH     

U
USDA: 27, 29, 80, 82-83, 104-106,
109-111, 129
V
Valium: 247, 266
Vegetables: 3, 27-30, 33, 42-45, 48,
52, 54, 55, 73, 75, 79, 87, 97-
106, 111-113, 116-118, 134-
136, 138-141, 144, 147, 148,
155, 159, 161-163, 165, 169,
179-182, 184, 194, 248, 257,
260, 264, 266-269, 274, 275,
298, 317, 318, 322, 330, 331,
339-341, 346
Vitamin: 14, 64, 74, 76, 87, 88, 100,
116, 129, 131-135, 137, 139,
140, 142, 145-148, 151, 153-
156, 163, 172, 188, 190, 245,
249, 261, 264, 268, 270, 316,
324, 329, 330, 332, 334, 335,
339, 340
Vitamin A: 88, 100, 133, 155
Vitamin B1: 190
Vitamin B12: 87, 88, 145, 261, 264
Vitamin B2: 151
Vitamin B6: 74, 245, 249
Vitamin C: 100, 131-133, 135, 139,
140, 142, 163, 172, 188, 245,
268, 330, 340
D: 64, 146-148, 153-156, 316,
324, 332, 335
E: 76, 131-135, 140, 151, 163,
268, 324, 339
K: 116, 133, 270
W
Waist: 129, 263, 306, 307
Walking: 11, 67, 81, 186, 193, 196,
197, 200, 201, 203, 205, 206,
211, 213-216, 219-222, 228,229, 276, 280, 299, 308, 311,
346
Warm-up: 204, 207, 209, 211, 216,
219, 221, 223, 225
Water filters: 125, 126
Weather: 205, 206, 222, 289-291,
297
Weight loss: 45, 176, 239, 294, 305,
307
Weight-lifting: 189, 201, 203, 218,
221, 299, 309, 311
Wheat: 33, 36, 46, 47, 52-56, 112,
115, 116, 139, 184, 270, 274,
276
Whey: 95-97, 155, 267, 339, 340
White fat: 65, 66
Wine: 44, 69, 102, 103, 167-170,
263, 269, 331, 340
Workout: 121, 195, 196, 198, 199,
201, 208, 211, 214-219, 221-
225, 227, 230, 290, 322
X-Z
X-ray protection: 64
Zinc: 54, 88, 90, 115, 123, 129, 133,
139, 141, 148, 170, 248, 261,
264, 298, 312, 330, 333INDEX • 363         

For information
about other books
and music CDs
by Dr. Phil Maffetone
visit
www .philmaffetone.com