Text	Copyright	©	2014	Brett	Stewart	and	Jason	Warner.	Design	and	concept	©	2014	Ulysses	Press	and	its
licensors.	All	rights	reserved.	No	part	of	this	publication	may	be	reproduced,	stored	in	a	retrieval	system,	or
transmitted	in	any	form	or	by	any	means	(including	but	not	limited	to	photocopying,	electronic	devices,
digital	versions,	and	the	Internet)	without	the	prior	written	permission	of	the
	publisher,	nor	be	otherwise
circulated	in	any	form	of	binding	or	cover	other	than	that	in	which	it	is	published	and	without	a	similar
condition	being	imposed	on	the	subsequent	purchaser.
Published	in	the	United	States	by
	
Ulysses	Press
	
P.O.	Box	3440
Berkeley,	CA	94703
www.ulyssespress.com
ISBN13:	978-1-61243-250-2
Library	of	Congress	Control	Number	2013938281
United	Graphics,	Inc.
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
Acquisitions	Editor:	Keith	Riegert
	
Managing	Editor:	Claire	Chun
	
Editor:	Lily	Chou
	
Proofreader:	Lauren
Harrison
	
Index:	Sayre	Van	Young
	
Front	cover	design:	
what!design	@	whatweb.com
Layout	and	production:	Jake	Flaherty
	
Cover	photographs:	rope	climb	©	
holbox/shutterstock.com
;	weight
lifter	©	Pavel	L	Photo	and	
Video/shutterstock.com
;	squat	©	
Maridav/shutterstock.com
Interior	photographs:	see	
page	200
Models:	Austin	Akre,	Brian	Burns,	Evan	Clontz,	Lewis	Elliot,	Mary	J.	Gines,	Brett	Stewart,	Kristen
Stewart,	Chad	Taylor
	
Distributed	by	Publishers	Group	West
	
Please	Note:	This	book	has	been	written
and	published	strictly	for	informational	purposes,	and	in	no	way	should	be	used	as	a	substitute	for
consultation	with	health	care	professionals.	You	should	not	consider
	educational	material	herein	to	be
the	practice	of	medicine	or	to	replace	consultation	with	a	physician	or	other	medical	practitioner.	The
authors	and	publisher	are	providing	you	with	information	in	this	work	so	that	you	can	have	the
knowledge	and	can	choose,	at	your	own	risk,	to	act	on	that	knowledge.	The	authors	and	publisher	also
urge	all	readers	to	be	aware	of	their	health	status	and	to
	consult	health	care	professionals	before
beginning	any	health	program.

Contents
	
PART	1:	OVERVIEW
INTRODUCTION
THE	JOURNEY
ABOUT	THE	BOOK
WHAT	IS	FXT?
WHY	FXT?
GETTING	TO	KNOW	YOUR	BODY
FREQUENTLY	ASKED	QUESTIONS
BEFORE	YOU	BEGIN
REST	&	RECOVERY
LEARNING	&	USING	PROPER	FORM
WHAT’S	YOUR	MOTIVATION?
PART	2:	PROGRAMS
GETTING	STARTED
BASELINE	TESTING
USING	THE	FXT	POINT	SYSTEM
WHAT	INTENSITY	MEANS	TO	YOUR	WORKOUT
HOW	LONG	SHOULD	MY	PROGRAM	BE?
FXT:PX1
Intro	to	FXT
FXT:FIT
Total-Body	Fitness	&	Weight	Loss


FXT:SXP
Developing	Explosive	Speed	&	Athletic	Performance
FXT:EXP
Building	Endurance	for	Long-Distance	Performance
FXT:MX1
Building	Muscle
FXT:ST1
Developing	Strength
PART	3:	EXERCISES
PART	4:	NUTRITION
FUELING	THE	ATHLETE
NUTRITION	FOR	FXT:FIT,	FXT:SXP	&	FXT:EXP
NUTRITION	FOR	BUILDING	MUSCLE	&	DEVELOPING
STRENGTH
APPENDIX
INDEX
PHOTO	CREDITS
ABOUT	THE	AUTHORS


PART	1:	OVERVIEW

Introduction
Embracing	a	spectrum	of	different	workout	methods,	cross	training	is	the	best
way	to	produce	a	fit,	slender	body	while	achieving	peak	overall	fitness.
Functional	Cross	Training
	is	a	step-by-step	guide	that	brings	together	this	wide
range	of	cutting-edge	techniques,	including	plyometrics,	intense	circuit	training,
weightlifting,	and	gym-free	bodyweight	exercises.	The	results	are	astounding—
dramatica
lly	increased	power,	incredible	endurance,	packed-on	lean	muscle	mass
and	greatly	reduced	body	fat.
So?	What	does	that	really	mean	to	you	and	your	fitness?	What	makes
functional	cross	training	so	revolutionary?
Functional	cross	training	(or	FXT)	can—and	will—change	your	life	by
modifying	the	way	you	look	at	fitness.	Through	years	of	research	and	testing,	we
developed	a	program	that’s	easy	to
	remember,	simple	to	follow,	and	extremely
effective	for	all	individuals	regardless	of	age,	weight,	current	fitness	level	or
lifestyle	and	activity	goals.
FXT	has	a	unique	and	modular	fitness	structure	that’s	built	around	your
personal	goals	while	using	the	extremely	easy-to-follow	FXT	Point	System	for
workouts.	Once	you’ve	chosen	your	goal,	you	can	follow	our	sample	workouts
while	you	learn	how
	to	develop	your	own	programs	for	lifelong	fitness.	Whether
they’re	short-term	goals	like	rapid	fat	loss	or	sculpting	your	physique,	or	the
long-term	adoption	of	a	healthy	fitness	lifestyle,	these	goals	blend	seamlessly
from	one	program	to	the	next	without	needing	to	employ	an	expensive	personal
trainer,	purchase	a	gym	membership	or	wait	until	“the	time	is	right”	for	you	to
start	getting	fitter,
	healthier	and	happier	with	your	appearance.
As	your	fitness	changes	and	you	progress	through	the	program,	you	can
target	new	goals	such	as	speed,	strength,	muscle	gain,	definition/tone	and	even
endurance	for	your	first	marathon	or	triathlon!	Just	follow	the	simple	guidelines
for	adding	or	subtracting	points	to	your	weekly	workouts	and	you	have	the
roadmap	to	get	you	to	your	new	destination.
Whether	your	goal	is	to	drop	a	little	extra	weight,	shave	minutes	off	a
marathon	time	or	build	core	strength	for	a	more	powerful	tennis	serve,
Functional	Cross	Training
	is	the	workout	partner	that	will	push	you	to	your	full
potential.	In	addition	to	revolutionary	day-by-day	workouts,	this	illustrated	guide
delivers	over	100	unique	exercises,	complete	with	step-by-step	photos,	that	will

enable	you
	to	transform	your	body	and	perform	like	you	never	thought	possible.
The	only	thing	that’s	between	you	and	achieving	your	fitness	goals	is	taking	the
first	step	and	getting	started!

The	Journey
Brett:
	My	fitness	journey	started	out	way	before	I	ever	had	the	pleasure	of
meeting	Jason,	really	back	to	when	I	was	a	little	fat	kid.	When	I	look	back	at
photos	now,	I	realize	I	was	probably	just	“chubby,”	but	my	self-esteem	and	body
image	were	always	pretty	poor	and	I	had	an	unhealthy	level	of	resentment	for	the
fact	that	many	of	my	friends	were	fitter	or	more	athletic	than	I	was.
	I	wanted	to
be	better,	faster	and	fitter,	but	I	never	had	the	desire,	motivation	or	know-how	to
get	started.
After	college,	I	grew	my	hair	and	picked	up	a	guitar	and	didn’t	exercise	or
play	any	organized	sports	until	I	met	Jason	in	late	1999.	During	those	15	or	so
years,	I’d	gained	well	over	50	pounds	and	picked	up	smoking	cigarettes,	nearly
two	packs	a	day.	Little	did	I	know	how	much	my	life
	would	change	shortly	after
this	hotshot	programmer	kid	named	Warner	showed	up	at	my	office.
Jason:
	Brett	and	I	became	friends	in	the	late	’90s	when	we	were	working	at
an	Internet	start-up	company.	We	became	fast	friends	despite	me	being	in	my
early	20s	and	Brett	being	nearly	30.	We	did	things	you’d	expect	brothers	to	do:
played	all	sorts	of	sports,	competed	against	each	other	in	softball,	football
	and
basketball,	and	worked	out	together.	It	was	some	of	the	most	fun	I’ve	ever	had.
From	the	beginning,	we	were	both	interested	in	fitness,	though	neither	of	us	had
a	clue	what	we	were	doing.	We	thought	we	did,	but	hindsight	lends	perspective.
We	had	no	clue,	and	the	prevailing	conventional	wisdom	didn’t	help,	either.
We	ate	and	worked	out	just	as	the	experts	told	us	to,	but	we	didn’t	seem	to
	be
getting	anywhere.
We	tried	to	learn.	We	did	the	very	typical	thing	of	grabbing	all	the	fitness
magazines	we	could	find,	reading	them,	tearing	out	pages	and	comparing	notes.
We	quickly	realized	that	fitness	magazines	were	NOT	in	the	business	of
educating	people.	In	the	same	magazine	you’d	find	several	conflicting	pieces	of
information—workouts	that	talked	about	doing	the	exact	opposite	of	a
	workout
only	a	few	pages	earlier	and	an	eating	style	that	was	a	huge	no-no	a	few	months
ago.	Even	after	our	“research”	we	were	left	in	the	dark.
Brett:
	We	were	confused	about	what	program	to	choose,	so	we	tried
everything	we	could.	With	Jason’s	help,	in	the	span	of	a	year	I’d	dropped	nearly
65	pounds	of	fat,	met	the	woman	of	my	dreams,	quit	smoking,	and	started	down
the	path	to	fitness	and	a
	much	healthier,	happier	life.	Everything	was	going

perfectly	until	life	stepped	in	and	Jason	moved	2500	miles	away.	Gone	was	my
source	of	knowledge	and	motivation,	as	well	as	my	exercise	buddy.	It	seemed
like	I	was	destined	to	head	back	to	plopping	my	butt	on	the	couch	after	work.	It
would’ve	been	so	easy	to	put	back	on	all	the	weight	I’d	lost,	but	now	I	was	a
totally	different	person	and	was	proud
	of	the	changes	I’d	made,	and	I	wasn’t
willing	to	give	up.
Shortly	after	Jason	moved	away,	I	channeled	the	competitiveness	we’d	share
each	day	on	the	basketball	court	or	at	the	gym	into	a	new	addiction—triathlon
and	marathon	running.
Jason:
	When	I	arrived	in	Phoenix,	the	new	company	I	was	working	for
offered	us	a	free	gym	membership	so	I	took	full	advantage	of	it.	Moving	to	a
new	state	with	no
	family	or	friends	and	my	wife	working	long	hours	during	her
medical	school	residency,	the	gym	was	practically	my	home.	If	I	wasn’t	in	the
weight	room,	I	was	out	on	the	basketball	court.	All	of	the	high-intensity	training
was	really	starting	to	pay	off	and	I	found	myself	in	the	best	shape	of	my	life,
right	up	to	when	I	injured	my	Achilles	tendon	and	was	forced	to	change	my
routine	and	learn	about
	rehab.	I	cover	this	a	lot	more	in	
Weights	on	the	BOSU
Balance	Trainer
,	but	the	bottom	line	was	that	I	learned	more	about	training
during	the	period	when	I	was	rehabbing	my	Achilles	than	ever	before.	During
this	time	I	started	developing	very	specific	routines	and	drills	for	sports
performance	and	made	the	choice	to	someday	become	a	personal	trainer.
Brett:
	It	took	about	seven	years	for	Jason
	to	convince	me	to	move	out	to
Arizona,	and	during	the	time	apart	we’d	developed	completely	different	training
regimens.	Mine	was	all	about	speed,	endurance	and	bodyweight	exercises	and
Jason’s	included	many	more	Olympic-style	lifts,	plyometric	movements	and
strength-building	
exercises.	While	we	were	originally	on	opposite	ends	of	the
training	spectrum,	we	sort	of	met	each	other	in	the	middle	to
	create	hybrid
routines	that	would	work	for	a	150-pound	triathlete	and	a	225-pound
weightlifter.	We	didn’t	know	it	at	the	time,	but	it	was	the	start	of	FXT.
Jason:
	Both	of	us	are	information	sponges.	Being	reunited	only
reinvigorated	our	mutual	love	of	all	things	sport	and	fitness	related.	We
continued	researching	and	experimenting	with	everything	under	the	sun,	trying
to	find	what	worked	and
	what	didn’t.	We	spent	time	figuring	out	endurance
training	and	nutrition,	then	we	moved	to	strength	and	power	training.	We
meticulously	catalogued	the	things	we	did,	making	sure	to	note	what	worked	and
what	didn’t.
Both	Brett	and	I	became	certified	personal	trainers	right	around	the	time	we

began	to	work	on	
7	Weeks	to	50	Pull-Ups
.	We	took	everything	we’d	learned
about	improving	our	physiques
	and	weight	loss	and	created	the	programs	that
would	become	
7	Weeks	to	Getting	Ripped
.	From	there,	I	guess	we	went	a	little
overboard.
Brett:
	Over	the	next	two	years,	we	developed	programs	and	wrote	books,
everything	from	
Ultimate	Jump	Rope	Workouts
	to	
7	Weeks	to	10	Pounds	of
Muscle
.	We	authored	programs	for	tackling	obstacle	courses,	triathlons,	road
races,	medicine	balls	and	BOSU	Balance	Trainers,
	and	even	worked	with
coauthors	on	nutritional	programs	for	athletes,	vegans	and	those	following	the
Paleo	diet.
Functional	Cross	Training
,	or	FXT,	is	the	culmination	of	all	the	programs—
or	at	least	all	the	“good”	ones—we’ve	developed	over	the	last	decade	in	one
place.	FXT	is	the	result	of	years	of	learning	the	whats,	the	whys	and,	most
importantly,	the	hows	of	fitness	for	the	average	individual
	looking	to	get	fitter,
faster	and	stronger.	FXT	is	for	everyone,	no	matter	his	or	her	goal.	It’s	about
teaching	people	and	giving	them	the	tools	to	actually	understand	what’s	going	on
with	their	bodies	and	how	to	craft	a	training	and	nutrition	program	for	your
specific	goals.	In	short,	FXT	is	about	you	and	getting	you	to	your	goal,	whatever
that	is.
Millions	of	visitors	to	our	websites,	countless
	e-mails	and	personal	messages
from	you—the	fans	of	our	books,	mobile	apps	and	online	programs—inspired	us
to	continually	develop	and	tweak	FXT	in	order	to	deliver	something	truly	new
and	unique	to	fitness	that	will	help	make	it	easier	for	you	to	get	fit.	This	book
and	program	is	dedicated	to	each	and	every	one	of	you	out	there	who’s	looking
to	make	a	change	and	embrace	a	fitter,	healthier	and
	happier	lifestyle.	Thank	you
for	your	continued	support,	and	we	sincerely	appreciate	the	feedback	we’ve
received	over	the	years	in	order	to	build	the	most	comprehensive	yet	simple
training	plan	ever.	We	truly	hope	you	enjoy	it	and	develop	a	lifelong	relationship
with	fitness!

About	the	Book
The	
Functional	Cross	Training
	program	is	designed	to	make	selecting	a	program
and	sticking	with	it	as	easy	as	possible.	Pick	your	goal-based	program,	choose
the	level	that	meets	your	age,	weight	or	fitness	level,	and	track	your	weekly
workout	points.	It’s	that	easy!
In	
Part	I
,
	we	give	you	an	overview	of	both	functional	and	cross	training,
then	show	you	how	and	why	we	mashed	them
	up	into	an	incredibly	effective
series	of	programs	to	build	your	strongest,	fittest,	fastest	and	healthiest	body
ever.	We’ll	help	you	decode	your	goals	and	get	you	to	focus	on	setting	the	right
goal,	as	well	as	pair	you	up	with	the	right	fitness	program	to	help	you	reach	(or
exceed)	it	as	rapidly	as	possible.	You’ll	find	plenty	of	information	in	our	FAQ
section	to	help	you	get	started	or	overcome
	some	nagging	doubts	that	are
holding	you	back	from	getting	fit,	and	then	finally	give	you	some	motivation	to
get	you	on	your	way.
In	
Part	2
	you’ll	come	face	to	face	with	the	program	that’s	custom-matched
to	you,	addressing	your	goal,	your	level	and	your	duration	to	reach	your	new
level	of	fitness.	We’ll	cover:
Fitness:
	How	to	build	a	fitness-based	lifestyle
Speed:
	How	to	become	explosively
	fast
Endurance:
	How	to	go	farther,	longer
Muscle:
	How	to	develop	a	sculpted	physique	with	lean	muscle
Strength:
	How	to	build	the	power	to	lift	more	weight
We’ll	also	explain	the	easy-to-use	point	system	for	workouts	and	start	you
out	with	sample	workouts	to	get	you	off	and	running	(or	lifting,	squatting	or
even	actually	running).	Based	on	your	goals	and	adjusted	for	your	current	level
of	fitness,
	each	program	is	simple	to	follow.	It’s	even	easier	to	create	your	own,
with	potentially	millions	of	different	workouts	that	grow	and	progress	along	with
your	fitness	level	to	continually	challenge	and	strengthen	your	entire	body.
Of	course,	the	workouts	would	be	nothing	without	the	exercises,	and	in	
Part
3
	we	provide	over	100	of	them,	with	multiple	variations	to	keep	your	body
working	through
	various	planes	of	motion.	They	include	bodyweight	and
weighted	movements,	dozens	of	core-sculpting	exercises,	plyometrics	and	so

much	more.	Each	exercise	group	is	based	on	functional	movements	to	develop
rock-solid	muscle	in	your	upper	body,	core	and	lower	body.	This	section	also
features	warm-ups,	stretches	and	cardiovascular	drills	to	get	you	ready	for	the
workouts,	keep	you	loose,	develop	endurance,
	raise	your	metabolism	and,	of
course,	recover	after	each	completed	regimen.
Nutrition	will	also	play	a	huge	part	in	your	lifestyle	and	physique
transformation,	so	you’ll	get	the	lowdown	on	everything	you	need	to	know	about
fueling	for	performance—what	to	eat	and	when	to	eat	it	to	maximize	your
training	and	get	in	the	best	shape	of	your	life	in	
Part	4
.
If	weight	loss	is	one	of	your	goals,	turn
	to	the	
Appendix
.
	Here	you’ll	get	the
lowdown	on	how	to	figure	out	how	many	calories	you	need	on	a	daily	basis.	We
also	provide	additional	full-body	exercises	as	well	as	a	quick	10-minute	travel
workout	that	you	can	perform	anywhere	so	you	never	have	a	reason	to	miss	out
on	your	workouts!
We’ve	created	and	tested	these	programs	over	the	last	several	years,	and	the
goal	of	combining	them	all	into
	
Functional	Cross	Training
	is	to	make	fitness
accessible	for	everyone	regardless	of	age,	gender,	weight	and	current	level	of
physical	ability.	We	hope	you	approach	this	book	as	a	reference	to	create
workouts	of	all	types	for	years	to	come	and,	most	importantly,	we	sincerely	hope
you	have	fun	getting	fit.	After	all,	if	you	can’t	enjoy	the	journey,	can	you	ever
truly	enjoy	the	destination?

What	Is	FXT?
Simply	put,	FXT,	or	functional	cross	training,	is	a	multi-plane,	multi-discipline
and	multi-muscle	workout	regimen	designed	to	develop	speed,	strength,
flexibility,	athletic	ability	and	full-body	fitness.	FXT	was	created	to	help	athletes
of	all	ages,	sizes	and	athletic	ability	realize	and	meet	their	true	fitness	goals	by
blending	real-world	“functional”	movements	and	cutting-edge
	full-body	“cross-
training”	workout	regimens	into	one	dynamic	program.
In	order	to	understand	the	genesis	of	functional	cross	training,	it	helps	to
review	the	terms	“functional”	and	“cross	training”	to	get	a	clearer	picture	of	how
and	why	training	with	the	FXT	program	can	help	you	develop	a	higher	level	of
performance	and	gain	a	deeper	knowledge	of	the	exercises	and	routines	you	can
use	for	lifelong
	fitness.
Around	2006,	Jason	injured	himself	pretty	badly	when	he	tore	his
Achilles	tendon.	The	next	several	years	were	filled	with
frustration	and	pain	trying	to	get	it	back	in	shape.	There	was	a
period	of	time,	right	after	his	first	child	started	to	run	around	the
house,	that	Jason	realized	how	important	simple	things	were.	His
Achilles	wasn’t	healing	properly	and	he	began	to	wonder	if	he’d
ever	chase	his	son	around	the	park,	kick	a	ball	with	him,	or	even
play	a	game	of	basketball	as	he	grew.	Forget	rugby,	marathons	or
500-pound	squats—Jason	wanted	to	enjoy	playing	outside	with
his	son!	In	order	to	rehabilitate	his	body,	Jason	had	to	essentially
“start	small”	by	focusing	on	small,	everyday	tasks	and
movements	before	he	could	participate	in	sports	again;	he	needed
to	put	the	function
	first,	and	then	focus	on	performance.
Functional	Movements	&	Functional	Training
Functional	movements	are	simple,	real-world	actions	that	we	might	take	for
granted...until	we	can’t	do	them	anymore:	picking	up	a	box,	walking	up	stairs,
navigating	a	shopping	mall	full	of	people.	Functional	movements	are	also	things

we	don’t	necessarily	do	every	day,	such	as	swimming,	running,	hiking,	carrying
your	children	in	the	amusement	park,	dragging	your	luggage	through	the	airport
and	stowing	it	in	the	overhead	compartment.	Functional	movements	can	also
take	place	in	sports:	chasing	after	a	pop-up	in	baseball,	spiking	a	volleyball,
bounce-passing	the	basketball	to	a	teammate	or	getting	past	a	defender	for	a	lay-
up.	Any	motion	that	requires	one	muscle	group	to	stabilize	while	another	muscle
group
	performs	an	action	(flexion,	extension,	rotation,	etc.)	is	a	“functional
movement.”	Most	often,	that	stabilizing	group	is	the	core	musculature—the
abdominal,	spinal	and	trunk	muscles.
In	order	to	train	to	perform	functional	movements,	you	need	to	perform	full-
body	functional	movements.	While	that’s	no	huge	revelation,	so	many	of	us
spend	an	overwhelming	amount	of	time	trying	to	get	in	shape	by
	focusing	on
very	specific	exercises	designed	to	work	a	limited	muscle	group	when	we’d	reap
much	more	benefit	from	using	our	entire	body	to	perform	exercises	designed	to
mimic	real-world	movements.
Functional	training	is	essentially	utilizing	exercises	that	incorporate	multi-
joint,	multi-muscle,	full-body	movement.	The	type	of	movement	employed	can
differ	from	basic	to	complex	but,	make	no	mistake,
	this	training	style	doesn’t
take	place	flat	on	a	bench	or	require	performing	multiple	reps	targeting	one
specific	muscle	with	one	specific	motion.	Through	different	types	of	exercises,
from	walking	to	running	or	sprinting	to	calisthenics,	functional	training	utilizes
your	own	body	weight	as	resistance	through	a	wide	range	of	movements	to
develop	a	fit,	well-balanced	athlete.	All	exercise	that
	furthers	the	goal	of	pain-
free	movement	and	core	stabilization	can	be	considered	functional	training.
What	does	that	mean?	Getting	stronger,	becoming	more	agile,	flexible,	faster
and	fitter,	and	developing	endurance	are	all	examples	of	the	positive	byproducts
of	functional	training.	While	you’re	working	to	improve	your	performance	at
particular	kinesthetic	functions,	your	musculoskeletal	system
	is	adapting,
growing	and	changing	to	make	your	entire	body	more	functionally	fit.
Running	is	a	perfect	example	of	a	linear	activity,	while	everyday
movements	occur	on	multiple	planes.	How	often	have	you	heard
a	perfectly	fit	runner	sidetracked	by	a	pulled	muscle	from	twisting
to	pick	up	a	bag	of	groceries?	When	you	train	excessively	in	one
specific	plane,	most	other	major	muscle	groups	are
	neglected,	as
are	the	supporting	muscles	that	“bridge”	one	group	to	another	to

allow	fluid,	balanced	movements.
What	Is	Cross	Training?
Think	of	the	most	specific	athletic	movement	possible.	Is	it	shotputting,	where
the	single	goal	is	to	throw	something	as	far	as	possible?	Is	it	running,	where	the
goal	is	to	pick	up	one	foot	and	place	it	in	front	of	the	other?	Is	it	doing	the
deadlift,	where
	the	goal	is	to	pick	up	the	most	weight	from	the	floor	you	can?	All
of	these	movements	appear	to	use	one	particular	discipline	to	perform	each
singular	goal.	Should	those	athletes	train	by	only	focusing	on	the	distinct
muscles	used	by	each	of	those	athletic	movements?
One	of	the	biggest	mistakes	athletes	make	is	to	take	a	myopic	view	of	their
training,	isolating	their	body’s	overall	function	in
	terms	of	a	specific	goal.
Running	is	a	classic	example	of	this.	For	years	people	training	for	a	marathon
would	simply	run,	thinking	that	running	for	more	miles	and	more	time	would	get
them	in	the	best	shape	possible	to	run	the	marathon	and	complete	their	goal.	This
is	no	longer	the	case	now	that	coaching,	training	and	recovery/therapy	methods
have	improved.	Of	course,	someone	hoping	to	finish	a
	marathon	needs	to	run	a
considerable	amount,	but	to	do	it	well	they	also	need	to	work	out	with	weights,
train	their	core	and	not	neglect	their	overall	movement	patterns.	Specific	training
for	a	prolonged	period	of	time,	no	matter	the	type,	always	leads	to	imbalances
that	will	catch	up	to	you	at	some	point.
Athletes	can	improve	specific	sport-related	performance	by	adopting
exercises	and	training
	methods	designed	to	promote	full-body	strength,
flexibility	and	overall	fitness.	The	term	“cross	training,”	used	to	refer	to	athletes
in	one	sport	adopting	training	methods	from	another	sport	during	their	off-
season,	is	appropriately	applied	to	athletes	utilizing	a	multi-sport	training
regimen.	They’re	essentially	training	their	bodies	to	be	as	fit	as	possible	in	order
to	improve	their	overall
	athletic	performance.
To	think	about	it	another	way,	the	body	is	a	very	complex	machine	prone	to
failure.	Optimal	performance	means	making	sure	the	entire	machine	is
performing	as	it	should.	If	someone	trains	only	by	running,	the	cardiovascular
system	is	improving,	lower	body	tendons	are	improving,	and	some	lower	body
muscles	are	adapting	to	handle	the	
stress	of	running.	But	your	core	is	not
improving	and	could	actually	degrade.	What	about	muscular	imbalances?	Are
they	improving	or	degrading?	Is	this	optimal	training?

As	another	example	at	the	other	extreme,	if	a	power	lifter	who	only	competes
in	the	bench	press	event	is	training	only	for	that	specific	event,	what’s	happening
to	the	rest	of	his	body?	Is	his	chest	getting	stronger	than	his	back?	Is	he	training
his	legs	to	support
	that	added	upper	body	weight?	Is	he	doing	any	core	training
or	performing	cardiovascular	training	to	improve	his	endurance?	The	answers	to
all	these	questions	are	most	commonly	“no,”	and	his	limited	training	methods
that	are	extremely	effective	at	crafting	massive	chest	and	arm	muscles	are	also
incredibly	effective	at	developing	an	unbalanced	physique	and	stressing	or
injuring	other	body	parts,	which
	are	forced	to	overcompensate	for	the
disproportionate	growth	in	other	muscle	groups.
Of	course,	we’re	not	suggesting	that	a	runner	and	a	power	lifter	should	be
training	in	even	remotely	similar	fashion,	though	we	are	saying	that	both	should
be	using	a	very	balanced	training	approach	geared	toward	their	specific	goal.	To
do	otherwise	is	shortsighted	and,	frankly,	dangerous.
It	may	sound	counterintuitive
	but	should	make	perfect	sense:	Cross	training
supports	very	specific	fitness	and	athletic	goals	by	strengthening	the	entire	body
in	a	balanced,	safe	and	effective	manner.	By	training	the	entire	body	to	maximize
performance	and	movement,	each	of	the	specific	muscle	groups	needed	for
precise	skill	are	improved.	You	may	have	heard	the	aphorism	“a	rising	tide	lifts
all	boats,”	and	that	holds
	true	for	your	body.	The	fitter	your	entire	body	is,	the
better	you	can	become	at	every	athletic	movement.	All	athletes,	no	matter	how
specific	their	goals,	need	to	add	multi-planar	training	to	become	fitter,	faster	and
more	flexible	and	perform	better.

Why	FXT?
FXT	is	about	training	smart	for	lifelong	activity	while	being	a	simple,	effective
and	adaptable	program	that	you	can	use	anywhere,	anytime.	FXT	is	about
supporting	your	goal	in	an	easy-to-follow,	easy-to-implement,	easy-to-continue
fashion.	FXT	is	also	lifestyle	training,	perfect	for	families	looking	to	get	into
shape	together	as	well	as	athletes	looking	to	improve	in	their	specific
	sport.	FXT
is	individual,	modular	and	all-encompassing.	FXT	is	for	everyone.	FXT	is	for
you.
FXT	works	on	the	widest	of	fitness	spectrums,	from	someone	looking	to
move	in	a	pain-free	fashion	to	another	looking	to	become	a	professional	athlete.
Functional	Cross	Training
	will	furnish	you	with	the	information	to	actually
understand	why	you’ll	be	doing	something.	This	book	will	offer	the	templates
	on
how	to	achieve	your	goal.	It	will	also	provide	you	with	the	ability	to	adapt
everything	to	you	as	an	individual.	With	hundreds	of	different	exercises	and
multiple	different	programs	created	for	optimal	performance	at	different	athletic
pursuits,	FXT	was	created	for	athletes	of	all	ages,	sizes,	and	existing	fitness
levels	to	set,	train	toward,	and	meet	their	goals.	Our	pledge	to	you	is	that	we’ll
do	this	in	an	approachable	way	that	everyone	can	understand	and	follow.
The	first	step	in	the	process	is	understanding	and	focusing	on	your	real
fitness	goals.	This	is	probably	the	hardest	yet	most	important	aspect	of	the	entire
process—athletes	commonly	skip	this	part,	assuming	that	they	already
understand	the	goal	they’re	working	toward.	In	the	section	“What	Are	Your	Real
Goals?”	(
page	34
),
	we	break	down	some	common	vague	targets	and	help	you
ask	yourself	the	important	questions	about	what	you	want	to	get	out	of	your
training,	and	then	point	you	toward	the	program(s)	that	will	suit	you.	Even	if	you
think	you	know	your	goal,	please	take	the	time	and	read	through	the	goal-setting
section.
Once	you’ve	chosen	and	committed	to	your	goal,	we’ll	equip	you	with	the
background	to	understand
	why	we	advocate	certain	approaches,	training	styles
and	timing.	Each	of	the	programs	for	muscle,	strength,	speed,	endurance,	fitness
and	weight	loss	have	their	own	very	specific	training	method	to	get	you	on	track
to	crush	your	goals	as	quickly	as	possible.	With	FXT	you’ll	use	total-body
movements	to	develop	total-body	fitness	that	will	benefit	every	aspect	of	your
life,	from	basic,	everyday	actions
	to	sport-specific	conditioning.

FIT:FOOD—Fueling	the	Athlete
Nutrition	is	vital	to	developing	a	strong,	lean,	athletic	body	and	performing	at
high	levels	in	any	sport,	whether	individual	or	team-based.	Starting	on	
page	178
,
there	are	two	different	nutritional	programs,	one	for	the	specific	needs	of	athletes
building	muscle	and	strength	following	the	FXT:MX1	and	FXT:ST1	programs,
respectively,
	and	also	one	distinct	program	for	the	athletes	following	the
FXT:FIT,	FXT:SXP	and	FXT:EXP	programs.	Both	nutritional	regimens	are
aligned	with	the	goals	of	each	of	the	programs.	Turn	to	the	Appendix	on	
page
186
	to	determine	your	BMI	and	BMR	and	how	many	calories	you	need	for	your
size,	weight	and	sex,	and	then	make	those	“calories”	work	for	you	by	making
excellent	macro-and	micro-nutrient	choices
	to	fuel	your	body	for	athletic
performance.	(On	
page	178
,	you’ll	see	why	we	added	the	quotation	marks	to
calories.)

Getting	to	Know	Your	Body
Some	of	us	(ahem,	Brett)	are	the	type	of	folks	who	like	to	learn	by	doing.
Whether	it’s	jumping	from	the	roof	of	the	garage	or	sticking	a	fork	into	an
electrical	outlet,	you	don’t	need	to	know	why	something	is	a	good	or	bad	idea,
you	just	want	to	go	for	it	and	figure	it	out	along	the	way.	We	can’t	vouch	that
this	is	a	good	method,	but	it’s	the	way	some	of	us	tend	to
	do	things,	come	what
may.	Others	among	us	(like	Jason)	love	figuring	out	why	things	work	the	way
the	do.	This	next	section	is	for	cerebral	types	like	Jason	who	like	to	understand
all	of	the	proper	terms	and	calculations	you	may	need	during	your	journey.	For
the	rest	of	us,	you	can	use	the	rest	of	this	chapter	as	reference	material.

Body	Movements
Before	we	get	into	the	programs,	let’s	cover
	some	anatomical	terms	and	body
positions	that	will	be	used	in	the	exercise	descriptions	in	
Part	3
.	No	one’s	going
to	test	you	on	the	correct	use	of	any	of	the	terms,	but	it’s	really	helpful	to	have	a
general	idea	of	what	they	mean.	This	is	barely	more	in-depth	than	the	“foot
bone’s	connected	to	the	ankle	bone...”	song—it’s	just	a	few	points	of	reference.
Range	of	Motion	(ROM):
	This	is	the	entire
	spectrum	of	movement	allowed
by	one’s	anatomy	and	physiology;	limits	are	based	on	joint,	muscle,	ligament
and	cartilage	positioning,	size,	shape	and	condition—essentially	the	mechanical
limit	you	could	possibly	move	if	you	were	in	top	condition.	Training	to
strengthen	your	musculature	and	develop	more	flexibility	will	allow	your	joints
to	function	with	as	wide	a	ROM	as	possible.	While	range	of
	motion	technically
covers	hyperflexion,	hyperextension,	etc.,	those	conditions	are	not	considered
optimal.	Therefore,	when	a	trainer	uses	the	phrase	“complete	the	movement	with
as	full	a	range	of	motion	as	possible,”	this	doesn’t	include	putting	your	joints	in
a	hyper-anything	position.
Anatomical	Position	&	Planes	of	Movement:
	The	anatomical	position	is
essentially	the	“default	position”	for	your	body	as	nearly	all	joints	are	in	neutral
position	with	the	exception	of	your	elbows	(which	are	rotated	forward	to	bring
your	palms	onto	the	frontal	plane)—feet	face	forward	and	are	about	shoulder-
width	apart,	spine	is	erect,	arms	are	extended	at	the	sides	of	your	trunk	with
palms	facing
	forward.	The	three	different	anatomical	planes	of	movement	are
median,	frontal	and	horizontal,	and	all	are	described	by	starting	with	the
anatomical	position.	The	median	plane	splits	your	body	laterally	into	right	and
left	halves	with	a	vertical	line	through	your	belly	button	(the	medial	line).	The

frontal	plane	splits	your	body	into	front	(anterior)	and	back	(posterior)	sections
when	viewed
	from	the	side,	bisecting	your	torso	vertically	in	a	line	that	runs
through	your	ears,	shoulders,	hips	and	ankles.	The	horizontal	plane	splits	your
body	into	upper	(superior)	and	lower	(inferior)	halves	at	your	belly	button.	Most
motions	in	life	are	a	combination	of	these	planes.
TIP:
	Don’t	confuse	athletic	position	with	the	“ready	position”	of
some	sports.	For	example,	a	shortstop	will	have
	a	far	deeper	knee
bend	and	hip	drop	to	allow	for	a	more	explosive	lateral	or	vertical
movement	when	the	ball	is	hit.
Athletic	Position:
	Similar	to	anatomical	position,	this	is	often	described	as
the	“ready	position”	for	many	sports.	We’ll	refer	to	this	in	nearly	every	exercise
where	you’re	on	your	feet.	In	a	standing	position,	your	feet	face	forward	and	are
approximately	shoulder-width	apart
	and	slightly	rotated	outward	(laterally)	about
10–15	degrees	for	greater	balance.	Knees,	hips	and	elbows	are	slightly	bent
(commonly	referred	to	as	“softening	your	joints”),	and	arms	are	rotated	slightly
forward	at	the	shoulders.	This	position	should	have	you	ready	for	quick	action	or
reaction	in	any	direction,	primarily	a	median	or	horizontal	plane.
Flexion	&	Extension:
	Often	confused,	these
	are	relatively	easy	to	remember
once	you	get	the	general	mental	picture.	Flexion	is	accomplished	by	bending	a
hinge	(elbow,	knee)	joint,	while	straightening	a	hinge	is	extension.	Forcing	one
of	these	joints	past	straight	is	considered	hyperextension,	and	commonly
responsible	for	serious	injuries.	Note	the	word	“general”	above—you	can	also
extend	and	flex	at	the	hip	and	shoulder	(ball	and	socket)
	joints	without	bending;
raising	your	arm	or	leg	forward	and	upward	is	flexion,	while	returning	it	to
anatomical	position	is	extension.	The	neck,	wrists,	fingers	and	toes	all	get	in	on
the	flexion	and	extension	action,	but	you	get	the	general	idea	and	you’re	not
getting	quizzed.
Rotation:
	You’ll	be	using	this	one	quite	a	bit,	primarily	when	twisting	the
trunk.	Simply	put,	this	rotation	is	bringing
	the	side	of	the	body	bisected	by	the
frontal	plane	toward	the	medial	plane	while	traveling	along	the	transverse	plane.
Sorry,	couldn’t	resist.	In	other	words,	you’re	rotating	your	trunk	so	one	of	your
shoulders	is	aligned	with	your	belly	button.	Easy,	right?
Abduction	&	Adduction:
	Abduction	of	the	hip	or	shoulder	joint	occurs

when	the	leg	or	arm	is	lifted	outward	(laterally)	from	anatomical	position;
	your
shoulder	has	a	much	wider	range	of	motion	than	your	hip—shoulder	abduction
encompasses	the	entire	lateral	movement	upward	of	your	arm	from	your	side	to
directly	over	your	head.	Adduction	is	the	motion	of	bringing	the	arm	or	leg	back
to	anatomical	position.	We	use	a	little	mnemonic	to	differentiate	between	the
two:	“Abby	opens.”

The	Muscles	behind	the	Movements
The	exercises	in	this	book
	are	designed	to	work	all	major	muscle	groups	and
most	ancillary	muscles	in	your	body.	Now,	we’re	not	going	to	go	into	great	detail
of	all	of	the	640	muscles	you	happen	to	possess,	so	we’ll	break	the	body	down
into	two	main	sections:	“movers”	and	“core.”
Movers	are	any	muscle	whose	prime	movement	is	to	push,	pull	or	rotate	any
part	of	your	body	aside	from	your	core.	The	core	is	the	foundation
	that	allows
the	movers	to	do	their	thing	and	handles	twisting	and	crunching.	The	stronger
your	core	is,	the	more	effective,	efficient	and	enduring	all	your	mover	muscles
will	be.	Building	your	core	strength	is	the	key	to	total-body	fitness	and
absolutely	imperative	when	developing	a	fit,	ripped	physique	along	with
functional	fitness.
Throughout	the	book,	we’ll	focus	on	exercises	that	use	at	least
	one	from	each
group.	Most	will	use	both,	and	many	will	use	nearly	all	of	your	muscles.	We’ve
covered	this	before,	but	let’s	repeat	it	just	to	be	sure:	In	order	to	become
functionally	fit,	you’ll	need	to	train	multiple	muscle	groups	on	multiple	planes.
Got	it?
MAIN	MOVERS:	UPPER	BODY
Pectoralis	Major:
	This	pair	of	thick,	fan-shaped	muscles	makes	up	the	bulk	of
the	muscle	mass	in	the	chest.	The
	“pecs”	are	responsible	for	rotating,	flexing	and
bringing	in	both	arms	for	actions	such	as	throwing	a	ball,	lifting	a	child,	or
performing	jumping	jacks	or	push-ups.
Triceps	Brachii:
	The	large	muscle	located	on	the	back	of	the	upper	arm,	the
triceps	brachii	(commonly	referred	to	as	“triceps”)	is	responsible	for
straightening	the	arm.	The	triceps	makes	up	over	50	percent	of	the	upper	arm’s
muscular
	mass.
Deltoid:
	This	heart-shaped	muscle	group	is	made	up	of	three	different	fibers
(front,	middle	and	rear).	While	each	fiber	type	has	a	specific	function,	the	“delts”
as	a	whole	are	responsible	for	raising	and	stabilizing	the	arms	during	rotation.
Biceps	Brachii:
	One	of	the	assisting	muscles	during	a	pull-up,	the	biceps
brachii	(commonly	referred	to	as	“biceps”)	is	responsible	for	forearm	rotation
and	elbow	flexion.	It’s	located	on	the	front	of	the	upper	arm.	
Note:
	Chin-ups	are
more	effective	at	targeting	the	biceps	than	pull-ups	due	to	the	supinated	grip.

Trapezius:
	Another	prime	mover,	the	trapezius	(commonly	referred	to	as
“traps”)	is	a	large,	superficial	muscle	located	between	the	base	of	the	skull	and
the	mid-back,	and	laterally	between	both	shoulders.	Its	primary	function	is	to
move
	the	scapulae	(shoulder	blades)	and	support	the	arm.
Latissimus	Dorsi:
	The	latissimus	dorsi	(meaning	“broadest	muscle	in	the
back”)	is	responsible	for	moving	the	arm	toward	the	center	of	the	body
(adduction),	internally	rotating	the	arm	at	the	shoulder	toward	the	center	of	the
body	(medial	rotation),	and	moving	the	arm	straight	back	behind	the	body
(posterior	shoulder	extension).	It	also	plays
	a	synergistic	role	in	extending	and
bending	the	lumbar	spine	to	either	side	(lateral	flexion).	This	pair	of	muscles	is
commonly	referred	to	as	the	“lats.”
Forearm	Flexors/Extensors:
	The	structure	between	the	elbow	and	wrist
contains	a	number	of	muscles,	including	the	flexors	and	extensors	of	the	digits,
brachioradialis	(which	flexes	the	elbow),	pronators	(which	turn	the	palm	of	the
hand	downward)
	and	supinator	(which	turns	the	palm	of	the	hand	upward).
These	muscles	allow	you	to	grip	the	bar	during	a	pull-up.
MAIN	MOVERS:	LOWER	BODY
Gluteus	Maximus	&	Minimus:
	These	muscles	make	up	the	majority	of	the
buttocks	and	are	responsible	for	maintaining	an	erect	posture,	raising	from	a
squat	position	and	performing	most	leg	motions,	such	as	adduction	and	rotation.
Note:
	The	glutes	are	a	crossover
	core/lower-body	muscle	group	and	often
neglected.	Without	strong	glutes,	your	body	would	lack	the	power	to	get	up	out
of	a	chair	and	walk!	See	the	section	on	the	core	for	more	on	the	importance	of
developing	your	backside.
Quadriceps:
	The	quadriceps	(“quads”)	is	a	large	muscle	group	made	up	of
four	muscles	on	the	front	of	the	thigh.	It’s	the	strongest,	leanest	muscle	mass	on
the	body,	responsible
	for	straightening	the	knee	joint	and	crucial	in	walking,
running,	squatting	and	jumping.
Hamstrings:
	The	hamstrings,	located	on	the	back	of	the	thigh,	are	made	up
of	four	muscles	responsible	for	knee	bending	and	hip	straightening.	The
hamstrings	work	as	antagonists	to	the	quadriceps	to	enable	walking,	running	and
jumping,	as	well	as	maintaining	stability	in	the	hip	and	knee.
Calves:
	The	triceps
	surae,	or	“calves,”	is	made	up	of	the	gastrocnemius	and
soleus	muscles.	These	muscles	attach	to	the	Achilles	tendon	and	are	responsible
for	ankle	rotation,	flexion	and	stabilization,	and	are	crucial	for	walking,	running

and	jumping.
CORE
The	term	“core”	refers	to	the	area	of	the	torso	composed	of	the	rectus	abdominis
(the	“six-pack”	portion	of	the	abdominals),	obliques,	transversus	abdominis,
	and
erector	spinae,	but	there’s	much	more	to	it	than	that!	Your	glutes,	as	well	as	hip
flexors	and	extensors,	play	a	huge	role	in	core	strength.	When	most	people	think
of	a	strong	core,	they	immediately	picture	six-pack	abs,	when	real	core	strength
comes	from	all	the	other	muscles	that	make	those	eye-popping	abs	possible.
Full-body	functional	movements	originate	from	this	area	of	the	body,	and	a
strong,	flexible	core	provides	stabilization	during	every	activity	your	body
performs	on	a	daily	basis,	from	performing	a	pull-up	to	maintaining	proper
posture	when	walking,	standing	or	sitting.	A	strong	core	is	essential	to	proper
fitness—your	body’s	strength	needs	a	solid	base	to	work	from.

Frequently	Asked	Questions
Q.
	Can	I	do	this?	Is	it	doable?
A.
	Absolutely.	We	have	both	proudly	smashed	our	personal	goals,	overcome	plenty	of	mistakes	and
missteps,	and	continued	to	tweak	the	program	to	get	positive	results	and	surpass	what	we	expected	to
accomplish.	You	can	too.
Q.
	What’s	the	single	best	tip	you	can	give	to	someone	about	to	start	this	program?
A.
	Create	realistic	goals	ahead
	of	time	and	stick	with	the	program	until	you	meet	them.	Whether	it’s	doing
20	sit-ups	or	200,	losing	5	pounds	or	50,	or	building	the	strength	in	your	core	to	help	eliminate	lower	back
pain	and	straighten	out	your	posture,	commitment,	focus	and	follow-through	are	the	most	effective	methods
to	reach	your	goals.	See	“What	Are	Your	Real	Goals?”	on	
page	34
.	Remember,	no	one	expects	you	to	be	a
pro
	at	every	movement.	Some	exercises	may	come	naturally	while	others	feel	completely	foreign.	All	you
can	do	is	keep	working	on	perfecting	the	form	and	get	stronger	along	the	way.	Don’t	give	up	and	sit	out	an
exercise	if	you	can’t	do	it—make	the	investment	in	yourself	and	learn	the	proper	form	for	each	move.
You’ll	only	reap	the	benefits.
Q.
	How	can	I	find	time	for	a	workout?	I	walk	to	work,	uphill
	both	ways,	in	the	snow,	without	boots...
A.
	Yes,	we	all	have	real	life	to	keep	us	busy	and	it	can	be	difficult	to	sneak	a	workout	in	on	a	regular	basis.
Actually,	YOU	are	the	one	making	it	difficult.	Yeah,	we’re	pointing	our	fingers	squarely	at	you,	and	defy
you	to	prove	us	wrong.	Without	any	question,	you	have	15–20	minutes	to	spare	three	times	a	week	to
improve	your	physique	and	feel	better
	about	yourself	and	you	know	it’s	true.	Wake	up	a	few	minutes	earlier,
go	to	bed	a	few	minutes	later,	cut	down	on	your	TV	watching	or	web	surfing,	and	you’ll	be	surprised	how
easy	it	is	to	make	sure	you	don’t	miss	a	quick	workout.	If	you	need	some	help	remembering,	set	a	calendar
reminder	or	use	a	mobile	app	like	the	one	we	developed	as	a	companion	to	this	book	(shameless	plug).	The
bottom	line	is:
	You	can	find	the	time	quite	easily	if	you	want	to,	and	you	want	to,	right?
Tip:
	Work	out	for	half	of	your	lunch	break	three	days	a	week.	If	you	get	an	hour,	use	30	minutes	to	warm
up,	work	out,	cool	down	and	clean	up	and	you’ll	still	have	plenty	of	time	to	eat	the	(healthy)	lunch	that	you
packed.	It	only	takes	a	little	planning	to	make	this	work,	so	make	it	happen!
Q.
	I	already	work	out	at	the
	gym.	Would	I	get	anything	out	of	this?
A.
	Absolutely!	The	exercises	and	workouts	here	would	make	anyone	a	fitter	person,	not	to	mention	a	better
athlete.	Who	can’t	use	a	stronger	core,	more	balanced	and	stable	musculature	and	better	body	awareness?
Both	the	muscle-building	program	and	the	bodyweight	exercises	can	absolutely	be	done	in	any	gym,
whether	it	be	at	home,	in	a	hotel,	a	CrossFit	box
	or	any	health	club.	Obviously,	the	weighted	workouts	need
the	appropriate	dumbbells	or	barbells	that	you’ll	find	at	a	gym,	and	most	have	one	or	more	pull-up	bars,
exercise	mats	and	sit-up	benches	too.	With	a	little	creativity,	ANY	gym	or	space	is	a	great	workout	area!
Q.
	I	have	an	injury.	Can	I	still	work	out?
A.
	See	your	doctor.	Boring	answer,	but	the	truth.	The	workouts	are	rigorous	and	the
	addition	of	weights	and
high	intensity	could	make	some	very	common	injuries	worse	if	you’re	not	careful.	Above	all	else,	be	safe
and	see	your	doctor	first	before	performing	any	demanding	physical	activity.

Q.
	I	have	a	bad	knee/shoulder/elbow/hip.	Can	I	still	follow	the	program?
A.
	Have	you	seen	your	doctor?	No,	seriously—go	see	your	doctor	before	you	start	any	fitness	or	nutrition
program.	Since
	you’ll	be	lifting	your	body	weight	or	additional	weights,	it’ll	be	important	for	you	to	have	as
much	full	range	of	motion,	a	stable	base	and	balance	in	your	musculature	as	possible.	A	ripped	ACL	will
greatly	affect	your	ability	to	perform	heavy	squats,	and	a	rotator	cuff	injury	will	surely	hinder	presses,
rows...you	get	the	idea.	While	we	provide	some	alternate	exercises,	injuries	are	surely
	going	to	hamper	your
ability	to	perform	certain	movements.	Be	smart,	lift	within	your	ability	and	let	injuries	heal	before	pushing
too	hard.	You’re	going	to	have	this	body	for	the	rest	of	your	life—there’s	plenty	of	time	to	recover	and	pack
on	muscle	when	you’re	ready.
Note:
	If	you	skip	squats	and	deadlifts,	you’re	limiting	your	ability	to	pack	on	muscle.	It’s	just	the	facts:
Multi-joint	exercises
	are	a	big	part	of	the	mass-building	protocol.
Q.
	Should	I	be	sore	after	every	workout?
A.
	Soreness	may	be	normal	if	you’re	a	beginner,	have	recently	changed	up	your	routine	or	are	trying	a	new
activity.	The	initial	soreness	should	lessen	over	time;	it’s	not	normal	to	be	sore	after	every	workout.	If	you
continue	to	be	sore,	you	may	need	to	take	more	days	off	between	workouts.	Soreness	after	running
	depends
on	your	age,	conditioning,	the	intensity	of	the	workout,	terrain,	form	and	countless	other	factors.	The	good
news:	It	usually	gets	better	as	you	adapt	to	a	program.	The	bad	news:	As	you’re	progressively	pushing
yourself	to	reach	new	goals,	you’ll	continue	to	develop	soreness	after	a	workout.	Post-exercise	stretching,
recovery	and	rest	will	help	you	alleviate	some	soreness.	The	best
	tip	is	to	get	eight	hours	of	restful	sleep.
We	cover	some	ways	to	maximize	your	downtime	on	
page	28
.
Q.
	How	should	I	breathe	for	each	movement?
A.
	For	many	of	the	exercise	descriptions,	we’ll	cover	when	to	breathe	in	and	out,	but	overall	it’s	a	good	idea
to	breathe	out	when	you’re	exerting	the	most	force	(pushing,	pulling,	etc.)	and	breathe	in	on	the	recovery.
Breathing	properly	is	a	big	part
	of	being	able	to	perform	some	of	the	main	exercises	we’ll	be	covering	in
this	book,	so	make	sure	to	focus	on	breathing	rhythmically	and	never	holding	your	breath	during	sets.
Q.
	How	quickly	should	I	do	the	movements?
A.
	Some	exercises	will	have	specific	speeds	during	certain	workouts,	but	as	a	rule	of	thumb	you	should	try
to	stick	to	a	“medium”	speed.	Listen	to	your	body;	you’ll	know	what’s
	too	fast	or	too	slow	with	a	little	bit	of
experience.	If	you’re	just	learning	the	movements,	take	them	as	slowly	as	you	need	to	maintain	proper
form.	Some	exercises	or	drills	like	sprints	will	require	a	specific	percentage	of	maximal	effort	and	speed.
When	it’s	necessary,	we’ll	call	it	out	in	the	instructions.
Q.
	Will	all	the	workouts	be	an	effective	way	to	lose	weight?
A.
	Any	exercise	above
	what	you’re	currently	doing	aids	in	the	goal	of	losing	weight	and	getting	into	shape.
The	programs	in	this	book	utilize	the	fat-burning	benefits	of	circuit	training	and	high-intensity	interval
training	(HIIT)	to	help	you	lose	weight	and	get	into	fantastic	shape	while	developing	your	total	body.	When
paired	with	balanced	nutrition,	you’ll	be	firing	up	your	metabolism	in	as	little	as	20	minutes	a	day
	to	burn
excess	fat	and	shred	your	physique.
Q.
	What	days	work	best	for	following	this	program?
A.
	Again,	this	is	up	to	you,	but	we’ve	found	over	the	years	that	the	success	rate	goes	up	exponentially	if	you
pick	three	days	during	the	week	to	perform	a	structured	program	like	the	ones	featured	in	this	book.	In	order
to	get	the	optimal	rest	of	48	hours	between	working	the	same	muscle	group	again,
	we	recommend

scheduling	your	workouts	on	Monday,	Wednesday	and	Friday.
Q.
	What’s	the	best	time	of	day	to	do	the	workouts?
A.
	That’s	totally	up	to	you,	your	goals	and	your	daily	schedule.	We	actually	recommend	performing	the
weight-loss	program	in	the	morning	before	eating	to	maximize	the	fat-burning	effect	of	training	while	your
body	is	burning	about	60	percent	fat	as	fuel,	which	happens	during
	sleep	and	when	you	first	wake	before
eating.	In	the	muscle-building	program,	we	showcase	some	different	exercise	and	nutrition	timing	to
maximize	benefits.	Most	of	the	workouts	in	this	book	are	designed	to	be	done	almost	anywhere,	so	pick	a
time	that	works	for	you.	You	could	do	sets	of	exercises	while	you	get	ready	in	the	morning	or	after	you	get
the	kids	to	bed.
Q.
	What’s	the	secret	to	success
	with	any	of	these	programs?
A.
	Commit	the	time	and	effort	to	doing	the	program	right.	Often	it	really	helps	to	have	a	partner	(that’s	how
we	created	the	programs!)	who’ll	keep	you	on	track	to	complete	the	workouts.	Mark	workout	days	on	your
calendar,	set	an	alert	on	your	computer	or	smartphone	for	the	short	amount	of	time	the	program	takes.	You
can	do	what	we	did	back	in	2008	when	we	started
	these	programs—block	your	calendar	from	noon	to	1
p.m.	each	day	to	make	sure	you	get	uninterrupted	exercise	time.
Q.
	What’s	this	“rest”	thing	you	keep	talking	about?	Have	you	seen	my	schedule?
A.
	If	you	don’t	rest,	you	won’t	recover.	If	you	don’t	recover,	you	lose	most	of	the	benefit	from	your
workout.	I	use	the	term	“most”	because	you	still	burned	some	extra	calories	during	the	exercise	and
	raised
your	heart	rate	to	obtain	some	cardiovascular	conditioning	benefit...but	if	you	don’t	rest,	well,	you’ll	miss
out	on	the	benefits	of	building	lean	muscle.
Q.
	Is	it	possible	to	just	work	off	my	love	handles?
A.
	Yes,	but	the	answer	might	be	different	than	you	think.	The	secret	to	losing	your	love	handles	is	to	train
your	entire	body	using	bodyweight	exercises.	Want	ripped	abs?	Train	your
	arms,	back,	shoulders	and
legs...and	your	abs	will	reap	the	benefits.
Q.
	How	many	days	a	week	should	I	work	on	my	core?
A.
	There’s	a	long-standing	myth	that	your	core	can	be	worked	every	day.	Let’s	take	a	moment	and	address
that:	When	you	place	any	muscle	under	repeated	stress	from	lifting	weights	(time	under	tension)	or	repeated
movement,	microtears	begin	to	form.	These	extremely	small	tears
	in	the	muscle	fibers	are	actually	a
positive	benefit	of	working	out;	when	they	heal,	your	muscles	grow	bigger	and	stronger.	In	order	for
muscles	to	properly	recover,	heal	and	grow,	you	should	wait	48	hours	before	working	out	that	same	muscle
group	again.	Now,	we	ask	you,	what’s	your	core	made	up	of?	Your	rectus	abdominis,	erector	spinae,
obliques,	hip	flexors,	quads,	glutes	and	hamstrings	are	all
	muscles	and	need	to	rest,	recover	and	grow.
Q.
	Can’t	I	just	do	crunches	to	rip	my	abs?
A.
	You	can	do	crunches	all	day	long	and	still	not	have	a	ripped	core.	Period.	Unless	you	work	your	entire
body	to	get	lean,	you	just	won’t	be	able	to	show	off	your	six	pack.
Q.
	I	was	always	told	to	stretch	first,	but	lately	I’ve	read	that	you	shouldn’t	stretch	your	muscles	when
you’re	cold.	What’s	the	deal?
A.
	Research	and	studies	over	the	last	few	years	have	reinforced	the	reasoning	that	you	should	warm	up
before	you	exercise	and	then	stretch	after	you’ve	completed	your	workout.	Read	more	about	warming	up
and	stretching	on	
page	174
.

Q.
	I’ve	seen	other	muscle-building	programs.	How	does	this	differ?
A.
	These	programs	provide	a	linear	approach	to	training,	offering	people	programs	that	they	can
	use	their
entire	life.	These	programs	also	combine	the	approaches	that	make	other	programs	successful	and	reject	the
fluff	that	causes	frustration.	Simply	put,	this	is	as	cutting	edge	as	it	gets	for	hypertrophy	programming.
Q.
	I’m	confused	whether	to	use	bodyweight	exercises	or	weighted	movements	to	develop	my	physique	and
increase	muscle	size.	Can	you	help	me	decide?
A.
	Reading	through	“What
	Are	Your	Real	Goals?”	on	
page	34
	should	help	you	decide	where	to	start,	but
here’s	a	little	overview:	If	you	want	to	build	the	biggest	muscles	possible,	loading	up	a	bar	and	doing	reps
of	weighted	workouts	in	the	muscle-building	program	(
page	117
)	is	the	way	to	go.	But,	remember,	you	can
build	huge	arms,	chest	and	legs	and	still	be	unable	to	perform	well	at	the	complex	motions	necessary	for
many
	sports.	Using	a	blended	approach	of	weights	and	bodyweight	exercises,	you’ll	build	your	entire	body,
and	the	end	result	will	be	a	stronger,	faster	and	fitter	version	of	you.	You’ll	also	be	amazed	at	how	much
bigger	muscles	look	when	you’re	ripped.
Q.
	Can	I	just	build	bigger	biceps	using	the	muscle-building	program?
A.
	No,	these	are	all	full-body	programs,	not	designed	to	target	any	particular
	muscle	group.	You’ll	get
bigger	arm,	leg	and	chest	muscles,	and	whatever	overall	gains	you	make	will	be	spread	over	your	entire
physique.
Q.
	How	long	is	it	going	to	take	me	to	build	muscle?
A.
	It	depends	on	your	goals,	your	drive,	your	metabolism...and	a	whole	other	host	of	factors	(age,	sex,
testosterone	level,	muscular	imbalances,	training	ability),	not	to	mention	the	most	important	factor—having
a	life.
Q.
	Can	I	do	a	full-body	workout	every	day?
A.
	No,	your	body	needs	time	to	rest	and	recover.	When	you	do	strength-training	exercises	such	as	pull-ups,
you	create	tiny,	harmless	tears	in	the	muscle.	These	tiny	tears	heal	during	rest	days.	As	a	result,	the	muscle
becomes	stronger	and	more	defined.	If	you	don’t	allow	the	muscles	to	heal,	you	risk	overuse	injuries	that
could	potentially	derail
	your	ability	to	exercise	at	all.	Constant	repetitions	of	any	motion	without	proper	rest
will	eventually	result	in	overuse	injuries.	Repeat	this	sentence:	“Rest	is	equally	as	important	as	the	workout
for	strengthening	and	shredding	your	body.”	Now,	make	sure	you	follow	your	own	advice.
Q.
	Will	full-body	strength	training	make	women	bulk	up?
A.
	The	bodyweight	exercises	in	this	book	were	selected
	specifically	for	men	and	women	to	develop	lean,
shredded	bodies,	and	the	muscle-building	program	is	geared	toward	developing	strong,	solid	muscle.
Typically,	women	don’t	have	the	kind	of	hormones	necessary	to	build	huge,	bulky	muscles	and	thus	need	to
follow	a	very	comprehensive	nutrition	and	supplementation	program	to	do	so.	Full-body	strength	training
benefits	both	men	and	women	by	creating	leaner
	tissue	and	losing	any	excess	fat	(by	increasing	metabolic
efficiency),	slowing	muscle	loss	(especially	in	older	adults)	and	decreasing	risk	for	injury.
Q.
	Can	I	combine	other	workouts	with	these	programs?
A.
	If	you’re	an	athlete	who	needs	to	train	sports-specific	skills,	then	the	workouts	in	this	book	should	be
used	to	supplement	that	training.	If	you’re	hoping	to	quickly	get	stronger	or	more
	ripped	by	doing	extra
workouts	on	“rest	days,”	then	you’re	in	danger	of	overtraining	and	not	letting	your	muscles	rest,	recover
and	grow.	For	best	results,	follow	the	program	that	you’ve	chosen—rest	included—from	start	to	finish	to

maximize	the	results.	Don’t	develop	“Workout	ADD”	and	jump	from	one	program	to	the	next.	While	any
exercise	with	good	form	is	a	positive	for	your	body,	willy-nilly	exercise-picking
	will	not	necessarily
provide	the	targetable	results	you’re	looking	for.
Q.
	Should	I	lose	weight	before	I	start	running?
A.
	Why	not	let	running	help	you	lose	weight?	The	FXT:PX1	(
page	52
)	is	an	easy	way	to	get	into	the	swing
of	a	routine	and	will	help	you	walk,	jog	and	run	at	your	own	pace	to	help	lose	weight	and	prepare	you	for
advancing	to	any	of	the	other	programs	down	the	road.	The	best	part?
	It’s	all	relative.	You	can	use	any
program	for	as	long	as	you	need	while	you	build	up	your	strength	and	athletic	ability	and	drop	weight
before	progressing.
Q.
	Can	I	run	every	day?
A.
	Eventually,	yes—but	you	need	to	build	up	your	endurance	and	strength	first.	Experienced	runners	who
lace	up	every	day	will	vary	their	workouts	between	tempo	runs,	intervals,	hill	work,	easy	runs	and	longer
distances
	to	keep	their	body	and	mind	fresh.	Too	many	intense	workouts	back	to	back	can	lead	to	burnout,
overuse	injuries	and	overtraining.	Too	much	of	a	good	thing	is	still	too	much,	and	trying	to	do	excessive
amounts	too	soon	is	a	sure	way	to	knock	you	off	track	with	injury	or	boredom.	See	“Overtraining”	on	
page
26
.
Q.
	I	heard	that	running	is	horrible	for	my	knees/back/spleen/nostrils/etc.
A.
	Life	is
	hard	on	your	body,	running	isn’t.	Actually,	the	health	benefits	of	losing	weight,	adding	muscle
and	increasing	your	cardiovascular	system’s	efficiency	far	outweigh	the	wear	and	tear	on	your	body	from
being	active.	Running	is	an	activity,	and	all	activities	increase	your	potential	for	injury.	That’s	just	the
nature	of	the	game.
Q.
	It’s	too	hot/cold/rainy/hilly	where	I	live.	Can	I	do	some	of	the
	cardio	or	drills	on	a	treadmill?
A.
	Sure!	Running	outside	can	be	a	little	more	exciting	than	being	stuck	on	a	“dreadmill,”	but	we	know
plenty	of	runners	who	log	thousands	of	miles	on	their	treadmills	and	achieve	great	results	at	races.	The
benefits	of	getting	a	run	in	without	worrying	about	weather-specific	clothing	can	be	a	big	plus	when	you’re
strapped	for	time.	One	tip:	Always	change	the	elevation
	of	your	treadmill	deck	to	at	least	1	or	1.5	degrees	to
reduce	the	flat-footed	impact	on	the	belt	that	can	lead	to	shin	splints.
Q.
	I	don’t	have	enough	time	to	run	or	exercise!
A.
	Yes,	you	do.	That	5	minutes	you	waited	in	line	at	Starbucks,	15	minutes	on	Facebook	before	lunchtime
and	60	minutes	spent	spacing	out	while	pretending	to	be	working	would	be	a	perfect	time	to	sneak	in	a
couple	miles
	or	even	a	few	sets	of	bodyweight	moves.	Get	creative	with	finding	spots	where	you	can	sneak
a	run	or	workout	in,	and	then	clean	up,	change	and	return	to	your	daily	activities.	Don’t	have	a	shower?
Bring	some	sport	wipes	(like	baby	wipes,	without	the	baby	smell)	and	a	little	deodorant.	They	work	pretty
well!
Q.
	I	missed	a	couple	scheduled	workouts	or	runs.	Do	I	have	to	start	over?
A.
	We	all	miss
	workouts.	The	most	important	thing	is	to	get	back	on	your	program	as	soon	as	you	can.
Work,	family,	illness,	travel,	holidays,	injuries	and	plenty	of	other	forces	are	collaborating	against	your
planned	exercise.	It	happens!	If	you	miss	a	week,	start	from	where	you	were.	If	you	miss	more	than	that,
keep	moving	back	your	workout	the	same	amount	of	time	you	missed.	At	about	two	weeks	you	begin	to
lose	some	of	the	base	fitness	and	running	acumen	that	you’ve	built	up.

Q.
	I	was	able	to	follow	my	program	very	well	early	on	but	am	now	having	trouble	doing	the	required	reps.
What’s	going	on?
A.
	Initially,	your	body	goes	through	a	number	of	changes	when	you	start	a	new	program.	Your	body	will
soon	begin	to	adapt	to	the	workouts;	you’ll	notice	a	plateau	once	you	become	used	to	doing	any	exercise.
These	programs	have	been	carefully	designed	to	avoid	this	plateau	effect	by	changing	the	duration,	intensity
and	workout	routine	over	seven	weeks.	Follow	your	program	as	best	you	can.	In	the	unlikely	event	you	do
hit	a	plateau,	continue	to	follow	the	plan	and	eventually	there’ll	be	enough	change	to	get	you	over	the
hump.	Remember,	don’t	overdo	it	and	be	sure	to	take	the	necessary	rest	between
	workouts.	Every	two
months	we	want	you	to	reflect	on	your	success	and	progress	and	re-evaluate	your	goals	and	program	choice.
Mixing	it	up	and	changing	programs	after	eight	weeks	is	a	proactive	way	to	avoid	hitting	plateaus.

Before	You	Begin
Guess	what?	We’re	going	to	tell	you	to	get	off	your	ass	and	go	to	the	doctor
before	you	start	this	(or	any)	fitness	program.	How	does	right	now	work	for	you?
Chances	are,	you’re	a	20-minute	visit	away	from	a	clean	bill	of	health.	Even	if
the	doc	does	find	anything	alarming,	you’re	much	better	off	catching	it	early
than	having	it	sneak	up	on	you	later.
Brett’s	wife	Kristen	absolutely
	forbade	him	from	training	for	Ironman
Arizona	in	2009	until	after	he	received	his	doctor’s	sign-off,	and	he’s	glad	he
did.	Hundreds	of	hours	running,	biking	and	swimming	would’ve	been	a	foolish
undertaking	had	he	not	had	his	ticker	checked	out	first.	Suck	it	up,	make	a	call
and	go	see	your	doc.
As	for	Jason,	remember	when	he	said	he	tore	his	Achilles?	After	it	“healed,”
he	wanted	to	train	and
	play	rugby	but	had	some	nagging	questions:	Could	his
Achilles	handle	not	only	the	training,	but	the	stress	of	cutting	on	the	field?	Was
he	setting	himself	up	for	another	tear?	Was	his	Achilles	weaker	than	before	the
injury?	A	quick	visit	to	the	doc	cleared	all	that	up.	Had	Jason	NOT	done	that,	he
would’ve	been	worrying	about	every	little	ache	and	pain	every	time	he	stepped
into	the	training	room
	or	onto	the	field.	Visiting	the	doc	and	clearing	his	doubt
allowed	Jason	to	perform	optimally.
Want	one	more	reason	to	go	see	a	doctor	before	you	start?	She’ll	give	you
some	encouragement	in	your	new	pursuit	of	fitness	(or	at	least	she	should)	and
when	you	come	back	for	your	next	visit	she’ll	be	able	to	say,	“Wow,	you	look
great!”	and	maybe	even	pat	herself	on	the	back	for	getting	you	to	follow
	doctor’s
orders!
If	we	didn’t	yet	make	it	perfectly	clear:	Always	obtain	clearance	from	a
doctor	that	you’re	healthy	enough	to	begin	this	or	any	other	strenuous	exercise
regimen.	Perform	each	exercise	within	your	ability	and	always	use	proper	form
(
page	29
).	Most	of	all,	don’t	be	stupid	and	try	to	do	too	much,	too	fast—that’s	a
recipe	for	a	pulled	muscle,	injury	or	a	bout	of	DOMS	(see	
page	24
)	that	will
knock	you	off	track	from	completing	the	next	workout.
Listen	to	Your	Body
You	should	be	able	to	tell	when	you’re	ready	to	begin	fitness	programs	like	these

by	tuning	in	to	your	body.	Take	it	easy	and	be	smart	about	determining	what’s
normal	soreness	from	a	workout	and	what’s	a	nagging	injury	that	you’re
aggravating.	If	you	think	it’s	the	latter,	take	a	few	extra	days	off	and	see	if
	the
soreness	passes.	If	it	doesn’t,	you	should	see	a	medical	professional.
You	should	expect	to	experience	mild	soreness	and	fatigue,	especially	when
you’re	just	getting	started.	The	feeling	of	your	muscles	being	“pumped”	after	a
workout	or	a	hard	run	and	the	fatigue	of	an	exhausting	workout	are	normal,	as	is
the	flush	of	warmth	when	finishing	a	challenging	set	of	intervals.	These	are
positive
	feelings.	On	the	other	hand,	any	sharp	pain,	muscle	spasm	or	numbness
is	a	warning	sign	that	you	need	to	stop	and	not	push	yourself	any	harder.	Some
muscle	groups	may	fatigue	more	quickly	because	they’re	under-trained	or	have
been	unused	for	a	while.	Every	muscle	in	your	body	will	be	taking	on	a
tremendous	amount	of	new	work	and	can	easily	fatigue.	Your	joints	and	feet	are
taking	a	lot	more	of	a
	workload	than	they’re	used	to	and	will	surely	become	sore.
If	you	feel	uncomfortable	and	can’t	run	or	exercise	anymore,	take	a	break,	walk
or	catch	your	breath	and	grab	a	sip	of	water.	If	you’re	really	beat,	light-headed	or
dizzy,	stop	immediately,	rest	and	rehydrate.	Get	medical	attention	immediately	if
those	symptoms	persist	or	you	feel	any	of	these	heart	attack	symptoms:
•
Discomfort,
	pressure,	heaviness	or	pain	in	the	chest,	arm	or	below	the	breastbone
•
Discomfort	radiating	to	the	back,	jaw,	throat	or	arm
•
Fullness,	indigestion	or	a	choking	feeling	(may	feel	like	heartburn)
•
Sweating,	nausea,	vomiting	or	dizziness
•
Extreme	weakness,	anxiety	or	shortness	of	breath
•
Rapid	or	irregular	heartbeats
MUSCLE	SORENESS
Once	you	begin	any	of	the	programs
	in	the	book,	you’ll	be	performing	it	at	your
own	pace	and	within	your	personal	level	of	fitness.	If	you’re	new	to	working	out
or	returning	to	exercise	after	some	time	off,	be	sure	to	take	your	time	and	take	it
easy	for	the	first	two	weeks	to	allow	your	muscles	to	adjust	to	the	new	workload
and	reduce	post-workout	soreness.	Delayed	onset	muscle	soreness,	or	DOMS,	is
the	soreness	you	experience
	24,	48	or	more	hours	after	pushing	a	workout	too
hard.	This	will	hamper,	limit	or	completely	sabotage	your	program.	You	have
plenty	of	time	to	get	in	the	groove	with	these	programs,	so	take	your	time	and
work	your	way	into	them!
You	can	keep	DOMS	at	bay	by	using	these	two	guidelines:
1.
Don’t	overdo	any	muscle	group,	especially	if	it	hasn’t	been	targeted	by	a

workout	in	a	while.	For
	example,	take	it	easy	on	squats,	deadlifts	and
lunges	right	off	the	bat	or	you’ll	have	quad/glute/hamstrings	that	feel	like
concrete	the	next	day.
2.
Make	sure	to	keep	active	the	day	after	a	workout	and	keep	your	muscles
loose.	No,	this	isn’t	a	workout—just	take	a	walk	or	do	jumping	jacks	to
warm	up	and	perform	some	stretches	like	the	ones	you’ll	find	on	
page
174
,	accompanied	by	activating
	the	sore	muscles	by	moving	them	through
as	full	a	range	of	motion	as	possible.
This	may	come	as	a	shock,	but	no	one’s	perfect	at	every	exercise	when	they
get	started—usually	far	from	it!	Even	after	some	practice,	you	still	won’t	be	a
pro	at	every	movement.	Some	exercises	may	come	naturally	while	others	feel
completely	foreign,	and	almost	all	exercises	take	a	long	time	to	fully	master.
Multi-joint,
	multi-muscle	movements	like	squats	are	already	complicated	and
difficult	to	master	with	just	your	body	weight;	when	you	perform	them	with
weights	or	at	high	intensity	they’re	a	much	more	demanding,	yet	rewarding,
exercise.	It’s	extremely	important	to	keep	working	on	perfecting	the	form	and
get	stronger	along	the	way.	Don’t	give	up	and	sit	out	an	exercise	if	you	can’t	do
it—make	the	investment
	in	yourself	and	learn	the	proper	form	for	each	move.
You’ll	only	reap	the	benefits.
If	you	feel	extremely	fatigued	or	have	an	uncomfortable	level	of	pain	and
soreness,	take	two	to	three	days	off	from	the	workout.	Some	muscle	fatigue	and
soreness	is	to	be	expected	and	you	can	continue	to	exercise	carefully	when
you’re	a	little	tired	or	sore.	Any	sharp	pain,	pinches	or	throbbing	aches	in	your
joints
	is	not	to	be	ignored.	If	the	discomfort	or	pain	persists,	seek	the	advice	of	a
medical	professional.	If	you	feel	any	sensation	in	a	joint	or	muscle	that	makes
you	say	“uh-oh,”	then	stop	immediately,	rest	and	assess	whether	or	not	it’s	a
serious	injury	that	needs	medical	attention.
Due	to	the	nature	of	a	full-body	workout	routine,	you’ll	be	lifting,	pushing
and	pressing	your	entire	body	weight
	along	with	the	occasional	additional
pounds	in	your	hands.	It’s	very	important	that	you	focus	on	proper	form	and
utilize	the	proper	muscles	to	complete	each	exercise.	This	means	no	cheating	by
arching	your	back	on	push-ups	or	allowing	your	knees	to	bow	in	during	squats—
you’re	only	cheating	yourself.	Every	proper-form	rep	just	gets	you	closer	to	your
goals!
If	you	have	a	pre-existing	condition
	like	joint	instability	or	a	muscular
imbalance,	make	sure	you	recognize	any	physical	limitations,	take	your	time	and
work	your	way	up	slowly	while	focusing	on	training	with	good	form.	It’s	far

more	important	to	be	careful	with	nagging	injuries	than	it	is	to	worry	about
completing	all	the	exercises	in	any	specified	amount	of	time.	Performing	the
exercises	with	proper	form	will	help	you	to	build	strength,
	flexibility	and
balance,	as	well	as	improve	your	sports	performance—but	not	if	you	ignore	the
warning	signs	and	hurt	yourself.	If	pain	or	soreness	persists,	please	see	a	medical
professional.
When	performing	any	exercise	routine	that	requires	you	to	lift,	pull	or	press
your	body	weight,	don’t	take	any	chances	with	unsafe	equipment.	In	addition,
make	sure	you’re	properly	trained	to	use	any	equipment
	before	you	
start	a
workout.	Always	be	aware	of	your	surroundings	and	make	sure	you	have	plenty
of	room	to	execute	moves	safely	without	hitting	or	tripping	over	other	objects.
ANTI-INFLAMMATORIES
It’s	been	said	that	“ibuprofen	is	an	athlete’s	best	friend,”	but	it’s	extremely	easy
to	become	too	reliant	on	“vitamin	I,”	causing	health	issues	and	even	slowing
your	body’s	natural	ability	to	heal.
	Inflammation	is	a	normal	part	of	the	healing
process	when	your	cells	essentially	attack	an	“injured”	area	by	increasing	blood
flow	to	speed	up	recovery.	The	swelling	and	pain	associated	with	inflammation
aids	in	healing,	but	also	exacerbates	the	discomfort.
During	training,	performing	the	exercises	creates	small	micro-tears	in	your
muscles.	When	running,	it	happens	with	every	single	step	you
	take.	The	harder
or	longer	you	train,	the	more	stress	is	put	on	your	muscles	and	the	more	micro-
tears	you’ll	have.	While	a	muscle	tear	sounds	like	a	bad	thing,	these	micro-tears
are	actually	good,	as	they	help	your	muscles	to	strengthen	and	grow	as	they	heal.
The	inflammatory	response	that’s	signaled	by	this	muscle	damage	causes	your
body	to	deliver	more	blood,	oxygen	and	nutrients	to	immediately
	begin	the
healing	process.	An	anti-inflammatory	(non-steroidal	anti-inflammatory	drug,	or
NSAID)	can	actually	impede	some	of	this	rapid	healing.	Furthermore,	an	over-
the-counter	anti-inflammatory	can	mask	some	of	the	symptoms	of	more	acute
muscle	strain	or	pain	that	could	be	signaling	you	to	stop	working	out	because
there’s	some	damage.	You	can’t	listen	to	your	body	if	you’re	trying	to	get	it	to
shut
	up	and	stop	nagging	you!
NSAIDs	do	have	a	positive	role	in	reducing	pain	for	short	periods	of	time	if
you	experience	something	like	a	low-grade	sprain	or	somewhat	sharp	joint	pain.
With	any	severe	pain,	see	a	doctor	immediately.	Stop	training	and	rest	for	one	to
three	days	while	following	the	prescribed	dose	on	the	NSAID’s	bottle.	After
three	days,	reduce	the	dosage	and	let	your	body	heal	itself.
	Relying	on	an	anti-

inflammatory	long-term	can	prevent	you	from	healing	and	also	potentially
damage	your	kidneys	if	taken	in	prolonged	heavy	doses.	If	you	have	any
questions,	call	your	doctor.
MIND-BODY	CONNECTION
A	fancy	phrase	used	to	describe	awareness	of	your	own	body,	muscles,
movements	and	reactions	is	“kinesthetic	awareness.”	As	we	age,	this
musculoskeletal	and	mental	connection	often
	declines,	though	hope	is	not	lost!
Kinesthetic	awareness	is	trainable,	and	by	harnessing	the	power	of	FXT,	you	can
—and	will—reconnect	with	your	body.
This	leads	to	our	next	fancy	word:	“proprioception.”	Proprioception
describes	how	your	body	reacts	and	responds	to	external	forces	to	keep	your
joints	in	the	correct	position.	When	performing	proper-form	bodyweight
movements,	nearly	all	of	your
	muscles	are	forced	to	contract	to	keep	your	joints
in	the	proper	position.
Don’t	think	this	is	a	big	deal?	Quick	test:	Stand	on	one	foot	with	your	other
foot	off	the	ground	and	close	your	eyes.	Now	just	try	to	stand	there	for	as	long	as
you	can.	You	see,	in	normal	circumstances,	we	need	vision	to	help	us	balance—
this	is	natural.	Closing	your	eyes	makes	you	need	to	be	aware	of	your	muscles,
and
	you	need	to	actually	focus	on	the	balancing,	with	only	your	muscles	reacting
to	the	way	your	body	is	positioned.	For	most	people	this	is	incredibly	difficult.
After	some	practice	you’ll	be	able	to	control	even	the	small	muscles	in	your
body.	This	added	awareness	and	control	will	help	in	all	manners	of	your	daily
life.
This	goes	for	all	movements,	from	running	to	weightlifting	to	walking.	Be
keenly
	aware	of	your	body:	feel	the	movements	and	stresses,	understand	the
muscle	firing,	feel	the	foot	landing.	The	mind-body	connection	helps	you	stop
going	through	the	motions	of	an	activity	to	feeling	it	and	understanding	what’s
happening,	catching	potential	injury	issues	early	and	ultimately	performing
better.
Overtraining
The	easiest	way	to	spot	overtraining	is	when	you’ve	trained	successfully
	for	a
while	and	suddenly	your	results	start	to	drop,	along	with	your	energy	and	desire
to	keep	on	training.	Guess	what:	This	is	your	body	telling	you	to	stop!	Too	much

of	a	good	thing	is	still	too	much,	and	overtraining	can	quickly	unravel	all	the
gains	you’ve	gotten	out	of	your	efforts	over	the	past	few	months.
Put	simply,	overtraining	is	training	too	hard	and	not	allowing	physical	and
mental
	recovery	between	workouts.	The	symptoms	manifest	as	physical,
behavioral	and	emotional	stress	that	limits	the	athlete’s	ability	to	make	progress
and	can	begin	to	diminish	any	strength	and	fitness	gains	made.	While	it’s
normally	problematic	in	weight	training,	it’s	common	in	runners	and	athletes	of
all	types	as	well.	Too	much	of	a	good	thing	is	a	bad	thing—you	can	absolutely
run	and	train	too	much
	to	your	own	detriment!
Overtraining	may	be	accompanied	by	one	or	more	concomitant	symptoms:
•
Persistent	muscle	soreness	and	fatigue
•
Elevated	resting	heart	rate	and	reduced	heart	rate	variability
•
Increased	incidence	of	injuries
•
Irritability
•
Depression
•
Irregular	sleep	patterns
•
Mental	breakdown
Note:
	We’ve	indulged	in	this	type	of	behavior.
	Not	only	have	we	both
overtrained	from	time	to	time	while	creating	new	routines	for	multiple	books,	we
even	went	so	far	as	to	support	too	much	of	one	particular	exercise	in	our	first
collaboration,	
7	Weeks	to	50	Pull-Ups
.	Now,	in	our	defense,	that	book	is	a
“challenge”	versus	a	comprehensive	training	program,	but	the	end	result	is	still
the	same—too	many	pull-ups	and	not	enough	of...well,	anything
	else.	Just
remember,	that	book	is	centered	around	a	challenge	to	complete	more	pull-ups
than	ever	before	and	not	a	full-body	regimen.	(Phew,	that	feels	good	to	get	off
our	chests.)
This	goes	to	show	that	overtraining	is	nothing	to	be	trifled	with,	and	the	best
way	to	combat	it	is	by	lowering	your	training	volume	or	upping	your	rest	and
recovery	time.	(Check	out	“Rest	&	Recovery”	on	
page	28
.)
	Here’s	our	formula
for	preventing	overtraining	and	maximizing	recovery—the	6	Rs:
RUN/TRAIN
REFUEL
RECOVER
REST
REPEAT

RE-EVALUATE
Run/Train
	three	to	five	days	a	week	based	on	your	physical	ability	and
previous	conditioning.	Beginners	should	take	every	other	day	off	or	put	in	a
relatively	light	effort	while	more	advanced	athletes	can	mix	in	one	or	two	“off
days”	per	week.
Refuel
	(immediately,
	if	not	sooner).	Follow	the	directions	(starting	on	
page
181
)	for	nutrition	before	and	after	specific	workouts	as	some	will	differ	slightly.
For	example,	after	a	hard	run	lasting	more	than	90	minutes,	drink	a	beverage	that
contains	a	4:1	carb-to-protein	ratio.	The	carbs	help	to	replace	the	glycogen	you
burned	off	for	energy	while	also	shuttling	the	protein	to	your	muscles	to	speed
recovery.	For
	muscle-gain	programs,	you’ll	be	taking	in	protein	and	carbs
before,	during	and	after	workouts	in	a	completely	different	ratio.
Recover
	with	post-workout	stretching,	foam	rolling,	an	ice	bath	(if	you’re
brave),	a	trip	to	a	steam	room,	a	dip	in	a	whirlpool	or	a	warm	tub	with	some
dissolved	Epsom	salts.	You	can	also	slip	on	compression	socks,	or	even	get	
a
full-body	deep-tissue	massage.	We	can	only
	personally	vouch	for	the	post-
workout	stretching,	foam	rolling	and	deep-tissue	massage	as	being	extremely
beneficial	to	a	faster	recovery,	but	we’ll	never	pass	up	a	chance	to	sit	in	the	hot
tub.	The	jury	is	still	out	on	compression	socks,	so	try	them	for	yourself	if	you’re
interested.
Rest
	for	at	least	eight	hours	a	night,	and	be	sure	to	use	your	off	days	as	off
days—not	time	to	sneak	in	additional
	workouts!	Get	tips	that	pro	athletes	use	for
developing	good	rest	habits	on	
page	28
.
Repeat
	as	necessary.	You	can’t	stick	with	a	program	unless	you	keep	at	it
until	it	becomes	second	nature.	By	maximizing	your	rest	and	recovery,	you	also
greatly	increase	the	odds	that	you’ll	be	ready,	willing	and	eager	to	tackle	your
next	workout.	However,	you	need	to	continually	look	for	signs	of	overtraining
	or
developing	a	nagging	injury.	It’s	your	responsibility	to	make	sure	your	body	can
handle	the	workload	and	continue.
Re-evaluate
	your	program	every	two	months.	Are	you	progressing	with	more
reps,	more	intensity	or	heavier	weights?	Are	you	reaching	your	goals	and	is	your
performance	improving?	How	do	you	look	and	feel?	Don’t	be	afraid	to	modify
your	program	based	on	your	individual	successes
	or	failures—the	only	goal	of
FXT	is	for	you	to	develop	the	fitness	you	want.	Re-evaluate	your	specific
program	and	make	changes	as	needed	to	your	workout	schedule	or	intensity;	you

might	even	switch	which	program	you’re	using.	One	note:	Modifying	your
program	does	not	mean	skipping	a	body	part	(unless	you’re	recovering	from	an
injury)	or	avoiding	an	exercise	because	it’s	not	fun.	These	are	still	workout
programs	designed	for	total-body	functional	fitness.
RHABDOMYOLYSIS
While	DOMS	from	pushing	your	workout	intensity	too	hard,	too	fast	is
uncomfortable	and	often	results	in	three	to	five	days	of	soreness	that	will	limit
nearly	all	physical	activity,	it’s	not	life	threatening.	Rhabdomyolysis,	on	the
other	hand,	is	extremely	severe	and	can	result	in	long-term	muscle	damage,
kidney	failure	and	death.
	Yes,	you	read	that	right:	An	extremely	intense	workout
can	actually	kill	you	if	you	push	your	muscles	past	their	limit	for	expansion	and
contraction	(usually	rapidly)	and	inflict	damage	to	the	muscle	fibers,	causing
muscle	cells	to	disintegrate,	releasing	the	waste	product	from	those	cells	into
your	bloodstream.	Immediately,	your	liver	will	start	trying	to	clean	your	blood
and,	when	it	becomes
	overwhelmed,	it	can	cause	renal	failure.
Throw	the	phrase	and	underlying	theory	“No	Pain,	No	Gain”	out	the	window
—too	much	pain	can	destroy	the	exact	muscles	you’re	trying	to	grow,	and	much
worse.	All	of	the	programs	in	this	book	have	been	designed	to	work	within	the
normal	parameters	of	average	athletes;	you	control	the	intensity,	number	of	reps
and	heaviness	of	weights	used	in	your	own	program.
	While	there’s	no	specific
threshold	for	all	individuals	where	muscles	are	taxed	beyond	their	ability	to
continue	to	function	and	break	down,	it’s	generally	limited	to	several	dozen
repeated	exercises	that	continue	well	past	muscle	exhaustion.	While	we
encourage	you	to	push	through	your	barriers	for	speed,	endurance,	muscle
growth,	strength,	and	athletic	performance,	we’re	not	encouraging	you
	to	do	it
with	reckless	abandon.
Follow	the	guidelines	for	each	workout	as	best	as	you	can,	depending	on
your	own	existing	athletic	ability.	It’s	much	better	to	perform	a	slow,	controlled
workout	than	it	is	to	rush	through	just	to	beat	a	specific	time.	Slow,	gradual
progress	is	far	more	beneficial	than	a	short-term	gain	that	results	in	an	injury.

Rest	&	Recovery
When	do	your	muscles	grow?	In	or	outside	the	gym?	It’s	an	easy	question	to
answer,	but	harder	to	put	into	practice.	Your	muscles	grow	when	you’re	not	in
the	gym.	Technically	they	mostly	repair	themselves	when	you’re	sleeping,	so
take	naps,	get	eight	hours	of	sleep	a	night	and	make	sure	you	get	adequate	rest
between	workouts.
The	programs	will	call	for	four	workout	days	and	three
	rest	days.	USE	ALL
THE	REST	DAYS!	Don’t	be	tempted	to	“just	work	out	a	little”	on	those	days.
Give	your	body	time	to	heal.	We’re	going	to	be	throwing	quite	a	bit	at	you	pretty
quickly.	Take	advantage	of	all	the	time	off	allotted.	Each	program	features	a
different	exercise	and	rest	schedule,	and	you	need	to	follow	the	proper	rest	and
recovery	just	as	diligently	as	you	follow	the	workout	regimen!
	Not	only	will	you
be	at	risk	of	overtraining	or	a	repetitive	stress	injury,	you	won’t	be	giving	your
muscles	time	to	heal	and	grow	properly.
Here	are	some	tips	to	keep	in	mind:
	
•
Get	at	least	eight	hours	of	sleep	every
night.	This	includes	weekends	too.	Your	circadian	rhythms	are	easily	knocked
off-balance	by	late-night	partying	(or	book	writing).
•
Minimize	any	exercise	or	activity
	within	one	hour	of	bed.	By	the	time	you	hop	into	the	sack,	your	heart
rate	should	be	at	a	resting	level.
•
Turn	off	your	electronic	devices.	Living	rooms	are	for	TVs,	bedrooms	are	(mostly)	for	sleep.	Leave
your	mobile	device,	laptop	or	tablet	in	the	other	room;	lit-up	screens	have	been	shown	to	disrupt	early
sleep	patterns	and	keep	you	from	falling	asleep	quickly.	Falling	asleep	with	the
	TV	on	generally	means
you’ll	stay	up	far	later	than	you	intended	and	only	nod	off	when	the	infomercials	start	airing,	right?
•
Turn	off	your	brain	too.	Your	bedroom	should	be	a	peaceful,	relaxing	sanctuary	where	you	sleep	and
escape	from	all	your	stresses.	Worrying	does	not	promote	a	restful	state,	and	you	most	likely	won’t	fix
your	issues	while	you’re	in	bed.	Maximize	your	mattress-time
	effectively	by	getting	quality	sleep.
•
Set	the	scene	for	rest.	Keep	your	room	dark	with	heavy	curtains	to	block	as	much	light	as	possible	and
use	a	fan	or	noise	machine	to	provide	a	soothing	sound	to	lull	you	to	sleep.
•
Fuel	your	body	to	build	muscle	during	sleepytime.	Protein	provides	the	critical	amino	acids	that	serve
as	building	blocks	for	the	formation	of	new	muscle.	Casein
	and	whey	are	the	two	non-soy	protein
powders	you’ll	find	at	nearly	any	grocery	or	health-food	store.	While	whey	is	metabolized	quickly	and
should	be	taken	immediately	after	a	workout,	casein	protein	is	metabolized	slowly	and	perfect	for
keeping	your	body	anabolic	while	you’re	asleep.

Learning	&	Using	Proper	Form
How	important	is	using	proper	form	when	performing	an	exercise?	Let’s	just	say
it’s	not	important	at	all—if	you	want	to	derail	your	workout	by	pulling	a	muscle,
tearing	a	ligament,	breaking	a	bone	or	any	number	of	bad	outcomes.	Not	only	is
there	the	vastly	increased	potential	of	you	really	hurting	yourself,	you’ll	also	be
getting	less	benefit	from	the	workout.
Let’s
	think	about	this	logically:	Why	would	you	bother	to	move	around
heavy	weights	or	perform	numerous	bodyweight	exercises	while	risking	injury
and	get	virtually	no	benefit	after	all	that	time,	sweat	and	hard	work?	If	you’re
working	out	with	improper	form,	that’s	exactly	what	you’re	setting	yourself	up
for.
What	Is	“Proper	Form”?
Every	single	movement	has	what	can	be	described	as	“optimal”	form,	when	the
body’s	musculoskeletal	system	is	aligned	in	such	a	way	to	most	efficiently
support	itself,	move	a	specified	range	of	motion	or	transport	weight	from	one
position	to	another.	In	the	simplest	of	terms,	proper	form	can	be	seen	as	a	scale
with	“optimal	form”	at	one	end	of	a	continuum	and	“dangerously
	poor	form”	at
the	other.	Proper	form	is	as	close	to	optimal	as	possible,	and	without	hesitation
we	can	say	that	no	one	uses	optimal	form	all	the	time	for	every	exercise.	Now,
that’s	not	to	say	that	optimal	isn’t	the	end	goal	of	exhaustive	practice	and
training,	and	the	closer	you	get	to	this	pinnacle	the	more	you’ll	reap	the	benefits

of	proprioception,	strength,	flexibility,	speed,	lean	muscle
	definition,	endurance
and	every	other	fitness	goal.
In	reality,	we	all	need	to	learn	the	basics	of	proper	form	for	each	exercise	and
build	up	to	executing	each	with	as	few	flaws	as	possible	as	we	progress	to
become	better	athletes.	You	should	strive	for	perfection	while	understanding	that
good/proper	form	is	the	baseline	you	should	employ	to	execute	each	movement.
Of	course,	there’s	not	one
	universal	measure	of	proper	form	for	every
movement	(that’d	be	too	easy,	right?).	Each	exercise	has	its	own	specific	body
position,	range	of	motion,	balance	and	alignment	points	that	dictate	proper	form
for	that	exercise	only.	Note	that	there	are	plenty	of	similar	exercises	(some	even
with	the	same	name!)	that	require	significantly	different	elements	of	form.
Below	are	some	very	good	examples
	of	the	different	variations	of	the
weighted	squat.	Though	they’re	all	squats,	they	require	very	specific—and
different—movement	and	form,	target	muscles,	range	of	motion,	weights,	
etc.
As	you	can	see,	the	name	“squat”	refers	to	the	vertical	movement	and
stabilization	and	lifting	of	weights	(body	weight,	barbell,	dumbbell,	etc.)	but
each	movement	has	different	body	positions	to	target	different
	muscles	through
modified	plans	of	motion.	One	singular	squat	definition	does	not	do	any	of	the
variations	justice.	Naturally,	proper	form	for	each	of	these	moves	is	unique	and
needs	to	be	learned	and	repeatedly	practiced.
The	bottom	line	is	you’ll	need	to	take	many	movements,	if	not	all	of	them,
step	by	step	with	the	descriptions	(see	Turkish	Get-Up	on	
page	136
	for	a	great
example	of	this)	and
	employ	a	mirror	or	a	workout	partner	to	check	your	body
position	to	make	sure	you’re	getting	all	the	benefit	of	each	exercise	while	also
limiting	your	exposure	to	injury	from	improper	and	dangerous	movements.
TIP:
	Gym	reconnaissance	is	used	by	many,	but	sometimes	it’s	a
recipe	for	disaster.	Just	because	that	gal	over	there	with	the
amazing	abs	does	her	medicine	ball	wood	chop	that	way	doesn’t
mean	her	form	is	perfect.	Do	some	research	online	or	pick	up	a
book	and	make	sure	you	know	what	you’re	doing	before	you
adopt	her	style.	On	the	flip	side,	if	you	see	someone	absolutely
struggling	and	making	the	exercise	look	more	like	a	battle	than	a
movement,	you	should	probably	not	adopt	his	style.	Even	difficult
exercises	should	be	controlled,	normally	fluid	motions.

What	Does	Proper	Form
	Look	Like	to	You?
No	matter	how	well	we’re	trained,	each	of	us	has	some	certain	nuances	to	our
form	that	may	be	suboptimal.	Whether	they’re	bad	habits	or	muscular
imbalances,	they	can	be	robbing	you	of	potential	strength,	muscle	and	fitness
gains,	reinforcing	the	imbalances	in	your	musculature	or	even	setting	you	up	for
injury.	The	best	option	would	be	to	work	with	a	partner	(preferably	a	certified
trainer)	who	understands	proper	form	and	can	guide	you	through	exercises	and
give	you	tips	to	keep	you	on	the	proper	planes	and	let	you	know	when	your	form
is	failing.	If	that’s	not	an	option,	set	up	a	video	camera	or	your	smartphone	to
film	2–3	reps	with	a	weight	you	can	lift	comfortably	more	than	5	times—too
light	and	you	may	be	masking	some	poor	form	by	muscling	up	an	easy	weight;
too	heavy
	and	you	may	hurt	yourself.
Once	you’ve	worked	through	your	form,	it	helps	to	remember	what	the
proper	motion	feels	like	by	repeated	practice	and	developing	muscle	memory.
Here	are	some	tips	that	help	remind	us	to	continually	focus	on	perfecting	our
form.
Jason:
	Where	do	you	put	your	hands	on	the	bar	when	you	bench	press?
Outside	the	lines?	Middle	finger	on	the	line?	Pinky?	How	about	several
	inches
inside	the	lines?	Which	one	is	“right”?	Instead	of	thinking	about	hand
placement,	try	thinking	this:	“I	want	a	long,	healthy,	pain-free	life.	How	can	I
make	sure	I	maximize	my	gains	while	minimizing	pains?”	I	used	to	put	my
hands	outside	the	lines	as	I	felt	it	really	focused	the	tension	in	my	chest.	As	the
weight	got	heavier	(remember,	muscle	grows	faster	than	ligaments	and	tendons),
little
	muscle	tweaks	and	dull	joint	pains	started.	I	quickly	realized	it	wasn’t
sustainable.	Over	the	past	few	years	I’ve	taken	a	completely	new	approach	to	my
form.	As	an	example,	I	now	take	a	much	narrower	grip	with	the	flat-bar	bench
press:	my	hands	are	shoulder	width	(pinkies	on	outsides	of	shoulders),	elbows
tucked	(NO	FLAILING	ELBOWS!).	I	also	pause	at	the	top	with	straight	arms.
Think	of	it	as	in
	between	a	narrow-grip	and	wide-grip	bench	press.	Though	it
may	sacrifice	both	weight	on	the	bar	and	muscle	isolation,	I	can	lift	more	pain
free	and	for	the	long	term.	I’ve	found	this	is	much	
more	sustainable	and,	frankly,
enjoyable.	I’m	in	this	for	the	long	haul	and	don’t	need	to	blow	out	an	elbow
doing	something	that	clearly	isn’t	working.
Brett:
	Even	after	all	my	training	with	Jason	to	learn
	all	the	movements	for	
7
Weeks	to	10	Pounds	of	Muscle
	and	working	through	every	exercise	over	a	multi-
month	test	period,	I	was	surprised	to	get	feedback	from	a	fellow	trainer	during	a

workout.	Frank	Sole	(a	collaborator	on	
7	Weeks	to	a	Triathlon
)	walked	over
during	my	final	set	of	squat	cleans	and	asked	me	what	the	heck	I	was	doing	with
my	head.	My	leg,	back	and	arm	position	was	great	(according
	to	him)	but	he
couldn’t	figure	out	why	I	was	looking	straight	down	at	the	floor	instead	of
keeping	my	neck	relaxed	and	eyes	level.	Apparently,	I	was	focusing	so	much	on
looking	at	the	bar	to	make	sure	I	was	doing	the	lift	right,	I	was	putting	my	neck
in	a	stressed	position...and	for	the	past	few	weeks	I	thought	my	pillow	was	the
cause	of	my	stiff	necks	each	morning!

Some	Dangers	of	Bad	Form
We’ve	already	warned	you	that	you’re	risking	injury	to	muscles,	joints	or
tendons	by	lifting	heavy	weights	or	performing	multiple	repetitions	using	poor
form,	but	there	are	some	other	factors	that	may	make	you	think	twice	about
perfecting	your	body	position	and	movement	for	each	exercise.
Bad	form	results	in	bad	results.
	You	won’t	be	targeting	the	proper	muscles
that	the	exercise	or	program	is
	designated	for	if	your	form	is	off.	For	example,
the	angle	of	your	torso	when	lifting	a	weight	makes	all	the	difference	between,
say,	an	incline	chest	press,	which	develops	your	pectoral	muscles,	and	a	front
shoulder	press,	which	works	your	deltoids.
Bad	form	results	in	injury.
	No	surprise	here.	When	you	put	your	body	in	an
awkward	position	(more	on	that	below),	you’re	more	prone	to	pulling,
	tearing	or
breaking	things	that	have	no	business	being	incorporated	into	that	movement.
For	example,	performing	squats	with	your	knees	bowed	inward	more	often	than
not	results	in	knee	strain,	pain	and	even	meniscus	damage.
Bad	form	results	in	you	looking	like	an	idiot.
	Let’s	just	be	honest—anyone
who	falls	off	a	ball	is	going	to	illicit	a	snicker	from	even	their	closest	friends	and
workout	partners—not
	to	mention	the	rest	of	the	gym	faithful!	(Of	course,	that’s
as	long	as	you	don’t	get	hurt;	no	one	should	ever	laugh	about	that.)	All	kidding
aside,	it’s	acceptable	to	struggle	with	a	new	and	difficult	exercise	until	you	get	it
right,	especially	when	it’s	a	challenging	unbalanced	movement.	It’s	another	thing
altogether	when	you	watch	someone	struggling	through	an	exercise	with	too
heavy
	a	weight	or	with	really	bad	form.	Unfortunately,	unless	someone	corrects
them	or	they	do	a	little	online	or	written	research	or	“gym	reconnaissance,”
they’ll	stick	to	the	same	improper	form	and	wind	up	a	candidate	for	one	of	the
top	two	bullet	points	above.

What’s	Your	Motivation?
Let’s	face	it—some	days	we	all	feel	like	we	need	a	good	reason	just	to	get	out	of
bed	in	the	morning.	We	have	a	great	gig	writing	books	and	training	some
awesome	folks,	but	there	are	plenty	of	times	when	we’d	like	to	smash	the	alarm
and	bury	our	heads	under	the	covers.	Workouts	are	the	same	way	for	most
people—if	they	can	think	of	any	reason	to	skip	it,	they	probably	will.
We’ll	admit	to	missing	our	share	of	workouts,	but	it	never	seems	to	be	worth
it:	when	we	skip	one,	we	just	ending	up	paying	for	it	later	with	a	subpar
performance	at	a	race	or	during	a	game,	or	even	feeling	miserable	because	we
feel	like	we’ve	let	ourselves	down.	Usually	the	penalty	is	worse	and	lasts	longer
than	the	workout	would’ve	anyway.	Brett’s	wife	can	always	tell	when	he’s
cranky	and	has
	even	thrown	him	out	of	the	house	to	go	for	a	run	and	cheer	up—
and	it	actually	works!
Ninety-nine	percent	of	the	time,	we	feel	like	superheroes	after	a	good
workout.	Our	endorphins	are	all	cranked	and	we	feel	absolutely	bulletproof.	If
we	could	bottle	that	experience	we’d	be	millionaires...	but	more	importantly,	if
we	just	remind	ourselves	how	great	we’ll	feel	when	we’re	done	with	the	training,
it	makes	it	that	much	easier	to	get	psyched	up	for	it.	The	remaining	1	percent	of
the	time	we	either	forgot	our	gym	shoes	or	something.	It	happens	to	all	of	us.
Often	misattributed	to	Beethoven,	Ignacy	Paderewski	mused,	“If	I	miss	one
day	of	practice,	I	notice	it.	If	I	miss	two	days,	the	critics	notice	it.	If	I	miss	three
days,	the	audience	notices	it.”	Fitness	is	similar	yet	not	exactly	the
	same	as	a
world-renowned	musician	skipping	out	on	hours	of	playing	scales.	We	all	miss
workouts,	that’s	a	given;	the	goal	is	to	find	your	motivation	and	make	it	to	far
more	than	you	miss.
The	bottom	line	with	motivation	is	that	you’ll	never	get	through	any	life
change	without	it.	You	need	to	be	motivated	to	change	jobs,	try	a	new	restaurant,
even	brush	your	teeth.	Some	motivation	is	easier	(and
	smellier)	than	others,	but
every	modification	to	your	course	of	action	requires	you	have	the	incentive	to
give	it	a	shot	and	the	follow-through	to	stick	with	it.
Here	we	introduce	what	we	like	to	refer	to	as	the	“ass-ivation”	scale,
progressive	levels	of	motivation,	from	getting	active	through	developing	athletic
performance:
Get	off	your	ass-ivation:
	This	is	the	most	common	motivation	with

individuals	as	they	become	more	sedentary.	It	will	usually	involve	an	epiphany
after	finishing	off	a	bag	of	chips	on	the	couch	or	just	not	fitting	into	your	favorite
jeans	anymore.	No	matter	what	Mick	Jagger	sang	back	in	1964,	time	is	not	on
our	side,	and	every	day,	month	or	year	you	spend	inactive,	you’re	gaining
weight,	losing	athletic	ability,	stamina	and	cardiovascular	fitness	and	letting	your
body	go	to	pot.
Lose	my	ass-ivation:
	This	is	weight	loss	and	toning,	usually	for	a	life	event
like	a	wedding,	beach	vacation,	class	reunion	or	newfound	single	status	that
forces	you	to	look	somewhat	presentable	to	others.	“Boot	camps”	are	really
popular	with	this	group	because	people	are	usually	looking	for	immediate
results.
Kick	some	ass-ivation:
	This	involves	athletic	improvement	or	sport-specific
training	for	an	upcoming	season	or	events.	Speed,	core	strength,	endurance	and
flexibility	are	a	common	focus	for	most	sports	that	involve	getting	from	point	A
to	point	B	as	rapidly	as	possible,	especially	athletic	endeavors	where	you	repeat
that	over	and	over	(e.g.,	soccer,	football,	baseball,	paintball,	etc.).
Now,	these	top-three	“ass-ivation”	goals	aren’t	mutually	exclusive.	You	can
lose
	weight,	get	healthy,	improve	your	athletic	ability	and	develop	a	fantastic
physique	all	at	the	same	time.	Heck,	that’s	what	FXT	is	based	upon!	Using	the
“What	Are	Your	Real	Goals”	section	(
page	34
),	you	can	begin	your	preparation
and	kick	your	plan	into	gear.

PART	2:	PROGRAMS

Getting	Started
“If	you	don’t	know	where	you’re	going,	you	might	end	up	someplace	else.”
	—
Yoga	Berra
	
Here’s	where	the	revolutionary	program	for	developing	a	toned,
muscular	body	while	maximizing	athletic	ability	comes	into	play:	We’ve	created
simple-to-follow,	amazingly	effective,	goal-driven	fitness	plans	for	every
individual	regardless	of	age,	weight	or	current	physical	ability.	In	other	words:
FOR	YOU.	Here’s	where	the	rubber	meets	the	road,	and	we	define	each	of	the
goals	and	your	weekly	points.
What	Are	Your	REAL	Goals?
The	single	most-important	thing	to	getting	results	you’ll	be	happy	with	is
actually	understanding	what	you	want	to	achieve.	What	is	your	actual	goal?
Nothing	else	matters.	Do	you	want	to	look	like	a	cover	model?	Be	honest,	say	so
and	understand	that	your	program
	and	diet	will	differ	from	your
neighbor/partner/friend	who	wants	to	run	a	marathon.	Do	you	want	to	deadlift
500	pounds?	Do	you	want	to	lose	body	fat?	Do	you	want	something	you	and
your	family	can	do	together?
Want	to	know	something	awesome	about	goals?	They’re	liberating.	Having	a
goal	frees	you	from	worrying	that	you	aren’t	doing	something	right,	or	you
should	be	doing	something	else	or	more
	or	slightly	different.	Having	the	goal
allows	you	to	be	prepared	to	understand	what’s	pertinent	to	your	goal	and	what’s
not.	Having	the	goal	will	give	you	a	framework	in	which	to	view	the	rest	of	this
book	and	see	what	applies	to	your	goal	and	what	doesn’t.
Conversely,	NOT	having	a	goal	is	chaotic.	We’re	going	to	provide	too	much
information	too	quickly	over	a	broad	range	of	topics.	All	this
	information	does
not	apply	to	every	goal.	Being	firmly	rooted	in	your	goal	allows	you	to	filter
information.
Set	a	goal.	Now.	Stop	reading	and	walk	around.	Think	about	it	critically.
What	do	you	want	to	achieve?	What	are	you	looking	to	do	next?	When	you
picture	yourself	a	year	from	now,	what	is	Future	You	doing	that	makes	you	the
happiest?	What	do	You	look	like?
This	is	where	the	fun	starts.
	Have	your	goal?	Great.	Now	what’s	your	REAL
goal?	Think	of	it	this	way.	If	someone	tells	us	they	want	to	have	a	six-pack,	we

know	immediately	that	their	real	goal	is	to	lose	body	fat.	Everyone	has	a	six-
pack,	but	not	everyone	is	lean	enough	for	it	to	be	seen!	Conversely,	if	someone
tells	us	they	want	to	look	like	a	cover	model/action-movie	star,	we	know	the	goal
is	more	complex.	They’ll	likely	need
	to	gain	muscle	and	later	lose	body	fat	to
show	off	the	new	muscle.	Similarly,	someone	who	says	their	goal	is	to	run	a
marathon	has	a	real	goal	of	building	endurance,	leg	strength,	likely	losing	weight
and	preventing	injury.
Real	goals	are	the	basis	for	achieving	your	goals.	It’s	equal	parts
understanding,	honesty	and	fortitude.	You’ll	need	to	understand	what	it	takes	in
both	nutrition	and	workouts.
	(We’ll	provide	this	in	later	chapters.)	You’ll	also
need	to	be	honest	in	all	phases	of	the	game.	Be	honest	with	yourself	about	your
REAL	goal	(you’re	only	cheating	yourself	otherwise),	your	ability	to	adhere	to
the	diet,	your	ability	to	adhere	to	the	workouts	required	and	your	ability	to	stick
to	timelines.	Last,	but	without	doubt	the	most	important,	thing	is	fortitude	to	see
it	through.
We	can
	guarantee	very	few	things,	but	one	of	them	is	that	at	some	point
you’ll	want	to	quit	or	cheat	or	think	you’re	making	progress	and	stop.	You	need
mental	fortitude	to	push	past	this	and	keep	going.	Those	moments	are	the	most
critical	to	your	long-term	success.	In	the	beginning,	those	moments	are	likely
few	and	far	between	as	you’re	excited	about	something	new	and	can	picture	it.
The	challenge	comes
	later	when	you	hit	your	first	wall	or	stall.	Don’t	stop.
Never	stop.	These	are	the	moments	when	dreams	are	tested	and	goals	are
shattered.	Keep	going,	
push	through,	dig	deeper,	find	the	inspiration	and
motivation.	When	you	look	back	a	year	or	two	from	that	moment,	you’ll	either
be	happier	and	healthier	or	you’ll	be	in	the	same	rut	you	are	now.	Progress	is
always	moving	forward.
DECODING	YOUR
	REAL	GOALS
Now	that	we’ve	talked	about	goals	and	REAL	goals,	it’s	time	to	decode	your
REAL	goal	into	a	plan.	We’ll	provide	the	tools	and	framework	for	the	plan,
though	only	you	can	know	your	individual	REAL	goal	to	put	the	plan	into
action.
Here	are	quick	sample	templates	to	decode	your	REAL	goal.	It’s	strongly
encouraged	you	do	this	exercise	with	pen	and	paper.
SAMPLE	1

You	say:
	“I’m	a	45-year-old
	guy	with	a	beer	gut	who	wants	to	lose	25	pounds
and	run	a	5K	in	six	months.”
You	mean:
•
45-year-old	male	(required	for	assessing	BMR,	THR,	BMI)
	
•
Out	of	shape	(good	for	determining
program	level)
	
•
25+	pounds	overweight	(specific,	measurable	goal)
	
•
Run	a	5K	(specific,	measurable
goal)
	
•
6	months	(specific,	measurable	time	frame)
	
How	you’ll	get	there:
Step	1:
	Assessments
•
Visit	your	doctor	and	make	sure	you’re	physically	ready	to	participate	in	a	fitness	routine	(see	
page	23
).
•
Measure	your	BMI,	BMR,	THR,	
etc.
	(see	
page	186
).
•
Test	your	physical	ability,	range	of	motion,	cardiovascular	conditioning,	strength,	
etc.
	(see	
page	42
).
Step	2:	The	Program
Depending	on	the	results	of	your	test	above,	you’ll	either	follow	FXT:PX1	on
page	52
	or	jump	right	into	FXT:FIT	(
page	59
)	for	8	weeks	and	follow	that	up
with	FXT:SXP	(Speed	&	Performance,	
page	75
)	or	possibly	FXT:EXP
(Endurance	&	Long-Distance	Performance,	
page	96
).	Six	months	provides
ample	time	for	three	8-week	programs!
Step	3:	Create	your	future.
•
Learn	how	each	of	the	FXT	programs	can	be	used	to	build	a	comprehensive,	easy-to-follow,	lifelong
regimen	to	develop	and
	maintain	optimal	fitness.
•
Understand	off-season,	building,	conditioning	and	strengthening,	and	how	they	all	fit	together.
•
Re-evaluate	your	progress	and	goals;	change	programs,	weights,	duration	or	intensity.
•
Have	an	active	life.	Seriously—functional	fitness	means	very	little	if	you’re	not	using	it	by	playing,
hiking,	biking,	jogging,	swimming	or	just	being	active.
SAMPLE
	2
You	say:
	“I’m	a	35-year-old	new	mom.	I	want	to	get	back	to	my	pre-baby	weight
and	tone	up	a	bit	in	the	process.”
You	mean:
•
35-year-old	female	(required	for	assessing	BMR,	THR,	BMI)
	
•
Baby	weight	from	pregnancy
	
Note:
This	goal	lacks	specificity.	A	rephrasing	of	this	to	be	more	achievable	would	be	“I’m	a	35-year-old	new
mom.	I	want	to	get	back	to	my	pre-baby	weight	of	135	pounds,
	but	this	time	want	to	be	more	toned.	I’d
like	to	be	the	same	weight	(135	pounds)	but	20–22%	body	fat.”
How	you’ll	get	there:
Step	1:	Assessments

•
Visit	your	doctor	and	make	sure	you’re	physically	ready	to	participate	in	a	fitness	routine	(see	
page	23
).
•
Measure	your	BMI,	BMR,	THR,	
etc.
	(see	
page	186
).
•
Test	your	physical	ability,	range	of	motion,	cardiovascular	conditioning,
	strength,	
etc.
	(see	
page	42
).
Step	2:	The	Program
Based	on	the	results	of	your	assessment	fitness	test,	you	may	start	with	FXT:PX1
on	
page	52
	or	choose	FXT:FIT,	FXT:SXP	or	any	of	the	other	programs	that	suits
your	long-term	goals.
Step	3:	Create	your	future.
•
Learn	how	each	of	the	FXT	programs	can	be	used	to	build	a	comprehensive,	easy-to-follow,	lifelong
regimen	to	develop	and	maintain
	optimal	fitness.
•
Determine	baseline	numbers	(body	fat	to	measure).
•
Understand	how	to	build	muscle	while	losing	body	fat.
•
Map	and	plan	your	future	month	by	month	for	your	time	goals.
•
Measure	and	track	on	a	regular	basis	to	make	sure	you’re	progressing.
•
Re-evaluate	your	progress	and	goals;	change	programs,	weights,	duration	or	intensity.
•
Have	an	active
	life	with	your	family!	Enjoy	your	newfound	fitness	by	playing,	hiking,	biking,	jogging,
swimming	or	just	being	active,	and	motivating	family	members	to	do	the	same	thing.
SAMPLE	3
You	say:
	“I’m	a	25-year-old	skinny	guy	who	wants	to	build	muscle	and	look	like
a	cover	model.”
You	mean:
•
25-year-old	male	(required	for	assessing	BMR,	THR,	BMI)
	
•
Underweight,	little	muscle	mass,	low
strength	(good	for	determining	program	level)
	
Note:
	This	goal	lacks	specificity.	A	rephrasing	of	this	to
be	more	achievable	would	be	“I’m	a	25-year-old	skinny	guy	who	wants	to	add	15	pounds	of	muscle
and	have	12%	(or	less)	body	fat	by	the	time	I	am	27	years	old.”
This	new	goal	means:
•
25-year-old	male	(required	for	assessing	BMR,	THR,	BMI)
	
•
Underweight,	little	muscle	mass,	low
strength	(good	for	determining	program	level)
	
•
15	pounds	of	muscle	(specific,	measurable	goal)
	
•
12
%	(or	less)	body	fat	(specific,	measurable	goal)
	
•
27th	birthday	(specific,	measurable	time	frame)
	
How
you’ll	get	there:
Step	1:	Assessments
•
Visit	your	doctor	and	make	sure	you’re	physically	ready	to	participate	in	a	fitness	routine	(see	
page	23
).
•
Measure	your
	BMI,	BMR,	THR,	
etc.
	(see	
page	186
).

•
Test	your	physical	ability,	range	of	motion,	cardiovascular	conditioning,	strength,	
etc.
	(see	
page	42
).
Step	2:	The	Program
Based	on	the	results	of	the	test	above,	you	may	be	ready	to	jump	right	into	the
FXT:MX1	program	(
page	117
)	or	spend	a	little	time	getting	ready	with
FXT:PX1	on	
page	52
.
Step	3:	Create	your	future.
•
Learn	about	muscle-building
	workouts	and	nutrition.
•
Determine	baseline	numbers	(body	fat	to	measure,	strength	to	track	gym	progress).
•
Understand	what	causes	muscles	to	grow	while	minimizing	fat	gain.
•
Map	and	plan	your	future	month	by	month	for	your	time	goals.
•
Re-evaluate	your	progress	and	goals;	change	programs,	weights,	duration	or	intensity.
SAMPLE	4
You	say:
	“I’m	an	18-year-old	college
	football	freshman	who	wants	to	improve
overall	strength,	lose	weight	to	10%	body	fat	and	improve	my	40-yard	dash	time
from	4.9	seconds	to	4.7	seconds	for	summer	training	camp,	which	is	six	months
away.”
You	mean:
•
18-year-old	male	(required	for	assessing	BMR,	THR,	BMI)
	
•
Athletic,	lean	and	fast	(good	for
determining	program	level)
	
Note:
	This	goal	lacks	one	vital	piece	of	information:
	starting	weight	and
body	fat.	It	can	be	inferred	from	a	4.9-second	40-yard	dash	that	you’re	a	conditioned	athlete,	but	you
could	conceivably	be	as	high	as	20%	body	fat.
This	new	goal	means:
•
18-year-old	male	(required	for	assessing	BMR,	THR,	BMI)
	
•
Add	strength	(good	to	know	strength
focus	vs.	muscle	size)
	
•
4.7-second	40-yard	dash	(specific,	measurable	goal)
	
•
10%	body
	fat	(specific,
measurable	goal)
	
•
6	months	(specific,	measurable	time	frame)
	
How	you’ll	get	there:
Step	1:	Assessments
•
Visit	your	doctor	and	make	sure	you’re	physically	ready	to	participate	in	a	fitness	routine	(see	
page	23
).
•
Measure	your	BMI,	BMR,	THR,	
etc.
	(see	
page	186
).
•
Test	your	physical	ability,	range	of	motion,	cardiovascular	conditioning,	strength,	
etc.
	(see	
page	42
).
Step	2:	The	Programs
Based	on	the	“athletic,	fast	and	lean”	description	above,	you	can	make	the	jump

right	into	FXT:FIT	for	eight	weeks	and	follow	that	up	with	FXT:SXP	Speed	&
Performance.	From	there,	you	can	re-evaluate	whether	to	repeat	FXT:FIT	or
FXT:SXP	with	higher	intensity	to	hit	your	goals.	Six	months	is	ample	time	for
three	8-week	programs.
Step	3:	Create	your	future.
•
Learn	about	strength	and	explosive	conditioning	as	well	as	proper	nutrition	to	fuel	gains	while	losing
fat.
•
Determine	baseline	numbers	(body	fat	to	measure,	strength	to	track	gym	progress).
•
Understand	what	causes	muscles	to	grow	vs.	strength	to	increase	while	minimizing	fat	gain.
•
Map	and	plan	your	future	month	by	month	for	your	time	goals.
•
Measure	and	track
	on	a	regular	basis	to	make	sure	you’re	progressing.
•
Re-evaluate	your	progress	and	goals;	change	programs,	weights,	duration	or	intensity.
SAMPLE	5
You	say:
	“I	need	to	get	in	shape.	I’m	[insert	age	here]	and	[insert	number	of
pounds	here]	overweight	and	I’m	sick	and	tired	of	being	sick	and	tired	when	it
comes	to	my	fitness.	Help!”
You	mean:
•
“I	have	no	idea	how	to	get	into	shape.”
•
“I	need	help!”
•
“HELP	ME!”
What	this	goal	lacks	in	specificity	it	makes	up	for	in	honesty.	More	often
than	not	we’ve	all	felt	lost	and	needed	help	and	guidance	from	others	to	make	a
change	in	our	lifestyle	that	will	benefit	us	greatly	over	time.	Often,	it’s	extremely
difficult	to	reach	out	for	help	and	to	make	the	sometimes-difficult	decisions	to
get	started.	Once	the	barriers	come
	down	and	egos	are	pushed	aside,	aspiring
athletes	are	met	with	a	ton	of	contradictory	information	on	what’s	the	“best”	plan
for	them	and	they	get	lost	in	the	mix	and	end	up	worse	off	than	where	they
started.	Well,	that’s	not	happening	here.
This	new	goal	means:
•
Show	me	a	step-by-step	exercise	and	nutrition	routine	so	I	can	slowly	transform	my	life.	Period.
How	you’ll	get	there:

Step
	1:	Assessments
•
Visit	your	doctor	and	make	sure	you’re	physically	ready	to	participate	in	a	fitness	routine	(see	
page	23
).
•
Accept	the	realization	that	there’s	no	such	thing	as	a	quick-fix	diet/pill/miracle	cure	that	can	transform
your	body	composition,	fitness	level	or	life.
Step	2:	The	Program(s)
•
Start	with	FXT:PX1	on	
page	52
.
•
Follow	the	nutritional	guidelines
	on	
page	178
	in	conjunction	with	the	program.
•
Take	your	time	and	work	through	the	program,	progressing	at	your	own	level.	You’ve	started	on	a	plan
that	will	help	you	make	the	changes	to	adapt	your	lifestyle	to	fitness,	or	fitness	to	your	lifestyle.	It	only
takes	a	series	of	small	changes	over	time	to	have	a	profound	and	lasting	impact	on	your	health	and
well-being.
Step	3:	Create	your
	future.
•
Re-evaluate	your	long-term	goals.
•
Measure	your	BMI,	BMR,	THR,	
etc.
	(see	
page	186
).
•
Test	your	physical	ability,	range	of	motion,	cardiovascular	conditioning,	strength,	
etc.
	(see	
page	42
).
•
Pick	a	program	that	suits	your	goals	and	get	to	work!
Goals	are	great.	As	we	said	earlier,	they	give	you	a	framework	to	filter
information	and	map	your	own	programs	to
	your	individual	needs.	FXT	is	about
providing	a	way	for	people,	no	matter	their	starting	points,	to	locate	pathways	to
achieve	their	goals.
Now	it’s	your	turn	to	say	your	goal	out	loud.	Take	some	time	and	determine
your	REAL	goal.	Know	it	inside	and	out.	Be	honest	with	yourself.	Feel	your
future,	see	yourself	six	months	or	a	year	from	now	and	visualize	that	you’ve
achieved	or	are	on	your	way
	to	achieving	your	goal.	See	your	future	self	and
assess	if	that’s	indeed	your	REAL	goal.	Do	this	as	many	times	as	you	need	until
you	know	in	your	heart	that	your	REAL	goal	is	exactly	what	you	want.
Picking	Your	Program
FXT	is	not	just	one	workout	program—it’s	actually	several	different	goal-
oriented	programs	under	the	umbrella	of	using	functional	cross	training	to
become	fitter,	faster	and	stronger.
	We	offer	programs	to	develop	speed,	strength,
endurance,	general	fitness,	weight	loss	and	muscle.	Read	through	the	overviews
of	each	program	to	get	a	feel	for	which	ones	apply	to	your	current	fitness	level
and	where	you’re	looking	to	progress	to,	then	match	one	or	a	series	of	successive
programs	to	your	specific	goals	to	get	yourself	on	track	for	the	results	you’re
seeking.	As	you	saw	in
	samples	1,	2	and	4	in	“Decoding	Your	REAL	Goals”

(“Decoding	Your	REAL	Goals”	on	
page	35
),	each	of	the	programs	is	designed	to
work	together	toward	progressive	strength,	speed,	endurance,	fitness	and	muscle
development.
Here’s	a	cheatsheet	that	illustrates	the	overview	of	each	program,	how	they
all	build	on	each	other	to	create	a	progressive	series,	and	what	type	of	athlete	can
benefit	most	from
	each.
Program	Cheatsheet


How	All	the	Programs	Tie	Together
	
Based	on	the
goals	you	said	out	loud	earlier	(you	did	do	that,
right?),	the	chart	on	
page	39
	should	quickly	assist	you
in	choosing	the	proper	program.	As	you	can	see	by	the
hierarchical	structure	of	prerequisites,	each	program
builds	on	a	functional	cross-training	foundation	to
develop	all	facets	of	enhanced	athletic	performance,
fitness,	health	and	physique.
Beginning	with	the	FXT:PX1,	we	provide	two	distinct	paths	to	follow.	One

focuses	on	building	a	lean,	ripped	physique	that	maximizes	power-to-weight
ratio	in	order	to	improve	athletic	performance,	cardiovascular	endurance	and
speed.	The	second	stresses	packing	on	muscle	mass	quickly	and	developing	the
strength	to	push,	pull	and	press	heavier	weights	than	ever	before.	The	nutrition
and	fueling	used
	during	FXT:MX1	and	FXT:ST1	(
page	182
)	are	geared	to	build
more	muscle	mass	and	strength,	and	have	a	specific	quantity	and	timing	that’s
considerably	different	when	compared	to	FXT:FIT.
Continuing	the	theme	we	started	with	the	specific	nutrition,	the	FXT:FIT,
FXT:SXP	and	FXT:EXP	programs	have	a	great	deal	of	overlap	in	terms	of
bodyweight	and	weighted	exercises,	drills	and	training	methods.	For
	instance,
you’ll	see	hill	repeats	or	the	20/20	Drill	(and	others)	in	all	three,	but	there	are
distinct	differences	in	the	ways	these	exercises	and	drills	are	used	to	develop
very	specific	strengths	and	meet	specific	goals.	FXT:MX1	and	FXT:ST1	use
nearly	all	of	the	same	Olympic	lifts,	yet	the	speed	and	number	of	repetitions,
amount	of	weights	used	and	time	under	tension,	and	specific	grips	and	body
position	will	vary	between	the	programs.	Quite	simply,	when	using	FXT:MX1	to
build	muscle,	you’re	targeting	specific	muscle	groups	in	order	to	maximize	time
under	tension,	muscle	stress,	and	growth.	FXT:ST1	is	about	utilizing	your	entire
body	as	a	lever	to	lift	as	much	weight	as	possible;	this	
progressive	resistance
means	the	weight	you’re	lifting	should	get	heavier	from	workout	to	workout	as
you	work	toward	increasing	your	maximum	lifts.
Each	of	the	FXT	programs	requires	hyperfocus	on	form	and	completing	the
entire	workout	with	high	athletic	intensity.	To	that	end,	we’ve	added	a	“mantra”
for	each,	courtesy	of	one	of	our	athletic	heroes,	Dean	Karnazes:	“Struggling	and
suffering	are	the	essence	of	a	life	worth	living.	If	you’re	not	pushing	yourself
beyond	the	comfort	zone,	if	you’re
	not	demanding	more	from	yourself—
expanding	and	learning	as	you	go—you’re	choosing	a	numb	existence.	You’re
denying	yourself	an	extraordinary	trip.”
To	keep	track	of	your	progress,	we	recommend	that	you	make	a	few	copies
of	the	program	log	you’re	following,	or	download	the	mobile	app	for	workouts
on	the	go.

Baseline	Testing
Once	you’ve	figured	out	your	true	goals,	the	next	step	is	to	get	started...but	only
after	you’ve	had	an	appointment	with	your	doctor	for	a	checkup.	Seriously,	it’s
really	that	important	that	you	get	the	all-clear	before	beginning	any	exercise
regimen.	It’s	much	better	to	know—good	or	bad—than	to	find	out	during
training	or	racing.
During	Brett’s	first	marathon,	he	raced	with
	a	coworker,	Dan,	who’d	trained
the	same	distances	and	speed	as	the	rest	of	his	group	and	was	completely
prepared.	On	race	day,	Dan	inexplicably	began	to	slow	in	the	later	miles	due	to
shortness	of	breath,	not	the	normal	cramps	or	leg	fatigue.	A	few	weeks	later,
after	still	feeling	drained	daily,	a	routine	exam	led	to	the	discovery	that	Dan	had
a	hole	in	his	heart	that	required	multiple	operations
	to	fix.	The	doctor	gave	him
some	very	chilling	news:	“You	very	easily	could’ve	died	out	there	on	the
course.”	Not	the	news	Brett	wanted	to	hear	as	his	running	partner,	but	far	less	so
something	he	or	a	course	EMT	would’ve	liked	to	explain	to	Dan’s	wife	and	kids.
Please	see	a	doctor	first,	OK?
We’ve	all	got	to	start	somewhere,	right?	This	is	the	time	and	place	to	get	on
track	with	a	FXT	program
	that’s	perfect	for	you.	Once	you	have	your	goals,	it’s
time	to	take	either	the	FXT:FIT	or	FXT:MX1	baseline	test	to	assess	your	current
level	of	fitness	and	determine	your	starting	point.
First-timers	can	skip	the	test!	If	you’re	looking	to	drop	some
weight	and	get	into	fitness,	we	make	it	as	easy	as	possible	to	get
off	on	the	right	foot	and	get	comfortable	with	a	simple-to-follow
program.
	We	created	the	FXT:PX1	program	(see	
page	52
)	for	you
to	hop	right	in	and	get	going	on	your	fitness	journey	(after	talking
to	your	doctor,	of	course).	Once	you’ve	completed	that	program,
you	should	be	ready	to	take	the	FXT:FIT	or	FXT:MX1	test	to	see
if	you’re	ready	to	start	either	of	those	programs.
FXT:FIT	Baseline	Testing

The	FXT:FIT	program	is	a	prerequisite	for	the	FXT:SXP	program,	which
	is	in
turn	required	for	the	FXT:EXP	program.	In	order	to	test	your	total-body
conditioning,	cardiovascular	fitness,	speed	and	endurance,	we’ll	employ	a	pretty
straightforward	test	that	you	should	use	every	eight	weeks	(see	“Re-Evaluate”	on
page	27
)	to	assess	your	progress.
The	“Hot	Circuit”	test	measures	your	ability	to	perform	four	exercises	(pull-
ups,	squats,	push-ups	and	crunches)	and	run,
	walk	or	jog	200	yards	(less	than	⅛
mile)	in	20	minutes	or	less.
What?	You	want	me	to	do	all	these	exercises	back	to	back?	I	can’t	do	as
many	push-ups	after	my	upper	body	is	tired	from	pull-ups!	Squats	and	running
in	the	same	routine?	You	guys	are	nuts.
Yes,	that’s	the	whole	idea.	But	not	that	we’re	nuts—that	you’ll	be	performing
each	exercise	back	to	back	with	little	or	no	rest	in	between.	Strength,
coordination,	proper	form...it	all	starts	now.
Throughout	all	of	the	fitness,	speed,	endurance	and	weight-loss	programs,
you’ll	be	performing	different	intervals	at	varying	intensities,	so	it’s	a	good	idea
to	see	where	you	stand	early!	If	you’re	unsure	about	tackling	these	exercises	by
yourself,	why	not	invite	a	friend	to	take	on	this	challenge	with	you?	Having	a
training	partner	is	a	great	way
	to	keep	you	safe,	motivated	and	accountable	for
your	workouts.	If	you	have	a	training	partner	for	the	
initial	test,	have	them	keep
an	eye	on	your	form	to	make	sure	you’re	performing	the	movement	properly.	If
you’re	having	problems	with	your	form,	now	is	the	easiest	time	to	fix	it.
Always	take	the	test	at	your	own	pace;	rest,	recover,	rehydrate	and	refocus	as
needed.
“Hot	Circuit”	sprang	into
	life	as	a	training	drill	we	devised	to	race
each	other	and	challenge	ourselves	to	better	our	fitness	while	we
were	training	for	long-distance	triathlons	in	2009.	The	“Hot”
moniker	comes	from	our	training	conditions	in	Phoenix	during
summer—most	days	the	sports	complex	we	used	was	over	100
scorching	degrees.
Not	interested	in	taking	the	test	quite	yet?	Then	use	FXT:PX1	on	
page	52
instead	of
	taking	this	rather	intensive	test	right	now.	Trust	us,	you’re	better	off
learning	the	ropes	and	progressing	through	the	program	than	jumping	into	the

deep	end	before	you’ve	learned	how	to	swim.
TAKING	THE	TEST
Before	beginning	the	test,	it’s	imperative	that	you	prepare	yourself	for	the
exercises	by	warming	up	and	getting	your	blood	pumping.	A	good	warm-up
should	be	5–10	minutes	and	raise	your
	body	temperature	to	a	light	sweat.	Flip	to
page	174
	for	some	ideas.
Here’s	what	you’ll	need	for	the	test:
Stopwatch
	or	mobile	app	with	timer.
Pull-up	bar:
	Use	an	appropriate	pull-bar	that’s	high	enough	that	you	can
extend	your	arms	fully	when	grasping	it.	If	it’s	too	high,	you	may	feel
uncomfortable	jumping	up	to	grab	it.	If	it’s	too	low,	you’ll	waste	energy
bending	your	knees	to	keep	your
	feet	from	touching	the	ground.	The	bar
itself	should	be	safe	and	sturdy	and	able	to	hold	more	than	double	your	body
weight.	
Note:
	Playground	bars	work	great!
Water:
	Hydrate	before,	after	and	even	during	if	you	need	it.
Towel:
	Make	sure	your	hands	are	dry	when	performing	pull-ups	or	push-ups
so	you	don’t	slip.
Exercise	mat
	(preferred,	but	optional).
Space:
	Your	workout	area	should	be	well-ventilated
	and	free	from
obstructions	so	you	can	complete	the	movements	freely	without	hitting
anything.	Performing	this	test	outside	works	best,	but	you	can	use	a	treadmill
if	your	workout	needs	to	be	indoors.	Be	extremely	careful	when	stepping	on
and	off	the	treadmill,	especially	if	the	belt	is	moving!
Warmed	up	and	ready?	Great!	Just	a	few	minutes	more	and	you	can	start	the
test.	Before	you	do,	it’s
	very	important	that	you	familiarize	yourself	with	the
proper	form	of	each	exercise.	Read	each	of	the	exercise	descriptions,	view	the
photos	and	slowly	try	each	move	yourself	a	few	times	to	make	sure	you
understand	exactly	what	you’ll	be	doing	once	you	get	started.
Make	sure	you’re	hydrated,	somewhat	relaxed	and	take	some	slow,	deep
breaths	to	prepare.	We’re	starting	with	an	exercise	that’s	daunting
	for	some—the
pull-up.	Even	if	you’ve	never	been	able	to	do	a	pull-up	in	the	past,	it’s	important
that	you	try.	We’ve	personally	witnessed	many	people	who	thought	they	couldn’t
do	any	do	three	or	four	once	they	realize	the	proper	form	and	use	the	large
muscles	of	their	upper	back	to	complete	the	movement.	Don’t	mentally	block

yourself	from	success;	give	it	your	best	shot.
With	each	of	the	exercises,
	complete	as	many	reps	as	you	can,	taking	rest
breaks	as	needed.	If	you	can’t	complete	the	reps,	remember	how	many	you’ve
completed	and	move	on	to	the	next	portion.	In	order	to	get	an	accurate	baseline,
add	:30	to	your	time	for	every	repetition	you	failed	to	complete.
TIP:
	Take	a	“before”	picture.	Actually,	take	several	from
different	angles.	Guys,	take	your	shirt	off	and,	ladies,	pick	that
bikini	that	you’d	love	to	look	great	in.	This	is	a	really	important
step	that’s	often	forgotten	and	best	taken	care	of	before	you	even
take	the	test.	Personally,	we	wish	we	had	some	good	shirt-off
“before”	pictures	of	ourselves.	Truth	be	told,	we	never	took	any
shirtless	pictures	because	we	were	unhappy	with	the	way	we
looked.	Now	we	wish	we	had	those	photos	to	compare—and	you
will	too!	You	don’t
	need	to	share	them	with	anyone	else	right	now
if	you’re	self-conscious,	but	we’ve	had	trainees	post	them	on	their
fridge	to	remind	them	of	why	they	were	working	so	hard	to	get
fit.	Keep	track	of	your	progress	with	a	picture	each	week;	you’ll
be	amazed	at	your	transformation!
Example:
	Completed	8	pull-ups;	add	1:00	to	your	finishing	time.
Start	your	timer	(or	click	“Begin	Test”	on	the
	FXT:FIT	mobile	app)	and
perform:
	
•
10	Pull-Ups
	
•
Run,	Jog	or	Walk	50	yards	as	fast	as	you	can
	
•
20
Bodyweight	Squats
	
•
Run,	Jog	or	Walk	50	yards	as	fast	as	you	can
	
•
20	Push-
Ups
	
•
Run,	Jog	or	Walk	50	yards	as	fast	as	you	can
	
•
20	Crunches
	
•
Run,	Jog	or
Walk	50	yards	as	fast	as	you	can
	
Stop	your	timer,	note	the	time	and	add	any
additional	time	from
	missed	reps.	Compare	your	time	to	the	chart	below.
DETERMINING	YOUR	LEVEL
9:59	or	less
Start	with	FXT:FIT	Advanced	Level,	starting	on	
page	59

10:00–19:59
Start	with	FXT:FIT	Basic	Level,	on	
page	59
Over	20:00
Start	with	the	FXT:PX1,	starting	on	
page	52
Please	note:	If	you	were	unable	to	complete	any	reps	on	any	exercise,	it’s
recommended	that	you	start	with	FXT:PX1.	For	a	large	percentage
	of	readers,
pull-ups	will	be	the	deciding	factor.	It’s	important	that	you	build	them	up	or
you’ll	be	missing	a	huge	part	of	the	program.
FXT:MX1	Baseline	Testing
	
Completion	of	the
FXT:MX1	program	is	a	prerequisite	for	beginning	the
FXT:ST1	program.	Both	the	FXT:MX1	and	FXT:ST1
programs	share	the	same	baseline	test	since	we’re
simply	trying	to	determine	if	you	can	lift	the	baseline
numbers	for
	the	core	exercises.	Over	the	course	of	a
week,	use	four	separate	days	to	work	your	way	up	to	a
weight	that’s	fairly	challenging,	a	weight	you	estimate
would	be	between	your	1RM	(1-rep	maximum),	3RM
or	even	5RM.	The	reason	we	include	both	3RM	and
5RM	is	that	we’re	not	huge	fans	of	the	1RM	outside	of
powerlifting	competitions.	In	our	view,	they	don’t
serve	much	purpose	and	open	you	up	to	injury.	If
you’re	an	experienced	lifter	and	are	used	to	pushing
to	a	1RM,	feel	free.	If	not,	go	for	a	3RM	or	5RM.	If
you	know	your	3RM	or	5RM,	you	can	also	use	any	of
a	number	of	online	calculators	to	estimate	your	1RM.
SHARE	YOUR	SUCCESS	&	GET	SOCIAL!

Got	the	FXT:FIT	App?	You	can	grab	it	at	
fxtfit.com
	and	click
away	on	the	“Before”	photo	and	post	your	progress.	We’ve
created	a	Facebook	page	for	our
	fans	to	share	photos,	goals,
successes	and	challenges	at	
http://facebook.com/fxtfit
.	Upload
your	before,	during	and	after	photos	to	inspire	yourself	and
others,	and	share	your	FXT	Scores	in	the	social	community	to
constantly	find	new	motivation,	tips	and	techniques.
With	your	1RM	in	hand,	look	at	the	table	below.	The	requirements	are	based
on	your	body	weight	and	the	amount	you	can	lift	in
	your	1RM	on	a	particular
exercise.	They	are:
	
Squat:	1.5	x	your	body	weight
Deadlift:	2	x	your	body	weight
Bench	Press:	1.25	x	body	weight
Overhead	Press:	.75	x	body	weight
If	your	1RM	is	within	shouting	distance	of	the	requirements	for	your	body
weight,	you	have	a	good	baseline	of	strength	and	musculature	to	start	either
FXT:MX1	or	FXT:ST1	without	caveat.
However,	if	your	numbers	are	significantly	lower	than	those	requirements,	it
simply	means	you’ll	need	to	spend	some	time	building	a	baseline	of	strength	and
muscle	before	moving	on	to	more	advanced	programs.

Using	the	FXT	Point	System
The	point	system	is	about	as	straightforward	as	it	gets.	Each	workout	has	a	Basic
and	Advanced	Target	for	FXT	Points	and	Time.	Your	goal	is	to	complete	the
required	sets	at	or	below	the	Target	Time.	After	your	workout,	add	up	all	your
points	and	you	have	a	FXT	Score	to	track	your	progress	and	share	with	your
friends	online.
Based	on	your	age,	weight,	current	physical
	conditioning,	and	your	short-or
long-term	goals,	you’ll	have	a	FXT	Point	Target	to	hit	with	each	workout.
Simply	add	up	all	the	points	after	completing	your	routine	to	make	sure	you’re
on	track	with	your	workouts.
FXT	TERMS
SET:
	One	circuit	of	that	workout’s	exercises	with	the	desired
repetitions	(reps).
TARGET	POINTS:
	Essentially,	how	many	sets	you’ll	complete
based	on	your	goals	and	fitness
	level.	We	provide	Basic	and
Advanced	Target	Points,	and	you’re	free	to	create	your	own	as
well.
TARGET	TIME:
	A	baseline	for	how	long	each	workout	should
take	at	moderate	intensity.	Completing	a	workout	below	the	target
time	threshold	indicates	a	higher-intensity	workout.	Write	your
finish	time	in	the	workout	log	and	add	a	“+”	after	your	FXT
Points	when	you	share	your	workout	with	others.
DURATION/INTENSITY:
	Based	on	Target	Time,	the	shorter
the	duration,	the	higher	the	intensity.
TARGET	WEIGHT	PERCENTAGE:
	This	is	a	guideline	for
how	much	weight	(barbell,	dumbbell,	medicine	ball,	etc.)	you
should	be	lifting	or	pushing	based	on	your	own	body	weight.	If
you	weigh	150	pounds,	a	50%	Target	Weight	for	an	exercise
would	be	75	pounds.

Note:
	Target	Weight	Percentage	is	a	guideline—use	only	weights
that
	allow	you	to	perform	all	the	reps	of	a	given	exercise	with
proper	form.	Start	light	and	increase	as	you	progress	through	the
programs.	Not	all	exercises	require	weights.
FXT	SCORE:
	Add	up	all	the	FXT	Points	for	sets	completed
during	your	workout	and	note	the	duration;	give	a	“+”	or	“-”	for
intensity.	Example:	80+	FXT	Score
Target	Time	&	Target	Weight	Percentage
	
Whether
you’re	using	one
	of	the	programs	or	creating	your
own	from	the	100+	exercises	in	this	book,	you’ll
choose	the	intensity	based	on	how	rapidly	you	can
complete	the	workout	with	proper	form	in	each
exercise	in	relation	to	the	Target	Time	and	the
heaviness	of	the	weights	(if	required)	in	relation	to	a
percentage	of	your	body	weight.	Think	of	Target
Points	like	scoring	in	golf:	Whether	you	par,	bogey	or
birdie	a	hole,
	you’ll	still	continue	and	finish	all	18
holes,	right?	To	continue	the	golf	metaphor,	any
seasoned	golfer	knows	that	it	takes	tons	of	practice	to
master	the	proper	form	and	technique	and	then	string
it	all	together	from	stroke	to	stroke	in	order	to	play	a
sub-par	round.	Well,	these	workouts	are	no	different.
As	you	continue	to	practice	form	and	develop	total-
body	strength	and	fitness,	you’ll	raise
	your	intensity
and	thereby	lower	your	times;	as	you	get	stronger,
you’ll	progressively	increase	your	weights	and

complete	more	sets	to	accrue	more	FXT	Points	per
workout,	week,	month...you	get	the	idea!
Reading	the	Workout	Charts
	
FXT:FIT	Day	1,	Week	1
Basic	Target	Points:
	80
Target	Time:
	16:00
Advanced	Target	Points:
	120
Target	Time:
	18:00
Instructions:
	Complete	as	many	sets	as	possible
	with	good	form.	Rest	as	needed.
•
20	Bodyweight	Squats	(5	points)
	
•
1:00	Plank	(5	Points)
	
•
20	Lunges	(5	Points)
	
•
20	Push-Ups	(5
Points)
	
FXT	Score:
	Completing	(4)	sets	of	the	above	equals	80;	(5)	sets	total	100.
Completing	desired	rounds	above	or	below	target	time	indicates	intensity;
add	“+”	for	below,	“-”	for	above.	Example:	80+	FXT	Score
	
FXT:MX1	Day	1,
Week	1
Basic
	Target	Points:
	100
Advanced	Target	Points:
	140
Instructions:
	Complete	as	many	sets	as	possible	with	good	form.	Rest	as	needed.
•
10	Ball	Thrusters	(5	Points)
	
•
10/side	One-Arm	Rows	(5	Points)
	
•
10	Pull-Ups	(5	Points)
	
•
20	Push-
Ups	(5	Points)
	
FXT	Score:
	Completing	(5)	sets	of	the	above	program	will	yield	100	FXT	Points	(Basic
Target	met);	(7)	sets	equals	140	points	(Advanced
	Target	met).
Completing	desired	rounds	above	or	below	target	time	indicates	intensity;
add	“+”	for	below,	“-”	for	above.	Example:	100-FXT	Score
	
Note:
	FXT:MX1	and
FXT:ST1	do	not	have	a	Target	Time,	as	both	of	these	workouts	have	required
time	under	tension	and	are	designed	to	be	performed	while	focusing	on	form
rather	than	completion	time.	See	the	chart	on	
page	45
	for	guidelines	on	how
much
	weight	you	should	be	targeting	based	on	a	percentage	of	your	body
weight.

What	Intensity	Means	to	Your	Workout
Possibly	the	biggest	mistake	and	the	most	potential	for	injury	is	not	knowing
how	much	you	should	do.	Don’t	listen	to	anything	other	than	your	body	here!
Don’t	listen	to	your	buddy,	some	random	guy	in	the	gym,	a	trainer	or,	most
importantly,	your	ego.	Let	it	all	go.	Listen	to	your	body.
Intensity	is	individual.	We,	Brett	and	Jason,	are	built	very	differently.
	If	Brett
tried	to	lift	as	much	as	Jason	in	the	gym	for	the	squat,	it’s	a	one-way	ticket	to
snap	city.	If	Jason	tried	to	run	as	fast	for	as	far	as	Brett,	he’d	be	getting	his	post-
run	smoothie	intravenously	in	the	ER.
The	key	to	intensity	is	that	it,	along	with	the	programs,	is	always	changing
and	progressive.	If	you	try	to	bench	press	200	pounds	on	day	one,	you’re	just
being	stupid.	But	day	90?
	You	might	be	able	to!	Heck,	day	90	might	have	you
doing	250	pounds	for	reps.	Similarly,	don’t	try	to	run	12	miles	off	the	bat—work
up	to	that.	Intensity	is	about	knowing	your	individual	limits,	flirting	with	them
on	a	daily	basis	and	blowing	through	them	through	smart	training,	proper
nutrition	and	adequate	recovery.	FXT’s	not	about	vanity	or	ego.	It’s	about
developing	athletic	prowess,	strength,
	speed,	endurance	and,	most	of	all,	lifelong
fitness.	Follow	the	plans,	progress	and	make	it	a	habit	to	train	on	the	edge	of
your	limits	without	going	over	them.
With	the	caveats	out	of	the	way,	intensity	is	CRITICAL	to	all	the	programs.
If	you’re	not	continually	challenging	yourself,	you	aren’t	progressing.	We	can’t
stress	this	enough.	How	many	times	have	you	seen	someone	in	the	gym	lifting
the
	exact	same	weight	they	were	lifting	a	year	ago?	Are	they	vastly	physically
different	than	they	were	a	year	ago?	If	someone	runs	the	same	distance	at	the
same	pace	year-round,	is	their	marathon	time	improving?	Nope.	It’s	less	about
the	time	you	put	in	and	more	about	the	quality	of	that	time.
Frankly,	what’s	more	de-motivating	than	spending	countless	hours	“training”
to	not	see	improvement?	The
	quickest	way	to	not	achieve	your	goals	is	to	quit
trying.	And	the	secret	to	sticking	with	it	is	looking	past	today	to	tomorrow,	when
you	know	you’ll	be	better	than	you	were	today	because	of	the	effort	you	put	in.
Trust	us—any	momentary	discomfort	during	the	training	session	itself	is	well
worth	the	reward	as	you	progress.	Keep	it	up.	Keep	pushing.	Stick	with	it	and
don’t	let	up.	Trust	the	process.
	Tomorrow	you’ll	be	better	off	than	today.	Next
week	you’ll	be	better	than	this	week.	Next	year	you’ll	be	a	whole	new	you.

Exertion	Scale
When	performing	the	workouts,	your	intensity	is	directly	tied	to	your	results	and
is	determined	by	your	duration	of	exercise,	force	applied	and	exertion.	Here	are
the	quick	definitions	of	perceived	exertion	based	on	ability	to	hold	a
conversation,	and	obviously
	these	are	relative	to	the	fitness	and	conditioning	of
each	individual	and	will	change	as	you	become	fitter.
EASY:
	You	should	be	able	to	carry	on	a	conversation	and	breathe	relatively
normally.	An	easy	pace	is	good	for	warm-up,	cool-down,	recovery	the	day	or
two	after	a	hard-run	race,	or	running	long	distances.	Easy	runs	or	jogs	are
roughly	40–65%	of	your	maximal	effort.
MODERATE:
	Your	breathing
	should	be	faster	than	normal	due	to	your
elevated	heart	rate	and	exertion.	While	you	can’t	carry	on	a	full	conversation,
you	can	speak	in	occasional	sentences.	Moderate,	or	tempo,	runs	help	to	build
strength	and	endurance.	Moderate	runs	are	about	65–85%	of	your	maximal
effort.
HARD:
	This	is	all-out	sprinting.	You’ll	be	breathing	extremely	hard	and
unable	to	speak	more	than	a	word	or	so	at	a	time.
	Hard	intervals	are	done	for	a
short	period	of	time	to	build	speed	and	train	fast-twitch	muscle	fibers	to	respond
even	when	fatigued.	Hard	runs	represent	over	85%	of	your	maximal	effort.
TARGET	HEART	RATE	&	ZONES
If	you’re	a	bit	more	attuned	to	data	and	happen	to	own	a	heart	monitor	(or	like	to
do	math),	you	can	use	the	following	Attainable	Heart	Rate	equation	to	calculate
your	Target	Heart	Rate
	(THR).	
Note:
	This	is	not	exact	and	can	fluctuate	by	as
much	as	15	beats	per	minute	(BPM);	use	this	only	as	a	guideline	(100%	=
maximal	effort).
220–AGE	X	ZONE	%	=	THR
ZONE	1	(EASY):
40–65%—WARM-UP	&	COOL-DOWN/RECOVERY
ZONE	2	(MODERATE):
65%–85%—AEROBIC	ENDURANCE
ZONE	3	(HARD):

85%—PEAK	ZONE/ANAEROBIC	THRESHOLD
For	example,	a	30-year-old	male	looking	for	his	Target	Heart	Rate	(THR)	at	a
70%	effort	has	a	THR	of	133	BPM:
220	–	30	X	70%	=	133
Whether	you	use	perceived	exertion	level	or	heart	rate	zones	to	calculate
your	intensity,	it’s	important	to	listen	to	your	body	and	also	to	follow	the
guidelines	in	the	workouts.	An	easy	effort	shouldn’t	be	at	high	intensity,	and
there’s	a	good	chance	you	shouldn’t	be	chatting	up	your	running	partner	during
extremely	hard,	intense	workouts.

How	Long	Should	My	Program	Be?
Over	the	last	few	years,	we’ve	gotten	this	question	quite	a	bit	by	e-mail	and
during	interviews:	“What’s	with	the	whole	‘7	Weeks’	thing	in	all	your	books	and
how	did	you	come	up	with	it?”	General	sports	and	fitness	training	for	events	is	a
year-round	event	for	a	lot	of	people	(us	included),	and	it’s	extremely	necessary
to	change	your	routine	every	so	often	to	avoid
	plateaus,	overtraining,	and	mental
or	physical	burnout.	Even	professional	athletes	take	a	good	chunk	of	their	off-
season	to	engage	in	different	sports	or	activities	and	change	their	workout
routines.
Guess	what?	Seven	to	eight	weeks	is	the	optimal	window	for	learning	a	new
routine,	adapting	to	the	exercises	and	the	new	demands	on	your	body,	perfecting
the	form	and	reaping	the	benefits,	and	then
	testing	yourself.	This	can	be	a
running	or	obstacle	race,	setting	a	new	1-rep	max,	looking	in	the	mirror	or
checking	how	your	clothes	are	fitting.	From	there,	you’ll	re-evaluate	your
routine	or	goals	and	then	make	some	simple	modifications	to	you	program’s
points	through	added	intensity,	weight	or	duration.
WEEK	1:
	Learn	the	routine.	Everyone’s	a	beginner	once—don’t	rush
through	this	part	or
	you’ll	knock	yourself	off-track	with	delayed	onset	muscle
soreness	(DOMS)	by	overdoing	it	too	quickly.	Take	your	time	and	learn	the
exercises	and	proper	form	by	performing	them	slowly	and	carefully.	This	will
pay	off	come	week	3	or	so.
WEEKS	1–3:
	Adapt	to	the	exercises,	working	through	initial	soreness	and
making	the	training	a	part	of	your	routine.	This	actually	starts	with	your	first	or
second
	workout.	Some	athletes	take	10–14	days,	while	others	need	18–21	to	lock
it	in.	During	this	period,	50	percent	of	workouts	fail	because	individuals	don’t
rearrange	their	lives	a	little	bit	to	make	the	new	program	work.	Life	happens,	but
you	can	always	come	back	and	pick	up	here	or	start	over.
WEEKS	3–8:
	Perfect	the	form.	This	is	the	sweet	spot	and	the	reason	why
you	took	it	slow	on	week	1	and
	stuck	with	it—you’ll	be	seeing	the	most	strength
and	fitness	gains.	There	will	be	one	or	more	times	during	this	28-day	period
where	you	feel	bulletproof.	Remember,	you	may	be	a	rockstar,	but	you’re	not
made	of	Kevlar.	Act	accordingly.
WEEK	8:
	Re-evaluate	your	program,	rest,	recover	and	adapt	your	program
to	fit	new	goals.	Whether	you’re	using	this	book	for	fat	loss,	body	shaping	or

sport-specific
	training,	you	can	transition	to	and	from	each	of	the	goal-based
workouts	in	this	book	to	others	rather	easily.	Since	this	is	cross-training	program,
you	should	keep	running	and	exercising.	Just	take	it	down	a	notch	and	allow	for
some	rest	and	recovery.	This	is	similar	to	the	run-specific	term	“taper”;	the
exercise	version	is	called	a	“deload”	week.	You’ll	be	performing	a	lighter
workload	for
	the	next	seven	days	until	you	start	up	a	new	program	or	modify
your	existing	one	with	added	points	or	intensity.	It’ll	provide	the	exercise	to	keep
you	loose,	but	a	reduced	workload	to	allow	you	to	recover,	reset	and	plan	the
next	goal	for	you	to	dominate.

FXT:PX1
Intro	to	FXT
Welcome	to	FXT:PX1,	the	Intro	to	FXT	program.	More	importantly,	welcome	to
the	beginning	of	your	fitness	lifestyle	journey!	Whether	you’re	looking	to
prepare	for	the	FXT:FIT	or	the	FXT:MX1	programs,	FXT:PX1	is	an	awesome
opportunity	for	men	and	women	of	all	fitness	levels	to	build	the	full-body
strength	they’ll	need	to	become	fitter,	faster	and	stronger	athletes.
The	main
	goal	of	this	program	is	to	provide	an	easy,	controlled	method	for
learning	proper	form	for	some	of	the	most	important	exercises	for	total-body
fitness	without	having	to	worry	about	a	certain	number	of	reps	or	sets.	Think	of
FXT:PX1	as	the	foundation	that	you’ll	build	your	fitness	lifestyle	upon—you
wouldn’t	rush	and	build	a	cheap	foundation	for	your	house,	right?	FXT:PX1
allows	you	to	build	up
	your	strength	and	endurance	progressively	over	eight
weeks	while	learning	proper	form	for	10	exercises	(plus	variations)	and
developing	your	own	unique	fitness	lifestyle	routine	that	fits	into	your	daily	life.
We	realize	you’re	learning	new	exercises	and	movements,	adapting	to	a
whole	new	exercise	and	nutrition	routine,	and	actually	performing	the	fitness
training	all	at	the	same	time,	and	we
	all	know	that	it	isn’t	easy.	If	it	takes	you
eight	weeks	or	eight	months	to	get	fit,	it’s	still	well	worth	the	effort!
This	is	also	as	good	a	time	as	any	to	bring	up	the	topic	of	weight	(specifically
body	fat)	loss,	as	it’s	one	of	the	most	common	questions	we	get	via	e-mail	from
all	over	the	world	and	a	huge	part	of	developing	the	physique	you’re	working
for.	In	
Part	Four
,	we	have	an	entire	section
	on	fueling	the	athlete	(see	
page	178
).
Here	are	some	tips	that	will	help	you	make	the	most	of	your	program:
	
•
DO
NOT	overdo	any	workouts,	especially	the	first	couple	of	weeks!	You	WILL	be
sore	for	one	or	two	days	after	your	first	few	workouts,	and	if	you	overdo	by
attempting	to	do	too	many	reps	too	quickly,	you’ll	miss	subsequent	workouts.
This	happens	to	nearly	everyone	when	they	start
	a	workout	regimen—don’t	let	it
happen	to	you.	If	you	haven’t	exercised	in	quite	some	time,	then	take	the	first
week	or	two	extra	easy	and	work	your	way	up.
•
Follow	the	nutritional	advice	consistent	with	the	FXT:FIT	plan	(
page	59
)	to	make	sure	you	have	the
energy	and	nutrients	needed	to	perform	the	workouts,	recover,	and	rebuild	your	muscles.
•
Stick	with	it!	You’ll	always	miss	some
	workouts,	no	matter	how	hard	you	try	and	prepare—life	gets	in

the	way.	Don’t	be	discouraged	if	you	miss	a	day—just	pick	up	immediately	where	you	left	off.	If	you
missed	a	week,	just	restart	the	following	Monday.	Don’t	give	up.	The	goal	is	all	about	you	getting	in
the	best	shape	of	your	life.	Even	if	it	takes	eight	months	of	stops	and	starts,	with	some	perseverance
and	tenacity	you’ll	meet	your	goals.
If	you’re	planning	to	move	up	to	FXT:MX1,	we	recommend	using	the
weighted	and	plyometric	variations	to	build	muscle	and	strength	to	prepare	you
for	the	demands	of	that	program.	See	“FXT:MX1	Prep:	Plyometric	&	Weighted
Variations”	(
page	53
).
Getting	Started	with	FXT:PX1
This	program	is	built	around	exercising	20	minutes	a	day,	5	days	a	week.	For
some	individuals	who	are	exercising	for	the	first
	time	or	coming	back	after	a
long	layoff,	start	with	at	least	one	week	of	exercising	for	a	maximum	of	10
minutes.	Three	of	those	days	you’ll	be	walking,	jogging	or	running	at	your	own
pace,	which	means	you	may	walk	19:30	and	jog	for	:30	if	you’re	fresh	off	the
couch.	Seasoned	runners	may	jog	all	20	minutes.	Either	way,	you’re	getting	the
right	workout	relative	to	your	own	ability.	The	other	two
	days	you’ll	be
performing	as	many	sets	
of	bodyweight	exercises	as	you	can	while	using	proper
form.	You	control	the	number	of	sets,	intensity	and	rest	between	exercises	or
sets.	It’s	all	relative	to	your	ability,	and	all	up	to	you.
FXT:PX1	TARGETS
While	we	provide	a	baseline	FXT	Points	Target	(60/25	FXT	Points),	each	week,
you	should	be	striving	to	increase	your	performance	by	10%	in	number	of	reps
or	distance.	See	the	examples	below:

EXERCISES
•
Week	1:
	Complete	1	set	in	20:00;	your	goal	for	Week	2	is	to	complete	your	first	set	at	least	1:00–2:00
faster.
•
Week	1:
	Cover	1	mile	in	20:00;	your	Week	2	goal	should
	be	to	increase	your	distance	between	1.1	and
1.2	miles.
FXT:MX1	PREP:	PLYOMETRIC	&	WEIGHTED	VERSIONS
Are	you	looking	to	progress	to	the	FXT:MX1	program	or	use	FXT:PX1	to	build
some	more	muscle?	Utilizing	the	weighted	or	plyometric	variations	of	the
standard	FXT:PX1	exercises	can	surely	help.	We	recommend	completing	the
entire	eight-week	FXT:PX1	program	and	focusing	on	good	form	and	making
progressive
	improvements	before	utilizing	these	more	difficult	and	demanding
variations.

FXT:PX1	Program
Warm	up	for	5	minutes	prior	to	each	workout;	stretch	after	completion.	Warm-Ups	&	Stretches	start	on
page	174
.
Week	1

Week	2

Week	3

Week	4

Success!
Congratulations	on	completing	FXT:PX1!	During	the	program	you’ve	learned
extremely	valuable	lessons	about	developing	a	fitness	routine	and	making	it
work	with	your	everyday	life—and	that’s	the	whole	point!	There’s	no	such	thing
as	a	“quick	fix”	when	it	comes	to	getting	our	bodies	fit.	It	requires	patience	and

diligence	to	build	a	fitness	lifestyle	that	works	for	you.	As	we’ve	mentioned
before,	you	can	come	back	to	this	routine	anytime	and	modify	it	with	the
weighted	or	plyometric	variations	or	dial	the	intensity	up	or	down	to	suit	your
goals.
Are	you	ready	for	the	challenge	of	FXT:FIT	or	FXT:MX1?	Then	take	the
Baseline	Test	on	
page	43
	and	see	how	much	progress	you’ve	made!

FXT:FIT
Total-Body	Fitness	&	Weight	Loss
What’s	your	definition	of	fit?	Does	it	involve	being	able	to	tighten	your	belt	a
notch	or	two,	running	a	mile	non-stop,	hitting	a	300-yard	drive	down	the	middle
of	the	fairway,	or	seeing	your	abdominal	muscles	for	the	first	time	since	you
were	a	teenager?	If	your	goal	is	to	develop	total-body	strength,	lose	weight	and
make	your	physique	leaner	and	more
	athletic,	you’ve	chosen	the	right	program!
Completion	of	the	FXT:FIT	program	is	a	prerequisite	for	starting
the	FXT:SXP	program.	FXT:FIT	will	provide	the	foundation	for
the	more-intense,	full-body,	explosive	workouts	you’ll	be	using	in
FXT:SXP,	which	in	turn	will	prepare	you	for	the	extremely
intense	FXT:EXP	program.
With	its	combination	of	bodyweight	and	weighted	exercises	along	with
	high-
intensity	cardiovascular	training,	FXT:FIT	is	your	key	to	building	and
maintaining	optimal	functional	fitness—in	other	words,	keeping	you	strong,
flexible,	dexterous,	fast	and	ready	to	participate	in	nearly	any	athletic	activity.
Whether	you	treat	this	program	as	your	“fountain	of	youth”	to	get	you	back	into
the	same	shape	as	your	glory	days	or	a	first	step	in	getting	from	the	couch	to	the
starting
	line	of	a	5K	or	mud	run,	the	FXT:FIT	is	a	go-to	fitness	routine	that
anyone	can	use	anytime	and	nearly	anywhere	to	tone,	strengthen	and	condition
your	body.
This	is	a	complete	body	program,	meaning	you	need	to	perform	all	the
exercises	to	develop	optimum	functional	fitness—do	not	skip	exercises	because
you	don’t	like	them	or	they’re	difficult	to	complete.	They	were	specifically
chosen	for	their
	effectiveness	at	delivering	results.
In	addition,	finish	every	rep	and	set.	Whether	you’re	on	pace	to	finish	below
the	target	time	or	double	that	amount,	the	only	way	you’ll	transform	your	mind
and	body	is	to	develop	consistency	and	tenacity	from	one	workout	to	the	next.

Essentially,	prior	to	starting	your	timer	and	performing	the	first	movement,
commit	yourself	to	completing	the	entire	workout.
	Don’t	cheat	your	success	by
quitting	early.	Rest	as	needed	and	focus	on	your	form—only	stop	when	you	can
no	longer	perform	each	exercise	properly	or	can	no	longer	continue	due	to
extreme	fatigue,	light-headedness,	acute	pain	or	other	injury	warning	signs.
As	we	mentioned	earlier	in	“Using	the	FXT	Point	System”	on	
page	46
,	each
workout	has	a	point	total	that’s	created	by	the	sum	of	the	individual
	exercises
and	reps.	Keeping	track	of	your	point	total	is	an	important	tool	to	keep	your
progression	on	track.	In	order	to	develop	as	an	athlete,	you’ll	have	to	continually
set	the	bar	a	little	higher	from	week	to	week	and	re-evaluate	your	entire	fitness
regimen	every	eight	weeks.	How	do	you	do	that?	Add	more	weight	or	more	reps,
or	complete	the	workout	at	a	higher	intensity	in	a	shorter	amount
	of	time.	Oh,
and	feel	free	to	share	your	FXT	Score	with	all	your	friends	on	social	media.
Even	the	ones	who	may	grumble	about	your	fitness	posts	are	probably	getting
inspired	by	you	and	motivated	to	start	working	out	themselves.	Trust	us,	we’ve
seen	it	hundreds	of	times!
Progressive	Workouts
As	we’ll	cover	in	the	FXT:EXP	section,	developing	a	deep	well	of	muscular
endurance	comes	from	training
	at	a	high	level	even	when	at	or	near	muscular
exhaustion.	The	easiest	concept	to	hammer	this	home	is	this:	You’ll	make	more
endurance	and	strength	gains	from	the	last	5	reps	than	you	will	from	the	first	5.
Muscular	stress	builds	muscle—actually,	it	tears	muscles	apart,	only	to	regrow
them	stronger.	If	you’re	a	runner,	finishing	a	workout	strong	is	akin	to	finishing	a
race	with	a	swift	“kick”	as
	the	finish	line	comes	into	view.	No	matter	how
difficult	the	beginning	or	middle	of	a	workout	is,	finishing	strong—and	with
good	form—is	its	own	reward	and	amplifies	gains.
These	progressive	workout	styles	break	from	the	common	boredom	of
cranking	out	multiple	sets	with	the	same	number	of	reps	when	you’re	working	to
build	speed,	endurance	and	total-body	fitness	(5x5	lifts	do	play	a	strong	part
	in
FXT:MX1	and	FXT:ST1,	but	not	here).	Because	each	workout	requires	you	to
build	up	or	down	depending	on	the	type	you	choose,	you	have	a	finite	start	and
finish	point.	So	finish	each	and	every	one	of	these	workouts—unless	you’re
light-headed,	dizzy	or	injured,	of	course.	The	magic	of	these	progressives	is
directly	tied	to	you	completing	every	rep,	got	it?
When	following	the	progressive	programs
	below,	you’ll	be	adding	1	rep	each

set,	and	those	reps	add	up	very	quickly.	For	example,	a	“1-10	ladder”	consists	of
10	sets	with	a	total	of	55	reps.	Yes,	you	read	that	correctly—that	innocuous	little
“1-10”	results	in	55	total	reps!	We	added	a	helpful	chart	after	each	progressive
exercise	description	below	to	help	with	the	math	so	you	know	what	you’re
getting	into	before	you	start.	A	“10-20-10
	pyramid”	results	in	a	whopping	330
reps.	Yes,	you	read	that	right.
LADDERS
This	multiple-set	workout	increases	the	workload	incrementally	from	set	to	set,
making	the	lifts	near	the	end	of	the	workout	exponentially	more	difficult.
Excellent	for	building	strength	and	muscle	endurance,	ladders	require	increasing
levels	of	effort	and	attention	to	maintain	good	form	during	the	later	sets.
Bodyweight
	exercises	or	exercises	using	a	light	weight	are	recommended	for	this
type	of	regimen.
Perform	one	additional	exercise	rep	each	set,	sequentially	adding	more	reps
until	the	end	of	the	workout.
Set/Rep	example:
	Set	1,	1	rep;	Set	2,	2	reps...Set	10,	10	reps
	
Pattern
example:
	1,	2,	3,	4,	5,	6,	7,	8,	9,	10
LADDER	MATH
REVERSE	LADDERS
A	multiple-set	workout	designed	for	maximizing	metabolic	and	muscle	stress,
reverse	ladders	start	with	many	repetitions	at	the	beginning	of	a	workout	and	end
with	very	few.	This	structure	allows	athletes	to	complete	each	successive	set
with	proper	form	due	to	the	reduction	in	repetitions	while	allowing	for	a	heavier
weight	to	be	used	versus	the	traditional	ladder,	even	though
	they	both	require	the
same	number	of	reps.
Perform	one	less	exercise	rep	per	set,	sequentially	reducing	the	number	of
reps	until	the	end	of	the	workout.
Set/Rep	example:
	Set	1,	10	reps;	Set	2,	9	reps…Set	10,	1	rep
	
Pattern

Example:
	10,	9,	8,	7,	6,	5,	4,	3,	2,	1
REVERSE	LADDER	MATH
PYRAMIDS
Also	a	multiple-set	workout,	pyramids	start	similarly	to	ladders	with	low	reps
and	incrementally	add	one	rep	of	each	exercise	up	to	the	“peak”	or	highest	point
of	the	pyramid	before	reversing	the	trend,	reducing	the	repetitions	by	one	each
set	until	reaching	the	original	number.	By	starting	the	workout	with	minimal
reps,	pyramids	provide	an	effective	warm-up	when	utilizing	heavy	weights
	and
then	progressively	build	to	become	increasingly	more	difficult	before	eventually
returning	to	decreasing	reps.
Set/Rep	example:
	Set	1,	1	rep;	Set	2,	2	reps…Set	5,	5	reps;	Set	6,	5	reps…
Set	10,	1	rep.
Pattern	example:
	1,	2,	3,	4,	5,	5,	4,	3,	2,	1
PYRAMID	MATH
REVERSE	PYRAMIDS
The	exact	opposite	of	pyramids	when	it	comes	to	addition	and	subtraction	of
reps,	reverse	pyramids	start	at	the	highest	number	of	reps	and	decrease
incrementally	until	the	low	point	of	reps	is	hit,	then	increase	one	rep	per	set	until
reaching	and	completing	the	peak	number	of	reps	again.	This	type	of	workout
can	be	performed	with	relatively	heavy	weights,	provided	an	adequate
	warm-up
set	is	performed,	and	is	equally	suited	for	lighter	weights	or	bodyweight
exercises.	The	inverse	nature	of	reverse	pyramids	is	slightly	more	beneficial	for
building	muscle	stress	and	endurance	versus	standard	pyramids,	as	the	maximum

number	of	reps	is	required	at	the	end	of	the	workout	as	muscle	fatigue	is	setting
in.
Set/Rep	example:
	Set	1,	5	rep;	Set	2,	4	reps…Set	5,	1	rep;	Set	6,	1
	rep…Set	10,
5	reps
	
Pattern	example:
	5,	4,	3,	2,	1,	1,	2,	3,	4,	5
REVERSE	PYRAMID	MATH
SEESAWS
This	workout	type	is	a	combination	of	ladders,	reverse	ladders,	pyramids	and
reverse	pyramids	with	two	or	more	exercises.	Just	like	the	playground	equipment
this	progression	is	named	after,	the	seesaw	drill	has	one	side	
going	up	while	the
other	goes	down.	These	programs	perform	extremely	well	with	one	light	weight
or	bodyweight	exercise	and	one	heavier	weighted	or	more	“technical”	lift
	to
build	total-body	strength	and	muscle	endurance.
Ladder	Seesaw
	features	one	exercise	(generally	the	more	technical,	heavier	one)
starting	from	1	and	progressing	upward	to	10,	while	the	second	exercise
(generally	a	bodyweight	exercise)	descends	from	10	to	1.
Exercise	1A	Pattern	Example:
	1,	2,	3,	4,	5,	6,	7,	8,	9,	10	(55	total	reps)
Exercise	1B	Pattern	Example:
	10,	9,	8,	7,	6,	5,	4,	3,	2,	1
	(55	total	reps)
	
See
“Ladder	Math”	on	
page	60
	for	other	sample	total	reps.
Pyramid	Seesaw
	utilizes	the	pyramid	for	one	exercise	(generally	the	more
technical,	heavier	one)	and	a	reverse	pyramid	for	the	second	exercise	(generally
a	bodyweight	exercise).	These	“mirror”	pyramids	will	always	require	the	same
number	of	reps	split	between	the	two	exercises:
	
Exercise	1A	Pattern	Example:
1,	2,	3,	4,
	5,	5,	4,	3,	2,	1	(30	total	reps)
	
Exercise	1B	Pattern	Example:
	5,	4,	3,	2,
1,	1,	2,	3,	4,	5	(30	total	reps)
	
Note:
	In	the	example	above,	each	set	has	6	reps
(1+5,	2+4,	etc.)	as	you’ll	be	alternating	back	and	forth	between	exercises	1	and
2.	Pretty	cool,	huh?

FXT	Drills
A	big	part	of	the	FXT:FIT,	FXT:SXP	and	FXT:EXP	programs	is	the	high-
intensity	interval	(HIIT)	drills	that	are	used	to	develop
	speed,	strength	and
flexibility,	as	well	as	torch	fat	and	keep	the	programs	interesting,	exciting	and
really,	really	intense.	Always	follow	the	instructions	for	warm-up	and	cool-
down,	hydrate	properly	and	take	a	break	if	you	feel	light-headed	or	dizzy.	These
drills	are	no	joke,	and	it’s	up	to	you	to	provide	the	intensity	to	make	them
incredibly	effective	at	building	the	strength,	speed	and	athletic
	performance	you
crave.
40S	DRILL
During	the	NFL	combine,	the	40-yard	sprint,	or	“40	time,”	is	crucial	for
assessing	how	highly	players	will	be	drafted,	and	quite	literally	is	worth	millions
of	dollars	in	salary	to	these	athletes.	While	these	40s	will	make	you	faster	and
stronger,	they	won’t	necessarily	be	capable	of	padding	your	bank	account	with	a
seven-figure	paycheck.	But	hey,	money	can’t
	buy	fitness,	strength	and
endurance!	Just	like	the	NFL	combine,	you’ll	want	to	time	your	effort	and
continually	strive	toward	finishing	in	faster	and	faster	times.
This	drill	can	be	performed	with	10–30	seconds	of	rest	after	each	sprint	and
exercise.	Eventually	you	should	progress	to	complete	this	workout	without	any
rest.
40-yard	sprint
10	push-ups
40-yard	sprint
10	jumping	lunges
40-yard
	sprint
10	burpees
40-yard	sprint
10	air	squats
40-yard	sprint
30	crunches
That’s	one	rep.	Hydrate	and	rest	as	necessary	before	repeating!
HOT	CIRCUIT	2	DRILL
The	original	“Hot	Circuit”	that	we	created	back	in	2008	is	used	as	the	FXT:FIT

test	on	
page	42
.	This	version	is	slightly	different	and	a	little	more	challenging.
The	layout	still	works	perfectly	on	a	football	field,	soccer	pitch	or
	any	100-yard-
by-50-yard	flat	patch	of	grass.	Perform	each	sprint/mobility	exercise	and
bodyweight	exercise	as	a	circuit,	resting	only	when	absolutely	necessary.
Eventually,	you	should	progress	to	completing	this	entire	workout	without
resting,	then	take	a	quick	break,	sip	of	water	and	repeat.	It’s	called	“Hot	Circuit”
for	a	reason;	it’ll	burn	fat	right	off	of	your	body!
Remember	to	use	a	timer,
	and	progressively	chop	down	the	amount	of	time	it
takes	you	to	complete	each	round.
10	push-ups
50-yard	backward	sprint
20	in	&	outs
25-yard	sprint
25-yard	walking	lunges
10	narrow	push-ups
50-yard	crab	walk
10	wide	push-ups
50-yard	burpee	jumps
50	jumping	jacks
12.5-yard	inchworm
25-yard	bear	crawl
12.5-yard	spiderman
30	marching	twists
50-yard	sprint
10	push-ups
BURPEE	MILE
	DRILL
This	ridiculous	challenge	came	from	Mike	DeAngelo,	our	close	friend	and
trainer,	who	wanted	to	really	push	his	limits.	Start	out	by	linking	5	or	10	burpee

jumps	(see	description	below)	together	and	continually	add	distance	as	you
progress.	MikeyD	completed	the	full	mile	(5280	feet)	on	his	first	attempt	in
1:16:28	and	approximately	1550	burpee	jumps	(he	totally	lost	count—I	bet	you
can	figure
	out	why!).
MikeyD’s	top-3	tips:
•
Wear	gloves.
•
Use	a	deep	squat	and	a	big	arm	swing	to	build	up	the	force	to	jump	as	far	as	possible.	The	farther	you
jump,	the	fewer	burpees	you’ll	need	to	do!
•
Wear	a	hat	or	something	to	drop	and	mark	your	spot	if	you	need	to	leave	your	spot	when	nature	calls.
Burpee	jumps	are	a	plyometric	move	that	start	out	as	a	traditional	burpee	(the
“full	version”	including	the	push-up)	and	incorporate	an	arm	swing	toward	the
back	and	an	explosive	two-legged	broad	jump	forward	as	far	as	possible,
followed	by	a	controlled	landing.
1.
	Stand	tall	with	your	back	erect,	feet	shoulder-width	apart	and	toes	rotated
slightly	outward.
2.
	Shift	your	hips	backward	and	sit	back	for	the	squat,	keeping	your	head	up
and	bending	your	knees.	Lean	your	weight
	forward	and	place	your	hands	on	the
floor	inside,	outside	or	in	front	of	your	feet—whichever	is	more	comfortable	and
gives	you	a	nice,	stable	base.
3.
	Kick	your	feet	straight	back	so	that	you’re	now	in	a	push-up	start	position,
forming	a	straight	line	from	your	head	to	your	feet.	Keep	your	core	tight	to
maintain	an	erect	spine.
4.
	Inhale	as	you	lower	your	torso	toward	the	floor	for	a	push-up.
	Stop	when
your	body	is	1–2	inches	from	the	floor.
5.
	Exhaling,	straighten	your	arms	and	propel	your	entire	upper	body	off	the
floor	while	simultaneously	bending	your	knees	and	bringing	them	toward	your
chest	in	order	to	plant	your	feet	underneath	you.	You	should	end	up	back	in	the
bottom	position	of	a	squat.	Take	a	quick	breath.
6.
	Swing	your	arms	down	and	behind	you	in	an	arc,	then	reverse
	your	arm
direction	forward,	exhale	and	explode	forward	in	a	broad	jump	from	the	toes	of
both	feet.	Land	with	your	knees	slightly	bent	to	absorb	the	impact.
That’s	1	rep.
REVOLUTIONS	DRILL
Find	a	running	track	at	a	school	or	park	and	develop	speed,	explosive	power	and
endurance	with	this	combination	of	traditional	running	drills	and	plyometric
moves.	This	routine	is	all	about	intensity	and	leg
	mobility;	you’ll	be	running	the

800-yard	sections	exceptionally	hard	(after	a	warm-up,	of	course)	and
performing	the	plyometric	moves	with	explosive	force.	If	Revolutions	don’t
have	you	sucking	wind	after	one	rep,	you’re	not	pushing	yourself	hard	enough!
800	yards
40	Striders
40	Butt	Kicks
40	High	Knees
40	Skips
800	yards
That’s	1	rep.	Rest	10	to	60	seconds,	hydrate	and	repeat.
Nutrition
	to	Get	FIT
There’s	a	good	amount	of	truth	to	the	adage	“You	are	what	you	eat,”	and	for	this
book	we’ll	modify	the	phrase	to	focus	on	eating	for	performance:	“Your	engine
needs	fuel	to	run.”	On	
page	178
	we	cover	the	necessary	micro-and	macro-
nutrients	required	to	keep	an	athlete	fueled	for	training	and	primed	for	recovery
and	growth.
FXT:FIT	POINTS	KEY
20	Bodyweight	Reps
=
5	FXT
	points
10	Weighted	Reps
=
5	FXT	points
Walk/Jog
=
3	FXT	points/min
Moderate	Run
=
5	FXT	points/min
Hard	Run/Sprint
=
7	FXT	points/min

Ladders,	Pyramids,
sequential	drills
=
5	FXT	points/10	Reps
Hot	Circuit	2
=
50	FXT	points/round
Revolutions
=
50	FXT	points/round
40s	Drill
=
20	FXT	points/round
Add	up	all	your	points	to	get	your	FXT	Score.
INTENSITY:
If	you	finish	above	or	below	the	Target	Time,	append	the	amount	of	time	that
you	exceed	over	the	Target	Time	to	the	end	of	your	score.
Example:	20:00	Target	Time,	22:00	finish	=	+2:00
EXAMPLE:
Basic	Target	Points:
	80,	Target	Time:	16:00
Advanced	Target	Points:
	120,	Target	Time:	18:00
Instructions:	Complete	as	many	sets	as	possible	with	good	form.	Rest	as
needed.
20	Bodyweight	Squats	=	5	points
1:00	Plank	=	5	points
20	Lunges	=	5	points
(20)	Push-Ups	=	5	points
Example:	Completed	4	sets	of	the	above	in	20:00.
Score:	80	+4:00

FXT:FIT	Program
Warm	up	for	5	minutes	prior	to	each	workout;	stretch	after	completion.	Warm-Ups	&	Stretches	start	on
page	174
.	Use	exertion	scale	on	
page	49
	for	Easy,	Moderate	and	Hard	effort.	Complete	as	many	reps	as
possible	with	good	form	to	reach	Target	Points	&	Target	Time.
Week	1


Week	2


FXT:FIT	Program
Warm	up	for	5	minutes	prior	to	each	workout;	stretch	after	completion.	Warm-Ups	&	Stretches	start	on
page	174
.	Use	exertion	scale	on	
page	49
	for	Easy,	Moderate	and	Hard	effort.	Complete	as	many	reps	as
possible	with	good	form	to	reach	Target	Points	&	Target	Time.
Week	3


Week	4


FXT:FIT	Program
Warm	up	for	5	minutes	prior	to	each	workout;	stretch	after	completion.	Warm-Ups	&	Stretches	start	on
page	174
.	Use	exertion	scale	on	
page	49
	for	Easy,	Moderate	and	Hard	effort.	Complete	as	many	reps	as
possible	with	good	form	to	reach	Target	Points	&	Target	Time.
Week	5


Week	6


FXT:FIT	Program
Warm	up	for	5	minutes	prior	to	each	workout;	stretch	after	completion.	Warm-Ups	&	Stretches	start	on
page	174
.	Use	exertion	scale	on	
page	49
	for	Easy,	Moderate	and	Hard	effort.	Complete	as	many	reps	as
possible	with	good	form	to	reach	Target	Points	&	Target	Time.
Week	7
Week	8

Success!
Congratulations	on	completing	the	FXT:FIT	program!	You’ve	engaged	in	one	of
the	most	comprehensive	total-body	functional	fitness	programs	available	and
taken	your	athletic	ability	to	new	heights—but	don’t	stop	yet!	Each	FXT
program,	whether	it’s	the	FIT,	Strength,	Muscle,	Speed,	Endurance	and	even
Intro	to	FXT	program,	was	designed	to	be	a	program	that	you	can	use	over	and
over	to	continue
	to	develop	strength,	speed,	muscle,	endurance	and	a	healthy,
active	body.	Just	because	you’ve	completed	one	round	of	one	specific	program
doesn’t	in	any	way	mean	you	should	disregard	it	and	move	on!	You	can	always
improve	your	results	relative	to	target	points	and	time—add	more	weight	to	your
reps	and	perform	each	and	every	exercise	with	perfect	form	to	enhance	your

fitness	and	shred	your
	physique.	Of	course,	we’re	absolutely	encouraging	you	to
mix	it	up	and	try	out	all	the	different	programs	in	the	book	as	they	fit	your	goals
over	time.	The	entire	nature	of	cross	training	is	to	switch	up	your	workout	at
regular	intervals	to	develop	all	your	musculature	at	multiple	disciplines	on	a
range	of	different	planes—not	just	focus	on	specific	muscles	by	continually
training	a	set	range	of	motion
	with	the	same	exercises.	To	steal	a	line	from	one
of	Brett’s	favorite	movies	of	all	time,	
Fight	Club:
	“I	say	evolve,	and	let	the	chips
fall	where	they	may.”

FXT:SXP
Developing	Explosive	Speed	&	Athletic	Performance
Congratulations	again	on	finishing	the	FXT:FIT	program,	and	welcome	to	the
next	step	to	improving	your	strength,	speed,	flexibility	and	fitness.	FXT:SXP	is
pretty	extreme	and	built	to	challenge	athletes	of	all	levels	because	the	level	of
intensity	that	you	put	into	every	rep	of	every	exercise	and	every	single	drill	is
controlled	by	you.
If	you’re	not	totally	spent	near	the	end	of	each	workout,	you’re	not	pushing
yourself	hard	enough	nor	setting	the	groundwork	to	smash	the	plateaus	of
“fatigue”	or	“exhaustion”	that	limit	your	ability	now.	Developing	explosive
speed	is	about	finding	the	next	gear	and	blowing	past	your	current	thresholds
and	trouncing	your	current	levels	of	athletic	performance.	Whether	your	goal	is	a
faster	40-yard
	time,	crushing	a	new	5K	personal	record	or	playing	for	longer
then	ever	at	a	higher	level	at	team	sports	like	soccer,	football	or	basketball,
FXT:SXP	is	the	place	to	start.
FXT:FIT	is	a	prerequisite	for	FXT:SXP.	Completion	of	FXT:SXP
is	required	before	starting	FXT:EXP.	Your	mantra	for	this
program	should	be:	“Run	when	you	can,	walk	if	you	have	to,
crawl	if	you	must;	just	never	give	up”	(Dean
	Karnazes).
In	the	SXP	program	we’ll	focus	on	strengthening	your	legs,	trunk	and	core
with	easy-to-follow	exercises,	develop	your	fast-twitch	muscles	and	explosive
power	using	plyometrics,	and	use	mobility	and	flexibility	drills	to	develop	your
overall	speed.	On	top	of	all	that,	we’ll	even	do	some	running.	This	is	an	intense
regimen	with	some	high-tempo	plyometric	moves	and	elements	from	the
FXT:FIT	complete-body	program.	Prior	to	starting	your	timer	and	performing
the	first	movement,	commit	yourself	to	completing	the	entire	workout.	Don’t
cheat	your	success	by	quitting	early.	Rest	as	needed	and	focus	on	your	form—
only	stop	when	you	can	no	longer	perform	each	exercise	properly	or	can	no

longer	continue	due	to	extreme	fatigue,	light-headedness,	acute	pain	or	other
injury	warning	signs.
You’ll	need	to	perform	all	the	exercises	to	develop	optimum	functional
fitness—do	not	skip	exercises	because	you	don’t	like	them	or	they’re	difficult	to
complete.	They	were	specifically	chosen	for	their	effectiveness	at	delivering
results.	In	addition,	finish	every	rep	and	set.	Whether	you’re	on	pace	to	finish
below	the	target	time	or	double	that	amount,	the	only	way	you’ll	transform	your
mind
	and	body	is	to	develop	consistency	and	tenacity	from	one	workout	to	the
next.	Developing	speed	requires	performing	some	exercises	and	drills	at	high
intensity,	but	not	all	of	them.	You	can’t	push	your	body	100%	all	the	time,	so
follow	the	routine,	including	tempo	and	pace,	and	observe	the	proper	rest
periods.
Speed	Drills
Pop	quiz:	What’s	the	quickest	way	to	develop	explosive	speed?	Running,
running	and	more	running,	right?
Of	course	you	need	to	work	on	your	running	in	order	to	develop	stronger	leg,
hip	and	glute	muscles,	but	you	also	need	to	strengthen	those	muscles	with	cross-
training	and	implement	some	plyometric	moves	to	develop	your	
fast-twitch
muscle	fibers.	What	you	may	not	realize	is	that	the	most	important	muscles	you
need	to	develop	to	run	quickly	or	for	long	periods	of
	time	are	not	located	in	your
legs,	but	your	core.	Yeah,	we	already	covered	your	hips	and	glutes,	but	your	abs,
obliques,	intercostals	and	erector	spinae	(lower	back)	muscles	need	to	be	strong
and	flexible	to	allow	you	to	run	quickly	and	efficiently.
The	following	drills	have	been	designed	to	develop	explosive	power	through
plyometric	movements,	increase	your	foot	speed	through	high	turnover	exercises
and	increase	your	flexibility	by	extending	your	range	of	motion.
THE	20/20	DRILL
The	20/20	Drill	combines	eight	moves	at	high	intensity	to	develop	your	speed,
strength,	agility,	endurance	and	all-around	athletic	ability.	This	drill	is	short	and
intense	as	a	workout,	and	also	provides	a	great	warm-up	and	cool-down	when
performed	at	a	more	relaxed	pace.
The	set-up	is	simple:	Find	a	flat	area
	at	least	20	yards	long	and	place	some
cones	or	markers	at	each	end;	pavement	or	grass	is	fine,	but	a	sports	field	is

optimal.	Perform	the	first	exercise/movement	for	20	yards	until	you	reach	your
marker,	turn	around,	and	perform	the	next	exercise/movement	20	yards	back	to
the	starting	point,	continually	progressing	through	all	eight	moves	at	a	high
intensity,	with	good	form	and	little	to	no	rest	in
	between.
High	Knees:
	Run	forward	using	a	normal-length	stride.	Bend	the	knee	of
your	elevated	leg	90	degrees	and	raise	it	until	it’s	level	with	your	waist.	Push
forward	from	the	ball	of	your	grounded	foot.	Pump	your	arms	to	generate	leg
drive	and	speed.	Switch	legs	and	repeat.
Butt	Kicks:
	Run	forward	by	taking	very	small	steps	and	raising	the	heel	of
your	back	leg	up	toward	your	butt.	Push	forward
	from	the	ball	of	your	grounded
foot,	progressing	12	to	18	inches	per	stride.
Striders:
	Bound	forward	by	pushing	off	hard	from	the	ball	of	your	grounded
foot,	pumping	your	arms	to	generate	leg	drive	and	speed.	Take	huge	leaps
forward,	trying	to	cover	as	much	ground	as	possible	with	each	stride.
Skips:
	Bound	forward	by	pushing	off	hard	from	the	ball	of	your	grounded
foot,	landing	again	on	that
	same	foot,	and	pushing	off	once	more	before	landing
on	the	opposite	foot.	Pump	your	arms	to	generate	leg	drive	and	speed.	Take
smaller	leaps	forward	than	when	performing	Striders,	covering	slightly	less
ground	per	stride.
Side	Shuffle:
	Turn	sideways	with	your	left	hip	pointing	toward	the	direction
you’ll	be	traveling,	feet	slightly	wider	than	your	shoulders	and	hands	at	your
sides.	Push	off	with
	your	right	foot	in	the	direction	you’ll	be	traveling	while
lifting	your	left	foot	and	swinging	your	right	foot	toward	the	center	of	your	body.
Touch	both	feet	together	lightly	before	landing	on	your	right	foot,	extending
your	left	foot	out	to	the	side	in	the	direction	you’re	traveling	and	repeating	the
process.	When	you	reach	the	halfway	point	(the	10-yard	mark),	turn	180	degrees
so	that	your
	right	hip	is	pointing	in	the	direction	that	you’re	traveling	and
continue	side	shuffling	an	additional	10	yards.
Walking	Lunge:
	Stand	tall,	facing	the	direction	you’ll	be	traveling,	with
your	feet	shoulder-width	apart	and	your	arms	hanging	at	your	sides.	Take	a	large
step	forward	with	your	right	foot,	bend	both	knees,	and	drop	your	hips	straight
down	until	both	knees	are	bent	90	degrees.	Your
	left	knee	should	almost	be
touching	the	ground	and	your	left	toes	are	on	the	ground	behind	you.	Keep	your
core	engaged	and	your	back,	neck	and	hips	straight	at	all	times	during	this
movement.	Keeping	your	right	foot	in	place	on	the	ground,	push	up	with	your

right	leg,	straighten	both	knees,	bring	your	left	leg	parallel	with	your	right,	and
place	your	left	foot	next	to	your	right.	Continue	moving
	forward	by	repeating	the
above	process	with	your	left	foot.
Backward	Sprint:
	Facing	away	from	the	direction	you’ll	traveling,	run	by
pushing	off	alternating	forefeet	and	raising	your	knees	as	high	as	possible.	Pump
your	arms	as	needed	to	generate	leg	drive	and	speed.	This	takes	a	little	getting
used	to	but	it’s	a	great	way	to	strengthen	your	running	muscles	by	working	them
in	an	opposite	plane
	of	motion	and	helps	to	develop	balance	and	agility.
Sprint:
	The	sprint	is	saved	for	last	so	you’re	working	extremely	hard	to
generate	speed	after	your	legs	and	lungs	are	already	fatigued.	Run	forward	at	top
speed	by	leaning	forward	with	your	upper	body	to	as	much	as	a	45-degree	angle
and	driving	off	the	balls	of	your	feet	as	hard	and	as	rapidly	as	you	can.	Pump
your	arms	to	increase	leg	drive
	and	speed.
HILL	REPEATS
Hill	repeats	develop	leg	strength	through	the	added	force	needed	to	combat
gravity	while	climbing	an	incline.	They	also	change	the	angle	of	each	footfall
and	push-off	to	work	muscles	in	a	new	range	of	motion.
First,	you’ll	need	a	paved	hill	that’s	long	enough	for	you	to	run	up	for	at	least
20	seconds,	or	up	to	100	strides.	A	straight	sidewalk,	long	driveway	or	safe	side
road	will	do.	The	hill	doesn’t	need	to	be	very	steep	(at	least	when	you’re	just
getting	started)	but	should	be	enough	of	a	bump	to	make	a	20-second	sprint	up	it
a	bit	of	a	chore.	Avoid	grass,	trails	or	stairs	unless	absolutely	necessary	as	the
focus	of	this	drill	is	to	build	your	running	strength	without	having	to	focus	on
your	footing,	obstacles	or	tripping	over	a	step.	Even	if	you’re	training
	for	a	trail
race,	this	is	a	smooth-surface	exercise;	you	can	get	your	trail	practice	during
your	weekly	mileage	outside	of	these	drills.	Need	to	use	a	treadmill?	See	below.
The	intervals	are	performed	by	running	up	the	hill	at	the	chosen	level	of
exertion	for	the	designed	amount	of	time	or	number	of	strides.	Once	you	hit	that
goal,	slow,	stop	and	turn	around	to	descend	the	hill	for	the	next	repeat;
	this	may
be	a	walk	or	a	slow	jog	to	return	to	the	start	position.	Don’t	dilly-dally,	however
—get	back	to	the	start	for	your	next	interval	as	quickly	as	you	can	while
catching	your	breath.	Hill	repeats	are	quick,	brutal	and	effective—the	quicker
you	get	them	over	with,	the	sooner	you	can	re-hydrate	and	move	on	with	your
workout.
Treadmill	users:
	While	you’ll	be	missing	out	on	the	downhill	walk
	or	jog

with	each	repetition,	you	can	effectively	use	the	treadmill	to	dial	in	a	speed	and
incline	that	suits	your	athletic	ability	and	goals.	Follow	the	appropriate	warm-up
of	5	minutes	with	the	incline	set	at	.5	or	1%	and	then	carefully	grab	the	handrails
and	step	on	the	side	rails	while	raising	the	incline	to	5–10%	based	on	your
ability;	change	the	speed	so	that	you	can	safely	maintain	a	moderate
	pace	for	the
desired	time.	You’ll	need	to	adjust	the	incline	and	speed	settings	to	hit	your
targets,	so	don’t	be	afraid	to	carefully	step	off	the	belt	if	needed	and	make
changes.	When	performing	the	intervals,	run	at	the	desired	speed	for	the	amount
of	time	or	strides	in	the	program	and	then	carefully	step	off	the	belt	onto	the	side
rails	to	rest.	Since	you	won’t	be	walking	or	jogging	downhill,
	take	a	30-second
to	1-minute	break	before	your	next	interval,	unless	specifically	instructed	in	the
chart.
PICK-UPS
Understanding	pick-up	intervals	is	pretty	easy;	performing	them	is	slightly	more
difficult.	After	warming	up,	you’ll	run	for	the	specified	distance	or	time	at	a
designated	pace	or	exertion	level	and	then—you	guessed	it—“pick	up”	your
speed	for	an	interval	of	time.	Once	your	faster
	interval	is	over,	return	back	to	the
previous	pace	or	exertion	level	and	continue.	You	may	drop	your	intensity	all	the
way	down	to	a	walk	for	30	seconds	or	so	if	you	need	to	catch	your	breath,
hydrate	and	recover.
Treadmill	users	should	have	no	problem	with	this—just	crank	up	the	speed
for	the	desired	amount	of	time.	The	speed	increase	is	relative	to	your	ability	and
goals.
TEMPO	RUNS
Tempo
	runs	are	easily	defined	as	running	for	a	prescribed	period	of	time	at	a
“hard”	exertion	level,	or	above	85%	of	your	maximal	effort	or	target	heart	rate
(see	“Total	Heart	Rate	&	Zones”	on	
page	50
).	Once	again,	this	pace	is	relative	to
your	ability	and	as	you	progress	it’s	a	moving	target.	Keep	that	in	mind	when
another	runner	shares	their	tempo	pace	or	tries	to	tell	you	that	it	should	be	ANY
exact
	minutes	per	mile.	Your	tempo	is	your	tempo	and	it	will	change	from	month
to	month	based	on	your	training.	Got	it?
Nutrition	for	Speed	&	Explosive	Performance

Nutrition	plays	a	big	part	in	fueling	for	training	and	getting	the	long-term	body
composition	you	want.	Refer	to	“Nutrition	for	FXT:FIT,	FXT:SXP	&	FXT:EXP
on	
page	181
	for	guidelines	on	meal	timing	and	macro-and	micronutrient
consumption.
	You’ll	also	learn	how	what	you	take	in	before,	during	and	after
training	affects	your	success.
FXT:SXP	POINTS	KEY
20	Bodyweight
Reps
=
5	FXT	Points
10	Weighted	Reps
=
5	FXT	Points
Walk/Jog
=
3	FXT	Points/min
Moderate	Run
=
5	FXT	Points/min
Hard	Run/Sprint
=
7	FXT	Points/min
Ladders,	Pyramids,
sequential	drills
=
5	FXT	Points/10	Reps
Hot	Circuit	2
=
50
	FXT	Points/round
Revolutions
=
50	FXT	Points/round
40s	Drill
=
20	FXT	Points/round
Add	up	all	your	points	to	get	your	FXT	Score.

INTENSITY:
If	you	finish	above	or	below	the	Target	Time,	append	the	amount	of	time	that
you	exceed	over	the	Target	Time	to	the	end	of	your	score.
Example:	20:00	Target	Time,	22:00	finish	=	+2:00
EXAMPLE:
Basic	Target	Points:
	80,	Target	Time:	16:00
Advanced	Target	Points:
	120,	Target	Time:	18:00
Instructions:	Complete	as	many	sets	as	possible	with	good	form.	Rest	as
needed.
20	Bodyweight	Squats	=	5	points
1:00	Plank	=	5	points
20	Lunges	=	5	points
(20)	Push-Ups	=	5	points
Example:	Completed	4	sets	of	the	above	in	20:00.
Score:	80	+4:00

FXT:SXP	Program	
|
	Week	1
Warm	up	for	5	minutes	prior	to	each	workout;	stretch	after	completion.	Warm-Ups	&	Stretches	start	on
page	174
.	Use	exertion	scale	on	
page	49
	for	Easy,	Moderate	and	Hard	effort.	Complete	as	many	reps	as
possible	with	good	form	to	reach	Target	Points	&	Target	Time.


FXT:SXP
	Program	
|
	Week	2
Warm	up	for	5	minutes	prior	to	each	workout;	stretch	after	completion.	Warm-Ups	&	Stretches	start	on
page	174
.	Use	exertion	scale	on	
page	49
	for	Easy,	Moderate	and	Hard	effort.	Complete	as	many	reps	as
possible	with	good	form	to	reach	Target	Points	&	Target	Time.


FXT:SXP	Program	
|
	Week	3
Warm	up	for	5	minutes	prior	to	each	workout;
	stretch	after	completion.	Warm-Ups	&	Stretches	start	on
page	174
.	Use	exertion	scale	on	
page	49
	for	Easy,	Moderate	and	Hard	effort.	Complete	as	many	reps	as
possible	with	good	form	to	reach	Target	Points	&	Target	Time.


FXT:SXP	Program	
|
	Week	4
Warm	up	for	5	minutes	prior	to	each	workout;	stretch	after	completion.	Warm-Ups	&	Stretches	start	on
page	174
.	Use	exertion	scale	on	
page	49
	for	Easy,	Moderate	and	Hard	effort.	Complete	as	many	reps	as
possible	with	good	form	to	reach	Target	Points	&	Target	Time.


FXT:SXP	Program	
|
	Week	5
Warm	up	for	5	minutes	prior	to	each	workout;	stretch	after	completion.	Warm-Ups	&	Stretches	start	on
page	174
.	Use	exertion	scale	on	
page	49
	for	Easy,	Moderate	and	Hard	effort.	Complete	as	many	reps	as
possible	with	good	form	to	reach	Target	Points	&	Target	Time.


FXT:SXP	Program	
|
	Week	6
Warm	up	for	5	minutes	prior	to	each	workout;	stretch	after	completion.	Warm-Ups	&	Stretches	start	on
page	174
.	Use	exertion	scale	on	
page	49
	for	Easy,	Moderate	and	Hard	effort.	Complete	as	many	reps	as
possible	with	good	form	to	reach	Target	Points	&	Target	Time.


FXT:SXP	Program	
|
	Week	7
Warm	up	for	5	minutes	prior	to	each	workout;	stretch	after	completion.	Warm-Ups	&	Stretches	start	on
page	174
.	Use	exertion	scale	on	
page	49
	for	Easy,	Moderate	and	Hard	effort.	Complete	as	many	reps	as
possible	with	good	form	to	reach	Target	Points	&	Target	Time.


FXT:SXP	Program	
|
	Week	8
Warm	up	for	5	minutes	prior	to	each	workout;	stretch	after	completion.	Warm-Ups	&	Stretches	start
	on
page	174
.	Use	exertion	scale	on	
page	49
	for	Easy,	Moderate	and	Hard	effort.	Complete	as	many	reps	as
possible	with	good	form	to	reach	Target	Points	&	Target	Time.


Success!
Congratulations	on	completing	the	SXP	program!	Take	a	good,	long	look	in	the
mirror	as	not	only	should	you	be	proud	of	what	you’ve	accomplished,	the	image
staring	back	at	you	should	be	leaner,	stronger	and	faster.	Whether	your	goal	is	a
new	personal	record	in	a	5K	or	10K,	your	newfound	strength,	flexibility,

durability	and	speed	will	serve	you	well!
If	you’re	interested	in	progressing
	on	to	the	EXP	endurance	program,	you’ve
already	built	a	lot	of	the	groundwork	with	the	drills	and	exercises	and	have	the
new	challenge	of	adding	distance	and	developing	late-run	strength	and	the
ability	to	run	hard	well	past	what	you	might	consider	today	as	fatigue.	(We’ll
help	you	redefine	what	your	personal	quitting	point	looks	like.)	The	SXP
program	also	lends	itself	to	any	of	the	other	programs:
	Total-Body	Fitness,
Building	Muscle	or	Developing	Strength.	Whatever	your	next	goal	is,	we’ve	got
an	FXT	program	for	you!

FXT:EXP
Building	Endurance	for	Long-Distance	Performance
Welcome	to	FXT:EXP,	the	next	progression	after	finishing	FXT:SXP	to	develop
deep,	powerful,	muscle	endurance	for	enhanced	athletic	performance.	This
program	won’t	not	be	a	walk	in	the	park	for	anyone,	whether	they’re	incredibly
fit	amateurs	or	elite	professional	athletes.	How	can	we	say	that?	Quite	simply,
the	tenacity	you	put	into	the
	program	in	the	form	of	intensity	from	start	to	finish
is	up	to	each	athlete.
If	you’re	not	totally	smoked	halfway	through	the	program	and	fighting	to
keep	your	form	(and	maybe	even	keep	your	lunch	down),	then	you	aren’t
pushing	yourself	through	what	you	consider	“exhaustion”	now.	We	added	the
quotes	to	reinforce	that	what	you	may	consider	exhaustion	now—even	after
completing	the	difficult	FXT:SXP
	program—is	actually	the	period	where	you’ll
make	most	of	your	endurance	gains.
Completing	FXT:SXP	is	a	prerequisite	for	starting	the	FXT:EXP
program	because	you’ll	be	using	more	extreme	versions	of
similar	workouts	you	learned	and	mastered	in	FXT:SXP.	Your
mantra	throughout	this	entire	program	should	be:	“Endurance	is
one	of	the	most	difficult	disciplines,	but	it	is	the	one	who	endures
that
	the	final	victory	comes”	(Dean	Karnazes).
There’s	a	big	attraction	for	many	athletes	to	run	a	marathon,	finish	an
Ironman	Triathlon	or	even	tackle	an	ultramarathon	of	50	or	even	100	(or	more!)
miles.	While	each	of	those	events	requires	endurance,	they’re	really	at	the	more
extreme	end	of	the	spectrum.	A	friendly	tennis	match,	pick-up	basketball	game
or	soccer	game	requires	a	great	deal	of
	endurance.	Heck,	even	maintaining	your
strength	and	focus	during	a	round	of	golf	can	be	taxing	on	most	everyday
athletes	or	weekend	warriors.	Using	full-body	training	and,	yes,	running,	we’ll
develop	the	strength	and	stamina	to	run	or	play	better	for	even	longer	than	you

may	have	thought	possible.
FXT:EXP	is	an	intense	regimen	with	elements	from	the	FXT:FIT	complete-
body	program	along	with	many
	high-tempo	plyo-metric	moves	and	drills	from
the	SXP	speed	performance	program,	all	with	timing	and	specificity	to	develop
your	athletic	endurance.	Prior	to	starting	your	timer	and	performing	the	first
movement,	commit	yourself	to	completing	the	entire	workout.	Don’t	cheat	your
success	by	quitting	early.	Rest	as	needed	and	focus	on	your	form—only	stop
when	you	can	no	longer	perform	each	exercise
	properly	or	can	no	longer
continue	due	to	extreme	fatigue,	light-headedness,	acute	pain	or	other	injury
warning	signs.
You	need	to	perform	all	the	exercises	to	develop	optimum	performance
endurance	through	functional	fitness—don’t	skip	exercises	because	you	don’t
like	them	or	they’re	difficult	to	complete.	They	were	specifically	chosen	for	their
effectiveness	at	delivering	results.	In	addition,
	finish	every	rep	and	set.	Whether
you’re	on	pace	to	finish	below	the	target	time	or	double	that	amount,	the	only
way	you’ll	transform	your	mind	and	body	is	to	develop	consistency	and	tenacity
from	one	workout	to	the	next.
Developing	endurance	(and	speed	and	total-body	fitness,	etc.)	requires
performing	some	exercises	and	drills	at	high	intensity,	but	not	all	of	them.	You
can’t	push	your	body
	100%	all	the	time,	so	follow	the	routine,	including	tempo
and	pace,	and	observe	the	proper	rest	periods.
Workouts	That	Develop	Endurance
So,	how	do	you	train	for	endurance?	Is	it	all	long,	slow	running	and	repetition
after	repetition?	Actually,	no.	We’ll	develop	your	endurance	using	some	longer-
distance	running	(or	swimming,	biking,	hiking,	jumping	rope	or	whatever	you
choose	as	your	cardio
	base-building)	but	we’ll	also	use	some	performance-
building	techniques	that	will	require	proper	form	after	what	you	may	consider
your	point	of	exhaustion.	Simply	put,	you’ll	be	performing	the	hardest	part	of
the	workouts	after	you’ve	already	depleted	your	muscles	of	free	glycogen	and
are	running	on	fumes.	Your	goal	is	to	finish	the	workouts	even	when	you	feel
like	giving	up	and	re-establish	your	baseline
	for	endurance	and	performance.
Please	note:	This	program	will	most	likely	be	a	lot	different	from	what	you	may
expect	from	an	“endurance”	type	of	regimen.	Wrap	your	mind	around	the	fact
that	we’re	looking	at	endurance	like	a	12-round	MMA	bout	versus	a	24-hour
ultramarathon.

FXT:EXP	TIP—
Finish	at	110%.	You’ll	get	the	most	endurance-
developing	benefit	out	of	the	relatively	short	runs	in	this
	program
by	finishing	the	last	5–10	minutes	near	maximal	effort.	Even
when	your	brain	is	sending	signals	of	fatigue,	your	body	still	has
the	strength	to	finish	strong,	and	even	kick	your	final	few	minutes
at	an	increased	pace/harder	intensity.
The	exercises,	drills	and	types	of	workouts	you’ll	be	using	won’t	be	all	that
different	from	SXP	or	FIT,	but	the	application	and	timing	for	the	most
	part	will
be	specific	to	building	endurance.	Tempo	runs	will	be	longer,	pick-up	runs	will
be	more	intense	and	the	ladders,	reverse	ladders	and	elevator	workouts	will
challenge	you	mentally	and	physically	to	get	to	the	very	last	rep.
See	the	“FXT:EXP	Points	Key”	on	page	
	to	get	a	better	understanding
of	how	to	calculate	your	FXT	Score	for	each	workout.
DEPLETION	WORKOUTS:
	RUNNING	ON	EMPTY
Depletion	runs	are	a	rather	extreme	way	that	marathoners	and	triathletes	develop
endurance.	They	bring	their	bodies	ever	so	close	to	failure,	or	“bonking”	(when
you	run	out	of	energy),	and	continue	to	push	through	the	drills	or	exercises	to
complete	the	workout.	Quite	simply,	these	are	workouts	performed	at	high
intensity	and	consistently	completed	with	extraordinary	maximum
	exertion—
with	no	nutritional	support.	“Digging	deep”	barely	describes	the	extreme	nature
of	finishing	a	depletion	workout	when	your	body’s	glycogen	is	completely
tapped	out.
Depletion	workouts	are	extreme	and	are	only	offered	as	an	alternative
program	for	advanced	athletes	seeking	to	develop	late-game	or	long-distance
endurance	when	their	energy	reserves	are	nearly	tapped.	Professional	athletes
call	this	“the	hurt	locker”	as	this	is	the	zone	where	races	or	games	are	ultimately
decided.	Elite	athletes	can	“embrace	the	suck”	longer	and	more	proficiently	than
amateurs;	this	is	one	of	the	reasons	they’re	on	the	podiums	and	winning
championships,	bringing	home	the	MVP	trophies.
To	perform	these	workouts,	you’ll	utilize	a	nutritional	restriction	called
intermittent	fasting.	Essentially,	you’ll
	fast	for	about	12–16	hours	before
performing	your	workout,	and	then	refuel	immediately	afterward.	Optimally,

these	workouts	should	be	performed	as	your	last	workout	for	the	week	(on
Fridays),	when	you’re	planning	to	take	both	Saturday	and	Sunday	off	from
training.
Note:
	Depletion	workouts	should	be	performed	a	maximum	of	once	per
week—stop	exercising	immediately	if	you	become	light-headed,	delirious
	or
experience	any	vertigo.	These	workouts	should	be	performed	with	the	guidance
of	a	trainer	or	workout	partner	who	is	NOT	performing	them	at	the	same	time,
paying	close	attention	to	the	depleted	athlete	for	any	signs	of	erratic	behavior.
Always	have	a	source	of	fast-burning	carbs	like	an	energy	gel	or	candy	bar	on
hand	to	refuel	an	athlete	who’s	complaining	of	nausea	or	extreme	light-
headedness.
We	refer	to	slow-burning	carbs	as	brown	or	green	carbs	as	a	quick
shortcut	based	on	the	predominant	color	of	the	carb	source:
brown	carbs	include	sweet	potato,	whole	grains	and	brown	rice
while	green	carbs	cover	all	veggies.	Fast-burning	carbs	are
referred	to	as	white	carbs—simple,	fast-burning	sugar	sources,
like	white	bread,	white	rice,	potatoes	and	even	sugary	energy
gels,	gummy	bears	or
	hard	candy.
Nutrition	for	Building	Endurance	for	Long-Distance
Performance
Nutritional	needs	for	endurance	athletes	are	not	necessarily	different	than	those
following	the	FXT:FIT	or	FXT:SXP	programs	(see	FXT:FIT	nutrition	on	
page
181
).	The	big	difference	is	making	sure	you	have	enough	slow-burning	carbs	in
your	diet	to	fuel	you	during	longer	workouts	than	you	have	most	likely	ever
performed
	before.	Unfortunately,	there’s	no	magic	formula	for	what	every
athlete	needs	for	sustained	energy,	and	you’ll	need	to	do	a	little	self-evaluation
as	you	progress	through	the	program.	If	you’re	really	lethargic	in	the	middle	of	a
workout,	you	most	likely	are	low	on	free	glucose	in	your	system	and	should	add
more	brown	or	green	carbs	about	an	hour	before	your	workout.	If	you	find
yourself	feeling
	bloated	in	the	belly	during	a	workout,	you	may	be	consuming
too	much,	too	near	your	workout.

After	your	FXT:EXP	workout,	you	absolutely,	positively	need	to	refresh	your
fuel	stores	and	begin	muscle	repair	by	eating	or	drinking	a	4:1	ratio	of	fast-
acting,	white	carbs	and	protein.	Taking	in	simple	sugars	helps	shuttle	protein	to
your	muscles	to	begin	recovery	and	repair.
FXT:EXP	POINTS	KEY
20	Bodyweight
Reps
=
5	FXT	points
10	Weighted	Reps
=
5	FXT	points
Walk/Jog
=
3	FXT	points/min
Moderate	Run
=
5	FXT	points/min
Hard	Run/Sprint
=
7	FXT	points/min
Ladders,	Pyramids,
sequential	drills
=
5	FXT	points/10	Reps
Hot	Circuit	2
=
50	FXT	points/round
Revolutions
=
50	FXT	points/round
40s	Drill
=
20	FXT	points/round
Add	up	all	your	points	to
	get	your	FXT	Score.

INTENSITY:
If	you	finish	above	or	below	the	Target	Time,	append	the	amount	of	time	that
you	exceed	over	the	Target	Time	to	the	end	of	your	score.
Example:	20:00	Target	Time,	22:00	finish	=	+2:00
EXAMPLE:
Basic	Target	Points:
	80,	Target	Time:	16:00
Advanced	Target	Points:
	120,	Target	Time:	18:00
Instructions:	Complete	as	many	sets	as	possible	with	good	form.	Rest	as
needed.
20	Bodyweight	Squats	=	5	points
1:00	Plank	=	5	points
20	Lunges	=	5	points
(20)	Push-Ups	=	5	points
Example:	Completed	4	sets	of	the	above	in	20:00.
Score:	80	+4:00

FXT:EXP	Program	
|
	Week	1
Warm	up	for	5	minutes	prior	to	each	workout;	stretch	after	completion.	Warm-Ups	&	Stretches	start	on
page	174
.	Use	exertion	scale	on	
page	49
	for	Easy,	Moderate	and	Hard	effort.	Complete	as	many	reps	as
possible	with	good	form	to	reach	Target	Points	&	Target	Time.


FXT:EXP	Program	
|
	Week	2
Warm	up	for	5	minutes	prior	to	each	workout;	stretch	after	completion.	Warm-Ups	&	Stretches	start	on
page	174
.	Use	exertion	scale	on	
page	49
	for	Easy,	Moderate	and	Hard	effort.	Complete	as	many	reps	as
possible	with	good	form	to	reach	Target	Points	&	Target	Time.


Note:
	Basic	Target	Point	assumes	3	points/min	for	easy	run/walk	35:00,	Adv.
Target	Point	assumes	5	points/min	for	moderate	run.

FXT:EXP	Program	
|
	Week	3
Warm	up	for	5	minutes	prior	to	each	workout;	stretch	after	completion.	Warm-Ups	&	Stretches	start	on
page	174
.	Use	exertion	scale	on	
page	49
	for	Easy,	Moderate	and	Hard	effort.	Complete	as	many	reps	as
possible	with	good	form	to	reach	Target
	Points	&	Target	Time.


FXT:EXP	Program	
|
	Week	4
Warm	up	for	5	minutes	prior	to	each	workout;	stretch	after	completion.	Warm-Ups	&	Stretches	start	on
page	174
.	Use	exertion	scale	on	
page	49
	for	Easy,	Moderate	and	Hard	effort.	Complete	as	many	reps	as
possible	with	good	form	to	reach	Target	Points	&	Target	Time.


FXT:EXP	Program	
|
	Week	5
Warm	up	for	5	minutes	prior	to	each	workout;	stretch	after	completion.	Warm-Ups	&	Stretches	start	on
page	174
.	Use	exertion	scale	on	
page	49
	for	Easy,	Moderate	and	Hard	effort.	Complete	as	many	reps	as
possible	with	good	form	to	reach	Target	Points	&	Target	Time.


FXT:EXP	Program	
|
	Week	6
Warm	up	for	5	minutes	prior	to	each	workout;	stretch	after	completion.	Warm-Ups	&	Stretches	start	on
page	174
.	Use	exertion	scale	on	
page	49
	for	Easy,	Moderate	and	Hard	effort.	Complete	as	many	reps	as
possible	with	good	form	to	reach	Target	Points	&	Target	Time.


FXT:EXP	Program	
|
	Week	7
Warm	up	for	5	minutes	prior	to	each	workout;	stretch	after	completion.	Warm-Ups	&	Stretches	start	on
page	174
.	Use	exertion	scale	on	
page	49
	for	Easy,	Moderate	and	Hard	effort.	Complete	as	many	reps	as
possible	with	good	form	to	reach	Target	Points	&	Target	Time.


FXT:EXP	Program	
|
	Week	8
Warm	up	for	5	minutes	prior	to	each	workout;	stretch	after	completion.	Warm-Ups	&	Stretches	start
	on
page	174
.	Use	exertion	scale	on	
page	49
	for	Easy,	Moderate	and	Hard	effort.	Complete	as	many	reps	as
possible	with	good	form	to	reach	Target	Points	&	Target	Time.


Success!
Congratulations	on	finishing	the	FXT:EXP	endurance	performance	program!
We’re	sure	you	now	realize	this	was	more	intense	than	you’d	expect	from	an
“endurance”	program,	right?	By	completing	the	workouts	and	drills,	you’ve
taken	your	athletic	performance	to	a	place	where	you	can	compete	at	a	higher

level	for	much	longer	than	ever	before.	The	full-body	strength	that	you’ve
developed	through
	completing	this	program	can	be	applied	to	any	physical
activity,	from	pick-up	hoops	to	18	(or	36)	holes	on	the	links.	It	may	even
improve	your	free	throws	or	driving	distance.	Of	course,	your	sport-specific	skill
level	has	a	lot	to	do	with	how	you	perform,	but	increased	total-body	conditioning
will	help	you	jump,	run	or	swing	a	club	longer,	and	a	strong,	flexible	core	means
more	power.
So,	what’s
	next?	Once	you’ve	completed	any	program	in	this	book,	it’s	a
perfect	time	to	reflect	on	your	progress	and	re-evaluate	your	goals.	If	you	don’t
feel	like	you	performed	up	to	your	full	potential	or	want	to	progress	even	farther
on	a	particular	regimen,	then	by	all	means	do	it	again.	Our	recommendation	is	to
not	do	any	one	particular	program	more	than	twice	back	to	back,	as	this	may
lead	to	overuse
	injuries,	plateaus	or	mental	burn-out.	The	programs	in	this	book
were	all	crafted	together	to	provide	a	year-round	series	of	workouts	to	develop
periods	of	muscle	and	strength	growth,	and	total-body	conditioning	through
calisthenics,	speed	drills	and	endurance	training.	Pick	a	program,	commit	to	it,
and	keep	progressing	to	develop	a	whole	new	you!

FXT:MX1
Building	Muscle
“Look	better	naked.”	There	are	very	few	things	in	life	that	don’t	benefit	from
ruthless	simplification.	When	you’re	trying	to	state	your	goal,	try	to	see	if	yours
is	about	looking	better	naked.	If	so,	you	probably	want	to	build	muscle.
Seriously,	take	some	time	and	think	about	it.
Now	that	you’re	back	and	still	reading,	we’re	going	to	go	over	the	simplest
way	known	to
	man	to	build	rock-solid	muscle.	There	are	literally	thousands	of
approaches	to	muscle	building—we’ve	gone	over	most	of	them,	distilled	them
down	to	their	essence,	taken	the	good,	thrown	away	the	bad	and	built	a	lifelong
program	to	put	on	slabs	of	muscle.
But	just	because	this	is	simple	doesn’t	mean	it’s	going	to	be	easy.	It	won’t	be.
You	still	need	to	put	in	the	work	and	time,	as	well	as	follow
	the	nutritional
advice.	If	you	do	this	and	pay	close	attention	to	how	you	respond,	you’ll	get
results.
A	special	note	to	women:
	We’ve	been	asked	in	the	past	if	this	program	is	just
for	men.	Absolutely	not!	Everything	we	talk	about	equally	applies	to	women.
The	big	difference	is	the	time	it	will	take	as	well	as	the	expected	results.	Women
often	say	they	“don’t	want	to	get	bulky”	as	a	reason	they
	typically	don’t	lift
weights.	Now	think	about	it	this	way:	How	many	men	WANT	to	look	bulky	but
find	it’s	difficult	to	actually	do	it?	Ladies,	there	is	near-zero	chance	you’ll	get
bulky	by	lifting	weights.	Instead,	you’ll	tighten	up,	build	dense	muscle	and	start
to	have	a	very	athletic	look.	Don’t	worry	about	looking	like	a	man—it’s	not
going	to	happen.
How	to	Use	the	Program
Take	a	quick	peek
	at	the	FXT:MX1	workout	starting	on	
page	121
.	Notice	that	the
program	is	one	week	in	length.	We	bet	you’re	saying	to	yourself,	“What	the
heck,	guys?	You	told	me	all	the	programs	were	eight	weeks	long.”	Our	answer	is
pretty	simple:	“Yes,	they’re	eight	weeks	long.	Just	take	a	deep	breath	and	read
on.”

FXT:MX1	is	designed	as	a	progressive	routine	to	be	performed	by
intermediate	and	advanced	athletes
	five	times	a	week	over	eight	weeks,	equaling
40	total	workouts.	All	athletes,	especially	beginners,	should	take	this	program	at
their	own	pace,	utilizing	weights	that	they	can	easily	perform	all	the	required
reps	and	progress	steadily	toward	the	five-days-per-week	goal.	Beginners	are
encouraged	to	take	one	day	off	between	workouts	for	as	many	weeks	as	needed
while	keeping	to	the	goal	of	40	completed
	workouts	before	re-evaluating	their
workout	regimen	as	outlined	on	
page	27
.	Take	the	FXT:MX1	baseline	test	on
page	45
	to	give	you	an	idea	of	the	target	weights	you	should	be	using	for	each
type	of	movement.
Repeat	this	five-day	workout	following	the	Basic	or	Advanced	Target	FXT
Points	for	eight	weeks,	increasing	your	weights	or	reps	by	no	more	than	15%	for
a	specific	lift	per	week.
Training
	Styles	That	Build	Muscle
The	formula	for	building	muscle	(and	by	that	we	mean	muscle	size)	is
progressive	resistance	(strength	training),	sufficient	volume	(volume	training)
and	muscular	tension	(tension	training).	You’ll	need	to	lift	sufficient	weights	to
tax	your	muscles,	at	a	volume	that	promotes	growth,	for	a	certain	amount	of	time
to	stress	the	muscle	fibers.	When	you	combine	these	factors
	together,	you’ll	be
creating	an	environment	for	muscle	growth	like	no	other.
Now	let’s	look	at	these	types	of	training	separately.	Each	style	has	a	base
philosophy	that	can	achieve	decent	results	by	itself,	but	combined	they’re	even
more	effective.	Understanding	each	style’s	strengths	and	weaknesses	will	allow
you	to	understand	when	and	where	to	use	them	effectively.
STRENGTH	TRAINING
Classic
	strength	training	is	only	concerned	with	increasing	the	amount	of	weight
a	person	can	lift.	In	powerlifting	this	is	achieved	through	body	position,	hand,
foot	and	bar	positions,	as	well	as	adding	suits.	We	won’t	be	doing	any	of	that,
though	we	will	try	to	increase	core	strength.
STRENGTH:
	increasing	base	strength,	fun	program	to	follow,	ego	boosting
WEAKNESS:
	increasing	muscle	size
Strength
	has	many	advantages	and	should	be	the	base	of	any	good
hypertrophy	program.	One	of	the	failings	of	pure	volume	or	tension	programs	is

that	they	don’t	incorporate	a	strength	component.	And	while	volume	and	tension
training	can	be	more	effective	at	increasing	muscle	size	than	strength	training
alone,	combined	they	achieve	more	than	they	could	apart.
Our	approach	to	strength	training	is	called	progressive
	overloading,	meaning
we’ll	continually	strive	to	add	more	weight	to	the	bar	for	a	prescribed	set	of	reps
and	sets.	In	practice	we	want	someone	to	add	weight	each	workout	as	long	as
you	can	continue	to	hit	your	reps	and	sets	number.	When	you	can	no	longer	lift
for	the	prescribed	reps	in	a	set,	you	hold	steady	until	you	can.	This	means	you’ll
be	taxing	your	muscles	each	and	every	workout
	in	a	progressive	way.	You
should	be	able	to	continually	achieve	new	maximum	lifts	for	quite	some	time
using	this	approach.	This	method	is	naturally	immune	to	stagnation	as	you’ll
theoretically	never	be	doing	the	same	workout	twice.	There	is,	of	course,	an
upper	limit	on	just	how	strong	you	can	get,	although	you	need	not	worry—it	will
take	quite	some	time	before	you	find	this	ceiling.	Bottom	line:
	You’ll	always	be
trying	to	move	up	in	weight	for	strength-training	sets.
VOLUME	TRAINING
Volume	training	is	primarily	concerned	with	the	overall	volume	(meaning
number	of	reps	and	sets)	per	workout.	To	achieve	a	higher	number	of	reps	and
sets,	the	overall	weight	of	exercises	needs	to	be	reduced,	sometimes	by	as	much
as	50	to	70	percent,	depending	on	the	muscle	group	being	worked.	Volume
training
	is	where	you’ll	feel	the	“pump”	that	you	might	hear	others	talk	about.
What	happens	is	the	muscles	get	a	rush	of	blood	from	all	the	activity	and	grow
accordingly.	Of	course,	this	“pump”	is	only	temporary	but	the	results	of
increasing	the	overall	load	on	the	muscle	will	be	eventual	growth.
STRENGTH:
	increasing	muscle	size,	great	for	combination	lifts
WEAKNESS:
	increasing	muscle	strength,	needing
	to	check	your	ego
An	aspect	of	volume	training	that’s	often	overlooked	is	the	ego	issue.	You’ll
be	lifting	much	lighter	weights	than	your	1-rep	or	5-rep	max	and	you’ll	be	using
very	strict	form.	You’ll	see	others	around	the	gym	bouncing	heavy	weights	and
you’ll	be	tempted	to	give	in	to	your	ego	and	start	to	increase	the	weights.
However,	this	will	be	a	huge	mistake	and	will	only	hurt	you	in	the
	long	run.	Be
sure	of	yourself	and	the	approach—be	consistent	and	you’ll	achieve	more	than
those	people	bouncing	heavy	weights.	It’s	commonly	said	that	when	you	bounce
heavy	weights,	the	only	thing	that	grows	is	your	ego.

Our	approach	to	volume	training	is	pretty	classic.	Volume	training	works
well	for	most	muscles	but	best	for	the	big	movers.	Legs,	chest	and	shoulders	all
respond	well	to	volume
	training.	Smaller	muscles	achieve	good	results	through
volume	training	but	we	have	a	better	approach	for	them	later.	For	now	we’ll
keep	the	volume	for	the	bigger	muscle	groups.
Finally,	you	won’t	move	up	in	weight	when	volume	training	until	you	can	do
the	prescribed	number	of	reps	and	sets.	That’s	the	nature	of	volume	training:	The
reps	and	sets	are	more	important	than	the	weight.
TENSION	TRAINING
Classic	tension	training	has	two	main	components:	time	under	tension	and
constant	tension.	Time	under	tension,	or	TUT,	deals	with	the	total	time	a	muscle
is	worked,	meaning	total	number	of	seconds	in	a	work	set.	Constant	tension
means	keeping	tension	on	the	muscle	for	the	entire	work	set,	meaning	you	won’t
lock	out	fully	during	a	set.
STRENGTH:
	increasing	muscle	size	and	hardness,	particularly
	in	isolation	exercises
WEAKNESS:
	extremely	taxing	on	central	nervous	system,	requires	extreme	mental	fortitude
Tension-training	programs	typically	incorporate	either	or	both	of	these
approaches.	Our	approach	will	blend	them	into	one	tension	work	set	called	Rest-
Pause.
Rest-Pause	is	a	tension	style	in	which,	for	a	certain	lift,	you	keep	constant
tension	on	the	muscle	being	worked	for	the	entire
	work	set—you	never	fully
lock	out	and	you	use	very	slow	and	methodical	movement.	The	movement
should	be	5	to	8	seconds	down,	1	to	2	seconds	up—no	bouncing	of	the	weights
ever!	This	is	how	a	rest-pause	set	will	look:
1.
	You	work	the	exercise	to	failure,	at	which	point	you	release	tension	by
putting	the	weight	down.
2.
	Now	take	10–15	deep	breaths	and	then	start	the	exercise	again	for	as	many
reps
	as	you	can,	again	putting	the	weight	down	when	you	reach	failure.
3.
	Take	another	10–15	deep	breaths	and	go	once	more	until	failure.
That’s	considered	one	Rest-Pause	set.	The	total	number	of	reps	you	do
between	the	pauses	is	the	total	number	for	the	Rest-Pause	set.	In	practice,	a
typical	Rest-Pause	set	might	be	8	reps,	a	10-second	pause,	4	reps,	a	10-second
pause,	and	2	reps—for	a	total	of	14
	reps.
You	progress	in	a	Rest-Pause	set	by	meeting	certain	rep	requirements	for	a
certain	weight.	We	say	that	once	you	achieve	15	reps	at	a	certain	weight,	feel

free	to	move	up	in	weight	for	the	next	workout.	However,	if	you	fail	to	get	10
reps	at	the	new	weight,	go	back	down	to	the	previous	weight	until	you	reach	18
or	20	reps.	This	is	how	you	bust	through	plateaus	in	Rest-Pause	exercises.
As	with	volume	training,	you’ll	be	using	much	less	weight	than	your	1-rep	or
5-rep	max.	Resist	the	urge	to	cheat,	bounce	weight	or	decrease	the	time	on	the
descent.	This	is	the	single	most	common	mistake	with	both	volume	and	tension
training	and	it	hurts	overall	progress	in	the	long	run.
Nutrition	for	Building	Muscle
Nutrition	plays	a	big	part	in	fueling	for	training	and	getting	the	long-term
	body
composition	you	want.	Refer	to	“Nutrition	for	Building	Muscle	and	Developing
Strength”	on	
page	182
	for	guidelines	on	meal	timing	and	macro-and
micronutrient	consumption.	You’ll	also	learn	how	what	you	take	in	before,
during	and	after	training	affects	your	success.
FXT:MX1	KEY	TERMS
Warm-Up:
	Warm-up	set
Normal:
	Normal	body-building	set
Drop	Set:
	Single	Drop	set	after	previous	set
Power:
	Explosive	power,	1	second	up,	2–3	second	down
Rest-Pause:
	Single	working	set	to	failure,	5	deep	breaths,	go	again.	Do	this	3
times.
AMAN:
	As	Many	as	Needed
AMAP:
	As	Many	as	Possible
FXT:MX1	POINTS	KEY
10	Weighted	Reps
=
5	FXT	points
20	Bodyweight	Reps
=
5	FXT	points
EXAMPLE:
Basic	Target	Points:
	80,	Target	Time:	16:00

Advanced	Target	Points:
	120,	Target	Time:	18:00
Instructions:	Complete	as	many	sets	as	possible	with	good	form.	Rest	as
needed.
20	Bodyweight	Squats	=	5	points
1:00	Plank	=	5	points
20	Lunges	=	5	points
(20)	Push-Ups	=	5	points
Example:	Completed	4	sets	of	the	above	in	20:00.
Score:	80	+4:00
Note:
	FXT:MX1	does	not	have	a	Target	Time,	as	the	workout	has	required
time	under	tension	and	is	designed	to	be	performed	while	focusing	on	form
rather	than	completion	time.	See	the	chart	on	
page	45
	for	guidelines	on	how
much	weight	you	should	be	targeting	based	on	a	percentage	of	your	body
weight.

FXT:MX1	Program	
|
	Weeks	1–8


Success!
Awesome!	You’ve	gotten	through	the	FXT:MX1	program	and	are	well	on	your
way	to	building	solid,	lifelong	quality	muscle.	Remember	to	keep	the	long	view
and	not	get	discouraged	by	any	small	stalls	or	missteps	along	the	way.	Building
muscle	is	hard,	but	you	now	have	the	information	needed	to	develop	the	body
you’ve	always	wanted.

FXT:ST1
Developing	Strength
“I	want	to	look	better	naked”	is	a	great	way	to	decipher	whether	or	not	your	goal
is	to	put	on	muscle.	It’s	a	bit	trickier	to	simplify	a	strength	goal.	Sometimes	the
goal	is	“I	want	to	get	better	at	my	sport,”	or	“I	want	to	dunk	a	basketball,”	or
perhaps	“I	want	to	increase	my	bench	press/squat/deadlift.”	They	all	really	boil
down	to	strength.	Think	about	your	goal
	and	put	it	through	those	filters.	If	all
else	fails,	pit	“look	better	naked”	against	your	stated	goal.	If	“look	better	naked”
doesn’t	win	outright,	you	likely	want	to	build	strength.
Now	that	we’ve	established	that	you	indeed	want	to	build	strength,	how	do
you	do	it?	The	good	news	is	developing	strength	is	much	more	straightforward
than	building	muscle,	where	there	are	many	more	variables	at
	play.	Strength	is
much	more	linear	and	can	be	distilled	down	to	simpler	principles.	The	program
we’ve	outlined	incorporates	fewer	variations	compared	to	our	muscle-building
program	(
page	117
)	and	more	base	principles	to	build	a	simple	yet	effective
program.	However,	make	no	mistake—you’ll	still	need	to	work	hard.
Developing	strength	is	about	lifting	weights	near	the	upper	limit	of	your	current
strength	to	push	that	upper	limit	higher	and	higher.	That	can	be	uncomfortable,
but	you’ll	need	to	stick	with	it	to	get	stronger.
Note	that	strength	can	come	in	waves.	Someone	new	to	lifting	will	likely	see
dramatic	improvement	very	quickly,	plateau,	break	through	the	plateau	and	then
see	more	improvement	at	a	diminished	rate	to	the	initial	strength	gains.	A
seasoned	lifter	will	likely	see	slower
	strength	gains	to	the	novice	lifter	and	this
can	be	discouraging.	So	you’ll	need	mental	strength	as	well.	You’ll	need	to	look
at	the	big	picture,	set	some	goals	and	work	toward	them.	Keep	on	marching
toward	your	goal	and	keep	learning	about	your	body	in	the	process.	Trust	us—
you’ll	hit	your	goals	and	it	will	all	be	worth	it.
ESTIMATING	YOUR	1RM
There’s	no	perfect	way	to	calculate	your	1RM
	without	actually
testing	your	1RM	(via	a	lift),	though	we	can	estimate	it	using	a

simple	formula.
To	estimate	your	1RM,	take	the	weight	in	pounds
	
x	.0333
x	reps
+	weight.
EXAMPLE:
	A	225-pound	back	squat	for	10	reps	would	estimate
your	1RM	at	300	pounds.
225lbs
x	.0333
x	10	reps
+	225lbs
=	estimated	1RM	of	300lbs
How	to	Use	the	Program
Take	a	quick	peek	at	the	FXT:ST1	workout	starting
	on	
page	129
.	Notice	that	the
program	is	one	week	in	length.	We	bet	you’re	saying	to	yourself,	“What	the
heck,	guys?	You	told	me	all	the	programs	were	eight	weeks	long.”	Our	answer	is
pretty	simple:	“Yes,	they’re	eight	weeks	long.	Just	take	a	deep	breath	and	read
on.”
FXT:ST1	is	designed	as	a	progressive	routine	to	be	performed	by
intermediate	and	advanced	athletes	five	times	a	week	over	eight
	weeks,	equaling
40	total	workouts.	All	athletes,	especially	beginners,	should	take	this	program	at
their	own	pace,	utilizing	weights	that	they	can	easily	perform	all	the	required
reps	and	progress	steadily	toward	the	five-days-per-week	goal.	Beginners	are
encouraged	to	take	one	day	off	between	workouts	for	as	many	weeks	as	needed
while	keeping	to	the	goal	of	40	completed	workouts	before	re-evaluating
	their
workout	regimen	as	outlined	on	
page	27
.	Take	the	FXT:ST1	baseline	test	on
page	45
	to	get	an	idea	of	the	target	weights	you	should	be	using	for	each	type	of
movement.
Repeat	this	five-day	workout	following	the	Basic	or	Advanced	Target	FXT
Points	for	eight	weeks,	increasing	your	weights	or	reps	by	no	more	than	15%	for
a	specific	lift	per	week.
STRATEGIES	TO	OVERCOME	PLATEAUS	AND

STALLS
1.
	Smaller	wins:	Back	the	weight	off	by	2.5	pounds	at	the	next
workout.	When	you	nail	this,	add	2.5	to	the	next	workout	(back	to
stalled	weight).
2.
	Back	the	weight	off	5	pounds	for	two	workouts,	use	shorter	rest
periods	and	nail	all	5	reps	of	all	5	sets.
3.
	Scale	back	the	weight	to	75%	of	your	stalled	weight	and	do	3–
5	sets	of	10	reps.	This	should	still	be	very	challenging,	though	in
a	different
	way.
4.
	50%	sets:	Take	the	stalled	weight	to	failure.	Rest	60	seconds.
Do	another	set,	aiming	to	get	half	of	the	reps	you	performed
before	reaching	failure	(“failed	reps”).	Rest	60	seconds.	Do	a
final	set	to	failure,	aiming	to	get	50%	of	the	second	set	of	failed
reps.	Keep	going	if	you	feel	good.	A	sample	50%	set	might	be
bench	press	at	150	pounds	for	6	reps,	3	reps,	2	reps	(50%	of	3	is
1.5,
	so	go	ahead	and	do	2!)	and	1	rep.
5.
	In	extreme	stalls,	switch	the	exercise	for	two	workouts.	For
instance,	change	flat	bench	to	incline	bench	(you’ll	need	a
different	weight,	of	course).
Rules	for	Developing	Strength
We	said	that	developing	strength	is	pretty	easy.	The	challenge	comes	in	wading
through	all	the	information	out	there	and	actually	building	a	program.	There	are
many	programs
	that	talk	about	different	sets,	rep	ranges	and	percentage	of	XRM
(e.g.,	1-,	3-or	5-rep	max)	and	which	is	better.	Unless	you’re	trying	to	go	from
elite	to	pro,	or	near-Olympian	to	Olympian,	it	likely	doesn’t	matter.	Sounds	a	bit
like	heresy,	right?	It	isn’t.	All	the	programs	work.	They	really	do.
If	you	have	a	preference,	stop	reading	this	and	just	go	with	the	one	you	like
the	best.	What	we’re
	going	to	prescribe	is	the	strength-training	style	we	feel	is
the	best	for	the	majority	of	people.	That’s	not	to	say	this	program	can’t	take	you
from	elite	to	pro	or	near-Olympian	to	Olympian,	because	it	can.	However,	at	that
level	you’ll	have	access	to	personalized	nutrition	and	training	programs	that	can
work	for	you	individually.	There’s	just	no	substitute	for	personalized

programming.
This
	program	is	simple	with	some	very	simple	rules	to	follow.	Once	you	nail
down	these	rules,	you	can	walk	into	the	gym	each	and	every	day,	ready	to	tackle
the	weights.
1.	START	LIGHT
You’ll	have	much	more	long-term	success	with	a	solid	foundation	than	a	shaky
one.	A	solid	foundation	is	built	by	starting	with	less	weight	than	you	can	really
handle	and	making	absolutely	certain	you’re	ready	to	rock
	and	roll.	We’re
serious—don’t	let	your	ego	get	in	the	way.	Start	light,	nail	your	form,	make	sure
you	know	what	you’re	doing	and	progressively	work	up	to	weights	that	are
challenging.
Our	recommendation	is	to	start	with	50%	of	your	1-rep	max	(1RM)	for	your
first	workout.	This	means	that	if	you	bench	press	150	pounds	for	1	rep,	your	first
workout	will	be	75	pounds,	which	is	a	45-pound	Olympic
	bar	with	15	pounds	on
each	side.	For	each	workout,	add	5	pounds	(2.5	pounds	per	side)	to	the	bar.
Quite	honestly,	this	is	going	to	be	an	exercise	in	humility	for	most	people,
but	it’s	worth	it.	In	a	few	short	workouts	you’ll	have	a	very	challenging	workout,
but	you’ll	also	have	a	base	of	good	form,	strength	and	confidence	to	annihilate
this	and	all	future	workouts!
2.	BASIC	COMPOUND	MOVEMENTS
We’re	going	to	focus	on	basic	compound	movements	like	the	bench	press,
overhead	press,	squat	and	deadlift	for	the	main	lift	of	each	workout,	with	some
other	exercises	thrown	in	for	accessory	work.	The	rule	should	be	that	you	focus
on	exercises	that	work	more	muscles	and	avoid	those	that	isolate	them.	The	one
caveat	would	be	on	accessory	work:	Feel	free	to	use	an	isolation	exercise	to
bring	up
	a	lagging	body	part.
3.	OVER-WARM-UP
We	don’t	see	this	used	very	often	in	strength	programs	but	we’ve	found	this	to

be	very	effective.	For	your	warm-up,	progress	as	you	normally	would,	except
warm	up	past	your	intended	working	sets	for	the	last	warm-up	set.	For	example,
if	your	working	set	for	the	day	is	the	225-pound	bench	press,	your	warm-up
might	look	like	this:	bar	x	20	reps,	135	x	12–15
	reps,	185	x	8	reps,	225	x	5	reps,
250	x	2–3	reps.	You	then	back	off	the	weight	to	225	for	your	work	sets	of	5x5.
4.	PROGRESSIVE	RESISTANCE
Each	workout	is	going	to	be	different.	The	basis	of	this	program	is	a	very	simple
5x5	(5	sets	of	5	reps)	at	its	core.	To	make	progress	you	need	to	move	up	weight
each	workout.	The	technical	rule	is	you	need	to	hit	all	5	reps	in	all	5	sets	to	move
up	in	weight.
At	some	point,	you’ll	fail	to	hit	all	5	sets	of	all	5	reps.	Sorry,	that’s	just	the
nature	of	the	game.	That	means	the	next	workout	will	be	the	same	weight	and
you’ll	be	shooting	for	all	5	reps	in	all	5	sets	again.	You	might	hit	it,	you	might
not.	Just	don’t	move	up	until	you	hit	all	5	reps	of	all	5	sets.
5.	LOG	EVERYTHING
Unless	you’re	a	human	computer,	you’ll	forget	something.	Keep	a	log	book
	for
your	workouts	and	make	sure	you	write	everything	down.	We	even	recommend
you	write	down	how	you	felt	in	the	workout.	Did	everything	feel	great?	Write	it
down.	Did	you	struggle	on	reps	4	and	5	of	the	last	set	of	the	overhead	press?
Write	it	down.	Did	you	notice	a	dip	in	your	left	side	compared	to	your	right	side?
Write	it	down.
We	HIGHLY	recommend	you	use	the	FXT:FIT	mobile	app	or	log	sheets
	to
keep	track	of	your	progress	and	workout	data.
6.	ACCESSORIZE
Each	workout	should	be	about	the	main	strength	exercise	of	the	day	(i.e.,
deadlift,	squat,	overhead	press	or	bench	press).	The	rest	of	the	workout	should	be
about	bringing	up	deficiencies.	Are	you	weak	off	the	ground	in	the	deadlift?
Work	on	exercises	that	help	this.	Are	your	glutes	weak?	Spend	time	on	them.

Pay	attention	to	your
	body	and	what	it’s	trying	to	tell	you.	When	the	weights
start	to	get	heavier,	all	the	small	details	matter	much	more.
7.	STICK	WITH	IT
Of	course,	the	single	most	important	rule:	Stick	with	it.	Keep	going	even	when
you	plateau.	Keep	plugging	along	when	the	gains	are	slower.	Keep	pushing.
Nutrition	for	Developing	Strength
	
Nutrition	plays	a
big	part	in	fueling	for	training	and	getting	the	long-
term
	body	composition	you	want.	Refer	to	“Nutrition
for	Building	Muscle	and	Developing	Strength”	on
page	182
	for	guidelines	on	meal	timing	and	macro-and
micronutrient	consumption.	You’ll	also	learn	about
how	what	you	take	in	before,	during	and	after
training	affects	your	success.
FXT:ST1	KEY	TERMS
Warm-Up:
	Warm-up	set
Normal:
	Normal	body-building	set
AMAN:
	As	Many	as	Needed
AMAP:
	As	Many	as
	Possible
	
Over-Warm-Up:
	Warm	up	over	your	working
sets
	
FXT:ST1	POINTS	KEY
10	Weighted	Reps
=
5	FXT	points
20	Bodyweight	Reps
=
5	FXT	points
EXAMPLE:
Basic	Target	Points:
	80,	Target	Time:	16:00

Advanced	Target	Points:
	120,	Target	Time:	18:00
Instructions:	Complete	as	many	sets	as	possible	with	good	form.	Rest	as
needed.
20	Bodyweight	Squats	=	5	points
1:00	Plank	=	5	points
20	Lunges	=	5	points
(20)	Push-Ups	=	5	points
Example:	Completed	4	sets	of	the	above	in	20:00.
Score:	80	+4:00
Note:
	FXT:MX1	does	not	have	a	Target	Time,	as	the	workout	has	required
time	under	tension	and	is	designed	to	be	performed	while	focusing	on	form
rather	than	completion	time.	See	the	chart	on	
page	45
	for	guidelines	on	how
much	weight	you	should	be	targeting	based	on	a	percentage	of
	your	body
weight.

FXT:ST1	Program
	
|
	Weeks	1–8


Success!
And	you’re	done!	That	was	simple,	wasn’t	it?	Joking,	of	course,	but	we	do	hope
we’ve	taken	the	mystery	out	of	getting	stronger.	Along	the	way	we’ve	given
some	strategies	to	break	through	plateaus	and	propel	you	to	strength	levels
you’ve	never	seen	before.	Congratulations!	Keep	your	head	up	and	weight
moving.	Before	you	know	it	you’ll	be	throwing	around	numbers	you	previously
only	dreamed
	about.

PART	3:	EXERCISES

Cobra
Lying	on	your	stomach,	place	your	hands	directly	under
	your	shoulders	with	your	fingers	facing	forward
and	straighten	your	legs	and	point	your	toes.	Exhale	and	engage	your	core	while	lifting	your	chest	off	the
floor	and	pushing	your	hips	gently	into	the	floor.	Your	arms	help	guide	you	through	the	movement,	and
your	elbows	should	remain	slightly	bent	at	the	top	of	the	extension	and	your	hips	should	remain	in	contact
with	the	mat.	Hold	the	up	position
	for	15–30	seconds	and	then	gently	roll	your	upper	body	back	to	the	floor.

Superman
1
	Lying	face	down	on	your	stomach,	extend
	your	arms	directly	out	in	front	of	you	and	your	legs	behind	you.
Keep	your	knees	straight	as	if	you	were	flying.
2
	In	a	slow	and	controlled	manner,	contract	your	erector	spinae	and	raise	your	arms	and	legs	about	6–8
inches	off	the	floor.	Hold	for	5	seconds	before	lowering.
VARIATION:
	
This	can	also	be	done	by	holding	a	medicine	ball	between	both	hands.	Use	a	very	light
medicine	ball	to	start.
In	&	Out
1
	Lie	flat	on	your	back	with	your	legs	extended	straight	along	the	floor	and	your	arms	along
	your	sides,
palms	down.
2
	Lift	your	feet	about	3	inches	off	the	floor,	bend	your	knees	and	bring	your	feet	toward	your	butt	while
simultaneously	lifting	your	arms	off	the	floor	and	activating	your	abs	to	roll	your	upper	body	upward.
3
	Continue	raising	your	head	and	shoulders	off	the	floor	and	bringing	your	hands	past	the	outside	of	your
knees	while	bringing	your	knees	and	chest	together.	At
	the	top	of	the	move,	pause	for	1–3	seconds.
Slowly	return	to	start	position.	Be	careful	to	“roll”	your	spine	in	a	natural
movement	and	let	your	shoulders	and	head	lightly	touch	the	floor.
Swoop	&	Touch
1
	Lie	flat	on	your	back	with	your	heels	on	the	apex	of	a	stability	ball	and	knees
bent	90	degrees.	Completely	extend	both	arms	directly	over	your	head	and	allow
them	to	rest	on	the	floor.

2
	Swing	your	arms	outward	to	each	side	as	if	you	were	making	a	snow	angel	on	the	floor	and	lift	your
shoulders	and	upper	back	off	the	floor	as	you	reach	your	fingertips	toward	the	ball.	Keep	your	legs	still	and
the	ball	in	place	as	you	complete	the	movement—you	should	be	crunching	your	abs,	not	rolling	the	ball
with	your	heels.
3
	Touch	the	ball	lightly	and	then	reverse	the	movement,	rolling	your
	spine	gently	until	your	shoulders	touch
the	floor.	Lightly	touch	the	back	of	your	head	to	the	floor.
That’s	1	rep.
V-Sit
1
	Lie	flat	on	your	back	with	your	legs	extended	straight	along	the	floor	and	your	arms	extended	overhead	on
the	floor	with	your	biceps	by	your	ears.
2
	Contracting	your	abdominal	muscles	and	keeping	your	legs	straight,	raise	your	legs	and	upper	torso	to
form	a	“V.”	Your	straight	arms	can	be	held	parallel	to	your	legs	or	alongside	your	ears.	Hold	the	position	for
at	least	3	seconds.
Slowly	lower
	everything	down	without	touching	the	ground	with	your	heels
or	shoulders,	then	perform	another	rep.

Ab	Crunch	with	Toe	Touch
1
	Lie	face	up	on	the	floor	with	your	legs	straight	and	heels	pointing	at	the	ceiling	so	that	your	body	is	in	an
“L”	position.	Place	the	medicine	ball	on	the	center	of	your	chest,	with	your	hands	on	opposite	sides	of	it	to
keep	it	in	place.	Press	the	ball	straight	up	toward	your	toes.
2
	Exhale	and	contract	your	abdominal	muscles	to	slowly	lift	your	head,	arms	and	upper	back	off	the	floor	in
a
	controlled	manner.	Keep	your	upper	back	and	neck	straight	and	maintain	your	hand	position	on	the	ball
through	the	movement.	Push	the	medicine	ball	upward	to	touch	the	tips	of	your	toes.	Pause	briefly.
Keeping	your	abs	tight,	inhale	and	return	to	the	start	position,	lightly
touching	both	shoulder	blades	to	the	floor.	You	may	round	your	upper	back
slightly	and	roll	your	spine	on	the	floor	as	you
	do	so.

Mason	Twist
1
	Sit	on	the	floor
	with	your	knees	comfortably	bent,	feet	on	the	floor,	arms	bent	90	degrees,	and	hands
holding	a	medicine	ball	or	weight	in	front	of	your	chest.
Lift	your	feet	about	4–6	inches	off	the	floor	and	balance	your	body	weight	on
your	posterior.	Keep	your	core	tight	to	protect	your	back.
2
	While	maintaining	the	same	hip	position,	twist	your	entire	torso	at	the	waist	and	touch	the	ball	to	the	floor
on
	the	left	side	of	your	body.
3
	Rotate	back	to	center,	keeping	your	feet	off	the	floor	and	maintaining	your	balance	using	the	supporting
core	muscles.	Then	rotate	to	your	right	and	touch	the	ball	to	the	floor.
Return	to	center.	This	is	1	rep.
T-Twist
1
	From	an	athletic	position,	hold	a	medicine	ball	at	your	waist	with	your	arms	extended.
2
	Keeping	your	core	tight	and	back	straight,	raise	the	medicine	ball	to	shoulder	height,	directly	in	front	of
your	torso	with	arms	fully	extended.	Pause.

3
	With	your	knees	slightly	bent,	keep	your	hips	facing	forward	while	using	your	oblique	muscles	to	rotate
your	upper	body	and	the	ball	90	degrees	(or
	as	far	as	you	can	go)	to	the	right.
4
	Slowly	return	to	start	position.	Pause,	then	repeat	to	the	other	side.	That’s	1	rep.
Elephant	Twist
1
	From	an	athletic	position,	hold	a	medicine	ball	in	front	of	you	with	your	arms	extended.	Bend	forward	at
the	waist	90	degrees	so	that	the	ball	is	hanging	from	your	arms	just	above	your	feet.
2
	Using	your	core,	slowly	twist	your	torso	to	the	right	30	to	45	degrees	(or	as	far	as	you	can	comfortably
go)	so	that	your	arms	and	the	ball	form	a	straight	line	pointing	at	the	ground	outside	of	your
	right	leg.
3
	In	a	slow,	controlled	manner,	straighten	your	torso	and	return	the	ball	to	the	center	position	between	your
legs.	Pause,	then	repeat	to	the	left	side.
Bring	the	ball	back	to	center	and	lift	the	medicine	ball	back	to	start	position
by	engaging	your	hamstrings	and	glutes	to	assist	your	lower	back.
That’s	1	rep.

Wood	Chop
1
	Stand	tall	with	your	feet	shoulder-width	apart,	holding	a	medicine	ball	in	front	of	you.
2
	Lower	your	body	into	a	squat	until	your	knees	are	bent	90	degrees,	and	bring	the	ball	down	to	touch	your
left	foot.
3
	Stand	tall,	twisting	your	torso	to	the	right	and	lifting	your	arms	straight	up	over	your	head.	Your	left
shoulder	should	be	in	front	and	you	should	be	looking	to	the	right.
Repeat	to
	the	other	side.	That’s	2	reps.
Flutter	Kick
1
	Lie	flat	on	your	back	with	your	legs	extended	along	the
	floor	and	your	arms	along	your	sides,	palms
down.
2
	Contract	your	lower	abdominal	muscles	and	lift	your	feet	6	inches	off	the	floor.	Hold	for	5	seconds.	(You
may	flex	or	point	your	toes.)
3
	While	keeping	your	left	foot	in	place,	lift	your	right	foot	6	inches	higher	(it	should	now	be	12	inches	off
the	floor).	Hold	for	5	seconds.
4
	Simultaneously	lower	your	right	leg	back	to	6	inches	off	the
	floor	while	raising	your	left	foot	6	inches

higher.	Hold	for	5	seconds.
This	counts	as	2	reps.
Turkish	Get-Up
1
	Lie	face	up	on	the	floor	and	press	a	medicine	ball	to	the	ceiling	with	your	left	hand.	Your	right	arm	should
be	extended	along	the	floor	at	about	45	degrees	relative	to	your	torso.	Your	right	leg	is	extended	straight	out
from	your	hip,	toes	pointing	upward.	Bend	your	left	knee	and	bring	your	left	heel	as	close	to	your	butt	as
possible,	with	your	toe	rotated	outward	about	5–10	degrees.
2
	Press
	your	left	hand	higher	while	rolling	your	torso	onto	your	right	forearm,	bending	at	the	elbow	and
pressing	your	left	heel	into	the	floor	to	raise	your	left	glute	off	the	floor	while	rolling	onto	your	right	hip.
3
	With	your	left	hand	still	holding	the	medicine	ball,	press	off	the	floor	with	your	right	forearm	and	hand	to
straighten	your	right	arm	and	place	your	hand	on	the	floor;	press	your	hips
	upward	to	lift	your	butt	off	the

floor.	You’re	now	supported	by	your	left	foot	flat	on	the	ground,	the	outside	of	your	right	foot	and	your
right	hand.
4
	Bend	your	right	knee	and	bring	your	right	foot	under	your	body,	resting	your	weight	on	your	right	knee
directly	under	your	left	hip.	Push	off	with	your	right	arm	a	little	bit	and	rotate	your	torso	back	to	square	with
your	hips	and	align	your
	knees	under	your	hips,	keeping	your	torso	straight	and	perpendicular	to	the	ground,
left	arm	pressing	the	medicine	ball	directly	overhead.	Your	body	should	look	exactly	like	the	lunge	position
with	your	left	leg	bent	90	degrees,	foot	flat	on	the	floor,	and	your	right	leg	90	degrees	with	your	toes	and
your	right	knee	on	the	floor.
5
	Pushing	up	through	your	left	heel,	straighten	both	knees	and
	stand	up,	still	keeping	your	left	arm	extended
overhead	with	the	medicine	ball.	Congratulations,	that’s	exactly	half	of	the	exercise!	Reverse	the	motion	to
return	to	start	position.

Plank
1
	Place	your	hands	on	the	ground	approximately	shoulder-width	apart,	making	sure	your	fingers	point
straight	ahead	and	your	arms	are	straight	but	your	elbows	not	locked.	Step	your	feet	back	until	your	body
forms	a	straight	line	from	head	to	feet.	Your	feet	should	be	about	6	inches	apart	with	the	weight	in	the	balls
of	your	feet.	Engage	your	core	to	keep	your	spine	from	sagging;	don’t	sink	into
	your	shoulders.	Look	at
your	watch	and	note	the	time—you’re	on	the	clock.
Lower	to	start	position	when	time	is	reached.
VARIATION:
	
This	can	also	be	done	with	a	medicine	ball.	Place	both	hands	on	top	of	the	ball	and	roll	it
forward	to	position	the	ball	directly	under	the	center	of	your	chest.
Roll-Out
This	is	a	subtle	movement.	The	ball	may	move	as	little	as	an	inch	in	either	direction,	though
	experienced
athletes	should	shoot	for	more.


1
	From	your	knees,	place	both	hands	on	top	of	a	medicine	ball	and	roll	it	forward	to	position	the	ball
directly	under	your	sternum	(the	center	of	your	chest).	Straighten	your	legs,	with	the	balls	of	your	feet	and
toes	in	contact	with	the	floor.	Reposition	your	hands	as	needed	to	obtain	a	stable	position.	Engage	your	core
and	squeeze	your	glutes	together	to	keep	your	spine	erect	and	your	body
	in	a	straight	line	from	head	to	toe.
2
	Using	your	forearms	and	hands,	roll	the	ball	forward	(toward	your	head)	as	far	as	you	can.
3
	Bring	it	back	to	start	position,	then	roll	it	backward	(toward	your	feet)	as	far	as	you	can	before.
Return	to	start	position.

Inchworm
1
	Stand	with	your	feet	about	hip-width	apart	and	fold	over	so	that	your	hands	touch	the	floor.
2
	Keeping	your	hands	firmly	on	the	floor	to	balance	your	weight,	walk	your	hands	out	in	front	of	you	one	at
a	time	until	you’re	at	the	top	of	a	push-up.	Hold	for	3	seconds.
3
	Keeping	your	hands	firmly	on	the	floor	to	balance	your	weight,	“walk”	your	feet	toward	your	head	by
taking	very	small	steps
	on	your	toes.	Imagine	that	your	lower	legs	are	bound	together	and	you	can	only
bend	your	feet	at	each	ankle.	As	you	continue	walking	your	feet	toward	your	head,	your	butt	will	rise	and
your	body	will	form	an	inverse	“V.”	When	you’ve	stretched	your	hamstrings,	glutes	and	calves	as	far	as	you
can,	hold	that	position	for	3	seconds.	That’s	1	rep.

Bird	Dog
1
	Get	on	your	hands	and	knees	with	your	legs	bent	90	degrees,	knees	under	your	hips,	toes	on	the	floor	and
your	hands	on	the	floor	directly	below	your	shoulders.	Keep	your	head	and	spine	neutral;	do	not	let	your
head	lift	or	sag.	Contract	your	abdominal	muscles	to	prevent	your	back	from	sagging;	keep	your	back	flat
from	shoulders	to	butt	for	the	entire	exercise.
2
	In	one	slow	and	controlled
	motion,	simultaneously	raise	your	right	leg	and	left	arm	until	they’re	on	the
same	flat	plane	as	your	back.	Your	leg	should	be	parallel	to	the	ground,	not	raised	above	your	hip;	your	arm
should	extend	directly	out	from	your	shoulder	and	your	biceps	should	be	level	with	your	ear.	Hold	this
position	for	3–5	seconds	and	then	slowly	lower	your	arm	and	leg	back	to	start	position.
That’s	1	rep.	Switch
	sides	and	repeat.

Side	Plank
1
	Lie	on	your	side	and	stack	your	feet,	hips	and	shoulders	atop	each
	other.	Prop	yourself	up	on	your	elbow,
keeping	it	directly	under	your	shoulder;	your	forearm	should	be	completely	on	the	ground,	perpendicular	to
your	body.
2
	Engaging	your	core	to	keep	your	spine	erect,	lift	your	hips	off	the	floor	until	you	form	a	nice	line	from
head	to	feet.	Let	your	top	arm	rest	along	your	side.	Hold.
Slowly	lower	your	hips	to	the	floor.	Repeat	on	the	opposite	side.
Sit-Up
If	you	have	trouble	keeping	your	feet	on	the	ground,	you	can	use	a	partner	or	a	fixed	object.
1
	Lie	face	up	on	the	floor	with	your	knees	bent	about	90	degrees.	Maintain	proper	curvature	of	your	lower
spine,	not	forcing	it	flat	to	touch	the	floor.	Hold	a	medicine	ball	in	the	center	of	your	chest,	with	your	hands
on	opposite	sides	of	the	ball.
2
	Exhale	and	contract	your	abdominal	muscles	to	slowly	lift	your	head,	arms	and	upper	back	off	the	floor	in
a	controlled	manner.	Keep	your	upper
	back	and	neck	straight	and	maintain	your	hand	position	on	the	ball
throughout	the	movement.	Stop	when	your	back	is	at	about	a	45-degree	angle	relative	to	the	floor.	Pause
briefly.
Keeping	your	abs	tight,	inhale	and	return	to	the	start	position,	lightly
touching	both	shoulder	blades	to	the	floor.	You	may	round	your	upper	back
slightly	and	roll	your	spine	on	the	floor	as	you	do	so.

Crunch
1
	On	a	padded	surface,	lie	face	up	with	your	knees	bent	to	about	90	degrees	your	feet	flat	on	the	floor;	they
should	remain	there	during	the	entire	movement.	Rest	your	head,	shoulders	and	back	on	the	floor	and
maintain	proper	curvature	of	your	lower	spine,	not	allowing	it	to	touch	the	floor.	Cross	your	arms	across
your	chest.
2
	Exhale	and	contract	your	abdominal	muscles	to	lift	your	head	and
	shoulder	blades	off	the	floor	in	a
controlled	manner.	Keep	your	upper	back	and	neck	straight	and	maintain	the	same	position	with	your	hands
and	arms	throughout	the	movement.	Pause	briefly	before	slowly	lowering	your	body	to	the	floor.

Bicycle	Crunch
1
	Lie	flat	on	your	back	with	your	legs	extended	straight	along	the	floor	and	your	hands	at	both	sides	of	your
head,	fingers	touching	your	temples.
2
	Raise	your	feet	6	inches	off	the	floor	while	simultaneously	contracting	your	rectus	abdominis	and	lifting
your	upper	back	and	shoulders	off	the	floor.	In	one	movement,	bend	your	left	knee	and	raise	your	left	leg	so
that	the	thigh	and	shin	are	at
	90	degrees;	rotate	your	torso	using	your	oblique	muscles	so	that	your	right
elbow	touches	the	inside	of	your	left	knee.
3
	Rotate	your	torso	back	to	center	and	lower	your	upper	body	toward	the	floor,	stopping	before	your
shoulders	touch.
4
	Extend	your	left	knee	and	return	your	foot	to	6	inches	off	the	floor	and	bend	your	right	leg	to	90	degrees.
Contract	your	abs,	rotate	and	touch	your	left	elbow
	to	the	inside	of	your	right	knee.	This	is	2	reps.

Reverse	Crunch
1
	Lie	flat	on	your	back	with	your	legs	extended	along	the	floor	and	your	arms	along	your	sides,	palms
down.
2
	Contracting	your	lower	abdominal	muscles,	lift	your	feet	4–6	inches	off	the	floor,	bend	your	knees	and
bring	them	in	toward	your	chest.	Be	careful	not	to	put	excessive	pressure	on	your	lower	back	by	bringing
your	hips	off	the	floor.	Pause	when	your	glutes	rise	slightly	off	the	mat.
3
	Extend	your	legs	and	lower	them	until	your	feet	are	4–6	inches	off	the	floor.

Plank	Row
1
	Get	on	your	knees	and	place	your	right	hand	directly	on	the	BOSU	Balance	Trainer’s	bull’s-eye,	right	arm
fully	extended.	Hold	a	dumbbell	in	your	left	hand.	Lift	your	knees	off	the	floor	and	extend	your	legs	behind
you	with	your	feet	wider	than	your	shoulders.	Keep	your	back	flat	and	core	engaged	throughout	the
exercise.
2
	Bend	your	left	elbow	and	pull	the	dumbbell	to	your	torso,	pointing	your
	elbow	directly	at	the	ceiling.
Pause.
Return	the	dumbbell	to	start	position.	Complete	half	the	required	reps	with
your	left	hand	rowing	the	weight,	then	switch	hands.
Side	Plank	Fly
1
	With	your	left	arm	supporting	your	upper	body,	rotate	your	entire	body	to	the	right,	slowly	raising	your
right	hand	and	pressing	the	ball	upward	until	your	body	forms	a	“T.”	Stack	your	feet	on	top	of	each	other	if
you	can	(stop	if	you	experience	any	knee	instability),	maintain	a	contracted	core	and	keep	your	spine	erect.
Pause.
2
	Slowly	rotate	your	torso	back	to	plank	position,	controlling
	the	downward	motion	of	the	medicine	ball	by
cradling	it	with	your	right	hand,	then	placing	it	on	the	floor.	Roll	the	ball	to	your	left,	switch	hand	positions
and	repeat.	That’s	1	rep.

T	Push-Up
1
	Assume	a	plank	position	(see	
page	137
)	with	your	right	hand	on	the	medicine	ball	and	your	left	hand	flat
on	the	floor.	Engage	your	core	to	keep	your	spine	erect	and	keep	your	body	in	a	straight	line	from	head	to
toe.
2
	Inhale	as	you	lower	your	upper	body	toward	the	floor,	stopping	when	your	chest	touches	the	back	of	your
right	hand.
3
	Using	your	arms,	chest,	back	and	core,	exhale	and	push
	off	the	floor	to	return	to	start	position,	gradually
transitioning	your	weight	to	your	left	hand	while	sliding	your	right	hand	under	the	medicine	ball	(you’ll	be
cupping	it	in	order	to	lift	it).
4
	With	your	left	arm	supporting	your	upper	body,	rotate	your	entire	body	to	the	right,	slowly	raising	your
right	hand	and	pressing	the	ball	upward	until	your	body	forms	a	“T.”	Stack	your	feet	on	top	of
	each	other	if
you	can	(stop	if	you	experience	any	knee	instability),	maintain	a	contracted	core	and	keep	your	spine	erect.
Pause.
Slowly	rotate	your	torso	back	to	plank	position,	controlling	the	downward
motion	of	the	medicine	ball	by	cradling	it	with	your	right	hand,	then	placing	it
on	the	floor.	Roll	the	ball	to	your	left,	switch	hand	positions	and	repeat.	That’s	1
rep.
Stability	Ball	Extension


1
	Kneeling	on
	the	floor,	place	a	stability	ball	in	front	of	you	and	lean	your	upper	body	forward	so	your	torso
rounds	over	the	top	of	the	ball.	Roll	forward	about	2	inches	while	keeping	the	ball	in	contact	with	your
thighs;	your	hips	should	now	be	at	about	a	100–110–degree	angle.
2
	Once	you’re	positioned	on	the	ball	and	stable,	extend	your	arms	back	toward	your	hips	with	your	palms
facing	downward.	Contract
	the	muscles	of	your	lower	back	to	raise	your	chest	and	sternum	off	the	ball	and
straighten	your	back.	Pause	for	1–3	seconds	and	slowly	return	to	the	start	position,	trying	not	to	bounce	off
the	ball	for	each	motion.

Hip	Raise
1
	Lie	on	your	back	with	your	knees	bent	and	feet	flat	on	the	floor,	as	close	to	your	butt	as	possible.	Extend
your	hands	toward	your	hips	and	place	your	arms	and	palms	flat	on	the	floor	at	your	sides.
2
	Engage	your	abdominal	muscles	to	keep	your	core	tight,	and	exhale	while	you	press	your	feet	into	the
floor	and	raise	your	hips	and	lower	back	up,	forming	a	straight	line	from	your	sternum	to
	your	knees.	Do
not	push	your	hips	too	high	or	arch	your	back.	Hold	this	position	for	3–5	seconds,	and	then	inhale	and
slowly	return	to	the	start	position.

Weighted	Hip	Thrust
1
	Sit	on	the	floor	and	position	a	bench	behind	your	upper	back	so	that	your	shoulder	blades	make	contact
with	the	edge	of	the	bench.	Place	your	feet	flat	on	the	floor	and	lay	a	weighted	bar,	medicine	ball	or	weight
plate	across	your	hips	or	at	the	very	top	of	your	pelvis	(make	sure	the	weight	doesn’t	roll	or	shift	to	hit	you
in	the	genitals).	Extend	your	arms	out	to	your	sides,	parallel	to	the
	floor,	or	rest	them	on	your	chest.
2
	Driving	through	your	heels,	use	your	hamstrings,	hips	and	glutes	to	raise	your	pelvis	toward	the	ceiling
and	slide	your	upper	back	onto	the	bench.	Your	body	should	form	a	straight	line	from	head	to	knees.
Squeeze	your	abs	and	glutes,	and	brace	your	lower	back	to	hold	the	flat	position	for	3–5	seconds.	In	a	slow
and	controlled	manner,	lower	your	butt	back	to
	the	ground,	carefully	sliding	your	upper	back	off	the	bench.

Hanging	Leg	Raise
1
	Grab	an	overhead	bar	with	your	preferred	grip	and	hang	from	the	bar	with	your	arms	fully	extended	but
elbows	not	locked.	For	this	exercise,	count	3	seconds	up,	hold	1–3	seconds,	and	then	3	seconds	down.
2
	Contracting	your	abdominal	muscles,	slowly	bring	your	knees	up	toward	your	chest	while	keeping	your
torso	as	close	to	vertical	as	possible.	Don’t	lean	back	during	the	movement	or	swing	between
	reps.
Lower	your	legs	in	the	same	slow	manner.

Marching	Twist
1
	Stand	tall	with	your	feet	shoulder-width	apart.	Bring	your	arms	in	front	of	you	and	bend	your	elbows	90
degrees.
2
	Twist	your	torso	to	the	left	and	raise	your	left	knee	to	your	right	elbow.
3
	Repeat	with	your	right	knee	and	left	elbow.	A	little	hop	with	the	bottom	foot	helps	you	keep	your
momentum	going	from	leg	to	leg.
That’s	2	reps.
Jumping	Jacks
1
	Stand	tall	with	your	feet	together	and	arms	extended	along	your	sides,	palms	facing	forward.

2
	Jump	6–12	inches	off	the	ground	and	simultaneously	spread	your	feet	apart	an	additional	20–30	inches
while	extending	your	hands	directly	overhead.
Jump	6–12	inches	off	the	ground	and	return	your	hands	and	feet	to	the	start
position.

Skater	Hop
1
	Stand	with	your	left	foot	directly	on	the	bull’s-eye	and	your	right	foot	on	the	floor	beside	the	BOSU
Balance	Trainer.	Find	a	stable	position	and	engage	your	core.	Your	arms	should	hang	along	your	sides.
Wearing	a	weighted	vest	intensifies	the	work.
2
	Shifting	your	weight	onto	your	left	foot	and	balancing	on	the	apex	of	the	dome,	lift	your	right	foot	off	the
floor	and	bend	your	knee	90	degrees
	(about	hip	level).	You	may	tap	the	toes	of	your	elevated	leg	to	the
ground	for	balance.	As	your	balance	and	stability	improve,	work	toward	raising	the	knee	of	your	“up”	leg
toward	your	chest.
3
	Bend	your	left	knee,	rotate	your	hips	back	slightly	and	sink	straight	down	into	a	squat	position	(
page	152
).
Keep	your	left	shin	vertical	and	don’t	let	your	knee	buckle	to	the	right	or	left;	place	your
	right	foot	down
and	re-start	if	you	lose	your	balance.	
Note:
	
You’ll	most	likely	not	be	able	to	perform	a	full	squat	at	first;
descend	as	far	as	you	can	while	maintaining	good	form.	You	should	be	able	to	go	deeper	as	you	progress	in
your	training.
4
	Swing	both	arms	forward	and	in	one	explosive	move	straighten	your	left	leg	and	hop	directly	to	your
right,	landing	with	your	right	foot	first	and
	then	your	left.	Align	both	feet	parallel	to	each	other,	with	knees
slightly	bent	to	absorb	the	impact	of	landing.
Stand	up	and	return	to	start	position.	That’s	1	rep.	Repeat	with	your	right	foot
on	the	bull’s-eye.

Side	Hop
1
	Stand	parallel	to	some	kind	of	flat	marker	so	that	it’s	about	10	inches	away	from	your	right	foot.	Bend
your	knees,	crouch	at	your	waist	and	swing	your	arms	down	by	your	sides	and	prepare	to	jump	over	the
marker.
2
	Leaning	slightly	to	the	right,	extend	your	legs	forcefully	and	jump	to	your	right	as	high	as	you	can	and
land	with	your	left	foot	approximately	10	inches	to	the	right	of	the	marker.
	Bend	your	knees	and	land	softy
on	the	balls	of	your	feet	in	a	controlled	manner.
Immediately	after	landing,	jump	over	the	marker	to	your	left,	landing	with
your	right	foot	approximately	10	inches	to	the	left	of	the	marker.	That’s	1	rep.
Mountain	Climbers
1
	Assume	the	top	position	of	a	push-up	with	your	hands	directly	under	your	shoulders	and	toes	on	the
ground.	Keep	your	core	engaged	and	your	body	in	a	straight	line	from	head	to	feet.
2
	Lift	your	right	toe	slightly	off	the	ground,	bring	your	right	knee	to	your	chest	and	place	your	right	foot	on
the	ground	under	your	body.

3
	With	a	very	small	hop	from	both	toes,	extend	your	right	foot	back	to
	start	position	and	at	the	same	time
bring	your	left	knee	to	your	chest	and	place	your	left	foot	on	the	ground	under	your	body.
That’s	2	reps.	Continue	switching,	making	sure	to	keep	your	hips	low.

Burpee
1
	Stand	tall	with	your	back	erect,	feet	shoulder-width	apart	and	toes	rotated	slightly	outward.	Shift	your	hips
backward	and	“sit	back”	for	the	squat,	keeping	your	head	up	and	bending	your	knees.	Lean	your	weight
forward	and	place	your	hands	on	the	floor,	inside,	outside	or	in	front	of	your	feet—whichever	is	more
comfortable	and	gives	you	a	nice,	stable	base.
2
	Kick	your	feet	straight	back	so
	that	you’re	now	in	a	push-up	start	position,	forming	a	nice	line	from	your
head	to	your	feet.	Keep	your	core	tight	to	maintain	an	erect	spine.
3
	Now	simultaneously	bend	your	knees	and	bring	them	toward	your	chest	in	order	to	plant	your	feet
underneath	you.	You	should	end	up	back	in	the	bottom	position	of	a	squat.	Take	a	quick	breath.
4
	Swing	your	arms	straight	overhead,	exhale	and	push	off	from
	your	feet	to	jump	straight	up	in	the	air	as
high	as	possible.	Land	with	your	knees	slightly	bent	to	absorb	the	impact.	That’s	1	rep.
VARIATION:
	
Rather	than	jump	your	feet	forward/backward,	walk	them	in	and	out	(see	Inchworm	on	
page
138
).
Bizarro	Burpee

1
	From	an	athletic	position,	hold	a	medicine	ball	at	your	waist	with	your	arms	extended.	Keeping	your
lower	back	straight	and	knees	slightly	bent,	bend	at	the	waist	and	lower	the	medicine	ball	to	the	ground
between	your	feet,	tracking	close	to	your	legs	the	entire	way	down.
2
	Place	both	hands	securely	on	the	top	of	the	medicine	ball,	squat	down	and	kick	your	feet	out	behind	you,
extending	your
	legs	and	placing	the	balls	of	your	feet	and	toes	on	the	floor	for	balance.	A	snapshot	of	this
position	should	look	exactly	like	a	medicine	ball	plank.
3
	With	your	upper	body	balanced	on	the	medicine	ball,	lift	your	right	foot,	bend	your	right	knee	and	pull	it
up	toward	your	right	elbow,	stopping	before	you	make	contact.
4
	Extend	your	right	knee	and	place	your	foot	back	on	the	floor.	Now	bring
	your	left	knee	to	your	left	elbow.
5
	Extend	your	left	leg	back	into	the	plank	position.
6
	Bending	at	the	waist,	hop	both	feet	back	on	each	side	of	the	medicine	ball,	straighten	your	legs	and	lift	the
medicine	ball	back	to	the	start	position,	engaging	your	hamstrings	and	glutes	to	assist	your	lower	back	to
extend	your	waist.
Burpee	with	Overhead	Press	&	Lunge

1
	Stand	approximately	half	a	body’s	length	behind	the	BOSU	Balance	Trainer,	dome-side	down.	Smoothly
jump	your	feet	backward,	landing	softly	on	your	toes.	Simultaneously	drop	your	upper	body	toward	the
BOSU	Balance	Trainer,	softly	landing	your	hands	on	the	outside	rim	of	the	flat	base,	and	grab	the	handles.
2
	Keeping	your	core	tight	and	back	flat,	perform	a	push-up	by	slowly	lowering	your	chest
	to	touch	the	flat
side.
3
	Still	gripping	the	handles,	use	your	arms	and	chest	to	explosively	push	your	upper	body	away	from	the
BOSU	Balance	Trainer	while	bending	at	the	waist	and	jumping	your	feet	forward,	back	under	your	body.
Land	with	your	knees	bent	in	a	semi-squatting	position	(approximately	45	degrees).
4
	Stand	up	straight,	lifting	the	BOSU	Balance	Trainer	and	pressing	it	directly	above
	your	head.
5
	Step	forward	with	your	right	foot	and	lower	your	left	knee	straight	down	in	a	lunge;	stop	when	both	knees
are	bent	90	degrees.	Keep	your	back	straight	and	arms	fully	extended.
6
	Press	off	your	right	foot	and	left	toes	to	return	to	standing,	squat	and	lower	the	BOSU	Balance	Trainer
back	to	the	floor.	That’s	1	rep.	Repeat	with	other	leg.

Thruster
1
	In	a	squat	rack	or	cage,	position	an	Olympic	bar	just	below	shoulder	height.	Step	into	the	bar,	positioning
it	on	the	natural	shelf	just	above	your	chest	and	below	your	collarbone.	Using	your	fingers	(not	your	palms),
hold	the	bar	in	position	above	your	chest.	Your	elbows	should	be	pointing	straight	forward	or	slightly	up,	if
possible.	The	bigger	your	biceps,	the	harder	the	positioning	is.
	The	higher	you	can	get	your	elbows,	the
more	stable	you	will	be.
2
	Lift	the	bar	out	of	the	rack	and	step	back	or	forward	one	step.	Engage	your	core.	Sit	back	slightly	and
lower	your	body	in	a	typical	squat.	Your	torso	should	be	completely	upright	to	support	the	bar	on	the	front
of	your	body	rather	than	the	back	of	your	body.	Core	engagement	is	key.
3
	Pause	at	the	bottom,	then	push	through	your
	glutes	and	return	to	start	position.
4
	Take	a	deep	breath,	squeeze	your	glutes	and	core,	and	tuck	your	tailbone	to	provide	a	strong,	stable	base.
Press	the	bar	in	a	straight	line	directly	overhead.	Once	the	bar	has	passed	the	top	of	your	head,	press	your
upper	body	and	head	forward	so	the	bar	is	directly	overhead	and	the	insides	of	your	elbows	are	about
laterally	even	with	your	ears.	When	the
	bar	reaches	its	apex,	your	entire	body	should	be	in	a	strong,	stable
position;	your	legs,	glutes,	core,	shoulders,	upper	back	and	arms	should	all	be	activated	to	keep	the	weight
in	place.
5
	Slowly	lower	the	bar,	tilting	your	head	back	and	controlling	the	bar’s	decent	until	it	softly	touches	your
collarbone.	(Softly!	Your	collarbone,	or	clavicle,	can	be	broken	by	less	than	10	pounds	of	force!)
	Exhale.
Ball	Thruster

1
	From	an	athletic	position,	hold	a	medicine	ball	to	your	chest	with	your	arms	bent.
2
	Bend	at	the	hips	and	lower	your	body	into	a	goblet	squat	(
page	152
)	until	your	knees	are	bent	at	least	90
degrees.	Pause.
3
	While	pushing	straight	up	from	your	heels	back	to	standing,	press	the	medicine	ball	directly	overhead	by
rotating	your	shoulders	forward	and	extending	your	arms;	your	biceps	should	finish
	in	line	with	your	ears.
Don’t	lock	your	knees	at	the	top	of	the	exercise.	Keep	your	core	flexed	throughout	the	movement	and	don’t
arch	your	back	when	you	lift	the	ball	overhead.	Pause.
Carefully	reverse	the	motion	and	return	the	ball	back	to	your	chest.

Wall	Ball
1
	From	an	athletic	position	facing	a	wall	about	2	feet	away,	hold	a	medicine	ball	to	your	chest	with	your
arms	bent.	Look	up	and	pick	a	spot	on	the	wall	that’s	at	least	8	feet	above	the	floor—that’ll	be	your	target	to
hit	with	the	ball.
2
	Bend	at	the	hips	and	lower	your	body	into	a	goblet	squat	(
page	152
)	until	your	knees	are	bent	at	least	90
degrees.	Pause.
3
	Push	straight	up	from	your	heels
	back	to	standing	while	explosively	pressing	and	tossing	the	medicine
ball	upward	and	slightly	forward	to	the	target	on	the	wall;	your	biceps	should	finish	in	line	with	your	ears.
Your	weight	should	transfer	to	your	forefeet	as	you	explode	upward,	and	your	feet	should	leave	the	ground.
Land	with	your	knees	bent,	keeping	an	eye	on	the	ball	the	entire	time.	Catch
the	ball	with	your	elbows	bent	then
	carefully	return	the	ball	back	to	your	chest,
making	sure	not	to	bonk	yourself	in	the	head,	nose	or	chin.

Squat
1
	Stand	tall	with	your	feet	shoulder-width	apart	and	toes	pointed	slightly	outward,	about	11	and	1	o’clock.
Raise	your	arms	until	they’re	parallel	to	the	floor.
2
	Bend	at	the	hips	and	knees	and	“sit	back”	just	a	little	bit	as	if	you	were	about	to	sit	directly	down	into	a
chair.	Keep	your	head	up,	eyes	forward	and	arms	out	in	front	of	you	for	balance.	As	you	descend,	contract
your	glutes	while
	your	body	leans	forward	slightly	so	that	your	shoulders	are	almost	in	line	with	your	knees.
Your	knees	should	not	extend	past	your	toes	and	your	weight	should	remain	between	the	heel	and	the
middle	of	your	feet—do	not	roll	up	on	the	balls	of	your	feet.	Stop	when	your	knees	are	at	90	degrees	and
your	thighs	are	parallel	to	the	floor.	If	you	feel	your	weight	is	on	your	toes	or	heels,	adjust	your	posture
	and
balance	until	your	weight	is	in	the	middle	of	your	feet.
Push	straight	up	from	your	heels	back	to	the	start	position.	Don’t	lock	your
knees	at	the	top	of	the	exercise.

Goblet	Squat
1
	From	an	athletic	position,	hold	a	medicine	ball	to	your	chest	with	your	arms	bent.
2
	Keeping	your	head	up,	eyes	forward	and	core	tight,	bend	at	the	hips	and	knees	and	“sit	back”	to	perform
the	squat.
Keeping	the	medicine	ball	at	chest	height,	push	straight	up	from	your	heels
back	to	the	start	position.	Don’t	lock	your	knees	at	the	top	of	the	exercise.
Back	Squat
1
	Place	the	bar	in	a	stable,	somewhat	comfortable	position	across	your	upper	back	at	shoulder	height.	Stand
centered	under	the	bar	and	place	your	hands	6–8	inches	wider	than	your	shoulders	on	the	bar	in	an	overhand
grip.	Your	knees	should	be	slightly	bent	to	allow	you	to	get	under	the	bar.	Place	your	feet	approximately
shoulder-width	apart	and	straighten	your	legs	to	lift	the	weight	off	the	rack.
	Carefully	step	forward	just
enough	to	clear	the	bar	of	the	J-cups.	Stand	up	straight	with	your	shoulders	back	(your	chest	should	be	as
wide	as	possible)	and	keep	your	chin	up,	head	looking	straight	ahead.	Take	a	deep	breath	and	tighten	your
abdominal	muscles	to	stabilize	your	core	and	protect	your	back	during	the	descent.
2
	Rotate	your	hips	backward	and	slowly	perform	a	squat,	keeping	your	head
	and	chest	up.	Do	not	let	your
knees	bow	in	or	you	can	cause	some	serious	damage.	If	you	cannot	keep	your	knees	in	the	proper	line,	you

are	trying	to	squat	too	much	weight	and	are	in	danger	of	spraining	or	tearing	your	medial	collateral	ligament
(MCL).
Breathe	out	and	drive	your	upper	body	straight	up	through	your	heels	back	to
start	position.	Do	not	bounce	at	the	bottom	or	the	top,	and	be	extremely
	careful
not	to	snap-lock	and	potentially	hyperextend	your	knees	at	the	top.

Front	Squat
1
	In	a	squat	rack	or	cage,	position	an	Olympic	bar	just	below	shoulder	height.	Step	into	the	bar,	positioning
it	on	the	natural	shelf	just	above	your	chest	and	below	your	collarbone.	Using	your	fingers	(not	your	palms),
hold	the	bar	in	position	above	your	chest.	Your	elbows	should	be	pointing	straight	forward	or	slightly	up,	if
possible.	The	bigger	your	biceps,	the	harder	the	positioning	is.
	The	higher	you	can	get	your	elbows,	the
more	stable	you	will	be.
2
	Lift	the	bar	out	of	the	rack	and	take	one	step	back.	Engage	your	core.	Sit	back	slightly	and	lower	your
body	in	a	typical	squat.	Your	torso	should	be	completely	upright	to	support	the	bar	on	the	front	of	your	body
rather	than	the	back	of	your	body.	Core	engagement	is	key.
Pause	at	the	bottom,	then	push	through	your	glutes	and
	return	to	start
position.
Single-Leg	Squat
1
	Stand	with	both	feet	directly	on	either	side	of	the	bull’s-eye	of	a	BOSU	Balance	Trainer.	Find	a	stable
position	and	engage	your	core.
2
	Keeping	your	knee	over	your	toe,	bend	your	right	knee	and	lower	your	body	until	your	glutes	drop	as

close	as	possible	to	parallel.	Do	not	lean	forward.	Pause.
Push	up	with	your	right	leg,	returning	to	start	position.

Lunge
1
	Stand	tall	with	your	feet	shoulder-width	apart	and	your	arms	hanging	at	your	sides.
2
	Take	a	large	step	forward	with	your	right	foot,	bend	both	knees	and	drop	your	hips	straight	down	until
both	knees	are	bent	90	degrees.	Your	left	knee	should	almost	be	touching	the	ground	and	your	left	toes	are
on	the	ground	behind	you.	Keep	your	core	engaged	and	your	back,	neck	and	hips	straight	at	all	times
	during
this	movement.
Pushing	up	with	your	right	leg,	straighten	both	knees	and	return	to	starting
position.	Repeat	with	the	other	leg.
Jump	Lunge
1
	Stand	with	a	BOSU	Balance	Trainer	approximately	a	stride’s	length	in	front	of	you.	Stand	upright	with
your	hands	along	your	sides.
2
	Keeping	your	left	leg	in	place,	stride	forward	with	your	right	leg,	bending	your	right	knee	slightly.	Land

your	right	mid-foot	directly	on	the	bull’s-eye,	keeping	your	right	knee	behind	your	toes.
3
	Continue	the	stride’s	natural	descent	until	your	left	knee
	almost	touches	the	ground.
4
	Explode	up	through	your	right	heel	and	mid-foot	and	switch	leg	positions	at	the	peak	of	your	jump.	You
should	use	enough	force	to	leave	the	ground	with	both	feet.
5
	Land	your	left	mid-foot	directly	on	the	bull’s-eye,	aiming	to	keep	your	left	knee	behind	your	toes.
Continue	the	stride’s	natural	descent	until	your	right	knee	almost	touches	the
ground.	That’s	1	rep.

Lunge	with	Twist
1
	Stand	tall	with	your	feet	shoulder-width	apart	and	both	hands	on	opposite	sides	of	a	medicine	ball,	elbows
slightly	bent.
2
	Keeping	the	ball	directly	in	front	of	you,	step	forward	(or	backward)	with	your	right	foot	to	start	the	lunge
motion.	As	you	lower	your	hips,	twist	your	core	and	swing	the	ball	laterally	to	your	right	until	both	knees
are	bent	90	degrees	and	your	arms	are	extended	and
	holding	the	medicine	ball	to	the	right,	90	degrees	from
where	you	started.
Return	to	start	position.	That’s	1	rep.	Repeat	to	the	other	side.
Lunge	with	Biceps	Curl
1
	Stand	tall	with	your	hands	at	your	sides	holding	dumbbells.	Keep	your	core	tight.
2
	Step	forward	with	your	right	leg	into	a	lunge	(your	knee	shouldn’t	extend	past	your	toes),	slowly	lowering
your	left	knee	toward	the	floor.
3
	As	you	lower,	curl	the	dumbbells.	You	should	finish	the	curl	at	about	the	same	time	as	you	finish	the
lunge.
4
	Push	up	through	your	right	heel	and	return	to	the	starting	position	with	your	arms	by	your	sides.	Alternate
legs.

Bulgarian	Split	Squat
1
	Holding	a	dumbbell	in	each	hand,	stand	with	your	right	foot	approximately	12	inches	in	front	of	you	and
your	left	foot	balanced	on	a	bench	behind
	you.	Balance	on	both	feet	equally.
2
	With	your	weight	on	your	right	heel,	descend	until	your	left	knee	touches	the	floor.
3
	Push	through	your	right	heel	and	return	to	start	position.
Repeat,	then	switch	legs.

Toe	Touch
1
	Stand	with	your	feet	approximately	shoulder-width	apart	and	back	straight.	Lift	your	arms	directly	above
your	head	with	your	palms	facing	forward.	Reach	up	as	high	as	you	can.
2
	Hinge	at	your	waist	and,	keeping	your	arms	overhead	and	back	as	straight	as	possible,	lower	your	upper
torso	as	one	unit	to	bring	your	head	toward	your	knees.	Try	to	touch	your	toes	with	your	fingertips.	Do	not
bounce
	or	grab	your	ankles	in	an	attempt	to	pull	your	upper	body	farther	down.	Hold	in	the	down	position
for	5	seconds.
Slowly	return	to	the	start	position	with	your	arms	extended	over	your	head.
Repeat,	each	time	trying	to	stretch	a	little	farther	than	the	previous	repetition.
Good	Morning
1
	From	an	athletic	position,	lift	the	medicine	ball	over	your	head	and	rest	it	carefully	on	the	top	of	your
back,	on	your	spine	just	below	your	neck.	Do	not	place	the	ball	on	your	neck—the	added	weight	on	your
cervical	vertebrae	can	cause	you	to	arch	your	neck,	causing	pain	and	discomfort.	Steady	the	ball	in	position
with	your	hands	and	bring	your	elbows	in	toward	your	head.

2
	Keeping	your	core
	tight	and	back	flat,	bend	forward	at	the	waist	until	your	torso	is	parallel	to	the	floor.
Pause.
Slowly	return	to	the	start	position.

Deadlift
1
	Starting	with	an	Olympic	bar	on	the	floor,	choose	a	light	weight	and	place	an	equal	number	and	weight	of
plates	on	either	end.	Position	your	feet	shoulder-width	apart	with	your	toes	under	the	bar	and	your	shins
very	close	to	the	bar.	Grasp	the	bar	with	either	an	overhand	or	mixed	grip	(one	underhand,	one	overhand)	a
few	inches	outside	of	your	legs	in	relation	to	the	bar.	Push	your	hips	directly
	back	slightly,	lift	your	chest
and	keep	your	chin	up	with	your	head	looking	directly	in	front	of	you.	Do	not	hunch	your	shoulders	or	lean
forward;	your	back	should	be	primarily	straight	with	a	natural	curve.
2
	Take	a	deep	breath,	and	then	drive	through	your	heels	and	extend	your	legs	to	lift	the	bar	straight	up
toward	the	top	of	your	thighs	while	rising	to	a	standing	position.	Finish	the	move
	by	pressing	your	hips
forward,	aligning	your	shoulders,	hips,	knees	and	ankles	in	a	straight	line.	Do	not	lean	back	at	the	top	of	the
movement,	this	will	put	undue	stress	on	your	lower	back.
Slowly	and	carefully	reverse	the	move	to	lower	the	bar	to	the	floor.	Do	not
bend	over	and	place	the	bar	on	the	ground—the	bar	should	follow	the	exact	same
path	as	it	did	while	you	were	raising	it.	Do	not
	drop	the	bar	from	the	top	or
you’ll	be	missing	out	on	half	of	the	exercise!

Romanian	Deadlift
1
	Grasping	a	barbell	with	an	overhand	grip,	stand	upright	with	the	barbell	at	leg	level,	arms	fully	extended.
Keep	the	core,	lower	back,	glutes	and	hips	tight	and	focused.
2
	Never	relaxing	the	core,	lower	back,	glutes	or	hips,	slowly	lower	the	bar	toward	the	ground,	not	quite
touching	the	ground
Pause,	then	return	to	start	position.
VARIATION:
	
This	can	also	be	done	with	a	medicine	ball.	From
	an	athletic	position,	hold	a	medicine	ball
at	your	waist	with	your	arms	fully	extended.	Bend	at	the	waist	to	lower	the	ball	as	close	as	you	can	to	your
legs	as	you	descend.
Single-Leg	Deadlift
1
	Holding	a	dumbbell	in	each	hand	at	your	sides,	stand	with	both	feet	on	either	side	of	the	bull’s-eye	of	a
BOSU	Balance	Trainer.	Find	a	stable	position.	Engage	your	core.

2
	Lift	your	left	foot,	fully	extend	your	right	leg	and	bend	at	the	waist.	Simultaneously	lower	your	upper
body	and	raise	your	left	leg	behind	you	until	your	entire	backside,	all	the	way	from	your	left	heel	to	your
head,	forms
	one	straight	line.	Pause.
Pull	through	your	right	hamstring	and	glutes	to	return	to	start	position.
Repeat,	then	switch	sides.
Clean
1
	Just	like	the	deadlift,	start	with	a	barbell	on	the	floor	touching	your	shins,	feet	parallel	and	hip-width
apart.	Hands	should	grasp	the	barbell	just	outside	your	legs.	Keep	your	head	up,	core	tight	and	shoulders
back.	These	cues	should	give	you	a	straight
	back	from	head	to	tail.
2
	Pull	the	bar	up	and	off	the	floor	by	extending	your	hips	and	knees.	As	the	bar	reaches	your	knees,	pull
through	your	shoulders	while	keeping	the	barbell	close	to	your	thighs.
3
	When	the	barbell	passes	mid-thigh,	jump	upward,	extending	your	body.	Shrug	your	shoulders	and	pull	the
barbell	upward,	allowing	your	elbows	to	flex	out	to	the	sides	but	keeping	the	bar	close
	to	your	body.
4
	Now	actively	pull	your	body	under	the	bar,	rotating	your	elbows	around	the	bar.	Catch	the	bar	on	your
shoulders	just	as	you	would	position	for	a	front	squat	(
page	153
).

Calf	Raise
1
	Holding	a	barbell	or	two	dumbbells,	lift	the	weight	toward	your	waist	and	hold	with	your	arms	fully
extended.
2
	With	your	legs	approximately	shoulder-width	apart	and	your	toes	pointed	forward,	press	through	the	balls
of	your	feet	and	raise	your	entire	body	and	weight	straight	up.	Maintain	your	balance	on	the	balls	of	your
feet	and	squeeze	your	calves	to	hold	the	“up”	position	for	1–3	seconds.
Slowly	lower	your	heels	back	down	to	the	floor.
Linear	Reactive	Step-Up
1
	Stand	12–18	inches	in	front	of	a	bench	or	object	18–24	inches	tall	that	can	hold	your	weight;	have	your
hands	at	your	sides	and	feet	shoulder-width	apart.
2
	Step	up	with	your	right	foot	as	if	you	were	climbing	a	step	and	place	it	flat	on	top	of	the	bench,	leaving
your	left	foot	on	the	ground.
3
	Push	down	with	your	right	foot	on	top	of	the	bench	and	jump	up	as	high	as	you	can	using	only	the

strength	of	your	right	leg.	Your	left	leg	should	not	be	pushing	off	at	all;	this	exercise	works	one	leg	at	a	time
to	develop	explosive	jumping	power.	Let	your	arms	swing	naturally	at	your	sides	as	you	jump.
4
	Switch	legs	in	mid-air	by	bringing	your	right	foot	backward	and	left	foot	forward	at	the	apex	of	your
jump.	Your	left	foot	will	land	on	top	of	the	bench	and	your	right	foot	on	the	ground.
As	soon	as	your	left	foot	lands	on	the	bench,	immediately	jump	again	using
only	the	strength	of	your	left	leg.
That’s	2	reps.
Step-Up	with	Dumbbell	Curl
1
	With	the	BOSU	Balance	Trainer	approximately	half	a	stride’s	length	in	front	of	you,	stand	upright	with	a
dumbbell	in	each	hand,	arms	fully	extended	at	your	sides.	Step	on	the	bull’s-eye	one	foot	at	a	time.
2
	Bring	your	elbows	in	toward	your	sides	and	rotate	your	hands	so	that	your	palms	face	upward.
Contracting	your	abs	to	keep	your	spine	straight	and	keeping	your	upper	arms	next	to	your	torso,
	slowly
raise	the	weights	toward	your	shoulders.
Box	Jump

1
	Start	by	standing	12–18	inches	in	front	of	a	box	or	bench	that’s	24–36	inches	tall	and	can	hold	your
weight.	Keep	your	hands	at	your	sides	and	feet	shoulder-width	apart.
2
	Initiate	the	jump	by	dropping	your	hips	and	bending	at	the	waist	in	a	squat	movement,	but	only	about	half
as	deep.	Swing	your	arms	back	and	shift	your	weight	toward	the	front	of	your	feet.
3
	Extend	your	hips,	swing	your
	arms	forward,	and	push	off	from	your	feet	to	jump	as	high	as	you	can
toward	the	center	top	of	the	box.	Land	softly	on	the	box	with	your	knees	bent	to	absorb	the	shock.
Step	off	to	either	side	of	the	box,	placing	a	hand	on	the	edge	of	the	box	if
necessary	to	keep	your	balance.	Don’t	jump	backward	off	the	box.
Push-Up
1
	Place	your	hands	on	the	ground	approximately	shoulder-width	apart,	making	sure	your	fingers	point
straight	ahead	and	your	arms	are	straight	but	your	elbows	not	locked.	Step	your	feet	back	until	your	body
forms	a	straight	line	from	head	to	feet.	Your	feet	should	be	about	6	inches	apart	with	the	weight	in	the	balls
of	your	feet.	Engage	your	core	to	keep	your	spine	from	sagging;	don’t	sink	into
	your	shoulders.
2
	Inhale	as	you	lower	your	torso	to	the	ground	and	focus	on	keeping	your	elbows	as	close	to	your	sides	as
possible,	stopping	when	your	elbows	are	at	a	90	degree	angle	or	your	chest	is	1–2	inches	from	the	floor.
Exhale	and	return	to	start	position.
VARIATION:
	
This	can	also	be	done	by	placing	both	hands	on	either	side	of	a	medicine	ball.	Lower	your
upper	body	to	the	ball	before
	pushing	back	up.
Pull-Up

1
	Grip	the	horizontal	bar	with	your	palms	facing	away	from	you	and	your	arms	fully	extended.	Your	hands
should	be	slightly	wider	than	your	shoulders.	Your	feet	should	not	touch	the	floor	during	this	exercise.	Let
all	of	your	weight	settle	in	position	but	do	not	relax	your	shoulders—this	may	cause	them	to	overstretch.
2
	Squeeze	your	shoulder	blades	together,	look	up	at	the	bar,	exhale	and	pull
	your	chin	up	toward	the	bar	by
driving	your	elbows	toward	the	floor.	It’s	very	important	to	keep	your	shoulders	back	and	chest	up	during
the	entire	movement.	Pull	yourself	up	in	a	controlled	manner	until	the	bar	is	just	above	the	top	of	your
chest.
3
	Inhale	and	slowly	lower	yourself	back	down.	Don’t	lock	your	elbows,	swing	your	feet	or	“bounce”	at	the
bottom	of	the	movement	before	starting	the
	upward	movement.
Chin-Up
1
	Perform	the	pull-up	with	your	palms	facing	you.
Single-Arm	Curl	&	Overhead	Press

1
	From	an	athletic	position,	hold	a	medicine	ball	in	your	right	hand,	with	your	arm	bent	90	degrees	and	your
elbow	and	upper	arm	against	your	side,	as	if	you	were	a	waiter	holding	a	plate	of	food	in	front	of	you.
2
	Flex	your	biceps	and	raise	the	ball	to	your	shoulder	so	your	fingers	are	nearly	touching	your	shoulder.
3
	Press	the	ball	directly	overhead	in	a	slow	and	controlled	manner.	Pause.
Return	the	ball	to	your	side.	Flip	the	medicine	ball	to	your	left	hand	and
repeat	with	your	left	hand.	That’s	1	rep.

Overhead	Press
1
	The	bar	should	be	positioned	on	a	squat	rack	at	shoulder	height.	It’s	recommended	that	you	practice	this
exercise	with	no	weight	until	you’re	familiar	with	the	proper	form.	Grip	the	bar	with	an	overhand	grip	just
outside	your	shoulders.	Rotate	your	
elbows	so	they’re	under	the	bar,	pointing	directly	away	from	your	torso.
Raise	your	chest	and	keep	your	head	looking	straight	forward.	You’ll	need
	to	tilt	your	head	back	a	little	bit
so	the	bar	can	clear	your	chin	when	you	press	the	bar	up.	Unrack	the	bar	and	take	a	small	step	backward	or
forward	(depending	on	your	rack	setup	or	preference)	so	the	bar	can	clear	the	rack	when	you	press	it.	Your
feet	should	be	even	with	each	other	and	shoulder-width	apart.
2
	Take	a	deep	breath,	squeeze	your	glutes	and	core,	and	tuck	your	tailbone	to	provide
	a	strong,	stable	base.
Press	the	bar	in	a	straight	line	directly	overhead.	Once	the	bar	has	passed	the	top	of	your	head,	press	your
upper	body	and	head	forward	so	the	bar	is	directly	overhead	and	the	inside	of	your	elbows	are	about
laterally	even	with	your	ears.	When	the	bar	reaches	its	apex,	your	entire	body	should	be	in	a	strong,	stable
position;	your	legs,	glutes,	core,	shoulders,	upper	back
	and	arms	should	all	be	activated	to	keep	the	weight
in	place.
Overhead	Press	&	Triceps	Extension

1
	From	an	athletic	position,	hold	a	medicine	ball	to	your	chest	with	your	arms	bent.
2
	Press	the	medicine	ball	directly	overhead	until	your	biceps	are	in	line	with	your	ears.	Pause.
3
	Slowly	lower	the	ball	behind	your	head	while	keeping	your	upper	arms	in	line	with	your	ears.	Stop	before
the	ball	touches	your	upper	back.	Pause.
Raise	the	ball	back	overhead	and	carefully	return	to	the	start
	position.
Barbell	Curl
This	can	be	done	with	either	a	straight	bar	or	an	EZ	curl	bar.	If	you	vary	your	hand	position	on	the	EZ	bar,
you	can	target	different	areas	of	the	biceps	and	work	the	entire	muscle.
1
	Grasp	a	barbell	with	an	underhand	grip.	Lock	your	elbows	either	in	place	or	to	your	hips/sides.
2
	Raise	the	bar	in	an	arc	toward	your	shoulders,	never	fully	reaching	your	shoulders.	Stop	when	the	biceps
aren’t	doing	the	work	anymore.
Pause,	then	slowly	lower	the	bar	to	the	start	position.

Barbell	Row
1
	Place	a	barbell	on	the	floor	and	position	yourself	over	it.	With	your	knees	slightly	bent	and	your	back
straight,	bend	forward	at	the	waist	until	your	back	is	approximately	parallel	with	the	ground.	Reach	down
and	grasp	the	barbell	with	an	overhand	grip	and	arms	fully	extended.
2
	Using	primarily	your	upper	back,	not	your	arms,	pull	the	bar	to	your	waist	or	lower	torso.	To	activate	your
back
	more	than	your	arms,	mentally	focus	on	squeezing	your	back	and	shoulder	blades	together	as	tightly	as
possible.	You’ll	naturally	use	some	arms,	but	the	key	is	to	minimize	their	involvement!
Pause,	then	return	to	the	start	position	with	your	arms	fully	extended.
1-Arm	Dumbbell	Row
1
	Position	yourself	on	a	flat	bench	with	your	left	knee	and	left	hand	on	the	bench	for	support.	Place	your
right	leg	slightly	back	on	the	ground	for	support.	Grasp	a	dumbbell	with	your	right	hand	directly	beneath
your	right	shoulder.
2
	Pull	the	dumbbell	to	your	side	until	it	makes	contact	with	your	waist.	Pause,	then	return	to	start	position.
Don’t	put	the	dumbbell	back	on	the	ground.
Continue
	until	all	reps	are	complete,	then	repeat	on	your	left	side.

Dumbbell	Shrug
1
	Grasp	two	dumbbells	of	the	same	weight.	Hold	them	by	your	sides	with	your	shoulders	relaxed.	Lean
forward	at	the	hips	a	bit,	letting	the	weights	hang	just	in	front	of	you.
2
	Flex	your	traps	and	pull	your	shoulders	through	your	back.	In	other	words,	shrug.	Pause	at	the	top,	then
slowly	lower	to	the	start	position,	but	never	fully	relax	your	shoulders.
Dip
1
	Step	between	two	dip	bars	that	are	about	shoulder-width	apart.	Non-parallel	bars	allow	you	to	find	a	hand
position	(rotated	in	or	out)	and	a	width	that’s	more	comfortable.	Grip	the	top	of	the	bars	securely	and	extend
your	arms	completely	with	your	body	leaning	about	5	degrees	forward.
2
	Lower	your	body	in	a	controlled	manner	by	bending	your	arms	at	the	elbows.	Be	cautious	of	elbow	or
shoulder
	pain	and	adjust	your	positioning	to	lessen	any	strain.	When	your	upper	arms	and	forearms	are
roughly	90	degrees	in	relation	to	each	other,	your	upper	arms	are	parallel	to	the	dip	bar	or	your	feel	a	deep
stretch	in	your	chest	or	shoulders,	pause	your	descent.
Drive	your	hands	back	down	toward	your	knees	by	using	your	triceps	to
return	your	arms	to	a	fully	extended	position.

Triceps	Kickback
1
	Start	with	your	right	knee	on	the	dome	of	a	BOSU	Balance	Trainer	and	your	left	hand	supporting	your
weight	either	on	the	ground	or	the	edge	of	the	BOSU.	Extend	your	left	leg	behind	you	with	both	toes	on	the
ground	for	balance.	Grasp	the	dumbbell	with	your	right	hand	and	raise	it	to	your	right	hip.
2
	Extend	your	elbow	and	press	the	dumbbell	directly	behind	you	by	engaging	your	triceps.	Don’t
	rotate
your	shoulder;	try	to	limit	rotation	of	your	torso.	Pause.
3
	Return	to	the	start	position.
Finish	the	desired	reps	and	repeat	on	the	opposite	side.
Shoulder	Raise
Shoulder	raises	should	be	done	both	to	the	sides	and	to	the	front.	We	recommend	one	full	set	to	the	sides
followed	by	one	full	set	to	the	front.	Do	not	go	heavy,	but	instead	use	lighter	weights	and	slow,	controlled
motions.
1
	Grasp	two	dumbbells	at	your	sides	using	an	overhand	grip,	with	the	insides	of	your	fists	facing	your	body

and	thumbs	roughly	adjacent	to	your	upper	thighs.
2
	Raise	them	away	from	your	body	to	the	sides	and	pause	for	1–3	seconds	when	the	weights	are	level	with
your	shoulders.	Then	lower	slowly	to	your	sides.	Repeat	until	you’ve	completed	half	of	the	given	reps	for	a
workout	before	moving	on
	to	step	3.
3
	Bring	the	dumbbells	around	toward	the	front	of	your	body,	with	your	palms	facing	the	fronts	of	your	hips.
Your	elbows	should	be	slightly	bent,	core	engaged	to	keep	your	back	straight,	knees	slightly	bent	in	an
athletic	posture.
4
	Raise	your	arms	directly	in	front	of	your	body	until	the	weights	are	at	shoulder	level.	Your	arms	should	be
straight	but	your	elbows	not	in	a	fully	locked-out
	position.	Pause	for	1–3	seconds,	then	lower	slowly	back	to
start	position.
Repeat	steps	3–4	for	the	remainder	of	the	required	reps	for	a	workout.

Chest	Fly
1
	Lying	on	the	dome	of	a	BOSU	Balance	Trainer,	position	your	shoulder	blades	so	they’re	approximately
on	either	side	of	the	bull’s-eye	of	the	BOSU.	Grasp	a	dumbbell	in	each	hand	with	an	overhand	grip,	bend
both	elbows	approximately	90	degrees,	and	position	your	arms	in	line	with	your	torso.	The	weights	should
be	slightly	above	shoulder	height	with	your	inner	arms	and	palms	facing	the	ceiling.
	Raise	your	buttocks	off
the	ground	for	the	entire	movement;	keep	your	core	tight	in	order	to	stabilize	your	back.
2
	Keeping	your	elbows	bent	and	your	wrists	in	a	locked	position,	engage	your	pectoral	muscles	to	lift	the
weights—slowly	swing	them	in	an	arc	together	directly	over	your	sternum.	Pause	when	your	palms	are
facing	each	other	and	the	weights	are	gently	touching.	Squeeze	your	chest	together
	during	the	movement
and	especially	when	the	weights	are	above	your	torso.	Pause.
Slowly	return	to	the	start	position.
Reverse	Fly
1
	Lie	face-down	on	top	of	a	BOSU	Balance	Trainer	dome	with	the	bull’s-eye	centered	on	your	torso	slightly
below	your	chest.	Extend	your	legs	and	place	your	toes	on	the	floor	for	balance.	Grasp	dumbbells	in	each
hand	with	an	overhand	grip	and	place	them	on	the	floor,	your	arms	nearly	extended	out	on	both	sides	of
your	shoulders.	Squeeze	your	glutes	to	help	brace	your	core.	
Note:
	Your	elbows	should
	be	bent	slightly,
about	140–160	degrees	relative	to	your	upper	arm.
2
	Keeping	your	back	straight	and	arms	flat	(don’t	rotate	your	forearms	relative	to	your	upper	arms),	lift	the
weights	straight	up	off	the	floor	using	the	large	muscles	of	your	upper	back	by	squeezing	your	shoulder
blades	together.	Pause	at	the	top.
Lower	slowly	back	to	the	start	position.

Bench	Press
Start	with	a	broomstick
	or	unweighted	Olympic	bar	and	practice	proper	technique	throughout	the	entire
movement	before	you	add	any	weight	at	all.	Oh,	and	find	a	spotter.
1
	Check	the	bar	position	on	the	rack.	When	you	lie	under	the	bar	you	should	be	able	to	extend	your	elbows
completely	when	you	lift	the	bar	off	the	safety	pegs.	You	should	never	be	raising	the	bar	and	moving	it
forward	away	from	the	safety	supports	with	bent	elbows.	Lie	back	on	the	bench	with	your	feet	flat	on	the
floor	as	wide	as	you	comfortably	can.	Your	heels	should	be	solidly	planted	and	very
	stable.	If	your	legs	are
too	short	to	be	securely	flat	on	the	floor,	slide	a	couple	of	45-pound	plates	under	your	feet.	Squeeze	your
shoulder	blades	together	and	broaden	your	chest.
Grip	the	bar	and	tightly	tuck	your	elbows	toward	your	sides	and	keep	them
as	close	to	your	body	as	you	can	during	the	entire	movement.
2
	Press	the	bar	straight	up	off	the	safety	pegs	and	extend	your	elbows	into	a
	locked	position	before	moving
the	weight	directly	over	your	sternum.	Do	not	unrack	and	descend	the	bar	in	one	movement;	the	lateral
momentum	and	possible	overcompensation	can	cause	the	bar	to	fall	on	your	ribcage	or	toward	your	neck	or
head.	Be	extremely	careful	and	deliberate	when	you	unrack	the	weight;	extend	your	arms	and	get	the	bar	on
the	right	plane	straight	up,	about	1–2	inches	below	your
	nipples	or	even	with	the	bottom	of	your	sternum.
3
	Inhale,	and	in	a	controlled	manner,	lower	the	bar	until	it	touches	your	chest.
4
	Press	the	bar	directly	up	in	a	straight	line	back	to	start	position	using	your	chest,	arms	and	even	the	heels
of	your	feet.	Keep	your	glutes	on	the	bench,	shoulder	blades	retracted	and	chest	up	throughout	the	entire
fluid	movement	as	you	breathe	out.	Extend	your
	arms	fully	such	that	your	elbows	are	straight	and	the
weight	is	stable	above	you.
5
	Carefully	re-rack	the	bar	when	all	the	reps	are	complete.

Incline	Bench	Press
1
	Set	the	bench	angle	between	20	and	40	degrees.	The	steeper	the	angle	(or	the	higher	the	head	portion	of
the	bench),	the	more	you’ll	be	activating	your	shoulder	muscles	while	using	less	of	your	chest.
Sit	on	the	seat	area	of	the	bench	and	place	both	feet	firmly	on	the	ground	on
either	side	of	the	bench	to	form	a	stable,	wide	stance.	Lie	back	on	the	bench	and
squeeze	your	shoulder	blades	together.
	Grip	the	bar	and	tuck	your	elbows	in.
Keep	them	as	close	to	your	sides	as	possible	throughout	the	movement.	Breathe
in,	extend	your	elbows	and	press	the	bar	straight	up	from	the	safety	pegs.
Carefully	bring	the	bar	directly	over	your	upper	chest	and	pause.
2
	In	a	controlled	manner,	lower	the	bar	to	your	chest	and	then	drive	it	straight	up.
3
	Carefully	re-rack	the	bar	when	all	reps	are	complete.
VARIATION:
	
This	can	also	be	done	by	holding	two	dumbbells.
Landmine

1
	Place	a	45-pound	plate	flat	on	the	floor	and	position	one	end	of	a	full-size	Olympic	bar	in	the	plate’s
center	hole	on	a	45-degree	angle	so	that	the	tip	of	the	bar	is	held	in	place,	or	in	the	corner	of	a	room	so	the
bar	doesn’t	slide	or	roll	away	from	you.	Place	both	hands	on	the	opposite	end	of	the	bar	and	raise	it	to	chest
height.	The	bar	should	be	diagonal	to	your	body,	pointed	away	from
	your	torso	directly	in	front	of	you.
Your	feet	should	be	shoulder-width	apart,	knees	slightly	bent,	head	up	and	shoulders	back	in	an	athletic
stance.
2
	In	an	arcing	motion,	brace	your	core	and	bring	the	bar	to	the	right	side	of	your	body	without	twisting	your
hips.	Your	shoulders	should	remain	in	line	with	your	hips,	pointed	straight	ahead	as	in	the	start	position.
Hold	this	position	with	your
	core	flexed	for	3–5	seconds.	Return	to	start	position	by	swinging	the	bar	in	a
reverse	arc.
3
	Repeat	to	the	left	side	using	the	opposite	motion.
After	returning	to	the	top	position,	bring	the	bar	down	toward	your	waist,
pause	for	3–5	seconds	and	press	back	up	to	the	top	position.

Triceps	Pressdown
1
	Using	a	triceps	pressdown	machine	or	lat	pulldown	machine,	grasp	the	bar	with	an	overhand	grip	(palms
toward	the	ground).	Pull	the	bar	down	until	your	elbows	are	aligned	with	the	outside	of	your	body;	both	will
be	bent	and	the	bar	will	be	about	chin	height	in	front	of	your	body.	Engage	your	core.
2
	Keeping	your	elbows	in	place,	use	your	triceps	(not	your	shoulders)	to	pull	the	bar	down	in
	an	arc	toward
your	hips.	Squeeze	your	triceps	to	keep	the	bar	in	position,	and	hold	for	1–3	seconds.	Do	not	hunch
forward;	keep	your	core	engaged	and	back	straight	throughout	the	entire	movement.
Slowly	return	the	bar	to	start	position	at	your	chin.

Leg	Press
1
	Sit	in	a	45-degree	leg	press	machine.	Position	your	feet	so	your	knees	are	over	your	toes.	Your	feet	should
be	pointed	slightly	outward	and	shoulder-width	apart.
2
	Push	through	your	heels	and	fully	extend	your	legs.
Pause,	then	SLOWLY	lower	the	weight	to	the	start	position.

Hamstring	Curl
1
	Lie	face	down	on	a	leg	curl	machine.	Position	both	feet	with	toes	pointing	slightly	outward.
2
	Contract	your	hamstrings	and	glutes	to	bring	your	heels	to	your	glutes.
Pause,	then	return	to	start	position.
Basic	Jump	Rope
1
	Stand	erect	with	your	feet	approximately	shoulder-width	apart,	knees	slightly	bent	and	arms	extended
along	your	sides.	Throughout	the	movement	your	weight	should	be	distributed	evenly	on	the	balls	of	both
feet.	Grip	the	jump	rope	handles	using	a	classic	grip.	Extend	the	apex	of	the	jump	rope	loop	on	the	ground
behind	your	feet.
2
	Rotate	your	wrists	forward	to	swing	the	rope	overhead.	The	first
	movement	from	a	dead	stop	will	require
more	arm	and	shoulder	movement,	but	as	you	progress	on	subsequent	jumps,	your	arms	should	remain	in	a
semi-static	downward	position	along	the	sides	of	your	body	and	your	hands	should	rotate	in	small	arcs.
3
	As	the	apex	of	the	rope’s	loop	approaches	the	ground	in	front	of	your	body	and	is	6	inches	away	from
your	toes,	jump	straight	up	approximately	4–6	inches
	off	the	floor	with	both	feet	as	the	rope	passes

underneath.
4
	Land	on	the	balls	of	both	feet	and	bend	your	knees	slightly	to	cushion	the	impact	while	continuing	to
rotate	your	wrists	and	swing	the	rope	in	an	arc	from	back	to	front.
Jump	Rope:	The	Skier
While	jumping	rope,	continuously	jump	both	feet	to	one	side	and	then	the	other.
Jump	Rope:	The	Bell
While	jumping	rope,	continuously	jump	both	feet	forward	and	then	backward.

Warm-Ups	&	Stretches

Arm	Circle
Stand	with	your	feet	shoulder-width	apart.	Move	both	arms	in	a	complete	circle	forward	5	times	and	then
backward	5	times.

Chest
Clasp	your	hands	together	behind	your	lower	back	with	palms	facing	each	other.	Keeping	an	erect	posture
and	your	arms	as	straight	as	possible,	gently	pull	your	arms	away	from	your	back,	straight	out	behind	you.
Keep	your	shoulders	down.	Hold	for	10	seconds.
Rest	for	30	seconds	and	repeat.
Lower	Back
Lying	face-down	on	your	stomach,	extend	your	arms	along	the	floor	above	your	head,	palms	on	the	ground.
Keeping	your	knees	straight,	extend	your	legs	behind	you,	keeping	your	feet	close	together	and	your	toes	on
the	ground.	In	a	slow,	controlled	motion,	contract	your	lower	back	(erector	spinae)	and	raise	your	arms	and
legs	6–8	inches	off	the	floor.	Hold	for	5	seconds.
Lower	slowly	back	to	start
	position.	Repeat	slowly	10	times.

Shoulders
Stand	with	your	feet	shoulder-width	apart	and	bring	your	left	arm	across	your	chest.	Support	your	left	elbow
with	the	crook	of	your	right	arm	by	raising	your	right	arm	to	90	degrees.	Gently	pull	your	left	arm	to	your
chest	while	maintaining	proper	posture	(straight	back,	wide	shoulders).	Don’t	round	or	hunch	your
shoulders.	Hold	your	arm	to	your	chest	for	10	seconds.	Release	and	switch	arms.
After	you’ve	done	both	sides,	shake	your	hands	out	for	5–10	seconds.

Around	the	World
1
	Stand	with	your	feet	shoulder-width	apart	and	extend	your	hands	overhead	with	elbows	locked,	fingers
interlocked,	and	palms	up.	Keep	your	arms	straight	the	entire	time.
2
	Bending	at	the	hips,	bring	your	hands	down	toward	your	right	leg,	and	in	a	continuous	circular	motion
bring	your	hands	toward	your	toes,	then	toward	your	left	leg	and	then	return	your	hands	overhead	and	bend
backward.
Repeat
	three	times,	then	change	directions.
“Poor	Man’s	Yoga”	Dynamic	Warm-Up
1
	Stand	up	straight	in	an	“athletic	stance”:	shoulders	back,	head	high,	back	straight,	hands	at	sides,	knees
with	a	slight	bend,	feet	about	shoulder-width	apart	with	toes	pointed	slightly	outward.	Shift	your	weight	to
your	right	foot	while	bending	your	left	knee	and	bringing	it	up	toward	your	chest.	Place	your	hands	on	your
upper	shin,	below	your	knee,	and	slowly	apply	force	to	bring	your	knee
	closer	to	your	upper	torso	while
maintaining	your	balance.	Release	your	left	leg	if	you	lose	your	balance;	do	not	allow	your	right	knee	to
bow	inward	or	outward	as	it	may	result	in	injury.
2
	Slowly,	in	a	controlled	manner,	release	your	hands	and	step	forward	about	2	feet	with	your	left	foot	and
place	it	on	the	ground;	drop	your	hips	straight	down	into	a	lunge	position.	Your	left	leg	should	be
	bent	90

degrees,	your	upper	leg	parallel	with	the	ground,	lower	leg	perpendicular	to	it.	Your	right	toes	should	be	on
the	ground,	your	right	leg	bent	at	90	degrees	as	well.	Your	upper	body	should	be	upright,	with	your	head
high,	shoulders	back	and	core	braced	to	keep	your	back	straight.
3
	Slowly	press	up	from	your	left	heel	and	push	your	body	back	into	a	standing	position	with	both	feet
parallel.
	Bend	at	the	waist	and	bring	your	head	toward	your	knees,	placing	your	hands	on	the	backs	of	your
lower	calves	and	pulling	slightly	to	assist	in	getting	your	noggin	closer	to	your	knees.	Release	your	hands
and	slowly	return	to	the	start	position.	That’s	1	rep;	repeat	with	your	right	leg.	Perform	5	reps	on	each	side.

PART	4:	NUTRITION

Fueling	the	Athlete
What’s	a	calorie?	Think	you	know?	Nope.	Sorry,	you’re	wrong.	The	term
“calories”	is	really	just	a	convenient,	although	somewhat	inaccurate,	way	to
describe	a	particular	food’s	effect	on	your	body.	Unfortunately,	it’s	too	general	a
term	to	explain	how	important	different	sources	of	fueling	are	to	your	body’s
performance	on	a	daily	basis	and	in	the	long	run.
Your	body	actually
	has	no	idea	what	a	calorie	is—the	only	thing	it
understands	is	that	fuel	is	being	added	to	the	system	and	thousands	of	different
bodily	functions	are	called	into	action	to	figure	out	what	to	do	with	it.	For
instance,	500	pizza	calories	are	treated	completely	differently	from	500	broccoli
calories	in	terms	of	the	way	they’re	processed	and	utilized.
Just	remember,	all	calories	are	NOT	created	equal,
	but	you’ve	surely	figured
that	out	by	now.	“Cutting	calories”	only	works	if	you’re	slashing	excess	ones
from	your	diet	(see	“How	Many	Calories	Do	I	Burn?”	on	
page	186
)	or	trimming
back	the	wrong	types	of	calories	at	the	wrong	times.
We	break	the	nutrition	in	this	book	into	three	parts.	One	is	geared	toward
those	following	the	FXT:FIT,	FXT:SXP	or	FXT:EXP	programs,	where	the	goal
is	to	get	lean,
	strong	and	fast	and	develop	long-term	athletic	endurance.	Another
is	for	those	following	the	FXT:MX1	program,	who	have	the	very	specific	goal	of
gaining	muscle	as	quickly	as	possible.	The	third	nutrition	is	for	those	following
FXT:ST1.
There’s	way	too	much	for	us	to	cover	here,	so	for	more	resources	on	calories,
nutritional	benefits	from	specific	foods	and	Glycemic	Index,	visit	“Nutrition”	on
http://fxtfit.com
.

Macronutrients	Athletes	Need
The	following	is	a	high-level	overview	of	carbs,	fats	and	proteins	to	give	you	a
bit	of	a	primer	when	making	your	nutritional	decisions.
Carbohydrates:
	Used	by	the	human	body	as	a	primary	source	of	energy,
carbohydrates	are	simple	or	complex	sugars	that	are	broken	down	into	glucose
within	the	body.	Simple	carbohydrates	are	sugars	made	of	one	or	two	molecules
that
	are	easily	absorbed	into	bloodstream	and	are	responsible	for	rapid,	short-
term	energy	boosts.	White	and	brown	sugar,	honey,	corn	syrup,	jams,	jellies	and
most	fruit	drinks	and	soft	drinks	fall	into	this	category	and	provide	little
nutritional	benefit	other	than	energy	from	calories.	Most	often	associated	with
sweets	and	candies,	simple	carbs	are	often	attributed	to	weight	gain	from	empty
calories
	and	a	spike	in	energy	followed	by	a	crash	of	lethargy.	For	endurance
athletes,	energy	gels	and	carb-loaded	drinks	used	during	extreme	training	and
racing	provide	a	necessary	dose	of	energy	during	long	and	grueling	events.	If	an
athlete	doesn’t	have	the	proper	amount	of	glucose,	their	performance	will
diminish	rapidly	as	energy	stores	are	depleted,	leading	to	the	dreaded	“bonk”
when	their	body	just
	runs	out	of	fuel	and	quits.
To	make	carbs	easier	to	understand,	we	classify	them	into	three	general
groups:
•
White	Carbs:	White	bread,	pasta,	white	potatoes	and	white	rice	are	all	examples	of	simple	or	complex
sugars	that	have	a	high	glycemic	impact	that	spike	your	blood	sugars	quickly	for	a	rapid	energy	boost,
but	are	torched	fairly	quickly.
•
Brown	Carbs:	Whole-grain	bread,	sweet
	potatoes,	quinoa	and	farro	are	examples	of	slower-burning
sugars	that	keep	your	system	fueled	for	longer	periods	of	time.	If	white	carbs	were	a	match,	these
would	be	a	candle.
•
Green	Carbs:	Vegetables	and	fruits	provide	a	mix	of	fast-and	slow-burning	carbs	from	the	healthiest	of
sources.	For	the	most	part,	fruits	provide	quick	sugars	for	a	pre-or	post-exercise	energy	boost	and
veggies
	provide	a	slower	release	of	sugars	for	prolonged	energy	(not	to	mention	vitamins	and	minerals
to	keep	your	system	running	at	peak	performance).
Carbs	also	play	a	fundamental	role	in	muscle	building.	See	“The	Secret
Weapon”	on	page	←OT→	to	learn	how	to	use	carbohydrates	to	your	benefit
when	lifting	weights	to	pack	on	muscle	while	following	the	FXT:MX1	program.
Proteins:
	Composed	of	amino	acids,
	this	essential	nutrient	is	required	by	the
body	for	growth	and	cellular	maintenance.	Abundant	in	muscles,	protein	can	be

found	in	all	cells	of	the	body	and	is	a	major	structural	component	of	all	organs,
hair	and	skin.	The	amino	acids	that	provide	the	building	blocks	for	protein	are
responsible	for	building	new	tissue	and	repairing	damaged	tissues,	especially
muscles.	Ingesting	protein	from	food
	is	extremely	important,	and	provides	nine
essential	amino	acids	that	are	not	synthesized	in	the	body	and	are	vital	for
building	muscle.	Lean	proteins	can	be	found	in	chicken,	fish,	beef,	eggs,	tofu,
milk,	yogurt,	cheeses	and	soy-based	alternatives.	Check	the	FXT:FIT	and
FXT:MX1	recommendations	on	lean	protein	intake	while	following	each
program.
Fats:
	The	“low-fat”	diet	craze	that	persisted	throughout
	the	end	of	the
twentieth	century	still	has	a	tiny	foothold	on	some	eaters.	The	thought	that	fats
make	you	fat	and	that	low-fat	foods	are	better	than	full-fat	items	has	been
completely	disproven,	yet	you’ll	see	plenty	of	low-fat	alternatives	if	you	take	a
quick	peek	at	any	grocery	aisle.	A	quick	rule	of	thumb	on	low-fat	products:	Just
say	no.	If	you	look	at	the	label	you’ll	usually	see	the
	fat	content	is	slightly	lower
and	the	calories	higher—it’s	not	the	fat	they	take	out	that’s	the	problem,	it’s	the
additional	ingredients	like	sugar	that	they	put	in!
Simply	put,	ingesting	fat	in	moderation	does	not	make	you	fat.	Period.
Actually,	fat	content	in	food	will	satiate	you	for	longer	periods	of	time	and	help
prevent	cravings	to	snack	in	between	meals.	Monounsaturated	and
polyunsaturated
	fats	are	essential	to	the	human	diet	as	they	provide	alpha-
linolenic	acid	(omega-3)	and	linolenic	acid	(omega-6),	which	may	reduce	your
risk	of	sudden	cardiac	death,	lower	blood	pressure	and	decrease	inflammation,
reducing	arthritis,	decreasing	the	risk	of	a	heart	attack	and	stroke,	reducing
depression,	preventing	dementia,	and	even	reducing	the	risk	of	some	types	of
cancer.	A	very	small	amount
	of	saturated	fat	is	beneficial	for	bone	and	skin
health;	less	than	5%	of	daily	calories	are	recommended.
Monounsaturated	fats	are	found	in	olive,	canola	and	sunflower	oils,
avocados,	peanuts,	cashews	and	almonds.	Polyunsaturated	fats	are	abundant	in
flaxseed,	safflower	oil,	walnuts,	chia	seeds	and	seaweed.	Saturated	fats	can	be
found	in	coconut,	palm	kernel,	cottonseed	and	chocolate.
All’s	not
	completely	well	in	the	world	of	fats,	however,	as	long	as	trans	fats
made	with	hydrogenated	or	partially	hydrogenated	oils	are	in	anyone’s	diet.	A
2006	
New	England	Journal	of	Medicine
	scientific	review	reported,	“From	a
nutritional	standpoint,	the	consumption	of	trans	fatty	acids	results	in
considerable	potential	harm	but	no	apparent	benefit.”

Trans	fats	occur	naturally	in	the	meat	and	milk	of
	cattle	and	sheep,	but	the
biggest	danger	comes	from	hydrogenated	or	partially	hydrogenated	oils	in	any
prepared	food	as	they	often	utilize	these	potentially	harmful	trans	fats	to	replace
animal	fats.	Luckily,	regulations,	bans	and	various	markings	on	packaging	are	in
place	in	most	Westernized	nations	around	the	world,	allowing	careful	consumers
to	spot	and	avoid	trans	fats.
Micronutrients	Are
	a	Big	Deal
Micronutrients	are	composed	of	vitamins	and	minerals.	Your	body	requires
vitamins	to	regulate	its	complex	chemistry,	including	that	of	the	digestive	and
nervous	systems.	Minerals	are	the	building	blocks	for	bone	strength	and
cardiovascular	health.
Meats,	fruits	and	vegetables	contain	a	majority	of	the	vitamins	and	minerals
your	body	needs	on	a	daily	basis,	and	you’re	best	off	getting
	all	your
micronutrients	from	real,	whole	foods.	As	an	example,	red	meat	contains	iron,
zinc,	phosphorus,	niacin,	B12,	thiamin,	riboflavin	and	vitamin	D,	while	spinach
is	rich	in	vitamins	A,	B2,	B6,	C,	E	and	K,	magnesium,	manganese,	folate,
betaine,	iron,	calcium,	potassium,	folic	acid,	copper,	phosphorus,	zinc,	niacin
and	selenium.	If	you’re	on	a	restricted	diet	(e.g.,	eating	fewer	than	three
	meals	a
day	and	abstaining	from	certain	foods	like	meat,	poultry,	fish	and	dairy),	vitamin
supplements	can	be	a	beneficial	way	to	make	sure	your	body	is	getting	the	vital
micronutrients	it	needs.
General	Nutrition	Tips
Whenever	possible,	use	whole	foods	instead	of	powdered	supplements	or
vitamins	for	your	nutritional	needs.	For	instance,	the	additional	fiber	from	eating
a	green	pepper	is	preferential
	to	a	“green	powder”	supplement	to	keep	you
satiated.	That	being	said,	when	you’re	in	a	hurry,	the	ability	to	use	a	mix	or	pop	a
pill	makes	it	easier	on	the	go.	There	are	no	perfect	mixes	of	superfoods	that
contain	everything	your	body	needs	in	one	convenient	little	package—most	of
it’s	marketing	with	a	healthy	dose	of	hype.	For	example,	a	boring	handful	of
native	blueberries	contains	the
	same	amount	of	antioxidants	or	more	than	the
exotic	“Amazon	superfruit”	that	costs	three	or	four	times	as	much.	A	handful	of
fruits	and	veggies	in	a	blender	is	a	great	start;	combine	them	with	a	multivitamin
and	whole	foods	throughout	the	day	and	you’re	ahead	of	the	game.

As	far	as	deciding	what’s	better	or	worse	for	your	nutrition	when	looking	at
supplements	or	post-workout	recovery	drinks,
	you	need	to	look	at	the	labels	and
consider	what	fits	your	goals	best.	If	you’re	keeping	carbs	or	calories	low	or
shooting	for	a	specific	target	number	of	protein	grams,	then	choose	accordingly.
The	bottom	line	is,	do	some	homework	and	remember	this	mantra:	“No	matter
what	the	front	of	the	label	says,	the	only	thing	that	really	matters	is	what	the
back	of	the	label	says	in	the	Nutritional	Information
	section.”
Always	read	the	small	print	on	labels	just	like	you	would	when	signing	a
legal	agreement.	Consider	the	stuff	you	put	in	your	body	just	as	important	as	any
other	contract	you’d	sign.
The	“best”	fueling	and	nutrition	is	entirely	subjective	since	everyone’s
complex	system	works	differently.	It	requires	a	lot	of	introspection	and	testing	to
figure	out	what	works	best	for	you.	Anyone	who
	tells	you	something	is	the	best
for	you	is	a	liar—it	may	be	perfect	for	them	while	being	suboptimal	for	you.
We’ve	trained	with	football	linebackers	who	drink	two	gallons	of	milk	a	day	and
marathoners	who	gorge	on	pizza	and	beer	every	Saturday.	Neither	approach	may
be	ideal	for	you,	but	it	works	for	them.
Start	with	lean	proteins,	healthy	fats	and	slow-burning	(brown	or	green)
carbs	and	then
	build	your	daily	and	weekly	intake	from	there.	Once	you	get	that
down,	tweak	it	for	certain	situations,	such	as	eating	fast-burning	carbs	during	a
long-distance	event	or	15	minutes	before	a	high-intensity	workout.
The	Bottom	Line:
	Eat	healthy,	lean	meats,	fresh	fruit	and	vegetables	while
limiting	processed	foods	and	sugars.	As	a	baseline,	follow	the	Institute	of
Medicine’s	recommendation	and
	get	up	to	35%	of	your	daily	calories	from	lean
proteins,	45%	from	high-quality	carbs	and	20%	from	healthy	fats.	It’s	really	not
hard	to	follow,	and	the	results	will	be	noticeable.

Nutrition	for	FXT:FIT,	FXT:SXP	&
FXT:EXP
In	order	to	build	a	lean	physique	and	keep	your	energy	level	high	enough	for	the
intensity	of	the	Fit,	Speed	and	Endurance	workouts,	you	need	to	get	enough
macro-and	micronutrients	and	hydration.	This	is	a	pretty	generic	statement	since
the	only	way	you’ll	figure	out	your	exact	nutritional	needs	is	through	trial	and
error.	Below	are	some	guidelines,	and
	each	of	the	workout	programs	also
contains	some	specific	tips	as	well.
The	FXT:FIT,	FXT:SXP	and	FXT:EXP	are	progressively	more	difficult	and
demanding	from	a	fueling	and	meal-timing	standpoint,	so	you’ll	need	to	closely
monitor	your	performance	in	order	to	dial	in	a	mean	schedule	that	works	for	you.
Some	athletes	choose	to	distribute	their	nutrition	into	six	small	meals	by	eating
every	two	hours
	throughout	the	day.	This	helps	to	keep	certain	athletes	feeling
satiated	and	their	energy	reserves	topped	off	all	day	long,	but	it’s	not	necessarily
the	end-all,	be-all	of	daily	nutritional	intake.	We’ve	worked	with	some	athletes
who	base	their	daily	meals	around	several	healthy	snacks	and	one	big	feast
midday,	and	others	who	subscribe	to	the	standard	three-meals-a-day	regimen.	All
are	successful
	in	their	own	way,	and	as	long	as	it	provides	the	necessary	energy
for	training,	racing,	recovery	and	rebuilding	for	each	athlete,	then	it’s	the	“right
one”	for	them!
You’ll	need	to	do	a	little	bit	of	trial	and	error	to	fit	your	specific	fueling
needs	as	you	increase	your	training	intensity,	and	even	retool	it	as	you	move	on
to	FXT:SXP	and	FXT:EXP.	With	the	progressively	increasing	demands	in
	each
successive	program,	you’ll	most	likely	have	to	increase	your	total	caloric	intake
for	your	pre-and	post-workout	meals.
A	mix	of	slow-and	fast-burning	carbs	such	as	steel-cut	oatmeal	with
cinnamon,	wheat	toast	with	a	little	bit	of	peanut	butter	and	half	a	banana	are
good	examples	of	a	quick	meal	in	the	morning	before	a	workout.	The	latter	even
includes	some	protein	to	aid	in	muscle	recovery.
Consuming	a	recovery	drink	after	a	hard	workout	that	has	a	4:1	ratio	of	fast-
burning	carbs	to	protein.	An	8-to	10-ounce	glass	of	chocolate	milk	or	recovery
sports	drink	can	do	the	trick.
Include	some	lean	proteins	in	every	meal—shoot	for	.55–1	gram	of	protein

per	pound	of	body	weight.	A	150-pound	athlete	would	require	between	82.5	and
150	grams	of	protein	per	day.
Eat	healthily,	eat	often.
	If	you’re	eating	fresh,	whole	foods,	specifically
vegetables,	fruits,	lean	proteins,	slow-burning	carbs	and	some	healthy	fats,	you
shouldn’t	really	have	to	worry	about	your	calorie	and	macro-/micronutrient
intake	while	you’re	progressing	through	the	programs—you’ll	pretty	much	have
it	covered.	If	you’re	feeling	weak	and	lethargic,	try	increasing	pre-and	post-
workout	carbs	a	little	bit.	If	you	feel
	bloated,	trim	back	white	carbs	a	bit.
Eat	lightly	before	a	run	or	hard	workout.	This	goes	without	saying,	but	it’s
oft-forgotten—don’t	try	and	run	or	workout	at	high	intensity	with	too	many
solids	in	your	stomach,	as	your	body	will	divert	blood	flow	to	your	muscles	and
leave	your	stomach	feeling	queasy.

Nutrition	for	Building	Muscle	&
Developing	Strength
If	you	want	to	sculpt	your	physique	and	pack	on	the	muscle,	you	must	start	in
the	kitchen.	Eating	right	is	80%	of	the	battle	right	there.	Sure,	you	have	to
strength	train	to	get	and	stay	buff,	which	is	the	other	very	crucial	20%	percent,
but	you	also	have	to	actively	pay	attention	to	what	you’re	putting	into	your
mouth	and	stay	in	control	of
	your	choices.	After	all,	you	and	you	alone	are
responsible	for	deciding	what	you	eat.	The	keys	to	success	in	this	regard	are
simple:	remain	aware	of	your	food	intake	and	plan	out	your	meals	in	advance.
Toward	that	end,	we’ll	be	providing	tips	to	help	you	accomplish	both.
In	order	to	pack	on	muscle,	you’ll	need	to	change	two	major	aspects	of	your
eating:	first,	up	your	total	weekly	caloric	intake
	(most	people	will	have	to	up	the
total	caloric	intake	of	all	three	macros:	fat,	protein	and	carbs).	The	second	thing
you’ll	need	to	change,	and	by	far	the	most	important,	is	the	amount	and	timing
of	those	macros.	There’s	a	secret	to	gaining	muscle,	and	that’s	our	secret
weapon.
THE	SECRET	WEAPON
Want	to	gain	muscle?	Want	to	get	bigger?	Want	to	dramatically
change	your	appearance?	There	are
	two	things	you	need	in	your
arsenal:	heavy	weights	and	carbohydrates	(a.k.a.	carbs).	We’ve
already	talked	about	the	heavy	weights—now	we’re	going	to	talk
about	the	carbs.
Carbs,	specifically	carb	timing,	is	the	single	most
important	thing	to	nailing	in	your	diet	as	you	fight	to	gain
muscle.	Simply	put:	no	carbs	before	a	workout	(#3),	carbs
with	protein	after	a	workout	(#4),	and	minimal	carbs
	on	non-
workout	days	(#5).
The	second	secret	to	carbs	is	carb-cycling:	alternating
days	of	high	and	low	carbs	depending	on	your	activity	level.
This	is	an	incredibly	old-school	bodybuilding	technique	to
gain	lean	muscle	while	keeping	fat	gain	to	an	absolute

minimum.	This	technique	has	been	revamped	in	many
modern	approaches	and	we’ll	expose	what	we’ve	found	to	be
the	most	effective.
FXT:MX1
	Basic	Nutrition	Principles
At	this	point	we’ve	talked	about	the	necessity	of	lifting	heavy	weights	to	build
muscle.	But	lifting	alone	won’t	cut	it!	If	all	we	did	was	lift	heavy	weights,	we
would’ve	essentially	primed	the	body	for	growth	but,	without	changing	our	diet,
we	won’t	be	fueling	it	to	grow.	So,	with	that,	we	need	to	talk	about	our	basic
food	and	eating	principles.
These	principles	are
	the	basis	for	FXT:MX1,	and	understanding	them	will
allow	you	to	adjust	and	adapt	the	programs	to	suit	your	needs	and	body.	For	the
vast	majority	of	people,	the	principles	for	both	muscle	and	strength	are	going	to
be	the	same.	The	total	number	of	calories,	macro	ratios	and	number	of	carbs
might	differ,	but	the	principles	are	the	same.	People	looking	to	build	muscle
should	pay	closer	attention	to
	the	mirror	everyday	and	
those	looking	for	strength,
while	noting	their	appearance	in	the	mirror,	should	watch	the	numbers	on	the	bar
and	how	they	feel	both	working	out	and	recovering.
Here	are	seven	principles	to	follow	when	you’re	looking	to	build	muscle.
1.	SKIP	BREAKFAST.
Frankly,	breakfast	sucks.	It’s	overrated	and	has	many	detrimental	effects	on	the
body,	including	cutting	into	the	fat-burning
	window	and	priming	your	body	for
fat	storage.	If	you	MUST	eat	breakfast,	a	high-protein,	zero-carb,	moderate-
/low-fat	breakfast	is	best.	We	don’t	recommend	breakfast	to	anyone	except	the
hardest	of	gainers	and,	frankly,	even	they	should	skip	it.
Why?	When	you	wake	up	your	body	is	at	the	highest	point	of	insulin
sensitivity	for	the	entire	day.	If	you	did	nothing	different	during	the	day,	your
body	will	slowly	become	more	insulin	insensitive	as	the	day	progresses.	That’s
why	we	recommend	you	skip	breakfast.	Eating	food,	specifically	carbs,	and	to	a
lesser	degree	fat,	when	you’re	insulin	sensitive	is	a	great	way	to	gain	fat.	And
that’s	actually	what	the	general	breakfast	case	is—a	great	way	to	gain	fat.

2.	THE	LATER	IN	THE	DAY	YOU	WORK	OUT,	THE	BETTER.
We’ve	found	this	to	be	the	hardest
	to	implement	in	practice,	but	it	has	the	most
upside.	The	later	in	the	day	you	work	out,	the	more	food	options	you	have	and
the	better	your	gains	will	be.	The	optimal	time	to	work	out	would	be	any	time
past	4	p.m.	(assuming	normal	sleeping	patterns).	If	you	can	work	out	later	in	the
day,	you	can	get	away	with	eating	more	fun	foods	than	you	can	earlier	in	the	day.
The	more	extreme	version	is
	working	out	first	thing	in	the	morning.	Sorry	to	say,
but	your	options	are	limited	here.
Why?	As	we	said	in	the	breakfast	section,	as	the	day	progresses	your	body
becomes	less	sensitive	to	insulin	spikes,	meaning	it	becomes	harder	to	store	food
as	fat.	Working	out	later	in	the	day	primes	your	body	to	build	muscle.	And	by
fueling	with	carbs	and	protein,	your	body	will	be	packing	on	solid	slabs
	of
muscle	and	minimal	or	no	fat.
3.	CONSUME	ONLY	PROTEIN	AND	FAT	BEFORE	A	WORKOUT.
Assuming	for	the	sake	of	argument	you	work	out	after	5	p.m.,	eat	only	protein
and	fat	before	your	workout,	and	limit	the	total	caloric	intake	to	roughly	30%	of
your	total	for	the	day.	This	might	be	rough	for	some	people,	but	you	want	to	save
your	calories	for	when	your	body	is	going	to	use	them	the	most:	post-workout.
The	reason	to	only	eat	protein	and	fat	and	not	carbs	is	that	you	haven’t	primed
your	body	to	use	the	carbs	yet;	you	haven’t	worked	out.
Why?	Special	things	happen	when	you	lift	heavy	weights,	but	when	you
haven’t	lifted	yet,	you	can’t	take	advantage	of	them.	In	essence,	the	body	isn’t
ready	to	take	advantage	of	carbs,	and	by	feeding	carbs	when	the	body	isn’t	ready
makes	it	much	more	likely	those
	carbs	will	be	stored	as	fat,	not	muscle.	You	still
need	to	fuel	the	body	to	build	muscle	and	the	way	you	achieve	this	is	through
fats	and	proteins.
4.	CONSUME	ONLY	PROTEIN	AND	CARBS	AFTER	A	WORKOUT.
After	a	workout	your	body	is	ready	to	grow.	You’ve	stimulated	the	body,	putting
it	in	a	position	to	soak	up	nutrients	and	repair	the	muscle	fibers.	Now’s	the	time
to	feed	it!	Protein	helps	grow	and
	build	the	muscles	while	carbs	shuttle	protein	to
the	muscles.	It’s	as	simple	as	that.
Why?	Now	you’re	ready	to	build	muscle	and	you	want	to	fuel	that.	Carbs	are
the	mechanism	to	spike	insulin	levels	to	shuttle	the	protein	to	the	muscles.
5.	NO	WORKOUT?	NO	CARBS.
This	is	an	easy	rule	to	follow	and	you	can	immediately	see	the	application.	If

you	don’t	work	out	very	hard	with	heavy	weights,	don’t
	even	think	about	eating
carbs.	Non-workout	days?	Fats	and	protein,	baby!	Before	you	work	out	in	the
day?	Yeah,	same	answer—all	fats	and	protein.
Why?	Carbs	are	for	post-workout	when	you’ve	primed	your	body	to	grow.	If
you	haven’t	worked	out	yet	or	you’re	on	an	off	day,	you	haven’t	stressed	your
body,	therefore	it	can’t	and	won’t	use	the	carbs	to	grow	muscle.	Why	would	you
give	it	carbs	then?
	If	you	wanted	to	gain	fat,	that	would	be	a	perfect	time	to	eat
carbs,	but	since	that	isn’t	your	goal,	no	carbs.
6.	TYPE	IS	OVERRATED.
Clean	foods,	organic	sources,	grass-fed,	non-farmed,	etc.—it	gets	confusing	and,
we’re	happy	to	say,	is	completely	overrated.	It’s	far	more	important	to	nail	your
macro	levels	and	the	timing	of	the	food	rather	than	the	type	of	food.	We	have	a
saying:	“First	optimize
	what	food	you	eat,	then	optimize	what	food	your	food
eats.”
Caveat:
	The	one	and	only	caveat	with	the	above	is	the	type	of	carb	you	eat.
There’s	one	time	during	the	day	the	type	of	carb	matters:	Post-workout	you	want
high-GI	carbs	(think	dextrose,	white	rice,	white	potato).	The	sooner	you	spike
your	insulin	and	get	your	body	rebuilding	muscle,	the	better.	Our	recommended
post-workout	shake	has
	whey	protein	isolate,	creatine,	leucine	and	dextrose—all
the	things	a	growing	body	needs!	You	can	check	out	some	of	our	favorite
muscle-building	shake	recipes	on	
www.fxtfit.com/nutrition
.
7.	KEEP	AN	EATING	WINDOW.
One	of	the	early	mistakes	Jason	made	was	having	too	big	a	carb	window,
meaning	he	worked	out	too	early	in	the	day	and	freely	ate	carbs	until	he	went	to
sleep.	There	are	two	ways	to
	keep	a	window:	work	out	later	in	the	day	so	your
natural	window	is	between	your	workout	and	bed	or	to	still	workout	earlier,	say
noon,	and	eat	your	carbs	for	only	a	two-hour	or	so	window.	The	approach	you
take	is	up	to	you.	You’ll	need	to	watch	how	your	body	reacts	and	adjust
accordingly.	We	strongly	recommend	you	work	out	later	in	the	day	to	have	a
natural	window	between	the	workout	and	going	to
	bed.
FXT:ST1	Basic	Nutrition	Principles

The	overlap	between	muscle	and	strength	nutrition	is	high,	but	there	are	more
tweaks	that	can	be	made	when	the	goal	is	developing	strength.	The	key	is	to
understand	your	body	and	how	you	respond.	Most	people	can	and	should	use	the
FXT:MX1	nutrition	principles	laid	out	earlier	in	this	chapter.	However,	some
people	will	need	to	tweak	those	principles.	Those
	tweaks	are	laid	out	below.
TWEAK	#1.	FUEL	THE	WORKOUT	WITH	CARBS.
Some	people	find	that	not	having	carbs	in	their	system	before	a	workout	makes
getting	through	the	strength	workouts	a	real	challenge.	There	are	several
approaches	that	work	well	here;	just	make	sure	you	pay	close	attention	to	what
works	best	for	you.
APPROACH	1:	PRE-WORKOUT	NUTRITION
Most	people	could	and	should	follow	the	guidelines
	on	
page	183
	and	only
consume	fat	and	protein	before	a	workout.	However,	if	your	workouts	are
suffering	and	you	feel	you	need	a	bit	extra,	before	a	workout	have	a	small	meal
of	protein	and	carbs,	probably	20–30	grams	of	each,	about	an	hour	or	so	before
your	workout.	You	don’t	need	to	go	nuts	here—	just	enough	to	fuel	the	workout.
Have	a	drink	or	some	carbs	handy	during	your	workout	and	slowly
	drink	or
eat	that	throughout	the	workout.	A	sugary	drink	(not	soda!)	or	a	banana	works
well.
After	your	workout,	a	little	dextrose	in	your	protein	shake	would	be	fine.
After	that,	go	straight	back	to	just	protein	and	fat.
APPROACH	2:	CARB	UP	THE	NIGHT	BEFORE	A	WORKOUT
This	approach	is	more	aggressive	and	basically	moves	the	post-workout	carb
load	to	the	night	before.	The	idea	is	to	fill	up
	your	glucose	reserves	for	the
workout	the	next	day.	You	can	have	some	fun	here;	just	don’t	go	too	crazy.	The
idea	is	to	consume	just	enough	carbs	to	get	you	through	the	workout	the	next
day.	You’ll	have	to	play	around	and	understand	how	much	you	need.	Start	on	the
lower	side	of	the	amount	of	carbs	you’ll	need	and	see	how	it	goes.
TWEAK	#2.	CONSUME	CARBS	EVERY	DAY.
This	is	the	most	aggressive
	version	and	should	be	used	only	in	extreme	cases.
This	isn’t	for	most	people	and	should	be	used	primarily	by	those	who	are	very
underweight	or	particularly	weak.

APPROACH	1:	PRIMARY	CARB	LOAD	THE	DAY	BEFORE
WORKOUT
This	is	the	same	as	loading	up	on	carbs	the	night	before	a	workout,	except	you’ll
also	eat	carbs	the	night	of	a	workout.	The	difference	is	in	the	amounts.	Consume
your	normal	amount
	the	day	before	and	about	half	that	amount	the	day	of	the
workout.
APPROACH	2:	PRIMARY	CARB	LOAD	THE	DAY	OF	WORKOUT
This	is	exactly	the	opposite	of	Approach	#1.	You’ll	consume	your	goal	carbs	the
day	of	the	workout	after	your	workout,	mostly	at	night,	and	about	half	that
amount	the	night	before	your	workout.
APPROACH	3:	CARBS	ALL	THE	TIME
The	single	most-aggressive	approach	has	you	consuming
	the	same	number	of
carbs	the	night	before	and	the	night	of	your	workout.	Using	this	approach	it’s
very	easy	to	go	overboard	and	put	on	fat	just	as	easily	as	putting	on	muscle.	Pay
attention,	be	careful	and	know	your	goals.

APPENDIX
Weight	Loss:	The	First	Step	on	Your	Fitness	Journey
Back	on	
page	178
	we	talked	a	little	bit	about	calories
and	why	they’re	so	important	for	athletes.	Here	we
give	you	the	calculations	to	help	you	decide	how	many
calories	you	need	to	take	in	on	a	daily	basis	to	keep	up
with	your	body’s	needs.	You	can	use	the	BMI	formula
to	assess	your	body	mass	index,	figure	out	where	you
are	on	the
	scale	and	adjust	your	goals	and	workouts
accordingly.
WHAT’S	MY	BODY	MASS	INDEX	(BMI)?
It’s	necessary	to	assess	your	body	mass	index,	or	BMI,	in	order	to	somewhat
better	understand	what	your	plan	of	action	should	be	to	healthily	start	slimming
down.	
(Note:
	BMI	does	not	account	for	muscle	mass,	so	is	relatively	inaccurate
in	assessing	muscular	individuals,	usually	putting	them	incorrectly	in
	the
“obese”	category.)
	
The	BMI	formula	is	a	little	complicated:
WEIGHT	(IN	POUNDS)	/	[HEIGHT	(IN	INCHES)]
2
	X	703
Calculate	BMI	by	dividing	weight	in	pounds	by	height	in	inches	squared	and
multiplying	by	a	conversion	factor	of	703.
Example:
Weight	=	150	pounds
Height	=	65”	(5’5”)
Calculation:
[150	÷	(65)
2
]	x	703	=	24.96
(The	U.S.	Center	for	Disease	Control	provides	an	easy	calculator	online:
http://www.cdc.gov/healthyweight/assessing/bmi
.)
	
If	you’re	obese	and	sedentary

(BMI	higher	than	25),	you	can	drop	1–3	pounds	per	week	by	adding	20	minutes
of	exercise	(as	little	as	walking	or	some	simple	calisthenics)	to	your	regimen
each	day.	Don’t	make	any	drastic	changes	to	your	nutrition	at	the	same	time.
Take	2–3	weeks	and	focus	on	adding	20	minutes	of	exercise	to	your	daily	routine
before
	adding	in	some	of	the	meal	timings	and	nutritional	suggestions	noted	on
page	181
.
For	those	in	the	“normal”	rating	of	BMI	(18.5–24.9),	you	can	see	some
positive	results	by	adding	20	minutes	of	exercise	if	you’re	normally	sedentary,
and	will	see	enhanced	results	by	eating	healthier	food	choices—more	vegetables;
leaner,	higher-protein	meats;	fewer	processed	carbohydrates;	fewer	snacks	and
fried
	foods.	You	can	also	limit	your	caloric	intake	as	much	as	500	calories	below
your	BMR	(see	
page	187
).
If	you’re	below	18.5	on	the	BMI	scale,	you’ll	actually	need	to	take	in	more
calories	while	adding	a	running	and	cross-training	regimen	to	your	routine.
Adding	200	to	500	calories	in	vegetables,	lean	meats,	healthy	fats	(nuts,	oils,
avocados)	and	non-processed	carbs	will	help	you	stay	lean	while
	also	giving
your	body	the	fuel	it	needs	to	perform	well	under	the	new	demands	of	a	training
routine.
HOW	MANY	CALORIES	DO	I	BURN?
Here’s	a	little	cheat	sheet	to	give	you	an	idea	what	your	calorie	burn	is	really	like
so	you	can	think	twice	before	“treating	yourself”	to	a	celebratory	doughnut	after
your	workout.	Calculations	are	based	on	the	amount	of	calories	a	150-pound
man	can	expect	to	burn
	in	1	hour:
	
Walking	at	19:00	pace:	~230	calories
Running	at	10:00	pace:	~700	calories
	
Sitting	on	couch:	~100	calories
The	last	one	may	throw	you	for	a	loop.	You	would’ve	burned	about	100
calories	by	sitting	on	your	butt	and	letting	your	body’s	systems	do	their	thing.
Your	BMR,	or	basal	metabolic	rate,	is	essentially	the	amount	of	calories	your
body	would	burn	if	you	stayed	in	bed	all	day	long,
	and	it’s	probably	higher	than
you	think.	Simply	stated,	the	BMR	is	the	base	(basal)	amount	of	energy
(calories,	nutrients)	needed	for	your	body	to	function	(metabolic	rate).	The	good
news:	Twenty-four	hours	a	day,	your	body	burns	calories	to	keep	going,	whether
or	not	you’re	exercising.	The	not-necessarily-breaking	news:	In	the	example
above,	the	150-pound	man	walking	at	a	19:00	pace	for	an	hour
	burned	an
additional	130	calories	versus	just	sitting	on	the	couch	(230	by	walking	–100
BMR).	Don’t	worry,	even	those	130	calories	add	up:	Over	one	month	of	walking
for	one	hour	daily	would	result	in	burning	around	an	additional	pound	of	body

fat	versus	sitting	on	the	couch.	Jogging	at	10:00	pace,	the	fat	burn	would	be	over
4.5	pounds!
BMR	Formula	for	men:
BMR	=	66	+	(6.23	X	WEIGHT	IN	POUNDS)
+	(12.7	X	HEIGHT	IN	INCHES)
-	(6.8	X	AGE	IN	YEARS)
For	example,	Brett	is	5’9”	(69”),	155	pounds	and	42	years	of	age;	his	BMR
is	1622.35.
BMR	Formula	for	women:
BMR	=	65
+	(4.35	X	WEIGHT	IN	POUNDS)
+	(4.7	X	HEIGHT	IN	INCHES)
-	(4.7	X	AGE	IN	YEARS)
HOW	MANY	CALORIES	DO	I	NEED?
Once	you	know	how	many	calories	your	body	requires	just	to	keep	functioning,
you	need	to	calculate	your	daily	output
	(work,	play,	exercise)	requirements	to
keep	your	system	fueled	with	the	energy	it	needs.	Based	on	your	daily	level	of
activity,	multiply	your	BMR	by	the	factor	in	the	table	below	to	get	the	number	of
calories	you	should	consume	in	a	day	to	maintain	your	weight	and	proper	bodily
functions.
CALORIC	INTAKE	(HARRIS	BENEDICT	FORMULA)
Sedentary,	little	or	no	exercise:
BMR	x	1.2
Light	exercise	or
	sports	1–3	days	per	week:
	
BMR	x	1.375
Moderate	exercise	or	sports	3–5	days	per	week:
BMR	x	1.55
Hard	exercise	or	sports	6–7	days	per	week:
BMR	x	1.725
Very	hard	exercise,	amateur	to	professional	athlete:
BMR	x	1.9

For	instance,	with	Brett’s	BMR	of	1622.35	and	a	multiplier	of	1.725	during
hard	training,	his	caloric	intake	should	be	around	2800	calories	per	day.
If	you’re	planning	to	use
	this	BMR	and	caloric	intake	chart	to	lose	weight,
don’t	go	overboard.	Reducing	your	intake	by	500	calories	a	day	is	a	substantial
amount	and	a	good	guideline	to	go	by	for	healthy	weight	loss	when	combined
with	light	to	moderate	exercise.	If	you	plan	on	upping	the	intensity,	keep	your
calories	right	around	the	calculated	number	above	and	you	should	lose	weight
effectively	as	well.
Nutrition	plays
	a	big	part	in	fueling	for	training	and	getting	the	long-term
body	composition	you	want.	Refer	to	“Fueling	the	Athlete”	on	
page	178
	for
guidelines	on	macro-and	micronutrient	consumption.	You’ll	also	learn	about
how	what	you	take	in	before,	during	and	after	training	affects	your	success.
Additional	Exercises
Here	are	some	other	great	full-body	exercises	to	add	to	your	workout.
ROPE	CLIMB
INITIAL
	HAND	PLACEMENT:
	Jump	and	extend	your	arms	to	reach	and
grasp	the	rope	as	high	as	you	can	with	both	hands,	one	above	the	other.	Steady
yourself	on	the	rope	while	you	prepare	to	get	your	feet	into	the	position	of	your
choice.
FOOT	PLACEMENT—PINCH	METHOD:
	This	is	the	best	method	for
climbing	a	rope	with	knots;	you’ll	pinch	your	feet	together	above	the	knot	and
“stand”	on	it	while	you	reach	up	and
	reposition	your	hands.	When	climbing	a
rope	without	knots,	this	method	is	greatly	dependent	on	the	strength	of	your	leg
adductor	muscles	and	the	grip	on	the	instep	of	your	footwear	to	keep	your	feet
locked	in	place	on	the	rope.	This	is	the	most	inefficient	way	to	climb	a	knotless
rope,	resulting	in	wasted	energy	and	worn-out	arms,	core,	and	legs	as	your	feet
invariably	slip	down	the	rope.

HOW	TO	DO	IT:
	With	your	arms	extended	overhead	and	hands	holding	the
rope	tightly,	squeeze	both	of	your	feet	together	loosely	with	the	rope	between	the
insteps	of	both	feet,	and	bend	at	your	waist	to	raise	your	legs	as	close	to	your
hands	as	possible.	Squeeze	your	feet	together	tightly	(preferably	on	top	of	a
knot)	to	hold	your	place	on	the	rope	while	you	extend	your	torso,	“stand	up”	and
reach
	your	hands	up	as	high	as	possible	on	the	rope.	Repeat	until	you	get	to	the
top.	Use	the	pinching	to	slow	your	descent,	lowering	your	hands	one	under	the
other	until	your	feet	are	safely	on	the	ground.	Do	not	slide	down	the	rope!
FOOT	PLACEMENT—CALF	WRAP	METHOD:
	This	is	commonly	known
as	the	“Marine	Brake	and	Squat”	and	is	much	more	efficient	than	the	pinch
method	because	the	rope	is	held	securely
	by	wrapping	it	around	your	calf	and
then	looping	it	under	one	and	over	the	other	foot.	Famous	for	rope	burns,	this
method	is	best	accomplished	while	wearing	long	pants	or	tall	socks.
HOW	TO	DO	IT:
	With	your	arms	extended	overhead	and	hands	gripping	the
rope,	allow	the	rope	to	hang	between	your	legs.	Rotate	your	right	leg	clockwise
(counter-clockwise	with	your	left	leg	if	you	prefer)	around	the	rope	so	that	it

wraps	around	your	lower	leg	and	then	the	outside	of	your	right	foot.	Take	your
left	foot	and	loop	it	under	the	rope	so	that	the	rope	is	under	your	right	foot	and
on
	top	of	your	left.	Pressing	your	left	foot	on	top	of	your	right	foot	to	trap	the
rope	between	them	acts	as	a	brake	to	lock	the	rope	in	place.	Release	the	tension
between	your	feet	and	allow	the	rope	to	slide	around	your	leg	as	you	squat	and
raise	your	feet	upward	toward	your	hands.	Clamp	your	left	foot	on	top	of	your
right	to	secure	your	foot	position	while	you	stand	up	and	reach	as	high	as	you
can
	to	get	a	new	grip	on	the	rope.	Repeat	all	the	way	until	you	reach	the	top	of
the	rope.	Use	the	foot	brake	to	slow	your	descent,	lowering	your	hands	one
under	the	other	until	your	feet	are	safely	on	the	ground.	Do	not	slide	down	the
rope!
FOOT	PLACEMENT—TACTICAL	SPEED	CLIMB:
	This	is	undoubtedly
the	fastest	way	to	climb	a	rope	while	using	your	feet	(arm-only	is	the	fastest
altogether)	and	has	the
	added	benefit	of	not	resulting	in	as	many	rope	burns	and
can	be	performed	rather	comfortably	in	shorts.	Perfected	and	used	by	military
Special	Operations	personnel,	this	method	is	the	most	efficient.
HOW	TO	DO	IT:
	With	your	arms	extended	overhead	and	hands	holding	the
rope,	allow	the	rope	to	fall	to	the	outside	of	your	right	leg	(swap	the	directions
for	opposite	legs	if	you	prefer).	Loop	your	left	foot	under	the	rope	so	that	it’s
under	your	right	foot	and	on	top	of	your	left.	Press	your	left	foot	on	top	of	your
right	foot	and	trap	the	rope	between	them	to	lock	the	rope	in	place.	Release	the
tension	between	your	feet	and	allow	it	to	slide	around	your	leg	as	you	squat	and
raise	your	feet	upward	toward	your	hands.	Clamp	your	left	foot	on	top	of	your
right	to	secure	your	foot	position	while	you	stand	up	and	reach	as	high	as	you
can	to	get	a	new	grip	on	the	rope.	Repeat	all	the	way	until	you	reach	the	top	of
the	rope.	Use	the	foot	brake	to	slow	your	descent,	lowering	your	hands	one

under
	the	other	until	your	feet	are	safely	on	the	ground.	Do	not	slide	down	the
rope!
FXT:Travel:	10-Minute	Workout
Quite	possibly	the	easiest	program	in	the	world	to	remember,	this	10-minute
workout	alternates	between	up	and	down	moves	to	work	your	entire	body.
Whether	you’ve	jogged	to	a	park	while	on	vacation	or	are	stuck	in	a	hotel	room
killing	time	before	the	big	meeting	(plan	time	for	a	shower,
	OK?),	you	can
follow	this	daily	routine	to	get	in	a	simple	workout	on	the	road	to	keep	the	blood
flowing	and	your	workouts	on	track.	Consider	this	your	“no	excuse”	program,	as
in	you	have	absolutely	no	excuse	for	not	
performing	a	quick	10-minute	set	like
this	3–5	times	a	week,	no	matter	where	in	the	world	you	find	yourself.	It	only
takes	a	tiny	investment	of	time	and	pays	dividends	in	your	health
	and	fitness.
Unlike	any	of	the	other	programs,	there	are	no	target	points	or	target	time—this
is	a	quick,	simple,	no-fail	program.
•
10	Toe	Touches	(each	foot)	
page	156
•
10	Marching	Twists	(each	leg)	
page	144
•
20	Jumping	Jacks	
page	145
•
10	Push-Ups	
page	161
•
10	Sit-Ups	
page	140
•
20	Squats	
page	152
•
10	Chair	Dips	
page	167
That’s	it,	you’re	done!
	(If	you	have	a	little	more	time	and	feel	good,	do
another	round.)	In	order	to	keep	fit	and	active,	you	can	use	a	simple	program	like
this	one	to	bridge	the	gap	between	workouts	when	you’re	extremely	busy,
traveling	or	just	getting	back	into	exercising	after	some	time	off.	For	a	more
advanced	program,	check	out	Intro	to	FXT:PX1	on	
page	52
	to	really	get	back	in
the	swing!

Index
Ab	Crunch	with	Toe	Touch,	
132
Abduction,	
21
Adduction,	
21
Anatomical	position,	
20
Anti-inflammatories,	
34
Arm	Circle	stretch,	
166
Around	the	World	stretch,	
167
Athletic	position,	
20–21
Back	Squat,	
148–49
Backward	Sprints,	
91–92
Ball	Thruster,	
147
Barbell	Curl,	
158
Barbell	Row,	
159
Basal	metabolic	rate	(BMR),	
183
Baseline	testing,	
58–62
;	FXT:FIT	program,	
59–61
;	FXT:MX1	program,
	
61–62
Basic	compound	movements,	
126
Basic	Jump	Rope,	
165
“Before”	photographs,	
61
Bench	Press,	
162–63
Biceps	brachii,	
22
Bicycle	Crunch,	
138
Bird	Dog,	
137
Bizarro	Burpee,	
145
Body	awareness,	
35
Body	Mass	Index	(BMI),	
182
Body	movements,	
20–23
Box	Jump,	
155
Breakfast,	
177–78
Breathing,	
26
,	
67
Brown	carbs,	
170
Bulgarian	Split	Squat,	
151
Burpee,	
144

Burpee	mile	drill,	
82
Burpee
	with	Overhead	Press	&	Lunge,	
145–46
Butt	kicks,	
91
Calf	Raise,	
154
Calories,	
169
;	burning,	
182–83
;	required,	
183–84
Calves,	
22
Carbohydrates,	
170–71
,	
177
,	
179–80
Casein	protein,	
39
Charts,	workout,	
64–65
.	
See	also	specific	FXT	programs
Chest	Fly,	
161
Chest	stretch,	
166
Chin-Up,	
157
Clean	(exercise),	
153–54
Cobra,	
131
Core,	
21
,	
22–23
Cross	training,	defined,	
15–16
Crunch	(exercise),
	
138
Crunches,	
28
Deadlift,	
152–53
Delayed	onset	muscle	soreness	(DOMS),	
33
Deltoid,	
22
Depletion	workouts,	
105
Diet.	
See
	
Nutrition
Dip	(exercise),	
160
Dumbbell	Shrug,	
159
Duration,	defined,	
64
Eating	window,	
179
Elephant	Twist,	
134
Exercises,	
131–67
,	
184–85
;	stretching/warming	up,	
28
,	
166–67
Exertion	scale,	
67
Extension,	
21
Fats,	
171–72
,	
178
Feedback,	on	form,	
42–43
Flexion,	
21

Flutter	Kick,	
134–35
Forearm	flexors/extensors,	
22
Form:	bad,	
43
;	proper,	
40–43
;	defined,	
41–42
40s	drill,	
81
Front	Squat,	
149
Frontal	plane,	of	body,	
20
Functional	cross	training.	
See
	
FXT
Functional	movements,	
14–15
Functional	training,	defined,	
14
FXT	(functional	cross	training):	defined,	
13
,	
17
;	drills,	
81–83
;	exercises,	
131–
67
,	
184–85
;	FAQs,	
24
;	nutrition,	
18
,	
169–80
;	point	system,	
63–65
.	
See	also
specific	FXT	programs
FXT	score,	defined,	
64
FXT:EXP	(endurance	for	long-distance	performance)	program,	
55
,	
103–15
;
completion,	
115
;	nutrition,	
106
,	
174–75
;	points	key,	
106
;	workout	charts,
107–14
FXT:FIT	(body	fitness/weight	loss)	program,	
55
,	
77–88
;	app,	
62
;	baseline
testing,	
59–61
;	completion,	
88
;	drills,	
81–83
;	nutrition,	
83
,	
174–75
;	points
key,	
83
;	progressive	workouts,	
78–81
;	workout	charts,	
84–87
FXT:MX1	(muscle	building)	program,	
56
,	
73
,	
116–22
;	baseline	testing,	
61–62
;
completion,	
122
;	nutrition,	
120
,	
176–79
;	points	key,	
120
;	workout	charts,	
121
FXT:PX1	(intro	to	FXT)	program,	
55
,	
71–76
;	completion,	
76
;	points	key,	
73
;
workout	charts,	
74–75
FXT:ST1	(strength)	program,	
56
,	
123–29
;	completion,	
129
;	nutrition,	
127
,	
179–
80
;	points	key,	
126
;	workout	charts,	
128–29
FXT:SXP	(explosive	speed/athletic	performance)	program,	
55
,	
89–102
;
completion,	
102
;	nutrition,	
93
,	
174–75
;	points	key,	
93
;	workout	charts,	
94–
101
Gluteus	maximus/minimus,	
22
Goals,	
7
,	
18
,	
25
,	
28
,	
46
,	
49–54
Goblet	Squat,	
148
Good	Morning	(exercise),	
152
Green	carbs,	
170–71
Gyms,	
25
Hamstring	Curl,	
164

Hamstrings,	
22
Hanging	Leg	Raise,	
141–42
Heart	attack	symptoms,	
32–33
Heart	rate,	
68
High	Knee	runs,	
91
Hill	repeats,	
92
Hip	Raise,	
141
Horizontal	plane,	of	body,	
20
Hot	circuit	
2
	drill,	
81–82
Ibuprofen,	
34
In	&	Out,	
131
Inchworm,	
137
Incline	Bench	Press,	
163
Injuries,	
25
,	
26
,	
43
Intensity,	
37
,	
66–68
;	defined,	
64
Jump	Lunge,	
150
Jump	Rope,	basic,	
165
Jump	Rope:	The	Bell,	
165
Jump	Rope:	The	Skier,	
165
Jumping	Jacks,	
142
Ladder	seesaws,	
80
Ladders	(exercise),	
79
Landmine	(exercise),	
163–64
Latissimus	dorsi,	
22
Leg	Press,	
164
Linear	Reactive	Step-Up,	
154
Log	books,	
127
Love	handles,	
27
Lower	Back	stretch,	
166
Lower	body	muscles,	
22
Lunge,	
150
Lunge	with	Biceps	Curl,	
151
Lunge	with	Twist,	
151
Macronutrients,	
170–72

Marching	Twist,	
142
Mason	Twist,	
133
Median	plane,	of	body,	
20
Medical	clearance,	
26
,	
31–32
,	
58–59
Micronutrients,	
172
Mind-body
	connection,	
35
Minerals,	
172
Monounsaturated	fats,	
171
Motivation,	
44–46
Mountain	Climbers,	
144
Muscle	fatigue,	
32
,	
33
Muscles,	
21–23
;	illustration,	
23
;	soreness,	
26
,	
32
,	
33–34
,	
72
Muscular	stress,	
78
“No	pain,	no	gain,”	
37
NSAIDs,	
34
Nutrition,	
18
,	
169–80
;	tips,	
172–73
.	
See	also	specific	FXT	programs
1-Arm	Dumbbell	Row,	
159
1-rep	max	(1RM),	
61
,	
124
Optimal	form.	
See
	
Proper	form
Over-exertion,	
37
Overhead	Press,	
157–58
Overhead	Press	&	Triceps	Extension,	
158
Overtraining,	
35–37
Over-warm-ups,	
126
Pain,	
32
,	
33
.	
See	also
	
Soreness
Pectoralis	major,	
21
Photographs,	
61
Pick-up	intervals,	
92–93
Planes	of	movement,	
20
Plank,	
136
Plank	Row,	
139
Plateaus,	
30
,	
125
Point	system,	FXT,	
63–65
.	
See	also	specific	FXT	programs
Polyunsaturated	fats,	
171
“Poor	Man’s	Yoga”
	Dynamic	Warm-Up,	
167

Position:	anatomical,	
20
;	athletic,	
20–21
Pre-existing	conditions,	
26
,	
34
Programs,	
47–129
;	baseline	testing,	
58–62
;	cheatsheet,	
55–56
;	length,	
69–70
;
and	real	goals,	
49–54
.	
See	also	specific	FXT	programs
Progressive	resistance,	
126–27
Progressive	workout,	
78–79
Proprioception,	
35
Proteins,	
39
,	
171
,	
178
Pull-Up,	
156
Push-Up,	
156
Pyramid	seesaws,	
80–81
Pyramids,	
79–80
Quadriceps,	
22
Range	of	motion	(ROM),	
20
Recovery,	
27
,	
28–29
,	
36
,	
38–39
Re-evaluation	of	program,	
36–37
Refueling,	
36
,	
See	also
	
Nutrition
Rep	max.	
See
	
1-rep	max
Repetition,	
36
Rest,	
27
,	
28–29
,	
36
,	
38–39
Reverse	Crunch,	
139
Reverse	Fly,	
162
Reverse	ladders,	
79
Reverse	pyramids,	
80
Revolutions	drill,	
82–83
Rhabdomyolysis,	
37
Roll-Out,	
136
Romanian	Deadlift,	
153
Rope	Climb	exercises,
	
184–85
Rotation,	of	body,	
21
Running,	
15
,	
29–30
Saturated	fats,	
171
Scheduling,	
25
,	
27–28
,	
30
,	
36
,	
178
Seesaws	(exercise),	
80–81
Set,	defined,	
64

Shoulder	Raise,	
161
Shoulders	stretch,	
166
Side	Hop,	
143
Side	Plank,	
137
Side	Plank	Fly,	
139
Side	Shuffles,	
91
Single-Arm	Curl	&	Overhead	Press,	
157
Single-Leg	Deadlift,	
153
Single-Leg	Squat,	
149
Sit-Up,	
138
Skater	Hop,	
143
Skips	(exercise),
	
91
Sleep,	
39
Soreness,	of	muscles,	
26
,	
32
,	
33–34
,	
72
Speed	drills,	
90
Speed,	of	movements,	
26
Sprint,	
92
Squat	(exercise),	
148
Squats,	and	form,	
41–42
Stability	Ball	Extension,	
140
Stalls,	
125
Step-Up	with	Dumbbell	Curl,	
155
Stewart,	Brett,	fitness	journey,	
8–10
Strength	training,	
118
Stretching,	
28
,	
166–67
Striders,	
91
Superman	(exercise),	
131
Swoop	&	Touch,	
131–32
T	Push-Up,	
140
T-Twist,	
133
Target	heart	rate/zones,	
68
Target	points,	defined,	
64
Target	time,	defined,	
64
Target	weight	percentage,	defined,	
64
Tempo	runs,	
93
Tension	training,	
119

Thruster,	
146
Toe	Touch,
151–52
Trans	fats,	
171–72
Trapezius,	
22
Treadmills,	
30
Triceps	brachii,	
21–22
Triceps	Kickback,	
160
Triceps	Pressdown,	
164
Triceps	surae	(calves),	
22
Turkish	Get-Up,	
135
20/20	drill,	
91–92
Upper	body	muscles,	
21–22
V-Sit,	
132
Vitamins,	
172
Volume	training,	
118–19
Walking	Lunges,	
91
Wall	Ball,	
147
Warming	up,	
28
,	
166–67
Warner,	Jason,	fitness	journey,	
8–10
,	
14
Weight	loss,	
26–27
,	
29
,	
182–84
Weighted	exercises,	
41–42
,	
73
Weighted	Hip	Thrust,	
141
White	carbs,	
170
Women,	and	FXT,	
29
Wood	Chop,	
134
Workouts:	charts,	
64–65
;	progressive,	
78–79
;	while	traveling,	
185–86
.	
See
	also
specific	FXT	programs

Photo	Credits
page	5:	©	Scott	E.	Whitney
page	20:	©	Scott	E.	Whitney
page	23:	©	
photobank.kiev.ua/shutterstock.com
page	45:	©	Rapt	Productions
page	47:	©	Scott	E.	Whitney
page	130:	©	Scott	E.	Whitney
page	131:	©	Rapt	Productions
page	132:	V-Sit	©	Rapt	Productions;	Ab	Crunch	with	Toe	Touch	©	Scott	E.
Whitney
	
page	133:	Mason	Twist	©	Rapt	Productions;	T-Twist	©	Scott	E.
Whitney
page	134:
	Elephant	Twist	©	Scott	E.	Whitney;	Wood	Chop	and	Flutter	Kick	©
Rapt	Productions
	
page	135:	©	Scott	E.	Whitney
page	136:	Plank	©	Rapt	Productions;	Roll-Out	©	Scott	E.	Whitney
page	137:	©	Rapt	Productions
page	138:	Sit-Up	©	Scott	E.	Whitney;	Crunch	and	Bicycle	Crunch	©	Rapt
Productions
	
page	139:	Reverse	Crunch	©	Rapt	Productions;	Plank	Row	and
Side	Plank	Fly	©	Scott	E.	Whitney
	
page	140:	T
	Push-Up	©	Scott	E.
Whitney;	Stability	Ball	Extension	©	Rapt	Productions
	
page	141:	Hip	Raise
and	Hanging	Leg	Raise	©	Rapt	Productions;	Weighted	Hip	Thrust	©	Scott	E.
Whitney
	
page	142:	©	Rapt	Productions
page	143:	Skater	Hop	©	Scott	E.	Whitney;	Side	Hop	©	Rapt	Productions
page	144:	©	Rapt	Productions
page	145:	©	Scott	E.	Whitney

page	146:	©	Scott	E.	Whitney
page	147:	©	Scott	E.	Whitney
page	148:	Squat	©	Rapt	Productions;	Goblet	Squat	and	Back	Squat	©	Scott	E.
Whitney
	
page	149:	©	Scott	E.	Whitney
page	150:	Lunge	©	Rapt	Productions;	Jump	Lunge	©	Scott	E.	Whitney
page	151:	Lunge	with	Twist	©	Rapt	Productions;	Toe	Touch	©	Brett	Stewart
page	152:	©	Scott	E.	Whitney
page	153:	©	Scott	E.	Whitney
page	154:	Calf	Raise	©	Scott	E.	Whitney;	Linear	Reactive	Step-Up	©	Kristen
Stewart
	
page	155:	Step-Up	with	Dumbbell	Curl	©	Scott	E.	Whitney;	Box
Jump	©	Kristen	Stewart
	
page	156:	©	Rapt	Productions
page	157:	Chin-Up	©	Rapt	Productions;	Single-Arm	Curl	&	Overhead	Press	and
Overhead	Press	©	Scott	E.	Whitney
	
page	158:	©	Scott	E.	Whitney
page	159:	©	Scott	E.	Whitney
page	160:	©	Scott	E.	Whitney
page	161:	©	Scott	E.	Whitney
page	162:	©	Scott	E.	Whitney
page	163:	©	Scott	E.	Whitney
page	164:	Triceps	Pressdown	©	Scott	E.	Whitney;	Leg	Press	©	Minerva
Studio/shutterstock.com
;	Hamstring	Curl	©	Philip	
Date/shutterstock.com
page	165:	©	Rapt	Productions
page	166:	©	Rapt	Productions
page	167:	Around	the	World	©	Rapt	Productions;	“Poor	Man’s	Yoga”	Dynamic
Warm-Up	©	Scott	E.	Whitney
	
page	168:	©	Michael	Bennett
page	184:	©	Kristen	Stewart

page	185:	©	Kristen	Stewart
page	192:
	©	Scott	E.	Whitney

About	the	Authors
Brett	Stewart
	is	a	certified	personal	trainer,	a	running	and	triathlon	coach,	and
an	endurance	athlete	who	currently	resides	in	Phoenix,	Arizona.	An	avid
multisport	athlete,	Brett	has	competed	in	well	over	a	hundred	events,	including
road	races,	triathlons,	marathons,	ultramarathons	and	OCRs.	He’s	constantly
looking	for	new	fitness	challenges	and	developing	new	workouts	and
	routines
for	himself,	his	friends	and	his	clients.	Brett	can	be	contacted	at
www.7weekstofitness.com
	and	is	available	for	speaking	at	corporate	wellness
and	fitness	events	across	the	United	States.
Jason	Warner
	is	an	ISSA	Certified	Strength	Trainer,	fitness	and	sports
enthusiast,	ultramarathoner,	triathlete,	CrossFitter	and	overall	Olympic-lifting
nut.	He	recently	relocated	to	Victoria,	British
	Columbia,	from	Adelaide,	South
Australia,	with	his	wife	and	three	young	children.	Jason	wrote	
Ultimate	Jump
Rope	Workouts
	and	
7	Weeks	to	10	Pounds	of	Muscle
,	and	contributed	heavily	to
7	Weeks	to	50	Pull-Ups
	and	
7	Weeks	to	Getting	Ripped.


Authors	Brett	Stewart	and	Jason	Warner