Functional Strength for Triathletes

For better readability, we have decided to use the masculine (neutral) form of 
address, but the information also refers to women.
This book has been very carefully prepared, but no responsibility is taken 
for the correctness of the information it contains. Neither the author nor the publisher can assume liability for any damages or injuries resulting from information contained in this book.
Jim’s DedicationTo Michele, Kennan and Erin, you guys make it all worthwhile.

Ironman® Triathlon Edition
Functional Strength  
for Triathletes
Exercises for Top Performance
Ingrid Loos Miller & Jim Herkimer
Meyer & Meyer Sport
© Bakke-Svensson/Ironman

British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data
A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library
Functional Strength for Triathletes
Maidenhead: Meyer & Meyer Sport (UK) Ltd., 2012
ISBN 978-1-84126-344-1
All rights reserved, especially the right to copy and distribute, 
including the translation rights. No part of this work may be reproduced—
including by photocopy, microfilm or any other means— 
processed, stored electronically, copied or distributed in any form whatsoever 
without the written permission of the publisher. 
© 2012 by Meyer & Meyer Sport (UK) Ltd.
Auckland, Beirut, Budapest, Cairo, Cape Town, Dubai, Indianapolis,
Kindberg, Maidenhead, Sydney, Olten, Singapore, Tehran, Toronto
Member of the World
Sport Publishers‘ Association (WSPA)
www.w-s-p-a.org
Printed and bound by: B.O.S.S Druck und Medien GmbH, Germany
ISBN 978-1-84126-344-1
E-Mail: info@m-m-sports.com
www.m-m-sports.com
Ironman®, 70.3® and M-Dot® are registered trademarks of World Triathlon Corporation.
Used here by permission.
Official Product of the Ironman® Triathlon

                      5 contents
 co ntents
Editor’s Note   ........................ ...............................................................................7
Introduction   ........................
.............................................................................. 8
ch
apter 1: 
 W
hat is Functional Strength Training?.......................................... 10
  •
 T
riplanar Movement  ................................................................. 11
  •
 E
nhancing Stability  ................................................................. 23
  • 
 N
euromuscular Enrichment  .................................................... 26
  • 
 H
ow to Recognize Functional Exercises 
 ............................... 27
ch
apter 2: 
 W
hy Every Triathlete needs Functional Strength Training
 ........... 28
  • 
 T
he Blueprint Human
 ............................................................. 29
  • 
 I
mproved Endurance
 .............................................................. 30
  • 
 I
njury Prevention
 .................................................................... 31
  • 
 L
ongevity in the Sport
 ........................................................... 32
  • 
 B
etter Performance  ................................................................ 32
  • 
 O
vercoming Adversity  ............................................................ 33
  • 
 P
reventing Muscle Cramps
 ..................................................... 3
5© Bakke-Svensson/Ironman

                      6
Functional Strength F or triathlete Sch apter 3:  F unctional Strength Training Phases........................................... 36
  • 
 C
orrective Phase for Balanced Strength
 ............................... 37
  • 
 E
ndurance Phase for Lasting Strength
 .................................. 39
  • 
 P
ower Phase for Fast Strength
 .............................................. 39
  • 
 T
ime Off
 ................................................
.................................. 40
ch
apter 4: 
 S
ample FST Exercise Program 
 ..................................................... 41 
  • 
 S
trength Training Warm-up
 .................................................... 42
  • 
 C
orrective Exercises  ............................................................... 43
  • 
 S
trength Exercises
 .................................................................. 52
  • 
 E
ndurance Strength Exercises
 ............................................... 63
  • 
 P
ower Exercises
 ...................................................................... 77
ch
apter 5: 
 C
ustomize your FST Plan
 ............................................................. 86
  • 
 S
tep 1: Schedule the Training Phases
 ................................... 87
  • 
 S
tep 2: Choose the Exercises and  
 
  A
djust Difficulty as Needed
 ................................................... 88
  • 
 S
tep 3: Work FST into Your Training Schedule
 ..................... 92
ch
apter 6: 
 Equi
pment  ................................................
.................................... 95
ch
apter 7: 
 I
njuries & Reconditioning 
 .......................................................... 10
0
ch
apter 8: 
 a
dvanced Exercises  .................................................................... 1
05
  • 
 I
ntegrating Motion 
 .............................................................. 10
6
  • 
 I
ntegrating Exercises for Swimming 
 .................................... 11
2
  • 
 I
ntegrating Exercises for Cycling 
 ......................................... 11
6
  • 
 I
ntegrating Exercises for Running 
 ........................................ 1
19
ch
apter 9: 
 A
sk the Expert
 ............................................................................ 12
1
Appendix A: 
 F
unctional Strength Assessment
 ................................................ 1
29

                      7 editor‘s noteEditor’s no te
Triathletes tend to be data hounds when it comes to measures of performance. 
They like big numbers when they look at their training hours, and small ones in body fat percentage and race times. They purchase all manner of devices to track their progress, but I would venture to guess that when it comes to the intricacies of anatomy and physiology, their eyes go glassy. The staples of every triathlete’s dictionary, hip flexors, rotator cuff, and quadriceps are enough to help them identify areas that are tight, sore, or unfortunately, injured and that is sufficient. 
The purpose of this book is not to make you an expert on anatomy. It is to 
give you tools that will help you achieve the numbers you care about. To that end, the terminology in this book is accurate, but not necessarily as detailed as it could be. We use less formal but common shorthand terms, like “abs” and “glutes,” rather than spelling out every muscle in longhand every time. 
Readers with a strong interest in anatomy and kinesiology are encouraged to 
do more research on the structure and function of the musculoskeletal system. Everyday triathletes who want to perform better with less downtime due to injury should simply read this book and follow the recommendations.

                      8
Functional Strength F or triathlete SIntroduction
John was referred to my office with persistent pain and weakness in his legs. 
He had completed multiple ultra distance triathlons and had been a competitive intercollegiate cross country runner in his youth. Now in his 50s, he was a competitive age group cyclist. He had given up triathlons and running a few years earlier because it made his back pain worse. The back pain had been going on for so long that he accepted it as normal for his age and didn’t even mention it until he explained why he had turned to cycling. He was fine on the bike as long as he took 8-12 ibuprofen tablets during his long rides. John’s athletic options were shrinking. 
Because of his concerns about leg power and strength (he seemed resigned 
to the pill-popping), John enlisted the help of an excellent cycling coach who told him to start a weight lifting program. He went to the local gym and hired a personal trainer who put him to work on basic exercises like bench press, crunches, leg press, pull down, curls, knee extensions and leg curls. All of the exercises were on fancy machines that required John to sit or lay on a bench or otherwise position himself in a machine that isolated one muscle group at a time.
John’s muscles got stronger. He was able to lift heavier weights on the machines, 
but his cycling didn’t improve. I explained to him that traditional weight training is like building a bike out of premium components, but forgetting to connect them with high quality cables and a sturdy chain. The bike, like the body, only works when there is an effective connection between the power source (John) and the wheels. John’s weight training had addressed some of the cycling muscles but it did nothing to improve the way his body functioned as a power generating machine. The weight lifting John did at the gym didn’t help him transfer more power to the pedals. 
The first thing we did was to fire his personal trainer and throw his weight room 
program out the window. Then we conducted a movement screen to evaluate his ability to balance, move and stabilize his body. John failed miserably; giving me the same look of shock and humiliation I have seen hundreds of times when a high-level athlete can’t perform a relatively “simple” physical task. 
I designed a targeted home strength program and John went to work on it. 
The program included exercises to make him strong as he moved in various directions (or planes, more on this later) and taught him the meaning of “core strength.” He was amazed at how difficult the exercises were when he didn’t have a bench to lay on or a machine to strap into. Instead he had to use his arms, legs, hips and torso together to keep his balance as he moved. 

                      9 introductionThree weeks later, John came back, and he was giddy as a kid in a candy store. 
He loved his new strength program. He was amazed at how quickly his nervous system responded, how soon he became stronger and how all of it translated into improved performance on the bike. 
John’s lack of “functional strength” had been responsible for most of his back 
pain and the corresponding weakness in his legs. With the new functional strength program, he was able to significantly reduce his medication (down to 1-2 ibuprofen intermittently during his long rides) and he was climbing hills better than ever. 
Functional Strength Training (FST) is the key to improving athletic performance 
for every athlete. By eliminating imbalances and improving neuromuscular strength and coordination, training becomes more effective and the injury risk goes down. 
John’s story is not unique. It illustrates how the concept of strength training 
is misunderstood and misapplied, and likewise, how the right kind of strength program can change an athlete’s life. This book is your shortcut to the results John experienced. Take the Functional Strength Assessment, customize the Functional Strength Plan, and start performing better today. 
the g
oal of a good strength training program 
should not be about developing great success in the weight room.
it shou
ld be about transferring the gains developed in the weight room to
improved athletic performance.

ch apter 1  
What is Functional 
st
rength tr
aining? 
© Bakke-Svensson/Ironman

                      11
 chApter 1: Wh At i s F unction A l strength tr A iningFunction: The action for which a person or thing is specially fitted.
Years ago, the idea of an endurance athlete in the weight room was absurd. 
The prevailing wisdom was that strength training for endurance athletes would result in big muscles and slow times. Flash forward to today. Boy, did we have it wrong! We now know so much more about the effects of strength on performance and on the intricate relationship between the nervous and musculoskeletal system that nowadays, the joke is on the endurance athlete who does not include strength training in his or her program. 
But strength training isn’t enough. It has to be the right kind . The right 
kind of resistance training engages the muscles and the nervous system in 
ways that enhance athletic performance. A 2008 study comparing traditional strength training with a more “functional” strength program demonstrated the superiority of the functional approach. Subjects who had done the 12-week functional program (called “free-form” in the study) improved measured strength 58% more and balance 196% more than those using traditional weight training (Spennewyn 2008).
This chapter will explain the three defining characteristics of Functional 
Strength Training (FST): 
•
 U
ses triplanar movement
•
 D
evelops stability in key areas of the body
•
 E
nhances sport-specific neuromuscular function
Triplanar mo vement
The exercises in traditional weight lifting programs require individual muscle 
groups to move back and forth in one directional plane. You push against a bar to do a “bench press” and pull a bar back toward yourself to “row.” These are called uniplanar  movements; they make individual muscles “stronger,” but they 
don’t help you swim, bike or run better. 
Your body can be divided into the three planes pictured in Figure 1. The sagittal  
plane divides the right and left, the frontal  plane divides front and back, and 
the transverse  plane divides the top and bottom halves. 

                      12
Functional Strength F or triathlete SWhen you move forward, the structures of your body actually move in several 
directions at once. Just look at what happens when you run: 
•
 L
egs and arms move along the sagittal plane (front to back)
•
 P
elvis moves along the frontal plane (side to side), and
•
 S
houlders rotate and move along the transverse plane (twisting).
So we may think that we move 
in one direction when we run but actually we move in three directions (along 3 planes) simultaneously. The ability to execute and integrate these complex movements makes an athlete strong and fast. 
Figure 1: The three planes of motion. The black 
arrow shows movement along the frontal plane. 
Figure from “Sagittal plane” entry on 
Wikipedia.org.
The strength of any individual muscle is lost unless all of the needed muscles, 
structures and systems work effectively together to propel the body. Thus, the best way to improve strength is with exercises that challenge the body to work together in all three planes of motion. This triplanar movement is integral to FST.
Flexibility for Triplanar mo tion
Motion, and therefore function, is impaired when muscles and other components of the musculoskeletal system are damaged, fatigued or respond poorly to nerve signals.


                      13 chApter 1: Wh At i s F unction A l strength tr A iningLimited flexibility means the muscles and connective tissues don’t have full 
range of motion so extra force has to be applied to the muscle to get it moving. This extra force can damage the muscle fibers, pull joints out of alignment and cause a whole host of problems. 
You probably know when your muscles are tight because you can feel it. But 
tightness can occur in other structures, too. For instance, tightness in the iliotibial (IT) band is common but you may not even realize you have it. The iliotibial band, a band of thick tissue that runs from the hip to just below the knee, can cause pain nearby in the hip or knee or farther away, in the low back. 
To find out if you have flexibility problems that may affect performance, take 
the Functional Strength Test in Appendix A or have an evaluation conducted 
by a physical therapist familiar with the concepts of 
functional strength training. Problem areas can be 
addressed through the dynamic warm-up, active 
isolated stretching during cool down, or with 
self-myofascial release.
Dynamic Warm-up 
Dynamic stretches are sport-specific movements, 
such as going forward or backward, side to side, 
rotating, or any combination of the three. Think 
of them as a series of funny walking maneuvers 
that ignite the neuromuscular system, increase the 
body’s core temperature and get blood flowing to the muscles and connective tissues to prepare the body for action. Take about 10 “steps” of each one 
before you swim, bike and run. 
 
Photo 1: Knee Hugs
Knee hu gsWhile standing upright and balancing on the opposite 
ball of foot (calf raise), lift your knee up tight to the 
chest. Keep chest high, hold for one second, then 
step forward and switch legs.


                      14
Functional Strength F or triathlete S
leg cr adle
While standing upright and balancing on the opposite ball of foot (calf raise), lift the knee and foot up to the chest and pull slightly toward the midline of the body. It should appear as if the athlete is cradling his leg. Keep chest high, hold for one second, then step forward and switch legs.
Quadriceps 
st
retch
Standing upright and balancing on opposite ball of foot (calf raise), lift your 
foot to your buttocks while pushing the hips forward, drawing in the stomach. Hold one second, then step forward and repeat.Photo 2: Leg Cradle Photo 3: Quadriceps Stretch

                      15 chApter 1: Wh At i s F unction A l strength tr A ining
Photo 4: Superman
superman
W
hile standing on your left foot, lean 
forward with your hands over your 
head and the right leg straight back while engaging the core. Make sure the 
hip stays down to avoid hip external 
rotation.
Photo 5: Drinking Bird
dr inking Bird
Standing on your right foot, lean forward 
and touch the ground with the opposite 
hand. The hip should stay down to avoid 
external rotation.

                      16
Functional Strength F or triathlete S
Photo 6: WGS
the W orld’s gr eatest st retch (W g s)
S
tep into a long lunge position with the right foot. Lean forward, bringing the 
right elbow to the inside of right ankle. Make sure to keep the back leg straight 
and hips pressed down to the ground to increase hip flexor stretch. Hold one second, then place your hands on the ground outside of the front leg and lift hips up, straightening the front leg while pulling the toes up toward the body. Make sure your hands are on the ground throughout the stretch. Hold one second, then step forward while switching the lead leg. 


                      17 chApter 1: Wh At i s F unction A l strength tr A ining
Back lu nge and re ach
Step backwards into a long lunge position with the left foot and then rotate 
your body over the right leg. Keep your arms bent at 90°. Draw in your stomach while pushing your hips forward and hold for one second. Step back, switching legs and direction of rotation.Photo 7: Back Lunge & Reach

                      18
Functional Strength F or triathlete S
Photo 8: Inch Worm 
inc h Worms
Keep your legs completely straight and reach down to the ground. Without moving your feet, walk your hands out as far as possible keeping your body tight and legs straight. Once fully stretched out, hold one second. Then slowly walk your feet in toward your hands, keeping your legs straight and raising your hips toward the sky, creating an upside down V (hold one second). Without getting up, walk your hands out again and repeat the exercise.

                      19 chApter 1: Wh At i s F unction A l strength tr A iningac tive Isolated Stretching 
Active isolated stretching (AIS) incorporates a stretching rope to gently assist 
pulling your muscle a little farther than normal for only 2 seconds at a time. The process is repeated up to 12 times. When used after exercise to cool down, this series of contract-relax stretches helps to reprogram the joint and muscle
 
receptors to “remember” the new range of motion. 
Photos 9,10 and 11 below show three AIS stretches that address range of motion problems in the hip and leg.
Photo 9: AIS Adductor


                      20
Functional Strength F or triathlete S
 Photo 10: AIS Hamstring
 Photo 11: AIS Quadriceps


                      21 chApter 1: Wh At i s F unction A l strength tr A iningSelf-myofascial re lease
Dysfunctional movement and feelings of tightness can originate from 
structures known as fascia . Found throughout the body, fascia are bands of 
dense connective tissue that help bind together muscle groups, blood vessels and nerves. The IT band is one example of a very thick band of fascia, but fascia of varying thickness but is found throughout the body. A white-colored sheath, fascia acts the “Saran wrap” of the body that helps to keep important structures intact and also helps to transmit movement from one segment to the next. Much like the roads we drive on, muscles covered with fascia form the pathways in which our muscles move. 
If we overuse these pathways, the tissue can be traumatized and develop rough 
areas called adhesions, which are like speed bumps on a road. Adhesions can 
reduce the blood flow to muscles, cause dysfunction and contribute to poor performance. Some adhesions are very sensitive to irritation. These are known as trigger points . 
Self-myofascial release is a form of massage that reduces the number and severity of these trigger points by applying varying levels pressure to them. Tools like foam rollers, massage sticks and balls of various size and firmness can be rolled over trigger points to literally smooth out the bumps. This stimulates blood flow, allows healing and improves function. When tightness eases and range of motion improves, pain will subside. The process of reducing trigger points can take days or weeks and once the area loosens up, you should continue to use rollers on it twice a week to keep the area supple.
Depending on the location and tenderness of the trigger point, pressure can be 
applied with body weight or by hand. To apply body weight, place a soft ball or roller under the affected limb. Roll your body back and forth over the ball from a point above the trigger point to slightly below it (see Photo 12). You can often feel the knot of tightness when you roll over it, and you can also feel it 
lessen or release. Using body weight is effective for the thighs, buttocks, hips, calves, and the back. 
Photo 12: Using bodyweight to apply pressure
to a trigger point


                      22
Functional Strength F or triathlete SFoam rollers come in various sizes and 
levels of firmness. Start with a softer roller/lighter pressure and work your way up to a more rigid or textured roller like the one in Photo 13. 
Photo 13: The texturing on The Grid roller from 
Triggerpoint will allow you to apply aggressive pressure. Photo provided by the manufacturer and used with permission. 
When small, thinner muscles in the lower legs, forearms or shoulders need 
attention, pressure can be applied by hand rather than body weight. There are hand-held rollers and “sticks” on the market for this purpose (Photo 14). 
Photo 14: “The Stick” massager is used to apply pressure to calf. Photo provided by manufacturer and used with 
permission.
A word of caution: Self-myofascial release is simple to do, but it can be quite 
painful, especially the first few times you do it. Apply enough pressure to make it “comfortably uncomfortable.” However, the more often that you “roll out,” the less discomfort you will feel. This is truly a “no pain, no gain” situation. 


                      23 chApter 1: Wh At i s F unction A l strength tr A iningEnhancing Stability
Triplanar movement is an important concept, but motion is a little more 
complicated than that because when some parts of the body move in one direction, other parts need to hold fast and resist that motion. That resistance is known as stability , and it is a vital component of movement.
Once again we will use running to illustrate: The quicker your legs move and the more force you apply the ground, the faster you will run. You need to have mobility  to move your legs forward and back. At the same time, your shoulders 
and pelvis need to have stability  to resist the force that the legs direct to the 
ground. If your shoulders rotate too far or your pelvis moves too much, that energy will dissipate rather than being directed to the ground and you will not go as fast. Physical therapist Gray Cook calls these “energy leaks.” 
The runner (B) in Figure 2 has an energy leak bec au se he ha s poor pelvic stabilit y. In this case, the instability is caused by a weak gluteus medius muscle on the right side, which causes the left hip to drop. A program to strengthen that muscle and improve the stability of that kinetic chain will improve this runner’s form, reduce the chance of injury, and allow him to run faster.
Figure 2: Runner B has poor pelvic stability
Image from online version of Basic Human Anatomy by 
O’Rahilly, Muller, Carpenter & Swensen at http://www.dartmouth.edu/~humananatomy/figures/chapter_18/18-3.HTMat. 
Used with permission.
Triathletes need stability in the areas of the body that are transfer stations for 
power. For a swimmer, that means the core muscles and shoulders. The same areas must be stable for running and cycling to transfer power to the ground or to the pedals. This leads us to the concept of core stability. 


                      24
Functional Strength F or triathlete SWhat is core stability?
Developing “core stability” is becoming the mantra in fitness centers around 
the country. I often ask people what they mean by that term and they typically say “strong abdominals.” While this answer is partially correct, it leaves out a number of other important muscles. Training your rectus abdominis (6-pack) muscle in isolation is ineffective in generating and channeling forces for athletic movement. An integrated, multi-dimensional program is necessary to fully activate all the components that make up the core. 
Your “core” is your middle, foundation, or central part. Probably the best way 
to think of it is your center of gravity. It is located a couple of inches in front of your lower lumbar or upper sacral vertebra (low back). Stability  means strength, 
solidity or firmness. So core stability is simply strength around your center . 
       The muscles that surround your core can be seen as a bowl. The core muscles are the bowl, and your vital organs are contained inside. The muscles in your pelvic floor form the bottom of the bowl and the sides of the bowl travel upward and include the gluteals, spine extensors, deep spine rotators, and 
Figure 3: 
Core Stability 
Musculature

                      25 chApter 1: Wh At i s F unction A l strength tr A iningabdominals (see Figure 3). The diaphragm acts as the lid to the bowl and is 
one of the reasons that proper breathing plays a role in core stability. Keep in mind, there are four layers of abdominal muscles and for optimal core stability the deepest two layers, the ones that no one see (transverse abdominis and internal oblique,) are the are most important. 
When the core muscles contract, they don’t move limbs but rather tighten 
around you. This is known as the “serape” effect (1970 Logan & McKinney). A serape is a Mexican garment that is draped loosely about the shoulders and crosses in front of the body, much like a blanket. When the core muscles contract, they create rotational stability in the torso and generate force from the hip to the opposite shoulder. When you run, this action provides stability when your right arm swings forward as your left leg swings back. When you ride your bike, you have to hold the handlebars firmly with the right hand when the left leg pushes.
Maintaining a strong and functional core will limit the amount of stress on the 
ligaments and discs in your spine, reducing the risk of developing a chronic or overuse injury. Many overuse injuries that appear in the back, legs, and feet are due in large part to core instability. 
opt imal Posture
The optimal position for the spine is mid-way between flexed (slouching) and extended (arched back). Maintaining this “neutral spine” position during athletic activities will maximize load transfer and minimize stress on the ligaments and discs. 
Find your neutral spine position by standing up with your hands on your hips. 
Now push your belly forward (rotate pelvis) as far as it will go, arching your lower back. This will create an excessive lumbar extension curve that is too far. Now, pull your belly in as far as you can as you curl your pelvis (flex your spine). Lightly squeezing your glutes will help. This should create a flat lumbar spine, which is the other extreme position. Practice moving forward and back as far as possible until you can easily move through the full range of motion. Now stop halfway between the fully flexed and fully extended position. This should put the spine in a neutral position. 

                      26
Functional Strength F or triathlete Sne uromuscular Enrichment
Your brain constantly receives information from the body and the environment. 
This information is gathered in specialized nervous system receptors in the skin, muscle, joints and tendons, known as proprioceptors. If you put your arm behind your back, you can’t see it, but you know it’s there because of the information these little marvels send to your brain. But the communication operates unconsciously too, telling your brain whether and how fast your joints are moving, and how far and how forcefully muscles are being stretched and contracted. All of this occurs automatically. Indeed, proprioceptive memory is likely part of the “phantom limb” syndrome often experienced by amputees.
Your brain responds to input by sending signals down the spinal cord to nerves 
in muscles and the muscle responds. This information exchange between nerves and muscles is the neuromuscular system. This is an oversimplification because information is passed between other structures too, but we will just focus on brain to muscle communication here. 
The more information that passes through this system, the finer tuned, 
less wasteful, and more efficient an athlete’s movements will be, both on a conscious and unconscious level. In this way, we could say that a “smart” neuromuscular system transmits oodles of complex information in both directions and a “stupid” one handles only a limited amount. Couched in these terms, traditional strength training, which isolates muscles into a single plane of motion, does nothing to make your neuromuscular system “smarter” because it only stimulates communication in one direction , from brain to muscle.
Functional strength training, however, makes your neuromuscular system smarter because heaps of information are passed from muscle to brain and back again (both directions) . This two-way exchange provides many important 
benefits, but one of the most important for endurance athletes is improved work economy. An economical triathlete can swim, bike, and run faster for the amount of oxygen used than a less economical one. Work economy requires a “smart” neuromuscular system that works together with the cardiovascular system to maximize oxygen efficiency. 
Your neuromuscular system also helps you maintain balance. Balance can be 
impaired with disuse, poor posture, muscle weakness, joint dysfunction, or following injury. It is not surprising that poor balance increases the risk of lower extremity injury in athletes (McGuine 2000).

                      27 chApter 1: Wh At i s F unction A l strength tr A iningTriathletes are constantly dealing with balance issues. Running and cycling are 
both highly complex processes of rapidly losing, regaining, and maintaining balance on alternating legs, yet we do it without even thinking about it. 
Adding instability to the right kind of exercise makes it more effective because in 
addition to doing the movement against resistance, the body must also maintain balance. Indeed the first FST session can be both mentally and physically exhausting because keeping your balance requires intense focus and control. The challenge of doing so amplifies neuromuscular activity and necessitates active and ongoing engagement of the core muscles as you struggle to quit wobbling. With practice, your neuromuscular system adapts and the exercises get easier. 
How to re cognize Functional Exercises
Now that you know a bit more about what FST is, you should learn to tell the difference between an exercise that is functional and one that isn’t. This will prevent you from wasting your time on useless exercises. An exercise must satisfy these three requirements to be functional: 
1.
 T
he exercise must allow movement in multiple planes; it must be triplanar.
2.
 T
he exercise must require stability through one or more transfer stations 
including the ankle, hip, core, or shoulder.
3. T
he exercise must engage kinetic chains that are used to swim, bike or run. 
For triathletes, this means single-leg propulsion and shoulder-to-hip rotation.
Below are examples of traditional weight training exercises that meet these criteria.
Some traditional non-functional exercises Functional versionsof the same exercise
Leg press machine Single leg squat
Military or shoulder press machine Single leg shoulder press with dumbbells
Push-ups and pull-ups are functional 
exercisesPush-ups with feet on Swiss ball or in suspension trainer are more functional
Hamstring curls on Machine Hamstring curls using Swiss ball
Seated row on machine Single leg standing row using cable
Calf raises on Machine Single leg calf raises with hip rotation, holding a dumbbell
Sit-ups Pikes with feet in a TRX suspension trainer

ch apter 2 
Why 
ev
ery 
tr
iathlete 
n
eeds Functional 
st
rength tr
aining“st rength in 
sports should be viewed as the mechanism required to perform skills and athletic actions.“
tu dor Bompa
© Bakke-Svensson/Ironman

                      29
 chApter 2: Why tri Athlete s need F s tThe Blueprint Human
It is important to point out that you may have neuromuscular deficits that 
you are not even aware of. The perfect “Blueprint Human” has a perfectly balanced body structure and an intact neuromuscular system that executes normal movement patterns. Unfortunately, none of us is perfect but the super athletes are probably closest to this ideal. 
Even without a history of injury or sloth, your genetics may be working against 
you becoming a standout swimmer, cyclist or runner. Add to this some life experience, lots of screen time, poor posture, wearing 4-inch high heels during your career phase, and maybe an injury that you had years ago. These events and many more can disrupt normal movement patterns, and our bodies have adjusted to them in subtle ways. Over time, these compensations become ingrained neuromuscular patterns. These patterns affect muscle strength and function in ways that are not problematic until you challenge the system by taking up triathlon and even then, you can probably do all right for a while. When someone suggests you add strength training to your plan, you understandably, bristle. 
Triathletes are aerobic animals that thrive on long, hypnotic bouts of motion. 
Pushing weight around takes you out of your comfort zone. It is intense, sweaty work, and it is understandable that you don’t want to compromise the quality of the swim, bike and run sessions you hold dear. 
But those little movement issues are still there, waiting.Endurance training doesn’t correct faulty movement patterns, and stressing 
imbalanced muscles doesn’t even them out it. It does just the opposite, making the dysfunctions more pronounced and problematic.
The solution is specific strengthening and neuromuscular reeducation to make 
your body function more like the Blueprint Human. In fact, the right kind of program could make you even better than that. FST training will hone triathlon-specific strength and neuromuscular control that will propel you to the finish line better and faster than ever before.

                      30
Functional Strength F or triathlete SImproved Endurance
It was once believed that strength and endurance training would interfere with 
each other, but this notion has been well studied and it turns out that it is false (Dudley and Fleck, 1987, Hickson, et. al., 1988; Sale, et. al., 1999, Tanaka 1998, Paavolanen 1999, Millet 2002, Hoff 2002)
If you are like most triathletes, you focus mostly on endurance training. You 
might even do some high-intensity intervals. This is all good, but this kind of training doesn’t stimulate the kind of adpatations that a functional strength program will address. 
Triathlon requires a combination of strength, speed, and endurance. The 
Performance Triangle (Figure 4) shows the biomotor abilities that are common to all sport. Soccer requires the same basic abilities as triathlon but the emphasis is different. Since endurance is the dominant ability for triathletes, that is where you should spend most of your training time. But most is not all. As the triangle 
shows, endurance does not stand alone; it coexists, and it is actually ehnanced by the other abilities. That is where functional strength training comes in. 
Adding resistance training to your endurance program improves endurance  
capacity  (Tanaka 1998). If you want to be a better endurance athlete, you must 
also develop muscle strength and anaerobic power. Likewise, if you neglect 
these two components, your endurance performance will never be developed to its full potential. This is important not only for elite athletes, but for newbies and age-groupers, too. 
Figure 4: Performance Triangle showing abilities needed by triathletes. Adapted from Tudor Bompa’s triangle of 
biomotor abilities.  = Biomotor Abilities Needed by Triathletes
Force (Muscle Strength)
Speed (Anaerobic Power) Endurance (Aerobic Power)

                      31 chApter 2: Why tri Athlete s need F s tInjury Prevention
Athletes who have been injured and rehabilitated with physical therapy 
understand something about the importance of functional strength. Physical therapy uses FST (and other things) to help patients return to normal movement patterns. FST for athletes takes this approach a step further. Like John, the cyclist described in the introduction, strength gaps occur even in athletes, and it is sad when choices are narrowed year after year because of injuries that could have been prevented or corrected with the right approach. I often tell people, “You should race for as long as you want to. Stop because you want to not because you are injured and your body makes you.” Getting strong (and staying that way) will keep your options open. 
It is well agreed that strength training protects you from injury by fortifying the 
entire musculoskeletal system, including the bones, muscles, and connective tissues. Reinforcing these structures is fundamental to your success because, as a triathlete, you do the same motions again and again for hours on end. Overuse injuries account for 80-85% of injuries to triathletes according to Sergio Migliorni, International Triathlon Union Medical Committee Chair. In one study, 155 British triathletes of various skill levels kept training diaries. Over the period of eight weeks, 37% of them reported sustaining an injury that they defined as a problem causing missed training, reduced mileage, or taking medication (Korkia 1994). 
A 2010 analysis of triathlon injuries (Figure 5) shows various sites that are 
commonly injured in triathletes (Vleck 2010). It is unknown whether the triathletes in any of the various studies participated in a strength training program of any kind. Certainly, this is an area ripe for study. 
Figure 5: Triathlete Injuries 
(Vleck 2010).Endurance (Aerobic Power)

                      32
Functional Strength F or triathlete SThe certainty of impending injury is something triathletes must come to terms 
with. Incorporating FST into your program will become important to every triathlete sooner or later. Get started now so you won’t miss valuable training time later.
Longevity in the Sport
Men and women reach peak strength in their early to mid 20s, which then decreases at a rate of about 1% per year. We also lose about 10% of our aerobic capacity per decade. The age-related decline in performance is most pronounced in running and ultra triathlon distance races (Lepers 2010). 
Aerobic capacity is not the only thing that suffers with age; movement speed, 
rate of force development, and power diminishes in time too. Fast-twitch muscle fibers decrease in size and number (faster than the decrease in slow-twitch fibers) and are replaced by fatty/fibrous tissue. Inactivity hastens the general deterioration of the nervous system. 
The good news is that individuals who maintain a lifestyle of vigorous activity 
hold onto their athletic capacities far longer and deteriorate more slowly than this. It is truly a matter of “use it or lose it.” 
Functional strength training can slow the loss of aerobic capacity by optimizing 
muscularity and minimizing fat storage. Moreover, by reducing the rate of injury, training volume and intensity can be maintained longer. 
Who says you can’t get to Kona by outlasting everyone in your age group? 
Better Performance 
Developing all of the abilities in the Performance Triangle will help you achieve 
your performance potential. Even though your races are long endurance events, if you are strong enough to cover a short distance fast (have a speed reserve), you will be able to travel longer distances at lower speed more easily. Athletes who do nothing but endurance work ignore this concept and, in time, they actually lose muscle strength. This is often the case with athletes addicted to the ultra triathlon distance who race the distance repeatedly. Eventually, they experience diminishing returns on their training. Instead of improving, they get slower and slower. FST helps these athletes regain muscle power and get back on the road to getting faster.

                      33 chApter 2: Why tri Athlete s need F s tWhen combined with endurance training, the right kind of strength training 
improves strength, power, running economy, and speed in ever y discipline (Girold 2006, Saunders 2006, Girold 2007, Aspenes 2009, Yamamoto 2008, Yamamoto 2010). The neuromuscular adaptations that come from strength training are keys to improving running economy, which, in trained athletes, is more predictive of performance than a high VO2 max. The lower leg muscles of economical runners seem better able to anticipate the foot strike and stiffen just enough to give the runner optimal spring. Just as a golf ball (which is firm) travels farther than a tennis ball (which is softer), functional strength training teaches the muscles, among other things, to be at optimal tension at the foot strike.
ov ercoming ad versity
If you raced without adversity, you wouldn’t need much power in order to get to the finish line. But races aren’t like that and “just finishing” isn’t good enough for most triathletes. Think of power as the ability to “step on the gas” and even if you aren’t a podium chaser, there are times you need to be able to push harder. 
During the swim start, getting quickly through the surf line (if there is one) is 
crucial if you want to avoid a thrashing. You need power for that. Wind and current will require higher energy output than your leisurely laps in the pool. You need to be able to accelerate around slower swimmers and to escape aggressive drafters who nip at your heels. You want to move swiftly around buoys and, at the end, you have to stand up and run as soon as you get to shore unless you want to be mowed over by those behind you. 
You need power on the bike to zoom up the hills without losing too much 
speed. Hill climbing ability on the bike is determined mostly by the power-to-weight ratio of the cyclist. The best climbers carry 2 pounds of body weight per inch of height, so a 5’10” (178cm) cyclist will weigh a mere 140 pounds (64 kg). Functional strength training will improve power more than it will increase an athlete’s weight. 
Off-road triathletes need to generate much more power than road cyclists to ride 
over logs and boulders and handle to steep elevation changes. And don’t forget the wind; you need power to sustain speed on a blustery day. Figure 6 shows just how much power is required to hold your speed on a bike in the wind.
There are also times when you need to pass other riders, because they are 
going too slow, you need to get out of the draft zone, or you want to avoid a 

                      34
Functional Strength F or triathlete Smishap. USAT rules require athletes to pass within 20 seconds. You need power 
to pass other riders convincingly and also for “cat and mouse” games. 
Studies on the effectiveness of strength training for cyclists are notably 
inconsistent in their methodology as it is unclear who is tested, what kind of “strength” training is used, and how results are measured. A systematic review and analysis of five of the best studies (Yamamoto 2010) showed that, indeed, the right kind of strength training improves maximal power and time trial performance. 
Triathletes who routinely put in longer than four-hour training sessions hunched 
over a set of aero bars know that being strong on the bike means more than pedaling; it means being able to efficiently hold the aero position for hours, then stand up and run. You need strength for that.
Speaking of running, courses are never perfectly flat. There are curbs, hills, 
turns, obstacles, sand, wind, stairs (ouch), and other athletes to negotiate around. There is also ALWAYS a finish line. No matter what your race day brings, you want to be able to sprint across the finish line — or at least to cross it standing upright.
Figure 6: Power required for travel at constant speed on 
a bike, regardless of wind speed or direction. Retrieved from www.sheldonbrown.com/brandt/wind.html
Every triathlete has something to gain 
from functional strength: Improved endurance so you can go harder, longer. Injury prevention is important so you can keep training and continue to enjoy the health benefits of the sport. Everyone from beginners to 
elites can perform better. And finally, functional strength will help triathletes overcome the adversity we call “racing.” 


                      35 chApter 2: Why tri Athlete s need F s tPreventing mu scle Cramps
Muscle cramps can be caused my many things, but a growing body of research 
suggests that exercise-induced muscle cramps (EAMC) are caused by impaired neuromuscular control in response to fatiguing exercise. A 2010 study reported on a triathlete and Ironman
® triathlon competitor who suffered hamstring 
cramping during the run portion of the Ironman event. Testing showed dysfunctional movement patterns and muscle imbalances that were corrected over an 8-month period with a “functional” strength training program as we have defined it. Indeed, electromyogram (EMG) testing done before and after the exercise program confirmed that normal muscle activity was restored after the exercise program. After treatment, the athlete was able to race without hamstring cramping and reported personal best times (Wagner 2010). 
The success of this intervention is consistent with epidemiological studies, 
experimental data and EMGs recorded during acute cramping following exercise (Sulzer 2005, Schweillinus 2007).
If you suffer from EAMC, you have everything to gain and nothing to lose by 
adding functional strength training to your program.

                      36
Functional Strength F or triathlete S
ch apter 3 
Functional s
trength 
tr
aining 
ph
ases 
© Bakke-Svensson/Ironman

                      37 chApter 3: F s t  p h Ase sA strong athlete has responsive muscles. Periodization is the progression of 
training phases originally developed for strength training and widely adopted for all athletic conditioning. Each phase is designed to enhance a particular element of athletic performance and prepare the athlete for the phase that follows. You have to be able to move through the entire range of motion without pain before you work on getting stronger, then you need to build strength so you can work on endurance, etc. The ultimate goal of this progression is to achieve a peak competitive performance. 
Your periodized FST plan will improve performance by stimulating the body to 
adapt to sport-enhancing physical challenges. The intensity of these challenges is varied by changing the amount of resistance /weight, doing them on more or less stable surfaces, adding complexity to the movements, and, at some point, doing them faster. 
Corrective Phase for Balanced Strength
The first phase of FST is designed to correct muscle imbalances, joint dysfunction, neuromuscular deficits, and distortions in postural patterns that an athlete may have developed over time. Some of these issues can also be genetic.
Simply by looking in the mirror you can see that as beautiful as you are, 
you are not completely symmetrical. This asymmetry applies to movement as much as it does to the placement of your facial features. Chances are that one side of your body is stronger, more coordinated and “athletic” than the other. These asymmetries are often subtle and go unnoticed, but large volumes of repetitive motion (swimming, cycling and running) bring imbalances and minor dysfunctions to the forefront. 
Muscle strength and/or length imbalances set you up for overuse injuries. 
Consider your athletic history. Do you have persistent injuries? For example, does your right knee usually flare up at a certain point in training? Rest may temporarily reduce the pain, but it does not correct the underlying problem. Scar tissue forms on muscles and fascia, and posture and movement patterns may be altered. Failure to correct the underlying problem typically results in re-injury, sooner or later. Take the Functional Strength Assessment in Appendix A to find areas of weakness or get an evaluation from a physical therapist familiar with functional strength principles. Don’t be surprised if you have issues that you weren’t even aware of. 


                      38
Functional Strength F or triathlete SThe amount of time you devote to the corrective phase depends upon where 
you are in your race season, the nature and extent of your areas of weakness, and how much time you have available. You may need up to six weeks in this phase to prepare you for what comes next. Ideally, this corrective work will be done in the off-season. Corrective exercises, however, can be incorporated into any phase of training as needed to keep problem areas at bay. Relatively low weights and a high number of repetitions are used so you can focus on keeping your balance and moving smoothly.
Figure 7: Functional Strength Training Phases
Strength Phase for Building ma ximum Strength 
The Strength Phase should be done in the pre-season to lay the foundation for better race performances later. During this phase, you will improve the ability of the core musculature to stabilize the pelvis and spine under heavier loads through the complete range of motion. The exercises will be difficult so you will only be able to do a few repetitions, but they will increase the load-bearing capabilities of your muscles, tendons, ligaments, and joints. 
This phase is particularly important for ultra triathlon distance preparation 
because prolonged endurance training reduces lean body mass. Having some “extra” muscle (relatively speaking) will help you retain adequate lean body mass throughout your training. Strength lays the “brick and mortar” for the next phase of FST — muscular endurance. Corrective 
(Balanced Strength)Power 
(Fast 
Strength)
Endurance Strength 
(Lasting Strength)
Strength 
(Lasting Maximum)

                      39 chApter 3: F s t  p h Ase sEndurance Phase for Lasting Strength 
The Endurance Phase builds endurance strength (lasting strength). The loads 
will be lighter than in the maximum strength phase so you will be able to perform more repetitions, usually three to four sets of 12 to 15 repetitions. Sometimes exercises are time-based, such as “three sets of as many repetitions 
as you can do in 30 seconds. ” This requires you to pace yourself.
Since the endurance strength phase utilizes a relatively light load, the musculature will improve its long slow contractile abilities without enlarging. 
Power Phase for Fast Strength
When triathletes talk about power, it is usually in connection to power meters and cycling. But the concept of power applies to all three disciplines and being able to measure it isn’t nearly as important as training to maximize it. 
The power phase applies the gains from the earlier phases to the speeds and 
forces that the body will encounter on race day. 
A solid strength base is needed in order to begin power training because 
maximum strength is important at the very beginning of the exercises to get the weight (or the body) moving. The greater the athlete’s strength, the faster this initial motion will be. Less force and more speed are then required to continue and finish the movement. 
The power phase focuses on moving against resistance quickly, just like you do 
when you swim, bike and run. In this phase, you will be doing fewer repetitions than in the previous phases. 
Plyometrics
Plyometrics are explosive movements used in the power phase. The goal is to accelerate and project the resistance (which might be your own body) as far as possible. 
Plyometric movements begin and end with the body in contact with something 
else — usually, but not always, the ground. These are typically jumps and hops that can be done with the legs or arms. Let’s use a jump as an example: the 

                      40
Functional Strength F or triathlete Sleg muscles extend and lengthen, propelling you into space but then they must 
hold you (and any weight you are carrying) steady (resist shortening) to keep you from crumpling to the ground when you land. Notably, it is this holding steady (known as eccentric contraction) that causes the greatest muscle soreness (Friden, et. al. 1984). 
Start with the easier moves and progress gradually to the more challenging 
ones. Plyometrics are identified in the power phase of the Sample Training Plan in Chapter 4.
Time of f
Recovery weeks are mandatory for endurance training, but not for strength training. When you skip your strength training for a week, you will be extra sore when you resume. If you feel very fatigued and want a break, compromise and do only one strength session during your recovery week. This is enough to keep the neuromuscular pathways alert. 
When racing season is over, you need some recovery time to allow your mind 
and body to heal from the rigors of training and racing. You should take a break from your strength training, too. At some point, you will be ready to plan your next racing season and then the cycle of training will begin again. 
Once you learn about your areas of weakness and have spent a season 
correcting them, you may feel that by taking time off you will lose what you have gained. Not so. The improvements to your neuromuscular system will not disintegrate in a month or two. When you return, you will get fit faster than before. Enjoy other activities to refresh your body and mind so you are ready for the next season.
© Bakke-Svensson/Ironman

ch apter 4  
sa
mple F s
t
  
ex
ercise pr
ogram© Bakke-Svensson/Ironman

                      42
Functional Strength F or triathlete SThis sample program is suitable for most triathletes. It is organized into the FST 
phases. Some of the exercises may seem too easy and some of them will be next to impossible. Follow the instructions to modify the difficulty of each exercise. The next chapter explains how to customize this program to suit your needs. 
Form is important. It is harder to do the exercises correctly than it is to do 
them wrong. This program has exercises that can be done in 30-45 minutes depending upon the training phase. Always begin with the warm-up sequence.
Strength Training Warm-up
AngelsLie face-up with the roller along and under your spine, head resting on the roller, knees bent, feet on the floor. Slide one arm to the side along the floor from your hip to above your head and back to your hip again, as if you are making a snow angel. Alternate arms. 
Photo 15: Angels Start      P hoto 16: Angels Finish
BackstrokeLie face-up with the roller along and under your spine, head resting on the roller, knees bent, feet on the floor. Lift each arm off the floor one at a time. Move your arm from your hip to above your head, as if you are doing the backstroke. 
Photo 17: Backstroke Start      P hoto 18: Backstroke Finish


                      43 chApter 4: sAmple exerci se progr A mThese two movements, calf roll-outs and IT band roll-outs are also used for 
self-myofascial release as discussed in Chapter 1.
Photo 19: Calf Roll-outs    P hoto 20: IT Band Roll-Outs
ca lf ro ll-outsWith the foam roller perpendicular to your body, place one calf over the roller. Cross the other foot over, crossing your feet at the ankles. With your hands on the floor near your hips, push off the floor slightly and roll your calves over the roller.
i
t
 Band 
ro
ll-outs 
Place the foam roller perpendicular to your body, rest one thigh on the roller. Try to keep the thigh relaxed throughout the movement. Place your hands on the floor near your hips. Twist to the side, resting on the roller. With your hands, roll the side of your thigh up and down the roller from your knee to your hip. Switch sides.
Corrective Exercises
The first step is to correct any underlying problem that may rear its ugly head at some point down the road. These exercises correct basic flaws you have identified in the Functional Strength Assessment in Appendix A. They also provide a foundation to build upon during the Strength, Endurance Strength, and Power phases. 
You should spend at least three weeks in the corrective phase then reassess 
your core strength (using the Functional Strength Assessment) again. If you fail that portion of the assessment, you should continue with the corrective phase for another three weeks because you need adequate core stability to begin the Strength Phase. 


                      44
Functional Strength F or triathlete SStart the Corrective phase with one set of 15 repetitions. Add a set in the 
second week and a third set in the third week. If you stay in this phase longer than three weeks, stick with three sets of 15 repetitions and adjust the exercises to make them more difficult.
sw
iss Ball 
y
 
Lay face down on a Swiss ball. The ball should be under your chest, with your hands on the floor in front of you. Extend your arms and lift them up forming a “Y” with your body and arms. •
 A
reas targeted: Lower trapezius (traps, upper back), shoulder blade 
stabilizers.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by holding a dumbbell in each hand.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by reducing the weight or doing the exercise one 
side at a time.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles on the bottom of your shoulder blades.
•
 F
ocus Point: Pull your shoulder blade into your “back pocket.”
Photo 21: Swiss Ball Y


                      45 chApter 4: sAmple exerci se progr A msw iss Ball t
L
ay face down on a Swiss Ball. The ball should be under your chest, with your 
hands on the floor in front of you. Extend your arms to the side and lift them 
up forming a “T” with your body and arms.
•
 A
reas targeted: Middle traps, rhomboids (between shoulder blades), and 
shoulder blade stabilizers.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by holding a dumbbell in each hand.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by reducing the weight or doing the exercise one 
side at a time.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles between your shoulder blades and behind 
your shoulders.
•
 F
ocus Point: Squeeze your shoulder blades.
Photo 22: Swiss Ball T


                      46
Functional Strength F or triathlete Ssw iss Ball W 
Lay face down on a Swiss ball. The ball should be under your chest, with your hands on the floor in front of you. Bend your elbows and lift your arms to form a “W.”
•
 A
reas targeted: Rhomboids, upper traps, shoulder blade stabilizers.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by holding a dumbbell in each hand.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by reducing the weight or doing the exercise one 
side at a time.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles between your shoulder blades.
•
 F
ocus Point: Squeeze your shoulder blades.
Photo 23: Swiss Ball W


                      47 chApter 4: sAmple exerci se progr A mst anding mar bles 
Scatter small pebbles or marbles on the floor in front of you. Place a cup or 
bowl about 12 inches in front and 12 inches to the outside of your support leg. Pick up as many marbles as you can with your toes while standing on the support leg and place them in the bowl.
•
 A
reas targeted: Feet, ankles, hips, and gluteus maximus (glutes).
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by adding a resistance band around your waist. The 
band should be anchored to a wall at waist level and you should stand far 
enough away that you have to resist the pull of the band as you do the exercise.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by holding on to a chair with one hand.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles on the bottom of feet, calves, and glutes. 
•
 F
ocus Point: Imagine balancing on a tripod between the ball of your foot 
— big toe, little toe and heel.
Photo 24: Standing Marbles


                      48
Functional Strength F or triathlete Ssw iss Ball Bridge 
Begin lying on your back with your feet on the ball, knees bent. Raise your body into a bridge position, lower and repeat.
•
 A
reas targeted: Glutes and hamstrings (back of thigh).
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by bending your knees more.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by straightening your knees.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your glutes and hamstrings.
•
 F
ocus Point: Drive your hips toward the ceiling.
Photo 25: Swiss Ball Bridge


                      49 chApter 4: sAmple exerci se progr A msw iss Ball pu sh- up
Get into a push-up position with the ball under your feet. Keep your body line 
straight and lower your chin to the ground, then back up again. 
•
 A
reas targeted: Chest, abs, and triceps.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by moving farther out on the ball.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by moving the ball closer to your knees.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your chest, in front of your shoulders, and 
in the abs and triceps.
•
 F
ocus Point: Maintain a straight body. Don’t let your hips sag.
Photo 26: Swiss Ball Push-up


                      50
Functional Strength F or triathlete Ssw iss Ball pla nk
Start with your knees on the floor and elbows resting on the ball. Clasp your 
hands together. Lift your hips into a plank position and hold. Make sure to keep your back straight throughout the motion.
•
 A
rea targeted: Abs.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by rolling the ball out.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by starting on your knees.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your abs.
•
 F
ocus Point: Don’t let your hips sag.
Photo 27: Swiss Ball Plank


                      51 chApter 4: sAmple exerci se progr A msw iss Ball side pla nk
Lie sideways on a mat, resting on one elbow. Place a Swiss ball between your 
knees and squeeze. Lift your body off the floor and hold.
•
 A
reas targeted: Obliques, abs, and hip adductors (move leg toward the body).
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by moving your elbow out.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by removing the ball and bending your knees.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your hips and core.
•
 F
ocus Point: Keep your body straight. Don’t let your hips fall back.
Photo 28: Swiss Ball Side Plank


                      52
Functional Strength F or triathlete SStrength Exercises
The strength phase provides a foundation that the Endurance and Power 
phases will build upon. It should be difficult to complete eight to 10 repetitions of each exercise. Attempt to complete three or four sets. Spend six to eight weeks in this phase. 
ham
string tr
io
Part 1: Bridge — Begin by lying on your back with feet on the ball, knees bent. 
Raise your body into a bridge position, lower and repeat.Part 2:  March — Begin by lying on your back with feet on the ball, knees bent. 
Raise your body into a bridge position, hold and lift your foot a few inches off the ball. Return to the ball and lift the opposite foot. Maintain the bridge position throughout the set. Part 3: Hamstring curl — Begin by lying on your back with feet on the ball. 
Raise your body into a bridge position. Bend knees and bring feet toward body, rolling the ball toward you. Return to starting position. Repeat.
•
 A
reas targeted: Glutes and hamstrings.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by bending your knees more and lifting your hands 
off the ground.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by straightening your knees.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your glutes and hamstrings.
•
 F
ocus Point: Try to maintain a level pelvis on all motions.
Photo 29: Hamstring Trio Start

                      53 chApter 4: sAmple exerci se progr A m
Photo 30: Hamstring Trio Bridge
 Photo 31: Hamstring Trio March 
 Photo 32: Hamstring Trio Curl

                      54
Functional Strength F or triathlete Strx  re verse lu nge
Stand facing the TRX with arms extended, slightly bent, at shoulder height. 
Hold the handles and create some tension in the straps. Drive one foot back as you push your hips back and lower your body by bending the knee. Keep your back leg as straight as possible while keeping your foot off the ground. Pause, then return to the starting position.
•
 A
reas targeted: Glutes, hamstrings, quads, and calves.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by starting farther away from the TRX anchor.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by straightening your knees.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your glutes and hamstrings.
•
 F
ocus Point: Drive your back leg back but don’t let it rest on the ground.
Photo 33: TRX Reverse Lunge


                      55 chApter 4: sAmple exerci se progr A mtr iplanar ca lf ra ise
This calf raise is a sequence of three positions. Stand on a raised block or other 
step about 2” tall. Stand on the step and let the other foot hang freely. Raise your body from the calf, bringing the other knee up to hip level straight in front of you. Return to starting position. Next, raise the same knee in front of you then move it across your body toward the opposite hip and return to the starting position. Now bring the knee up and move it to the side away from your body. Return to the starting position.
•
 A
rea targeted: Calves.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by holding a 
dumbbell in each hand.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by 
eliminating the step and holding onto 
something for balance.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your 
calves.
•
 F
ocus Point: Don’t start with too many! 
 Y
our calves will be very sore the next day if you do.
Photo 34: Triplaner Calf Raise Start


                      56
Functional Strength F or triathlete S
Photo 35: Triplanar Calf 
Raise ExternalPhoto 36: Triplanar Calf Raise Internal
Photo 37: Triplantar Calf Raise Forward


                      57 chApter 4: sAmple exerci se progr A msc orpion on sw iss Ball
Lay on your stomach on the ball and roll forward until your hands reach the 
floor in front of you. Walk your hands out until your shins rest on top of the ball. Lift your knee off the ball and toward your opposite shoulder. Drive your foot back up and rotate your entire lower body, lifting your foot toward the ceiling. 
•
 A
rea targeted: Abs.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by moving the ball closer to your toes.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by moving the ball closer to your knees.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your abs.
•
 F
ocus Point: You should only feel this in your abs. If you feel it in your 
lower back, move the ball closer to your knees.
Photo 37: Triplantar Calf Raise ForwardPhoto 38: Scorpion on Swiss Ball Start 
Photo: 39: Scorpion on Swiss Ball Rotate

                      58 Function Al strength For t ri Athlete strx  pla nk
Feet in TRX; elbows on ground, hold body in plank position.
•
 A
rea targeted: Abs.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by moving away from the TRX anchor.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by starting closer to the TRX anchor or eliminate 
the TRX altogether.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your abs.
•
 F
ocus Point: Don’t let your hips drop. Maintain a straight body line.
Photo 40: TRX Plank


                      59sw iss Ball ro ws
Begin by balancing on your knees on a Swiss ball. Using a sport cord/resistance 
band or pulley, pull your arms back as you bend your elbows. Initiate the pull with the back and draw your shoulder blades in close together without shrugging your shoulders
•
 A
reas targeted: Lats (latissimus 
dorsi, “V” muscles in back), posterior delts (rear deltoids, shoulder), shoulder blade stabilizers.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by 
increasing the tension on the band or by using a thicker band.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier 
by resting your feet on the ground for support.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles 
in your arms and between your shoulder blades.
•
 F
ocus Point: Squeeze your shoulder 
blades and, at the same time, squeeze the ball between your knees for support.
Photo 41: Swiss Ball Row
chApter 4: sAmple exerci se progr A m


                      60
Functional Strength F or triathlete Strx  m atrix
Face the TRX with your arms extended straight in front of you at shoulder 
height as if you were firing a pistol. There should be some tension on the straps and you should hold onto them both with one hand. Your feet should be facing straight forward. Reach back with your free hand as you rotate your body in the same direction. Pull the shoulder blades together as you rotate up and reach back with your free hand. Your trunk should go through a 180° arc. Return to the open position and repeat.
•
 A
reas targeted: Biceps, shoulder blade stabilizers, core rotation.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by starting with your feet closer to the wall/anchor 
and holding a weight in your hand.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by starting with your feet farther away from the 
wall/anchor.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your abs.
•
 F
ocus Point: Pull your shoulder blades back.
Photo 43: TRX Matrix Finish
Photo 42: TRX Matrix Start

                      61 chApter 4: sAmple exerci se progr A msw iss Ball che st pr ess
Lay on your back over a Swiss ball. The ball should be under your shoulder 
blades. Keep your hips extended and press the dumbbells up. Return to the starting position. Repeat
•
 A
reas targeted: Chest, shoulders, and arms.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by increasing the weight of the dumbbells. 
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by moving the ball closer to your knees.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your abs.
•
 F
ocus Point: Keep your hips up and level.
Photo 44: Swiss Ball Chest Press


                      62
Functional Strength F or triathlete Sre sistance Band/ ca ble cho ps (up and down)
To chop down, anchor the resistance band above shoulder height. Clasp both 
hands around the resistance band handles and step away so that your side and shoulder face the anchor point. In one movement, while keeping your arms straight, rotate your torso down and across your body so your hands end up outside your opposite hip. Pause, then return to the starting position.
To chop up, anchor the resistance band below knee level. This time, start with the 
hands low and rotate your torso while bringing the hands up across your body. Your hands should end up above your head outside your opposite shoulder. 
•
 A
reas targeted: Shoulder blade stabilizers and core rotation.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by standing in a lunge position. The leg nearest the 
anchor should be forward.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by standing with your feet shoulder width apart.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your abs and arms.
•
 F
ocus Point: Initiate the motion with a pull and finish with a push.
Photo 45: Resistance Band/Cable Chops Down Photo 
Photo 46: Resistance Band/Cable Chops Up


                      63 chApter 4: sAmple exerci se progr A mEndurance Strength Exercises
The Endurance Strength phase will help you apply strength over the long haul. 
You can start by doing these exercises as a circuit with one set of each exercise as one round. Start with doing as many reps as you can in 30 seconds. Take a minimal amount of rest between exercises. Increase the time by five seconds per week until you get to 60 seconds per exercise. You can do more than one set of each exercise or add more rounds as you progress.
t
rx
 Back 
ro
tation 
lu
nge ( cr
oss 
lu
nge)
Stand facing the TRX, holding on with arms extended, slightly bent, at shoulder height. There should be some tension in the straps. Step backward with your one leg crossing behind the other. Lower your body until your support knee is bent at least 90 degrees. Return to the starting position and repeat.
•
 A
reas targeted: Core and hips.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by moving 
your feet closer to the TRX 
anchor. 
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by 
moving your feet away from the TRX anchor.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles 
in your core, spine extensors, glutes and hamstrings.
•
 F
ocus Point: Don’t let your back 
foot hit the ground.
Photo 47: TRX Back Rotation Lunge (Cross Lunge)


                      64
Functional Strength F or triathlete Strx  pla nk sa ws
Get into a plank position with both feet in the TRX and elbows on the ground. 
Hold the body in a plank position and slide your body away from your elbows toward the anchor like your body is a saw. Return to the start position and repeat.
•
 A
rea targeted: Core.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by moving your feet farther away from the TRX 
anchor/wall.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by moving your feet closer to the anchor/wall.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your abs.
•
 F
ocus Point: Keep your hips up. 
Photo 48: TRX Plank Saws


                      65 chApter 4: sAmple exerci se progr A mtrx  Atomic pu sh-ups
Place both feet in the foot cradles of a TRX. Get into push-up position. Perform 
a push-up by lowering your body until your chest is just above the floor and then pressing back up. Bring your knees toward your elbows in a crunching movement. Pause and return to the starting position.
•
 A
reas targeted: Core, chest, and shoulders.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by moving your feet away from the TRX anchor. 
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by moving your feet closer to the TRX anchor.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your abs, pecs, and shoulders.
•
 F
ocus Point: Lift your hips toward the ceiling.
Photo 49: TRX Atomic Push-ups


                      66
Functional Strength F or triathlete Strx  row s
Stand facing the TRX with a handle in each hand and back away until you feel tension in the straps. Keep your body straight but at a steep angle and initiate the pull with the back, not the arms. Draw your shoulder blades in close together without shrugging the shoulders. 
•
 A
reas targeted: Back and shoulders.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by moving your feet closer to the TRX anchor.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by moving your feet away from the TRX anchor.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your back and shoulders.
•
 F
ocus Point: Combine the motion with a squat to maximize the benefit.
Photo 50: TRX Rows


                      67 chApter 4: sAmple exerci se progr A mtrx  y.i. W.
Stand facing the TRX with a handle in each hand and back away until you feel tension in the straps. Your body should form a 45- to 60-degree angle to the floor, and your arms should be parallel to the floor. Pull your body toward the anchor point by pulling your hands up and over your head while squeezing your shoulders together. When your arms are extended out, your body and arms should form an “I.” Return to the starting position then pull your body toward the anchor point again, this time lifting your arms up and apart, forming a “Y.” Repeat, this time bending the elbows so your arms form a “W.” Go back to the starting position after each letter.
•
 A
rea targeted: Shoulders.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by moving your feet closer to the TRX anchor.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by moving your feet away from the TRX anchor.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your back and shoulders.
•
 F
ocus Point: Keep your hands up and elbows straight through the entire 
movement.
 Photo 50: TRX Y 

                      68
Functional Strength F or triathlete SPhoto 51: TRX I 
Photo 52: TRX W

                      69 chApter 4: sAmple exerci se progr A mtrx  che st pr ess
Stand with your back to the TRX, one hand in each loop. Lean forward and 
extend the arms in front of your body. Keep a straight body line with by contracting the glutes and keeping your shoulders pulled down and back. Bend the elbows and allow the body to tilt forward then press your body back to the starting position. Keep the hands high enough to prevent the straps from rubbing arms during the exercise. Repeat.
•
 A
reas targeted: Chest and abs.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by moving your feet closer to the TRX anchor and/or 
lifting one foot off the ground.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by moving your feet away from the TRX anchor.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your abs and pecs (pectorals, chest) and 
deltoids.
•
 F
ocus Point: Keep your back straight.
Photo 52: TRX Chest Press Start 
Photo 53: TRX Chest Press Push


                      70
Functional Strength F or triathlete Strx  tr iceps pr ess
Stand facing away from the TRX with a handle in each hand and tension in the 
straps. Keep elbows bent, shoulder width apart and pointing straight ahead. Straighten the elbows and press your body into a more upright position. Return to the starting position. Repeat.
•
 A
rea targeted: Arms.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by moving your feet closer to the TRX anchor and/or 
lifting one foot off the ground.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by moving your feet away from the TRX anchor.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your triceps.
•
 F
ocus Point: Keep your body straight (stable core) through the motion.
Photo 56: TRX Triceps Press


                      71 chApter 4: sAmple exerci se progr A mtrx  Bicep cu rl
Stand facing the TRX with a strap in each hand and tension in the straps. Your 
body should form a 45-to 60-degree angle to the floor, and your arms should be straight with your palms up. Without moving your upper arms, bend your elbows and curl the handles toward your shoulder, your palms facing your forehead. Pause and return to the starting position.
•
 A
rea targeted: Arms.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by moving your feet closer to the TRX anchor and/or 
lifting one foot off the ground.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by moving your feet away from the TRX anchor.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your biceps.
•
 F
ocus Point: Keep your body straight (stable core) through the motion.
Photo 57: TRX Bicep Curl Start     P hoto 58: TRX Bicep Curl Pull


                      72
Functional Strength F or triathlete Strx  side st ep lu nge
Stand facing the TRX with arms extended, holding a loop in each hand. Arms 
should be slightly bent, at shoulder height. Stand far enough from the anchor that there is tension on the loops. Take a big step to your side as you push your hips backward and lower your body by dropping your hips and bending your knee, keeping tension in the loops. When you step to the right, bend your right knee. Your opposite leg should remain straight. Pause, then return to the starting position.
•
 A
reas targeted: Hips and knees.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by moving your feet toward the wall.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by your feet away from the wall.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your glutes, quads, calves, and hamstrings.
•
 F
ocus Point: Stay tall and keep your knee behind your toe.
Photo 59: Side Step Lunge


                      73 chApter 4: sAmple exerci se progr A mtrx  re verse (suspended) lu nges
Stand facing away from the TRX anchor. Balance on one foot and place the 
other foot into the foot cradles. Stand such that the support leg is straight and the suspended foot is behind you (similar to a running stance). Lower your body as you move the suspended leg back into a lunge position until your back (suspended) knee almost touches the floor and your support leg is bent 90 degrees. Press through the heel of your support leg to stand back up. Repeat.
•
 A
reas targeted: Hips and knees.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by moving your feet away from the wall.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by moving your feet closer to the wall.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your glutes, quads, calves, and hamstrings.
•
 F
ocus Point: Stay tall and keep your knee behind your toe.
Photo 60: Reverse (Suspended) Lunges


                      74
Functional Strength F or triathlete Strx  side pla nk ro tations
Put both of your feet in the TRX loops while supporting yourself with one 
elbow on the ground as your body is in the side plank position. Extend the other arm straight up so it is perpendicular to your body. Now rotate your hips forward while reaching down and underneath with your free hand. Return to the starting position, reaching up toward the ceiling.
•
 A
reas targeted: Shoulders, core, and hips.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by moving your feet away from the wall/anchor and 
holding a weight in your hand. 
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by moving closer to the wall/anchor.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your abs.
•
 F
ocus Point: Keep your hips up and your body in line with your legs.
Photo 61: TRX Side Plank Rotations Start 
Photo 62: TRX Side Plank Rotations Move

                      75 chApter 4: sAmple exerci se progr A mside st eps
Place a resistance band around your ankles. Side step while keeping your toes forward. Continue for 30 seconds, then switch direction. 
•
 A
rea targeted: Hip abductors (move leg 
away from body).
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by taking larger 
steps and/or using a band with greater 
resistance. 
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by using 
a band with less resistance.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in 
your glutes.
•
 F
ocus Point: Keep your toes 
straight ahead.
Photo 63: Side Steps


                      76co ne re ach
Set up three cones in the shape of a triangle in front of you. Stand on one foot. Lower your upper body and reach the opposite hand to a cone. Hinge from your hips and keep your back straight. Extend your back leg behind you as you reach. Return to the starting position and continue to reach for the other two cones. 
•
 A
reas targeted: Feet, hips, knees and ankles.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by moving your feet away from the cones. 
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by reaching toward taller cones.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your hips, quads, and calves.
•
 F
ocus Point: Reach with the hand opposite your support leg. 
Photo 64: Cone Reach
Function Al strength For t ri Athlete s

                      77 chApter 4: sAmple exerci se progr A mPower Exercises
Now that you are good and strong, you will work on moving weight around with 
greater speed. The movements in this phase should be done quickly, explosively if you can. You need to apply the most force at the very beginning of the exercise to get things moving. Work toward three sets of eight to 10 repetitions.
me
dicine Ball 
co
nes 
Set up three cones in the shape of a triangle in front of you as done previously. Stand on one foot. Hold a medicine ball and hinge from your hips while keeping your back straight. Lower your upper body toward the ground and reach the ball toward the first cone as your back leg extends behind you. Return to the starting position and continue to reach for the other two cones. 
•
 A
reas targeted: Feet, hips, knees, and 
ankles.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by moving 
your feet away from the cones and 
increasing the weight of the ball.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by reaching 
toward taller cones.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your hips, 
quads, calves, and shoulders.
•
 F
ocus Point: Keep your back flat as you 
reach. 
Photo 65: Medicine Ball Cones


                      78
Functional Strength F or triathlete Strx  sl re verse (suspended) lu nge ho p (plyometrics)
Stand facing away from the TRX anchor. Balance on one foot and place the 
other foot into the foot cradles. Stand so that the support leg is straight and the suspended foot is behind you (similar to a running stance). Lower your body as you move the suspended leg back into a lunge position until your back (suspended) knee almost touches the floor and your support leg is bent 90 degrees. As you press through your left heel to stand back up, drive your hands up and hop off the ground. Perform all your repetitions and then repeat with the other leg.
•
 A
reas targeted: Hips, knees, and ankles.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by moving your 
feet away from wall.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by moving toward 
the wall.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your hips, 
quads, and calves.
•
 F
ocus Point: Drive your arm up as you hop. 
Photo 67: TRX SL Reverse (Suspended) Lunge Hop Back Photo 66: TRX SL Reverse (Suspended) Lunge Hop 

                      79 chApter 4: sAmple exerci se progr A mme dicine Ball sq uat Jump ( pl yometrics)
Start in a squatting position with a medicine ball on the ground in front of you. 
Lift the ball quickly overhead as you jump with both feet. Bring the ball back down, let it touch the ground, and then repeat the jump.
•
 A
reas targeted: Hips, knees and ankles, shoulders, core.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by moving your feet away from the cones. 
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by reaching toward taller cones.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your hips, quads, calves, and shoulders.
•
 F
ocus Point: Drive the ball up as you jump. 
Photo 67: TRX SL Reverse (Suspended) Lunge Hop Back
Photo 68: Medicine Ball Squat Jump Start
Photo 69: Medicine Ball 
Squat in Air

                      80
Functional Strength F or triathlete Ssk ips ( ply ometrics)
Just like when you were a kid: Skip 100 feet while driving your arms and opposite knee up.
•
 A
reas targeted: 
Coordination and running 
form.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by 
increasing the height of your skip. 
•
 M
ake the exercise easier 
by slowing down and skipping lower.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles 
in your legs.
•
 F
ocus Point: Drive 
your arm up. 
Photo 70: Skips
Photo 72: Bosu Push-up Floor

                      81 chApter 4: sAmple exerci se progr A mBosu pu sh-up ( pl yometrics) 
Position a Bosu®Balance Trainer, dome side up, on the floor. 
Place your hands on the Bosu. Lift one hand off the ball 
and put on the ground. Complete one push (one hand on the ground, the other on the Bosu) but drive forcefully back up you so you can quickly return your hand to the Bosu. Repeat with the other hand.
•
 A
reas targeted: Chest and abs.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by moving faster.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by slowing down.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your abs, 
pecs, and deltoids.
•
 F
ocus Point: Keep your back straight.
Photo 71: Bosu Push-up Start 
Photo 72: Bosu Push-up Floor
Photo 73: Bosu Push-up End

                      82
Functional Strength F or triathlete Sside st ep co nes ( pl yometrics) 
Set up two cones approximately 8-10 feet apart. Place a light resistance band 
around your ankles. Facing the cones, take a step toward a cone and reach down, touching it with your opposite hand. Immediately spring back to the other foot then reach for the other cone with your other hand. Repeat quickly, side to side.
•
 A
reas targeted: Hips, knees, and ankles.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by moving the cones farther apart.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by slowing down and moving the cones closer.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your hips, quads, and calves.
•
 F
ocus Point: Reach across your body to the cone. 
Photo 74: Side Step Cones


                      83 chApter 4: sAmple exerci se progr A mme dicine Ball th rows ( pl yometrics)
Begin on your back, shoulder blades resting on the ball. Knees should be at a 
90° angle. Use an overhead motion to throw a medicine ball to a partner. Your partner will then throw the ball back to you. Catch it while bringing it over your head and toward the floor. 
•
 A
reas targeted: Core and shoulders.
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by moving your feet closer together.
•
 M
ake the exercise easier with a lighter medicine ball.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your abs.
•
 F
ocus Point: Bring the ball as far as you can over your head. 
Photo 75: Medicine Ball Throws 
Photo 76: Medicine Ball Throws Catch

                      84
Functional Strength F or triathlete SBent over Freestyle pu ll (resistance band/cable)
Stand with your knees slightly bent. Bend forward at the hip until your body 
is parallel to the ground. One hand should be forward in the maximum reach position, like when you swim. There should be some tension on the resistance band. Pull the lead hand back following the same pattern as a freestyle stroke. Recover with high elbow and repeat.
• Areas targeted: Shoulders and core, specific for swimming.
• Increase the difficulty by using a stronger band.
•
  M
ake the exercise easier by lowering the resistance or 
moving closer to the wall.
•
 F
ocus Point: Keep your back flat and 
elbow high. Follow your freestyle (pull) motion.
Photo 77: Bent Over Freestyle Pull Start 
Photo 78: Bent Over Freestyle Pull Middle Photo 79: Bent Over Freestyle Pull Finish

                      85 chApter 4: sAmple exerci se progr A mtrx  pe ndulum sw ings
Begin with your feet in the TRX loops and get into push-up position. Rotate 
your hips to the right and then back to the left. Get into a swinging motion. Attempt to stop your momentum on every third swing so you alternate sides. 
•
 A
reas targeted: Chest, shoulders and abdominals
•
 I
ncrease the difficulty by increasing the speed and swing
•
 M
ake the exercise easier by slowing down.
•
 Y
ou should feel the muscles in your abs, pecs, and deltoids
•
 F
ocus Point: Keep your back straight. It will be difficult to actually stop the 
motion at the apex but the attempt will stimulate your nervous system.
Photo 80: TRX Pendulum Swings


                      86
Functional Strength F or triathlete S
ch apter 5 
cu
stomize 
yo
ur  
Fs
t p
lan
© Bakke-Svensson/Ironman

                      87 chApter 5: customize your pl A nNow that you have seen what the exercises look like, you need to fit the 
various FST phases into your existing endurance training plan. These simple steps will help you customize your FST program:
st
ep 1: Schedule the training phases
st
ep 2: Choose the exercises and adjust difficulty as needed
st
ep 3: Work FST into your training schedule
Step 1: Schedule the training phases
Your plan should include all of the functional strength training phases in the order set forth in Figure 8.
Phase 1 2 3 4
 Corrective 
(Balanced Strength)Stabilization (Maximum Strength)Endurance(Lasting Strength)Power(Fast Strength)
Figure 8: Functional Strength Training Phase Progression 
If you already have a periodized training plan for endurance work, you can add 
strength training to the existing training phases. Figure 11 shows where the FST phases fit into two popular training models.
Model Training Phases
Bompa Preparation Competitive Transition
Friel Preparation Base Build Peak Race Recovery
FST Balanced 
StrengthMaximum StrengthEndurance StrengthFast Strength Rest
Figure 9: How functional strength training fits in with other training models
The adaptations stimulated by FST are both muscular (changes in muscle 
size and composition) and neuromuscular (enhanced two-way communication between the brain and the musculoskeletal system). It takes about six weeks for your muscles to adapt to a strength routine but the neuromuscular changes occur more quickly, usually in about two weeks. Each phase is beneficial even if it is shorter than six weeks.
© Bakke-Svensson/Ironman

                      88
Functional Strength F or triathlete SIf you can devote six weeks to each phase, terrific. If not, you will have to 
adjust the amount of time you spend in each of the phases. Each phase is important, but some are more crucial than others.
he
re are the guidelines: 
•
 T
he Corrective Phase is necessary as it “wakes up” your core. You should 
spend a minimum of three weeks in this phase.
•
 T
he Endurance Strength Phase is second priority (although it is the third 
phase). If time is very short, you can get by with just three weeks of corrective work and spend the rest of the time working on endurance strength. 
•
 T
he Stabilization Phase is the second phase but the third priority. It is 
especially important for those who have been sedentary for several years and women. It is also very important for ultra triathlon distance racers. If you are in one of these categories, spend at least three weeks in this phase. 
•
 T
he Power Phase is the lowest priority, and it is also the final phase. It is 
mandatory for podium chasers in any distance and off-road enthusiasts, and it is icing on the cake for ultra triathlon distance athletes. Since benefits come quickly, even a few sessions are worth doing if you can.
Step 2: Choose the Exercises and ad just 
Difficulty as 
ne
eded
The sample FST program in Chapter 4 has a selection of exercises that are suitable for most triathletes. Start with those and adjust the difficulty if needed.
The Functional Strength Training Model in Figure 10 shows what the various 
training phases look like in terms of intensity. Rather than changing the amount of weight used in the various phases, FST defines intensity by the difficulty of the exercises. So if you can only do three sets of eight, that exercise is suitable for the Maximum Strength Phase. By modifying an exercise in such a way that you can do three sets of 15, that exrcise can be done in the Endurance Phase and so on. 
The level of difficulty is determined by the type and complexity of the 
movements, adding stability and balance challenges, and the use of various forms of resistance like weighted balls, resistance bands and similar apparatus. 

                      89 chApter 5: customize your pl A nFigure 10: Functional Strength Training Model 
You should replace the exercises with new ones after six weeks, even if 
you remain in the same training phase. Changing the exercises is important because you want to keep your neuromuscular system guessing to maximize adaptation. Most of the exercises can be done in any training phase as you can see in Figure 11. Remember, it is the intensity of the exercise (level of difficulty, number of sets and repetitions) that determines which phase an exercise belongs in, not the movement itself. By altering the intensity of the exercise it can be used in any training phase. The exceptions are the plyometric exercises, which are only suitable for the Power Phase. 
Exercise Target
(abbreviated)Equipment* Training Phase exercise is found in
Swiss Ball Y Trapezius, shoulder blade stabilizersSwiss ball Corrective/Any
Swiss Ball T Trapezius, rhomboids, and shoulder blade stabilizersSwiss ball Corrective/Any
Swiss Ball W Rhomboids, upper traps, shoulder blade stabilizersSwiss ball Corrective/Any
Standing Marbles Feet, ankles, hips and glutesStanding Marbles Corrective/Any
Swiss Ball Bridge Glutes and hamstrings Swiss ball Corrective/AnyFSTPhaseCorrective Stabilization Endurance Power
Volume Depends upon area of weaknessWork up to 3 sets of 8 repetitionsWork up to 3 sets of 15-20 repetitions (or 3 sets of 30 seconds) with minimal restWork up to 3-5 sets of 2-4 repetitions done explosively
Intensity Adjusted so athlete can perform the movement correctly without compensatingAdjusted so athlete can perform the volume of movements correctly without compensatingAdjusted so athlete can perform the volume of movements correctly without compensatingPlyometrics or speed-based movements
Example using a push-up exerciseRehabilitate shoulder or core problems that prevent athlete from being able to do a push- up with proper form and without painPush-ups with hands on a Bosu™ Balance Trainer, modified as needed so athlete can barely do 3-4 sets of 8Push-ups with feet perched in a TRX suspension trainer so athlete can barely do 3 sets of 15.Push-ups done with enough momentum to allow a handclap between each. Athlete can only do a few of these.

                      90
Functional Strength F or triathlete SExercise Target
(abbreviated)Equipment* Training Phase exercise is found in
Swiss Ball Push-up Chest, abs, triceps Swiss ball Corrective/Any
Swiss Ball Plank Abdominals Swiss ball Corrective/Any
Swiss Ball Side Plank Obliques, abs, hip 
adductorsSwiss ball Corrective/Any
Hamstring Trio Glutes and hamstrings Swiss ball Strength/Any
TRX Reverse Lunge Glutes, hamstrings, quads, and calvesTRX Strength/Any
Triplanar Calf Raise Calves Step Strength/Any
Scorpion on Swiss Ball Abdominals Swiss ball Strength/Any
TRX Plank Abdominals TRX Strength/Any
Swiss Ball Row Lats, posterior deltoids, shoulder blade stabilizersSwiss ball, resistance band**Strength/Any
TRX Matrix Biceps, shoulder blade stabilizers, core rotationTRX Strength/Any
Swiss Ball Chest Press Chest, shoulders, arms Swiss ball, dumbbells Strength/Any
Resistance Band/Cable Chops (up and down)Shoulder blade stabilizers, core rotationResistance band/cableStrength/Any
TRX Back Rotation Lunge (cross lunge)Core, hips TRX Endurance Strength/Any
TRX Plank Saws Core TRX Endurance Strength/Any
TRX Atomic Push-ups Core, chest, shoulders TRX Endurance Strength/Any
TRX Rows Back, shoulders TRX Endurance Strength/Any
TRX Y.I.W. Shoulders and rotator cuff TRX Endurance Strength/Any
TRX Chest Press Chest, abdominals TRX Endurance Strength/Any
TRX Triceps Press Arms TRX Endurance Strength/Any
TRX Bicep Curl Arms TRX Endurance Strength/Any
TRX Side Step Lunge Hips, knees TRX Endurance Strength/Any
TRX Reverse (suspended) LungesHips, knees TRX Endurance Strength/Any

                      91 chApter 5: customize your pl A nExercise Target
(abbreviated)Equipment* Training Phase exercise is found in
TRX Side Plank Rotations Shoulders, core, hips TRX Endurance Strength/Any
Side Steps Hip abductors Resistance band Endurance Strength/Any
Cone Reach Feet, hips, knees, ankles Cones*** Endurance Strength/Any
Medicine Ball Cones Feet, hips, knees, ankles Medicine ball, Cones  Power
TRX SL Reverse 
(suspended) Lunge HopHips, knees, ankles TRX Power
Medicine Ball Squat Jump Hips, knees, ankles, 
shoulders, coreMedicine ball Power
Skips Coordination and running formPower
Bosu Push-up Chest, abdominals Bosu
® Balance Trainer Power
Side Step Cones Hips, knees, ankles Resistance band, 
conesPower
Medicine Ball Throws Shoulders, core Medicine ball Power
Bent Over Freestyle Pull Shoulders, core Resistance band Power/Any
TRX Pendulum Swings Chest, shoulders, 
abdominalsTRX Power
*Many of the exercises can be made more difficult by adding weights up to 20 lbs **Resistance band, tubing, cables, and sport bands can be used interchangeably. ***Cones can be substituted with other objects.
Figure 11: Summary of FST Exercises in Sample Program
You will need the equipment specified in Figure 11. Equipment is discussed in 
detail in Chapter 6. 
ad just the Level of Difficulty
Here are some guidelines to keep in mind when manipulating the intensity of the exercises. 
1. 
 D
evelop technique on stable surfaces before progressing to unstable ones. 
 D
oing a push-up with your feet and hands on the floor is much easier than 
doing it when your feet are resting on a ball. The ball makes you wobble so 
you have to use your core muscles to provide stability and balance as you 

                      92
Functional Strength F or triathlete Sdo the movement. The Functional Strength Training Phases begin with more 
stable surfaces and progress to less stable ones. Likewise, most exercises can be adapted from one phase to another by manipulating the amount of instability, among other things. Thus, you can do push-ups on the floor in the Corrective Phase, then do them on a ball in the Strength phase, and so on.
2. 
 B
egin with body weight when practical. Sometimes body weight is too 
little and sometimes it is too much. Equipment like a Swiss ball or foam roller can make you less stable and thus make exercises harder, but they can also be used to add support, making an exercise easier. If regular push-ups are too difficult, put a Swiss ball under your thighs (so you lay on the ball) and proceed that way. As you get stronger, you will be able to move the ball farther down your legs. Difficulty increases as less of your bodyweight is supported by the ball.
3. 
 T
he difficulty of a given exercise should be such that during the final set, 
you struggle mightily. You may not be able to complete it. 
4. 
 O
nce you have figured out which exercises to do and the amount of weight/
resistance to use, write it out on the blank workout card like the one in Figure 12.
Step 3:  Work FST into Your Training 
Schedule
Most triathletes would rather spend their training hours swimming, biking and running than being in the gym. Two 30-45-minute sessions per week is plenty to reap the benefits of FST. There may be times when you spend more time in the gym to rehabilitate an injury or to build an extra strength base before a particularly challenging season but that should be the exception, not the rule. 
The first time you do the exercises, it will take about 30% longer than it will 
once you get used to the exercises. Write out your planned exercises on a workout card like the one in Figure 12 or keep this book handy and mark the exercises you will do. Make notes about the modifications needed so you don’t have to figure it out again during your next workout.

                      93 chApter 5: customize your pl A nHow to combine strength and aerobic training
Time in the gym does not have to add to total training time. An appropriate 
strength training program can be used as a substitute for up to 20% of weekly endurance training with no ill effects (Mikola 2007). That means you can spend a little less time pounding your legs on the pavement and improve performance at the same time by hitting the gym, or you can reduce your training time in each discipline by about 20 minutes per week to allow for 60 minutes in the gym. 
Do endurance work first in any given training day. Research suggests that 
triathletes would benefit more from an endurance-strength brick (Chtara 2005) than doing the sessions separately or doing strength work first. Remember, a brick is doing the disciplines (usually bike to run) without rest between them. A British study examined how sequencing the order of endurance sessions and strength training sessions influenced a 4 km time trial running test. The subjects were college men who were not athletes. They did the time trial and other tests before and then after a 12-week program combining endurance and strength training in various sequences. At the end of the study, all of the subjects were faster but the ones who did the endurance-strength brick improved their speed 4% more than the group that did the strength-endurance brick. Swim in the gym‘s pool or finish your run or bike at the gym so you can go immediately into your strength work to get the maximum benefit. 
Start Conservatively
You should expect to be very sore within 1-2 days of your first session. You may wish to take a more conservative approach and on the first day, perform only one set of each exercise. This will make you less sore. Do two sets the second session and work toward three sets after that. Don’t strength train on consecutive days. You need the recovery days between sessions for the adaptations to take hold.

                      94
Functional Strength F or triathlete SFigure 12: Sample Blank Workout Card
© Bakke-Svensson/IronmanExercise Notes Wt/Reps Wt/Reps Wt/Reps Wt/Reps Wt/Reps Wt/Reps Wt/Reps Wt/Reps Wt/Reps Wt/Reps Wt/Reps Wt/Reps

ch apter 6  
equ
ipment

                      96
Functional Strength F or triathlete SAccess to a gym is nice, but most gyms are full of useless weight machines. 
Most gyms don’t have the equipment you will need. Check to see that the gym has what you need before you join. You can also equip your home with all that you need for a fraction of the cost. Refer to Figure 11 in Chapter 5 for a list of equipment that you need for each particular exercise.
Workspace 
Sure, it is great to see yourself looking lean and strong as you do your FST, but a mirror lets you see if your hips are sagging or your foot is going off in the wrong direction when you do your exercises. You don’t need a wall of mirrors, but a large, full-length mirror is a great help. You will also need some space. Don’t do your exercises close to furniture. FST training requires balance, the maximum range of motion and considerable effort so create a safe and useful workspace. Wearing headphones will help you stay focused on what you are doing and discourage family members from interrupting you.
Exercise mat
Carpets, rugs and hard flooring can make some of the exercises impossible. An exercise mat will keep you from getting rug burn and at the same time it will provide enough friction so you can hold your position. The surface of the mat should be comfortable against your skin. Get a foam or rubber mat that is relatively firm, not one that is so heavily padded that it creates instability. Brands include Airex™, Aeromat™ and GoFit™.
Equipment for Dynamic Warm-up and Self-myofascial re lease
Foam ro llerFoam Rollers come in various lengths and levels of firmness. You will need a long one, about 35”, to do your dynamic warm-up. Some of them are smooth and others are rough and require a cover to use for comfort against bare skin. A firm roller is the most versatile because it can be used both for self-myofascial release and as a surface to create instability for your strength exercises. Brands include EVA™, and PB Elite™.Textured rollers like the the Grid Roller™ and Thera-Roll ™are very effective for self-myofascial release. The texturing can be painful so start with light pressure and gradually increase it.

                      97 chApter 6: e Q uipmentStretch-out Straps
These are long nylon straps with loops at the ends and along the length. They 
allow you to put your fingers, toes and feet into the loops so you can do the active isolated stretches discussed in Chapter 1. Brands include OPTP
® and 
Altus® among others.
ma rbles
As you can see, you will never outgrow marbles. You can get them at most toy and craft stores. 
Exercise Cones
You can buy a fancy set of exercise cones or substitute other objects that are about 12 inches tall.
Equipment that Increases re sistance
WeightsIncreasing resistance is simply adding weight in the direction of movement. Dumbbells, kettlebells, and medicine balls serve this purpose while allowing a wide range of motion. Many of the exercises in the sample program can be made more difficult by adding weight up to about 20 lbs. This means that you can get by with a relatively inexpensive set of dumbbells.
The most economical and convenient way to purchase dumbbells is as a set. 
The ones that require you to add or remove plates on the end are tedious to use. You will need dumbbells in 5-pound increments, or thereabouts, from 5 to 20 pounds. At some point, you may do other exercises that require more weight.
Kettlebells are a popular alternative to dumbbells. The handle makes them easy 
to use, but they are not adjustable. Like dumbbells, they can be purchased individually or as a set. 
re
sistance Bands
There are a wide variety of resistance bands on the market. You will need a supply of these in various shapes, sizes, and resistance levels. Some of 

                      98
Functional Strength F or triathlete Sthem come in loops and some as lengths. You can often use resistance bands 
instead of dumbbells. 
Superbands look like giant rubber bands. They are 40” long and ¼ inch thick and 
come in various widths. Wider ones offer greater resistance than the narrower ones. These are ideal for squats and side-stepping exercises.
Therabands are wide, flat, thin lengths of latex that come in a large range of 
elasticity so they are ideal for adding incremental resistance. The ends can be tied together to create loops of various sizes or one end can be tied to a handrail or door knob to anchor it. These are useful for chops (shoulder to hip rotation), pulling motions, and side-stepping.
Resistance tubing comes in various thicknesses and levels of resistance. It 
usually has handles or clips at the ends so it can be anchored almost anywhere and held comfortably.
Anchoring
Some of the exercises you do with resistance bands and all of the ones done with the TRX Suspension Trainer (discussed below) require anchoring to something sturdy. The manufacturers of these products often offer doorway or wall anchors as an optional item. At first glance, these extras may seem like an unnecessary expense, but they are extremely useful and add a measure of safety (and convenience) you can’t get by improvising. Paying a bit extra for the anchoring device is usually worthwhile. A single wall-mounted anchor (like the one for the TRX) can be used for the TRX and for the various resistance tubes and bands you will use. Having anchors at various heights is a plus. 
Equipment that Creates Instability
Large inflated balls make exercises more difficult because you must keep the ball from rolling when you do exercises with it. Known as exercise balls, stability balls or the brand name, Swiss balls, these are the large, heavy-duty inflatable balls that you see being used in the Sample Program in Chapter 4. They vary in diameter from 45 to 75 cm (18 to 30 inches). Get the size recommended for your height and weight by the manufacturer. Generally, larger, softer balls are more stable than smaller, firmer ones.
A BOSU
® Balance Trainer is basically an exercise ball cut in half and put on a 
platform. It can be used with the round side up or with the round side down. 

                      99 chApter 6: e Q uipmenttrx® su spension tr ainer by Fitness Anywhere
The TRX creates instability by suspension. There are numerous exercises in 
the Sample Plan that use the TRX which consists of a pair of adjustable nylon straps with handles/foot cradles at the ends. It can be attached to virtually any tall, stable object indoors or out. Either your hands or feet go into the loops and there are hundreds of exercises that can be done using your bodyweight alone. It is easy to adjust the difficulty of the exercises by adjusting the length of the straps and the amount of bodyweight you apply. This is the most useful piece of FST equipment you can buy.
Photo 82: TRX®Suspension Trainer 
Photo provided by manufacturer 
and used with their permission.
Balance Pads
Balance Pads are thick foam pads of varying firmness that you can stand on while doing various exercises. The thicker, squishier pads are more difficult to balance on than the thinner, firmer ones. Brands include AIREX
® and Arma® 
and AeroMAT®.


                      100
Functional Strength F or triathlete S
ch apter 7 
in
juries and 
r
econditioning 
“But why run a marathon, you ask? is n’t 
it a bit of an overreaction? 
ru
nning is very 
bad for you, everyone knows that. 
it d
oes 
irreparable damage to your knees and 
lumbar vertebrae. A perfectly tolerable level of fitness can be achieved by just walking briskly for 20 minutes three times a week.”
Russell Taylor, The Looniness of the Long 
Distance Runner
© Bakke-Svensson/Ironman

                      101 chApter 7: in Juries & reconditioningThe best approach to treating injuries is to prevent them in the first place with 
FST and a sound training plan, but not every injury is preventable. You could step in a hole on a run and twist your ankle or fall off your bike. However, most of the injuries that plague triathletes come from overuse. These injuries develop when an abnormal load or stress is placed on a muscle, ligament or bone either directly or when the stability of the kinetic chain (linked body parts that create movement) is impaired due to weakness or misalignment. 
The following overuse injuries are typically seen in triathletes. We describe 
them here to give you an idea of where to start if you suffer from any of these particular issues. If you have suffered from any of these problems in the past, you can get an idea where you may need to focus more attention during your strength training.
Plantar Fasciitis
What it is: Inflammation in the ligament in the bottom of the foot that connects the heel to the toes and supports the arch of your foot. It may begin as heel or arch pain and can be debilitating. 
What causes it: Increased load through the foot from excessive inward 
(pronation) or outward (supination) roll of the foot during normal motion, or poor muscular control of the calf and hip muscles. Poor mobility through the calf that limits normal ankle motion is also a common culprit.
What to do about it: Strengthen the muscles of the foot and the hip stabilizers, 
and stretch the calf to decrease the load on the plantar fascia. Exercises that address these areas include Standing Marbles, the various forms of Cone Reaches and Lunges.
ac hilles Tendonitis (Tendinosis)
What it is: Chronic inflammation of the Achilles tendon. However, in most cases, the condition is misnamed “tendonitis” when it is actually a biochemical change in the tendon caused by abnormal forces on it. 
What causes it: Poor lower extremity mechanics and decreased coordination 
in the contraction of the calf muscle. The calf muscle controls motion when the foot is on the ground and as the body is moving over it. The muscle is 
© Bakke-Svensson/Ironman

                      102
Functional Strength F or triathlete Scontracting but being lengthened when doing so. This is called an eccentric 
contraction and when it is poorly controlled, the load on the Achilles tendon and/or calf muscles can be excessive.
What to do about it: STOP and rest. Take the load off the tendon. This is one of 
the more difficult injuries to work through. Once the pain has started to subside, perform calf raises on a step. Move up on your toes with both feet and then slowly lower yourself down on the painful side. Repeat this process of going up on both feet and down on the painful side for three sets of 15 repetitions.
Tibial Stress Syndrome
What it is: Commonly known as “shin splints,” this condition is characterized by pain and sometimes swelling along the front inside aspect
 of 
the lower leg (tibia).
What causes it: Ramping up your training too quickly is usually the culprit, but this problem can also be cause by caused by overpronation, a tight Achilles tendon or calves, and/or weak ankle muscles.
What do to about it: Reduce the intensity of your running, ice the area after 
workouts. Take an anti-inflammatory. Strengthen the feet and ankles with the exercises in the Corrective Phase and see a physical therapist to determine if there is a biomechanical problem.
Patellar Tendonitis
What it is: Patellar tendonitis is an inflammation of the tendon connecting the knee cap to the lower leg (tibia) causing pain and tenderness. 
What causes it: This is typically a chronic injury caused by overuse and poor 
biomechanics. Acute patellar tendonitis is caused by an acute blow or fall on the knee.
What to do about it: The first step in treating patellar tendonitis is rest, icing, 
and anti-inflammatory medication until symptoms subside. A therapeutic exercise program should be administered by a physical therapist to correct any biomechanical dysfunctions. 

                      103 chApter 7: in Juries & reconditioningIT Band Syndrome
What it is: The IT band (iliotibial band) is a strip of connective tissue that runs 
from the hip across the outside of the knee and inserts in the tibia. The IT band becomes inflamed when there are excessive rotational loads on the band.
What causes it: Friction and loads on the IT band increase when the hip and 
core muscles are weak. Flat feet can also contribute to the excessive inward rotation of the leg. 
What to do about it: Take the stress off the band by reducing run volume and 
increasing hip and core strength. Many of the exercises in the Sample Program address these areas. See Figure 11 in Chapter 5 for a list. Self-myofascial release with a foam roll is also helpful.
Hamstring Strain
What it is: A hamstring strain is an overstretching of the hamstring muscle or tendon. Symptoms include pain, tenderness, and swelling in the hamstring muscle in the back of the thigh.
What causes it: Hamstring strains are caused by over stretching of the muscle. What to do about it: The first step in treating hamstring strains include rest, ice 
massage, stretching, and anti-inflammatory medication. A therapeutic exercise program administered by a physical therapist will help return strength and flexibility to the muscle. In the event of a severe hamstring strain, see your doctor. 
Hip Flexor Strain
What it is: A hip flexor strain is an overstretching or overloading of the hip flexor muscle or tendon. Symptoms include pain and tenderness where the front of the thigh meets the hip bone. 
What causes it: Hip Flexor Strains are caused by overstretching of muscles that 
lift the knee and straighten the leg (iliopsoas and rectis femoris). This can be caused by cycling and running.

                      104
Functional Strength F or triathlete SWhat to do about it: The first step in treating hip flexor strains include rest, 
ice massage, stretching, and anti-inflammatory medication. A therapeutic exercise program administered by a physical therapist will help return strength and flexibility to the muscles. In the event of a severe hip flexor strain, see your doctor.
Shoulder Impingement
What it is: Impingement refers to mechanical compression and/or wear of the rotator cuff tendons. The rotator cuff is comprised of four muscles connecting the shoulder blade (scapula) to the upper part of the shoulder joint (humeral head). Normally, the rotator cuff glides smoothly between the undersurface of the acromion (a part of the shoulder blade); however, in the case of impingement, this space narrows and the tissues become irritated. 
What causes it: Anything that interferes with this normal gliding can lead to 
impingement. This can happen due to aging, overuse or an acute injury. The most common cause is poor posture and poor shoulder blade mechanics.
When the tendon weakens and degenerates due to aging, it can cause the 
formation of bone spurs and/or inflammatory tissue within the space above the rotator cuff (subacromial space). Swimming and poor running posture can lead to overuse impingements in triathletes. Acute injuries, such as falling off your bike, can create impingements too. 
What to do about it: The first step is to temporarily avoid the activities that 
seem to be causing the problem. A non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medication, such as Aleve, may also be recommended by your doctor. A therapeutic exercise program administered by a physical therapist can correct posture and treat the impingement. Surgery is usually not necessary, but if symptoms persist despite adequate non-surgical treatment, it may be beneficial. 
Getting Better and Better
Making FST part of your life will be one of the best things you ever did. Your medicine chest will get dusty and your race times will improve. You will begin to experience benefits right away, but like most things, the greatest gains come with patience and persistence. It is time to get started. 
© Bakke-Svensson/Ironman

                      105
ch apter 8  
Advanced  
exe
rcises © Bakke-Svensson/Ironman

                      106
Functional Strength F or triathlete SIntegrating mo tion
The Functional Strength Exercises in the book are recommended because 
their basic mechanics (not necessarily their appearance) corresponds to the target activities of swimming, biking and running. They are mulitplanar movements requiring stability through key transfer stations (the ankle, hip, core and shoulders) that engage kinetic chains important in triathlon (single leg propulsion and shoulder to hip rotation).
You will recall from earlier discussion that Proprioceptors are the specialized 
nerve receptors that carry sensory information from the skin, muscles and joints to the brain. They tell our brain among other things, where we are in space, how fast a joint and/or muscle is moving, how much tension a muscle and tendon is developing.
We can illustrate their importance by looking at what happens when they 
don’t work. Have you ever woken up in the middle of the night and your whole foot or leg was asleep? It is completely numb and when you stand up you can‘t feel your foot, and you don’t know where your leg is? That is what happens when the position you are sleeping in compresses a nerve and blocks the transmission of sensory information from the proprioceptors in the skin, muscles and joints to your brain. Trying to walk will be nearly impossible until you change positions so the impulses can make it back to your brain. 
In contrast, let’s look at what happens when proprioception is intact as you 
run. When your foot hits the ground the arch collapses slightly (pronation) and the ankle bends as you come over the top. This motion at the foot and ankle stimulates the pacinian corpuscles (which detect speed in the change of the joints), raffini endings (which detect change in the angle of the joint) the muscle 
spindle (which detects the length of the calf muscles) and the golgi tendons (which detect force in the Achilles tendon). All this information is sent up to your brain for processing.
Figure 13: Golgi Tendon


                      107 chApter 8: Adv A nced exercisesAfter the information is processed, signals are sent back down to the 
appropriate muscles telling them to contract. The more numerous and precise the signals coming up from the foot, the more efficient the response can be going back down to it. The Sample Program was a solid start, but now we want to work more on the finer point of integration. That is, to integrate the improved function of these proprioceptors  with the improved muscle strength and coordination you started developing with the FST Sample Program. Gary Gray, P.T., summarizes this integration as “load and explode” and it is the basis for optimal movement. In this chapter we will show you some exercises that will optimize the integration of proprioception with action.
Integration Exercises 
The following exercises are specialized movement patterns of varying degrees of difficulty that move you along various planes of motion. Their purpose is to improve muscle integration. These exercises are identified in figure 14 by the discipline they target.
Figure 14: Table of Integration Exercises by Discipline 
45 ° lunge all
90° lunge all
135° lunge all
45° lunge with arm drive all
90° lunge with arm drive all
135° lunge with arm drive all
Single leg 45° reach forward all
Single leg 45° reach back all
Single leg back reach all
Single leg side reach all
Single leg forward reach all
Single leg side reach left all
Forward Lunge all
Forward Lunge arm drive all
BosuBall long “T“ swim
BosuBall long “Y“ swim
BosuBall thoracic rotation swim

                      108
Functional Strength F or triathlete SProne BosuBall® Balance swim
Tether swimming swim
Bike Pivot Prone bike
Bike long extension start bike
Bike long extension end bike
Bike rotation bike
Bike long “Y“ bike
A skips bike
B skips run
Leg Drives run
Parachute/Bungee running run
Instructions for Integration Exercises
This group of exercises can be completed after your dynamic warm-up, before 
any of your cardiovascular work-outs or in conjunction with your strength training session. Do the discipline-specific exercises if you need an extra boost in that particular leg of the race.
The photos are self explanatory. The important thing to remember is that our 
aim is to stimulate proprioceptors. Therefore the direction  of the movement 
pattern is just as important as the execution of the movement.  
 We will start with a series of lunges and reaches that will benefit every triathlon 
discipline. They are set up in a bisected grid pattern. You can create such a pattern on the floor using masking tape set up in a congifuration with 45°, 90° and 135° angles like those in figure 13. 
Figure 15: Bisected Grid Pattern for Integration Exercises
Each one becomes more challenging as the complexity of the movement pattern increases. Make your step and lower your body weight, then spring back to the starting position, keeping in mind the concept of “load and explode”. Get into a rhythm and repeat the motion for ten repetitions then go immediately into the next exercise in the sequence. 


                      109 chApter 8: Adv A nced exercisesThe exercises that contribute to overall integration (they benefit every 
discipline) are:
•
 L
unges at various angles
•
 L
unges with arm drive
•
 Si
ngle leg reaches 
•
 F
orward lunges
mu
lti-directional lu
nges:
Photo 83: 45° Lunge
Photo 85: 135° LungePhoto 84: 90° Lunge

                      110
Functional Strength F or triathlete Smu lti-directional lu nges with arm drive:
Photo 86: 45° Lunge with Arm Drive Photo 87: 90° Lunge with Arm Drive
Photo 88: 135° Lunge with Arm Drive


                      111 chApter 8: Adv A nced exercisessi ngle-leg with reach:
Photo 87: 90° Lunge with Arm Drive
Photo 88: 135° Lunge with Arm DrivePhoto 89: Single Leg 45° with Reach Forward
Photo 90: Single Leg 45° with Reach Back


                      112
Functional Strength F or triathlete SIntegration Exercises for Swimming
Maintaining stability and body position is key to maximizing power output and 
minimizing drag in the water. Start with the arms in the position pictured but lower to the ground. The exercise is lifting the weight (or rotating the shoulders) higher off the ground. The integration exercises for swimming include:
•
 B
osuBall® “T” and “Y”
•   BosuBall® thoracic rotation
•   BosuBall® balance
•   Tether swimming (not pictured but described below)
Photo 92: BosuBall® “Y”
Photo 91: BosuBall® “T”

                      113 chApter 8: Adv A nced exercisesPhoto 93: BosuBall® thoracic rotation
Photo 94: BosuBall® Balance

                      114
Functional Strength F or triathlete Ste ther sw imming
The strength building exercises commonly prescribed for swimmers are 
pathetically inadequate because they focus on shoulder strength while ignoring the real powerhouse, body rotation. Tether swimming is an excellent tool for integrating the functional strength you have developed in the gym. When swimming against a tether (which is fastened at your waist and anchored to a handrail or something behind the swimmer) you encounter resistance in every phase of the swimming movement, including body rotation. 
That said, it is important to use tether swimming carefully. Start out with just a 
few repetitions (maybe 3 sets of 50 strokes) and build slowly to longer set of up to 200 strokes/repetitions. Use the tether no more than once a week for short periods, the same as you would do short running intervals at very high speed. 
us
e the right tether
A tether should create resistance as you move forward in your normal swimming position. Getting the body position right is complicated because triathletes wear wetsuits on race day. So ideally, a triathlete will practice often in a wetsuit and will wear the wetsuit while doing tether work too. If that isn’t practical, then a tether that allows you to swim in a wetsuit-like body position is best. 
Some tether systems attach at the foot or ankle. These discourage a motor-like 
kick which is an added benefit for triathletes that have not yet learned to use their legs judiciously during the swim.
Other tethers fasten at the waist. The ones that have a single attachment in 
the center of the back allow free body rotation. Swimmers that need to develop their rotational power may consider a system that attaches on each side of the waist like the AquaVee
® which creates resistance during the rotation phase.
Some tethers also have f lotation in the attachment belt. This improves body position for most swimmers, moving them closer to the optimal wetsuit-like position.
The anchoring system must be such that the swimmer applies force in the 
correct direction. There are various anchoring systems for swim tethers. Some of them attach to a pole at the end of the pool, others attach to the side of the pool or to the lane lines (StretchCordz Stationary Swim Trainer). A tether that is anchored above the swimmer is not as effective as one that is anchored directly behind him because a tall anchor point will resist movement forward and down as in Photo 95. 

                      115 chApter 8: Adv A nced exercisesFigure 16: Direction of Force applied with tether anchored above swimmer
Some tethers aren’t anchored at all. Rather they attach the swimmer to a small 
parachute which opens as the swimmer moves forward. If you have a buddy, you can tether to another swimmer so you can engage in a tug of war. The tug of war is effective for both of the attached swimmers, no matter what their skill level. The longer the tug of war lasts, the better the workout. 
Photo 95 : StretchCordz®Short Belt Tether. Photo provided by and use with permission of manufacturer“.
Direction of force applied with tether anchored high above the water line (not optimal).
Direction of force applied when swimmingwithout a tether (optimal).


                      116
Functional Strength F or triathlete SIntegration Exercises for Cycling
Power for cycling comes from strong rotational core control on each pedal 
stroke. You will increase power to your legs by maintaining stability and support through the opposite arm and shoulder. Try these exercises during those long winter months when you are stuck on the trainer.
•
 B
ike pivot prone 
•
 B
ike rotation
•
 B
ike long extension
•
 B
ike long “Y”
•
 Si
ngle-leg pedaling (not pictured but described below)
Photo 96: Bike Pivot Prone
Photo 97: Bike Rotation

                      117 chApter 8: Adv A nced exercises
Photo 99: Bike Long “Y”Photo 98: Bike Long Extension


                      118
Functional Strength F or triathlete Ssin gle–leg pedaling
Single-leg pedaling teaches you to apply pressure through the entire pedaling cycle and it also teaches you to apply more power with your less dominant leg. Your cycling shoes will tell a story if you let them. Remove the insole and examine it to see which leg you push harder with. Just imagine how much faster you could be if you got your other leg on board.
The secret to single leg pedaling is to work into it gradually and to choose 
the right gearing. In the beginning it is more important to stay engaged with the pedal for the entire 360° spin than it is to pedal fast or generate a lot of power. If the tension is too light (gear is too easy) you will have trouble moving quickly enough to keep tension on the pedals during the upstroke.If it is too hard (gear is too high) you will be able to stay connected but your muscles will overload very quickly. Find the sweet spot between the extremes that allows you to practice full revolutions. Start with just 10 with each leg then increase until you can do 30 seconds easily with one leg.
This is an exercise you can do on the road as well. I find that it is easier to 
work into this drill by starting with a higher gear on a slight decline. This way the rotation speed is slower and less power is required because of the slight downhill.

                      119 chApter 8: Adv A nced exercises
Photo 101: B Skips
Photo 102: Leg DrivesIntegration Exercises 
for 
ru
nning
Efficient running requires coordinated movement 
of your head, shoulders, arms, trunk, hips knees, ankles and feet. The following exercises will help refine the integration of these components to increase your speed, power and strength to get you up those challenging hills and through the finishing chute. 
•  
 S
kips – There are two versions of this. A skips 
are done with a bent knee and B skips are 
done with a straight leg.
•   
 L
eg drives
•
 R
esisted running (not pictured but described 
below)Photo 100: A Skips


                      120
Functional Strength F or triathlete Sre sisted r unning
Runners practicing for the famous and extreme “Badwater” ultramarathon are 
known to drag heavy ropes, chains and even tires behind them as they train. Because the runner is having to pull the object behind him it seems that this would be a very functional exercise but having something that is tether at the waist (or shoulders) requires the runner to apply force in a slightly uphill direction. This is not how force is applied in normal running. 
If you really want a functional running workout, attach yourself to a parachute 
which trails behind you or a resistance-band (or bungee) tether anchored so that you will have to apply force forward (not upward) in order to propel yourself. 
If you are training with others, the runner can pull against a buddy holding the 
tether. This high-intensity workout will help bring you to the next level in running.
The tether can also be reversed so that the runner is pulled forward (“speed 
assisted”), forcing his legs to turnover more quickly than is natural for him. This imprints faster movement patterns and is also beneficial. 


                      121
ch apter 9  
Ask the 
ex
pert© Bakke-Svensson/Ironman

                      122
Functional Strength F or triathlete SQuestion: 
Why does form matter so much in strength training?
Practice doesn’t make perfect. Perfect practice makes perfect. If you don’t do 
the movement correctly you are simply reinforcing poor movement patterns. You may get fatigued but you won’t change or improve anything. You have to do the exercises correctly in order to establish a functionally strong movement pattern. The most common correction I make is telling people to keep their hips up when they do certain exercises. Without fail, doing them with proper form is significantly more difficult, so if you think a particular exercise is easy, you are probably doing it wrong. That is one of the reasons it is so important to do the exercises in front of a full length mirror. Be sure to check your form.
Question: 
tr
iathletes get little niggles all the time. At what point should an athlete seek 
medical help with pain? shou
ld they go to their doctor or to a physical therapist?
Triathletes should seek help when performance is impacted. When you can’t 
complete a workout because of pain, especially for a couple of days in a row, then it is time to see someone. 
I think that many athletes don’t realize that they can make an appointment 
with a physical therapist directly. Since doctors and physicial therapists work closely together, you will be directed appropriately no matter who you go to first. If you have a nagging issue (as opposed to suffering an accident like a fall) it may be more direct to go to a physical therapist first.  
Question: 
Why go to a phyisical therapist rather than simply rest, ice and take aspirin? 
First of all, we know that triathletes aren’t very good at resting. Even if they 
take a few days off, they will be back at it soon, probably too soon. The most common type of injury sustained by a triathlete is an overuse injury. When you let the area rest, it produces scar tissue as it heals. When the athlete gets back to training, the scar tissue reduces the suppleness of the structure so it doesn’t function as well as it once did. Other parts of the body compensate for this reduced function and now you are compensating with other muscles and you are on your way to creating an overuse injury somewhere else.
Treating the injury early will reduce the amount of scar tissue and will allow 
the area to heal in a way that will restore it to full function as much as 

                      123 chApter 9: As K the expertpossible. With select therapy the whole kinetic chain is targeted by exercise so 
that the entire system will be more robust. Physical therapy provides a more comprehensive and long term solution than rest and aspirin.
Question: 
the
re are plenty of triathletes that never set foot in a gym. Are they courting 
disaster?I wouldn’t use the word “disaster” so much as “limitation”. At some point every 
triathlete will encounter a weakness that will limit his ability to train and race. Some athletes, especially the younger ones, can go on for a while without being sidelined but eventually time will catch up with them and they will have to take steps to correct problems that have grown worse with time and age. I prefer to say that FST will prolong a triathlete’s participation.
Question: 
the 
utility of running shoes has become a subject of controversy. What do you 
think about
 
“minimalist shoes“, barefoot running and the like?
 
There are third-world countries where people are running significant mileage barefoot, simply because they don‘t own shoes. As such, I‘m not going to say that running barefoot is bad. However, most people who will be reading this book have probably been wearing shoes for most of their life and to suddenly go to a minimalist shoe or to barefoot for a run may be a recipe for disaster because it is so much different than what they are used to, setting them up for injury. I also find that the athletes most attracted to this approach are those that feel that their running needs a lot of improvement so they are a vulnerable population to begin with. 
That said, I have people train in minimalist shoes or barefoot on soft surfaces 
for the purpose of training their running mechanics. If you run on the beach, you can run in the soft sand or the hard, wet sand next to the water. Soft-sand running is difficult because the surface gives way when you apply pressure so it really forces you to be light on your feet if you want to move forward. The wet, hard sand at the water’s edge is much easier but be careful to avoid running on a canted surface. Sand running has been studied to some degree on trotter horses and at least for them, running on a soft surface shortens stride length and increases stride frequency.
I think there are some definite opportunities for improved function with the 
right type of barefoot training. What is the right kind? Think of barefoot running 

                      124
Functional Strength F or triathlete Sas technique work rather than conditioning. Expose yourself to it regularly for 
short periods of time. Allow your body plenty of time to adjust and “learn” this new way of running. Take it in steps. 
Step 1:  They say you have to walk before you can run and I think that also 
applies to barefoot running. Start with walking barefoot more often. Indeed, the 
value of walking around the house and your yard, maybe taking your shoes off in the park, isn’t stressed enough. You need to toughen your feet. There is no benefit to trying to run barefoot if you can’t even walk across the street without being in pain. You aren’t ready to run barefoot until you can walk barefoot outdoors for a while in comfort. 
Step 2: Start running barefoot once or twice a week, going short distances at an 
easy pace. You can make barefoot running part of your warm-up if you like. That 
means 5 minutes per session during the first week, then try for 10 minutes the next week. Over time build to 30 minutes. Run with shoes the rest of the time. 
Step 3:  Stay with this for a while and if you don’t have any problems, consider 
moving to a lighter version of the shoe you are now using rather than jumping 
to a super-minimal moccasin-type of shoe. It is important to understand your own running mechanics, whether you are an early pronator, a heel striker,  etc. You can probably find a lighter weight shoe that will address your particular issues more moderately. Do most of your running in these shoes and see how it goes. 
Step 4: If the lighter shoe works well and you want to continue your progression 
to barefoot, the next step is trying some Vibrams or other super-minimal shoes. 
Start with wearing them twice a week for short sessions and progress from there.
Question: 
What about all of the various straps, braces and supports you see runners wear. 
do t
hose do any good?
If you are uncomfortable enough to be looking for something like this then there is a problem that should to be addressed. It may be a functional impairment, a muscle imbalance, inflammation or damage to a musculoskeletal structure. In any case, it is unlikely that such a device will solve your problem over the long term. See a physical therapist first to diagnose the problem. 
You can think of braces and tape as working two different ways. One, they 
provide external support and that is appropriate after surgery or after more 

                      125 chApter 9: As K the expertsevere ligament sprains. Braces limit the range of motion in certain directions to 
allow the affected area to heal. Rigid ankle supports are a good example of these. 
The other way these devices work is to provide sensory feedback so you have 
improved muscle function and control. Kinesiology taping is a good example. Tape is flexible and allows a full range of motion. You can apply it yourself if you have been properly trained to do so. 
What is interesting about taping is that part of the benefit is psychological. An 
athlete in pain always feels better when the tape is applied. It is like a “hug” that makes the painful area feel better. The athlete feels the sensation of support and thus is more relaxed and less fearful of movement so he moves better.
Question: 
do c
ompression garments like calf sleeves do any good?
Research has demonstrated that compression garments are somewhat effective 
during recovery but not as a performance enhancer. I think the research community is still in the process of figuring out why so many athletes feel better wearing them. There are many variables to look at how tight the garment is, what materials are used, what kind of performance is tested (100 yard dash vs. marathon). I also think they have not been testing the right kind of athlete. I find that older athletes that have been competing and training hard for many years seem to benefit the most from compression wear. I would not be suprised if the years of high performance take a toll on the structure of the muscles, leaving many little scars and irregularities that act up under certain stresses like running. The compression sleeves may stabilize these damaged areas so they don‘t get as irritated by the pounding of running. Preventing muscle cramps and muscle irritation is a huge benefit for athletes prone to them, but that role for compression wear isn‘t being tested yet. Perhaps it is a placebo effect or it could be similar to the benefits of kinesio taping in that it provides a certain sensory input to an area that the athlete feels is vulnerable and thus the compression makes him feel more relaxed and confident. I am a big proponent of them. I think they also help with damping down the vibration that occurs with each foot strike, especially on hard surfaces. 
Question: 
ho
w should an athlete fuel himself before, during or after a strength session?
There is no benefit to going into a strength session hungry but having a full 
stomach won’t be comfortable either so fuel for your strength work just as you 

                      126
Functional Strength F or triathlete Swould for intense aerobic work. You should have a meal before you get into 
the gym but wait long enough that your stomach won’t get upset. You won’t be spending much time in the gym but you will be expending plenty of effort and it is crucial that you maintain form for these exercises. Going through the motions isn’t good enough.
Fueling up after your strength workout is crucial. If you follow our advice and 
do bricks consisting of aerobic work followed immediately by strength work, your muscles will be depleted at the end of the workout. You need to refill your glycogen stores quickly so you can give a good effort to your workout the following day, and you also need to provide your body what it needs to repair your damaged muscles and get stronger.
It is best to consume a few hundred calories of carbohydrate in the first 20 
minutes after your workout. The guideline is .3-.6 grams of carbohydrate per pound of body weight. So a 150 lb athlete should consume 45-90 grams of carbohydrate (180-360 calories). Protein should comprise about 25% of those calories. As a practical matter, you should have protein and carbohydrate snacks available to you as soon as you finish your workout, so plan ahead. It is also important to continue eating adequate protein for up to 4 hours after your strength workout.
Question: 
When 
i
 come here to train i
 notice that nearly every patient does the marching 
exercise. Why is that?
I prescribe the marching exercise (see photo 31. Hamstring trio march p. 53) to 
nearly every patient that comes to see me because it is an essential movement pattern that is seen in activities of daily living like walking, as well as in athletes that run or pedal their bikes. One of the reasons I prescribe it almost universally is that most people have compromised function in their hips and glutes because we all sit too much. 
They say that an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. Aside from 
engaging regularly in a functional strength training program, sitting less is one of the best ways to preserve functional fitness. The problem is that we have become slaves to our computer screens. We have to use our computers at work and we choose to use them in our leisure time too.
Studies have shown that prolonged sitting actually shortens life and 
interestingly, that getting lots of exercise does not counteract this effect. Aside 

                      127 chApter 9: As K the expertfrom effecting cardiovascular health, prolonged sitting impacts your posture by 
causing your soft tissue structures to shorten. Spending lots of uninterrupted time in this position causes the posture to solidify in this stooped position and it impairs movement patterns. 
Let‘s look at what happens to an athlete that sits most of the day. Sitting 
activates the hip flexors and relaxes the glutes. The hip flexors shorten and get tight while the glutes stretch and get weaker. At the computer, his hands are in front of him and his shoulders are rounded. His neck is forward rather than being upright and balanced on his shoulders. This goes on for hour after hour, day after day. Then that same person goes out for a bike ride and spends 4 or 5 hours on their aerobars with their hands out in front of them and their shoulders rounded again. When they get into the pool to swim they are prime candidates for impingement problems in the shoulders. When they run their hips and glutes don’t function well and voilà, they run slow and they get injured. On the bike that person will be less effective in generating propulsion. So if your posture is compromised, you won’t be nearly the triathlete that you could be.
The easiest and most effective solution is simple: just stand up every 15 
minutes. That’s pretty easy. Straightening out on a regular basis will help tremendously. Lift the chest and chin, put the shoulders back, and take a deep 
breath. It only takes 10 seconds and it helps a lot.
It is also important to have your screen 
positioned high enough that you look straight at it rather than looking down. Likewise, your keyboard should be close to your body so your shoulders can be back rather than rolled forward as you type.
Photo 103: Trekdesk (left). Image provided and used 
with permission of the manufacturer
Sitting on a Swiss Ball for a while each 
day can help too, but in the best of all possible worlds, we would all have workstations attached to treadmills, like the “Trekdesk” pictured in photo 103. These devices are marketed primarily as weight control devices 


                      128
Functional Strength F or triathlete Sbut the benefits go far beyond that. Set the speed very slow, in the realm of 
1 or 2 miles per hour as you work. This is slow enough that you won’t break a sweat and the walking will be almost unconscious. Desk jockeys can cover more than 25 miles per week this way. 
Question: 
is r
unning with weights a functional exercise? 
Carrying extra weight during activity provides a cardiovascular challenge. The 
added weight increases the amount of effort your muscles make, the amount of energy they use and the speed at which they consume oxygen. This does not improve movement patterns like FST does. 
Now you might say that running with extra weight must be a functional strength 
move because you are doing the thing you want to improve (rather than isolating just one component of it). This is true but if you carry weight when you run, the resistance is only increased in one direction: movement up and down. This is true whether you carry the weight in your hands, put it on your ankles (which is awful for your knees and hip joints by the way) or wear a weighted vest.
Figure 17: Why a weighted vest is not a 
functional exercise for running
Running against a tether or a 
parachute are effective ways to add resistance to running. Either method will build running strength and power. Running against resistance is excellent for building running strength and power. Tether exercises are among the advanced exercises described in Chapter 9.


Appendix A  
Functional s
trength 
Assessment© Bakke-Svensson/Ironman

                      130
Functional Strength F or triathlete SThe best FST program is one that is designed around your goals and current 
abilities. This test will only take a few minutes and is designed to find areas of weakness that are relevant to swimming, biking, and running. As a triathlete, you probably feel confident that you are reasonably fit and strong but chances are good that you will find some problem areas.
Use the results of this test to help you plan your Functional Strength Program. 
If you pass the test, you need only spend a week or two in the Corrective Phase. If you fail in multiple areas, you will have to invest more time in the Corrective Phase.
The Sample Program already targets all of the areas tested in this assessment. 
However, you should make sure that each Functional Strength Training Phase includes more than one exercise that focuses on your problem areas. If you have to add more exercises to address an area of weakness, feel free to do so. Use Figure 11 in Chapter 5 to find appropriate exercises.
This test has three parts:
1.
 S
trength Assessment
2. B
alance Assessment
3. F
lexibility Assessment
How to perform the test:•
 A
ll movements should be done with your shoes off in front of a large 
mirror. 
•
 Y
ou will need an armless chair or bench and a doorway.
•
 E
ach movement must be done correctly to receive a passing mark.
•
 I
f you can only do the movement in a compromised position, we call that 
a “compensation.” The compensation indicates an area of weakness that needs attention. The muscle groups that need attention are indicated on the corresponding chart. Exercises for those muscle groups can be found in Chapter 4.
•
 U
se the chart to evaluate yourself as you do the movement. 
•
 I
t is helpful to have a partner who can assist you.

                      131 AppendixTest # 1: 
STrE
nG
TH aS
SESSmE
n
T
si ngle leg sq uat
The single leg squat tests strength while standing 
on a single leg. This is important because both running and cycling require bipedal strength.
Procedure: Perform the movement facing a full 
length mirror. Position an armless chair or bench behind you and stand in front of it as if you were going to sit down.
Position:
1.
 S
tand with your feet shoulder width apart, 
hands on your hips and eyes focused on an object straight ahead. 
2.
 F
eet should be pointed straight 
forward with your foot, ankle, knee, and hips in a neutral position. 
3.
 R
aise one foot a few inches 
off the floor in front of you with a straight knee.
Movement:4.
 S
quat to a 
comfortable level, then return to starting position.
5.
 P
erform five repetitions, 
then switch legs. 
Photo 104: Single Leg Squat Passing
Photo 105: Single Leg Squat Fail

                      132
Functional Strength F or triathlete Sco re s trength
This test has four positions. It is best to have a partner view you from the side 
to look for compensations. 
po
sition 1 – 
pla
nk 
Position:•
 P
erform a plank by bringing your body up onto your elbows and toes. Do 
not let the hips sag nor allow them to be higher than your shoulders.
Photo 106: Plank Pass
Photo 107: Plank FailStrength 
TestCorrect movement looks like…OKLeft?OKRight?If the athlete compensates with…Then the cause is Tight Musculature…and/or Weak Musculature
Single Leg SquatNeutral foot Ankle and foot rolls inward, foot flattens Calf Arch musculature
Knee forward &over footKnees move inwardHip, hamstrings,quadricepsGluteus muscles,quadriceps
Even hips Hip drop N/A Gluteus medius 
Vertical trunk Trunk sway Hips, hamstrings, quadricepsGluteus muscles,quadriceps


                      133 Appendixpo sition 2 – pla nk with leg lift
Position: 
•
 Pe
rform a plank by bringing your body up onto your elbows and toes. Do 
not let the hips sag nor allow them to be higher than your shoulders.
Movement:•
 L
ift up your right leg off the floor without twisting your body or your hips. 
Return to the starting position, then pick up your left leg. 
•
 K
eep your body in a straight line. Do not let your hips sag.
•
 R
eturn to the starting position, then repeat, lifting the right leg.
Photo 108: Plank with leg lift Pass
Photo 109: Plank with leg lift Fail

                      134
Functional Strength F or triathlete Spo sition 3 – pla nk with arm reach
Position: 
•
 P
erform a plank by bringing your body up onto your elbows and toes. Do 
not let the hips sag nor allow them to be higher than your shoulders.
Movement:•
 R
each your right arm forward. Return to starting position and reach your 
left arm forward. 
•
 K
eep your body in a straight line. Do not let your hips sag.
•
 R
eturn to the starting position, then repeat, lifting the right arm.
po
sition 4 – 
pla
nk with arm reach and leg lift
Position: •
 P
erform a plank by bringing your body up onto your elbows and toes. Do 
not let the hips sag nor allow them to be higher than your shoulders.
Movement:•
 R
each your right arm forward and lift your left leg up. 
• H
old the position, keeping your body in a straight line. Do not let your hips sag. 
•
 R
eturn to starting position, then reach your left arm forward and lift your 
right leg up.
Core Strength Tests Correct movement looks 
like……OK? If the athlete compensates 
with…
Plank with Full Body RotationStraight back Sagging back
Body remains aligned from line shoulder to footDropping hip to floor
Plank with Right/Left Leg Lift Straight back Arched back 
No lateral shift Lateral shift left
No trunk rotation Left/right trunk rotation
Plank with Right/Left Arm ReachStraight back Arched back 
No lateral shift Lateral shift left
No trunk rotation Left /right trunk rotationLeft/right scapular winging
Plank with Right Arm Reach & Left/Right Leg LiftStraight back Arched back 
No lateral shift Lateral shift right
No trunk rotation Left /right trunk rotation


                      135 Appendix
Photo 110: Plank with Arm Lift and Leg Lift Pass   P hoto 111: Plank with Arm lift and Leg Lift Fail

                      136
Functional Strength F or triathlete STest # 2: 
Ba
La
nC
E 
aS
SESSmEnT
si ngle leg B alance te st
Begin standing on the floor with your feet facing forward.
Movement:
•
 L
ift one foot off the floor about 3 inches and see how long you can keep 
your balance.
•
 R
epeat with opposite foot.
BALANCE TEST Leg tested How long can you keep 
your balance?Balance time to 
pass this test
Single Leg Balance Test Left Leg 30-60 seconds
Right Leg 30-60 seconds
Single Leg Balance Test (with eyes closed)Left Leg 30-60 seconds
Right Leg 30-60 seconds


                      137 AppendixTest # 3: 
FLEXIBILITY aSS
ESSmEnT
straight le g rai se
The straight leg raise assesses hamstring flexibility.
Starting Position:
•
 B
egin by lying on your back in a doorway with both legs straight. Hip 
should be aligned with the door jamb. 
Movement:•
 P
erform a straight leg raise, keeping the opposite leg flat on the ground 
and the leg in the air straight with the foot flexed (not pointed). 
Views:•
 T
his test should be viewed from the side. 
FLEXIBILITY TEST Correct motion is… If the athlete compensates 
with…Then it 
indicates…
Straight Leg Raise Foot of the straight, raised leg should be able to touch the door jambFoot unable to reach the door jambHamstring tightness
Photo 112: Straight Leg Raise Pass
Photo 113: Straight Leg Raise Fail

                      138
Functional Strength F or triathlete SIndex   
a   
A
bdominals 24, 85, 90
 
A
ctive Isolated Stretching 13
Aerobars 127
Aerobic Training 93Anchoring, suspension trainer 98Anchoring, tether 114Angels 42Ankle support 125Atomic push-up 65, 90
B
Back Rotation Lunge 63, 90Backstroke 42Balance 96, 98-99, 108Balance assesment 136Barefoot running 123Bench Press 11Bicep Curl 71, 90Bike, exercises for (see also Cycling) 25, 33, 108, 116Biomotor abilities 30BosuBall 107, 112BosuBall Push-up 81, 89, 91Brick, aerobic and strength 38, 93, 126Bungee running exercise 108, 120
C
Cable chops 62, 90Calf roll out 43Calf sleeve 125Calories 126Chest Press 21, 69, 90Compression garments 125Cone reach 76, 91Cones 76, 77, 79, 82, 91, 97Cook, Gray 23Core, muscles comprising 15, 23-24, 38, 43Corrective exercise 38, 43Corrective phase 38, 44, 102, 130Cycling 112, 130
D
Drinking bird 15
E
Endurance Exercise 63, 90Endurance Strength 39, 90Energy Leak 23Equipment 95Exercise matt 96
F
Foam roller 21, 43, 92, 96Freestyle pull 84, 91FST 10Fueling for strength workout 126Functional strength 10Functional strength training phases 36
G
Glutes (gluteus maximus) 47Gluteus medius 23, 122Golgi tendon 106
H
Hamstring stretch 20, 35Hamstring trio 52Heel strike 124Hills 33, 119Hip flexor 16, 103, 127
I
Inch worm 18Injury 101Injury rates 32Injury, prevention of 23, 31Instability 23, 25, 92, 96, 98Integration exercises 107Ironman 32, 125IT band (Illiotibial band) 13, 21, 43, 103
J
Jumping 124
K
Kettlebells 97Kinesio taping 125Kinetic chain 23, 27, 101, 106, 123
L
Leg cradle 14Longevity in sport 32Lunge exercises 17, 54, 62, 63, 72, 73, 78Lunge hop 78, 91Lunge, Integration 109

                      139 Appendixm
M
arbles 47, 89, 97, 101
Matrix 60, 90
Medicine Ball 79, 97Medicine ball cones 72Medicine ball throws 83Minimalist, running shoes 123Mirror 96, 122, 130Muscle Cramps 35, 125
n
N
euromuscular enrichment 26
Neuromuscular stimulation 33, 37Neuromuscular system 13, 26, 89
o
O
veruse injury 21, 25, 31, 37, 101, 122
PPacinian Corpuscles 106Patellar Tendonisis 102Pendulum exercise 85, 91Physical Therapist, when to see 13, 37, 102Planes of motion 12, 107Plank exercises 50, 58, 64, 74, 90, 132Plank, arm reach 134Plank, leg lift 64, 133Plantar fasciitis 101Plyometrics 39, 78, 89Power and running 119Power and swimming 112Power, exercises for 77Pronation 101, 102, 106Proprioception Proprioceptors 23, 106, 108Protein, fueling 126
Q
Quadriceps 14, 132
r
R
affini Endings 106
Range of Motion 13, 19, 21, 25, 37, 38Recovery 40, 87, 93, 125Resisted running 119, 120Resistance Band 47, 59, 62, 75, 82, 83, 88, 97, 120Reverse Lunge 54, 90Roll outs, calf 43Roll outs, IT band 43Running injuries 102, 103, 104Running strength 128, 131Running, exercises for 78, 80, 108, 112
S
Sand running 123Sitting, ill effects of 126Speed 30, 39, 77, 93, 119Suspension Trainer 27, 98
T
TRX 27, 54, 58, 60, 63, 74, 78, 89-91, 99Tibial stress syndrome 102Training phase 36Transfer Station 23, 27, 106Trekdesk 127Triceps press 70, 90Trigger point 21Triplanar 11, 23, 27Triplanar calf raise 55, 90
W
 
W
arm-up 13, 42, 96
Weakness, sitting and 126
Weight 92, 98, 108, 126Weight training, traditional 97Wind 34World’s greatest stretch 16

                      140
Functional Strength F or triathlete SSources
Aspenes, S., Kjendlie, P., Hoff, J., Hlegerud, J. (2009). Combined strength and endurance 
training in competitive swimmers. Journal of Sports Science and Medicine. 8, 357-365.
Bompa, T.O. (1977) Endurance Training. Retrieved from 
http://www.southaustinsteel.com/resources/endurance_training.htm. July 2011.Bompa, T.O. Strength, Muscular Endurance and Power in Sports. Retrieved from http://
www.coachr.org/strength_muscular_endurance_and_power_in_sports.htm. July 2011.
Chtara, M., Chamari, K., Chaouachi, M., Chaouachi, A., Kouboa, D., Feki, Y., Millet, G.P., 
Amri, M. (2005). Effects of intra-session concurrent endurance and strength training sequence on aerobic performance and capacity. British Journal of Sports Medicine 
39:555-560.
Dudley, G.A., Fleck, S.J.(1987). Strength and endurance training. Are they mutually 
exclusive? Sports Medicine. 4 (2):79-85.
Fridén, J., Kjorell, U., and L-E. Thornell. (1984). Delayed muscle soreness and cytoskeletal 
alterations: an immunocytological study in man. International Journal of Sports 
Medicine. 5 :15-18.
Girold, S., Maurin, D., Dugué, B., Chatard J.C., Millet G. (2007).Effects of dry-land vs. resisted- and assisted-sprint exercises on swimming sprint 
performances.  Journal of Strength Conditioning Research. 21 (2):599-605.
Girold, S., Calmels, P., Maurin, D., Milhau, N., Chatard, J.C. (2006). Assisted and resisted 
sprint training in swimming. Journal of Strength Conditioning Research. 20 (3):547-54.
Hickson, R.C., Dvorak, B.A., Gorostiaga, E.M., Kurowski,T.T., Foster, C.(1988).Potential for strength and endurance training to amplify endurance performance.Journal of Applied Physiology.65 (5):2285-90.
Hoff, J., Gran, A., Helgerud, J. (2002) Maximal strength training improves aerobic 
endurance performance. Scandinavian Journal of Medical Science and Sports. 
12(5):288-95.
Hoffman J.(2002). Resistance Training and Injury Prevention . American College of Sports 
Medicine Current Comment.
Jobst, B. ( 2004). Headwinds, Crosswinds and Tailwinds. Retrieved from http://www.sheldonbrown.com/brandt/wind.html. July 2011.Korkia,P.K. (1994) An epidemiological investigation of training and injury patterns in 
British triathletes. British Journal of Sports Medicine 28: 191-196.
Lepers, R., Sultana, F., Bernard, T., Hausswirth, C., Brisswalter, J. (2010). Age-related 
changes in triathlon performances. I nternational Journal of Sports Medicine. 31 (4):251-6.
Logan, W., McKinney, G. (1970). Kinesiology . Brown Publishing. 
McGuine, T.A., Greene, J.J., Best, T., Leverson, G.,(2000). Balance As a Predictor of 
Ankle Injuries in High School Basketball Players. Clinical Journal of Sport Medicine. 10(4):239-244.
Migliorini, S. (2011). Risk Factors and injury mechanism in Triathlon. Journal of Human 
Sport & Exercises. 6 (2):309-312.
Millet, G.P., Jaouen, B. Borrani, F. et al. (2002). Effects of concurrent endurance and 
strength training on running economy and VO2 kinetics. Medical Science of Sports 
Exercise. 34 :1351-9.
Paavolainen, L., Häkkinen, K., Hämäläinen, I., Nummela, A., Rusko, H. (1999).Explosive-
strength training improves 5-km running time by improving running economy and muscle power. Journal of Applied Physiology. 86 (5):1527-33.

                      141 AppendixPlisk, S. Functional Training. Retrieved from http://www.nsca-lift-org July 2011.
Schwellnus, M.P., (2007). Muscle cramping in the marathon; Aetiology and risk factors. 
Sports Medicine. 37 (4-5), 364-7.
Sulzer, N.U., Schwellnus, M.P. & Noakes, T.D. (2005). Serum electrolytes in Ironman 
triathletes with exercise-induced muscle cramping. Medicine & Science in Sports and 
Exercise. 37 (7), 1081-5.
Sale, D.G. (1988). Neural adaptation to resistance training. Medical Science of Sports 
Exercise. 20 (5 Suppl):S135-45.
Sale, D.G., Jacobs, I., MacDougall, J.D., Garner, S. (1990). Comparison of two regimens 
of concurrent strength and endurance training. Medical Science of Sports Exercise. 
22(3):348-56.
Saunders, P.U., Telford, R.D., Pyne, D.B., Peltola,E.M., Cunningham,R.B., Gore, C.J, 
Hawley, J.A. (2006). Short-term plyometric training improves running economy in highly trained middle and long distance runners. J ournal of Strength Conditioning 
Research. 20 (4):947-54.
Spennewyn, K. (2008). Strength Outcomes in Fixed Versus Free-Form Resistance 
Equipment. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research 22 (1):75-81.
Tanaka,H., Swensen,T. (1998). Impact of resistance training on endurance performance: 
A new form of cross-training? Sports Medicine. 25 (3):191-200.
Vleck,V., Bentley, D., Millet, G., Cochrane, T. (2010). Triathlon Event Distance 
Specialization: Training and Injury Effects. Journal of Strength and Conditioning 
Research. (24) 1:30-6. 
Wagner, T., Behnia, N., Ancheta, W.K., Shen, R., Farrokhi, S., Powers, C.M. (2010). 
Strengthening and neuromuscular reeducation of the gluteus maximus in a triathlete with exercise-associated cramping of the hamstrings. Jounral of Orthopedic Sports 
Physical Therapy. 40 (2):112-9.
Yamamoto, L.M., Lopez, R.M., Klau, J.F., Casa, D.J., Kraemer, W.J., Maresh, C.M. (2008). 
The effects of resistance training on endurance distance running performance among highly trained runners: a systematic review. Journal of Strength Conditioning Research. 22(6):2036-44.
Yamamoto, L,M,, Klau, J.F., Casa, D,J,, Kraemer, W.J., Armstrong, L.E., Maresh, C.M. 
(2010). The effects of resistance training on road cycling performance among highly trained cyclists: a systematic review. Journal of Strength Conditioning Research. 
24(2):560-6.
Photo & Illustration Credits:
Cover Photo: dpa – Picture Alliance
Cover Design: Sabine GrotenExercise Photos: Arin Gilmer

 Paul Collins
DYNAMIC DUMBBELL TRAINING
Paul Collins` Dynamic Dumbbell Training and 3-Stage 
Dynamic Dumbbell Training System is aimed at improving everyday lifestyle and athletic movement patterns. Learn how to increase muscular size, strength, balance and coordination and explosive power for improving athletic performance.
 272 pages, full-color print
490 photos, 14 illus., 14 chartsPaperback, 6 ½ x 9 ¼ISBN 9781841263106E-Book: 9781841267036$ 18.95 US/$ 32.95 AUS/£14.95 UK/E 18.95
 Paul Collins
CORE FITNESS  
This training method allows you to fuse the trunk muscles in co-contraction with the deeper stabilizing muscles for better body awareness, breathing efﬁ  ciency, motor control and spinal support in all movement patterns. A stronger core translates to better overall athletic performance.
 168 pages, full-color print
257 photos, 11 illus., 5 chartsPaperback, 6 ½ x 9 ¼ISBN: 9781841262925E-Book: 9781841265810$ 14.95 US/$ 22.95 AUS/£ 9.95 UK/E 14.95
 All books available as E-books.
       – secure & user-friendly
 ■ E-Mail
 sales@m-m-sports.com ■ online
 www.m-m-sports.comFor more books visit www.m-m-sports.com Paul Collins
STRENGTH TRAINING FOR WOMEN
The combination of strength training, aerobic exercise and 
healthy eating habits has proven to be most effective for fat loss and muscle toning. This program has been developed as a training guide as more women begin to understand the health beneﬁ  ts of this activity.
 144 pages, full-color print
200 color photosPaperback, 6 ½ x 9 ¼ISBN: 9781841262482E-Book: 9781841265483$ 14.95 US/$ 22.95 AUS/£ 9.95 UK/E 14.95Blythe Lucero
STRENGTH TRAINING 
FOR FASTER SWIMMING
In order to enhance your performance, swimming alone is 
not enough. An effective strength training is crucial if you want to improve your swimming times. This book shows you what types of strength training beneﬁ  t swimming and how to develop a winning routine. It includes swim-speciﬁ  c strength training and lots of sample workouts.
168 pages, full-color print
115 photos, 48 illus.Paperback, 6 ½ x 9 ¼ISBN: 9781841263397E-Book: 9781841267524$16.95 US/ $29.95 AUS/£12.95 UK/E 16.95

 Paul Collins
DYNAMIC DUMBBELL TRAINING
Paul Collins` Dynamic Dumbbell Training and 3-Stage 
Dynamic Dumbbell Training System is aimed at improving everyday lifestyle and athletic movement patterns. Learn how to increase muscular size, strength, balance and coordination and explosive power for improving athletic performance.
 272 pages, full-color print
490 photos, 14 illus., 14 chartsPaperback, 6 ½ x 9 ¼ISBN 9781841263106E-Book: 9781841267036$ 18.95 US/$ 32.95 AUS/£14.95 UK/E 18.95
 Paul Collins
CORE FITNESS  
This training method allows you to fuse the trunk muscles in co-contraction with the deeper stabilizing muscles for better body awareness, breathing efﬁ  ciency, motor control and spinal support in all movement patterns. A stronger core translates to better overall athletic performance.
 168 pages, full-color print
257 photos, 11 illus., 5 chartsPaperback, 6 ½ x 9 ¼ISBN: 9781841262925E-Book: 9781841265810$ 14.95 US/$ 22.95 AUS/£ 9.95 UK/E 14.95
 All books available as E-books.
       – secure & user-friendly
 ■ E-Mail
 sales@m-m-sports.com ■ online
 www.m-m-sports.com
For more books visit www.m-m-sports.com Paul Collins
STRENGTH TRAINING FOR WOMEN
The combination of strength training, aerobic exercise and 
healthy eating habits has proven to be most effective for fat loss and muscle toning. This program has been developed as a training guide as more women begin to understand the health beneﬁ  ts of this activity.
 144 pages, full-color print
200 color photosPaperback, 6 ½ x 9 ¼ISBN: 9781841262482E-Book: 9781841265483$ 14.95 US/$ 22.95 AUS/£ 9.95 UK/E 14.95Blythe Lucero
STRENGTH TRAINING 
FOR FASTER SWIMMING
In order to enhance your performance, swimming alone is 
not enough. An effective strength training is crucial if you want to improve your swimming times. This book shows you what types of strength training beneﬁ  t swimming and how to develop a winning routine. It includes swim-speciﬁ  c strength training and lots of sample workouts.
168 pages, full-color print
115 photos, 48 illus.Paperback, 6 ½ x 9 ¼ISBN: 9781841263397E-Book: 9781841267524$16.95 US/ $29.95 AUS/£12.95 UK/E 16.95