Functional Strength training Vs Bodybuilding 
Is Bodybuilding the Worst thing that  ever happened to strength training? 
 
By Tom Venuto  
 
Being involved in the strength and bodybuilding world for the last 20 years, including 
14 years in the health club and personal training business, has given me a very 
unique perspective on a trend that’s been taking place recently. It’s one that’s 
somewhat disturbing to we, the dyed in the wool “old school” bodybuilders. Quite 
simply, we are being attacked! We are bein g accused of training “all wrong!”  Those 
machines we use? Utterly worthless.  The leg press? Non-functional.  Our strength? Pathetic compared to our size.  Our speed? Bwahhhh haa haa ha!  Our flexibility? 
Like taffy at the north pole. “Big, slow, weak , stiff, bloated, usel ess muscles” – that’s 
us – the bodybuilders. Or so says a certai n group of vehement strength and athletic 
coaches. One well-known strength guru even went as far as saying, "The worst thing 
to ever happen to strength training was bodybuilding."  
 
Well, after being “picked on” for a long time for being a “vain” bodybuilder only 
interested in how I look (not caring about my athletic abilities), I figured it was time 
someone finally tackled the “functional” strength training versus “cosmetic” 
bodybuilding issue head on.  In this ar ticle, you will lear n the answers these 
questions:  What is “functional” training? What is “cosmetic” training? What’s the 
difference between the two? Sh ould bodybuilders train like athletes? Should athletes 
train like bodybuilders? Will the two ever m eet in the middle?  How should you train 
if you’re just an “Average Joe” (or Jane ) who wants to look g ood, feel good, play 
recreational sports and stay injury fr ee? Do you listen to the heavily-muscled 
bodybuilding champ at your local gym, or to the strength/athletic coach?  
 
Truth is, bodybuilders really can learn a thing or two from strength athletes, but 
ultimately, neither bodybuilders nor strength  athletes have a tr aining methodology 
superior to the other. Each is  simply training to achieve the specific requirements of 
their respective sports – and those requirem ents can be very, ve ry different indeed. 
 
What is the difference between “Bodybuilding training” and “Functional 
Training” anyway? 
 
Bodybuilding training , by definition, is “cosmetic.” In a bodybuilding competition, 
you are judged on the way you look, not by the way you perform. Whether you use 
light weights or heavy weights, slow reps or fast reps, long workouts or short workouts is completely irrelevant. The only thing that matters is that on the day of 
the contest, your physique is visually th e best one onstage. Th is means having the 
perfect package of low body fat, mu scular size and classical symmetry. 
 
Bodybuilding training therefore, is not aime d at increasing strength, flexibility, speed 
or other athletic factors as ends in themselves. In competitive bodybuilding, 
improving performance is only sought to the extent to which it helps the bodybuilder build more muscle and stay injury  free so they can ultimately, look better  onstage. 
(Or as one functional training expert kindly put it, “The only athletic component bodybuilders encounter is having to wa lk across a stage and selectively spasm 
muscles to their favorite tune!”) 
 
Functional training  emerged primarily from th e sports conditioning and 
rehabilitation world and refers  to the prescription of exercises that contribute to 

better, more efficient and safer performanc e of real world acti vities or sports 
movements. 
 
For example, functional training would help  the average person develop strength that 
carries over into daily activities such as pulling open a heavy door, hiking up a rocky, 
uneven trail, starting a lawn mower, carrying a child, unloading heavy packages from 
the trunk of a car, or reaching up and pulling down a bulky box from an overhead shelf.  
 
If you’re an athlete, functi onal training will help you improve your performance in 
your event. You will improve your swing, kick or throw further, run faster or increase 
your vertical jump - and do thes e things without getting injured. 
 
The terms “core training” and “functional training” are often used interchangeably, 
although core training is just one modality of functional training. Core training means 
doing exercises that activate the “core” muscles of the torso, neck, pelvis, lower 
back and abdominals. Basically,  your core is everything except your arms and legs. 
Core training doesn’t just work the muscl es you can see – it also works the deep 
muscles like the quadratus lumborum and transversus abdominus (aka the TVA), 
which are important in strengthening and stabilizing the lower back and torso.  
 
The most common example of a core-training apparatus is the “stability ball,” which 
is used for full range abdominal work, resistance training and numerous other 
exercises to develop balance, stabilit y, coordination and core strength.  
 
Why functional training caught the eye of an “old school bodybuilder” 
 
Functional training is old news in the sports and rehabilitation world. I’ve been aware of the various functional training modalities for a long time, but it wasn’t until just a 
few years ago that it REALLY came to my attention because I started seeing it catch 
on in a big way inside our health clubs. All of a sudden, the trainers had medicine 
balls, core boards, rubber tubing, stability balls, rollers and foam pads all over the 
place, whereas just five years ago, there wasn’t a single ball to be found in the entire 
joint!  
 
One day, as I was doing my weekly “white glove” gym inspection, I witnessed a jaw-
dropping spectacle that literally stopped me dead in my tracks. I watched open 
mouthed in astonishment, as one of our trainers did full squats standing on top of a 
stability ball while holding a medicine ball at arms length out in front of him. I later 
observed him take his clients through workouts including lunging and leg pressing off 
of foam pads, jumping on and off platforms, “playing catch” and doing all kinds of 
“weird twisting stuff” with medicine balls  and a variety of other “unique” movements 
that you hardly ever see bodybuilders doing. 
 
At the time, I thought this was interesting, but very bizarre. It looked to me like they were training for Cirq ue Du Soleil rather than getting in shape, so initially I just 
ignored them and continued on with my  merry old bodybuilding ways, rowing, 
squatting and bench pressing for multiple sets of 6-12 controlled reps.  
 
A few things finally made me take a closer look, however. First, client retention for 
these trainers went up. It seemed that a ll this new variety was a great motivator for 
the average Joe. Second, it seemed like the personal training clients were actually 
HAVING FUN  (which could also expl ain the increased retention. Third, I saw the 

trainer (the one who was doing the circus act on the ball), doing one arm dumbbell 
presses with a 110 pound dumbbell on a stab ility ball. Now THAT I thought was VERY 
interesting. I also saw him doing inclines for reps with the 120s on a regular bench. That may not seem like a spectacular  feat for an advanced bodybuilder, but this guy 
was NOT a bodybuilder.  He had an athlet ic, but otherwise pretty average-looking 
build, yet he was a LOT stronger than he looked. Again, I was intrigued.  
 
So, being a humble guy who admits he doesn’t know it all, I started picking his brain 
and doing some research to learn more. I th en tested out some of these techniques 
on myself, found the answers to all the questions that ha d been burning in my mind, 
and came to some interesting conclusions. 
 
DOES FUNCTIONAL TRAINING HELP BODYBUILDERS BECOME BETTER 
BODYBUILDERS? 
 
To the casual observer, a bodybuilder walk ing shirtless down the beach represents 
the epitome of health, fitness and athleticism simply beca use they “look” like they’re 
in great shape. However, a trained strength  and conditioning coach would be likely to 
spot a lot of problems in many bodybuilders simply by looking at his/her posture, 
gait and exercise performance. A chain is only as strong as its weakest link and 
many bodybuilders have some inconspicuous,  but potentially dangerous weak points.  
Functional training can help the bodybuilder strengthen these weak links, which left unattended, could lead to major injuries that might set them back for months.  
 
Bodybuilders also get tend to stuck at st rength plateaus quite frequently, while 
certain “in the know” athletes with half the muscle mass continue to get stronger and 
stronger – even though they might not “l ook” as strong as th ey are. Functional 
training can help bodybuilders make steady gains in strength and power, which, 
while not the primary goal of the bodybu ilder, can help the bodybuilder gain mass 
later on.   
 
DOES BODYBUILDING TRAINING HELP ATHLETES BECOME BETTER ATHLETES?  
 
Functional training can definitely help the bodybuilder become a better bodybuilder, 
but is the reverse also true? In some inst ances yes, bodybuilding training can help 
the athlete. For example, wh en an athlete needs to add 15-20 pounds of muscle, a 
bodybuilding style program could be incorpor ated into a carefully  periodized schedule 
in order to achieve the hypertrophy desired.  
 
However, functional training has more a pplication to bodybuilders than bodybuilding 
training has to athletes. For example, most bodybuilders train with a controlled 
tempo and more time under tension. Body builders generally perform little or no 
explosive exercise, usually opting instea d for slow reps such as a 2-3 second 
concentric and a 3-4 second eccentric.  Time under tension is an important 
consideration for the bodybuilders.  
 
If an athlete requiring explosiveness and strength used a traditional bodybuilding 
protocol of 6-8 reps on a slow tempo su ch as 4031 or 9-12 reps on a 3020 tempo, 
they would not be training the qualities they wanted to improve. As many strength coaches are fond of saying, “train slow, get slow.”  
 

Athletes are not primarily interested in  cosmetic improvements or pure muscle 
mass– they want functionality!  They want strength, power, flexibility, coordination, 
agility, balance and endurance.  They want to run faster, jump higher and hit harder. 
 
Athletes need very high levels of neurom uscular integration and recruitment of fast 
twitch muscle fiber. They require activation of postural and stabilizing muscles.  If the athlete focused on muscular isolatio n and machine work as many of the 
bodybuilders do, once again, they would not be  training with the proper specificity.  
 
The best thing an athlete can do to improv e their sports performance is to use free 
weights, explosive movements and functional training modalities that are as specific 
to the requirements of their events as po ssible. Therefore, it ’s only logical to 
conclude that athletes should NOT train like bodybuilders. 
 
BODYBUILDERS CAN EMPLOY FUNCTION AL TRAINING WHILE STILL BEING 
BODYBUILDERS 
 
Bodybuilders can and should train in a functional manner, while still keeping their 
unique goal of cosmetic impr ovement clearly in focus. Th ere are many ways this can 
be accomplished:   
 
(1) Do more unsupported exercises, which activates stabilizers and core 
muscles. 
 
Many years ago, I ruptured my 4th lumbar vertebrae and my training was quite 
limited for some time.  As I began to rehabilitate myself, I figured that to “be safe” 
and keep the stress off my lower back, I sh ould do every exerci se possible with my 
back and torso supported. I chose exercises like incline dumbbell curls instead of 
standing dumbbell curls, lever rows and machine rows  instead of bent over 
barbell/dumbbell rows, Leg extensions and horizontal (supine) leg presses instead of 
squats, and seated dumbbell  presses with back support  instead of free standing 
barbell or dumbbell presses. 
 
While this strategy was probably wise during the acute phase of my injury, it unfortunately stuck as a habit for a long time afterwards until I learned about 
functional training. Little did I know that by doing all my exercises with my torso 
supported, I was NOT allowing my core to become stronger or my back to become 
completely rehabilitated. I may even have  caused my back to become weaker by 
“babying” it all the time. 
 
To make your workouts more functional, get off the machines and torso-supported 
exercises and get onto the free weights and unsupported exercises. To progress even 
further, you can begin to incorporate stabil ity ball work into your regimen as well. 
 
(2) Use the Stability Ball  
 
Bodybuilders should efinitely do some work on the stability ball. I admit it- I was 
VERY hesitant to start using it. (In fact, I did my first few stability ball workouts after 
the gym was closed when no one was lookin g - no kidding).  The first time you use 
the stability ball, expect it to feel quite awkward… after all, it’s… ummm… unstable!   
Start with light weights and build up gradually.  You’ll not only benefit from a 
stronger core, you’ll also get a nice spur t of growth because such movements are a 
shock to your muscles and central nervous system when performed the first time.  

 
(3) Perform integrated AND isolated movements for your abs including 
rotational movements… and avoid using ab machines exclusively. 
 
Some of the functional strength/anti-bodybuilding advocates have been known to 
make statements such as, “Crunches are tota lly worthless.” I wouldn’t go that far. 
No, crunches are not “worthless;” they’re si mply over-used.  Crunches can be an 
excellent addition to a bodybuilder’s ab routine, but if you do nothing but  crunches 
off the floor and ab machines, it’s like working out in one dimension. You miss the benefits of full range ab work and integrat ed ab work. Bodybuilders could also stand 
to do more rotational work such as Russian twists, twisting sit-ups and the Paul Chek 
favorite, the “Wood Chop.” Bodybuilders should be cautioned, however about doing 
heavy weighted side bends, as this tends to build the sides of the waist and ruin the 
symmetry that bodybuilders require. 
 
(4) Do more unilateral dumbbell work (a nd more dumbbell work in general) 
 
Bodybuilders tend to use too many machin es. When working on dumbbells, they 
often to forget that virtually any dumbbell ex ercise can be done one arm at a time or 
in an alternating fashion. One arm dumbbell movements add functionality while still 
doing a great job building muscle mass. Strength coach Charles Poliquin says, 
“Dumbbell work is the foundation of strength.” This is true not just because 
dumbbells often allow a greater range of mo tion, but also becaus e dumbbell work is 
functional – it requires more stabilization 
 
(5) Emphasize free weights over machines 
 
Machines have a definite place in a bodybuilder’s routine, but machines should not 
come first in the hierarchy of importance. Machines will help hit the muscles from a 
wide variety of angles – which bodybuild ers need – but they are generally not 
functional and they lock you into a fixed path 
 
(6) Use exercises that allow you to mo ve freely through space rather than 
those which lock you into a fixed path 
 
Remember the ab roller? They were all the rage for a while, selling by the hundreds 
of thousands on late night infomercials. Ironically, despite their popularity, they are 
NOT as effective as abdominal exercises that allow free motion through a natural 
path. Although crunches on a supine (or vert ical) ab machine or on the floor using an 
ab roller can certainly be included as a part  of anyone’s routine, these exercises lock 
you into a fixed path and decrease the activation of the core and stabilizing 
musculature. You should never depend 100% on  machines for your ab workout.  The 
applies to machines for all other body parts as well - including the popular Smith machine.  
 
(7) Use more compound, large muscle mass, multi-joint exercises and fewer isolation movements 
 
Isolation movements often provide the fini shing touch that gives bodybuilders the 
“polished” look that many strength athletes lack. As such, bodybuilders should 
certainly use isolation movements such as cable flyes, leg extensions and lateral 
raises to round out their routines. However, doing primarily  isolation movements is a 
mistake. Compound, multi joint exercise s like squats, presses and rows are 

unsurpassed for strength, muscle mass, powe r and functionality and should remain 
in a bodybuilder’s program year round – even before competitions.   
 
CLARITY OF PURPOSE IS THE ANSWER TO ALL YOUR TRAINING QUESTIONS  
 
Here is the ultimate solution to all the qu estions and issues that  have been brought 
up in this article:  GET CLARITY OF PURPOSE! Any confusion you have about the 
multitude of training methods being promoted today will evaporate when you get 
clear about what you want. Why are you in  the gym? What, specifically are your 
goals?  Only after you have 100% clarity can you intelligently select the exercise 
modalities that will accomplish your objective with maximum efficiency. 
 
Bodybuilders often talk about things like “instinctive training,” “muscle shaping,” 
“creating an illusion,” “feeling the muscl e,” “going for the bu rn,” “squeezing the 
muscle,” and so on. Some st rength coaches hear such statements or observe a 
bodybuilder training with light weights on very slow tempos and ridicule them. They 
don’t realize that a bodybuilder may have spent years developing the mind to muscle 
connection and the instinctive bodily wisdom  that enables them to work a muscle 
extremely hard through strict form an d tempo manipulation using isolation 
movements and what appears to be very light weight.  
 
Die hard anti-bodybuilding advocates can cause a lot of confusion by prescribing training absolutes such as, “ always  train in the 3-6 rep range,” “ never  do crunches” 
or “always  train with an explosive concentric.” Just as the strength and power athlete 
must train with specificity to improve thei r performance, a bodybuilder must do the 
same. The difference is that “performance ” to a bodybuilder means looking good.  
Bodybuilders are literally “physique artists.” 
 
The really smart bodybuilder understands ho w his or her training should differ from 
sports training and the smart athlete know the difference between strength training 
and cosmetic bodybuilding. It really boils down to knowing what you want (clarity), 
then choosing the appropriate tools to  help you get there the fastest. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
Many bodybuilders have become closed mi nded to trying new things such as 
functional exercise or working on a ball. As a result, they ar e finding themselves 
developing imbalances, getting  injuries and falling far short of their potential for 
muscle mass. On the other hand, many strength coaches and athletes wrongly 
accuse bodybuilders of faulty  training, when the bodybu ilders are in fact, doing 
exactly what they are supposed to be doing:  Training to look good. Bodybuilding is 
NOT the worst thing that ever happened to strength training. Strength athletes, for 
the most part, should simply train like athletes and bodybuilders should train like bodybuilders. However, as this “old sch ool” bodybuilder disco vered, functional 
training DOES have a place in the bodybu ilder’s routine and the bodybuilders could 
certainly stand to learn a thing or two from the athletic community.