Praise for Juan Carlos Santana
“Juan Carlos ‘JC’ Santana is the preeminent personal trainer, period! Functional 
Training will provide you with key insights into the science and application of exercise training.”
Jose Antonio, PhD, CEO of ISSN
“Juan Carlos ‘JC’ Santana is the premier trainer in America, and Functional Training  
is groundbreaking work in the area of function and strength. There is simply no better resource on the planet.”
Lee E. Brown, EdD, CSCS*D, FNSCA, FACSM
Professor, Strength and Conditioning
Director, Center for Sport Performance
California State University, Fullerton
Editor, Training for Speed, Agility, & Quickness
“For over 30 years Juan Carlos ‘JC’ Santana has been raising the bar in the fitness industry. With Functional Training you will tap into the cutting-edge methods that  have made him one of the world’s leading authorities on functional training.”
Jeff Chandler, EdD, CSCS*D, NSCA-CPT*D, FNSCA, FACSM
Professor, Jacksonville State University
Editor in Chief, Strength and Conditioning Journal
“If you want to reach your potential as an athlete there is no one I would trust more than Juan Carlos ‘JC’ Santana!”
Mike Flynn
11-Year NFL Veteran
Super Bowl XXXV Champion
“Juan Carlos ‘JC’ Santana is a fitness leader with a unique understanding of the science and practice of functional training. He creates superior results for duffers and high-performance athletes alike, and his book  Functional Training will show 
you how to make the most of your training.”
Stuart McGill, PhD
Professor, University of Waterloo at Waterloo, Ontario, Canada
“With Juan Carlos ‘JC’ Santana’s training methods and guidance, I was able to fight at the highest level of mixed martial arts in the UFC and Pride Fighting Championships and reached the pinnacle of grappling by winning the ADCC Submission Wrestling World Championship. The workout regimens in Functional Training will also prepare you for any competition.”
Jeff “Snowman” Monson
Pro MMA Fighter
ADCC Submission Wrestling World Champion

“Juan Carlos ‘JC’ Santana develops innovative ideas and exercise programming 
with a training philosophy grounded in basic principles that generate positive results for his clients. In the past, I have called upon JC for insight into different training methodologies, and he has delivered. Gain those same insights when reading Functional Training.”
Chip Morton
Strength and Conditioning Coach
Cincinnati, Ohio
“If you are looking for information to truly unlock your potential and improve your performance, look no further than Functional Training.”
Jeff Nichols, CSCS
Exercise Physiologist
Virginia High Performance LLC
Former Navy SEAL
“Juan Carlos ‘JC’ Santana is one of the true pioneers of functional training. His creative exercises and programs have helped shape the way that functional training is being used today.”
Chris Poirier
General Manager
Perform Better

Functional 
Training
Juan Carlos Santana
HUMAN KINETICS

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Santana, Juan Carlos, 1959-
 Functional training / Juan Carlos Santana.      pages cm Includes index.1. Physical education and training. 2.  Coaching (Athletics) 3.  Athletes--Training of. 4.  Exercise.I. Title.
GV711.5.S27 2016613.7--dc23
2015015211
ISBN: 978-1-4504-1482-1 (print)
Copyright © 2016 by Juan Carlos SantanaAll rights reserved. Except for use in a review, the reproduction or utilization of this work in any 
form or by any electronic, mechanical, or other means, now known or hereafter invented, including xerography, photocopying, and recording, and in any information storage and retrieval system, is forbidden without the written permission of the publisher.
This publication is written and published to provide accurate and authoritative information relevant 
to the subject matter presented. It is published and sold with the understanding that the author and publisher are not engaged in rendering legal, medical, or other professional services by reason of their authorship or publication of this work. If medical or other expert assistance is required, the services of a competent professional person should be sought.
Acquisitions Editor: Michelle Maloney; Developmental Editor: Cynthia McEntire; Managing 
Editor: Elizabeth Evans; Copyeditor and Indexer: Alisha Jeddeloh; Permissions Manager: Martha 
Gullo; Senior Graphic Designer: Nancy Rasmus; Cover Designer: Keith Blomberg; Photograph 
(cover): Rio Santana; Photographs (interior): Neil Bernstein; Photographer’s Assistant: Rio San-
tana; Visual Production Assistant: Joyce Brumfield; Photo Production Manager: Jason Allen; 
Art Manager: Kelly Hendren; Associate Art Manager: Alan L. Wilborn; Illustrations: © Human 
Kinetics, unless otherwise noted; Printer: Sheridan Books
We thank the Institute of Human Performance in Boca Raton, Florida, for assistance in providing 
the location for the photo shoot for this book.
Human Kinetics books are available at special discounts for bulk purchase. Special editions or 
book excerpts can also be created to specification. For details, contact the Special Sales Manager at Human Kinetics.
Printed in the United States of America
         10  9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
The paper in this book is certified under a sustainable forestry program.Human Kinetics
Website: www.HumanKinetics.com
United States: Human Kinetics
P
.O. Box 5076
Champaign, IL 61825-5076800-747-4457e-mail: humank@hkusa.com
Canada: Human Kinetics
475 Devonshire Road Unit 100Windsor, ON N8Y 2L5800-465-7301 (in Canada only)e-mail: info@hkcanada.com
Europe: Human Kinetics
107 Bradford RoadStanningleyLeeds LS28 6AT, United Kingdom+44 (0) 113 255 5665e-mail: hk@hkeurope.comAustralia: Human Kinetics57A Price AvenueLower Mitcham, South Australia 506208 8372 0999e-mail: info@hkaustralia.com
New Zealand: Human Kinetics
P .O. Box 80Mitcham Shopping Centre, South Australia 50620800 222 062e-mail: info@hknewzealand.com
E5531

This book is dedicated to my chil-
dren, Rio, Caila, Dante, and Mia, for teaching me the wonders of divine inspiration and unconditional love.

vi
Contents
Acknowledgments  ix
Introduction  xi
PART I  Function and Functional Training
CHAPTER 1  Functional Training Defined  3
What Is Functional Strength?  3
Why Functional Training?  4
Myths About Functional Training  5
Popular Functional Training Equipment  8
CHAPTER 2  Foundations of Functional Training  13
Four Pillars of Human Movement  13
Big Four Sport Skills  15
Athletic Environment  25
Highways of Sport Power  27
CHAPTER 3  The Performance Continuum  33
Criteria for Functional and Effective Training  34
Manipulating Functional Intensity  35
Evaluation of Movement Patterns  38
PART II  Exercises
CHAPTER 4  The Essentials  53
Body Weight  53
Bands and Pulleys  70
Dumbbells and Kettlebells  90
CHAPTER 5  The Supporting Cast  109
Medicine Balls  109
Stability Balls  123
Toys 133
Traditional Strength Exercises  143

vii
PART III  Programs
CHAPTER 6  Program Design  155
Training Variables  155
Periodization Cycles  156
Putting It All Together  167
CHAPTER 7  Pure Functional Training  169
Integrating Functional Training Into Your Training Plan  169
Grab-and-Go Protocols  170
Express Protocols  173
General Fitness Protocols  180
Metabolic Protocols  186
CHAPTER 8  Hybrid Programming  193
Three-Tier Integration System  194
Hybrid Complexes  196
Periodizing and Programming Hybrid Programs  202
Sample Programs  203
CHAPTER 9  Sport-Specific Programs  207
High-Power Intermittent Sports  208
Racket Sports  212
Batting, Throwing
, and Catching Sports  216
Running Sports  221
Combat Sports  226
Long-Distance Field and Court Spor
ts 233
Volleyball  240
Golf 245
Board Sports  250
Swimming  255
Skating-Related Sports  260
Index  267
About the Author  273

This page intentionally left blank.

ix
Acknowledgments
Most of what is learned in college and reinforced by certifications is theoretical 
information that is better suited for college professors instead of personal trainers, coaches, practicing therapists, or athletes. Schools teach opposite to how humans learn. In life, we learn to practice first; then, if needed, we learn the details. In school, we learn the details first and then work our way to the big concepts. However, in many instances school never quite gets to the practice. We only learn how to practice the skill we went to school to learn once we get out of school and hit the field or training floor.
I have had the great pleasure and honor of sharing the stage with some of the 
brightest minds in the fitness industry. I have learned much from these industry pioneers, but one thing stands out—if you can’t use it on the field or training floor, then it’s not much use to a training system. Functional Training shares the 
practical approaches I have used for more than 40 years of my life as an athlete and coach. Although some of the theories and concepts may be complex, I stay away from complicated language and theory when communicating them. Albert Einstein reportedly said, “If you can’t explain it simply, you don’t know it well enough.” This book is my attempt at finding out how well I know my material.
They say it takes a village to raise a child; no truer words have been spoken. I 
would like to mention some of the key people in my village throughout my life. Many more wonderful people can’t be mentioned because of space and time constraints; however, their absence here does not take away from their important influence in my life.
This book is dedicated to my family of origin, who came from Cuba in search 
of the American dream in 1966: my parents, Celerina and Arnaldo Santana, and my sister, Belkis Olson-Handras. They provided me with nothing but love, under -
standing, compassion, and guidance; together we found and built the American dream. As children often do, my four children—Rio, Caila, Dante, and Mia—came at key moments in my life, and all have inspired me to be the best man I can be. I have dedicated my life to them and I hope this book serves as a symbol and reminder to them of what is possible with hard work. Children need lots of love from their parents, and I would be remiss in not thanking Annie Aponte for her wonderful role in Rio’s upbringing and Debbie Santana for her caring love and attention to the lives of Caila, Dante, and Mia. To my extended family (i.e., Moni, Eric, Lee, and all of my cousins, aunts, and uncles), thank you for being there and making all holidays memorable family reunions. I love you all.
My coaches and teachers—Anthony Abbott, Julia George, Sue Graves, Andy 
Siegel, and Michael Whitehurst, to name a few—have been instrumental in my continual development, and I can only hope I have a similar impact on my stu-dents and athletes. Many thanks to my dear friends Mark Bagg, Pierro Busani, Steve Cannavale, Rocky DePhilipo, Guy Fitzpatrick, Scott Goodpaster, Jeff Harpster, Mark Meade, Roly Ortega, Barry Pavel, Scott Smith, Kado Tundisi, and Dave Woynarowski, to name but a few, for being references, beacons, and points of lights even on my darkest days. I would also like to pay my respects to some 

xAcknowledgments
people I consider to be giants in the fitness, strength, conditioning, and medical 
world—Anthony Abbott, Joey Antonio, Tudor Bompa, Lee Brown, Gary Gray, Doug Kalman, William Kraemer, and Stu McGill, to name a few within a very large group. I’m proud to call these individuals friends and colleagues.
Because this book is about functional training, I would be negligent if I did not 
give a special acknowledgment to Gary Gray, the eminent leader of our modern functional training revolution. Gary’s teachings helped mold me into the pro-fessional I am today, and his teachings and wisdom are interlaced throughout the pages in this book. No book on functional training can be complete without acknowledging the vision of Chris Poirier and Perform Better. It was Chris’s idea to educate the fitness world on functional training, and under his directive Perform Better he launched the longest running functional training education tour in fitness history. It was an honor for me to start that tour with Chris and Perform Better in 1997 and still associate with them today.
My deepest gratitude goes to my Institute of Human Performance (IHP) family 
for their love and support of what was once only a dream. To them I say, “We did it. We created the best training facility on the planet. What we have created is bigger than any one person and is truly amazing!” The IHP family is made up of all members and staff who have passed through our doors and blessed us with their gifts and support. As of the writing of this book, our primary staff is composed of Rio, Lily, Pieri, Grif, Adam, Gabe, Scott, Marc, Pedro, Tamara, Jenna, Georgia, and all of the wonderful interns who make IHP their training headquarters. A big thank-you to all of our IHP models: Tamara Estevez, Pedro Penaherrera, Gabriel Saavedra, Marc Saint-Preux, Rio Santana, Jared Stan, and Jenna Worswick. IHP’s international representatives must also be acknowl-edged for their faith in IHP and their willingness to take our message beyond our borders. These international reps—Justo and Marisa Aon, Connie Beaulieu, Fernando Jaeger, Luis Noya, Ruben Payan, Eduardo and Kimberly Poveda, and Joel Proskowitz —have been instrumental in launching the IHP global family. Together we have made IHP a worldwide brand. Thank you.
Finally, I want to thank a very special person in my life, Jessica “Chuli” Lozano, 
for her role in my personal and spiritual evolution.

xi
Introduction
Over the last two decades, training and conditioning methods have evolved at a 
mind-blistering pace. World records have fallen, rehabilitation times have been practically cut in half, and athletes in their 40s are now competing in professional sports once thought the domain of younger athletes. Even weekend athletes are competing at levels once considered professional. What has made this rapid improvement possible? Nutrition and skill training have certainly played a huge role in the dramatic improvements we see on the playing field. However, the biggest changes have occurred in training. If you look at diet, supplements, and skill training, the basics are still the same. However, when it comes to training, the amount of new information is coming so fast that research and traditional education can’t keep pace with it. Never in our history have we had more choices of exercises, equipment, and training approaches.
One of the most popular training philosophies to evolve over the last 25 years is 
functional training. Although a single definition is yet to be universally accepted, functional training develops functional strength specific to a given activity. Until recently, professional trainers and coaches were the only people who had access to educational resources that explained the methods of functional training. Fit-ness conferences and seminars, DVDs, and books were the only ways you could learn about functional training from an experienced practitioner. However, over the last 15 years the philosophy of functional training has evolved into some-thing quite different. If you pick up any popular magazine, you will find a slew of functional training exercises and programs. Spend one hour on YouTube or Facebook and you can watch hundreds of exercises performed in the name of functional training. The only problem with all of this information in the popular press and online is that many of the so-called experts writing these articles and posting videos have short résumés in the field and in exercise science as it per -
tains to functional training. In some instances, the only qualifications are active Facebook and Twitter pages and thousands of hits on YouTube.
The modern evolution of functional training is fascinating. In my lifetime, I 
have witnessed the physical preparation process go through a metamorphosis that rivals the Rocky sequels. We have gone from purely functional and sport-specific 
training to high-priced training gadgets. At the same time, our culture has gone from preferring a slim athletic look to celebrating muscle-packed speed demons. These two separate worlds of performance and culture continue to interact and influence how books, such as this one, are written.
Once upon a time everything was functional and all training was functional. If 
you were an athlete in a sport that did not require lots of strength but did require lots of skill (e.g., tennis, golf, swimming), you practiced your sport until you were better than everyone else. Even if you practiced a sport that required lots of strength (e.g., track and field thrower, American football lineman, heavyweight boxer), you simply did some strength training in the off-season or chopped lots of logs with a heavy ax in preparation for a fight.

xii Introduction
When I was a young man in the late 1960s and early 1970s, there were no high-
tech machines. We worshipped the great athletes such as Babe Ruth and Joe Lewis. 
We were taught that these low-tech, high-touch performers were born athletic, and hard skill work forged the player. The strength training and conditioning of these athletes was minimal by most standards and very skill oriented. For exam-ple, Babe Ruth was not known for doing much training, but his accomplishments are etched in stone. Joe Lewis did not do anything out of the ordinary to prepare for fights, but his warrior spirit carried him into the history books.
Much of what I grew up doing as a young martial artist was what we would 
today call functional training. The popular fitness personalities of my era, such as Jack LaLanne and Bruce Lee, advocated a functional approach to training that involved mostly calisthenics and standard cardio (running on various surfaces and skipping rope). Jack LaLanne prepared for his famous swims by tugging boats while swimming. Bruce Lee prepared for his famous 1-inch (3 cm) punch by doing one-arm, two-finger push-ups.
As times changed and so did technology, functional training took a back seat 
to the more popular bodybuilding methods of the 1980s. The era of Arnold Schwarzenegger and pumping iron gave birth to new methods of physical preparation. Training during this time mostly consisted of traditional strength training, with functional training taking a backseat. Although functional training systems never quite died, they were difficult to find. The bodybuilding approach was used to prepare for sports, and weight rooms across the world stocked up on iron. During this era every athlete from every sport got bigger. The no-name defense of the 1972 Miami Dolphins gave way to the Steel Curtain of the Pittsburgh Steelers, the Rocky Marciano build gave way to the stature of George Foreman and Evander Holyfield, and Jesse Owens was transformed into Ben Johnson.
The clash between the skilled speed needed for better performance and the 
bigger physiques created by bodybuilding-dominated training was problematic for many sports. Injuries begin to plague the sports arena, and many athletes felt their performances were compromised by the additional muscle that bodybuild-ing produced. Some skill-dominated sports begin to shy away from weightlifting, and the demand for alternative training methods that could rehabilitate injuries and improve performance without building muscle brought functional training back to center stage. The 1990s and early years of the new millennium saw an explosion in functional training. For instance, Evander Holyfield put on almost 40 pounds (18 kg) of solid muscle by training with Lee Haney and Dr. Hatfield. This massive increase in size was accompanied by an increase in speed, agility, and quickness thanks to the functional training provided by Tim Hallmark.
Even within the small circle of functional training pioneers, many theories 
and practices have changed. What we thought were effective functional training methods 20 years ago now are rarely used, and what we thought were outdated and ineffective training methods now take center stage. We have witnessed this evolution firsthand in our training facility, the Institute of Human Performance (IHP). Over the last 14 years, we have seen equipment lines come and go, we have seen toys and gadgets come and go, and we have seen panacea methods come and go. If I had to sum up the last 15 years, I would say this: We are back to basics!
Today, it is hard to find an athlete or strength and conditioning coach who 
doesn’t claim to use functional training. Although the term functional training had already been used by therapy and fitness pioneers for many decades, it was first popularized by the media in the 1990s and its popularity has grown ever 

xiii Introduction
since. I still remember my first interview with Men’s Journal on the topic of func-
tional training. They asked me for a functional exercise and I showed them the single-leg anterior reach Gary Gray had shown me a few months before. That issue was published in 1998, and since then just about every major magazine has contacted me to provide them with functional training exercises and protocols. Welcome to the commercialization of functional training!
The commercialization of functional training has been matched and raised, 
as they say in poker. Due to the Internet and infomercials, what was originally a revolution based on legitimate practice has become an atomic blast of confusion and self-proclaimed expertise. Facebook, YouTube, and Twitter have created Inter -
net experts, e-book authors, and iMovie video producers. You can go to YouTube and watch hours of something called functional training, but you will see nothing short of exercises that can qualify as entertaining circus acts, mostly ineffective and often dangerous. Even national conferences that once extensively vetted all presenters now take people who have a huge Facebook following but little experience or formal education. Enter the era of confusion, where everyone is an expert, everything is functional, and nobody knows where the myths got started.
This book is an attempt to provide some clarity where there seems to be little. 
We provide scientific references when necessary, but most importantly we pro-vide a logical approach to function and functional training. We don’t want you to believe what we are proposing; we want you to know it is so because it makes so much sense!
Functional Training brings you up-to-date definitions of functional training, 
breakthroughs in the field, specific exercises, and sport-specific training programs. Its concepts and training methods are safe, effective, and scientifically sound. Although the concepts are sophisticated, they are presented in a straightforward manner that any trainer, coach, therapist, athlete, or parent will understand. The book is simple enough to be understood by high school athletes and their parents but sophisticated and effective enough to be of interest to personal trainers and strength coaches.
The organization of Functional Training follows a logical path to provide a basic 
but comprehensive understanding of this popular topic. The book  is divided into 
three parts. Part I provides a historical background of strength training, along with definitions of the key elements of function and functional training. Chapter 1 begins with a brief history of the fitness industry and functional training. Then it provides operational definitions of function and functional training so we all are 
on the same page. The discussion proceeds to the logical, scientific reasons why functional training is so effective, and it provides some best-practice applications. The chapter concludes by reviewing popular equipment used in commercial gyms, home studios, and parks and while traveling.
Chapter 2 covers the basic movement skills in most sports and explains how 
the body is designed for those skills. The discussion then turns to the training octagon and how to base an athletic functional training system on this training model. Next comes a discussion of the operational environment of sport and how the physical qualities of that environment affect movement and functional training. The chapter concludes by explaining how the body uses neural input from the physical world and its own movement to create efficient and coordinated movement sequences.
Chapter 3 introduces the performance continuum, a simple strategy to guide 
you through the process of beginning functional training and progressing based 

xiv Introduction
on successful, controlled movements. This chapter also outlines some simple 
techniques for manipulating the intensity of functional exercises so that they match the athlete’s ability.
Part II covers functional modalities and the most useful functional exercises 
within each modality. Chapter 4 includes exercises that use body weight, bands and cables, and dumbbells and kettlebells. Chapter 5 adds exercises that use medicine balls, stability balls, and new training toys, and it even includes tradi-tional strength exercises. It outlines the advantages of each modality and gives instructions for the most popular exercises.
Part III discusses the fundamentals of exercise selection, programming, and 
periodization and provides sample programs for common sports. Chapter 6 discusses the fundamental elements of program design and periodization as they relate to functional training and strength development. Functional training programs for all four major periodization cycles are presented in template form to facilitate easy substitution of exercises. Chapter 7 provides strategies for seam-lessly integrating functional training into traditional strength programs. Sample hybrid strength programs are also provided.
Chapter 8 expands on the programming principles introduced in chapter 7  and 
outlines the workings of the IHP Hybrid Training System, the Three-Tier Integra-tion System (3TIS). You will learn how 3TIS integrates functional exercises within the traditional training model, offering the most powerful training programing available today. The functional warm-up, build-up, and unloading are illustrated to guide you through the design of weekly and monthly programs. The chapter concludes with several sample workouts you can use immediately.
Chapter 9 provides 11 programs for the major sport categories. These cate-
gories classify sports that are similar in biomechanics and energy systems. For easy referencing and consistency, the exercises in these programs come from the exercises previously provided in part II.

PART
 IFunction and 
Functional Training

This page intentionally left blank.

3
CHAPTER
1
Functional Training 
Defined
Functional training exploded onto the scene 20 years ago, yet the term is still used 
to describe just about any training that is not bodybuilding. This chapter lays the groundwork for this training method by providing basic definitions and applied concepts. The applied approach taken in this first chapter will enhance your understanding of what functional training is and how to use it to enhance performance.
What Is Functional Strength?
Strength training has been debated as hotly as any other topic in the strength and conditioning field. One reason for the hot discussion is that there are several types of strength and several ways to evaluate them. Let’s take a closer look at each type.
Absolute strength is the most common type of strength that people talk about. 
Absolute strength is the greatest amount of weight an athlete can lift. Sometimes absolute strength is what you want. For example, weightlifting competitors need maximum absolute strength in all of their lifts for successful competition.
Relative strength is an athlete’s absolute strength divided by body weight, and 
it is also a popular form of strength within the athletic arena. Relative strength is where the term pound per pound comes from. This type of strength is crucial for athletes who compete in weight-class sports. The strongest person in a weight class has the strength advantage every athlete is looking for.
Functional strength is the amount of strength an athlete can use on the field, and 
it’s the most important strength to develop for sports that are not weightlifting related. However, it can be challenging to train, monitor, and communicate about functional strength. Functional training is popular within the sport world and obviously aims at developing functional strength, though it is often confused with sport-specific training.
Sport-specific training includes many exercises that are appropriate during 
the later phase of training when specific strength is developed. It attempts to rehearse the sport skill with some light resistance. Examples of sport-specific 

4Functional Training
drills include resisted running with a band, pushing a tackling or blocking sled, 
and swinging a heavy bat. Functional training, on the other hand, focuses on the application of functional strength to a sport skill (i.e., the coordination of various muscle systems), not necessarily the sport skill itself. For example, a single-leg stability ball (SB) bridge improves running by enhancing hip extension, but it does not involve running the way that resisted running does. Similarly, a band or cable press can develop the force generation pattern associated with blocking without actually hitting the blocking sled. Finally, short band rotations and low-to-high cable chops develop the hip power and core stiffness necessary for bat speed, but they do not feature the complete batting motion. In essence, functional strength allows an athlete to apply strength to a sport skill. It’s the best and most progressive way to improve athletic performance without actually doing a sport-specific drill or exercise.
Almost all strength and conditioning coaches now claim to do functional 
training. However, finding qualified strength professionals who are well versed in this method of training is difficult.
The only drawback to functional strength is that it is trained and evaluated 
with movement quality, not a load or number. Whereas a lift (e.g., bench press) is trained with a specific load and has a number for evaluating strength, a single-leg contralateral-arm (CLA) anterior reach uses a certain quality of movement and light training load to develop and evaluate single-leg stability. The subjective nature of functional strength presents a challenge when designing functional train -
ing programs and communicating about the development of functional strength.
Why Functional Training?
Functional training has become a hot topic and a popular training approach. In spite of a lack of specific research or clear definitions and a fair amount of con-troversy surrounding its methods, functional training is everywhere. Dozens of books have been written on the topic, and you can’t attend a fitness conference or go to a sport training camp without seeing the functional training revolution. So, what makes this training method so effective and popular? The answers are simple, as we’ll discuss in this section.
Little Space, Little Equipment, and Little Time
Nearly any traditional gym features thousands of square feet filled with hundreds of pieces of equipment that cost hundreds of thousands of dollars. In stark con-trast, functional training gyms have lots of room with only some basic equipment around the perimeter. Functional training is about movement, not equipment. Therefore, a set of dumbbells, some medicine balls, a few hurdles, some bands, and a few stability balls can allow anyone to turn a room, a parking lot, or an athletic field into a functional training area. The low cost of equipment is another major advantage of functional training. With a few hundred dollars and a duffle bag, a coach can train a single athlete or an entire team anywhere, anytime.
Time is as scarce as money these days; everyone has busy schedules filled with 
responsibilities. Therefore, being able to train anywhere and at any time allows the athlete and coach to be effective where many can’t. Functional training circuits are extremely effective in keeping an athlete or a team in tip-top shape, especially in season and while traveling. For example, you can take the 15 to 40 minutes 

5 Functional Training Defined
spent traveling to and from a training facility and spend it training anywhere. 
You can perform 15- to 20-minute individual and team workouts in a parking lot, dorm hallway, gymnasium, or hotel room at any time of day or night. (See chapters 7, 8, and 9 for examples of these programs.)
Strength Without Size
A great characteristic of neuromuscular adaptation is that you can get stronger without getting bigger or heavier. This is a huge advantage for athletes who are in weight-class sports or sports where weight gain may create a disadvantage. The coordination between muscles and muscle systems also allows the body to spread the load through multiple muscle systems. This distribution of work creates less stress on any one muscle, reducing the need for a specific muscle to adapt and get bigger. With functional training, no single muscle screams; instead the entire body sings. That is the essence of athleticism.
Performance Benefits
Considering the benefits of functional training as well as its specificity-driven philosophy, it doesn’t take a vivid imagination to figure out its performance ben-efits. Functional training can focus on and improve any sport skill. The single-leg exercise that addresses locomotion teaches the hamstrings and glutes to extend the hips and stabilize the body, increasing running speed, boosting cutting ability in field sports, and improving single-leg jumping in court sports. The level-change exercises that target jumping and lifting improve two-leg vertical jump height as well as lifting mechanics. The pushing and pulling exercises enhance punching, pushing, swimming, and throwing. Finally, the rotational exercises improve swinging, changes of direction, and rotational power generation.
Myths About Functional Training
Part of the controversy and confusion surrounding functional training is due to the misrepresentation of what functional training is. There is a fine line between an exercise that is effective and an exercise that is optimal, and we need to keep our terminology consistent. At the end of the day, the principle of specificity allows us to figure out what functional training is and what it isn’t. Let’s go through a few of the concepts that have been misrepresented during the evolution of functional training.
Effective Versus Optimal
To simplify the concept of functional training, we must first note the difference between effective training and optimal (functional) training. Training can be effective without having optimal transfer (i.e., without being functional). For example, a novice basketball player can use knee extensions and leg curls to improve running and jumping to some degree. These two traditional exercises may be effective in enhancing the athlete’s general strength needed in running and jumping, but they will not be as effective as single-leg exercises used in more comprehensive and progressive training model, such as a three-stage develop-mental training model that progressively develops general, special, and specific strength. For example, if a running athlete was going to organize the training 

6Functional Training
in a progressive, three-stage fashion, general strength is usually developed by 
traditional strength exercises, such as squats, leg presses, and power cleans. Spe-cial strength is oftentimes developed by functional exercises that more closely resemble the target activity, such as single-leg anterior reaches, single-leg squats, and single-leg stability ball bridges. Specific strength can then be developed by resisted running drills, uphill runs, and other forms of resisted running. Although this is an over simplification of the three-stage model, it provides an illustrative view of how the training becomes more specific or functional as time progresses. Functional training is driven by the concept of specificity. Single-leg exercises are more specific to running and jumping off a single leg than two-leg exercises, and therefore they are functional for any single-leg activity, such as a basketball player cutting and coming off a single leg for a layup.
Not All Proprioception Is Created Equal
A big word making its way into the mainstream is proprioception, or how body reads information from various body parts as well as the environment. This information (i.e., proprioceptive feedback) is the language the nervous system uses to figure out what is happening with the body and what move to make next. Functional training is thought to produce more proprioceptive feedback (i.e., meaningful information) than bodybuilding exercises do. For example, the leg curl uses a seated position and a fixed pattern of movement; not a lot of information is needed to execute the exercise. On the other hand, its functional counterpart, the reaching lunge, requires more coordination between the big muscle systems on the posterior aspect of the hips and uses the related muscle groups in a way that is more consistent with the running motion (i.e., teaching the hamstrings to extend the hips while controlling knee flexion). This complex coordination requires more proprioceptive feedback between the muscular system and the central nervous system. Thus, the leg curl machine is less proprioceptively enriching than the reaching lunge is because the leg curl machine stabilizes the movement and requires less proprioceptive feedback than the reaching lunge, which is not stabilized by any exterior mechanism. Coincidently, this is where the concept of unstabilized training, or stability training, comes from; the reaching lunge occurs in an unstabilized environment, requiring the body to develop the stability in order to execute the movement correctly.
Just because a high amount of neural information (proprioception) is being 
processed, it does not mean the information is meaningful. The neural language of functional training must be specific to the athletic skill being targeted. If an athletic skill requires the transfer of high forces from the ground to an implement (e.g., a bat) through stiff body segments, then that proprioceptive language must be part of the functional training to improve performance.
Balance Versus Stability
Balance training should not be confused with stability training. Unstable training environments are one of the hottest topics in functional training. For this reason we will cover this topic a bit more comprehensively than the others. Let’s start with some definitions and then take the discussion from there.
As a noun, balance means the stability produced by the even distribution of 
weight on each side of the vertical axis. As a verb, it means to bring about a state of equilibrium (a state of balance between opposing forces).

7 Functional Training Defined
Stability is the quality, state, or degree of being stable, as in the following:
i. The strength to stand or endur
e; firmness
ii. The property of a body that causes it when disturbed fr
om a condition of 
equilibrium or steady motion to develop forces or moments that restore 
the original condition
iii. Equipoise between contrasting, opposing, or interacting elements to resist for
ces tending to cause motion or change of motion
iv. Designed so 
as to develop forces that restore the original condition when 
disturbed from a condition of equilibrium
In practical terms, balance is the act of manipulating opposing forces to create 
a stable state over a base of support. Stability is the control of unwanted motion to restore or maintain a position. Balance usually requires the transfer of low forces to maintain equilibrium, whereas stability usually requires the transfer of high forces to create rigidity. The best visual example of stability and balance is a pyramid (figure 1.1).
As you can see, the stable pyramid can withstand any force driven through 
its system; it is both strong and balanced. The balanced pyramid can’t take any force except one going through its vertical axis. If you think of the body as an organic pyramid that responds to progressive multidirectional loading by getting bigger and better at maintaining stability, then you must train it while it is on its base and not its point. When the pyramid is balancing on its point, you simply cannot load it enough to create any significant adaptation.
There is nothing you can do from an unstable balanced position (e.g., one-leg 
balance) except stand there, balance, and wait to be pushed over by a fast-moving object. Athletes cannot transfer high forces or maintain their position in the face of hard physical contact from a narrow or small base of support; they are at the mercy of the physical forces of the environment (e.g., another athlete making physical contact). This is especially true during static conditions where athletes can’t use momentum and inertia to help maintain dynamic control.
FIGURE 1.1  Stability versus balance: (a) This pyramid is stable and balanced. High forces can be 
applied to it without changing its position—certainly a quality we would want in an athlete. (b) This 
pyramid is balanced but not stable. The slightest force will topple it over—not a desirable quality 
in an athlete.E5531/Santana/Fig. 01.01a/524041/JG/R1 E5531/Santana/Fig. 01.01b/524043/JG/R1a b

8Functional Training
Functional training must concentrate on creating stability (i.e., super stiffness) 
so that proper athletic positions can be maintained and forces can be transferred 
through the kinetic chain. This means it must train the core in a stable state to be as stiff (rigid) as possible first and then let it move as it needs to.
Popular Functional Training Equipment
In the last two decades, the variety of functional training equipment on the market has grown to the point where figuring out what to buy and how to use it can be overwhelming. Although using a variety of equipment can add diver -
sity to training, as well as a fun factor, most of the essential work can be done with simple equipment. There is no need for the fancy stuff if you have the right knowledge; after all, the best functional training equipment is the human body. The basic equipment discussed in this section will allow athletes to apply pow-erful functional training principles to stay in shape during the off-season or add a functional training component to an existing resistance workout.
Dumbbells
You can use dumbbells (abbrevi-ated as DB in the exercises in this book) to load just about any func-tional movement you can imagine (figure 1.2). That’s why they are first on the list. Dumbbells pro-vide freedom of movement, thus requiring stabilization from each limb, which addresses upper-body imbalances in strength. The speed and loads in functional training can range from slow and heavy to explosive and light, covering all developmental stages of strength and power training.
Dumbbells come in a variety of 
models, from fixed weights to selectorized or adjustable models. If you have plenty of room and would like the flexibility of training more than one person at a time, a rack of fixed-weight dumbbells is best. Functional training exercises for the most part don’t use big dumbbells, so a rack of 5 to 50 pounds (2-23 kg) will serve just about anyone. If choosing a selectorized model where you can dial in or pin-load the desired weight, a 35- to 45-pound (16-20 kg) set will do the trick.
Bands and Pulleys
The next type of equipment that is a must in functional training is a good set of bands or pulleys (BP) (figure 1.3). Bands and pulleys are vital because they are the only way to provide resistance in a horizontal or diagonal direction. Due to their nonvertical loading capabilities, they are perfectly suited to provide resis-tance for standing exercises such as rotational chops, presses and rows, deadlifts, and lunging movements in a way no other equipment can. Single-arm exercise FIGURE 1.2  Dumbbells.


9 Functional Training Defined
variations also can address strength imbalances between the right and left sides 
of the body.
Bands are more versatile than pulleys because they can be taken anywhere, 
can attach to a variety of structures, are inexpensive, and resist slow, heavy movements as well as light, explosive ones. A cable stack is stationary, occupies a huge space, is expensive, and is best used for heavy, slow training because light, explosive training results in a flying weight stack that eventually damages the equipment. Bands should be made of latex using the dipping process, not the extrusion process. The bands should not be continuous; they should have handles at each end and a separate attachment point to avoid wearing out the middle of the band with attachments such as nylon cords or straps.
Medicine Balls
Medicine balls (MB)  (figure 1.4) 
come in a variety of models, from balls with handles that can be held like dumbbells to balls with ropes for swinging exercises. To keep things simple, we will deal with basic medicine balls with or with-out bounce capabilities. Medicine balls are excellent for loading many functional training exercises, but their best application is throws for power development.
When using a medicine ball for 
throws against the floor or a cement wall, a rubber model with a bounce 
FIGURE 1.3  Bands and pulleys.
FIGURE 1.4  Medicine balls.


10Functional Training
is the most effective. Rubber medicine balls are durable and can take the beating 
of power throws. If a bounce is not desired for safety reasons and the throws are going to be performed against a padded wall or floor, a synthetic-leather medicine ball is a great option. The standard weights for throws and light movement load-ing are in the 2- to 4-kilogram range; heavier balls are better suited for strength development and slower movements.
Stability Balls
Stability balls (SB) (figure 1.5) have come a long way. The newer models are much stronger and more burst resistant, increasing their safety. Stability balls offer a host of benefits in functional training. For example, they can support the body in cer -
tain positions that can’t normally be maintained. They can also offer a measured dose of instability to training in order to facilitate greater stability at various joints.
Stability balls have been used 
in the past as benches for bench presses and similar exercises. How-ever, this application has lost some favor in recent years. The dominant ideol-ogy is to use stable benches for heavy presses. Use stability balls for lighter, unstable exercises such as push-ups and to provide supportive positioning for  
crunches and wall slides. The most popular sizes in stability balls are 55 and 65 centimeters.
Kettlebells
Kettlebells (KB) (figure 1.6) have become popular in the functional training world. They can be used the same way as dumbbells or for more creative applications such as swings. Their extra-thick handles and unique center of mass present a gripping challenge, and they are popular with athletes looking to improve wrist stability and gripping strength. The kettlebell culture has a mind–body style and influence, creating many exercises not normally seen in the dumbbell world.
Kettlebell applications can range from strength exercises, such as the kettle-
bell overhead press, to metabolic protocols involving swings for long periods of time (2-5 minutes). This wide strength and conditioning application makes the kettlebell a worthwhile piece of equipment in your functional training toolbox. Popular weights range from 8 to 16 kilograms.
FIGURE 1.5  Stability balls.
FIGURE 1.6  Kettlebells.

11 Functional Training Defined
Suspension Equipment
In the last decade, suspension equipment 
(figure 1.7) has become popular in func-tional training. Before the resurgence of suspension systems, we needed an assort-ment of equipment to perform the various exercises that the new suspension systems easily allow. For example, in the old days, short ropes (1.5 in. [4 cm] thick and 10 ft [3 m] long) were used for recline pulls and stability balls were used for stretching exercise such as the rollout.
Today’s suspension systems have stir -
rups and straps to secure the feet and allow users to easily adjust the strap length. They offer carabiners for easy attachment to bars and other structures, as well as expanded manuals and educational materials for suggested use. Some suspension systems, such as the  Suspended Bodyweight Training 
(SBT) System, have even created their own certification and education systems for personal trainers to learn how to use them.
Adjustable Bench
By most standards, an adjust-able bench (figure 1.8) is not considered functional train-ing equipment. However, I include it here because func-tional training does not exist in a vacuum; it is best used in conjunction with other training methods, including hyper -
trophy and strength work. Hypertrophy and strength training are beneficial, and that type of heavy training should not be done on a stability ball or other equipment not meant for heavy-loading strength applications. In addition, you can use benches for many exercise progressions that fall within the functional training realm.
The best bench is a heavy-duty one with an adjustable seat and backrest. All 
pressing motions, such as shoulder presses or bench presses, can be performed from a bench. Benches also can support exercises such as bent-over rows, weighted hip lifts, and various forms of sit-ups and crunches. Regardless of how the bench is used, it may be considered standard equipment in small studios, homes, or other functional training areas.
FIGURE 1.7  Suspension equipment.
FIGURE 1.8  Adjustable bench.


12Functional Training
Equipment for Travel
Getting good training on the road 
has always been a challenge for athletes, especially during in-sea-son travel. Whether you are a judo practitioner on the European tour, a tennis player running through a string of tournaments, or an athlete traveling for any reason that takes you away from home, traveling can ruin your conditioning if you don’t find a way to get your training done. Of all the training equipment available, there is only one type that needs to be the athlete’s travel partner—a good set of adjustable bands (figure 1.9).
A JC Predator Jr. (figure 1.10) has 
become my standard recommenda-tion for the traveling athlete. I am not suggesting that a set of bands will take the place of the strength training equipment you can find in a well-equipped gym. However, resistance is resistance, and when you can’t get to other equipment, the Predator Jr. can provide the right resistance to the right move-ment, allowing you to get in the training that you would otherwise miss.
Bands travel easily because of their materials, size, and easy setup. They are 
made of plastic and latex, which means they can quickly travel through any security point and in carry-on luggage. The Predator is small enough to fit in the pocket of a computer bag, so space is not an issue. Depending on the band model and the exercise, the setup can vary. You can anchor the band to a doorframe or simply step on the band to create resistance.
Sometimes no equipment is available when you’re traveling. In these rare cases, 
turn to the landscape to provide equipment in the form of stairs, benches, high bars, dip bars, sand, hills, and any other structure that can be used as a training apparatus or additional resistance. The structures surrounding most hotels can create a great training environment, from bodyweight training in your room to stair exercises to training in sand.
Conclusion
This chapter has explained functional training and clarified some of the myths surrounding it. It has also made equipment recommendations that highlight the simplicity and economy of functional training. Functional training does not have to be complex or expensive to be highly effective and cutting edge. With this information, you are now ready to explore the foundations of functional training.FIGURE 1.9  Adjustable bands.
FIGURE 1.10  JC Predator Jr. and bag.


13
CHAPTER
2
Foundations of  
Functional Training
When discussing functional training, defining function is a great place to start. In 
its basic form, it is the action for which a person or thing is specially used or for which a thing exists—its purpose. Therefore, functional can be defined as
•
performing a function,
•performing a duty for which a person or thing is intended, or
•a characteristic action of anything—a duty, utility, or purpose.
T
o define functional training, we must first define the function or characteristic
action of the human body. In other words, what is the movement function of the human body?
Four Pillars of Human Movement
Human movement can be classified into four categories: locomotion, level changes, pushing and pulling, and rotation. These are the four pillars of human movement. The four-pillar model organizes the basic movements all bodies perform in everyday life. The model lends itself perfectly to sport in that each pillar can be associated with major sport skills, or what I refer to as the Big Four of sport: locomotion, level changes, throwing, and changes of direction. For the most part, if a sport requires a person to stand on both feet, the Big Four dominate the skills needed for participation in the sport. More details on the Big Four are provided later in this chapter.
Locomotion
The first pillar of human movement is locomotion. As bipedal animals, locomotion is our most basic biomotor skill. Everyone, especially locomotive-based athletes, should therefore consider relating all training to the human gait cycle.
Two major characteristics of locomotion are single-leg stability and rotation. 
Locomotion occurs one leg at a time, creating a structure that transfers forces 

14Functional Training
from the ground to the rest of the body. This is called the 7-frame, and it will be 
discussed in more detail later in the chapter. Rotation is a major component of locomotion that is necessary to cancel rotational force between the upper and lower body, which maintains the body alignment and balance necessary for efficient running.
Locomotion is the primary biomotor skill because it integrates all four pillars. 
With each stride, the center of mass moves both horizontally and vertically (i.e., level changes—pillar 2). Locomotion involves the contralateral push-and-pull movements of the upper body (i.e., pushing and pulling—pillar 3), which are essential for canceling the rotational forces generated by the lower body. The contralateral movement between the upper and lower body creates the rotational component (i.e., rotation—pillar 4) of linear locomotion that is fundamental to efficient forward movement. This integration is why there are four pillars and why they are presented in this order.
Level Changes
The second pillar of human movement involves level changes in a person’s center of mass. Level changes are characterized by movements of the trunk or lower extremities or a combination of the two that lower or raise the center of mass. These level changes are necessary for performing many nonlocomotive tasks, such as picking up objects, getting into low positions, or getting up off the floor. With the lower body, we can perform level changes by squatting, lunging, or stepping up on or down off objects by simply flexing the ankles, knees, and hips. Therefore, the primary method of lower-body force production is made possible by the triple-extension mechanism involving the ankle, knee, and hip. The trunk of the body can also help to vertically displace the center of mass by flexing or extending the spine. Most of the time we use a combination of trunk and lower-extremity flexion to perform functional level changes (e.g., low volley in tennis, suplex in wrestling, scramble up after falling). Note that gravity, not the flexor chain of the muscular system, is responsible for the descent of the level change (i.e., total-body flexion). The extensor chain controls the speed and degree of flexion in function, and thus level-change injuries usually occur in the posterior structures of the body (e.g., Achilles tendon, hamstrings, lower back).
Pushing and Pulling
The third pillar of human movement is pushing and pulling. These movements involve the upper body and can displace the combined center of mass. For simplic-ity, we will consider a pull to be any movement that brings the elbows or hands inward or toward the main line of the body. Pulling brings things close to us to hold or carry, and it also occurs in the initial acceleration stage of throwing an object. A push is any movement that brings the elbows or hands outward or away from the main line of the body. Pushing involves activities such as pushing away an opponent or pushing off the ground to get up after a fall, and it also occurs in the latter part of throwing (i.e., late portion of acceleration and follow-through).
Pushing and pulling are also part of our reflex and biomechanical systems. 
Our bodies are neurologically cross wired; a reflex causes one limb to flex as the contralateral limb extends. This phenomenon can be seen in many explosive actions, such as throwing, swimming, and running. For example, in sport skills such as punching and throwing, the left elbow flexes as the right arm extends 

15 Foundations of Functional Training
and comes through to punch or to throw a ball. By creating short lever arms, the 
body increases its rotational speed (much like a figure skater rotates faster as the arms come in toward the main line of the body). In running, we can see this reflex and matching lever arms between the upper and lower body. When the left arm is behind the body with the elbow flexed (short lever arm), the right leg is also up and flexed (short lever arm). Simultaneously, the right arm is more extended while the left leg is more extended and pushing off the ground.
Rotation
The neural cross wiring just described leads us to the last and most important pillar of human movement: rotation. This pillar is responsible for what replays in sport are usually made out of—rotational power! It’s the most important pillar because many physical movements in sport are explosive and involve the trans-verse plane (i.e., the plane of movement where rotation takes place).
A quick look at the muscular system shows how heavily human movement 
relies on rotation. In their 1970 book Kinesiology, Gene A. Logan and Wayne C. 
McKinney describe the serape effect.
1 The authors do a fantastic job explaining 
how and why the body uses this muscular cross wiring to provide rotational power. If you want to see the serape effect at work, stand in front of a mirror wearing a loose T-shirt. Go through a throwing motion and freeze at the top of the throw. Or, simply march in place. Watch how the shirt wrinkles. How do the core muscles load up during throwing or running? Diagonally!
Pull out an anatomy book and look at the core musculature. You will see that 
most of the core musculature is in a diagonal or horizontal orientation. Of the major muscles in the core (i.e., major muscles attached to the trunk, above the ischial tuberosity, and below the superior aspect of the sternum), almost 90 percent are oriented either diagonally or horizontally and have rotation as one of their major functions. Table 2.1 provides a rough organization of core muscles and their basic orientation, which clearly illustrates the rotational nature of the body.
Big Four Sport Skills
The four most common movement categories—the Big Four—in sport are locomo-tion, level changes, pushing and pulling (throwing, pushing away, and holding objects), and rotation (changes of direction). They are at the heart of most ground-based sports (i.e., sports performed from the standing position) and are almost identical to the four pillars of human movement. The four pillars describe the biomechanical functions of the body that no sport can violate; therefore, the Big Four must mirror the four pillars. Bipedal (i.e., two-leg) locomotion will always be the way we get from point A to point B. Level changes will always dictate the loading mechanism for jumping, picking up objects, and getting into low athletic positions. Pushing and pulling are natural movements that occur often. Table 2.2 shows the Big Four, their basic motions, and sport-specific activities that fall into each category.
1 Logan, G., and W. McKinney. 1970. The serape effect. In Anatomical kinesiology, 3rd ed., ed. A. Lockhart, 287-
302. Dubuque, IA: Brown.

16Functional Training
TABLE 2.1  Core Muscles and Their Orientation
DORSAL
Muscle Nonvertical Vertical
Trapezius ✓
Rhomboid ✓
Latissimus dorsi ✓
Serratus posterior ✓
Erector spinae ✓
Quadratus lumborum ✓
Gluteus maximus ✓
Gluteus medius ✓
Tensor fasciae latae ✓
Rotators of the hip (6)  ✓
VENTRAL
Muscle Nonvertical Vertical
Pectoralis major ✓
Pectoralis minor ✓
Serratus anterior ✓
External oblique ✓
Internal oblique ✓
Rectus abdominis ✓
Transversus abdominis ✓
Psoas ✓
Iliacus ✓
Sartorius ✓
Rectus femoris ✓
Adductors (3) ✓
Pectineus ✓
Gracilis ✓
Total 28 pairs = 56 4 pairs = 8
% of rotational muscles 87.5% 12.5% 
As mentioned, the Big Four sport movements are described by the four pillars 
of human movement. They are also all powered by a series of muscles discussed 
later in this chapter, the anterior and posterior serape. Relating the major move-ments in sport to the four pillars and then developing a biomechanical model to train the movements creates a simple yet powerful way of designing functional 

17 Foundations of Functional Training
TABLE 2.2  Motions and Sample Activities of the Big Four Sport Skills
Sport skill Basic motion Sample sport-specific activities
Locomotion Any locomotive movement that 
takes the body from point A to 
point BAll walking, jogging, running, 
shuffling, skipping, and jumping taking off from a single leg
Level changes Flexion and extension of the legs 
or core that raises or lowers the body’s center of mass, including lifting from the groundLowering the body to field a low 
grounder in baseball, hitting a low volley in tennis, getting up after falling, sprawling and lifting an opponent in wrestling, and lowering the center of mass to decelerate
Pushing 
and pulling (throwing, pushing away, and holding objects)Launching an implement with one 
hand, usually requiring the other arm to go in the opposite direc-tion; pushing away and holding on to objects may require one or both limbs to work in a coordi-nated fashionThrowing in baseball, serving in 
tennis, spiking in volleyball, and throwing a javelin
Rotation 
(changes of direction)Any movement that requires 
planting one leg and rotating the hips and shoulders, including swinging an implementChanging locomotive direction in 
all sports, batting, golfing, throw-ing a hammer, swimming, and aerial rotations
training programs for sport. Now, let’s look at the Big Four and how they relate 
to the four pillars in more specific terms.
Sport Locomotion
In ground-based sports, locomotion (running) is arguably the most important skill needed for success. Running speed and agility are at the top of the wish list when athletes come to a strength and conditioning coach. This is one reason why locomotion is the first of the four pillars of human movement and involves all the other pillars.
Locomotion is any action that uses alternating leg movements to move the 
body from point A to point B. During locomotion, a single foot is planted on the ground, and that ground contact transfers energy to move the hips in an intended direction. The hips travel over the planted foot, the other foot is planted on the ground, and the cycle continues. Whether an athlete is running to first base, shuffling to get into position around a basketball pick, or changing directions on a tennis court, sport locomotion eventually puts the body’s weight on a single leg, and that is one of the fundamental features we need to see, understand, and train. Transferring high forces through a single leg is the key feature of the first pillar and all sport locomotion. Let’s look at this single-leg phenomenon so we can better understand its importance and how to train it.
Most traditional methods of improving running performance use some form 
of two-legged strength training, such as squats, deadlifts, and leg presses. Although these exercises will improve locomotion, they are not specific to sport skills. When training for strength using two-leg exercises, the athlete uses the 

18Functional Training
A-frame. In architecture, 
the A-frame is a structure that allows buildings to be constructed with many floors stacked on top of each other. Because of its stability, the A-frame is the position used for the heaviest lifts, such as squats (figure 2.1a).
Although the squat is 
a good general exercise, it doesn’t provide opti-mal carryover to running when compared with single-leg exercises such as the single-leg squat. Unlike the A-frame of a two-leg squat, the sin-gle-leg squat uses the 7-frame (figure 2.1b).
The 7-frame requires superior stability of the ground-based hip when compared 
with the A-frame. Any instability of the ground-based hip results in an inhibitory process that shuts down the body’s ability to produce a force (i.e., strength) that would put the unstable hip in danger. Obviously, the negative aspect of protecting the hip with an inhibitory response is that it reduces the power provided by the hip and slows down the locomotive process. Therefore, training the 7-frame not only strengthens single-hip stability but also reduces the inhibitory response that a weak hip would experience.
Locomotion has additional features involving the coordination of the contra-
lateral upper and lower limbs. We will discuss these in more detail later in this chapter.
Many popular functional training exercises for locomotion are simple move-
ments with big returns. Some of the exercises already mentioned in this book are some of my favorites, including the single-leg anterior reach, the single-leg squat, and the single-leg SB bridge. These three exercises are the staples of my running program. Two additional exercises are the single-leg lateral wall slide and the wall march. These six exercises make a great at-home running program and are covered in more details in chapters 3 through 5. Table 2.3 shows an example of how you can develop sport locomotion at home or in a gym.
Level Changes
Level changes occur when an athlete performs a countermovement before a jump, falls and gets up, goes for a ball that is close to the ground, lifts an opponent or object, changes levels in any combat sport, or simply changes directions. This crucial athletic skill is seen in just about all ground-based sports, which is why it is the second pillar of human movement. Let’s look at the mechanics of level changes so we can better understand how they happen and how to train them functionally.FIGURE 2.1  Two versions of the squat: (a) A two-legged squat 
uses the A-frame position; (b) a single-leg squat uses the 7-frame 
position.
a b

19 Foundations of Functional Training
Level changes require flexion of the legs, hips, and even the spine to varying 
degrees to lower the body’s center of mass. Even when significant knee flexion 
is involved, the hips (i.e., the center of the posterior core) do most of the work to control level changes in sport. Relying on the posterior side of the core to do the heavy lifting makes sense because it involves the huge muscle groups of the hamstrings, glutes, and paraspinal muscles. I affectionately call these three muscle groups the three amigos. Most injuries in noncontact sports involve these muscles in one way or another, so training them not only makes sense for performance, it also makes sense for injury prevention.
In most sports, level changes use two bases of support (figure 2.2): the parallel 
stance and the staggered stance. Both bases of support are used when getting up off the ground, lowering the body to get to an object, and lifting the body or an object. A basketball player uses the parallel stance to perform the level change needed to set up a jump shot. A baseball catcher may also use the parallel stance in his low stationary position to provide the stability needed before reacting to a runner trying to steal a base. During some athletic skills, such as a wrestling suplex, the parallel stance is used to deadlift an opponent off the mat. During some lifting skills, athletes also use their arms to hold on to opponents (objects), bringing in the pulling motion that is part of the third pillar.TABLE 2.3  Home or Gym Functional Training Program for Running
MONDAY AND THURSDAY TUESDAY AND FRIDAY
ExerciseSets and 
reps ExerciseSets and reps
Single-leg CLA anterior 
reach2 or 3  10 Single-leg squat 2 or 3  10
SB single-leg lateral wall 
slide (inside leg)2 or 3  10 SB bridge (single leg) 2 or 3  10
45-degree wall march or 
run2 or 3  
10-20 (or 10-20 sec)SB single-leg lateral wall 
slide (outside leg)2 or 3  10
FIGURE 2.2  Level changes occur with two bases of support. In baseball, (a) a catcher uses a 
parallel stance to provide the stability needed to react to a wild pitch or a runner trying to steal, but 
(b) an infielder uses a staggered stance to quickly field and throw a low grounder.
b a

20Functional Training
Level changes performed from the staggered stance are quite different from 
their parallel-stance counterparts. These movements require more finesse and are 
used with more surgical precision. Low volleys in tennis are a perfect example of the fast level changes of the combined reaching for a ball and decelerating locomotion (running). Infielders in baseball also need to field fast-moving low grounders that require the staggered stance. The staggered-stance level change not only offers fast level changes, it also offers the ability to execute a fast change of direction so that a player can get back in the game or continue a play.
Regardless of the timing used by the upper and lower body, one thing stands 
out when we observe the staggered-stance level change: the single-leg and sin-gle-hip dominance of the 7-frame. Although both feet may be on the ground in the staggered stance, one side takes most of the load when decelerating or changing directions. This single-side dominance and the asymmetrical loading that accompanies it are not addressed in traditional two-leg training methods. It is this specificity that functional training addresses so effectively.
Once we analyze the two positions used for level changes in most sports, we 
can use the principle of specificity to train them. Traditional strength training focuses on the parallel stance and the symmetrical loading of the A-frame. Exer -
cises such as deadlifts, good mornings, squats, and Olympic lifts all address the parallel-stance level change. These traditional exercises are effective in devel-oping basic strength and can be part of a comprehensive, year-round strength and conditioning program. However, a lack of time, facilities, money, coaching skills, and athletic ability may prevent these traditional training methods from being used. In these cases, a more functional approach to training can be a great alternative. Kettlebell swings, wood chops, parallel-stance compound rows, and SB reverse hyperextensions are all excellent options for developing the posterior musculature and improving level changes from the parallel stance.
Considering how often the staggered stance appears in sport, the single-leg 
dominance of the staggered-stance level change has not been trained with as much frequency and focus as it should be. Traditionally, two-leg, symmetrically loaded exercises have been used to train all level changes. This type of oversight allowed functional training to emerge as an alternative system of training. Func-tional training acknowledges the obvious position of the staggered stance and trains it with single-leg and staggered-stance exercises focused on hip hinging. This attention to biomechanical specificity has yielded incredible results in a short time with simple exercises and without expensive and bulky equipment. Exer -
cises such as the BP staggered-stance CLA compound row, BP staggered-stance CLA deadlift, and the single-leg 45-degree back extension are among the most effective exercises used to develop fast level changes from the staggered stance. Table 2.4 shows an example of an easy level-change program that can be used twice per week for about 30 minutes each session.
Pushing and Pulling (Throwing)
Just like locomotion in sport, let’s take throwing as an example. If we were to observe a pitcher launching a 100 miles-per-hour (161 kph) fastball, we would see that he lunges from one leg to the other, changes his level, pulls and pushes with his arms, and rotates his body. This integration of all four pillars is common in many sport activities, which is why it is such a powerful model to use for analysis and exercise design. Even when looking at other sport skills within the throwing 

21 Foundations of Functional Training
category, such as an overhead serve 
in tennis or a spike in volleyball, all four pillars are represented.
The force-generation patterns of 
throwing are similar to running and changing direction in that they are powered by diagonal patterns of force generation—the power high-ways. As you can see in figure 2.3, a right-handed pitcher sends the ball flying toward the catcher by using a diagonal pattern of force generation that crosses the back of the body (i.e., right hip to left shoulder during the windup and cocking phases) and the front of the body (i.e., the right shoulder to the left hip during the acceleration phase). The pitcher uses locomotion to push off and take the step to home plate after the cocking phase, and he uses a level change when opening the stance, push and pull to actually throw the ball, and rotation while everything is going on during the acceleration and fol-low-through phases. This is how all four pillars are used to throw a ball. You will find similar integration of all pillars in most overhead activities that involve propelling something forward.
Once the pitch has been launched, a similar diagonal pattern decelerates the 
pitching action across the backside of the body (figure 2.4). The deceleration position of a pitcher is powered by the muscles oriented diagonally in the back of the body from the left hip to the right shoulder: left hamstrings, left glutes, and right latissimus dorsi. If you look closely at pictures of any motion, you will often see the clothing stretch in the direction the forces are generated. This is a great tool for determining the muscles that align themselves with a motion. We provide more information on this diagonal pattern later in this chapter when we discuss the serape and highways of power.TABLE 2.4  Home or Gym Functional Training Program for Level Changes
PARALLEL STANCE STAGGERED STANCE
Exercise Sets and reps Exercise Sets and reps
Barbell deadlift 3  10 BP staggered-stance CLA 
compound row3  10 per leg
BP compound row 3  10 BP staggered-stance CLA 
deadlift3  10 per leg
SB reverse  
hyperextension3  10 Single-leg 45-degree 
back extension3  10 per leg
FIGURE 2.3  Acceleration of a pitch. Although the 
forward thrust of a right-handed pitcher is provided 
by the diagonal posterior musculature going from the right hip to the left shoulder, the acceleration of the ball is powered by the muscles oriented diag-onally in front of the body from the right shoulder to the left hip: right serratus anterior, right external oblique, left internal oblique, and left hip flexors and adductors.


22Functional Training
One big mistake to avoid when 
analyzing the pitching or serving 
motion is looking where injuries mostly occur—the shoulder. If you look at the shoulder of a pitcher during the pitching motion or a tennis player during the serving motion, you will see an incredible amount of rotation (figure 2.5). When the shoul-der gets injured, the normal course of action is rest, ice, and eventually rotator cuff exercises. However, this traditional approach to analyzing and training throwers needs to be reevaluated. This is not the way to train the rotators of the shoulder to move through the range and at the speed used in sport.
What accelerates and decelerates 
the arm in throwing or serving motions is not the shoulder but rather the core. The body acts like a bow, with the strong portion that is generating the power located right in the middle (the core). This area must be trained with big movements so the front of the body learns to accelerate the throwing motion and the back of the body learns to decelerate it.
In order to train the throwing acceleration and deceleration components in a 
more functional manner, you have to consider both phases of throwing. Most athletes and coaches concern themselves with the acceleration component, but that is similar to adding more horsepower to a car with weak brakes. The BP staggered-stance CLA press and X-up are examples of easy exercises that provide the diagonal core training needed to improve throwing speed and prevent injury. 
FIGURE 2.4  Deceleration of a pitch.
FIGURE 2.5  Shoulder rotation during the tennis serve.
Adapted, by permission, from E.P . Roetert and M.S. Kovacs, 2011, Tennis anatomy (Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics), 26.
E5531/Santana/Fig. 02.05/524834/JG/R2-alw


23 Foundations of Functional Training
These exercises teach the core to do the majority of the work so the shoulder and 
wrist don’t have to. Not only does this approach provide more power and speed, it keeps the small joints happy and less susceptible to injury.
The deceleration phase of throwing is possibly more important than the 
acceleration phase. Many of the injuries in throwing occur on the backside of the body. The cool thing about the deceleration of the throwing motion is that it is the same as locomotion and level changes because it involves both of them. Exercises such as the SB  reverse hyperextensions and KB single-arm swing are excellent 
to develop deceleration capabilities. To these two exercises you can add more specific exercises, such as the single-leg CLA anterior reach, BP staggered-stance CLA compound row, and DB or KB front reaching lunge.
You can easily perform a weekly functional training throwing program out of 
the home or at any gym with simple, inexpensive equipment. Table 2.5 illustrates such a program.
TABLE 2.5  Home or Gym Functional Training Program for Throwing
MONDAY AND THURSDAY 
(ACCELERATION DAY)TUESDAY AND FRIDAY  
(DECELERATION DAY)
ExerciseSets and 
reps ExerciseSets and reps
Plank 2 or 3  10 Single-leg CLA anterior 
reach 2 or 3  10
X-up 2 or 3  10 BP compound row 2 or 3  10
BP staggered-stance press 2 or 3  10 
per armDB or KB front reaching 
lunge2 or 3  10 
per leg
Rotation (Changes of Direction)
Without a doubt, rotation (changes of 
direction and swinging implements) are the most important movement skill of the Big Four. Changes of direc-tion, including implement swings, are featured in almost all sports, and they are often behind the great replays we see in sport. Whether a running back fakes out a linebacker or a batter hits a home run, the rotational ability needed to load the body in one direction and explosively change directions is often a defining moment in sport (figure 2.6). Rotation is the essence of this skill, and it is also the fourth pillar of human movement, the thread that intercon-nects all other pillars.
Change of direction and its rotational 
component are fundamental to human movement, especially power generation.  
FIGURE 2.6  A running back fakes out a line-
backer. This change of direction is loaded by 
the diagonal musculature of the back: the big latissimus dorsi and the opposite glutes and hamstrings.


24Functional Training
The rotational component has many 
faces. For example, if you analyze human locomotion, you quickly realize the upper body moves in opposition to the lower body; that is, the right arm comes forward at the same time the left leg does. If you study the pitching motion of a right-handed pitcher, you will see the left leg and right arm come together in the windup and then sepa-rate as the pitcher steps (strides) toward home plate into the cocking phase. As the hips turn to home plate to begin to accelerate the ball, the right arm comes toward the left leg again during the follow-through. Similarly, a batter or a golfer separates the right shoulder from the left leg during the backswing and stride (figure 2.7). Then as the hips rotate and the bat or club comes through the impact zone, the right shoulder comes toward the left hip.
All of these examples have a few 
things in common:
•
  Most of the changes 
of direction 
occur off a fixed point on the ground.
•
 They need a dominant point-of-ground contact (usually single-leg dominant) in or
der to push in a given 
direction.
• After the initial leg drive, all changes of direction ar
e initiated by a rotational 
hip movement that is followed by the shoulders.
• The pattern of force generation in these changes of dir
ection is diagonal, 
connecting one hip to the opposite shoulder through the front and back of the body.
•
 Changing direction involves the deceleration of a for
ce and immediate 
acceleration of another force in another direction.
• The cor
e (the area between the chest and thighs) is the bridge that transfers 
the power expressed in the change of direction.
These topics will be covered in more detail later in this chapter when we discuss the highways of sport power.
From our discussion on the diagonal and rotational nature of changes of direc-
tion, it is obvious that in order to train this popular sport movement in a functional manner, you have to train rotational and diagonal movements. Even movements that load a single extremity (e.g., single-arm press, single-arm row) can feature enough of a rotational component to provide excellent functional training for changes of direction. Many of the lower-body exercises already mentioned, such as the single-leg CLA anterior reach and the reaching lunge, can also provide 
FIGURE 2.7  The backswing in golf. The right-
handed golf swing is loaded by the posterior 
and diagonal musculature of the back (i.e., right hamstring, right glutes, left latissimus dorsi) and the opposite musculature in the front (i.e., left hip flexors and adductor complex, left internal oblique, right external oblique, right serratus anterior).

25 Foundations of Functional Training
excellent training for changes of direction. However, if we consider the principle 
of specificity, we can easily see that adding more lateral and rotational training can further improve functional training for sports that feature lateral changes in direction. For example, exercises such as the lateral reaching lunge, MB diagonal chop, BP short rotation, and diagonal BP chop provide more targeted rotational training that is sure to make you faster and add rotational power to sport skills that involve swinging. Table 2.6 provides a sure-bet way to improve locomotive changes of direction as well as swinging power.
The Big Four offer a way to associate the major sport movements with the 
four pillars and create functional training programs based on the principle of specificity. Biomechanics can be a complicated subject, but when analyzed in a logical and sport-specific manner, exercise design and programming become easier to implement using the simple programs offered in this book. Therein lies the strength of the Big Four!
TABLE 2.6  Supporting Exercises for Changes of Direction (Including Swings)
LOCOMOTIVE CHANGES OF DIRECTION SWINGING
Exercise Sets and reps Exercise Sets and reps
DB or KB lateral reaching 
lunge3  10 BP short rotation  
(10 to 2 o’clock)3  10 per leg
SB single-leg lateral wall 
slide3  10 BP low-to-high chop 3  10 per leg
MB short diagonal chop 3  10 BP high-to-low chop 3  10 per leg
Athletic Environment
The powerful movement models discussed up to now allow athletic expression due to the environment that athletics occur in. This environment has been rarely acknowledged, much less used to define and enhance functional training. Most sports take place on land (i.e., require ground contact during the execution of skills), but some sports feature eclectic physical environments. For instance, the strokes in swimming occur in water and the aerial maneuvers in diving occur in air.
Dryland strength training for sports not dominated by ground contact still 
occurs on land. If your strength training takes place on land, then the operational environment of ground-based function automatically dominates training and must be taken into account. Understanding the properties that affect the ground-based training environment will help you maximize the functional training principles explained throughout this book.
Gravity
The most striking and consistent component of our operational environment is gravity. Gravity affects all objects on earth by influencing them with a downward force (i.e., acceleration). This downward force provides a few important tools used in practically all sports and ground-based training.
First, the pull of gravity loads muscle systems. For example, if you are going 
to jump, you automatically relax your legs and hips, allowing gravity to quickly 

26Functional Training
flex your body and load the extensor muscles so you can jump with more power. 
The flexing did not cost the body any energy due to the pull of gravity, and the speed at which gravity pulls the body down can even elicit reflexes (e.g., myo-static reflex) in some plyometric exercises, such as depth jumps. If you want to see the absence or reduction of gravity, look at how slowly astronauts move in space. Can you imagine playing a sport on the moon? It would take forever and have no power.
Gravity also allows us to simultaneously load joints in three planes of motion. 
During his Chain Reaction seminar (1995), Gary Gray referred to this loading mechanism as multiplane joint motion, or triplanar loading. For example, when a right-handed golfer allows gravity to act on the right hip during the backswing, the hip flexes in the sagittal plane, adducts in the frontal plane, and internally loads in the transverse plane. This triplanar loading of the hip provides the big power you see in the drive. With few exceptions, all major joints in the body can load in a triplanar fashion, making the human body and gravity strong allies in power generation.
Triplanar loading puts various body segments in the best biomechanical 
position to generate power and create the next physical element, momentum. Functional training has to reflect this use of gravity to load muscles as well as to elicit reflexes. Exercises such as various jumps, low-to-high cable rotations, and medicine ball throws can be of great use in learning how to use gravity to create power.
Momentum
Momentum is one of the most visible qualities in sport and the one that dominates power. It is used to load muscle and to move efficiently through big ranges of motion. For example, momentum is used in plyometric training to load muscles for a more forceful contraction. Momentum is also responsible for the long ranges traveled by implements, objects, and body parts using little if any muscular con-traction; think of Michael Jordan’s single-leg takeoffs during his winning dunk performances. The momentum created by the backswing is what provides the power of a batting or golf swing.
Momentum is the product of an object’s mass and speed; the faster an object 
moves or the larger it is, the more momentum it will have. In real life, mass usu-ally stays constant. An athlete’s body weight, a bat, a ball, a glove, and a racket stay the same weight. In these cases the factor that increases momentum is speed, which is why they say speed kills. Acceleration is the increase in speed, and it is one of the most sought-after qualities in sport. On the other hand, a reduction in momentum is often referred to as deceleration. As previously mentioned, decel-eration is as important as acceleration when it comes to athletic performance. Both acceleration and deceleration are dynamic qualities that involve strength and speed, and the functional training for sport should reflect this. Exercises such as skips, skaters, and medicine ball throws are great for teaching an athlete how to manipulate momentum and work simultaneously on the strength and speed components.
Ground Reaction Forces
Another characteristic of our operational environment is the ground-based nature of force production. For the most part, everything we prepare for requires us to 

27 Foundations of Functional Training
generate forces from the ground up. Whether we are swinging a bat, picking up 
an opponent in a combat sport, or blocking a defensive tackle in football, the force generated for the activity is determined by the athlete’s ability to transfer forces to and from the ground via a solid foot contact and ground reaction forces.
Isaac Newton explains the reason for this in his third law of motion, the law 
of action and reaction. It states that for every action, there is always an opposed and equal reaction. This means that when you are standing and applying forces to the ground, the ground provides an equal amount of force back. Therefore, when you plant your foot on the ground during the plant phase of running, the ground provides the same amount of force back to you, propelling your hips in the intended direction.
Ground reaction forces also influence our approach to balance training and how 
we use unstable surfaces. Although balance training may be effective in keeping neurological pathways open and neural communication flowing, balance (i.e., unstable) training does not provide the stability needed to transmit high forces via solid foot contact with the ground, as is required in all ground-based sports. It is impossible to react with the ground when something soft or unstable is between the ground and the body! Because we need to react with the ground in order to transmit force, we must reevaluate the use of balance training for producing and transmitting power. Our recommendation is simple: Plant your feet on the ground and move heavy stuff as fast as you can in all directions!
Ground reaction forces are important in all sports, even those such as swim-
ming. As previously mentioned, even if the sport itself does not rely much on ground contact, the strength training in a gym is mostly all ground based. Therefore, the effectiveness of strength development in a gym is based on ground contact and reaction.
Three Planes of Motion
The last element of the operational environment is its three-dimensional nature. Every day we operate in an environment that has 360 degrees of movement capability. This freedom of movement provides enormous strength and power capabilities through triplanar loading.
Because most, if not all, athletic movement takes place in a multiplanar envi-
ronment, it only makes sense to train consistently in that environment. We must train in a manner that involves all three planes of motion if we are going to prepare for the multiplanar environment of sport. The three planes of motion provide many advantages. For example, 360 degrees of movement allows muscles to load in three planes of motion simultaneously. However, this incredible benefit must also be stabilized through all three planes, which is called triplanar stability. The lack of triplanar stability is a key drawback of traditional training, especially machine-based training, but it is a key attribute developed by functional training.
Highways of Sport Power
The body connects its major muscle systems to create highways of power in the most common sport movements. Creating a map of these highways of power provides a new training model that encompasses all of the directions the body moves in and a training model that corresponds to those directions—my training octagon.

28Functional Training
Body as the Ultimate Bow: Direction of Athletic Force 
Production
One of the simplest ways to illustrate how the body generates power is to compare 
it to a bow. Everyone knows that in order to load a bow, you must first bend the bow (figure 2.8a). We also know that the strongest and stiffest part of the bow is the center, or the core.
For example, a tennis player bends his body back to serve a ball (figure 2.8b). 
This backward bending loads the front bow of the body. Like the bow, the tennis player gets his power from his center. This analogy reveals the specificity of simple exercises, such as the BP swim and the MB overhead slam. These two exercises can train the front bow of the body and improve any overhead throwing activity.
Staying with the bow analogy, the body also bends to load the back bow. The 
back bow can load and provide the power for all level changes (e.g., jumping, getting up off the ground, lifting objects). For example, a swimmer or sprinter bends (flexes) her entire back musculature to load the back bow for pushing off the starting blocks and for turning off the wall. Likewise, a wrestler picks up an opponent with the core muscles of the back bow.
This visual allows us to appreciate the specificity of general strength exer -
cises, such as the deadlift, and more specific functional exercises, such as the KB single-arm swing and the MB reverse scoop throw. The front and back bow not only accelerate flexion and extension, they also work in opposition to each other in a cooperative way, as we’ll see when we look at their diagonal components.
Anterior and Posterior Serape
Expanding on the bow analogy and the diagonal loading of the core, we can view the body as a series of bows connected as a ribbon or scarf. This diagonal config-
FIGURE 2.8  (a) The archer bends the bow in order to load 
it. (b) The tennis player bends the body in order to create 
power when serving.a
b

29 Foundations of Functional Training
uration is called the anterior serape (figure 2.9) and the posterior serape (figure 2.10). 
This biomechanical system is extremely important in sport, and understanding it will serve us well in learning how the body moves and how to train it.
The anterior serape connects the right shoulder to the left leg and the left 
shoulder to the right leg along the front of the body. To complete the ribbon figure, each shoulder is posteriorly connected to the spine by way of the scapu-lae. In direct opposition, the posterior serape connects the right shoulder to the left leg and the left shoulder to the right leg along the backside of the body. To complete the ribbon figure, each shoulder is connected anteriorly to the sternum by the pectorals (chest muscles). It may seem contradictory to have an anterior muscular system connected by posterior musculature and a posterior muscular system connected by anterior musculature, but this configuration makes perfect sense when you think about similar examples in everyday life. A belt has to come around the back to secure the front of the garment, a scarf wraps around the back to hold the front in place, and a coat has to have a back to hold the front in place. The anterior and posterior serapes work in a coordinated agonist and antagonist fashion; whatever the anterior serape accelerates, the posterior serape decelerates, and vice versa.
To bring the serape to life, let’s use the previous example of the right-handed 
pitcher. The right-handed pitch is first accelerated by the posterior serape (right leg to left shoulder) during the windup and stride. The cocking and acceleration phases use the anterior serape muscles that diagonally cross from the left leg to the right shoulder: the left hip flexors and adductors, left internal oblique, right 
E5531/Santana/Fig. 02.09/524840/JG/R2
Right
serratusanterior
Left 
internaloblique
Left hipflexorsRight externaloblique
Left hip
adductors
FIGURE 2.9  Anterior serape. FIGURE 2.10  Posterior serape.
E5531/Santana/Fig. 02.10/524841/JG/R3
Right 
latissimusdorsi
Left gluteusmedius
Left gluteus
maximus
Left hamstrings

30Functional Training
external oblique, and right serratus anterior. The right-handed pitch is deceler -
ated by the posterior serape muscles that diagonally cross from the left leg to 
the right shoulder: the left soleus, left gastrocnemius, left hamstrings, left glutes, and right latissimus dorsi.
This diagonal acceleration and deceleration is an orchestrated event that is 
found in all sports, especially when rotation is used. For example, the same musculature that decelerates a right-handed pitch can accelerate a right-handed backhand in tennis.
Once you understand the diagonal nature of the anterior and posterior serape, 
you start to realize how all sport movements, as well as the four pillars, get their power. With this understanding, functional training for sport becomes as simple as training the power highways of the serape. Let’s look at a training system designed to train the power highways.
JC’s Training Octagon
Learning the inner workings of the serape can take a little time, and learning how to train it can take even more time. I developed my training octagon to make training the serapes easy.
If you combine the four pillars of human movement, the bow analogy, and 
the anterior and posterior serape models, you realize the body bends and rotates in eight directions and thus can perform practically any sport skill. These eight directions are the power highways. As you can see in figure 2.11, lines 1, 2, and 8 point to the direction of movement that predominantly uses the back musculature to extend the body. Lines 4, 5, and 6 predominately use front muscles to flex the body. Lines 3 and 7 use combinations of front and back muscles to cause a net horizontal rotation. When we say predominantly, we don’t mean exclusively; all of these systems are integrated and help each other. We have oversimplified this model to make it easy to understand.
Table 2.7 brings everything together, including the eight power highways 
of the octagon, the main muscle systems involved in the movement, the sport skills associated with the movement, and some exercises that can improve the movement.
As you can see, the training octagon offers a simple biomechanical model and 
training system that any strength coach or athlete can use to train functionally. For example, by simply going to the sport skills column and selecting a move-ment you need to train, you can find a suitable exercise in the exercises column. Other columns provide additional information, such as muscle system used and direction of movement.

31TABLE 2.7  JC’s Training Octagon
NumberDirection of 
movement Muscles involved Sport skills Exercises
1 Low to high Hamstrings, 
glutes, paraspinal 
musclesVertical and long two-leg 
jumps, lifting (ground up)Squat, MB wood chop, 
good morning, deadlift, lunge, SB hyperexten-sion, SB reverse hyper-extension, SB bridge,  KB swing, superman
2 Low right to 
high leftRight hamstrings, 
right glutes, left latissimus dorsiLeft backhand, right fore-
hand, right-leg plant to cut left, decelerating left-hand throwLeft-hand cross low row, 
right-leg reaching lunge, right-leg CLA anterior reach, BP low-right-to-high-left chop, MB low-right-to-high-left chop, BP right-leg staggered- stance left-arm row
> continuedE5531/Santana/Fig. 02.11/524842/JG/R3-kh
15
3
24Right high
Right
Right lowLeft high
Left
FrontLeft low86
7
Back
CombinationFIGURE 2.11  JC’s training octagon.

32Functional Training
NumberDirection of 
movement Muscles involved Sport skills Exercises
3 Right to left 
(combined 
low right to high left and high right to low left)Same as 2 and 4 Right-hand batting swing, 
right-leg-plant running, decelerating left-hand batting swingBP short right-to-left 
rotation, MB right-to-left rotational throw, left-side SB skier 
4 High right to 
low leftRight serratus 
anterior, right external oblique, left internal oblique, left hip flexors and adductor complexRight-hand throw or 
serve, left-leg kickHigh-right-to-low-left cable 
chop, right-arm-to-left-leg cross crunch or V-up, left-leg cross knee tuck, BP staggered-stance right-arm press
5 High to low Bilateral hip flex-
ors, absPike or knee tuck in 
diving or gymnastics, guard work in grapplingSit-up, crunch, V-up, knee 
tuck, SB and MB ball exchange
6 High left to 
low rightLeft serratus ante-
rior, left external oblique, right internal oblique, right hip flexors and adductor complexLeft-hand throwing or 
serving, right-leg kickingHigh-left-to-low-right cable 
chop, left-arm-to-right-leg cross crunch or V-up, right-leg cross knee tuck, BP staggered-stance left-arm press
7 Left to right 
(combined low left to high right and high left to low right)Same as 6 and 8 Left-hand batting swing, 
left-leg-plant running, decelerating right-hand batting swingBP left-to-right short 
rotation, MB left-to-right rotational throw, right SB skier 
8 Low left to 
high rightLeft hamstrings, 
left glutes, right latissimus dorsiRight-hand backhand, left 
forehand, left-leg plant to cut right, deceleration of right-handed throwRight-hand cross low 
row, left-leg CLA anterior reach, left-leg reaching lunge, BP low-left-to-high-right chop, MB low-left-to-high-right chop, staggered-stance right-arm row
Conclusion
This chapter has laid the framework for how functional training can enhance sport 
performance. From basic definitions to the biomechanical discussion of the four pillars and the training octagon, the information allows the athlete and coach to better understand functional training and how to evaluate and design exercises and programs. Collectively, the information in these first two chapters sets the stage for the exercises and programs outlined in the rest of the book.TABLE 2.7  > continued

33
CHAPTER
3
The Performance 
Continuum
People often ask, “When can I start functional training?” My answer to that 
question has always been, “Yesterday!” I have been invited to speak on several professional panels regarding functional training, and over time I have come across professionals who believe that functional training should be placed within some sequence of training. Others suggest that functional training is an advanced method that one should attempt only after completing a general training phase using machine resistance. Still others argue that functional training is effective only during the rehabilitation phase and that traditional training methods such as Olympic lifting and powerlifting should be the staples of strength training. Some even think that functional training is sport-specific training that should be used sparingly during the off-season and preseason. Although these opinions can work their way into training methods and produce some success, the question remains: What is the optimal way to use functional training?
Let’s agree that successful athletes do all sorts of things to achieve their success, 
and maybe some even do minimal strength and conditioning. Let’s also agree that we can find champions throughout history who didn’t do much strength and conditioning training. Does that mean we shouldn’t recommend well-pro-grammed strength and conditioning (functional or not) to athletes? Although some greats of the past and even a few in the present may have relied on pure talent to dominate their sport, most professionals now agree that a strength and conditioning program is essential to athletic success.
As to what kind of strength and conditioning program is best, we can say 
for sure that the appropriate use of all training methods has always been the best approach to developing an optimal program—and that includes functional training. Therefore, functional training must be considered within a training philosophy, within a training system, and as a training method—but not at the exclusion of other training systems. This will always be our position on strength and conditioning.

34Functional Training
Criteria for Functional 
and Effective Training
Coaches and trainers often wonder if an exercise is the right exercise or even an 
appropriate exercise for their athlete. Believe it or not, this is actually an easy question to answer. If an exercise has biomechanical specificity, can be performed without pain, can be performed with good form, and improves quality of move-ment from week to week, it is a functional and effective exercise!
Biomechanical Specificity
In previous chapters, we discussed the meaning of functional movement and the principle  of specificity. We know that the more closely an exercise simulates the 
target activity, the more specific and functional it is. However, there are many effective exercises that do not fit this general principle. For example, the single-leg press and the SB single-leg bridge are two functional progressions that improve running speed without looking anything like running. These progressions work because specificity applies to a fraction of a movement just as much as it applies to the total movement. In the case of the SB single-leg bridge, the vertical loading of the running motion is obviously missing. However, this exercise still teaches the hamstrings to pull and extend the hip while simultaneously controlling flexion and extension. The fact that the SB single-leg bridge can be used by a runner who can’t run due to shin splints or lower-back injury makes it one of the most powerful functional exercise progressions for running even though it looks nothing like running.
Pain-Free Training
Training without pain is paramount in strength and conditioning. Everyone appreciates mental toughness and working through pain during special com-petitive moments; however, training should remain pain free. Pain is one of the mechanisms the body uses to protect itself while repairing some structure or tissue. It limits the range of motion or the loading of a structure or tissue by altering movement patterns. Therefore, training through pain is training with an altered movement pattern. Teaching and reinforcing incorrect movement patterns can rob athletes of top performance and predispose them to further and possibly permanent injury. This is why we say to work around pain, not through it. The take-home message is this: Train pain free!
Good Control
Good control of correct movement is the reason why proper progression is a must-have and not a nice-to-have. Correct movement is essential for a multitude of reasons. From a performance perspective, it provides synergistic force produc-tion between muscles and muscle systems that translates into more strength and power. When muscles work in a more coordinated fashion, the body can produce more force with less effort. Correct movement also provides better distribution of force over more muscle systems. This means that no one joint or structure takes excessive loading, saving a significant amount of wear and tear in specific areas such as the knees. Good movement quality can also help prevent injury, greatly reducing the likelihood of noncontact injuries such as anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) tears.

35 The Performance Continuum
Steady Progress
Traditionally, progress has been viewed as the amount of weight an athlete 
can lift. However, progress comes in many forms. Less pain, faster movement, heavier loads, and greater coordination are all forms of progress. When we look at training from a functional perspective, progress is less objectively quantified and more subjectively evaluated. It is hard to put down on paper how stability has improved in a single-leg anterior reach, how the body has improved its stiff-ness through the rotational transition of the T push-up, or how the rhythm of the pelvis and spine have improved in a reaching lunge. Yet all of these are examples of progress and are the improvements that lead to athletic enhancement.
The keys to progress are patience and progression. Most athletes and coaches 
agree on this, but few practice what they preach. The biggest mistake made in functional training, and dare I say in training in general, is a lack of progression, which is often due to a lack of patience. Trainers, coaches, and even athletes always want to move ahead to the more advanced exercise or the higher load. But the poor control associated with advancing too fast actually slows progress by preventing the athlete from getting enough volume of quality work. For exam-ple, everyone wants to do single-leg anterior reaches without spending enough time on staggered-stance anterior reaches. You get more work out of 20 good staggered-stance anterior reaches than you get out of 10 bad single-leg reaches. Therefore, to achieve steady progress, you are better off with a greater volume of the basic exercise if the quality is better.
Manipulating Functional Intensity
Knowing how to progress and regress an exercise allows us to match the perfect exercise intensity to an athlete’s ability. You can use a few simple techniques to regress or progress the intensity of any exercise to match ability. These  
techniques use the operational environment previously discussed in this book, as well as the mechanical laws of physics, to add or reduce training load and intensity. Let’s look at some of these practical tweaks that can make any exercise just right.
Manipulate the Speed of Movement
Altering the speed of movement can change the intensity of any exercise. Gener -
ally speaking, the faster an exercise is, the harder it is. This is because additional power is required to increase and then reduce the momentum produced by speed. This is especially true of power movements, such as jumps. A bodyweight jump requires more force during the takeoff and landing than a bodyweight squat does.
However, speed can work in another way during some strength exercises. 
Slowing the speed of an exercise can increase the time under tension and the work done, thereby increasing the intensity. For example, if an athlete can perform 10 pull-ups quickly, slowing them to three counts up and three counts down will increase the work done and reduce the repetitions to 4 or 5.
Manipulate the Lever Arm
The lever arm of an exercise is the distance from a fixed point to where a force is applied (figure 3.1). The longer the lever arm, the higher the load and the harder the exercise.

36Functional Training
The most common use of 
the lever arm as a modifica-
tion in functional exercises can be seen in the push-up. A full push-up on the floor is harder than a push-up performed with the hands on a bench or performed from the knees instead of the feet (figure 3.2). This is because the push-up on the floor pro-vides the longest lever arm from the feet (the fixed point) to the shoulders (the distal point). The same approach applies to progressions such as flys versus bench presses and lateral raises versus shoulder presses.
Manipulate the 
Base of Support
Manipulating the base of 
support of an exercise can dramatically alter intensity. Increasing the base of sup-port provides greater stabil-ity and balance, reducing the load at the stabilizing points and difficulty of the move -
ment. Reducing the base of support puts greater stress on the supporting structure. For example, performing alternating biceps curls on one leg requires more core and hip stability to maintain the 7-frame compared with performing the same exer -
cise on two legs. Because of the need to balance, the dumbbell movement also slows down, giving the biceps more time under tension (i.e., better hypertrophy stimulus).
Reducing the base of support (going from a four-point position to a three-point 
position) also increases the load on other supporting structures, even those not necessarily in contact with the ground, as in a three-point push-up (figure 3.3). During a three-point push-up, greater loads are not only seen at the supporting arm but also at the core, which must avoid rotating and collapsing.
Hopefully this information on pedagogy and progression allows you to 
appreciate how important coaching is to the development and safety of an FIGURE 3.1  Lever arm.
E5531/Santana/Fig. 03.01/524845/JG/R1Fixed
point
Distal point
Lever armForce
FIGURE 3.2  The push-up and lever arm: (a) full push-up on 
the floor; (b) push-up on a weight bench; (c) knee-modified 
push-up on the floor. Reducing the lever arm creates an easier progression of the push-up.
a
b
c

37 The Performance Continuum
athlete. There is a reason 
why not just anyone can be a coach! It takes a lot of education, a systematic approach, patience, and discipline to provide the right instruction at the right time to facilitate the right execution for continual improvement in athletic performance. Because functional train-ing is more instruction-ally intensive than other forms of strength training (such as machines and free weights), instruc-tion, progression, and execution are particularly important.
Manipulate the Range of Motion
Adjusting the range of motion of an exercise can greatly alter its difficulty and training intensity. Larger ranges of motion, especially during slow and controlled movement where momentum does not play a significant role in producing movement, require more work and often greater control. An example of this can be seen in the reaching and single-leg squat progressions. A reach to the foot is harder than a reach to the knee, and a deep single-leg squat is harder than a partial single-leg squat. Just a few inches in depth or range can turn a novice exercise into an advanced exercise. This easy and immediate change in intensity makes this tweak effective in performing pyramid sets, where a few repetitions are done at the hardest intensity, a few are done at a medium intensity, and the rest are done at an easy intensity.
Being able to adjust a simple exercise from novice to advanced with just a few 
inches of movement is a powerful tool when working with athletes of varying levels. This tweak is a lifesaver during group training, as well as in the personal training world, where clients differ in abilities and sometime work in pairs and small groups.
Other Manipulation Strategies
There are other ways to regress or progress the intensity of functional exercises. The most obvious is adding external resistance such as a dumbbell, medicine ball, or band or pulley to increase the training intensity. Adding movement such as stepping and rotation to certain exercises (e.g., band presses, band rows) can also increase the intensity of the progression. Adding a stimulus such as a vibration platform or an oscillating bar can increase the difficulty of exercises such as squats and anterior reaches. Vibration can add instability and extra proprioception that enhance the communication between muscles and muscle systems. This improved communication can then be translated to function through specific functional 
FIGURE 3.3  A three-point push-up places a higher demand 
on shoulder stability for the supporting arm and also develops 
excellent core stiffness.a
b

38Functional Training
exercises. However, vibration does not provide a free pass as functional training. 
It must be used for specific reasons and applications, some of which are beyond the scope of this text.
Other strategies for manipulating the intensity of functional training include 
moving in targeted and specific planes of motions or using specific drivers to facilitate desired movement patterns. For example, the single-leg anterior reach can be intensified by performing the reach to the front and to each side in what is called an ABC pattern. This pattern forces the hip into greater rotation as the athlete reaches to the outside and inside of the base foot.
Evaluation of Movement Patterns
Much has been made of movement assessments recently. Although some form of assessment is necessary to identify where athletes are in the functional spec-trum, functional assessments have become overly complicated, offering athletes, coaches, and trainers little in the way of meaningful training information. Some movement evaluation systems have numbers associated with execution quality to provide a numeric score.
I have not yet found a movement evaluation that correctly predicts or assesses 
performance or injury susceptibility. Dr. Stu McGill, one of the world’s leading authorities on spinal stability, has studied some of these assessments and found similar results. Additionally, many of these assessments use nonfunctional posi-tions (e.g., overhead squat) and try to extrapolate functional information from these positions. In my opinion, using a test such as an overhead squat to assess the function of the body is equivalent to using a gymnast’s iron cross on the rings to assess the function of the shoulder. Although some evaluation techniques within the available systems may be useful for gathering information pertinent to an exercise program, no system that I have looked at thus far has had everything I need. Therefore, I have created my own.
The movement system I use to evaluate an athlete’s place on the movement 
spectrum is similar to an interview that is used to figure out if a person is right for a job. There is no number to assign, there are no specific predictors of perfor -
mance or injury, and all movements have to be related to a specific function or the training for that function. In my assessment approach, the movement (i.e., assessment) is the training and the training is the movement. I don’t care if the improvement comes from learning the movement or acquiring new strength  
that improves the movement; at times both of these factors become one and the same.
I have chosen eight basic exercises for assessing and training the four pillars of 
human movement and thus the Big Four sport movements. This way the training provides continuous assessment, and continuous assessment provides continuous training and thus continuous performance enhancement. Every set and repetition of these exercises is an opportunity to evaluate a pillar while also improving that pillar. For each of the eight progressions, I provide the purpose of the exercise, muscles worked, movement instructions, and cues from the important views of the movements (i.e., front, side, back). I also provide some common deviations seen in practice, their general causes, and exercises that address the deviations, strengthening whatever muscles may be weak. Finally, I provide a realistic goal that makes a great foundation from which to continue your functional training program.

39 The Performance Continuum
The first exercise used to fix any deviation is the exercise that shows you 
the deviation. Simply use the manipulation strategies provided to regress the 
intensity of the exercise and remove the deviation, and repeat the exercise in its correct form. Eventually the body gets used to the correct form. As the movement quality improves, more strength is expressed, and progressions that were once impossible become easier to perform.
DISCLAIMER
This evaluation process is also a great coaching tool that can be used to evaluate 
and teach any other functional movement. However, it is not an orthopedic evalua-tion of muscular or orthopedic problems. If you have pain, discomfort, or any issue that does not allow the proper completion of any of these progressions, stop and contact an orthopedic specialist and a physical therapist for a complete biomechan-ical evaluation.
Single-Leg CLA Anterior Reach
The single-leg contralateral-arm (CLA) anterior reach is the most popular exercise 
to improve and assess locomotion. This exercise works single-leg hamstring, glute, and paraspinal coordination. It is particularly effective at teaching the hamstrings to extend the hip and control knee flexion and extension, as they do during the pulling phase of running. The single-leg position also provides the 7-frame hip stability so important to any locomotive skill.
Balance on your left leg and raise your right hand. Hinge at the hips and reach 
down as far as possible with good control (figure 3.4). Knee level can be used for beginners and shin level for intermediate athletes. Foot level will challenge just about anyone.
From the front, look for the 7-frame position made possible by a stable hip. 
Notice that the hip, knee, and foot are aligned and the hips are stable and parallel to the ground (i.e., creating a 7). From the side, look for a flat, stable foot and a slightly flexed knee aligned over the foot. Most of the movement should come from hinging the hip while keeping the knee slightly flexed. The back is straight 
FIGURE 3.4  Single-leg CLA anterior reach: (a) front view; (b) side view; (c) rear view.a b c

40or slightly flexed so that the movement is always pain free. From behind, look for 
a parallel alignment of the shoulders and hips throughout the entire movement.
Major Faults
• Knees going in indicates weak hamstrings,  glutes, and paraspinal muscles.
• Heels going up indicates weak calves,
 hamstrings, glutes, and paraspinal 
muscles.
• Hips posteriorly tilting (from side vie
w) or shifting right or left (from rear view) 
indicates weak hamstrings, glutes, and paraspinal muscles.
Corrective Exercises
For weak glutes, hamstrings, and paraspinal muscles, perform the following:
• Single-leg squat
• All lunges (traditional and reaching variations)
• All deadlift and compound row variations using dumbbells, a barbell,
 or band 
or pulley
• SB bridge, SB h
yperextension, and SB reverse hyperextension
For weak calves, perform the following:
• All marches
• 45-degree calf pump
Foundational Goal
For each leg, perform 10 repetitions in less than 15 seconds without the free leg 
touching the ground.
Loaded Single-Leg CLA Anterior Reach
This exercise can be loaded with dumbbells or a band or pulley to make it a perfect progression for strength development.
Single-Leg Squat
Similar to the single-leg CLA anterior reach, the single-leg squat is a fundamen-tal exercise used to improve the 7-frame and all aspects of single-leg activities, especially when putting forces into the ground during the plant phase of running. Unlike the single-leg CLA anterior reach, the single-leg squat uses more knee flexion, which increases the focus on the quadriceps.
Balance on the right leg while holding the left leg back for counterbalance. The 
hands can remain on the hips or reach out to the front for counterbalancing. Flex equally from the ankle, knee, and hip and drop the knee of the free leg as low as it will go while maintaining control (figure 3.5).
From the front, look for the 7-frame made possible by a stable hip and good 
knee alignment. Notice that the hip, knee, and foot are aligned and the hips are stable and parallel to the ground (i.e., creating a 7). From the side, look for a flat, stable foot and equal contribution from ankle, knee, and hip flexion. The back stays straight throughout the movement and the movement is always pain free. From behind, look for a parallel alignment of the shoulders and hip throughout the entire movement.

41Major Faults
• Knees going in indicates weak hamstrings,  glutes, and paraspinal muscles.
• Heels going up indicates weak calves,
 hamstrings, glutes, and paraspinal 
muscles.
• Hips posteriorly tilting (from side vie
w) or shifting right or left (from rear view) 
indicates weak hamstrings, glutes, and paraspinal muscles.
Corrective Exercises
For weak glutes, hamstrings, and paraspinal muscles, perform the following:
• Single-leg CLA anterior reach
• All lunges (traditional and reaching variations)
• All deadlift and compound row variations using dumbbells, a barbell,
 or a 
band or pulley
• SB bridge, SB h
yperextension, and SB reverse hyperextension
For weak calves, perform the following:
• All wall marches
• 45-degree calf pump
Foundational Goal
For each leg, perform 5 repetitions with the knee flexed 90 degrees or 1 full squat 
(rear knee touches the floor with the foot touching the floor).
Loaded Single-Leg Squat
This exercise can be loaded with dumbbells or a medicine ball to make it a perfect progression for strength development.FIGURE 3.5  Single-leg squat: (a) front view; (b) side view; (c) rear view.
a b c

42Bodyweight Double-Leg Squat
The squat is a fundamental exercise used to improve all aspects of level changes 
and lifting mechanics. It is excellent for developing the lower body and the pos-terior core musculature.
Place your feet slightly wider than shoulder-width apart. The hands can be 
behind the head, on the hips, or reaching out to the front for counterbalancing. Keeping the back straight, initiate the squat with a hip hinge, flexing equally from the ankle, knee, and hips (figure 3.6).
From the front, look for the A-frame made possible by the alignment of the 
shoulders, hips, knees, and feet. Notice that the hips, knees, and feet are aligned and the hips and shoulders are parallel to the ground. From the side, look for a flat, stable foot and equal contribution from ankle, knee, and hip flexion. The back stays straight throughout the movement. The movement is pain free. From behind, look for a parallel alignment of the shoulders and hips throughout the entire movement.
FIGURE 3.6  Bodyweight double-leg squat: (a) front view; (b) side view; (c) rear view.a b c
Major Faults
• Knees going in indicates weak hamstrings,  glutes, and paraspinal muscles.
• Heels going up indicates weak calves,
 hamstrings, glutes, and paraspinal 
muscles.
• Hips posteriorly tilting (from side vie
w) or shifting right or left (from rear view) 
indicates weak hamstrings, glutes, and paraspinal muscles.
Corrective Exercises
For weak hamstrings, glutes, and paraspinal muscles, perform the following:
• Single-leg squat and single-leg CLA anterior reach
• All lunges (traditional and reaching variations)
• All deadlift and compound row variations using dumbbells, a barbell,
 or a 
band or pulley
• SB bridge, SB h
yperextension, and SB reverse hyperextension
• MB ABC squat

43For weak calves, perform the following:
• 45-degree wall march or r
un
• 45-degree calf pump
Foundational Goal
Perform 20 parallel squats in 20 seconds with no delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS) the following day. A more athletic foundation, and one preferred for begin-ning athletes, is 3 sets of 20 squats with about 2 minutes rest between sets and with no DOMS the following day.
Loaded Double-Leg Squat
This exercise can be loaded with a barbell, dumbbells or kettlebells, or a medicine ball to make it a perfect progression for strength development.
Bodyweight Alternating Lunge
Due to its speed, alternating pattern, and greater eccentric component, the tradi-tional alternating lunge is an intermediate progression for most people. For those who can’t perform this progression, a split squat or a repeated single-side lunge could be a good starting point from which to progress to an alternating lunge. Not only does the traditional lunge strengthen the 7-frame and stretch the hip flexors of the trailing leg, it also requires the body to work on deceleration while changing levels.
From a standing position with feet together and parallel to each other, take a 
large step forward with one foot and bend both knees to lower the body toward the ground, ending in a split-squat position (figure 3.7). From there, push off the front foot and step back toward the rear foot to return to standing.
From the front, look for the A-frame alignment: perfect foot, knee, hip, and 
shoulder alignment with the hip and shoulder perfectly parallel to the ground. From a side view, the front shin should always remain vertical and the back knee should be aligned with or behind the hip and shoulder line. From the back, the 
FIGURE 3.7  Bodyweight alternating lunge: (a) front view; (b) side view; (c) rear view.a b c

44shoulders should be parallel to the hips and the floor. Avoid any range of motion 
that creates pain in the knees or lower back.
Major Faults
• Front knee going in indicates weak glutes, hamstrings, and paraspinal mus-cles on that same side.
•
 Heel going 
up on the front foot indicates weak calves, glutes, hamstrings, 
and paraspinal muscles on that same side.
• Hips shifting right or left (from rear view) indicates w
eak glutes, hamstrings, 
and paraspinal muscles on the right or left side.
Corrective Exercises
For weak glutes, hamstrings, and paraspinal muscles, perform the following:
• All lunges
• All single-leg exercises
• All deadlift and compound row variations using dumbbells, a barbell,
 or a 
band or pulley
• SB bridge, SB h
yperextension, and SB reverse hyperextension
• MB ABC squat
For w
eak calves, perform the following:
• 45-degree wall march or r
un
• 45-degree calf pump
Foundational Goal
Perform 20 alternating lunges (10 each leg) in 30 seconds without any DOMS the following day. A more athletic foundation, and one preferred for beginning athletes, is 3 sets of 20 alternating lunges with about 2 minutes rest between sets and without any DOMS the following day.
Loaded Alternating Lunge
This exercise can be loaded with a barbell, dumbbells or kettlebells, or a medicine ball to make it a perfect progression for strength development.
Bodyweight Push-Up
The bodyweight push-up is a fundamental pushing exercise in functional training. It’s a great exercise for shoulder stability, upper-body strength, core stiffness, and lengthening of the hip flexors.
Start with hands on the floor under the shoulders, arms straight, and toes or 
balls of the feet on the ground. When ready, flex the elbows to lower the body to a level that maintains good technique (figure 3.8). Straighten the arms to return to the starting position.
From the front, see that the shoulders are parallel during the movement and 
there is no winging of the scapulae. From the side, see that the back is flat so the hips are in line with the shoulders and the low back is not sagging. If the back sags due to a weak front core, use a bench or other sturdy structure to elevate the hand support and shorten the lever arm, which reduces the amount of body 

45weight required to perform the push-up. Once the elevated bodyweight push-up 
is mastered with good technique and control, gradually lower the push-up to the ground. If there is pain in the wrists, shoulders, or elbows during the push-up, try elevating the hand support or using push-up grips for a pain-free exercise.
Major Faults
• Hips dropping (core collapse) indicates weak abs and hip flexor s.
• Hips lifting indicates weak abs and hip flexor
s.
• Shoulder blades winging (shoulder blade collapse) indicates weak shoulder stabilizer
s during pushing.
Corrective Exercises
For weak abs and hip flexors, perform the following:
• All lunges
• All plank and push-up variations
• BP staggered-stance alternating press
• All knee-tuck variations
• V-up
For w
eak shoulder stabilizers during pushing, perform the following:
• All plank variations
• All push-up variations
• All BP pressing variations
Foundational Goal
Perform 15 to 20 perfect push-ups.
Instability Push-Up
This exercise can be made more difficult by performing it on an unstable surface such as a stability ball or two medicine balls or by going to a single-arm push-up.
a b
c
FIGURE 3.8  Bodyweight push-up: (a) front view; (b) side view; (c) rear view.

46Recline Pull (Row)
The recline pull focuses on the upper-back muscles and posterior core stability. It 
strengthens the pulling stability of the shoulders while developing core stiffness in the entire posterior core musculature. It also does a great job at developing grip strength as well as biceps strength.
Hold a bar or suspension equipment, such as an SBT System or ropes. Lie 
back so the body is in a straight line from shoulders to ankles. While retracting the shoulder blades and pushing the hips upward, pull up, bringing the chest toward the hands (figure 3.9). Control the movement down as the arms begin to straighten. Keep the shoulders retracted throughout the entire movement.
The resistance varies depending on the body position. The more upright the 
body is before the pull, the easier the exercise will be. As the body is lowered toward the ground, there will a noticeable increase in the resistance.
From the front, you should see a straight alignment of the body and symmetrical 
arm placement. From the side, the body should be straight. The hips should not drop when the bottom position is reached. From the back, the shoulder blades should be pulled back and should stay in place during the entire movement.
a b c
FIGURE 3.9  Recline pull (row): (a) front view; (b) side view; (c) rear view.
Major Faults
• Hips dropping at the bottom of the movement (core collapse) indicates w eak 
hamstrings, glutes, and paraspinal muscles.
• Shoulder blades separating (shoulder blade collapse) indicates weak shoulder
 
stabilizers during pulling.
Corrective Exercises
For weak glutes, hamstrings, and paraspinal muscles, perform the following:
• BP compound row
• SB bridge

47• SB hyperextension and SB reverse hyperextension
• 45-degree back extension
• BP deadlift
For w
eak shoulder stabilizers during pulling, perform the following:
• All BP rows
• All dumbbell and kettlebell rows
• BP swim
Foundational Goal
Perform 15 to 20 perfect recline pulls (rows) at a 45-degree body angle.
Advanced Recline Pull (Row)
This exercise can be made more difficult by performing it using various handles 
and by going to a single-arm pull.
Rotation With Pivot
Rotation with pivot is one of the fundamental exercises used to develop hip rotation, also part of the fourth pillar. This exercise can be used to assess and strengthen hip mobility, specifically internal rotation. It is also a good exercise to include in a warm-up. The pivot motion can be added to many exercises, such as DB alter-nating shoulder presses or DB alternating curls, to add a hip-rotation component.
Start with your feet shoulder-width apart, arms in front of you with palms facing 
each other. Turn to the right so the hands go to the right side while pivoting the left foot to the right (figure 3.10). Return to the center, and then do the same to the left side.
From the front, the toes and knee of the stationary foot should point forward 
during the pivot. If the knee of the stationary leg turns out, limit the pivot to a range of motion where the knee and foot of the stationary leg stay pointing forward.
FIGURE 3.10  Rotation with pivot: (a) right side; (b) left side.a b

48Major Faults
• A lack of coordination during the weight shift from right to left indicates a 
lack of body coordination.
• If the toes and knee of the stationary leg (the nonpivoting leg) point out,
 it 
indicates weak glutes in the rotational plane on the nonpivoting side.
Corrective Exercises
For lack of body control during the pivot, do the following:
• Perfor
m all pivots to one side first and then to the other side.
• Do not perform alter
nating pivots.
For weak glutes in the rotational plane, perform the following:
• BP low-to-high chop
• DB or KB lateral reaching lunge
• MB short diagonal chop
• DB or KB cross overhead press with pivot
Foundational Goal
Perform 20 correct alternating repetitions (10 per side) without the knee or ankle 
on the stationary leg rotating out. In other words, internally rotate the hip without rotating the knee or ankle on the same side (i.e., pure internal hip rotation).
Loaded Rotation With Pivot
This exercise can be made more difficult by performing it against the resistance of a band or pulley or by holding a weighted implement such as a weight plate or medicine ball.
Rotation Without Pivot
Rotation without pivot is one of the fundamental functional exercises that develops core stiffness and the ability for the core to transfer forces between the hips and shoulders. You can use it to assess and strengthen the core stiffness necessary to transfer force from the hips to the shoulders, especially during rotational activities.
Hold your hands out in front of you with palms touching each other and arms 
extended. Starting from the ground up, your feet are hip-width apart, toes are forward, hips are locked in place, core is tight, arms are straight, and shoulders are facing forward. Imagine you are standing in the center of a clock, with 12 straight ahead. Move your hands left to 10 o’clock (figure 3.11) and then right to 2 o’clock without moving the feet or the hips. Keep the motion quick and smooth.
From the front, make sure the feet and hips aren’t rotating with the hands and 
shoulders.
Major Faults
If the hips shake and move with the shoulders while the arms are moving, it indi-cates a lack of core stiffness.

49
FIGURE 3.11  Rotation without pivot: (a) 10 o’clock; (b) 2 o’clock.a b
Corrective Exercises
For lack of core stiffness, perform the following:
• All planks
• All push-up variations
• All BP chops and short rotation variations
• All BP presses and rows
Foundational Goals
• Perform this exercise with good speed for 20 seconds without allowing the 
hips to shak
e.
• Perfor
m any short 10-to-2-o’clock rotation without allowing the hips to shake.
Loaded Rotations Without a Pivot
This exercise can be made more difficult by performing it against the resistance of a band or pulley or by holding a weighted implement such as a weight plate or medicine ball.
Conclusion
This chapter has laid the foundation for learning and performing the appropriate functional training progression. Correctly executing the basic progressions that support the four pillars will result in an excellent evaluative tool, as well as set the stage for the proper execution of the exercises in this book. The upcoming chapters provide a wide selection of functional training exercises that expand on the basic eight progressions covered here.

This page intentionally left blank.

PART
 IIExercises

This page intentionally left blank.

53
CHAPTER
4
The Essentials
We have now come to the anticipated part of the book—the training exercises. 
This chapter covers the top three functional training modalities: body weight, bands and pulleys, and dumbbells and kettlebells. For each modality, I provide the most common and effective exercises and  the functional training best prac-
tices. Each exercise includes photos to illustrate the movement, details about the exercise, and instructions to support proper execution.
In the previous chapter, we discussed eight bodyweight exercises (i.e., the 
basic eight) that are used in the evaluation and training of the four pillars. The basic eight are also the primary progressions from which all other exercises in this book spring. It is essential to master the basic eight in order to easily learn and effectively perform the other exercises in this book.
The most important rule when performing the exercises in this book is to insist 
on no-pain training. Pain is our best ally in keeping us safe; stay away from pres-sure, discomfort, or pain and you will avoid problems. The next rule to follow is to initially execute all exercises with controlled, deliberate form. Once you master an exercise, perform the more dynamic or difficult versions. The biggest mistake in training is not mastering a movement before moving on to a more advanced progression. Take your time and focus on correct execution; the load and speed will naturally follow.
Body Weight
Before adding speed or loading the body externally, you need to ensure proper body position and control. This is why body weight is the most important modal-ity to master. It is best to learn proper body mechanics first and then apply the good biomechanics learned with bodyweight training to all other modalities. In this section, you will recognize some natural progressions of the basic eight (see chapter 3), adding speed, increased range of motion, multiple planes of motion, and a reduced support base.

54Body Weight
a bStep-Up
Details and Benefits
• This is a great basic progression to all single-leg work.
• Develops 7-frame hip stability and hip extension.
• Develops r
unning speed and helps prevent hamstring injuries.
• Difficulty can be adjusted with step height; the higher the step, the harder the 
exercise.
• Start with a step height that allows you to step up without pushing off the rear leg
.
Starting Position
• Stand on the floor with the step or box in front of you.
• Place your right foot flat on the step or box (figure 4.1a).
Movement
• Using only the right leg,  step onto the step or box with your left leg (figure 4.1b).
• Using only the right leg,
 step down to the floor with the left leg.
• Do not use the left leg to push off the ground.
• Repeat the stepping action for the desired repetitions or time and perform on both sides.
FIGURE 4.1  Step-up: (a) starting position; (b) step onto box or step.

55Loaded Step-Up
This exercise can be loaded with dumbbells or a medicine ball.
Single-Leg Push-Off
The step-up can be performed explosively as the single-leg push-off. This is a great 
power developer and a complement to the split jump. Put your right foot on the step or box and perform an explosive step-up, powering through the extension until your entire body is airborne. Do not use the left leg to push off the ground. Land with the right foot on the box and bring the left foot back to the ground. Repeat the push-off with the right leg for the desired repetitions or time and perform on both sides.
Runner’s Reach
Details and Benefits
• More advanced progression to the single-leg CLA anterior reach
• Develops 7-frame hip stability
• Great for developing r
unning speed and preventing hamstring injuries
Starting Position
• Stand on your left leg with the left knee bent about 20 degrees, as if you w ere 
running.
• Allow the right leg to move back as the shoulder
s lean forward.
• Place your arms in a r
unning position—right arm forward, left arm back—with 
elbows at 90 degrees (figure 4.2a).
Movement
• Extend the body while bringing the left arm forw ard and the right arm back.
• While the arms are mo
ving, also bring the right knee forward and right foot up. Use 
a “knee up, toe up” cue to the top of the running position (figure 4.2b).
• At the top of the movement,
 you should be on the ball of the left foot with the left 
knee fully extended (figure 4.2c). The right knee is up, the right toe is up, the left arm is forward, and the right arm is back with both elbows at 90 degrees.
•
 Return to the star
ting position and repeat.Body Weight

56
a b c
Single-Leg Rotational Squat
Details and Benefits
• More advanced multiplanar progression of the single-leg squat in chapter 3
• Great for developing single-leg rotational control to help pre
vent ACL injuries
Starting Position
• Stand on your left leg with the left knee slightly bent.
• Bring the right leg up so the thigh is parallel to the ground and the foot is pointing 
up (figure 4.3a
).
• Hold your arms in an
y comfortable position that helps maintain balance (e.g., on 
hips).
Movement
• Keeping the left knee facing forward, squat on the left leg as you rotate the right knee to the right until it points to the right side of you
r body (figure 4.3b).
• Externally rotate the left hip as you tur
n so your left knee stays pointing forward.
• Perfor
m on both sides of body.Body Weight
FIGURE 4.2  Runner’s reach: (a) starting position; (b) middle position; (c) top of movement.

57Plank
Details and Benefits
• Prerequisite to the push-up
• Great for core stiffness and shoulder stability
Starting Position
• Assume a stabilized push-up position, balancing betw een the hands and the balls 
of the feet (figure 4.4).
• You ma
y perform this exercise on a soft surface from the elbows or use push-up 
handles if you have any wrist issues.
Movement
• Hold the position for the time prescribed.
• Make sure the low
er back does not hyperextend.
• Make sure the shoulder blades are flat and not winging
.
a bBody Weight
FIGURE 4.3  Single-leg rotational squat: (a) starting position; (b) squat and rotate right knee.
FIGURE 4.4  Plank.

58Side T Plank
Details and Benefits
• Prerequisite to all push-ups
• Great for core stiffness and shoulder stability
Starting Position
• Assume a stabilized push-up position, balancing betw een the hands and balls of 
feet.
• Rotate to the left, balancing on the right hand,
 while keeping the inside of the left 
foot and the outside of the right foot flat on the ground. Point the left arm up to 
the ceiling, forming a sideways T (figure 4.5).
• You ma
y perform the exercise on a soft surface from your elbows or use push-up 
handles if you have wrist issues.
Movement
• Hold the position for the time prescribed.
• Make sure the core does not sag or collapse through the mo
vement.
• Perfor
m on both sides of the body.Body Weight
FIGURE 4.5  Side T plank.

59Single-Arm Eccentrics
Details and Benefits
• Prerequisite to the single-arm and MB crosso ver push-ups
• Advanced progression for developing superior chest,
 shoulder, and core strength
Starting Position
• Assume a stabilized push-up position, balancing betw een the hands and the balls 
of the feet.
• Lift the left arm off the ground and balance on the right hand in a three-point plank 
(figure 4.6
a).
• You ma
y use push-up handles if you have wrist issues.
Movement
• Flex your left shoulder and elbow so as to slowly lower your body until your chest touches the ground (figure 4.6
b). Slow the movement as much as possible.
• Use both arms to get back to a four-point plank position. Then balance on the left ar
m again and repeat the eccentric motion.
• Perfor
m on both sides of body. For advanced training, you may perform all repe-
titions with the right arm before performing them with the left arm. For a lower intensity, alternate the repetitions, performing one with the right arm and then another with the left arm.Body Weight
FIGURE 4.6  Single-arm eccentrics: (a) starting position in three-point plank; (b) lower the body.
a
b

60T Push-Up
Details and Benefits
• More advanced progression of the push-up, combining the traditional push-up and 
side plank
• Develops shoulder stability and rotational core stiffne
ss
Starting Position
• Assume a stabilized push-  
up position (figure 4.7a
).
• Ba
lance between the hands and 
the balls of the feet.
Movement
• Flex the elbows and lower the body until the chest is a fe
w 
inches above the floor (figure 4.7b).
•
 Extend the arms and push up,
 
simultaneously rotating to the right and balancing on the left hand, keeping the inside of the right foot and the outside of the left foot flat on the ground. Point the right arm up to the ceiling, forming a sideways T (figure 
4.7c).
•
 Rotate back to the left and put the right 
hand on the floor. Per-
form a push-up, and then rotate to the left and balance on the right hand, keeping the inside of the left foot and the outside of the right foot flat on the ground. Point the left arm up to the ceiling, forming a sideways T. Continue to alternate sides.
•
 You ma
y use push-up handles if 
you have wrist issues.
FIGURE 4.7  T push-up: (a) starting position; (b) lower the 
body; (c) push up and rotate.
b
a
cBody Weight

61Dip
Details and Benefits
• More advanced progression of push-ups and planks
• Develops shoulder stability and flexibility along with ch
est and triceps strength
Starting Position
• Stand on a box or other sturdy structure so that you are positioned betw een two 
parallel bars about shoulder-width apart.
• Place your hands on the bars and grip the bar
s securely.
• Jump up so your feet are off the box, your body is stabilized and balanced betw
een 
the two bars, and your arms are fully extended (figure 4.8a).
Movement
• Keeping the core tight and with a slight lean forward, flex the elbows and shoulders 
until the chest is a fe
w inches above the hands (figure 4.8b).
• At the bottom of the dip, extend the ar
ms and press up until the arms are fully 
extended.
• Repeat the dip motion.
Weighted Dip
This exercise ma
y be loaded with a weight belt that can hold weight plates or dumbbells.
FIGURE 4.8  Dip: (a) starting position; (b) dip.a bBody Weight

62X-Up
Details and Benefits
• Dynamic progression from planks and push-ups
• Great complementary exercise to the BP high-to-low chop
• Develops the diagonal core musculature,
 making it excellent for kickers and 
combat athletes
Starting Position
• Lie flat on your back on the floor in an X position—
arms and legs extended out to the sides with 
legs open and feet pointing out during the entire exercise.
•
 Brace the core before moving to stabilize the low
er 
back.
Movement
• Simultaneously bring your right hand and left foot up so the right hand touches the arch of the left foot (figure 4.9a
).
• Alternate right ar
m to left foot and left arm to right 
foot (figure 4.9b).
• The arms and legs should remain extended and the feet must face outw
ard during the entire X-up 
motion.
FIGURE 4.9  X-up: (a) right hand to left foot; (b) left hand to right foot.
V-Up
The V-up is a popular variation of the X-up, concentrating on more simultaneous, sagittal plane movement. Lie flat on your back, facing up and perfectly extended with hands overhead and feet together. Simultaneously flex your hips and bring your hands and feet together above your hip line, then back down to the extended position. Keep arms and legs fully extended throughout the exercise.
a
bBody Weight

6345-Degree Calf Pump
Details and Benefits
• Speed-specific version of the standard bodybuilding calf raise
• Excellent for developing the ankle stiffness needed for optimal r
unning speed
Starting Position
• Stand in front of a wall.
• Put your hands on the wall with your ar
ms extended. Assume a 45-degree lean 
and balance on the ball of the right foot.
• Bring the knee and foot up to the running position (figure 4.10
a).
Movement
• Keeping the arms and core stiff and tight, perform mini ankle pumps without 
allowing the heel to come near the ground (figure 4.10
b).
• Perfor
m on both sides for time prescribed.
a b
FIGURE 4.10  45-degree calf pump: (a) starting position; (b) ankle pump.Body Weight

6445-Degree Wall Run
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression to the 45-degree calf pump
• Excellent for developing locomotive core posture and ankle stiffness needed for 
acceleration pow
er
Starting Position
• Stand in front of a wall.
• Put your hands on the wall with your ar
ms extended. Assume a 45-degree lean 
and balance on the ball of the right foot.
• Bring the left knee and foot up to the running position (teaching cue: “Knee up,
 
toe up”) (figure 4.11a).
Movement
• Keep the arms extended and core stiff through the entire movement.
• Perfor
m a fast running motion, simultaneously driving the left foot into the ground 
while bringing the right knee and foot up (teaching cue: “Knee up, toe up”) (figure 4.11b).
•
 The feet must alwa
ys land in the same spot so as not to lose body angle.
• Keep the ankles stiff,
 never allowing the heels to come near the ground.
• Continue the dynamic running motion for repetitions or time prescribed.
FIGURE 4.11  45-degree wall run: (a) starting position; (b) running motion.
a bBody Weight

65Vertical Jump
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from the bodyweight double-leg squat and complement to the 
MB re
verse scoop throw
• Excellent for triple extension and the hip power needed for ver
tical jumps
Starting Position
• Stand up straight.
• Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart (feet ma
y point slightly outward).
• The hands 
can remain behind the head (i.e., prisoner position), on the hips (figure 
4.12a), or move freely at the sides to create a countermovement.
Movement
• Flex your knees and hips and squat down (figure 4.12b ) . Go as deep as needed for 
the counter loading movement. (Depth depends on the amount of elastic versus muscular strength you possess.) If you’re using the arms for a countermovement, they come down and back at the bottom of the loading position.
•
 Explode up into a vertical jump,
 keeping the body fully extended while airborne 
(figure 4.12c). If you’re using your arms to propel you, bring them overhead as you jump up.
•
 Land softly on both feet.
FIGURE 4.12  Vertical jump: (a) starting position; (b) squat; (c) jump.a b cBody Weight

66Squat Jump
The squat jump is the vertical jump performed repeatedly without resting between 
jumps. It is effective for developing power endurance and increasing the metabolic demand on the lower body and cardiorespiratory system. To perform the squat jump, perform a vertical jump and land softly on your feet, but allow the downward momentum to immediately take you into the parallel squat position. When you’re at the bottom of the squat, immediately jump again, and repeat for assigned number of repetitions.
Loaded Vertical Jump
This exercise can be loaded with dumbbells or medicine balls.
Alternating Split Jump
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from bodyweight lunging progressions
• Excellent for hip strength and flexibility,
 making it a top deceleration exercise
Starting Position
• Stand up straight with hands behind the head (prisoner position), on your hips,  or 
by the sides if you’re going to use the arms for countermovement.
• The feet should be between hip- and shoulder-width apar
t and in a split stance 
(i.e., low lunge position) with the right foot forward (figure 4.13a).
• The split stance should be long enough to keep the right knee abo
ve the ankle 
and the left knee bent and behind the vertical shoulder–hip line. The left heel should be off the ground.
Movement
• Explode up into a vertical jump,  simultaneously switching leg positions—left leg 
goes forward and right leg goes back (figure 4.13b). Keep the hands behind the head if maintaining the prisoner position. If using countermovement, move the arms as necessary to generate power and maintain balance.
•
 Land softly on both feet and allow the downward momentum to immediately tak
e 
you into the split squat.
• Once you’re at the bottom of the split squat,
 jump again.
• Repeat, alter
nating the split-jump motion.
Loaded Alternating Split Jump
This exercise can be loaded with a weighted vest, dumbbells, or medicine balls.Body Weight

67Skater
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression to the DB or KB lateral reaching lunge in chapter 4
• Ex
cellent for developing power for skating sports and for lateral changes of direction 
for field and court athletes, making it a top performer with skating and field athletes
Starting Position
• Stand on the right leg with the right knee and hip slightly bent.
• Lean forward at the shoulder
s with the left arm crossed in front of the body and 
the right arm back (figure 4.14a).
Movement
• Using your arms for counterbalance,  jump to the left.
• Land on the left foot, stabilize your position with the right ar
m crossed in front of the 
body and the left arm back, and immediately jump back to the right (figure 4.14b).
• Repeat the lateral jumping motion, using your ar
ms for counterbalance.
Weighted Skater
This exercise can be loaded with a weighted vest, dumbbells, or medicine balls.
FIGURE 4.13  Split jump: (a) starting position; (b) vertical jump and leg switch.a bBody Weight

68
FIGURE 4.14  Skater: (a) jump to the left; (b) jump to the right.
Burpee
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from the bodyweight double-leg squat and bodyweight push-up
• Excellent for strength and flexibility,
 making it a top performer as a level-change 
exercise for combat and field athletes
Starting Position
• Stand up tall with your arms at your sides.
• Keep the core tight throughout the mo
vement.
Movement
• From a standing position, squat down and put your hands on the floor in front of 
you (figure 4.15
a).
• Sprawl back into a plank position while k
eeping your core tight (figure 4.15b).
• Jump your feet back to their original position and stand up. Repeat.Body Weight
FIGURE 4.15  Burpee: (a) squat position; (b) push-up position.a ba b

69Weighted Burpee
This exercise can be loaded with a weighted vest, dumbbells, or medicine balls. If using 
dumbbells, hold a dumbbell in each hand. During the squat, place the dumbbells on the ground under your hands as you jump back into plank. If using a medicine ball, hold the medicine ball in both hands and place it on the ground with both hands on the ball as you jump back to plank.
Explosive Push-Up
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from the plank and bodyweight push-up
• Excellent for dynamic core stiffness and pushing power
Starting Position
• Assume a stable push-up position.
• Balance between the hands and the balls of the feet or toes.
Movement
• Flex the elbows and lower the body until the chest is a fe w inches above the floor 
(figure 4.16a).
• Explosively extend the arms and push off the ground,
 holding the arms extended 
throughout the time the body is off the ground (figure 4.16b).
• Land softly into a push-up position with the chest a few inches abo
ve the floor. 
Then explode back into the air.Body Weight
FIGURE 4.16  Explosive push-up: (a) Lower the body to the ground; (b) explosively extend the arms.
a
b

70 Functional Training
Bands and Pulleys
Once body weight is mastered, the next thing we do is control rotational movement and 
deceleration to the highest degree possible. To load the diagonal and horizontal vectors that control rotational movement, nothing beats bands and pulleys (BP). Pulleys, also called cables, offer constant mass and are preferred for the heavy, slow movements 
typically found in strength training. On the other hand, bands offer variable resistance and allow the explosive movements typically found in power training. Chapter 1 provides information on the best band products for functional training. Most of the exercises in this section can be done with either a band or a pulley.
Some nomenclature on positioning and movement will make it simpler to under -
stand the following exercise descriptions. The name of the exercise is self-explanatory. As for descriptions, first I describe the base, then the total-body position (or move-ment), then the upper-body limb-holding pattern, and finally the movement itself. The reference position is standing upright, stable on two legs in a parallel position, with two hands holding a piece of equipment (e.g., band handles) and simultaneous upper-body movement. Anything beyond that position is described in the exercise name. For example, the name BP deadlift implies the exercise is based on two legs in a parallel stance and two hands are holding the handles. On the other hand, the BP staggered-stance CLA press implies the base is a staggered stance, the position is upright, and the press is performed by the arm opposite to the front foot (i.e., contra-lateral arm). Also, the loading point refers to where the load is coming from or where the band is attached. There are a few exceptions to this nomenclature, but the names will be obvious and descriptive of the exercise.
BP Deadlift
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from the bodyweight double-leg squat,  focusing on hip hinging
• Excellent hip-strengthening exercise with minimal knee involvement and reduced spinal compression
•
 Excellent for athletes with knee and certain back issues
Starting Position
• Set the loading point as close to the floor as possible.
• Facing the load,
 stand up tall with the handles in your hands and lean back to 
counterbalance the pull of the load (figure 4.17a).
Movement
• Keeping your back straight, sit back so your hips flex and slightly drop toward the ground as your shoulder
s move toward the loading point. Stop when you feel a 
comfortable pull on the hamstrings (figure 4.17b).
• While your hips 
are hinging, allow a slight flexion of the knees (10-15 degrees), 
keep the shoulder blades back, and allow the arms to reach and move the shoul-ders in the direction of the pull.
•
 Extend the hips and return to the star
ting position.Bands and Pulleys

71Bands and Pulleys
FIGURE 4.17  BP deadlift: (a) starting position; (b) sit back.
a b
BP Staggered-Stance CLA Deadlift
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from the single-leg CLA anterior reach and all reaching lunge 
progressions
• Great precursor to all staggered-stance rowing progressions
• Excellent unilateral back- and hip-strengthening exercise with minimal knee involve
-
ment and reduced spinal compression
• Popular with athletes who use low positions and low de
celeration mechanics
Starting Position
• Set the loading point as low as possible and hold the handle in the left hand.
• Facing the loading point,
 stand up tall in a split stance, with the right leg forward 
and the knee over the ankle (figure 4.18a).
• The left leg is back, knee ben
t and behind the vertical shoulder–hip line, feet facing 
forward, and rear leg stable on the ball of the foot.
Movement
• Keeping your back straight, flex your hips and allow the arm and shoulder to move in the direction of the pull (figure 4.18
b). Stop when you feel a comfortable pull 
on the right hamstring.
• Extend the hips and come back to the starting position.
• Make sure to k
eep both knees slightly flexed (10-15 degrees), keep the shoulder 
blades back, and maintain a tight core during the entire movement.
• Perfor
m on both sides of the body.

72Bands and Pulleys
FIGURE 4.18  BP staggered-stance CLA deadlift: (a) starting position; (b) sit back.a b
BP Staggered-Stance CLA Press
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from the bodyweight alter nating lunge and bodyweight push-up
• Excellent anterior core and chest exercise
• Popular with r
unners and throwers
Starting Position
• Set the loading point about chest-height.
• Holding a 
handle in the right hand, turn away from the load and stand up tall in a 
split stance with both knees slightly flexed (10-15 degrees) and the left leg forward 
with the knee over the ankle.
• The right leg is back, knee bent and behind the ver
tical shoulder–hip line, feet 
facing forward, and rear leg stable on the ball of the foot.
• Keeping the core tight,
 hold the handle slightly outside the right side of the chest 
and right shoulder (figure 4.19a).
Movement
• Keeping the core tight, press the handle forward with the right hand without rubbing the band or cable on the outside of the upper ar
m (figure 4.19b).
• Repeat the pressing motion.
• Perfor
m on both sides of the body, alternating leg positions.

73BP Staggered-Stance CLA Incline Press
The BP staggered-stance CLA incline press is great for runners and throwers to develop 
the anterior core and chest. The starting position and basic movement are the same as in the BP staggered-stance CLA press except the loading point is below the knees and you press the handle upward at a 45-degree angle (figure 4.20). Repeat and perform on both sides of the body, alternating leg positions.Bands and Pulleys
FIGURE 4.19  BP staggered-stance CLA press: (a) starting position; (b) press.a b
FIGURE 4.20  BP staggered-stance CLA incline press.


74BP Staggered-Stance CLA Decline Press
Like the BP staggered-stance CLA press and the BP staggered-stance CLA incline 
press, the BP staggered-stance CLA decline press is perfect for runners, throwers, and combat athletes. The starting position and basic movement are the same as in the BP staggered-stance CLA press except the loading point is well above the head (figure 4.21a) and you press the handle downward at a 45-degree angle. Press the handle down at a 45-degree angle without rubbing the band or cable on the outside of the arm (figure 4.21b). Repeat and perform on both sides of the body, alternating leg positions.Bands and Pulleys
BP Staggered-Stance Press
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from the bodyweight alter nating lunge and bodyweight push-up 
and a perfect complement to the previous staggered-stance CLA progressions
• Excellent anterior core and chest exercise
• Popular 
with runners and athletes in combative situations who need to push an 
opponent
Starting Position
• Set the loading point about chest-height.
• Holding a handle in each hand, tur
n away from the load and stand up tall in a split 
stance with both knees slightly flexed (10-15 degrees) and the left leg forward with the knee over the ankle.
•
 The right leg is back, knee bent and behind the ver
tical shoulder–hip line, feet 
facing forward, and rear leg stable on the ball of the foot.
• Keeping the core tight,
 hold a handle in each hand slightly outside of each chest 
and shoulder (figure 4.22a).a b
FIGURE 4.21  BP staggered-stance CLA decline press: (a) starting position; (b) press down.

75Movement
• Keeping the core tight, simultaneously press both handles forward without rubbing 
the band or cable on the outside of the upper ar
m (figure 4.22b).
• Repeat the pressing motion.
• Alternate leg positions and repeat.Bands and Pulleys
FIGURE 4.22  BP staggered-stance press: (a) starting position; (b) press.a b
BP Staggered-Stance Alternating Press
The BP staggered-stance alternating press shares the same benefits and features as the BP staggered-stance press, but the alternating pattern of the arms (figure 4.23) adds a rotational component. This exercise emphasizes the anterior serape musculature. After completing a set, switch leg positions and repeat.
FIGURE 4.23  BP staggered-stance alternating 
press.

76BP Staggered-Stance Fly
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from the bodyweight alternating lunge, bodyweight push-up, 
and BP press
• Excellent prefatigue, anterior core,
 and chest exercise
• Popular with r
unners, throwers, and athletes in close, combative situations
Starting Position
• Set the loading point about chest-height.
• Hold a handle in each hand.
• Tur
n away from the load and stand tall in a split stance with both knees slightly 
flexed (10-15 degrees) and the left leg forward with the knee over the ankle.
• The right leg is back, knee bent and behind the ver
tical shoulder–hip line, feet 
facing forward, and rear leg stable on the ball of the foot.
• Keeping the core tight,
 hold the arms out to the sides with elbows slightly flexed, 
in line with the shoulders, and palms facing each other (figure 4.24a). Avoid over-stretching the chest and shoulders by not allowing the hands to reach behind the shoulder line.
Movement
• Keeping the core tight, arms out to the sides, elbows slightly flexed, and palms facing forw
ard, bring the hands toward each other until they almost touch (figure 
4.24b).
• The only movement should be at the shoulder joints.
• Brings the arms back to the outstretched position and repeat the fly motion.
• Perfor
m with alternating leg positions.
FIGURE 4.24  BP staggered-stance fly: (a) starting position; (b) bring hands together.
a bBands and Pulleys

77BP Row
Details and Benefits
• Most basic of all standing rowing motions
• Natural progression from the bodyweight double-leg squat and recline pull (row)
• Excellent fundamental exercise to work the entire backside of the body
Starting Position
• Set the loading point between chest- and knee-height. (The low er the loading point, 
the heavier the load can be.)
• Facing 
the loading point, stand tall in a parallel stance with feet shoulder-width 
apart.
• Hold a handle in each hand.
• Slightly flex the knees and lean back as necessary to counterbalance the load 
(figure 4.25
a).
Movement
• Keeping your back straight and core tight, simultaneously pull the handles back until the hands are outside the chest (figure 4.25
b).
• Return the hands to star
ting position.
• Repeat the rowing motion.
FIGURE 4.25  BP row: (a) starting position; (b) pull handles back.a bBands and Pulleys

78BP Staggered-Stance Alternating Row
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from and complement to anterior reaches, reaching lunges,  
and staggered-stance CLA rowing progressions
• Excellent core stiffness and hip exercise focusing on the rotational muscles of 
the core
Starting Position
• Set the loading point between chest- and hip-height.
• Facing the loading point,
 stand up tall and hold a handle in each hand.
• Stand upright in a split stance with both knees slightly flexed (10-15 degrees) and the left leg forward with the knee o
ver the ankle.
• The right leg is back, knee bent and behind the ver
tical shoulder–hip line, feet 
facing forward, and rear leg stable on the ball of the foot.
• Pull the right handle until it is outside the right side of the chest while keeping the left ar
m straight (figure 4.26a).
Movement
• Simultaneously row with the left arm while extending the right ar m (figure 4.26b).
• Repeat, alter
nating the rowing pattern.
• Switch legs and repeat.
FIGURE 4.26  BP staggered-stance alternating row: (a) starting position; (b) row.
a bBands and Pulleys

79BP Staggered-Stance Bent-Over Alternating Row
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from the bodyweight double-leg squat,  recline pull, and BP 
deadlift
• Excellent hamstring,
 back, and shoulder strength and flexibility exercise
• Popular with swimmer
s, throwers, racket sport athletes, and grapplers
Starting Position
• Set the loading point between chest- and hip-height.
• Facing the loading point,
 stand up tall and hold a handle in each hand.
• Stand in a split stance with both knees slightly flexed (10-15 degrees) and the left 
leg forward with the knee o
ver the ankle.
• The right 
leg is back, knee bent and behind the vertical shoulder–hip line, feet 
facing forward, and rear leg stable on the ball of the foot.
• Flex at 
the hips, keeping the back as straight as possible, feeling a good stretch 
in the left hamstring.
• Hold the arms o
verhead, pointing straight in the direction of the pull.
Movement
• Keeping the hips flexed and the left ar
m straight, pull 
the right handle until it’s out-side the right shoulder (figure 4.27a).
•
 Simultaneously extend the right 
arm and pull with the left 
(figure 4.27b).
• Keeping the hips flexed and
 
back straight, repeat the alter-nating rowing motion.
•
 Perfor
m with alternating foot 
positions.
FIGURE 4.27  BP staggered-stance bent-over alternating row: 
(a) row with right arm; (b) row with left arm.a
bBands and Pulleys

80
BP Compound Row
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from the bodyweight double-leg squat; adds a focus on hip 
hinging and is a perfect transition from the BP deadlift
• Excellent hip- and back-strengthening exercise with minimal knee involvement or spinal compression
•
 Excellent for athletes who have knee and cer
tain back issues
Starting Position
• Set the loading point as low as possible.
• Facing the load,
 stand up tall with handles in your hands.
• Lean back to counterbalance the pull of the load.
Movement
• Keeping your back straight, allow your hips to flex and move back as your shoulders come forw
ard. Stop when you feel a comfortable pull on the hamstrings (figure 
4.28a).
• While your hips 
are hinging, allow a slight flexion of the knees (10-15 degrees), 
keep the shoulder blades back, and allow both arms to reach in the direction of the pull.
•
 Extend the hips while simultaneously rowing with both arms until each hand is outside the chest (figure 4.28
b).
• Repeat the compound rowing motion.
a b
FIGURE 4.28  BP compound row: (a) Sit back; (b) row with both arms.Bands and Pulleys

81
aBP Staggered-Stance CLA Row
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from the single-leg CLA anterior reach and DB or KB front 
reaching lunge later in this chapter
• Excellent back- and hip-strengthening exercise with minimal knee involvement
• Popular 
with athletes who use low positions, such as tennis players and wrestlers
Starting Position
• Set the loading point at hip-height and hold a handle in the left hand.
• Facing the loading point,
 stand up tall in a split stance with the right leg forward and 
the knee over the ankle, both knees slightly flexed (10-15 degrees) (figure 4.29a).
• The left leg is back, knee ben
t and behind the vertical shoulder–hip line, feet facing 
forward, and rear leg stable on the ball of the foot.
Movement
• Keeping your back straight, pull the left hand to the left side of the chest (figure 4.29
b).
• Repeat the rowing motion.
• Perfor
m on both sides of the body, switching foot positions.
FIGURE 4.29  BP staggered-stance CLA row: (a) starting position; (b) row.Bands and Pulleys
b

82BP Staggered-Stance CLA High-to-Low Row
The BP staggered-stance CLA high-to-low row has the same benefits as the BP stag-
gered-stance CLA row, but the setup and movement are slightly different. Set the loading point above your head and hold the handle in your left hand (figure 4.30a). Get into the starting split-stance position with the right leg forward. Keeping your back straight, pull the left hand down at a 45-degree angle until it reaches the left side of the chest (figure 4.30b). Repeat and perform on both sides of the body, switching foot positions.Bands and Pulleys
FIGURE 4.30  BP staggered-stance CLA high-to-low row: (a) starting position; (b) row.
b
 a
BP Staggered-Stance CLA Low-to-High Row
The setup and movement for the BP staggered-stance CLA low-to-high row are slightly different than for the BP staggered-stance CLA row. Set the loading point as low as possible and hold the handle in your left hand. Get into the starting split-stance posi-tion with the right leg forward. Keeping your back and left arm straight, hinge at the hip and lean the shoulders forward until the core is perpendicular to the line of pull and you feel a good stretch in the left hamstring (figure 4.31a). Row with the left hand at a 45-degree angle until the left hand reaches the left side of the chest (figure 4.31b). Repeat the rowing motion to each side, switching foot positions.

83Bands and Pulleys
FIGURE 4.31  BP staggered-stance CLA low-to-high row: (a)  starting position with hip hinge and lean; (b)  row.
FIGURE 4.32  BP staggered-stance CLA compound row: (a) starting position; (b) row.
b
 a
a bBP Staggered-Stance CLA Compound Row
The BP staggered-stance CLA compound row provides a double dose of unilateral 
glute training. It’s a combination of the BP staggered-stance CLA row and the BP stag-gered-stance CLA deadlift, and the setup and starting position are the same as both. Get into the starting split-stance position with the right leg forward. Hold the handle in the left hand. Keeping your back and left arm straight, hinge at the hip and lean the shoulders forward until the core is perpendicular to the line of pull and you feel a good stretch in the right hamstring (figure 4.32a). While your hips are hinging, allow a slight flexion of the knees (10-15 degrees), keep the shoulder blades back, and allow the right arm to reach in the direction of the pull. Extend the hips while pulling the left hand to the left side of the chest (figure 4.32b). Repeat the compound rowing motion and perform on both sides of the body, switching foot positions.

84BP Swim
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from the bodyweight double-leg squat,  BP deadlift, and BP 
compound and bent-over progressions
• Excellent fundamental exercise to work the strength of the anterior core muscu
-
lature and the flexibility of the posterior core musculature
Starting Position
• Set the loading point as high as possible, w ell above the head.
• Facing the loading point,
 stand up tall with the knees slightly bent and in a parallel 
stance, feet shoulder-width apart (figure 4.33a).
• Hold a handle in each hand with palms facing down.
• Keep your ar
ms straight and pointing toward the loading point.
Movement
• Explosively flex the entire body into a crunch position.
• Keeping your ar
ms straight, simultaneously pull your hands down and back (i.e., 
swim motion) until they are next to the hips and the bands or cables slightly touch 
the shoulders (figure 4.33b).
• Extend the body to the starting position and repeat.
FIGURE 4.33  BP swim: (a) starting position; (b) swim motion.
a bBands and Pulleys

85BP High-to-Low Chop
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression to all planks, push-ups,  and rotation with and without pivot
• Excellent fundamental exercise for the diagonal anterior and posterior core
• Useful in 
all sports that involve swinging an implement, such as baseball and golf, 
as well as throws and downward striking in combat sports
Starting Position
• Set the loading point as high as possible, w ell above the head.
• Hold one handle in both hands (i.e., hold the handle in the right hand and wrap 
the left hand o
ver the right hand).
• Tur
n to the left so the loading point is to your right and above your head.
• Keep your knees slightly bent with your ar
ms straight and in front of you.
Movement
• Keeping the core stiff, plant the right leg and rotate the right hip.
• Allow the body to rotate and the hands to come toward the loading point (figure 4.34
a).
• As an option, allow a slight left-foot pivot to help with right-hip inter
nal rotation. Do 
not allow the right ankle and knee to rotate to the loading side (no lateral rotation).
• Once your hands are at the top of the movement,
 perform a diagonal downward 
chopping motion.
• When the handles are halfwa
y down (about chest level), shift your weight to the left 
foot with the toes pointing straight ahead and continue to chop down and across until the hands are outside and below the left hip (figure 4.34b).
•
 If needed, allow a slight right-foot pivot to finish the chop.
• Repeat the sequence.
• Perfor
m on both sides of the body.
FIGURE 4.34  BP high-to-low chop: (a) high; (b) low.
a bBands and Pulleys

86BP Low-to-High Chop
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression to rotation with and without pivot as well as all lunging and 
chopping progressions
• Excellent fundamental exercise for the anterior and diagonal posterior musculature, especially the glutes
•
 Useful for all sports that in
volve changing directions and swinging an implement, 
such as tennis and baseball, as well as clinching and throws in combat sports
Starting Position
• Set the loading point as low as possible.
• Hold one handle in both hands (i.e., hold the
 
handle with the right hand and wrap the left hand over the right hand).
•
 Tur
n to the left so the loading point is to your right 
and below your knees.
• Keep your knees slightly bent with your ar
ms 
straight and in front of you.
Movement
• Keeping the core stiff, plant the right leg and rotate the right hip. Slightly hinging the hip to lean down,
 
allow the body to rotate and the hands to come down toward the loading point (figure 4.35a ). Allow 
a slight left-foot pivot to help with right-hip internal rotation. Do not allow the right ankle and knee to rotate to the loading side (no lateral rotation).
•
 Once your hands are at the bottom of the move
-
ment, perform a diagonal and upward reverse chopping motion until the hands are high and to the left of the left shoulder (figure 4.35b). Com-plete the movement perfectly centered between both feet and hands in front of the body with arms extended.
•
 Repeat the sequence.
• Perfor
m on both sides of the body.
FIGURE 4.35  BP low-to-high chop: 
(a) low; (b) high.
a
bBands and Pulleys

87BP Short Rotation (10 to 2 O’Clock)
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from rotation with and without pivot and all planks and push-ups
• Fundamental exercise for rotational core stiffness
• Popular with combat and throwing athletes as w
ell as those who swing implements
Starting Position
• Set the loading point at about chest-height.
• Hold one handle in both hands (i.e., hold the handle with the right hand and wrap 
the left hand o
ver the right hand).
• Tur
n to the left so the loading point is to your right.
• Keep your knees slightly bent with the ar
ms straight and in front of you (12 o’clock).
Movement
• Keeping the core stiff, perform short rotations to the left (10 o’clock; figure 4.36a) and right (2 o’clock; figure 4.36
b) without allowing the hips to move.
• Repeat on both sides of the body.
FIGURE 4.36  BP short rotation (10 to 2 o’clock): (a) 10 o’clock; (b) 2 o’clock.
b
 aBands and Pulleys

88BP Pulsating Backswing
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression to all high-to-low chops, push-ups,  and rotation with and 
without pivot
• Unique exercise that develops the hips and core strength and flexibility needed 
for rotational mechanics
• Useful in all sports in
volving swinging an implement, such as baseball and golf, 
especially in the backswing
Starting Position
• Set the loading point as high as possible, w ell above the head.
• Hold one handle in both hands (i.e.,
 hold the handle in the left hand and wrap the 
right hand over the left hand).
• Tur
n to the left so the loading point is to your right and above your head, the band 
or cable is over your head, and the handle is high and to the left (figure 4.37a).
• You should be in the backswing position that your spor
t requires.
Movement
• Keeping the core stiff, plant the left leg and internally rotate the left hip, allowing the load you tak
e you deeper into the backswing.
• Allow the body to rotate and the hands to come toward the loading point (figure 4.37
b), keeping perfect backswing mechanics for your sport.
• Pulsate through a short range of motion (about 10 in. [25 cm]) back and for
th.
• Feel 
your core stiffen, your left hip internally rotate, and your backswing range of 
motion improve.
• Perfor
m on both sides of the body.
FIGURE 4.37  BP pulsating backswing: (a) starting position; (b) hands move toward loading point.
b
 aBands and Pulleys

89BP Push–Pull
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from rotation with and without pivot and all standing horizontal 
pressing and rowing progressions
• Fu
ndamental dual-cable exercise for rotational core stiffness and shoulder stability
• Popular with r
unners, combative athletes and those who swing implements
Starting Position
• Choose a dual-cable system that has two opposing loading points about 8 to 10 feet (2.5-3 m) apart. If a dual-cable system isn’
t available, this exercise may be 
done with two separate bands and partner assistance.
• Set the loading points at about chest-height.
• Hold one handle from each cable column in each hand.
• Facing the cable machine,
 turn to your left and assume a split-stance position 
while facing the right cable so the right arm is extended and the left hand is next to the chest, ready to press (figure 4.38a).
Movement
• Keeping the core stiff, simultaneously row with the right hand and press with the left hand (figure 4.38
b).
• Repeat, simultaneously pushing and pulling
.
• Repeat on both sides of the body,
 switching foot positions.
FIGURE 4.38  BP push–pull: (a) starting position; (b) row with right hand and press with left hand.
a bBands and Pulleys

90 Functional Training
Dumbbells and Kettlebells
Once body weight and bands or cables are mastered, dumbbells (DB) and kettlebells 
(KB) are the equipment of choice to externally load any functional training exercise. Because they allow you to load each hand and perform exercises on the right side and left side, they can address muscular imbalances easily and naturally. The ability to use heavy or light loads allows you to focus on any quality you desire, from heavy strength work to light endurance work and everything in between. Even asymmetrical or unilateral loading can be easily addressed by carrying the load only in one hand. Chapter 1 provided information on where to obtain the best dumbbell and kettlebell products for functional training.
DB or KB Squat
Details and Benefits
• This is a foundational exercise that develops the core and low er body.
• It’s an excellent w
ay to add intensity to the bodyweight double-leg squat without 
directly placing a load on the spine (as in the barbell squat).
• Many ver
sions and carrying positions are available; the basic shoulder-carry vari-
ation is described here.
Starting Position
• Stand tall with feet facing for-w
ard and shoulder-width apart.
• Hold a dumbbell or kettlebell 
in 
each hand at shoulder-height (figure 4.39a).
•
 Use the neutral position (i.e., palms facing in) to hold the
 
dumbbells or kettlebells.
Movement
• Keeping your core stiff and hold-ing the dumbbells or k
ettlebells 
in place, squat down to the par-allel position (figure 4.39b).
•
 Stand up to return to the star
ting 
position.
• Repeat the squatting motion.Dumbbells and Kettlebells
FIGURE 4.39  DB or KB squat: (a) starting position; (b) 
squat.a b

91
KB Single-Arm Swing
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from and complement to all deadlift and squat progressions
• Excellent exercise to develop the dynamic extension of the ankles,
 knees, and 
hips used in jumping
• Popular with all jumping athletes
Starting Position
• Hold the kettlebell in the right hand, with the arm straight in front of the body and 
palm facing the body.
• Hinge at the hips with a straight back and with knees slightly flexed and feet facing 
forw
ard, shoulder-width apart (figure 4.40a).
Movement
• Quickly extend the entire body to propel the kettlebell up in a circular path until the k
ettlebell is about shoulder-height with the right arm extended in front of you 
(figure 4.40b).
• Allow the kettlebell to tra
vel down the same path it took up. Decelerate at the 
bottom of the swing and repeat the extension movement.
• Repeat on both sides.Dumbbells and Kettlebells
FIGURE 4.40  KB single-arm swing: (a) starting position; (b) swing kettlebell up.
a b

92DB or KB Single-Leg RDL (Romanian Deadlift)
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from and complement to the single-leg CLA anterior reach and 
all BP staggered-stance rowing and deadlift progressions
• Excellent for developing strong hamstrings and glutes and decelerating mechanics
• Popular with athletes who require strong low positions and low deceleration and change-of-direction capabilities
Starting Position
• Hold the weight in the right hand,  with the arm extended and hanging in front of 
the body, palm facing in.
• Balance on the left leg,
 with the left knee slightly flexed and the right leg back and 
off the ground (figure 4.41a).
Movement
• Stabilizing the single-leg position, hinge at the left hip until the core is almost parallel 
to the ground or until you feel a comfortable stretch in the left hamstring.
• Ke
eping the back straight throughout the entire movement, allow the arm to remain 
vertical at all times (figure 4.41b).
• Extend the hip to return to the star
ting position.
• Repeat the hip-flexing motion and perform on both sides of the body
.Dumbbells and Kettlebells
FIGURE 4.41  DB or KB single-leg RDL: (a) starting position; (b) lower weight toward floor.
a b

93DB or KB Lunge
Details and Benefits
• Intermediate to advanced progression once the bodyweight alternating lunge is 
mastered
• Excellent lower-body and core exercise that targets the hips and core
• Popular with combat athletes and field and cour
t athletes, such as soccer and 
tennis players
Starting Position
• Stand up straight, feet pointing forw ard about shoulder-width apart.
• Hold a dumbbell or kettlebell in each hand. Hands are in front of you in the shoulder
 
carry position—the position used right before performing a neutral-grip overhead press (figure 4.42a).
Movement
• Keeping your back straight, take a big step forward with the right leg.
• As the right foot lands, sink into a deep lunge or split-squat position (figure 4.42
b).
• Push off the right foot to return to the star
ting position.
• Repeat on the left side and continue the alternating patter
n.Dumbbells and Kettlebells
FIGURE 4.42  DB or KB lunge: (a) starting position; (b) lunge.
a b

94DB or KB Front Reaching Lunge
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from and complement to the bodyweight alter nating lunge and 
the BP staggered-stance deadlift and compound row progressions
• Excellent for strengthening the back, hips,
 and hamstrings with minimal knee 
involvement
• Popular with athletes who use low positions,
 such as wrestlers, and athletes who 
decelerate to change directions, such as tennis players and receivers
Starting Position
• Stand up tall with dumbbells or kettlebells in both hands (figure 4.43 a).
• Arms are at the sides,
 palms facing in.
• Feet are hip-width apar
t.
Movement
• Take a big step with the left foot and land in a split stance. Your step should be 
long enough to k
eep the left knee above the ankle and the right knee behind the 
vertical shoulder–hip line. The right heel should be off the ground.
• As your left foot lands, k
eep your core tight. Flex your hips and allow the dumbbells 
or kettlebells to reach to the sides of the left foot (figure 4.43b). Go as low as your left hamstring flexibility will allow.
•
 Once you reach the bottom of the movement,
 push off the left foot and use your left 
hamstrings and glutes to extend the body and step back to the starting position.
• Repeat on the other side.Dumbbells and Kettlebells
FIGURE 4.43  DB or KB front reaching lunge: (a) starting position; (b) lunge and reach.a b

95DB or KB Lateral Reaching Lunge
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from and complement to all single-leg progressions and the 
BP low-to-high chop
• Exc
ellent exercise to develop rotational stability and flexibility of the external 
rotators of the hips as well as to strengthen the diagonal posterior musculature
• Especially good for unilateral glute activity and external hip rotator
s
• Uses minimal knee flexion, reducing w
ear and tear on the knees, while strength-
ening the hips and enhancing changes of direction; great progression for athletes who have knee issues
•
 Popular with athletes who need fast 
changes of direction (e.g., tennis and soccer 
players) as well as athletes who swing implements (e.g., batting, golfing)
Starting Position
• Stand tall with dumbbells or kettlebells in both hands (figure 4.44 a).
• Arms are at the sides,
 palms facing in.
• Feet are hip-width apar
t.
Movement
• Take a big step to the left and land in a wide stance that is approximately double your shoulder-width.
•
 As your left foot lands, hinge your hips,
 allowing them to move back and flex.
• Flex your left knee, but minimize the flexion so your left shin is ver
tical and in line 
with the left ankle (figure 4.44b).Dumbbells and Kettlebells
b
 a c
FIGURE 4.44  DB or KB lateral reaching lunge: (a) starting position; (b) lunge to the left and reach weights 
to foot; (c) lunge to the right and reach weights to foot.

96• Keeping your back straight, continue to hinge the hips and reach the dumbbells 
or k
ettlebells to each side of the left foot.
• Once you reach the bottom of the movement,
 push off the left foot, using your left 
hamstring and glute to extend the body and step back to the starting position.
• Repeat on the other side (figure 4.44c
).
DB or KB Rotating Reaching Lunge
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from and complement to the rotational single-leg squat, all sin
gle-leg progressions, the BP low-to-high chop, and all reaching lunge progressions
• Excellent exercise 
to develop rotational stability and flexibility of the hips as well 
as to strengthen the diagonal posterior musculature, especially the glutes
• Uses minimal knee flexion, reducing w
ear and tear on the knees; great progression 
for athletes who have knee issues
• Popular with athletes who need fast opening steps and changes of direction
Starting Position
• Stand tall with dumbbells or kettlebells in both hands (figure 4.45 a).
• Arms are at the sides,
 palms facing in.
• Feet are hip-width apar
t.
Movement
• Imagine you’re standing in the middle of a square and take a big step (approxi-
mately double shoulder-width) to the right-rear corner.
FIGURE 4.45  DB or KB rotating reaching lunge: (a) starting position; (b) lunge to the right rear and reach 
weights to foot; (c) lunge to the left and reach weights to foot.a b cDumbbells and Kettlebells

97DB or KB Staggered-Stance Bent-Over Single-Arm Row
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from and complement to the single-leg CLA anterior reach and all BP 
staggered-stance rowing and deadlift progressions
• Excellent for developing strong hamstrings,
 glutes, and back muscles
• Popular with athletes who require strong hamstrings for r
unning and lifting, such as combat, 
field, and court athletes
Starting Position
• Hold the weight in the right hand using a neutral grip with the arms extended by your side.
• Stand in a split stance with the left leg forward and the knee o
ver the ankle. The right leg 
is back, knee bent and behind the vertical shoulder–hip line, feet facing forward, and the leg stable on the ball of the foot.
•
 Hinge at the hips until the core is almost parallel to the ground or until you feel a comfort
-
able stretch in the left hamstring.
• Keep the back straight throughout the entire mo
vement and keep the right arm vertical at 
all times (figure 4.46a).Dumbbells and Kettlebells• Land in a wide stance with the left foot facing forward and the right foot facing the right-rear cor
ner of the imaginary square.
• As your 
right foot lands, move your hips toward the right foot, hinge the hips, and flex your 
right knee so that the right shin is vertical and over the right ankle (figure 4.45b).
• Keeping your back straight and minimizing right-knee flexion,
 continue to flex the right hip 
and reach each dumbbell to each side of the right foot. Reach as far as the right hamstring will allow.
•
 Once you reach the bottom of the movement,
 push off the right foot using your right ham-
string, glute, and paraspinal muscles to extend the body and step back to the starting position.
•
 Repeat on the other side (figure 4.45c
).
FIGURE 4.46  DB or KB staggered-stance bent-over single-arm row: (a) starting position; (b) row.a b

98Movement
• Keeping the split-stance, bent-over position stable, pull the right hand in a rowing 
motion to the right side of the rib cage (figure 4.46
b).
• Return the ar
m to the starting position and repeat the rowing motion.
• Perfor
m on both sides of the body.
• For more advanced hip training
, this exercise can be performed on one leg.
DB or KB Overhead Press
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from and complement to all BP pressing progressions and push-up progressions
•
 Excellent exercise to develop shoulder strength and stability and core strength
• Popular with athletes who need total-body strength and shoulder flexibility
Starting Position
• Stand up tall, feet facing forw ard 
and shoulder-width apart. Keep the core tight throughout the movement.
•
 Hold a dumbbell or kettlebell
 
in each hand and at shoul-der-height, palms facing each other (figure 4.47a).
Movement
• Although the alternating patter n 
is explained here, this exercise can be performed simultane-ously with both arms.
•
 Perfor
m an overhead press with 
the right hand while keeping the left hand at the shoulder line (figure 4.47b).
•
 Bring the right hand down to the right shoulder while pressing the left hand o
verhead.
• Yo
u may use slight lateral flexion 
of the body to accommodate reduced range of motion at the shoulders, but keep the core tight and engaged at all times.
•
 Repeat the alternating pressing action.
FIGURE 4.47  DB or KB overhead press: (a) starting 
position; (b) overhead press.a bDumbbells and Kettlebells

99DB or KB Lateral Overhead Press
This exercise can be per-
formed with the arms out to the sides and palms facing forward, moving the arms simultaneously (figure 4.48). This version provides greater shoulder involvement and is popular with bodybuilders. Single-arm variations and addi-tional lateral movement of the body also allow easier vertical pressing if shoulder flexibility is a concern.
a b
FIGURE 4.48  DB or KB lateral overhead press: (a) starting posi-
tion; (b) overhead press.
DB or KB Overhead Y Press
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from and complement to all BP pressing progressions and push-up progressions
•
 Excellent exercise to develop shoulder strength and stability and core strength
• Popular with athletes who need total-body strength and shoulder flexibility
Starting Position
• Stand up tall, feet facing forw ard and shoulder-width apart. Keep the core tight 
throughout the movement.
• Hold a 
dumbbell or kettlebell in each hand outside the shoulders, palms facing 
forward (figure 4.49a).
Movement
• Perform a diagonal (up and out) overhead press with the right hand while keeping the left hand outside the left shoulder line (figure 4.49 b 
).
• Bring the right hand down to the outside of the right shoulder while diagonally pressing the left hand.
•
 Keep the core tight and engaged at all times.
• Repeat the alternating Y-pressing action.Dumbbells and Kettlebells

100
a b
FIGURE 4.49  DB or KB overhead Y press: (a) starting position; (b) press right.
DB or KB Cross Overhead Press
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from and 
complement to all BP press-ing progressions,
 push-up 
progressions, and rotational progressions
•
 Excellent exercise to develop shoulder 
strength and stabil-
ity, hip internal rotation, and core strength seen in the backswing and follow-through of swings
•
 Popular with athletes who
 
swing implements, such as in batting and golfing
Starting Position
• Stand up tall, feet facing  
forward and shoulder-width apart.
•
 Hold a dumbbell or kettle
-
bell in each hand at shoul-der-height, palms facing each other (figure 4.50a).
a b
FIGURE 4.50  DB or KB cross overhead press: (a)  starting 
position; (b) overhead press.Dumbbells and Kettlebells

101Movement
• Perform an overhead press with the right hand as you plant the left foot and pivot 
the 
right foot, internally rotating the left hip (figure 4.50b). Avoid external rotation 
of the left knee and ankle.
• Bring the 
right hand down to the right shoulder while turning left to the starting 
position.
• Smoothly transition through the star
ting point and perform the left-hand cross 
overhead press to the right side, while pivoting on the left foot.
• Repeat the rotational pressing action.
DB High Cross Punch
The cross overhead press without a pivot is also called the high 
cross punch. It is popular with combat athletes to 
develop shoulder strength and core stiffness. Usually it is performed with dumbbells. Stand up tall, feet facing forward and shoulder-width apart. Hold a dumbbell in each hand at shoulder-height, palms facing each other. Keeping your core and lower body stiff, punch with the right hand across the body and up so the dumbbell is high and outside the left shoulder (figure 4.51). Bring the right hand back and perform a high cross punch with the left hand. Repeat the pattern.
FIGURE 4.51  DB high cross 
punch.
Dumbbells and Kettlebells
DB or KB Biceps Curl
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from and complement to all DB or KB carr y and upright rowing 
progressions
• Excellent exercise to develop ar
m, shoulder, and core strength
• Popular with combat athletes and athletes in contact spor
ts
Starting Position
• Stand up tall, feet facing forw ard and shoulder-width apart. Keep the core tight 
throughout the movement.
• Hold a dumbbell or kettlebell in each hand down b
y your sides, palms facing forward.

102Movement
• Although the alternating patter n is 
explained here, this exercise can be 
performed simultaneously with both arms.
•
 Perfor
m a curl with the right hand 
while keeping the left hand by your side (figure 4.52a).
•
 Bring the right hand down to the right side while perfor
ming a curl with the 
left hand (figure 4.52b).
• You ma
y use slight core movement 
if needed for balance, but keep the core tight and engaged at all times.
•
 Re
peat the alternating curling action.
• This exercise can be performed on one leg to add single-leg
, 7-frame 
stability while still developing arm strength.
Running Curl
The running curl can be performed with more of a running action, and it’s an awesome addition to a running program. To perform the running curl, stand with your knees slightly flexed, core tight, and arms at your sides with palms facing your body. Flex your right arm until it’s at 90 degrees and the dumbbell is in front of you. At the same time, allow your left arm to go back for counterbalance (figure 4.53). Perform a running motion with your arms without allowing the core or lower body to move.
FIGURE 4.53  Running curl: (a) right-arm flex; (b) left-arm flex.
a bDumbbells and Kettlebells
FIGURE 4.52  DB or KB biceps curl: (a) curl right; 
(b) curl left.
a b

103DB or KB Upright Row
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from and complement to all low-to-high rowing and biceps 
curl progressions
• Excellent exercise to develop ar
m, shoulder, and core strength
• Popular with r
unners, combat athletes, and athletes in contact sports
Starting Position
• Stand up tall, feet facing forw ard and shoulder-width apart. Keep the core tight 
throughout the movement.
• Slightly flex forward so the dumbbells or k
ettlebells can move up without contact-
ing the body.
• Hold a dumbbell or kettlebell in each hand down in front of you,
 palms facing your 
body.
Movement
• Although the alternating pattern is explained here, this exercise can be performed simultaneously with both ar
ms.
• Perfor
m an upright row with the right hand until the dumbbell or kettlebell is at 
about chest-height. At the same time, keep the left hand down in front of you (figure 4.54a).
•
 Bring the right hand down in front of you while performing an upright row with the left hand until the dumbbell or k
ettlebell is at about chest-height (figure 4.54b).
• You 
may use slight rotational shoulder and core movement as needed for balance, 
but keep the core tight and engaged at all times.
• Repeat the alternating rowing action.
• Th
is exercise can be performed on one leg to add single-leg, 7-frame stability while 
still developing arm strength.Dumbbells and Kettlebells
FIGURE 4.54  DB or KB upright row: (a) row right; (b) row left.a b

104DB or KB Cross Uppercut
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from and complement to all DB or KB curl, carry, and upright 
rowing progressions
• Excellent exercise to develop ar
m, shoulder, and core strength
• Popular with r
unners, combat athletes, and athletes in contact sports
Starting Position
• Stand up tall, feet facing forw ard and shoulder-width apart. Keep the core tight 
throughout the movement.
• Hold a 
dumbbell or kettlebell in each hand down by your sides, palms facing the 
body.
Movement
• Flex the right arm and perfor m a cross uppercut with the right arm across the body 
and to the left while pivoting on the right foot until the dumbbell or kettlebell is in 
line and to the outside of the left shoulder (figure 4.55 a).
• Bring the right hand down to the right side while keeping the right elbow flexed. At the same time,
 perform a cross uppercut with the left arm across the body and 
to the right while pivoting on the left foot until the dumbbell or kettlebell is in line and to the outside of the right shoulder (figure 4.55b).
•
 Keep the core tight and engaged at all times.
• Repeat the alternating cross uppercut.
a b
FIGURE 4.55  DB or KB cross uppercut: (a) uppercut right; (b) upper-
cut left.Dumbbells and Kettlebells

105Modified Clinch Curl
The simultaneous DB or KB upper-
cut is also called a modified clinch curl. Combat athletes use it to create a strong clinch (arm grap-pling from the standing position) and strong lifting mechanics. It looks like a form of a cheated curl. Stand with the dumbbells or kettlebells in your hands, with arms flexed about 90 degrees, hips hinging, back straight, and shoulders leaning forward as if you were going to pick up a box in front of you at hip-height (figure 4.56a). The bottom position can also be low as it will allow your forearms to rest on top of your thighs. Use the depth needed in the sports you are preparing for. Using your whole body, extend your body and curl both weights up until they are at shoulder-height (figure 4.56b). Return to the starting position and repeat.
DB Horizontal Fly Rotation
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from and complement to X-ups, BP rotations, BP flys, and BP presses
•
 Unique exercise that develops core stability during rotational mo
vements
• Popular with golfer
s, baseball players, and board athletes who use the upper body 
as a long lever to facilitate lower-body movement and total-body rotational power
Starting Position
• Stand up tall, feet facing forw ard and shoulder-width apart, knees slightly flexed.
• Hold a dumbbell up and out in each hand at shoulder-height in a T-position; elbows
 
are slightly flexed and palms are facing forward (figure 4.57a).
Movement
• Keeping your core stiff and feet firmly planted, rotate your body to the right, bringing the left ar
m forward and right arm back (figure 4.57b). The hips and shoulders 
should always rotate together with a super stiff core and slight flexion at the knees.
• When the right rotation is complete, rotate to the left,
 bringing the right arm forward 
and left arm back, smoothly transitioning through the starting point all the way through the end of the right rotation.
•
 Repeat the rotation to both sides.
a b
FIGURE 4.56  Modified clinch curl: (a) starting position; (b) 
curl both weights.Dumbbells and Kettlebells

106DB Single-Arm Diagonal Fly Rotation
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from and complement to the BP high-to-low and low-to-high 
chops, MB shor
t diagonal chop (chapter 5), DB horizontal fly rotation, and DB or 
KB lateral reaching lunge
• Unique exercise that develops core stability for rotational mo
vements and decel-
erating throwing motion
• Popular with golfer
s, baseball players, and board athletes who use the upper body 
as a long lever to facilitate lower-body movement and total-body rotational power
Starting Position
• Stand up tall, feet facing forw ard and shoulder-width apart, knees slightly flexed 
and feet firmly planted.
• Hold a dumbbell in the right hand to the right side of the body and above the head,
 allowing the shoulders to rotate to the right, as if getting ready to throw a 
ball (figure 4.58a).
Movement
• Keeping your core stiff, make a diagonal throwing motion with the right hand, bringing the right hand to the left side of the body betw
een the left hip and left 
knee (figure 4.58b).
• The hips 
and shoulders should always rotate together with good internal rotation 
of the left hip and a slight pivot on the right foot can be used to facilitate left hip internal rotation. There should be no rotation at the left knee or ankle during the entire movement.
•
 At the end of the rotation, bring the right hand back to the star
ting position.
• Repeat the throwing motion and perform on both sides of the body
.
FIGURE 4.57  DB horizontal fly rotation: (a) starting position; (b) rotate to the right.a bDumbbells and Kettlebells

107DB or KB Carry
Details and Benefits
• Foundational exercise that develops the core stiffness 
needed 
to perform any standing exercise or activity, 
especially if it involves carrying an object
• Develops the diaphragmatic breathing and dynamic core
 
stiffness needed in contact sports, especially grappling combat sports
Starting Position
• Stand up tall with a weight in each hands (figure 4.59).
• Bend the elbows until they are flexed to about 90
 
degrees.
Movement
• Keeping your core stiff, hold the dumbbells or kettle-bells in place.
•
 Although this exercise can be performed stationar
y 
for time, the better option is to perform the carry while walking for time.FIGURE 4.58  DB single-arm diagonal fly rotation: (a) starting position; (b) throwing motion.
a bDumbbells and Kettlebells
FIGURE 4.59  DB or KB carry.


108 Functional Training
Conclusion
The modalities and exercises in this chapter are the most versatile and essential to 
functional training. Any athlete who trains and masters the evaluation exercises in chapter 3 plus the exercises here will be well on her way to being ready to perform at her best, regardless of level. The modalities and exercises in chapter 5 will add even more diversity to your functional training program.

109
CHAPTER
5
The Supporting Cast
Chapter 4 provided the main exercises needed for a functional training pro-
gram, and now this chapter provides the rest of the exercises to add diversity, effectiveness, and fun to your training. This chapter includes medicine ball core and power applications, stability ball core and rotational exercises, exercises using industry toys for agility and power training, and even some traditional exercises for hypertrophy that illustrate the effectiveness of IHP’s hybrid train-ing. The exercises follow the same format as in chapter 4: photos to illustrate the movement, some details on the exercise, and instructions to support the proper execution of the exercise.
Remember, pain and control are the two best indicators of how appropriate 
the progression is: No pain and good form almost always mean the progression is appropriate. If in doubt, start conservatively and add repetitions to increase volume. Volume is the best variable to increase, especially at the beginning of training. Volume allows learning, reinforces good patterns, helps to eliminate imbalances, provides strength, and burns calories, which is important to athletes trying to lose excess fat. Increasing load and speed come once the movement is automatic and can be performed correctly without any thought to form.
Medicine Balls
Medicine balls (MB) have been used by combat and track athletes for many years. Their original use focused on core exercise and throws. With the increased pop-ularity of core exercises and functional training, medicine balls underwent an evolution. They now come in many shapes and sizes, some with handles, ropes, and bar attachments. Where the original medicine balls weighed a few pounds, now they can weigh over 40 pounds (18 kg), capable of providing high-level strength training for some people.

110MB Wood Chop
Details and Benefits
•Basic total-body progression to
add to the bodyweight double-legsquat (chapter 3)
•
Arguably the best total-body med-icine ball exercise
•
Can be used for warming up thewhole body, e
valuating movement, 
and improving vertical jumps
Starting Position
•Stand upright, feet pointing for-ward and about shoulder-widthapart.
•
Hold the medicine ball in bothhands overhead, with 
the elbows
extended as far as comfortablypossible (figure 5.1a).
Movement
•Keeping your back straight, squatdown, hinging at the hips andfle
xing your knees and ankles
while performing a downwardsemicircular chop with the ball(figure 5.1b).
•
Stop when your upper leg is paral-lel to the ground, the ball is closeto the ground,
 and your elbows
are inside your thighs.
•Return to the starting positionand repeat the chopping motionin the same direction.
MB Short Wood Chop
The wood chop can be perfor
med as a 
short wood chop without the squatting motion. Plant your feet with knees slightly bent and the core upright and stiff. Hold the medicine ball in front of you with arms extended. Imagine there is a rectangle in front of you from your head to your hips and from shoulder to shoulder. Without moving your core or lower body, make a vertical chopping motion from the top to the bottom of the rectangle (figure 5.2). Repeat the chopping motion as fast as possible without moving the core.Medicine Balls
FIGURE 5.1  MB wood chop: (a) starting position; (b) 
squat and chop.
a b
FIGURE 5.2  MB short wood chop.a b

111Medicine BallsMB Diagonal Chop
Details and Benefits
•Basic total-body progression from the MB wood chop and all squatting progressions
as well as a perfect complement to the BP low-to-high chop
•Can be used for warming up the whole body
, evaluating movement, and improving
lateral changes in direction and swinging mechanics
Starting Position
•Stand upright, feet pointing forward and about shoulder-width apar t.
•Hold the medicine ball in both hands overhead to the right side of the body,
 with
the arms extended and the left foot pivoted inward (internally rotating right hip)(figure 5.3a).
Movement
•Keeping your back straight, squat down and rotate to the left, hinging at the hipsand flexing your knees and ankles.
•
As you reach the middle 
of the rotation (facing forward), internally rotate at the
left hip, pivoting your right foot in, and perform a downward diagonal chop withthe ball (figure 5.3b).
•
Stop when the ball is outside your left knee.
•Return to the starting position and repeat the diagonal chopping motion.
•Perform to both sides of the body
.
FIGURE 5.3  MB diagonal chop: (a) starting position; (b) low chop.
a b

112MB Short Diagonal Chop
The MB diagonal chop can be 
performed as a short diagonal chop without the squatting motion, just like the BP short rotation and the rotation with-out pivot. Plant your feet with the knees slightly bent and the core upright and stiff. Hold the medicine ball in front of you with arms extended. Imagine a rectangle in front of you from your head to your hips and from shoulder to shoulder. Without moving your core or lower body, make a chopping motion from the upper-right corner to the lower-left corner of the rectangle (figure 5.4). Repeat the chopping motion as fast as possible without moving the core. Perform the chopping motion to both sides of the body (i.e., upper left to lower right).
MB ABC Squat
Details and Benefits
• Basic total-body progression that adds a multiplanar stimulus to all squatting progressions
•
 Perfect complement to a squat
• May be used to fix an
y hip deviations observed during squatting
• Popular with athletes who need multidirectional mo
vement from a low squatting 
position, such as baseball catchers and volleyball players
Starting Position
• Stand with knees slightly flexed, feet pointing forw ard and about shoulder-width 
apart.
• Hold the medicine ball close to you at chest level with both hands.
Movement
• Keeping your back straight, squat down by hinging at the hips and flexing your knees and ankles while pushing the ball out in front of you (i.e.,
 12 o’clock; figure 5.5a).
• Stop when your upper legs are parallel to the ground.
• Return to the star
ting position.
• Squat down again, this time pushing the ball out to the right side of the body (i.e.,
 
2 o’clock; figure 5.5b).
• Return to the star
ting position.
FIGURE 5.4  MB short diagonal chop.a bMedicine Balls

113• Squat one last time, pushing the ball out to the left side of the body (i.e.,  10 
o’clock; figure 5.5c).
• Return to the star
ting position.
• Repeat the three-direction squat-and-push sequence (i.e.,
 ABC pattern).Medicine Balls
FIGURE 5.5  MB ABC squat: (a) 12 o’clock; (b) 2 o’clock; (c) 10 o’clock.
a b c
MB Lunge With Rotation
Details and Benefits
• Intermediate to advanced progression 
once the bodyw
eight alternating lunge 
and rotation with pivot (chapter 3) progressions are mastered.
•
 Excellent lower-body and rotational
 
core exercise that targets the diagonal posterior and anterior musculature
•
 Popular with tennis pla
yers
Starting Position
• Stand up straight, feet pointing forw ard 
and about shoulder-width apart.
• Hold the medicine ball in both hands in front 
of you, with the elbows flexed 
(figure 5.6a).
Movement
• Keeping your back straight, take a big step forw
ard with the right leg.
• As the right foot lands, sink into the lunge while rotating the ball and upper body to the right (figure 5.6
b).
• Push off the right foot to return to the star
ting position.
• Repeat on the left side, rotating the ball and upper body to the left.
• Continue to alternate the lunge.
FIGURE 5.6  MB lunge with rotation: (a) starting 
position; (b) rotate to the right.a b

114MB Single-Arm Push-Off
Details and Benefits
• Intermediate to advanced push-up progression of the bodyweight push-up, plank, 
a
nd single-arm eccentrics; great lead-in to any single-arm plank or push-up variation
• Develops pushing pow
er and the diagonal anterior core musculature used by 
combative athletes and football players
Starting Position
• Stabilize the body in a plank position with the right hand on the floor and the ar
m 
extended. The left hand is on top of a medicine ball with the arm flexed (figure 5.7a).
•
 Make sure your shoulder
s are 
parallel to the ground at all times.
Movement
• Flex the elbows to perform a p
ush-up on the right side of the 
ball, keeping the core tight, the body straight, and the shoul-ders parallel to the ground at all times (figure 5.7b).
•
 Once the left elbow has flexed to 90 degrees, push up until the extended right ar
m lifts 
off the ground and the left arm performs a lock-out on the ball in the three-point position (figure 5.7c).
•
 Lower your body using only
 
the left hand until the right arm touches the ground and proceed to lower into the two-arm push-up.
•
 Repeat the single-arm push-off on the left ar
m for desired 
repetitions.
• Perfor
m on both arms.Medicine Balls
FIGURE 5.7  MB single-arm push-off: (a) starting position; 
(b) lower body to ground; (c) push up until right arm is off the 
ground and left arm is locked out.a
b
c

115Medicine BallsMB Crossover Push-Up
Details and Benefits
• Intermediate to advanced push-up progression that follows the bodyweight push-up, 
plank,
 and MB single-arm push-off progression
• Develops pushing pow
er and the diagonal anterior core musculature used by 
combative athletes and football players
Starting Position
• Stabilize the body in a plank position with the right hand on the floor and the arm extended. The left hand is on top of a medicine ball wit
h the arm flexed.
• Make sure your shoulder
s are parallel to the ground at all times.
Movement
• Flex the elbows to perform  
a push-up on the right side of the ball, keeping the core tight, the body straight, and the shoulders parallel to the ground at all times (figure 5.8a).
•
 Once the left elbow has flexed to 
90 degrees, push up and 
place the right hand on the ball next to the left hand (figure 5.8b).
•
 Shift your weight to the left
 
side of the ball and place your left hand on the floor to perform a push-up on the left side of the ball with the right hand on the ball (figure 5.8c).
•
 Flex the 
elbows to perform a 
push-up until the right elbow has flexed to 90 degrees. Then push up and place the left hand next to the right hand on the ball.
•
 Shift your 
weight to the right 
side of the ball and place your right hand on the floor to perform a push-up on the right side of the ball with the left hand on the ball.
•
 Repeat the sequence.FIGURE 5.8  MB crossover push-up: (a) push-up on right side 
of ball; (b) both hands on ball; (c) push-up on left side of ball.
a
b
c

116MB Rotation With Pivot
Details and Benefits
• Basic total-body progression from the body-
w
eight rotation with pivot and the BP short 
rotation as well as a perfect complement to the BP low-to-high chop
•
 Can be used as for war
ming up the whole body, 
evaluating movement, and improving hip flexi-bility, lateral changes in direction, and swinging mechanics
Starting Position
• Stand upright, feet pointing forw ard and about 
shoulder-width apart.
• Hold the medicine ball in both hands in front of the body
, with the elbows slightly flexed.
Movement
• Keeping your back straight, rotate to the left, inter
nally rotating your left hip and pivoting your 
right foot without the left knee or ankle rotating outward (figure 5.9a).
•
 Stop when you can’t inter
nally rotate the left 
hip any farther.
• Rotate to 
the right, planting the right foot facing 
forward and pivoting on your left foot while internally rotating your right hip without the right knee or ankle rotating outward (figure 5.9b).
•
 Stop when you can’t inter
nally rotate the right 
hip any farther.
• Continue to 
perform side-to-side rotations with 
pivots.
MB Rotation Without Pivot
The MB rotation with pivot can be performed without pivots to create short rotations and greater core stiffness. Plant your feet with knees slightly bent and the core upright and stiff. Hold the ball in front of you with arms slightly flexed. Imagining you are a clock, hold the ball at 12 o’clock. Without moving your core or lower body, rotate your shoulders and move the ball to 10 o’clock. Rotating only the shoulders, move the ball to 2 o’clock. Continue the rotation from 10 to 2 o’clock without moving your core or lower body.
FIGURE 5.9  MB rotation with pivot: (a) 
rotate to the left; (b) rotate to the right.
a
bMedicine Balls

117FIGURE 5.10  MB staggered-stance CLA incline chest throw: (a) starting position; (b) rotate left and push 
the medicine ball up at 45-degree angle.
a bMB Staggered-Stance CLA Incline Chest Throw
Details and Benefits
• This is a unique chest and rotational core progression that follows the DB or KB 
cross overhead press with pivot and BP presses (chapter 4).
• It de
velops the pushing and punching power used by combative athletes and track 
and field throwers, such as shot-putters. It also enhances the rotational power used by all throwing athletes.
•
 Use a ball with a live bounce if throwing from distance; use a ball with no bounce when throwing close to a wall,
 especially if in a busy gym.
Starting Position
• Stand sidew ays to a wall about 15 feet (5 m) away or closer if you are using a 
ball with no bounce.
• Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart and the left foot and shoulder closest to the w
all, almost in a batting position.
• Hold the medicine ball with both hands to the right side of the chest, with the right elbow down and the palm on the ball (figure 5.10
a).
• Use the left hand to hold the ball in place.
Movement
• Keeping the core tight, push off the right foot and take a step with the left foot, as if you w
ere performing a batting motion.
• Simultaneously rotate left while using the right hand to push the medicine ball upward at a 45-degree angle (figure 5.10
b).
• Finish the throw with a right-foot pivot,
 facing the wall in a long staggered stance.
• Catch the ball on the bounce and repeat.
• Perfor
m to both sides of the body.Medicine Balls

118MB Staggered-Stance CLA Straight Chest Throw
Details and Benefits
• This is a popular chest and rotational core progression that follows push-ups and 
cable presses.
• It develops the punching pow
er used by combative athletes, as well as movements 
such as a stiff arm used in football. It also enhances the rotational power used by all throwing athletes.
•
 Use a ball with a live bounce if throwing from distance; use a ball with no bounce when throwing close to a wall,
 especially if in a busy gym.
Starting Position
• Stand sidew ays to a wall about 15 feet (5 m) away (or closer if you are using a 
ball with no bounce).
• Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart and the left foot and shoulder closest to the w
all, almost in a batting position.
• Hold the medicine ball in both hands to the right side of the chest, with the right elbow up and forear
m parallel to the ground (figure 5.11a).
• The right palm is on the ball and the left hand holds the ball in place.
Movement
• Keeping the core tight, push off the right foot and take a step with the left foot, as if you w
ere performing a batting motion.
• Simultaneously rotate left while pushing the medicine ball with the right hand straight to the wall (figure 5.11
b).
• Finish the throw with a right-foot pivot,
 facing the wall in a long staggered stance.
• Catch the ball on the bounce and repeat.
• Perfor
m to both sides of the body.
FIGURE 5.11  MB staggered-stance CLA straight chest throw: (a) starting position; (b) rotate left and 
push ball straight to the wall.
a bMedicine Balls

119MB Staggered-Stance CLA Decline Chest Throw
Details and Benefits
• This is a basic chest and rotational core progression that follows push-ups and 
cable presses.
• It develops the downw
ard pushing power used by combative athletes such as 
wrestlers.
• Use a ball with a live bounce if throwing from a distance; use a ball with no bounce 
when throwing close to a wall.
Starting Position
• Stand sideways to a wall about 5 feet (2 m) away (or closer if you are using a ball with no bounce),
 feet shoulder-width apart, with the right foot and shoulder 
closest to the wall.
• Hold the medicine ball with both hands to the left side of chest, with the left elbow up and forear
m pointing down (figure 5.12a).
• The left palm is on the ball and the right hand holds the ball in place.
Movement
• Keeping the core tight, push off the left foot and take a step with the right foot.
• Simultaneously rotate right while using the left hand to push the medicine ball down at a 45-degree angle (figure 5.12b
).
• Finish the throw with a left-foot pivot,
 facing the wall in a long staggered stance.
• Bounce the ball off the ground and wall and catch and repeat.
• Perfor
m to both sides of the body.
FIGURE 5.12  MB staggered-stance CLA decline chest throw: (a) starting position; (b) rotate and push 
ball down.a bMedicine Balls

120MB Overhead Slam
Details and Benefits
• This is an effective shoulder and core progression that follows any pulling or rowing , 
X-up, and knee-tuck progressions.
• It develops the throwing pow
er used by many field athletes. It’s also popular for 
the shoulder and core training of swimmers and combative athletes.
• Use a ball with a low bounce.
Starting Position
• Stand in a parallel stance with feet shoulder-width apart.
• Hold the medicine ball with both hands in front of you, ar
ms extended.
Movement
• Keeping the core tight, bring the 
medicine ball o
verhead by fully 
extending the body (figure 5.13a ).
• Slam the ball down about 2 
to 3 
feet (.5-1 m) in front of you (figure 5.13b).
•
 Be careful not to bounce the ball too close to you 
so as to avoid 
contact with the body. The ball should land far enough out that it does not hit your face when it rebounds.
•
 Catch the ball on the bounce and 
repeat. You can take a short 
step forward to catch the ball if necessary.
•
 Perfor
m to both sides of the body.
FIGURE 5.13  MB overhead slam: (a) bring ball over-
head; (b) slam it to the ground.a bMedicine Balls

121MB Overhead Side-to-Side Slam
The MB overhead side-to-side slam variation is an intermediate shoulder, core, and 
rotational exercise. Like the MB overhead slam, this exercise develops the throwing power used by many field athletes and the rotational pivoting used in golf. Be sure to use a ball with a low bounce.
The starting position is the same as the MB overhead slam. Bring the medicine 
ball overhead by fully extending the body. Rotate to the right, pivoting on the left foot, and slam the ball down about a foot (30 cm) outside your right foot (figure 5.14a). Catch the ball on the rebound and then rotate to the left, pivoting with the right foot and slamming the ball down about a foot (30 cm) outside your left foot (figure 5.14b). Repeat on both sides. Be careful not to bounce the ball too close to you so as to avoid contact with the body, especially with the face.
MB Rotational Throw: Perpendicular
Details and Benefits
• This is the fundamental medicine ball rotational power progression; it supplements all rotational training
.
• It develops the rotational pow
er used by many athletes in field and court sports, 
whether throwing or swinging an implement.
• Use a ball with a live bounce if throwing from distance; use a ball with no bounce when throwing close to a wall,
 especially if in a busy gym.
Starting Position
• Stand sidew ays to a wall about 15 feet (5 m) away (or closer if you are using a ball 
with no bounce), feet shoulder-width apart, with the left foot and shoulder closest to the wall, almost in a batting position.
•
 Hold the medicine ball with both hands in front of you, ar
ms extended.FIGURE 5.14  MB overhead side-to-side slam: (a) rotate to the right and throw ball down; (b) rotate to 
the left and throw ball down.
a bMedicine Balls

122Movement
• Keeping the core tight and arms extended, rotate to the right to load the throw by 
planting the right foot and slightly pivoting the left foot (figure 5.15
a). This action 
loads the right hip.
• Keeping the core tight,
 push off the right foot and take a step with the left foot, 
as if you were performing a batting motion (figure 5.15b).
• Finish the throw with a right-foot pivot,
 facing the wall in a long staggered stance.
• Retrieve the ball and repeat.
• Perfor
m to both sides of the body.
MB Reverse Scoop Throw
Details and Benefits
• This is an excellent progression to squatting and jumping exercises.
• It improves triple extension mechanics and ver
tical jumping.
• You can perfor
m it in an open field with a partner (recommended) or against a wall 
close behind the body. I recommend an open field because bouncing a weighted medicine ball overhead and avoiding contact on the bounce takes some practice.
•
 A runa
way heavy medicine ball can cause injury to anyone in the surrounding area. 
If you are going to use a wall rebound, use a ball with a soft bounce to limit its rolling and speed.
Starting Position
• Stand in a parallel stance with feet shoulder-width apart.
• Hold the medicine ball with both hands in front of you, ar
ms extended.FIGURE 5.15  MB rotational throw: perpendicular: (a) rotate to the right; (b) rotate to the left and throw ball.
a bMedicine Balls

123Movement
• Keeping the arms extended 
and the core tight,
 perform 
a quarter squat and hinge at the hips to bring the ball between the legs and fore-arms between the thighs (figure 5.16a).
•
 Explode up and throw the ball backw
ard at a 
45-degree angle to get maximum height and dis-tance (figure 5.16b).
FIGURE 5.16  MB reverse scoop throw: (a) quarter squat; (b) throw.
a b
Stability Balls
Stability balls (SB) have been used as an exercise tool since the late 1980s. They have undergone a significant evolution in design and materials. When they first entered the strength and conditioning world, they were often used to provide an unstable training environment. As functional training evolved, we realized that the overuse of balance and unstable training was not helpful for the high power transfer of sport. This realization, along with a few unfortunate accidents, has forced the industry to reevaluate the use of the stability balls as an unstable support surface for heavy training (e.g., heavy bench pressing and squatting on the ball). We prefer to use the stability ball for three main purposes:
1.
 To support dynamic positions in a stationary envir
onment (e.g., single-leg lateral 
wall slides)
2. To support what could be a danger
ous position in a safe environment (e.g., 
extension and flexion of the spine)
3. To pr
ovide a rolling surface that facilitates movement and natural instability
This section offers a selection of exercises in each of these three categories.Medicine Balls

124SB Single-Leg Lateral Wall Slide
Details and Benefits
• Progression from other single-leg exercises
• One of the most effective exercises to develop lateral changes of direction with
-
out any wear and tear on the ankle and knee joints, making it great for field and 
court athletes
Starting Position
• Stand with a wall to the right of you.
• Place a 
stability ball between your armpit and the wall, with the right arm resting 
on the ball and the hand placed on the wall for balance.
• Walk approximately 2 feet (.5 m) to the left to create a right lean against the ball and lift the right foot (inside foot),
 balancing on the left foot (outside foot) (figure 
5.17a).
Movement
• Perform mini squats on the left leg as you lean against the ball and use your right ar
m on the ball and right hand on the wall for balance (figure 5.17b).
• Place the right foot next to the left and lift the left foot off the ground.
• Perfor
m mini squats with your left leg.
• Perfor
m on the other side.
FIGURE 5.17  SB single-leg lateral wall slide: (a) starting position; (b) mini squat on left leg.a bStability Balls

125
a b
FIGURE 5.18  SB hands-on-ball push-up: (a) starting position; (b) lower chest toward ball.SB Hands-on-Ball Push-Up
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from all push-up and plank progressions
• Go-to progression to develop core and shoulder stabilization if winging scapulae 
and a w
eak core are observed on a regular push-up
Starting Position
• Assume a plank position with your hands on the stability ball, making sure the hands are on the outer sides of the ball,
 fingers pointing toward the ground (figure 
5.18a).
• The core 
should be tight and the knees should be extended, with weight on the 
balls of feet and feet shoulder-width apart.
Movement
• Flex the elbows to lower the chest until it is a fe w inches from the ball (figure 5.18b ).
• Finish b
y extending the arms to return to plank position.
• To decrease the intensity of this exercise,
 place the ball on a higher surface or 
secure it between the floor and the wall.Stability Balls

126SB Knee Tuck (Double Leg to Single Leg)
Details and Benefits
• This exercise is an intermediate progression from an y core flexion exercise and 
push-ups.
• It’s a great anterior core exercise that also requires strong shoulder stabilization,
 
making it popular with athletes who require tucking and shoulder stability, such 
as gymnasts, divers, and combat athletes.
• It’s described as a two-leg exercise here,
 but the goal is to perform it on a single 
leg as soon as multiple sets of 15 repetitions can be performed with two legs.
Starting Position
• Assume a push-up position with the hands on the ground and the stability ball under the middle to lower thighs (figure 5.19
a).
• Keep the core tight and a
void hyperextending the spine.
Movement
• Stabilizing the movement with the hands,  keep the core tight and flex at the hips 
and knees, tucking the knees in toward the chest.
• Continue hip and knee flexion until the hips and knees are flexed 90 degrees and knees are on top of the stability ball (figure 5.19b
). For additional flexibility, the 
tuck can be tighter.
• Extend the body back to the starting position.
• Repeat the tucking motion.
FIGURE 5.19  SB knee tuck (double leg): (a) starting position; (b) tuck.a bStability Balls

127SB Rollout
Details and Benefits
• Natural progression from planks, push-ups,  and anterior core work
• Ver
satile progression to lengthen and strengthen the anterior core, as well as 
strengthen the shoulder joint, making it popular with swimmers, throwing athletes, 
and combat athletes
Starting Position
• My favorite rollout progression is performed on a wall because it offers the safest application while delivering excellent intensity
. However, you can attempt more 
advanced progressions with the ball on the ground with varying arm positions (e.g., from hand or from elbows).
•
 Hold a stability ball in front of you and against a wall,
 your arms extended and 
palms on the ball as if you were in a plank position, balancing between the balls of your feet and the ball (figure 5.20a).
•
 To increase the intensity of the rollout,
 walk your feet away from the wall and stand 
on the balls of your feet.
Movement
• Keeping your body stiff, allow your shoulders to open, and roll your hands and forear
ms over the ball until your body is fully extended.
• In the extended position you should be on the balls of your feet with the ball closer to your shoulders (figure 5.20
b).
• Once fully extended, use your pulling muscles to pull your ar
ms back, rolling them 
over the ball to the starting plank position.
a b
FIGURE 5.20  SB rollout: (a) starting position; (b) roll hands and forearms over ball.Stability Balls

128SB Bridge (Double Leg to Single Leg)
Details and Benefits
• This is one of the most basic and effective progressions for simultaneously 
strengthening the posterior core and stretching the anterior core.
• It’s essential for an
y athlete who runs, and it’s our most common hamstring reha-
bilitator.
• It’s described as a two-leg exercise here,
 but the goal is to perform it on a single 
leg as soon as multiple sets of 15 repetitions can be performed with two legs.
Starting Position
• Lie on your back with arms out about 45 degrees and palms down.
•
 Place the stability ball under the calves (easier) or the
 
ankles (harder) while keep-ing the knees and ankles together.
•
 Keeping the knees slightly b
ent, lift the hips toward the 
ceiling until a bridge forms between the shoulders on the ground and the legs on the ball (figure 5.21a).
Movement
• Lower the hips short of touching the ground (figure 5.21
b) and return to the 
bridge position.
• Repeat.
SB Hip Lift (Double Leg to Single Leg)FIGURE 5.21  SB bridge (double leg): (a) starting position; (b) 
lower the hips.
a
b
The SB hip lift is a basic to intermediate progression that follows the SB bridge. It simultaneously strengthens the posterior core and stretches the anterior core while involving the calves. It is an outstanding progression to strengthen the hamstrings and improve stride length and running speed. Like the SB bridge, this exercise is described as a two-leg exercise here, but the goal is to perform it on a single leg as soon as multiple sets of 15 repetitions can be performed with two legs.
The starting position is similar to the SB bridge, but the foot position is different. 
Lie on your back with arms out about 45 degrees and palms down. Place the stability ball under the balls of the feet while keeping the knees and ankles together. Bring the hips toward the ceiling until a bridge forms between the shoulders on the ground and the feet on the ball (figure 5.22a). Lower the hips short of touching the ground (figure 5.22b) and repeat the bridging motion.Stability Balls

129SB Leg Curl (Double Leg to Single Leg)
Details and Benefits
• This is a basic hamstring rehabilitation exercise and an effective wa y to develop 
the hamstrings as knee flexors.
• It’s essential for an
y athlete who runs or combat athletes who use the guard 
position from their backs.
• It’s described as a two-leg exercise here,
 but the goal is to perform it on a single 
leg as soon as multiple sets of 15 repetitions can be performed with two legs.
Starting Position
• Lie on your back with arms out about 45 degrees and palms down.
• Place the stability ball between the calves (easier) or the ankles (harder) while 
k
eeping the knees and ankles together.
• Bring the hips toward the ceiling until a bridge for
ms between the shoulders on 
the ground and the feet on the ball (figure 5.23a).
• Keep the hips ele
vated during the entire movement.
Movement
• Flex the knees and roll the feet over the ball and back tow ard the glutes (figure 
5.23b).
• Extend the legs 
until the knees are almost fully extended to return to starting 
position.
• Repeat the knee flexion movement while k
eeping the hips elevated.FIGURE 5.22  SB hip lift (double leg): (a) bridge; (b) lower hips.Stability Balls
a
b

130SB Hyperextension
Details and Benefits
• Basic progression that can assist all 
squatting
, deadlift, and reaching lunge 
variations
• Out
standing progression to strengthen 
the middle to upper paraspinal muscles used in flexed athletic positions as well as lifting in combat sports
Starting Position
• Kneel on both knees and place a stability ball under the abdominal area.
•
 While balancing on the ball and the balls of your feet, extend the legs (k
eeping the 
knees slightly bent) to lift the knees off the ground.
•
 Place your hands by the sides of your
 
head (i.e., cupping the ears) and balance on the ball and the balls of the feet.
Movement
• Curl the core around the ball (figure 5.
24a), and then extend the spine as 
much as you can without pain or pressure in the lower back (figure 5.24b).
• Curl the core around the ball and repeat the extension mo
vement.
FIGURE 5.23  SB leg curl (double leg): (a) starting position; (b) flex the knees.a
b
FIGURE 5.24  SB hyperextension: (a) curl core 
around ball; (b) extend spine.a
bStability Balls

131SB Reverse Hyperextension
Details and Benefits
• Basic progression to deadlift and 
squatting progressions
• Perfect complement to SB h
yperex-
tension, working the lower portion of the paraspinal muscles, glutes, and hamstrings
Starting Position
• Kneel on both knees and place a sta-bility ball under the abdominal region.
•
 Roll over the ball until both forear
ms 
are flat on the ground, and extend the legs and hips completely, keeping the knees and feet together (figure 5.25a).
Movement
• Balancing on both forearms and the ball,
 slowly flex at the hips until your 
feet almost touch the ground (figure 5.25b).
•
 Slowly extend the hips until your body is perfectly straight again,
 pausing 
slightly at the top of the movement.
• Keep your legs straight and stiff
 
throughout the entire movement.
SB Log Roll
Details and Benefits
• Intermediate progression that follows the SB knee tuck and the T push-up (chapter 4); regression to the SB skier
•
 Extended position reduces stability demands but maintains a high range of motion at the thoracic spine
•
 Premier exercise for golfers and combat athletes who require excellent upper-spine
 
(i.e. thoracic spine) mobility.
Starting Position
• Assume a push-up position with the hands on the ground and the stability ball under the thighs.
•
 Maintain eye contact with the ground at all times.
• Keep the core tight and a
void hyperextending the spine.FIGURE 5.25  SB reverse hyperextension: (a)  
starting position; (b) flex at hips to lower feet toward 
ground.
a
bStability Balls

132Movement
• Stabilizing the movement with the hands,  rotate your hips to the right so that the outside 
of the right thigh rests on top of the ball (figure 5.26a).
• Tur
n your hips to the left until the outside of the left thigh rests on top of the ball (figure 
5.26b).
• For more spinal rotation,
 keep your arms straight during the movement. For less spinal 
rotation, allows the elbows to flex during the rotation.
• Repeat the rotational motion to both sides.
FIGURE 5.26  SB log roll: (a) rotate hips to the left; (b) rotate hips to the right.
a b
SB Skier
Details and Benefits
• Intermediate to advanced progression that 
follows the SB log roll,
 SB knee tuck, push-up, 
and plank
• Great rotational core exercise that also requires strong shoulder stabilization,
 making 
it popular with skiers, surfers, combat ath-letes, and golfers
Starting Position
• Assume a push-up position with the hands on the ground and t
he stability ball under 
the thighs.
• Tuck the knees in tow
ard the chest until the 
hips and knees are flexed 90 degrees and knees are on top of the ball (figure 5.27a).
Movement
• Stabilizing the movement with the hands,  
rotate your hips to the right so that the out-side of the left thigh rests on top of the ball (figure 5.27b).
•
 For more spinal rotation,
 keep your arms 
straight during the movement. For less spinal rotation, allow the elbows to flex during the rotation.
•
 Repeat the skiing motion to both sides.Stability Balls
\INSERT Photo 
E5531_0802P_1432, F 05.27a, ID: 526057,
FIGURE 5.27  SB skier: (a) starting position; (b) 
rotate hips to the right.a
b

133Toys
No functional training book would be complete without showcasing some of the more 
popular functional toys. I have chosen five of the most popular pieces of equipment used for sport stability, agility, quickness, and power. This equipment is also easy to get and inexpensive, and most pieces travel easily. The exercises in this section are simple ones that produce excellent results, and they integrate well with the exercise programming in this book.
Note: Always make sure to read and follow all manufacturer recommendations, 
warnings, and instructions before using the equipment for any exercise. If you have any questions or doubts on how to use this equipment, consult a certified fitness pro-fessional well versed in functional speed, agility, and quickness training.
Vibration Blade Throw
Details and Benefits
• A vibration blade or stick is a great piece of equipment that can transmit vibration to an
y part of the body. The two main models are the Flexi-Bar (provides vibration 
along all planes of motion like a fishing rod does) and the Bodyblade (provides vibration along one plane of motion like a bow does). The Bodyblade is easier to control, whereas the Flexi-Bar offer much more of a challenge.
•
 The vibratory stimulus impro
ves the stabilization of the shoulders and to a lesser 
degree the spine and hips.
• This exercise is excellent for athletes who use a throwing motion.
Starting Position
• Assume a split stance.
• The distance between your feet should be the same as the distance from the top of your hips to the floor
.
• The feet should be hip-width apart,
 with the left foot to the front, both knees slightly 
bent in an athletic position, and the right heel off the ground.
Movement
• Keeping the core tight, hold the vibration blade in the right hand and star
t oscillat-
ing it up and down without using a strong grip. The movement should be short (a few inches), it should be easy, and it should come from the shoulder. The oscillation of the blade should not move (i.e., shake) the core or hips.
•
 While oscillating the vibration blade, perfor
m a throwing motion with the arm 
(figure 5.28). Repeat to complete the rec-ommended number of repetitions.
•
 Change your 
stance and perform with the 
left arm.Toys
FIGURE 5.28  Vibration blade throw.

134Vibration Blade 12 O’Clock Oscillation
Details and Benefits
• Sends vibratory stimulus to the core of the body to activate 
the muscles that create core stiffness
• Fantastic finesse exercise to activate the core muscles
 
during rehab or light training, making it perfect to prepare an athlete for intense rotational exercise
•
 Excellent at improving muscle control during batting and golf swings
Starting Position
• Stand with feet shoulder-width apart and knees slightly  
bent.
• Hold the vibration blade vertically in both hands with a
 
hand-over-hand grip.
Movement
• Keep the entire body tight and start oscillating the vibration blade side to side without using a strong grip (figure 5.29).
•
 The oscillation should be short (a fe
w inches), easy, come 
from the shoulders, and transmit to a stiff core.
• The oscillation of the bar should not move (i.e.,
 shake) the 
core or hips.
Agility Ladder Split Step
Details and Benefits
• This is the most popular piece of court or field equipment for de veloping agility and 
foot speed.
• It has elements of hopscotch and rope skipping along with lateral and reactive com-ponents.
•
 It’s a simple exercise used to de
velop ankle stability and improve the components of 
deceleration and lateral changes in direction.
• It’s excellent for field and cour
t athletes, such as soccer, tennis, and basketball players.
• Use a full ladder (10 yd [9 m]) to learn the mo
vement. Use a half ladder (5 yd [5 m]) 
to develop speed once the movement is mastered.
Starting Position
• Stand at the end of the ladder.
• Feet are shoulder-width apar
t and knees are slightly bent.
Movement
• Jump with both feet into the first box of the ladder (figure 5.30).
• Jump to the outside of the next rung
, straddling the ladder, and immediately into the 
next box with both feet.
FIGURE 5.29  Vibration blade 
12 o’clock oscillation.Toys

135• Repeat the in-and-out pattern through the entire ladder , jumping into every box.
• Stay on the balls of the feet during the exercise.
• Wor
k on developing a steady rhythm before increasing speed.
E5531/Santana/Fig. 05.30/526077/JG/R3-kh
L RL RL R
L RL R
Agility Ladder Lateral Rotational Jump
Details and Benefits
• This is an excellent progression from the agility ladder split step and a complement to 
the BP rotation.
• It improves the shor
t shuffling and rotational jumping necessary in sports with complex 
foot movements, such as boxing and soccer.
• Use a full ladder (10 yd [9 m]) to learn the mo
vement. Use a half ladder (5 yd [5 m]) 
to develop speed once the movement is mastered.
Starting Position
• Stand at the end of the ladder with the ladder in front and to the right of you. Place the right foot inside of the 
first box and the left outside the ladder to the left of the first box.
• Feet are shoulder-width apar
t and knees are slightly bent.
Movement
• Jump to the right, rotating your hips 90 degrees to the right while simultaneously placing  
your left foot in the first box and right foot outside the second box (figure 5.31).
• As soon as you land, jump to the right,
 rotating your hips 90 degrees to the left while 
simultaneously placing your right foot in the second box and left foot outside the first box.
• As you move to the right on the ladder
, the right foot leads and the left foot always 
follows the placement of the right foot.
• Repeat the sequence down the ladder. When you get to the end of the ladder
, come 
back, repeating the same sequence to the left.
• As you move to the left on the ladder
, the left foot leads and the right foot follows the 
placement of the left foot.FIGURE 5.30  Agility ladder split step.Toys
E5531/Santana/Fig. 05.31/526078/JG/R2-alw
FIGURE 5.31  Agility ladder lateral rotational jump.

136Low-Hurdle Run
Details and Benefits
• Several models and materials are 
a
vailable. Low hurdles are about 
6 to 8 inches (15-20 cm) high and are used to cue knee lifting or jumping. Most drills can use 6 to 10 hurdles.
•
 This exercise is excellent for pro-gressing from the w
arm-up and 
for supplementing running and biomotor skills.
•
 It improves the hip flexion pow
er 
and knee lift needed during the acceleration phase of running.
Starting Position
• Place 6 to 10 hurdles 20 to 24 inches (51-61 
cm) apart, depend-
ing on the athlete’s size and ability and the speed of the drill.
•
 Stand about 2 feet (61 cm) in front of the fir
st hurdle.
Movement
• Run over each hurdle (figure 5.32), placing the left foot betw
een the 
first and second hurdles, placing the right foot between the second and third hurdles, and repeating the sequence through the entire line of hurdles.
•
 Stay on 
the balls of your plant foot 
while concentrating on high knee lift and keeping the foot and toes up on the opposite leg.
•
 Keep your posture upright and
 
straight and your elbows at 90 degrees. Rotate your arms at the shoulders, not the elbows.Toys
FIGURE 5.32  Low-hurdle run: (a)  left foot between 
first and second hurdles; (b) right foot between second 
and third hurdles.
a
b

137Low-Hurdle Diagonal Jump
Details and Benefits
• Excellent progression to 
intensify low-amplitude
 
jumping progressions
• Improves the ankle sta
-
bility and stiffness neces-sary for reactive jumping and running
Starting Position
• Place 6 to 10 hurdles in a zigzag patter
n at 90 
degrees to each other.
• Stand outside the first
 
hurdle with feet close together and knees slightly bent.
Movement
• Jump across each hurdle diagonally,
 always facing 
the end of the hurdle line (figure 5.33).
•
 Stay on
 the balls of the feet and keep the feet and knees together. Keep the elbows 
bent 90 degrees and relaxed.
Crooked Stick Hexagon Drill
Details and Benefits
• The crooked stick is a cheap,  diverse, easy-to-use tool that provides many patterns 
for agility drills.
• The crooked stick hexagon drill is an excellent progression that has been long used in the assessment and de
velopment of agility.
• It impro
ves and evaluates agility used in field and court sports, such as tennis 
and soccer.
Starting Position
• Set up the crooked stick in a hexagon patter n.
• Stand in the middle of the hexagon with feet close together and knees slightly bent.
Movement
• Jump with both feet to the top of the hexagon and then back to the middle (figure 5.34).FIGURE 5.33  Low-hurdle diagonal jump: (a) first jump; (b) second 
jump.
a bToys

138• Always facing the top of the 
hexagon,
 continue jumping 
clockwise to each side of the hexagon, always returning to the middle until the entire hexagon is complete.
•
 Perfor
m three round trips clock-
wise, rest, and then three round trips counterclockwise. This equals one set.
•
 Time how long it takes to com
-
plete each of the three round trip in each direction. You will find out which direction is your weakest and how train-ing improves your movement symmetry.
•
 Keep your 
posture upright and elbows at 90 degrees. Always face the front of the 
hexagon.
Crooked Stick Cross-Rotational Jump Drill
Details and Benefits
• Excellent progression from and supplement to the agility ladder lateral rotation jump
• Improves 
the ability to reposition the feet in short quarters as used in combat 
and court sports, such as judo and basketball
Starting Position
• Set up the crooked stick in a cross pattern.
• Stand with a segment between your legs and the inter
section and the other three 
segments of the stick in front of you.
• Stand with your feet shoulder-width 
apart 
and knees slightly bent.
Movement
• Jump with both feet to the right as you rotate left,
 landing on the right perpendic-
ular segment (figure 5.35).
• Jump again with both feet to the right as you rotate left, landing on the right per
-
pendicular segment (now you are facing opposite where you started).
•
 Perfor
m two more jumps until you land 
in the starting position. Repeat counter-clockwise.E5531/Santana/05.34/526083/JG/R2-alwLRLR
LRLR
LRLR
4Face this
directionLR
1
36
52
FIGURE 5.34  Crooked stick hexagon drill.
FIGURE 5.35  Crooked stick cross-rotational 
jump drill.
E5531/Santana/Fig. 05.35/526084/JG/R1L R
L R
L R
L R
StartToys

139Ropes Alternating Up and Down
Details and Benefits
• Ropes are cheap, diverse, and easy-to-use tools that provide excellent core and 
upper-body stability and endurance.
• Ro
pes can be 40 to 60 feet (12-15 m) long and 1.5 to 2 inches (4-5 cm) in diameter.
• Ropes alternating up and down is an advanced progression from the vibration blade throw and the DB horizontal fly rotation.
•
 The exercise improves shoulder stability and endurance along with enhancing core
 
stability, making it popular for throwers and combat athletes, such as pitchers and wrestlers.
Starting Position
• Wrap the rope around a sturdy structure so the two halves of the ropes match in length.
•
 Stand with the ropes stretched out and in your hands.
•
 Tak
e a step toward the anchor point so 
that you create slack in the rope.
• Hold one end of the rope in each hand, place your feet shoulder-width apar
t, and 
keep your knees slightly bent.
Movement
• Keeping your core tight, move the right hand up and the left hand down simulta
-
neously, creating an undulating wave with each rope that is as high as your shoulder line (figure 5.36).
•
 Tr
y to keep your hips and core from 
moving. Maintain a stiff core.
• Perfor
m for time or repetitions as spec-
ified.
Rope Circles (Clockwise and Counterclockwise)
Details and Benefits
• This is a progression from and supplement to the vibration blade throw and the DB horizontal fly rotation.
•
 It improves shoulder stability
, specifically internal and external rotation, and it 
enhances core stability.
• This is a great exercise for improving the throwing motion,
 such as serving in 
tennis, spiking in volleyball, and throwing in baseball.FIGURE 5.36  Ropes alternating up and down.
Toys

140Starting Position
• Wrap the rope around a sturdy structure so 
the two halves of the ropes match in length.
• Stand with the ropes stretched out and in your hands.
•
 Tak
e a step toward the anchor point so that 
you create slack in the rope.
• Hold one end of the rope in each hand, place your feet shoulder-width 
apart, and 
keep your knees slightly bent.
Movement
• Simultaneously make outw ard circles with 
each hand (figure 5.37), creating circles with each rope that are as high as your shoulder line.
•
 The left hand moves counterclockwise while
 
the right hand moves clockwise.
• Tr
y to keep your hips and core from moving. 
Maintain a stiff core.
• Perfor
m for time or repetitions as specified.
Lateral Slide
Details and Benefits
• A slide is a board with a slippery surface that is used with special “booties” to simulate skating motions. It mak
es a great piece of equipment to improve lateral 
changes of directions with minimal impact.
• The lateral slide is a great movement for lateral changes in direction and high-speed acceleration.
•
 It improves low
er-body strength and hip stability, specifically internal and external 
rotation of the hip while extending the leg.
• It’s great for impro
ving cutting ability in field and court athletes and for athletes 
involved in skating.
• It can be loaded by using a vest or attaching a light band to the w
aist of the athlete 
and providing a lateral resistance.
• The most common length for sliding is 6 to 8 feet (1.8-2.4 m), although 4- or 5-foot
 
(1-1.5 m) lengths can be used to learn the movement.
• Learn the mo
vement before attempting the exercise to avoid pulled muscles on 
the insides of the legs.
Starting Position
• Place the slide on a nonslip surface and put the booties (shoe cover s) suggested 
by the manufacturer over your shoes. The booties protect the slide and allow for a smooth glide over the surface.
FIGURE 5.37  Rope circles (clockwise and 
counterclockwise).Toys

141• Stand on the left end of the slide with the outside of the left foot contacting the 
left-side end board.
• Bend your knees and hips and get in an athletic position, as if you are getting ready to change lateral directions (figure 5.38
a).
Movement
• Push hard off the end board with the left foot while staying low and in the athletic position.
•
 Glide across the slide board in a low,
 wide stance until your right foot makes con-
tact with the right end board (figure 5.38b).
• Absorb the impact by bending the right leg
. Immediately push off and slide to the 
left.
• Continue the side-to-side skating motion while keeping a low
, wide stance.
FIGURE 5.38  Lateral slide: (a) starting position; (b) slide.a
bToys

142Slide Running
Details and Benefits
• Great movement for the knee lift needed in running as well as kicking and kneeing 
in combat spor
ts
• Improves core low
er-body strength, specifically the hip flexor complex
• Popular with sprinter
s and combat athletes
Starting Position
• Place the slide on a nonslip surface and put the booties (shoe cover s) suggested 
by the manufacturer over your shoes. The booties protect the slide and allow for a smooth glide over the surface.
•
 Get into a plank position with your hands on the floor just outside the end board and your feet in the middle of the slide.
•
 Flex the right hip and knee about 90 degrees to slide the right foot toward your chest while k
eeping the left leg extended (figure 5.39a).
• Keep the core and shoulder
s stable and tight throughout the movement.
Movement
• Explosively extend the right leg as you flex the left hip and knee to bring the left 
foot toward your chest (figure 5.39b).
• Continue the running motion for the repetitions or time indicated while k
eeping 
the shoulders and core tight.
a
b
FIGURE 5.39  Slide running: (a) starting position; (b) extend right leg and flex left hip and knee.Toys

143Traditional Strength Exercises
Many fitness experts do not consider traditional training with free weights and resis-
tance training machines to be functional training. However, if fast hypertrophy is desired, traditional weight training can certainly provide it. Therefore, many athletes looking for additional muscle mass and function will need a system that seamlessly combines traditional training and functional training. To help create such a system, I have provided some common traditional exercises that will add strength and size to any athlete who needs them. In the programming part of the book, I cover how to combine traditional bodybuilding exercises and functional training. Unlike the more comprehensive descriptions of the functional exercises, this section provides a brief description and pictures depicting the starting and movement positions.
I am providing only a few examples of traditional exercises, and many variations 
exist. For example, a barbell exercise such as the barbell squat can be done with dumbbells with equal effectiveness. The same goes for a dumbbell exercise such as the dumbbell bent-over row; a barbell version can easily take its place. Resistance training machines and free weights can be used interchangeably. For example, a barbell flat bench press can be substituted for a chest press machine. Substituting like-for-like exercises can make it much easier to adapt a program to meet your needs.
Machine Leg Press
The leg press is a traditional strength exercise that targets the entire lower body.
Starting Position
• Sit in the leg press.
• Put your 
feet in the middle of the foot-
plate, feet facing forward and shoul-der-width apart.
Movement
• Extend your legs to lift the weight and unlock the safety mechanism (figure
 
5.40a).
• Flex the knees and lower the w
eight as 
far as you can without lifting the hips off the seat or rounding the lower back (figure 5.40b).
•
 Extend the legs to full extension and repeat the pressing mo
vement.
• Make sure the low
er back is always firmly 
against the backrest and the glutes remain on the seat through the entire movement.Traditional Strength
FIGURE 5.40  Machine leg press: (a) Extend 
legs; (b) lower weight.a
b

144Barbell Squat
The barbell squat is known as the king of all lifts due to its impact on the whole body, 
especially the core and legs.
Starting Position
• Set up a rack with the barbell just below shoulder-height and the safety racks about 1 to 2 inches (3-5 cm) below your expected squatting le
vel.
• Hold the bar symmetrically with the hands well outside shoulder-width apar
t.
• Walk under the bar and let it rest on the flesh
y part of the trapezius muscles, just 
below the neck.
Movement
• Stand up with the weight and feel the balance.
• Step back a couple of steps and stand with your feet shoulder-width apart while remaining o
ver the safety racks (figure 5.41a).
• Keeping the core tight and chest up,
 hinge at the hips and flex the knees to lower 
the weight (figure 5.41b).
• When you get to the desired squat depth, stand up to complete the repetition.
FIGURE 5.41  Barbell squat: (a) starting position; (b) squat.a bTraditional Strength

145Barbell Deadlift
The barbell deadlift is a core strength lift that targets the lower back, glutes, and 
hamstrings. There are numerous deadlift variations. This is the Olympic lifting version used with most of our athletes.
Starting Position
• Place a barbell on the ground. Approach the bar until it contacts the shins while the feet are hip-width apart.
•
 Keeping your back straight and core braced,
 flex the knees and hips to lower the 
body and grip the bar outside hip-width apart.
Movement
• Once you grip the bar,  continue bracing the core and drive with the legs to initiate 
the lift (figure 5.42a).
• As the bar comes up along the shins,
 the legs extend to clear the bar past the 
knees.
• Once the bar clears the knees,
 finish the lift with hip extension until your body is 
fully extended and upright (figure 5.42b).
• Rever
se the movement to bring the bar back to the ground.
FIGURE 5.42  Barbell deadlift: (a) Initiate lift; (b) finish with body fully extended.a bTraditional Strength

14645-Degree Back Extension
The 45-degree back extension is excellent for the entire posterior chain.
Starting Position
• Position rollers or pads well below 
the hip line so that the hips can
 
freely hinge.
• Place your thighs on the thigh pads and put your feet on the platform,
 
hooking the heels under the leg pads.
• Keep the feet facing forw
ard to target 
the hamstrings, or point the feet outward to focus more on the glutes.
•
 Place your hands across your chest or to the sides of your head. For
 
additional resistance, you may hold a medicine ball or weight plate at your chest.
•
 Maintain a slight bend in the knees throughout the movement to a
void 
hyperextending the knees and to better engage the hamstrings.
Movement
• Keeping your chest up, back straight, and knees 
slightly bent, hinge at the 
hips to lower the upper body (figure 5.43a).
•
 Go as low as you can without bending the spine.
•
 At the bottom of the hip flexion, squeeze your glutes and hamstrings to fully extend the body until it is
 
perfectly straight (figure 5.43b).
Single-Leg 45-Degree Back Extension
You can increase the intensity of this exercise by progressing to the single-leg variation (figure 5.44).
FIGURE 5.43  45-degree back extension: (a) Lower 
the upper body; (b) extend the body.a
b
FIGURE 5.44  Single-leg 45-degree back extension.Traditional Strength

147Barbell Flat Bench Press
The barbell flat bench press is the most common exercise used to build and strengthen 
the upper body, primarily the chest, anterior shoulders, and triceps.
Starting Position
• Lie on a flat bench with your feet flat on the ground and your back and head sup-por
ted by the bench at all times.
• Grip the bar with a prone grip (palms down), hands just outside shoulder-width apar
t.
• Remove the barbell from the rack,
 holding the bar with straight arms vertically in 
line with the shoulder joints (figure 5.45a).
Movement
• Lower the bar to the middle of the chest, keeping the elbows aligned under the bar at all times (figure 5.45
b).
• When the bar is at its lowest point,
 press it back to the starting position.
FIGURE 5.45  Barbell flat bench press: (a) starting position; (b) lower bar.
a bTraditional Strength

148Barbell Incline Bench Press
The barbell incline bench press is a popular upper-body exercise that places a greater 
emphasis on the shoulders and upper fibers of the chest while also working the triceps.
Starting Position
• Use a dedicated incline bench or set up a rack and adjustable bench at 30 to 45 degrees.
•
 Lie on the incline bench with your feet flat on the ground and with your back and head supported b
y the bench at all times.
• Grip the bar with a prone grip, hands just outside shoulder-width apar
t.
• Remove the barbell from the rack,
 holding the bar with straight arms vertically in 
line with the shoulder joints (figure 5.46a).
Movement
• Lower the bar to midchest, keeping the elbows aligned under the bar at all times (figure 5.46
b).
• When the bar is at its lowest point,
 press it back to the starting position.
FIGURE 5.46  Barbell incline bench: (a) starting position; (b) lower bar.a b
Barbell Overhead Press
The barbell overhead press strengthens the shoulders and upper arms, primarily the deltoids, trapezius, and triceps. This exercise can be performed on a dedicated shoul-der press bench or while standing and using a weight rack. The standing version is presented here.Traditional Strength

149Starting Position
• Set up a rack with the 
bar just under shoul
-
der-height.
• Make sure to use safety racks set at chest-height in case of an emergency
.
• Grip the bar with a prone grip, hands just outside
 
shoulder-width apart.
Movement
• Lift the bar,  stabilize it at 
the clavicle (collarbone), and walk back a couple of steps while still staying in the safety rack area (figure 5.47a).
•
 Press the bar overhead
 
until the arms are locked and the weight is vertically aligned with the head, shoulders, hips, knees, and ankles (figure 5.47 b).
•
 Lower the bar to the star
t-
ing position.
Pull-Down
The pull-down is a traditional strength exercise that targets the muscles of the back, primarily the latissimus dorsi, as well as the biceps and forearms. This exercise can be done with a pin-loaded machine or a cable with a bar at the end. The pin-loaded machine version is described here.
Starting Position
• Set up the seat height so that you can sit down and reach the bar overhead.
• Sit down on the seat and grab the handles.
• Grip the bar in a prone grip, hands just outside shoulder-width apar
t.
• Set and stabilize the shoulder blades by bringing them down and back.
• Look straight ahead while slightly arching the spine to stabilize the core.
Movement
• Keep the core tight and slowly pull the handles close to clavicle (collarbone) level, right abo
ve the chest (figure 5.48a).
• Once the handles reach the lowest position,
 slowly allow them to return to the 
starting position (figure 5.48b).
a b
FIGURE 5.47  Barbell overhead press: (a) starting position; (b) 
press bar overhead.Traditional Strength

150Seated Row
The seated row is a pulling exercise that targets the back and biceps. This exercise can be 
done with a pin-loaded machine or a cable with a handle or bar at the end. The pin-loaded version is described here.
Starting Position
• Sit on the seat with the feet flat on the floor or on a foot
-
plate if present. The knees should be bent, back is upright, and the chest is in contact with the chest pad.
•
 Reach forward to hold the handles. The ar
ms should 
be straight.
• Keep the shoulder
s back 
on this exercise, and main-tain a straight line between the hand and wrist (figure 5.49a).
Movement
• Keeping the chest against the chest pad,
 perform a rowing motion (figure 5.49b ), bending the elbows (which should 
travel directly backward) until the hands are just in front of the stomach.
• Slowly return tow
ard the starting position and stop once the elbows are almost straight 
before repeating the exercise.
b
 a
FIGURE 5.48  Pull-down: (a) Pull the handles down; (b) slowly return the handles to the up position.
a b
FIGURE 5.49  Seated cable row: (a) starting position; (b) row.Traditional Strength

151Dumbbell Bent-Over Row
The dumbbell bent-over row is a traditional back exercise that also targets the biceps 
and forearms. Several foot positions and stabilizing methods can be used for this exercise. The bench-stabilized parallel-stance version is described here.
Starting Position
• Stand 2 to 3 feet (.5-1 m) aw ay from a bench or other low, stable structure.
• Place a dumbbell between you and the bench.
• Set your feet shoulder-width apart.
• Place your left hand on the bench, slightly flexing both knees and stabilizing your core.
•
 Keep your core and shoulder
s tight and parallel to the ground at all times.
Movement
• Take hold of the dumbbell with the right hand (figure 5.50a).
• Making sure your back is straight and set, row the dumbbell to the side of your ribcage (figure 5.50
b). The only movement should come from the right shoulder 
and arm.
• Once the dumbbell reaches the body,
 slowly lower it until the right arm is fully 
extended.
• Repeat the rowing motion and perform on both sides of the body
.
FIGURE 5.50  Dumbbell bent-over row: (a) starting position; (b) row.a bTraditional Strength

152Barbell Upright Row
The barbell upright row is an upper-body pulling exercise that strengthens the muscles of 
the upper back and the lateral and rear aspects of the shoulders. This exercise can be performed with dumbbells, a cable and bar, or a barbell.
Starting Position
• Hold a barbell with a prone grip, hands slightly outside hip-width apar t.
• The feet should be hip-width apart,
 knees slightly bent.
• The hips are slightly flexed and the core of the body is straight and tight throughout the movement.
•
 Align the body vertically so there is a line 
through the shoulders, hips, knees, and 
ankles (figure 5.51a).
Movement
• Pull the barbell straight up until it is at the bottom of the chest and the elbows are horizontally in line with the shoulders (figure 5.51
b).
• Slowly lower the w
eight until the arms are straight.
• Repeat the upright row.
Conclusion
Chapters 4 and 5 provide a comprehensive collection of exercises that allow the design of functional training programs for various sports. With the inclusion of traditional exer -
cises, it is possible to integrate functional and traditional training to get the most out of training. Now we are ready for the programming portion of this book, and part III begins this process. In the next chapter, we discuss the theory and methods of periodization.FIGURE 5.51  Barbell upright row: (a) starting position; (b) row.
a bTraditional Strength

PART
 IIIPrograms

This page intentionally left blank.

155
CHAPTER
6
Program Design
Periodization is a big word in the world of strength and conditioning. It is a the-
oretical training model that organizes training variables over a specific length of time. The reasons for organizing and manipulating training variables are to avoid overtraining and to peak an athlete at a specific point in time. Although many coaches and athletes know of periodization, there are still many who don’t know how to create periodized strength programs. Periodization is even more confusing when it comes to functional training, which has not been universally defined and is hard to quantify. This chapter covers the concept of periodization and how to apply it to traditional training and functional training alike. Apply-ing periodization to functional training can lead to unprecedented athleticism, and the surface has yet to be scratched in terms of the strength that periodized functional training can develop.
Training Variables
The two main training variables in periodization are volume and intensity. Volume can be expressed in total repetitions (sets  repetitions) or total tonnage (repeti-tions  weight lifted). We will use the most common expression: total repetitions. 
In the beginning stages of training, volume is high. This allows athletes to practice and to develop efficient movement. In addition, it gives the connective tissues time to remodel and become stronger. As the training progresses, volume drops to allow the second variable, intensity, to come into play.
Intensity refers to the load of an exercise and has an inverse relationship with 
volume. Although various factors can influence load, intensity usually involves the weight used, or the resistance the body moves against. At the beginning of training, when volume is high, intensity is low. The lighter loads allow for more repetitions and a greater volume of work during the initial stages of training. As the training progresses over weeks or months, the volume of work decreases while the intensity of training increases (see figure 6.1).

156 Functional Training
Other important variables to consider are frequency and duration of training. 
However, these variables are also methods of expressing volume and manipu-
lating intensity. For example, an athlete who needs a high volume may spread the work over more training sessions throughout the day, reducing the volume of work at each training session while increasing overall volume. This high fre-quency reduces the time for recovery, and thus the intensity must be significantly lower to avoid overtraining. Conversely, if higher training intensities are needed, the duration of the training session must be reduced to sustain the higher work and power output.
Periodization Cycles
Periodization manipulates training volume, intensity, and related variables over time and organizes them into four phases (or cycles): (1) the hypertrophy or conditioning phase, (2) the strength phase, (3) the power phase, and (4) the pow-er-endurance phase. The four phases of periodization take the same approach to developing an athlete’s physiology that a builder takes to building a house (see figure 6.2). First, a solid foundation must be laid (i.e., conditioning or hypertrophy phase). Second, the walls must be erected on the solid foundation (i.e., strength phase). Third, the roof is built on the strong and stable walls (i.e., power phase). Fourth, the doors and windows are finished to make the house fully functional (i.e., power-endurance phase). Let’s talk about the specific intensities of each periodization phase and how they affect the exercises selected in each phase.FIGURE 6.1  Periodization model.
E5531/Santana/Fig. 06.01/526109/JG/R2-khPeaking
Volume
Intensity
Performance
Time of preparation Competition
E5531/Santana/Fig. 06.02/526110/JG/R1
Foundation
ConditioningWallsStrengthRoofPowerDoor and windowsPower-endurance
FIGURE 6.2  Building the house of periodization.

157 Program Design
Assigning Loads and Intensities
Many athletes assign loads based on the amount of weight they can lift in a 
single repetition, known as the 1-repetition max, or simply the 1RM. All phases of periodization are assigned a percentage of this 1RM as the load to use during that specific phase. This can be one of the most confusing and cumbersome approaches to take when assigning loads, plus it makes it impossible to periodize functional training.
The problems with this approach are numerous. To start, 1RM can change daily 
or weekly due to a variety of reasons, from mood to amount of sleep to diet to increases in strength due to the rapid neural learning that takes place early in training. It is not practical to test for a 1RM on each exercise daily or weekly, so the numbers of a 1RM can be way off at any point during training. Assigning a percentage of an incorrect number will result in an incorrect load. For this reason I haven’t used the percentage-of-1RM method since the 1990s.
The 1RM has been closely estimated 
using a multiple-repetition extrapola-tion. This method not only allows you to estimate the 1RM, but you can also estimate the percentage of the 1RM (table 6.1). Using the repetitions assigned to each percentage of the 1RM is the easiest way to train at the right intensity without worrying about the exact value of the 1RM. It eliminates all of the problems associated with the ever-changing 1RM and any corresponding percentage of it. Using the scale in table 6.1, you would simply choose a load that you could lift for 6 reps if you wanted to train in the 85 percent range of the predicted 1RM value.
Estimating repetitions not only avoids the 1RM measuring ordeal, it also 
allows you to assign intensity values to exercises for which a 1RM is impossible to measure, such as the single-leg squat. Using the repetition estimate and a little knowledge about functional training, we can periodize functional training using well-founded scientific principles. For example, if you wanted to work at 80 percent intensity on a push-up, you would simply manipulate the lever arm, the base, or the range of motion of the push to make it hard enough that you could only complete about 8 repetitions.
When working with weight, selecting the loads is easy; you simply move the 
pin to the correct weight or adjust the weight on a bar. However, when it comes to functional training, objectively manipulating loads is not so simple. You need to use more subjective measures. Let’s take a look at how to approach exercise selection and use the concept of progression to program any phase of periodiza-tion using functional training.
Using the chest as an example, we can examine how traditional strength train-
ing views the choice of loading parameters and how that differs from loading and intensity in functional training modalities. If a strong athlete were going to select an exercise to provide high-intensity strength training for the chest during the strength phase, the bench press or chest machine would be likely choices. To TABLE 6.1  Percentage of 1RM 
Repetition Scale
Percentage of repetition 
maximum (%1RM)Maximal repetitions
100% 1
95% 2
90% 4
85% 6
80% 8
75% 10
70% 12
65% 14
60% 16

158 Functional Training
select a strength intensity, the athlete would probably choose a load correspond-
ing to 85 to 90 percent of 1RM, or 4 to 6 maximal repetitions. Using traditional training methods, loading a machine to a specific load is as easy as changing a pin or loading plates on a bar. However, what happens if this athlete wants to use functional training to provide the same training intensity to the chest? In the old days it was thought that functional training could not be periodized because the loads could not be quantified and manipulated, especially at higher intensities. Now we know better.
Using functional progression, any functional exercise can be manipulated to 
the desired training intensity. The strong athlete in our example can get excellent training for the chest using a progression of various functional chest exercises, such as the push-up. Even if this athlete could pump out 20 or more bodyweight push-ups, we could approximate the intensity of 4 to 6 repetitions (i.e., 85-90 percent 1RM) with a progression of the MB single-arm push-off (chapter 5). This approach can be used for any body part and functional progression. Using the tweaks discussed earlier in this book (e.g., base, lever arm, speed, range of motion), any functional exercise can be modified to the appropriate training intensity.
For the reasons stated in this section and many more, for the remainder of this 
text we will use the multiple-repetition method of assigning intensities and loads throughout each training phase. Remember that the percentages chosen to train during the phases of periodization, the measure of 1RM, and the information in table 6.1 are guidelines for making your training effective yet easy. The last thing I want to do is turn your training into a nightmare of calculations and measure-ments. Now, let’s take a look at each phase of periodization.
Conditioning or Hypertrophy Phase
The conditioning (or hypertrophy) phase is the most common phase where ath-letes stay stuck for years. If you ask an athlete how many sets and reps she does of an exercise, the most common answer you will get is 3 to 5 sets of 10 reps. This is probably the most common range of sets and repetitions for developing hypertrophy, which is why conditioning and hypertrophy are grouped in the same phase and we use the terms synonymously when it comes to periodization.
The most distinguishing attribute of the conditioning phase is the volume 
of work completed in each workout or throughout the week. In this phase, the volume of work is the highest. The high volume characteristic of the conditioning phase provides a lot of repetitions. From a hypertrophy standpoint, the repetitive microtrauma of muscle fibers and subsequent remodeling require high volume and time for the hypertrophic response to occur. From a functional standpoint, the high number of repetitions typical in high-volume training is necessary for the biomotor learning needed to execute movements with precision.
Although various methods and strategies may be used to assign weekly volume 
of training during the conditioning phase, I have found that 12 to 20 sets of 8 to 15 repetitions per body system (e.g., legs, chest, back) are effective for developing a training base and hypertrophy if desired. For example, if an athlete wanted to develop a conditioning program for the legs and hips, the program would include a weekly volume of 12 to 20 sets for the legs, and each set would contain 8 to 15 repetitions, or a generic range of 10 to 20 repetitions. This program could be set up in a variety of ways (see table 6.2). As you can see in the table, the total weekly training volume for the legs is 12 to 15 sets. It does not matter how your 

159 Program Design
legs get the weekly training volume as long as they get it. However, taking a rest 
day between leg days is recommended.
As you can see, the conditioning phase is one of patience, learning, high repe-
titions, and lots of work. This high-volume training provides a solid foundation on which to build the second phase of periodization—strength.
Strength Phase
Strength may be the predominant theme in traditional strength training. A common training question is, “What’s your bench?” However, functional strength has not traditionally approached strength from a high-intensity perspective. Instead its focus has been on repetitive functional movements so that the big strength developed in the traditional lifts could somehow be transferred to func-tional movement. In this section, I break that tradition and provide insight into how to design the strength phase using traditional methods as well as functional training.
In contrast to the conditioning phase, the predominant variable during the 
strength phase is intensity. High-intensity, low-volume training encapsulates the strength phase. This is accomplished primarily through the use of high training loads and low repetitions. Whereas the high volume of the conditioning and hypertrophy phase is taxing on the muscle fibers and metabolic systems, strength training is more taxing on the central nervous system. Because the volume is TABLE 6.2  Traditional and Functional Approaches to Weekly Conditioning 
for the Legs
TRADITIONAL APPROACH
One day per week Three days per week
Monday:
Barbell squat  
4 or 5  15
Loaded alternating lunge (DB)  
4 or 5  10 per side
Barbell deadlift  
4 or 5  15Monday:Barbell squat  
4 or 5  15
Wednesday:Loaded alternating lunge (DB)  
4 or 5  10 per side
Friday:Barbell deadlift  
4 or 5  15
FUNCTIONAL APPROACH
One day per week Three days per week
Monday:KB single-arm swing  
4 or 5  15
DB or KB lateral reaching lunge  
4 or 5  10 per side
BP deadlift  
4 or 5  15 Monday:KB single-arm swing  
4 or 5  15
Wednesday:DB or KB lateral reaching lunge  
4 or 5  10 per side
Friday:BP deadlift  
4 or 5  15

160 Functional Training
low, the muscle doesn’t stay under loads for long, but the high level of neural 
impulses and recruitment of motor units make this an energy-intensive training period. Also, in contrast to the conditioning and hypertrophy phase, where full recovery between sets is not used, the high neural demands of the strength phase require greater recovery levels and thus longer rest periods. The strength phase is not about the grind; it’s about taking your time, pushing big loads, and taking your central nervous system output to a higher level.
The effective weekly volume during a strength phase is 10 to 12 sets per week 
of 4 to 6 repetitions per body system (e.g., legs, chest, back). For example, an athlete who has gone through the hypertrophy phase and is interested in devel-oping strength in the chest would plan a weekly volume of 10 to 12 sets for the chest, with each set containing only 4 to 6 repetitions, or a generic range of about 5 repetitions. This program could spread the volume of work throughout the week using one day, two days, or three days. Table 6.3 shows an example of a single-day program and a three-day program. As you can see, the total weekly training volume for the chest using a functional approach is 9 to 12 sets. As was the case with conditioning, it does not matter how the chest gets the weekly training volume as long as it gets it. Again, a rest day between chest strength days is highly recommended.
The strength phase is where functional training can shine and come out of 
its movement training and rehab stereotypes. Everyone is used to seeing func-
TABLE 6.3  Traditional and Functional Approaches to Weekly Functional 
Strength for the Chest
TRADITIONAL APPROACH
One day per week Three days per week
Monday:
Barbell flat bench press  
3 or 4  4 to 6 reps
Barbell incline bench press  
3 or 4  4 to 6 reps
Barbell overhead press  
3 or 4  4 to 6 repsMonday:Barbell flat bench press  
3 or 4  4 to 6 reps
Wednesday:Barbell incline bench press  
3 or 4  4 to 6 reps
Friday:Barbell overhead press  
3 or 4  4 to 6 reps 
FUNCTIONAL APPROACH  
(GORILLA STRENGTH TRAINING)
One day per week Three days per week
Monday:Weighted dip  
3 or 4  4 to 6 reps
BP staggered-stance CLA press  
3 or 4  4 to 6 reps per side
MB single-arm push-off  
3 or 4  4 to 6 reps per sideMonday:Weighted dip  
3 or 4  4 to 6 reps
Wednesday:BP staggered-stance CLA press  
3 or 4  4 to 6 reps per side
Friday:MB single-arm push-off  
3 or 4  4 to 6 reps per side

161 Program Design
tional training at a moderate intensity or seeing more difficult moves performed 
for 5 to 10 repetitions. However, deliberately programming intense functional exercises for strength repetition ranges of 4 to 6 throughout an entire strength phase has not been common. In fact, I have never seen it in any literature or in any other training system. I have been experimenting with this application for approximately 10 years. I call the strength phase with functional training gorilla strength training. The reason for the name is obvious; my athletes get gorilla strong, or farmer strong, if you prefer. If you give this approach a chance, you will see your functional strength reach amazing levels, all without touching a piece of traditional equipment.
The strength phase is about quality high-intensity training. This is not the time 
to get in shape with incomplete recovery training. If you want to keep some level of conditioning, you can perform interval training after your strength training. For example, try three to five 30-second hits on a VersaClimber at about 200 to 250 feet (61 m) per minute with 1 to 2 minutes of rest in between. Strength training requires concentration, high neural input, and good recovery. Paying attention to the details of this phase will set the stage for the speed-dominated exercises of the upcoming power phase.
Power Phase
Power training can be exciting and offer quick returns for the time invested. But before we talk about programming for power, let’s clear up the misconceptions surrounding power training. Understanding what power training is and what it is not will better help you understand the programming aspect of this training mode.
Misconceptions About Power Training
There are many ways to train for power, from Olympic weightlifting to medicine ball throws to plyometrics. An enormous amount of confusion surrounds power training, so it would be beneficial to draw some distinctions between various methods of developing power. Power is defined by these equations:
Power = force  speed
Power = work / time
The first equation shows why speed is an important factor of power. The loads 
must be light enough for the athlete to be able to move with speed. One of the main misconceptions is about the proper loading for functional power. If you look at the loads of functional sport movements, you will notice that they are light. Gloves, balls, bats, rackets, and clubs weigh ounces, not tens or hundreds of pounds. Therefore, an athlete’s functional sport power develops using high speed at low loads. It’s a mistake to think that high-power readings on special-ized equipment are the final end game in power development. What some of this equipment does is make an athlete better at moving heavier weights than would be found in the athlete’s sport. Additionally, these heavier loads are moved at speeds that are slower than those found in the sport. Therefore, power training needs to progress from heavier loads in the strength phase to lighter loads in the power phase. The lighter loads and faster speeds of the power phase allow the athlete to concentrate on sport speed.
Another misconception is that power training is plyometric training. All 
plyometric training is power training, but not all power training is plyometric 

162 Functional Training
training. The difference is that some power training, such as a vertical jump from 
a squat, does not use the myotatic reflex typical of plyometric training. To invoke the myotatic reflex, there needs to be a fast stretching of the tendons of the leg and hip muscles, such as during a depth jump, when the athlete jumps off one box, rebounds off the ground, and jumps onto another box. Even the counter -
movement before a vertical jump does not provide enough speed to invoke the myotatic reflex that the depth jump does. The same goes for a medicine ball chest throw and repetitive explosive push-up. The chest throw makes for effective power training, but the stretch reflex is not fast enough to be plyometric, unlike the repetitive explosive push-up. Effective power training does not have to be plyometric; both plyometric and nonplyometric power exercises are successful at developing power. I would even venture to say that nonplyometric power exercise yields excellent results without the wear and tear associated with heavy plyometric training. When dealing with younger and heavier athletes, I mostly use nonplyometric power exercises for power development.
Programming of Power
The power phase is the most exciting phase of training. It’s exciting because this is where power improvements look as dramatic as they feel. This is when ath-letes start to see improvements in running speed, bat and club speed, ball speed, jump height, and changes in direction. That’s why many athletes start doing power training without a base. However, similar to building a house without the proper foundation, power training without the proper foundation will lead to substandard results and possible injury.
Similar to the strength phase, the volume of work is low during the power 
phase. Training speed reaches an all-time high during the power phase. Like strength training, power training is demanding on the neural system, requires full recovery, and focuses on quality movement and all-out efforts. Unlike hypertrophy and strength training, the contractions used in power training are of short duration, which means the training is not taxing on the muscle fibers or metabolic system. However, the speed of the contraction during power training is fast, putting enormous demands on the central nervous system. Athletes feel relaxed after power training, not tired. This sensation of being relaxed is the exhaustion of the central nervous system kicking in.
As mentioned, the volume of work in the power phase is similar to the volume 
in the strength phase. Eight to 12 sets per week of approximately 5 repetitions of a traditional exercise coupled with 5 repetitions of an explosive equivalent per body system (e.g., legs, chest, back) is an effective range. As with the other phases, the volume can be spread out over the week, or all of the power training for a body system can be done on a single day. This may not seem like a lot of work, but when you exert maximal effort for every repetition in a workout, 40 reps seem like an eternity and leave you ready for a nap. As usual, a rest day between power days for a specific body part is highly recommended.
There are many approaches to programming workouts during the power phase. 
You can perform power exercises at the beginning of a strength workout, have a dedicated power day in which the entire workout consists of power exercises, or combine strength and power exercises to create power complexes. All three methods are worth further discussion.
In the first scenario, we can add sets of medicine ball throws and explosive 
push-ups before a chest strength workout. The workout can be performed two times per week and might look like this:

163 Program Design
Monday and Wednesday
Beginners start with 3 sets and slowly proceed to 4 or 5 sets.
MB staggered-stance CLA straight chest throw 4 or 5  5Explosive push-up 4 or 5  5Any strength exercise for the chest 4 to 6  4 to 6
For the second option, a dedicated power day can address the entire body or 
a specific body system. A total-body workout can include 4 or 5 sets of a low-
er-body exercise, a push exercise, a pull exercise, and a rotational exercise, and it can be performed two days per week. The following program illustrates this:
Monday and Wednesday
Beginners start with 3 sets and slowly proceed to 4 or 5 sets.
Vertical jump 4 or 5  5MB crossover push-up 4 or 5  5MB overhead slam 4 or 5  5MB rotational throw: perpendicular 4 or 5  5
The third option for programming a power workout is to use one of the most 
exciting methods we have found—the complex training method. Dr. Donald Chu 
brought this method to the mainstream of strength and conditioning with the publication of Explosive Power and Strength in 1996. In this text, Dr. Chu exten-sively covers the history, science, and practice of combining strength training and power training. I have simplified this method to complexes that anyone can do anywhere with little equipment.
Here is the premise:
•
 Perform 5 hard r
epetitions of a strength exercise.
• Rest 1 minute.
• Perform 5 repetitions of an explosive equivalent exer
cise that is biomechan-
ically similar to the strength exercise (i.e., uses the same muscle systems and movement).
The idea is to load the muscle enough to excite the neural components but 
not metabolically fatigue them. Then, take a brief rest that allows the muscle to recover but takes advantage of the central nervous system excitation. Finally, perform the explosive equivalent. This approach results in more power expression in the explosive equivalent exercise as a result of the neural excitation caused by the previous strength exercise. A power complex using conventional methods of strength training can look like this:
•
 Perform 5 repetitions of a bench pr
ess.
• Rest 1 minute.
• Perform 5 repetitions of an explosive push-up.
A
 power complex using purely functional training can look like this:
• Perform 5 repetitions of a right-handed BP
 staggered-stance CLA press.
• Rest 1 minute.
• Perform 5 repetitions of a right-handed MB stagger
ed-stance CLA straight 
chest throw.

164 Functional Training
An additional advantage of the complex method of power development is 
that a strength component is trained when the heavy strength exercise is per -
formed. This maintains strength levels during the power phase and also allows 
for reducing the strength phase if time is short. During emergencies and with athletes who have a good training base, the strength phase can be skipped and the athlete can do the power phase because of the strength training inherent in the complex method.
Tables 6.4 and 6.5 illustrate sample power complexes over a week.
Power-Endurance Phase
The power-endurance phase of training is when the athlete creates the power endurance necessary to outlast the competition. Challenging metabolic circuits and prefatigue strategies take the athlete’s neural and metabolic systems to an 
TABLE 6.4  Weekly Power Complex:  
Traditional and Functional Training Combined
TOTAL BODY  
(MONDAY AND WEDNESDAY)
Exercise Sets and reps
Barbell squat and vertical 
jump3  5 + 5
Barbell flat bench press and 
explosive push-up3  5 + 5
Seated cable row and MB 
overhead slam throw3  5 + 5
SPLIT HYBRID  
(MONDAY, WEDNESDAY, FRIDAY)
ExerciseSets and 
reps ExerciseSets and reps ExerciseSets and reps
Barbell squat
Vertical jump3  5 + 5 Barbell flat 
bench press
Explosive 
push-up3  5 + 5 Seated cable 
row
MB overhead 
side-to-side 
slam 3  5 + 5
Loaded alter-
nating lunge (DB)
Alternating 
split jump3  5 + 5 Barbell incline 
bench press
MB staggered- 
stance CLA incline chest throw3  5 + 5 Pull-down
MB overhead 
slam3  5 + 5
Barbell dead-
lift
Burpee3  5 + 5 Weighted dipMB staggered- 
stance CLA 
decline chest throw3  5 + 5 Barbell upright 
row
MB reverse 
scoop throw3  5 + 5
5 + 5 indicates five repetitions of the first exercise, 60 seconds of rest, and five repetitions of the second exercise.

165 Program Design
all-time high. Although this is the most energy-intensive phase, proper period-
ization prepares the athlete for its demands.
Power endurance can be programmed in many ways, but I have found two 
strategies to be the most effective. One strategy involves complex training, similar to that of the power phase. The other strategy uses metabolic circuits. I have even developed programs that combine both strategies in an efficient and entertaining way. Let’s take a look at how you can use each strategy to develop power endurance.
The first strategy for programming power endurance is identical in format 
to the complex training discussed in the power section. However, to work on TABLE 6.5  Weekly Power Complex: Functional Training Only
TOTAL BODY  
(MONDAY AND WEDNESDAY)
Exercise Sets and reps
Single-leg squat
Single-leg push-off3  5 + 5
MB single-arm push-offMB staggered-stance CLA 
straight chest throw3  5 + 5
Recline pullMB overhead slam 3  5 + 5
SPLIT HYBRID (MONDAY, WEDNESDAY, FRIDAY)
ExerciseSets and 
reps ExerciseSets and reps ExerciseSets and reps
Single-leg 
squat
Single-leg 
push-off3  5 + 5* BP staggered- 
stance CLA incline chest press
MB staggered- 
stance CLA incline chest throw3  5 + 5 Recline pull
MB overhead 
slam 3  5 + 5
Alternating 
split jump 
(DB)
Alternating 
split jump (body weight)3  5 + 5 MB single-arm 
push-off
MB staggered- 
stance CLA straight chest throw3  5 + 5 BP staggered- 
stance CLA row
MB overhead 
side-to-side slam3  5 + 5
BP deadlift
Vertical jump3  5 + 5 BP staggered- 
stance CLA 
decline chest press
MB staggered- 
stance CLA decline chest throw3  5 + 5 BP staggered- 
stance CLA low-to-high row
MB reverse 
scoop throw3  5 + 5
5 + 5 indicates five repetitions of the first exercise, 60 seconds of rest, and five repetitions of the second exercise.

166 Functional Training
endurance, I eliminate the 1-minute rest between the strength exercise and the 
subsequent explosive equivalent. This power training with incomplete recovery allows the strength exercise to serve not only as a neural excitation stimulus but also as a prefatigue modality. The subsequent power exercise provides the power endurance implied by the name of this training phase. Taking the previous complex used for power training, the power-endurance complex is reduced to the following protocols.
Using Traditional Strength and Power Training
•
 Perform 5 hard r
epetitions of a strength exercise, such as the barbell squat.
• Skip the rest period.
• Perform 5 to 10 repetitions of an explosive equivalent of the str
ength exer -
cise, such as the vertical jump.
Using Functional Training Exclusively
• Perform 5 repetitions of a functional str
ength exercise, such as the MB 
single-arm push-off.
• Skip the rest period.
• Perform 5 to 10 repetitions of an explosive equivalent of the functional 
str
ength exercise, such as the MB staggered-stance CLA straight chest throw.
When programming the power complexes in the power-endurance phase, use 
volume identical to that used in the power phase. Employ this training for 8 to 12 sets per week of the 5+5 repetitions scheme for each body part (e.g., legs, chest, back). It is fine to experiment with the number of repetitions of the explosive equivalents, depending on the sport you’re preparing for. I have used up to 10 repetitions of the explosive equivalent for endurance sports such as cross country running. The volume can be spread out over the week, or all of the power training for a body system can be done on a single day. A rest day between training days of a specific body part is recommended.
The next strategy for developing power endurance is metabolic circuits (see 
chapter 7). These circuits consist of three to eight exercises that are each performed for 10 to 30 repetitions or for time (e.g., 15-60 seconds). A metabolic circuit can concentrate on one body part (e.g., JC Leg Crank) or can mimic a specific sport scenario (e.g., 5-minute MMA circuits).
JC Leg Crank
Bodyweight double-leg squat  24
Bodyweight alternating lunge  24 (12/leg)Alternating split jump  24 (12/leg)Squat jump  12Total circuit time: 1:20 to 1:30
MMA Circuit
Mat sprawl  20Gable hang 30 sec.DB punch  30Sling curl  30MB V-up exchange  20

167 Program Design
Get-up  10
Short cable double-hand pull  30Low kick  10 per legLow punch  30Total circuit time: 5:00 to 6:00
These metabolic circuits provide incredible power endurance and can be used 
in a variety of ways. You can use the metabolic protocols as a flush set at the end 
of a bodybuilding or strength workout to provide extra blood to the area worked or to develop a base level of endurance in preparation for the power-endurance phase. For example, you can perform 1 to 3 sets of JC Leg Crank at the end of a leg workout, 1 or 2 sets of JC Meta Chest at the end of a chest workout, and 1 or 2 sets of JC Meta Back (see chapter 7) at the end of a total-body workout.
Another strategy to implement metabolic protocols is to use them as a prefa-
tigue method for sport-specific training. For example, 1 to 4 sets of the JC Leg Crank can prefatigue a marathon runner before doing a 5- to 10-mile (8-16 km) run. This allows the marathon runner to experience what it feels like to run long distances without ever having to run the long distance. Additionally, the meta-bolic protocols can provide well-needed strength for sports that traditionally have not used strength programs, all without setting foot in a gym. This prefatigue approach adds strength training to endurance sports, cuts down training volume, and reduces overtraining injuries.
Finally, metabolic protocols that mimic sport-play metabolics, such as fighting 
circuits, can provide better conditioning than actually playing the sport, without the risk of injury associated with intense practice and overuse. This application is particularly useful for sports that have high injury rates, such as combat sports. For example, fighting circuits such as the MMA circuit can replace live sparring as a conditioning strategy or at least prefatigue a few rounds so that a fighter can reduce the rounds sparred.
Using metabolic protocols to provide power endurance, prefatigue training, 
or substitute training can reduce traditional training volume by as much as 50 percent. It can also reduce overtraining injuries while producing personal best performances in athletes.
Putting It All Together
The ideal length of each periodization phase has been much debated. Some books provide ranges from 3 weeks to 8 weeks. I prefer to keep each phase to about 4 weeks. This provides a block of training that covers all four phases and brings an athlete to a peak over 16 weeks. In a 52-week year, an athlete can peak three times, with some time off between each peak.
Sometimes competition schedules do not fall into neat 16-week time slots. In 
these cases, there are three main strategies for manipulating the periodization timeline. The first strategy is to not train what is not needed. This means if an athlete is already big enough, don’t bother with the hypertrophy phase. Likewise, if an athlete plays a power sport, such as golf, don’t spend time in the power- endurance phase. This strategy can take weeks or months off the total program time. For example, let’s consider a baseball player who is already big and does not need power endurance. His program might have 4 weeks in the strength phase 

168 Functional Training
and 4 weeks in the power phase, assuming he already has a good conditioning 
base. This strategy would save 8 weeks from the standard 16-week timeline.
The second strategy is to shorten the cycles that are needed the least. This pri-
oritizes the training and allows the athlete to spend more time on the attributes needed. For example, let’s say we need to train a wrestler in 7 weeks. First, a wrestler does not need more muscle mass, and power endurance is the attribute to concentrate on. A sound approach would be to spend 1 week on conditioning to create a base, 1 week on strength, 1 week on power, and 4 weeks on power endurance to make sure he is in shape to wrestle. It may seem that 1-week cycles will not do much, but when faced with difficult circumstances and short time periods, you must work with what you have, however imperfect it may be.
The third strategy is to blend or combine phases. This approach acknowledges 
that the conditioning and strength phases are practically the same and only change the volume of the training (i.e., sets and reps). Likewise, the complexes used in the power and power-endurance phases only differ in the rest periods between the strength and power exercises within each complex (table 6.6).
Using the 7-week wrestling program as an example, we can combine the con-
ditioning and strength phase to 2 weeks and the power and power endurance to 5 weeks.
TABLE 6.6  Combining Phases
PhaseConditioning 
and strength Power and power endurance
Week 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Reps of strength and 
power training  exercises8 6 5 + 5 5 + 5 5 + 5 5 +5 5 + 5
Rest between strength 
training and power exercise in complexN/A N/A 60 sec. 30 sec. 15 sec. 0 sec. 0 sec.
5 + 5 indicates five repetitions of the first exercise, 60 seconds of rest, and five repetitions of the second exercise.
Conclusion
We have covered just some of the many strategies for periodizing training and 
designing effective programs. The old adage, “Program design is as much an art as it is a science,” is certainly true. Don’t be afraid to experiment with various formats and strategies. However, always stay on the conservative side of new implementations. Also, consider consulting a strength and conditioning specialist certified by the National Strength and Conditioning Association (NSCA CSCS) or a trainer or performance coach certified by IHP University (IHPU) for proper execution of movements and sound programming. Safety and effectiveness should be the top priorities when programming for sport-specific function.

169
CHAPTER
7
Pure Functional 
Training
This chapter provides everything an athlete needs to train for any sport. The 
programs presented here can serve multiple purposes; they can create a modest training base, train specific athletic attributes, and supplement other programs. They can also be used when not a lot of time is available for training (e.g., in- season, travel). Regardless of how you use these programs, the key characteristics of each are simplicity, ease of use, and effectiveness. Even the express programs can yield huge benefits with just minutes of training a few times per week.
The training programs in this chapter and in chapter 9 represent both a general 
and specific approach to functional training for sport. General conditioning and the most popular sport skills and sport categories are covered for the widest possible application. Because each sport may have various positions that require completely different qualities, some of the express protocols deal with specific sport qualities. For example, you can add the speed-demon program to any sport program to improve running speed. These express programs provide more specificity and variety to the already robust programming options presented in this book.
The functional strength exercises in the following programs develop strength 
in general movement patterns associated with various sport drills. They build the strength to improve your sport-specific training using ladder drills, cone drills, resisted sport skills, and other sport-specific movements. Combining functional training with a sport-specific program results in the ultimate transfer from exercise to sport skill.
Integrating Functional Training Into Your 
Training Plan
Each sport-specific program in chapter 9 includes three types of workouts: a con-ditioning day, a strength day, and a power or power-endurance day. A beginning athlete should perform the conditioning day two or three times per week for two 

170 Functional Training
to four weeks and then move on to the strength program. An athlete with at least 
a month of base training can start with the strength workout and perform it two or three times per week for two to four weeks before proceeding to the power program. An experienced and conditioned athlete with plenty of strength who is looking for power development can start with the power workout two or three times per week for two to four weeks and then proceed to the power-endurance program if needed. An experienced and conditioned athlete who is looking for power endurance can perform the power-endurance workouts two or three times per week for two to four weeks. Finally, some advanced athletes prefer to use an undulating method of training in which day 1 is a conditioning day, day 2 is a strength day, and day 3 is a power or power-endurance day. This undulating format can be performed for a longer period (2-3 months), and a reduced version of this program can be used for in-season training.
To tailor the intensity of the exercises in the following programs, use the 
tweaks previously discussed in this book. This means manipulating the range of motion, lever arm, speed, base, and external load to make the assigned number of repetitions and sets challenging. For example, if you are assigned a dumbbell reaching lunge for 4 to 6 repetitions during a strength phase, use enough load to make the 4 to 6 repetitions challenging. Likewise, if push-ups are assigned for 4 to 6 repetitions during a strength phase, slow the movement to a speed at which 4 to 6 repetitions become challenging.
You can also vary the load and the equipment used to provide that load. This 
means if a bodyweight lunge is too easy, you can load it with dumbbells, ket-tlebells, a medicine ball, or any other external free weight. Likewise, if you are assigned a dumbbell reaching lunge, you can load it with a medicine ball instead of dumbbells. The load is the load, and the body does not know what you are carrying in your hands. The intensity of the movement is what it is important. Make sure it’s an intensity that allows you to complete the program as outlined.
A day of rest between workouts is recommended. However, don’t worry if you 
have to work out two days in a row on occasion. As long as you don’t make it a habit, your body will recover during subsequent normal weeks of training. That’s one of the great things about functional training—it spreads the work over many muscle systems so it does not damage a targeted muscle the way bodybuilding does. This is how gymnasts, baseball players, wrestlers, and many other athletes can do the same thing every day without days off. Now, let’s take a look at the functional training programs that will change the way you perform forever.
Grab-and-Go Protocols
The grab-and-go protocols are preprogrammed protocols that can be used as basic workouts to get a beginner started in foundational training (i.e., JV Program) or to kick-start the conditioning phase of an intermediate and even advanced train-ing program (i.e., Varsity Program). Regardless of the grab-and-go program you chose, it will give you an idea of how to start programming functional training. Feel free to experiment with any combination of exercises in this book using the template you see in these simple programs.

171
JV Program
This general conditioning program (table 7.1) involves the eight bodyweight progressions and 
is perfect for the novice athlete who is starting an exercise program for the first time. It’s also ideal for a young athlete (8-13 years old) who has never trained and is curious about improving athletic ability via strength and conditioning.
THE EXERCISES
Single-leg CLA 
anterior reach.
THE HOW
Single-leg squat.
 Bodyweight double- leg squat.
 Bodyweight alter-nating lunge.
Bodyweight push-up.
 Recline pull (row).
 Rotation with pivot.
 Rotation with-out pivot.
TABLE 7.1  JV Program
Perform this bodyweight program two or three times per week.
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Single-leg CLA anterior 
reach2  5 per side 2  10 per side 3  15 per side 4  20 per side 39
Single-leg squat 2  5 per side 2  7 per side 3  10 per side 4  10 per side 40
Bodyweight double-leg 
squat2  10 per side 2  15 per side 3  15 per side 4  15 per side 42
Bodyweight alternating 
lunge2  5 per side 2  10 per side 3  10 per side 4  10 per side 43
Bodyweight push-up 2  5 2  10 3  10 4  10 44
Recline pull (row) 2  5 2  10 3  10 4  10 46
Rotation with pivot 2  10 per side 2  15 per side  3  15 per side 4  20 per side 47
Rotation without pivot 2  10 per side 2  15 per side 3  15 per side 4  20 per side 48

172
Varsity Program
The Varsity Program uses a variety of equipment to create an intermediate conditioning program 
(table 7.2) with more complex exercises than the JV Program. It’s useful for a more experienced athlete who is returning from an injury or from off-season and is trying to get in shape for pre-season training (i.e., conditioning phase). A stronger athlete who has competed in sport but has never done formal strength training will also find this program useful. You can even get aggressive with this program and use heavy loads to keep the repetition range low (i.e., 4-6 reps), giving it more of a strength component during the strength phase for a novice or intermediate athlete.
THE EXERCISES
KB single-arm swing.
 DB or KB lateral 
reaching lunge.
MB crossover push-up.
 BP staggered-stance CLA row.
BP short rotation (10 to 2 o’clock).
 BP high-to-low chop.
 BP low-to-high chop.
THE HOW
TABLE 7.2  Varsity Program
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
KB single-arm swing 2  5 per side 2  10 per side 3  10 per side 4  10 per side 91
DB or KB lateral 
reaching lunge2  5 per side 2  7 per side 3  10 per side 4  10 per side 95
MB crossover push-up 2  5 per side 2  7 per side 3  10 per side 4  10 per side 115
BP staggered-stance 
CLA row2  10 per side 2  15 per side 3  15 per side 4  15 per side 81
BP short rotation  
(10 to 2 o’clock)2  10 per side 2  10 per side 3  10 per side 4  10 per side 87
BP high-to-low chop 2  10 per side 2  10 per side 3  10 per side 4  10 per side 85
BP low-to-high chop 2  10 per side 2  10 per side 3  10 per side 4  10 per side 86

173 Pure Functional Training
Express Protocols
The following protocols use specific training to improve a specific aspect of perfor -
mance or a body part. They can be added to the sport-specific programs or serve as 
short workouts to stay in shape during short vacations or when full-time training is not possible. You can perform the exercises in a circuit or complete indicated sets of each exercise before going to the next. Performing these programs two or three times per week will provide noticeable results in as little as two weeks!

174
Golf Power-Drive Protocol
This program (table 7.3) is similar to the general Steel Core program presented later 
in the chapter but is tailored to improving backswing follow-through and the impact zone of the golfer. Combining this program with the Steel Core is an excellent way to improve your golf game.
THE EXERCISES
SB log roll.
THE HOW
BP pulsating back-
swing.
BP short rotation (10 to 2 o’clock).
TABLE 7.3  Golf Power-Drive Protocol
Exercise Sets and reps Page
SB log roll 3  10 to 15 per side 131
BP pulsating backswing 3  10 to 15 per side 88
BP short rotation (10 to 2 o’clock) 3  10 to 15 per side 87

175
Running Speed-Demon Protocol
This program (table 7.4) improves speed without running. You can perform this three- 
exercise complex during each commercial break of a TV show. That’s why it’s often referred to as the TV Speed Program.
THE EXERCISES
45-degree calf pump.
THE HOW
Single-leg CLA 
anterior reach.
SB hip lift (single leg).
 Single-leg squat.
TABLE 7.4  Running Speed-Demon Protocol
Exercise Sets and reps Page
45-degree calf pump (progress from 
double legs to single leg)30 to 60 sec.  
(per side when on single leg)63
Single-leg CLA anterior reach 3  10 to 15 per side 39
SB hip lift (single leg) 3  10 to 15 per side 128
Single-leg squat  
(quarter range of motion) 3  10 to 15 per side 142

176
Punching Power: KO Protocol
This program (table 7.5) improves your punching power. It involves the unilateral push-
ing component found in punching, stiff-arming, and other pushing-related sport skills. Not only does it emphasize the pushing action, it also develops the rotational stiffness these skills require for maximum power generation.
THE EXERCISES
MB single-arm push-off.
 BP staggered-stance 
CLA press.
MB staggered-stance CLA straight chest throw.
THE HOW
TABLE 7.5  KO Protocol
Exercise Sets and reps Page
MB single-arm push-off 3  10 per side 114
BP staggered-stance CLA press 3  10 to 15 per side 72
MB staggered-stance CLA straight chest 
throw3  5 to 10 per side 118

177
Lateral Change of Direction: Cut Protocol
This program (table 7.6) improves the ability to cut on a dime, and it’s excellent for 
skaters. It targets the ability of the glutes to extend while externally rotating. This a great protocol to perform at home, to use as a warm-up or cool-down for a workout, or to add to your current strength and conditioning program.
THE EXERCISES
TABLE 7.6  Cut Protocol
Exercise Sets and reps Page
DB or KB lateral reaching lunge 2 or 3  10 to 15 per side 95
SB single-leg lateral wall slide 2 or 3  10 to 15 per side 124
Lateral slide 2 or 3  5 to 10 per side 140
Skater 2 or 3  5 to 10 per side 67THE HOW
DB or KB lateral 
reaching lunge.
SB single-leg lateral wall slide.
 Lateral slide.
 Skater.

178
Throwing: Flamethrower
This program (table 7.7) improves overhead activities, such as throwing a ball or serving 
overhead in tennis. You can perform this program anywhere there is enough room to slam a medicine ball. You can also use it as a warm-up or cool-down to a workout or add it to your current strength and conditioning program.
THE EXERCISES
THE HOW
SB rollout.
 MB overhead 
slam.
Vibration blade throw.
Single-leg CLA anterior reach.
 Rope circles (clockwise and counterclockwise).
TABLE 7.7  Flamethrower
Exercise Sets and reps Page
SB rollout 2  10 to 15 127
MB overhead slam 2  5 to 10 120
Vibration blade throw 2  10 to 15 sec. per side 133
Single-leg CLA anterior reach 2  10 to 15 per side 39
Rope circles  
(clockwise and counterclockwise)2  10 to 15 sec. each direction 139

179
Batting Power: Home-Run Protocol
This program (table 7.8) improves batting power and is guaranteed to improve your 
batting average. You can perform it anywhere there is enough room to slam a medi-cine ball. You can also use it as a warm-up or cool-down to a workout or add it to your current strength and conditioning program.
THE EXERCISES
TABLE 7.8  Home-Run Protocol
Exercise Sets and reps Page
Vibration blade 12 o’clock oscillation 2  10 to 15 sec. 134
BP low-to-high chop 3  10 to 15 per side 86
BP high-to-low chop 3  10 to 15 per side 85
BP short rotation (10 to 2 o’clock) 3  10 to 15 per side 87
MB rotational throw: perpendicular 3  5 to 10 per side 121THE HOW
Vibration blade 12 
o’clock oscillation.
BP low-to-high chop.
 BP high-to-low chop.
BP short rotation (10 to 2 o’clock).
 MB rotational throw:  perpendicular.

180 Functional Training
General Fitness Protocols
You can use these short programs to strengthen a general area of the body or 
to develop general fitness or conditioning. They also make a great addition to any workout as a warm-up or cool-down. For example, the Core Activator (also known as the Short Chopper) has become a standard core warm-up, and the Triple Threat has become known as the Hamstrings of Steel program because it eliminates practically all hamstring problems.

181
Total-Body Training: Chopper
The Chopper program (table 7.9) is one of the most popular and diverse protocols at 
IHP . It epitomizes fingernail-to-toenail training. It is the most used warm-up among my athletes, and when heavy (25-45 lb [11-20 kg]) medicine balls or weight plates are used, it becomes a strength and conditioning protocol. Although the medicine ball version is outlined here, you can perform this protocol with any heavy implement, such as weight plates, sandbags, or a single dumbbell or kettlebell. For a great warm-up, use 3 to 6 pounds (1-3 kg). Large athletes can use 25 to 45 pounds (11-20 kg) to train total-body strength. You can perform this protocol as a circuit for warm-ups and conditioning work. For strength work, perform each exercise for the prescribed repetitions, and rest adequately between each set.
THE EXERCISES
TABLE 7.9  Chopper 
Exercise Sets and reps Page
MB wood chop 3  10 110
MB diagonal chop 3  10 per side 111
MB rotation with pivot 3  10 per side 116THE HOW
MB wood chop.
 MB diagonal chop.
 MB rotation with pivot.

182
Core Activator
This program (table 7.10) is a variation of the Chopper minus the large ranges of motion 
at the lower body and hips. The Core Activator improves core stiffness without flexing the lower body, making it a perfect way to strengthen the core when a lower-body injury does not permit any squatting or lunging, or if you simply want to rest the lower body. I also use this protocol with light loads when starting to rehabilitate the lower back after an injury or surgery; it is a prehabilitator as well as a rehabilitator of the spine. You can use this protocol to warm up for a lower-body strength training workout or as a beginning conditioning protocol.
THE EXERCISES
TABLE 7.10  Core Activator
Exercise Sets and reps Page
MB short wood chop 3  10 per side 110
MB short diagonal chop 3  10 per side 112
MB rotation without pivot 3  10 per side 48THE HOW
MB short diagonal 
chop.
MB short wood chop.
 MB rotation with-out pivot.

183
Core Stiffness: Steel Core
This program (table 7.11) is a version of the Chopper program with more direct and 
heavier loading through bands and pulleys. It creates core stiffness from the standing position while driving high-intensity loads to the diagonal and lateral musculature of the core. Athletes who use a stick for their sport can perform this protocol with a bar attached to a band or cable. This protocol can also be used to warm up or as an adjunct to the training of combat, court, and racket athletes. When training for strength, don’t be afraid to go heavy. Use enough weight so the outside foot almost starts to come off the ground.
THE EXERCISES
THE HOW
TABLE 7.11  Steel Core 
Exercise Sets and reps Page
BP low-to-high chop 3  10 per side 86
BP short rotation (10 to 2 o’clock) 3  10 per side 87
BP high-to-low chop 3  10 per side 85
BP low-to-high chop.
 BP short rotation 
(10 to 2 o’clock).
BP high-to-low chop.

184
Total-Body SB Program: Fabulous Five
This program (table 7.12) is excellent for total-body stability and strength. It also makes 
a great warm-up, cool-down, recovery, and functional training maintenance program during heavy-work hypertrophy or strength cycles. The sequence of the five exercises allows you to flow from one to the other—perfect for a continuous circuit. I love this protocol as a cool-down for big athletes who are concentrating on hypertrophy for a few weeks; 3 or 4 sets at the end of a workout keeps the core engaged.
THE EXERCISES
THE HOW
SB hands-on-ball push-up.
 SB hyperextension.
 SB reverse hyperextension.
SB knee tuck (double 
leg to single leg).SB skier.
TABLE 7.12  Fabulous Five
Perform the exercises in the sequence shown.
Exercise Sets and reps Page
SB hands-on-ball push-up 3  10 125
SB hyperextension 3  10 130
SB reverse hyperextension 3  10 131
SB knee tuck (double leg to single leg) 3  10 (per side when on single leg) 126
SB skier 3  10 per side 132


185
Hamstring Program: Triple Threat
Although this program (table 7.13) is not performed while standing, it improves hamstring strength 
and function. The Triple Threat is so effective as a hamstring rehabilitation and high-performance program that I call it the Hamstrings of Steel program. This protocol has saved the careers of many of my athletes who suffered from chronic hamstring injuries. You can use this protocol on off-days or as a cool-down after any workout.
Begin with the double-leg version of each exercise for weeks 1 through 10. Switch to the sin-
gle-leg version of each exercise for weeks 11 through 20. Perform the protocol as a sequence with rest and without putting your hips on the ground—perform the bridges for the number of repetitions prescribed, keep your hips elevated and perform the leg curls for the number of rep-etitions prescribed, and finally keep your hips elevated and perform the hip lifts for the number of repetitions prescribed.
When performing the single-leg version of each exercise, use the free leg to maneuver or walk 
the stability ball into the next position without putting your hips on the ground.
THE EXERCISES
TABLE 7.13  Triple Threat
ExerciseWeeks 1 through 10  
(double-leg version)Weeks 11 through 20  (single-leg version) Page
SB bridge  
(double leg to single leg)5 reps, adding 1 rep per week 
up to 155 reps per leg, adding  
1 rep per week up to 15128
SB leg curl  
(double leg to single leg)5 reps, adding 1 rep per week 
up to 155 reps per leg, adding  
1 rep per week up to 15129
SB hip lift  
(double leg to single leg)5 reps, adding 1 rep per week 
up to 155 reps per leg, adding  
1 rep per week up to 15128
SB bridge.
THE HOW
Double-leg version: In week 1, perform 5 reps of each exercise without resting or putting your 
hips on the ground. Add 1 rep of each exercise per week for 10 weeks. By week 10, you should be able to perform 15 reps of each exercise (45 total) without rest.
Single-leg version: In week 11, perform 5 reps of each exercise per leg without resting or 
putting your hips on the ground. Add 1 rep of each exercise per week for 10 weeks. By week 20, you should be able to perform 15 reps of each exercise (45 total) without rest.
SB leg curl. SB hip lift.


186 Functional Training
Metabolic Protocols
These advanced protocols, called metabolic protocols, are giant sets that provide 
superior conditioning, strength, power, and power endurance targeted toward one body part. They’re great for advanced athletes who are looking to add high-level training to their current training protocol. You can also use them as short training sessions when traveling or when time is tight. Metabolic protocols are a perfect way to finish a hypertrophy or strength workout in order to bring a lot of blood to the body part being worked. Flush sets have always been popular with bodybuilders as a method of finishing a workout.
The metabolic protocols also have given rise to the IHP prefatigue system of 
endurance training, which allows endurance athletes to cut down on their training volume. For example, use 1 to 5 sets of the JC Leg Crank immediately before a training run so as to prefatigue the legs and make a short training run feel like a much longer run. This approach has yielded incredible results with endurance and combat athletes, reducing the repetitive wear and tear of endurance training while increasing training intensity.
You must establish a base before jumping into metabolic protocols. As a general 
rule, you must be able to perform 3 sets of each exercise as a workout and not feel sore the next day. Following this training progression allows you to enjoy the training process and avoid being crippled by DOMS the day after abusive training or straining joints that are not ready for advanced training.

187
Metabolic Leg Training: JC Leg Crank
This program (tables 7.14 and 7.15) was inspired by industry lead, Vern Gambetta, 
and provides superior leg training for the intermediate athlete who has a good base of conditioning. It is popular with all athletes who need strong, durable legs and can be used as a leg flush after a leg day, as a quick session during the season, or as preparation for the rigors of preseason training.
THE EXERCISES
THE HOW
TABLE 7.14  JC Leg Crank
Exercise Reps Page
Bodyweight double-leg squat 24 42
Bodyweight alternating lunge 12 per leg 43
Alternating split jump 12 per leg 66
Squat jump 12 66
Bodyweight double- 
leg squat.
Bodyweight alter-nating lunge.Alternating split jump.Squat jump.
TABLE 7.15  Weekly Protocol for JC Leg Crank 
Week Sets Recovery between exercises Recovery between sets
1 2 45 sec. 2 min.
2 3 30 sec. 90 min.
3 4 15 sec. 60 sec.
4 5 15 sec. 30 sec.
5 5 No recovery No recovery
6 6 No recovery No recoveryCircuit progression: During weeks 1 and 2, perform the program twice a week (Monday 
and Friday). During weeks 3 through 6, perform the program once a week. Table 7.15 
lists the set progressions and the recovery times for each week.

188
Metabolic Back Training: JC Meta Back
This program (table 7.16) provides superior back training for the intermediate athlete 
who has a good base of conditioning, and it is popular with swimmers and throwing athletes. It can be used as a leg flush after a back day, as a quick session during the season, or as preparation for the rigors of preseason training.
THE EXERCISES
THE HOW
BP row.
 BP staggered-stance bent-over 
alternating row.
BP swim.
 MB overhead slam.
TABLE 7.16  JC Meta Back
Perform the exercises in the sequence shown here as a giant set with no rest between exer-
cises. This giant set can be performed up to three times with 1 to 3 minutes of rest between sets. You can perform the JC Meta Back one or two times per week with at least two days of rest between each day. 
Exercise Reps Page
BP row 20 77
BP staggered-stance bent-over  
alternating row10 per arm and leg  
(20 reps per arm total)79
BP swim 20 84
MB overhead slam 10 120

189
Metabolic Chest Training: JC Meta Chest
The JC Meta Chest comes in two versions. The 1.0 is the original version and uses 
band and bodyweight exercises. The 2.0 version was featured in Men’s Health as a quick method of developing explosive pushing and punching power as well as improving bench press capability. Both of these protocols (table 7.17 and 7.18) are popular with well-conditioned athletes who need pushing and punching power. They can be used as a chest flush after a chest day, as a quick session during the season, or as a preparatory protocol to get ready for the rigors of preseason training.
Perform the exercises in either program in the sequence shown in the table as a giant 
set with no rest between exercises. These giant sets can be performed up to three times with 1 to 3 minutes of rest between each set. Some elite athletes have even completed two JC Meta Chest protocols back to back without any rest. You can perform several sets of either JC Meta Chest protocol 1 or 2 times per week with at least two days of rest between each day.
THE EXERCISES
THE HOW
Bodyweight 
push-up.
BP staggered-stance alternating press.
 BP staggered-stance fly.
Explosive push-up.
 MB single-arm push-off.
 MB crossover push-up.
TABLE 7.17  JC Meta Chest 1.0
Exercise Reps Page
Bodyweight push-up 20 44
BP staggered-stance alternating press 20 per leg (40 total) 75
BP staggered-stance fly 10 per leg (20 total) 76
Explosive push-up 10 69
TABLE 7.18  JC Meta Chest 2.0
Exercise Reps Page
Bodyweight push-up 20 44
MB single-arm push-off 5 per side (10 total)* 114
MB crossover push-up 5 per side (10 total)* 115
Explosive push-up 10 69
*Elite athletes can attempt to perform 10 per side (20 total).

190
Gary’s Dumbbell Matrix
This dumbbell protocol is part of the matrix training system introduced to me by the 
physical therapist Gary Gray, one of the nicest professionals and human beings I have had the pleasure to call a friend and colleague. I have modified it somewhat, but its main structure stays intact. It’s a continuous 72 repetitions involving four stages that invoke all four pillars in three planes of motion. It is composed of a pressing sequence (three exercises), a curling sequence (three exercises), a reaching lunge sequence (three exercises), and a reaching lunge to press sequence (three exercises). You perform 6 reps of each exercise (3 per side), and thus the total circuit is 72 repetitions. Aim to complete the circuit in 1:45 to 2:00 minutes (table 7.19).
Although this program is presented in the metabolic section, you could easily use 
it as a general fitness protocol or even as a warm-up if you use lighter dumbbells. However, when using aggressive loads (i.e., dumbbells heavier than 10 percent of body weight) and keeping the protocol under 1:45 minutes, the grease can get pretty hot. Heart rates can go higher than 200 bpm when doing multiple sets with short rest periods (under 2 minutes).
Perform the exercises in the sequence as shown. Your goal is to perform the 72 
repetitions continuously. To get there, follow this progression:
1.
 Start with individual exercises,
 performing 2 or 3 sets of 8 to 16 repetitions per 
side on different days of the week. Typically a person would spend two or three weeks at this stage to learn and perfect the execution of the exercises.
2.
 Once you’ve mastered the individual exercises,
 rehearse the entire circuit with 
body weight. This application is a great warm-up. It takes 1:30 to 1:45 minutes; rest 2 or 3 minutes between sets. Perform 3 sets before each workout on three days a week. Stay in this phase for one to three weeks.
3.
 Once you can easily perform se
veral sets of the complete matrix using body 
weight, add light dumbbells (about 5 percent of body weight). Go for complete recovery between sets, about 2 minutes. Perform 3 sets on one to three days a week.
4.
 Progress to using dumbbells that are about 7 percent of body weight,
 with com-
plete recovery between sets (about 3 minutes per set). Perform 2 or 3 sets on one or two days a week.
5.
 Progress to using dumbbells that are 10 to 12 percent of body weight,
 with 
complete recovery between sets (about 4 minutes per set). Perform 2 or 3 sets on one or two days a week.
The matrix can be part of a weekly routine performed indefinitely with light weight 
(5 percent body weight). When performing the matrix with heavier loads, periodize the protocol into cycles; for example, four weeks at 5 percent body weight, four weeks at 7 percent body weight, four weeks at 10 percent body weight, and four weeks at 12 percent body weight.

191
THE EXERCISES
DB or KB over-
head press.
DB or KB overhead Y press.
 DB or KB cross overhead press.
DB or KB biceps curl.
DB or KB upright row.
 DB or KB cross uppercut.
DB or KB front reaching lunge.
 DB or KB lateral reaching lunge.
 DB or KB rotating reaching lunge.
> continued

192
Gary’s Dumbbell Matrix  > continued
Conclusion
Functional training is just not a rehabilitation methodology or some light training 
done for complex neurological reasons. The programs in this chapter show that you can program functional training to teach sound movement patterns, develop high strength levels, and provide power endurance that just won’t quit. Additionally, the programs show how easily you can perform functional training in familiar areas, such as fields and hotel rooms, with accessible, inexpensive equipment. The programs provided here are just the beginning of what you can do with the programming ideas and exercises in this book.
Chapter 8 describes the most powerful way to combine functional training and tra-
ditional training—the IHP hybrid training system. This system seamlessly integrates traditional strength training and functional training. This is where you’ll be able to put the hustle behind the muscle!TABLE 7.19  Gary’s Dumbbell Matrix
Use dumbbells for all exercises.
PRESSING SEQUENCE
Exercise Reps Page
DB or KB overhead press (alternating) 3 per side 98
DB or KB overhead Y press (alternating) 3 per side 99
DB or KB cross overhead press (alternating) 3 per side 100
CURLING SEQUENCE
Exercise Reps Page
DB or KB biceps curl (alternating) 3 per side 101
DB or KB upright row (alternating) 3 per side 103
DB or KB cross uppercut (alternating) 3 per side 104
REACHING LUNGE SEQUENCE
Exercise Reps Page
DB or KB front reaching lunge (alternating) 3 per side 94
DB or KB lateral reaching lunge (alternating) 3 per side 95
DB or KB rotating reaching lunge (alternating) 3 per side 96
REACHING LUNGE TO PRESS SEQUENCE
Exercise Reps Page
DB or KB front reaching lunge (alternating) and  
simultaneous DB or KB overhead press3 per side 94
98
DB or KB lateral reaching lunge (alternating) and  
simultaneous DB or KB overhead press3 per side 9598
DB or KB rotating reaching lunge (alternating) and  
simultaneous DB or KB overhead press3 per side 9698THE HOW

193
CHAPTER
8
Hybrid Programming
No functional training book is complete without a detailed system that combines 
functional training with other popular and effective training philosophies and systems. Fitness professionals, coaches, and the general public have become increasingly aware of the effectiveness of functional training and other modal-ities in improving human performance. With all of the information now avail-able, the question that keeps coming up is, “Can we mix modalities or training philosophies to get the best adaptation from the best modalities?” The answer is a resounding yes! Although the philosophies of training methods may be in direct opposition, the right approach can combine two different training methods to create a seamless hybrid system. The best example of this hybrid training is combining bodybuilding or traditional strength training with functional training.
Another factor to consider when looking at consolidating training is time. It’s 
often difficult for athletes to get the training they need in a single week. This is especially true with the strength and conditioning portion of training. With all of the technical and academic work demanded of athletes, strength and condi-tioning workouts are often sacrificed. Working as a personal trainer and coach over the last 20 years, I had to develop training methods that would allow me to address strength, hypertrophy, power, and any performance or rehabilitative concerns within a 30- to 60-minute block of time per day in a couple of hours per week. During this time I successfully created hybrid programs that combine traditional strength methods and the latest developments in functional training. What follows are the results of those 20 years of research and development: the IHP Hybrid Training System
This hybrid system combines the best of functional training and the best of 
traditional hypertrophy, strength, and power training. Each training approach has excellent attributes, and all athletes want to capitalize on the best practices to obtain optimal results. After reviewing my clients’ training charts for months, I saw a pattern in what was happening in my practice, and a system of integration emerged. I named that system of integration the Three-Tier Integration System 
(3TIS). The 3TIS has been the foundation of the IHP Hybrid Training System, and its development is a major ingredient in IHP’s success.

194 Functional Training
Three-Tier Integration System
In the 3TIS, modalities that were once mutually exclusive coexist in one training 
program. Not only does the 3TIS allow the athlete to work on a muscle, it also allows the athlete to work on muscle systems and, more importantly, the hustle behind the muscle.
The 3TIS is so named because we have three ways to integrate a functional 
modality (or exercise) into a traditional workout:
1.
 We can intr
oduce the modality into the warm-up or cool-down of the 
workout.
2. We can use the modality to build up to a specific body part.
3. We can use the modality to unload a body part fr
om traditional work.
Let’s assume you need standard hypertrophy and strength training. You also 
see the value of functional training. How can we mix these training approaches into one session? Let’s go through each level of integration in more detail  to 
answer that question.
 Warm-Up and Cool-Down
Any of the functional modalities or exercises in this book can be incorporated into the warm-up of any training session. This is called the general warm-up approach. The general warm-up is usually a total-body routine that uses any modality you like. An example of a general warm-up is the Chopper program in chapter 7. This is a great way to introduce functional training to someone who is stuck in the traditional training paradigm.
The warm-up approach to integration can also be extended to a specific 
warm-up in preparation for traditional isolation training. You can functionally warm up a body part before training it traditionally. For example, anterior reaches make a great warm-up for lunges or squats. You can also include them at the end of the workout to provide the balance and stability missing from many traditional exercises, such as leg extensions and leg curls.
Band or cable pushing and pulling exercises can prepare the body for tra-
ditional pressing or pulling exercises (e.g., bench press, cable row). Bands and pulleys allow you to use a standing position, which provides greater functional carryover and core training compared with machine-based upper-body training.
The eclectic training approaches used in the warm-up level of integration will 
not feel like a threat or even a change to anyone set on traditional training; the traditional component of the training goes unchanged. Although conditioning professionals recognize the enormous role of a warm-up, most athletes don’t consider the warm-up or cool-down to be part of the training session. For this reason, they may readily try a new training approach during these times. The effectiveness of these 10 to 15 minutes of the workout can certainly compare to the 15 minutes of treatment experienced in an aggressive therapy session. And of course, 10 to 15 minutes three or four times per week can end up totaling 45 to 60 minutes. I have seen enormous improvements in stability and power output in this amount of time. This application of functional training has played a major role in the performance gains of my athletes.

195 Hybrid Programming
Build-Up
Once the functional training philosophy has been fully adopted, it’s time to get 
a little more aggressive using the build-up tier of integration. A build-up is an aggressive, specific warm-up. It uses 2 or 3 sets of increasing intensity to pre-pare the athlete for the target training load. Many traditional resistance training exercises can start with a more functional position during the lighter sets (e.g., standing instead of sitting). When the unstable environment of the functional position prevents the athlete from performing the exercise with good form, she can complete a few more supported sets to work on absolute strength and hyper -
trophy. This method of integration is similar to the pre-exhaust and pyramid loading methods popularized in the 1960s and 1970s. Here are some examples of the build-up:
1.
 Bent-over rows, 
unstable to stable. Bent-over rows can be performed in 
a freestanding manner (i.e., staggered and single-leg stances) until the weight  
is so heavy that the hips and lower back can’t support the exercise in good form.  
Go to technical failure, not physiological failure. After reaching a point of tech-nical failure, go to supported bent-over rows (i.e., hand on a bench) or cable  
rows.
2.
 Single-leg squats to leg presses. Perform several sets of single-leg squats 
with incr
emental loads (i.e., increase range of motion or add load with medicine 
ball or dumbbells) until you can’t perform any more with good form. Then go to a single- or double-leg press for heavy, stable work.
Unload
The unloading method is the most popular level of integration in my hybrid system. In this tier, the prime movers are targeted for traditional heavy hyper -
trophy or strength on one day of the week and are unloaded with functional training on the other days of the week. Although the prime movers may not get traditional heavy work on the unloading day, the neurological demand of func-tional exercises still maintains a high intensity and volume. Here is an example of how the unloading level of integration works.
Let’s say that you have a heavy leg and hip day scheduled for Monday, a heavy 
push day for Wednesday, and a heavy pulling day for Friday. On Monday, you work the legs and hips with traditional training (e.g., squats, lunges, deadlifts) and unload the pushing and pulling muscles with functional modalities (e.g., stability ball push-ups, band pulls). On Wednesday, you focus on the push mus-cles with traditional training (e.g., incline bench press, flat bench press, dips) and unload the legs and hips and the pull muscles with functional modalities (e.g., lateral reaching lunges, recline pulls). On Friday, you target the pull mus-cles with traditional training (e.g., pull-downs, cable rows, upright rows) and unload the legs and hips and the push muscles with functional modalities (e.g., anterior reaches, band presses). Each day, you throw in a little rotation work or other specialized therapy work.
The order and scheme used in this level of integration can vary. One method is 
to perform all of the traditional exercises first and then finish with the functional exercises. Table 8.1 illustrates what this workout might look like.

196 Functional Training
TABLE 8.1  Sample Unloading Scheme With Traditional Exercises First
MONDAY
Exercise Sets and reps
Barbell squat 3  10
DB or KB lunge 3  10
Barbell deadlift 3  10
SB hands-on-ball push-up 3  10
BP row 3  10
BP short rotation (10 to 2 o’clock) 3  10
WEDNESDAY
Barbell incline bench press 3  10
Barbell flat bench press 3  10
Dip (load as needed) 3  10
Single-leg squat 3  10
BP staggered-stance CLA row 3  10
SB skier 3  10
FRIDAY
Pull-down 3  10
BP row 3  10
Barbell upright row 3  10
Single-leg CLA anterior reach 3  10
BP staggered-stance CLA press 3  10
BP high-to-low chop 3  10
Another scheme that can be used to unload is the IHP hybrid complex scheme. 
This scheme uses circuits with traditional and functional training modalities. The 
circuits can be made of two exercises: a traditional exercise and a functional exer -
cise (i.e., biplex), a traditional exercise and two functional exercises (i.e., triplex), or a traditional exercise and three functional exercises (i.e., quadplex). Table 8.2 illustrates what the workout in table 8.1 would look like using biplexes to inte-grate the strength and hypertrophy of traditional training with the movement skill of the functional modality.
Hybrid Complexes
The 3TIS was my first attempt to combine diverse systems of training into a single workout. As previously mentioned, the unloading level of integration was the most significant development; it is the most popular and powerful method of integration. This section explains the methodology used to create complexes that integrate and unload one body part with functional training while isolating and loading another body part with traditional strength training.

197 Hybrid Programming
The IHP Hybrid Training System is a complex of exercises that target specific 
components of performance. Complexes combine traditional exercises (to provide 
strength and hypertrophy) with functional exercises (to hit the body in a different manner than traditional training). The functional and rehabilitative exercises usually tackle components that traditional exercises miss, such as engaging var -
ious planes of motion, using various levers, moving through various ranges of motion, and engaging stabilizers and neutralizers in various capacities. Hybrid complexes scheme can contain two (biplex), three (triplex), or four (quadplex) exercises.
Biplexes
In biplexes, the first exercise is a primary exercise that focuses on the major phys -
iological quality of interest. For example, if we are trying to increase lean muscle mass in the lower body, we use a hypertrophy leg exercise such as the squat or leg press for the first exercise. The next exercise is usually a core exercise that is driven by another body part and action (e.g., a push or pull), therefore unload-ing that body part. An example of an exercise that uses a pushing movement to TABLE 8.2  Sample Unloading Scheme Using Hybrid Biplexes
MONDAY
Exercise Sets and reps
Barbell squat 3  10
SB hands-on-ball push-up 3  10
DB or KB lunge 3  10
BP row 3  10
Barbell deadlift 3  10
BP short rotation (10 to 2 o’clock) 3  10
WEDNESDAY
Barbell incline bench press 3  10
Single-leg squat 3  10
Barbell flat bench press 3  10
BP staggered-stance CLA row 3  10
Dip (load as needed) 3  10
SB skier 3  10
FRIDAY
Pull-down 3  10
Single-leg CLA anterior reach 3  10
BP row 3  10
BP staggered-stance CLA press 3  10
Barbell upright row 3  10
BP high-to-low chop 3  10

198 Functional Training
drive the core but unload the chest is the SB hands-on-ball push-up. This exer -
cise does not tax the chest and offers some active recovery from bench-pressing 
days, which is why it is called an unloading exercise. These two exercises would constitute the biplex:
1.
 Barbell squat or machine leg press
2. SB hands-on-ball push-up
If an entire pr
ogram consisted of biplexes, it would be 50 percent traditional 
hypertrophy training and 50 percent functional training, excluding the warm-up. Biplexes are excellent for athletes who want to focus on gaining muscle while still addressing other performance and rehabilitative concerns such as core stability. Here are some more sample biplexes and the rationale behind them.
Biplex 1
1.
 Traditional leg exer
cise: machine leg press
2. Unloading chest and core: BP
 staggered-stance CLA press
Reasoning: Provide the legs and hips with a strength and hypertrophy stimulus. 
Unload the chest with a core exercise that lengthens and strengthens the hip flexors.
Biplex 2
1.
 Traditional chest exer
cise: barbell flat bench press
2. Unloading legs and hips: single-leg CLA anterior r
each
Reasoning: Provide the chest with a strength and hypertrophy stimulus. Address 
lower-body rehabilitative concerns (i.e., hip, knee, and ankle stability) during the rest period.
Biplex 3
1.
 Traditional back exer
cise: pull-down
2. Rotational core: BP
 short rotation (10 to 2 o’clock)
Reasoning: Provide the back with a strength and hypertrophy stimulus. Address 
total-body and core stiffness rotational strength and stability.
Triplexes
To add more functional training to a biplex, we can add a third exercise. Assum-ing we are focusing on the legs with the traditional training and unloading the chest with the SB hand-on-ball push-up, we might choose a functional pulling exercise such as a BP staggered-stance CLA row for the third exercise. The BP staggered-stance CLA row trains the posterior muscles of the core and enhances flexibility in the hip flexors. The triplex hybrid complex would look like this:
1.
 Barbell squat or machine leg press
2. SB hands-on-ball push-up
3. BP stagger
ed-stance CLA row
The triplex splits the training emphasis to favor functional training: approxi-
mately 67 percent functional and 33 percent hypertrophy, excluding the warm-up and cool-down. This is my preferred format for clients who have developed a 

199 Hybrid Programming
high-intensity training base and can go through this circuit without fading in 
the traditional lifts. Here are a few more examples of triplexes and the rationale behind them.
Triplex 1
1.
 Traditional leg exer
cise: barbell squat
2. Unloading chest and core: side T plank
3. Unloading back and core: BP
 row
Reasoning: Provide the extensors of the legs and hips with strength and hypertro-
phy stimulus. Unload the chest and shoulders with a core exercise that strengthens the lateral aspect of the core. Unload the back muscles with a basic exercise that improves shoulder stability and postural mechanics.
Triplex 2
1.
 Traditional chest exer
cise: barbell incline bench press
2. Unloading legs, hips, and core: DB or KB lateral r
eaching lunge
3. Rotational core: BP
 high-to-low chop
Reasoning: Provide the chest with a strength and hypertrophy stimulus. Unload 
the legs and hips, address lower-body and core stability, and address triplanar range of motion. Train rotational strength and stability.
Triplex 3
1.
 Traditional back exer
cise: pull-down
2. Unloading chest and core: BP
 staggered-stance CLA press
3. Unloading legs, hips, and balance: single-leg CLA anterior r
each
Reasoning: Provide the back with a strength and hypertrophy stimulus. Unload 
the chest and train total-core and shoulder (scapula) stability. Functionally unload lower-body balance and stability.
Quadplexes
Many endurance athletes do not need to increase muscle mass, but they do want to be stronger and not lose any of the muscle mass they have. For these athletes, we can consider adding a fourth exercise to the triplex, making it a quadplex. The fourth exercise can deal with any other training concern. For example, let’s consider a soccer player who has had problems with lower abdominal weakness and groin pain. The fourth exercise can address this deficiency. The X-up  would 
make a great choice for the fourth exercise in this complex. The quadplex thus looks like this:
1.
 Barbell squat or machine leg press
2. SB hands-on-ball push-up
3. BP stagger
ed-stance CLA row
4. X-up
Of all the complexes, the quadplex provides the gr
eatest amount of functional 
training—75 percent functional and 25 percent traditional, not counting the warm-up and cool-down. This is a popular approach during the power-endurance  

200 Functional Training
phase of periodization and with endurance athletes who do not require significant 
hypertrophy. Here are a few examples of quadplexes and the rationale behind them.
Quadplex 1
1.
 Traditional leg exer
cise: barbell deadlift
2. Unloading chest and core: SB hands-on-ball push-up
3. Unloading back and core: r
ecline pull (row)
4. Rotational core: SB skier
Reasoning: Pr
ovide the legs and hips with a strength and hypertrophy stimu-
lus. Unload the chest with a core exercise that lengthens and strengthens the 
hip flexors. Unload the back while training hip and back extensor strength and lengthening the front core. Train rotational strength and range of motion.
Quadplex 2
1.
 Traditional shoulder exer
cise: barbell overhead press
2. Unloading legs and core: MB 
ABC squat
3. Unloading flexibility and core: SB r
ollout
4. Rotational core: BP
 high-to-low chop
Reasoning: Provide the shoulders with a strength and hypertrophy stimulus. 
Unload the legs and hips and address lower-body stability and triplanar range of motion. Unload the pulling muscles while lengthening and strengthening the anterior core. Address core stiffness and rotational stability.
Quadplex 3
1.
 Traditional back exer
cise: dumbbell bent-over row
2. Unloading chest and core: BP
 staggered-stance fly
3. Unloading leg and core: MB lunge with r
otation
4. Rotational core: SB skier
Reasoning: Pr
ovide the back with a strength and hypertrophy stimulus. Unload 
the chest and train anterior hip flexibility and stability. Unload the legs and hips 
and address lower-body balance and triplanar stability.
Execution of Complexes
The sets and repetitions for the hybrid complexes are easy to assign. The first exercise in a hybrid is a traditional exercise and follows the standard repetition scheme described in most periodization models. For example, during a hyper -
trophy cycle you would perform the first exercise in a hybrid complex for 8 to 15 repetitions, and during a strength cycle you would perform the first exercise for 4 to 6 repetitions. During each phase, you perform all functional exercises for 10 to 20 repetitions per side or for 10 to 20 seconds for balance or isometric exercises. This is how triplex 3 would look during a hypertrophy phase:
1.
 Traditional back exer
cise: pull-down (8-15 reps)
2. Unloading chest and core: BP
 staggered-stance CLA press (10-20 reps per 
right and left stance)

201 Hybrid Programming
3. Unloading legs, hips, and balance: single-leg CLA anterior r each (10-20 
reps per right and left leg)
The same triplex would look like this during a strength phase:
1. Traditional back exer
cise: pull-down (4-6 reps)
2. Unloading chest and core: BP
 staggered-stance CLA press (10-20 reps per 
right and left stance)
3. Unloading legs, hips, and balance: single-leg CLA anterior r
each (10-20 
reps per right and left leg)
During the power and power-endurance cycles, we pair a traditional strength 
exercise with an explosive equivalent and perform both for 5 repetitions. During 
the power cycle, we rest 60 seconds between the traditional exercise and the explosive equivalent. During the power-endurance cycle, we eliminate the rest period between the traditional exercise and the explosive equivalent. All unload-ing functional exercises continue to be performed for 10 to 20 repetitions per limb or for 10 to 20 seconds for balance and isometric exercises.
This is how triplex 3 would look during a power phase:
1.
 Traditional back exer
cise: pull-down (5 reps)
2. 60-second rest
3. Back explosive equivalent: MB overhead slam (5 r
eps)
4. Unloading legs, hips, and balance: single-leg CLA anterior r
each (10 to 20 
reps per right and left leg)
This is what triplex 3 would look like during a power-endurance phase:
1. Traditional back exer
cise: pull-down (5 reps)
2. No rest
3. Back explosive equivalent: MB overhead slam (5 r
eps)
4. Unloading legs, hips, and balance: single-leg CLA anterior r
each (10-20 
reps per right and left leg)
When training with the IHP hybrids, the athlete moves continuously. How-
ever, this does not mean she races through a workout. The workout can move along at a deliberate tempo: 20 to 30 seconds for each exercise, 15 to 20 seconds to transition between exercises, and 30 to 60 seconds between circuits. Expand the rest periods if the quality of the work is diminishing. Also, you can tailor the tempo to the goal of the cycle. For example, in a strength cycle the athlete may want to take longer rest periods than in a power-endurance cycle.
The IHP Hybrid Training System is excellent for large groups. It keeps every-
one busy, and everyone gets the most out of the training time. A three-exercise complex designed around a lifting rack can keep four athletes productive with no downtime, with one athlete squatting, one spotting (on deck, resting), one performing band rotations (attach the band to the lifting rack), and one doing rotational push-ups for shoulder stability.
The hybrid training system is extremely flexible; it can combine every modal-
ity you can think of, from stretching protocols to speed, agility, and quickness drills. The hybrid circuits should be simple and easy to execute; they should not become a circus act! Remember, coordination, dynamic balance, and stability are fast to develop because their enhancement is a neural event. Control and stability 

202 Functional Training
are sequencing (i.e., neural) issues, not hypertrophy issues. It takes some prac-
tice but uses little energy once mastered, just like riding a bike. Now, let’s take a look at some more examples of hybrid programming and additional hybrid programming principles.
Periodizing and Programming Hybrid 
Programs
Periodization of the hybrid program follows the same model discussed in chapter 6. Here is a review of the phases (or cycles) and the volume associated with each phase. See table 8.3 for a summary.
Conditioning and Hypertrophy
A high volume of work with a moderate intensity or load characterizes this cycle. The cycle length is approximately four weeks and the hybrid complexes are performed for enough sets so that each body part gets 12 to 20 sets per week with 8 to 15 repetitions per set for the traditional exercises. For example, if you are performing three triplexes on a leg day, do 3 to 5 sets of each triplex so that the traditional exercises total 9 to 15 sets per week. Although the lower range of 9 sets is not within the range of 12 to 20 sets per week, it still offers significant training. The standard goal for the set range for three triplexes is 4 sets each (12 sets per week).
Strength
The strength phase is characterized by low-volume, high-intensity training. The cycle length is approximately four weeks and the hybrid complexes are per -
formed for enough sets so that each body part gets 10 to 12 sets per week with 4 to 6 repetitions per set for the traditional exercises. As in the hypertrophy cycle, if you are performing three triplexes on a chest day, do 3 or 4 sets of each triplex so that the traditional exercises total 9 to 12 sets per week. Although the lower range of 9 sets is not within the range of 10 to 12 sets per week, it is basically equivalent as far as training is concerned. You can easily perform 12 sets per week by performing 4 sets of three triplexes.
TABLE 8.3  Periodization of Hybrid Training
CycleCycle 
lengthSets per week per body partReps of traditional exerciseReps of functional/unloading exercise
Conditioning and 
hypertrophy4 weeks 12 to 20 8 to 15 10 to 20 reps or sec.
Strength 4 weeks 10 to 12 4 to 6 10 to 20 reps or sec.
Power 4 weeks 8 to 12 5 and 5  
(rest 60 sec. between exercises)10 to 20 reps or sec.
Power endurance 4 weeks 8 to 12 5 and 5 (no rest) 10 to 20 reps or sec.

203 Hybrid Programming
Power
The power phase is characterized by low-volume, high-speed training. The cycle 
length is approximately four weeks and the hybrid complexes are performed for enough sets so that each body part gets 8 to 12 sets that consist of 5 repetitions of a strength exercise and 5 repetitions of an explosive equivalent exercise, with 60 seconds of rest between the first and second exercise in the power complex. For example, if you are performing three triplexes on a back day, do 3 or 4 sets of each triplex so that the traditional back strength and explosive equivalent combination totals 9 to 12 sets per week, well within the 8 to 12 range.
Power Endurance
The power-endurance cycle is identical to the power cycle except for the rest period between the first and second exercises of the power complex. During the power-endurance cycle, there is no rest period between the traditional strength exercise and the explosive equivalent. Performing three triplexes on a chest day, do three or four sets of each triplex so that the traditional chest strength and explosive equivalent combination totals 9 to 12 sets per week. This falls within our 8 to 12 sets weekly range.
Sample Programs
For many athletes, getting bigger and stronger is definitely on the to-do list. The hybrid model is an efficient way to meet this goal. Table 8.4 illustrates the general approach to designing a monthly hybrid that combines strength and 
TABLE 8.4  Sample IHP Hybrid Conditioning and Hypertrophy or Strength 
Template
Day 1
Legs and hipsDay 2PushDay 3Pull
TS leg exercise  
(parallel stance)
FT unloading push exercise
FT upper-body ROM/rehab 
exerciseTS push exercise (incline)FT unloading leg/hip  
exercise
FT lower-body balance/
ROM exerciseTS pull exercise  
(downward pull)
FT unloading leg/hip  
exercise
FT vibration or rehab  
exercise
TS leg exercise (staggered- 
stance alternating)
FT unloading pull exerciseFT rotation exercise  
(side to side)TS push exercise (straight)FT unloading pull exerciseFT rotation exercise  
(low to high)TS pull exercise  
(inward pull)
FT unloading push exerciseFT rotation exercise  
(high to low)
TS leg exercise  
(hip dominant)
FT unloading push–pull 
exercise
FT front core exerciseTS push exercise (decline)FT unloading leg/hip pull 
exercise
FT back core exerciseTS pull exercise  
(upward pull)
FT unloading leg/hip push 
exercise
FT back core exercise
TS: traditional strength, FT: functional training, ROM: range of motion

204 Functional Training
function. This template shows the category of each exercise so that plugging in 
exercises within the same category can yield an unlimited number of programs. Remember, this is just one of many templates; your imagination is the only limit to programming in the IHP hybrid training system.
The set and repetition ranges for the hybrid conditioning and hypertrophy or 
strength template are as follows:
Conditioning and hypertrophy cycle: 3 or 5 sets of each triplex, with 8 to 15 
repetitions of the traditional exercise and 10 to 20 repetitions or seconds (if isometric or balance) of the functional training exercises
Strength cycle: 3 or 4 sets of each triplex, with 4 to 6 repetitions of the tradi-
tional exercise and 10 to 20 repetitions or seconds (if isometric or balance) of the functional training exercises
Plugging in some of the exercises from this book yields the comprehensive 
hybrid program shown in table 8.5. If each triplex is performed for approximately 4 sets, each body part gets about 12 sets per week. During a conditioning and hypertrophy cycle, the first exercise (i.e., the traditional exercise) would be per -
formed for 8 to 15 repetitions, and for a strength cycle the first exercise would be performed for 4 to 6 repetitions.
The tempo of the strength training exercises need not be slow. Although you 
can use slower tempos, especially for traditional strength training, I prefer the standard tempo of 1 to 2 seconds per repetition for all exercises during the hyper-trophy and strength phases. The rest between exercises depends on the intensity of the exercise. A slow 15- to 30-second walk from station to station is usually enough recovery to allow the athlete to continue with good form and intensity. The rest period between triplexes (i.e., the third and first exercises of a triplex) can range from 1 to 2 minutes, again depending on how heavy the training load is for the traditional and functional exercises. After completing a triplex for 3 or 4 sets, you can take a 2- to 5-minute rest to set up the next triplex and mentally prepare for a high-intensity output.
TABLE 8.5  Sample IHP Hybrid Conditioning and Hypertrophy or Strength 
Workout
Day 1
Legs and hipsDay 2PushDay 3Pull
Barbell squat
BP staggered-stance  
alternating press
SB rolloutBarbell incline bench pressDB or KB lateral reaching 
lunge
Single-leg CLA anterior 
reachPull-downDB or KB front reaching 
lunge
Vibration blade 12 o’clock 
oscillation
DB or KB lungeRecline pull (row)BP short rotation  
(10 to 2 o’clock)Barbell flat bench pressBP staggered-stance CLA 
compound row
BP low-to-high chopSeated cable rowT push-upBP high-to-low chop
Barbell deadliftBP push–pullSB knee tuckDip (load as needed)BP staggered-stance  
(or single-leg) alternating 
row
45-degree back extensionBarbell upright row
BP staggered-stance  
(or single-leg) alternating 
press
SB reverse hyperextension

205 Hybrid Programming
We can follow the same model for the power and power-endurance cycles as 
we did for the hypertrophy and strength cycles. Table 8.6 shows a template for the 
power and power-endurance cycles. Simply use any of the exercises that match the category in the template to create a monthly power or power-endurance workout.
The repetition range for the power and power-endurance template is as follows:
Power cycle: 3 or 4 sets of each triplex, with 5 reps of the traditional exercise 
and explosive exercise with a 1-minute rest between exercises, resting about 
30 seconds before going on to 10 to 20 reps of the third functional training exercise
Power-endurance cycle: 3 to 4 sets of each triplex, with 5 reps of the traditional 
and explosive exercises with no rest between exercises, resting about 30 sec-onds before going on to 10 to 20 reps of the third functional training exercise
Plugging in some of the exercises from previous chapters yields the program 
in table 8.7. This is just one of the many power and power-endurance workouts that can be designed using the triplex template from table 8.6. Again, the only difference between the power and the power-endurance cycles is the rest period between the first (traditional) exercise and the second (explosive equivalent) exercise. The athlete rests 1 minute between exercises during the power cycle and doesn’t rest during the power-endurance cycle.
The focus during the power and power-endurance phases is speed of move-
ment. The first exercise in each triplex is performed with a load that is heavy enough to maintain strength but light enough to allow the athlete to move the weight in a dynamic fashion. Normally I advise a load that allows about 8 rep-etitions when performing the 5 heavy repetitions needed in the power phase. These 5 repetitions need to be performed at good speed with excellent form when lifting the weight (control the descent), allowing a nice combination of load and speed during the strength exercise. The explosive exercise should be a simple exercise that allows an all-out effort with excellent speed.
During the power cycle, the rest between the first and second exercises is approx-
imately 1 minute. Efforts on the explosive equivalent must be personal-record  
TABLE 8.6  Sample IHP Hybrid Power or Power-Endurance Template
Day 1
Legs and hipsDay 2PushDay 3Pull
TS leg exercise  
(parallel stance)
Explosive leg exercise
FT upper-body ROM/rehab 
exerciseTS push exercise (incline)Explosive push exerciseFT lower-body balance/
ROM exerciseTS pull exercise  
(downward pull)
Explosive pull exerciseFT vibration or rehab  
exercise
TS leg exercise (staggered- 
stance alternating)
Explosive leg exerciseFT rotation exerciseTS push exercise (straight)Explosive push exerciseFT rotation exerciseTS pull exercise  
(inward pull)
Explosive pull exerciseFT rotation exercise
TS leg exercise  
(hip dominant)
Explosive leg exerciseFT front core exerciseTS push exercise (decline)Explosive push exerciseFT back core exerciseTS pull exercise  
(upward pull)
Explosive pull exerciseFT back core exercise
TS: traditional strength, FT: functional training, ROM: range of motion

206 Functional Training
attempts. This can’t be emphasized enough. All too often athletes perform the 
explosive repetitions without game intensity. Take your time and explode, resting your body and mind after each repetition. After completing all power repetitions, slowly walk to the third functional exercise and execute it for 10 to 20 repetitions. Rest 1 to 2 minutes and return to the traditional exercise of the power complex. Rest 3 to 5 minutes between the first, second, and third triplexes.
During the power-endurance cycle, there is no rest between the first and second 
exercises. Due to the lack of rest, the repetitions are a bit slower than during the power cycle; however, you make an all-out attempt to keep each repetition at a maximum. For endurance sports, you can experiment with higher repetition ranges during power exercises depending on the training volume used for that specific sport. I have used 10 to 15 repetitions with cross country runners with good success. After completing all power repetitions, slowly walk to the third functional exercise and execute it for 10 to 20 repetitions. Rest 1 to 2 minutes and return to the traditional exercise of the power complex. Rest 3 to 5 minutes between the first, second, and third triplexes. However, you may reduce the rest periods between triplexes to create a fast-paced circuit if you would like to add a conditioning element to the hybrid strength training. Running through a triplex three to four times without rest can become challenging from a neurological and metabolic perspective. Now, imagine doing that with three triplexes within a single workout well under 60 minutes, including warm-up and cool-down!
Conclusion
Functional training does not operate in a vacuum, and it does not have to exclude other training modalities, methods, or systems. The hybrid system created at IHP seamlessly combines functional training with any other training system on the planet, from yoga to powerlifting. This hybrid approach has allowed us to create monster athletes and change the face of best practices in fitness.
The final chapter brings it all together and offers the most comprehensive 
selection of sport-specific functional training ever assembled in a single text. You are in for a real treat!TABLE 8.7  Sample IHP Hybrid Power and Power-Endurance Workout
Day 1
Legs and hipsDay 2PushDay 3Pull
Barbell squat
Squat jumpSB rolloutBarbell incline bench pressMB staggered-stance CLA 
incline chest throw
Single-leg CLA anterior 
reachPull-downMB overhead slamVibration blade 12 o’clock 
oscillation
DB or KB lungeAlternating split jumpBP short rotation (10 to 2 
o’clock)Barbell flat bench pressMB staggered-stance CLA 
straight chest throw
BP low-to-high chopBP rowMB overhead side-to-side 
slam
BP high-to-low chop
Barbell deadliftBurpeeSB knee tuckDip (load as needed)MB staggered stance CLA 
decline chest throw
45-degree back extensionBarbell upright rowMB reverse scoop throwSB reverse hyperextension

207
CHAPTER
9
Sport-Specific Programs
The sport-specific programs in this chapter take the functional exercises related 
to the four pillars and group them into the best programs. Many of the exercises listed in one program can greatly benefit athletes in other sports. It also worth mentioning that a sport may have three or more distinct positions, each with its own physical build and performance characteristics. For example, a receiver in American football may have more of a soccer profile, but an offensive lineman may have more of a combative profile. Therefore, don’t be afraid to mix and match program sections (e.g., triplexes, warm-ups, and core programs).
You can also use the grab-and-go and express protocols from chapter 7 to 
add specific training for attributes you want to emphasize during your practice, warm-up, cool-down, or homework. For example, athletes can perform the Run-ning Speed-Demon Protocol and the Triple Threat (chapter 7) during commercials while watching TV in the evening. The flexibility and compartmentalization of training units (e.g., express programs, hybrid complexes, metabolic protocols) allow the athlete and coach to start with one of the sample programs and tailor it to the specific sport and athlete.
Unless otherwise specified, the following programs can be performed one 
to three times per week, depending on the athlete’s volume of work and her training experience and maturity (i.e., training base). This is especially true of the power-endurance phase where the hard metabolic training takes place. If an athlete has a heavy competition schedule, she may only be able to do one day per week. Under regular circumstances, two days per week is the norm. If the athlete’s schedule is on the lighter side, three days per week can be attempted, but the athlete should be monitored for overtraining symptoms.

208
High-Power Intermittent Sports
High-power arena sports, such as American football and field and ice hockey, require 
quick bursts of action, lateral changes in direction, and extraordinary physical contact. Running distances rarely cover more than 10 to 20 yards (9-18 m) in a straight line. Quick and short changes of direction are needed during play and are often associated with obstacle avoidance. Because high power acceleration is needed, the posterior chain must be developed to a high level.
Warm-Up for All Workouts
Chopper: 2 to 3  10
Single-leg CLA anterior reach: 2 to 3  10 to 20 per leg
CONDITIONING
Perform each triplex in order and then start the sequence again. Complete as many sets 
as indicated. Rest adequately between each exercise to maintain good form and quality of movement, eventually targeting a 30- to 60-second rest period after each exercise. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.1.
THE EXERCISES
DB or KB squat. BP staggered-stance 
press.BP staggered-stance 
CLA low-to-high row.
BP deadlift. Plank. Recline pull (row).


209
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
TABLE 9.1  High-Power Intermittent Sports: Conditioning Triplexes
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Triplex 1
1.  DB or KB squat
2.  BP staggered-stance press
3.  BP staggered-stance CLA  low-to-high row2 
 10 3  10 3  15 4  10 to 15
907482
Triplex 21. 
 BP deadlift
2.  Plank (progress to  three-point ver
sion)
3.  Recline pull (row)2 
 10 3  10 3  15 4  10 to 15
7057
46
Core 1
Triple Threat (weeks 1-5)
Slide running: 2 or 3  10 to 20 per side
STRENGTH
Perform each triplex in order for the number of sets indicated. Rest adequately between 
each exercise to maintain good form and quality of movement, eventually targeting a 30- to 60-second rest period after each exercise. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while keeping good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.2.
THE EXERCISES
Single-leg squat. MB crossover push-up. BP staggered-stance 
CLA compound row.
DB or KB single-leg RDL. Single-arm eccentrics. BP push–pull. > continued


210
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.High-Power Intermittent Sports  > continued
TABLE 9.2  High-Power Intermittent Sports: Strength Triplexes
All single-leg or single-arm exercises should be performed on each leg or arm.
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page 
Triplex 1
1.  Single-leg squat  (add dumbbells or a medicine ball if necessar
y)
2.  MB crossover push-up
3.  BP staggered-stance CLA com-pound row1 
 6 2  6 3  4 to 6 4  4 to 6
40
115
83
Triplex 21. 
 DB or KB single-leg RDL
2.  Single-arm eccentrics
3.  BP push–pull1 
 6 2  6 3  4 to 6 4  4 to 6
925989
Core 2
Triple Threat (weeks 6-10)
Slide running: 2 or 3  10 to 20 per side
POWER AND POWER ENDURANCE
Perform each biplex in order for the number of sets indicated. For power, rest 1 minute 
between the first and second exercises, and then rest 1 to 2 minutes between the second and first exercises. For power endurance, do not rest between the first and second exercises, and then rest 1 minute between the second and first exercises. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.3.
Additional Warm-Up for Power and Power-Endurance Workouts
Agility ladder split step: 2 or 3 sets
Agility ladder lateral rotational jump: 2 or 3 sets
THE EXERCISES
KB single-arm swing. Squat jump. BP staggered-stance 
press.Explosive push-up.


211
BP row. MB overhead 
slam.BP short rotation 
(10 to 2 o’clock).MB rotational throw:  perpendicular.
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
TABLE 9.3  High-Power Intermittent Sports: Power and Power-Endurance Biplexes
The single-arm swing should be performed on each arm.
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Biplex 1
1.  KB single-arm swing
2.  Squat jump2 
 5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 4  5 + 5
9166
Biplex 21. 
 BP staggered-stance press
2.  Explosive push-up2 
 5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 4  5 + 5
7469
Biplex 31. 
 BP row
2.  MB overhead slam2 
 5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 4  5 + 5
77120
Biplex 41. 
 BP short rotation  (10 to 2 o’clock)
2. 
 MB rotational throw:  per
pendicular2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 4  5 + 5
87
121
5 + 5 indicates 60 seconds of rest between the first and second exercise for power. For power endurance, go straight 
from the first exercise to the second without resting.
Core 3
For power: Triple Threat (weeks 11-15), slide running (2 or 3  10-20 per side)
For power endurance: Triple Threat (weeks 16-20), slide running (3 or 4  10-20 
per side)
Metabolic
For power: 300-yard (274 m) shuttle (25 yd [22.8 m]  12), 2 sets, 3 times per 
week (1:3 work:rest ratio)
For power endurance: 300-yard (274 m) shuttle, 3 or 4 sets, 2 or 3 times per 
week (1:2 to 1:1 work:rest ratio)

212
Racket Sports
Racket sports such as tennis, badminton, racquetball, and squash have much in 
common. Players use low positions to get to low balls and overhead positions for serves or smashes. Quick and short changes of directions, especially lateral changes of direction, are needed during 5 to 8 seconds of play. The posterior musculature is especially important due to the low positions and changes of directions.
Warm-Up for All Workouts
Gary’s Dumbbell Matrix: 2 sets
CONDITIONING
Perform each triplex in order and then start the sequence again. Complete as many sets 
as indicated. Rest adequately between each exercise to maintain good form and quality of movement, eventually targeting a 30- to 60-second rest period after each exercise. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.4.
THE EXERCISES
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
MB wood chop. Side T plank. BP compound 
row.
MB ABC squat. BP staggered-stance fly.BP staggered-stance CLA row.


213
TABLE 9.4  Racket Sports: Conditioning Triplexes
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Triplex 1
1.  MB wood chop
2.  Side T plank
3.  BP compound row2 
 10 3  10 3  15 4  10 to 15
1105880
Triplex 21. 
 MB ABC squat
2.  BP staggered-stance fly
3.  BP staggered-stance CLA row2 
 10 3  10 3  15 4  10 to 15
1127681
Core 1
Core Activator: 2  10
Rope circles (clockwise and counterclockwise): 2  10 to 15 sec. each directionVibration blade throw: 2  10 sec. per side
STRENGTH
Perform each triplex in order for the number of sets indicated. Rest adequately between 
each exercise to maintain good form and quality of movement, eventually targeting a 30- to 60-second rest period after each exercise. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.5.
THE EXERCISES
BP low-to-high chop. DB single-arm diag-
onal fly rotation.BP staggered-stance 
CLA compound row.
DB or KB lateral reaching lunge.T push-up. DB or KB staggered-stance bent-over single-arm row.
> continued


214
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
TABLE 9.5  Racket Sports: Strength Triplexes
The DB single-arm diagonal fly rotation and DB or KB staggered-stance bent-over single-arm 
row should be performed on each arm.
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Triplex 11. 
 BP low-to-high chop
2.  DB single-arm diagonal fly rotation
3.  BP staggered-stance CLA compound row1 
 6 2  6 3  4 4  4
8610683
Triplex 21. 
 DB or KB lateral reaching lunge
2.  T push-up (slow)
3.  DB or KB staggered-stance bent-over single-ar
m row1  6 2  6 3  4 4  4
956097
Core 2
X-up: 2  10
SB rollout: 2  10
Rope circles (clockwise and counterclockwise): 2  20 sec. each direction
Vibration blade throw: 2  15 sec. per side
POWER AND POWER ENDURANCE
Perform each biplex in order for the number of sets indicated. For power, rest 1 minute 
between the first and second exercises and then 1 to 2 minutes between the second and first exercises. For power endurance, do not rest between the first and second exercises, but rest 1 minute between the second and first exercises. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.6.
Additional Warm-Up
Crooked stick hexagon drill: 2 or 3 sets
Crooked stick cross-rotational jump drill: 2 or 3 sets
THE EXERCISES
DB or KB lateral 
reaching lunge.Skater. BP low-to-high chop. MB rotational throw:  
perpendicular.Racket Sports  > continued

215
BP high-to-low chop. MB overhead  
side-to-side slam.BP swim. MB overhead 
slam.
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
TABLE 9.6  Racket Sports: Power and Power-Endurance Biplexes
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Biplex 1
1.  DB or KB lateral reaching lunge
2. 
 Skater2 
 5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5 4  5 + 5
95
67
Biplex 2
1.  BP low-to-high chop
2.  MB rotational throw:  per
pendicular2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5 4  5 + 5
86121
Biplex 31. 
 BP high-to-low chop
2.  MB overhead side-to-side slam2 
 5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5 4  5 + 5
85121
Biplex 41. 
 BP swim
2.  MB overhead slam2 
 5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5 4  5 + 5
84120
5 + 5 indicates 60 seconds of rest between the first and second exercise for power. For power endurance, go straight 
from the first exercise to the second without resting.
Core 3
Single-leg CLA anterior reach: 3  10 per leg
Rope circles (clockwise and counterclockwise): 3  10 to 15 sec. each direction
Vibration blade throw: 3  10 sec. per side
Metabolic
For power: spider drill, 2 or 3 sets, 3 times per week (1:3 work:rest ratio)
For power endurance: spider drill, 4 or 5 sets, 2 or 3 times per week (1:2 to 1:1 
work:rest ratio)
Aim to complete the spider drill in 17 to 21 seconds.


216
Batting, Throwing, and Catching Sports
Sports such as baseball, softball, and cricket consist primarily of batting, throwing, 
and catching. Batting requires strong rotational movements and force transfer from the ground to the arms. The throwing motion uses the anterior aspect of the core to generate power. Catching requires various abilities, depending on the sport and position the athlete plays. A power-endurance phase is included for high-repetition positions such as pitchers and catchers.
Warm-Up for Conditioning and Strength
Gary’s Dumbbell Matrix: 1 or 2 sets
Vibration blade throw: 3  10 per side
CONDITIONING
Perform each triplex in order and then start the sequence again. Complete as many sets 
as indicated. Rest adequately between each exercise to maintain good form and quality of movement, eventually targeting a 30- to 60-second rest period after each exercise. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.7.
THE EXERCISES
MB wood chop. BP staggered-stance 
CLA incline press.Ropes alternating 
up and down.
MB lunge with rotation.BP staggered-stance fly.
SB rollout. BP high-to-low chop. BP short rotation (10 to 2 o’clock).BP low-to-high chop.

217
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
TABLE 9.7  Batting, Throwing, and Catching Sports: Conditioning Triplexes
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Triplex 1
1.  MB wood chop
2.  BP staggered-stance CLA incline press
3. 
 Ropes alternating up and down2 
 10 3  10 3  15 4  10 to 15
11073
139
Triplex 2
1. 
 MB lunge with rotation
2.  BP staggered-stance fly
3.  SB rollout2 
 10 3  10 3  15 4  10 to 15
11376127
Triplex 3 (Steel Core)1. 
 BP high-to-low chop
2.  BP short rotation (10 to 2 o’clock)
3.  BP low-to-high chop2 
 10 3  10 3  15 4  10 to 15
858786
Core 1
Fabulous Five: 2 sets
Vibration blade throw: 2  10 sec. per sideRope circles (clockwise and counterclockwise): 2  10 sec. each direction
STRENGTH
Perform each triplex in order for the number of sets indicated. Rest adequately between 
each exercise to maintain good form and quality of movement, eventually targeting a 30- to 60-second rest period after each exercise. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.8.
THE EXERCISES
BP low-to-high chop. BP staggered-stance 
CLA press.BP staggered-stance alternating row.
> continued


218
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
T push-up. BP push–pull.
BP staggered-stance 
CLA compound row.SB rollout. X-up.
TABLE 9.8  Batting, Throwing, and Catching Sports: Strength Triplexes
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Triplex 1
1. BP low-to-high chop2. BP staggered-stance CLA press3. BP staggered-stance alternating row1  6 2  6 3  4 4  4
867278
Triplex 21. DB or KB front reaching lunge2. T push-up (slow)3. BP push–pull1  6 2  6 3  4 4  4
946089
Triplex 31. BP staggered-stance CLA compound row2. SB rollout3. X-up* 1  6 2  6 3  4 4  4
8312762
*Make the exercise harder by slowing down to a 3 count up and 3 count down.Batting, Throwing, and Catching Sports  > continued
Core 2
Ropes alternating up and down: 2  20 per arm
Rope circles (clockwise and counterclockwise): 2  10 to 20 sec. each directionVibration blade throw: 2  10 sec. each side
DB or KB front reaching 
lunge.


219
POWER AND POWER ENDURANCE
Perform each biplex in order for the number of sets indicated. For power, rest 1 minute 
between the first and second exercises, and then rest 1 to 2 minutes between the second and first exercises. For power endurance, do not rest between the first and second exercises, and then rest 1 minute between the second and first exercises. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression shown in table 9.9.
Warm-Up
Steel Core: 3  10
Ropes alternating up and down: 2  20 per armRope circles (clockwise and counterclockwise): 2  10 to 20 sec. each direction
THE EXERCISES
BP staggered-stance CLA deadlift. Alternating split 
jump.BP high-to-low chop. MB rotational throw:  
perpendicular.
BP push–pull. MB staggered-stance CLA 
straight chest throw.BP staggered-stance 
CLA high-to-low row.MB overhead slam.
> continued

220
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
TABLE 9.9  Batting, Throwing, and Catching Sports: Power and Power-Endurance Biplexes
POWER
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page 
Biplex 1
1.  BP staggered-stance CLA deadlift
2. 
 Alternating split jump2 
 5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
71
66
Biplex 2
1.  BP high-to-low chop
2.  MB rotational throw:  per
pendicular2  5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
85121
Biplex 31. 
 BP push–pull
2.  MB staggered-stance CLA straight chest throw2 
 5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
89118
Biplex 41. 
 BP staggered-stance CLA high-to-low row
2. 
 MB overhead slam2 
 5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
82
120
POWER ENDURANCE
Biplex 1
1.  BP staggered-stance CLA deadlift
2. 
 Alternating split jump2 or 3 
 5 + 5 2 or 3  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5
71
66
Biplex 2
1.  BP high-to-low chop
2. MB rotational throw:  per
pendicular2 or 3  5 + 5 2 or 3  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5
85121
Biplex 31. 
 BP push–pull
2.  MB staggered-stance CLA straight chest throw2 or 3 
 5 + 5 2 or 3  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5
89118
Biplex 41. 
 BP staggered-stance CLA high-to-low row
2. 
 MB overhead slam2 or 3 
 5 + 5 2 or 3  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5
82
120
5 + 5 indicates 60 seconds of rest between the first and second exercise for power. For power endurance, go straight from the first 
exercise to the second without resting.Batting, Throwing, and Catching Sports  > continued
Core 3
SB rollout: 3  10
Single-leg CLA anterior reach: 3  10 per legVibration blade throw: 2  10 sec. each side

221
Running Sports
Sports that require high power or sustained running, such as track and field and 
endurance running, are rarely grouped together. However, all running is a variation of a sprint. This approach is substantiated by the increased amount of forefoot running in long races (e.g., mile, 5K, marathons). Long distances that used to be covered using a heel-to-toe (full foot) plant are now being raced on the forefoot and finished in sprint times. Therefore, this program increases the power output of the body’s locomotive system and then lets the athlete adapt the power gained to his specific race and dis-tance covered.
Warm-Up for Conditioning and Strength
Fabulous Five: 2 sets
Runner’s reach: 2  10 to 20Slide running: 2  10 per side
CONDITIONING
Perform each quadplex in order and then start the sequence again. Complete for as 
many sets as indicated. Rest adequately between each exercise to maintain good form and quality of movement, eventually targeting a 30- to 60-second rest period after each exercise. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.10.
THE EXERCISES
Single-leg CLA 
anterior reach.DB or KB cross overhead press.SB hands-on-ball push-up. 45-degree calf pump.
Single-leg squat. BP push–pull. Recline pull 
(row).45-degree wall run.
> continued

222
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
TABLE 9.10  Running Sports: Conditioning Quadplexes
The single-leg CLA anterior reach and single-leg squat should be performed on each leg.
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Quadplex 1
1.  Single-leg CLA anterior reach
2.  DB or KB cross overhead press
3.  SB hands-on-ball push-up
4.  45-degree calf pump (15 sec.)2 
 10 3  10 3  15 4  10 to 15
3910012563
Quadplex 21. 
 Single-leg squat
2.  BP push–pull
3.  Recline pull (row)
4.  45-degree wall r
un (15 sec.)2  10 3  10 3  15 4  10 to 15
40894664
Core 1
Triple Threat (weeks 1-5)
Running curl: 2 or 3  10 to 20 per arm
STRENGTH
Perform each triplex in order for the number of sets indicated. Rest adequately between 
each exercise to maintain good form and quality of movement, eventually targeting a 30- to 60-second rest period after each exercise. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while keeping good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.11.
Additional Warm-Up
45-degree calf pump: 2  30 sec.
45-degree wall run: 2  30 sec.
THE EXERCISES
DB or KB single-leg RDL. BP staggered-stance 
CLA decline press.MB short diagonal 
chop.Running Sports  > continued

223
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
BP staggered-stance 
CLA compound row.DB horizontal fly  rotation.BP staggered-stance alternating row.
TABLE 9.11  Running Sports: Strength Triplexes
The DB or KB single-leg RDL should be performed on each leg.
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Triplex 1
1. DB or KB single-leg RDL2. BP staggered-stance CLA decline press3. MB short diagonal chop2  6 3  6 3  4 4  4
9274112
Triplex 21. BP staggered-stance CLA compound row2. DB horizontal fly rotation3. BP staggered-stance alternating row2  6 3  6 3  4 4  4
8310578
Core 2
Triple Threat (weeks 6-10)
Running curl: 2 or 3  10 to 20 per armRopes alternating up and down: 2 or 3  10 to 20 per arm
POWER AND POWER ENDURANCE
Perform each quadplex in order and then start the sequence again. Complete for as 
many sets as indicated. For power, rest 1 minute between exercises and then 1 to 2 minutes between the second and first exercises. For power endurance, do not rest between exercises and then rest 0 to 30 seconds between circuits. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.12.
Warm-Up
45-degree calf pump: 2 or 3  45 to 60 sec.
45-degree wall run: 2 or 3  45 to 60 sec.Runner’s reach: 2  10 to 20Slide running: 2  10 per side
> continued

224
THE EXERCISES
Bodyweight double- 
leg squat.Bodyweight alter-nating lunge.Alternating split jump.Squat jump.
Bodyweight push-up.BP staggered-stance alternating press.BP staggered-stance fly.Explosive push-up.
BP row. BP staggered-stance bent-over alternating row.BP swim. MB overhead slam.
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
Running Sports  > continued


225
TABLE 9.12  Running Sports: Power and Power-Endurance Complexes
POWER*
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Meta complex 1  
(JC Leg Crank)Bodyweight double-leg squatBodyweight alternating lungeAlternating split jumpSquat jump2 sets
 24
 12 per leg 12 per leg 122 sets
 24
 12 per leg 12 per leg 123 sets
 24
 12 per leg 12 per leg 123 sets
 24
 12 per leg 12 per leg 1242436666
Meta complex 2  (JC Meta Chest 1.0)Bodyweight push-upBP staggered-stance  
alternating press
BP staggered-stance flyExplosive push-up2 sets
 20
 20 per leg
 10 per side
 102 sets
 20
 20 per leg
 10 per side
 103 sets
 20
 20 per leg
 10 per side
 103 sets
 20
 20 per leg
 10 per side
 104475
76
69
Meta complex 3  (JC Meta Back)BP rowBP staggered-stance  
bent-over alternating row
BP swimMB overhead slam2 sets
 20
 20 per arm 
and leg
 20 102 sets
 20
 20 per arm 
and leg
 20 103 sets
 20
 20 per arm 
and leg
 20 103 sets
 20
 20 per arm 
and leg
 20 107779
84
120
POWER ENDURANCE**
Meta complex 1  (JC Leg Crank)Bodyweight double-leg squatBodyweight alternating lungeAlternating split jumpSquat jump2 sets
 24
 12 per leg 12 per leg 122 sets
 24
 12 per leg 12 per leg 123 sets
 24
 12 per leg 12 per leg 123 sets
 24
 12 per leg 12 per leg 1242436666
Meta complex 2  (JC Meta Chest 1.0)Bodyweight push-upBP staggered-stance  
alternating press
BP staggered-stance flyExplosive push-up1 to 2 sets
 20
 20 per leg
 10 per side
 101 to 2 sets
 20
 20 per leg
 10 per side
 102 sets
 20
 20 per leg
 10 per side
 102 sets
 20
 20 per leg
 10 per side
 104475
76
69
Meta complex 3  (JC Meta Back)BP rowBP staggered-stance  
bent-over alternating row
BP swimMB overhead slam1 to 2 sets
 20
 20 per arm 
and leg
 20 101 to 2 sets
 20
 20 per arm 
and leg
 20 103 sets
 20
 20 per arm 
and leg
 20 103 sets
 20
 20 per arm 
and leg
 20 107779
84
120
*During the power phase, rest 30-60 seconds between each exercise and 1-2 minutes between each circuit. Concentrate on high 
intensity with each repetition.
**During the power endurance phase, do not rest between each exercise. During weeks 1 and 2, rest 1 minute between each circuit. 
During week 3, rest only 30 seconds between each circuit. Week 4, try not to rest between exercises or sets.
Supplemental Core
Triple Threat (weeks 11-15) for power
Triple Threat (weeks 16-20) for power enduranceRunning curl: 2 or 3  10 to 20 per armRopes alternating up and down: 2 or 3  10 to 20 per arm

226
Combat Sports
Combat sports, such as mixed martial arts (MMA), judo, wrestling, and taekwondo, 
require a combination of power and endurance. The contractions needed for combat can range from long isometric contractions to short, explosive muscle actions. Regardless of grappling or striking technique, strong rotational forces traveling through the core are the key characteristic targeted for improvement.
Warm-Up for All Workouts
Gary’s Dumbbell Matrix: 2 or 3 sets, dumbbells (5-10 percent of body weight)
CONDITIONING
Perform each quadplex in order and then start the sequence again. Complete for as 
many sets as indicated. Rest adequately between each exercise to maintain good form and quality of movement, eventually targeting a 30- to 60-second rest period after each exercise. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.13.
THE EXERCISES
KB single-arm swing. T push-up. Recline pull 
(row).BP short rotation (10 to 2 o’clock).
BP deadlift. BP staggered-stance bent-over alternating row.MB crossover push-up. MB short diagonal chop.

227
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
TABLE 9.13  Combat Sports: Conditioning Quadplexes
The KB single-arm swing should be performed on each arm.
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Quadplex 1
1.  KB single-arm swing
2.  T push-up
3.  Recline pull (row)
4.  BP short rotation (10 to 2 o’clock)2 
 10 3  10 3  15 4  10 to 15
91604687
Quadplex 21. 
 BP deadlift
2.  BP staggered-stance bent-over alter
nating row
3.  MB crossover push-up
4.  MB short diagonal chop2 
 10 3  10 3  15 4  10 to 15
7079
115
112
Core 1
DB or KB carry: 2 or 3  30 sec.
Ropes alternating up and down: 2  20 per armRope circles (clockwise and counterclockwise): 2  10 to 20 sec. each direction
STRENGTH
Perform each quadplex in order and then start the sequence again. Rest adequately 
between each exercise to maintain good form and quality of movement, eventually targeting a 30- to 60-second rest period after each exercise. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.14.
THE EXERCISES
BP compound 
row.MB single-arm push-off. BP staggered-stance CLA high-to-low row.BP high-to-low chop.
> continued

228
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
BP staggered-stance CLA deadlift. Single-arm eccentrics. BP staggered-stance bent-over 
alternating row.
SB skier.
TABLE 9.14  Combat Sports: Strength Quadplexes
The MB single-arm push-off and single-arm eccentrics should be performed on each arm.
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Quadplex 1
1.  BP compound row
2.  MB single-arm push-off
3.  BP staggered-stance CLA  high-to-low row
4. 
 BP high-to-low chop1 
 6 2  6 3  4 4  4
8011482
85
Quadplex 2
1. 
 BP staggered-stance CLA deadlift
2.  Single-arm eccentrics
3.  BP staggered-stance bent-over  alter
nating row
4.  SB skier1 
 6 2  6 3  4 4  4
715979
132
Core 2
DB or KB carry: 4  30 sec.
Ropes alternating up and down: 3  20 per armRope circles (clockwise and counterclockwise): 3  10 to 20 sec. each direction
Combat Sports  > continued


229
POWER
Perform each biplex in order and then start the sequence again. Rest for 1 minute 
between the first and second exercises and then 1 to 2 minutes between the second and first exercises. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.15.
THE EXERCISES
BP compound 
row.Burpee. DB or KB front reaching 
lunge.Alternating split jump.MB crossover push-up.
MB staggered-stance CLA decline chest throw.BP staggered-stance press.Explosive push-up.
BP push–pull. MB rotational throw. DB or KB carry. MB reverse scoop 
throw.
> continued

230
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
TABLE 9.15  Combat Sports: Power Biplexes
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Biplex 1
1.  BP compound row
2.  Bur
pee2  5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
8068
Biplex 21. 
 DB or KB front reaching lunge
2.  Alternating split jump2 
 5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
9466
Biplex 31. 
 MB crossover push-up
2.  MB staggered-stance CLA decline chest throw2 
 5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
115119
Biplex 41. 
 BP staggered-stance press
2.  Explosive push-up2 
 5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
7469
Biplex 51. 
 BP push–pull
2.  MB rotational throw2 
 5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
89121
Biplex 61. 
 DB or KB carr
y
2.  MB rever
se scoop throw2  5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
107122
POWER ENDURANCE
If you’re training three times per week, you can perform a combination of the power and 
power-endurance program, depending on the sport training volume. Here’s an example:
Monday: power
Wednesday: power enduranceFriday: power or opposite sequence for the weekFor the power-endurance program, perform all 12 exercises in a row as a single set. 
Do not rest between exercises. During week 1, rest 3 minutes between sets. During 
week 2, rest 2 minutes between sets. During weeks 3 and 4, rest 1 minute between sets. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.16.Combat Sports  > continued

231
THE EXERCISES
BP compound 
row.Burpee. DB or KB front reaching lunge.Alternating split jump.MB crossover push-up.
MB staggered-stance CLA decline chest throw.BP staggered-stance press.Explosive push-up. BP push–pull.
BP staggered-stance alternating press.
DB or KB carry. MB reverse scoop 
throw.
> continued

232
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training. Try to complete as many repetitions as possible of each exercise in the time prescribed during the four-week progression, shooting for the following goals:
1.
 BP compound row: 25 reps in 25 seconds
2. Burpee: 10 to 15 reps in 25 seconds
3. DB or KB front reaching lunge: 8 to 12 reps per leg in 25 seconds
4. Alternating split jump: 12 reps per leg in 25 seconds
5. MB crossover push-up: 8 to 10 reps per side in 25 seconds
6. MB staggered-stance CLA decline chest throw: 6 to 9 reps per side in 25 seconds
7. BP staggered-stance press: 15 to 20 reps per leg in 25 seconds
8. Explosive push-up: 15 to 25 reps in 25 seconds
9. BP push–pull: 12 to 15 reps per side in 25 seconds
10. BP staggered-stance alternating press: 25 reps per leg in 25 seconds
11. DB or KB carr
y: 10 to 15 percent of body weight for 25 seconds
12. MB rever
se scoop throw: 10 to 15 reps in 25 seconds
TABLE 9.16  Combat Sports: Power-Endurance Complex
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page 
Power-endurance  
superset
 1.  BP compound row
 2.  Bur
pee
 3.  DB or KB front  reaching lunge
 4.  Alternating split jump
 5.  MB crosso
ver push-up
 6.  MB staggered-stance CLA decline chest throw
 7.  BP staggered-stance press
 8.  Explosive push-up
 9.  BP push–pull
 10. BP staggered-stance 
alternating press
 11. DB or KB carr
y
 12. MB rever
se scoop 
throw2  15 sec. 2  20 sec. 3  20 sec. 3  25 sec.
806894
66
115119
74
69
8975
107
122
Rest between sets 3 min. 2 min. 1 min. 1 min.
Metabolic
Performing this circuit three to five times is enough metabolic training. If you need more, add two or three 300-yard (274 m) shuttles (25 yd [22.8 m]  12) or other interval cardio training after you’ve completed all circuits. Practice and sparring volume must be taken into account when prescribing more metabolic training for combat athletes.Combat Sports  > continued

233
Long-Distance Field and Court Sports
Long-distance field and court sports, such as soccer, lacrosse, handball, and kronum, 
use a combination of walking, jogging, explosive short sprints, jumping, and quick changes in direction. Total running distances can exceed 3 to 7 miles (5-11 km), depending on the sport and position. Although the total distance covered during a game is long, the short sprints rarely cover more than 15 to 20 yards (14-18 m) in a straight line. Body contact can range from light to intense, but it is sporadic and brief.
Warm-Up for All Workouts
Steel Core: 3  10
Single-leg CLA anterior reach: 3  10 to 20 per legSingle-leg rotational squat: 3  10 per leg
CONDITIONING
Perform each triplex in order and then start the sequence again. Complete for as many 
sets as indicated. Rest adequately between each exercise to maintain good form and quality of movement, eventually targeting a 30- to 60-second rest period after each exercise. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while main-taining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.17.
THE EXERCISES
DB or KB lateral 
reaching lunge.Plank. BP staggered-stance CLA low-to-high row.
DB or KB rotating reaching lunge.Side T plank. Recline pull (row).
> continued


234
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and repeat 
the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
SB single-leg lateral 
wall slide.X-up.
TABLE 9.17  Long-Distance Field and Court Sports: Conditioning Triplexes
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page 
Triplex 1
1.  DB or KB lateral  reaching lunge
2. 
 Plank (double-arm to single-ar
m progression)
3.  BP staggered-stance CLA low-to-high row2 
 10
10 to 30 sec.
2  103  1010 to 30 sec.3  103  1510 to 30 sec.3  154  10 to 1510 to 30 sec.4  10 to 15955782
Triplex 2
1. 
 DB or KB rotating reaching lunge
2. 
 Side T plank
3.  Recline pull (row)2 
 10
10 to 30 sec.2  103  10
10 to 30 sec.
3  103  15
10 to 30 sec.
3  154  10 to 15
10 to 30 sec.
4  10 to 1596
58
46
Triplex 3 (core)1. 
 Triple Threat  (w
eeks 1-5)
2.  SB single-leg lateral wall slide
3. 
 X-up2 
 10
3  10 per leg
3  10 per leg 3  103  10 per leg3  10 per leg3  153  10 per leg3  10 per leg4  10 to 153  10 per leg3 s 10 per leg18512462
STRENGTH
Perform each triplex in order for the number of sets indicated. Rest adequately between 
each exercise to maintain good form and quality of movement, eventually targeting a 30- to 60-second rest period between each exercise. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.18.
Additional Warm-Up
JC Leg Crank: 1 to 2 sets
Single-leg rotational squat: 2 s 10 per legLong-Distance Field and Court Sports  > continued
T
riple Threat.


235
THE EXERCISES
DB or KB single-leg RDL. BP staggered-stance 
CLA press.BP staggered-stance 
CLA compound row.
BP staggered-stance CLA deadlift. MB single-arm push-off. DB or KB staggered-stance 
bent-over single-arm row.
Triple Threat. SB single-leg lateral wall slide.X-up.
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
> continued


236
POWER
Perform each biplex in order for the number of sets indicated. Rest 1 minute between 
the first and second exercises, and then rest 1 to 2 minutes between the second and first exercises. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.19.
Additional Warm-Up
JC Leg Crank: 1 or 2 sets
Low-hurdle run: 8 to 10 hurdles for 3 or 4 setsLow-hurdle diagonal jump: 6 to 8 hurdles for 3 or 4 sets
THE EXERCISESTABLE 9.18  Long-Distance Field and Court Sports: Strength Triplexes
The DB or KB single-leg RDL, MB single-arm push-off, and DB or KB staggered-stance bent-over 
single-arm row should be performed on each leg or arm.
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Triplex 11. 
 DB or KB single-leg RDL
2.  BP staggered-stance  CLA press
3. 
 BP staggered-stance  CLA compound row2 
 6 2  6 3 to 4  4 3 to 4  4
9272
83
Triplex 2
1. 
 BP staggered-stance CLA deadlift
2. 
 MB single-arm push-off
3.  DB or KB staggered- stance bent-o
ver  
single-arm row2  6 2  6 3 to 4  4 3 to 4  4
71
114
97
Triplex 3 (core)1. 
 Triple Threat (w
eeks 1-5)
2.  SB single-leg lateral wall slide
3. 
 X-up2 
 6
3  10 to 
15 per leg
3  10 per 
leg 2  63  10 to 
15 per leg
3  10 per 
leg3 to 4  43  10 to 
15 per leg
3  10 per 
leg3 to 4  43  10 to 
15 per leg
3  10 per 
leg185124 
62
DB or KB front reaching 
lunge.Alternating split jump.MB crossover push-up. Explosive push-up.Long-Distance Field and Court Sports  > continued

237
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and repeat 
the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
BP staggered-stance 
CLA compound row.MB overhead slam.X-up. MB overhead side-to-side slam.
TABLE 9.19  Long-Distance Field and Court Sports: Power Biplexes
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Biplex 1
1.  DB or KB front reaching lunge
2. 
 Alternating split jump2 or 3 
 5 + 5 2 or 3  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5
94
66
Biplex 2
1.  MB crossover push-up
2.  Explosive push-up2 or 3 
 5 + 5 2 or 3  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5
11569
Biplex 31. 
 BP staggered-stance  CLA compound row
2. 
 MB overhead slam2 or 3 
 5 + 5 2 or 3  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5
83
120
Biplex 4
1.  X-up
2.  MB overhead side-to-side slam2 or 3 
 5 + 5 2 or 3  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5
62121
Metabolic
300-yard (274 m) shuttle (25 yd [22.8 m]  12): 2 or 3 sets 3 times per week (1:2 
to 1:3 work:rest ratio)
Core
Triple Threat (weeks 11-15)
Single-leg CLA anterior reach: 2  10 to 20 per sideSingle-leg rotational squat: 2  10 per side
> continued


238
POWER ENDURANCE
Perform each biplex in order for the number of sets indicated. Do not rest between 
the first and second exercises, and then rest 1 minute between the second and first exercises. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while main-taining good form. Use specified repetitions and follow the progression in table 9.20.
Additional Warm-Up
Low-hurdle diagonal jump: 3 to 4 sets
Low-hurdle run: 3 to 4 sets
THE EXERCISES
JC Leg Crank. Agility ladder 
split step.Agility ladder 
lateral rotational jump.
Gary’s Dumbbell Matrix.JC Meta Chest. JC Meta Back.
Long-Distance Field and Court Sports  > continued


239
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training. On day 1, follow the power biplexes in table 9.19. On day 2, perform the power-endurance complexes in table 9.20.
TABLE 9.20  Long-Distance Field and Court Sports:  
Power-Endurance Complexes (Day 2)
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Meta complex 1
JC Leg CrankAgility ladder split step (10 sec.) 
to agility ladder lateral rotational jump (10 sec.)2 sets 2 sets 3 sets 3 sets
187134135
Meta complex 2Gary’s Dumbbell Matrix: dumbbells 
7 to 10 percent body weight; aim to complete all sets under 1:45 min2 sets 2 sets 3 sets 3 sets
190
Meta complex 3JC Meta Chest2 sets 2 sets 3 sets 3 sets
189
Meta complex 4JC Meta Back2 sets 2 sets 3 sets 3 sets
188
Work:rest ratio 1:2 to 1:3 1:2 to 1:3 1:1 to 1:2 1:1 to 1:2
Metabolic
300-yard (274 m) shuttle (25 yd [22.8 m]  12): 3 or 4 sets two times per week 
(1:2 to 1:1 work:rest ratio)
Core
Triple Threat (weeks 16-20)
Single-leg CLA anterior reach: 2  10 to 20 per sideSingle-leg rotational squat: 2  10 per side

240
Volleyball
Volleyball is similar to sports such as racquetball in terms of low positions and baseball 
in terms of throwing. Players use a low position for digs and the throwing motion for serves or smashes. Many digs and saves end with a scramble from the ground, similar to movements found in wrestling and soccer. Quick and short changes of directions, especially lateral changes of direction, are needed during 5 to 8 seconds of all-out sprints, followed by 20 to 30 seconds of light to moderate intensity. The posterior mus-culature is particularly important due to these low positions and changes of directions.
Warm-Up for All Workouts
Gary’s Dumbbell Matrix: 2 sets
CONDITIONING
Perform each triplex in order and then start the sequence again. Complete as many 
sets as indicated. Rest adequately between each exercise to maintain good form and quality of movement, eventually targeting a 30- to 60-second rest period between each exercise. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.21.
THE EXERCISES
MB ABC squat. T push-up. BP row. DB or KB front reaching 
lunge.
BP staggered-stance 
alternating press.Recline pull (row). BP low-to-high chop. SB rollout.
X-up.


241
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
TABLE 9.21  Volleyball: Conditioning Triplexes
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Triplex 1
1.  MB ABC squat
2.  T push-up
3.  BP row2 
 10 3  10 3  15 4  10 to 15
1126077
Triplex 21. 
 DB or KB front reaching lunge
2.  BP staggered-stance alternating press
3. 
 Recline pull (row)2 
 10 3 10 3  15 4  10 to 15
9475
46
Triplex 3
1. 
 BP low-to-high chop
2.  SB rollout
3.  X-up2 
 10 3  10 3  15 4  10 to 15
8612762
STRENGTH
Perform each triplex in order for the number of sets indicated. Rest adequately between 
each exercise to maintain good form and quality of movement, eventually targeting a 30- to 60-second rest period after each exercise. Use enough load to make the assigned repetition challenging while keeping good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.22.
Warm-Up
Gary’s Dumbbell Matrix: 1 set
SB rollout: 2  10X-up: 2  10 per side
THE EXERCISES
DB or KB squat. DB or KB cross 
overhead press.BP swim. DB or KB lateral 
reaching lunge.BP staggered-stance CLA press.
> continued

242
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
Recline pull 
(row).BP staggered-stance CLA compound row.T push-up. BP high-to-low chop.
TABLE 9.22  Volleyball: Strength Triplexes
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Triplex 1
1.  DB or KB squat
2.  DB or KB cross overhead press
3.  BP swim2 
 6 2  6 3  6 3  6
9010084
Triplex 21. 
 DB or KB lateral reaching lunge
2.  BP staggered-stance CLA press
3.  Recline pull (row)2 
 6 2  6 3  6 3  6
957246
Triplex 31. 
 BP staggered-stance CLA  compound row
2. 
 T push-up
3.  BP high-to-low chop2 
 6 2  6 3  6 3  6
83
60
85
POWER AND POWER ENDURANCE
Perform each biplex in order for the number of sets indicated. For power, rest 1 minute 
between the first and second exercises and then 1 to 2 minutes between the second and first exercises. For power endurance, do not rest between the first and second exercises, and then rest 1 minute between the second and first exercises. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.23.
Warm-Up
Gary’s Dumbbell Matrix: 1 set
SB rollout: 2  10X-up: 2  10 per sideVolleyball  > continued


243
THE EXERCISES
BP deadlift. Vertical jump. KB single-arm swing. Burpee.
DB or KB lateral 
reaching lunge.Skater. BP low-to-high chop.
MB reverse scoop throw.BP short rotation (10 to 2 o’clock).MB rotational throw:  perpendicular.
> continued

244
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
TABLE 9.23  Volleyball: Power and Power-Endurance Biplexes
The KB single-arm swing should be performed on each arm.
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Biplex 1
1.  BP deadlift
2.  Ver
tical jump2  5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
7065
Biplex 21. 
 KB single-arm swing
2.  Bur
pee2  5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
9168
Biplex 31. 
 DB or KB lateral reaching lunge
2. 
 Skater2 
 5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
95
67
Biplex 4
1.  BP low-to-high chop
2.  MB rever
se scoop throw 2  5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
86122
Biplex 51. 
 BP short rotation  (10 to 2 o’clock)
2. 
 MB rotational throw:  per
pendicular2  5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
87
121
5 + 5 indicates 60 seconds of rest between the first and second exercise for power. For power endurance, go straight 
from the first exercise to the second without resting.
Metabolic
If you need more cardio or metabolic training during the power-endurance phase, add interval cardio, such as 300-yard (274 m) shuttles (25 yd [22.8 m]  12), to the end of the workout. Practice volume must be taken into account when prescribing more metabolic training.Volleyball  > continued

245
Golf
Golf is one of the most popular recreational sports in the world. It requires a high 
level of skill, pinpoint accuracy, rotational stability and power, and endurance during long playing time. Although power endurance is not often seen as a key attribute, we offered a power endurance program due to the fatigue that can be brought on by long playing times, often in hot climates. Many of the core stiffness and rotational qualities of baseball can be valuable in golf. Two-leg stability and hip rotation are essential.
Warm-Up for Conditioning and Strength
Gary’s Dumbbell Matrix: 1 or 2 sets
BP pulsating backswing: 2  10 per sideBP high-to-low chop: 2  10 per sideBP short rotation (10 to 2 o’clock): 2  10 per side
CONDITIONING
Perform each triplex in order, and then start the sequence again. Complete as many 
sets as indicated. Rest adequately between each exercise to maintain good form and quality of movement, eventually targeting a 30-to 60-second rest period after each exer-cise. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.24.
THE EXERCISES
MB ABC squat. BP staggered-stance 
CLA high-to-low row.SB log roll.
MB lunge with 
rotation.BP staggered-stance alternating press.DB or KB cross overhead press.
> continued

246
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
TABLE 9.24  Golf: Conditioning Triplexes
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Triplex 1
1.  MB ABC squat
2.  BP staggered-stance CLA  high-to-low row
3. 
 SB log roll2 
 10 3  10 3  15 4  10 to 15
11282
131
Triplex 2
1. 
 MB lunge with rotation
2.  BP staggered-stance alternating press
3. 
 DB or KB cross overhead press2 
 10 3  10 3  15 4  10 to 15
11375
100
Core 1
Fabulous Five: 2 sets
STRENGTH
Perform each triplex in order for the number of sets indicated. Rest adequately between 
each exercise to maintain good form and quality of movement, eventually targeting a 30- to 60-second rest period after each exercise. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.25.
THE EXERCISES
BP deadlift. BP staggered-stance 
CLA decline press.BP push–pull.Golf  > continued

247
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
DB or KB lateral 
reaching lunge.T push-up. BP high-to-low chop.
TABLE 9.25  Golf: Strength Triplexes
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Triplex 1
1.  BP deadlift
2.  BP staggered-stance CLA decline press
3.  BP push–pull1 
 6 2  6 3  4 4  4
707489
Triplex 21. 
 DB or KB lateral reaching lunge
2.  T push-up
3.  BP high-to-low chop1 
 6 2  6 3  4 4  4
956085
Core 2
Fabulous Five: 2 sets
POWER AND POWER ENDURANCE
Perform each biplex in order for the number of sets indicated. For power, rest 1 minute 
between the first and second exercises, and then rest 1 to 2 minutes between the second and first exercises. For power endurance, do not rest between the first and second exercises, and then rest 1 minute between the second and first exercises. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.26.
Warm-Up
Chopper: 2 sets
Gary’s Dumbbell Matrix: 2 sets
> continued

248
THE EXERCISES
BP low-to-high chop. Skater. BP staggered-stance 
CLA incline press.MB staggered-stance CLA incline chest throw.
MB overhead side-to-side slam.BP staggered-stance CLA high-to-low row.MB overhead slam.BP short rotation (10 to 2 o’clock).
MB rotational throw:  perpendicular.DB or KB lateral reaching lunge.BP staggered-stance CLA decline press.MB staggered-stance CLA decline chest throw.Golf  > continued


249
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
TABLE 9.26  Golf: Power and Power-Endurance Biplexes
POWER
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Biplex 1
1.  BP low-to-high chop
2.  Skater2 
 5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
8667
Biplex 21. 
 BP staggered-stance CLA incline press
2. 
 MB staggered-stance CLA incline chest throw2 
 5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
73
117
Biplex 3
1.  BP staggered-stance CLA high-to-low row
2. 
 MB overhead slam2 
 5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
82120
Biplex 41. 
 BP short rotation  (10 to 2 o’clock)
2. 
 MB rotational throw:  per
pendicular2  5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
87
121
POWER ENDURANCE
Biplex 1
1.  DB or KB lateral  reaching lunge
2. 
 Skater2 or 3 
 5 + 5 2 or 3  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5
95
67
Biplex 2
1.  BP staggered-stance CLA decline press
2. 
 MB staggered-stance CLA decline chest throw2 or 3 
 5 + 5 2 or 3  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5
74
119
Biplex 3
1.  BP staggered-stance CLA high-to-low row
2. 
 MB overhead side-to-side slam2 or 3 
 5 + 5 2 or 3  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5
82
121
Biplex 4
1.  BP short rotation  (10 to 2 o’clock)
2. 
 MB rotational throw:  per
pendicular2 or 3  5 + 5 2 or 3  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5
87
121
5 + 5 indicates 60 seconds of rest between the first and second exercise for power. For power endurance, go straight from the first 
exercise to the second without resting.
Core
BP pulsating backswing: 2  10 per side
SB log roll: 2  10 per sideVibration blade 12 o’clock oscillation: 2  20 sec.

250
Board Sports
Board sports such as surfing and skateboarding are unique in that they use reaction 
forces between the athlete and the mass of the water or earth. Upper-body movements allow the lower body to manipulate the position of the board and the surface it interacts with. Strong legs and core muscles are needed to interact with the board and connect the lower body to the upper body. The upper body steers movement by changing lever arms and rotating the shoulders, directing forces down and onto the board. The bridge to all of this upper- and lower-body movement is the core.
Warm-Up for All Workouts
Chopper: 1 or 2 sets
Gary’s Dumbbell Matrix: 1 or 2 sets
CONDITIONING
Perform each triplex in order, and then start the sequence again. Complete for as 
many sets as indicated. Rest adequately between each exercise to maintain good form and quality of movement, eventually targeting a 30- to 60-second rest period after each exercise. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.27.
THE EXERCISES
DB or KB squat. DB single-arm diag-
onal fly rotation.SB skier. MB ABC squat. DB horizontal fly 
rotation.
SB log roll. BP high-to-low chop. BP short rotation 
(10 to 2 o’clock).BP low-to-high chop.


251
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
TABLE 9.27  Board Sports: Conditioning Triplexes
DB single-arm diagonal fly rotation should be performed on each arm.
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Triplex 1
1.  DB or KB squat
2.  DB single-arm diagonal fly rotation
3.  SB skier2 
 10 2  15 3  15 4  10 to 15
90106132
Triplex 21. 
 MB ABC squat
2.  DB horizontal fly rotation
3.  SB log roll2 
 10 2  15 3  15 4  10 to 15
112105131
Triplex 3 (Steel Core)1. 
 BP high-to-low chop
2.  BP short rotation (10 to 2 o’clock)
3.  BP low-to-high chop2 
 10 2  15 3  15 4  10 to 15
858786
Core
Fabulous Five: 2 sets
STRENGTH
Perform each triplex in order for the number of sets indicated. Rest adequately between 
each exercise to maintain good form and quality of movement, eventually targeting a 30- to 60-second rest period after each exercise. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.28.
THE EXERCISES
KB single-arm swing. BP staggered-stance bent-over 
alternating row.MB diagonal chop.
> continued

252
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
BP staggered-stance 
CLA low-to-high row.SB hands-on-ball push-up.
BP low-to-high chop. BP push–pull. T push-up.
DB or KB squat.
TABLE 9.28  Board Sports: Strength Triplexes
The KB single-arm swing should be performed on each arm.
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Triplex 1
1.  KB single-arm swing
2.  BP staggered-stance bent-over alter
nating row
3.  MB diagonal chop2 
 6 2  6 3  4 to 6 3  4 to 6
9179
111
Triplex 2
1. 
 DB or KB squat
2.  BP staggered-stance CLA low-to-high row
3. 
 SB hands-on-ball push-up (slow)2 
 6 2  6 3  4 to 6 3  4 to 6
9082
125
Triplex 3 (core)
1. 
 BP low-to-high chop
2.  BP push–pull
3.  T push-up (slow)2 
 6 2  6 3  4 to 6 3  4 to 6
868960Board Sports  > continued


253
POWER AND POWER ENDURANCE
Perform each biplex in order for the number of sets indicated. For power, rest 1 minute 
between the first and second exercises, and then rest 1 to 2 minutes between the second and third exercises. For power endurance, do not rest between the first and second exercises, and then rest 1 minute between the second and first exercises. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression shown in table 9.29.
Additional Warm-Up
Steel Core: 2 or 3  10 to 15
THE EXERCISES
BP deadlift. Burpee. BP short rotation 
(10 to 2 o’clock).Crooked stick cross- rotational jump drill.
BP staggered-stance CLA press.MB staggered-stance CLA straight chest throw.BP low-to-high chop. Agility ladder 
lateral rotational jump.
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
> continued

254
TABLE 9.29  Board Sports: Power and Power-Endurance Biplexes
POWER
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Biplex 1
1.  BP deadlift
2.  Bur
pee2  5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
7068
Biplex 21. 
 BP short rotation  (10 to 2 o’clock)
2. 
 Crooked stick cross-rotational jump drill2 
 5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
87
138
Biplex 3
1.  BP staggered-stance  CLA press
2. 
 MB staggered-stance  CLA straight chest throw 2 
 5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
72
118
Biplex 4
1. BP low-to-high chop2. Agility ladder lateral rotational 
jump2  5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
86135
POWER ENDURANCE
Biplex 11. 
 BP deadlift
2.  Bur
pee2 or 3  5 + 5 2 or 3  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5
7068
Biplex 21. BP short rotation  
(10 to 2 o’clock)
2. Crooked stick cross-rotational 
jump drill2 or 3  5 + 5 2 or 3  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5
87
138
Biplex 3
1. BP staggered-stance  
CLA press
2. MB staggered-stance  
CLA straight chest throw 2 or 3  5 + 5 2 or 3  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5
72
118
Biplex 4
1. BP low-to-high chop2. Agility ladder lateral rotational 
jump2 or 3  5 + 5 2 or 3  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5 3 or 4  5 + 5
86135
5 + 5 indicates 60 seconds of rest between the first and second exercise for power. For power endurance, go straight from the first exercise 
to the second without resting.
Core
Fabulous Five: 2 sets
Metabolic
If you need more cardio or metabolic training in the power-endurance phase, add interval cardio, such as 300-yard (274 m) shuttles (25 yd [22.8 m]  12), to the end of the workout. Practice volume must be taken into account when prescribing more metabolic training.
Power phase: JC Leg Crank, 2 sets with a 1:2 work:rest ratioPower-endurance phase: JC Leg Crank, 3 or 4 sets with a 1:1 work:rest ratioBoard Sports  > continued

255
Swimming
Swimming requires constant upper-body pulling power while maintaining a streamlined 
horizontal line. It’s unique in that it does not involve ground reaction forces while in the water. The arms and legs are the main propulsion systems, and both are connected to and pull on the spine. This means the core is the anchor of all movement, and the back and legs can generate only the power that the core can support. For this reason, the core receives much attention in the swimming program.
Warm-Up for Conditioning and Strength
Chopper: 2 or 3 sets
CONDITIONING
Perform each quadplex in order, and then start the sequence again. Complete as many 
sets as indicated. Rest adequately between each exercise to maintain good form and quality of movement, eventually targeting a 30- to 60-second rest period after each exercise. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while main-taining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.30.
THE EXERCISES
MB wood chop. DB or KB cross 
overhead press.BP swim. Plank.
MB lunge with 
rotation.BP staggered-stance alternating press.Recline pull (row).SB hyperextension.
> continued


256
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
TABLE 9.30  Swimming: Conditioning Quadplexes
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Quadplex 1
1.  MB wood chop
2.  DB or KB cross overhead press
3.  BP swim
4.  Plank2 
 10 2  15 3  15 4  10 to 15
1101008457
Quadplex 21. 
 MB lunge with rotation
2.  BP staggered-stance alternating press
3. 
 Recline pull (row)
4.  SB hyperextension2 
 10 2  15 3  15 4  10 to 15
11375
46
130
Core
Triple Threat (weeks 5-10): 1 or 2 sets
STRENGTH
Perform each quadplex in order for the number of sets indicated. Rest adequately 
between each exercise to maintain good form and quality of movement, eventually targeting a 30- to 60-second rest period after each exercise. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.31.
Additional Warm-Up
Steel Core: 2 sets
THE EXERCISES
KB single-arm swing. BP push–pull. BP staggered-stance 
CLA row.SB reverse hyperextension.Swimming  > continued


257
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
BP deadlift. DB single-arm diag-
onal fly rotation.SB hands-on-ball push-up. SB rollout.
TABLE 9.31  Swimming: Strength Quadplexes
The KB single-arm swing and the DB single-arm diagonal fly rotation should be performed on 
each side.
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Quadplex 11. 
 KB single-arm swing
2.  BP push–pull
3.  BP staggered-stance CLA row
4.  SB rever
se hyperextension1  6 2  6 3  4 4  4
918981131
Quadplex 21. 
 BP deadlift
2.  DB single-arm diagonal fly rotation
3.  SB hands-on-ball push-up (slow)
4.  SB rollout1 
 6 2  6 3  4 4  4
70106125127
Core
Triple Threat (weeks 11-15): 3 sets
POWER AND POWER ENDURANCE
Perform each biplex in order for the number of sets indicated. For power, rest 1 minute 
between the first and second exercises, and then rest 1 to 2 minutes between the second and first exercises. For power endurance, do not rest between the first and second exercises, and then rest 1 minute between the second and first exercises. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.32.
Additional Warm-Up
Gary’s Dumbbell Matrix: 2 sets
> continued

258
THE EXERCISES
DB or KB squat. Burpee. BP swim. MB overhead 
slam.
KB single-arm swing. MB reverse scoop 
throw.BP staggered-stance bent-over alternating row.MB overhead  side-to-side slam.Swimming  > continued


259
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
TABLE 9.32  Swimming: Power and Power-Endurance Biplexes
The KB single-arm swing should be performed on each arm.
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Biplex 1
1.  DB or KB squat
2.  Bur
pee2  5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
9068
Biplex 21. 
 BP swim
2.  MB overhead slam2 
 5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
84120
Biplex 31. 
 KB single-arm swing
2.  MB rever
se scoop throw2  5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
91122
Biplex 41. 
 BP staggered-stance bent-over alter
nating row
2.  MB overhead side-to-side slam2 
 5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
79
121
5 + 5 indicates 60 seconds of rest between the first and second exercise for power. For power endurance, go straight 
from the first exercise to the second without resting.
Core
Triple Threat (weeks 15-20): 1 or 2 sets
SB hyperextension to SB reverse hyperextension: 2  10
Metabolic
If you need more cardio or metabolic training in the power-endurance phase, add interval cardio, such as 300-yard (274 m) shuttles (25 yd [22.8 m]  12), to the end of the workout. Practice volume must be taken into account when prescribing more metabolic training.
Optional Metabolic Training
JC Meta Back: 2 or 3 sets
JC Leg Crank: 2 or 3 sets

260
Skating-Related Sports
Skating-related sports such as ice hockey and in-line skating require enormous rota-
tional power from the hips and legs. Depending on the sport, the upper body can counterbalance the lower body during acceleration, maneuver a stick, or absorb impact. Regardless of how the upper body is used, the core is at the center of the coordination and synchronization between upper and lower body. It needs to provide rotational force transfer as well as stiffness for optimal force transfer.
Warm-Up for All Workouts
Chopper: 2 or 3  10
CONDITIONING
Perform each triplex in order and then start the sequence again. Complete as many sets 
as indicated. Rest adequately between each exercise to maintain good form and quality of movement, eventually targeting a 30- to 60-second rest period after each exercise. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.33.
THE EXERCISES
DB or KB lateral 
reaching lunge.BP staggered-stance CLA row.DB or KB upright row.DB or KB rotating reaching lunge.Side T plank.
SB skier. SB single-leg lateral wall slide.BP push–pull. DB or KB cross uppercut.


261
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
TABLE 9.33  Skating-Related Sports: Conditioning Triplexes
The SB single-leg lateral wall side should be performed on each leg.
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Triplex 1
1.  DB or KB lateral reaching lunge
2. 
 BP staggered-stance  CLA row
3. 
 DB or KB upright row (alternating)2 
 10 2  15 3  10 to 15 3 or 4  10 to 15
95
81103
Triplex 2
1. 
 DB or KB rotating  reaching lunge
2. 
 Side T plank (double-arm to single-ar
m progression)
3.  SB skier2 
 10
10 to 30 sec.
2  102  1510 to 30 sec.2  153  10 to 1510 to 30 sec.3  10 to 153 or 4  10 to 1510 to 30 sec.3 or 4  10 to 159658132
Triplex 3 (core)
1. 
 SB single-leg lateral wall slide
2. 
 BP push–pull
3.  DB or KB cross uppercut2 
 10 2  15 3  10 to 15 3 or 4  10 to 15
124
89
104
Flush
Lateral slide: 2 or 3  10 to 20 reps per side
STRENGTH
Perform each triplex in order for the number of sets indicated. Rest adequately between 
each exercise to maintain good form and quality of movement, eventually targeting a 30- to 60-second rest period after each exercise. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.34.
Additional Warm-Up
Gary’s Dumbbell Matrix: 1 or 2 sets (1:2 work:rest ratio)
SB single-leg lateral wall slide: 2 or 3  10 per leg
> continued

262
THE EXERCISES
BP low-to-high chop. BP staggered-stance 
CLA incline press.SB log roll.
DB or KB single-leg RDL. DB single-arm diag-
onal fly rotation.SB reverse hyperextension.
Lateral slide (band resistance). BP staggered-stance 
alternating row.BP short rotation (10 to 2 o’clock).Skating-Related Sports  > continued


263
THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and 
repeat the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.
TABLE 9.34  Skating-Related Sports: Strength Triplexes
The DB or KB single-leg RDL and DB single-arm diagonal fly rotation should be performed on 
each side.
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Triplex 11. 
 BP low-to-high chop
2.  BP staggered-stance CLA incline press
3. 
 SB log roll2 
 6 2  6 3 or 4  4 3 or 4  4
8673
131
Triplex 2
1. 
 DB or KB single-leg RDL
2.  DB single-arm diagonal fly rotation
3.  SB rever
se hyperextension2  6 2  6 3 or 4  4 3 or 4  4
92106131
Triplex 31. 
 Lateral slide (band resistance)
2.  BP staggered-stance  alter
nating row
3.  BP short rotation  (10 to 2 o’clock)2 
 6 2  6 3 or 4  4 3 or 4  4
14078
87
Postworkout Flush
JC Leg Crank: 1 set
Skater: 2 or 3 sets of 10 to 20 reps per side
POWER AND POWER ENDURANCE
Perform each biplex in order for the number of sets indicated. For power, rest 1 minute 
between the first and second exercises, and then rest 1 to 2 minutes between the second and first exercises. For power endurance, do not rest between the first and second exercises, and then rest 1 minute between the second and first exercises. Use enough load to make the assigned repetitions challenging while maintaining good form. Unless otherwise specified, use the progression in table 9.35.
DB or KB lateral 
reaching lunge.Skater. KB single-arm swing. Squat jump. Loaded step-up.THE EXERCISES
> continued

264
Lateral slide (with band resistance). Lateral slide. MB rotational throw:  
perpendicular.
Alternating split jump.BP staggered-stance alternating press.MB staggered-stance CLA straight chest throw.BP short rotation (10 to 2 o’clock).
TABLE 9.35  Skating-Related Sports: Power and Power-Endurance Biplexes
The KB single-arm swing should be performed on each arm.
POWER
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Biplex 1
1.  DB or KB lateral reaching lunge
2.  Skater2 
 5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
9567
Biplex 21. 
 KB single-arm swing
2.  Squat jump2 
 5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
9166
Biplex 31. 
 Loaded step-up (dumbbells)
2.  Alternating split jump2 
 5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
5566
Biplex 41. 
 BP staggered-stance  alter
nating press
2.  MB staggered-stance CLA straight chest throw 2 
 5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
75
118THE HOW
If your fitness level is high, you can start with any week that feels comfortable and repeat 
the week as many times as necessary to create a strong base of training.Skating-Related Sports  > continued

265
Postworkout Super Flush
Perform 2 or 3 sets with no rest:
JC Leg Crank
Lateral slide: 10 to 20 reps per side
Metabolic
If you need more cardio or metabolic training during the power-endurance phase, add interval cardio, such as 300-yard (274 m) shuttles (25 yd [22.8 m]  12), to the end of the workout. Practice volume must be taken into account when prescribing more metabolic training.Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Page
Biplex 5
1.  BP short rotation (10 to 2 o’clock)
2. 
 MB rotational throw:  per
pendicular2  5 + 5 2  5 + 5 3  5 + 5 3  5 + 5
87
121
POWER ENDURANCE
Biplex 1
1.  DB or KB lateral reaching lunge
2.  Skater2 
 5 + 10 2  5 + 10 3  5 + 10 3  5 + 10
9567
Biplex 21. 
 KB single-arm swing
2.  Squat jump2 
 5 + 10 2  5 + 10 3  5 + 10 3  5 + 10
9166
Biplex 31. 
 Loaded step up (dumbbells)
2.  Alternating split jump2 
 5 + 10 2  5 + 10 3  5 + 10 3  5 + 10
5566
Biplex 41. 
 Lateral slide  (with band resistance)
2. 
 Lateral slide 2 
 5 + 10 2  5 + 10 3  5 + 10 3  5 + 10
140
140
Biplex 5
1.  BP short rotation  (10 to 2 o’clock)
2. 
 MB rotational throw:  per
pendicular2  5 + 10 2  5 + 10 3  5 + 10 3  5 + 10
87
121
5 + 5 indicates 60 seconds of rest between the first and second exercise for power. For power endurance, go straight from 
the first exercise to the second without resting.

266 Functional Training
Conclusion
The efficacy of functional training continues to be proven in gyms across the world 
while research from university laboratories attempts to explain the mechanisms behind its success. The functional training system in this book will allow the coach or athlete to improve athletic performance while minimizing the overuse problems often seen in traditional strength training—it offers the ability to train aggressively while not overloading and tearing down the body. In addition, the principle of specificity underlies the concept of functional training, providing the optimal training transfer to any sport.
Many other modalities and training philosophies have also stood the test of 
time. For this reason, the best approach to improve human performance is to take an eclectic view of training. The IHP Hybrid Training System is a system-atic, comprehensive approach to combining the best practices in strength and conditioning in a simple, time-efficient manner.
I trust the information in this book has opened new doors to your perfor -
mance-enhancement journey. It is my sincere wish that the work presented here will move the performance-enhancement industry forward, create stronger and healthier athletes, and lead to new avenues in future research.

267
Index
Note: The italicized f  and t  following page numbers refer to figures and tables, respectively.
A
acceleration  21-26, 21f, 23tadjustable bands  12, 12fadjustable bench  11, 11fagility ladder lateral rotational 
jump
instructions  135, 135f
in programs  238, 239t
, 253, 
254t
agility ladder split step
instructions  134-135, 135f
 in programs  238, 239t
alternating split jump
instructions  66, 67f
in programs  187, 187t
, 219, 
220t, 224, 225t, 229, 230t, 231, 232t, 236, 237t, 264, 264t
American football  208anterior serape  29-30, 29fathletic environment  25-27
B
badminton  212balance, stability vs.  6-8, 7fbands, adjustable  12, 12fbands and pulleys (BP)
equipment  8-9, 9f, 70
 exercises  53, 70-89, 70f
-89f
barbell deadlift  21t, 145, 145fbarbell flat bench press  147, 
147f
barbell incline bench press  
148, 148f
barbell overhead press  148-
149, 149f
barbell squat  144, 144fbarbell upright row  152, 152fbaseball  216base of support  36-37, 37fbasic eight
exercises  39-49, 39f
, 41f-43f, 
45f-47f, 49f
 importance of  53
bat
ting, throwing, and catching 
sports program  216-220, 217t-218t, 220t
batting power  179, 179tbench  11, 11fBig Four sport skills
assessment of  38four pillars related to  13, 16, 
25
in functional training 
foun-
dations  13, 15-25, 16t -17t, 
18f-19f, 19t , 21f -24f, 21t , 
23t, 25t
programs  18, 19t , 20, 21
t, 23, 
23t
biomechanical specificity  20, 
34
biplexes  197-198, 197t
power  211t
, 214t, 220t, 230t, 
237t, 244t , 249t , 254t , 259t , 
264t-265t
power-endurance  
211t, 214t , 
220t, 244t , 249t , 254t , 259t , 
264t-265t
board sports program  250-254, 
251t-252t, 254t
bodyweight alternating lunge
instructions  43-44, 43f
in programs  171, 171t
, 187, 
187t, 224, 225t
bodyweight double-leg squat
A-frame in  18, 18f
instructions  42-43, 42f
in programs  171, 171t
, 187,
187t, 224, 225t
bodyweight exercises  54-69, 
54f, 56f-65f, 67f-69f
basic eight  39-49, 39f , 41f-43
f, 
45f-47f, 49f, 53
 overview of  53
bodyweight push-up
instructions  44-45, 45f
in programs  171, 171t
, 189, 
189t, 224, 225t
bow, body as  28-29, 28fBP . See bands and pulleysBP compound row
instructions  80, 80f
in programs  21t , 23
t, 212, 
213t, 227, 228t, 229, 230t, 231, 232t
BP deadlift
instructions  70, 71f
in programs  208, 209t
, 226, 
227t, 243, 244t, 246, 247t, 253, 254t, 257, 257t
BP high-to-low chop
instructions  85, 85fin programs  25t , 172, 172t, 
179, 179t, 183, 183t, 215-216, 215t, 217t, 219, 220t, 227, 228t, 242, 242t, 247, 247t, 250, 251t
BP low-to-high chop
instructions  86, 86f
in programs  25t
, 172, 172t, 
179, 179t, 183, 183t, 213-214, 214t-215t , 216-217, 
217t-218t, 240, 241t, 243, 244t, 248, 249t, 250, 251t, 252-253, 252t , 254t , 262,
263t
BP pulsating backswing  88, 
88f, 174, 174t
BP push–pull
instructions  89, 89f
in programs  209, 210t
, 218-
219, 218t, 220t, 221, 222t, 229, 230t, 231, 232t, 246, 247t, 252, 252t, 256, 257t, 
260, 261t
BP ro w
instructions  77, 77f
in programs  188, 188t
, 211, 
211t, 224, 225t, 240, 241t
BP short rotation (10 to 2 
o’clock)
instructions  87, 87f
in programs  25t , 87, 87
f, 172, 
172t, 174, 174t, 179, 179t, 183, 183t , 211, 211t , 216, 
217t, 226, 227t, 243, 244t, 248, 249t, 250, 251t, 253, 254t, 262, 263t, 264, 265t
BP staggered-stance alternat-
ing press
instructions  75, 75f
in programs  189, 189t
, 224, 
225t, 231, 232t, 240, 241t, 245, 246t, 255, 256t, 264, 264t
BP staggered-stance alternat-
ing row
instructions  78, 78f
in programs  217, 218t
, 223, 
223t, 262, 263t
BP staggered-stance bent-over 
alternating row
instructions  79, 79f

268 Index
in programs  188, 188t
, 224, 
225t, 226, 227t, 228, 228t, 
251, 252t, 258, 259t
BP staggered-stance CLA com-
pound row
instructions  83, 83f
in programs  21t
, 209, 210t, 
213, 214t, 218, 218t, 223, 223t, 235, 236t-237t, 237, 242, 242t
BP staggered-stance CLA dead-
lift
instructions  71, 72f
in programs  21t
, 219, 220t, 
228, 228t, 235, 236t
BP staggered-stance CLA  
decline press
instructions  74, 74f
in programs  222, 223t
, 246, 
247t, 248, 249t
BP staggered-stance CLA high-
to-low row
instructions  82, 82f
in programs  219, 220t
, 227, 
228t, 245, 246t, 248, 249t
BP staggered-stance CLA  
incline press
instructions  73, 73f
in programs  216, 217t
, 248, 
249t, 262, 263t
BP staggered-stance CLA low-
to-high row
instructions  82, 83f
in programs  208, 209t
, 233, 
234t, 252, 252t
BP staggered-stance CLA press
instructions  72, 73f
in programs  22, 176, 176t , 
217, 218
t, 235, 236t, 241, 
242t, 253, 254t
BP staggered-stance CLA row
instructions  81, 81f
in programs  172, 172t
, 212, 
213t, 256, 257t, 260, 261t
BP staggered-stance fly
instructions  76, 76f
in programs  189, 189t
, 212, 
213t, 216, 217t, 224, 225t
BP staggered-stance press
instructions  74-75, 75f
in programs  23t
, 208, 209t, 
210, 211t , 229, 230t , 231, 
232t
BP swim
instructions  84, 84f
in programs  188, 188t
, 215, 
215t, 224, 225t, 241, 242t, 255, 256t, 258, 259t
build-up  195burpee
instructions  68-69, 68f
in programs  229, 230t
, 231, 
232t, 243, 244t, 253, 254t, 258, 259t
Cchanges of direction  17t , 23-25, 
23f-24f, 25t, 177, 177t
Chopper  181, 181tcombat sports program  226-
232, 227t-228t, 230t, 232t
complexes. See hybrid com-
plexes
conditioning
for batting, throwing, and 
catching sports  216, 217
t
for
 board sports  250-251, 
251t
for combat sports  226-227, 
227t
for golf  245-246, 246t
for high-power intermittent 
sports  208-209, 209t
for long-distance field and 
court sports  233-234, 234t
phase  158-159, 159t , 202, 
202
t-204t, 204
quadplexes  222t, 227
t, 256t
for racket sports  212-213, 
213t
for running sports 
 221-222, 
222t
for skating-related sports 
 
260-261, 261t
for swimming  255-256, 256t
triplexes  209t , 213t , 217
t, 
234t, 241 t, 246 t, 251 t,  
261t
 for volleyball  240-241, 241t
control  34cool-down  194Cor
e Activator  182, 182t
core stiffness  183, 183tcricket  216crooked stick cross-rotational 
jump drill  138, 138f, 253, 254t
crooked stick hexagon drill  
137-138, 138f
Cut Protocol  177, 177t
D
DB. See dumbbellsDB high cross punch  101, 101fDB horizontal fly rotation  105, 
106f, 223, 223t, 250, 251t
DB or KB biceps curl  101-102, 
102f, 191, 192tDB or KB carry  107, 107f, 229, 
230t, 231, 232t
DB or KB cross overhead press
instructions  100-101, 100f
in programs  191, 192t
, 221, 
222t, 241, 242t, 245, 246t, 255, 256t
DB or KB cross uppercut  104, 
104f, 191, 192t, 260, 261t
DB or KB front reaching lunge
instructions  94, 94f
in programs  23t
, 191, 192t, 
218, 218t, 229, 230t, 231, 232t, 236, 237t, 240, 241t
DB or KB lateral overhead 
press  99, 99f
DB or KB lateral reaching lunge
instructions  95-96, 95f
in programs  25t
, 172, 172t, 
177, 177t, 191, 192t, 213-214, 214t-215t, 233, 234t, 241, 242t, 243, 244t, 247-248, 247t, 249t, 260, 261t, 263, 264t
DB or KB lunge  93, 93fDB or KB overhead pr ess  98, 
98
f, 191, 192t
DB or KB overhead Y press  
99-100, 100f, 191, 192t
DB or KB rotating reaching 
lunge
instructions  96-97, 96f
in programs  191, 192t
, 233, 
234t, 260, 261t
DB or KB single-leg RDL
instructions  92, 92f
in programs  209, 210t
, 222, 
223t, 235, 236t, 262, 263t
DB or KB squat
instructions  90, 90f
in programs  208, 209t
, 241, 
242t, 250, 251t-252t, 252, 258, 259t
DB or KB staggered-stance 
bent-over single-arm row  97-98, 97f, 213, 214t, 235,236t
DB or KB upright row  103, 
103f, 191, 192t, 260, 261t
DB single-arm diagonal fly 
rotation
instructions  106, 107f
in p
rograms  213, 214 t, 
250, 251t, 257, 257t, 262,  
263t
deceleration  20-24, 22f, 23t, 26dip  61, 61fdumbbell bent-over row  151, 
151f

269 Index
dumbbells (DB)
 equipment  8, 8f
, 90
 exer
cises  53, 90-107, 90f -107f
duration  156
E
effective training, optimal 
vs.  5-6
endurance running  221endurance training, prefatigue 
system of  186
equipment
 bands and pulleys  8-9, 9f , 70
 cost of  4-5
 dumbbells  8, 8f
, 90
 kettlebells  10, 10f
, 90
 medicine balls  9-10, 9f
, 109
 stability balls  10, 10f
, 123
 suspension  11, 1
1f
 toys  133-142, 133f-
142f
 for travel  12, 12f
exer
cises. See also bodyweight 
exercises
 band and pulley  53, 70-89, 
70f
-89f
 dumbbell and kettlebell  53, 
90-107, 90f
-107f
 medicine ball  109-123, 109f
-
123f
 overview of  53, 108-109, 152
 stability ball  123-132, 124f
-
132f
 with toys  133-142, 133f-
142f
 traditional strength  143-152,
 
143f-152f, 193
explosive push-up
 instructions  69, 69
f
 in programs  189, 189
t, 210, 
211t, 224, 225t, 229, 230t, 
231, 232t, 236, 237t
express protocols  173, 207
 Cut Protocol  177, 177
t
 Flamethrower  178, 178
t
 Golf Power-Drive Pr
otocol  
174, 174t
 Home-Run Protocol  179,
 
179t
 KO Protocol  176, 176
t
 Running Speed-Demon Pro
-
tocol  175, 175t
FFabulous Five  184, 184tFlamethrower  178, 178tfootball, American  20845-degree back extension  146, 
146f
45-degree calf pump  63, 63f , 
175, 175t, 221, 222t45-degree wall march or run  
19t
45-degree wall run  64, 64f , 
221, 222t
four pillars of human move-
ment
 assessment of  38
 Big Four related to  13, 16, 25
 in functional 
training foun-
dations  13-15, 16t
frequency  156functional intensity  35-38, 
36f-37f
functional strength  3-4functional training. See also  
exercises; IHP Hybrid Training System; pro-grams
 criteria  34-35
 defined  3-4, 12-13
 effectiveness  4-5, 266
 myths  5-8, 7f
 performance benefits  5
functional training foundations
 athletic environment  25-27
 Big Four sport skills  13, 
15-25, 16
t-17t, 18f-19f, 19t, 
21f-24f, 21t, 23t, 25t
 four pillars of human move-
ment  13-15, 16
t
 highways of sport power 
 
27-30, 28f-29f, 31f, 31t-32t
 overview of  13, 32
GGary’s dumbbell matrix  190-
191, 192t
, 238, 239t
general fitness protocols  180
 Chopper  181, 181t
 Core 
Activator  182, 182t
 Fabulous Five  184, 184t
 Steel Core  183, 183
t
 Triple Thr
eat  185, 185t
general warm-up  194golf  24, 24f, 245-249, 246t-247t, 
249t
Golf Power-Drive Protocol  
174, 174t
grab-and-go protocols  170, 207
 JV Program  171, 171
t
 Varsity Pr
ogram  172, 172t
gravity  25-26Gray, Gary  190ground reaction forces  26-27
H
hamstring program  185, 185thandball  233high-power intermittent sports program  208-211, 209t -
211t
highways of sport power  
27-30, 28f-29f, 31f, 31t-32t
Home-Run Protocol  179, 179thybrid complexes
 biplexes  197-198, 197t
 execution of  200-202
 in IHP Hybrid T
raining 
System  196-202
 quadplexes  199-200
 triplexes  198-199
hybrid training. See
 IHP Hybrid 
Training System
hypertrophy. See conditioning
I
ice hockey  208, 260IHP Hybrid Training System
 build-up in  195
 hy
brid complexes in  196-202
 overview of  192-193, 206, 
266
 periodization of  202-203, 
202
t
 sample programs  203-206,
 
203t-206t
 3TIS in  193-196, 196t
-197t
 unloading in  195-196, 
196t-
197t
 warm-up and cool-down in  
194
in-line skating  260instability push-up  45intensity  170
 in
 performance continuum  
35-38, 36f-37f
 in periodization  157-158, 
157
t
 as
 training variable  155-156, 
156f
JJC Leg Crank  166, 187, 187t , 
225t, 238, 239t
JC Meta Back  188, 188t, 225t, 
238, 239t
JC Meta Chest  189, 189t, 225t, 
238, 239t
JC Predator Jr.  12, 12fJC’s training octagon  30, 31f, 
31t-32t
judo  226JV Program  171, 171t
K
KB. See kettlebellsKB single-arm swing
 instructions  91, 91
f

270 Index
 in programs  172, 172
t, 210, 
211t, 226, 227t, 243, 244t, 
251, 252t, 256, 257t, 258, 
259t, 263, 264t
kettlebells (KB)
 equipment  10, 10f
, 90
 exer
cises  53, 90-107, 90f -107f
KO Protocol  176, 176tkronum  233
L
lacrosse  233lateral slide
 instructions  140-141, 141
f
 in programs  177, 177
t, 262, 
263t, 264, 265t
level changes  13-14, 18-20, 
19f, 21t
lever arm  35-36, 36floaded alternating lunge  44loaded alternating split jump  
66
loaded rotation without pivot  
49
loaded rotation with pivot  48loaded single-leg squat  41loaded step-up  55, 263, 264tloaded vertical jump  66locomotion  13-14, 17-18, 17t , 
18f, 19t
long-distance field and court 
sports program  233-239, 234t, 236t-237t, 239t
low-hurdle diagonal jump  
137, 137f
low-hurdle run  136, 136f
M
machine leg press  143, 143fMB. See medicine ballsMB ABC squat
 instructions  1
12-113, 113f
 in programs  212, 213
t, 240, 
241t, 245, 246t, 250, 251t
MB crossover push-up
 instructions  1
15, 115f
 in programs  172, 172
t, 189, 
189t, 209, 210t, 226, 227t, 229, 230t, 231, 232t, 236, 237t
MB diagonal chop
 instructions  1
11-112, 111f -
112f
 in programs  181, 181
t, 251, 
252t
MB lunge with rotation
 instructions  1
13, 113f
 in programs  216, 217
t, 245, 
246t, 255, 256tMB overhead side-to-side slam
 instructions  121, 121
f
 in programs  215, 215
t, 237, 
237t, 248, 249t, 258, 259t
MB overhead slam
 inst
ructions  120-121, 120f-
121f
 in programs  188, 188
t, 211, 
211t, 215, 215t, 219, 220t, 
224, 225t, 237, 237t, 248, 249t, 258, 259t
MB reverse scoop throw
 instructions  122-123, 123
f
 in programs  229, 230
t, 231, 
232t, 243, 244t, 258, 259t
MB rotational throw: perpen-
dicular
 instructions  121-122, 122
f
 in programs  179, 179
t, 211, 
211t, 214, 215t, 219, 220t, 
229, 230t, 243, 244t, 248, 249t, 264, 265t
MB rotation without pivot  116, 
182, 182t
MB rotation with pivot  116, 
116f, 181, 181t
MB short diagonal chop
 instructions  1
12, 112f
 in programs  25
t, 182, 182t, 
222, 223t, 226, 227t
MB short wood chop  110, 110f, 
182, 182t
MB single-arm push-off
 instructions  1
14, 114f
 in programs  176, 176
t, 189, 
189t, 227, 228t, 235, 236t
MB staggered-stance CLA  
decline chest throw
 instructions  1
19, 119f
 in programs  229, 230
t, 231, 
232t, 248, 249t
MB staggered-stance CLA  
incline chest throw  117, 117f, 248, 249t
MB staggered-stance CLA  
straight chest throw
 instructions  1
18, 118f
 in programs  176, 176
t, 219, 
220t, 253, 254t, 264, 264t
MB wood chop
 instructions  1
10, 110f
 in programs  181, 181
t, 212, 
213t, 216, 217t, 255, 256t
medicine balls (MB)
 equipment  9-10, 9f
, 109
 exercises  109-123, 109
f-123f
metabolic protocols  186
 Gary’s dumbbell matrix 
 
190-191, 192t, 238, 239t JC Leg Crank 
 166, 187, 187t, 
225t, 238, 239t
 JC Meta Back  188, 188t , 225
t, 
238, 239t
 JC Meta Chest  189, 189t , 
225
t, 238, 239t
 in power-endurance phase
  
164-167
mixed martial arts (MMA)  226MMA circuit  166modified clinch curl  105, 105fmomentum  26movement patterns, evaluation 
of  38-49, 39f, 41f-43f, 45f-47f, 49f
O1RM  157-158, 157toptimal training, effective 
vs.  5-6
Ppain-free training  34, 53, 109performance continuum
 criteria for  34-35
 functional intensity in  35-38, 
36
f-37f
 movement pattern evalua-
tion in  38-49, 39
f, 41f-43f, 
45f-47f, 49f
 overview of  33, 49
periodization
 conditioning phase  158-159, 
159
t, 202, 202t-204t, 204
 defined  155
 house of  156, 156f
 of hybrid pr
ogram  202-203, 
202t
 loads and intensities  
assigned in  157-158, 157
t
 phases combined in  168, 
168t
 power-endurance 
phase  
164-167, 202t , 203, 205-
206, 205t-206t
 power phase  161-164, 164t
-
165t , 202t , 203, 205-206, 
205t-206t
 st
rength phase  159-161, 
160t, 202, 202t-204t, 204
 training variables  155-156, 
156f
pitching  21, 21
f-22f
plank
 instructions  57, 57
f
 in programs  23
t, 208, 209t, 
233, 234t, 255, 256t
plyometric training  161-162posterior serape  29-30, 29f

271 Index
power
for batting, throwing, and 
catching sports  219-220, 
220
t
biplexes  211t , 214
t, 220t , 
230t, 237t , 244t , 249t , 254t , 
259t, 264t-265t
for
 board sports  253-254, 
254t
for combat sports  229-230, 
230t
for golf  247-249, 249t
for high-power intermittent 
sports  210-211, 211
t
highways of  27-30, 28f-29
f, 
31f, 31t-32t
for long-distance field and 
court sports  236-237, 237t
phase  161-164, 164t -165t , 
202t, 2
03, 205-206, 205t-
206t
for racket sports  214-215, 
215t
for running sports  
223-225, 
225t
for skating-related sports 
 
263-265, 264t-265t
for swimming  257-259, 259t
 for volleyball  242-244, 244t
power endurance
for batting, throwing, and 
catching sports  219-220, 220
t
biplexes  211t , 214
t, 220t , 
244t, 249 t, 254 t, 259 t, 
264t-265t
for
 board sports  253-254, 
254t
for combat sports  230-232, 
232t
for golf  247-249, 249t
for high-power intermittent 
sports  210-211, 211
t
for long-distance field and 
court sports  238-239, 239t
phase  164-167, 202t , 203, 
205-206, 205
t-206t
for running sports  
223-225, 
225t
for skating-related sports 
 
263-265, 264t-265t
superset  232t
for swimming  257-259, 259t
for volleyball  242-244,  
244t
pr
efatigue system, of endur -
ance training  186
program design. See also peri-
odizationoverview of  155, 168
training variables  155-156, 
156f
programs. See also
 IHP  
Hybrid Training System; sport-specific programs
Big Four and  18, 19t, 20, 21
t, 
23, 23t
express protocols  173-179,
 
174t-179t, 207
general fitness protocols 
 
180-185, 181t-185t
grab-and-go protocols 
 170-
172, 171t-172t, 207
integration of  169-170
metabolic protocols 
 186-191, 
187t-189t, 192t
 overview of  169, 192
progress, steady  35pr
oprioception  6
pull-down  149-150, 150fpulleys. See bands and pulleys
punching  176, 176tpushing and pulling  14-15, 17t , 
20-23, 21f-22f, 23t
push-up  36, 36f-37f
Q
quadplexes  199-200
conditioning  222
t, 227t , 256t
strength  228t
, 257t
Rracket sports program  212-215, 
213t-215t
racquetball  212range of motion  36recline pull (row)
instructions  46-47, 46f
in programs  171, 171t
, 208, 
209t, 221, 222t, 226, 227t, 233, 234t, 240, 241t-242t, 242, 255, 256t
rope circles  139-140, 140fropes alternating up and down  
139, 139f, 216, 217t
rotation  15, 16t -17t, 22f -24f, 
23-26, 25t
rotation without pivot  48-49, 
49f, 171, 171t
rotation with pivot  47-48, 47f, 
171, 171t
runner’s reach  55, 56frunning curl  102, 102fRunning Speed-Demon Proto-
col  175, 175t
running sports programs  
19t, 221-225, 222t -223t ,  
225tSSB. See stability ballsSB bridge  19t, 128, 128f, 185, 
185t
SB hands-on-ball push-up
instructions  125, 125f
in programs  184, 184t
, 221, 
222t, 252, 252t, 257, 257t
SB hip lift  128, 129f, 175, 175t, 
185, 185t
SB hyperextension  130, 130 f, 
184, 184t, 255, 256t
SB knee tuck  126, 126f , 184, 
184t
SB leg curl  129-130, 130f, 185, 
185t
SB log roll
instructions  131-132, 132f
in programs  174, 174t
, 245, 
246t, 250, 251t, 262, 263t
SB reverse hyperextension
instructions  131, 131f
in programs  21t
, 184, 184t, 
256, 257t, 262, 263t
SB rollout
instructions  127, 127f
in programs  216, 217t
-218t, 
218, 240, 241t, 257, 257t
SB single-leg lateral wall slide
instructions  124, 124f
in programs  19t , 25
t, 177, 
177t, 234-235, 234t , 236t, 
260, 261t
SB skier
instructions  132, 132f
in programs  184, 184t
, 228, 
228t, 250, 251t, 260, 261t
seated row  150, 150f7-frame  18, 18f, 20shoulder rotation  22, 22fside T plank
instructions  58, 58f
in programs  212, 213t
, 233, 
234t, 260, 261t
single-arm eccentrics  59, 59 f, 
209, 210t, 228, 228t
single-leg 45-degree back 
extension  21t, 146, 146f
single-leg CLA anterior reach
instructions  39-40, 39f
in programs  19t
, 23t, 39-40, 
39f, 171, 171t , 175, 175t , 
221, 222t
single-leg phenomenon  17-18, 
18f, 20
single-leg push-off  55single-leg rotational squat  
56-57, 57f
single-leg squat

272 Index
instructions  40-41, 41f
in programs  18, 18f , 19
t, 171, 
171t, 175, 175t, 209, 210t, 
221, 222t
7-frame in  18, 18f
skateboarding  250skater
instructions  67, 68f
in programs  177, 177t
, 214, 
215t, 243, 244t, 248, 249t, 263, 264t
skating-related sports program  
260-265, 261t, 263t-265t
slide running  142, 142fsoccer  233softball  216speed  35, 161, 175, 175tsport locomotion  17-18, 17t , 
18f, 19t
sport power, highways of  
27-30, 28f-29f, 31f, 31t-32t
sport-specific programs
batting
, throwing, and catch -
ing sports  216-220, 217t-218t, 220t
board sports  250-254, 
251t-
252t, 254t
combat sports  226-232, 227t -
228t
, 230t, 232t
golf  245-249, 246t-247
t, 249t
high-power intermittent 
sports  208-211, 209
t-211t
long-distance field and court 
sports  233-239, 234t , 
236
t-237t, 239t
overview of  207
racket sports  212-215, 213t-
215
t
running sports  19t
, 221-225, 
222t-223t, 225t
skating-related sports 
 260-
265, 261t, 263t-265t
swimming  255-259, 256t -
257t
, 259t
volleyball  240-244, 241t -
242t
, 244t
sport-specific training  3-4squash  212squat jump
instructions  66
in programs  187, 187t
, 210, 
211t, 224, 225t, 263, 264t
stability
balance vs.  6-8, 7f
 triplanar  27
stability balls (SB)
equipment  10, 10f, 123exercises  123-132, 124f
-132f
total-body program  184, 
184
t
staggered stance, level changes 
and  19-20, 19f
Steel Core  183, 183tstep-up  54-55, 54fstrength
for batting, throwing, and 
catching sports  217-218, 218
t
for
 board sports  251-252, 
252t
for combat sports  227-228, 
228t
functional  3-4
for golf  246-247, 247t
for high-power intermittent 
sports  209-210, 210t
for long-distance field and 
court sports  234-235, 236t
phase  159-161, 160t , 202, 
202
t-204t, 204
quadplexes  228t, 257
t
for racket sports  213-214, 
214t
for running sports 
 222-223, 
223t
without size  5
for skating-related sports 
 
261-263, 263t
for swimming  256-257, 257t
traditional exercises for  143-
152, 143f
-152f, 193
triplexes  210t , 214t , 218
t, 
223t, 236t , 242t , 247t , 252t , 
263t
 for volleyball  241-242, 242t
surfing  250suspension equipment  11, 1
1f
swimming program  255-259, 
256t-257t, 259t
Ttaekwondo  226tennis  22, 22f, 212Three-Tier Integration System 
(3TIS)  193-196, 196t-197t
throwing
in 
batting, throwing, and 
catching sports program  216-220, 217t-218t, 220t
program  23t
, 178, 178t
as pushing and pulling  17t, 
20-23, 21
f-22f, 23t
total-body SB program  184, 
184ttoys  133-142, 133f-142fT push-up
instructions  60, 60f
in programs  213, 214t
, 218, 
218t, 226, 227t, 240, 241t-242t, 242, 247, 247t, 252, 252t
track and field  221traditional strength exercises  
143-152, 143f-152f, 193
training octagon, JC’s  30, 31f, 
31t-32t
training variables  155-156, 156ftravel, equipment for  12, 12ftriplanar loading  26-27Triple Threat  185, 185t , 234-
235, 234t, 236t
triplexes  198-199
con
ditioning  209t , 213 t, 
217t, 234t , 241t , 246t , 251t , 
261t
strength  
210t , 214t , 218t , 
223t, 236t , 242t , 247t , 252t , 
263t
Uunloading  195-196, 196t-197t
V
Varsity Program  172, 172tvertical jump  65-66, 65 f, 243, 
244t
vibra 
tion blade 12 o’clock oscil-
lation  134, 134f, 179, 179t
vibration blade throw  133, 133fvolleyball program  240-244, 
241t-242t, 244t
volume  155, 156f , 158-160, 162, 
166-168
V-up  62
W
warm-up  194weighted burpee  69weighted skater  67wrestling  226
X
X-up
instructions  62, 62f
in programs  22, 23t , 218,
218
t, 234-235, 234t, 236t-
237t, 237, 240, 241t

273
About the Author
Juan Carlos Santana, MEd, CSCS, 
is the founder and director of the Institute of Human Performance (IHP) in Boca Raton, Florida. IHP has been recognized as one of the top training facilities in the world and the best core-training facility in the United States.
Santana has been part of the 
strength and conditioning pro-grams for several Florida Atlantic University sports teams over the last two decades. He has been responsible for the strength and conditioning programs for men’s basketball, men’s and women’s cross country, track and field, women’s volleyball, and men’s and women’s swimming.
A member and certified strength and conditioning specialist with distinction 
(CSCS) and a Fellow (NSCAF) with the National Strength and Conditioning Asso-ciation (NSCA). Santana is also a member and certified health fitness instructor with the ACSM. In addition, he is a certified senior coach and club coach course instructor with the U.S. weightlifting team and a level I coach with USA Track and Field.
Santana currently is on the NSCA Board of Directors and served 10 years as a 
sport-specific conditioning editor for the NSCA Journal. His professional respon-sibilities have included serving as NSCA vice president, chairman of the NSCA Coaches Conference, a member of the NSCA Conference Committee, and the NSCA Florida state director. As a college professor, he has taught strength and conditioning for the combat athlete, sports training systems, and strength train-ing at Florida Atlantic University (FAU). He is an FAU graduate with bachelor’s and master’s degrees in exercise science and was the first graduate from FAU’s exercise science department to receive the prestigious Alumni of the Year award in 2012. Santana is involved in several ongoing research studies with numerous universities.
Founded in 2001, IHP provides an unparalleled training environment for elite 
athletes, including Olympic athletes in a variety of sports; world-class tennis champions; NFL, NHL, and MLB players; world champion Brazilian jujitsu and mixed martial arts fighters; numerous NCAA Division I teams; and hundreds of nationally ranked teen hopefuls from a cross-section of sport disciplines.
To learn more about IHP’s athlete training, products, and continuing educa-
tion and functional training certificate programs for professionals, please visit www.ihpfit.com or www.ihpuniversity.com. For more information about func-tional training equipment, visit IHP partner Perform Better’s website at www.performbetter.com. 


You’ll find other outstanding strength training resources at
www.HumanKinetics.com/strengthtraining
In the U.S. call 1-800-747-4457
Australia 08 8372 0999 • Canada 1-800-465-7301 
Europe +44 (0) 113 255 5665 • New Zealand 0800 222 062
HUMAN KINETICS
The Premier Publisher for Sports & Fitness 
P .O. Box 5076 • Champaign, IL 61825-5076 USA