Human KineticsHigh-Performance  
Training for Sports
David Joyce
Daniel Lewindon
Editors

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
High-performance training for sports / David Joyce, Daniel Lewindon, editors.
      pages cm. Includes bibliographical references and index.
1.  Sports--Physiological aspects. 2.  Physical education and training.  I. Joyce, David, 1976-
 RC1235.H54 2014 613.7'11--dc23                                                           2013042014ISBN-10: 1-4504-4482-2 (print)
ISBN-13: 978-1-4504-4482-8 (print)
Copyright © 2014 by David Joyce and Dan Lewindon
All rights reserved. Except for use in a review, the reproduction or utilization of this work in any form or by any electronic, mechanical, 
or other means, now known or hereafter invented, including xerography, photocopying, and recording, and in any information storage and retrieval system, is forbidden without the written permission of the publisher.
This publication is written and published to provide accurate and authoritative information relevant to the subject matter presented. 
It is published and sold with the understanding that the author and publisher are not engaged in rendering legal, medical, or other professional services by reason of their authorship or publication of this work. If medical or other expert assistance is required, the services of a competent professional person should be sought.
The web addresses cited in this text were current as of February 2014 , unless otherwise noted.
Associate Acquisitions Editor: Chris Wright
Developmental Editor: Cynthia McEntireManaging Editor: Elizabeth EvansCopyeditor: Ann PrislandIndexer: Nan N. Badgett
Permissions Manager: Martha Gullo
Cover Designer: Jonathan KayPhotograph (cover): Image Source / Aurora PhotosPhotographs (interior): © Human Kinetics, unless otherwise noted
Photo Asset Manager: Laura Fitch
Visual Production Assistant: Joyce BrumfieldPhoto Production Manager: Jason AllenArt Manager: Kelly HendrenAssociate Art Manager: Alan L. Wilborn
Illustrations: © Human Kinetics, unless otherwise noted
Printer: Premier Print Group
We thank Rugby WA in Floreat, Western Australia, and Edith Cowan University in Joondalup, Western Australia, for assistance in 
providing the location for the photo shoot for this book. 
Human Kinetics books are available at special discounts for bulk purchase.  Special editions or book excerpts can also be created to 
specification. For details, contact the Special Sales Manager at Human Kinetics.
Printed in the United States of America  10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
Website: www.HumanKinetics.com
United States:  Human Kinetics
P.O. Box 5076, Champaign, IL 61825-5076
800-747-4457e-mail: humank@hkusa.com
Canada:  Human Kinetics
475 Devonshire Road Unit 100, Windsor, ON N8Y 2L5
800-465-7301 (in Canada only)e-mail: info@hkcanada.com
Europe:  Human Kinetics
107 Bradford Road, Stanningley, Leeds LS28 6AT, United Kingdom
+44 (0) 113 255 5665e-mail: hk@hkeurope.comAustralia:  Human Kinetics
57A Price Avenue, Lower Mitcham, South Australia 506208 8372 0999e-mail: info@hkaustralia.com
New Zealand:  Human Kinetics
P.O. Box 80, Torrens Park, South Australia 5062
0800 222 062e-mail: info@hknewzealand.com
E5891

High-Performance  
Training for Sports

ivForeword  vii
Introduction:  Understanding Modern Athletes  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ix
David Joyce and Daniel Lewindon
Part I Building Robust Athletes 1
Chapter 1  Evaluating Athletic Capacities   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Mike McGuigan, PhD, CSCS*D
Chapter 2  Developing Younger Athletes  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Rhodri S. Lloyd, PhD, ASCC, CSCS*D, and Jon L. Oliver, PhD
Chapter 3  Enhancing Movement Efficiency  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Craig Ranson, PhD, and David Joyce
Chapter 4  Stabilising and Strengthening the Core   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Andy Barr and Daniel Lewindon
Chapter 5  Optimising Flexibility  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Sue Falsone
Chapter 6  Monitoring the Training Response   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
Aaron J. Coutts, PhD, and Stuart Cormack, PhD
Chapter 7  Retraining the Injured Athlete  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Daniel Lewindon and David Joyce
Part II Developing Athletic Capacity  97
Chapter 8  Customizing the Warm-Up and Cool-Down  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
Rett Larson
Chapter 9  Fine-Tuning Motor Control  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 113
Frans Bosch
Chapter 10  Using Strength Platforms for Explosive Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127
Daniel Baker, PhD
Chapter 11  Successfully Translating Strength Into Speed  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 145
Derek M. Hansen, CSCS, BA, MAScContents

 vChapter 12  Optimising Training for Jumping and Landing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 167
Jeremy Sheppard, PhD
Chapter 13  Increasing Agility  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .185
Sophia Nimphius, PhD, ASCC, CSCS*D
Chapter 14  Generating Anaerobic Power   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 199
David Martin, PhD
Chapter 15  Establishing Endurance for Repeated Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 211
Darcy Norman
Chapter 16  Boosting Aerobic Capacity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 221
Grégory Dupont, PhD
Chapter 17  Optimising Effective Cross-Training Methods   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 231
Anthony Rice, PhD, and Chris Spinks
Part III  Delivering Performance  245
Chapter 18  Planning a Performance Programme  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247
Benjamin Rosenblatt, ASCC
Chapter 19  Designing Energy-Specific Programmes  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 259
Joel Jamieson
Chapter 20  Minimising the Interference Effect  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
Glenn Stewart
Chapter 21  Optimising Preseason Training in Team Sports  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 277
Darren Burgess, PhD
Chapter 22  Peaking for Competition in Individual Sports  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 291
G. Gregory Haff, PhD, CSCS*D, FNSCA, AWF-3, ASCC, ASCA-2
Chapter 23  Maintaining an In-Season Conditioning Edge  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301
Stuart Yule
Chapter 24  Recovering Effectively in High-Performance Sports  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 319
Christian J. Cook, Liam P. Kilduff and Marc R. Jones
References  331  ❙ Index  357  ❙ About the Editors  370  ❙ About the Contributors  371

This page intentionally left blank.

 viiForeword
Mark Verstegen
President and Founder, EXOS, TeamEXOS .com
I am truly excited for the publication of High-  
Performance Training for Sports . Rarely does a 
globally-respected group of diverse professionals 
come together to contribute to a singular work 
like this book. It is a daunting task to take such 
talented contributors who each posses such depth and breadth of subject-matter expertise to play 
such a defined role within the total scope of the 
work. The closest analogy in the athletic world is probably when you create a national team of 
stars who must align to the greater good of the 
country, their coaches and their teammates. We 
all know the winning formula usually has to do 
with the quality of the people and culture that comprise their leadership. This book is a shining 
example of that.
David Joyce and Daniel Lewindon are exceptional 
people, practitioners and visionary leaders who had the courage to bring these globally-respected 
subject-matter experts together as one team for 
the benefit of all the interrelated fields that help 
athletes and teams achieve their goals. This is what we do every day at EXOS (formerly Athletes’ 
Performance and Core Performance), as well. We 
work together to upgrade lives by designing and 
delivering health and performance game plans.
High-Performance Training for Sports brings the 
invaluable and rich global perspective of best practices from the leaders who are working hard 
to research and apply this knowledge and expe -
rience on a daily basis. The contributors are to be commended for their openness and passion in creating such powerful work for all to benefit.
Much insightful information is presented for our 
application. Yes, each situation and each athlete is 
unique and you must take into account the existing 
culture, athlete mix, goals, priorities, resources, teammates, facilities and role you play within the 
organization. But you can readily find ways to use 
the rich knowledge in this book. Here’s a recom -
mendation: At the end of each chapter hand-write 
three actionable points of implementation into your 
current situation. Then try them out and see how 
they upgrade your system and benefit your athletes.
What those of us in this profession love most 
about what we do is directly helping others achieve what is important to them. And with this comes 
an incredible responsibility to make sure we are leaving no ethical stone unturned to help them 
realize their dreams.
We should all thank the winning team of 
High-Performance Training for Sports for reinforcing 
what we currently know and extending our knowl -
edge in an approachable way, allowing us to start 
applying the information on our next Monday. 
Moreover, we should embrace the winning, collab -
orative culture that made this book possible. For it is that eagerness to share our expertise and knowl -
edge across professional fields that will ensure a 
strong future for our respective professions and 
advance us further toward our collective goal of proactive health through human performance.

This page intentionally left blank.

 ixIntroduction:
Understanding Modern Athletes
David Joyce
Western Force Rugby, Australia and Edith Cowan University, Australia
Daniel Lewindon
Rugby Football Union, UK
There is a vast difference between elite athletes 
of today compared to those from previous gen -
erations. The rules and objectives of the sports may be similar, but the processes undertaken to be the 
best in the world are markedly different. Sacrifices 
have always been made to be number one, but the increasing significance and popularity of sport on 
the world stage has meant becoming an athlete is 
a career choice that requires total attention and commitment, forsaking all others.
No single athlete is an island, however. Whilst 
an Olympic gold medal may be awarded to an 
individual athlete, it actually is a symbol of the 
success of the team and the process that has sup -
ported that individual. The slogan painted on the 
wall of the dining hall at the London Olympics in 
2012 claiming “none of us is as good as all of us” is a poignant reminder of the necessary teamwork 
behind the scenes required for sport honours.
For many years, the world of business has led 
the way in terms of strategic thinking, process 
management and contingency planning, not to mention best-practice team structures. This has 
spawned a strong philosophical basis with respect 
to world-class practice. Currently, there is a grow -
ing awareness of the lessons to be learned from business that can be applied to the sport world.
Sport success requires long-term planning, sta -
bility and commitment from CEO to masseur, all with a singular vision of improving performance. In this way, high-performance sport is no longer a 
goal attainable for the committed amateur. It is a 
goal that needs careful and considered planning.
The top athletes of today have all been carefully 
nurtured since they were adolescents, or in some cases, since they were children. They have been identified as genetically gifted and sufficiently 
talented and then groomed and progressively 
exposed to a training and competitive environment 
aimed at building a top adult performer.
Over the last decade, much has changed in the 
field of athletic preparation. New technology devel -
opment and ever-advancing physiological research 
has meant that what was considered cutting edge 10 years ago is now considered old and outdated. 
The high-performance landscape now would be 
virtually unrecognizable to someone witnessing 
it from the turn of the century.
Determinants of Sport Success
To be an elite sportperson requires a combination 
of technical and tactical skill, physical capacities 
and vast reserves of psychological and emotional 
strength. Sport cultures around the world place 
different values on these components. For exam -
ple, Asian sport success is based on a blueprint of 
technical superiority, and the training culture in 
Asia builds vast reserves of mental resilience. The 
Western Hemispheric model of success is often (but not always) predicated by physiological superiority. 
These approaches are not dichotomous, of course, 
but reflect more a difference in emphasis.
It is our opinion that the ideal model is a combi -
nation of the two hemispheres, one in which phys -
ical, technical and tactical skills are developed, a 
structure of psychological strength is emphasised 
and all this is developed within an organisational culture that is uncompromising in its pursuit of 
excellence.

x ❙ Introduction
Aims of Performance Training
Every sport requires careful, precise execution 
of skills. Even a sport that is largely the domain 
of physiological prowess, such as track cycling, 
requires immense skill to avoid the energy leaks 
that dissipate the power generated by the athlete.
The aim of performance training is twofold:
1. Develop the physiological reserves to be able 
to perform the tasks of the sport to a higher 
level and with less decay over time than 
opponents. Put simply, athletes aim to take opponents to a red zone more often than 
the opponents can handle. This red zone 
can be more skill orientated, such as in table tennis or fencing; it can be more mentally 
orientated, such as in golf; it can be more 
physically orientated, such as in cycling; or 
it can be a combination of all these domains. 
In fact, a strong argument can be made that success in most sports requires asserting 
red-zone superiority in all these domains.
2. Be robust enough to withstand the technical 
and tactical training without getting injured.
Developing Athleticism  
to Support Technical Skill
The aim of athletic training should be to enable the 
individual to tolerate training loads and therefore 
maximise his or her exposure to technical and 
tactical coaching. This is evident in a sport such 
as diving but can also be applied to sports such as 
swimming and rowing, in which it can be argued that the difference between first and fourth is 
unlikely to be due to physical fitness but instead to 
technical proficiency and mental resiliency.
What is clear, however, is that without this phys -
ical base, an athlete’s ability to tolerate the thou -
sands of hours of training required for technical 
expertise is dramatically compromised.
Seeing the Wood,  
Not Just the Trees
Given the unprecedented rise in both the profile 
and riches in elite sport, it is natural that there is 
increasing importance placed on every area that 
contributes to sport performance. It is no longer enough to look at improving a single area and expecting across-the-board improvements.
Let’s use cross country running as an example. 
It is easy to think that the point of difference is aerobic capacity. If we compare the difference 
between a world-class performer and a club 
runner, we will undoubtedly see a difference in aerobic fitness level. The difference between first 
and eighth in the world championships, though, 
is unlikely to be the size of the aerobic engine. 
It is more likely to be differences in strength, 
movement efficiency or tactical ability. We can see, therefore, that if we want to really enhance 
performance, we need to look across many areas. 
This is even more critical in team sport in which there are greater numbers of moving parts that 
will determine the outcome.
Significantly financed organisations may have 
the ability to employ experts in all areas of perfor -
mance, but the reality for most coaches is that this 
is simply not possible. As such, an appreciation and 
understanding of a wide variety of contributors to 
sport success is needed. The aim of this book is to 
facilitate this objective.
High-Performance 
Programme
The environment that surrounds the athlete or 
team will vary considerably according to the 
financial resources available. Irrespective of this, 
though, it is important for every organisation to 
have a clear vision of what a good environment 
looks like, which extends to facilities, equipment and staff.
In many instances, we find that the programme 
is king. By this, we mean that the training is planned but inflexible. The athlete is then expected 
to be shoehorned into the programme; there is 
little individualisation. This approach is attractive 
in that it requires less work and can be replicated 
year after year. This philosophy is flawed, however, because it relies on the premise that all athletes 
have the same needs, and the belief that the state 
of athletes is consistent over time.
We can see clearly that this is not the case. 
Indeed, this point is articulately explained in almost every chapter in this text, but is specifically 
covered in chapters 1 and 6. Athletes are not clones, 
and their responses to training and competition vary from day to day, week to week, month to 

 Introduction  ❙ xi
month and season to season. Of course, this is not 
even factoring in the other stresses—financial, 
relational, educational—that all athletes are subject 
to. If the programme is king, we disregard all these 
variables, and as a consequence, it will largely be 
down to chance if our programmes are perfectly appropriate for each athlete at that particular time.
Bespoke Programming
With this in mind, then, the ideal model is unques -
tionably one in which the athlete is placed at the 
centre, and appropriate bespoke programmes are 
installed according to the athlete’s needs.
Take, for example, a basketball team. Likely 
within this group there will be vast differences in athletic capacities, training and injury histories, weaknesses and asymmetries, to mention but a few 
variables. The athlete-centred approach examines 
the relative needs of each individual and then 
programmes appropriately to take each athlete 
on a journey.
This is particularly important when the group’s 
age and training profile is disparate. Older athletes may not need the same in-season load as younger athletes. Likewise, it is folly to subject a developing 
athlete who has just broken into the senior squad to 
the same training load as a seasoned veteran, who 
has a body adapted over the years to the rigors of 
training. The programme-is-king approach fails to discriminate.
This bespoke approach often does take some 
explaining to the playing group, though, especially to those athletes who are accustomed to everyone 
sharing the pain in training. Some players in team 
sport do not like being given days off, because in 
their own minds, they feel as though they are let -
ting down their teammates. Alternatively, hackles 
can be raised within the playing group if a member 
is seen to be treated differently.
The way to get around this is to explain to the 
group as a whole the philosophy of athlete-centred 
programming and how this may mean that not 
everyone will be doing the same thing at the 
same time. Some will be resting when others are working hard. This is nothing personal; it is just 
that bespoke training is the best way to ensure 
the group is optimally prepared for competition.
This approach is labour intensive, however; it 
essentially means that the athletic performance coaches have to design and deliver separate pro -
grammes to each member of the team. This is not as insurmountable as it seems, though, because 
inevitably common threads will run through 
the team at any given time. As a result, the indi -
vidual tailoring comes from modifications to the 
theme with specific work-ons factored into each 
programme to ensure that athletic or injury risk 
factors are addressed.
Interdisciplinary Work
In order for this athlete-centred approach to 
become a reality, the organisation should embrace 
a framework of interdisciplinary work. This differs 
from the multidisciplinary environment often 
spouted as being the ideal. Multidisciplinary struc -
tures involve many professions (fitness, medical, 
coaching, psychology, nutrition, and so on) work -
ing independently of each other while providing 
input to the athlete or team.
Interdisciplinary structures, however, embrace 
a philosophy of collaborative problem solving and 
input into an athlete’s programme. This distinction seems down to semantics, but in reality it is much 
more significant a mind shift. Instead of having a 
framework consisting of multiple silos in which each profession works independently, interdis -
ciplinary structures essentially work together as one, embracing the fact that on occasion, a certain 
member of the managerial staff will have a greater 
role than the others due to the particular problem being faced.
Culture of Success
Establishing this framework of an open, challeng -
ing and supportive interdisciplinary team is vital, 
but it will be effective only if a culture of success 
is driven by all stakeholders, including executives, 
coaches, athletic performance staff and athletes or 
players. In order for this culture to be established, it is vital that all stakeholders share the same col -
lective vision, one in which the motivation to win and be successful as a group overrides any one individual’s desire for personal glory. Fame and 
adulation often follow success, but these trappings 
should not be the motivation, or at some stage 
creep will occur within the culture, and the power 
of the group will diminish. Often the desire to go the extra yard in the final minute is not born out 
of physical superiority but rather comes from a 
deep-seated desire to succeed for your teammates.

xii ❙ Introduction
Within successful teams, culture is held in 
extremely high regard and at its most successful if 
driven by the playing group themselves, who set 
the standards in training intensity and quality and 
apply those expectations to everyone in the group. 
Furthermore, in our experience, these personal and professional standards extend beyond the training 
field into an athlete’s everyday life. The significance 
of this quality cannot be overemphasised.
Mental Resilience
The characteristic that all truly world-class athletes have in common is a fierce desire to be the best and 
to do whatever it takes to get there. Sport at this 
level demands more than most people are willing to give. It requires a dedication and a tolerance of 
self-inflicted pain and sacrifice that is so great that 
it would disturb most people. The absolute elite all have an inner switch that allows them to keep 
going when all else have given in. This can be a dif -
ficult and even frightening concept to understand. It is, however, the reality of high-performance 
sport, and to truly excel requires this dedication. We must acknowledge, though, that unfortunately 
this competitive desire can be so strong that it 
forces people into unethical or illegal territories, which is why we will always need the boundaries 
to be vigilantly patrolled.
There is now a burgeoning recognition that 
mental toughness is one of the primary deter -
minants of sport success. For many years, we have 
attempted to identify athletic talent on the basis of 
anthropometric or physiological qualities, which 
has been successful up to a point. Although there are many mentally tough people who never made 
it due to a lack of physical attributes, what is certain 
is the fact that every world-class performer has an 
inner belief and psychological robustness that can 
overcome any physical shortcomings.
It is beyond the scope of this book to discuss per -
formance psychology in the depth that it deserves, but it would be remiss not to acknowledge the 
pivotal role mental resilience plays in sport success. 
In fact, many professional organisations now pro -
file and scrutinise young athletes for this quality before signing them.
It is clear that high performance is about 
having a composite of physical, technical and mental attributes that, when combined, create an athlete capable of repeatedly displaying superior physical prowess and executing skills under the 
most extreme of pressures. This book is aimed at 
enabling the coach to develop the physical aspects of high performance.
Vital to remember at this point, though, is that 
it is folly to assume that these three areas are sep -
arate. All things being equal, it is the athlete who 
holds an inner belief that he or she is better pre -
pared physically who will likely have the resilience to overcome opponents when it comes down to the 
crunch. Likewise, the capacity to display technical excellence without decay in the final moments of 
competition is largely contingent on the existence 
of an impressive athletic base. No single aspect of high performance exists as an island, and 
improvements in one domain are likely to enhance 
performance as a whole.
Challenges Faced  
by the Modern Athlete
The quest to be the best athlete in a given sport 
does not rest solely on an individual’s ability to 
train hard. In days past, all but the top athletes 
needed employment outside of sport in order to 
put food on the table. They had to source their own 
medical care, nutritional supplements, equipment and the like. These days, being a sportperson 
is an occupation in the same way that being an 
accountant, plumber or nurse is. The most rec -
ognisable athletes all comfortably subsist on the 
backs of their sport exploits and do not have to 
worry about researching the best supplements or 
rehabilitation programmes, let alone buying their 
own training shoes.
Therefore, it is easy to think that modern ath -
letes have nothing to preoccupy their minds other than their sport. Certainly, this is the aim of many sport directors who want to remove any extraneous 
preoccupations from their athletes. Undoubtedly, 
this has enabled our current stars to reach heights 
of athletic performance never before seen, but this 
comes at its own cost as well.
Current athletes are not under less pressure than 
past athletes, just different pressure. Arguably, expectations placed on our young sportpeople 
are greater than ever. Not only are they expected 
to perform well in competition, but they are also 

 Introduction  ❙ xiii
pressed by the media and public into being role 
models, which is a huge burden. Our current 
generation is faced with new challenges such as 
social media and the access the public now has to 
them over this platform. Athletes are subject to the 
whims of popular opinion, and it takes a strong will to be able to ignore them.
Undoubtedly, today’s athletes have the world 
open to them, but if all athletes have to think about is the sport, and they concentrate all their attention 
into it, when things are not going well, there often 
is no outlet. Our physiological response to stress 
has not changed in thousands of years, which is 
why we must embrace a holistic model of care for athletes, one that recognises that training is not 
the only stress placed on them.
Understanding Context
It is the aim of this text to provide the reader with 
a deep understanding of the physical training of 
athletes. However, this does not in itself guarantee 
transference into sport success. There is a need to 
understand the context within which this knowl -
edge can be applied. Successful application also 
requires a deep appreciation of the sport itself and 
the individual athletes. Each person will respond 
differently to training due to differences in genet -
ics, personality, training and injury history, outside 
influences and beliefs.
This is why it is so important to understand 
the context and environment in which we oper -
ate. Much of the success of any programme will 
depend on how well the concepts are communi -
cated in the given environment. The world’s best programme on paper will have no purchase and therefore no effect if it is not communicated well.
Vision of This Text
With so much riding on the physical preparation of athletes, there is a need for best practices to 
be communicated among those working in high 
performance around the world. Innovations in 
the field of sport and exercise science in the last 
decade have meant that many of the publications on the shelves today contain information that 
needs updating. This resource not only provides 
this update but also presents the information in a new way. The concepts that are advanced in this text will provide an intimate insight into the world of high performance.
The topics covered in this book present cut -
ting-edge performance science in a manner that allows the information to be of immediate and 
practical relevance. It is hoped that the information 
presented will stimulate discussions and facilitate 
a change in practice to one that is an accurate rep -
resentation of what is truly considered to be high 
performance.
Experts
The task of maximising human performance involves the pursuit of excellence in a number of 
areas. This book is the result of a collaboration of 
people who are recognised as world leaders in each domain of athletic performance, all writing about 
their own specific areas of expertise. They explain 
what best practice is in their fields and bring to life what the research says about their fields. In this 
way, some of the world’s best people are effectively 
distilling the research and methods of world-class 
practice and providing the reader with the best 
ways to apply  the science.
These authors have been selected according to 
three criteria:
1. Their experience, record and worldwide reputation within their specific branch of applied athletic performance
2. Their ability to apply the latest research in a practical and pragmatic manner
3. Their ability to communicate best-practice principles in such a way that they are imme -
diately understandable and applicable to the reader
This book is the product of the collaboration 
of world leaders in high-performance sport for disseminating not just the science behind world-
class athletic performance, but more importantly, 
the application  of this science in the real world. 
Our vision is for this book to be a manual that is 
immediately applicable to any athlete, coach or 
support professional involved in activities in which 
physical performance is paramount. This focus 
is not limited to traditional sports, with military and industrial athletes also requiring elite physical 
preparation.

xiv ❙ Introduction
How to Best Use This Book
Textbooks are not usually designed to be read from 
first page to last, and this is no exception. We have, 
however, structured the contents in such a way that 
there is a narrative and consistency of themes that 
run throughout.
The first section deals with the fundamental 
processes involved in developing athletes who are resilient to injury. The second section then dis -
cusses key athletic capacities and how to develop 
them. Few sports use just one athletic domain, 
however, and it is the skilful combining of all the 
attributes of performance that is discussed in the 
third section.
We expect that each chapter will provide the 
reader with immediate practical knowledge. The aim is to provide enough practical examples to 
allow the coach to take it to his or her place of work and use the information contained within 
straightaway. Each chapter is rich in detail as well, 
though, and covers topics in a depth that will 
reward repeat reading.
Today, most people are time poor, and the 
prospect of trawling through the vast mountain of scientific research for best-practice principles is 
insurmountable. This publication seeks to provide 
athletes, practitioners, coaches and scientists with a 
reputable source of valid, up-to-date and practical information that is not only usable after the first 
read, but also includes enough detail that further 
in-depth review of the chapters will be rewarded. The text contains enough ready-to-use  information 
and programmes that the reader could potentially take the book with him or her and use it as a basis 
for a training session. Moreover, it also provides a 
sound discussion of the thought processes behind these programmes so that readers will be able to understand how to modify and progress the pro -
grammes should the need become apparent.
The breadth of topics covered by the world-class 
contributors means that the book provides a com -
prehensive resource for the athlete or coach seeking the latest in sport conditioning principles and pro -
grammes. It does not seek to be a book of recipes. It 
is this dissemination of wisdom that is invaluable 
not just to athletes or students, but to anyone work -
ing in the field who strives to maximise outcomes 
in terms of sport-specific performance.
After reading each chapter, the reader not only 
will understand the latest thinking about the topic 
discussed, but will also understand how to apply this knowledge in an integrated way, drawing on 
the expertise of leaders across multiple disciplines
As we asserted previously, no single element of 
sport performance exists as an island, and in some 
instances, a particular issue is covered in multiple chapters. For example, the topic of fatigue is cov -
ered in both the monitoring and recovery chapters (chapters 6 and 24, respectively). The book has been deliberately designed this way to demonstrate the 
linkages that need to be made among multiple areas 
in order to excel in sport. We suggest, therefore, 
that in order to get the most out of the publication, 
the reader chooses his or her own adventure and exploits these deliberate crossovers.
These crossovers further demonstrate the need 
for interdisciplinary work within the performance framework. It becomes evident that retraining 
the injured rower, for example, needs to take into 
account strength, aerobic fitness, cross-training, 
training-load monitoring and recovery. This book, 
therefore, has relevancy for sport and fitness coaches as well as for medical and rehabilitation 
personnel such as doctors, physiotherapists and 
athletic trainers.

IPART
Building Robust 
Athletes
Andrew Cowie/Colorsport/Icon SMI

This page intentionally left blank.

CHAPTER
 3
1
1
1
A critical component in preparing athletes for 
high performance is evaluating their physical 
capacities. Practitioners have two key goals in the business of training athletes:
1. Improve their physical, technical, and psycho-logical abilities to help them reach the highest 
possible levels of performance.
2. Develop a precisely controlled training pro-
gramme to assure that maximal performance 
is attained at the right moment of the compet-
itive season, that is, at each point of a major competition.
Underlying these objectives is building a robust 
athlete; to do this effectively, we need to determine the physical capacities of our athletes. Without this critical information it is diffi  cult to design effective 
training programmes. The aim of this chapter is 
to provide an understanding of the athletic testing process as well as methods to determine the most 
appropriate tests to use that will produce a full, 
accurate picture of the strengths and weaknesses 
of an athlete. It will also demonstrate the most 
effective ways of presenting the results so that a strategic approach to athletic enhancement can be 
developed and communicated to all stakeholders.
Understanding the Needs 
of the Sport and Team
Coaches and scientists have long been interested 
in assessing the capacities of athletes. For example, 
exercise physiologist A. V . Hill measured the acceler-
ation of sprinters in 1927 using large wire coils set 
up at intervals alongside a track while the athletes 
wore a magnet.1 A number of tests are available to the practitioner to assess the physical qualities of athletes. When one is designing a testing battery for 
athletes, it is important to conduct a thorough needs 
analysis of the sport and individual requirements 
to determine which tests are most appropriate.
Like training, assessment of physical capacities 
must be specifi  c, so it is important to avoid imple-menting tests just for the sake of testing. The data 
that are generated need to be meaningful and used 
to affect athletic performance in some manner. 
Tests that are used need to be examined critically and not chosen solely because they have been used 
previously or because the equipment and exper-
tise are available. There is clearly a high level of importance in analysing both sport-specifi  c and 
athlete-specifi  c physiological data in order to begin 
the strategic approach to individualised training 
programme design. Figure 1.1 shows a proposed Evaluating Athletic Capacities
Mike McGuigan, PhD, CSCS*D
Sports Performance Research Institute New Zealand, AUT University
Performance
needs analysis
Test selection
(reliability and validity)
Initial testing
Training
 programme design
RetestingPresentation of results
Presentation of results
E5891/Joyce/476321/Fig 01 .01/R1/JGFigure 1.1  Test-retest cycle of physical capacity 
assessment. A critical aspect is the effective ongoing 
assessment and presentation of results to quantify 
training progress and assess training effectiveness.

4 ❙ McGuigan
approach that can be used for selecting and using 
tests for assessment of physical capacities.
There are a number of reasons for assessing the 
physical capacities of athletes. These can include
1. providing objective information on the effect of the training programmes,
2. assessing the impact of a specific intervention 
st rateg y,
3. assisting with the process of making informed 
decisions regarding programme manipula -
tion,
4. maximising athlete and coach understanding 
about the needs of the sport,
5. effectively using data from new technologies, 
and
6. adding to the growing body of elite athlete preparation research.
Understanding the specific needs of the sport 
has implications for designing position-specific 
training programmes with regard to conditioning, 
strength, power, agility and speed development. 
Within a sport itself (e.g., netball, football, rugby 
union), there may be significant differences among positions. Prescribing training programmes and 
exercises based on the demands of each position 
may help prepare athletes for the specific demands of their match roles and facilitate optimal per -
formance. This needs analysis process should involve performance analyses of athletes during 
match play, along with selecting appropriate tests 
of physical capacity. Doing so should assist with developing individualised training programmes 
to meet the specific demands of the sport.
Selecting Appropriate Tests 
of Physical Competence
It is critical that practitioners select appropriate 
tests for assessing the physical competence of 
their athletes. Two vital considerations in devel -
oping assessment protocols for measuring athlete capacities are validity and reliability. These compo -
nents often are discussed interchangeably but are 
separate factors that need to be considered when 
selecting a testing battery for athletes.
A laboratory or field-based test that measures 
exercise performance capacity must be both reli -
able and valid and sensitive to small changes in 
an athlete’s fitness level. Several factors need to be considered related to the preparation and execu -
tion of data collection to help ensure that accurate measurements are recorded. These include
1. the training and assessment of testers;
2. sufficient numbers of testing assistants to conduct the testing efficiently;
3. thoughtful preparation of data entry sheets or 
computer spreadsheets;
4. availability of precise and calibrated equip -
ment;
5. efficient design of the testing environment;
6. the structure of the testing session, including 
the order the tests are conducted in;
7. 
familiarisation of testing procedures for the ath -
letes, including clear instructions and demon -
strations on how to perform the tests; and
8. assurance that athletes give maximal effort during the testing.
A key component of the testing process is 
preparation for the testing sessions, which will 
go a long way to ensuring both valid and reliable 
testing protocols. Performing some pilot testing of 
the protocols should also be considered.
Reliability
The reliability of the tests is often considered the 
most important factor because it affects the preci -
sion of assessment of athletes, patients, clients and study participants. For example, when dealing in 
elite sport, the margin of gains in performance and 
the difference between achieving success and not are so small that knowing a performance test is reli -
able is critical. When performing measurements of any physical capacity, it is therefore vitally import -
ant to establish whether the method is reliable.Wisdom
Validity  refers to whether the specific test measures 
what it is supposed to measure  . Validity is 
important for distinguishing among athletes and is 
often assessed by comparing practical test scores to criterion test scores  .
Reliability  refers to how repeatable the perfor -
mance is  . This is optimally assessed with repeated 
trial and is important for tracking performance within  athletes .

 Evaluating Athletic Capacities  ❙ 5
There are a number of methods that are available 
to the practitioner that can be used to measure reli -
ability. These methods include correlations, typical 
error of measurement and change in the mean.
Correlations
The most common form of reliability is retest reli -
ability, which refers to the reproducibility of a vari -
able measured more than once. A common example where this might be useful is when performing a 
one-repetition maximum (1RM) test. We want to 
ensure that when we test an athlete on day 1 that 
we would get the same result on day 2. A retest cor
-
relation is a common method to measure reliability. 
A correlation of 1.00 refers to a perfect relationship 
between variables, and 0.00 represents no relation -
ship whatsoever. Pearson correlation coefficients 
or intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) are both 
used for quantifying retest reliability. However, the 
ICC is a more appropriate measure of retest reliabil -
ity, particularly for repeat tests greater than two, which ideally is what should be used to establish 
retest reliability. Spreadsheets are available online 
that can be used to calculate reliability measures.
2
Typical Error of Measurement
Typical error of measurement is a more useful method for assessing changes in performance of 
an athlete because it provides a direct measure of 
the amount of error associated with the test. Mea -
surement error refers to variation in a measure from any source (e.g., technical, biological). An important type of typical error is the coefficient of variation 
(CV), which refers to the typical error expressed as 
a percentage of the athlete’s mean score. This can be useful for representing reliability of performance 
tests. We can use this approach to calculate typical 
error for all the tests that are used in an assessment 
battery and then make sound conclusions about 
whether the changes seen in response to a training programme are meaningful or not.
Let’s say, for example, that vertical jump testing 
is performed on three separate days (more than two repeat tests is always better!) and the following 
results are obtained: day 1, 65 centimetres; day 2, 66 
centimetres; day 3, 68.5 centimetres. The difference scores are 1 centimetre and 2.5 centimetres, and 
the standard deviation of these difference scores 
is 1.06. The typical error is then calculated as stan -
dard deviation of difference scores / square root of 
2, or 1.06 / root2 = 0.75. This should be calculated 
based on results from multiple athletes.The spreadsheet available online can be used to 
calculate this measure and also allows for calcu -
lation of this within-subject variation as a %CV .
2
Change in the Mean
The simple change in the mean is another measure of reliability.
3 This change consists of two com -
ponents: random change and systematic change. 
Random change in the mean is due to sampling 
error whereas the systematic change is the non -
random change in the value between trials (e.g., athlete motivation). A simple way to calculate is to do a paired t-test between the pairs of trials. A 
t-test is a statistical test that allows a comparison 
between two means. A paired t-test can be used when comparing groups of athletes who have been 
tested more than once (i.e., repeat testing). This 
test can be performed using Excel or commercially 
available statistics programmes. It is important to 
choose or design tests with small learning effects or allow the athletes plenty of familiarisation trials to reduce any learning effects.
The question is often asked what the accept -
able reliability of a test is. Although there are no preset standards for acceptable reliability mea
-
sures, it is often suggested that ICC values above 0.75 may be considered reliable, and this index 
should be at least 0.90 for most clinical applica
-
tions. Some scientists have arbitrarily chosen 
an analytical goal of 10 per cent or below for the 
CV , but the merits of this value are a source of 
conjecture. This value would appear to be quite 
a liberal interpretation, and the coach should 
be encouraged to use tests with extremely high reliability where possible. An important concept 
to remember is that high reliability is a prerequi
-
site for monitoring small but clinically important 
changes in an individual and for quantifying 
such effects in controlled trials with samples 
of reasonable size. We need to know if the tests 
are good enough to detect any changes in the 
results of the athletic tests that we have chosen 
to implement. If reliability is insufficiently high, 
we may never know the true status of the athlete or the effect of training programmes.
Validity
Validity is also extremely important as it deals with the fundamental question of whether the test 
is really assessing what it purports to measure. 
Validity also deals with the issue of how well 

6 ❙ McGuigan
the test relates to competition performance of 
the athlete. As is the case with determining reli -
ability, we can also use an online spreadsheet to calculate validity.
4 An unusual aspect of research 
on performance enhancement is that researchers 
have rarely investigated the effect of various inter -
ventions on performance in actual competitive 
events.3 The traditional approach has been to use 
performance in laboratory or field tests that sim -
ulates the event. This is no doubt due to logistical reasons such as recruitment of participants and 
the ability to measure variables that underlie or 
explain the effects of treatments that might help 
or hinder performance.
Unfortunately, the relationship between perfor -
mance in tests and performance in competition has not been explored adequately, so it is uncertain how 
a change in performance in a test translates into a 
change in performance in an event. Regardless of 
the reliability of a test, the practitioner needs to be satisfied that improvements that may be measured 
in the test will be reproduced in the event. In the 
past, researchers have addressed this problem by performing a validity study in which performance 
of a group of athletes in the test is correlated either 
with their performance in the event or with current 
personal best performances.
5
Wisdom
Using laboratory or performance tests that satisfy 
the most important criteria, that ‘changes in the test results are directly related to changes in competitive performance’,
4 is vitally important  .Integrating Results With Injury Screening and Injury-Rehabilitation Testing
Testing does not form just the first rung of the 
training ladder, however. Key parts of any train -
ing programme are injury prevention and injury rehabilitation. Testing is just as important in these 
domains in order to
1. avoid guesswork when determining progress and efficacy of interventions; and
2. facilitate communication among all members 
of the performance, medical and coaching 
teams.
It is now common for high-performance pro -
grammes to have a multidisciplinary approach 
to athlete preparation, with professionals such 
as physiotherapists, strength and conditioning 
coaches and performance analysts working together. The existing research makes a strong case 
for high levels of integration of fitness-testing data 
with injury and medical screening. Although much more research on these approaches is needed, 
in addition to clearer validation and assessment 
of the various commercially available screening 
tools, some interesting preliminary data show the 
effectiveness of this approach. Anecdotal reports of high-performance programmes with highly 
integrated approaches to injury prevention are also 
promising. One study investigated the effects of 
an interdisciplinary approach to athlete prepara -
tion on injury rates and performance in collegiate 
CASE STUDY
A 28-year-old international women’s field hockey representative with a history of knee injuries was pre -
paring for the 2012 Olympic Games. The player was unable to undertake all field sessions and suffered 
significant knee pain with dynamic resistance training exercises. After case management discussions among the physiotherapist, strength and conditioning coach and sport scientist, it was decided to imple -
ment an isometric assessment and training protocol in an attempt to increase muscular strength and rate of force development in the lead-up (final 8 weeks) to the Olympic Games. The test selected was the isometric squat, which has excellent reliability for force measures (CV ≤ 2 per cent). Regular weekly assessment using force-plate technology provided objective data on force production and rate of force development. The data were collected during training sessions and used to adjust the training and reha -
bilitation intervention with weekly meetings held among the various support staff. This approach also was an effective way of incorporating the testing into training and providing an additional monitoring tool for coaching staff (see chapter 6).

Evaluating Athletic Capacities  ❙ 7
3RM
Max power
SJ body weight
Max power
CMJ body weightRelative CMJ power
Max power CMJ 40 kg Max power SJ 40 kg1. 8
1. 61. 41. 2
1
0.80.6
0.4
0.2
0
-0.2-0.4-0.6-0.8
-1
E5891/Joyce/476322/Fig 01 .02/R2/JGFigure 1.2  Strength and power profile for athlete. The zero indicates that the athlete has reached the required 
standard for that particular test.baseball players.6 There was an overall decrease 
in injury rates and increased performance over a 
5-year period, which was attributed to collabora-
tive efforts among sport coaches, sports medicine 
and sport science departments. For this approach 
to be successful, close communication among all parties is critical. Accordingly, it is vital that the 
tests employed are understood by the entire per-
formance team, that the results yielded provide information of real value in assessing the status of 
the athlete and that this information is communi-
cated effectively.
Determination of Priorities 
for Intervention
An important part of the process of athlete assess-
ment is determining the priorities for intervention. 
After the testing is complete, one of the key consid-
erations is what capacities need to be targeted by 
the training programme. A fundamental question 
is often this: Is it important to focus on weaknesses, continue to develop strengths or try to do a com-bination of both? For example, fi  gure 1.2 shows 
the results of strength and power testing for a 
hypothetical athlete. Based on these testing data, 
it can be seen that the athlete is relatively poor on 
force-related capacities such as maximal strength and loaded jumping. Assuming performance in 
the sport was contingent on high levels of force 
production, it could therefore be concluded that the athlete would benefi  t from a subsequent training 
programme that has a greater strength-develop-
ment emphasis. Such an approach is critical when 
individualising training programmes to ensure 
time and effort are allocated most effectively. Within this context, we also need to consider the 
impact that training certain capacities will have 
on other physical capacities. Frequent retesting of 
these physical qualities will assist with this process 
and provide the practitioner with regular feedback on the effect of the programme and specifi  c inter-
ventions. These concepts will be explored further 
in subsequent chapters.

8 ❙ McGuigan
Table 1.1  Typical Coefficient of Variations (CV) for 
Different Events
Event CV
Running and hurdling events up to 1,500 m 0.8%
Running up to 10 km and steeplechase 1.1%
Cross country (subelite) 1.5%
Half marathon (subelite) 2.5%
Marathon (subelite) 3.0%
High jump 1.7%
Pole vault, long jump 2.3%
Discus, javelin, shot put 2.5%
Mountain biking 2.4%
Swimming (various distances) 1.4%
Cycling 1-40 km 1.3%
Rowing 0.6%-1.4%
Weightlifting: snatch 2.7%
Weightlifting: clean and jerk 2.3% 
Data from W. Hopkins et al., 2009, “Progressive statistics for stud -
ies in sports medicine and exercise science,” Medicine & Science 
in Sports & Exercise 41(1): 3-12; M. McGuigan and M. Kane, 2004, “Reliability of performance of elite Olympic weightlifters,”  Jour -
nal of Strength and Conditioning Research 18(3): 650-653; A. Stewart and W. Hopkins, 2000, “Consistency of swimming performance within and between competitions,” Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise 32(5): 997-1001; and T.B. Smith and W.G. Hopkins, 2011, “Variability and predictability of finals times of elite rowers,” Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise 43(11): 2155-2160.Calculating the Worthwhile 
Change Value of a Test Performance
Another key consideration, and one that is directly 
related to the reliability and validity of a test, is 
what is a worthwhile change in a test performance? 
Worthwhile change refers to the ability of a test to 
detect the smallest practically important change.
The smallest worthwhile change can be calcu -
lated as
0.5% CV or 0.2 × between-athlete standard 
deviation.5
Consideration also needs to be given to under -
standing what degree of change is required to be 
practically important both for the individual and 
for the group when dealing with athletes. When 
using this concept, the practitioner will need to 
make an assessment of the magnitude of change and consider the noise associated with the test. 
This will depend on the type of athlete population 
that is being tested and the type of test being used.
The concept of identifying the smallest worth -
while change in athlete performance is an important one as it goes to the heart of what the 
practitioner is trying to achieve in athlete prepa -
ration. By determining the worthwhile change of 
performance, it is possible to calculate the amount 
of enhancement that is required for an athlete to 
improve his or her medal chances.
5 This calculation 
also has large implications for team sport athletes 
as it goes some way to determining whether the 
change that has been seen in a particular test is 
worthwhile and can therefore greatly assist with 
the interpretation of test results.
For example, when testing athletes, it can be useful 
to determine the smallest worthwhile enhancement 
of evenly matched competitors. This approach has 
been investigated using a number of athlete popula -
tions;7 it involves calculating the value of the CV for 
elite athletes in the particular event. This research 
suggests that practitioners want to be confident 
about measuring half this value when testing an elite 
athlete or studying factors affecting performance 
with subelite athletes. By using this approach, prac -
titioners can calculate the worthwhile change for the tests being used that are specific to the athlete 
groups they are working with. Some examples of 
the CVs from published and unpublished studies 
of series of competitions are shown in table 1.1. It 
should be noted that CVs for individual tests are best calculated using the athletes the coach is working 
with and not by relying on published results from 
other laboratories or programmes.
Interpreting the Significance  
of Changes in Test Results
Along with selecting the most appropriate tests for 
assessment of physical capacity, it is also important 
to interpret the data that have been generated. A 
wide range of methods is available to assist with 
this interpretation. When it comes to interpretation 
of changes in test results, the practitioner should not be concerned with statistical significance for 
practical programming purposes due to reasons 
such as the small sample sizes often dealt with in sport environments in addition to the small 
but important performance changes. Different 
approaches can be used to assist with test-result 
interpretation, including likelihood of practically 
important change, effect sizes, per cent difference, Z scores and modified Z scores.

 Evaluating Athletic Capacities  ❙ 9
watts/kilogram. The smallest worthwhile change 
for this test is calculated to be 7 .03 × 0.2 = 1.41 watts/
kilogram. We know, therefore, that on a repeat test after a period of training, we would be seeking an 
improvement of >1.41 watts/kilogram to consider 
the intervention successful. It is important to work out these scores of smallest worthwhile changes 
using the same (or a similar) population of athletes 
being tested, in addition to using as many athletes as possible, in order for outlying scores not to have 
too great an effect on the overall score.
Presenting the Results  
for Maximal Impact
The various approaches discussed in this chapter 
need to be married with a strategic approach to 
the presentation of the results to coaches. It is not 
enough to have developed a reliable and valid test -
ing battery, collected data and determined whether the changes are worthwhile or not. If the informa -
tion is not presented to the coach or athletes in a 
way that makes sense to them, then the ability of 
that information to make a difference to the perfor -
mance of the athlete will be reduced. To assist with 
interpretation of the results, we need to make an 
assessment about magnitude of the change, taking 
into account the reliability of the test.
Presenting the results in a way the coach and 
athlete will understand can be done in a number of ways and by using a combination of methods. A 
good first step is to graph the results in some way. 
Typically, numbers by themselves are not partic
-
ularly helpful or well understood by coaches and 
athletes. By graphing data we may be able to identify 
trends in the results or visualise large changes in 
physical capacities. Some examples of these meth -
ods and how they can be used are provided here.
• Use the simple per cent change . For example, 
the athlete has changed by +2.5 per cent since the 
last test. This can also be reported along with the 
noise of the test (expressed as typical error) and 
the smallest worthwhile change.
• Use likely limits  for the true value. The simplest 
approach for reporting likely limits is the observed 
change plus or minus the typical error.5 For exam -
ple: the athlete has changed by +2.5 per cent since 
the last test, and so the smallest worthwhile change 
is 1.0 per cent. With such information, the results 
can be interpreted using terms such as possibly Table 1.2  Classification Scale for Effect Size Scores 
and Correlation Coefficients
Descriptor Effect sizeCorrelation 
coefficient
Trivial 0.0 0.0
Small 0.2 0.1
Moderate 0.6 0.3
Large 1.2 0.5
Very large 2.0 0.7
Nearly perfect 4.0 0.9
Perfect Infinite 1.0
Data from W. Hopkins et al., 2009, “Progressive statistics for stud -
ies in sports medicine and exercise science,” Medicine & Science 
in Sports & Exercise 41(1): 3-12.We assess team athletes with fitness tests, but 
there is no clear relationship between fitness-test 
performance and team performance.5 So this 
poses the problem of how to decide on the small -
est worthwhile change or difference in fitness test 
performance. The solution is to use nontraditional 
approaches such as the standardised change or 
difference. This measure is also known as Cohen’s 
effect size, a measure useful in meta-analyses to 
assess magnitude of differences or changes in the mean in different studies.
7 With this method, the 
practitioner expresses the difference, or change 
in the mean, as a fraction of the between-subject 
standard deviation (change in mean / standard 
deviation of prescore).3 This is a similar measure to 
a Z score. Again, there are no clear guidelines as to what constitutes a smallest worthwhile difference 
or change with this measure, but some research 
suggests this would be 0.20.
3 For example, a value of 
0.20 would be equivalent to moving from the 80th to the 85th percentile. For performance tests of athletes 
from individual sports, it has been suggested to 
calculate half the event-to-event variation in a top 
athlete’s competitive performance. When dealing with fitness tests for team sports, a general guide
-
line is approximately 0.20 of the between-athlete standard deviation.
5 Table 1.2 shows a suggested 
scale for classifying both effect sizes (calculated as 
difference in the means) and correlation coefficients.
For example, let’s say we are interested in calcu -
lating the smallest worthwhile change for relative peak power on a countermovement jump test. Ten 
athletes complete the testing and get scores of 65, 
63, 56, 62, 64, 58, 49, 66, 62, and 45 watts/kilogram. 
The between-athlete standard deviation is 7 .03 

10 ❙ McGuigan
harmful, likely substantially positive, unclear but 
likely to be benefi  cial and so on.3
• Use Z scores by calculating the athlete’s score: 
average score / standard deviation. Figures and 
graphs are often good ways to present data to 
coaches and athletes. A visual image can demon-
strate to the coach and athlete where the athlete’s 
performance lies within in the group. Graphing the Z scores using radar plots provides a picto-
rial representation of the athlete’s strengths and 
weaknesses relative to the group and therefore can be a useful tool for prescribing specifi  c training 
to target those weaknesses. Figure 1.3 shows an 
example of a radar plot of Z scores.
This approach can be particularly useful for 
one-off testing. However, an important part of 
the testing process is retesting and comparing to 
previous results. A problem can arise with this 
approach in testing squads when athletes may not 
be available due to injury. With small sample sizes, a particularly strong (or weak) score by an athlete 
in a specifi  c test may result in signifi  cant changes 
in means or standard deviations. An alternative 
approach can be to use modifi  ed Z scores, where 
benchmark means and standard deviations are determined for the various tests. These bench-
marks can be determined by the practitioner (e.g., 
it may be decided that the benchmark, or target, for relative countermovement jump power is 60 W /kg). 
These benchmarks are typically developed based on a number of sources, including published lit-
erature on a similar population, previous testing data with that population or coach feedback. Once 
these benchmarks are developed, the Z scores can 
be calculated as follows:
Z score = (athlete’s score − benchmark score) / 
standard deviation.
Figure 1.4 shows an example of Z scores for an 
athlete measured over time using this approach.
• Standard difference score is a Z score on the 
change in performance score (posttest − pretest), 
where individual difference scores are subtracted 
from the mean difference score and divided by the standard deviation of the difference scores.
8
An advantage of this approach is it allows the practitioner to visualise the individuals exhibiting 
large changes in performance.
• Numerous other methods can be used to pres-
ent data. For example, some individuals may fi  nd Z 
scores confusing, so an alternative such as a stan-
dard ten (STEN) score could be used as it reports 
results from 1 to 10. These can be calculated from 
Z scores or the original testing data. To calculate 
STEN scores use either approach:
STEN = (Z score × 2) + 5.5
or
STEN = [(test result − mean test result) / 
standard deviation] × 2 + 5.5
20-metre sprintAgility
Anaerobic power
Strength
Repeated sprintEndurance
FlexibilityAthlete
Team average
Desired benchmark
Immune response1. 8
1. 61. 41. 2
1
0.80.60.40.2
0
-0.2-0.4
-0.6
-0.8
-1
E5891/Joyce/476325/Fig 01 .03/R1/JGFigure 1.3  Individual athlete results compared with team average and desired benchmarks. Note that as it is an 
average of Z scores, the team average will always come out to zero using the traditional calculation.

Evaluating Athletic Capacities  ❙ 11
Another key part of the reporting process is 
the time taken to give these results to coaches 
and athletes. This needs to be done as quickly as 
possible so that coaches have time to implement 
changes in training programmes to have an impact 
and correct any identifi  ed weaknesses. Just as poor presentation of testing data can limit the potential 
for improving athletes’ training results, taking 
excessive time to deliver the information to the key stakeholders has a negative impact. Practitioners 
should aim to provide testing reports that are 
meaningful and timely and that provide specifi  c 
recommendations for the coach and athletes.
Wisdom
Under normal circumstances the presentation of testing 
results to coaches should be within 72 hours of the testing being completed .
From Data to Performance
An important measure in training programmes 
is the amount of transfer of training to sport per-
formances. For example, resistance training has 
been shown to improve strength, power and speed 
in a number of athletic populations. In addition 
to improving these physical qualities, resistance training also has signifi  cant benefi  ts for athletes 
in terms of increasing muscle size and decreasing 
risk of injury. However, the ultimate goal of athlete preparation is maximising performance during competition. Therefore, training also needs to be 
looked at within the context of whether it provides 
signifi  cant benefi  ts to match performance, par-
ticularly when considering team sports. There is 
actually limited evidence in the scientifi  c literature showing strong relationships between training 
such as resistance exercise and a motor perfor-
mance such as agility. These are important factors to consider when designing testing batteries for 
sports and measuring transfer of physical capacity 
to sport performance.
The use of training programmes designed to 
increase underlying physical qualities in elite ath-letes in an attempt to improve athletic performance 
is commonplace. There is a large body of literature 
that shows that physical training can increase a number of performance markers across a wide 
array of sports. For example, explosive strength 
training has been shown to increase sprinting 
speed and vertical jump ability in soccer players,
9
and high-load resistance training has been shown 
to improve acceleration and throwing velocity in 
elite handball players.10 These are common fi  ndings 
across a wide range of team sports. However, the question that remains unanswered in many sports 
is this: To what extent do these physical capacities 
and their development contribute to success in 
terms of improved match performance? There are also issues concerning the extent of transfer 
that occurs from training to these measures of 
performance. This is a critical consideration for 
20-metre sprintAgility
Anaerobic power
Strength
Repeated sprintEndurance
FlexibilityMay 2009
August 2009
February 2010
Immune response1. 6
1. 41. 2
1
0.80.60.40.2
0
-0.2-0.4-0.6
-0.8
-1
E5891/Joyce/476326/Fig 01 .04/R1/JGFigure 1.4  Monitoring an individual athlete over time.

12 ❙ McGuigan
the practitioner as this ultimately determines what 
physical capacities need to be assessed.
There is some evidence that modes of training 
can improve other, more specific motor abilities 
such as agility. However, this research is less 
compelling with mixed findings on the potential benefits on measures such as change in direction 
speed.
11 One of the challenges with this area of 
research is that there is no clear agreement on which types of measures best reflect these types 
of capacities. It could be that straight-line sprinting 
and planned changes of direction are unlikely 
to represent the specific cognitive and physical demands of a team sport such as soccer and 
rugby.
11 Reactive agility tests involving reacting 
cues such as audio, visual or kinesthetic signals could be more specific. In addition, studies that 
have used short training periods have had lim -
ited success with improving speed and agility.
12 
These issues could help explain why the results 
of training studies concerning motor abilities have 
been mixed. The mixed results also demonstrate 
the need to keep abreast of research developments 
and to continually look to ensure that the testing battery employed provides a valid insight into 
sport performance.
Studies also have demonstrated positive transfer 
of specific training on sport-specific skills such as bat velocity in baseball
13 and kicking velocity.14 
One study demonstrated that 10 weeks of explo -
sive resistance training using bench press throws 
improved throwing speed and base running speed 
in baseball players.15 Ballistic training has also been 
shown to improve kicking speed and force in mar -
tial artists.16 These results highlight the importance 
of exercise specificity and the impact it can have on the adaptations seen in sport-specific tasks.
However, the research is not conclusive, with 
some studies showing improvements in strength 
and power without concurrent changes in more specific sport skills. A limited body of research 
exists on the transfer of physical capacities such 
as strength and power to motor performance. It would appear that this transfer occurs but is quite 
minimal  with large increases in muscular strength 
resulting in only minor changes in motor perfor -
mance. The concept of lag time has been proposed 
as a possible explanation.
17 This refers to the time 
it takes for an athlete to learn how to use his or 
her increased strength and power.17 This concept 
has some support from the longitudinal studies in elite athletes with large improvements shown in strength and power, particularly at the early stages of an athlete’s career.
18, 19 Studies also have shown 
that improvements in speed and agility are smaller and tend to occur later in an athlete’s career.
19
Researchers have attempted to account for dif -
ferences in playing ability by using objective skill criteria.
20 The results of this study demonstrated 
that skill characteristics but not physiological or anthropometric characteristics differentiated 
between successful and less successful Rugby 
League players. However, all physiological and 
anthropometric characteristics were related to playing ability. Another study investigated the 
relationship between U.S. football-playing ability 
(as determined by coaches) and selected physio -
logical measures.
21 Of all the measures conducted 
in the athletes, the strongest predictor of playing 
ability was vertical jump performance. Another 
study using several levels of Rugby Union play -
ers showed that higher-level athletes produced greater absolute and relative strength and power outputs than did less skilled athletes.
18 These 
studies further highlight the issue of identifying 
measures that are most critical to performance. 
Only when this is done effectively is it possible 
to assess the impact of training programmes on 
athlete performance.
Sprinting is a critical factor in most team 
sport performance, and strength training has 
been shown to improve speed. Sprint ability has 
been shown to be linked to making a team in the 
National Football League (NFL) but only for the 
running back position.22 For other physical perfor -
mance tests such as agility, bench press, and ver -
tical and horizontal jumps, the relationships were low. This result again highlights the importance 
of selecting tests that accurately reflect on-field 
performance and taking into consideration 
sport- and also position-specific differences and 
requirements. Clearly, more research is needed to determine key sport-performance variables and 
how those variables can be influenced by training.
The use of conditioning programmes designed 
to increase underlying physical qualities in elite athletes in an attempt to improve athletic perfor -
mance is also commonplace. Although the extent to which qualities of strength and power are 
important to sport performance may vary depend -
ing on the activity, the associations between these 
qualities and performance have been well docu -
mented in the literature. For example, research has 
shown that club-head speed is related to a golfer’s 

 Evaluating Athletic Capacities  ❙ 13
handicap, and that golfers with lower handicaps 
are able to generate higher club-head speeds.23 
There is also an increasing number of training 
studies with high-performance athletes that are 
attempting to address questions concerning the 
role of training programmes for improving athlete 
performance.
Notwithstanding the difficulties with con -
ducting research in elite athletes, there is clearly a need for more well-controlled research studies in this population. Alternative approaches could 
be considered by researchers to answer some of 
these questions. It has been suggested that research 
design and conclusions from interventions in elite 
athletes often miss benefits to individual athletes because the group means show no statistically sig -
nificant difference with training or experimental interventions. This approach is also useful when sufficient participant numbers are not possible, 
which is often the case in research conducted with 
elite athletes. Single–case study research design in 
elite sport could potentially provide the ability to 
detect positive intervention outcomes in individ -
ual athletes and continue to allow for the athlete’s 
training and performance to be optimised.
24
As has been discussed, the concept of transfer 
can be difficult to quantify, but Zatsiorsky and Kraemer
25 have suggested a formula where trans -
fer can be expressed as being a function of the following:
transfer = gain in performance /  
gain in trained exercise
For example, if 8 weeks of strength training 
using the squat exercise increases 1RM 21 per cent, 
increases vertical jump 21 per cent and increases 
40-metre sprint performance by 2.3 per cent, 
these results show that the training has excellent 
transference to vertical jump performance but considerably less to sprint performance. What has 
proved to be more difficult to quantify for some 
sports is how much strength training transfers to performance. An emerging area of research, and 
one that has the potential to have a significant 
impact on athlete preparation, is establishing the connection between physical capacity, fitness and 
actual match performance. This research may help 
determine the most appropriate tests of physical capacity for individual sports and athletes.
Summary
A number of tests are available to assess athletes. Assessment of physical capacities must be specific, 
so practitioners should avoid implementing tests 
just for the sake of testing. It is also important to 
critically examine what tests are used and not 
choose tests solely because they have been used previously or because the equipment and expertise 
are available. In addition to having reliable and 
valid tests, it is critical to understand and recog -
nise why each test is included and whether it is 
appropriate, for example, to assess an underlying 
physical quality or predict performance. Practi -
tioners are encouraged to follow a systematic and 
evidence-based process to identify the test or tests 
used to assess physical capacities.
Practitioners must consider a number of critical 
factors when determining the physical capacities of their athletes. It is important to find the small -
est worthwhile change or difference that would be measured in the test. Measure such changes in athletes with a well-designed and well-chosen 
test that is specific to the sport and individual. 
Confidence in the results of the test being used can be improved greatly by doing multiple trials. 
The practitioner should also clearly understand 
what quality is being assessed. Always use tests 
that have highest reliability; to improve reliability, 
always adhere to strict, consistent protocols.
While the test itself is critical, the presentation 
of the testing results to the coach and athlete is perhaps even more critical. Practitioners are 
encouraged to consider methods of presentation 
that will be meaningful and always think about how the data can be used to affect athlete perfor -
mance. A fundamental question to consider is if the assessment is not achieving a specific goal, then 
it should be removed from the battery being used 
to assess physical capacities.

This page intentionally left blank.

CHAPTER
 15
2
2
2
Scientifi  c research clearly tells us that young 
athletes can enhance physical performance and 
reduce injury risk when exposed to appropriate training. However, it is imperative that this train-
ing stimulus is part of an appropriately structured, 
holistic training programme, delivered by suitably qualifi  ed personnel.
Younger athletes are a unique population, 
routinely exposed to sport-specifi  c training and extensive competitive schedules at a time when 
they are experiencing a wide range of physical, 
physiological and psychological changes as a result 
of growth and maturation. Inappropriate training 
prescription or poor pedagogical approaches could actually reduce training adaptations or, in some 
cases, lead to injury or reductions in welfare and 
well-being.
Consequently, it is imperative that we under-
stand the fundamentals of paediatric exercise science to ensure that training prescription is at all 
times suitable for the unique demands of young 
athletes. This chapter will attempt to bridge the gap between the science and application of training 
young athletes by
• examining the effects of growth and matura-
tion on physical performance and exploring 
how these should drive long-term athletic 
development programmes;
• identifying rationales and methods of devel-
oping athletic motor skills, strength and 
power, speed, fl  exibility, endurance and agil-ity in young athletes; and
• exploring confounding issues when designing 
training plans for young athletes.Infl  uence of Growth 
and Maturation on Physical Performance
Youth  is a global term, which includes both chil-
dren (approximately 2-10 and 2-11 yrs in females 
and males, respectively) and adolescents (approx-
imately 11-19 yrs in girls and 12-19 yrs in males). 
Adolescence is a more diffi  cult stage of develop-
ment to defi  ne in terms of chronological age due to different maturation rates among children of the 
same age.  Growth  refers to a quantifi  able change 
in body composition, body size or dimensions of 
specifi  c regions of the body, whereas maturation
refers to the highly variable timing and tempo of 
progressive change within the human body from 
childhood to adulthood; in addition to growth, 
maturation influences overall physical perfor-mance capabilities.
1
Classic paediatric data show that physical per-
formance indices in youth improve in a nonlinear 
fashion as a result of growth and maturation.2
This in itself provides a challenge to the coach 
working with a young athlete. Any performance 
adaptation needs to be large enough to inspire 
confi  dence that change has occurred due to the 
programme implemented, and not solely as a 
result of the growth and maturation processes. During childhood, such changes in perfor-
mance primarily can be attributed to nervous 
system development and cerebral maturation.
3
Specifi  cally, improvements in motor unit recruit-ment, firing frequency, synchronisation and 
neural myelination are all deemed to enhance Developing Younger Athletes
Rhodri S. Lloyd, PhD, ASCC, CSCS*D, and Jon L. Oliver, PhD
Cardiff School of Sport, Cardiff Metropolitan University, Cardiff, UK

16 ❙ Lloyd and Oliver
neuromuscular performance.4 During this stage of 
development, existing motor-control programmes 
are subconsciously refined and reinforced, which 
enables young athletes to perform coordinated 
skills with greater efficiency. This naturally occur -
ring refinement of motor control programming is 
a key reason for childhood to be viewed as the 
best time to develop correct movement patterns, 
athletic motor skills and inter- and intramuscular 
coordination.
Once the child reaches the onset of puberty, both 
males (12-14 yrs) and females (11-13 yrs) experience what is referred to as the adolescent growth spurt, 
a phase of physical development during which 
growth hormone and sex hormone concentrations 
are significantly increased.
5 It is during this phase 
of development that further nervous system matu -
ration and adaptation in muscle mass, body com -
position and other structural parameters change, 
leading to natural adaptations in physical compo -
nents such as speed, strength, aerobic endurance 
and muscular power.6-9
Wisdom
Appreciation and understanding of growth and mat -
uration are essential in order to ensure that training is 
based on the needs of the individual as opposed to a blanket approach based simply on chronological age  .
Chronological and Biological Age
Literature has clearly demonstrated that individu -
als of the same chronological age can differ mark -
edly with respect to biological age,10 sometimes by 
as much as 4 or 5 years. The relative mismatch and 
wide variation in biological age among children of 
the same chronological age emphasises the obvious 
limitations in using chronological age as a basis for 
exercise prescription for youth.
Since biological age will provide a more accu -
rate reflection of the stage of development of the young athlete, it is recommended that coaches longitudinally track (approximately every 3-6 months) basic somatic measures, which can be used to predict biological age. For example, Mir
-
wald and colleagues11 developed a regression 
equation that can predict how far in years an 
individual is from peak height velocity (PHV) 
to within a standard error of approximately 6 
months. Measures of stature, body mass and 
leg length are entered into the female equation (equation 1) or male equation (equation 2), which 
will estimate years from PHV at any given time 
for the young athlete.
Training Age
Although biological age is a better guide than chronological age, coaches also should be aware of the training age of the athlete. Training age  
refers to the number of years an athlete has been in appropriately designed formalised training.
12 
Exercise selection and progression largely will be 
driven by technical competency, but coaches also 
should take into account the biological age and 
training age of their athletes. Two case studies 
will depict the relative importance of both bio -
logical age (case study 1) and training age (case study 2).
Case Study 1
Two 14-year-old rugby players enter an age-grade rugby team. Both are somewhat light for their 
respective positions and in need of gaining addi -
tional body mass. Basic somatic measures deter -
mine player A to be 2 years pre-PHV and therefore 
a late maturer and player B to be 1 year post-PHV and therefore an early maturer.
Despite being the same age chronologically, the 
internal environments of these two players differ markedly. Player A is still to experience the ado -
lescent growth spurt and the concomitant changes in hormonal profiling that aid muscle mass devel -
opment. Consequently, irrespective of the fact that player A needs to gain body mass, coaches would be better served prescribing training 
Maturity offset = −16.364 + 0.0002309 × leg length and sitting height interaction  
+ 0.006277 × age and sitting height interaction + 0.179 x leg by height ratio  + 0.0009428 × age and weight interaction (equation 1)
Maturity offset = −29.769 + 0.0003007 × leg length and sitting height interaction  − 0.01177 × age and leg length interaction + 0.01639 x age and sitting height interaction  + 0.445 × leg by height ratio (equation 2)

 Developing Younger Athletes ❙ 17
programmes geared towards strength and motor 
skill development. An emphasis on motor skill 
development is especially important due to the 
disruption in motor-control programmes that can 
sometimes eventuate as a result of the adolescent 
growth spurt, a concept referred to as adolescent awkwardness.
Player B, deemed 1 year post-PHV , would be 
more aligned with peak weight velocity (PWV), a period during which body mass naturally 
increases as a result of the surge in sex hormone 
concentrations. Testosterone, the predominant sex 
hormone in males, promotes protein synthesis; 
ultimately, this would be a favourable time to prescribe muscle-building (hypertrophy) training 
programmes to realise the main goal of the player’s 
athletic development.
Case Study 2
A strength and conditioning coach is assigned two 11-year-old female hockey players to her development programme. Player A has a train
-
ing age of 3 years and can demonstrate technical competency in a range of motor skills. Player B 
has a training age of zero, has never been involved 
in formalised training and cannot demonstrate 
satisfactory levels of competency in fundamental 
movement patterns.
Although player B would be prescribed a 
training programme geared towards improving 
basic movement skills and base levels of muscu -
lar strength, player A could be prescribed more advanced training methods, for example weight -
lifting progressions (e.g., clean and jerk, snatch) 
and advanced plyometrics.
These two vignettes demonstrate the reali -
ties of working with young athletes, especially within a squad environment. Irrespective of 
chronological or biological age, young athletes 
must be trained according to their training age. 
For example, a mature, 16-year-old female with a 
very low training age would still need to master 
basic, primal motor skills before being exposed to more advanced forms of training irrespective of her chronological age. The two cases also 
highlight the need for a long-term approach to the physical development of children and ado
-
lescents, a concept that has received a great deal of attention recently.
12
Long-Term Athletic 
Development Modelling
Despite the fact that children of the same chrono -
logical age can vary markedly in biological 
age, early concepts into development models 
of talented youth were in fact based on chrono -
logical classifications. In order to address the 
interaction between maturation and training, 
Balyi and Hamilton13 developed the long-term 
athlete development model, which has been adopted by many sport-governing bodies. How
-
ever, researchers and practitioners have recently 
questioned this model due to the distinct lack 
of empirical evidence to support its concepts of 
windows of opportunity14 and to the fact that its 
selection of just five physical qualities is some -
what limited.12
More recently, the youth physical development 
(YPD) model has been proposed, which provides 
practitioners with a more holistic overview of youth 
exercise prescription.12 The YPD model acknowl -
edges that all fitness qualities are trainable at all 
stages of development for both males (figure 2.1 a) 
and females (figure 2.1 b), however, coaches should 
prioritise certain training foci at different times. 
For a combination of performance-enhancing, injury-preventing and general health–promoting 
benefits, muscular strength and motor skill devel -
opment are central to the model at all stages of 
development.
Developing Motor Skill 
Competency in the Young Athlete
Fundamental movement skills (FMS) are the 
building blocks for more advanced, sport-specific 
movement patterns. Broad categories of FMS 
include locomotive, manipulative and stabilising 
skills, and it is these that appear as hallmarks 
of common FMS programmes and testing Wisdom
Basing individualised training programmes primarily 
on technical competency is vital  . Consideration also 
needs to be given to training age and biological age of the young athlete  .

18 ❙ Lloyd and Oliver
CHRONOLOGICAL AGE
(YEARS)
AGE PERIODS MIDDLE CHILDHOODYOUTH PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT (YPD) MODEL FOR MALES
ADOLESCENCE ADULTHOODEARL Y
CHILDHOOD
FMS FMS FMS
SSS SSS SSS SSSFMSRAPID GROWTH
Mobility
Agility
Speed
Power
StrengthMobility
Agility
Speed
Power
StrengthMobility
Agility
Speed
Power
StrengthAgility
Speed
Power
Strength
Hypertrophy Hypertrophy
VERY HIGH STRUCTURE HIGH STRUCTURE LOW STRUCTURE UNSTRUCTURED TRAINING STRUCTUREPHYSICAL QUALITIES
MODERATE
STRUCTUREHypertrophy Hypertrophy
Endurance & MC Endurance & MC Endurance & MC Endurance & MCSTEADY GROWTH
YEARS PRE-PHV
PREDOMINANTL Y NEURAL (AGE-RELATED) COMBINATION OF NEURAL AND HORMONAL (MATURITY -RELATED) PHV YEARS POST -PHVADOLESCENT SPURT DECLINE IN GROWTH RATE GROWTH RATE
MATURATIONAL
STATUS
TRAINING
ADAPTATION2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21+
E5891/Joyce/476327/Fig 02.01a/R2/JGFigure 2.1 a The youth physical development (YPD) model for males. (Note: Font size refers to importance; 
light-shaded boxes refer to preadolescent periods of adaptation; dark-shaded boxes refer to adolescent periods 
of adaptation; PHV = peak height velocity; FMS = fundamental movement skills; SSS = sport-specific skills; MC = 
metabolic conditioning).
Reprinted, by permission, from R  .S . Lloyd and J . L . Oliver, 2012, “The Youth Physical Development model: A new approach to long-term athletic development,” 
Strength and Conditioning Journal 34(3): 61-72  .
protocols.15 The YPD model suggests that motor 
skill development should initially focus on FMS 
mastery, with less focus placed on sport-specific 
skills (SSS). This is to reduce the risk of sport 
specialisation in the young athlete, which has 
previously been linked to increased injury risk and prevalence of musculoskeletal pain.
16 How -
ever, while we acknowledge that FMS are core skills that coaches should look to develop in an 
attempt to make well-rounded young athletes, it 
is suggested that in order to make the transition 
to elite-level sport more successful, certain athletic 
motor skill competencies (AMSC) should also be central to any motor skill development pro
-
gramme.17 An overview of the skills that comprise 
AMSC is provided in figure 2.2.The AMSC comprise key independent move -
ment patterns that will feature in most advanced training movements commonly used by elite-
level athletes. However, it is recognised that 
in order to develop motor skill competency 
in young athletes, the training environment 
should be safe, fun and full of varied stimuli. For example, a child athlete with a training age 
of zero would not be exposed to advanced train
-
ing methods such as weightlifting or advanced 
plyometrics as soon as he or she starts the train -
ing journey. In such a situation, the challenge to the coach would be to develop those composite 
AMSC required for successful performance of 
advanced exercises masked within an engag
-
ing, age-appropriate training environment. 

 Developing Younger Athletes ❙ 19
CHRONOLOGICAL AGE
(YEARS)
AGE PERIODS MIDDLE CHILDHOODYOUTH PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT (YPD) MODEL FOR FEMALES
ADOLESCENCE ADULTHOODEARL Y
CHILDHOOD
FMS FMS FMS
SSS SSS SSS SSSFMSRAPID GROWTH
Mobility
Agility
Speed
Power
StrengthMobility
Agility
Speed
Power
StrengthMobility
Agility
Speed
Power
StrengthAgility
Speed
Power
Strength
Hypertrophy Hypertrophy
VERY HIGH STRUCTURE HIGH STRUCTURE LOW STRUCTURE UNSTRUCTURED TRAINING STRUCTUREPHYSICAL QUALITIES
MODERATE
STRUCTUREHypertrophy Hypertrophy
Endurance & MC Endurance & MC Endurance & MC Endurance & MCSTEADY GROWTH
YEARS PRE-PHV
PREDOMINANTL Y NEURAL (AGE-RELATED) COMBINATION OF NEURAL AND HORMONAL (MATURITY -RELATED) PHV YEARS POST -PHVADOLESCENT SPURT DECLINE IN GROWTH RATE GROWTH RATE
MATURATIONAL
STATUS
TRAINING
ADAPTATION2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21+
E5891/Joyce/476328/Fig 02.01b/R2/JGFigure 2.1 b The youth physical development (YPD) model for females. (Note: Font size refers to importance; 
light-shaded boxes refer to preadolescent periods of adaptation; dark-shaded boxes refer to adolescent periods 
of adaptation; PHV = peak height velocity; FMS = fundamental movement skills; SSS = sport-specific skills; MC = 
metabolic conditioning).
Reprinted, by permission, from R  .S . Lloyd and J . L . Oliver, 2012, “The Youth Physical Development model: A new approach to long-term athletic development,” 
Strength and Conditioning Journal 34(3): 61-72  .
Therefore, instead of simply instructing the child 
to perform cleans or snatches, the coach may 
prescribe fun-based warm-up activities (e.g., use 
of bunny hops or similar animal shapes [figure 
2.3, a-c]), body-weight management exercises 
(e.g., shoulder stand to stand [figure 2.4, a-c ]) or 
low-load resistance-training exercises using basic equipment (e.g., band-resisted overhead squat 
[figure 2.5, a-c ]).
None of these movements provides substantial 
external load to the athlete and therefore enables 
competency and control in such AMSC as low -
er-body bilateral competency, antirotation and upper-body pulling to remain the primary training 
focus. Naturally, as the technical competency of the young athlete increases, the load and complexity of prescribed training would reflect the increased training age.
Despite the child conceivably progressing to 
more advanced training methods and placing a greater emphasis on other fitness qualities such as strength, speed and power, it is recommended 
that motor skill development continues to form a 
key part of any athletic development programme 
for athletes of any age. Such a strategic approach 
has previously been documented for the long-term development of weightlifting, agility, speed and 
plyometrics in young athletes.
18-21
As the young athlete becomes more athletically 
competent, motor skill development typically will become more about motor skill maintenance and 
take up less time within an overall training session. 

20 ❙ Lloyd and Oliver
For example, 70 per cent of the total training session 
of a prepubertal child with a training age of zero 
may be devoted to developing basic motor skills; for 
an adolescent athlete approaching the start of adult-
hood, this proportion of time may be reduced to 10 
to 15 per cent of the total training time. This training focus transition is evident in the sample strength 
and conditioning sessions shown in table 2.1 for an 
8-year-old, prepubertal boy with a training age of zero years and in tables 2.2 and 2.3 for a 17-year-old, 
postpubertal male with a training age of 8 years.
Developing Strength and 
Power in the Young Athlete
The development of strength and power in youth 
has previously been a source of great debate, yet 
despite earlier misconceptions there is now a wealth 
of evidence supporting the use of resistance training 
by both children and adolescents.22, 23 Conceivably, if 
a child is ready to engage in sport activities, then he or she is ready to participate in resistance training. 
Although there is no minimum age requirement for a child to start resistance training, the child must be 
suffi  ciently mature to understand instructions and 
be able to choose to participate. In our experience, 
and on the proviso that appropriate exercise pre-
scription, developmentally appropriate pedagogy and qualifi  ed supervision are stressed, then chil-
dren can safely and effectively engage in resistance 
training from the age of 5 or 6 years.
Training-induced gains in muscular strength 
and power during childhood are not typically a 
result of structural changes at a muscle-fi  bre level, 
but are instead usually driven by improvements 
in both inter- and intramuscular coordination. 
Consequently, it is not uncommon for a child to become stronger and more powerful without any 
noticeable change in body composition. Irrespective 
of the lack of structural adaptation, the relative gains in muscular strength during childhood can 
actually be greater than those experienced during 
adolescence.
24Lower-body
bilateral
(Concentric and
eccentric)
Acceleration,
deceleration
and
reaccelerationUpper-body
pulling
(Vertical and
horizontal)
Anti-rotation
and core
bracingThrowing,
catching and
graspingLower-body
unilateral
(Concentric and
eccentric)Upper-body
pushing
(Vertical and
horizontal)
Jumping,
landing and
rebounding
mechanicsAthletic
Motor skill
competencies
(AMSC)
E5891/Joyce/476329/Fig 02.02/R2/JGFigure 2.2  Components of athletic motor skill competencies (AMSC).
Reprinted, by permission, from J .F . Moody, F . Naclerio, P . Green, and R .S . Lloyd, 2013, Motor skill development in youths . In Strength and conditioning for 
young athletes: Science and application, edited by R .S . Lloyd and J .L . Oliver (Oxon: Routledge), fig . 4 .2 on p . 53 .

 21
Figure 2.3  Bunny hops: ( a) starting position; ( b) reach 
to floor; ( c) kick heels up and back, supporting body 
weight on hands. Return to start position.
Figure 2.4  Shoulder stand to stand: ( a) shoulder 
stand; ( b) roll down spine to sitting position; ( c) stand up.
a
 a
b
 b
c
 c

22Figure 2.5  Low-load band-resisted overhead squat: ( a) starting position with band secured under feet and in both 
hands; ( b) squat; ( c) return to starting position.
a b c
Table 2.1  Sample Whole-Body Strength and Conditioning Session for 8-Year-Old, Prepubertal Boy  
With Training Age of Zero Years
Exercise Key movement pattern developedVolume  
(sets × reps)Intensity 
(%1RM)Rest 
(min)
WARM-UP (FMS)
Foam roller complex Whole-body myofascial release therapy 2 × 10 each site NA 1
Goblet squat Thoracic extension and hip mobilisation 2 × 8 Body weight 1
Split squat Lower-body unilateral and gluteal activation 2 × 6 each leg Body weight 1
Low-box jump Jumping, landing and rebounding mechanics 2 × 6 Body weight 1
Scapula push-up Scapula retraction 2 × 8 Body weight 1
Monster band push-press Upper-body pushing (vertical) 2 × 8 Light band 1
Monster band pull-down Upper-body pulling (vertical) 2 × 8 Light band 1
Plank variations Antirotation and core bracing 2 × 30 sec Body weight 1
MAIN (RESISTANCE)
Overhead squat Lower-body bilateral 3 × 6 Wooden dowel or junior barbell2
Elevated press-up Upper-body pushing (horizontal) 3 × 8 Body weight 2
TRX supine pull-up Upper-body pulling (horizontal) 3 × 8 Body weight 2
AUXILIARY EXERCISES
Stretching complex NA 2 × 20 sec NA 1

 Developing Younger Athletes ❙ 23
muscular power rely heavily on changes in max -
imal strength levels.25 However, it would appear 
that the performance benefits of resistance training Given the strong evidence supporting the use 
of resistance training throughout all stages of 
maturation in terms of performance enhancement 
and injury prevention, resistance training is one 
of the cornerstones of long-term youth physical 
development strategies.12 Similar to the develop -
ment of motor skill competency, early exposure to 
resistance training will increase the likelihood of 
the young player making a successful transition 
from junior ranks to elite-level sport.
Certainly, for those young athletes involved 
in sports requiring high levels of power, recent research has suggested that long-term changes in Table 2.2  Sample Strength and Conditioning Lower-Body Session for 17-Year-Old, Postpubertal Male  
With Training Age of 8 Years
Exercise Key movement pattern developedVolume  
sets × reps)Intensity (%1RM)Rest 
(min)
WARM-UP (FMS)
Foam roller complex Lower-body myofascial release therapy 2 × 10 each site NA 1
Miniband walk Gluteal activation 2 × 10 each leg NA 1
Clam shell Gluteal activation 2 × 8 each leg NA 1
Drop jump (30 cm) Jumping, landing and rebounding mechanics 3 × 3 Body weight 1 or 2
MAIN (RESISTANCE)
Snatch Lower-body bilateral (concentric) 3 × 3 85 2 or 3
Overhead squat Lower-body bilateral (eccentric and concentric) 4 × 5 85 2 or 3
Barbell step-up Lower-body unilateral 3 × 5 each leg 85 2 or 3
AUXILIARY EXERCISES
Romanian deadlift Lower-body bilateral (eccentric) 3 × 5 85 2 or 3
Table 2.3  Sample Strength and Conditioning Upper-Body Session for 17-Year-Old, Postpuberal Male  
With Training Age of 8 Years
Exercise Key movement pattern developedVolume  
(sets × reps)Intensity 
(%1RM)Rest 
(min)
WARM-UP (FMS)
Foam roller complex Upper-body myofascial release therapy 2 × 10 each site NA 1
Y, T, W, Ls Scapula retraction 5 × 1 NA 1
Sitting T-spine rotation Thoracic spine mobilisation 3 × 4 each side NA 1
MAIN (RESISTANCE)
Bench pull Upper-body pulling (horizontal) 4 × 5 85 2 or 3
Dumbbell bench press Upper-body pushing (horizontal) 4 × 5 85 2 or 3
Wide grip pull-up Upper-body pulling (vertical) 3 × 6 80 2 or 3
Snatch press Upper-body pushing (vertical) 3 × 6 80 2 or 3
AUXILIARY EXERCISES
Barbell rollout Antirotation and core bracing 3 × 8 80 2 or 3
Wisdom
Owing to the close associations between muscular 
strength and a range of athletic qualities, prioritising strength development and motor skill development within youth-based strength and conditioning pro
-
grammes that typically have numerous additional com -
mitments within a given training block is recommended  .

24 ❙ Lloyd and Oliver
are multifactorial in nature with a range of physical 
performance characteristics, including upper-body 
muscular strength and endurance, lower-body 
power and cardiorespiratory endurance, respond -
ing favourably to a short-term integrative neuro -
muscular training programme.26
Adding weight to this argument, we now know 
that measures of muscular strength and power 
can be significantly enhanced when children are 
exposed to a variety of forms of resistance training, 
including manual resistance, machine weights, 
plyometric training, resistance bands and medicine balls and free-weight exercises.
22
During childhood, strength increases in a 
linear fashion for both girls and boys. However, 
sex-related differences in muscular strength are 
more evident as children enter adulthood, with 
males consistently outperforming females. As the 
child enters puberty, his or her markedly differ -
ent hormonal environment will lead to natural 
gains in muscle mass, and consequently, levels 
of muscular strength and power will increase.3 
At the onset of PWV , and on the proviso that 
the adolescent athlete has a satisfactory training 
age and requisite technical competency, this will 
be an ideal opportunity to expose the athlete to 
hypertrophy-based training.12
Increased muscle cross-sectional area (mCSA) 
has previously been associated with increased 
force-producing capacities in junior weightlift -
ers;27 therefore, it would make sense that training 
strategies geared towards preferential hypertrophy development are prescribed in order to take advan -
tage of the increased anabolic state during mid- to late-adolescence. It is worth noting that although 
girls may not be able to experience increases in muscle mass of the same magnitude as boys (due 
to reduced levels of testosterone), they should still 
be able to achieve a minor degree of hypertrophy from increases in circulating levels of and sensi -
tivity to insulin, insulin-like growth factor and growth hormone.
Aside from the performance enhancement 
benefits of resistance training in developing both 
health- and skill-related components of fitness, 
research indicates that the training modality is 
equally effective in reducing the risk of injury in 
young athletes. Recent data suggest that approx -
imately 50 per cent of injuries within youth sports could have been avoided with appropriate 
preparatory conditioning, inclusive of resistance 
training.
28, 29Wisdom
Even though there are many mechanisms of injury, 
and the elimination of all injuries is unrealistic, young athletes should engage regularly in year-round resistance training to reduce their chances of injury, especially those overuse in nature  . This is an 
important notion for the coach to consider, as many of those working with young athletes may have to alleviate fears of parents, sport coaches or the athletes themselves at the start of a formalised strength and conditioning programme  .
Similar to developing motor skills, when pro -
gramming for muscular strength and power for 
young athletes, the primary consideration of the strength and conditioning coach should be train
-
ing age and technical competency. For example, resistance for a young, inexperienced athlete can 
be provided in the form of body-weight exercises 
and exercises that use basic resistance training 
equipment. However, for young athletes who can 
demonstrate competent movement patterns, more advanced training strategies such as weightlifting 
(snatch, clean and jerk and their derivatives) and 
other multimuscle, multijoint exercises (squat, dead
-
lift, press and pull) can be used to great effect. Ear -
lier research showed that with appropriate coaching and supervision, 70 young male and female weight
-
lifters age 7 to 16 years were able to make significant improvements in strength and power, without a 
single injury, over a 12-month period.
30
Wisdom
Irrespective of the resistance-training mode, the com -
plexity, volume, intensity or frequency of training 
should never be increased at the expense of technical competency  .
Developing Speed,  Agility and Flexibility  in the Young Athlete
Speed and agility are fundamental components 
of sport and therefore should be key elements 
within the training programmes of young ath -
letes. They are also common forms of locomotion that are routinely viewed as components of FMS 

 Developing Younger Athletes ❙ 25
development in children. Irrespective of this, there 
is a general lack of both developmental and applied 
research on either of these performance variables. 
However, childhood represents a unique oppor -
tunity to develop gross motor patterns owing to the neural plasticity associated with this stage of development. Therefore, it would appear logical 
to suggest that the coach should look to develop 
relevant techniques for accelerating, decelerating, sprinting, changing direction and cutting within 
technical running drills.
However, in addition to developing technical 
competency for speed and agility performance, the ability to develop greater forces quickly in 
the shortest ground-contact times possible is 
crucial for effective performance, even in young 
athletes. Additionally, adequate levels of muscu
-
lar strength are deemed critical in order to safely and effectively absorb the ground-reaction forces 
often encountered during maximal sprint perfor
-
mance, and in particular during unanticipated 
cutting manoeuvres.31 Therefore, in addition to 
the necessary motor skill development, strength 
and power training—with its capacity to gener -
ate force and reduce injury risk—should still be 
viewed as a key component of any youth-based 
speed and agility programme.
Developing Speed
Speed can be considered the product of stride 
frequency and stride length. Stride frequency may 
actually be reduced during the transition from 
childhood to adulthood, but this reduction is more 
than compensated for by concomitant increases in 
stride length, resulting in a net increase in speed with maturation. Increases in stride length are 
partly explained by increases in lower-limb length, 
facilitating an increase in the distance covered while in contact with the ground. However, with 
95 per cent of adult leg length attained by age 12, 
a greater amount of the gain in stride length will 
be due to a greater distance being covered during 
the aerial phase of the stride. This is likely due to 
maturational influences improving the ability to 
rapidly generate large amounts of force against the ground. Consequently, a strength and conditioning 
coach may aim to further facilitate natural gains 
in force-generating capacity and stride length with 
appropriate training during adolescence.
It has been suggested that a reduced ground- 
contact period during sprinting is the primary determinant of increased sprint speed in adults,32 
although ground-contact times, which reflect the rate of muscular contraction, do not naturally 
improve throughout childhood and adolescence. 
When the athlete can reduce the ground-contact 
time during sprinting, the strength and condition -
ing coach should be confident that this reflects a 
training adaptation rather than a natural matura -
tional process.
Although evidence shows that speed is trainable 
throughout childhood and adolescence, athletes 
at various stages of development respond more 
favourably to certain forms of training.
33 Prepuber -
tal children respond more favourably to plyometric and sprint training (which rely heavily on high 
levels of neural activation), whereas adolescent ath -
letes benefit most from a combination of strength and plyometric training (which may suggest that at this stage of development adaptations are both 
neural and structural in nature). These findings 
support the notion that sprint speed is trainable at all stages of development. However, the respon -
siveness to training methods may reflect the source of naturally occurring adaptation associated with 
both childhood and adolescence.
When prescribing plyometric drills to develop 
power and sprinting ability in young athletes, it is imperative to introduce this training mode grad -
ually, owing to the high demands placed on the 
neuromuscular system during plyometric actions. 
Additionally, a gradual, progressive approach will 
help ensure that the training emphasis remains on 
movement quality (e.g., postural alignment and 
stability). Competent athletes can then start to focus more on training for shorter ground-contact 
times, recruiting larger numbers of motor units 
and greater use of the stretch reflex.
Wisdom
Research suggests that to develop sprint performance, 
prepubertal children respond well to plyometric and sprint training whereas adolescents are best served by a combination of strength and plyometric training  .
Practically, inexperienced children and ado -
lescents should perform low-intensity plyomet -
ric exercises that focus on developing sound 
movement mechanics. Exercise prescription for 
this category of child is somewhat limited by the 
imagination of a coach, but an element of fun and 

26 ❙ Lloyd and Oliver
challenge will need to be maintained. However, 
youths with an experienced training age and 
high levels of motor competency can regularly 
include higher-intensity plyometric activities 
such as drop jumping or multiple bounding. We 
previously developed a plyometric-development model that illustrates how an inexperienced 
child can transition from relatively unstruc-
tured, fun-based training with minimal eccen-tric loading to a highly structured, sport-specifi  c 
level of plyometric training with much higher 
eccentric loadings.
21
Developing Agility
There are two main attributes for successful agility performance: change-of-direction speed (CODS) and cognitive function (see chapter 13). Prepubes-
cence is an opportune time to develop motor skill 
patterns, muscular strength and running speed, 
owing to the neural plasticity associated with this 
stage of development.
12 Additionally, this stage of 
development will also serve as an ideal opportu-
nity to enhance overall cognitive capacity and deci-
sion-making processes due to the strengthening 
and pruning of synaptic pathways.34, 35
Agility is a complex fi  tness component to mea-
sure, owing to the number of components infl  u-encing its performance. Combining this with the 
fact that little is known about how each component 
develops throughout childhood and adolescence 
means that it is somewhat diffi  cult to identify optimal training approaches for either the child 
or adolescent athlete.
We have, however, proposed an agility-training 
model that recommends primary training foci for each stage of development.
19 The model acknowl-
edges that irrespective of maturation, FMS training, change-of-direction speed training and reactive 
agility training should all be featured in the athletic 
programmes of all young athletes. However, we 
also suggest that each stage of development should 
have a primary training focus that is commensurate 
with the growth and maturational processes taking place at each stage of development. The adapted 
agility-training model displayed in fi  gure 2.6 is 
based on the notion that an athlete has entered formalised training during childhood.
Developing Endurance
Owing to the high volumes of sport-specifi  c train-ing and competition that are routinely completed by young athletes, it could be argued that developing endurance should be a low priority in most youth 
athletic-training programmes. Further, based on 
the fact that most sports do not require exceptional 
levels of endurance and that endurance remains 
trainable into adulthood, it is proposed that at no stage during childhood or adolescence should 
endurance be viewed as a primary training goal.
12
Wisdom
In addition to speed and agility development, young 
athletes need to be allowed to develop musculoskele-tal systems that are suffi  ciently robust to tolerate the repetitive impact forces commonly experienced during aerobic or anaerobic endurance activity .
Interestingly, recent research reported that 
higher levels of aerobic capacity in children were 
associated with greater risk of skeletal fracture, 
especially in children with lower levels of muscu-
lar strength.36 Additionally, evidence has demon-
strated that an integrated neuromuscular training programme focusing on motor skill and muscular 
strength development can actually elicit positive 
changes in 1.6 kilometre run performance.
26 The 
authors of this research cited the notion that chil-dren are nonmetabolic specialists, and therefore 
training adaptations are not necessarily specifi  c 
to the demands of the activity.
26
Prepubertal
(low training age)
60% FMS
25% CODS
15% RAT
Low structurePrimary agility training emphasis
for different athletic populations
(suggested % session training time)
Circapubertal
(moderate
training age)Postpubertal
(advanced
training age)
30% FMS
40% CODS
30% RAT
Moderately structured20% FMS
20% CODS
60% RAT
Highly structured
E5891/Joyce/476335/Fig 02.06/R2/JGFigure 2.6  Primary agility-training focus for prepu-
bertal, circapubertal and postpubertal young athletes.
Adapted, by permission, from R .S . Lloyd, P . Read, J .L . Oliver, R .W . Meyers, 
S . Nimphius, and I . Jeffreys, 2013, “Considerations for the development of agility during childhood and adolescence,” Strength and Conditioning Journal 35(3): 2-11 .

 Developing Younger Athletes ❙ 27
from twice weekly to daily, depending on the 
demands of the sport. If the coach or athlete is 
looking to develop chronic changes in ROM, it is 
recommended that stretches be held for 10 to 30 
seconds. This recommendation is different from 
short-duration, preactivity mobility exercises that athletes routinely perform, during which the main 
goal is an acute change in muscular elasticity and 
ROM. Irrespective of the training mode selected, coaches must pay close attention to postural integ -
rity and alignment while athletes stretch.
Should Young Athletes 
Specialise Early?
Designing training programmes for single-sport 
athletes would require a phase of physical prepar -
ation prior to the onset of the competitive phase. However, for those athletes involved in multiple 
sports that may overlap, we need to ensure pre -
paration phases are built into each competitive 
season. Central to this philosophy is the need to 
ensure that the child has sufficient time to rest 
and recover and to enable normal growth and maturation processes to occur. Additionally, the 
preparation phases should be viewed as an oppor -
tunity to regain or improve on precompetition levels of fitness that would typically have pla -
teaued or decreased as a result of the demands of 
the competitive season. This approach is essential 
for reducing the likelihood youth athletes experi -
encing nonfunctional overreaching or overtrain -
ing, which can lead to performance decrements and reductions in overall health and well-being. 
Previous research showed that nonfunctional 
overreaching or overtraining occurred in approx -
imately 30 per cent of young athletic population 
across a breadth of different sports.
40
Early sport specialisation refers to when children 
focus on a single sport and complete year-round 
specific training at a young age. Risks associated 
with early specialisation include social isolation, 
burnout and overuse injuries,41 all of which make 
a long-term approach to youth physical develop -
ment somewhat challenging. Certain sports such 
as gymnastics lend themselves more to earlier 
specialisation than others; for most sports, how -
ever, specialisation should be delayed until ado -
lescence to ensure the child athlete is exposed to a breadth of training environments that develop 
fundamental motor skills before training focuses Should the coach decide that specific endurance 
training outside technical or tactical sessions is 
warranted, research clearly shows that prepuber -
tal children can make significant gains in aerobic 
power after a high-intensity interval training 
protocol.
37 Especially in the case of inexperienced 
prepubertal children, any training session loosely designed to indirectly enhance endurance should 
be of high intensity and interval in nature to more 
closely resemble the activity patterns commonly 
seen in free playtime and to provide some level of overload. When working with children and young 
adolescents, trainers need to be highly proactive 
and sensitive to short-term fluctuations in endur -
ance performance, especially during various stages 
of development.
Developing Flexibility
Flexibility is recognised as a key physical perfor -
mance quality in young athletes. The importance 
of flexibility is sport specific. For example, aes -
thetic sports such as gymnastics are, to a certain degree, scored on extreme body positions, but 
other sports such as baseball or golf require large 
ranges of motion (ROM) to increase the distance 
over which force is applied (impulse). Irrespec
-
tive of the requirements of the sport, it should be 
recognised that an athlete must be able to demon -
strate appropriate levels of strength through the range of motion typically used for his or her sport. 
Despite its relative importance for sport perfor
-
mance, flexibility is a largely underresearched 
area of study within paediatrics. From the avail -
able literature, researchers have suggested that prepubescence is a key time frame in which to 
develop flexibility, with the age bracket of 6 to 11 
years proposed as a sensitive period for morpho
-
logical changes.12, 38, 39
Physiologically, the increased pliability and 
reduced musculotendinous stiffness (both passive 
and active) of muscle tissue associated with this 
stage of development may enable greater ROM 
to be attained. Evidence also suggests that levels 
of flexibility tend to plateau or even decrease at 
around the time of the adolescent growth spurt 
and into adulthood,38 which may suggest that 
maintaining previously acquired levels of flexi -
bility should be the training focus for later stages of development.
Owing to the low impact of flexibility training, 
young athletes can perform flexibility training 

28 ❙ Lloyd and Oliver
on sport-specific skills. Unfortunately, more sports 
are trying to promote earlier specialisation, and 
consequently, many strength and conditioning 
coaches working with young athletes will have to 
deal with the additional risks of overtraining and 
overuse injuries.
Summary
Owing to the complex nature of growth and maturation, strength and conditioning provision 
for young athletes requires an appreciation and 
understanding of paediatric exercise science. This 
chapter has reviewed key principles governing 
successful long-term athletic development pro -
grammes, and in doing so has highlighted the following messages:
• Training age should be the main variable that 
determines training programme design. However, 
biological age must also be considered to ensure 
training programmes are as effective as possible.
• Youth-based strength and conditioning pro -
grammes should aim to develop a range of health- and skill-related fitness components. However, programmes should centre on developing mus -
cular strength levels and motor skill proficiency.
• In order to develop speed a coach may focus 
on increasing the rate and magnitude of force 
applied during the ground-contact period while 
also aiming to reduce that period. These objectives represent qualities that do and do not naturally 
develop with maturation, respectively.
• Prepubescence is an ideal stage of development 
to learn motor skill patterns and force-producing 
capacities required for agility performance.
• Flexibility training is an important part of 
any youth physical development programme, but coaches should remember that an athlete must 
be able to produce strength through the range of 
motion typically used for his or her sport.
• Attention must be given to the overall physical 
and psychosocial demands placed on the young 
athlete, especially on those who are involved in 
multiple sports. It is imperative that strength and conditioning is not simply viewed as an add-on 
to the overall training programme but rather is 
seen as an essential and definitive component in 
its own right.

CHAPTER
 29
3
3
3
The sport world is littered with individuals 
who have impressive physical attributes, 
such as a huge anaerobic capacity or formidable lower-body strength. Some have become world 
champions. Others have never made the leap to 
stardom because, despite these qualities, the poor postures and movement strategies they adopt 
compromise their ability to apply force effi  ciently 
and repeatedly. Essentially, they leak energy, making the metabolic cost of performing at high 
intensities or over long durations expensive and 
performance limiting.
Athletes don’t just need to be strong; they 
also need to be effi  cient. This concept applies to 
power-based sports as well as to endurance sports. 
Ineffi  cient movement is metabolically costly, which 
means that onset of fatigue will be quicker, and 
subsequent performance decay will be larger. It is easy to see this in swimming. An ineffi  cient 
swimmer who has a costly technique will become 
fatigued after just a few laps of a pool, whereas a similarly conditioned swimmer using an effi  cient 
stroke can continue at high pace, lap after lap.
Although other significant variables—such 
as technical and tactical awareness, mental and emotional resiliency, dedication and profession-
alism—interact to determine sport success, it is 
the aim of this chapter is to discuss the impact 
of human movement effi  ciency on performance. This discussion seeks to provide strategies for 
assessment and optimisation of motion compe-
tencies that can be used by coaches, therapists and athletes.Attaining Movement 
Effi  ciency
Sport commentators often describe athletes as 
being effi  cient performers. When the word effi-
ciency  is pared back to its physical roots, it describes 
the output relative to the cost of the input. There-fore, an ineffi  cient mover is one whose output, 
whether it is during running, cycling, rowing 
or swimming, is less than his or her input. The 
two critical variables to consider when assessing movement effi  ciency are the force generated and 
the force applied. These are not always the same, 
and if inequalities exist, so does ineffi  ciency.
Effective Force Generation
Sport provides a graphic demonstration of physics in action. Within athletic pursuits, force is applied 
to the ground (such as during running, jumping 
and skating), to water (such as during swimming 
and rowing), to an object (such as a shot-put or bicy-
cle) or to another person (such as through a martial arts kick or when a footballer has to fend off an 
opponent). Clearly, it is an advantage to be able 
to generate greater forces, and yet it is not always the case that the athlete with the greatest strength 
emerges the victor. This observation extends from 
sports traditionally regarded as power sports, such 
as weightlifting and track cycling, to endurance 
sports, such as marathon running or triathlon, as well as to team sports, such as soccer and handball.Enhancing Movement Efficiency
Craig Ranson, PhD
Cardiff Metropolitan University, UK, and Welsh Rugby Union
David Joyce
Western Force Rugby, Australia and Edith Cowan University, Perth, Australia

30 ❙ Ranson and Joyce
Successful performances in many sports rely on 
the generation of muscular power. In most cases, 
it is not just a one-off powerful movement that is 
required because sport success is often contingent 
on multiple efforts. Therefore, enduring  power 
production is sought, with sport events able to be 
considered as combinations of hundreds, if not 
thousands, of demonstrations of Newtonian phys -
ics. Minimising the decay in this power expression 
between the first repetitions (e.g., a single effort like 
a high jump or paddle stroke or, more broadly, a 
sprint or boxing round) and the last is often the 
difference between winning and losing. It is the 
ability to apply or overcome resistance that lies at the heart of this quest.
The generation of power comes at a metabolic 
cost, which is why runners cannot maintain sprint pace for an entire marathon. The body’s ability 
to provide the fuel for these working muscles 
depends on a quality broadly termed fitness , a 
concept that can encompass many variables. In this context fitness is generally used to describe the ability of the metabolic (cardiovascular and 
cardiopulmonary) systems to supply working mus -
cles with an adequate supply of energy. Increasing the capacity of this system to perform these duties 
is the focus of chapters 14 and 16.
Wisdom
The role of a metabolic system is analogous to the 
locomotive engine on a steam train  . It fuels the body’s 
ability to generate force  . The greater the force required 
to be generated, the harder the engine is required to work .
Effective Force Application
Although important, the amount of force that can 
be generated is not the only consideration, and this 
brings us to the second variable: force application. 
The force generated may be quite different to the 
amount of force that can be successfully applied. 
An easy way to conceptualise this is by thinking 
of trying to drive a bent nail into a plank of wood. 
Irrespective of the size of the hammer (or, indeed, the strength of the person holding it), the nail will 
not enter the wood with the precision or energy 
cost-effectiveness of a straight nail. Thus, the force generated onto the head of the nail is quite differ -
ent to the force transferred to the wood. This is an example of an energy leak . When a leak is present, 
less force or speed can be generated, or the meta -
bolic cost of its generation is inflated.
Athletes often are perceived as being unfit if they 
labour around the field of play, whether that be an 
athletic track, a swimming pool, a football pitch, a 
skating rink or a basketball court. Perhaps they are  
unfit (the locomotive is not able to continually power the train), but a bigger problem may be their ability to transfer force efficiently. Attempting to improve 
fitness may be effective in an untrained person, 
but highly trained athletes have much smaller windows for fitness gains. Improving the ability to 
run around the playing field or move through the 
water may instead rely on plugging energy leaks.
A mind shift may be required in those people 
who assume, for example, that the yo-yo intermit -
tent recovery test (or other field tests purported to examine fitness) is an evaluation of aerobic 
capacity. In actual fact, any such test is nothing 
more than an assessment of an individual’s ability to run repeated shuttles. Unquestionably, the ulti -
mate failure point occurs when energy reserves are depleted such that the athlete is unable to com -
plete a particular repetition in the required time. 
However, this does not necessarily mean that the 
factor that discriminates between athletes when 
completing this test is cardiovascular power.
Imagine you have to water your plants and 
that if you fill your 5-litre watering can, you will have just enough to do the 5-minute job. Imagine 
now, that you fill your can but you discover it has a number of holes in the side and is leaking 200 
millilitres a minute. You will be left short. Is this 
because the watering can was not big enough or 
because it leaked? Seal the leaks, and the watering 
can would be big enough.
The same applies to the repeated shuttles 
example. If the athlete’s running mechanics were suboptimal, or if turning technique was poor, irre -
spective of metabolic capacity, the athlete would be spending energy reserves at a much greater rate than a more efficient counterpart. This is the 
same as the watering-can example. The limiter, 
therefore, may not be the size of the aerobic bank but the body’s spending habits.
In this instance, if a training programme 
addresses the identified energy leaks—the physical 
and technical deficits—and the athlete becomes a 
more efficient runner, less energy would be spent per stride. This means that either the number of 
strides taken can be greater, or the force applied 

 Enhancing Movement Efficiency  ❙ 31
per stride can be higher. It would be tempting to 
think any improvements in a follow-up repeated 
running test were due to improvements in aerobic 
fitness, but in fact, the athlete may not be any fitter, 
just spending energy more wisely. The watering 
can is no bigger; it just no longer leaks.
This same theory also accounts for the world-
class performances that can be witnessed in paddling sports such as swimming, rowing and kayaking. Less physically gifted athletes can still 
reach great heights in rowing if they are so techni -
cally sound that they do not leak energy through unwanted body or paddle motions. Every stroke is 
effective and efficient. Conversely, an athlete with terrific physical capacities may still not row fast if 
his or her technique is such that the rower cannot 
apply force efficiently through the oar onto the water. These are people coaches describe as mus -
cling through the water, which is energy expensive. Often, these athletes are found to be unable to trans -
fer performances on the rowing ergometer to the regatta courses, where technical prowess is critical.
Wisdom
Efficient movement is the desirable outcome from 
mechanical and metabolic standpoints  . It is not being 
suggested that efficiency is sought at the expense of optimal athlete conditioning or fitness  . However, move -
ment efficiency is the structure upon which strength and cardiovascular fitness are built  .
Swimming provides an interesting context 
in which to analyse movement efficiency. Many 
people think that the aim is to push the arm 
through the water as fast as possible, but this is 
incorrect. Instead, efficient swimmers grab hold of 
the water and use it as an anchor to propel the body forward, using both lift and drag to best advan -
tage. As the swimmer’s hand enters the water, it attempts to push back onto still water. The problem is that water begins to move and becomes more elu -
sive to push against. The swimmer, therefore, aims to find calm water to push against, which is one 
reason why an expert swimmer’s hand and upper 
limb move in a curved path during the pull phase of the stroke. When the aim is to create propulsion 
in water, the odds are stacked against performers 
when it comes to force application; for that reason, although strength is important, efficiency in apply -
ing that strength is of greater concern.Swimming is not just about maximising pro -
pulsion, however. It is also about minimising the 
negative effects of drag. Each type of drag has 
an exponential effect on propulsive force, and 
athletes must work to minimise forms of drag. 
For swimming, strategies that can be employed include wearing tight swimsuits and removing 
hair. Maintaining arrow-like, streamlined body 
shapes also reduce the effects of profile and wave drag. Therefore, it is not the strongest swimmer 
who will be the fastest, but rather the one most 
skillful at applying force to a moving platform 
whilst simultaneously minimising drag.
Wisdom
In swimming, the person who is technically skilled in 
maximising propulsive forces and minimising drag forces will be efficient and fast  . In some sports, there -
fore, efficiency is determined not just by the force applied but by the external forces that are minimised  . 
This concept also applies to sports such as cycling, downhill skiing, bob skeleton and rowing  .
Achieving Movement Efficiency
The body is designed for efficient movement. Joints 
and bones are well structured to be able to deal 
with the positions demanded of them as well as 
the forces transferred through them. Much, then, 
depends on how the active (force-producing) 
components function. Not only do they control the position of the joints, but they also control 
the amount of applied force. With this in mind, 
this section will focus on musculo-tendinous efficiency.
Musculo-Tendinous Function in 
Optimising Athletic Movement
Muscles and tendons interact to be both the drivers 
and limiters of human movement. They produce 
the energy that is transferred to the skeleton so 
that joints can initiate or resist motion. However, 
the way we are traditionally taught about muscle 
and tendon action is not necessarily an accurate reflection of reality. A deeper understanding of 
these concepts is fundamental to understanding 
and enhancing movement efficiency.

32 ❙ Ranson and Joyce
Isometric Muscular Actions  
Are Essential for Powerful Motion
It may seem oxymoronic but, in most cases, joint 
movement is made possible by tendon excursion 
as opposed to changes in muscle length. The 
muscle–tendon unit is formed by the respective 
series and parallel coupling of muscle tissue with 
elastic tendon and fascial elements. These elastic components transfer muscular energy to the skel -
eton. The combination of elastic and contractile elements within muscle–tendon units can create confusion as to the type of muscular action that 
is occurring. For example, although there may be 
net lengthening of a muscle–tendon unit as it elon -
gates under load (usually termed eccentric ), often 
it is only the elastic elements that stretch whilst the muscular elements act isometrically or even 
contract slightly.
1
Think of an elastic band attached to a weight. 
Overall, the entire system may lengthen as we pull on the band, but it is only allowed to do so because 
it is held securely at the top by the weight. This is a 
similar situation to that found in the body. Although 
the entire muscle–tendon complex may lengthen, often it is the muscle component that provides the 
steady anchor, allowing the elastic nature of the 
tendons to accommodate to the changing joint positions associated with movement. These iso -
metric muscular actions during musculotendinous elongation are especially prevalent in bi-articular 
muscles, those producing fast and powerful sport 
movements, such as the biceps and triceps brachii during hitting and throwing and the hamstrings 
and gastrocnemius during sprinting.
Despite a considerable amount of training and 
rehabilitation literature devoted to the benefits of eccentric (sometimes termed negative ) muscular 
work, true eccentric muscular actions during fast, high-force sport activities are simply not 
possible for three primary reasons. First, the energy cost and heat production of fascicular 
lengthening and shortening during concen
-
tric–eccentric muscular actions would make 
repeating more than just a few movement cycles 
unsustainable. Second, the required changeover 
from fascicular lengthening to shortening (eccen -
tric to concentric) would not be fast or powerful enough to facilitate high-velocity motion. Third, 
if muscular elements were lengthening during 
eccentric muscular-action phases, tension would 
effectively be reduced in the elastic components, significantly reducing their spring-like properties and power-production potential.
Instead, the job of the muscle when joints are 
rotating at high velocity is to create and maintain tension in the spring-like elastic elements so that 
energy stored in the tendons and fascia is opti -
mally transferred to the skeleton.
1 An example of 
this is the hamstring during the second half of the 
swing phase of fast running. The classic theory is 
that the hamstring first acts eccentrically to decel -
erate extension of the knee before reversing to act concentrically to extend the hip as the lower limb retracts towards the ground. Given that the hip and 
knee joints might be rotating at several hundred 
degrees per second, it is much more likely that the first job of the muscular elements is to contract 
slightly in order to take up slack in the hamstring 
that results from the extreme knee-flexion position 
early in the swing phase. Taking up this muscle 
slack and tensioning the hamstring tendons by then maintaining an isometric muscular action as 
the knee extends in late swing will create a forceful 
elastic recoil, facilitating powerful retraction of the lower limb before the initial foot contact.
The bottom line is that much of the lengthening 
that is apparent with so-called eccentric exercises, 
such as Nordic hamstring curls, is actually occur -
ring in the noncontractile (tendon and fascial) 
tissue whilst the actual muscle action is mostly 
isometric. Nordic curls have been shown to be 
useful in preventing and rehabilitating hamstring 
injuries.
2 However, Nordics can cause painful 
delayed-onset muscle soreness (DOMS) and are extremely difficult to do into outer-range knee 
extension. Maximal isometric hamstring–loading 
exercises can be used to strengthen the hamstring 
musculotendinous unit without significant DOMS and arguably use a more appropriate muscular 
action and lower-limb position. Examples of 
these include the single-leg hamstring bridge in the extended-knee position (figure 3.1) and the 
single-leg isometric hip extension in the glute–ham 
machine (figure 3.2). Both can be loaded to induce 
maximal isometric hamstring recruitment in a 
similar position and range (midstance) to where maximal hamstring force is produced during 
high-speed running.
By training these muscles in this fashion, the 
athlete uses the body’s own intrinsic efficiency system, one in which the muscle is working as a 
stable anchor point for the more efficient tendon 
to stretch and recoil.

Enhancing Movement Effi  ciency  ❙ 33
Muscles Are Only Powerful 
in a Narrow-Length Range
Another important principle to apply when target-
ing energy leaks is the need to use the most pro-
ductive muscle lengths. Although versatile in being 
able to act in a variety of modes over a wide range 
of motion, maximal force production is possible 
only when musculotendinous units are at or near their optimal length. An example length–tension 
curve is illustrated in fi  gure 3.3. Note that isolated 
muscle force capability is greatest in the midrange; however, the infl  uence of creating tension in the 
passive (tendon and fascial) components allows 
force production to be maintained in outer-range 
(lengthened) positions.
If the amount of force that can be produced by 
a muscle–tendon unit depends on this length–tension relationship, the most effi  cient and effective 
sport movements will occur when as many of the 
key muscle groups involved in the movement as 
possible are acting within their most favourable length-tension ranges. Mechanisms for activating 
and training movement patterns that maximise 
optimal length–tension advantages are introduced in the following section.
Motor Patterning for Effi  cient 
Athletic Movement
For any give movement task, countless combina-
tions of joint motions and muscular actions can 
be used. As a rule, the body will always seek to 
take the path of least resistance when it comes to 
movement because this is the most metabolically 
efficient. An example is that someone with a restriction in ankle dorsifl  exion will tend to roll 
into excessive pronation or even rotate externally 
from the hip in order to propel the body forward during locomotion. The way the body organises 
itself to meet a functional end is quite extraordi-
nary, but what is most metabolically effi  cient in 
the short term will not necessarily be the most 
mechanically effi  cient.
Figure 3.1  Single-leg hamstring bridge with a lower-limb 
position that reflects the midstance phase of fast running.Figure 3.2  Single-leg isometric hip extension with a 
lower-limb position that reflects the midstance phase 
of fast running.
TensionTotal
tension
Active
tension
Passive
tension
Resting length
Length
E5891/Joyce/476338/Fig 03.03/R2/JGFigure 3.3  Typical length–tension curves for a mus-
culotendinous unit. The active tension is provided by 
contracting the muscular elements, and the passive ten-
sion is provided by stretching the tendofascial elements.

34 ❙ Ranson and Joyce
This adaptability is both a blessing and a curse. 
Coaches, therapists and athletes can become 
somewhat paralysed by choice and do not always 
choose the correct or most efficient motor pattern 
to complete a given task. This is the degrees-of-
freedom problem and something that needs to be overcome in order to organise movement patterns 
to be as efficient and effective as possible.
To do so, the body tends to default to the adop -
tion of characteristic postures and movement patterns that often are difficult to change (see 
explanation of attractors in chapter 9). These pos -
tures or movement patterns generally fall into the category of being efficient (such as having a vertical thigh position at the point of toe-off in the running 
cycle) or inefficient (such as having an extended 
thigh posture at toe-off). Although athletes will tend to use one or the other (mild thigh extension 
at toe-off is rarely seen), they can flip between the 
two patterns or revert to the less efficient mode 
when fatigued or under pressure.
The reason the vertical thigh position (neutral 
hip flexion and extension) during toe-off is more efficient than an extended thigh position is two -
fold. First, if the thigh is extended, the hip flexor muscles will be elongated, which is a suboptimal 
position for producing tension (figure 3.3). There -
fore, hip-flexion power during forward swing will 
Figure 3.4  Sport examples of the lock pelvic position: ( a) during the backswing of baseball hitting; ( b) just before 
the impact of a tennis forehand; ( c) during the transition between the windup and acceleration phases of baseball 
pitching.
be compromised. Second, the range of flexion the hip will have to traverse during forward swing will 
be longer. Because the ability to recover the swing 
limb quickly is a major determinant of running 
speed, having a longer, weaker forward swing will 
be inefficient and slow.
An attractor that facilitates optimal length–ten -
sion postures of the hip and pelvic muscles in a number of sport activities is the lock position of the pelvis.
3 This position is attained during the phase 
of motion during which the standing, lower-limb 
forces are highest, for example, the midstance posi -
tion during running, the backswing of baseball hit -
ting (figure 3.4 a) or the tennis forehand (figure 3.4b ) 
and the cocking phase of throwing (figure 3.4 c). It 
involves a posture of the free (nonstance) side of the pelvis being slightly elevated and internally 
rotated. This posture places the majority of the trunk and femur muscles attaching to the stance 
side of the pelvis in their optimum length–tension 
range (near midrange) so that energy can be most 
effectively transferred from the ground through 
the trunk to the upper limb (in the case of upper-limb activities) and from the hip to the knee to the 
ankle (in the case of lower-limb activities).
Another benefit of the lock position is that it 
takes advantage of the primitive extension reflex whereby hip flexion off the non-weight-bearing 
a b c

 Enhancing Movement Efficiency  ❙ 35
limb produces a powerful reflexive hip, knee and 
ankle triple extension on the opposite-stance side. 
The hip flexion associated with the lock pelvic 
position, therefore, can reflexively augment power 
production in the stance limb (figure 3.5).
The antithesis of the lock pelvic position is one 
in which the free side of the pelvis is dropped during the midstance phase of running (figure 3.6; 
stance-side hip and pelvic musculature is placed in an adverse length-tension position). Sometimes 
known as the Trendelenburg sign, it places the 
stance-side lateral pelvic musculature (gluteus 
maximus, tensor fasciae latae and the attaching 
iliotibial tract, along with the smaller abductors gluteus medius and gluteus minimus) in an 
unfavourable, lengthened position. Force transfer 
through the pelvis is thereby limited.
An easy way to think about the pelvic lock posi -
tion is to picture a crane on a building site. In order to be able to lift heavy construction bins, the crane 
needs to be stable at its base; otherwise, the system 
will break down. The body operates in a similar way, 
which is why athletes need to be strong and efficient 
in achieving and securing the locked pelvic position.
This lock position is a critical attractor in effi -
cient force acceptance and force transfer. Should this mechanism fail due to muscular weakness or 
a faulty motor pattern, the body is forced to work 
harder to attain the functional goals being requested 
by the brain (or coach!). If the body has to work 
harder, it will consume vastly more energy reserves, and performance endurance will be compromised.
An assessment of the strength and holding 
capacity of the lateral hip muscles should be a part 
of every athletic programme. These muscles help 
maintain a strong pelvic lock position, crucial for 
force transference to both the upper and lower 
limbs. The ability to hold a lateral support (plank) posture (figure 3.7) is one method of assessing the 
capacity of the lateral pillar musculature.
Wisdom
The fact that the pelvic lock position in midstance is so 
critical to the striking and throwing sports where the upper limb is (seemingly) dominant demonstrates our contention that the shoulders start at the feet  . Pelvic 
motion and strength also are critical to performance and healthy shoulder function in swimmers  . Without 
an efficient kick produced by the hips, the upper limbs are required to pick up the slack, something that can lead to slow times and sore shoulders  .
Figure 3.6  Dropped swing-leg side of the pelvis.
Figure 3.7  Lateral or side-plank position.
Figure 3.5  The pelvic lock position during the mid- 
support phase of a high jump take-off.

36 ❙ Ranson and Joyce
Lock Position Training Drills
A common energy leak during many run -
ning-based sport activities is excessive trunk 
motion, particularly rotation. An arm swing that 
goes across the body or a foot plant that crosses 
the midline is a manifestation of excessive rotation. 
Such overrotation of the trunk and pelvis needs to be counteracted by opposite rotations of either 
the upper or lower limbs. Energy that should be 
used for propelling the body forward is leaked into the compensatory rotational movements. Faulty 
movement patterns or insufficient trunk strength 
can both be factors in this error.
Drills that can be used to quickly and effectively 
improve trunk-muscle recruitment involve run -
ning with the arms stretched overhead. Bilateral 
overhead arm positions cause a reflexive co-con -
traction of the trunk musculature on the pelvis. 
This promotes stiffness of the lower trunk and 
pelvis, further augmenting potential for energy 
transfer and reducing unwanted rotational or lat -
eral motion of the trunk and pelvis. Infants have undeveloped trunk strength and coordination and when learning to walk and run will naturally 
adopt this attractor overhead-arm position in order 
to access this reflex, which stiffens and stabilises 
the trunk. Running with a stick held as high as 
possible overhead (figure 3.8) will also harness this reflex and can have immediate positive effects on 
subsequent running technique.
For the lock-position walking drill (figure 3.9), 
the athlete begins with both arms reaching high overhead, holding a broomstick in both hands. 
Walking or skipping forward, the athlete pushes 
the stance-side arm upward whilst obtaining lock 
position, elevation of the pelvis on the swing side, hip flexion to approximately 80 degrees and max -
imal knee flexion and dorsiflexion. Elbows remain straight. Simultaneously, the athlete forcefully plantar-flexes the stance ankle.
Movement Control Versus 
Movement Freedom
Some athletes do not suffer from the problem of too 
much movement during athletic function. These 
individuals move in block-like patterns due to too 
much muscle activity and hence demand too much 
of their energy systems. Co-contractions around 
joints are helpful to stabilise motion segments but are 
Figure 3.8  Overhead-stick runs stimulate co-contrac -
tion of all trunk muscles and reduce unwanted trunk 
motion.
Figure 3.9  Lock-position walking drill.

 Enhancing Movement Efficiency  ❙ 37
energy-thirsty, so this block-like motion is another 
example of mechanical (and therefore metabolic) 
inefficiency.
This is an important point to make because 
sometimes seeking to control movement results in rigidity around joints. Movement efficiency 
is about being adept at exploring movement 
throughout the range of motion (ROM) and being 
strong and stable. Often, training programmes are uniplanar and neglect combination movements. 
Drills that encourage athletes to explore somewhat 
unfamiliar motions are helpful in allowing par -
ticipants to cope with a larger scope of movement 
demands within training or competition.
Having a broader window of acceptance and an 
ability to explore new movements and dissociate 
components of movements can be achieved by including novel drills into warm-ups or dedicated 
movement-efficiency sessions. Drills designed to 
this end may include
• hula hoop,
• overhead squat,
• Turkish get-up,
• lumbo-pelvic dissociation in lying, sitting and standing positions with variations in thoracic, hip and knee postures,
• gymnastic-type activities such as rolling and 
jumping and
• monkey bars with long crossover swings.
Alternatives to normal technical training such 
as yoga, martial arts, salsa dancing and indoor 
rock climbing can also be helpful in this pursuit, 
especially when trying to develop strength and 
coordination in different ROM.
Identifying and Remedying 
Common Energy Leaks
This section provides examples and potential rem -
edies for common energy leaks that occur during 
fundamental sport activities such as running, 
throwing and swimming.
Running
Running is the core physical skill of many of the world’s most popular sports. Therefore, 
it is surprising that running skill training is often neglected in programmes that prepare for running sports. Examples of adverse running 
mechanics that result in significant energy leaks have been provided in the previous sections. 
Table 3.1 lists these along with other common 
faults and provides examples of assessment techniques that might be used to correct them. A 
more detailed description of one major running 
energy leak, excessive braking force due to con
-
tacting the ground too far in front of the centre of mass, and a corrective drill are presented in 
the next section.
Overcoming a Running Technique 
That Has Excessive Braking Forces
Fast, efficient running is characterised by a short 
ground-contact time and lower-limb positioning 
that produces optimal horizontal and vertical 
propulsion forces. Normally, the foot position at 
initial contact should be just in front of the runner’s 
centre of mass. Unwanted braking forces can occur 
if initial contact is too far in front of the centre of 
mass. This not only produces a backward-directed braking ground-reaction force, but it effectively 
increases the ground-contact time. The result either 
will be slower running or more energy required to maintain the same speed.
A drill that can be used to correct this error 
and minimise braking is overstride barefoot 
running at a fast pace (see table 3.1). The athlete’s 
feet should be bare as opposed to shod with a 
minimalist or barefoot-type running shoe,4 and 
therefore the surface needs to be safe, not too hard or abrasive. Firm grass is ideal. Tarmac, 
synthetic or dirt tracks should be avoided. Asking 
the athlete to overstride whilst running barefoot 
(figure 3.10) will automatically cause him or her to fully retract the swing leg before contacting 
the ground: Contacting too far in front will be 
uncomfortable on a bare foot.
This is an example of an implicit coaching 
technique that uses drills to improve movement patterns. It relies on the individual’s ability to 
self-organise or problem solve the best way to 
achieve the goal of a drill and is more effective 
than the ineffective, yet highly prevalent, explicit 
coaching method that relies on instructing ath -
letes how to move. With the lower-limb segments 
rotating several hundred degrees per second in fast 
running, it is unlikely the athlete would improve if 
instructed to ‘pull the front leg back hard so that it 

38 ❙ Ranson and Joyce
Table 3.1  Technique Criteria, Testing and Sample Exercises for Efficient, Fast Running
Plane Phase Optimal (attractor) Energy leak Test/Assessment Drill/Exercise
Sagittal Midstance to 
toe-offNeutral anterior-posterior pelvic tiltAnterior pelvic tilt 45° double-leg lower Overhead-stick run
Vertical thigh (neutral hip extension)Extended hip and thighHurdle split jump
Plantar flexion at 
toe-offNeutral ankle at toe-offSingle-leg calf raise (bent and straight 
knee)Single-leg clean to 
low box
Forward swing Maximal knee flexion Submaximal knee 
flexionSagittal high-speed videoUphill or stair run
Ankle dorsiflexion Plantar flexion Lock walking and skipping drills 
Forward swing to reversalHip and thigh flexion to just below 
horizontalLow hip and thigh 
flexion angleFalling start acceleration 
Uphill or ramp run
Backward 
swing to initial contactInitial contact just in front of centre of massInitial contact too far in front of centre of mass (insufficient 
swing-leg retraction)Overstride 
barefoot running on grass
Initial contact to mid-stanceActive plantar flexion Dorsiflexed ankle Single-leg calf-raise capacity (bent & straight knee)Active plantar-flexion jump
Frontal Initial contact to midstanceElevated swing-leg side of pelvisDropped swing-leg side of pelvisSide plank in lock position, 30 sec holdLock walking and skipping drills
Axial Midstance to toe-offMinimal trunk rotationExcessive trunk rotationFront plank, 30 sec, opposite arm and 
leg liftedAcceleration 
holding ball 
Figure 3.10  Overstride barefoot running drill.
lands just in front of your body; then don’t let your 
hip extend past the line of your body before you 
lift the foot off!’
Throwing
Many sports incorporate a throwing-type motion. 
Examples include baseball (pitching and fielding), 
cricket (fielding), javelin, tennis (serving), volley -
ball (spiking) and water polo (passing and shoot -
ing). When aiming to improve throwing power 
and accuracy, coaches often focus on upper-limb technique, strengthening and conditioning. How -
ever, kinetic studies have shown that those who display good technique generate the majority of their force from the large musculature of the lower 
trunk, pelvis and legs.
5 Table 3.2 summarises the 
optimal and common leak positions that occur during a throwing motion.
A key element of the preparation phase of 
many throwing motions is attaining a trunk and 
shoulder alignment that is side-on to the target. 

 Enhancing Movement Efficiency  ❙ 39
This allows weight transfer to the back leg and 
potentiates maximal power contribution potential 
of the trunk and lower limbs. To demonstrate how 
important this is, have players try to throw from 
a seated or kneeling position or whilst standing 
front-on to the target and starting with their weight on the front feet. Throwing velocity and distance 
will be significantly limited.
An excellent implicit training drill involves 
encouraging players in throwing sports such as cricket to keep two hands on the ball in the pre -
cocking phase. Baseball automatically facilitates this skill as the ball is first held in the gloved, 
nondominant hand and then transferred to the throwing-arm hand, during which time the trunk 
has to rotate to a powerful side-on position as the 
weight shifts to the back foot.
Excessive external rotation of the throwing 
shoulder during the late-cocking and acceleration phase is also a common energy leak. Again, the 
powerful shoulder internal rotators will be unfa -
vourably elongated and will have a greater range 
of internal rotation and shoulder flexion to traverse 
before ball release.
Swimming
Swimming is a sport in which movement effi -
ciency is vital in order to maximise propulsion whilst at the same time minimise the negative 
effects of drag. In sprints, the ability to forcefully 
push off the blocks and turns is one of the most 
critical determinants of a successful performance. In fact, over one-third of the distance covered in 
a 100-metre freestyle race is generated from the 
start and turn. With this in mind, it is critical that the swimmer does not leak energy in these tasks, 
so avoiding a countermovement on the blocks is important. Isometric pretension and then con -
centric explosion is important. This movement 
can be cued by teaching the athlete to take up the 
slack in the back, buttock, posterior thigh and calf 
muscles when the starter calls, ‘Set’. The athlete 
then counterrotates the hips to lock the pelvis and 
optimise power transfer to the shoulder girdle and upper limbs. When the pistol fires, the swimmer 
can then dive in, aiming his or her head at the 
opposite end.
Many drills are aimed at reducing the effects 
of drag; these are readily found in texts dedicated to swimming. Following are some suggestions for 
the athlete:
• Imagine swimming downhill. Push the chest 
towards the bottom of pool. This will lift the legs and hips.
• Imagine swimming in a narrow tunnel. This 
reduces unwanted drag and wasteful trunk 
lateral flexion.
• Always swim with the gaze directed at the pool surface directly underneath, not 2 metres 
in front. This will help reduce wave drag.
There is a separate but important consider -
ation with respect to movement competency in 
swimmers and indeed any other sportperson who 
engages in cross-training. Swimming tends to be 
an activity that people specialise in from a young 
age, and swimmers often lack a more rounded 
support in land-based movement competencies. This helps explain why swimmers are often poor 
runners or inefficient performers in the gym. 
With this in mind, care needs to be taken when 
swimmers engage in technical lifting and jumping 
drills. High-impact activities, including running, are often risky in this population.Table 3.2  Optimal and Common Energy Leak Positions During Throwing Action
Phase Optimal (attractor) Energy leak Drill/Exercise
Preparation Side-on trunk alignment Front-on trunk alignment Two hands on ball before 
cockingWeight shift to back foot Weight stays on front foot
Cocking Scaption glenohumeral joint alignmentExcessive horizontal extension Turn head, keeping ball in sight
<90° shoulder abduction <90° shoulder abduction Take hand high during cocking
Acceleration 110°-130° shoulder external rotationExcessive shoulder external rotationInternal rotation strength and stiffness exercises
Long stride Short stride Drive off back foot 
Follow-through Weight moving towards target Weight moving across target Reach towards target 

40 ❙ Ranson and Joyce
Summary
The capacity to generate and sustain force is a criti -
cal and in many ways a defining feature of sport suc -
cess. The ability to achieve these goals, however, is 
contingent on an ability to organise the body so that 
movement is efficient. Inefficient motion is metabol -
ically costly and may limit performance in the short 
term, for example, through reduced jump height or 
throw distance. In the long term, the athlete may be 
unable to physiologically support inefficient motion, 
as is the case in those with poor running, cycling, 
rowing or skiing technique. Moreover, inefficient movement predisposes injury to a specific inefficient 
segment (such as reduced ankle motion leading to 
ankle injury) or anywhere along the kinetic chain (such as poor pelvic and hip control, leading to 
shoulder dysfunction in throwers).
Therefore, technical excellence should be con -
sidered not just from a sport-skill perspective but also from a movement-competency perspective. 
Adding resistance, speed or volume should be 
considered only if movement efficiency is main -
tained. Training should be approached from a 
standpoint of taking athletes to their technical and 
movement-competency threshold.

CHAPTER
 41
4
4
4
Core stability is a term that has exploded into med-
ical and sport consciousness in the last 20 years 
and now has an established place in most athlete development, injury prevention and rehabilitation 
programs. Although our understanding and belief 
systems regarding the core have evolved signifi  -cantly over the last 50 years, this development 
has also resulted in many differing philosophies, 
priorities and defi  nitions across continents and between cultures and professions.
Historically, medical circles have investigated 
and prioritised the effects of pain and pathology on 
specifi  c spinal muscular structures, function and 
neuromuscular patterning and the effects of poor posture and movement strategies on injury risk. 
Conversely, strength and conditioning research-
ers have focused on the development of maximal trunk strength and optimal mechanics to deliver 
the best platform for athletic function. Inevitably, 
over time both groups have generated best-practice 
models and created their own languages and 
terminology. It is also worth considering that in the last few years, the health and fi  tness industry, 
armed with an ever-expanding advertising culture, 
has attempted to infl  uence our understanding of 
core training by packaging and branding exercises 
and equipment with the aim of delivering the aes-thetic and perceived performance improvements 
that the public needs. This has all resulted in a lack 
of clarity in concepts and communication between professionals and with athletes, and a potential 
disconnect between medical and performance circles regarding the best methods of delivering 
appropriate stability programs to athletes.
The aims of this chapter are to bring together 
some established concepts and evidence-based 
practices to deliver a pragmatic solution to stability 
development and maintenance. As such it will
• provide an understanding of the structure and function of the core that is equally applicable 
to both medical and performance spheres 
and demystifi  es some of the terminology in 
circulation;
• present a best-practice model of core assessment 
critical to understanding athlete limitations;
• discuss and demonstrate a program of progres-
sive core development needed to build physical 
robustness and maximise performance; and
• discuss a strategic approach to integrating the delivery of core stability training both before 
and during the competitive season.
What Is the Core?
To fully understand both the assessment and 
training of the core we need to appreciate what 
we are dealing with. Previous research and pub-
lications have described and characterised the 
core by region, tissue structure and action. Before 
generating a worthwhile defi  nition to guide our training strategies, it is worth exploring what the 
core is a little further and reviewing the current 
evidence for the effi  cacy of core training.Stabilising and Strengthening 
the Core
Andy Barr
New York Knickerbockers, United States
Daniel Lewindon
Rugby Football Union, UK

42 ❙ Barr and Lewindon
Characterising the Core  
by Region
In purely anatomical terms, the core might be 
expected to refer to the trunk (i.e., the lumbar spine 
and pelvis) as the central portion of the body, and 
this is certainly most practitioners’ understanding 
when they hear this phrase. However, this is a con -
strained definition in terms of stability training; 
many professionals have extended the definition 
to include aspects of hip, thoracic, scapula and even 
cervical spine awareness, control and strength.1 
Since muscles originating in the lumbar spine 
extend directly to the thoracic and cervical spine and 
through connective tissue to the skull, fingertips and 
toes, this understanding reinforces that an abs-only 
approach is far too limited in its perspective.
A better solution, therefore, might be to upgrade 
the term core stability to postural control . This 
concept begins with the trunk (including the pelvis) but also gives consideration to ensuring 
awareness, appropriate control and dissociative 
qualities are demonstrable throughout the spine, scapula–thoracic articulation and hips in all three 
planes of motion. This ensures that task quality 
remains a priority to the athlete and practitioner in all training. For clarity and consistency within 
this chapter, however, we will continue to use the 
term core stability to refer to this system.
Wisdom
The core is a term that captures the whole spine and 
proximal peripheral joints; it also considers movement 
competency and control throughout the chain  .
Characterising the Core  by Its Components
The core system has a number of passive and 
active components that contribute to its function.2 
The passive system  is composed of the vertebral 
bodies, joints and their corresponding capsulolig -
amentous restraints. In the spine, passive restraints 
contribute little to the stability needed for normal 
function, with approximately 10 kg quoted as the compressive force required for the spine to buckle 
in the absence of soft tissues.
2 However, passive 
restraints do convey a significant amount of sen -
sory information to the central nervous system 
(CNS) via mechanoreceptors, which in turn will have a bearing on the modulation of muscle tone, activation and patterning.
A well-grooved sensory (afferent) pathway is vital 
in core stability training. In addition to the infor -
mation sent from the passive structures, the body’s internal monitoring system also receives input from 
the active components (muscles and tendons) and 
the visual and vestibular systems (inner ear). Time 
permitting, this information is then assimilated and 
interpreted by the higher centres (premotor cortex in the brain), allowing the musculoskeletal system 
to deliver a dose-appropriate action plan or motor 
pattern to maintain stability or generate motion.
Therefore, a significant consideration in stability 
training should be directed towards developing 
and optimising spinal proprioception and appro -
priate neuromuscular patterning in sport and life-relevant situations. Doing so will maximise the 
dynamic correspondence of training to function and result in a better long-term carryover.
Pain (or even a history of pain) has the potential 
to affect the quality of information received by the 
control centres of the brain and the brain’s interpre -
tation of events. This has been shown to result in 
rapid changes to neighbouring tissue structure3, 4 
(i.e., tissue closest to the spine) and forms the basis 
of the literature that has demonstrated alterations in 
the timing and sensitivity of recruitment of the core 
muscles in those with a history of back and neck pain.
It is often argued that habitual poor posture 
will dampen passive tissue sensory information, altering resting muscle tone and length and poten -
tially predisposing individuals to injury. From a mechanical perspective studies of posture have 
shown a significant increase in posterior spinal disc loading when sitting in a flexed position and 
disproportionate loading through specific spinal 
joints with certain posture types.
5-7 Sustained ten -
sion to collagenous tissue will result in changes 
to its inherent stiffness over time;8, 9 by extension, 
sloppy posture, where the body rests on its passive restraints with little active contribution, has the 
potential to expose the system to creep and injury. 
Good posture and postural control need to be 
reinforced in all core stability training.
Wisdom
The core needs to be trained in good posture and 
have relevance to the desired movement patterns undertaken in sport wherever possible  .

 Stabilising and Strengthening the Core ❙ 43
Transversus
abdominisDiaphragmMultifidus
Pelvic 
floor
E5891/Joyce/476352/Fig 04.01a/R1/JG
External oblique
Internal oblique
Adductor brevis
Adductor longusAdductor magnus
E5891/Joyce/476353/Fig 04.01b/R1/JG
Thoracolumbar
fascia
Gluteus maximusLatissimus
dorsi
E5891/Brittenham/Fig. 4.1c/476354/JG/R1Figure 4.1  The three groups of layers of the active system: ( a) local (deep) stabilisers; ( b) global (superficial) 
stabilisers; ( c) global movers.a b
cThe active system  is composed of multiple layers 
of contractile muscle and noncontractile tendon 
and fascial connective tissue, which envelop the 
spine like a multilayered barrel in a series of interconnected slings. These layers are commonly subdivided into three distinct groups: local (deep) 
stabilisers, global (superficial) stabilisers and global 
movers (figure 4.1, a-c ).

44 ❙ Barr and Lewindon
Various researchers have tried to identify key mus -
cles in core stability, often with conflicting results.10-21 
This research has included significant attention to the 
importance of the deeper muscles surrounding the 
spine, including the transverse abdominis and mul -
tifidus, and their role in preparing the trunk for limb motion. However, it is now widely accepted that no 
one muscle holds the key to effective spinal stability.
Much like the passive system, the smaller mus -
cles (local stabilisers) are richly innervated with mechanoreceptors and convey a significant amount 
of positional information to the CNS. These muscles 
will fire in anticipation of motion, creating a degree 
of protective stiffness to counteract the expected load. They cannot generate the same forces as 
the more superficial muscles, being hampered by 
both tissue size and moment arm. (The total force exerted by the muscle depends in part on its dis -
tance from the centre of joint motion; the farther away, the greater force it can apply.) Larger, global 
stability muscles are also needed to stabilise the 
spine, particularly against greater loads.
Thus, we should consider a layered but inter -
dependent system that reacts to the level of stability required.1, 21 What is critical here is that a 
well-conditioned core system must be able to react 
to both low- and high-load challenges to stability, 
using an appropriate level of effort.
Wisdom
Local stabilisers  (deep core): the muscles closest to 
the spine; the main monosegmental muscles that 
contribute a limited amount to mechanical control but convey significant sensory information and generate some preparatory stiffness  .
Global stabilisers  (superficial core): larger 
multisegmental muscles that envelop the trunk in a series of interconnected slings and resist trunk motion under load, speed and limb motion  .
Global movers : large multisegmental muscles  . 
As the name would suggest, these muscles are perhaps more suited to generating joint motion  .
Table 4.1 provides examples of the specific core 
muscles in each category and introduces the func -
tion and dysfunction of these muscles.
Table 4.1  Core Muscles: Function and Dysfunction
Layer Category Function Dysfunction Muscle examples
Deep Local 
(deep core) stabilisersSensory feedback of posture and movement
Compression of spine, pelvis 
and hip joints to prevent excessive translationActivation timing delay and reduced sensitivity to recruitment under low-
threshold circumstances in 
the presence of painTransversus abdominis, segmental multifidus, diaphragm, pelvic floor, 
psoas major
Middle Global 
(superficial 
core) 
stabilisersDirection-related control of motion, especially in the 
transverse plane
Dominant in postural control 
and alignment
Most effective at decelerating 
motion, especially rotational motion (the brakes and the 
steering) in low- and high-
load situationsActivation timing delay and reduced sensitivity to 
recruitment under low-
threshold circumstances in the presence of pain
Elongation and inhibition 
to activation in shortened or inner ranges of motion
Weakened under high-load 
circumstancesInternal oblique, external oblique, superficial 
multifidus, medial 
quadratus lumborum, gluteus medius, deep medial gluteus maximus, proximal adductors
Superficial Global (core) 
moversDirection-specific motion
Most effective muscles for 
generating and accelerating joint motion
Trunk stabilisation in 
high-load sagittal plane circumstancesIncreased sensitivity to 
low-load activation (become 
dominant and overactive in postural control)
More tonic in recruitment 
and become shorter in lengthRectus abdominis, 
erector spinae, quadratus 
lumborum, latissimus dorsi, superficial lateral gluteus maximus, adductor 
longus, adductor magnus, 
tensor fasciae latae

 Stabilising and Strengthening the Core ❙ 45
Characterising the Core  
by Its Action
Effective stability requires resistance to unwanted 
motion and the control of necessary motion in all 
three movement planes.
Resistance to unwanted motion is certainly a 
key factor in terms of performance (see chapter 3) and injury prevention when high forces are 
involved and should form the basis of all high-
load trunk strength training. By definition this 
philosophy prohibits repetitive spinal motion under load as a strategy for developing core 
qualities. Instead practitioners should ensure 
that the trunk provides a stable platform under duress for effective limb movement and force 
production.
Repetitive trunk movement strengthening is 
not only functionally inappropriate, but also has the potential to alter both muscle structure (fibre 
length and orientation) and neuromuscular prop -
erties.
22 Traditional sit-up exercises also create 
significant compressive spinal loads, which will 
result in unwanted and unnecessary stress to 
lumbar intervertebral disc mechanics.23
The development of inertia, however, is an 
incomplete description of core action as there are 
times both athletically and in normal life when 
spine motion is desirable. In these instances (e.g., 
a tennis serve), spinal motion must be controlled 
in terms of range, speed and quality to minimise unwanted or asymmetrical loads.
Spinal muscles must have the capacity to 
stabilise the spine against forces of varying sig -
nificance and speed, but also in a metabolically 
efficient manner. Overactivity through bracing 
or total rigidity in low-force activities will unnec -
essarily sap the system of energy, validating a dose-appropriate response to stability and a need to consider muscle timing and patterning. Simi -
larly, the spine must have the endurance required to do its job; this is an important consideration in 
developing training programs.
Wisdom
The core needs to provide the dose-appropriate plat -
form to stabilise and modulate posture in low- and 
high-load situations to allow force to be delivered efficiently by the upper and lower limbs  .Assessment of Core  and Postural Stability
The previous section identified two separate but 
linked concepts that should be assessed with 
athletes:
1. Low load: posture, stability, movement qual -
ity, endurance and dissociation
2. High load: posture, strength, endurance and 
dissociation
Test Selection
No single test will accurately measure stability in all its forms. Accordingly, any new assessment 
process ideally could begin with a thorough needs 
analysis of the individual and his or her sport. This 
should include consideration of habitual postures, 
movements, weight-room requirements and the specific functional activities that occur in the sport 
in order to determine how well the athlete’s system 
can cope with the demands or circumstances he or she is exposed to when playing, training and living.
Over the past three decades, a large number of 
tests and testing protocols have been developed to 
try to gauge stability in both the athlete and lay -
person. It is not practical or appropriate to list all 
potential tests and test combinations that could be 
used to assess core function. What is critical, how -
ever, is that whatever tests are used consider the key 
factors outlined earlier. The testing process should
• assess stability (and, where appropriate, con -
trolled motion) in all three planes,
• assess the efficiency of the athlete to stabilise in a manner appropriate to the stimulus,
• be as functionally relevant as possible,
• include facilitation of all of the sensory sys -
tems, and
• appropriately test the capacity of the system.
Postural Awareness  
and the Neutral Zone
Before considering common tests that can be used 
to assess low- and high-load stability, it is worth 
clarifying the athlete’s starting position. It is 
common for athletes with and without a history of 
back pain to have a poor awareness of good posture. 

46 ❙ Barr and Lewindon
It is crucial that postural awareness is targeted and 
reinforced in all assessment and training drills to 
optimise sensory input into the system and mini -
mise unwanted stresses. Often termed the neutral zone, good posture can be found in the lumbar 
spine simply by maximally extending and flexing 
the lumbar spine until the midpoint is found. Some 
practitioners choose to measure control in supine 
and prone positions with the use of a pressure biofeedback unit (PBU) or sphygmomanometer. 
The PBU is placed in lumbar lordosis and inflated, 
and it gives a visual clue of pressure change during 
exercises. Good alignment should also be achieved 
and maintained at the thoracic and cervical spine.
Wisdom
An athlete’s ability to maintain the neutral zone when 
the system is challenged is an indication of the athlete’s level of stability and control  . If the spine cannot be 
kept in the neutral zone when challenged at either end of the load spectrum, this indicates a lack of control  .
Having correct posture and habitual move -
ment awareness in all activities may provide the 
greatest protection against injury. All strength and 
conditioning programs present opportunities to 
groove optimal neuromuscular patterns under the 
influence of fatigue and external load to ensure maximal efficiency is achieved and sustained. One 
of the primary roles of the spine is to create a stable 
platform to enable maximal force production. Therefore, correct posture should be reinforced in 
all lifting and athletic movements.
There is a strong argument here that spinal 
health and stability as well as optimal trunk func -
tion begin with educating the athlete regarding the 
importance of optimising posture and movement awareness throughout daily life. Such awareness can then be reinforced in the gym environment 
through ensuring that perfect form is maintained 
in all motions to minimise unnecessary spinal 
loading. Doing so represents a meaningful addi -
tion to the athlete’s training plan without increas -
ing activity volume or load.
Low-Load Assessment  
of Core Stability
Low-load stability can be considered the platform 
for the development of core strength and endur -
ance. The focus here is to assess not only isolated muscle endurance, but also athlete awareness of 
a neutral spine and its maintenance by virtue of 
functional body-weight and limb-weight move -
ments. This should progress from single-direction 
stability to multiplanar control.
In terms of standards of proficiency, the athlete 
should be able to demonstrate effective spinal con -
trol with repeated upper- and lower-limb motion. 
An anecdotal repetition number of 30 is often used 
since it represents an activity time of more than 60 
seconds, which might be considered a reasonable test of type I (slow-twitch, nonfatiguing) muscle-fi -
bre tissue qualities.
Wisdom
Even when athletes have significant trunk strength, this 
does not mean they can protect themselves against unpredictable, low-force movements  . This problem is 
related to the timing and coordination of activation, not purely to strength  . Athletes also need to be effi -
cient with their trunk movements; therefore, bracing and excessive effort to repeat the movement should not be used  .

Stabilising and Strengthening the Core ❙ 47STANDINGSAMPLE TESTS
The following tests involve fundamental move-
ment strategies that are important in both athletic 
movements and activities of daily living. By no 
means is this an all-encompassing list, but it 
provides a platform for the development of a 
testing battery. For each test consider where in the chain the movement breaks down and the 
direction in which this occurs. Based on the 
principles of stability, this test should not be confi  ned to the lower back; consider the entire chain. For example, in a squat the athlete might 
show good control of the lower back throughout 
range of motion (ROM) but may demonstrate 
loss of frontal-plane control through the knee 
(e.g., the knee may drift towards the midline as opposed to staying centred over the toes). This 
would be considered a loss of hip control in the 
frontal and axial planes.
Waiter’s Bow
Direction of controlSagittal
Instruction
Stand with the spine in neutral starting 
position, arms across chest, and knees soft. Bend forward from the hips only (fi  gure 4.2, 
a-b), without a loss of spine control. A helpful 
coaching cue here is to “keep the chest up”.
Figure 4.2  Waiter’s bow: (a)  starting position; (b)  bow.
a b
Squat
Direction of control
Sagittal
Instruction
Stand with the spine in neutral starting posi-
tion, arms across chest. Squat by bending 
the knees (fi  gure 4.3, a-b) whilst maintaining 
spine and hip control.
Figure 4.3  Squat: (a) starting position; (b)  squat.a b

48 ❙ Barr and LewindonSTANDINGStanding Hip Flexion
Direction of control
Sagittal and frontal
Instruction
From a neutral starting posture and arms across chest, fl  ex the hip 
to 90 degrees (fi  gure 4.4) without a loss of control. Perform with both legs. (The evaluator should assess the athlete from both the front and 
the side.)
Single-Leg Balance and Catch
Direction of control
Triplaner
Instruction
Stand with the spine in neutral starting position 
with knees soft. Lift one leg and balance on the standing leg. Catch a ball thrown by a partner 
(fi  gure 4.5) and pass it back 30 times, maintaining 
balance on one leg. Switch legs.
Single-Leg Hip Rotation
Direction of controlTriplanar
Instruction
Stand with the spine in neutral starting posi-
tion, arms across chest, knees soft. Lift one leg forward to 90 degrees hip fl  exion and 90 
degrees knee fl  exion. Rotate the fl  exed leg 
outward through the full ROM (fi  gure 4.6, 
a-b) without a loss of control of the standing 
leg or spine. Repeat with the other leg.
Figure 4.4  Standing hip flexion.
Figure 4.5  Single-leg balance and catch.
Figure 4.6  Single-leg hip rotation: (a)  stand on one leg; 
(b) rotate the flexed leg out through a full range of motion.
a b

Stabilising and Strengthening the Core ❙ 49SUPINESingle-Leg Balance With Trunk Rotation
Direction of control
Triplanar
Instruction
Stand with the spine in a neutral-zone starting position, arms across chest, 
knees soft. Lift one leg forward to 90 degrees hip fl  exion and 90 degrees knee fl  exion. Rotate the trunk fully to one side without a loss of control of 
the standing leg or spine (fi  gure 4.7). Repeat with the other leg.
Supine Hip Flexion
Direction of control
Sagittal
Instruction
Lie on the back with knees bent and feet fl  at. Flex one hip to 90 degrees. Lower and extend the leg until it 
is parallel to the fl  oor (fi  gure 4.8, a-b ). Return to the starting position and repeat with the opposite leg. Keep 
breathing. (The evaluator should ensure no bracing or loss of spinal position occurs during the movement.)
Figure 4.8  Supine hip flexion: (a)  starting position with one hip flexed to 90 degrees; (b)  lower leg extended 
until parallel to floor.a b
Figure 4.7  Single-leg bal-
ance with trunk rotation.

50 ❙ Barr and LewindonSUPINEBent-Knee Fall Out
Direction of control
Axial
Instruction
Lie on the back with knees bent and feet fl  at. Slowly 
and under control rotate one knee out to the side (fi  gure 4.9) through a full ROM. Return to the 
starting position and repeat with the opposite leg. 
Keep breathing. (The evaluator should ensure no 
excessive bracing or loss of spinal control occurs 
during the movement.)
Side-Lying Clam
Direction of controlAxial
Instruction
Lie on one side with hips and knees fl  exed to 90 degrees (fi  gure 4.10 a). Slowly rotate the top hip externally 
through a full ROM (fi  gure 4.10 b). Repeat with the other leg. Keep breathing. (The evaluator should ensure 
no excessive bracing or loss of spinal control occurs.)
Figure 4.9  Bent-knee fall out.
Figure 4.10  Side-lying clam: (a)  starting position; (b)  rotate top hip.
High-Load Assessment 
of Core Stability
This section discusses the assessment of appro-
priate resistance to spinal motion to maximise 
the ability of the limbs to generate limb speed 
and force for athletic movements. The tests chosen 
should assess
• core-strength endurance (e.g., maximal iso-
metric holds),
• core control during high-load and explosive 
movements, and• core control during high-load, asymmetrical movements.
There is a wide scope for an individual or 
sport-specifi  c approach within this framework.
In the sagittal and axial planes, assessment of 
core control and dissociation could be achieved with 
analysis of high-load resistance exercises (e.g., squat, 
deadlift, step-up, lunge) and high-speed video 
analysis of running, jumping and landing qualities, 
supplemented with a simple front-plank hold.
In the frontal and axial planes, asymmetrical 
tests including the super-yoke walk and suitcase 
carry (see fi  gure 4.11) have been demonstrated to a b

Stabilising and Strengthening the Core ❙ 51OFF FEETSAMPLE TESTS
In keeping with our defi  nition of the core, we 
must look to build resilience in the three move-
ment planes. Close observation of form is critical 
to ensure optimal trunk strength is developed; volume and load must be carefully considered as the compressive and torsional moments about the 
spine are much higher with these exercises.
Front Plank
Direction of control
Sagittal
Instruction
Lie on the fl  oor with hands directly under shoul-
ders and toes on fl  oor. Push up until arms are extended (fi  gure 4.12). Find a neutral-zone starting 
position. Hold this static position—hands directly 
under shoulders and a straight line from head down 
spine to feet—until loss of control is observed.
This test can be progressed to include a 
single-leg hip extension or a single-arm elevation.
Figure 4.11  Suitcase carry.
Figure 4.12  Front plank.signifi  cantly tax frontal plane stabilisers.24, 25 By 
extension, therefore, variations of heavy barbell step-ups (with or without asymmetrical pertur-
bation) and single-arm dumbbell step-ups will 
also achieve a similar co-contracted state of the 
quadratus lumborum and lower-limb stabilisers and effectively assess core stability and disso-
ciation in these planes. These drills can then be 
supplemented with side-plank endurance holds and side-plank to front-plank transition.
When possible, standards of profi  ciency should 
be based on normative data of the specifi  c popu-
lation. Validation of tests also should be achieved 
by comparing the athlete’s competency against sport-relevant movements (e.g., comparison of a 
side-plank hold with frontal-plane control at initial 
contact in running gait; see chapter 3).

52 ❙ Barr and LewindonOFF FEETSide Plank
Direction of control
Frontal
Instruction
Lie on one side on the fl  oor, legs stacked, lower 
elbow directly under the shoulder. Lift into plank position (figure 4.13) and find a neutral-zone 
starting position. Hold this static position—elbow 
directly under shoulder, body in a straight line 
from head down to feet—until loss of control is 
observed. Switch sides and repeat.
Transition Plank
Direction of controlTriplanar
Instruction
Start in a side-plank position, elbow directly 
under the shoulder, body in a straight line from head to feet. Find a neutral-zone starting position. 
Transition into a front plank by pivoting about 
the shoulder (fi  gure 4.14, a-c ) without any loss of 
linkage within the spine or between spine and hip. Switch sides and repeat.
Figure 4.13  Side plank.
Figure 4.14  Transition plank: ( a) begin in side-plank position; ( b) pivot; (c)  end in front-plank position.a
b c

Stabilising and Strengthening the Core ❙ 53OFF FEETLeg Press
Direction of control
Sagittal
Instruction
Start in a neutral-zone position in a leg-press machine. Back is pressed against the back pad and feet are 
about shoulder-width apart and fl  at against the platform. Knees and hips are bent at 90-degree angles. Move the weight by pressing the feet against the platform and straightening the knees (fi  gure 4.15, a-b ); 
do not lock the knees. Perform 10 repetitions at 75 per cent 1RM.
Bench Press
Direction of controlSagittal
Instruction
Lie on a weight bench with feet fl  at on the fl  oor. Grip the barbell with a normal, overhand grip. Start with 
the spine in a neutral zone position. Lower the barbell to just above the chest, then push the weight up (fi  gure 4.16, a-b ). Perform 10 repetitions at 75 per cent 1RM.Figure 4.15  Leg press: (a)  starting position; (b)  press.
Figure 4.16  Bench press: (a)  starting position; (b)  press.a b
a b

54 ❙ Barr and LewindonON FEETWoodchopper
Direction of control
Triplanar
Instruction
Stand with hands at chest height to the side 
of a cable machine with a high handle. (The machine should be loaded with 30% of the 
athlete’s body weight.) Grip the high handle 
with both hands on one side (fi  gure 4.17 a). Start 
in a neutral-zone position. Rotate the trunk to bring the hands down and to the other side, ending with the handle near the far hip (fi  gure 
4.17b). Repeat to the other side. (The evaluator 
should look for a loss of lumbar spine control.)
Hop-and-Stick Square
Direction of control
Triplanar
Instruction
Mark a 4 × 4 foot square on the fl  oor (fi  gure 
4.18). Stand on one foot in front of the fi  rst square and fi  nd a neutral-zone starting posi-
tion. Hop forward into each square, sticking 
to each corner. (The evaluator should observe 
spinal posture, noting any loss of control cen-
trally or at the hip and lower limb.) Repeat on the other side.
Figure 4.17  Woodchopper: ( a) stand in neutral-zone starting 
position; ( b) bring hands down and to the other side.
E5891/Joyce/476374/Fig 04.19/R1/JGFigure 4.18  Hop-and-stick square.a b

Stabilising and Strengthening the Core ❙ 55ON FEETDeadlift
Direction of control
Sagittal
Instruction
Load the barbell with 75 per cent 1RM. 
Stand behind barbell with feet hip-width apart. Squat and grip the bar. Lift the bar by 
extending hips and knees (fi  gure 4.19, a-b). 
(The evaluator should watch the athlete for any loss of lumbar spine control.)
Figure 4.19  Deadlift: ( a) starting position; ( b) lift.
Delivering a Core 
Programme
Once the athlete’s priorities have been accurately 
determined, the core program needs to be inte-
grated into his or her schedule to ensure that 
the maximum benefi  ts are realised. This can 
present a challenge as the demands on athletes 
will already be high, and often their weeks will 
already be full.
Consideration should be given to the aims of 
supplementary core drills within the overall con-text of the training cycle to ensure that not only do 
they refl  ect the sport-specifi  c needs of the athlete, 
but also that the physiological (and psycholog-
ical) volume and load are not excessive. Doing so requires interdisciplinary understanding and 
clear communication lines to ensure a cohesive, 
target-based strategy is introduced.
Group Training or Individual 
Supervision?
One of the more signifi  cant conundrums facing 
the practitioner working in a team is whether to 
deliver core training to a group or individually. 
Some athletes do not have the self-discipline or 
attention span to work without direct supervision 
or in a group setting; inevitably, though, if time is at a premium, a group session is a consideration. It would be prudent to consider the cognitive demand of the exercises and technical profi  ciency 
of the athlete. When complex movement patterns 
or new movement skills are being introduced, it 
would be appropriate for sessions to be conducted 
individually. Once the skill has become automatic, however, there is much to be said for the use of 
group settings, wherein athletes can compete 
against each other, much the same as in all aspects of strength and conditioning.
Target-Based Approach
All athletes respond well to a targeted approach to athletic training. Consideration should be given to 
progressive loading that provides clear exit criteria 
for each level attained. The use of league tables 
and standards of profi  ciency are good methods to 
maximise compliance within team sport. Medical models that do not apply this approach tend to 
fail once the novelty of new training has worn off 
because the athlete will not see the goal or have a d e fi n e d  e x i t .
Timing
The timing of the program within the athlete’s training day depends on the aims of the program, 
the underlying health of the athlete and the prac-
ticalities of the working environment. Timing 
decisions can be subdivided into the following.a b

56Rowing is a full-body activity. Whether on a rowing 
ergometer or in a boat, a rower initiates the movement 
by applying force through the foot stretcher; this force 
needs to be transferred through the entire body to the oar handle during the drive phase. The trunk has two 
purposes during the rowing stroke:
1. to act as a buttress against segmental spinal defor -
mation as high forces are transferred from the legs 
across to the upper body, and
2. to contribute directly to power output by the 
generation and amplification of muscular force.
Therefore, the trunk has a complex role in providing stability as well as generating power in order to con -
tribute to the force through the oars. This results in a 
unique challenge in assessing the function of the trunk 
for these specific tasks.
Accordingly, the rower will be assessed at multiple 
levels to determine where limiting factors lie:
• Low-load muscular activation and endurance are 
assessed by our physiotherapists.
• Trunk-muscle isometric endurance is assessed using capacity assessments such as prone exten -
sion and side-plank holds. The benchmarks we 
use can be seen in the table.
• Trunk-muscle rate of force development (RFD) during flexion and extension is measured with 
an isokinetic dynamometer. RFD during flexion and extension tasks is a critical competency since 
it deals with the trunk’s ability to rapidly develop 
the forces necessary to buttress the spine against high external forces.
Core Control Screening
Our stability screening uses eight tests.
1. Single-arm lift from all fours (low load). Assume a position on all fours. Slowly lift one arm (elbow 
straight) to its fully flexed position (horizontal). Return to starting position. Repeat with the 
other arm.
2. Single-leg extension from all fours (low load). Assume a position on all fours. Slowly lift one 
leg (knee straight) to its fully extended position 
(horizontal). Return to starting position. Repeat with the other leg.
3. Single-arm, opposite-leg lift from all fours (super -
man) (low load). Assume a position on all fours. 
Simultaneously slowly lift one arm, elbow straight, 
to its fully flexed position, and the opposite leg, knee straight, to its fully extended position as 
in tests 1 and 2. Return to the starting position. 
Repeat with the opposite arm and leg.
4. Double-leg lift and lower (high load). In crook lying (i.e., lie on the side with legs bent) with pressure biofeedback unit (PBU) set at 40mmHg 
and spine in neutral, lift both feet from the floor 
(hip flexion to 90 degrees) and return to the floor. Maintain PBU at 40mmHg throughout.
5. Double-leg lift and extend (high load). In crook lying (i.e., lie on the side with legs bent) with pres -
sure biofeedback unit (PBU) set at 40mm Hg, lift both feet from the floor (hip flexion to 90 degrees). Extend hips and knees to 45 degrees. Reverse the 
movement to return to the floor. Maintain the PBU 
at 40 mmHg throughout.
6. Seated Wunda chair bilateral heel press (high 
load). Sit high on the Wunda chair (maximal load, 
levers connected). Lightly press hands on chair 
to engage lats; then press bar to floor with heels.
7. Reformer double-leg drive from all fours (high 
load). Set springs at 1 white and 1 blue. Put hands 
on bar and kneel on carriage on all fours. Slowly 
slide platform away to full hip extension whilst maintaining spinal alignment.
8. Reformer scooter (high load). Begin with one foot on rebook step and one foot on reformer (starter A Rowing Perspective  
on Core Stabilisation  and Strength DevelopmentCOACH’S INSIGHT
Alex Wolf
Head of Strength and Conditioning, 
English Institute of Sport, 
Great Britain Rowing
Alex Wolf is head of strength and conditioning for the English Institute of Sport. He has been the lead strength and conditioning coach for Great Britain rowing 
for the last five years. He has worked with many Olympic, Paralympic, and professional athletes and sport teams including track and field, rugby union and 
football. He holds a Bsc in human biology and sport science, and MSc in biomechanics and recently completed the IOC postgraduate diploma in sport nutrition.

 57Capacity Assessment Benchmarks
Prone extension (sec) Double-leg hold (sec) Lateral trunk (sec)
Elite level ≥150 ≥150 ≥150
Required level ≥120 ≥120 ≥120
Meaningful change 15 15 15
block) with knee not in contact with the carriage. 
Slowly slide carriage away to full hip extension 
and drop into slight lunge. Slowly return to start -
ing position.
Trunk Isokinetic Dynamometry
For the trunk isokinetic dynamometry, the athlete is 
strapped into the trunk flexion–extension attachment 
with the knees and hips locked into place. A cushioned 
strap is placed across the chest; this is the point against which the athlete pulls or pushes. Neutral standing 
posture is found before the active movement range is 
set from −10 degrees to +80 degrees.
The athlete performs 5 maximal efforts of flex -
ion and extension at 30 degrees and 90 degrees per second. The peak torque and angle of peak torque are 
measured. Peak torque should occur within the first 
10 to 15 degrees of movement, which demonstrates an ability to create a stiffened spinal column against 
a high torque.
Athletes are assessed on the magnitude and the rate 
of torque. Athletes who are able to produce their highest torque in the first 10 to 15 degrees but have a low mag -
nitude will be prescribed a high-force trunk-training 
programme. An athlete who has a high torque mag -
nitude but produces it after the 10- to 15-degree limit is given a reactive high-force (stiffness) trunk-training 
programme. Those who produce a low magnitude after 
the threshold angle are prescribed both high-force and reactive high-force training.
Athletes are at greatest risk when they are unable 
to produce a high-force stiffness quality to protect the spine. This is further exacerbated when the torque 
produced is lower than the threshold.
Programme Development
Once we have this assessment data, we use it to pre -
scribe individual, bespoke trunk-training programmes. The amount of data we collect is extensive, but data are 
useless unless they provide information. We need to have an understanding of what is good enough, that is, 
what the benchmarks are that the rower should reach in 
order to reduce injury risk and enhance performance. 
Thankfully, we have collected vast amounts of data over the years, and so now we can compare any individual 
to what world-class performers have demonstrated over a long time. We have these benchmarks for capacity, 
strength and RFD assessments.
The benchmarks are set as gold standards, and any 
results below these standards drive the bespoke pro -
gramming for the rower. The rowers have continuous 
dosages of local segmental stability training throughout 
the week to supplement the higher loading require -
ments. Generally, this is because many rowers have 
previously suffered from lower-back pain or injury, and 
this type of work has proven to help rowers return to 
close to normal local stability functioning alongside the 
higher-loading training
To keep rowers engaged with the trunk-training 
programme, we provide targets to achieve throughout the season. More emphasis is given to capacity-based 
work in the winter, and higher-force training is empha -
sised closer to competition. The key training philosophy 
is train the adaptation and not the exercise. Once the 
strength and conditioning team know what adaptation is required, the exercise is selected that best supports 
this adaptation. For instance if extension capacity is the 
prime adaptation focus, then loaded back extensions, 
good mornings or Romanian deadlifts could be pre -
scribed using tempo with a time-under-tension (TUT) 
goal of 30 to 60 seconds of work.
Capacity exercises can also be grouped to establish 5 
to 8 minutes of TUT. By changing the loading by trunk quadrants (anterior, posterior left and right and lat -
eral) every 30 seconds, the rower will not only develop capacity for the whole trunk but also target the weaker 
quadrants as identified from the assessments. Multiple 
exercises can be used to challenge that quadrant. For instance lateral trunk can be challenged with side 
planks, lateral holds of blocks or unilateral loading such 
as farmer’s walks or overhead carries.
By having effective assessments and programming 
tools and understanding the primary adaptation an athlete is trying to overload, strength and condition -
ing staff can write bespoke programmes that can be 
updated to keep the athletes engaged. By setting specific 
boundaries, athletes have also been able to effectively 
write their own programmes.

58 ❙ Barr and Lewindon
Pretraining Core Stability
Introducing drills before a training session, whether 
field- or gym-based, will provide the opportunity 
to selectively activate primary core groups and 
rehearse optimal movement patterns to prepare the 
system for the subsequent training session.
Within-Training Core Stability
Many core programs are sandwiched within a 
dedicated weight session to provide an active 
recovery from primary lifts. This approach breaks 
up core development into small, manageable 
chunks and also serves to minimise overall time 
spent in the gym.
Posttraining Core Stability
There is a strong physiological argument for the use of posttraining core-endurance drills. Core 
muscles should be resistant to fatigue and be 
able to repeat efforts with no loss of control. As 
we know, the majority of injuries occur when an 
athlete is fatigued; therefore, this approach will tax the neuromuscular system in a relatively protected 
environment. In a healthy athlete this approach 
may represent the best way to integrate core train -
ing into a program to maximise injury prevention.
Strength Training
Strength training is a vital aspect of core develop -
ment and should be included wherever medically 
safe to do so. The body prefers to make maximal 
efforts in the sagittal plane, which explains the 
high levels of core-muscle activation during heavy 
squats and deadlifts when compared to traditional core exercises such as the front plank.
23-25 We 
should not fixate just on the sagittal plane, though, 
because athletes need to be secure in the transverse 
and coronal planes as well. These muscles are 
not best suited to maximal efforts but need to be 
slightly more endurance focused. Endurance is the more subtle strength component and is often best 
trained using asymmetrical training, particularly 
when many sport movements are submaximal and have an asymmetrical component.Case Study
Background: Right-footed professional soccer player playing central midfield with no history of 
lower-back pain.
Sport demands: A game of soccer is 90 minutes 
long. A player may cover a distance of around 10 
kilometers during a game, so there is an endurance component combined with multiple explosive 
actions. The game involves significant amounts of 
deceleration and change of direction, and move -
ments such as cutting, twisting and turning are 
common. The sport also involves jumping and 
repeated kicking, which expose the trunk to asym -
metrical loading patterns. Therefore, high forces are frequently generated in the transverse and frontal planes of motion; as a result, it is essential 
that the core can consistently deal with challenges 
in these planes of motion.
Positional demands: Midfielders are exposed 
to the most movements in the transverse plane. The player needs to interact with players in front, 
behind and on both sides throughout the game, so 
he or she is constantly turning.
All of these aspects should be considered when 
testing and training the soccer player’s core stabil -
ity. Based on this information the most appropriate 
tests would be those that capture the endurance 
and alignment-control aspect of playing soccer and the control of high-load movements in the 
transverse and coronal (frontal) planes. Therefore, 
testing and training should relate both to the low- and high-load categories.
The assessment of this athlete is shown in table 
4.2.
Assessment Interpretation
Both low- and high-load tests indicate poor control and strength of the left leg in the stance phase in 
both the frontal plane and the axial (transverse) 
plane. Specifically, this result was due to a lack of 
left lateral hip stability and strength.
Table 4.3 lists examples of exercises and pro -
gressions for the previously noted core–stability 
control issues.

 Stabilising and Strengthening the Core ❙ 59
Summary
Stabilising and strengthening the core should 
form part of any training program, but this goes 
beyond simple abdominal crunches and requires 
consideration of the spine and shoulder–hip 
complex in three planes and in low- and high-
load conditions. Fundamentally, the program Table 4.2  Assessment of Professional Soccer Midfielder
Testing category Demonstrations of poor control
Low load • Right-leg standing hip flexion: loss of frontal plane control about hip.
• Right-leg single-leg hip rotation: loss of frontal plane control about hip.
• Right-leg balance and minisquat: poor axial plane control of left lower limb.
High load • Side plank (left = 30 sec; right = 2 min)
• Left-leg hop-and-stick square: loss of frontal plane control about hip landing; axial (transverse) 
plane collapse of left knee.
• High-speed analysis of 45-degree left-to-right cutting motion in sprinting evasion: loss of frontal 
plane control about hip landing; axial plane collapse of left knee.
Table 4.3  Sample Drills and Progressions to Address Core-Control Weaknesses in a Soccer Player
Load Drill Sets Repetitions Rest
Low load
(posttraining under fatigue)Side-lying clam 3 60 sec 30 sec
Forward lean with hands on wall and hip flexion control3 60 sec 30 sec
Forward lean with hands on wall and hip flexion 
and rotation control3 60 sec 30 sec
High load
(inclusion in strength and conditioning program)Single-arm dumbbell step-up (weight in right hand) 5 8 90 sec
Lateral hop-and-stick square (ensure vertical alignment on landing)5 8 90 sec
must be functionally relevant to the athlete and 
his or her specific requirements, emphasise 
movement quality and control in its delivery and 
demonstrate progression and variation to keep 
the athlete interested and motivated. Ideally, the 
principles should transcend isolated training and become a key consideration in all training 
systems.

This page intentionally left blank.

CHAPTER
 61
5
5
5
‘You are too tight. You need to stretch more!’ 
Most athletes have heard this from a coach at 
one time or other. The pursuit of fl  exibility has been 
a key aim of performance training since people 
began exercising. Around the world, fl  exibility is 
measured in preparticipation physical screenings 
and used as a key performance and injury-risk 
measure. Yet how fl  exibility relates to performance 
and injury prevention remains inconclusive. The 
literature is confusing, and many studies directly 
contradict each other’s fi  ndings. Coaches and cli-
nicians who need to evaluate programming with a critical eye to maximise training effects in a mini-
mal amount of time are led to this question: Does 
fl  exibility training have a place in programming?
The answer most certainly is yes, and the 
intricacies of where and how fl  exibility training 
is used are explored in this chapter. Empirical 
evidence and scientifi  c data are evaluated to assist 
the reader in determining the best use of fl  exibility 
training for athletes. Tissues that affect fl  exibility are targeted by specifi  c techniques, all of which are discussed in the following pages. By the end 
of this chapter, readers should have the knowledge 
needed to create an effi  cient, effective fl  exibility 
program for their athletes.
Defi  nitions
First, let’s defi  ne some terms that will be used throughout this chapter.
Flexibility refl  ects an absolute gross range of 
motion (ROM) of a joint, including capsule and soft tissue surrounding that joint or a group of joints.
Instability is the abnormal movement of a joint 
that will not allow it to support normal load.
Stiffness  refers to the tension per unit of change 
in length, whereas a muscle that is short  actually 
has a loss of sarcomeres in series. Let’s use the 
common exercise band as an example. There can 
be two lengths of a band, one shorter  than the other 
(fi  gure 5.1). Alternatively, there can be 3 feet of two 
colors of band, one thin and the other thick (fi  gure 
5.2). The thick band is stiffer  than the thin band.Optimising Flexibility
Sue Falsone
Los Angeles Dodgers and EXOS (formerly Athletes’ Performance), United States
Figure 5.1  Two exercise bands of different lengths. Figure 5.2  Two  exercise bands of the same length, 
but one is thicker than the other. The thicker band is 
stiffer than the thinner band.

62 ❙ Falsone
Hypermobility  is an increase in the normal 
movement of a joint. Many people are gener -
ally hypermobile (often called double jointed), 
but this is not necessarily a bad thing. In many 
sports—gymnastics, diving, swimming—it is a 
competitive advantage to be hypermobile. It is possible for a joint to be hypermobile but still be 
stable because there is adequate control of this 
motion. Therefore, instability essentially refers to an inability to control this ROM and is labeled 
pathological as a consequence.
Hypomobility  is the decrease in normal move -
ment of a joint and is often, but not always, patho -
logical in nature. Pain often results in adaptive 
mechanisms to limit motion, initially in the form 
of guarding. If persistent, this guarding can result 
in structural changes of the joint capsule, leading to a more permanent loss of joint-capsule motion 
if not properly addressed.
Finally, when talking about stretching and 
flexibility, we have to understand the properties of muscle and tendon. Muscles and tendons are 
viscoelastic , that is, they demonstrate properties 
of both viscous and elastic material. A viscous material  is like honey; it resists strain and shear 
in a linear fashion. An elastic material  is like a 
rubber band; it returns back to its original shape once the force is removed. Muscle initially will go back to its original shape; however, over 
time it will begin to deform based on the force 
placed on it.
Wisdom
Hypermobility is not necessarily pathological  . It is 
possible for a joint to be hypermobile but still have 
adequate control of the motion  . Instability of a joint 
results when there is an inability to control the motion available; this condition is pathological  .
Factors Contributing  to Flexibility
Flexibility is a broad term characterising a given 
amount of motion somewhere in the body. Many 
factors contribute to overall flexibility, including 
joint capsule, ligaments, muscle, tendon, neural 
structures, fascia and the interactions among all 
of these structures.Joint Mobility
Joint mobility is a large contributing factor to flex -
ibility. It depends mainly on the integrity of the joint capsule and the ligaments that are the thick
-
enings of the capsule. A joint capsule surrounds a synovial joint and is made up of two layers, 
with the inner layer being a synovial membrane. 
It is important to note that capsule mobility will 
adapt based on the athlete’s activity and is often 
a necessary change in order for the athlete to participate successfully in his or her sport. For 
example, the anterior shoulder capsule on the 
dominant side of any overhead athlete, such as a tennis player, will be more mobile compared to 
the nonthrowing side in order for that athlete to 
achieve the necessary external rotation needed 
to serve the ball.
Muscle Length and Tone
Muscle is a contractile tissue that contributes to 
flexibility. Consider the sarcomeres of muscles. 
Sarcomeres are made of proteins called actin and 
myosin that slide past each other during a muscle 
contraction. Through various chemical reactions, 
these proteins bind to each other, causing contrac -
tion and relaxation of a muscle. Optimal muscle 
contraction ultimately depends on the length–
tension relationship of the muscle and muscle cells, including the sarcomeres. The overlap of these 
protein filaments in a shortened or lengthened 
position is less efficient than when in midrange. 
Static stretching before powerful movements has 
been shown to result in decreased power output,
1-4 
making static stretching less than advantageous to 
perform before activity.
Neural Mobility
Neural tissue (nerves and their surrounding 
connective tissue) is continuous from head to feet 
and contributes to total motion of the trunk and 
limbs. A limitation in one area can limit motion 
in another. In a relaxed state, neural tissue lies 
slightly coiled. As the trunk and limbs move, the nerves accommodate this movement by first 
unfurling their corrugations and then sliding in 
their nerve beds. Only once the slack has been taken out of the system are neural tissues then 
required to stretch; this is an undesirable outcome 

Optimising Flexibility  ❙ 63
and is only seen if nervous tissue is caught in 
adhesions or limited by something like an inter -
vertebral disc herniation.
Consider a straight-leg-raise test. If an inter -
vertebral disc is protruding and compresses the nerve root, that nerve is compromised. As the clinician straightens the patient’s leg, the patient 
may experience tension, pain or altered sensations 
into the leg or back. This pain is often due to irri -
tation of the nerve. In order to limit further stress, 
the hamstrings often spasm, which in conjunction 
with the associated pain accounts for the limita -
tion found in this test. Such a situation requires a full assessment; referral to a medical professional is recommended.
Fascial Mobility
Fascia is a tissue that has been of interest in recent literature and clinical practice. Fascial tissue is 
congruent within all tissue in the body. It is the 
glue within that holds all other tissues together. 
Fascia is made of adjacent layers of wavelike col -
lagen fibers, intertwined with elastic fibers and 
layered with adipose tissue.
5 The composition of 
collagen and elastic fibers makes fascia resistant to 
traction, yet at the same time adaptable to stretch -
ing. This seems counterintuitive. As early as the turn of the twentieth century it was reported that 
fascia is extremely pliable yet resistant and almost inextensible.
5-8 It is this rare physiological make-up 
that makes fascia, its role in flexibility and its tech -
niques to stretch it, so interesting. Fascia may also have a proprioceptive role and may help modulate 
muscle tone.
6, 7, 9, 10
Key Issues in Flexibility 
Training
Flexibility training is somewhat of a contentious 
issue in the academic and practical fields. It is a topic that tends to divide people into two camps 
with respect to its utility; much of the division is 
because some of the studies that have been pub -
lished seem to contradict each other. Nevertheless, there are certainly consistencies in the research. It’s worthwhile examining these consistencies when 
answering some of the most commonly asked 
questions regarding flexibility.Is Flexibility Advantageous  
or Detrimental to Performance?
Flexibility provides a window of pain-free move -
ment. But does increasing flexibility, or increasing 
that window of pain-free movement, actually 
enhance performance? The research says no, and 
in fact it suggests that too much flexibility may 
limit performance and increase the risk of injury. Stretching beyond that which is necessary for sport 
movement could actually be detrimental to perfor -
mance.
11 It is difficult to draw definite conclusions 
from the research, though, because study design and quality vary so wildly. Common differences 
include the use of a cardiovascular warm-up, the 
presence or absence of control groups and even 
the measurement of flexibility used. These meth -
odological flaws make conclusive statements about what flexibility does or does not do to performance 
difficult at best.
Shrier
12 reviewed 23 studies on the acute effects 
of flexibility on performance. Twenty-two of these studies showed no benefit for isometric force, iso -
kinetic torque or jumping height. Four of these arti -
cles specifically looked at running speed as well. 
Of these articles, one article found that stretching improved running speed, one article found that 
stretching was detrimental to running speed 
and two studies were inconclusive. The research does not make a good case for using stretching to 
enhance athletic performance.
Nine studies in this review looked at the effects 
of regular stretching over time, not immediately 
before performance. These studies used a variety of subjects, including men, women, children, elite 
athletes and recreational athletes, and looked at 
variables, including isometric force production and velocity of contraction. Seven of these studies 
found benefits with regular stretching, two found 
no effects and none found detrimental effects on 
performance. This suggests that regular stretching 
over time will increase isometric force production 
and velocity of contraction, even though acutely 
the exact opposite occurs.
Looking at basic physiology may give us the 
best answers to the question of whether stretch -
ing enhances performance. Consider the sliding 
filament theory of muscle contraction. Actin 
slides across myosin, grabbing hold of it to create a muscular contraction. When a muscle stretches 

64 ❙ Falsone
out, those actin fibers get far apart from each 
other, making it less efficient to grab the myosin 
filaments, thus decreasing the muscle’s ability to 
contract. Decreasing a muscle’s ability to contract 
acutely decreases strength and power and has an 
immediate negative impact on performance.
Should Flexibility Training  
Be Static or Dynamic?
Comparing static stretching to dynamic stretching 
has shown large differences in outcomes in the 
literature. McMillian and colleagues3 studied 30 
military personnel and measured a 5-step jump, an underhanded medicine ball throw and a t-test agil -
ity test. Subjects were divided into three groups: no warm-up, a static warm-up and a dynamic 
warm-up. The dynamic warm-up group showed moderate performance enhancement for power 
and agility drills when compared to the groups 
using static stretching and no warm-up. Dynamic stretching, therefore, has a clear advantage over 
static stretching when looking at performance tests 
of power and agility.
1, 13-15
From a clinical standpoint, we know that a 
certain amount of flexibility is required for each 
sport and, more specifically, for each position of 
that sport. Depending on the activity, the amount 
of flexibility required varies from joint to joint 
and from athlete to athlete. A golfer must have a certain amount of dissociation between the 
upper and lower quarters in order to create ROM 
large enough to summate the forces in the swing to drive the ball. This relative increase in ROM is 
needed for proper sport performance. Therefore, 
if this relative increase in motion does not exist, 
performance will be negatively affected. However, 
this adaptive change in ROM happens over time, not acutely just before performance. It is a specific 
adaptation to imposed demands over the course 
of years and thousands of repetitions.
Does Inflexibility Contribute  
to Injury Risk?
In just about every sport in the world, across 
all levels from amateur to professional, team 
warm-ups can be observed, including types of 
stretching, to prepare for practice or competition. 
The relatively accepted practical theory is that 
stretching as part of a warm-up before athletic activity can assist in preparing the body for sport as well as reduce the chance of injury in the upcoming activity.
However, research is inconclusive regarding 
the use of routine stretching and its relationship 
to injury or injury prevention. In fact, several stud -
ies have shown that increasing ROM beyond that which is needed for sport may actually contribute 
to injury by creating relative hypermobility and potential joint instability.
16 Variations in study 
design make it difficult to conclusively determine 
independent effects of stretching on prevention of 
injury. A recent meta-analysis demonstrated no 
significant relationship between stretching and 
injury incidence. This large, systematic review was unable to determine any relationship between 
stretching and injury, either positively or nega -
tively. These findings were in agreement with a 
similar systematic review, wherein the authors 
concluded that no definitive conclusions could be 
drawn as to the value of stretching for reducing 
the risk of exercise-related injury.
17
Basic science studies show that acute periods 
of stretching decrease viscoelastic properties of muscle and tendon,
7, 8 which can work for and 
against athletes from an immediate performance and injury standpoint.
12 Decreasing the viscoelas -
tic properties of a muscle will result in a decrease in stiffness of the tissues, resulting in less energy 
needed to move the limb. This energy savings 
might translate into decreased fatigue, which could 
theoretically improve performance. However, reducing the inherent stiffness of the musculo -
tendinous unit might decrease its performance, particularly in explosive, high-load movements in which elastic energy and spring stiffness are 
primary qualities.
This information is in regards to acute stretch -
ing. The long-term results of consistent stretching 
would appear to be different. Long-term stretching does not seem to permanently alter the viscoelastic 
Wisdom
Static stretching can have a negative effect on imme -
diate performance  . However, long-term benefits of 
stretching over time are well documented, making a 
clinical case to perform static, passive stretching at the end of the day, on an off day, after performance or as a phase during off-season training  .

Optimising Flexibility  ❙ 65
properties of the musculotendinous unit; rather, 
it actually increases the stretch tolerance of a 
muscle. Stretch-induced hypertrophy, an increase 
in muscular-force production and an increase in 
force velocity have been shown in multiple studies 
across gender, age and athletic levels.12
Asymmetries in Flexibility:  
Does It Matter?
Research is divided when it comes to asymmetries 
in flexibility, let alone how these relate to athletic 
performance. One of the best examples is with 
overhead athletes (e.g., baseball, tennis) and the 
amount of internal rotation they have in their 
dominant shoulders. This is termed glehohumeral internal rotation deficit  (GIRD). GIRD is defined as 
shoulder ROM deficit, where the dominant shoul -
der lacks 20 degrees of internal rotation compared to that of the nondominant shoulder. However, 
some researchers and clinicians consider GIRD a 
necessary adaptation to the throwing motion. This 
asymmetry is not only present but necessary to 
succeed at that position in the sport. They argue that the total arc of motion (adding the amount of 
external rotation to the amount of internal rotation) 
gives a better representation of limb symmetry and caution against simply stretching internal rota -
tion to gain more motion, as that may be actually causing hypermobility and potential instability 
at the joint.
18
Asymmetrical hip ROM has been shown to be 
associated with risk of lumbar spine and sacroiliac joint dysfunction as well as anterior knee pain.
19, 20 
Recent clinical findings and studies are shedding light on femoral bony adaptations that may be 
leading to such asymmetries. The discovery of cam 
lesions and pincer lesions in the hip (extra bone 
that grows either at the neck of the femur or rim of the acetabulum) may be a leading cause of athletes 
experiencing pain. However, if these lesions are 
bony, flexibility training will not change the ROM; in fact, flexibility training may be forcing two 
bones together into end ranges that have adapted 
bony growth, causing impingement, inflammation 
and pain at the hip.
The functional movement screen (FMS) has 
shown some promise as a predictor of injury risk in certain cases.
21, 22 Although using this screen 
may give us reason to continue to look at asym -
metries and the role they play in injury and injury prediction, the FMS does not address mobility 
versus stability issues on an individual basis. Fur -
thermore, stability issues may look like a mobility issue at first glance until further examination is 
performed. It is not clear if injury correlation has 
more to do with stability or mobility findings. More research is needed in this area to accurately 
discuss the role of asymmetries in flexibility and 
injury prediction.
From a clinical standpoint, this topic is debated 
almost daily in the training room and the clinic. Does an asymmetrical athlete (e.g., golfer, thrower, 
hitter) need to be symmetrical? Quite frankly, we 
do not know. Should we try to make throwers symmetrical by increasing the external rotation 
on the shoulder on the nonthrowing side? Should 
we try to make a right-handed golfer have equal trunk rotation to the left and right, even though 
the golfer never has to hit the golf ball from the 
right-hand side of the tee? Creating symmetry in 
a body that needs asymmetry does not seem to 
make a lot sense. Yet neither does feeding into that asymmetry with programming.
Consider a cyclist or swimmer. These athletes 
require fairly symmetrical movements of the body. 
If an asymmetry is present, it seems reasonable to 
think that this asymmetry, whether it is in flexibil -
ity, strength or power, could become problematic 
by placing extra stress on a muscle or joint. Relate 
this to the tires on a car being out of alignment. The driver may not have issues immediately, but 
if he or she drives that car for extended distances, 
something is going to begin to wear down.
Wisdom
It is reasonable to think that athletes in those sports 
that require symmetrical movements need general symmetry in the body to avoid injury  . On the other 
hand, athletes who perform asymmetrical movement patterns, such as throwing or swinging, may not need symmetrical flexibility and ROM  . In fact, asymmetries 
are adaptive and necessary to succeed at these sports  .
Methods of Optimising Flexibility
There are many types of flexibility training. For 
purposes of this chapter, they are divided into two 
categories: passive and active.

66 ❙ Falsone
Passive Stretching
Passive techniques are possibly what first comes to 
mind when most people think of stretching. Low-
load, prolonged static holds to a specific muscle 
or group of muscles can change the viscoelastic 
properties of the musculotendinous unit.8
A tendon is responsible for transferring force 
from the muscle to the bone. If a static, passive stretch is placed on this musculotendinous unit 
and the viscosity of the tissue decreases, the 
passive torque on the tissue also will decrease, 
ultimately lowering the rate of force development and delaying muscular reaction.
8 Extrapolating 
this concept further would make a case for having 
a negative effect on performance. A lower rate of 
force production and a delay in muscular reaction 
will decrease power output as well as potentially 
increase injury risk. This physiology provides strong reason not to use passive, low-load pro -
longed stretching before activity. The process of static stretching can also have a relaxing effect on the body, letting areas of high tension and high 
stress release. Many people find comfort and relax -
ation with prolonged, low-load stretching, another reason its best place within programming may be 
at the end of the day, when no more training or activity will occur.
Fascial stretching is another technique that 
could be considered passive. Fascia is intertwined around and within all tissue, making any isolative 
type of movement truly not isolated. The thought 
process of stretching movements and body lines, 
instead of individual muscles, has changed the 
concept of static stretching to its core. Using total-body stretches, including rotation, multiple angles 
and multiple body parts all at once, has opened the 
eyes of many practitioners to think more broadly 
about the concept of stretching.
Fascia is so intertwined within the body that 
it is impossible to isolate this tissue, or any tissue from another. Fascia ties everything together, and 
therefore, fascial stretching requires total-body movements. When considering how close the 
fascia of the pectoralis major is to the deltoid as 
well as how it originates from the apeoneurosis of 
the external oblique, it is easy to see that a simple 
stretch of external rotation of the glenohumeral joint may not be enough. Adding in some relative 
right-trunk rotation (figure 5.3) may stretch this 
entire line.
Figure 5.3  Stretching by externally rotating the gle -
nohumeral joint with right-trunk rotation.
Active Stretching
Active (dynamic) stretching has come into favor over the last decade. All over the world, in many 
types of sports and disciplines, athletes move 
back and forth, simulating yoga-type movements, 
jogging or refining upcoming motor skills whilst 
actively stretching. This concept of movement preparation, or dynamic warm-up, is exactly that: 
preparing to move.
Other types of active stretching include active 
isolated stretching (AIS). AIS is based on two fundamental principles of human physiology. The 
first is Sherington’s law of reciprocal inhibition, 
which deals with the software (neurological) side 
of the human system. When a muscle on one side of a joint contracts, the muscle on the opposite side 
receives a neurological signal to relax or release. 
With slow, rhythmic stretching held no longer than 2 seconds, the one muscle can be contracted, 
teaching it how to work in a new ROM, whilst the 
antagonistic muscle is ultimately lengthened. The 
second is Wolff’s law, which has to do with the 
hardware (anatomical) side of the human system. All tissues are laid down in the body along the 
lines of stress that they are placed under. Fascial 
fibres are laid down along lines of stress within 
the body and are in conjunction with proper ana -
tomical positioning. As we use AIS to stretch, we 
are laying down muscular and fascial fibers, and 
any present scar tissue, in a specific way that is in 
line with the stretching.
Another type of active stretching is resisted 
stretching. During resisted stretching, resistance 

Optimising Flexibility  ❙ 67
is applied to the agonist eccentrically as it is 
stretched. Supposedly, this increases eccentric 
strength within the new ROM. This technique 
theoretically may be beneficial in reducing 
injuries, as many movement injuries happen 
during the deceleration phase of movement; however, this theory has not been proven 
through research.
Finally, muscle-activation technique (MAT) 
works on the contractile capabilities of a muscle. If an agonist is not firing correctly, the antagonist 
will get tight. When the muscle fires correctly, the 
tight muscle will let go, and the system will work 
more efficiently. The improvement in motor control leads to an overall improvement in the function 
of the limb, improving efficiency of the system. 
Other types of proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation (PNF) techniques work off of similar 
principles and are well documented in neurologi -
cal rehabilitation texts.
Analysing the Needs  
of the Sport
Analysing the flexibility needs of the athlete based 
on his or her sport and position is multifaceted. 
Using several types of analytics will help create 
a full picture so the needs of the athlete can be 
understood and a comprehensive programme can 
be created. Most assessments will not give all the details needed to create a program. Determining 
if ROM limitations are coming from joint cap -
sule, fascia, muscle or neural limitations requires 
extensive, hands-on evaluation from a skilled 
clinician. Strength coaches and clinicians should 
be encouraged to work within a multidisciplinary 
environment, where differing expertise can be 
used to give a detailed assessment of each athlete and specific tissue tensions.
The simplest form of flexibility assessment could 
be static-position ROM using a goniometer or inclinometer. This static assessment of joint angles 
can provide a simple picture of ROM across a joint 
or several joints in a segment. Knowing general 
ROM norms is helpful to determine if an athlete 
has fundamental motion available to him or her.
Assessing dynamic flexibility becomes a bit 
more complicated. Multiple functional movement assessments have been developed. The functional 
movement screen (FMS) has been well documented from a reliability standpoint
22-24 and is widely used 
throughout athletic movement assessment in the United States. The FMS uses seven tests of gross 
movement skill, including double-leg stance, sin -
gle-leg stance and tandem-stance movement. The athlete is scored on a scale of 0 to 3, with 3 indi -
cating that the athlete can perform the movement, 
2 indicating he or she can perform the movement 
with compensation, 1 indicating he or she cannot perform the movement patterns, and 0 indicating 
there is pain somewhere in the system. The FMS 
has been a simple way to objectify quality of move -
ment, allowing personal trainers, strength coaches and clinicians alike to have some type of gradable scale regarding movement asymmetries.
Although the FMS does a great job looking 
at gross-movement patterns, it does not always 
provide explicit information regarding what is 
happening at specific links within the system. 
Further evaluation is necessary in order to assess 
where the athlete’s limitations are coming from, and if they are coming from a limit in ROM 
or are more of an indication of lack of stability 
somewhere within the human system. Further clinical testing can provide more information as 
to whether soft tissue is limiting a movement, and 
which tissue type could be the limiting factor, 
to help tease out further implications of lack of 
stability within the human body that could be mimicking lack of motion.
Additional testing in the form of a clinical 
examination can be conducted to cover specific 
tissue-tension assessment in order to determine 
exactly which type of tissue (e.g., muscle, fascia, 
joint capsule limitation) or combinations of 
soft-tissue issues are limiting the movement.
When it comes to analysing the need of a sport 
or position, the use of video technologies can be extremely beneficial. These technologies allow the recording of athletic movement in real time, and 
then allow the clinician or coach to slow down the 
video, measure join angles and overlay other video 
for comparison in order to determine the ROM 
needs of the athlete. This dynamic assessment can be compared to the more static and functional 
movement assessments already collected to deter -
mine the athlete’s missing links in flexibility.
Ultimately, there is not one true, best method for 
determining the flexibility needs of an athlete and 
the sport he or she is participating in. A compila -
tion of multiple assessment techniques will give 

68 ❙ Falsone
the professional a well-rounded picture to create 
a comprehensive, accurate intervention program 
for the athlete.
Implementing a Flexibility 
Programme in Sport
This chapter has discussed multiple research 
articles and systematic reviews, searching for the 
answers to the question: Does flexibility have a 
place in performance training programmes? If so, 
how and where does it fit? The research is plentiful 
yet answers are limited due to confounding factors in research studies and multiple variables at play 
when dealing with athletes of various ages, sport 
and activity levels.
Here is the ultimate guide, based on what is 
known right now, on how to use flexibility training to build a better athlete.
• Based on the literature, the acute effects of 
stretching show a decrease in performance mea -
sures although long-term, regular stretching has performance-enhancing effects. This conflicting 
research lends credibility to the need for flexibil -
ity training for the long-term health of athletes. If 
the majority of flexibility training is at the end of 
the day, after competition or practice is over, ath -
letes can gain the long-term benefits of stretching without comprising immediate performance on 
the field.
• Acute effects of stretching include a decrease 
in the viscoelastic properties of the musculoten -
dinous unit and small amounts of muscle damage at the lengthened range. Long-term stretching, however, does not affect the viscoelasticity of the 
musculotendinous unit, which lends credibility 
to performing flexibility training at the end of a 
training session or after competition or practice. 
The concept of decreasing viscoelasticity of the muscle and altering the length–tension relation -
ship of the muscular spindles gives reason to per -
form active types of stretching, such as movement preparation and active-isolated stretching. These 
types of active lengthening, whilst firing agonists 
and antagonists, give the system the knowledge 
and practice to fire within the new range that has 
been created. Teaching the musculotendinous unit how to function in this new range increases 
the athlete’s ability to use this new range in a safe, 
controlled manner.• Muscles become short for a reason. This short -
ening can become a source of adaptive stability for the body. If a shortened muscle is stretched 
without giving stability back to the system in 
another way, all that has been done is take away 
stability from the system, albeit a compensation. 
Compensation is at least a learned, modified way to perform a task. If that compensation is taken 
away, the system is left with nothing. If this adap
-
tive stability is taken away via flexibility training, 
some stability needs to be given back via strength 
and stability training; this provides a reason to 
perform more active types of stretching, allow -
ing the agonists and antagonists to learn to work within the new range. It also makes it important 
to consider why something has become short. If a 
muscle has become short, it is reasonable to think 
the muscles on the opposite side of the shortened 
muscle have become lengthened. If this is true, there is an altered length–tension relationship 
of those muscles as well, causing inefficiency in 
firing patterns and decreased strength during movement.
It is reasonable to think that if these lengthened 
muscles are activated, thereby resetting the length–
tension relationship of the muscular spindles, the 
muscles on the opposite side of the system would 
begin to let go. Activating the lengthened, weaker 
muscles versus stretching the shortened muscles is something to consider in practice. Methods such as 
MAT and PNF work off these principles and have 
been clinically shown to be effective in regaining lost ROM.
• Dynamic stretching has been shown in the 
research to improve immediate power and agility, as long as it is performed within 60 minutes of the activity. Use of a dynamic warm-up and dynamic 
flexibility training can have performance-enhance -
ment effects when performed 60 minutes before 
competition or practice.
• Regular stretching produces an increase in iso -
metric force production and velocity of contraction. The long-term benefits of stretching show perfor -
mance-enhancing effects even though immediate effects are detrimental. Regular stretching after competition, practice or training can enhance 
performance.
Although we do know many things, there also 
are many things regarding flexibility training 
that are not yet known. Research is inconclusive, 

Optimising Flexibility  ❙ 69
inconsistent or confounded by complicating fac -
tors. For example, we do not yet fully understand
• the role of general flexibility on injury pred -
ication or injury prevention;
• the role of asymmetrical movement due to 
flexibility issues on injury risk;
• the best methods for assessing dynamic flexibility; or
• the best methods to most efficiently and 
effectively improve flexibility, minimise det -
rimental effects and maximise positive ones.
Case Study
In my work with professional baseball over several 
years, I have seen several instances of how flexibil -
ity can influence performance, both negatively and positively. Take, for example, one of the pitchers. 
He had a nonpainful throwing elbow that lacked 
approximately 15 degrees of extension. Nothing had happened; he had not injured himself and had never had surgery. This was an adaptive change 
from throwing over time. When I started working 
with him, I thought, We need to increase this range 
of motion .
I began working on it with ROM exercises, 
joint mobilisations, soft-tissue mobilisations and stretching. He gained some ROM, improving to 
about 7 degrees above neutral. However, his perfor -
mance suffered. He began having difficulty locat -
ing his fastball. He could not locate the pitches over the plate as he once could. After much discussion 
and problem solving, we realised he had gained 
enough ROM in his elbow that it was changing his release point whilst pitching. The ball was coming 
out of his hand at a totally different angle. So we 
stopped doing all of the manual interventions. He 
began to stiffen up over time as he continued to 
pitch without being stretched.
Eventually, he began to experience some elbow 
pain. This required me to reevaluate his elbow. In checking his ROM, he lacked about 25 degrees of elbow extension. Now that he was in pain, I had 
to intervene in some way. We began working on 
his ROM again. Once he got to around 15 degrees 
short of elbow extension, he began to feel better. 
His pain was gone, and his performance was back to normal. After much thought, discussion with 
the athlete and video analysis, it dawned on me: 
He needed that 15-degree elbow contracture. If he improved it, his performance suffered; if it got 
worse, he experienced pain. The goal was no longer 
to restore normal motion of the joint; the goal was 
to maintain his  normal motion of the joint, which 
was 15 degrees above neutral. The techniques used 
are provided in table 5.1.
Table 5.1  Therapeutic Techniques Used to Improve Elbow Extension
Manual therapy techniques* Isolated therapeutic exercise interventions**
Proximal radioulnar joint mobilisations to promote 
supinationConcentric triceps strength 3 times a week with progressive intensity
Distal radioulnar joint mobilisations to promote supinationEccentric biceps strength 3 times a week with progressive intensity
Radiocapitellar joint mobs to promote extension Concentric and eccentric supination 3 times a week
Humeroulnar joint mobs for distraction
Soft-tissue mobilisation with movement to triceps, biceps, 
and common flexor mass
*Based on International Academy of Orthopedic Medicine–US (IAOM- US) manual therapy techniques
**In addition to individualised total-body strength program and kinetic linking exercisesWisdom
The following techniques are good flexibility-gaining 
options to consider for the various times before and after exercise:
Before practice or competition: muscle activation techniques
Within 60 minutes of practice or competition: 
movement preparation and dynamic stretching
After practice or competition: static stretchingNeeds further research: fascial stretching

70 ❙ Falsone
Summary
Deciding where and how flexibility training 
fits within programming can be challenging. A 
combination of research-driven data and clinical 
experience is necessary to do what is most effective 
and efficient for athletes. We know that dynamic 
stretching before activity and static stretching after activity can provide both short- and long-term ben -
efits for performance enhancement and injury pre -
vention. Other techniques such as facial and resisted stretching need more evidence-based research, 
but they certainly have an anecdotal place within 
programmes. A specific needs analysis of the sport, 
position and individual athlete is necessary in order 
to implement an effective flexibility intervention.

CHAPTER
 71
6
6
6
The aim of the training process is to ensure 
athletes are in peak condition to perform suc-
cessfully during competition. However, training and performance share a complex relationship 
based on several factors, many of which are 
unique to the individual athlete and performance task. As a result, there has been an increase in the 
use of athlete-monitoring systems in sport, and 
substantial human and fi  nancial resources are now invested in this process. In fact, a signifi  cant 
role of coaches, sport scientists and strength and 
conditioning coaches is to monitor how athletes 
are coping with training.
To optimise the training process it is import-
ant for a coach to understand how a prescribed training dose will produce a specifi  c physiological 
response, otherwise known as the dose–response relationship. Once this relationship is understood, 
training programs can be specifi  cally targeted to 
improve an athlete’s physical capacity. In order to 
achieve this objective, though, coaches should have 
careful control of the training dose provided for their athletes and use an objective measure of how 
their athletes respond to that training. In addition 
to allowing coaches to strategically design training, 
an effective monitoring system will help reduce 
illness and injury and optimise recovery.
This chapter examines methods that have been 
proposed for monitoring training load and fatigue in athletic environments from both theoretical and practical perspectives. A key focus is to provide 
interpretation of the growing amount of informa-
tion in this important area so that it can be used 
in real-world training environments.Understanding the 
Physiological Effect of Load
The key to training programme prescription is an 
understanding of the effect that loading places on 
the body. Fundamental to this is an understanding 
of the dose–response relationship and how it can 
lead to either positive or negative adaptations.
Training Dose–Response 
Relationship
The aim of training is to provide a stimulus that is 
effective in improving performance. For positive 
adaptations to occur, a careful balance between 
training dose and recovery is required.1 After 
overload training, the athlete works to return to 
homeostasis, typically in a dose–response manner 
(i.e., the greater the stress, the longer the recovery 
period required to return to homeostasis).2 It is 
during the return to homeostasis that physiological adaptations are made to ensure a similar stimulus 
in the future does not disrupt the individual to 
the same extent.
3 However, for this phenomenon 
(known as supercompensation ) to occur, an adequate 
recovery period must follow the training stimulus 
( fi g u r e  6 . 1 ) .
For optimal training benefi  ts, the secondary 
stimulus should be imposed during the super-compensation phase. If no secondary overload is 
applied during this phase, the training effect may 
be lost as the organism returns to the pretraining homeostasis levels.
1, 3 Alternatively, if a secondary Monitoring the Training Response
Aaron J. Coutts, PhD
Sport and Exercise Discipline Group, Faculty of Health, 
University of Technology, Sydney (UTS), Australia
Stuart Cormack, PhD
School of Exercise Science, Australian Catholic University, Melbourne, Australia

72 ❙ Coutts and Cormack
stimulus is imposed too early, additional fatigue 
will result, preventing a return to homeostasis. 
If this continues, maladaptation and diminished 
competitive performance will occur (see fi  gure 6.2).
Although in theory the fatigue–recovery 
cycle appears simple, in reality, there are myriad 
complex psychophysical adaptations that occur 
during training that make it diffi  cult to quantify the training load–performance response in ath-
letes. In fact, the effect of the training dose on 
performance is complex. It seems that training 
duration and intensity are not the sole contrib-
utors to performance, and that there may not be generic relationships between training dose and 
performance outcomes.Wisdom
It is likely that the relationship between training dose 
and performance varies between individuals and may be due to variables such as training background, genetics and psychological factors .
As a result of this understanding, it is now 
common that sport scientists examine the dose–
response relationship (i.e., training including fi  t-ness, fatigue and performance) on a regular and individual basis to guide decisions on training content and to control training. Despite a growing body of research, there is still a relatively poor 
Training fatigueAdaptation Physical work
Phase II
ResistancePhase IShockPhase IIISupercompensation
E5891/Joyce/476831/Fig 06.01/R2/JGFigure 6.1  General adaptation-syndrome theory explaining response to a stressor.
Adapted from H . Selye, 1956, The stress of life (London: Longmans Green) .
Training fatigue Training fatiguePhysical work
Physical work
Maladaptation
E5891/Joyce/476832/Fig 06.02/R2/JGFigure 6.2  Maladaptive training due to insufficient recovery after a training dose.

Monitoring the Training Response ❙ 73
understanding of the most appropriate tools that can 
be used to assess how individuals are coping with 
athletic training; continued investigation is needed.
Fatigue Continuum 
and Overtraining
Fatigue is a normal and desired part of the training 
process; its severity can be viewed as a contin-
uum as shown in fi  gure 6.3.4 When the balance 
between stress and recovery is appropriate, athletes experience acute fatigue in response to individual 
training sessions and recover in a matter of hours 
or days. However, if intensifi  ed training continues 
without the required recovery period, athletes can enter a state of overreaching.
4 When athletes suffer 
a temporary reduction in performance as a result 
of overload training, they have entered a state of 
functional overreaching.5 If overload training con-
tinues and unplanned fatigue persists, athletes may 
suffer from  nonfunctional overreaching that may 
continue for several weeks. The fi  nal stage of the fatigue continuum is the overtraining syndrome, 
which is a state characterised by decrements in performance and often accompanied by psycho-
logical disturbances that remain for an extended 
period despite large reductions in training.
5 This 
state is not the result of a diagnosable illness and can 
be accompanied by disturbance to several physio-
logical systems or to the athlete’s psychological state.
In addition to negative performance implications, 
excessive training loads have been demonstrated 
to increase the likelihood of injury and illness in 
high-performing athletes.6, 7 If athletes are required 
to complete training and competition loads above 
their threshold of tolerance, they will be at high 
risk of illness, injury and underperformance. These 
increased risks further highlight the importance of 
closely monitoring how athletes are responding to and coping with training and competition.Wisdom
Training is a balance between fatigue and recovery . 
A degree of fatigue is required; however, unplanned fatigue is undesirable . Excessive amounts of fatigue seen during periods of increased training or competi-tion place athletes at higher risk of injury and illness .
Methods of Quantifying Load
In order to optimise the training process, it is 
important to be able to quantify both training 
load and the physiological response to this load. 
Numerous objective and subjective methods are 
available to do so, and when used appropriately, 
these methods can assist in guiding the training program design and implementation.
Quantifying Training
The physical training in a program is typically quantifi  ed with reference to the type, frequency, 
duration and intensity of each exercise session. 
Traditionally, training load has been described as 
a measure of external load  (e.g., duration, speed and 
distance covered). Careful control of the external 
training load is important for reducing training 
errors. The advances in microtechnology now 
allow athletes to be monitored with good accuracy and in real time. Recently, technologies such as 
global positioning systems (GPS), accelerometers 
and power metres have allowed for increasingly 
detailed information on the external training load 
completed by an athlete. These advances have led to the widespread use of external measures for 
the quantifi  cation of training in endurance and 
team sport.
Single training session
Cumulative training load imposed on the athlete
Cumulative level of neuromotor and mental fatigueLevel of recovery deficitChronicity and severity of symptomsOverreaching Overtraining
Low Medium High
E5891/Joyce/476833/Fig 06.03/R1/JGFigure 6.3  The fatigue continuum.

74 ❙ Coutts and Cormack
Accordingly, it is the relative physiological stress 
imposed on the athlete known as the internal train -
ing load , and not the external training load com -
pleted by the athlete, that determines the stimulus 
for adaptation.8 The most commonly used methods 
for quantifying internal training load require heart rate as a measure of exercise intensity; other 
methods for quantifying relative training intensity 
include blood lactate and perception of effort.
Wisdom
Measuring external load may not accurately depict 
the physiological stress imposed on individual athletes because other factors such as genetic background and fitness level may play roles  . Fitness outcomes are a 
function of multiple processes and are related to the internal (i  .e ., psychological and physiological) loads 
placed on the athletes  .
Monitoring Training Loads  Using Heart Rate
In order to monitor an athlete’s internal training 
load, the intensity of each training period needs to 
be accurately assessed. The use of heart rate infor -
mation to determine exercise intensity is based on the linear relationship between heart rate and the 
volume of oxygen consumed (V ˙O
2) over a wide 
range of steady-state submaximal workloads.9 Due 
to this relationship, heart rate has become the most 
commonly used method for determining exercise 
intensity. However, it should be noted that limita -
tions may exist with the use of heart rate to monitor exercise intensity in intermittent team sport, for heart rate may not reflect the intensity during the 
brief, but intense, efforts common in these sports.
Using Heart Rate Measures  
to Quantify the Training Impulse
The concept of the training impulse (TRIMP) has 
been developed as a strategy for integrating all the 
components of training into a single arbitrary unit 
suitable for a systems-model approach to training. 
To do this, we need heart rate information for 
each training session as well as knowledge of the athlete’s maximal and resting heart rate values. 
Heart rate reserve (HRR) is calculated as maximal 
heart rate minus resting heart rate. A weighting factor is incorporated to emphasise the relatively greater stress of high-intensity training. This factor is calculated as the exponential of the product of average ΔHRratio and a constant (b) reflecting 
the generalised curve of blood lactate to exercise 
intensity, which is different for men and women. The TRIMP training load is calculated using the 
following equation:
Training load = D(ΔHR ratio)eb(ΔHR ratio)
where D = duration of training session and b = 1.67 
for females and 1.92 for males.10
More recently, Foster and colleagues11 proposed 
an alternative approach to the TRIMP where an 
exercise score for each training session is calculated 
by multiplying the accumulated duration in each 
heart rate zone by a multiplier allocated to each zone 
(50%-60% = 1; 60%-70% = 2: 70%-80% = 3; 80%-90% = 4; 90%-100% = 5). Another possible option is to use 
heart rate zones that represent values below ventila
-
tory threshold (VT), between VT and the respiratory 
compensation point (RCP) and above RCP ,12 repre -
senting low-, moderate- and high-intensity zones, respectively. Each method requires substantial work 
to determine and to monitor on a daily basis, which 
limits their usefulness in a team sport setting.
Limitations of Heart  
Rate–Based Methods
There are several limitations to using heart rate 
information for quantifying training load. For 
example, obtaining heart rate information requires 
a level of technological proficiency and expertise in 
interpreting the results. Furthermore, equipment 
technical failure may result in the loss of valuable information regarding a training session. Heart 
rate is also a relatively poor method for evaluat -
ing intensity during high-intensity exercise such 
as resistance, interval and plyometric training. 
Therefore, heart rate appears most useful for 
monitoring training loads in athletes undertaking 
endurance-based activities; different variables may 
be more useful for other activity modes.
Monitoring Training Loads  
by Rating of Perceived Exertion
An alternative method for determining exercise 
intensity is through an individual’s perception of 
effort. Overall perceived exertion is an integration 
of information from peripheral muscles and joints 
that are doing the work, central cardiovascular 

 Monitoring the Training Response ❙ 75
and respiratory functions and the central nervous 
system.13 Numerous scales exist for assessing per -
ceived exertion. An early version used a 21-point 
scale and a later version a 15-point scale, where 
perceptual ratings increase linearly with power 
output and heart rate.14, 15 A feature of this scale 
is that the difference in intensity between each score is identical; by adding zero to the score, that 
number can be used to denote heart rate in beats 
per minute. For detailed descriptions of these 
scales, see the 2006 work of Borg and Kaijser.
16
To identify exertion associated with nonlinear 
physical responses (i.e., lactate metabolism), the 
category-ratio rating of perceived exertion (RPE) 
scale was developed. The category-ratio scale uses 
values ranging from 0 to 10 (CR-10) or 0 to 100 (CR-
100), and values are anchored by verbal expressions to allow for individual comparisons. Furthermore, 
each of these verbal expressions has been placed on 
a ratio scale, and each carries the inherent meaning of twice the intensity of the previous value (e.g., 
very weak and weak). There is a high correlation 
between the Borg category-ratio RPE scale and both 
blood and muscle lactate during exercise.
17
There does not appear to be one perfect scale 
for measuring perceived exertion in all situations. The Borg 15-point scale remains widely used; how
-
ever, the Borg category-ratio scales may be more 
suited to high-intensity exercise (e.g., team sport) 
where fatigue is associated with nonlinear physi -
cal responses. More recently, ratings of perceived 
exertion have been used in conjunction with other 
measures in an attempt to quantify training load in 
athletes. The most widely used is the session-RPE 
(s-RPE) method.
The Session-RPE Method
Session-RPE involves multiplying training inten -
sity using an RPE scale by training duration in minutes to create a training impulse score nor -
mally referred to as load .
18 The training impulse 
score represents the internal training load for each training session.
When determining the s-RPE, it is important 
that the rating refer to the entire training session. 
For this reason, the s-RPE should be assessed more than 10 minutes after training to reduce the 
likelihood of the recency effect, in which players 
give an s-RPE that refers to the training completed towards the end of the session rather than during 
the entire session.The s-RPE method has been validated as a 
useful tool to estimate internal training loads at 
a wide range of intensities in a variety of exercise modes, including team sport. Session load (s-RPE × 
session duration) is the most commonly calculated 
metric using s-RPE values in many sport environ -
ments. Single-session values can then be summed on a daily basis and weekly load determined as the mean daily load multiplied by 7 .
19 However, it 
is possible to calculate other variables—known as 
monotony  and strain —that provide different and 
potentially valuable information.
Training monotony refers to the variation in train -
ing load during a week; it is calculated as daily mean 
load divided by the daily load standard deviation. 
Strain is the product of monotony and load.19 When 
athletes undertake daily, high-volume training with few rest days, training monotony and strain are high. 
During such periods, athletes are at increased risk 
of injury and illness.
20, 21 Systematically monitoring 
these variables in individual athletes allow the coach to determine individual thresholds of risk for injury, 
illness and overreaching.
It appears that similar information on the train -
ing dose applied to individuals may be obtained 
using the subjective s-RPE method compared to 
more objective approaches.22, 23 The added advan -
tage of using s-RPE to assess the internal training 
response is that it requires nothing more than a 
pen, paper and clipboard, and it may provide a 
more valid approach during high-intensity exer -
cise sessions (e.g., sprint, resistance and plyometric 
training) than heart rate methods.
Assessing an Athlete’s 
Response to Training
Each athlete’s response to training load is unique, 
and it would be foolish to assume a uniform reac -
tion among athletes. Therefore, it is important to gain an insight into how each person is responding. 
There are a number of methods of doing so; the 
key ones are described in the following sections.
Assessing Training Responses 
With Perceptual Measures
In addition to using tools such as s-RPE to assess an 
athlete’s acute perception of training intensity, the 
subjective responses of an athlete assessed through 
brief questionnaires may be valuable for the 

76 ❙ Coutts and Cormack
detection of excessive stress. These psychological 
assessments may be able to provide an early diag -
nosis of an athlete not coping with training.20, 24-27 
In particular, it has been shown that athletes who 
develop overreaching and overtraining often have 
a greater global mood disturbance and demon -
strate symptoms similar to clinical depression.4, 
27 The mood-state questionnaires and the daily 
analysis of life demands for athletes (DALDA) are 
examples of psychological inventories that have 
been used to monitor training.
Monitoring Training Loads  
by Assessing Mood State
The mood-state questionnaires (i.e., POMS and 
BRUMS) are psychometric tools designed to assess 
an individual’s global mood and the level of tension, 
depression, anger, vigour, fatigue and confusion28, 29 
(for an example see www.moodprofiling.com).
In well-trained athletes and active individuals, 
exercise has been shown to improve the global 
rating of mood state with an increase in vigour 
and a reduction in measures of tension, depression, anger, fatigue and confusion.
30 However, with 
excessive exercise the opposite has been shown 
to occur,24, 27, 31, 32 suggesting that there may be a 
relationship between training load and mood state.
We should not rely solely on the POMS as 
an independent marker of fatigue and recov -
ery because mood state is often a multifactorial 
response to many external stimuli. Ideally, these questionnaires should be used conjunction with 
other monitoring such as training-dose measures, 
performance tests and physiological markers. Nonetheless, the advantage of the POMS and 
shorter restricted-POMS questionnaires are that 
they are low-cost, fast-feedback monitoring tools 
that can be easily applied to large groups. These 
characteristics make them suitable for use in the team sport environment.
Daily Analyses of Life Demands 
for Athletes
The DALDA (table 6.1) is a questionnaire designed 
to assess the stress levels in athletes.33 It consists of 
two main sections: part A (general stressors) and 
part B (stress-reaction symptoms). The DALDA 
provides a method by which an athlete’s stress 
levels can be monitored daily, providing a record of the athlete’s response to training loads and cor -
responding psychological well-being.
The strength of the DALDA is that, when plot -
ted, the coping trends used by individual athletes are easily apparent. Through using this approach, 
the coach can see immediate indicators of increas -
ing stress. The DALDA can provide useful infor -
mation to be used when planning training sessions for individuals.
Other Inventories
Many other inventories exist that are suitable for assessing the well-being of an athlete. Simple 
wellness questionnaires have demonstrated the 
ability to detect changes in various perceptions of 
muscle soreness, fatigue and overall well-being 
scores in high-performance team sport athletes.
34, 
35 An example of a commonly used wellness ques -
tionnaire is shown in table 6.2. Similar to the other 
psychometric tools mentioned in this chapter, this 
questionnaire is easy to apply to athletes and pro -
vides quick feedback to coaches.
Some coaches have raised concerns regarding 
the potential for dishonest feedback from athletes 
in an attempt to avoid training or perhaps hide 
an injury or illness. Although there is potential for this to occur, it is a rare occurrence when 
athletes are well educated about the purpose of 
these questionnaires and the need for honest 
feedback. In addition, the information from this 
type of inventory should be considered in context with other data about the status of the athlete and 
knowledge regarding individual personalities and 
reporting history.
The subjective responses to psychometric 
inventories can provide valuable information concerning training loads and subsequent levels 
of stress and may be useful in detecting early signs 
of overreaching. Although subjective monitoring tools are useful, there is also considerable interest 
in objective methods of monitoring training load 
and assessing fatigue status in athletes.
Wisdom
Self-reporting questionnaires can be used to identify 
players who may not be coping well with training  . The 
feedback provided from these psychometric tools can be used to open dialogue with athletes and assist in directing them to appropriate support services  .

 77Table 6.1  Daily Analyses of Life Demands for Athletes (DALDA) Questionnaire
Initials _____________
Trial day _________________Date _____________________
Circle the correct response for this moment: A = worse than normal; B = normal; C = better than normal.
PART A
1. Diet A B C 6. Climate A B C
2. Home life A B C 7.  Sle e p A B C
3. School/college/work A B C 8. Recreation A B C
4. Friends A B C 9. Health A B C
5. Sport training A B C
Total Total
PART B
1. Muscle pains A B C 14. Enough sleep A B C
2. Techniques A B C 15. Recovery between sessions A B C
3. Tiredness A B C 16. General weakness A B C
4. Need for a rest A B C 17 . Interest A B C
5. Supplementary work A B C 18. Arguments A B C
6. Boredom A B C 19. Skin rashes A B C
7 . Recovery time A B C 20. Congestion A B C
8. Irritability A B C 21. Training effort A B C
9. Weight A B C 22. Temper A B C
10. Throat A B C 23. Swellings A B C
11. Internal A B C 24. Likability A B C
12. Unexplained aches A B C 25. Running nose A B C
13. Technique strength A B C
Total Total
From B.S. Rushall, 1990, “ A tool for measuring stress tolerance in elite athletes,” Journal of Applied Sport Psychology 2(1): 51-66. Reprinted 
by permission of Taylor & Francis Ltd.

78 ❙ Coutts and Cormack
Objective Markers  
of Fitness and Fatigue
Despite the plethora of tests available to assess 
physical performance, many are not useful for 
regular monitoring of fatigue status, particularly 
in season. There are a number of reasons for 
this, including their fatiguing nature, difficulties 
accommodating large numbers of athletes, sub -
stantial skill requirements, the need for specialised 
equipment (e.g., isokinetic dynamometer), limited 
portability (e.g., cycle ergometer) or poor test–retest 
reliability. As a result, other objective measures, 
such as neuromuscular performance tests, physio -
logical responses to standard exercise sessions 
or biochemical measures taken during rest have 
become valuable ways to monitor athletes.
Neuromuscular Performance Tests
The assessment of neuromuscular fatigue inferred from performance tests is common in high-performance sport environments, although 
the validity of many of these protocols is unclear. 
A specific type of neuromuscular fatigue that may be of interest to those working in high-per -
formance sport is low-frequency fatigue (LFF),
36 
resulting from high-intensity, moderate-to-high 
force, repetitive eccentric or stretch-shortening 
cycle (SSC) activities.37, 3 8 Low-frequency fatigue has 
long lasting, detrimental effects on low-frequency 
force-generating capacity. The primary clinical 
method for assessing LFF is via percutaneous nerve 
or muscle stimulation,39 but this laboratory-based 
method is impractical for regular use in athletes. As a result, single or repeated explosive activities, 
such as countermovement jumps (CMJ), are com -
monly used to assess LFF in the field.
Countermovement Jumps
The use of countermovement-jump (CMJ) protocols to assess fatigue status in high-performance sport 
is becoming increasingly popular because the test 
is easy to measure with a force plate, switch mat or Table 6.2  Daily Well-being Review Sheet
Name _________________________
Weight ______________________________Date ________________________________
Present injuries ________________________
Sit and reach __________________________
5 4 3 2 1 Score
Fatigue Very fresh Fresh Normal More tired than 
normalAlways tired
Sleep quality Very restful Good Difficulty falling asleepRestless sleep Insomnia
General muscle 
sorenessFeeling great Feeling good Normal Increase in soreness or 
tightnessVery sore
Stress level Very relaxed Relaxed Normal Feeling stressed Highly stressed
Mood Very positive 
moodGenerally good moodLess interested in others and 
activities than usualSnappy with 
teammates, 
family and coworkersHighly 
annoyed, 
irritable, or down
Total
Adapted, by permission, from B.D. McLean, A.J. Coutts, V. Kelly, M.R. McGuigan, and S.J. Cormack, 2010, “Neuromuscular, endocrine 
and perceptual fatigue responses during different length between-match microcycles in professional rugby league players,” International Journal of Sports Physiology and Performance 5(3): 367-383.

 Monitoring the Training Response ❙ 79
linear position transducer. This technology allows 
the assessment of many variables including dis -
placement, power and velocity.40 Numerous CMJ 
protocols have been used for assessing athlete 
fatigue; however, single-repetition protocols are 
likely to be more efficient than multiple jumps. In 
most cases in the field, it is not possible to deter -
mine the source (i.e., central or peripheral) of the 
performance decrement.
Recent research has demonstrated the appli -
cation of this approach. For example, monitoring CMJ performance over a 22-match Australian 
football season demonstrated that the ratio of 
CMJ flight time:contraction time is suppressed 
in the days after a match compared to 48 hours 
pregame and to immediate pregame values and is correlated with a measure of performance.
41 This 
suppression represents a state of reduced neuro -
muscular capacity, and these results can be used to guide the implementation of future training. 
Further work in elite Australian football players 
has shown that reductions in the ratio of flight time:contraction time negatively affect the ability 
to use fitness capacity and modify movement strat -
egy.
42, 43 However, since neuromuscular fatigue is 
only one potential source of fatigue in athletes, it is suggested that these measures be used in con -
junction with other monitoring tools mentioned in this chapter.
Wisdom
To determine the validity of any monitoring tool 
in high-performance sport, practitioners need to either conduct some basic in-house projects to assess potential variables or take guidance from the scien
-
tific literature  . These projects can help practitioners 
refine assessment procedures to reduce measurement error and determine appropriate baseline values for comparison  .
Physiological Markers
The use of submaximal exercise protocols may 
also be useful for monitoring training tolerance 
in both individual and team sport athletes.44-46 For 
example, athletes identified as suffering perfor -
mance decrements based on heart rate response 
to a submaximal shuttle protocol also displayed 
mood state and hormonal changes.46 The following section on heart rate responses contains more 
information on the use of submaximal protocols 
for monitoring training.
Heart Rate Variability
Measurement of heart rate variability (HRV), 
the normal variation in beat-to-beat intervals, 
is gaining widespread favour throughout the 
sport world because it is thought to provide an 
insight into an individual’s preparedness to train. 
In a healthy individual, the autonomic nervous system controls heart rate through the interaction 
of the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) and 
the parasympathetic nervous system (PNS). The SNS regulates the physiological flight-or-fight 
conditions such as increased heart rate and blood 
pressure. The PNS, on the other hand, regulates the physiological rest-and-digest conditions such 
as decreased heart rate and blood pressure.
The heart beats in a nonuniform fashion; this is 
especially the case in athletes where training can involve high heart rates and recovery is character -
ised by much lower heart rates. The ideal situation is one whereby the athlete has a strong sympathetic 
response to training and an equally powerful parasympathetic response when recovering. If 
scientists observe that the sympathetic system 
is driving the heart rate response (seen with low HRV), then they might consider decreasing train -
ing load. The opposite situation exists when the parasympathetic system is dominating, indicating 
that athletes are coping with the training load. 
However, these trends are not always observed in the field,
44 showing that HRV measures should 
not be used independent of other monitoring tools 
mentioned in this chapter.
It is thought that overtraining has a negative 
influence on cardiovascular autonomic control; 
however, the direction of shift in underlying auto -
nomic control associated with overtraining is some -
what unclear.47 Overreaching may be characterised 
by sympathetic control of heart rate, although in 
nonfunctional overreaching and overtraining, sym -
pathetic control appears inhibited with an increase in parasympathetic activity.
48 Unfortunately, there 
is yet to be strong support from the field for using HRV to assess how team sport athletes are coping 
with training. This is largely due to the poor 
measurement error in many HRV variables when 
assessed outside laboratory conditions.

80 ❙ Coutts and Cormack
Heart Rate Recovery
When exercise ceases, there is a coordinated 
sympathetic withdrawal and parasympathetic 
reactivation that results in a rapid reduction in heart rate.
49 Improvements in heart rate recovery 
(HRR) have been associated with improvements in 
fitness;44 a slower rate of recovery may be indicative 
of detraining50, 51 or increased fatigue. Due to the 
autonomic control of HRR, there is potential for HRR to be a useful measure of autonomic nervous 
system status.
49 It may be capable of detecting the 
onset of overreaching or when athletes are not 
coping with the training load.52, 53
Biochemical Markers  
of Fitness and Fatigue
Hormones and other variables in blood, urine and 
saliva have recently been used to provide informa -
tion about an athlete’s adaptation to training load 
and thus are potentially useful for monitoring 
training and recovery.54, 55
Muscle Damage
Strenuous and unaccustomed eccentric exercise can lead to exercise-induced muscle damage 
(EIMD). The activity of selected enzymes and blood markers, including creatine kinase (CK), 
myoglobin, troponin, urea, uric acid and ammonia, 
have been shown to reflect muscle damage.
56-58 As a 
result, these measures may be useful as monitoring 
tools in high-performance sport.
The most commonly reported marker is CK. 
Typically, CK is found inside the muscle cell. How -
ever, after intense physical exercise, serum levels 
of CK can rise due to acute muscle damage, but 
this is not necessarily due to maladaptive train -
ing. Importantly, although CK measures reflect muscle damage, they do not necessarily predict 
performance limitations in athletes. Therefore, we recommend that CK be used to assess the short-term recovery of muscle damage from acute 
training or competition. This measurement is par -
ticularly useful in the early preseason adaptation phase, during periods of intensified training and 
in the days after competitive matches. If markers of muscle damage remain high after a reduction in 
training load, that may suggest delayed recovery 
or increased injury risk. However, the great vari -
ability in the response of these markers suggests they should be used cautiously and in conjunction 
with other measures.
Salivary Versus Blood Markers
Steroid hormone levels within athletes are often monitored in blood plasma, but due to the strong 
relationships between plasma and saliva measures 
and the reduced invasiveness of the collection method, saliva measures are preferred in the field.
59-61 The most common hormones monitored 
are cortisol and testosterone; however, the amino acids glutamine and glutamate have also shown some promise as monitoring markers.
Cortisol
Cortisol (C) is a glucocorticoid that is released from the adrenal cortex in response to physical 
and mental stress. It is generally considered as a 
catabolic marker and an objective indicator of psy -
chobiological stress, but there are mixed reports in its suitability as a tool for monitoring athletes.
44 Ele-
vation of salivary C is commonly reported imme -
diately after competition; it also has been shown to be elevated during heavy training periods, such as in preseason. As a result, elevation of salivary C can be a symptom of overreaching and reflect 
an inability to recover between training sessions 
and competition.
62-64 As is always the case, training 
decisions should not be made on the basis of a single 
variable. It is always best to interpret the results in 
conjunction with other measures of wellness and a pragmatic interpretation of training load.
Testosterone
Testosterone (T) is a gonadal anabolic hormone that promotes muscle tissue synthesis.
65 Testos -
terone typically increases after short-term stren -
uous exercise,66-68 but a decrease in testosterone 
with prolonged strenuous exercise (greater than 
2 hours) has been observed.67, 69 Testosterone 
response has also been reported to be extremely 
variable throughout a team sport season involving 
high-intensity contact.62
Although it is attractive to think that T may be 
a useful marker of recovery status, reflecting states 
of anabolism when high and catabolism when 
low, its high variability may limit its usefulness 
for monitoring in applied settings. Moreover, like other biochemical measures, these measures are rel -
atively costly, which reduces their practical efficacy.

 Monitoring the Training Response ❙ 81
Testosterone-to-Cortisol Ratio
Due to the anabolic nature of T and the catabolic 
effects of C, the ratio between the two may reflect 
the body’s overall anabolic–catabolic balance.70 
The T:C ratio decreases in relation to intensity 
and duration of physical exercise, as well as 
during periods of intense training or repetitive 
competition, and can be reversed by regenerative 
measures.71 It has been suggested that a high T:C 
ratio reflects a state of anabolism and a state of catabolism when reduced by 30 per cent or more;
70 
a low T:C ratio may indicate that an athlete is not 
adapting to training.
Imbalances between T and C may also be caused 
by psychological stress, which is why the holistic stressors of training, competition and general life 
need to be taken into account when assessing the 
demands placed on athletes.
Glutamine and Glutamate
Plasma glutamine (Gln) and glutamate (Glu) levels 
have been suggested to be a reliable early indica -
tors of maladaptive training and good measures for monitoring how athletes are coping with 
training. Low Gln levels reported during periods 
of heavy training may indicate reduced immune 
competence and an increased risk of illness in those athletes.
72-74
In addition to changes in glutamine and glu -
tamate, a reduced plasma Gln:Glu ratio has been suggested as a valid global indicator of training 
tolerance.
74 Reductions in this ratio have been 
found in national-level athletes classified as over -
reaching;74-76 these findings with athletes from a 
wide variety of sports suggest the Gln:Glu ratio 
could be a valuable objective monitoring tool. How -
ever, this finding is not consistent, and uncertainty 
exists regarding the utility of using the Gln:Glu 
ratio as an early indicator of athletes not coping 
with training.
Immune Markers
It is well accepted that exercise results in short-
term compromise to the immune system; there 
is also a suggestion that intensified training 
causes depressed immune function, which makes 
athletes more susceptible to common illnesses.77 
Some research has shown increased illness rates in response to heightened training loads.
20 Poten -
tial markers of compromised immune status include leukocyte and cytokine concentration 
and salivary immunoglobulin-A secretion rate.78 
However, the capacity to use these and other markers to monitor how athletes are coping with training or check athletes for risk of impending illness is low.
Wisdom
Numerous objective markers have been proposed as 
useful for monitoring the fitness and fatigue response of athletes to training and competition  . Unfortu
-
nately, the requirement for frequent sampling (i  .e ., 
weekly), fast determination of results, lower cost and 
complexity of assays coupled with the need for strict 
collection procedures may limit the utility of many 
biochemical markers  .
Practical Applications  
and Data Presentation
Data are not helpful unless they are presented in 
such a manner that makes the data easily under -
standable. Doing so helps draw the distinction between data and information. A number of tools can be used to illustrate critical results and trends.
Validity and Reliability  
of Measures
The usefulness of any monitoring tool in the sport 
environment centres on its validity and reliability. Although these concepts are discussed in chapter 1, a brief recap is useful because these concepts lie at the heart of our ability to extract meaningful information from monitoring strategies.
Reliability refers to how repeatable a test is. A 
test with good reliability will produce the same result if it is performed in the same manner on another occasion. This allows confidence that any 
performance change is biological and not inherent 
error in the measurement device or test.
There are numerous types of validity, includ -
ing whether the variable actually measures 
what it purports to. Types of validity critical to high-performance sport are construct and ecolog
-
ical validity: Does the measure have application in the environment in question? Is it linked to something that it theoretically should be (e.g., performance or training load)? For example, many variables can be obtained from a CMJ conducted 

82 ❙ Coutts and Cormack
on a force plate; however, some are not valid indi -
cators of fatigue–recovery status because they do 
not have a pattern of response that makes them 
useful in comparison to baseline values. The 
variables may also not be related to training load 
or performance.
Baseline Values
Determining whether a variable has changed 
largely depends on the baseline value it is being 
compared with. Likely multiple baseline values 
can be calculated to provide points of comparison; 
however, a critical feature is that the calculation 
should allow for a meaningful comparison. For example, comparing weekly scores during a team 
sport competitive season should be done against 
a value that represents the competition phase but at the same time is fatigue free.
Comparison Points
It is best to understand and plan retesting sched -
ules in advance; doing so will help ensure that data 
collection is strategic and systematic as opposed to 
ad-hoc. It is worthwhile planning both short- and 
long-term testing periods.
Acute
It is common for monitoring data to be collected 
on a number of timeframes. Some data, such as 
exercise intensity via microtechnology (i.e., GPS 
or accelerometers) or internal load from s-RPE 
are collected daily or with each session, although 
other data are collected weekly or even less fre -
quently. It is arguable that the value of many mon -
itoring tools depends on collecting data frequently and consistently.
Weekly comparisons to baseline scores are often 
made for biochemical, neuromuscular and match exercise-intensity data in team sport competition 
phases. Scores from wellness questionnaires 
often are collected around main training sessions 
throughout a week (sometimes daily) and can be 
averaged as weekly values. For biochemical and neuromuscular protocols, there is a specific need 
for high levels of consistency in pretest preparation 
and collection techniques.
Similarly, there is a requirement to collect 
weekly data at a time when the expected 
response is known so that changes outside 
that response can be highlighted. For example, football players typically have recovered neu -
romuscular performance within 3 to 4 days of competition. If CMJ performance was reduced 
after this period, coach intervention and training 
manipulation would be likely. Other monitoring 
tools can be used less frequently. For example, 
psychological inventories are sometimes used monthly. In addition, values from daily or 
weekly monitoring tools are sometimes averaged 
to provide a monthly score. These measures pro
-
vide athletes with feedback on chronic changes to training and competition.
Chronic
Regardless of how frequently data regarding a variable are collected, a change compared to base -
line can be calculated as the isolated weekly score or perhaps as a rolling average over a period such 
as a month. In this case, the weekly comparison 
to baseline might represent acute fatigue, and the monthly average response could reflect a more chronic fatigue response. Similar analyses could 
also be made for various measures of fitness and 
fatigue to model chronic fitness and fatigue adap -
tations over a season.
Statistical Techniques
Although coaches are not always intimately familiar with statistical analyses of data, the 
selection of appropriate techniques has a major 
bearing on practical application. Traditional 
methods of statistical analysis commonly used 
in research often are inappropriate in practice. However, more contemporary techniques pro
-
vide great insight and are extremely helpful in assisting decision making. By simply determining 
the change in a variable relative to its reliability 
value (either in absolute units or percentage) prac
-
titioners can begin to make decisions about the meaningfulness of the change. In this approach, 
if the change is greater than the error of the test 
(reliability), then coaches can be confident that 
the change is biological.
For example, if a valid test has an error of 3 
per cent and the change between two time points is 5 per cent, then practitioners can be relatively 
confident that this change is worth noting. This method relies on using valid and reliable tests and 
collecting data consistently. Most importantly, 
it provides a threshold for assessing the impor
-
tance of a change. More complex and stringent 

 Monitoring the Training Response ❙ 83
techniques are extensions of this approach and 
allow more precision regarding the magnitude of 
change. These techniques include calculation of 
the smallest worthwhile change, which represents 
the smallest change in a performance that can be 
considered important.79
Perhaps one of the greatest challenges is to 
determine what constitutes an important change 
in self-report inventories. Wellness question -
naires often require subjective ratings on a scale that broadly represents categories from poor to 
excellent. A problem with interpreting scores on these scales is the so-called automated response, 
in addition to the problem of the athlete who 
regularly reports high or low values, despite the scale often having a normal (or similar) anchor. 
One way around these dilemmas is to compare 
each response in relation to the degree to which 
it is above or below normal. Comparison can also 
be made to a value that represents what an athlete regularly reports. An example of how this has 
been done is to use a modification of the standard 
difference score.
80 On an acute level this can be 
represented as the following:
(Current score − Baseline score) /  
SD of individual baseline*
This score effectively converts the acute 
score to a standard deviation from the base -
line. Coaches can set their own threshold to 
determine how many standard deviations are 
practically important. However, based on our 
experience, we recommend a threshold of z = 
≥1.5 as a practically effective threshold for iden -
tifying at-risk scores.
An interesting issue that arises in high-  
performance sport is the relative importance of inter- and intra-individual change. Although the 
response of an individual is critical, it is possible 
that a lack of change or change of a different mag
-
nitude in comparison to the group is important. 
For example, as part of a periodised approach, the 
group mean of a monitoring variable may suggest 
a recovered state in response to an unloading 
phase. In this case, although an individual’s score 
from one point to the next may not have changed, if the group members are showing improvement, 
the lack of response in an individual may suggest 
maladaptation.Putting It All Together  
and Making It Meaningful to Coaches
The ultimate value of monitoring training load 
and the fatigue response is when such monitoring 
informs decision making. For this to occur, the 
monitoring process needs to be part of the overall 
program approach. This means that data need to 
be collected and analysed in a coordinated, consis -
tent manner and in a timely fashion. For example, 
there is little point in using a variable that cannot 
be analysed for 2 weeks.
Ideally, the majority of monitoring should occur 
as part of the normal training and competition pro -
cess. The use of protocols that are particularly oner -
ous from a time or equipment perspective or that require a specific testing session is questionable. Equally, the use of invalid or unreliable variables 
is not only unhelpful but can result inappropriate 
decisions being made.
When a mixed-methods approach is taken in 
conjunction with appropriate statistical analy -
ses, coaches and support staff are able to make 
informed decisions regarding the training pro -
cess. An example of how this might look in a 
high-performance setting is shown in table 6.3.
Wisdom
Despite the desire in many high-performance envi -
ronments for a single number or measure that is 
representative of overall fatigue status, to this point such a variable has not been identified  . Therefore, the 
prudent approach is to use a mixed-methods system in which internal and external measures of load and fatigue response are reviewed in combination with the art of coaching  .
There is scientific interest in collecting and 
using tools to monitor and optimise the training 
process; however, for these tools to be useful in 
a practical sense, they must be meaningful to 
coaches. There are endless ways to present data, 
but coaches generally are more interested in the outcomes and recommendations than in the 
nuances of data collection and statistical analysis. 
*SD = standard deviation of baseline scores (e.g., four scores collected from a preseason cup-competition phase)

84 ❙ Coutts and Cormack
For this reason, graphical representation of data is 
often informative. Approaches such as the use of a 
traffic light system (i.e., green for good, yellow for 
caution, red for danger) to denote an individual 
athlete’s status can be useful. Reporting change 
in percentage terms is also meaningful to most people as long as the relative change required for 
the information to be important is highlighted. 
Finally, often the most important aspect of making these types of data meaningful to coaches is to 
provide a qualitative inference regarding the 
training, competition and injury implications of 
specific data sets.
Summary
The emphasis on monitoring training load and 
fatigue in high-performance settings is likely to 
continue to increase. Similarly, the desire for a 
single tool, marker or value to represent overall fatigue status also is likely to continue, but it 
appears highly unlikely that one exists. Therefore, 
the biggest impact can be made by using a suite of 
valid and reliable markers analysed on multiple 
levels. A mixed-methods approach seems the most appropriate.
As technology continues to advance, it may be 
possible to accurately assess the status of discrete 
biological systems in the field. This enhanced 
precision should help to optimise individual 
training program manipulation. Importantly, 
the validity of individual variables may be somewhat environment specific. Despite a focus 
on objective tools, an enormous amount of data 
now points to the value of simple yet valuable perceptual tools such as s-RPE and psychometric 
inventories. A more effective use of these tools in 
conjunction with objective markers may hold the 
key to the development of effective monitoring 
programs.Table 6.3  Sample Monitoring System for High-Performance Team Sport
VariableCollection 
frequency Statistical analysis technique Practical value
RPE Every session Modified standard difference scoreIntra- and inter-individual comparisonsCritical
Load Weekly As above Critical
Monotony Weekly As above Important
Strain Weekly As above Important
Wellness questionnaire 2-4 times per weekAs above Critical
Training and competition intensityEvery session Change relative to reliability valueWeek-to-week and chronic variationVery important
Psychological inventory Weekly to monthlyAs above plus psychologist interpretationVery important
Biochemical, neuromus -
cular, autonomic NS markers (HRV)Weekly Change relative to reliability value
Week-to-week and chronic variationImportant but can be expensive and require specialised 
equipment
Other markers (e.g., sleep)As needed Change relative to reliability valueWeek-to-week and chronic variationVery important but rely on specific equipment and expertise
Data from E. Borg and L. Kaijser, 2006, “ A comparison between three rating scales for perceived exertion and two different work tests,” 
Scandinavian Journal of Medicine and Science in Sports 16(1): 57-69; F.M. Impellizzeri, E. Rampinini, and S.M. Marcora, 2005, “Physiological assessment of aerobic training in soccer,” Journal of Sports Sciences 23(6): 583-592; B.D. McLean, A.J. Coutts, V. Kelly, M.R. McGuigan, and S.J. Cormack, 2010, “Neuromuscular, endocrine, and perceptual fatigue responses during different length between-match microcycles in professional rugby league players,” International Journal of Sports Physiology and Performance 5(3): 367-383; and H. Selye, 1956, The stress of life (London: Longmans Green).

CHAPTER
 85
7
7
7
Injury remains an all-too-frequent consequence 
of sport at all levels, either through trauma or 
the attrition associated with the constant pursuit of improved performance. Injury often results in 
a reduction in performance or time removed from 
training and competition.
Although injury can bring its own signifi  cant 
stresses and frustrations to the athlete, it can also present a rare opportunity to review, recondition and improve athleticism and general robustness. 
As seasons lengthen and competition demands 
increase, the windows for good-quality periods 
of physical improvement are narrower. Treating 
injury as an opportunity is often a helpful mind-set to offer to fallen athletes as coaches navigate them 
through a diffi  cult and uncertain period.
This chapter discusses the strategies that should 
be pursued both during and in the immediate aftermath of a mid- to long-term injury (defi  ned 
as 4 weeks or more). It highlights the need for an 
integrated approach to injury management from all 
support staff to ensure the best possible outcome is achieved. We discuss the management philosophy 
that should be adopted in terms of rehabilitation 
design and progression, the transition to full train-
ing and the monitoring and on-going processes 
required once an athlete returns to competition in order to minimise reinjury risk. Our aim is to 
present a philosophy of player management that 
is applicable to all injury scenarios and fosters an interdisciplinary approach to reconditioning the 
injured athlete.Planning the Process
It is inadvisable to fi  rst start thinking about injury 
management after the injury has occurred. This 
will lead to loss of valuable time and mistakes 
made through inadequate preparation. It is import-
ant that the athlete has a sense of confi  dence in the 
plan of care for his or her injury and as well as in the management team, one that places the athlete 
at the centre of the rehabilitation model.
Interdisciplinary Approach to 
Athlete-Centred Rehabilitation
It is important to start by understanding who will 
be involved in the process. The extent of the team 
may vary by organisation and infrastructure, but 
generally speaking, it may involve any or all of 
the following:
• Athlete
• Coach
• Doctor or external specialists
• Physiotherapist, athletic trainer, chiropractor
• Strength and conditioning or fi  tness coach
• Nutritionist
• Psychologist
Sometimes all of these people will be a part of 
a formal team, but in many cases (especially away from professional sport) these roles will be fi  lled by Retraining the Injured Athlete
Daniel Lewindon
Rugby Football Union, UK
David Joyce
Western Force Rugby, Australia and Edith Cowan University, Australia

86 ❙ Lewindon and Joyce
only a few individuals. The one person who does 
not vary, however, is the athlete. The athlete should 
always be at the centre of the management process. 
This is what we call the performance team , and for 
the team to work effectively, clarity regarding roles, responsibilities and plans needs to be achieved.
The next concept that should be understood 
is the importance of an interdisciplinary team, not just a multidisciplinary team. The difference may seem semantic, but it signals somewhat of a 
paradigm shift away from a fragmented approach 
involving many people, and therefore many sep -
arate opinions and outcomes, to one whereby all members of the team are unified in the plan and outcome measures. The interdisciplinary approach 
reinforces the concept that many aspects of reha -
bilitation are interrelated; as such, there will be 
elements of crossover in terms of input at any 
given time. It ensures a consistency of approach 
and a unity within the team and is the best way 
to ensure that there are no weak links in the chain 
or uncertainty among the management team. The philosophy of One Athlete–One Programme is 
vital in all mid- to long-term rehabilitation projects.
Managing the Diagnosis
Rehabilitation starts with a thorough understand -
ing of the diagnosis and likely recovery period. Inevitably, the first question an athlete asks as soon 
as the injury occurs is, ‘How long until I’m back 
competing?’ The first challenge, then, is to manage 
the expectations of the athlete, coach and parents or other loved ones whilst providing a positive, 
realistic, accurate (and acceptable!) answer. In 
what can be an emotionally charged and initially uncertain period, this is perhaps best managed 
through the following cascade:
1. Ensure correct diagnosis and interdepart -
mental and practitioner discussion before providing narrow time lines.
2. Dissociate from the stresses and pressures 
applied by all concerned and your own attachment to the athlete or team.
3. Provide the athlete and coaching staff a 
spectrum of best- through worst-case sce -
narios with a thorough explanation of the processes involved in return to competition: 
a progressive symptom- and outcome-led rehabilitation process that will return the 
athlete in a better physical state.4. Provide detailed and player-centred plan -
ning by delivering a clear, criteria-driven program to the player, which includes input 
from all relevant parties (including consider -
ation of external life pressures and priorities and fundamental athletic qualities to be developed during this period).
5. 
Adopt and present a mindset that the injury has presented an opportunity to all concerned.
Before the athlete can mentally commit to a 
rehabilitation process, there needs to be a level of 
acceptance and a desire to move forward. Perhaps 
the biggest barrier is uncertainty. Uncertainty 
regarding the diagnosis or prognosis is a major 
source of anxiety in an athlete. As such, a full explanation of the injury is vital, as is a pragmatic 
plan for the athlete’s return to play. It may take 
multiple explanations of an injury and the reha -
bilitation plan for this information to be accepted. 
It may come down to the athlete’s learning style or 
even just the fact that the athlete may be in denial 
about the injury or what needs to happen next. It is 
critical to take the time to explain everything and to give the injured athlete sufficient time to ask 
questions. Without this effort, the athlete will find 
it difficult to move on and focus on the job at hand.
It is not uncommon for a contemporary athlete to 
request or be offered a scan for any injury. Although this procedure can provide good insight into an 
injured structure and the prognosis, there can be 
a mismatch in the functional status of the athlete versus the radiological findings.
1 Undoubtedly, we 
should at least consider this diagnostic technology, 
but only if it will change management of the injury. 
Treat the man, not the scan is an oft-quoted catch-cry. 
If function can be accurately proven and carefully 
progressed, then a successful return from injury can be accelerated. This is a powerful argument 
for the use of criterion-based rehabilitation, a topic 
that will be discussed in detail later.
Wisdom
An individual displaying anxious behaviours during 
rehabilitation is likely to display similar anxieties when reintegrating into competition  . This often translates 
into a much slower rehabilitation period  . Therefore, 
if we want to get athletes back on the field or track in as short a period as possible, we need to address these anxieties as soon as possible  . A well-explained 
diagnosis is critical to reducing anxiety  .

Retraining the Injured Athlete ❙ 87
Thinking in Terms of Abilities, 
Not Disabilities
In terms of injury rehabilitation, much of the plan-
ning and delivery of rehabilitation programmes will 
be drawn from a thorough understanding of the 
lines of stress, that is, what can be pushed and what 
needs to be respected, for how long, and why.2 This 
takes an interdisciplinary approach and represents a mindset change from a more traditional, conserva-
tive medical approach. Instead of telling the athlete 
what he or she cannot do, the emphasis is placed on 
what the athlete can  do. This immediately ingratiates 
the medical team with the strength and conditioning 
team, coaching staff and athlete and enables a more 
complete use of the convalescence period.
Figure 7 .1 demonstrates the understanding of 
an injury that is required and the key players 
who should form the backbone of rehabilitation 
planning and delivery during the injury period.
Injury as an Opportunity
No athlete wants to be injured, and so it is vital to fi  nd silver linings in what can be a somewhat 
cloudy sky. The best way to frame this unfortunate 
time in an athlete’s career is that the time that it 
takes for an injury to heal represents an oppor-
tunity to review the athlete in his or her entirety, not simply concentrating on the injured part of 
the anatomy. This holistic view presents a good 
opportunity to improve these aspects:
• Injury-risk profi  le (bullet-proofi  ng)• Physical capacities (e.g., aerobic power, upper-body strength)
• Movement effi  ciency
• Psychological and emotional resiliency
• Tactical awareness
The elements of these categories are discussed 
in detail in other chapters of this book. The same 
principles can be followed to achieve outcomes 
with the injured athlete, although there needs 
to be a consideration of the lines of stress that 
the training will produce on a healing part. Close consultation within the interdisciplinary 
team of all these variables is critical to ensure 
the athletic needs of the individual are being met without compromising the rehabilitation 
objectives.
Within some environments, the sight of an 
injured player resting whilst the remainder of the team trains would not be well received and 
therefore needs to be managed with care. With 
this in mind, coaches should be fully informed 
and involved in the rehabilitation programme and have the opportunity to include stage-appropriate 
coaching into the schedule. This may be as 
simple as involving the athlete in video analysis of upcoming opponents or having the athlete 
participate in match-day water running, but it 
keeps the athlete connected with the coaches 
and team. It also provides the development of 
game understanding that may be more diffi  cult when the athlete is fi  t, and so represents another 
opportunity.
Rehab Prevention
Recovery timePerformance
Injury
occursAthlete
fully recovered
E5891/Joyce//Fig 07 .01b/476840/R1/JGPhysiotherapy
Strength and Conditioning
Figure 7.1  Player-centred planning process.

88 ❙ Lewindon and Joyce
Delivering the Programme
Now that we understand the philosophical 
elements behind world-class rehabilitation, it’s 
important that we get the delivery right. The theory 
will count for naught if the practice is lacking in 
precision and effectiveness.
Design and Delivery
All members of the performance team have critical 
roles to play in the planning and delivery of the 
rehabilitation process. A modern-day model of 
rehabilitation needs to be both tissue specific (incor -
porating physiological systems and biomechanical principles) and functional, with an emphasis on motor learning, reorganisation and sport relevance.
A rehabilitation program is invariably broken 
down into staged phases of escalating demand. The progamme might typically be composed of acute, 
low-load, moderate-load, high-load and return-
to-sport sections. Ideally, there may also be some thought given to on-going prevention conditioning 
once the athlete has returned to sport. Whatever 
design or layout used, the format needs to be clear to all members of the management team and to the 
athlete as well; it needs to provide a clear pathway 
showing where the athlete is in the program and 
what he or she needs to achieve to move on.
Rehabilitation needs to be structured so that 
athletes have a series of wins. These stepping stones to success need to be arranged throughout 
the rehabilitation period and obviously need to be weighed up with the physical health of the heal -
ing tissues. This is where close communication between the support team and the athlete is crucial; 
it is vital to determine what sport-specific tasks are 
of particular concern to the client.
For example, after a knee injury, an athlete may 
be particularly concerned about sudden changes of direction whilst running. A possible rehabilitation 
plan could therefore progress from slow slalom 
runs, to tighter slalom runs, to zig-zag running, to 
cutting and then to reversing the direction of run -
ning. Variables can be added to this basic structure: 
speed, increased attention demands (e.g., using a 
ball), different footwear (e.g., moulded to screw-in 
studs) or surface demands, an opponent, unpre -
dictable or game-relevant changes of direction, live 
evasion and tackling or multiopponent evasion.
Each progression would be considered only 
after the stepping stones have been accomplished, 
a key concept discussed later in this chapter.Importance of Periodising 
Rehabilitation
Adaptation to an imposed demand requires both 
stimulus and recovery. Therefore, we must con -
sider how to periodise rehabilitation to best ensure timely and optimal outcome.
A great deal of effort is placed into periodising 
training plans, but much less is placed on the for -
malised periodising of rehabilitation. For example, 
in an attempt to not load a knee injury, the athlete 
will be given upper-body strength programmes to do every day instead. Alternatively, an athlete 
who cannot yet participate in collision training in a 
contact sport will be assigned extra running. These 
are examples of lazy programme design without a 
strategic, long-term view of loading. It is certainly possible to overwork athletes, and it is little wonder so many athletes look stale when they come back 
from a long injury. With this in mind, a strategic 
approach to rehabilitation and training loadings 
should be applied from the start of the process. 
This is discussed in detail in chapter 18.
When planning long-term rehabilitation, start 
at the estimated return-to-play date (as though it was a major competition) and work backward, incorporating heavy-, medium- and low-load 
weeks. This will ensure all bases are covered, and 
the monotony of relentless rehabilitation loading 
does not blunt the athlete’s edge.
Importance of Exit Criteria
The progression of a rehabilitation program 
throughout each phase should be judged on the 
achievement of carefully formulated, objective exit 
criteria, a critical aspect of rehabilitation program -
ming. Exit criteria serve to minimise the potential for inappropriate rehabilitation sequencing, drills or volume and load, creating a clear road map of 
recovery for the athlete and all members of the 
team. Doing so requires a detailed understanding of relevant tissue loading, normal tissue function 
and the end game (the athlete’s and any sport or 
position’s specific requirements). Having a clear 
road map allows the practitioner to be more aggres -
sive with the programme, but with the confidence 
that the markers set are appropriate, and therefore 
the risks to the athlete are minimised.
Although the sports medicine practitioner may 
best understand the lines of stress of the injury, all members of the team have pivotal roles to play 
in this process, creating an integrated programme 

 Retraining the Injured Athlete ❙ 89
that considers all aspects of athlete rehabilitation 
and performance. The key thing to note is that we 
should not mortgage rehabilitation outcomes based 
on time elapsed, but rather on achieving functional 
competencies. There are certain healing times that 
are reasonably well established (e.g., 6 weeks for an uncomplicated bone fracture, 21 days for a grade 1 
hamstring strain) and can help guide prognostics. 
If this system is the guiding one, however, what tends to occur is that we become more fixated on 
the passage of time as opposed to the achievement 
of functional goals.
For example, we may think that a minor ankle 
sprain in a lacrosse player should take 10 days to heal based on physiology and established healing 
times. If, however, the athlete still cannot demon -
strate competencies in deceleration and change 
of direction by this time, it is unwise to push the 
athlete back onto the field. It is much better to have 
established return-to-play criteria for the athlete to 
satisfy as opposed to having just crossed off days 
on the calendar.
This approach can be used throughout the 
rehabilitation period. Taking the example of the lacrosse player, let’s say the player is allowed to 
begin drills that involve changing direction. Speed 
can be added once the athlete can perform the drills slowly; the athlete can perform the drills 
slowly once he or she can decelerate; the athlete 
can decelerate once he or she can run; the athlete can run once he or she can hop; and so forth. An example of the inclusion of exit criteria in a 
hamstring rehabilitation programme is shown in 
table 7 .1. Although this table an example of best 
practice for this particular type of injury, it is used 
for illustrative purposes only; the framework can be adapted to suit other types of rehabilitation 
programmes.
Competency-based rehabilitation also helps 
ensure that there is a logical flow to tissue loading. This is vital to ensure that the body is hardened to 
the stresses that it will be expected to face when the 
athlete is back training and competing fully. The 
achievement of milestones also helps the injured athlete chart the journey back to health and see 
progress, which engenders confidence both in the 
system and in the athlete’s own body.
Special Considerations:  
Returning to Running
A critical consideration when returning to on-feet 
loading after a long period of immobilisation or 
reduced loading is the process of returning to 
running. In these cases, it is not just the injured site 
that needs to be considered, but rather all the other 
areas of the kinetic chain that may have become deconditioned. Perhaps the most obvious consid -
eration is tendon loading. Tendons generally take 2 or 3 days to recover after periods of high load. With 
Table 7.1   Exit Criteria Included in a Hamstring Rehabilitation Programme
Stage Exit criteria Completed
Acute Active knee extension (seated in neutral posture): 75% range or symmetry pain-free ■
Pain-free gait, stairs and sit to stand ■
Pain-free double-leg bridge (5-sec hold) at 90-, 60- and 30-degree knee flexion ■
Low load Active knee extension (seated in neutral posture): 100% range or symmetry pain-free ■
Pain-free single-leg bridge at 30-degree knee flexion ■
Pain-free single-leg mid-range loading with 3 plane perturbation ■
2 km treadmill jog (2% incline) ■
High load Repeated 80% intensity linear runs with maximal acceleration and deceleration ■
High-intensity (sub-maximal) multi-directional running ■
> 80% symmetry in single-leg maximal loading and capacity texts (e.g., isokinetic 
knee flexion/extension, single-leg deadlift, single-leg isometric hold + prone row)■
Return to sport Completion of complex agility and repeated speed under fatigue ■
Completion of a week of full training including repeated efforts of match intensity drills ■
Player, coach and performance team agreement ■

90 ❙ Lewindon and Joyce
this in mind, a suggested tendon-loading schedule 
over the course of a 7-day period is as follows:
Monday: Low
Tuesday: HighWednesday: LowThursday: MediumFriday: LowSaturday: HighSunday: Low
What is considered high load is specific to the 
individual. For example, a 20-minute skipping 
session may be low load for a boxer but high for 
a swimmer. Equally, it might be low load for a well-conditioned boxer but high load for a boxer 
who has had 2 months of reduced training after 
knee surgery. What is considered high load at the 
beginning of a retraining period should graduate 
to being medium and then low load over time, highlighting the need to continually monitor and 
adjust the retraining programme.
When considering having the athlete return to 
on-feet load for the first time after a particularly lengthy time off (greater than 3 months), it is useful 
to implement the following schedule to allow 
the entire kinetic chain to adapt to the increased 
ground-reaction forces found when running:
Week 1: 1 day on feet, 2 days off feet
Weeks 2 and 3: 1 day on feet, 1 day off feetWeeks 4 and 5: 2 days on feet, 1 day off feetWeeks 6 and beyond: 3 days on feet, 1 day off 
feet
This schedule can be accelerated somewhat if 
the time on the sidelines is less than 3 months. In 
this case we can consider the following schedule:
Week 1: 1 day on feet, 2 days off feet
Week 2: 1 day on feet, 1 day off feetWeek 3: 2 days on feet, 1 day off feetWeeks 4 and beyond: 3 days on feet, 1 day off 
feet
Given these broad suggestions, it is worth rein -
forcing that each athlete is unique, both in terms 
of response to injury and also adaptive capacity 
within the process. Monitoring the dose response and the art of rehabilitation will play a role in the 
return to on-feet training.Programme Priorities
Rehabilitation needs to be specifically tailored not 
only to progressively load the injured tissue but 
also to be functionally relevant wherever possible. 
Not only does this hold the interest of the athlete, 
but it also provides immediate clarity for why the 
athlete is doing particular drills. Rather than train -
ing muscles or movements, we should consider both  
in exercise selection. Here is a simple example to illustrate this point.
An athlete suffers a quadriceps strain (grade 2) 
and is 7 days postinjury. The athlete has a pain-free gait and is able to walk up and down stairs 
without discomfort.
Exercise 1: seated knee extensions under load 
OR
Exercise 2: forward quarter lunge plus skill 
plus decision-making drill
Both exercises influence the same tissue 
through the same range of motion and generate a similar stimulus locally. However, a forward 
lunge integrates the load into a familiar move
-
ment pattern, requiring a far greater sensory and motor response, thus stimulating the central and 
peripheral nervous systems. The additional inclu
-
sion of a decision-making skill will increase the 
athlete’s interest and also total system demand. 
We are training movements but specifically 
targeting muscles. This principle is applicable 
to rehabilitation programmes for ligament and 
joint injury.
Proprioceptive Training
Proprioceptive training is a fundamental part of rehabilitation because injury can disrupt the body’s 
own neuromuscular feed-forward and feedback 
mechanisms. Proprioception is an umbrella term 
used to describe the internally generated afferent 
information arising for peripheral areas of the 
body that contributes to both static and dynamic 
postural stability; it is made up of joint position sense, kinaesthesia (motion sense) and resistance 
or force sense.
3
Functionally, this manifests as a reduction in 
the body’s internal dynamic defence system . It is not 
something that automatically resets to normal, 
though, and this may be a significant reason why 
injuries such as ankle sprains have a high recur -
rence rate.4

 Retraining the Injured Athlete ❙ 91
Proprioceptive training must challenge the 
athlete in relevant ways. Standing on one leg is a 
good place for an athlete recovering from an ankle 
sprain to start; however, it is folly to assume that 
this will be sufficient to ensure the athlete is ready 
to return to the competitive environment. As the tissue-recovery process allows, the joint needs to 
be stressed in multiple positions, on multiple sur -
faces (e.g., grass, sand), against external forces (e.g., 
bands, weights or opponents where appropriate) 
and with changing cognitive-load or decision-mak -
ing requirements (e.g., agility drills, catching or avoiding balls).
The timing of these proprioceptive sessions 
bears consideration. In the early part of a reha -
bilitative process, it is advisable to conduct these 
drills when the athlete is fresh; however, for true development of injury-saving mechanisms, repet -
itive and meaningful practice to groove neural pathways is required under conditions of fatigue.
Returning to Full Training 
and Competition
The time that surrounds the return to training 
and then to competition is actually the time of 
highest risk of reinjury. This is because the athlete 
will often feel better than he or she actually is, 
leading to a confidence–competence mismatch . This 
transition needs to be executed with skill and with 
a deep understanding of the loading tolerance of 
the injured tissue.
Returning to Training
Before being placed in the uncontrolled environ -
ment of competitive play, the athlete should be both competent and confident with competitive 
training. This training should replicate all facets of 
the demands that the player will face in competi -
tion. Depending on the characteristics of the sport, 
this may involve sprinting, jumping and landing, cutting, full-contact collisions, kicking, punching, 
catching, turning at speed, throwing, catching or 
diving. The athlete must demonstrate consistent 
proficiency in all these tasks.
Ideally, the athlete should be able to demonstrate 
proficiency in all aspects of training, along with stable responses to this training of a week or more, 
before being selected for competition. Being able to demonstrate proficiency provides information regarding the stability and endurance of the 
injured part; it also gives the athlete the confidence 
of repeated effective performance.
Taking time to demonstrate proficiency also 
allows time for training staff to examine the com -
petency of the athlete and the injury under the 
veil of fatigue. Given that most athletic injuries 
occur in the latter stages of a match or competi -
tion, when the player is fatigued, it is prudent to 
examine this competency under relative control. 
The prefatigue session may or may not specifically 
load the injured tissue, but it must result in central 
fatigue and therefore disturbance to neuromuscu -
lar pathways. This can be achieved by testing key 
competencies immediately after a high-intensity 
running or cycling session. By the end stage of 
rehabilitation, all results should prove to the athlete 
and the coaching and performance team that the athlete has the physical competence and confidence 
required to return and thrive in the sport.
Returning to Competition
One of the more difficult problems that the perfor -
mance team faces is determining when an athlete is ready to return to action after injury. The athlete 
can be placed under enormous pressure from the 
owner, coach, fans and media to get out on the 
track, field or floor in record time. It is vital that we remove the guesswork, because if we get it wrong, 
the athlete may be spending even longer on the 
treatment couch. Although we cannot perfectly guarantee that an injury will not recur when the 
player steps out onto the pitch, there are a number 
of factors that, if taken into consideration when 
determining return to competition (RTC), can help 
determine whether the risk of playing is acceptable.
We can divide the assessment criteria into 
physiological and functional categories. Physi -
ological assessment examines the health of the athlete and the state of repair of the injury. It looks 
to determine the safety of the athlete. Functional assessment examines the ability of the athlete to 
perform the tasks demanded by the sport. This assessment seeks to determine the answers to the 
following questions.
Is the Athlete Fit to Play?
The foremost consideration must be the health 
of the athlete. In other words, is the state of the 
injury sufficiently healed and stable that allowing 
the athlete to return to action is safe? This can be 

92 ❙ Lewindon and Joyce
a tricky minefield because it is often a grey area. 
If the athlete is obviously not ready, this decision 
usually is self-evident. It is helpful to have a 
clear understanding about the grounds on which 
this decision is to be made, so that guesswork is 
removed, and the decision can be communicated effectively and with authority to the coaching staff.
Pain is an obvious variable to be considered. 
Clearly, if the athlete is in significant distress, he or she is unlikely to be in a sound state of mind 
or body to perform. The absence of pain does 
not equal the absence of a problem; this is where 
assessment of the state of the injury on grounds of 
pain alone is always problematic. Sometimes pain (or, indeed, lack of pain) is not a good indicator of 
the state of repair of an injury. In some instances, 
the athlete may feel better than he or she actually is. For example, most people are not in pain 3 
months after an anterior cruciate ligament recon -
struction, yet in most instances the state of repair is not mature enough to consider a return to the 
playing field. To be able to answer these physio -
logical questions with any degree of confidence, 
we must know healing and recovery times for the 
various tissues that may have been affected by the 
original injury. This is where a team approach with 
careful guidance from and communication with the medical team is critical.
Several other aspects need to be assessed, 
including local muscular function; ligament laxity; muscular strength, power and endurance; joint 
range of motion (ROM); and bony healing. The 
question is what is the best way to judge these 
parameters? Ideally, we would have an idea of what 
the athlete was like before the injury. We must also place a greater value on the functional use 
of the injured tissue rather than any one isolated 
muscular strength test.
Has the Athlete Returned  
to Baseline Measures?
The aim of rehabilitation is to return an athlete to a level of physical health and functional performance 
equal to or even exceeding the preinjury status. To 
determine whether the athlete has returned to this 
level, a full assessment of the injury, the kinetic 
chain and the entire person is required. The aim of assessing every aspect of an athlete is unrealis -
tic, though, and is not supported by research. The field of tests that could be applied is too vast, many of which would be irrelevant to the athlete being 
tested. A strategic approach is required, one that relies on the gathering of intelligence as a method 
of sifting through all the possible things that could 
go wrong in order to hone in on those things that 
are most likely to.
The variables of interest depend on the nature of 
the injury and the nature of the sport. The screen -
ing tool should seek to examine the integrity of
• the injured structure;
• structures identified as commonly injured 
in the particular sport (e.g., the injuries seen 
in ice hockey are markedly different to those seen in triathlon, so it is vital to understand 
the sport and the risk profile associated with 
it); and
• structures identified as high risk according to the risk profile of the individual, based on 
age, past history and gender.
Commonly employed tests include isolated 
or multijoint ROM, localised tests of muscular 
strength and capacity and functional tests of 
kinetic chain capacity. In the case of an injury to a 
limb, a comparison to the noninjured side is made, 
but this is only appropriate when we are confident 
that we have a noninjured side to act as a control and when the musculoskeletal parameters in 
question are normally symmetrical. It is infinitely 
better to have a tool with which we can compare the athlete before and after injury, which provides 
a cogent argument for the employment of muscu -
loskeletal screening.
Wisdom
It is only with objective measures of an athlete’s mus -
culoskeletal profile that we can be confident the athlete 
has completely returned to full health after an injury  .
Does the Athlete Have to Be  
100 Per Cent Fit?
Those working in professional sport will testify to 
the fact that it is often unrealistic to expect each 
athlete to be perfectly fit for every event or game. 
There is a level of acceptance that, even though 
the athlete may not be 100 per cent fit, he or she 
may be fit enough to play . This decision needs to be 
made by the medical staff in conjunction with the 
athlete. At all times, we must keep the athlete’s best 
interests in mind and weigh up short-term gain versus long-term health. We need to be especially 

 Retraining the Injured Athlete ❙ 93
careful when we are trying to get an athlete back 
to competition before full recovery.
The decision about when an athlete returns 
to action ultimately is determined by the athlete. 
Members of the coaching and support teams must 
fully inform the athlete about his or her state of 
health. All athletes have the right to make up their 
own minds, but they should be fully informed of the risks of playing when, in our judgment, they 
may not be fit enough to do so. There are several 
reported cases of legal proceedings brought against healthcare professionals by athletes who have aggra
-
vated an injury or been permanently disabled after an early RTC when the athlete claimed he or she was 
not fully informed of the risks. Indeed, it may be 
advisable to ask the athlete sign a document stating 
that he or she has been fully informed of the risks 
of a return to play and that the athlete is playing against medical advice.
Wisdom
The question of fitness for a return to action after injury 
can be tricky and emotional  . Our job is to get players 
back out on the field as quickly as possible, but more -
over, to keep them there  . By taking the guesswork out 
of the equation by being as objective and rigorous as possible, we can minimise the risk of athletes limping back into the clinic after a failed return to the pitch  .
Is the Athlete Fit to Perform?
There is a significant distinction to make between 
the terms fit to play and fit to perform . Medical clear -
ance to return to elite sport (fit to play) that exists in isolation without consideration of the athlete’s func
-
tion and overall performance status (fit to perform) is flawed and risks injury recurrence or poor per
-
formance. We must ensure that returning athletes are optimally conditioned to perform in the sport. 
Hence, an RTC decision must not be based solely on 
healing parameters but on functional ones as well.
Functional assessment of an athlete seeks 
to determine whether he or she will be able to 
perform tasks effectively and safely on the track 
or pitch. It is much more difficult for this to be 
a black-and-white assessment because so much 
is determined by the exact nature of the sport, the position played and the level of competition. 
This assessment should be carefully designed to 
specifically test every component of the game or event and should look to stress the injury site to determine if it is robust enough to withstand the rigours of competition. Muscular injuries are more 
likely to occur when muscles are fatigued, and 
thus if we want to be thorough, we need to test 
the athlete’s strength and function under fatigue.
Several tests have been validated as ways of 
providing objective measures of functional per -
formance. In order to have a complete picture 
of an athlete’s physical preparedness, we should examine recovery from a number of physiologi -
cal and functional standpoints. It is impossible to provide an exhaustive list of all the tests that could 
be employed, and much will depend on both the 
injury and the demands of the sport, but table 7 .2 provides some examples.
Some of the tests described in table 7 .2 require 
equipment or technology not available to all coaches or therapists. There are other ways of 
determining fitness to perform. Look more at qual -
itative measures such as those listed in table 7 .3. This list is by no means exhaustive, and there will 
be other factors that should be assessed, depending on the demands of the sport. The type of sport 
that the athlete is returning to makes a difference 
when assessing risk of reinjury. It may be possible 
to get a taekwondo fighter back to competition 
after a shoulder injury earlier than a rugby player, for example, due to the reduced demand on arm 
function in this form of martial art. This is where 
a knowledge of the sport is necessary, or at least, effective communication with the player or coach.
Ideally, the athlete should be able to demonstrate 
all the factors outlined in the fit-to-play column 
with none from the unfit-to-play column. Where 
possible, one or more members of the performance team should witness training in the competitive 
environment to determine proficiency in these 
functional tasks.
Wisdom
Inclusion of the coach in end-stage rehabilitation can 
be a positive move  . No matter how far our scientific 
understanding of athletes and their sports progresses, there will always be a key role for the coach’s eye when generating end-stage rehabilitation drills and testing processes and assessing training performance  . It also 
helps to ensure that the athlete is not just physically robust, but also technically and tactically sound as well . This spread of responsibility to strengthen confi -
dence highlights the need for a truly interdisciplinary approach to rehabilitation  .

94Table 7.2  Functional Outcome Measures That Can Be Used to Determine Preparedness to Compete
Variable Test examples Outcome Threshold of proficiency
Injury-specific 
functional testJumping and landing competencyVertical jump
Broad jump
Three-hop distance testCrossover-hop test
Star excursion balance test Height, distance, time to 
stabilise, ground-reaction force (peak, total and 
symmetry)Equal to preinjury status
Within 10% of 
contralateral side
Agility 5-0-5
Illinois
RATChange of direction and 
techniqueEqual to preinjury status
Within 10% of matched 
controls
Running 
capacityMAS
Yo-Yo IRT30-15Repeated shuttle running 
abilityEqual to preinjury status
Within 10% of matched 
controls
Speed 0-10 m
0-40 m
Flying 20 mAcceleration and top speed Equal to preinjury status
Within 10% of matched 
controls
Limb function testsDouble-limb muscle functionSquat
Bench press
Barbell shoulder press
Glute–ham raiseStrength, power and 
fatigue indexEqual to preinjury status
Within 10% of matched 
controls
Single-limb muscle functionStep-up
Dumbbell shoulder pressStrength, power and 
fatigue indexEqual to preinjury status
Within 10% of 
contralateral side
Mechanical loadingGPS analysis Training characteristics Running volumes; sprinting volumes; 
accelerations and 
decelerations, including change of directionEquivalent to competition demands
Technical skill analysisSpeed; distance; characteristics of throw, 
pitch or kickEquivalent to competition 
demands
Physiological testingResponse to trainingHeart rate variability
Session RPEObjective and subjective 
responses to training loadEqual to preinjury status
Within 10% of matched 
controls
Table 7.3  Qualitative Judgments of Preparedness to Compete
Fit to play Unfit to play
Good balance against strong perturbations
Happy to load injured body part
Precise stepping off line and zig-zag without losing speed
Able to rapidly accelerate, decelerate and change 
directions
Completion of full training (multiple sessions)Self-confidence about RTPEasily put off balanceFavours noninjured side
Long, loopy changes of direction
Wary of contact or falling onto injured body partAltered biomechanics to offload injured part
Long tail-off on deceleration and loss of first-step 
quickness on acceleration
High centre of gravity when running and changing 
directions
Mentally not ready to play or excessive anxiety

 Retraining the Injured Athlete ❙ 95
Mindset: The Psychology  
of Injury
It is important to accept that after a moderate-to- 
severe injury requiring extended time on the side -
line, there is a natural grieving process that needs to be respected and worked through. Although 
we often think of grief as something that relates 
to death, it is more about loss. In sport, an injury can lead to loss of self-worth, achievement, income 
and even employment. Particularly in the case of 
a serious injury, denial, anger, bargaining and depression before acceptance may be seen. This is 
especially the case when culpability exists, such 
as when the athlete is injured by another player’s 
recklessness. It is important to recognise that these 
stages are normal and not necessarily maladaptive. Also, although it is reasonable to anticipate these 
emotions and behaviours will peak early on after 
injury, they can also reemerge later in the recovery process in response to any difficulties encountered.
If the rehabilitation process is likely to be long 
term, consideration of personal factors (e.g., family life, holidays) and rehabilitation centre location and 
personnel may also become more important. Endo -
crine health will drive the rehabilitation process, 
and the role of psychological factors in recovery 
and performance is gaining momentum within 
the literature.
5 Psychological factors are explored 
in detail in chapter 24, but in broad terms, at a 
physiological level athletes are trying to maintain 
an anabolic status to maximise their tissue develop -
ment. Hormone circulation and balance, though not cognitive, are mediated by areas of the brain and influenced by mood, so we need to ensure players 
are positive and upbeat throughout their recovery.
Wisdom
Any world-class rehabilitation strategy has a clear plan 
for returning the athlete to play and also considers additional aspects of on-field performance and life in general .
Anxiety of Returning  
to Competition
The prospect of returning to the sport arena after 
a major injury can be a frightening prospect. It 
involves athletes putting themselves into situations that will stress not just the site of the injury, but also 
the mind and central nervous system. Accordingly, 
the physical, mental and emotional components of 
the rehabilitation need to have been completed in 
order for a successful return to the arena to occur. 
If athletes are left with a sense of a lack of com -
plete integration of all these components, a feeling 
that the rehabilitation is unfinished may pervade, 
which is likely to leave them with anxiousness 
regarding reinjury.
When an athlete sustains an injury, the brain 
places more attention on the harmed area. The brain devotes more space to the injured part 
because, quite rightfully, it wants to know every -
thing that is going on around the injury zone. This 
can be likened to the process of increasing the 
numbers of security cameras trained on a known 
crime hot-spot. This increase in neural activity will 
maintain its presence whilst the brain still per -
ceives that the threat of further injury (or reinjury) 
is high. These cameras do not disappear overnight 
or even as soon as the physiological process of healing is complete. They are still present for as 
long as the brain is concerned about the threat. 
The process of rehabilitation is complete only after 
the physiological process of healing is sufficiently 
resolved, physical performance is reinstituted and the brain is satisfied that threat levels have reduced 
and has turned off its cameras.
Often, an athlete will relate that the previous 
injury doesn’t hurt any more, but it feels different 
or that he or she is aware of it. This sensation can be a source of annoyance and is likely due to the brain 
still wanting to keep tabs on the previously injured 
structure. Sensations that would previously have been dealt with unconsciously by the brain (like 
background music) are now being analysed con -
sciously (like foreground music). More attention is placed on the injured part, even though the healing 
process is complete. This can become a problem when this process goes on for too long, and the 
security cameras never get turned off. Anxiety can 
result, which can be a cause of significant reduc -
tions in performance (e.g., poor skill execution, 
poor allocation of energy resources and decreased 
attention to the necessary tasks of the sport) and is 
said to increase the risk of actual reinjury.
6
We often think of rehabilitation as a series of 
steps that physically prepare a person to return to full function by progressively loading and con -
ditioning injured tissues to enable them to with -
stand stress. Although this is undoubtedly true, 

96 ❙ Lewindon and Joyce
this definition is too reductive. Rehabilitation is a 
much more complicated process that has as much 
to do with progressively reducing the threat levels 
in order to turn off the internal security cameras 
as it does with strengthening local tissues. What 
is also clear is that rehabilitation is only complete when the athlete perceives it to be complete, and 
the fear of pain or reinjury is removed.
It is certainly not uncommon for an athlete to 
be able to blitz all physical tests and demonstrate excellent strength around an injured area and yet 
still be highly distrustful of the injury. In these 
situations there is an element of the rehabilitation 
that is not complete, and it is not enough just to wash our hands and say that our job is done. The 
athlete remains to be convinced within him- or 
herself that the rehabilitation is complete. Some -
times it may be enough for us to give the athlete 
permission to return to play; other times it can be 
a great deal trickier.
Wisdom
When returning to the competitive environment, the 
anxious athlete looks slow, tentative and unwilling to perform tasks at full speed  . Technical and tactical 
applications often are less crisp, and movement often is described as being hesitant and laboured  . Demoti -
vating feelings of frustration often follow  . Having an 
understanding that this is often the case and counsel -
ling the athlete in advance  can be a wise move, thereby 
helping to set realistic expectations of both the athlete and the coaching staff  .
Obviously, anxiety varies among individuals. 
The higher the stakes (e.g., missing a grand final 
or important meet, income or selection for higher 
honours), the more threatening the spectre of reinjury will be, and therefore the more anxious the athlete is likely to be. Another factor that may 
play a role is personal experience. For example, 
a footballer who previously came back from a hamstring injury too soon only to be reinjured and 
sidelined for an even lengthier period is likely to be 
more anxious when trying to get back the second 
time. Equally important is a strong level of trust 
between the athlete and the sport rehabilitator. Clearly, the athlete needs to be able to believe the 
clinician when he or she says the injury has healed 
and that a return to play is safe.
Summary
Injury should be packaged as an opportunity and a positive experience wherever possible. Not only will this likely improve recovery times, but it will 
certainly provide the opportunity to review and 
develop the athlete.
The rehabilitation process must be carefully 
constructed with functionally and physiologically appropriate exit criteria at each stage, ensuring 
timely, holistic and safe progressions are used. 
The process should include input from the whole 
performance team and be delivered as one bespoke 
plan to the athlete, demonstrating unity, a clear direction and purpose.
Rehabilitation should not be considered to be 
complete until the athlete has achieved all mark -
ers set, successfully returned to performance and 
remained symptom free for an extended period. 
Given that the risk of reinjury is at its highest in the 
first few weeks after returning to competition after 
an injury, monitoring the athlete’s ongoing health and performance is a necessary task in ensuring 
that not only does the athlete return to competition, 
but also that he or she stays competitive.

PARTII
Developing Athletic 
Capacity
BPI/Image/Icon SMI

This page intentionally left blank.

CHAPTER
 99
8
8
8
In 1957 , 46 male students were taken through a 
5-minute warm-up and then told to throw a soft-
ball as far as they could. Weeks later, the unknow-ing students were brought back to the softball fi  eld 
and, without a warm-up, offered money to throw 
the ball farther than they had a week before. None of the participants was able to collect the money.
1
It’s easy to conclude from this study and count-
less similar ones that a proper warm-up is an 
ergogenic aid to athletes. Unfortunately, it’s not that 
simple. The term warm-up  can include any number 
of activities, including stretching, thermogenic exercises, calisthenics, visualisation, plyometrics, soft-tissue work and neural stimulation. These 
components have been studied in combinations 
many times, often with conclusions that are not as clear-cut as the 1960 softball study. Not only does 
research show that some methods used to prepare 
athletes for activity appear to have no effect, but 
some can even be detrimental to athletic perfor-
mance. For this reason, it is important for coaches to understand the many options available, what 
works effectively in the environment and how to 
customise the respective components to each ath-lete, depending on individual needs, sport, position 
and training cycle.
Much like fl  ossing teeth, warming up often is 
something athletes know they should be doing but 
don’t make a habit of. This chapter explains why the warm-up should not be viewed as a separate 
activity that occurs before actual performance 
training. Instead, the chapter explains how the 
integration  of a well-constructed warm-up into 
an athlete’s training session will more effectively help develop movement profi  ciency, balance and core strength and reduce injury risk. The various 
warm-up options for creating the ideal session for athletes are broken down, thereby adding 
more tools to the performance-coaching toolbox. 
Shifting attention to the cool-down, the chapter 
discusses the ways elite coaches can use that time 
to start the regeneration process and makes the case for removing fl  exibility work from its usual 
posttraining time slot.
Benefi  ts of a Thorough 
Warm-Up
There are numerous stories of athletes who were 
late to an event, were unable to warm-up and went 
on to set records. Conversely, there are published 
studies demonstrating an increased risk of injury 
when insufficiently prepared. Karpovich, for 
example, reported young athletes who warmed up before a 60-metre sprint had more hamstring 
injuries than those who did not.
2 These studies 
represent a minority, but they’re important in setting one end of a spectrum of warm-up choices.
The truth is, if time is a factor, athletes proba-
bly will be safe with minimal warm-up. This is good news because often a full warm-up is not 
possible. Fortunately, most athletes do have time 
to integrate a warm-up into their training (and 
fl  ossing before bedtime, for that matter). Those who choose not to warm up may leave athletic 
potential untapped as muscle imbalances go 
untreated, joint range of motion (ROM) fails to Customizing the Warm-Up 
and Cool-Down
Rett Larson
Team China and EXOS (formerly Athletes’ Performance), United States

100 ❙ Larson
improve and movement mechanics continue to 
be limited. Failure to warm up may not directly 
correlate with short-term injury risk, but it almost 
certainly will result in an accumulation of injury 
risk as well as performance decrements.
The injury-reduction and performance advan -
tages of a proper warm-up have been vetted by meta-analysis;
3 most of these advantages can be 
attributed to the physiological benefits of increased temperature within muscle tissue. In short, a circus 
contortionist is more likely to be injured than the 
Frankenstein on a team who cannot touch his toes 
if Frank is warm and the contortionist is cold. Cold soft tissue does not function as well either. The 
nerve impulses in frogs travel eight times more 
slowly than they do in humans due to frogs’ lower body temperatures.
4 Therefore, coaches need to 
ensure that core thermogenesis is a high priority 
during any preparatory phase of training.
Wisdom
The warm-up may more constructively be viewed as 
a crucial part of the training process, rather than as a disorganised time spent before the real training begins  .
Warming-up promotes many physiological 
effects:
• Increased muscle temperature due to fuel 
metabolism and the friction of sliding fila -
ments; vasodilation improves joint ROM by decreasing the viscosity of the tissue.
• Elevated tissue temperatures enable the 
warm muscle to contract with more muscle 
fibers and at a faster rate than cold muscles are able to do. Nerve impulses and myosin 
ATPase activity are more rapid when body 
temperature is high, which decreases reac -
tion time and may protect athletes who find 
themselves off balance.
• Because haemoglobin gives away more 
oxygen at higher temperatures, there is a 
greater oxygen–carbon dioxide exchange and 
therefore more aerobic adenosine triphosphate (ATP) available to warm muscles through 
increased oxygen transport efficiency.
• The venous carbon dioxide built up during 
the warm-up stimulates faster, deeper breath -
ing, enhancing internal gas exchange.• Increased blood flow to the heart and muscles charges the circulatory system.
• The hormonal system is excited.
• Increased amounts of synovial fluid in the joints decreases the viscosity of the joint 
capsule.
• Muscular pliability decreases muscle damage 
and leads to less delayed-onset muscle sore -
ness (DOMS). Warmer muscle tissue is more pliable, so it undergoes less damage during the eccentric phase of muscle action, which most 
often causes DOMS-related microtrauma.
• Muscular coordination of rehearsed move -
ments increases. The warm-up also can be a 
good time to reinforce important motor skills, 
such as agility, being trained in separate ses -
sions (see chapter 13).
• Cardiovascular strength and work capacity increase.
• The warm-up leads to psychological increases in focus and attention whilst decreasing 
stress, anxiety and tension. Research has 
demonstrated that a warm-up decreases 
the fear of injury, leading to less-inhibited performance.
5
Components of the Warm-Up
By studying both the research on warming-up and the best practices of elite coaches, we can compile a 
menu of warm-up activities to be chosen à la carte 
to create the ideal session. In the same way you 
wouldn’t order every dish on the dinner menu, you 
may also elect not to use all of these components before every training session. The warm-up for 
an athlete who will be going for a maximal effort 
in the snatch during training should differ from that of an athlete who arrives for an agility session 
feeling tired from a bad night’s sleep.
For sake of simplicity, these components have 
been organised into six categories: tissue quality, 
activation, corrective exercises, thermogenics, 
stretching and neural preparation. Ideally, these 
would be performed in the order listed, but there are no hard rules here. Time limitations, athlete 
weaknesses or session flow may demand that the 
sections be mixed together. In other instances, the 
coach may decide to integrate one component, such 
as a corrective exercise, into many of the others to address an athlete’s mobility limitations.

Customizing the Warm-Up and Cool-Down ❙ 101
Tissue Quality
If you’ve taken an anatomy class, you probably 
know how muscles are supposed to work, with 
actin proteins being ratcheted together with thick 
myosin fi  laments during voluntary muscle contrac-
tion. Unfortunately, an athlete’s muscles undergo 
substantial stress during day-to-day training and, as a result, may not work with textbook effi  ciency. 
Indeed, many soft-tissue structures (e.g., tendons, 
ligaments, fascia, muscle, nerves) undergo trauma as a result of training. Before any traditional 
warm-up components can be addressed, it’s 
important to make sure these elements are ready 
and able to work optimally. No matter how fl  exible 
a muscle might be, if the fascia surrounding it is bound tightly, that muscle won’t be able to perform 
well. If nerve conduction or blood fl  ow is impeded 
due to soft-tissue structural damage, no amount of traditional warm-up will alleviate that. Using 
massage techniques before training sessions can 
begin to repair soft-tissue damage and ready those 
elements for subsequent action.
Muscle
When athletes train hard, their muscles undergo 
microtrauma, which can create scar tissue and 
small knots in the muscle called barrier trigger 
points.  These trigger points may impede nerve 
conduction and blood fl  ow, hindering contraction speed, coordination and overall power.
6 For years, 
performance coaches have attempted to attack 
trigger points with stretching. But like a big rubber 
band with a knot in it, simply stretching the muscle 
just makes the knot tighter. Massage therapy often 
is used to address these issues, but this may not be practical for everyone who needs to work on muscle quality instead of muscle length. The emergence 
of modalities such as the foam roller and massage 
stick (fi  gure 8.1, a and b) have enabled athletes to 
work through these trigger points using techniques 
like self-myofascial release (SMR), self-massage and 
accupressure for low cost. Using a roller to apply 
pressure to the sore spots in muscles enables the 
athlete to release the trigger points and break up the scar tissue that may inhibit performance.
7
Soft-tissue treatments such as SMR also increase 
fl  exibility and ROM due to a process known as 
autogenic inhibition . As the foam roller applies 
pressure to the muscle tissue, mechanoreceptors called golgi tendon organs send a message to the 
brain that substantial tension is being put on the muscle, causing the brain to relax that muscle to 
prevent it from tearing.
The process of autogenic inhibition can be used 
to advantage as the athlete makes long, sweeping strokes of the roller on his or her tissue. When a 
sore spot is found, the athlete should pause and 
keep applying direct pressure to it whilst trying 
to relax that muscle. Slow, deep breaths help calm the nervous system and release the trigger point. 
If the discomfort of the acupressure is too severe, 
the trigger point is unlikely to be released, so the athlete must control the amount of pain felt by 
shifting the body to lessen the weight on the point 
(if using a foam roller). Athletes can spend from 
30 to 60 seconds on each muscle group, depending 
on the quality and importance of the tissue. As the athlete’s muscles develop a greater tolerance for 
softer modalities, harder foam rollers and smaller 
tools such as tennis or lacrosse balls can be used 
to target deeper trigger points.
Figure 8.1  Athletes can use (a)  rollers and (b)  massage sticks to ease sore spots in muscles.
a
 b

102 ❙ Larson
Spine
The spine is another area that may demand special 
preparation given the prevalence of back problems 
in sport. Much research has been done in this area 
in hopes of preventing career-ending injuries and 
keeping athletes out of pain during training.
The use of two tennis balls taped together 
(fi  gure 8.2) can help fl  oss the thoracic spine and prepare it for movement. By lying supine with the 
‘peanut’ beneath the thoracic vertebrae, the athlete can open up the intervertebral spaces and enhance 
thoracic spine mobility. Greater mobility in the 
thoracic spine can protect the lumbar spine from 
unnecessary stress during trunk fl  exion, extension 
and rotation during subsequent activity.
Figure 8.2  A homemade peanut made from two tennis 
balls taped together.
If you don’t have much time to devote to spinal 
prep, the quadruped camel and cat motions are 
recommended (fi  gure 8.3, a and b). By alternatively 
fl  exing and extending the spine the athlete primes the nervous system and reduces spinal viscosity. The athlete should take care not to make these 
movements stretches but instead emphasise a 
gentle motion between the two poses. It is also 
recommended that some athletes with spinal pathology exercise caution when performing these 
exercises fi  rst thing in the morning because their 
intervertebral discs are maximally hydrated for the fi  rst few hours on rising, and therefore injury 
risk may be increased.
8
A third option for reducing spinal viscosity is 
to use a stability ball. Like the cat and camel, the action of reactively fl  exing and extending the spine 
whilst sitting on a stability ball can pump fresh 
fl  uid through the spinal tissues to nourish joint 
surfaces and decrease viscosity. Whilst sitting on the ball, athletes begin a series of pelvic tilts in each 
plane, gradually increasing the ROM and speed of 
the movement as they go.
The Brain and Visualisation
Since he was 7 years old, the Olympic swimmer Michael Phelps has reportedly been watching 
‘his videotape’ every night, a mental recording of 
himself setting world records.
9 This visualisation 
technique has been employed by countless athletes 
who, like Phelps, are encouraged to imagine the 
perfect race, game or event down to the smallest 
detail. Such practices have been proven to enhance 
performance and break through training plateaus10
but often are neglected by athletes.
Use the moments before a training session to have 
athletes visualise ideal movement patterns, such as 
executing a perfect sprint start or setting a lifting 
personal record. Have them imagine as much detail 
as possible. For those athletes whose concentration, 
Figure 8.3   Spinal preparation exercises: ( a) camel; ( b) cat.
a
 b

 Customizing the Warm-Up and Cool-Down ❙ 103
focus or confidence is lacking, a visualisation rou -
tine may be something to incorporate a few times 
throughout the warm-up. If time is short, visual -
isation can be combined with the tissue and spinal prep techniques previously described. For example, 
whilst performing thoracic spine mobilisations 
with the peanut, golfers can visualise themselves 
executing a perfect swing in slow motion.
Hormonal Stimulus
The concept of the warm-up needs to shift from 
simply focusing on the muscles of the body to 
embracing the multifactorial nature of pretrain -
ing, or competition preparation. The employment 
of techniques designed to manipulate hormonal 
responses to enhance anaerobic and force produc -
tion performance is one approach to consider. When 
male rugby players watched video clips that were 
either aggressive, erotic or included training scenes, 
their testosterone levels and 3RM squat performance increased.
11 This indicates that hormone-boosting 
video montages could be integrated into precom -
petition warm-ups to enhance performance as well. Although hormonal responses differ among indi
-
viduals, heightened testosterone levels have been seen in male athletes after they watched previous 
victories
12 or even held a gun.13 Such research may 
have positive implications for playing video games or watching highlight footage before training.
Activation
We’ve all seen military movies in which a drill 
sergeant blows a whistle and eight cadets have 
to lift a boat above their heads and jog down the 
beach with it until they collapse. If one cadet is 
weaker than his or her mates, the other cadets 
have to work harder to compensate. Now think of your hip like that boat. When you go bounding up 
a flight of stairs, your brain blows a whistle that 
alerts all the muscles around your hip to spring into action. Some of those muscles help stabilise 
the joint whilst others create the movement that 
allows you to power upward. The problem is that 
sometimes the weaker muscles force the others 
to do more work. Even worse, some don’t even hear the whistle. If this happens over a long time, 
an imbalance can be created around the hip that 
could decrease performance or lead to injury. For this reason, performing activation exercises that 
target the weaker stabilising muscles is essential 
to maximising performance.Movement-Based Techniques
Activation exercises neurologically excite and awaken muscles. By summating muscle contrac -
tions at low levels before training or competition, the athlete can increase the rate and frequency of 
motor-unit recruitment. Such increases can either 
neutrally stimulate stabilising muscles that help bolster movement around a joint or create greater 
force production in muscle groups by recruiting 
additional motor units to do work.
Many techniques can activate muscles before 
training. Usually, single muscles are isolated and resisted in low-velocity movements (e.g., wall 
slides, quadruped hip abduction). These exercises 
involve progressively more movement planes and additional resistance as the muscles adapt to stress. 
Some of the most commonly targeted muscles 
during an activation session are the gluteus medius and glutueus maximus, the core and the rotator 
cuff. Various modalities such as elastic resistance 
bands (figure 8.4) and stability balls can also help 
stimulate greater motor-unit summation; however, 
as additional movement planes are integrated and become more functionally authentic, muscles will 
not be able to activate as completely as if they were 
stabilised in uniplanar isolation.
Figure 8.4  Glute resistance band walk.

104 ❙ Larson
Balance
Balance training has enjoyed varying degrees of 
popularity in the performance training community, 
with most elite coaches agreeing that whilst unstable 
surfaces can be a potent tool for stimulating muscle stabilisers to activate, too much of it in the place of 
closed chain lifts can hamper maximal strength.
14 
For this reason, incorporating balance training into 
the athlete’s warm-up can maximise the benefits of 
such exercises whilst not directly taking time away 
from strength training. Including balance and pos -
tural exercises (BAPS) in the warm-up allows the athlete to stimulate reactive systems and enhance proprioceptive input and kinesthetic awareness.
15 
All of these combine to create greater dynamic core 
stability, which means that when the body is pushed 
out of position, it quickly finds a way back to a stable 
posture. Without this stability athletes run the risk 
of lower back or leg injury.15
Having an athlete stand on one leg for 30 seconds, 
initially with eyes open, then one eye closed, and 
finally both eyes closed, can be enough to engage a 
survival reflex that can be stimulated when the body is off balance. Similar to the fight-or-flight mecha
-
nism that engages when a person slips on a patch of ice, this reflex may release endorphins to momen
-
tarily reduce pain and activate stabiliser muscles throughout the kinetic chain. Add movement to this 
progression by having the athlete reach with the 
opposite hand to touch the outer toe of the stance leg, effectively working both the survival reflex and 
a series of commonly weak muscle groups.
Vibration
Increased accessibility of vibration plates has cre -
ated an explosion in their use to stimulate muscle activation and enhance performance in athletes. 
Though the popularity of vibration training has increased, its benefits have been enjoyed through -
out history. For example, in the past, sufferers of kidney stones were reportedly advised to take a drive down a bumpy road for the vibration effect.
16
Vibration works through the tonic vibration 
reflex, which increases the electrical activity within the affected muscle.
17 This can enhance maximal 
voluntary contraction (MVC) and groove neuro -
muscular pathways more quickly, as well as increase motor-unit synchronisation. By stimulating the tonic vibration reflex, vibration may also recruit pre
-
viously inactive motor units, resulting in enhanced development of muscular power and strength.
16Corrective Exercises
One of the biggest benefits of a customised 
warm-up is how it can be crafted to address move -
ment restrictions in individual athletes. Of course, this is not possible without first understanding 
the individual’s specific deficits. These need to be 
determined by employing a screening tool. Typi -
cal screens require the athlete to perform a series 
of simple movements that are common in sport 
to assess ROM at a joint or the athlete’s ability to 
stabilise that joint and create clean movement.
Once the athlete has been screened, that infor -
mation can be used to select exercises, stretches 
or soft-tissue interventions that may correct any movement deficiencies uncovered. Most correc -
tive exercises progress their complexity linearly from basic mobility to basic stability and finally to 
movement-pattern retraining. Mobility exercises 
focus on joint ROM and tissue length and include 
various stretches. When a mobility problem is 
present, that should be the primary focus of the 
corrective session. Stability exercises focus on 
basic sequencing of movement and target postural control in different positions. Movement-pattern 
retraining integrates mobility and stability into 
specific movement patterns to reinforce coordina -
tion and timing.
18
Anyone who has had to rehabilitate an injury 
knows how essential it is that prescribed correc -
tive exercises are grooved to the point of mastery. Making such corrective and preventive exercises a 
part of the warm-up ensures they are not forgotten 
as the movement patterns improve. For the sake of flow, these correctives can be combined with 
the activation exercises discussed previously. 
In addition, the corrective exercises themselves 
can be helpful screens for movement problems. The best performance coaches use each phase of 
the warm-up to analyse athletes for imbalances 
and potential injury.
Thermogenics
The primary goals of a warm-up should be to keep athletes from getting injured and to prepare 
them to perform in training or competition. To 
this end, increasing tissue temperature is key. If 
time is short, the smart coach will skip most other 
warm-up activities in favor of spending more time getting muscles warm and pliable. Accordingly, it 
is important that athletes dress warmly in mild or 

 Customizing the Warm-Up and Cool-Down ❙ 105
cold weather. It is also important that when com -
peting in cold weather, the time between warm-up 
and competition is shortened. Each athlete should 
be lightly sweating at the conclusion, indicating 
that the body’s cooling system has activated and 
muscles are at least 1 or 2 degrees warmer.5 A 
typical thermogenic session lasts 5 to 15 minutes, 
depending on the ambient temperature,4 the ath -
letes’ experience level (elite athletes require more time)
5 and how many nonthermogenic exercises 
are mixed into it. Fatigue is the enemy here, so give athletes breaks without worrying they’ll get cold; 
tissue temperature decreases much more slowly 
than it increases. The temperature of warmed 
muscular tissue can remain elevated for 45 to 80 
minutes after warm-up if properly maintained with heat-retaining clothing.
5
Delivering Thermogenics
When it comes to finding the most effective, engag -
ing and stimulating way of getting athletes warm, a coach is confined only by his or her creativity. The old-school method of having athletes take two laps around the track to begin warm-up will do the trick 
from a tissue-warmth standpoint, but it can come 
at the expense of good movement. If you’ve ever witnessed the zombie-like jog that athletes default to in this instance, you’ll understand. Most elite performance coaches instead choose to challenge their athletes with various skipping, hopping, 
crawling or jumping-jack progressions. These 
require no equipment, serve to get core tempera -
tures up and challenge the athletes neurologically, testing concentration and enhancing focus.
Jump ropes are one of the most underutilised 
pieces of training equipment in the gym. They are ideal for increasing thermogenesis because 
they train lower-body reactive strength whilst 
engaging the upper body and coordination with dozens of variations. If you watch athletes closely, you should be able to gauge their nervous system readiness, timing and coordination; you may choose to extend the warm-up if the athletes can’t 
demonstrate neuroreadiness with their ropes.
19 
Jumping rope is also a self-regulating exercise, 
meaning the athlete cannot cheat it. If timing, core stiffness, reactivity, and fitness are not up to task, the rope will let you know.
Other modalities that can be used include 
agility ladders and rings, microhurdles, dot drill 
mats and medicine balls. When choosing drills for 
these modalities, start with ones that require little coordination or elastic strength and progress to the 
slightly more complex drills. You are not designing 
an agility or movement session; rather, you’re just 
trying to keep the athletes moving in challenging 
patterns that keep their heart rates up. If the dif -
ficulty of the drills becomes fatiguing, you risk compromising the effectiveness of the subsequent 
training session.
Adding Games
Including childhood games into even elite-athlete training sessions can be a welcome departure from 
the routine. If you doubt this, try introducing a 
game of Simon Says into the next warm-up session 
and watch athletes grin ear to ear as they work up 
a sweat. Choose games that keep athletes moving 
in different planes whilst not being so competitive 
that the athletes risk injuring themselves by going 
100 percent during the first round of a game they 
took too seriously. The best places to look for ideas 
are physical education textbooks and websites. 
Relay races fall into this category if you can control 
the intensity.
Have all relays or tag-style games begin with 
only skipping, shuffling, crawling or jumping since 
those are less dynamic than running. An athlete is 
less likely to pull a muscle if he or she is skipping 
to chase down an opponent. By combining relays 
with activation or balance drills you can also 
control the intensity as desired. Three minutes of 
Simon Says followed by 30 seconds balancing on 
each leg and then doing some core bridges can be a 
welcome change from the usual warm-up routine.
Active and Dynamic Stretching
Sport is movement, and for that reason, the more that movement can be combined with stretching, 
the better. By doing so, athletes are able to rehearse basic motor patterns in a controlled environment. 
Compare a walking heel-to-butt quad stretch that requires single-leg balance, core stiffness and 
coordination with a side-lying heel-to-butt static 
stretch. Both stretch the quads, but the former 
is substantially more effective from a functional standpoint. Here are some considerations for 
selecting active or dynamic exercises:
• Design exercises to progress from single to mul -
tijoint. If you haven’t already mobilised strate -
gic joints during the correctives phase of the warm-up, you’ll want to start with them here. 

106 ❙ Larson
Ankles, hips and the thoracic spine are areas 
that typically demand individual attention.
• Choose exercises that prepare the body for that day’s training session. If you’ll be work -
ing on acceleration, focus on gluteal activa -
tion and thoracic spine and ankle mobility. If you’re working top-speed mechanics, emphasise hip mobility, ankle stability and hamstring activation.
• Address each joint according to its function. The joints of the body are stacked in alternat
-
ing order of those that should be mobile (e.g., ankles, hips, thoracic spine, shoulder, wrist) and those that need stability to avoid injury and 
transfer force (e.g., knees, lumbar spine, cer
-
vical spine, elbows). Mobilising the ankle will 
help protect the knee from unnecessary forces that might occur during vigorous changes of direction on the field. Similarly, a strong core stabilises the lumbar spine and helps transfer 
transverse forces from the hips and through 
the torso to increase throwing power.
• Start each dynamic stretch with a limited ROM and gradually increase it using greater antagonist contraction or momentum. If a 
muscle is forced into a new ROM too quickly, 
a stretch reflex can be triggered and the muscle that is trying to stretch will contract.
• Move from general exercises to those that are more specific to the sport. If the sport requires righting or tilting reflexes, such as in gymnastics, fighting, or extreme sport, incorporate devices such as stability balls 
into the warm-up.
• Reinforce primal movement patterns through crawling or climbing, among other move -
ments, to help athletes in many sports.
• Encourage athletes to protect the lumbar 
spine by aiming to decrease the amount of bending. Eliminate exercises that create back extension, side bending or simultaneous extending and rotating.
8 Though many sports 
demand lumbar flexibility, it is a better idea to spend time activating and strengthening 
the stabilising muscles that protect against 
lumbar spinal hypermobility whilst focusing on hip and thoracic spine mobility. This work will likely minimise the amount of mobil -
ity demanded of the lumbar spine during competition.• Keep an eye out for flaws or asymmetries in 
athletes’ movements. Incorporate acceleration buildups at progressively increasing speeds 
and watch how speed mechanics change with 
increased velocity.
• Make special considerations for athletes who throw and swing. Most dynamic warm-ups focus mainly on the lower body. Empha -
sising scapular retraction and stabilisation throughout the warm-up is a good rule for 
shoulder health.
• Take advantage of the controlled environ -
ment of the warm-up to have athletes train barefoot, which will increase both ankle 
mobility and foot strength.
• Beware of fatigue. Include exercises that are in place, on the ground and in transit so ath -
letes have time to recover. A good dynamic warm-up should gradually increase the ath -
lete’s work capacity and fitness levels, but it 
shouldn’t be so intense that training suffers.
Static Stretching
The case against static stretching before training 
is substantial, with most research pointing toward 
inhibited stretch reflexes, slower reaction times, 
increased muscle–tendon compliance and 5 to 30 per cent decreases in strength as reasons to eliminate it 
from a pretraining program.
20 A recent meta-analysis 
of 361 research papers on the topic revealed that static stretching before activity is not associated with 
significant injury reductions either.
21 Moreover, from 
a performance standpoint, excessive stretching in 
general appears to be detrimental to performance in 
subsequent activities requiring power.22 The problem 
is that traditional static stretching promotes flexi -
bility, which is not what athletes should be trying to achieve before training or competition. Rather, 
they should seek to create low-viscosity compliance 
within the athlete’s normal ROM. Here, compliance  
refers to the ability of an athlete to safely move through the natural ROM at the speeds and torque 
required by the sport; flexibility  refers to increasing 
the normal ROM at a joint. Pretraining increases in flexibility may contribute to joint laxity or new joint 
angles that are not strong or stable. If an athlete’s ROM needs to be improved, static stretching, pro
-
prioceptive neuromuscular facilitation (PNF), yoga and other methods can be used after or outside of 
training to make long-term mobility improvements.

 Customizing the Warm-Up and Cool-Down ❙ 107
Neural Preparation
The final component to consider during warm-up 
is neural preparation. Postactivation potentiation 
(PAP) is the term used to encompass any exer -
cise that acutely enhances muscular-force output. 
These activities neurologically prime the pump by 
activating more fast-twitch motor units to either increase MVC or contraction speed.
Athletes can use tools to increase the speed of 
movement, for example, when a batter swings a 
lighter bat, runners are towed into overspeed veloc -
ities or soccer players perform quick-foot ladder drills. The nervous system learns to fire at speeds 
faster than normal so that during competition, faster movement becomes possible.
Alternatively, athletes can elicit PAP by resisting 
movements with weights or harnesses. Doing so 
forces muscles to contract with more force and 
recruit more and bigger motor units to do the required work.
High variability among athletes is one of the 
biggest factors to consider when including neural 
preparation exercises at the end of a warm-up 
session. As a general rule, athletes tend to get 
the greatest ergogenic benefit when they are 
resisted no more than ±10 per cent of their normal weight.
23 Any more or less has been shown to 
alter the mechanics of the desired movement to 
a point where positive carryover is not observed. 
Another factor to consider is the amount of 
time between the PAP exercise and training 
or competition. Research indicates that most athletes need 6 to 12 minutes of recovery time 
to optimise performance.
23 If there is too little 
time between the PAP activity and competition, fatigue may hinder performance; if there is too 
much, the PAP stimulus fades. Also, athletes with 
weight-training experience tend to benefit from 
PAP more than athletes of a younger training age, possibly due to a greater fatigue effect on 
the untrained athlete.
24
PAP protocols are different in sports such as 
weightlifting or powerlifting. Athletes in these 
sports should use resistances that approach the 
goal weight for that training session. Doing this 
takes advantage of the staircase phenomenon, which demonstrates that a muscle contracts more 
forcefully after it has contracted a few times due to 
the active muscle requiring decreasing degrees of 
succeeding stimuli to elicit maximal contractions.
25 
For instance, a powerlifter who is attempting a squat max might want to prepare for the maximal 
attempt with single repetitions of 80 per cent, 85 
per cent and 90 per cent of the previous maximal 
weight before attempting to lift 105 per cent. The best protocols likely will be different for each lifter, 
though, so it’s important to experiment with prelift 
volumes and weights.
A common method of stimulating the nervous 
system before training is the use of plyometrics. 
The jumping or throwing exercises used in this 
phase should to be low level since the goal is to prime the nervous system, not illicit a long-term 
stretch–reflex training effect. Much like the PAP 
exercises, plyometrics should be used to trick the 
neuromuscular system into producing higher 
firing frequencies. For this reason, quick-foot and dot drills may be more appropriate than jumping 
rope since the speed of the jumps is regulated by 
how quickly the athlete can spin the rope. Unlike 
the use of dot drills or quick-foot drills in the 
thermogenic session, their use here should be with an emphasis on speed with shorter bursts (3 sec) 
and more rest.
Case Study
This team warm-up example can effectively be used in running-based field sports such as soccer, 
rugby, football or field hockey. Note the structure and how it builds progressively to ensure the body 
is appropriately prepared for competition.
Tissue quality, 5 minutes:  Target the muscles 
used to accelerate, decelerate, and rotate.
Calf: trigger point ball, 30 seconds each
Hamstrings: foam roller, 30 seconds each
Glutes: trigger point ball, 30 seconds each
Thoracic spine: peanut ball, 30 seconds
Quadriceps: foam roller, 30 seconds each
Activation, 5 minutes:  Stimulate the gluteal 
muscles and core stabilisers.
Linear resistance walk: 30 seconds forward 
and backward
Single-leg balance: 30 seconds each
Lateral miniband walk: 30 seconds left and 
right
Single-leg balance with eyes closed intermit -
tently: 30 seconds each
Side plank: 30 seconds each

108 ❙ Larson
Corrective exercise: 2 minutes. Many football 
players suffer from previous ankle injuries so use 
this time to focus on ankle mobility and stability.
Active ankle dorsiflexion: 1 minute each. Have 
players line up against a wall and attempt to touch their knees to the wall whilst keep -
ing their ankles on the ground. Have them vary the foot angle and note asymmetries 
between ankles.
Thermogenic and active (dynamic) stretching 
combined:  10 minutes.
Jump rope two feet, forward and backward: 
30 seconds each
Walking knee hug: 10 metres
Walking heel-to-butt quad stretch: 10 metresJump rope lateral, jump rope hip twist: 30 
seconds each
Lateral lunge walking forward: 10 metresCrossover lunge walking forward: 10 metresJump rope fast, jump rope for height: 30 sec -
onds each
Lunge forward with elbow to instep: 10 
metres
Thoracic spine 90-90 stretch: 1 minuteAcceleration 80 per cent: 30 metresInverted hamstring stretch: 1 minuteAcceleration 90 per cent: 30 metres
Neural preparation:  2 minutes.
Agility ladder forward run with foot-speed 
focus: 1 minute
Agility ladder lateral run with foot-speed 
focus: 1 minute
Cooling Down
The period immediately after training is the most 
common time to begin regeneration. Traditionally 
this cool-down consists of 5 to 10 minutes of static 
stretching. Many elite training facilities have 
added soft-tissue treatments using foam rollers 
and trigger-point therapy; some even customise the tissue treatment based on athletes’ movement 
screen results.
Other performance coaches, this author included, 
have gone away from this approach. Instead of using the time after a training session to work on 
long-term mobility through static stretching, ath -
letes remain standing and drink a recovery shake, ensuring that this critical piece of the regeneration puzzle occurs. After drinking the shake, athletes 
are encouraged to use the cold-and-hot contrast 
baths to help flush metabolic waste from tissues. 
Once the baths are complete, the athletes take naps. 
The period directly after training becomes a time for tissue regeneration, not lengthening.
For these athletes, long-term ROM work occurs 
about 3 hours later once the nervous system has calmed. Athletes are taken through a stretching 
routine consisting of any combination of the fol -
lowing joint-mobility techniques.
Yoga
Many athletes benefit from the relaxation and 
breathing techniques of this ancient practice. It 
is also a good place to start a session because the 
slow movement progressions help warm the tissue 
slightly for subsequent stretching.
Soft Tissue
Since soft-tissue work is covered during a phase of 
warm-up, it is included here only if athletes have 
injuries or restrictions that could benefit from 
additional time doing it.
Static Stretching
The majority of time is spent with long-hold stretching, usually 30 to 60 seconds per muscle 
depending on the level of immobility. By holding 
the stretches longer, we hope to gradually see an 
inhibition of mechanoreceptor activity and deeper 
stretches. We will also use the athletes’ move -
ment-screen results to customise the routine and 
address any weaknesses. This template is useful 
to follow:
• Synchronise breathing with movement. Breathing either excites or calms the nervous system, so instead of holding stretches for 
an arbitrary amount of time, concentrate 
on slowing the breathing until the muscle 
relaxes.
• Gain ROM without pain. When stretches are 
taken to their painful end-ROM, there is a 

 Customizing the Warm-Up and Cool-Down ❙ 109
rebound effect in which the muscles tighten 
to avoid injury.
• Move through stretches in a logical order. 
Often, when stretching stops and the muscle 
returns to the starting position, the muscle fibers just stretched will contract. Learn to 
move muscles to neutral starting positions 
without retensing them.
• Stretch fascia, not just muscle. The thick 
bands of myofascia that cover muscles con -
nect them in lines throughout the body. By 
thinking less about stretching individual 
muscles and more about elongating the fas -
cial lines, athletes get a more accurate picture 
of how the body works.
26
The spiral line of fascia crisscrosses the torso 
running from the skull, across the upper back to 
the opposite shoulder, then around the ribs to the 
opposite hip and down through the foot.27 When an 
athlete sprints or throws a ball, he or she stretches 
this spiral line and gets energy from its recoil. If the 
fascia along this line is too taut, the mobility neces -
sary for good sprinting or throwing mechanics can be restricted. To ease tight fascia, have athletes get into a half-kneeling hip-flexor stretch, then press 
forward to target the iliopsoas (figure 8.5 a). Next, 
incorporate more of the spiral line by having the 
athletes lift the back ankle with the hand (figure 
8.5b). Once the athletes are comfortable with that 
position, have them reach the free hand upward and across the body (figure 8.5 c). Have them press 
forward for 10 to 20 seconds and repeat 3 to 5 times.
Proprioceptive Neuromuscular 
Facilitation
Studies have repeatedly shown that PNF stretch -
ing, which uses neurological reflexes to increase 
ROM, is an effective and time-efficient method for 
increasing flexibility.28 This technique essentially 
tricks the stretch reflex by contracting the affected 
muscle repeatedly during the stretch. Through 
inhibitory interneurons called Renshaw cells, 
the stretch reflex is temporarily inhibited after 
the contraction, allowing for a deeper stretch. Modified PNF techniques such as contract, relax, 
antagonist-contract (CRAC) and contract-relax 
(CR) have proven especially beneficial when per -
formed correctly.
28Figure 8.5  Stretching the fascia of the torso: ( a) begin 
with a half-kneeling, hip-flexor stretch that targets the 
iliopsoas; ( b) progress by lifting the back ankle with the 
opposite hand; ( c) finally, reach the free hand up and 
across the body.
a
b
c

110At Manchester United, our warm-up is well planned 
because there are many boxes that need to be ticked 
before we are happy that our players are ready for kickoff. 
Specifically, our checklist includes
• core body temperature elevation;
• movement preparation and flexibility;
• acceleration, deceleration and change of 
direction;
• individual-specific preparation;
• position-specific preparation;
• skill repetition; and
• team preparation and match rehearsal.
Movement efficiency and motor competencies are 
important to us from an injury-prevention standpoint and 
a performance perspective. Accordingly, we incorporate 
fundamental movement skills in the warm-up. The general flow is as follows:
1. Perform movements without any regard to 
speed.
2. Increase the speed of the movement.
3. Do the movements under different conditions.
4. Follow with fundamental sport skills based on the movement skill.
In other words, the warm-up progresses from general 
mobility to football-specific drills, not forgetting vital 
last-minute tactical and psychological preparations. The 
few minutes players spend once on the pitch involve running across the pitch, integrating static and dynamic 
movements. This usually takes 5 minutes and involves 
a gradual increase in tempo. As part of the ethos of the 
team, this section is led by the captain.
We then go into movement-based flexibility work to 
increase mobility and flexibility in multiple directions. This work increases in intensity as body temperatures 
elevate so that players are ready for more dynamic drills. We select from a handful of dynamic stretching drills, including the forward high-knee march, forward walking lunge, jack-knife walk, lateral lunge, backward lunge with 
twist, drop lunge and inverted hamstring stretches.
Stretching the hamstrings, quadriceps and groin mus
-
cles is especially important before evening matches and in 
cold conditions because tightness in these muscle groups 
increases injury risk. At Manchester United, we use a com -
bination of static and dynamic exercises, although time 
spent during a static hold is no longer than 20 seconds. 
This pragmatic approach takes into account contempo -
rary research and player preference of maintaining static 
holds. Individual choice often dictates the integration of 
static and dynamic movements, but this part is led by 
a coach with instruction and feedback. Moreover, our fitness coaches use this period to motivate and accelerate 
game readiness.
Dynamic exercises designed to move the body quickly 
form an integral component of our prematch routines. 
These dynamic routines emphasise progressive, whole-body, continuous movement and are typically performed 
in running drills that include forward and lateral moves 
and changes of direction. Examples of dynamic warm-up exercises include lunges, squats, hops, jumps, high knees, 
high kicks and leg swings. We do these to bolster the 
execution of rapid match-play activities such as sprinting, 
contesting headers and tackling, all critical for success in 
Premier League football.
In order to maintain the quality of skill execution, 
we make sure that players have adequate recovery time between repetitions. Subsequent stimulation of the aerobic systems is then performed via specific ball drills involving 
changes of speed and direction and specific movement 
patterns typical of those performed during match play.
All modes of running (e.g., forward, sideways, back
-
ward), sprinting, turning and jumping as well as intense bursts such as accelerations and decelerations are pro
-
grammed into the warm-up. In addition, it is common practice at Manchester United to include position-specific 
preparation time. For example, central defenders work on COACH’S INSIGHT
Total Team Warm-Up
Tony Strudwick
Head of Fitness and Conditioning, 
Manchester United Football Club
Tony Strudwick is head of fitness and conditioning at Manchester United FC. In the past seven seasons, he has been part of a World Club Championship, Premier -
ship, UEFA Champions League, Carling Cup and Charity Shield winning team. He has a master’s degree in physical education and sports science and earned his 
PhD at Liverpool John Moores University in 2006

 Customizing the Warm-Up and Cool-Down ❙ 111
combining headers, landing patterns, backward moves 
and turning to sprint. Periods are assigned to allow strik -
ers to practice movements with a shot to goal. Goalkeepers use this time to follow a similar pattern of game prepar
-
ation but work independently with the goalkeeper coach. Finally, players come together to ensure handling skills 
are incorporated. Strikers always work on shooting, with 
goalkeepers used in the final 5 minutes of the warm-up.
Football is a highly skilled game, so we add a ball to 
warm-up drills as appropriate. At the forefront is the need to pursue the psychological benefits of match-play 
rehearsal, such as passing and shooting skills. These 
drills are performed at the end of our warm-up so players are already warm before doing these ballistic drills and 
because the potentiating effect of stimulating the nervous 
system by means of brief, highly intense muscular efforts before competition decays after 10 to 15 minutes.
A final consideration is the timing of the warm-up so 
that benefits are not negated before the start of the game. 
Muscle and body temperature will remain elevated for 
some minutes after exercise is finished. We terminate the warm-up 10 minutes before the start of the match to facilitate a short recovery, give players time to change into match kit and allow for preparations and coaches’ talks.
In all, our warm-up takes 20 to 25 minutes, but its 
content varies according to environmental conditions. For example, we reduce the intensity and duration when the 
weather is hot; in cold conditions we place more emphasis 
on elevating body temperature through a greater volume of running-based drills. The same template is used irre
-
spective of event or opposition, although climate is taken into consideration, producing familiarity and consistency.
Substitute players could be called on at any stage, so 
it is vital that they are ready for action. Our substitutes warm up every 15 to 20 minutes throughout the match 
for approximately 5 to 10 minutes. The halftime interval 
also provides an excellent opportunity to raise body 
temperature and increase match readiness. Once again, 
climate plays an important role in the management of substitutes; cold winter conditions necessitate the need to 
extend working periods and ensure muscle temperature 
is optimal.
Meditation
Although not essential, having athletes meditate to 
end a stretching session is a popular option. Direct 
them to assume a supine position on the floor, close 
their eyes and concentrate on slowing their breath -
ing. There are many meditation-like techniques that coaches can use to achieve maximal relaxation.
Summary
It isn’t easy to find hard truths when looking at the research on how to properly prepare an athlete for 
training or competition. There are many ways to con
-
duct a warm-up; the most successful coaches tend to 
use a variety of methods depending on the athlete’s 
sport, imbalances, weaknesses or periodisation. 
The most effective components of a well-designed 
warm-up include those that address both the quality 
of the muscle tissue and its ideal functional length. The warm-up also includes exercises that activate 
muscle groups that are often asleep to gain greater 
motor-unit recruitment and stability around cer
-
tain joints. Corrective exercises can be employed to address any imbalances, joint immobility or move
-
ment dysfunction discovered in an athlete.From an injury-prevention standpoint the most 
important objective of the warm-up should be to 
increase the athlete’s tissue temperature. Thermo -
genic activities can be easily paired with dynamic stretches to progressively challenge basic move -
ment patterns, balance, core stiffness and coordina -
tion whilst also increasing muscle length. Finally, postactivation potentiation drills that ready the 
neuromuscular system for more powerful subse -
quent movements can be used to prime an athlete’s 
muscles and activate more fast-twitch motor units. 
The ideal mix of these components should leave 
an athlete warm, energetic and stimulated for the 
activities ahead.
Traditionally, cool-down has occurred in the 
period immediately after training and has con -
sisted of static stretching or soft-tissue treatments. Static stretching posttraining is of limited use. A 
more effective option is to use the 30 minutes after 
training to ensure that athletes drink a recovery 
beverage whilst also using cold-and-hot contrast 
baths to flush out metabolic waste. Long-term ROM work occurs 3 hours later, once the nervous system 
has calmed, and can consist of yoga, soft-tissue 
work, static stretching, proprioceptive neuromus -
cular facilitation or meditation.

This page intentionally left blank.

CHAPTER
 113
9
9
9
As our knowledge develops, more fields of 
research are playing a part in training theory, 
on the one hand making it more effective, but on the other, more complex. We now have a 
clearer picture of how training stimuli can lead 
to adaptations in the athlete, and the complexity of the interacting systems being trained is better 
understood than in the past. Nonetheless, we still 
have a great deal to learn about motor control and motor learning. Knowledge in this area has greatly 
expanded in recent decades, thanks especially to 
the dynamic systems theory. New insights have 
had major practical implications for coaching since 
biomechanical analysis can be linked to effective training exercises only if it is combined with an 
understanding of motor learning and control. 
Failing this, technique training is bound to remain a largely hit-or-miss affair.
This chapter explores a philosophy for a 
motor-learning approach to training with specifi  c 
emphasis on straight-line and multidirectional 
running. The goal is to stimulate a paradigm 
shift and develop a template for performance 
professionals working with both fi  t and injured athletes.
Motor Control in Sport
Often, training for sport is thought of in biomechan-ical or physiological terms. In fact, the approach that 
excludes the critical component of motor control 
is one that is doomed to fail because it does not 
recognise the importance of understanding how 
movement is organised and executed.Hierarchical and Decentralised 
Theories of Motor Control
Until the mid-1980s, knowledge of motor control 
was dominated by hierarchical models in which 
the brain was viewed as the command centre 
for motor control. In this model, the appropriate 
motor programme was enacted in response to the 
person’s intention, which was then transmitted down to the muscles, which obediently executed 
the movement. Essentially, the body was seen as 
being totally subservient to the wishes of the brain.
The refi  nement of this motor-control system was 
introduced by schema theory, which acknowledges 
that movement patterns are not isolated incidents, but 
rather are interrelated. This provides us with the con-
cept of movement specificity ,1 which means that a good 
level of skill in one pattern has carryover to related movement patterns. This can be seen in the way a 
tennis player can transfer to another hitting sport, 
such as golf, with relative ease. In other cases there 
may be little or no similarity, as can be seen in the running technique of a swimmer or cyclist because 
swimming and cycling have scarcely any components 
that are common with running. The implication for exercise design is that for transfer of learning to be 
maximised, specifi  city must be paramount. Although 
schema theory is an advancement from previous 
models, it is still unsatisfactory in explaining more 
open skills in which the correct execution of the movement is not determined in advance because the 
environment is constantly changing due to an oppo-
nent’s movements, the bounce of the ball, or a change of terrain. In these instances the central command Fine-Tuning Motor Control
Frans Bosch
Fontys University of Applied Sciences, Netherlands, 
and Welsh Rugby Union, UK

114 ❙ Bosch
centre would have to process such a vast amount of 
external input so as to render the task impossible.2
Dynamic systems theory (DST) was developed in 
the late twentieth century to help explain these more 
complex interactions.3 In DST, there is no hierarchi-
cal, top-down structuring of motor control. Instead, components are added to the movement plan at each 
level of the organism: some in the brain (such as the 
intention of the movement), some at the spinal level 
(such as rhythmic coordination of the movements of the extremities, as in running) and even some 
outside the central nervous system (e.g., the way 
in which muscles infl  uence one another during co-contractions through mechanical properties such 
as elasticity and force–length characteristics). It can be seen, then, that components are added to the movement everywhere at once, involving the inte-
gration of bottom-up infl  uences (from the body to the brain) and top-down organisation of movement 
patterns (fi  gure 9.1, a and b). This integration makes 
the way movement is controlled dependent on the 
situation. For instance, core-stability control in 
low-intensity movement can be regulated in another 
part of the system (by proprioceptive feedback) than 
high-intensity movement (by muscular properties).
Two Control Systems
Movements can be controlled in one of two ways. 
A person can use the working memory, that is, con-
scious control, for slow processes and new, ad hoc (sit-
uation-specifi  c) movement solutions. Alternatively, a person can use the body’s hard drive, or unconscious 
control, for movements under pressure of time and for 
automated movements stored in long-term memory. Growing scientifi  c evidence suggests that the two sys-
tems operate separately.
4, 5 One indicator of the strong 
separation of the two systems is the fact that they are linked to different, largely independent visual 
observation systems: Conscious control is linked to 
central vision (for the observation of shapes), and 
unconscious control is linked to peripheral vision (for the observation of movement; fi  gure 9.2).
Dynamic patterns
Cerebrum
Cerebellum
Brainstem
Pattern
generators
Reflex arcs
alpha-
gammaLow-intensity
core stability
High-intensitycore stabilitySchema
Cerebrum
Cerebellum
Brainstem
Pattern
generators
Reflex arcs
alpha-
gamma
E5891/Joyce/478006/Fig 09.01/R2/JGFigure 9.1  Decentralised control ( a), with decisions being added to the movement plan at each level. The levels at 
which the components are added to the movement may differ greatly in low-intensity and high-intensity movements. 
Hierarchical organisation of control ( b), with the command centre located in the brain and the muscles obediently 
executing the movement.a bWisdom
Top-level athletes’ complex interactions with their 
environment require split-second responses and fl  exi-ble, highly effi  cient performance structures . A central command centre would fail to do this accurately, given the vast amount of information that needs to be pro-cessed and the speed with which it has to be done in sport . Complex interactions are best explained with the dynamic systems theory, which should form the basis for both the study and the coaching of athletic skills .

Fine-Tuning Motor Control ❙ 115
Performance in sport requires the two systems 
to be used for the types of control they are best 
at. If there is suffi  cient time (e.g., fi  nding the right 
starting position for a golf swing) or a tactical 
decision is needed (e.g., going up to the net more 
often in tennis), the working memory works best. If the movement has to be executed smoothly and 
under pressure of time (e.g., the actual golf swing 
or a crosscourt backhand in tennis), using the hard drive works best. Of course, many movements in 
sport require automated control, and training is 
therefore designed to ensure that movement pat-
terns are effi  ciently stored on the hard drive. To 
learn and store these patterns, we need to know how the hard drive is structured (formatted). This 
structure enables us to fi  nd effi  cient performance 
options even under pressure of time and when interacting with an unpredictable environment.
If it is to work well, the hard drive has to be 
structured according to the specifi  city matrix (i.e., 
the movements that are similar and infl  uence one 
another). If movements were unrelated and were simply stored as isolated incidents, we would be 
unable to fi  nd the right one quickly, just as a book 
in a library containing thousands of volumes 
cannot be found quickly without a retrieval system.
Combining the Theories
If hierarchical and decentralised theories of con-
trol are combined with the working memory and hard drive model, the resulting overall picture is one of two essentially separate systems. One is conscious control (fi  gure 9.3) via the working 
memory, which is more or less hierarchically 
organised and works best when actions must be performed consciously, without pressure of time. 
The brain is the command centre and gives the 
muscles full instructions for the movement. The 
other is unconscious, automated control, which has 
a decentralised structure with components being added to the movement throughout the organism; 
this works best when quick action is required in a 
complex environment. Although the dual-control system is well accepted, the interaction between 
centralised and decentralised control has not, as 
yet, been confi  rmed by research. It does, however, 
operate well in practice.
The two systems are fundamentally different, 
and this has far-reaching practical implications. Movements that are constructed in the working 
memory cannot simply be stored on the hard 
drive, for their structure does not usually fi  t into 
that matrix. The result is forgotten once the train-ing session is over. Training methods that rely 
heavily on the use of the working memory quickly 
achieve visible results: Execution improves during the training session. However, the actual learning 
process is invisible, with a different dynamic, and 
so ultimately not much is learned. In other words, 
not much is stored on the hard drive, and carryover 
is poor. However shocking this may seem to most 
E5868/Schmidt/fig 09.02/478008/JG/R1Dorsal
route Automated
controlCentral
vision Peripheral
vision
Visual cortexConscious
control
Ventralroute
Figure 9.2  Central vision is linked to conscious control via the ventral route. Peripheral vision is linked to un-
conscious, automated control via the dorsal route.a b

116 ❙ Bosch
coaches, the better the practice result at the end of 
the training session, the less the athlete may ulti-
mately learn. Practice results and learning results 
are antagonistic.
Therefore, coaching instructions that activate 
the working memory should be avoided. These instructions are ones that focus the learner’s atten-
tion on the way the movement is executed (internal 
focus instructions such as ‘keep your elbow bent longer’ , ‘extend your back before you apply force’ , 
‘maintain pressure on the ball of your foot’ and 
so on). Some 85 per cent of coaching instructions 
are of this kind and are unproductive. In fact, 
with simple movements, merely giving athletes encouragement is more effective than giving them 
internal-focus instructions on how to execute 
those movements.
6
If too many internal-focus instructions are 
given during the initial stage of the learning 
process (also known as knowledge of performance 
feedback ), the athlete not only learns how to exe-
cute a movement but also how to construct (or reconstruct) it in the working memory. In stress situations such as competition, the result may 
be that automated performance is suppressed 
(overruled), and the movement is reconstructed ad hoc in the working memory. The movement is 
then executed less effectively. This phenomenon is 
known as choking . The way in which instructions 
are given during the learning process thus may lead to choking.
Athletes who have made little or no use of the 
working memory during the learning process cannot resort to it in stress situations and are less likely to choke. It is far better for the athlete to use the working memory as little as possible in the 
fi  rst stages of learning and try to store movement 
patterns immediately on his or her hard drive.
Transfer of Training 
to Performance
Gold medals and championships are not awarded 
in training. The critical component is to ensure 
that the work done in training actually transfers 
across into the competitive environment. There-
fore, training should be designed according to the 
laws of transfer.
Specifi  city and Transfer
To some extent automated control is structured by 
the specifi  city matrix. Specifi  city is also the main 
prerequisite for transfer of skilled practice into competition performance. In fact, solving the trans-
fer problem is arguably the most diffi  cult challenge 
faced in exercise programming. For example, it is relatively unimportant to know how a runner’s 
strength qualities improve during strength train-
ing; what matters is how these improved qualities 
enhance running performance and reduce injury 
risk. Equally, when practising agility in a predict-able environment, the point is not how fi  nely and 
precisely the movements are executed in isolation, 
but how this execution can be used in response to 
Dynamic
patterns
Cerebrum
Cerebellum
Brainstem
Pattern
generators
Reflex arcs
alpha-
gammaSchema
Cerebrum
Cerebellum
Brainstem
Pattern
generators
Reflex arcs
alpha-
gammaDorsal
route Automated
control
Conscious
controlVentralroute
E5891/Joyce/478009/Fig 09.03/R1/JGFigure 9.3  The link between automated, decentralised control and conscious, hierarchical control.

 Fine-Tuning Motor Control ❙ 117
an opponent’s actions. To ensure optimum transfer 
of practice into performance, we need to know, 
preferably in detail, how the specificity matrix is 
structured; we need to know the rules whereby 
similarities between movements are stored on the 
hard drive.
In conventional training theory, such analysis 
of specificity has been remarkably limited. It is usually confined to seeking similarities in the outward features of movements, such as similar 
body postures and angular velocity in joints. The 
better analyses also look at similarities in muscle 
contractions (e.g., concentric, isometric and elastic) 
and recognise that similar patterns of intermuscu -
lar cooperation, especially at high levels of skill, are 
crucial to performance-enhancing transfer.
In addition to these fairly conventional, highly 
mechanical features of specificity, there are at least two others that influence transfer, disregarding 
similarities in energy supply:
1. Sensory similarities. Motor control is based on 
the link between sensory input and motor output. 
Movements that are similar in motor terms but 
different in sensory terms are relatively unspecific for each other. This is of particular relevance to 
strength training. Spatial information plays little 
or no role. Proprioception is often different from 
what it is in the competition movement because 
the force produced not just by machines but also by weighted bars greatly affects proprioceptive 
feedback. One good example of how this reduces 
specificity is strength training for swimmers. In 
swimming, gravity is effectively absent, whereas 
strength training depends on it. For the same reason, it is questionable how useful aqua jogging 
or elliptical training is to runners.
2. Movement-result similarities. All movement 
control starts with the intention of the movement, 
the future state it is meant to result in. In the 
specificity matrix, the system largely focuses on 
similarities in intention. This means, for example, 
that strength exercises with unclear intentions can 
hardly be linked to other types of movement. Thus the intention (goal) of a high pull is less explicitly 
defined than the intention of a clean (completely 
balanced, with the bar in the correct position at shoulder height). A high pull will produce much 
less transfer than a clean. Strength training 
includes numerous exercises (dumbbell fly, squat, 
lat pull and so on) with unclear intentions and thus 
limited transfer.Specific training must meet five criteria:
1. Similarity in muscle action (intra- and inter -
muscular) to the conditions found in the sport. 
This can be met if the exercises are technically 
well executed.
2. Similarity in the external structure of the movement (motion of the limbs) to those 
found in the sport. This needs to be a basic 
guideline for training design.
3. Similarity in sensory information to what is experienced in the sport.
4. Similarity in the dominant energy system to 
what is used in the sport.
5. Similarity in the movement result to that 
which occurs in the sport. The clearer the dif -
ference between successful and nonsuccessful, the better the transfer.
Part Practice and Whole Practice 
for Runners
Training exercises can be divided into part 
practice  and whole practice . In part practice, one 
or more components are removed from the context of the overall functional (competition) 
movement and practised separately, in the 
hope or expectation that doing so will improve the overall competition movement. In whole 
practice, the functional movement remains 
intact, and possibly simplified versions of the overall competition movement are practised. 
Whole practice preserves the sensory-motor 
features and the intention of the movement. 
Since specificity is present, transfer is more or 
less ensured, which is not the case with part practice. If training is based on part practice, 
the effort expended must be carefully weighed 
against the results achieved. In a sport-specific context, effective training depends on keeping 
collateral damage—stress to the system that 
does not enhance performance—to a minimum.
Low-speed running exercises are part practice 
in terms of high-speed running. Therefore, their 
usefulness is somewhat questionable. For instance, 
exercises at low horizontal speed, with high fre -
quency of movement, are of little relevance to high-speed running since the sensory–motor conditions for maintaining correct body tension are scarcely 
fulfilled at low speed. In turn, high-speed running 
is part practice with limited transfer to agility since 

118 ❙ Bosch
the sensory–motor requirements of agility (e.g., for 
movements in the frontal plane) are hardly a prob -
lem in straight-line running. Finally, agility in the absence of opponents is part practice in terms of 
competition, since the vital factor of reading your 
opponent is missing.
This is not to say that part practice can never be 
useful. Some components of a movement pattern may be so hard to improve in the context of the competition movement that they must be removed 
from that context in special part-practice exercises. 
The best way to add part-practice exercises to the 
overall whole-practice approach cannot be calcu -
lated from general guidelines and is an important 
component of the art of coaching.
The area of sport-specific training with the 
greatest focus on part practice is strength train -
ing. It provides no guarantee that skills will be 
transferred. Yet strength and coordination are 
so closely related that the coordinative aspects of 
sport-specific strength training crucially influence 
its effectiveness, especially for top-level athletes.
Wisdom
Strength training is coordination training with increased 
resistance .
For well-trained athletes, nonintegrated 
strength training that focuses on the quantitative 
scoring of so many kilograms or watts will there -
fore have little or no impact in terms of transfer of gains in the gym to gains in sport performance. 
Indeed, it can easily prove counterproductive: There is a saying that ‘too much strength training 
slows you down’. One example of a part-practice 
exercise that can produce negative transfer into running performance is the double-leg squat to 
parallel with heavy weights. First, the coordina -
tive aspects of the exercise bear little relation to the requirements of running at speed, given the 
irrelevant knee angle in a squat. Nor is the exer -
cise of much relevance to starts and acceleration 
since the neural control involved in double-leg 
and single-leg extension is substantially different. There is little positive transfer, and the body is 
subjected to immense stress. In fact, the transfer 
often is negative since the deep squat makes the 
pelvis tend to rotate backward. Doing so can be 
technically countered only by hyperextending the lumbar spine, which eventually lengthens the structures at the front of the spine and can lead to the well-known phenomenon of hyperlordosis. 
When running at speed, this lengthening of struc -
tures such as fasciae causes them to send late—and hence inadequate—signals to the abdominal 
muscles and the iliopsoas at the end of the stance phase (toe-off, the point at which the foot leaves 
the ground). This leads to loss of control over the 
forward rotation of the pelvis (figure 9.4), which always occurs at toe-off, and a drastic deteriora -
tion in running technique because the following pendulum is too large and round.
E5891/Joyce/478010/Fig 09.04/R1/JGFigure 9.4  Significant forward rotation of the pelvis at 
toe-off means that the trailing knee is moved forward 
late (round pendulum), causing deterioration in running 
technique.
Wisdom
Muscle slack: Due to the dangling starting position of a 
muscle before the start of a contraction, the contractile elements of the muscle first have to shorten substan -
tially before significant forces can be produced at the attachment points of the muscle  .

 Fine-Tuning Motor Control ❙ 119
The squat is not the only example of a strength- 
training exercise that can produce negative transfer 
into running performance. Hypertrophic effects 
and increased muscle slack, among others, always 
pose a threat to running performance.7
The assumption that strength training based 
entirely on physiology (e.g., hormonal balance, increased physiological cross-sectional area) can 
never do any harm in terms of skill transfer is 
not borne out by the facts. Sport-specific strength 
training should be based primarily on a cost–benefit analysis of skill transfer that is designed 
to minimise the drawbacks of part practice. The 
premise behind heavy squatting for running performance usually involves enhancing force 
application; however, the problem is not so much 
about the amount of force applied, but rather the 
speed, timing and direction of this force applica -
tion. Once the athlete is strong enough, training time is much more efficiently spent developing 
other attributes of force production, along with 
technical running skills.
Dynamic Systems Theory 
and Running
Significant transfer between components of two 
movement patterns does not just depend on spec -
ificity. Another key factor is the stability of the components involved. If a component has to adapt 
to the environment whilst it is being executed and 
is highly variable, transfer will be much harder to achieve than if the component is invariable and 
stable. Another way to think of it is that a stable 
component is one that remains the same even in varying executions of a given motor pattern. 
It is the common feature, whereas the unstable 
components can change. Dynamic systems theory 
shows that there are always both stable and unsta -
ble components in any movement pattern. Stable 
components are known as attractors  and variable 
components as fluctuations  (figure 9.5).
Attractors and Fluctuations
The environment in which sport movements are performed affects the way they are executed. In 
the case of open skills, the adaptation to the envi -
ronment is evident since the environment (e.g., the ball, the opponent, the course) is highly variable; 
but even in the case of closed skills, which have a relatively invariable environment, minor adapta -
tions are still always required.
The quality of a movement depends not only 
on the athlete being able to execute its separate 
components properly, but also on the effectiveness 
of the strategy in adapting the movement to the 
environment. This strategy must fulfil a number 
of conditions. First, the adaptation should involve as few components of the movement as possible. 
If too many fluctuating components are involved, 
they cannot be controlled. This can be compared to a car. If each of the four wheels had its own 
steering wheel, the car could no longer be driven; 
it would have too many degrees of freedom. So 
cars are designed with just one steering wheel. The 
body has many degrees of freedom—all the joints with their many capabilities, and all the possible 
combinations of muscles that move the joints. 
Reducing the number of degrees of freedom is an essential part of the learning process. An effective 
technique includes a large number of components 
of movement that are not unique to a particular 
environment, but rather are constant and stable, 
with low energy expenditure—the attractors in the movement.
Second, the fluctuations that are selected must 
be effective in as many circumstances as possible. 
If adaptations can always be made using the same 
components of movement, the movement is easier to control than if various components have to be 
selected each time. What this means, for example, Fluctuation
Attractor
E5891/Joyce/478011/Fig 09.05/R1/JGFigure 9.5  The attractor–fluctuation landscape, show -
ing components of a movement pattern that are stable 
attractors (with low-energy expenditure) and compo -
nents that are variable fluctuations (with high-energy 
expenditure). Attractors are in wells, reflecting their 
stability and inability to be changed. Fluctuations are 
free to move over the flat surfaces of the landscape, 
meaning they can change. The deeper the attractor 
well, the more robust it is.

120 ❙ Bosch
is that straight-line running essentially should 
be organised in the same way as running-based 
agility. For example, if during running in a foot-
ball match, components have to regularly switch 
between being attractor and being fl  uctuations, 
control would become too diffi  cult.
The distribution of attractors and fl  uctuations is 
self-organising (fi  gure 9.6) and is a key part of the overall learning process. Coaches often make the mistake of applying the same strict—that is, invari-
able, technical—rules to fl  uctuation components of 
the movement as they do to attractor components. 
Doing so is counterproductive because the pursuit 
of perfection in every component means that the overall movement is executed less effectively. In 
order to give self-organisation a chance, a coach 
must know what components to teach with pre-cision and what components need the freedom to 
vary in exercises. A coach should not correct every 
fl  aw he or she sees; rather, the coach should have 
a list of the essential attractors and try to help the 
athlete get those right.Attractors and Fluctuations 
in Running
Determining the distribution of attractors and 
fl  uctuations is a key part of the analysis of running 
movement. At present, we have to rely on theoreti-
cal modelling; however, it is evident that there are 
a number of attractors and fl  uctuations in correctly 
executed running and agility at speed. These can be seen in fi  gure 9.7 .
Attractors
1. Vertical movement of the head greatly 
depends on the stride rate, but at a given running 
frequency, it is constant even if the running sur-
face is uneven and therefore it is an attractor. As 
the body will always organise this attractor; no coaching cue is required here.
2. The hamstrings working isometrically at 
their optimal length is an attractor when run-ning. This is best improved by combining specifi  c strength training (discussed later) with teaching 
good running technique.
3. In the stance phase, elastic energy must be 
stored and returned. This makes running econom-
ical, which means that the free side of the pelvis 
should be raised at push-off. In straight-line run-
ning, the free side of the pelvis should normally be 
higher than the stance-leg side at the point when 
the heel leaves the ground. This pelvic movement and the extension of the stance leg are strongly 
linked as refl  exes to the movements of the swing 
leg. If the swing leg fl  exes explosively at the hip and knee (heel to hamstring), the stance leg will 
be able to extend with greater force, and the free 
hip will be raised. This overall pattern, known 
as the extension reflex , is a deep attractor in the 
running movement. Therefore, coaching cues that 
focus on the swing leg are critical to help ingrain 
this attractor.
4. In the fl  ight phase, the leading foot should be 
placed from above. If the path that the foot travels towards the ground forms an angle with the line 
of the ground-reaction force, the next push-off will 
always be less effective. Correct foot placement is 
accompanied by the whip-from-the-hip technique: Extension of the leg is initiated at the hip, followed 
by knee extension and fi  nally ankle extension 
from a neutral position just before foot placement. Running over slightly uneven surfaces is the most 
intuitive way to gain this active ankle movement 
AttractorFluctuation
E5891/Joyce/478012/Fig 09.06/R1/JGFigure 9.6  In the learning process, the initially de-
signed attractor–fluctuation landscape (top) gradually 
shifts as skills increase (lower down) towards an efficient 
distribution of attractors and fluctuations, culminating in a distribution that ensures effective skills (bottom). 
As learning progresses, the depth of the wells indicates 
that the stable attractors are becoming more ingrained. This depth enhances the controllability of the movement 
even in the presence of a variable environment.
Adapted from E . Thelen, 1995, “Motor development: A new synthesis,” 
American Psychologist 50(2): 79-95 .

 Fine-Tuning Motor Control ❙ 121
before ground contact. The use of scooters will also 
encourage the hip-whipping attractor to develop.
5. A great deal of force must be applied early on 
in the push-off. This can be done only if there is no rotation forward or around the longitudinal axis to compensate for. A crucial factor is the absence 
of such rotation in the previous flight phase. 
This means there should be no residual rotation 
at the toe-off. A good way to coach this is to get 
the athlete to run without using his or her arms (e.g., holding a ball tightly with both arms to the 
chest), which is only possible if there is no residual 
rotation. There is no explicit coaching needed, just 
drills that allow the attractors to self-organise.
Fluctuations
6. 
A high-knee position is often wrongly seen as 
an attractor in running. Sprinters have a high-knee 
position, and athletes such as rugby players have a 
low-knee position in the swing leg.8 Therefore, the 
two running patterns are fundamentally different. 
The knee position greatly depends on factors such 
as running speed and running frequency, so it is 
a fluctuation (see, for example, the changing knee 
position as running speed decreases in the course of a 400-metre race). There is little point in coaching run
-
ners for a high-knee position at submaximal speeds.
7. Arm action can vary greatly without affecting 
performance; it is a fluctuation used as a way to 
correct perturbations. There is little point in aiming 
for a particular elbow position or a precise direc -
tion of arm swing.Attractors can seldom be described in terms of 
specific body postures and are usually organised 
according to more abstract principles. Attractors 
are manifested irrespective of the environmen -
tal context since they do not need to adapt to it. Therefore, agility has the same attractors as 
straight-line running. Thus, for example, the 
conventional idea that the feet should be kept 
close to the ground in a side step, with a move
-
ment similar to that of an ice hockey player, is 
wrong. Indeed, good players seldom execute the 
movement in this way. Such a side step makes 
inadequate use of the attractors, and their wells 
become shallow. Conventional ideas about agility 
are not usually in keeping with the conclusions of dynamic systems theory and should therefore 
be revised.
Attractor–Fluctuation Landscape 
and Exercise Variability
The need to build fluctuations (variability) into a 
movement pattern means that it is not enough to 
aim for perfect technique (e.g., the right joint angles 
and so on). Athletes must also be taught how to 
vary basic technique efficiently. This can be done 
only by varying the exercises.
Quite simply, there can be no attractors without 
fluctuations. If fluctuations prove to be effective in dealing with the environmental variations, the attractor does not need to assist with the adapta -
tions, allowing its well to deepen.
Figure 9.7  Attractors in running: ( a) 1. vertical movement of the head, 2. hamstrings in isometric conditions; 
(b) 3. extension reflex, 4. whip from the hip, 5. no rotation at toe-off; ( c) 6. high-knee position; 7. arm action.a b c

122 ❙ Bosch
Wisdom
If only the ideal technique is repeated and stored on the 
hard drive, the individual can never learn which com -
ponents of the movement are suitable for adaptation to changing conditions and which ones should be used as stable components with low-energy expenditure  . 
Therefore, exercise variety is key!
The fact that an attractor well can be deep -
ened only by strategic choice of fluctuations has 
serious implications for strength training. If, for 
example, the squat technique is to be taught in a 
usable (i.e., transferable) way, it has to be varied. 
When heavy weights are being used, the risk of 
injury means that the only possible variations are in weight and repetition. In the long run, such variations are too small for an optimum learning 
process. Therefore, training with heavy weights 
(e.g., in squats, deadlifts) produces less transfer. 
From this we can conclude that aiming for high 
scores in strength training is incompatible with the laws of motor learning. This is also reflected 
in actual practice. As every experienced coach 
knows, not only do increases in strength through training eventually decline, but above a given 
threshold, further improvement in strength qual
-
ities ceases to have any beneficial impact on run -
ning performance. Many coaches of well-trained 
runners use the term strong enough to indicate 
that, beyond a given point, further improvement 
in strength qualities is no longer transferred into 
running performance. In squats, deadlifts and 
numerous other heavy-weight exercises, this strong enough point is reached much sooner than 
is commonly thought.
Variation in training is needed in order to 
design the attractor–fluctuation landscape. The applicability of the movement in many situations 
reveals whether the landscape is optimally dis -
tributed. The question that arises is how great exercise variability should be. Should exercises 
be varied only a little or a lot? We might conclude 
from the rules of specificity that the variations should not diverge too much from the required 
technique, for it is important to remain close to 
the transfer mechanisms. Yet actual practice—as well as a growing body of research—shows that 
plenty of variation is particularly effective. Even 
if the variation is so great that it intuitively seems 
inefficient, that still results in better learning. The reason for this is still unclear, but it may be the fact 
that learning does not just happen, but first has to 
be triggered. A stimulus is needed, and this will 
arise only if a movement produces an unfamiliar 
combination of motor output and sensory input. If 
only the ideal, familiar movement is repeated over and over again, the stimulus will be totally absent; 
unless there is enough variation, the stimulus may 
be inadequate.
What we have is an athlete who is sensitive 
to both specificity of movement and variation between movements. This variation between 
movements can be linked to the training law of 
overload. The conflicting demands of specificity and overload make the learning system somewhat 
conservative and ensure that movement patterns 
are tested from various angles before being stored in the system. The hard drive first wants to see 
what other patterns a movement can be linked to 
and where else it can be applied before it is stored 
in the system.
Wisdom
Attractors and fluctuations need to be trained together  . 
After finding an effective distribution of attractors and 
fluctuations, the attractor wells need to be deepened through practice  .
Practical Implications
What we have seen so far is this: Sport movements 
can be learned most effectively if the focus is on 
automated control. This control is decentralised 
for complex, high-intensity movements and should 
result in movement patterns that are both stable 
and flexible. This will happen if the attractor–fluctuation landscape is optimally designed. 
Attractors transfer better than fluctuations, but 
interaction between the two is needed throughout 
the learning process. Attractors must be precisely 
trained through specificity, and fluctuations trained through constant variation in execution 
(figure 9.8). Variability is needed in order to trig -
ger learning, and more variation is required than intuition might suggest. Learning depends on 
specificity and variation (rather than overload), which make more or less contrary demands on 
the exercises and constantly vie for control, like 
partners in a bad marriage. All this has implica -
tions for training.

Fine-Tuning Motor Control ❙ 123
Transfer Between Running 
at Speed and Agility at Speed
To ensure satisfactory transfer between straight-
line running at speed and agility at speed in side-
steps and swerves, it is useful to focus on a number 
of attractors they have in common.
Absence of rotation around the longitudinal axis 
in the fl  ight phase is a primary feature of running at speed and agility at speed. This skill is achieved 
by ceasing to apply force at the end of the push-
off. In addition, there should not be any forward rotation, achieved by keeping the hips forward 
and having an active, dominant swing leg (i.e., 
bringing the free leg forward early). Absence of 
rotation means that the arms do not have to make 
compensatory movements. Since we are aiming to deepen this attractor well (and this attractor is 
stable between straight-line and multidirectional 
running), drills can be conducted, such as ensuring the athlete is carrying a ball or something similar 
in both hands close to the chest. Athletes with good 
movement technique show little decline in agility 
even if they are not allowed to use their arms.
An active swing leg results in swing-leg retrac-
tion before foot placement. Together with the forward action of the trailing leg, this backward 
movement creates a scissors motion. There should 
be enough time for this scissors motion—with 
whip from the hip and foot placement from above—and it should be possible to execute this 
movement forcefully. In midstance the knee of the 
free leg should be ahead of the knee of the stance leg to generate a good extension refl  ex by raising 
the free side of the pelvis. The pelvic range of 
motion is not a good yardstick for the quality of 
the movement, for it greatly depends on muscle 
tension around the hip.
The end result should be positive running in 
both running at speed and agility at speed. Posi-tive running can be measured by drawing a line through each of the athlete’s thighs in a side-on 
video or photograph at toe-off (fi  gure 9.9) and 
then bisecting the angle between the two lines. 
The farther forward the bisecting line points, the 
better the running technique.
Environment
Specificity
TransfersEnvironment
E5891/Joyce/478016/Fig 09.08/R1/JGFigure 9.8  Attractors are strongly transferred to other 
movement patterns via the specificity matrix. Fluctua-
tions ensure adaptation to the changing environment.
Figure 9.9  Positive running. A line is drawn through 
each thigh. The angle between the two lines is then 
bisected. The direction of the bisecting line indicates 
how good the technique is.
a
a1
Wisdom
For those athletes who have all these attractors refi  ned 
but still have technical fl  aws, such as an overly extended lumbar spine that could lead to back pain or knee valgus during stance, which leads to energy leaks, it is best to focus on improving basic athletic and gym-nastic competencies as opposed to trying to fi  x their running technique .

124 ❙ Bosch
Transfer Between Strength 
Training and Running at Speed
The design of strength training for running at 
speed should be based on analysis of the running 
movement and the accompanying attractor–
fluctuation landscape, using the attractor compo -
nents of the movement as building blocks for the exercises. Following are some points to be consid -
ered regarding strength training for runners.
For reasons of coordination, even though 
recruitment and maximal force are important to running performance, overload should not be 
sought mainly in higher weights but rather in great 
variability, such as in lower but unstable weights, 
different surfaces, varying initial postures and so 
on. Variability will make strength training more interesting and less taxing.
In strength training the intention of the move -
ment usually can be translated into the end posi -
tion of the exercise. If this matches important body 
postures in running, there will be greater transfer. 
The two most important end positions are
1. the end position of the extension reflex (heel to hamstring and raised free hip), for example 
in single-leg cleans and step-ups; and
2. the absence of rotation at toe-off, for example 
in step-ups with horizontal movement and 
lunge variations.
How relevant to running are double-leg strength 
exercises? Double-leg movement leaves no scope for domination of the extension reflex, which is cru -
cial to transfer. Actual practice shows that strength 
does not transfer from double-leg to single-leg 
patterns as a matter of course. Thus, the training 
programme must contain a significant proportion of single-leg exercises.
In single-leg strength exercises (e.g., step-ups, 
single-leg cleans) the extension reflex is enhanced 
by flexing the swing leg at the hip as early and 
as explosively as possible, with the heel moving 
towards the hamstring (figure 9.10).
Step-ups are suitable for training both the 
stance-phase attractors and the swing-phase attractors (scissors motion and foot placement 
from above).
Strength training for hamstrings should always 
take place in isometric conditions and at the optimum length for the muscle group. The pelvis 
should be able to rotate backward and forward during the exercise so that the body can organise itself to find the optimum length. The exercise 
should be designed so that the hamstrings inhibit 
knee extension and enhance hip extension since 
this function is specific for running (figure 9.11). Hamstrings that do not operate as attractors in 
the running movement but are required to per -
form variable contractions will be susceptible to 
injury. Although not disregarding supraspinal 
spinal qualities, hamstrings that do not have the 
necessary neuromuscular qualities or appropriate 
recruitment patterns are more susceptive to injury.
When dealing with a motor pattern in running, 
the stresses on the hamstrings are highest in high-speed running; the muscle group can deal only 
with those in their attractor state. This is why appropriate contraction—and hence training—of 
the hamstrings is the key in injury prevention.
When running at speed, large amounts of 
energy are transported through the body by elas -
ticity. This energy is stored in the hamstrings of 
the leading leg during the lower-leg pendulum. All 
the muscles involved in this transport of energy 
must be well trained in their specialised attractor 
functions, for example, the abdominal muscles and 
hamstrings in isometric conditions for elasticity and the iliopsoas for power production.
All the muscles below the knee work in iso -
metric conditions when running. Therefore, this muscle action is an attractor and should not be 
trained in varying ways, as is the case with calf 
raises. However, when in the attractor state, it is 
impossible to create an overload for running and 
jumping. What this means is that strength training for lower-leg muscles should be avoided altogether. 
A better alternative is to progress the demands on 
the calf musculotendinous complex by challenging the system with higher drop heights whilst main -
taining short ground-contact times.
Exercises in which the stance knee is highly 
flexed may be relevant to starts and acceleration but are less relevant to running and agility at speed. Transfer into running at speed depends on 
exercises that can be initiated in an almost upright 
posture and require pretension to ensure good 
initial acceleration of resistance.
The great problem when running at speed 
is how to apply force as soon as possible at foot placement. The sooner force can be applied to 
the ground, the faster the runner is. This rate of force development greatly depends on mechanical 
muscular properties such as muscle slack. Strength 

 125Figure 9.10  Strength exercise with two relevant intentions: the complete end position of the extension reflex and 
the absence of rotation at toe-off.
Figure 9.11  Specific strength exercise for the ham -
strings: 1. Only one leg is immobilised. 2. The upper 
body is raised with the hamstring inhibiting knee ex -
tension and enhancing hip extension. 3. The muscle 
group is maintained at the same length by 4. rotating 
the pelvis backward and forward.a
b c

126 ❙ Bosch
exercises should focus on developing these proper -
ties, which can be done only if the exercises are also 
performed with a time limit. Exercises that take 
only a few tenths of a second and are only effective 
if force is produced rapidly, such as single-leg hang 
cleans, are relevant here.
Wisdom
We cannot continue to assume there is a separation 
between the transfer of learning and other transfers such as neuromuscular qualities  . Transfers in well-
trained athletes are always movement specific  .Summary
It is important for the further development of train -
ing theory that the organisation and refinement of 
the specificity matrix, which is the basis for motor 
control, be more thoroughly understood so that we 
can gain more insight into transfer processes. The 
reason variability plays such a key role in learning processes, and the way in which it does so, should 
also be explored in more detail. Perhaps even more 
important, more should be done to translate the laws of motor control and motor learning into 
training practice.

CHAPTER
 127
10
10
10
This chapter deals with training to generate force 
(i.e., strength training) for improving sports 
performance. The philosophies and developmental plan outlined throughout this chapter will bene-
fi  t virtually every athlete, irrespective of sport 
or strength-training background. Although it is beyond the scope of this chapter to deal intimately 
with the specifi  c needs of every sport, sample pro-
grams have been included to outline some of the progressions that need to take place in an athlete’s 
strength-training journey.
Importance of Being Strong
The importance of strength training for improving 
sport performance rests on a fairly simple prem-
ise: The higher the level of resistance to overcome 
or resist in a sport, the greater the importance of 
strength required. Table 10.1 depicts 1RM data 
for athletes who have attained differing levels of performance in American football, Rugby League 
football and track and fi  eld throwing, sports in 
which athletes have to overcome large resistances or forces. Clearly, the athletes participating at the 
higher levels in these sports are stronger than their 
less-successful counterparts.
This differentiation is not confined just to 
collision football and track and fi  eld throwers, however. Higher- and lower-level rowers can be 
distinguished by strength levels both in absolute 
and relative terms;
1 it has recently been shown that 1RM chin-up strength relative to body mass 
is extremely highly correlated to sprint-paddling 
speed in competitive surfers.2 The performance 
implication here is obvious when it is considered 
that paddling speed is critical for successful entry 
upon a wave, especially bigger waves.
Some sport coaches still argue, however, that 
strength training is not important for certain sports in which absolute strength is not manifested or 
in which skill appears to be more important to 
success. Could this be true? It has been demon-strated that 40-metre sprint times in fi  eld- and 
game-sport athletes are well correlated with squat 
and power clean strength and with loaded jump 
squat power relative to the athletes’ body mass.
3
Increases in jump height also occur as a result of 
increasing strength relative to the athletes’ body-
mass.4 Therefore, all athletes who need to sprint 
and jump, irrespective of their sport, will benefi  t from strength training to improve lower-body 
strength relative to body mass.
Not only does strength improve many 
sport-performance measures, but it also reduces the likelihood of injury in many athletic tasks. 
Athletes with injuries cannot compete optimally, 
so improved strength is not only important for improving pure performance measures but 
also for improving athletes’ resilience to injury. 
Strength training would appear necessary for 
improving performance and reducing injury risk 
in almost every conceivable sport.Using Strength Platforms 
for Explosive Performance
Daniel Baker, PhD
Brisbane Broncos Rugby League Football Club, Brisbane, Australia, 
and School of Sport and Biomedical Science, Edith Cowan University, Perth, Australia

128 ❙ Baker
Strength-Training 
Terminology
It is important that coaches, when communicating 
and reading research, have a certain consistency 
in definitions and understanding of basic termin -
ology. To this end, these terms and definitions will be used throughout this chapter.
Strength  is the ability to apply force to either 
overcome resistances to movement or resist unwanted movement.
Maximal strength (MS) is the ability to apply 
maximal levels of force or strength irrespective of 
time constraints.
Relative strength  (RS) is the ability to apply high 
levels of force relative to the athlete’s body mass.
Power  (P) is the rate of performing work, the 
ability to apply force with speed (force × velocity).
Maximum power (Pmax) is the maximal power 
attained during the entire concentric range of movement.
Peak power is the highest power episode of force 
× velocity, typically for only a few milliseconds.Explosive strength  (ES) is a subquality of power 
but is best differentiated as the ability to overcome 
heavy resistances with speed. (Power is over -
coming any resistance with speed, particularly 
medium to lighter resistances.)
Like ES, speed strength is a subquality of power 
but is best differentiated as the ability to apply 
lower levels of force rapidly.
Strength endurance  (SE) is the ability to apply 
levels of force for a prolonged period without decay.
Maximal effort (ME) means training with the 
heaviest resistances that do not allow for the com -
pletion of any more repetitions at the conclusion of the set. Typically a set of 1 to 5 repetitions is used 
to develop maximal strength.
Near-maximal effort (NME) means training with 
heavy resistances that allow for the completion of only 1 or 2 more repetitions at the conclusion of 
the set. Typically a set of 1 to 6 repetitions is used.
Circa max effort means training with multiple 
sets of 1 or 2 repetitions with resistances around 90 per cent 1RM to develop maximal strength. This 
is similar to NME in concept but always uses only 
1 or 2 repetitions.Table 10.1  Differentiation of Performance Level of Athletes From American Football, Rugby League,  
and Track and Field Throwing, Based on Maximal and Explosive Strength
Sport 1RM squat 1RM bench press 1RM power clean
U.S. collegiate 
footballersDivision I Division II Division I Division II Division I Division II
192.8 ± 37.6 (n = 115)182.5 ± 34.4 (n = 114)144.5 ± 26.1  (n = 283)135.2 ± 25.5  (n = 296)123.0 ± 17.9  (n = 166)116.5 ± 17.3  (n = 164)
Australian Rugby LeagueNational leagueState league National leagueState league National leagueState league
175.0 ± 27.3 (n = 20)149.6 ± 14.3  (n = 20)141.4 ± 15.4  (n = 20)126.1 ± 13.1  (n = 20)124.5 ± 12.6  (n = 20)115.0 ± 6.5  (n = 14)
Male track and field throwersU.S. national Collegiate U.S. national Collegiate U.S. national Collegiate
290.3 ± 38.8  (n = 3)266.0 ± 38.4 (n = 7)226.8 ± 0  (n = 3)180.8 ± 23.9 (n = 7)186.0 ± 12.0  (n = 3)137.7 ± 17.3  (n = 7)
Female track and field throwersU.S. national Collegiate U.S. national Collegiate U.S. national Collegiate
168.8 ± 11.7  
(n = 7)84.5 ± 10.0  (n = 5)112.8 ± 9.6  (n = 7)61.4 ± 4.3  (n = 5)106.5 ± 6.7  (n = 7)79.8 ± 0  (n = 1)
Note: All data is in kilogram (kg).
Data for American football from A.C. Fry and W.J. Kraemer, 1991, “Physical performance characteristics of American collegiate football 
players,”  Journal of Applied Sport Science Research 5(3): 126-138. Data for rugby league from D. Baker and R.U. Newton, 2006, “Dis -
criminative analyses of various upper body tests in professional rugby-league players,” International Journal of Sports Physiology and Performance 1(4): 347-360; and from D. Baker and R.U. Newton, 2008, “Comparison of lower body strength, power, acceleration, speed, 
agility, and sprint momentum to describe and compare playing rank among professional rugby league players,” Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research 22(1): 153-158. Data for track and fielder throwing from M.H. Stone and M.E. Stone, 1999, “General principles of strength training,” UK Athletics, Strength and Conditioning Seminar, John Moores University, Liverpool, UK, September 1999.

Using Strength Platforms for Explosive Performance ❙ 129
Hard effort (HE) means training with heavy resis -
tances that allow for the completion of 3 to 5 more 
repetitions at the conclusion of the set. Typically, a 
set of 1 to 8 repetitions is used to develop MS or ES.
Medium-hard effort  (MHE) means training with 
heavy resistances that allow for the completion of more than 5 repetitions at the conclusion of the 
set. Typically, a set of 1 to 8 repetitions is used to 
develop maximal or explosive strength.
Dynamic effort (DE) means training with submax -
imal resistances of 40 to 75 per cent 1RM and 2 to 5 repetitions for multiple sets to develop ES and P .
Repetitive effort  (RE) is the overall name given to 
the concept of using multiple repetitions to induce overload, typically for the training of general 
strength or muscle size (hypertrophy).
Heavy reps  is a specific RE designation. It means 
to train with a heavy resistance that allows for the completion of 6 to 10 repetitions, typically 0 
to 3 repetitions short of failure, to develop general 
strength and muscle size (myofibrillar).
High reps  is a specific RE designation. It means 
to train with a moderate resistance that allows for the completion of 10 to 20 repetitions, typically 0 
to 5 or more repetitions short of failure, to develop 
noncontractile hypertrophy (sarcoplasmic) or 
muscle conditioning.
Skill, Biomechanics  
and Physiology  of Strength Training
Every exercise, test or display of strength or 
power is a distinct motor skill. Some exercises 
have more generality (i.e., they have aspects in 
common or transfer to other exercises or perfor -
mance variables) although other exercises may be specific or have less transfer.
5 For example, simple 
strength-training exercises such as the squat, bench press and chin-up correlate well to basic sport tasks 
such as sprinting, jumping and paddling or to the 
achievement level in sports.
The manifestation of strength physiologically 
depends on muscle morphology factors and neural factors. The muscle morphology factors include 
muscle size, fibre type, pennation angles, leverage 
factors and so on. Neural factors include increased 
integrated myoelectrical activity (IEMG), motor 
unit synchronisation and enhanced coordination of the neural signals from contributing muscles (i.e., skill learning).
5-7
The large initial gains in strength exhibited by 
novices are mainly attributed to neural and skill 
adaptations and would appear more pronounced 
in compound exercises of the lower body, such as 
the squat and leg press, compared to less-complex 
exercises. Essentially, the athlete is learning to perform the skill more effectively. The more com -
plex the skill, the longer this process lasts and the greater the strength change that is manifested.
6, 7
Wisdom
The neural adaptation will last longer and be more pro -
nounced with full squats than it will with less-complex 
exercises such as leg extensions, especially for those athletes beginning their strength-training journey or resuming the sport after a lengthy layoff  .
Every repetition can be seen as a trial for motor 
learning. The larger the number of trials, the greater 
the learning capacity. Therefore, more repetitions 
with resistances that are not unduly difficult to 
lift would appear to be the necessary prescription 
for novice athletes first embarking on their resis -
tance-training journey. These resistances allow the greatest number of trials for motor skill learning; 
they are also the most effective for muscle hypertro
-
phy in the initial to intermediate stages of adaptation.
The mechanisms of increasing strength through 
neural and morphological adaptations are theo -
retically easily rationalised in the early stages of 
training. Greater numbers of repetitions mean 
more trials for learning, and higher-volume loads 
(of a certain minimal intensity) build muscle more effectively. But it is not always the simple solution 
of more repetitions to learn the skill. Sometimes 
the skills are more complex and need a graduated learning progression.
Let’s look at a few examples of learning exercises 
in stages that suit biomechanical and skill factors. 
The deadlift from the floor is a fine exercise for the 
development of MS and ES, but generally speaking it is far too complex to be taught to developing 
athletes. Typically, they lack the basic strength and 
body control to get into the proper starting position or maintain good mechanics during the lift.
Young athletes should develop strength in 
body-weight squats with soft resistances, such as 

130 ❙ Baker
sand bags and rubber bands, and use torso-bracing 
plank variations before learning the following 
deadlift progression. After the preparation pro -
vided by planks and squats, athletes should follow a top-down progression to learn the deadlift, using 
minimal resistance. Start at the top by lowering the barbell to just above the knee (learning the flat back 
or hip hinge exercise), then to just below the knee; 
progress to mid shin and then finally to deadlift from the floor. There will also be some progression 
in resistance, but the primary emphasis is on range 
of motion (ROM) and technique.
Wisdom
The time frame for working through skill progressions 
is based on technical progressions made by the ath -
lete . Can he or she safely and with sound technique 
progress in ROM first and resistance second? If not, the athlete doesn’t progress  . This may be the case for 
very tall athletes  . Their floor deadlifts may actually be 
from pins in a power rack or from blocks in order for them to be able to perform the lift with effective and safe technique  .
The same top-down method of teaching and 
progressing exercise skills is seen with the Olympic 
weight-lifting exercise variations. For example, the 
progressions for learning the hang power clean 
include the
• isometric shrug,
• dynamic shrug from mid-thigh,
• power shrug from just above the knee,
• power shrug jump from just above the knee, and finally
• hang power clean.
This is a specific sequence of exercise pro -
gressions that build the skill and motor patterns of one exercise into the next (i.e., the concept 
of chaining and shaping smaller skills into a larger, more complex skill). The progression 
through this sequence can be quiet short (min
-
utes), or it could take months, depending on 
when the athlete can complete each component 
with good mechanics.
The technically more complex Olympic 
weightlifting lifts can be introduced later in an athlete’s lifting career. Strength can be developed 
easily through simple body-weight exercises that progress into simple barbell exercises, although power can be developed easily with simple jumps 
and throws that progress into heavier weighted 
jumps and throws.
8
Wisdom
Olympic lifts will be much more effective once basic 
levels of strength and power have already been devel -
oped by simpler means  .
Furthermore, Olympic lifts also require lower 
numbers of repetitions (1 to 5) to maintain velocity 
and avoid skill decrement. Beginners need higher 
numbers of repetitions to develop basic motor 
skills and muscle size!
Consider the following points: The mechanics 
of a lift will change as body size (i.e., height, mass and girth) varies across an athlete’s career. The path 
the barbell takes through the ROM of a lift changes as the athlete gets stronger and as resistance lifted 
approaches 1RM. Thus, maintaining technical 
training and ensuring that proper biomechanics 
are maintained will be on-going concerns during 
an athlete’s strength training journey, not just at the beginning.
Can an Athlete Ever Be  
Strong Enough?
This is a common question. The simple answer is 
you can’t be too strong, but you can incorrectly 
apportion your training content in favour of 
increasing strength when training other avenues 
may prove more fruitful in improving sport 
performance. For example, a young shot-putter with an incline bench press 1RM of 75 kilograms 
throws a shot representing a resistance of about 
20 per cent (7 kg shot ×  2 hands = 14 kg when 
compared to the incline press strength). Because 
the athlete has a relatively low level of strength for 
a shot-putter, strength will increase fairly easily 
with dedicated training, and a commensurate 
increase in throwing distance should result. Over time, when the 1RM equals 150 kilograms, the 
resistance of the shot now represents only 10 per 
cent 1RM, and the shot-putter now has reduced the disadvantage that existed when he or she was 
less strong. But from this high level of strength, 
further gains become increasingly harder to attain. 
If the shot-putter works hard to train strength 

Using Strength Platforms for Explosive Performance ❙ 131
for another 5 years to attain 175-kilogram incline 
press 1RM, the shot now represents 8.6 per cent, 
or little change from the 10 per cent when the 
strength level was 150 kilogram.
What if the athlete had neglected throwing 
speed, technique and mobility work to increase strength during this time? Would the hard-fought 
increase in strength really yield an advantage in 
throwing performance if other training factors were ignored or not respected in the training 
regime? If the athlete had neglected throwing 
drills and movement speed, mobility exercises 
and technique work and so on just to pursue a 
higher 1RM score in a few lifts, then his or her performance may not have actually increased. 
If the shot-put performance did not improve, it 
would not be because the athlete was too strong, but rather because training had been imbalanced 
in content. If, however, the athlete had been smart 
and well coached, he or she would not have 
neglected the other aspects of training that also 
contribute to performance; as a result, the athlete’s new strength levels could be transferred, to some 
degree, to throwing.
It is vital to remember that sport performance 
reflects a summation of factors—strength, speed, 
endurance, mobility, skill, tactics, mental tough -
ness and so on—and we should not neglect others 
to improve just one aspect.
Another common saying is that an athlete’s 
muscles are too strong compared to the antagonist muscles. For example, a sprinter’s quadriceps are 
sometimes labelled too strong for the hamstrings 
or a swimmer’s shoulder internal rotators too 
strong for the shoulder external rotators, scapula retractors and stabilisers. This muscular strength 
imbalance results primarily through usage over 
time in a dominant movement pattern. A better way to look at these situations is to identify the 
antagonists as being not strong enough to cope 
with the forces now generated by the dominant 
muscles in the competitive-movement pattern. A 
number of studies have shown that increasing the strength of weaker antagonist muscles actually 
results in increased limb-movement speed.
9 This 
finding also has applications in injury preven -
tion. We should not neglect the strengthening of 
the agonists but rather emphasise programming 
towards increasing the strength of the relevant 
antagonist musculature.
So the question from sport athletes is not 
really ‘Can I be too strong?’ but rather ‘What level of strength do I need to have to attain a high level of performance in my sport?’ If that 
level of strength is not yet attained, continue to 
prioritise it. If the athlete has attained the seem
-
ing prerequisite strength levels for his or her sport, then the question is ‘Will any further large 
gains in strength benefit performance?’ If yes, 
again continue to prioritise strength training. If 
no, then maintain strength training content in 
proper balance with other factors, and prioritise the factors that will now lead to improved sport 
performance.
Athletes have many training necessities but only 
limited time and energy, so the coach must make judicious decisions regarding the total training 
content. Strength training should remain part of 
the total regime, but it may play a lesser role com -
pared to endurance, skill and tactical training, as 
well as recovery for some athletes.
Wisdom
Are the athlete’s strength levels in balance with those 
of the highest performers in the sport, and are the athlete’s strength levels in appropriate balance within his or her body? Plan total training content according to the answers and the needs of the sport  .
Analysing the Needs of the Sport and the Individual
In competitive powerlifting and Olympic weight -
lifting , maximal strength is the major determinant 
of success for competitors.  Other competitive 
lifting sports such as strongman, kettlebell lifting 
and Basque stone lifting also require not only high 
levels of maximal strength, but also SE because the nature of these competitions is often to lift certain 
loads for a maximal number of repetitions or dis -
tance in specified time periods. These sports are 
relatively easy to analyse, but most other sports 
rely on a number of factors for success: strength, 
speed, endurance, mobility, skill, tactics, mental 
toughness and so on.
An analysis of strength programs shows that 
coaches are influenced by a number of broad philosophies such as the body-part method (influ
-
ence from bodybuilding), control-and-stability 
method (influence from physical therapy and 
Pilates), body-weight training (influence from 
gymnastics and martial arts), energy-system or 

132 ❙ Baker
heart rate method (influence from circuit train -
ing) and strength-sport methods (influence from 
weightlifting, powerlifting and strongman). 
There are limitations to these methods, and any 
of these methods in isolation cannot fully develop 
the many strength qualities needed for sport. 
A better approach is to consider the movement and forces that athletes in a sport experience 
and prescribe training accordingly. Therefore, a 
movement and forces (resistance) analysis of the sport is necessary.
Analyse the sport. What are the dominant move -
ments? What are the forces experienced? What are 
the best methods of training to develop the ability 
to apply force in these sport movements? Be sport 
relevant and athlete specific and give consideration 
to long-term athletic development.
Strength-Gain Programming 
for Developing Athletes
An athlete’s training career can span 15 years or 
more, and naturally, the strength-training needs 
and content will vary during that time. Athletes 
undertake strength training to improve the follow -
ing objectives or strength qualities:
• Body and limb control and joint stability
• General strength and muscle size
• Maximal strength
• Explosive strength and power
• Strength endurance
Although certain sports may require more of 
a certain strength quality than other strength 
qualities, there still exists a distinct hierarchical 
relationship with these objectives. With consid -
eration to these objectives, a long-term model for resistance training, with clear pathways, 
objectives and content for each stage, is depicted 
in table 10.2 for MS and in table 10.3 for ES and 
P , respectively.
Wisdom
Developing athletes should have the objectives of 
improving body (limb) control and joint stability and then starting to develop the appropriate muscle size and general strength appropriate for the sport  .Developing athletes should begin their 
resistance-training journey with modified 
body-weight exercises performed for higher 
repetitions (or longer isometric holds where 
appropriate) such as ≥15 repetitions for 6 to 9 
years of age, ≥12 for 9 to 12 years and ≥8 to 10 for 12 to 15 years. The programme should be 
developed around a few basic exercises, such as 
push-ups, pull-ups (body rows), squats, split-leg exercises (lunges, step-ups), torso stability and 
torso flexion and rotation exercises to improve 
muscle function and stability in fundamental 
movement patterns.
10 Table 10.4 outlines such 
a programme.
These basic body-weight exercises can be mod -
ified to decrease or increase the level of difficulty via the following methods:
• Alter the leverage factors.
• Alter the ROM.
• Alter the plane of movement.
• Alter the stability demands.
• Add more soft resistance to the movement.
• Use single-limb variations of these move -
ments.
10
Table 10.5 displays six body-weight tests, with 
a 0 to 5 scoring system that may be used to deter -
mine if a youth has a minimum competency in 
controlling and moving his or her body weight 
and is therefore ready to progress to more bar -
bell-oriented training. Developing athletes should 
progress to heavier, barbell-oriented training only 
when they can display basic levels of competence 
in some body-weight tests.10
The goal of the next phase (stage 3) of train -
ing for the developing athlete, typically around the early to mid-teenage years, is to pursue 
general strength and muscle-size training 
through basic barbell exercises such as the squat; 
Romanian-style deadlift progressions; lunge; 
overhead press; bench press; bent-over row; and pull-down, pull-up or chin-up. Initially, in this 
phase the repetition demands remain moderate 
to high (e.g., 18-15 reps) to help develop not only muscle mass but also the necessary refinement 
of motor patterns in the basic barbell exercises 
that will remain the mainstay of the athlete’s 
resistance-training career.
For ES and P training, progression through the 
stages runs in tandem with, but slightly behind, 

 133Table 10.2  Long-Term Athletic Development (LTAD) Plan for Strength Development
Stage Objective Content
1. Introduction to 
body-weight strength training, pt.1Learn to develop force not only to overcome but mainly to control the limbs and stabilise the body during basic movements through body-weight and modified body-weight exercises. Focus on technique and control.For young athletes (6-9 yrs old), use simple exercises that allow for 15 reps or more × 1 or 2 sets. For children 9-12 yrs old, use exercises that allow for 10-15 reps × 1-3 sets. For youth 12-15 yrs old, use exercises that allow for 8-15 reps × 1-3 sets. Focus on multijoint body-weight exercises such as the squat, single-leg exercises (e.g., step-up, lunge, single-leg squat), push-up, pull-up and torso exercises. Resistance is garnered from body-weight and modified body-weight exercises and soft resistance, such as through using bands, medicine balls and sand tubes or bags.
2. Introduction to body-weight training, pt. 2Continue to develop overcoming, control and stability force using more difficult body-weight and modified body-weight exercises.Use more difficult variations of the stage 1 exercises that allow for only 6-12 reps × 1-4 sets. More use of soft resistance. Testing of body-weight competency will show when it is appropriate to move to the next level.
3. Introduction to barbell training for general strength and hypertrophyOnce competency of body-weight control has been developed, it is necessary or appropriate to induce a greater overload, principally from barbell training. Overload is developed mainly via squatting, deadlifting and pressing exercises. Other barbell, dumbbell, cable and body-weight exercises must also be performed to maintain strength and muscle balance, induce appropriate levels of hypertrophy and generally strengthen the musculoskeletal system as relevant to the individual and sport.Introduction of barbell versions of basic strength exercises such as the squat, appropriate deadlift variations, bench press, overhead press using a periodised approach working from 10-12 reps (circa 60%-75% of the estimated 1RM) down to 5 or 6 reps (circa 80%-85% of the estimated 1RM) across the multiweek training cycle. Assistant strength exercises, such as single-leg exercises, other pressing variations, dumbbell exercises, pull-downs and rows, are introduced, perhaps using a slightly higher rep range (8-20 reps) to induce hypertrophy. Important body-weight exercises such as pull-ups, push-ups and torso-strength exercises continue to be performed. 
4. Maximal-strength trainingMaximise strength by use of even heavier resistances in the key strength exercises.Use more doses of lower numbers of reps (1-5 reps at 80%-100% 1RM) and ME training in the key strength exercises in a traditional or wave-like periodised manner. General strength and hypertrophy continue to be developed with heavy reps (6-10 reps at 65%-85% 1RM). Add other exercises as required for the individual or sport.
5. Advanced maximal-strength trainingMaximise strength by more regular use of heavier resistances in the key strength exercises plus introduce and use accommodating resistances such as bands and chains for maximal strength.As in stage 4 but an increased use of accommodating resistances such as bands and chains for maximal strength. Greater use of specific techniques where appropriate (e.g., drop sets for hypertrophy, explosive-strength training with Olympic weightlifting lifts). Periodisation may be traditional, wave-like conjugate or modified conjugate.
6. Elite maximal-strength trainingMaintain high levels of maximal strength and be able to peak maximal and explosive strength for important competitions.As in stage 5 but more specific to the individual needs and sport or seasonal requirements. Generally less volume is needed.

134 ❙ Baker
Table 10.3  Long-Term Athletic Development (LTAD) Plan for Explosive Strength and Power Development
Stage Objective Content
1. Introduction to 
power trainingLearn to develop force rapidly, accelerate and safely decelerate.Paused rep body-weight jumps, hops and medicine ball throws; in-place jumps before horizontal hops.
2. Speed powertrainingLearn to do exercises explosively and repetitively.Same exercises as stage 1 but with no pauses between reps. Add barbell jump squats and bench press throws when ready. Use resistances up to 20% 1RM as skill increases.
3. Ballistic power trainingIncrease power via increased resistance. Emphasise rapid speed of movement with heavier resistances.Barbell jump squats and bench press throws with up to 40% 1RM. Continue to use stage 2 exercises and resistances.
4a. Power training A Maximise power by use of even heavier resistances.Barbell jump squats and bench press throws with 40%-60% 1RM. Continue to use stage 3 exercises and resistances.
4b. Power training B Introduce simple power versions of weightlifting exercises.Power shrug jumps, pulls and push presses. Emphasise speed and technique. Continue to use stage 3 exercises and resistances.
5a. Explosive strength training AIntroduce kinetically altered strength exercises that entail faster lifting speeds.Squats, bench presses, deadlifts and others at 50%-75% 1RM with added resistance from bands and chains (10%-20% 1RM or more). Continue to use stage 4 exercises and resistances.
5b. Explosive strength training BIntroduce power clean from hang or boxes above knee.Lighter to medium resistances (50%-85% 1RM). Emphasise speed and technique. Continue to use stage 4 exercises and resistances.
6. Heavy Olympic weightliftingIntroduce heavier weightlifting exercise versions.Power cleans from floor, hang, or boxes; snatches; jerks; and others up 100% 1RM if athlete and sport relevant. Continue to use stage 5 exercises and resistances.
Table 10.4  Basic Body-Weight Training Program 
Appropriate for Teenage Athletes
Each superset (paired exercises A and B) starts every 3 min -
utes. The entire session takes 27 minutes plus warm-up time.
Exercise Sets × reps
1A. Push-up variation 3 × 10-15
1B. Pull-up variation 3 × 10-15
2A. Split-leg variation 3 × 10-15 each side
2B. Squat variation 3 × 10-15
3A. Plank variation 3 × 30-60 sec
3B. Sit-up variation 3 × 10-15
From D. Baker, 2007, Progressing the difficulty of body-weight 
exercises for child and youth resistance training, DVD published by the Australian Strength and Conditioning Association, Been -
leigh, Queensland, Australia.Strength-Gain Programming 
for Intermediate Athletes
Intermediate-level athletes need to make greater 
improvements in MS, ES and P because once they 
enter the elite-athlete phase, little time may exist to 
drastically improve any physical parameters due 
to a much busier competition schedule and more 
time devoted to skill and tactical training.
For example, barbell variations of horizon -
tal-pressing exercises such as incline press, narrow-grip bench press, floor bench press and 
various dumbbell bench press variations also start 
to be included alongside the bench press. A greater variety of exercise is the simplest method to avoid 
or break through progress plateaus that inevitably 
come with increased training experience.
Intense training brings with it the introduc -
tion of periodised strength training, which is the methodical cycling of training intensity and volume across time. Periodising the training stress strength levels and training experience. The reason 
is that developing force or strength always under -
pins explosive use of that force, and ES and P are 
highly correlated with MS.
4, 8

Using Strength Platforms for Explosive Performance ❙ 135
is the second method employed to overcome 
training plateaus.
Wisdom
Strength testing is important for periodised intensity 
prescription; however, if athletes do not know their 1RM, the Epley formula (1RM = [weight lifted × 
number of reps × 0  .0333] + weight lifted) has proven 
to be a useful method of estimating 1RM  .
Although certain percentages of 1RM are tra -
ditionally used in intensity prescription, other 
methods based on effort are also used. These 
include performing sets to maximal effort (ME), 
near-maximal effort (NME), hard effort (HE), 
medium-hard effort (MHE), dynamic effort (DE) and repetitive effort (RE) (explained previously). 
Essentially, the coach must decide which method 
(% 1RM or effort prescription or both) suits his or her philosophy of training or best suits the inter -
mediate-level athletes being trained.
Intermediates with more experience may also 
be exposed to kinetic variations, such as bands, chains and functional isometrics, and other more advanced techniques to help overcome plateaus 
in progress.
With regard to ES and P training, intermediate 
athletes need to ascertain their sport requirements. If they require ES to move large resistances quickly, 
such an opponent’s body mass in collision football 
and grappling sports, or large implements, such as 
in rowing or track and field throwing, then prog -
ress must also be made in developing technique 
in the Olympic weightlifting exercises (e.g., snatch, 
clean and jerk variations). If the sport’s fast-force demands are such that moving the athlete’s own 
body mass is the main requirement, then loaded 
jump squats and plyometrics may become the pri -
mary method of ES and P training content rather than heavy Olympic weightlifting exercises.
Strength-Gain Programming 
for Elite Athletes
Generally, elite athletes have already developed the 
appropriate levels of MS, ES and P to successfully 
compete in their sports during their intermedi -
ate-athlete stage. At the elite level they are con -
cerned with peaking or maintaining these qualities Table 10.5  Youth Body-Weight Testing Table
This is a rating system to assess the physical competency of youth athletes. If an athlete cannot score at least 18 points for 
the six tests, then he or she may not be ready to progress to heavier barbell-oriented resistance training. More body-weight and soft-resistance training may be warranted. M = male, F = female. 
Exercise 5 points 4 points 3 points 2 points 1 point 0 points
Push-up M, 35 or more
F, 20 or moreM, 28-34F, 15-19M, 20-27F, 10-14M, 10-19F, 5-9M, 3-9F, 1-4M, less than 3F, 0
Pull-up, underhand gripM, 12 or moreF, 6 or moreM, 9-11F, 4 or 5M, 6-8F, 3M, 4 or 5F, 2M, 1-3F, 1M, 0F, 0
Full squat, number in 60 sec, with 10% body weight held on chestM and F,  40 or moreM and F, 33-39M and F, 26-32M and F, 19-25M and F, 11-18 M and F, <10
Single-leg full squat, stand on a box, average of both legsM and F,  5 or moreM and F, 4 M and F, 3 M and F, 2 M and F, 1 M and F, 0
Front hover hold, arms straight (sec)M and F, >121 M and F, 90-120M and F, 60-90M and F, 30-60M and F, 10-30M and F, <10
Twisting sit-up, number in 60 secM and F, ≥40 M and F, 33-39M and F, 26-32M and F, 19-25M and F, 11-18 M and F, <10
From D. Baker, 2007, Progressing the difficulty of body-weight exercises for child and youth resistance training, DVD published by the 
Australian Strength and Conditioning Association, Beenleigh, Queensland, Australia.

136 ❙ Baker
according to the nature of their competition. 
However, that not all elite athletes are advanced 
in their strength-training progressions, and an 
improved strength-training programme may still 
provide a method of further sport-performance 
enhancement even at the highest levels.
Although the periodisation of training is dis -
cussed in detail in chapter 18, certain elements are worth considering here. The major considerations for the elite athlete are predicated upon whether he 
or she is in a peaking sport (e.g., swimming, track 
and field), a weekly fixture sport (e.g., American 
football, basketball) or a tournament sport (e.g., 
tennis, golf, volleyball, surfing).
Elite athletes in peaking sports can have long 
resistance-training cycles with high workloads a few months out from competition and gradually taper the volume and increase the intensity to 
allow for a super-compensatory peak performance 
at the major competition.
However, athletes in weekly fixture sports must 
be concerned with competing 1 or 2 times per week for seasons of 30 weeks or more; rarely do they 
perform high strength-training workloads during 
their long season, as high workloads will have an 
immediate negative effect on sport performance 
(i.e., the weekly match). The major consideration is to maintain MS, ES and P levels as close to their 
preparation-period levels with a workload that 
minimises interference with sport performance and other important training factors such as speed, 
endurance, skill and tactical training. Strength 
training should never be neglected in weekly fix -
ture sports, given the strong relationships between MA, ES and P and success in collision (football) sports and between lower-body relative strength 
and sprinting and jumping performance.
The other major considerations for elite athletes 
are the nature and extent of MS, ES and P adapta -
tions consequent to many years of training. The stark 
reality is that large improvements are difficult for 
experienced strength trainers to achieve after 4 to 7 
years of intense training, and small improvements 
in strength may actually take many years to mani -
fest.11, 12 Consequently, elite athletes need to consider 
embracing an aggressive approach to in-competition maintenance training and to consider embracing 
the use of alternative resistance methods such as 
the use of bands and chains. Even a 1 to 2 per cent 
improvement across the entire preparation period can be seen as worthwhile for elite athletes.Use of Bands and Chains
The use of bands and chains to augment barbell resistance is becoming increasingly common in the 
strength training of athletes seeking enhanced MS, 
ES and P . Traditional barbell training is predicated 
upon the resistance that can be lifted through the 
weakest portion of the lift, typically undertraining the strong portions of the lift such as the lockout. 
Bands and chains add resistance to the top portion 
of lift where strength is greater. This is known as accommodating resistance : bands or chains that 
accommodate to the strength curve.
For example, heavy chains are draped over a 
lighter supporting chain that is itself draped over the sleeves of the barbell. When the barbell is at its lowest point of the range, the heavy chain links are 
furled on the floor, and their weight is not acting 
on the barbell. As the barbell moves upward in its range, the heavy chain links unfurl off the floor 
and begin to add their weight to the barbell. There -
fore, at the lockout of the lift, the total resistance is equivalent to the barbell mass and the weight of 
the chains (see figures 10.1 and 10.2).
An alternative method to achieve accommodat -
ing resistance is through the use of one or more latex rubber bands that are anchored from below 
and looped over the barbell. As the barbell moves 
through its ROM, there is an increased stretch on the band, which in turn imparts an increasing 
force to the barbell. Therefore, the total resistance 
is equivalent to the barbell mass and stretch force exerted by the band (see figures 10.3 and 10.4).
The use of bands and chains is not a fad. Using 
a barbell with additional band resistance has been 
demonstrated to be more effective than traditional 
barbell training alone in improving strength and power in experienced athletes.
13 Other studies have 
found that supplementing a portion of the total 
resistance during barbell training with band or 
chain resistance is extremely effective during ES 
and P training since it allows for greater power 
output during the initial portion of the concentric portion of the lift.
14, 15
Differences Between Bands  
and Chains
Chains have mass and can be accelerated like 
any weight. Bands, however, can be accelerated 
to a certain point where the resistance they 

 137
Figure 10.1  The bench press with added chain re -
sistance. When the barbell is at the chest, the links of 
heavier chains draped over the light supporting chains 
are furled on the floor, and their weight is not acting on the barbell.Figure 10.2  As the barbell moves through its range, 
the heavy chain links unfurl from the floor, and their 
weight is progressively added to that of the barbell’s 
resistance.
Figure 10.3  The full squat performed with added band 
resistance. When the barbell is at the lowest position, 
the bands are slack and impart little or no additional 
resistance.Figure 10.4  Just before lockout, the bands are im -
parting a large stretch resistance, which is added to the barbell resistance to garner the total resistance experienced by the athlete. This additional stretch 
resistance has come on gradually from just after the 
lowest squat position.

138 ❙ Baker
impart is fairly equal to the force exerted by the 
athlete. After this point true acceleration may 
not exist. In effect, bands can make a barbell 
exercise behave a little like a semi-isokinetic lift 
in certain parts of the ROM. Neither is better—
both chains and bands provide accommodating resistance—but each affects the kinematics of 
the lifts slightly differently. When chains clear 
the floor, they can wobble slightly, challenging proprioceptive stability; bands can provide a 
little more stability since they provide an extra 
anchor for the barbell to the floor. All these fac
-
tors need to be taken into account if the coach decides to integrate the use of bands and chains 
into the strength program.
Studies have shown that for the use of bands 
and chains to render a significant adaptation in strength and power, they must exert a force 
equivalent to at least 10 per cent 1RM during 
the lift.
15 It has been posited that forces equiv -
alent to 15 to 20 per cent may be more effective 
because it is argued that this level of force causes 
a postactivation potentiation (PAP) effect within 
the repetition.16 What this intrarepetition P AP 
means is, for example, if an athlete takes a bar -
bell loaded with 85 per cent 1RM barbell mass plus 15 per cent in chains or bands from the rack 
for bench pressing, the muscular system senses 
that it requires the neural drive to lift the entire 
100 per cent 1RM. However, when the barbell is 
lowered to the bottom of the range, the chain or band resistance deloads, and the resistance is 
now equivalent to 85 per cent. There is surplus 
neural drive to lift this resistance, resulting in an explosive initiation of the lift.Determining Resistance  
With Bands and Chains
The exact resistance that bands may exert during 
a lift may be determined by setting up an empty 
barbell with the bands attached and placing the 
barbell on a digital scale that itself has been placed 
on boxes so that it is at the same height as will 
occur during the lift. Merely subtract the barbell mass from the digital scale reading to determine 
the amount of force the bands are exerting at that 
point in the range.
When trying to determine the barbell resis -
tance to use for strength training with bands or chains, the process is fairly simple. The exact 
band or chain resistance is determined for the 
bottom and top portion of a lift, and the sum of these two figures is averaged. For example, if 
an athlete wanted to train at a 5RM-level with 
bands and the standard (nonband) 5RM is 100 kilograms, the athlete has to subtract the average 
band resistance from the 100 kilograms. So if the 
bands exert zero resistance at the bottom and 22.5 
kilograms at the lockout, the average of these 
figures is 11.25 kilograms. The athlete needs to reduce the barbell from 100 kilograms to either 90 
or 87 .5 kilograms. Table 10.6 details the range of 
resistances that the most popular sizes of bands and chains provide.
Table 10.7 outlines the last 8 weeks of a prepa -
ration-period cycle for increasing 1RM bench press strength in elite field-sport athletes. Note 
the integration of bands and chains into the 
cycle and how resistance is varied throughout 
the range. When bands and chains are used, 
Table 10.6  Resistance Garnered by Various Sizes of Bands and Chains
Chain-link diameter Kg/m 2 × 1.5 m lengths
8 mm 1.35-1.5 kg 4.0-4.5 kg
10 mm 2.1-2.3 kg 6.5-7.0 kg
13 mm 3.8-4.0 kg 11.5-12.0 kg
16 mm 5.5-5.7 kg 16.5-17.1 kg
1m band 4.5 mm thick 5 mm thick
#1 = 12.7 mm wide Up to 12.5 kg/band Up to 15 kg/band
#2 = 20.6 mm wide Up to 20 kg/band Up to 23 kg/band
#3 = 28.6 mm wide Up to 30 kg/band Up to 35 kg/band
#4 = 44.4 mm wide Up to 50 kg/band Up to 60 kg/band
From D. Baker, 2010, How to use bands and chains, DVD published by Dan Baker, www.
danbakerstrength.com.

Using Strength Platforms for Explosive Performance ❙ 139
the resistance can be analysed as being the 
minimum (bottom of range), maximal (top of 
range) and mean resistance. So whilst the mean 
resistance during weeks 2 to 4 toggles between 
85 and 92 per cent 1RM, the lockout resistance 
that the athletes experience is close to 100 per cent every week!
The basic prescription for using bands and 
chains is the following:
MS: Use 70 to 90 per cent 1RM plus 10 to 25 
per cent band or chain resistance × 1 to 5 reps, ME or NME.
ES: Use 50 to 70 per cent 1RM plus 10 to 25 per 
cent band or chain resistance × 2 to 5 reps.
Adding bands and chains to the barbell should 
be reserved for experienced intermediate- and elite-level athletes who have solid lifting technique. Introducing bands and chains into the training program should occur according to the progres -
sion models outlined in tables 10.2 and 10.3. Fur -
thermore, some basic linear periodised strength programming (tables 10.8 and 10.9) should also 
precede the introduction of any advanced train -
ing strategy such as accommodating-resistance modalities. Athletes should also know their 5RM 
and 3RM (and therefore have an estimate of 1RM if it is not known) before starting to use bands or 
chains, so that calculations of training weights 
can be made, using either the effort method or the 
percentage 1RM method.
Table 10.7  Sample Integration of Band and Chain Resistance Into the Bench Press Undulating Periodised Maximal 
Strength Cycle of an Elite Field-Sport Athlete
For weeks 2 to 7 , 3 training sets (excluding lighter warm-up sets) are performed in an ascending manner, working up to a ME 
set of either 5RM or 3RM with either additional band resistance (weeks 2 and 3), additional chain resistance (weeks 4 and 5) or standard barbell resistance (weeks 6 and 7). The resistance can be viewed as the barbell portion (for the bottom of the lift) and 
band and chain portion to garner a total resistance at lockout. The mean resistance is also monitored to observe progression.
Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Week 5 Week 6 Week 7 Week 8
Sets × reps 3 × 10 at67%3 × 5 + #2 band
>5RM3 × 3 + #2 band
>3RM3 × 5 + chains>5RM3 × 3 + chains>3RM3 × 5>5RM3 × 3>3RMTest new
1RM
Barbell mass kg and % 1RM*96.2 kg66.9%110.4 kg76.8%118.6 kg82.5%113.6 kg79.1%122.1 kg85.0%128.8 kg89.6%135.4 kg94.2%145.4 kg101.2%
Top resistance and % 1RM96.2 kg66.9%132.9 kg92.5%141.1 kg98.2%131.1 kg91.2%139.6 kg97.1%128.8 kg89.6%135.4 kg94.2%
Mean resistance and % 1RM96.2 kg66.9%121.7 kg83.7%129.9 kg89.3%122.4 kg84.1%130.9 kg90.0%128.8 kg89.6%135.4 kg94.2%
*Of previous 1RM of 143.8 kg.
Table 10.8  Methods of Intensity Progression Using Linear Progression Across an 8-Week Period
Classification Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Week 5 Week 6 Week 7 Week 8
Basic 1 3 × 12-15 3 × 12-15 3 × 10-12 3 × 10-12 3 × 8-10 3 × 8-10 3 × 6-8 3 × 6-8
Basic 
progression 23 × 10-12 3 × 10-12 3 × 8-10 3 × 8-10 3 × 6-8 3 × 6-8 3 × 4-6 3 × 4-6*
Intermediate 1 3 × 10 at 63%3 × 10 at 67%3 × 8 at 71% 3 × 8 at 75%3 × 6 at 79%3 × 6 at 83%3 × 5 at 85%3 × 5* at 87%
Intermediate progression 2 (block)3 × 10 at 63%3 × 10 at 67%3 × 10 at 71%3 × 5 at 79%3 × 5 at 83%3 × 5 at 87%3 × 3 at 91%3 × 3* at 93%
*Use maximal effort, do as many reps as possible on the last set and recalculate 1RM from this ME set. Actual 1RM testing can take place in 
week 9 if desired.Wisdom
It is better to use jumps, throws, plyometrics and so on 
for the development of power  . Save bands and chains 
for maximal effort and explosive strength  .

140 ❙ Baker
Tables 10.9 Wave-Like Progression Across an 8-Week Period 
STRENGTH (HYPERTROPHY) EXERCISES
Classification Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Week 5 Week 6 Week 7 Week 8
Advanced 1
Key MS3 × 8 at 70%8-6-5 at 70%-75%-80%6-5-3* at 72%-80%-88%5-3-2* at 80%-88%-92%3 × 8 at 70%8-6-5 at 70%-75%-80%6-5-3* at 74%-82%-90%5-3-2* at 82%-90%-94%
Advanced 2Key MS3 × 8 at 70%5-5-5 at 70%-75%-80%3-3-3* at 72%-80%-88%2-2-2* at 80%-88%-92%3 × 8 at 70%5-5-5 at 70%-75%-80%3-3-3* at 74%-82%-90%2-2-2* at 82%-90%-94%
Assistance strength3 ×10 at 
65%3 × 8 at 72.5%3 × 6* at 80%2 × 5* at 85%3 × 10 at 65%3 × 8 at 72.5%3 × 6* at 80%2 × 5* at 85%
Muscle size 3 × 12-16 3 × 12-16 3 × 8-10 3 × 8-10 3 × 10-12 3 × 10-12 3 × 6-8 3 × 6-8
ES AND P EXERCISES
Classification Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Week 5 Week 6 Week 7 Week 8
Power, jump squats 
and bench 
throws3 × 5 at 40%-60% of relevant MS training weight3 × 5 at 40%-60% of relevant MS training weight3 × 4 at 40%-60% of MS training weight3 × 3 at 40%-60% of MS training weight3 × 5 at 40%-60% of relevant MS training weight3 × 5 at 40%-60% of relevant MS training weight3 × 4 at 40%-60% of MS training weight3 × 3 at 40%-60% of MS training weight
Key ES 3 × 8 at 55%3 × 6 at 60%3 × 5 at 65%3 × 4 at 70%3 × 7 at 60%3 × 5 at 65%3 × 4 at 70%3 × 3 at 75%
Key Olympic weightlifting3 × 5 at 70%5-5-5 at 70%-75%-80%3-3-3* at 72%-80%-88%2-2-2* at 80%-88%-92%3 × 5 at 70%5-5-5 at 70%-75%-80%3-3-3* at 74%-82%-90%2-2-2* at 82%-90%-94%
*Use maximal effort, do as many reps as possible on the last set and recalculate 1RM from this ME set.
Programming Templates
Even with all the theoretical knowledge of train -
ing, a coach still needs to write an effective pro -
gramme that is sport relevant and athlete specific 
or appropriate. An easy way to conceptualise 
such a programme is to have basic templates from 
which to develop sport-relevant and athlete-ap -
propriate programs.
Exercise-Category Templates
Exercises can be chosen from category  templates 
such as MS, ES, P or general exercise categories 
for strength and muscle size. Sometimes it is the 
reps, sets, per cent 1RM and rest period that deter -
mine the effects and therefore the category of an exercise. For other situations the biomechanical nature of the exercise determines its classification. 
For example, bench press performed for 3 sets × 3 
repetitions at 90 per cent 1RM, 3 sets ×  3 repetitions 
at 70 per cent 1RM and 3 sets × 10 repetitions at 
70 per cent 1RM would designate this exercise for 
the development of MS, ES and general strength or size, respectively. However Olympic weightlifting exercises are always ES exercises, and jumps and throws are always P exercises. Having a number of effective exercises in each exercise category to 
choose from and rotate in and out of a program 
when appropriate makes programming simpler.
Strength-Day and Power-Day 
Templates
A simple method of programming is to design a 
training day directed towards MS and muscle-size 
training (also known as ME day) and another day 
emphasising ES and P (also known as DE day). This 
is a simple template to follow, where exercise vari -
ations can be selected from the exercise categories, 
slotted in or out and coupled with the appropriate 
sets, reps and per cent 1RM. This programme 
approach is shown in table 10.10.
Exercise-Order Templates
A simple template for developing programs is to create agonist–antagonist pairs for most exercises, 
known as the A and B system, with a set of each 
exercise pair to be completed within a specified 

Using Strength Platforms for Explosive Performance ❙ 141
time, such as 2, 3 or 4 minutes. The rationale for 
this template is that it facilitates programming 
balance (not excessive agonist training), promotes 
better recovery within the workout and maximises 
available time efficiently.
The same method of alternating roughly 
opposite movements can be seen in the inter -
mediate program in table 10.11. Here, the upper-
body movements are paired but not the heavy lower-body movements. It is difficult to effectively 
pair opposite movements for these key compound 
lower-body lifts because they essentially use all 
the lower-body muscles. Accordingly, when train -
ing these lifts for MS, rarely are they used in a 
paired A and B system.In the paired A and B system, it is also common 
not to train the key upper-body MS exercises for 
athletes with more strength-training experience. 
Note in table 10.11 the bench press performed 
for MS is trained by itself, but other upper-body 
exercises are still paired as agonist–antagonist grouping.
ES and P training can be trained in agonist–
antagonist pairing (e.g., alternating sets of cleans and sets of jerks) or in agonist heavy–light pair -
ings (known as contrasting-resistance complex training). In this latter example, ES box squats and 
narrow-grip bench presses are alternated with 
light-resistance jump squats and bench throws, respectively (see table 10.12).Tables 10.10  Two-Day-Per-Week Preparation Programme for Intermediate or Amateur Collision-Football 
Sport Athlete Using a Subtle Linear Progression Across 8 Weeks
The first day emphasises maximal strength and hypertrophy whilst the second day emphasises explosive strength and 
power. These differences are achieved through exercise selection and the prescription of sets × repetitions × intensity. All exercises start on a 4-minute turnaround.
DAY 1: MAXIMAL STRENGTH AND HYPERTROPHY 
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Week 5 Week 6 Week 7 Week 8
1a. Bench press 3 × 10 at 
63%3 × 10 at 67%3 × 8 at 71%3 × 8 at 75%3 × 6 at 79%3 × 6 at 83%3 × 5 at 85%3 × 5* at 87%
1b. Bent row 3 × 10 at 63%3 × 10 at 67%3 × 8 at 71%3 × 8 at 75%3 × 6 at 79%3 × 6 at 83%3 × 5 at 85%3 × 5* at 87%
2a. Military press 3 × 10 at 63%3 × 10 at 67%3 × 8 at 71%3 × 8 at 75%3 × 6 at 79%3 × 6 at 83%3 × 5 at 85%3 × 5* at 87%
2b. Chin-up 3 × 10 at 63%3 × 10 at 67%3 × 8 at 71%3 × 8 at 75%3 × 6 at 79%3 × 6 at 83%3 × 5 at 85%3 × 5* at 87%
3. Romanian deadlift (RDL)3 × 10 at 63%3 × 10 at 67%3 × 8 at 71%3 × 8 at 75%3 × 6 at 79%3 × 6 at 83%3 × 5 at 85%3 × 5* at 87%
4. Squat 3 × 10 at 63%3 × 10 at 67%3 × 8 at 71%3 × 8 at 75%3 × 6 at 79%3 × 6 at 83%3 × 5 at 85%3 × 5* at 87%
DAY 2: EXPLOSIVE STRENGTH AND POWER
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Week 5 Week 6 Week 7 Week 8
1a. Narrow-grip bench press3 × 8 at 55%3 × 8 at 57%3 × 7 at 59%3 × 7 at 61%3 × 6 at 63%3 × 6 at 65%3 × 5 at 67%3 × 5 at 69%
1b. Bench throw 3 × 6 at 30%3 × 6 at 30%3 × 5 at 32%3 × 5 at 32%3 × 4 at 34%3 × 4 at 36%3 × 3 at 38%3 × 3 at 40%
2a. Push press 3 × 6 at 70%3 × 6 at 72%3 × 5 at 76%3 × 5 at 78%3 × 4 at 82%3 × 4 at 84%3 × 3 at 88%3 × 3* at 90%
2b. Power shrug jump 3 × 6 at 70%3 × 6 at 72%3 × 5 at 76%3 × 5 at 78%3 × 4 at 82%3 × 4 at 84%3 × 3 at 88%3 × 3* at 90%
3. Jump squat 3 × 6 at 30%3 × 6 at 30%3 × 5 at 32%3 × 5 at 32%3 × 4 at 34%3 × 4 at 36%3 × 3 at 38%3 × 3 at 40%
4. Front squat 3 × 6 at 70%3 × 6 at 72%3 × 5 at 76%3 ×
 5 at 
78%3 × 4 at 82%3 × 4 at 84%3 × 3 at 88%3 × 3* at 90%
*Use maximal effort, do as many reps as possible on the last set and recalculate 1RM from this ME set.

142 ❙ Baker
In summary, for lower-level athletes, training 
programs can be designed with paired agonist–
antagonist exercises. With increased training expe -
rience, athletes cannot train the key compound lifts this way. Those lifts must be trained by themselves 
and with longer rest periods. However, training for general strength or muscle size can still continue 
with agonist–antagonist parings. ES and P training 
exercises may be performed by themselves, in an agonist–antagonist pairing or in agonist heavy–
light pairing.
Upper or Lower Body First?
Whether the upper or lower body is trained first is 
not important. When dealing with large numbers 
of athletes and limited training resources (e.g., 
equipment, space) at one time, programming must 
be flexible. It may be that half the athletes train 
the upper body first, and the other half train the lower body first. If time, space and equipment are 
not issues, train according to priorities.
Workout-Structure Template
What should a single workout program look like? 
Table 10.11 depicts an exact programme template 
used for developing upper-body strength and 
hypertrophy for a single training session. The MS exercise sets start every 4 minutes, the paired hypertrophy exercises and the four torso exercises 
also begin on a 4-minute cycle (i.e., both exercises 
are completed within 4 min). It is a simple, precise template that leaves the athlete with no doubt about 
what must be done.
Developing a Competitive 
Training Environment
It is essential that athletes, especially elite athletes, 
strive to improve their MS, ES and P scores and main -
tain data on their capabilities in various exercises in these categories. Although regular 1RM testing can 
occur every 6 to 12 weeks or so, in reality, training 
should include assessment more often. Training to 
NME and ME should likely occur in 2 or 3 weeks 
out of 4. By being regularly exposed to training ME sets, athletes become accustomed to competing with 
themselves and their training partners, thereby pro
-
ducing an intense training atmosphere.
Circuit Training and Strength 
Endurance
Circuit training with an emphasis on metabolic con -
ditioning has become popular in some sections of 
the training community, with ensuing debate about Table 10.11  Sample Programme Template for a Single Training Session Emphasising Upper-Body Strength 
and Hypertrophy
Warm-up 1 (3 min) Mobility Thoracic spine and hip drills, foam rolling
Warm-up 2 (6 min) Functional ROM exercises, 
mobility with stability and resistanceChoose 6 bodyweight, kettlebell or band exercises × 12 reps each; attain full ROM
Maximal strengthME (4 × 4 min =16 min)1. Bench press Warm-up sets: 60 kg/5 reps, 80 kg/3 reps, 100 kg/1 rep; do all 3 sets in 4 minTraining sets (75%-80%-85% 1RM × 5 reps); 112.5 kg/5 reps, 120 kg/5 reps, 127.5 kg/5 reps
Heavy reps (3 × 4 min = 12 min) 2a. Incline dumbbell press2b. Pendlay row37.5 kg, 3 sets × 6-8 reps (about 75% 1RM)85 kg, 3 sets × 6-8 reps (about 75% 1RM)
High reps (3 × 4 min = 12 min) 3a. Half-kneeling single-arm dumbbell overhead press3b. Half-kneeling single-arm pull-down22.5 kg, 3 sets × 12-15 reps each side (about 65% 1RM)45 kg, 3 sets × 12-15 reps each side (about 65% 1RM)
Torso rotation andantirotation (2 × 4 min = 8 min)4. Torso circuit × 2 4a. Hanging windscreen wipers × 5 reps each side4b. Landmines 20 kg × 5 reps each side4c. Paloff press isometric hold 30 kg × 30 sec4d. Overhead medicine ball helicopter 5 kg × 15 sec 

Using Strength Platforms for Explosive Performance ❙ 143
Table 10.12  Two-Day-Per-Week In-Season Maintenance Programme for Professional Collision-Football Sport 
Athlete Across 6-Week Wave-Like Cycle
All exercises start on a 4-minute turnaround. Note the progression in exercise, including technically more difficult Olympic weight -
lifting exercises and using bands and chains, as well as differences in sets, reps and intensity compared to previous programmes.
DAY 1: MS AND MUSCLE SIZE
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Week 5 Week 6
1. Bench press 3 × 8 at 70% 8-6-5 at 
70%-75%-80%3-3-3* at 72%-80%-88% chains8-6-5 at 70%-75%-80%5-5-5* at  73%-79%-85% bands3-3-3* at 74%-82%-90% bands
2a. Chin -up 3 × 8 at 70% 8-6-5 at 70%-75%-80%5-5-5* at 73%-79%-85%8-6-5 at 70%-75%-80%5-5-5* at 73%-79-%85% 3-3-3* at 74%-82%-90% 
2b. Push press 3 × 8 at 70% 8-6-5 at 70%-75%-80%5-5-5* at 73%-79%-85%3 × 8 at 70% 8-6-5 at 70%-75%-80%5-5-5* at 73%-79%-85%
3a. Alternating-leg jump squat3 × 5 each side at 40%-60%3 × 4 each side at 40%-60%3 × 3 each side at 40%-60%3 × 5 each side at 40%-60%3 × 4 each side at 40%-60%3 × 3 each side at 40%-60%
3b. Power shrug jump 3 × 5 at 80% of power clean 1RM4-4-4 at 80%-85%-90%3-3-3 at 85%-92%-100%3 × 5 at 85% of power clean 1RM4-4-4 at 85%-90%-95%3-3-3 at 90%-97%-105%
4. Squat 2 × 8 at 60% 8-6 at 60%-67%6-5 at 67%-75% 8-6 at 63%-70%6-5 at 70%-78%5-3* at 75%-85% 
DAY 2: ES/POWER
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Week 5 Week 6
1a. Hang power clean 3 × 5 at 70% 4-4-4 at 70%-75%-80%3-3-3* at72%-80%-88%3 × 5 at 75% 3-3-3* at 72%-80%-88%2-2-2* at 80%-88%-94%
1b. Split jerk 3 × 5 at 70% 4-4-4 at 70%-75%-80%3-3-3* at 72%-80%-88%3 × 5 at 75% 3-3-3* at 72%-80%-88%2-2-2* at 80%-88%-94%
2a. Box squat with bands (35 kg)3 × 5 at 55% 3 × 4 at 60% 3 × 3 at 65% 3 × 5 at 58% 3 × 4 at 63% 3 × 3 at 68%
2b. Jump squat 3 × 5 at 35% 3 × 4 at 40% 3 × 3 at 45% 3 × 5 at 40% 3 × 3 at 45% 3 × 2 at 50%
3a. Narrow-grip bench press with bands (20 kg)3 × 5 at 55% 3 × 4 at 60% 3 × 3 at 65% 3 × 5 at 58% 3 × 4 at 63% 3 × 3 at 68%
3b. Bench throw 3 × 5 at 30% 3 × 4 at 35% 3 × 3 at 40% 3 × 5 at 35% 3 × 4 at 40% 3 × 3 at 45%
*Use maximal effort, do as many reps as possible on the last set and recalculate 1RM from this ME set.
its appropriateness to sport training. It is essential to 
refer to the athlete or sport needs analysis. Would 
this type of training be sport relevant and athlete 
appropriate? In most instances it is not. High-volume 
training acutely depresses power output; recovery 
longer for this type of training, especially in stronger athletes because they lift loads of higher volume. 
In sports where the quality of SE may produce an 
advantage, it usually relates to absolute SE, which in 
turn depends on MS. Limit the exposure of athletes 
to circuit training to where it is sport relevant and athlete appropriate. Do not neglect ME, ES and P 
training in favour of circuit training just because SE 
circuit training is popular or difficult!Nutrition Before, During  
and After Training in Order  to Support Training Aims
The timing of dietary and supplementary input can 
greatly affect the effects of strength training. Even 
though a healthy diet is the foundation, some sup -
plements taken around the time of the workout can 
enhance the response to the workout. An energy 
drink providing some simple carbohydrates (20-50 
g), whey protein or amino acids (10-20 g) and caf -
feine, creatine and beta-alanine before and during a workout can improve quality and work capacity. 

144 ❙ Baker
After the workout, another drink containing 20 
to 30 grams of simple carbohydrates and 20 to 
60 grams of whey protein will aid the anabolic 
processes. Doses of whey (faster acting) or casein 
(slower acting) protein at other times during the 
day may also aid in recovery and muscular growth.Summary
Every athlete can benefit from strength training. It is important to consider what type of training is 
sport relevant and athlete specific or appropriate to 
benefit athletes at different stages of their careers.

CHAPTER
 145
11
11
11
Moving faster has been the goal of the human 
race since humans became bipedal. The 
fastest human has always held an elevated status in both ancient and modern societies. Until rela-
tively recently it has been a widely held belief that 
speed was something a person was born with. As we now know, speed can be improved through 
good planning, coaching and careful repetition. 
Basic application of workloads, including repeated sprints, jumps, weightlifting and general condi-
tioning efforts, can yield signifi  cant improvements 
in young, developing athletes. However, advanced 
sprinters and elite athletes require a much more 
refi  ned approach that involves the integration of a wide variety of training elements organised in 
a complementary fashion.
This chapter outlines the requirements for 
preparing an athlete for speed development. In an optimal situation, an athlete would have adequate 
strength in place to undertake proper sprinting 
technique. However, the situation is rarely opti-
mal, and defi  ciencies often need to be addressed. A good coach must be able to assess the abilities 
of the athletes under his or her charge and then 
plot out an appropriate course of action. Although 
many coaches believe that strength must be in 
place before speed can be developed, the chal-lenge is not so simple. Various abilities must be 
developed concurrently to take advantage of the 
limited time available and allow for the natural integration of technical profi  ciency, coordination 
and strength.
Ultimately, coaching decisions will be guided 
by one simple question: Are athletes consistently 
getting faster? If athletes are not improving or if they are consistently suffering from injury, the coach must reevaluate the approach. Consistent gains in strength, power and general condition-
ing are always welcome, but if athletes are not 
getting faster, the coach will have failed in his or 
her assignment.
Identifi  cation of Abilities 
and Defi  ciencies
The process of engaging in a comprehensive 
speed-training program must always begin with 
an evaluation of the athlete’s current physical state, 
as well as a discussion of training history. Under-
standing the entire context of the training history 
will ultimately determine how the coach will proceed with speed training. Making uninformed 
assumptions on an athlete’s training will only 
result in problems that can sabotage the training process at a later date.
A discussion of training history with the athlete 
or previous coaches can be useful in determining 
what has been done in the past and what needs to 
be done for future training. A review of an athlete’s training diary provides a useful means of assessing 
the workloads, performances and progressions 
followed by an athlete. If no training diary was kept, conversations with the athlete must suffi  ce 
in order to accumulate valuable information on 
which to develop a training plan.
Formal testing can be undertaken to determine 
current levels of performance. However, care must be taken not to overevaluate the athlete. Although 
numerous tests are available to evaluate every Successfully Translating 
Strength Into Speed
Derek M. Hansen, CSCS, BA, MASc
Simon Fraser University, British Columbia, Canada

146 ❙ Hansen
aspect of performance, not all of these tests may 
be relevant to work with a particular athlete. 
Thus, it is important to keep the number of tests 
to a minimum. It does not matter how strong or 
explosive athletes are in isolated tests if they are 
not producing the results in their sport of choice.
When evaluating an athlete for the purpose 
of determining training requirements for speed development, the key qualities to look for are postural integrity, limb mechanics, general 
strength, relaxation, acceleration abilities and 
elastic qualities.
Postural Integrity
Holding optimal posture for starting, acceleration, maximal velocity and even speed endurance is critical for any speed athlete who is looking to 
maximise performance. Even though many experts 
claim that special exercise regimens are required 
to improve posture for speed development, the 
predominant contribution to posture, in terms of developing appropriate musculature, is from 
sprinting itself. Sprinting drills can be incorpo-
rated into speed workouts to improve awareness 
of postural requirements, similar to the exercise 
illustrated in fi  gure 11.1, as well as target specifi  c muscles used during sprinting.
The primary intent of these types of drills is 
to ingrain the concept of maximal hip height throughout the entire stride cycle. Poor posture typically will result in a lower vertical hip position 
that does not allow for powerful extension from the 
hips. The drill shown in fi  gure 11.1 reinforces not only a high-hip position, but also encourages the 
athlete to create a direct line of force from the shoul-
ders down to the foot at maximal plantar fl  exion.
Limb Mechanics
The action of the arms and legs must be coordi-nated in such a way as to maximise force delivery 
on ground contact. Athletes who do not optimally 
coordinate the movements of the arms and legs 
during the cyclical act of sprinting ultimately lose 
power, limit stride frequency, hamper rhythm and waste energy. As with posture, limb mechanics must be modeled and rehearsed through the appli-
cation of sprinting drills and careful execution of 
sprinting mechanics during submaximal efforts. 
Like any skill, once the movement is mastered at 
slower velocities, greater effort can be applied to hone the technique over faster repetitions.
General Strength
General strength qualities must be developed throughout an athlete’s career to assist in improve-
ments in speed abilities. As with any movement or 
sport technique, there will be a point of optimal 
Figure 11.1  Example of a postural running drill using an overhead medicine ball march.
a
 b
 c
 d

 Successfully Translating Strength Into Speed ❙ 147
strength development, as well as a point of dimin -
ishing returns. Coaches should always be deter -
mining the athlete’s optimal window of strength 
development, without going over the top.
A good example of this concept is in the train -
ing of world class shot-putters and the use of the bench press exercise as a general indicator of pre -
paredness. Given that the current world-record holder’s (Randy Barnes) best bench press effort was just under 272 kilograms, we could argue that 
a world-class shot-putter should be in the range 
of 204 to 272 kilograms for the bench press exer -
cise. This assumption takes into consideration an understanding that the shot put event involves a balanced combination of abilities, including speed, 
power, strength and technical skill. An overem -
phasis on strength could easily lead to diminished 
performance in other important elements. Thus, a 
goal of 363 kilograms for the bench press would 
not be realistic since it would require a significantly 
greater investment in time and energy that could 
negatively affect speed development and poten -
tially result in a greater risk of injury.
The same concept would apply to 100-metre 
sprinters for general strength movements such 
as squatting or deadlifting. How much weight do 
world-class sprinters need to lift for these move -
ments to improve their performance in the 100 
metres? An analysis of the various world-record 
holders in the event over the past 30 years would reveal a wide array of lifting performances. The 
loads for these lifts may vary from 125 to 274 
kilograms, depending on the athlete. Some top 
sprinters may not have even used weights in their 
training regime. Lower-body strength may have been achieved through resisted runs, plyometrics 
or explosive medicine ball throws. Often, athletes 
and their coaches find the optimal means of achiev -
ing strength given their specific circumstances.
Thus, the general strength requirements for 
sprinters may vary widely and likely will not play 
as significant a role in overall performance as those 
for the shot put athlete. This fact also highlights the importance of specific strength qualities such as 
speed strength and elastic strength in the training 
and performance of a high-performance speed ath -
lete. General strength development will likely play a larger role in the training of a developing athlete between the ages of 15 and 20 due to the fact that 
he or she has not yet developed the foundational 
strength on which more specific high-performance qualities can be built.Relaxation
We often associate optimal performance with maximal effort. The athlete who is grimacing 
and straining to the finish line is often considered 
the model of success. However, when perform
-
ing movements that require maximal speed, unbridled maximal effort does not necessarily 
translate into optimal performance. The concept 
of relaxation must be ingrained into all aspects of 
technical execution. If all muscles are tight and 
contracted, it is much more difficult to initiate a high-velocity movement.
This is true for all movements that require 
acceleration and technical proficiency, whether 
the movement is swinging a golf club, hurling a 
baseball or sprinting. A finely tuned athlete has 
the ability to not only turn muscles on quickly, 
but also turn them off quickly, which is important for a high-speed, complex task such as sprinting. 
Communicating to athletes that the optimal per -
formance does not necessarily come about through 
the application of maximal exertion can be useful 
in honing their relaxation abilities.
Wisdom
Performances that require technical excellence, such as 
maximal speed running, are not necessarily best served by a philosophy of all-out effort  . These performances 
require a combination of force production, skill appli -
cation and relaxation  .
Acceleration Abilities
The ability to accelerate is critical in all sports that 
require running for locomotion. Given this fact, 
more attention needs to be placed on training 
athletes to accelerate smoothly and effectively. 
Although many training programs focus on reac -
tion time, first-step quickness, agility and maximal velocity, acceleration is the vital quality that must 
be in place for athletes to succeed in their sport.
Acceleration must be developed throughout 
the training year. Many coaches believe that an athlete cannot accelerate until the proper strength work is in place. Under this philosophy a signifi -
cant portion of valuable training time will be lost. Acceleration helps develop the strength, power, 
coordination and elasticity required for improve -
ment. It is the most specific activity an athlete can 
do to improve acceleration.

148 ❙ Hansen
Elastic Qualities
Not only must athletes have great strength and 
power to produce the forces required for fast accel -
eration and high velocities, but they must also have the stiffness and elasticity in their muscles and 
tendons to rebound off the ground at high speeds. 
It is no different than taking two basketballs, one that is fully inflated and one that is partially 
inflated, and throwing them down the basketball 
court, allowing them to bounce the full distance. Experience and science tell us that the fully inflated 
ball will travel faster and further down the court, 
whist the partially inflated ball will slowly plop 
down the court and allow forces of friction to act 
heavily on its progress.
Human athletes are no different during 
locomotion. Athletes with a combination of force-development capabilities and greater stiff -
ness in their lower extremities will be able to reach 
and maintain higher top speeds than athletes who 
do not have these qualities.
It is important to note that these qualities will 
not only be part of a subjective evaluation when assessing an athlete’s speed potential, but also will 
form the foundation of the training program. An 
athlete’s improvement will depend greatly on the 
ability of his or her coach to optimally arrange the 
training program in a manner that elicits positive adaptations in all these qualities.
Integration of the Speed-
Training Elements
Improving speed, particularly for advanced, 
high-performance athletes, is not just about get -
ting stronger or more powerful in isolation. As with any training program, coaches are trying to 
improve multiple qualities in athletes in a manner 
that improves the athletes’ overall performance in the sport. If that sport is the 100-metre sprint, the true test of the efficacy of the training program is the athlete’s best time in competition, particularly 
at a championship event such as the Olympics or 
World Championships.
The selection and integration of work in an 
overall training program that is directed at making an athlete run faster must be organized 
in a manner that ensures the athlete receives the 
optimal contribution from each training element. This is no easy task, as athletes at different stages 
in their career or different times during the year 
may require a greater contribution from one ele -
ment than from another. The job of the coach is to determine which training elements will assume a greater proportion of the overall training load 
and which elements will play a supportive role in 
the training program.
Many coaches believe that all training elements 
should be present in the overall program at all times, albeit at varying volumes. The relative 
volume of work for each element can vary depend -
ing on the emphasis and priority of a given week, 
month or phase of training. In the case of sprinting 
efforts, acceleration-based work over shorter dis -
tances (e.g., 20 to 30 m) is more compatible with higher volumes of relatively heavy weightlifting. 
However, the volume of weightlifting must be significantly reduced in the later stages of the pro -
gramme as speed velocities and volumes, as well as plyometric jump volumes, are increased. Less muscle tension is experienced in low-volume (but 
mainly high-intensity) lifting periods, allowing 
for greater expression of high-speed running. A 
close examination of the training program over 
time must identify potential conflicts between training elements as well as potential opportuni -
ties for enhancing the adaptation potential for key elements, namely speed.
For specific training elements in a speed pro -
gram, the following characteristics must be rec -
ognised when integrating all training elements: 
sprint training, strength training, power training 
and general conditioning.
Sprint Training
Athletes can be introduced to sprinting in a grad -
ual, progressive manner that brings in technical 
concepts whilst also preparing the athlete’s body 
for the stresses of the activity. An example of this 
concept would be work on acceleration technique 
over short distances whilst placing a cap on output Wisdom
The best key performance indicator regarding the 
success of a training programme is the athlete’s per -
formance at a targeted competition  . If the athlete 
does not peak at these events, no one cares about the magnitude of his or her best power clean, vertical jump or bench press  .

 Successfully Translating Strength Into Speed ❙ 149
intensity. Short sprints over 20 metres from a 
falling start could be performed at a maximal 
intensity of 85 per cent of the athlete’s best time 
over that distance. An athlete with a best 20-metre 
time of 2.9 seconds would be expected to run at 
3.3 seconds, a profoundly less stressful effort. The intensity, however, is high enough to work 
on technical aspects of the acceleration whilst 
gradually exposing the athlete to the stresses of actual sprinting.
The use of a short-to-long approach—which 
involves perfecting shorter sprint distances in the 
initial phase of a training program and gradually 
extending the length of sprints over time—allows athletes to accumulate higher overall volumes of 
sprinting at a high intensity. Not only does this 
approach increase an athlete’s ability to repeat extraordinary sprint performances throughout 
the competitive season, broadening the athlete’s 
peak, but it also makes the athlete stronger and 
more resistant to injury.
The short-to-long approach also proves 
to be more compatible with a conventional weight-training approach. During acceleration, 
the quadriceps are more involved in propulsion, 
and the knee joint experiences greater degrees of 
flexion on ground contact. This condition is more compatible with the squat, deadlift and Olympic 
lifting movements from the floor. In the latter 
stages of speed development, when maximal velocity is being trained and the knee joint is more 
extended on ground contact, overall weightlifting 
volume is reduced, and exercises with a reduced 
range of motion (ROM) can be incorporated.
Figure 11.2 provides an illustration of how 
weightlifting and sprinting are integrated in a short-to-long approach. Early on, a larger variety 
of lifting exercises are performed over greater ranges of motion when acceleration is the focus. In 
the intermediate phase, loads will increase, some 
exercises will be removed and full Olympic lifting 
movements can be incorporated because of their 
ability to provide a greater overall specific stress on the athlete’s body in terms of maximal recruitment 
and velocity of movement.
In the final precompetitive phase, the emphasis 
is on advancing speed abilities through the use of 
longer recovery periods between repetitions whilst deemphasising weightlifting. In the weight room, 
there is a shift towards reduced range of motion 
with exercises. There can be a greater emphasis on a high-intensity upper-body movement because it allows for adequate stimulation of the central ner -
vous system (CNS) whilst not causing peripheral 
fatigue on the lower body.
2
Strength Training
Strength training is not the exclusive domain of 
the weight-room facility. Jumps, medicine ball 
throws and body-weight exercises can also effec -
tively improve strength.3 However, weightlifting 
becomes attractive in its ability to closely monitor physiological status from workout to workout. 
Quantifying performance and fatigue is easy 
because there is instant feedback on how much an 
athlete is lifting every repetition, set and workout. Combine this with the use of a stopwatch on the 
track, and we have two great indicators of perfor -
mance. The complex part of the equation is trying 
to determine when improvements in the weight 
room reach a point of diminishing returns and no 
longer yield added value to speed.
It is best to think of weight training as a gen -
eral strength training element when integrating it into a speed program. An efficient way to classify weightlifting exercises is to regard them as a means 
of activating motor units. Francis was a significant 
proponent of using weights in a general—but 
strategic—manner for speed athletes. Because no 
weightlifting movement is specific enough—from a velocity perspective—to provide a useful speed 
adaptation for sprinters, coaches should not rely 
on weights for the purpose of speed development for these athletes. However, weight training can be 
used as a means of stimulating the athlete’s CNS 
whilst, at the same time, targeting various areas 
of the body (e.g., upper body versus lower body, 
pulling versus pressing movements).
If we assume that various training activities 
and exercises have a different impact on the CNS based on the complexity, velocity and intensity of 
the activity, it becomes much clearer as to how we 
can arrange and manage our training sessions. 
Improvements in CNS activation through general 
weight training—albeit at higher loads, velocities and, in some cases, complexity of movement—can, 
in theory, facilitate more efficient muscle recruit -
ment when it comes to specific speed training 
on the track or field. Although this concept has 
not yet been specifically demonstrated through 
research, it can provide coaches with a common 
sense approach to strategically select exercise in 
an athlete’s overall training programme.

150 ❙ Hansen
Although Olympic weightlifting movements 
such as the clean and jerk and snatch provide 
signifi  cant benefi  ts in terms of taxing the central 
nervous system, an athlete can suffer from too 
much of a good thing. Athletes who spend too 
much time and energy on perfecting these lifts may fi  nd that their sprinting abilities suffer due 
to the signifi  cant demand placed on all the major 
muscle groups and the CNS, similar to the impact of maximal effort sprinting.
4
This notion is supported by the fact that many, 
if not all, of the fastest sprinters in the world 
do not demonstrate exceptional abilities in the 
Olympic weightlifting movements. It has been 
more common to see sprinters demonstrate impressive feats of strength in what could be deemed less-specific movements such as the 
squat, deadlift and bench press. These exercises do not refl  ect many of the sport-specifi  c qualities 
of sprinting but can involve heavy loads that elicit 
high levels of muscle recruitment and suffi  ciently stress the CNS. However, they do not overlap too 
heavily into the domain of actual sprinting, creat-
ing issues of excessive CNS fatigue.
This is not to say that Olympic weightlifting 
movements cannot be used to develop world-
class speed athletes. However, it does mean that 
coaches must be more strategic in the application 
of these CNS-intensive and technical exercises. 
Strength development need not be the same for 
More exercises,
greater ROMModerate volume, high-intensity, moderate ROMFewer exercises,reduced ROM
Months0 1 2 3 4 5 Deadlifts Full squats Partial Olympic lifts
 Upper-body prep Full Olympic lifts
 Half squats Upper-body pressing  Olympic lifts from
 high position
  Heavy upper-body pressingSprint volumes
Weightlifting
volumes
Weightlifting
intensity
Exercise 
distributionMeters0 10 20 30 40 50 60Sprintdistances
E5891/Joyce/479906/Fig 11 .03/R1/JGFigure 11.2  The general relationship between sprinting and weightlifting over a training period.

 Successfully Translating Strength Into Speed ❙ 151
every athlete. Here are some scenarios in which 
Olympic weightlifting movements would be more 
applicable.
Athletes in Colder Climates  
or Without Ideal Indoor  
Training Facilities
When athletes cannot accumulate higher volumes 
of high-speed sprint training, Olympic lifting can 
be used to work a large proportion of muscular 
fibre and adequately tax the CNS. This is particu -
larly useful in the early phases of training when short-distance acceleration work is predominant. In the colder regions of the Northern Hemisphere, 
an Olympic weightlifting regime combined with 
plyometrics may yield more significant gains than sprinting alone. However, in warmer climates ath -
letes can attain higher volumes of specific sprint -
ing work that can provide the precise central and 
peripheral adaptations required for improvement.
Athletes Who Begin Olympic 
Weightlifting at an Early Age
Athletes who have acquired the proper technique 
for the Olympic lifts in their younger years may be 
more apt to continue to use these lifts successfully 
as they mature. Less time and energy is required 
for teaching and maintaining technique for these 
athletes. Additionally, appropriate loads for motor-unit recruitment can be achieved more easily and at 
much less risk for athletes with Olympic weightlift -
ing backgrounds. However, care must still be taken 
when applying loads to these athletes due to their 
advanced capabilities, particularly during phases 
with high volumes of high-velocity sprinting and 
during in-season tapering periods.
Athletes in Sports That Demand 
Acceleration Abilities but Not 
Maximal Velocity or Speed 
Endurance Capabilities
Team sport athletes who are required to accelerate 
for shorter distances only (i.e., 10-30 m) may find 
that Olympic lifting movements are more compat -
ible with the performance requirements in their sport. The repeat acceleration requirements of 
highly physical sports such as American football and rugby make heavy Olympic lifting movements 
highly attractive and effective training options. 
These exercises are also well suited for field-event athletes in track and field, including jumpers, vaulters and throwers, where in most cases a 
short sprint is followed by an explosive effort. A 
thorough examination of situational factors will 
dictate which approach will best serve coach and 
athlete in the quest to become faster. Some athletes will benefit from heavier strength-training loads 
than others.
However, coaches must realise that having a 
love affair with weightlifting can have significant repercussions when an athlete is trying to run 
faster. The public’s fascination with more exercises 
and infinitely modified versions of perfectly sound 
exercises has taken the focus off the purpose of strength training, which is to make athletes stron -
ger in a general sense.
Wisdom
When it comes to speed development, weightlifting 
and other strength-training methods should be treated as a means to an end and not an end in itself  . In many 
ways, the concept of less is more applies to strength training when preparing athletes for speed  .
Power Training
For this discussion, it is important to divide power 
training into explosive power training and elastic 
power training.
Explosive power training can take the form of 
explosive jumps, medicine ball throws (figures 11.3 and 11.4), resisted starts and even Olympic 
lifting exercises. The objective of this work is to 
improve an athlete’s start and early acceleration 
abilities. Powerful extension at the hip, knee and ankle—commonly referred to as triple exten
-
sion—is required during starting and acceler -
ating. Introduction of explosive power training in the early portion of the training program is 
compatible with the maximal strength work 
carried out in the weight room, as well as the 
short-distance acceleration work performed in 
speed workouts, where knee flexion is greater 
during force application.
The accumulation of sets and repetitions of med -
icine ball throws, box jumps and Olympic lifting movements in the general and specific preparation 
phases will ensure that explosive starts and strong 
acceleration abilities are in place once the precom -
petitive and competitive phases of training arrive.
4

152 ❙ Hansen
The initiation of elastic power training proceeds 
in a much more gradual fashion in the early stages 
of the training program. Because elastic training 
commonly takes the form of successive plyomet -
ric jumps, time and care must be taken to ensure athletes are strong enough to handle the landings of these types of jumps. In the early phases of 
training athletes are getting stronger through 
concentric activities such as weightlifting and 
explosive power exercises. Muscles and tendons 
are being strengthened during this phase, so the stress of landing is minimised throughout the early 
phases of training.Any initial multijump training can occur on a 
soft surface such as grass, cushioning the impact 
of landings. More forceful elastic work may take 
the form of hurdle jumps, bounding or hopping 
over short distances. It is always advisable to begin 
with lower repetition totals for sets of jumps to take 
into account the stressful nature of elastic jumps on connective tissue and the CNS. A good starting 
point is sets of 6 repetitions over 5 sets for a total of 
30 total jumps. At a weekly frequency of 2 jumping sessions per week, this would start the athlete at 
60 jumps per week. Additional volume could be 
added at a rate of 20 jumps per week.Figure 11.4  Medicine ball throws: explosive medicine ball pull sequence.
Figure 11.3  Medicine ball throws: explosive medicine ball push sequence.
a b c
a b c

Successfully Translating Strength Into Speed ❙ 153
In the latter stages of the training program, the 
volume of elastic work may be increased as the 
volume of explosive work and overall strength 
work is decreased. The reduction in overall 
weightlifting volume can free up the muscles for 
more dynamic activities such as multijumps and high-velocity sprinting. Although explosive train-
ing, maximal weightlifting and acceleration work 
were complimentary in the earlier phases of the training program, elastic jumps, maximal speed 
runs and speed endurance training are more com-
patible for the latter stages as an athlete prepares 
for competition. Figure 11.5 illustrates the relation-
ship between these two types of power training and the progression of work for a speed athlete.
General Conditioning
Overall fi  tness in a speed athlete is critical for establishing a foundation of work capacity as well 
as enhancing recovery and recuperation. Athletes 
with a well-established circulatory system will 
warm up more effi  ciently and stay warmer longer. 
Thus, a large proportion of the work undertaken by a speed athlete will be comprised of low-
intensity , 
high-volume work arranged in a fashion that 
complements the high-quality speed, strength and 
power work that results in the direct adaptations 
for speed development.5
Low-intensity general conditioning work can 
take several forms for the speed athlete. One of the most common means of improving general 
conditioning is through the use of low-intensity 
interval runs, commonly referred to as extensive 
tempo running. The intent is to train aerobically on a soft surface, such as grass, without creating 
residual fatigue or muscle soreness that could negatively affect subsequent speed sessions. These 
low-velocity runs can be interspersed with walk-
ing, jogging or body-weight strength circuits to 
increase the overall low-intensity workload.
Table 11.1 outlines some general volume guide-
lines for tempo running for various athletes. Ath-letes with greater work-capacity requirements will 
have higher running volumes, training as often as 
3 times per week over longer interval distances. Alternatively, larger athletes, such as American 
football linemen, who can weigh well over 300 
pounds, may train over only a fraction of the dis-tance covered by a soccer player. Regardless of the 
distances covered, the intent is to run all repetitions 
at the same pace from beginning to end.
For athletes who cannot endure high volumes of 
running for their low-intensity conditioning, many alternatives can be employed to ensure this area 
of their training program is addressed appropri-
ately. Alternative tempo options may include pool, 
treadmill or stationary bicycle training.
Pool Training
Athletes can choose one of two options in a swim-
ming pool to work on general conditioning. In the 
shallow end of the pool, with the water line coming 
to the height of the chest, athletes can perform 
running high-knee drills over distances of 10 to 30 
metres. In the deep end of the pool, athletes can perform deep-water running with or without the 
use of a fl  otation belt.
Treadmill Training
Intervals can be performed on a high-quality 
treadmill to simulate the low-intensity running 
work normally carried out on a grass fi  eld. When 
Start of
training periodGPP SPPExplosive power training Elastic power training
Pre-comp Taper Competition
periodTraining volume
Time
E5891/Joyce/479910/Fig 11 .07/R1/JGFigure 11.5   Progression of power training over the duration of a speed development program.

154 ❙ Hansen
athletes do not have access to a soft running 
surface, treadmills can provide a well-cushioned 
surface that results in less impact stress. Repetition 
durations may be longer than those of regular 
tempo runs or pool work because the treadmill 
running does not impose the same cost to the athlete. Thus, durations of 30, 60 and 90 seconds 
can be used effectively. Athletes can integrate rest 
intervals by straddling the belt and standing on the treadmill platform.
Stationary Bicycle Training
Similar to the treadmill example, intervals of 30, 60 and 90 seconds can be used on a stationary bike. 
Rest intervals can be performed seated on the bike 
at a lower velocity and resistance; work intervals 
can be performed from a standing position at 
higher velocities and resistance settings.Medicine ball circuits, incorporating a variety 
of low-velocity passes, throws and abdominal 
work, are also an effective way of achieving overall 
work-capacity goals. In most cases, these types of circuits complement the tempo running but should 
not be relied upon as a substitute for tempo runs 
or any of the acceptable alternatives. Medicine ball 
circuits can be implemented between sets of tempo 
runs or carried out immediately after a full tempo run session. For a thorough exploration of the topic 
of cross-training, refer to chapter 17 .
Technical Considerations
Although planning and programming for speed 
is a critical stage in athlete preparation, ongoing 
work on the biomechanical execution of the sprint -
ing motion is just as important for the long-term Table 11.1  Tempo Running Guidelines for Various Athletes
Athlete typeTypical volume  
per workoutTypical weekly volumeSample tempo running workout (metres)
American football, lineman 800-1,200 m 1,600-2,500 m 50 + 50 + 50 + 50
50 + 100+ 100+ 5050 + 100 + 100 + 50
50 + 50 + 50 + 50
Total = 1,000 m
American football, skill player 1,200-2,000 m 3,000-4,500 m 100 + 100 + 100 + 100100 + 200 + 100 + 100100 + 100 + 200 + 100100 + 100 + 100 + 100
Total = 1,800 m
100 m sprinter 1,800-2,400 m 3,600-7,200 m 100 + 100 + 100100 + 200 + 100 + 100
100 + 200 + 200 + 100100 + 100 + 200 + 100100 + 100 + 100Total = 2,200 m
400 m sprinter 3,000-4,000 m 9,000-12,000 m 100 + 200 + 200 + 100100 + 300 + 200 + 100100 + 300 + 300 + 100100 + 200 + 300 + 100
100 + 200 + 200 + 100
Total = 3,400 m
Soccer midfielder 3,500-4,500 m 10,000-13,500 m 100 + 200 + 300
200 + 300 + 200
300 + 300 + 300200 + 300 + 200300 + 200 + 100Total = 3,500 m
Note: Athletes typically take a 50-metre walk between reps and a 100-metre walk between sets.

 Successfully Translating Strength Into Speed ❙ 155
development of the speed athlete. A combination 
of drills and well-guided sprinting repetitions are 
typically required to refine running technique. The 
speed coach is constantly refining, tweaking and 
reinforcing technique. The successful coach will be 
able to determine the proper sequence and volume of drills and runs, along with the most appropriate 
verbal cues, required to improve technique for a 
particular athlete.
6
It is difficult to convey a proper teaching 
sequence for sprinting since each athlete may 
present unique challenges. Some athletes respond 
to conventional cues immediately; other athletes 
require a more drawn-out approach that breaks 
down the mechanical components to a greater degree. Here are some fundamental guidelines 
for the instruction and application of running 
mechanics as applied in drills, starts, acceleration, maximal velocity and deceleration. (For more on 
deceleration, see chapter 13.)
Drills
Running drills are primarily intended to serve 
as simplified or broken-down versions of specific 
movement patterns used in actual running. Drills 
can be used to emphasise proper posture and limb 
movements and can be performed whilst sitting, 
standing, skipping or running. The intent of the drill is to improve on an aspect of the running motion 
that can be incorporated into the full motion.
The early introduction of drills into the training 
program is advantageous in that it avoids the stiff
-
ness and fatigue associated with the higher volumes 
and intensities of training encountered deeper 
into the program. Once key technical elements are 
introduced and consistently rehearsed, it becomes 
much easier for athletes to retain these skills after 
higher-speed running workouts are introduced.
Some of the most commonly used sprint drills 
are the Mach drills introduced to the track and 
field world by former Polish national sprint coach 
Gerard Mach.7 The Mach drills are set up to act 
as both active and reactive drills: The drills can 
be used to introduce technical concepts and 
improve strength (active involvement) but can 
also be used to correct flaws and weaknesses 
(reactive involvement).
The A drills are particularly effective because 
they involve appropriate knee lift and hip exten -
sion. These drills are organised in marching, skipping and running versions. The marching A is a good drill for beginners to emphasise the 
path of the limbs and to introduce the concept of 
tall posture. As with all drills, it is important to 
initiate the learning sequence in a slow, deliberate 
manner to ensure that athletes learn the proper limb movements and posture before moving on 
to higher-velocity iterations of the drill.
As illustrated in figure 11.6, the elbows are bent, 
with the hands coming to the front side of the body up to a height even with the athlete’s line of 
sight. The opposite knee rises to a level equal to 
the height of the hip. It is important that the athlete 
stays on the balls of the feet to maintain a high-hip position. The athlete should transition smoothly 
from step to step, with a slight rotation occurring 
between the shoulder and hips as the front hand moves towards, but not across, the centerline of the 
body. Each step should land only a few inches in 
front of the previous step to avoid a long step that 
results in a drop in hip height.
The skipping A drill, illustrated in figure 11.7 , 
emphasises the same body posture and limb paths as its marching counterpart, but it encourages 
higher velocities and force generation from limb 
movements to effect a dynamic skipping rhythm. A 
strong upward arm and leg movement by opposing limbs is combined with a strong downward arm 
and leg movement by the other limbs. The result is 
a snapping movement that pops the body upward on each foot contact.
The running A drill builds on the limb and 
postural mechanics of the marching and skip -
ping drills but adds the element of limb velocity and running rhythm. The athlete, as illustrated in figure 11.8, cycles the legs up and down vigor -
ously to create significant downward force into the ground. Each ground contact makes use of the elastic properties of the lower legs and feet, includ -
ing bouncing on every stride. The arms swing similarly in range to the marching and skipping A 
drills but are moving at a much higher frequency, 
matching the legs on every stride. Athletes should be able to complete at least 30 strides of the running 
A drill over a 10-metre distance.
Even though it is difficult to impart the proper 
movement mechanics of these drills on the written 
page and via photo sequences, all of the A drills have commonalities in terms of overall posture 
and limb mechanics. These common traits are also 
found in effective sprinting technique.

156
a b c d
Figure 11.6  Marching A drill sequence.
Figure 11.7  Skipping A drill sequence.
a b c d
Figure 11.8  Running A drill sequence.a b c d

Successfully Translating Strength Into Speed ❙ 157
Starts and Acceleration 
Mechanics
Teaching athletes the proper mechanics for starting 
and accelerating is critical for the advancement 
of their overall speed abilities.6 Because effective 
starting often requires good maximal strength and power capabilities, it is often premature to 
train young athletes in advanced start techniques.
Wisdom
As with many sport movements, how the movement 
is started will often determine how successful the successive stages of that movement are . Sprinting is no different .
This is why one of the fi  rst start techniques to 
teach athletes is a falling start. The falling start 
from a low, staggered-stance position allows the 
athlete to use the momentum from the falling motion to unload the starting movement, requiring 
less strength to attain a good acceleration position 
from the fi  rst stride. The low-hip position requires 
that the athlete extend at the hip in a relatively 
powerful manner. However, the energy required to execute the falling start is still much less than 
that needed for other deeper static positions such 
as a three- or four-point start.
As illustrated in fi  gure 11.9, the athlete falls to 
an angle that is optimal for acceleration. As the athlete reaches a point in the falling motion, just 
beyond the tipping point, when the athlete feels 
him- or herself accelerating toward the ground, the athlete must initiate movement with the lead 
hand (i.e., the hand on the same side as the front 
foot). A strong initial arm action will not only cue 
the legs to fi  re explosively, but it will also help to 
extend the body into the correct posture out of the start. Athletes with less vigorous or nonexistent 
arm drive at the start will fi  nd that their posture 
is much more rounded and less rigid, resulting in a poor drive angle out of the start.
Figure 11.9  Falling start from low, two-point stance.
a
 b
c
 d

158 ❙ Hansen
Figure 11.10  Push-up start sequence.
a
 b
c
 dAnother approach to improving start and accel-
eration posture is to have the athlete start from the 
ground in a fl  at push-up position as illustrated in 
fi  gure 11.10. Rather than the athlete falling gradu-
ally towards the ground to establish acceleration 
posture, the athlete starts on the ground and drives up to the correct acceleration position. The 
push-up start approach works well for beginner 
athletes because it intuitively places them in an effective acceleration position with few to no cues 
or instructions.
The push-up start is also valuable during a 
strength-building phase because it develops 
explosive upper-body strength on the push-up and requires greater leg strength to drive the athlete out 
of a low position. For this reason, push-up starts 
are used often during the initial speed-training phase in a short-to-long speed program. For ath-
letes who do not have a powerful push-up, coaches 
can segment the push-up start into three phases: 
The athlete pushes up and pauses, the athlete steps 
with one leg and then, on the coach’s command, the athlete goes. The segmented push-up start, as 
illustrated in fi  gure 11.11, is an intermediate exer-
cise that can be used before the full push-up start.Maximal Velocity Mechanics
Although 100-metre sprinters may be the only athletes to reach maximal velocity capabilities 
consistently, all running athletes should under-
stand the posture and mechanics required to 
attain and maintain maximal or near-maximal 
sprinting speed. Football, soccer and rugby play-ers may have to demonstrate maximal velocity 
abilities on open-fi  eld runs over distances of 30 
to 50 metres.
As an athlete transitions out of the acceleration 
phase of a sprint effort, the shift in posture from 
a driving acceleration to upright sprinting will 
necessitate an up-and-down action from both the 
legs and the arms. As maximal force is generated 
from the highest point in the stride down towards the ground, it is important to emphasise the need 
for both a high-hip and high-knee position during 
maximal velocity sprinting. In order to accomplish this leg positioning, athletes must achieve front-
side dominant stride mechanics. Additionally, the 
arms must also demonstrate a strong front-side 
presence to match the forces produced by the 
lower body.
8

Successfully Translating Strength Into Speed ❙ 159
Figure 11.11  Segmented push-up start sequence.
a
 b
c
 d
 e
From a close examination of fi  gure 11.12, it is 
apparent that the athlete’s foot recovers high and 
tight to the buttocks and hamstrings, setting up a 
high-knee position on the front side of the stride 
cycle. Because the athlete’s leg is hinged at the hip, 
the downward sweep of the leg also produces hor-izontal propulsion on its way down to the ground. 
However, the athlete is not reaching in front of his 
or her body to paw at the ground. The athlete is only focusing on producing signifi  cant downward 
force. This effort is matched by the action of the 
upper limbs with the athlete’s hand travelling well 
in front of the face and then downward toward 
the hip.
Loading and Progression 
of Work
In order for speed training to be successful, it 
must be applied progressively with gradual 
loading occurring from week to week. Assuming 
appropriate recovery times are observed, this 
approach allows an athlete to adapt and improve without undue risk of injury. Training programs tend to follow one of three approaches when 
attempting to improve an athlete’s sprinting ability: short-to-long, long-to-short or concurrent 
training.
The Short-to-Long Approach
In the short-to-long approach, athletes initiate the 
program with shorter acceleration distances and 
gradually sprint over incrementally longer dis-
tances. The intensity of all sprints is 95 to 100 per 
cent of maximal intensity, with full recoveries after 
each sprint. The intent is to build up the athlete’s adaptive abilities for high-intensity acceleration in 
an effort to attain maximal speeds. The accumula-
tion of high-intensity acceleration volume not only enhances the athlete’s ability to accelerate, but it 
also strengthens both the CNS and the peripheral 
muscular system to handle the repeated demands 
of sprinting throughout a competitive phase. 
Thus, a short-to-long approach is desirable for team sports that require numerous short sprints 
throughout the contest duration.

160 ❙ Hansen
Team sport athletes who employ the short-to-
long approach start with relatively short distances 
of 5 to 10 metres in distance, working on reaction 
time, starting strength and explosive power. 
Running drills are incorporated to help establish 
proper posture and limb movement patterns from the outset. As the training program progresses, 
athletes cover distances of 20 to 40 metres since 
most team sport athletes will almost never need 
to sprint further.
The starts used by team sport athletes 
include a combination of hard and soft starts. Hard starts include all starts that require more strength and power, such as push-up starts and three-point starts, and are more suitable for 
shorter distances of 10 to 20 metres. Soft starts, such as falling starts, are employed when more 
energy must be applied over a longer sprint 
distance in training .
4
Figure 11.13 outlines the progression of work 
over a 12 to 16 week period, identifying the rel -
ative proportions of work over tasks and areas. Table 11.2 outlines sample training sessions in a 
short-to-long approach for team sport athletes, 
identifying optimal recovery times between rep -
etitions and sets.Figure 11.12  Upright sprinting mechanics at maximal velocity.
a b c
d e f

Successfully Translating Strength Into Speed ❙ 161
Figure 11.14 illustrates the distribution of work 
for a 100-metre sprinter using a short-to-long 
approach. The emphasis on drills is still apparent 
for the 100-metre sprinter, but less time is spent 
020
10304050
DrillsPhase 1: 10 m emphasis - 3/4 weeks
10 m
sprints20 m
sprints30 m
sprints40 m
sprints% of training session time
020
10304050
DrillsPhase 2: 20 m emphasis - 3/4 weeks
10 m
sprints20 m
sprints30 m
sprints40 m
sprints% of training session time
020
10304050
DrillsPhase 3: 30 m emphasis - 3/4 weeks
10 m
sprints20 m
sprints30 m
sprints40 m
sprints% of training session time
020
10304050
DrillsPhase 4: 40 m emphasis - 3/4 weeks
10 m
sprints20 m
sprints30 m
sprints40 m
sprints% of training session time
E5891/Joyce/479919/Fig 11 .15/R2/JGFigure 11.13  A 12-to-16 week, short-to-long sprint 
progression for team sports.
than for the team sport athlete. In most cases, 
team sport athletes need relatively more time 
invested in refining running mechanics and 
ingraining the concept of relaxation. Athletes 
020
10304050
DrillsPhase 1: 10-30 m emphasis - 6 weeks
0-30 m 30-
60 m60-
100 m100-
150 m
Drills 0-30 m 30-
60 m60-
100 m100-
150 m
Drills 0-30 m 30-
60 m60-
100 m100-
150 m
Drills 0-30 m 30-
60 m60-
100 m100-
150 m% of training session time
020
10304050Phase 2: 30-60 m emphasis - 6 weeks% of training session time
020
10304050Phase 3: 60-100 m emphasis - 8 weeks% of training session time
020
10304050Phase 4: 60-150 m emphasis - 8 weeks% of training session time
E5891/Joyce/479921/Fig 11 .16/R2/JGFigure 11.14  Thirty-week short-to-long sprint progres-
sion for the 100 metres.

162 ❙ Hansen
Table 11.2  Sample Short-to-Long Speed Workouts for Team Sport Athletes
Phase Sample workout
1
10 memphasis• Arm mechanics drills from seated position
• 4 × 15 m marching A
• 4 × 15 m skipping A
• 5 × 10 m running A
• 5 × 10 m from push-up start, 1 min rep recovery, 3 min set recovery
• 5 × 10 m from supine starts, 1 min rep recovery, 3 min set recovery
• 4 × 15 m from 3-point starts, 1 min rep recovery, 3 min set recovery
• 4 × 10 m acceleration plus 10 m maintain, falling start, 1 min rep recovery
• Total speed volume = 240 m
220 memphasis• 4 × 20 m skipping A
• 4 × 15 m running A
• Arm reaction drills on start commands
• 4 × 10 m from push-up start, 1 min rep recovery, 3 min set recovery
• 4 × 10 m from medicine ball push-up start, 1 min rep recovery, 3 min set recovery
• 4 × 20 m from push-up start, 2 min rep recovery, 3.5 min set recovery
• 4 × 20 m from three-point start, 2 min rep recovery, 3.5 min set recovery
• 3 × 20 m acceleration plus 10 m maintain, falling start, 2 min rep recovery
• Total speed volume = 330 m
330 memphasis• 4 × 20 m skipping A
• 4 × 20 m running A
• Arm reaction drills on start commands
• 4 × 10 m from push-up start, 1 min rep recovery, 3 min set recovery
• 4 × 20 m from 3-point start, 2 min rep recovery, 3.5 min set recovery
• 3 × 30 m from falling start, 3 min rep recovery, 4.5 min set recovery
• 3 × 30 m from three-point start, 3 min rep recovery, 4.5 min set recovery
• 3 × 30 m acceleration plus 10 m maintain, falling start, 3.5 min rep recovery
• Total speed volume = 420 m
440 m
emphasis• 4 × 20 m skipping A
• 4 × 10 m running A
• 4 × 10 m from push-up start, 1 min rep recovery, 3 min set recovery
• 4 × 20 m from 3-point start, 2 min rep recovery, 3.5 min set recovery
• 3 × 30 m from falling start, 3 min rep recovery, 4.5 min set recovery
• 3 × 40 m from three-point start, 3.5 min rep recovery, 5 min set recovery
• 3 × 40 m from falling start, 4 min rep recovery
• Total speed volume = 450 m
with a background in formal sprint training typ -
ically have already invested significant amounts 
of time on technical drills.
Table 11.3 provides more specific details on the 
types of runs and recoveries employed for a 100-
metre athlete using a short-to-long approach. The 
first two phases of training focus on distances 
between 10 and 60 metres, with an emphasis on 
acceleration and the attainment of a high maximal velocity. Once the athlete enters phase 3 of the training program, distances greater than 60 metres 
are incorporated into the program, and the athlete 
moves beyond the alactic anaerobic system into the lactic anaerobic system with greater recovery 
times required. It is not out of the question for 
athletes to take 100 seconds of rest for every 1 
second expended during a sprint effort. For elite-
level sprinters, this is the magnitude of recovery 

 Successfully Translating Strength Into Speed ❙ 163
Table 11.3  Sample Short-to-Long Speed Workouts for 100-Metre Sprint Athletes
Phase Day 1 Day 2 Day 3
1
0-30 memphasisSprints on grass
• 4 × 10 m push-up start
• 4 × 20 m falling start
• 4 × 20 m push-up start
• 4 × 30 m falling start
• Total = 320 mHill sprints• 4 × 20 m push-up start
• 4 × 30 m falling start
• 4 × 30 m falling start
• Total = 320 mSprints on track• 4 × 20 m medicine ball start
• 4 × 20 m push-up start
• 4 × 30 m falling start
• 4 × 30 m plus 20 m maintain
• Total = 480 m
2
30-60 memphasisSprints on track
• 3 × 30 m falling start
• 4 × 30 m block start
• 3 × 50 m falling start
• 3 × 60 m falling start
• Total = 540 mSprints on track• 4 × 30 m falling start
• 4 × 30 m block start
• 4 × 30 m block start
• 3 × 30 easy plus 20 m (flying 20s)
• Total = 510 mSprints on track• 4 × 30 m falling start
• 4 × 30 m block start
• 3 × (20F plus 20E plus 20F)
• 3 × (20E plus 20F plus 20E)
• Total = 600 m
3
60-100 memphasisSprints on track
• 4 × 30 m falling start
• 3 × 30 m block start
• 3 × 40 m block start
• 4 × 60 m falling start
• Total = 570 mSprints on track• 4 × 30 m falling start
• 3 × 60 m
• 2 × 80 m
• 1 × 100 m
• Total = 560 mSprints on track• 4 × 30 m falling start
• 4 × 30 m block start
• 2 × (20F plus 20E plus 20F)
• 2 × (20E plus 20F plus 20E)
• 1 × 80 m
• Total = 560 m
4
60-150 m
emphasisSprints on track
• 4 × 30 m falling start
• 4 × 40 m block start
• 2 × (3 × 60 m) falling start
• Total = 640 mSprints on track• 4 × 30 m falling start
• 1 × 80 m, 12 min recovery
• 1 × 100 m, 15 min recovery
• 1 × 120 m, 20 min recovery
• 1 × 150 m
• Total = 570 mSprints on track• 4 × 30 m falling start
• 4 × 40 m block start
• 3 × (20E plus 20F plus 20E)
• 1 × 80 m
• 1 × 100 m
• Total = 640 m
*Note: Recovery times will be no less than 1 or 2 minutes per 10 metres of sprint distance covered.
required in training to ensure each sprint repeti -
tion is of the highest quality possible.
The Long-to-Short Approach
In a long-to-short approach, athletes run dis -
tances longer than they would in competition and 
then gradually decrease the sprinting distance 
over time, increasing the velocities of the runs 
through the progression. The intent is to gradually 
approach the competition distance and desired 
velocity as the athlete works from a general pre -
paratory phase to a competitive phase. Because lower velocities are applied in the early stages 
of a long-to-short program, recovery times can 
be shortened significantly between repetitions 
and sets.The Concurrent Approach
A concurrent approach combines aspects of both 
short-to-long and long-to-short training to arrive 
at a training program tailored to the needs of the 
athlete and the constraints of a particular training 
location. The concurrent approach works well for 
athletes who require greater development of both the alactic and lactic anaerobic energy systems for 
competition distances between 100 and 400 metres. 
Longer sprints also have the effect of teaching ath -
letes to relax through the effort and manage their 
energy over a given distance. Table 11.4 incorpo -
rates aspects of the other short-to-long programs described in this chapter with the addition of a 
day of training that progresses from 400-metre runs down to distances in the range of 200 metres.

164Table 11.4  Concurrent Speed Workouts for 200-Metre Sprint Athletes
Phase Day 1: short-to-long Day 2: short-to-long Day 3: long-to-short
1 Sprints on grass
• 4 × 10 m push-up start
• 4 × 20 m falling start
• 4 × 20 m push-up start
• 4 × 30 m falling start
• Total = 320 mHill sprints• 4 × 20 m push-up start
• 4 × 30 m falling start
• 4 × 30 m falling start
• Total = 320 mSprints on grass• 4 × 30 m falling start
• 4 × 400 m at 80% with 8 min breaks
• Total = 1,720 m
2 Sprints on track• 3 × 30 m falling start
• 4 × 30 m block start
• 3 × 50 m falling start
• 3 × 60 m falling start
• Total = 540 mSprints on track• 4 × 30 m falling start
• 4 × 30 m block start
• 4 × 30 m block start
• 3 × 30 easy plus 20 m (flying 20s)
• Total = 510 mSprints on track• 4 × 30 m falling start
• 350m at 85%, 12 min break
• 300m at 90%, 15 min break
• 250m at 90%
• Total = 1020 m
3 Sprints on track• 4 × 30 m falling start
• 3 × 30 m block start
• 3 × 40 m block start
• 4 × 60 m falling start
• Total = 570mSprints on track• 4 × 30 m falling start
• 3 × 60 m
• 2 × 80 m
• 1 × 100 m
• Total = 560 mSprints on track• 4 × 30 m falling start
• 4 × 30 m falling start
• 300m at 95%, 18 min break
• 250m at 95%, 20 min break
• 220m at 95%
• Total = 600 m
4 Sprints on track• 4 × 30 m falling start
• 4 × 40 m block start
• 2 × (3 × 60 m) falling start
• Total = 640 mSprints on track• 4 × 30 m falling start
• 1 × 80 m, 12 min recovery
• 1 × 100 m, 15 min recovery
• 1 × 120 m, 20 min recovery
• 1 × 150 m
• Total = 570 mSprints on track• 4 × 30 m falling start
• 220 m at 100%, 25-30 min break
• 180 m at 100%
• Total = 640 m
*Note: Recovery times will be no less than 1 or 2 minutes per 10 metres of sprint distance covered.

 165Through my work in individual, team, Olympic and 
extreme sports, I have seen as many similarities as differ -
ences in developing acceleration.
I am a big believer in training for capacity, training 
athletes to enhance their physical abilities to do what they need to become as fast as possible. In terms of acceleration, I look to develop high vertical and horizontal forces, espe
-
cially in the first couple steps.
Exercises and drills that increase stiffness within the 
system, develop powerful hip motion and minimise energy leaks in the trunk are critical. This is consistent whether training track sprinters or multidirectional field-sport 
athletes. In sports in which acceleration is essential, I 
prioritise the training of force generation and attenuation 
capacities in such a way that energy is not leaked through 
poor technique or faulty biomechanics.
The process for developing these qualities depends on 
the sport and the technical and musculoskeletal competen
-
cies of the athlete. Where possible, I prioritise drills such as cleans, jerks, weighted step-ups, squats, hack squats and 
single-leg squats. For injury resilience, it’s also critical to 
include drills such as Nordic hamstring curls and stiff-legged deadlifts.
Also I like to include heavy sled work in the programme 
to develop starting strength and force application. This can 
be coupled with short (5 metre) hill work.
My work with triple jumpers over the years has heavily 
influenced me in programming for all sports. Particularly I look to bouncing drills to effectively condition the tendons 
of the lower limbs, which are vital for both performance and protection against injury.
Of course, training track athletes is different than train
-
ing field-sport athletes. My philosophy with footballers, for example, is that building capacity is key. If able to 
apply more force, they will accelerate quicker. This is 
paramount. We also look to increase the stiffness within their feet, ankles and lower legs to ensure the players 
take full advantage of the elastic nature of their muscles 
and tendons.
Then we look at basic technique drills aimed at foot 
placement, getting the feet to point in the direction where we want them to run. This is carried over into agility drills 
as well. We want our athletes to be powerful through their 
hips as though they were going to knee something.
Often in field sports, players do not accelerate from a 
standing start, so in training I have them accelerate from a rolling start. This allows them to build up momentum and is similar to what is seen in football and rugby.
From an injury prevention standpoint, we don’t 
want players exposed to violent accelerations and 
high-velocity running for the first time in a game. This 
is when injuries occur, because athletes haven’t built up their durability or capacity to withstand the forces. 
As such, all players are exposed to high speeds during 
the preseason. We continue this training in-season as 
well, but only one very fast session per week, usually 
on Tuesday if we are running a Saturday-to-Saturday schedule. Usually this training is done in a small group 
setting of five or six players at a time, focusing on dis
-
tances up to 40 metres.
In the past, I have programmed in a fast but short 
session on Friday or even Saturday morning to achieve a potentiation effect, preparing players for the match. 
This is something we will work up to with Newcastle, but at the moment, the players need to be gradually 
exposed.Developing Acceleration  
in All SportsCOACH’S INSIGHT
Faye Downey
High Performance Manager,  
Red Bull Extreme Athletes and Newcastle United
Faye Downey has a master’s degree in sports science from Loughborough University and has developed conditioning programmes for Olympic, World Champi -
onship, European, and Commonwealth athletes. She was on the coaching team for England RFU during the 2007 and 2011 Rugby World Cups. Currently she is 
high performance manager for Red Bull Extreme athletes and for Newcastle United.

166 ❙ Hansen
Summary
Ensuring that athletes reach their speed poten -
tial requires careful management of all training 
elements. If the development of greater speed 
is the ultimate goal, all training elements must 
serve as a means to that end. Even though cir -
cumstances may determine the optimal ordering of elements or choice of approach, an integrated, 
organised approach that identifies strengths, 
deficiencies and opportunities for improvement 
is always superior to a haphazard approach of ongoing loading, useless training gadgets and endless fatigue.
Strength professionals often claim that athletes 
can never be strong enough; however, it is the job of a speed coach to determine when strength work 
yields positive contributions towards speed devel -
opment and when it reaches a point of diminishing returns. As with many aspects of athletic develop -
ment, every coach will have a formula for success. 
The right combination of coaching experience, 
keen observation and common sense will ensure that athletes stay healthy and consistently improve.

CHAPTER
 167
12
12
12
The jump-and-land sequence is a critical athletic 
quality for many sports. Sports such as volley-
ball have a high volume of jumping as a feature of the game, with the sequence performed hundreds 
of times in a match
1 and its performance as an 
established performance criteria.1-3 For other sports 
(e.g., track and fi  eld jumps), jumping is the event itself, and as such jumping is  the performance 
outcome (i.e., height or distance). Even though jumping may occur less frequently in some sports, 
its performance may have a considerable impact upon the outcome. For example, in rugby, an ath-
lete may jump to contest a ball from a high kick 
relatively few times in a match, yet the result (i.e., whether the offensive or defensive player catches 
the ball) may determine the outcome of the game. 
Equally, the ability to jump and land without decay 
in effi  ciency over the course of a match is vital in 
sports such as tennis and badminton.
This chapter describes the key physical and 
technical qualities that lead to superior jump-and-land performance. In order to optimise the application of the information, however, the chap-
ter should be viewed and interpreted in concert 
with other chapters since many concepts are inter-
dependent. For example, appropriate assessment 
(chapter 1) is required to enhance the application of the information in this chapter. Optimal fl  exi-
bility (chapter 5), movement effi  ciency (chapter 
3) and high levels of strength (chapter 10) are 
also major considerations in the development of 
jumping and landing ability. In this chapter, these considerations are discussed only in the context 
of jumping and landing; refer to other chapters in this book for in-depth information on these 
important considerations.
For the purposes of this chapter, the term jump-
and-land  will refer to the entire sequence of force 
production, take-off and force absorption (fi  gure 
12.1, a-c ).
A vertical jump sequence can include jumps 
off and onto various surfaces, including turf (e.g., football codes), courts (e.g., basketball), sand (e.g., 
beach volleyball, long jump), mats (e.g., gymnas-
tics) and water (e.g., surfi  ng). The term jump  (and 
jumping) refers broadly to all manifestations in 
sport, whether performed from an initial station-
ary position (e.g., Rugby Union lineout, volleyball 
block), whilst running (e.g., basketball lay-up), from 
a short approach (e.g., volleyball spike) or from one 
or both legs. Although the primary focus of this chapter is on considerations for the vertical jump, 
the testing and training concepts have direct rele-
vance to horizontal jumping tasks. It is important to appreciate that the performance achieved in 
horizontal jumping involves a considerable verti-
cal displacement and heavily depends on vertical 
force–time characteristics.
4, 5
Trainable Properties
In order to improve the outcome of jumping and 
landing performance, understanding its compo-
nent parts fi  rst will allow strategic coaching of the 
areas the athlete may be weakest in. The follow-
ing section outlines considerations for the major 
trainable components that contribute to improved jumping performance.Optimising Training 
for Jumping and Landing
Jeremy Sheppard, PhD
Hurley Surfi  ng Australia High Performance Centre and Edith Cowan University

168 ❙ Sheppard
Maximal Strength and Power
Coaches often refer to power movements, and the 
vertical jump certainly fits this definition.6, 7 Consid -
ering that power is the product of force and velo -
city, it is helpful to view power generation as being underpinned by the ability to apply high force and 
achieve high velocity. Although these particular fac
-
tors are often discussed independently, they are in 
fact interdependent  qualities that must be understood 
to effectively improve power to the greatest degree.
Heavy Strength Training
It is sometimes mistakenly asserted that unloaded jumping (i.e., jumping with only the athlete’s 
body weight) does not require maximal strength 
characteristics, and therefore maximal strength 
training is of little benefit to improve jumping 
ability. This may be due to the fact that peak forces in the vertical jump, compared to maximal force 
capability, are relatively low in the vertical jump 
so the need for a high-force capability is not inher -
ently observable in the task itself. However, this last assertion does not make sense: Maximal force capabilities, and maximal strength-training meth -
ods, have well-known associations with jumping ability.
2, 7-12 This is an easily explained concept. 
To increase displacement, athletes must take off 
with a higher velocity, which is gained through an 
increase in impulse. To increase this impulse, the 
athlete must apply more force in the same time, 
or apply the same force as previously in less time, to have the desired improvement. The outcome is 
directly related to how quickly the athlete applies 
this force (rate of force development). Training maximal strength develops the athlete’s ability to 
apply higher forces and, as such, improves his or 
her capacity for a high rate of force development.
Assuming equal body weight and other factors 
(e.g., technique), if a stronger athlete applies force at the same relative  rate as that of a weaker athlete, 
it will in fact be a higher rate since the stronger athlete has a higher total capability. More force will be applied in the given time and at greater 
acceleration, thereby generating more impulse and 
a superior vertical jump.
Figure 12.1  Vertical jump sequence: ( a) flexion (force production); ( b) take-off; ( c) landing (force absorption)a b c

 Optimising Training for Jumping and Landing ❙ 169
Wisdom
In the case of jumping performance, strength gain 
can be viewed as an underpinning and foundational component that all other training needs depend on  .
Although detailed strength-training informa -
tion is provided elsewhere (chapter 10), it should 
be noted that squat and heavy-pull training is of 
particular importance for the jumping athlete.7, 
8, 13, 14 Training methods aimed at developing 
general competency and maximal strength in movements such as the back squat (figure 12.2), 
front squat (figure 12.3), snatch squat (figure 12.4), 
single-leg squat (figure 12.5), deadlift (figure 12.6) and Romanian-style deadlift (figure 12.7) 
are important general-development exercises to 
include for strength.
Although there may exist a theoretical ceiling, 
or perhaps even a trade-off between gaining 
strength and improving jumping ability, this is 
not something to be overly concerned with when 
the coach focuses on the development of relative 
strength (i.e., strength as it relates to body mass). If the primary aim is to develop relative maximal 
strength, and employ mass-gaining methods and 
dietary habits only when desirable for total relative strength improvements, this theoretical ceiling, 
or theoretical trade-off between further strength 
Figure 12.2  Back squat.
b
 aFigure 12.3  Front squat.
Figure 12.4  Snatch squat.

170 ❙ Sheppard
gains and jumping performance, is unlikely to 
be discovered! Although the law of diminishing 
returns certainly applies to strength training and 
its effect on improving vertical jumping, for most 
athletes in high-volume jumping and landing 
sports (e.g., volleyball, basketball), this point would be reached only by a small number of athletes. 
Put simply, no evidence exists to suggest that 
strength gains diminish jumping performance, yet overwhelming support exists for the point 
that maximal strength and power is associated 
with jumping ability, and that increasing maximal 
strength yields improvement in power and jump -
ing performance.
2, 15-22
Wisdom
With athletes who are required to jump, emphasise 
year-round development of maximal relative strength for greatest effect on maintaining and improving jumping ability  .
Olympic Lifting
Olympic lifting is a vital aspect of training for the 
jumping athlete. Olympic lifts, and their derivatives 
and training drills, offer a means to train speed 
and strength. Their effect is produced by using a 
range of loads from relatively light (preparatory 
lifts and accessory-lift variations) to moderately heavy (near-maximal and maximal lifts in snatch 
and clean) to provide resistance to large ranges of 
the triple extension movement (hip-knee-ankle) that is transferable to jump performance.
2, 8, 16, 20, 23 
This range of motion (ROM), which involves a large 
sum of motor units, results in high power totals; 
it could be considered the most important suite of 
exercises, in addition to maximal strength training, 
to use for improving jumping performance.
Wisdom
Every athlete training to improve jumping ability 
should include Olympic lifting in the training approach  .
Coaches working with jumping athletes should 
integrate an appropriate teaching progression 
for these lifts into the training of developing 
athletes to ensure that when physically mature, 
these athletes will have the opportunity to safely 
and effectively use Olympic lifting as a means to 
 Figure 12.7  Romanian-style deadlift.Figure 12.5  Single-leg squat.
Figure 12.6  Deadlift.

 Optimising Training for Jumping and Landing ❙ 171
train speed qualities (lighter loads and accessory 
Olympic lifts) and maximal power (moderate and 
near-maximal loads), and heavy loaded-power 
movements (maximal Olympic lifting loads). Table 
12.1 presents an example of a long-term teaching 
progression used in volleyball to progress athletes to competence in the snatch (figure 12.8) and clean 
(figure 12.9) and several derivatives that can be 
used in training.
Table 12.1  Olympic Lifting Teaching and Training 
Progression for Developing Volleyball Players  
(14 and 15 Years Old)
Target to be achieved before progressing to next exercise 
and stage is in italics. End-stage (i.e., 16 years old) target expectations are shown in parenthesis.
Snatch Clean
Snatch squat50% body mass(80%-100% body mass)Front squat75% body mass(100% body mass)
Snatch balance50% body mass(70%-80% body mass)
Snatch from hang
50% body mass
(65%-75% body mass)Clean from hang
65% body mass
(80%-90% body mass)
Snatch
60% body mass(80%-90% body mass)Clean80% body mass(100%-110% body mass)
Power snatch
(70% body mass)Power clean(90% body mass)
Olympic lifts should be viewed as an outstand -
ing means to safely develop high levels of eccen -
tric strength and control in a way that is entirely 
relevant to landings. The catch phase of the two 
Olympic lifts and their derivatives demand a con -
trolled deceleration of the athlete’s body mass and 
the external load in the lift. If taught properly, this is one of few training modalities that can provide 
such a specific, relevant benefit.
Loaded Jumping
Loaded jumping, primarily through the use of 
jump squats (i.e., with a countermovement) and 
squat jumps (i.e., with an extended pause of 2 to 4 
seconds between eccentric and concentric action) 
using extra load has been used to assess perfor -
mance24-27 and to train jumping ability in many 
contexts with excellent outcomes.18, 28-32
Figure 12.8  Snatch: (a) starting position; (b)  lift bar to 
hip height; (c)  press overhead.a
b
c

172 ❙ Sheppard
Although some coaches believe that performing 
loaded jumps is somehow safer or more appropri -
ate in a Smith machine compared to free weights, 
this is not correct;25, 33 the use of barbells, weight 
vests, or other means that allows for unrestricted 
jumping action is recommended.
Loaded jumping offers the coach a range of 
loads from which to target the force–velocity spec -
trum, allowing for the emphasis to be placed on 
low- (5%-30% of mass in addition to body mass), 
moderate- (30%-70% of body mass) or heavy- (70%-
125% of body mass) load power training. These loads can be selected for the specific aspects they target. For example, heavy-load jump squats are useful for developing heavy-load ballistic strength, 
which tends to allow for greater power generation 
with the heavy loads used in training, as well as with some transfer to lighter loads.
18 In contrast, 
moderate loads elicit high average power outputs, 
potentially leading to exceptional lower-body 
power improvements.24, 29, 31, 32
Considering that jump squats offer less motor-
unit involvement compared to typical strength and 
Olympic lifting movements, jump squats should be 
understood as a special exercise used to target low and unloaded conditions
18 and are therefore useful Figure 12.9  Clean: (a) starting position; (b)  lift bar to chin; (c)  squat deeply; (d)  stand.
a b
c d

 Optimising Training for Jumping and Landing ❙ 173
to peak athletes in vertical jump performance. 
Table 12.2 provides an example progression where 
moderate (25%-75% of the athlete’s mass) barbell 
loads in the jump squat are used initially and then 
reduced to relatively light-load jump squats (>25% 
of the athlete’s mass). This loading progression in the jump squat often results in excellent improve -
ments in jumping performance.
Stretch-Shortening Cycle  
and Plyometric Training
The stretch-shortening cycle (SSC), where muscle 
undergoes an initial lengthening before shortening, 
is an important contributor to potentiating mus -
cular force and power output when compared to movements that do not involve a countermovement 
or preparatory movement (e.g., run-up).
34-41 Positive 
work done by the previously stretched and loaded 
muscle can be accounted for by a combination of 
neurogenic and myogenic factors.41-43 In SSC-based 
movements, the eccentric force, reflex stimuli and 
elastic contribution is greater than normal due to 
the eccentric (stretch) load; this is magnified fur -
ther with accentuated eccentric SSC activities such as depth jumps and overloaded eccentrics.
34, 42, 44-48
Plyometric training, which emphasises SSC 
abilities, should be included in a training program 
aimed at maximising jumping ability. This is an 
accepted and regular practice in physical condi -
tioning. However, many programs emphasising SSC activity use too many exercises, or drills, with too many repetitions per set.
49 Athletes have 
a limited opportunity to acquire skill in each exer -
cise. Performing numerous plyometric exercises in training (in addition to sport-skill training) may 
present more of a skill-acquisition chaotic stress 
than the desired SSC load: The athlete is spending the majority of the training program learning the 
new movements, thereby getting only a modest 
SSC training benefit. Until the athlete can do the exercise with high aptitude, it is unlikely to be 
effective. As such, coaches should use only plyo -
metric exercises that offer a direct, profound and defensible benefit to the athlete’s jumping ability.
Furthermore, the aim of the plyometric exercises 
should be to target a relevant quality, not neces -
sarily mimic the sport movement. The coach must 
bear in mind that mimicking the sport movements is an overly simplistic approach to being sport 
specific; doing so can often interfere with the skill 
already being performed in the sport training, 
which may of course be already occurring in the 
sport at a high volume.
For example, in elite volleyball players, a counter -
movement-style jump (e.g., block jump, jump set and spike jump) may be performed 1,000 to 4,000 times 
per week simply through practice and matches. 
Strength and conditioning coaches and medical 
practitioners must carefully consider the utility and 
purpose of any additional jump training and favour targeting a specific physical quality, not simply Table 12.2  Five-Week Lower-Body Strength and Power Sequence Incorporating Jump Squat Training 
Progression Using Varying Barbell Loads for an Elite Volleyball Player (205  .5 cm, 101 kg)
Session 1 Week 1 Week 2 Week 3  Week 4 Week 5
Jump squat
SnatchBack squat
Single-leg 
squat4 × 5 (50 kg)
6 × 3 (60-70 kg)
9 × 5/4/3*(110/115/120, 115/120/125, 
120/125/130 kg)
3 × 12 (101 kg)4 × 3 (60 kg)
7 × 3 (60-70 kg)
9 × 4/3/2*(115/120/125, 120/125/130, 
125/130/135 kg)
3 × 10 (111 kg)5 × 3 (65 kg)
7 × 2 (65-75 kg)
9 × 3/2/1*(120/125/130, 125/130/135, 
130/135/140 kg)
4 × 8 (116 kg)6 × 4 (30 kg)
6 × 2 (65-75 kg)
None4 × 6 (121 kg)6 × 3 (15 kg)
4 × 2 (70-77.5 kg)
6 × 3 (130-135 kg)None
Session 2 Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Week 5
Jump squatCleanFront squat
Romanian-
style deadlift4 × 4 (60 kg)
6 × 3 (60-70 kg)
6 × 7 (80-85 kg)3 × 10 (90 kg)5 × 3 (70 kg)
7 × 3 (60-70 kg)
6 × 6 (82.5-87.5 kg)4 × 8 (100 kg)6 × 2 (80 kg)
7 × 2 (65-75 kg)
7 × 5 (85-90 kg)4 × 6 (110 kg)6 × 4 (40 kg)
6 × 2 (65-75 kg)
NoneNone6 × 3 (20 kg)
4 × 2 (70-77.5 kg)
4 × 7 (82.5-87.5 kg)3 × 7 (95 kg)
*For the back squat, the athlete performs a total of 9 sets in groups of 3. Sets 1, 4, and 7 have the highest reps but a lower weight; sets 3, 
6, and 9 have the fewest reps but a higher weight. In week 1, for example, the athlete performs 5 reps at 110 kg in set 1, 4 reps at 115 kg in set 2, and 3 reps at 120 kg in set 3, then repeats this pattern two more times with the specified weights.

174 ❙ Sheppard
replicating the movements already being performed 
in the skill-training sessions of the sport itself.
Some programs take the approach of more is 
better in relation to exercise variety in plyometric 
training, including as many as 10 exercises, 2 to 4 
sets each, and 6 to 10 repetitions each. Programmes that combine strength training with a few specific 
plyometric exercises are likely much more effective.
48 
Plyometric exercises should be performed with far less exercise variety (1 or 2 exercises per session), and 
fewer repetitions (1 to 5). Avoiding interset fatigue 
is imperative to the performance of the movement, 
and a high intensity is paramount to effectiveness.
50
Total volume is difficult to prescribe en masse 
and must be considered in light of the athlete’s 
physical literacy and robustness as well as the 
other stressors in current training. The coach 
should carefully consider the athlete’s physical 
preparedness for the exercise, fatigue state from other training and athletic competence to perform 
the movement safely and effectively. Selecting only 
the most relevant and specific exercises for the athlete, and applying specific loading conditions, is 
likely a far superior approach to using plyometrics 
rather than doing a large number of exercises in 
hopes that something works.
Depth jumps (also called drop jumps), where the 
athlete drops from a height before jumping as high as possible, is one of the most effective plyometric 
exercises for improving vertical jump
45, 48, 51-55 and can 
be modified to include a horizontal hop or bound 
from the drop. This exercise presents a unique over -
load of the eccentric action preceding the concentric 
vertical propulsive movement, with unique preactiv -
ity characteristics56 and novel training adaptations 
in neuromuscular characteristics.48, 56, 57
The primary purpose of using the depth jump is 
to increase the stretch load of the eccentric action, 
as the drop provides an additional (i.e., accentuated) 
eccentric load through the increase in acceleration 
and velocity resulting from the drop. Depth jumps 
can be performed from varying heights to achieve specific loading conditions; they can also be per -
formed with modifications in technique.
45, 48, 51, 52 
For example, a bounce depth jump (figure 12.10) 
can be performed where the athlete drops from a 
height with the intention to spend as little time on 
the ground as possible. This instruction results in 
relatively low joint displacements and a rapid cycle of eccentric-transition-concentric muscular action 
(i.e., short amortisation phase).
53 This drill, as well as 
a tuck jump (figure 12.11), forces the athlete to arrest his or her landing at a faster than normal rate and 
emphasises a short contact. For this reason, these drills are favoured by many coaches because they 
have a clear purpose: to develop the fast transition 
that likely has considerable performance bene -
fits, even for jumps that have a relatively slower eccentric-transition-concentric muscular action.
48
The bounce depth jump is not the only worth -
while way to use a depth jump, however. The 
primary purpose of most vertical jump tasks is to 
jump as high as possible. Performing depth jumps 
with the intention of jumping as high as possible 
yields excellent results, even for jump tasks that are apparently grossly dissimilar.
45, 48, 53 This can be 
easily explained. A depth jump in which the athlete 
aims to jump as high as possible will result in the 
athlete performing this task with a high impulse, 
a higher eccentric velocity,53 which is effective in 
developing superior jumping ability even under normal conditions.
58 These accentuated eccen -
tric conditions result in greater neurogenic and myogenic contributions (i.e., overload) and is an 
Figure 12.10  Bounce depth jump. The athlete drops 
from the prescribed height (generally 10-40 cm) and 
aims to rapidly get off the ground and jump. To ensure 
the athlete understands the desired outcome, coach -
ing cues such as ‘bounce like a ball off the floor’ are 
effective to ensure a short contact time and relatively 
low joint compliance in the landing.

 Optimising Training for Jumping and Landing ❙ 175
effective method for developing impulse in jump -
ing, under high stretch-load conditions.34, 36, 38, 51, 52, 56
The drop height chosen is a major consider -
ation for programming depth jumps. In addition 
to assessment of landing technique and general 
athletic competency, it is best to conduct a stretch-
load tolerance assessment to help determine the 
appropriate training height for each athlete. Table 12.3 provides an example of results for three volley -
ball athletes, all with the same countermovement jump score, on an incremental stretch-load toler -
ance-testing session. After a countermovement 
jump test, the drop height of each depth jump was 
increased by 10 centimetres progressively, with the 
athletes having several trials to jump as high as 
possible from each height. The results demonstrate the athlete with the lowest stretch-load tolerance 
(player A), the highest stretch-load tolerance (player 
B) and what is typical of this population (player C). In all three cases, an optimum height can be 
determined—a specific box height for each athlete 
elicited a single best jump result. However, it’s 
likely best to include a range of heights in training 
plans to challenge aspects of the force–velocity spectrum in this exercise; it may also be appropri -
ate to include training types such as depth jumps for maximal height and minimal contact. Table 12.4 
provides a sample plyometric program with depth 
Figure 12.11  Tuck jump. The athlete performs re -
peated jumps in place whilst driving the knees into a 
tuck position and extends rapidly downward to the floor 
whilst descending, emphasising a short contact and explosive jump action.
Table 12.3  Countermovement Vertical Jump (CMVJ) Height and Depth Jump Scores From 20- to 60-Centimetre 
Drop Heights for Three National Team Volleyball Players
Other plyometricsDrop height  
20 cmDrop height  
30 cmDrop height  
40 cmDrop height  
50 cmDrop height  
60 cm
CMVJ
Player A 320 cm 318 cm 308 cm 300 cm 294 cm
Player B 324 cm 326 cm 328 cm 330 cm 329 cm
Player C 323 cm 326 cm 323 cm 320 cm 317 cm
Table 12.4  Sample Session for a Depth Jump Training Program for Three Volleyball Players  
Based on Test Results Presented in Table 12  .3
Player A Tuck jumps
8 × 3Fast contact 4 × 3Max height 10 × 2
Altitude landings
6 × 2
Player B Single-leg tuck jumps4 × 3Fast contact 4 × 3Fast contact   × 3Max height8 × 2Max height6 × 2
Player C Assisted jumps,  
10% body mass
4 × 5Fast contact 
4 × 3Max height8 × 2Max height6 × 2Altitude landings
6 × 2

176 ❙ Sheppard
jumps for an elite volleyball player, conducted after 
warm-up and before a strength-training session.
The eccentric phase of jumping can be further 
accentuated through the use of additional mass 
in the countermovement of a vertical jump: The 
athlete releases the load at the bottom position and jumps without load (figure 12.12) or performs 
a loaded jump squat with additional eccentric 
load using barbell releasers. Compared to normal countermovement jumps, this method provides for 
higher jump heights and superior power output, 
likely due to the enhanced contractile state of 
the muscles at the initiation of the propulsive 
phase of the jump.
42 When compared to regular 
countermovement jumps, jumps with additional 
eccentric load of 20 to 40 per cent of the athlete’s 
mass provide for a superior improvement in ver -
tical jump scores.47
Assisted jumping, in which the athlete’s mass 
is mechanically reduced, may be a unique over -
speed method to enhance jumping performance. Coaches can use a harness and bungee system 
or have the athlete hold on to a powerlifting 
resistance strap. The reduced load allows for a greater-than-normal concentric velocity and, as a 
result, a higher jump height. For athletes who have 
a reasonable strength-training background, and in conjunction with a strength-training program, 
this may provide a novel stimulus and lead to 
improved performances.
59
Leanness
Although most of the coach’s focus on improving jumping ability is spent on training methods, 
excess body fat is clearly deleterious to jump per -
formance. Additional body fat is additional mass. It is not mass that may assist in propulsion, as 
additional muscle may, so it detracts from jump performance and increases the load that must 
be absorbed on landing. This is not to say that 
skinny , low-mass athletes are desirable, but that 
leanness (i.e., healthy, low-body-fat level) is a highly 
desirable trait for athletes wanting to maximise jumping ability.
If a competitive athlete has too much body fat, 
diet and lifestyle must be addressed. These factors 
are adaptable and, in large part, are responsible 
for the problem. It is far too common for strength and conditioning coaches and sport science 
practitioners to remedy the body-fat problem by 
prescribing additional conditioning training to 
increase energy expenditure. Training for sport 
Figure 12.12  Release jumps.a
b
c

 Optimising Training for Jumping and Landing ❙ 177
at the elite level involves careful, specific consid -
eration for the volume and intensity required to 
meet physical requirements, and the total volume 
of training is generally high. With this in mind, 
it makes no sense to simply load additional junk 
training into a program to enable and promote the athlete’s current inappropriate eating and lifestyle.
If an athlete is not training enough, then he 
or she can train more; however, if the athlete is training appropriately for the sport but has too 
much body fat, the critical aspects of food volume, 
content and type, timing and distribution, as well 
as factors such as sleep and stress, must become 
the priority. It is not appropriate to attempt to remedy the body-fat problem with increased 
training volume without addressing the nutrition 
and lifestyle factors that underpin that problem.
Table 12.5 demonstrates the positive impact 
in jump squat and strength performance that can be achieved when an athlete reduces excess 
fat mass (as demonstrated by a lower sum of a 
seven-site skinfold test). The primary focus in the period between observations was to improve 
the athlete’s understanding of the role of diet and 
lifestyle on body-fat levels and, most importantly, 
to implement change in these factors and hold the 
athlete accountable for the results and the goals that were set. The resulting reduction in extra fat 
tissue increased leanness, reflected by an increase 
in the athlete’s lean mass index (LMI).
60 The bene -
fits to strength and power performance are easily 
observable and explained by the reduction in 
additional, noncontributing mass (i.e., excess body 
fat) during the movements (e.g., jump squat, clean, 
squat), resulting in better strength and power performance. In the case of the increases in clean and squat barbell loads, it could be reasoned that 
some of the fat mass lost was simply placed on 
the bar in the form of additional plates, allowing a greater expression of strength! Considering that 
athletes with too much body fat take longer to 
recover from training generally, it could also be 
speculated that the now-leaner athlete was also 
simply in a better position to respond to training.
Planning Training
Integrating training methods into a progressive plan is often referred to as an art because mere 
scientific understanding of training adaptation is 
inadequate for the coach or athlete to make all of the necessary multifactorial decisions. Consider -
ation, and therefore an in-depth understanding, must be given to the long-term needs of the athlete, the demands of the sport, other influences on the 
physical and emotional state of the athlete and the 
athletic competency of each member of a training 
group. Importantly, day-to-day variations and 
decisions of training plans are made in response to up-to-date feedback and observations, so training 
planning is no small task. Effective training plan -
ning relies on the practitioner being a competent 
scientist and an outstanding coach. If this were not 
the case, elite athletes could upload test results into 
a website and receive effective training programs 
generated solely on data, but this is not wholly 
effective at the elite level. Nevertheless, the follow -
ing section provides general concepts that can help 
the practitioner frame the training approach when 
considering the objective of improving jump and landing ability.
Classification of Training Exercises
When working with elite sportpeople, practitioners need to quantify total load from training but also 
identify each specific type of exercise and its effect. 
Categorising exercises into one of three broad 
categories—general, special and specific—allows 
the practitioner to determine the relative approach to each training type deemed appropriate for that 
athlete at that time.
General exercises  can be defined as those that 
improve broad, performance-relevant compo -
nents of the jump. These include aspects such 
as maximal strength, rate-of-force development 
and maximal power. Special methods  include 
those that target highly specific aspects relevant Table 12.5 Changes in Body Mass
Based on the sum of seven-site skinfold testing, lean mass 
index (LMI), jump squat displacement and 1RM clean and squat over three months in an elite sprint cyclist (BMX 
racing) after dietary and lifestyle intervention.
Test measureInitial 
testingFollow-  
up
Body mass (kg) 84 kg 76 kg
Sum of seven-site skinfold 
testing (mm)88 mm 42 mm
Lean mass index (LMI) 1.05 1.81
1RM clean 110 kg 120 kg
1RM squat 190 kg 205 kg
LMI is derived from the formula body mass (kg) / sum of 
seven-site skinfold testing (mm).

178Downhill skiing is a highly-skilled sport in which technical 
and tactical abilities typically take priority over physical 
dominance. The speeds achieved and sustained and the 
highly-unpredictable terrain covered require incredible coordination, balance and reactive endurance.
Unlike most sports, in skiing athletes try to keep both 
feet on the ground (snow) as much as possible. When 
the feet do move, they move in unison rather than inde
-
pendently, not dissimilar to the tires on a car. Neither leg 
has a forceful extension movement, but each limb builds 
up tremendous force that needs to be transferred from 
one side to the other (pendulum) at significant speed. The coordination of power in this process is linked through the 
entire kinetic chain. Regardless of how strong the athlete 
is, the timing to apply this movement is more valuable 
than the force he or she possesses.
Adolescent ski racers provide a great opportunity to 
enhance jumping and landing performance and also mitigate injury risk. These athletes have a higher learning 
potential in terms of optimal movement patterns than their established adult counterparts and are more at risk 
both intrinsically and extrinsically. Adolescents are rarely 
exposed to competent performance training specialists 
who understand the nuisances of power development and 
force reduction strategies.
The technical aspects of triple extension (jumping) and 
triple flexion (landing) can be greatly influenced with quality coaching and exposure. These movements have a high dynamic correspondence to all events in the sport 
and also, if performed poorly, carry a significant injury 
risk. Therefore they are the primary movements to focus on in skiing athletic development programmes.
Injury Prevention
Adolescent skiers need to focus on coordinated fast- movement  
training.  I purposely avoid the use of the word powerful  to 
ensure that movement quality is the focus for the athlete 
rather than the development of physiological or mechan -
ical characteristics. I also have found that emphasising 
coordinated and explosive movement off-snow allows for a consistency in approach and terminology used by both the skier and coach, something that aids in the skill transfer from the gym to the snow.
Optimal acceleration and deceleration strategies, 
essentially landing mechanics, are crucial in preventing injuries in this population. Athletes are required to sta
-
bilise significant forces at very high angular velocities in events that last several minutes. The reported risk of 
intra-articular knee-joint injury remains high in skiing, 
whilst the long-term cost of subtle inaccuracies in joint kinematics in accelerating degenerative changes would 
seem intertwined.
Training Priorities
Movement competency is an essential priority in jump 
and land training. In the sagittal plane, I coach the athlete 
to generate sufficient system tension and muscular force 
to dampen vertical force and therefore prevent passive collapse on contact with the ground. In the frontal plane, 
I expect to see good control of knee mechanics, thereby 
minimising aberrant stress to intra-articular structures.
Fast coordinative movements in the frontal plane 
account for a significant proportion of training. These movements often have a slightly forward direction (thus 
diagonal) as this is more reflective of the action in ski racing.
Training Drill Examples
• Maximum lateral jump. Leave from two feet 
and land on two feet in a balanced position.
• Forward jump over a low hurdle into a maxi -
mum lateral jump.
• Forward jump to a 40 centimetre box. Slightly touch the box unweighted and drop to the ground. Follow with a maximum lateral jump.
• Rebound plyometrics. After a maximum lateral jump to the right, immediately link the move -
ment into a maximum jump to the left and stick the landing.COACH’S INSIGHT
Jumping and Landing Training for Alpine Ski Racers
Bill Knowles
Reconditioning and Athletic  
Development Specialist


 Optimising Training for Jumping and Landing ❙ 179
to jump performance, such as jumping power, 
SSC function, and targeted motions and postures 
related to the movement performed in the sport 
itself. Specific jump  methods  refer to those that are 
the same as in the sport itself. For example, a bas -
ketball player may practise rebound jumping, or a volleyball player may perform spike jumps up 
to a jump-and-reach apparatus. Table 12.6 shows 
a sample delineation among general, special and specific methods.
Training Emphasis
Through assessment and profiling of the athlete (chapter 1),  and with consideration of the time 
available in the training period, coaches can deter -
mine the relative emphasis on each of the training types. During the general preparation phase, 
specific methods are often not undertaken at all 
in strength and conditioning training— but consid -
erably high volumes of specific jumps are achieved 
through the athlete’s sport practice. Within the gen -
eral preparation phase, general strength methods are used to precede a maximal strength emphasis, 
and only a low number of special methods are used at this time (e.g., altitude landings, low-height depth jumps). From this foundation of generalised training for strength and power, more specific 
methods can be added during subsequent stages 
to augment jumping ability.
In addition to quantifying the type of exercise, 
practitioners also plan for and  quantify the nature 
of the exercise selected. Classifying training types 
as plyometric efforts, ballistic strength, maximal 
strength or general strength or repeated effort (table 12.7) allows a clear determination of the 
training emphasis by calculating the total sets, total 
reps and the volume load of each category, as well as the total for the training program. The volume 
load is calculated simply as this:
volume load = sets × reps × mass
For example, the plyometric volume load for 4 
sets of 10 repetitions of bounding for a 75-kilogram athlete is 4 × 10 × 75 = 3,000, whereas the maximal 
strength volume load for 6 sets of 3 repetitions of 
the back squat with 120 kilograms is 6 × 3 × 120 
= 2,160. Figure 12.13 shows the volume load for a mesocycle of strength and conditioning training 
for a junior volleyball player
Table 12.6  Exercises for Volleyball, Basketball and Long Jump Delineated Into General, Special and Specific 
Categories
Sport General Special Specific
Volleyball Squat
SnatchSingle-leg squatDepth jumpLoaded jump squatBlock jumpJump setSpike jump
Basketball SquatClean and jerkPower cleanBox hopTuck jumpReboundingDunkingLay-up
Long jump SquatBarbell step-upHurdle hopBound
Short run-up
Wind-assisted long run-upLong jumps
Table 12.7  Exercises Used by Jumping Athletes Categorised as Plyometric, Ballistic Strength, Maximal 
Strength, General Strength or Repeated Effort
Plyometric Ballistic strength Maximal strengthGeneral strength  
or repeated effort
Depth jump
Hop/boundTuck jump
Skip
Hurdle hopAccentuate eccentric jumpsSnatchCleanOlympic lift variations
Loaded jump squatSquat and variations
DeadliftFront squat
Romanian-style deadliftSquat and variations
Lunge variationsStep-up
Reverse hyperextension
Single-leg squatCalf raise

180 ❙ Sheppard
Plyometric
efforts
7 ,500Mesocycle S&C training volume (kg) totals
Maximal efforts
16,000Repeated efforts
20,000Olympic/ballistic
efforts
10,000
E5891/Joyce/479945/Fig 12.13/R2/JGFigure 12.13  Volume load for a mesocycle of strength 
and conditioning training for a junior volleyball player.
Wisdom
Planning and quantifying training load and type of 
load, using a volume–load method or similar approach, is essential to ensuring that the coach is effectively addressing the range of qualities relevant to jumping  . 
The outcome of this effort allows for greater individ -
ualisation of training to address each athlete’s needs more specifically  .
Training Delivery
Once the theoretical background is in place and the 
programme to develop both jumping and landing 
training has been planned, it’s now time to actually 
deliver the training. There is no doubt that the first 
two pieces lead into the third, but what separates a 
good coach from a great coach is his or her ability to effectively implement a programme that produces 
measurable performance gains in the athletes under 
the coach’s tutelage, not just improvements in the general trainable qualities. Higher-level athletes 
require an understanding of the interplay of physi
-
cal qualities, training load and the athletes’ response to the load, technique and other relevant factors.
Jumping-Technique Training
To jump effectively, a proper summation of forces must take place. The athlete must perform contact 
(e.g., long jump or countermovement) with an efficient body position and ideal mechanical posi -
tion (i.e., joint angles) to enable efficient use of elastic energy. Coaches are encouraged to coach this tech -
nique, particularly the effective summation of triple extension through the hip, knee, and ankle, and 
the arm swing. Especially for double-leg jumps, for example, the torso position can contribute to effec -
tive jump technique through extension of the torso at the hip; however, excessive flexion is unlikely to be effective. Therefore, inclination of the torso 
should be viewed as a matter of optimisation for 
the athlete’s individual physicality and body size.
For all technical aspects, there is no perfect 
technique. Success depends on the athlete’s train -
ing background, technical experience, body size 
and inherent qualities. However, when initially 
teaching athletes to jump more effectively, coaches emphasise the correct techniques for squat (for 
double-leg take-offs) and single-leg squat (for sin -
gle-leg take-offs). It is best to view both of these exercises as balance and technique exercises. An 
athlete who cannot perform these exercises per -
fectly, with efficiency throughout the movement, is 
not efficiently able to extend through the appropri -
ate sequence in a balanced manner and therefore is leaking power in the jumping task.
Landing-Technique Training
Teaching and training landing technique as part 
of an effective jump-training program is a critical 
component for the practitioner to consider. It is 
most sensible to prioritise landing technique before 
concentrating on other aspects of jump training.
Wisdom
It would be unsafe to learn to fly an airplane if there 
was no one to land it  . So, too, must the athlete learn 
to absorb landing forces safely and with effective tech -
nique before extensive jump-training occurs  .
The primary aim of a safe, effective landing 
is to do so with modest peak forces and with 
mechanics that are within a safe range and motion 
on the involved joints. These two factors are inter -
dependent. Inefficient joint movement (e.g., valgus motion of the knees from poor hip control; figure 12.14) will result not only in hazardous stresses 
in the knee, but also in higher peak forces due to 
the reduction in the attenuation of force offered by the knee.
61-63

 Optimising Training for Jumping and Landing ❙ 181
Figure 12.14  Valgus knee motion on landing.
Coaches should aim to develop effective bio -
motor abilities with a particular emphasis on 
control, motion and strength in their athletes from 
the earliest age possible to ensure that proper 
structural strength, stability, range and move -
ment develop.64, 65 Table 12.8 provides a sample 
progression plan for the development of landing competencies for both one and two legs in young 
volleyball players.
A simple means for developing and evaluating 
landing technique is to use altitude landings. This drill, in which the athlete drops from a box onto 
the ground and observes the landing, is ideal for 
developing good technique; the drill also increases the specific eccentric strength required for efficient 
landings. When coaching these landings, consider 
the form that the athlete is able to maintain through the kinetic chain. Observing from the front (figure 
12.15 a) and side (figure 12.15 b) allows the coach to 
ensure the integrity of the athlete’s landing and 
to determine whether the amount of compression 
through the ankle, knee and hip are appropriate 
for the drop height. If the athlete’s compression 
appears too great, and the athlete cannot alter 
this technique with feedback such as to stiffen the spring, it may be that the athlete is not appropri -
ately strong enough to train at the selected drop height (i.e., the box is too high for that athlete at 
this time).
Too little flexion in the landing generally 
means that a high peak force is being trans -
ferred through the body, resulting in high 
peak-compression forces at the joints. The athlete 
should be encouraged to land more quietly. At 
times, weaker athletes, or those who have not 
developed a technique that blends the appropri -
ate amount of compliance with cognitively regu -
lated stiffness, land with an initial abrupt landing 
force and then fail and fall during absorption. 
This is a signal that the athlete’s strength or tech -
nique is not adequate for the particular height 
being used. If the athlete is recovering from 
ankle or knee injury, such a landing indicates 
the athlete remains at risk for further injury. 
Of particular importance, a combination of an 
abrupt landing (i.e., poor absorption through the hip, knee and ankle) and a valgus movement 
of the knee during landing is associated with 
knee-injury risk. Any movement patterns the coach observes that exhibit these traits should 
be corrected through training.
Table 12.8  Technical Movement Competencies and Progression for Foundation Volleyball Players (12 and 13 
Years Old) and Developing Volleyball Players (13-15 Years Old) to Promote Safe, Effective Landing From Jumps
Control strength Force absorption Single-leg force absorption
Bilateral squat
Walking lunge Vertical hop and stick 
Single-leg squat Horizontal hop and stick
(long jump) Single-leg hop and stick
5 × tuck jump (stick last repetition) Single-leg horizontal hop and stick
Altitude landing and stick (drop from box)5 × horizontal hop5 × single-leg tuck jump (stick last repetition)Single-leg altitude landing (drop from box)
Single-leg 5 × horizontal hop

182 ❙ Sheppard
Wisdom
The aim of the landing is to develop quiet, controlled 
landings with effective absorption and body alignment .
Figure 12.16 shows vertical force traces for 
two professional surfi  ng athletes of similar body 
Athlete 1
Athlete 2Relative force (times body weight)Drop and stick landing
Time (s)001234567
0.5 1 1. 5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5 5E5891/Joyce/479950/Fig 12.18/R1/JGFigure 12.15  Altitude landing ( a) from the front; ( b) from the side.
Figure 12.16  Vertical trace forces for two surfing athletes.mass performing altitude landings from a 0.50-
metre box. One athlete is able to provide enough 
absorption, primarily through ankle, knee and 
hip fl  exion, to keep the peak forces much lower 
than the other athlete. From this analysis, it is 
easy to determine that the athlete with the high peak forces should not use such a high drop 
height. However, even without the use of a force a b

 Optimising Training for Jumping and Landing ❙ 183
trace, this can be determined by the sound of the 
landing. In this case, the athlete with the high 
peak landing forces landed with a loud sound 
from the initial abrupt contact, followed by an 
observable inefficient compression movement 
pattern characterised by a failing of muscular control. Although the knees did not fail inward 
and exhibit a valgus pattern, this drop height was 
not appropriate for this athlete’s strength level at the time of the training.
A program involving altitude landings can 
incorporate both single- and double-leg land
-
ings. Including single-leg landings is important because many landings occur on a single leg. For 
example, although the run-up jump in volleyball 
(i.e., spike jump) involves a double-leg take-off, 
in the majority of cases there will be a single-leg 
landing: The athlete has to adjust position in the air to strike the ball, altering body position and 
thereby landing first with one foot, then the other. 
This is similar for a receiver in American football, where an adjustment in the air to catch the ball 
or contact by the opponent forces a single-leg 
landing. Such a landing is not ideal in terms of 
reducing peak forces acting on the body, but it 
cannot be eliminated since it is an inherent part of the sport.
Training programmes should include both 
single- and double-leg landing progressions in 
order to develop athlete techniques and eccen -
tric strength so that athletes are prepared for the uncontrolled, unpredictable nature of sport.
Table 12.9 provides some highlights from an 
altitude-landing program of an elite volleyball player for the 4-year period preceding his first 
Olympic games.Summary
Jumping performance is multifactorial and is influenced, both positively and negatively, by con -
siderations such as range and mobility, movement competency and landing efficiency, strength and 
power levels, anthropometric factors and the ath -
lete’s training state. The foundation of jumping per -
formance is relative power, which is underpinned by strength. An athlete’s strength is a consideration 
in program design at all times. From a basis of suf -
ficient relative strength developed through major 
traditional movements, Olympic lifting, loaded 
power exercises and special stretch-shortening 
cycle exercises can be incorporated to yield far 
greater results than if those methods were per -
formed in isolation.Table 12.9  Altitude-Landing Training Progression 
to Develop Landing Technique and Eccentric 
Strength for an Elite Male Volleyball Player
This program is taken from a 4-year period of a single 
athlete’s training.
Athlete’s 
age (yrs) Bilateral landingsUnilateral landings
16 5 × 3 at 0.40 m
4 × 2 at 0.50 m4 × 4 at 0.20 m
17 4 × 3 at 0.50 m
4 × 2 at 0.60 m4 × 4 at 0.30 m
18 4 × 3 at 0.50 m3 × 2 at 0.75 m5 × 4 at 0.30 m
19* 3 × 3 at 0.50 m
3 × 2 at 0.75 m3 × 4 at 0.30 m
*Olympic year. Lower volume was used due to shortened 
preparatory period.

This page intentionally left blank.

CHAPTER
 185
13
13
13
In most sports, changes of speed or rapid and 
decisive changes of direction result in a break, 
a score or a defensive stop that can change the momentum of a game or match. Agility is a unique 
physical attribute that requires multiple types of 
strength but also requires cognitive abilities such as reaction time and decision making. This chap-
ter breaks down the critical components of agility 
into their constituent parts, both physical (change of direction ability) and cognitive (reaction time 
and decision making). Each section describes the 
physical, technical and even some tactical aspects 
that are required or need to be considered for 
developing well-rounded and effective agility in athletes. Specifi  cally, this chapter helps coaches 
understand, measure and implement immediate 
coaching strategies and cues to enhance agility. Further, the chapter delves into long-term develop-
ment planning of agility work through appropriate 
program design to improve these often underde-
veloped aspects of athletic performance.
What Is Agility?
The ability to change initial direction to a prede-
termined location and space on the fi  eld or court 
is known as change-of-direction speed (CODS). How-
ever, it is the perceptual–cognitive ability to react 
to a stimulus such as a defender or the bounce of 
a ball in addition to the physical ability to change direction that provides a true defi  nition of agility.
1
In a majority of sports, athletes do not have the 
time or open space to reach top speed in compe-
tition. The constant necessity in sport to react to 
another player or situation on the fi  eld or court 
often requires athletes to decelerate and then 
reaccelerate in another direction as rapidly as possible whilst maintaining or regaining as much momentum as possible. This readjustment of the 
athlete’s momentum and can occur during either 
an offensive or a defensive task.
Recent research has shown that an athlete’s 
lower-body response time may differ depend-ing on whether the athlete’s stimulus-response requirement (tactical situation) is offensive (move 
in the opposite direction) or defensive (move in 
the same direction).
2-4 The exact reason for these 
varying response times during an offensive task 
(termed incompatible stimulus ) versus defensive 
task (termed compatible stimulus ) is not known. 
However, the processing strategy, which can vary 
by gender or tactical situation, can infl  uence the length of time it takes an athlete to respond to 
the situation.
3, 5 It is speculated that the response 
to an offensive situation requires information to move across the hemispheres of the brain whereas 
the response to a defensive situation allows the 
processing to occur within one side of the brain.
3
Therefore, much like training both the left and 
right side of the body, one should train in scenarios 
that require processing both within and across 
the hemispheres of the brain. When developing 
drills to enhance agility performance, it is wise to Increasing Agility
Sophia Nimphius, PhD, ASCC, CSCS*D
Edith Cowan University, Australia
Wisdom
Change-of-direction speed (CODS) is a preplanned 
action of altering direction of travel whereas agility takes into account both the physical change of direc-tion and includes perceptual and decision-making domains . The way an athlete changes direction when he or she can preplan movement is different from how the athlete changes direction in reaction to a stimulus .

186 ❙ Nimphius
ensure the drills address moving in the opposite 
direction (offensive) in response to signal or cue. 
It is quite common for instructions to be ‘Move in 
the direction I point’ without a subsequent drill 
involving the instructions ‘Move in the direction 
opposite from where I point’. If we want an athlete to improve offensive agility, that athlete needs to 
practise offensive agility. If we want the athlete 
to improve defensive agility, he or she needs to practise defensive agility.
With the knowledge that the brain processes 
offensive and defensive responses differently, we 
must consider the tactical situations that occur and 
train not only the physical pathways  of neuromus -
cular contraction but also these perceptual–cognitive 
pathways . Agility is a multifaceted physical as well 
as cognitive attribute that varies as tactical situa -
tions change.
Training each quality that underpins agility 
performance in a systematic and logical manner is important during the athlete-development pro -
cess. To do this, coaches need to be aware of all 
factors that underpin agility in order to choose the 
most effective test to assess agility performance. 
Many coaches and athletes overlook the applied 
biomechanics that support the performance of a 
change-of-direction and agility manoeuvre, but they can be explained in simple but effective terms.
Understanding the Plant Phase
Understanding the magnitude and direction of ground-reaction forces applied during the plant 
phase (figure 13.1) when changing direction gives 
insight into the complex physical requirements 
needed. The plant phase involves forces that 
decelerate, change direction and reaccelerate in less than two-tenths of a second. The situation—
preplanned change of direction versus change of 
direction in reaction to a situation or stimulus—can modify the kinetics involved during the plant or 
change-of-direction step.
Based on the understanding of kinetics (forces 
and joint moments) as well as kinematics (joint angles and joint velocities), a coach can create a 
well-planned and logical progression of specific 
drills to gradually increase intensity and specificity 
from both a physical and a cognitive perspective and apply them to a properly periodised agility program. 
Various drills performed in close conjunction with 
specific coaching cues can be used to continually enhance overall agility performance in athletes.Components of Agility
As shown in figure 13.2, agility is a physical fit -
ness component that requires development in a 
multitude of areas. Coaches and athletes need a 
multifaceted approach to ensure adequate devel -
opment in each area. Enhancement of agility performance likely will lag behind enhancement of certain physical attributes that underpin agility. 
The delay between increased physical capacity 
and ability to actualise this increase into improved performance is termed lag time .
6, 7 For this reason, 
coaches should trust their plan and convey the 
reality of lag time to the athlete whilst being aware 
of adaptation rates for muscle, tendon, ligament 
and bone that underlie performance changes. 
Proper progression into more advanced drills should be prescribed with the understanding that 
muscle may adapt faster than tendon, ligament 
and bone just as strength may increase faster than it can transfer into improved speed, or in this case, 
into CODS.
The concept of lag time, or the length of time it 
takes for an athlete to learn to use his or her new-
found strength or power, is important to consider when trying to determine the transfer of training 
effect from one underlying physical attribute to a 
fitness component.
To better show the complexity and interwoven 
nature of the components of agility outlined in 
Figure 13.1  Plant phase.

Increasing Agility  ❙ 187
fi  gure 13.2, the diagram has been divided into two 
parts: factors associated with the cognitive compo-
nent and factors associated with the physical com-
ponent of agility performance (CODS). A model of 
agility has been presented in previous research;8
however, the theoretical model of agility presented 
in fi  gure 13.2 has been modifi  ed to include more 
specifi  c aspects of the physical attributes required 
for agility.
An emphasis has been made on providing a 
more stepwise progression in the hierarchy of the model. For example, anthropometry of an athlete 
is something that cannot be immediately modi-
fi  ed (mass distribution) or never modifi  ed (limb lengths) but will dictate the technique or body 
position that is most advantageous. There is no 
one perfect technique because athletes will adopt 
particular amounts of body-lean, foot-placement 
and stride-adjustment strategies that work within these constraints. There are, however, general 
suggestions for appropriate body positions that 
can enhance CODS, which are discussed later in this chapter.
In addition to hierarchical changes, this model 
acknowledges strength can be expressed and 
therefore measured during muscular actions. The 
force capacity of a muscle is commonly represented on the force–velocity curve of muscle as shown in fi  gure 13.3. Depending on the inherent character-istics of the athlete (genetics), training age, training 
background and mesocycle of training, an athlete 
will have unique levels of eccentric, isometric and 
concentric strength.
Each type of strength is used during a change 
of direction as the athlete brakes or decelerates (eccentric), transitions (isometric) and then accel-
erates in the new direction (concentric). It is not 
necessarily the case that an athlete who has excep-
tional concentric strength also has the highest eccentric strength or the combination of the two 
as displayed in reactive strength. Thus, any one 
or multiple types of strength may be the limiting factor in an athlete. The limiting factor of agility 
performance could therefore be masked if only 
one measure of strength is assessed. Of particu-
lar interest (but diffi  cult to measure) is eccentric 
strength because this determines the athlete’s ability to brake rapidly. Eccentric strength is par-
ticularly required or challenged when changing 
direction with a high-entry velocity into a cut or during extreme change-of-direction angles that 
require substantial eccentric load to be absorbed 
at the joints.
On the other side of the agility model are the 
perceptual–cognitive requirements that make agility such a unique physical fi  tness component. In 
Agility
Change of direction
(CODS) speedPerceptual-
cognitive speed
Pattern
recognitionAnticipation Visual
scanningReaction
timeKnowledge
of situationLeg qualities
specific to
COD stepStraight line
sprint speedAnthropometrics
Body position
or individual
techniqueStrength
Foot
placementStride
adjustmentBody lean
and postureConcentric
strengthIsometric
strengthEccentric
strengthPower and
rate of force
developmentReactive
strength
E5891/Joyce/479953/Fig 13.02/R3-khFigure 13.2  Components of agility.
Adapted from W .B . Young, R . James, and I . Montgomery, 2002 . “Is muscle power related to running speed with changes of direction?” Journal of Sports 
Medicine and Physical Fitness  42(3): 282-288; and J .M . Sheppard and W .B . Young, 2006, “Agility literature review: Classifications, training and testing,” 
Journal of Sports Sciences 24(9): 919-932 .

188 ❙ Nimphius
the model (fi  gure 13.2), there are several areas that 
combine to allow a faster cognitive processing time 
that can ultimately enhance agility performance 
and, for some athletes, compensate for physical 
defi  cits, allowing them to still excel in situations 
that require agility. Improvements in response time must be translated into game-specific or 
task-specifi  c situations for response time to improve 
overall agility performance, much like strength must be translated into specifi  c change-of-direction 
movements to manifest into agility improvements. 
Therefore, the components of perceptual–cognitive 
speed—visual scanning, anticipation, pattern rec-
ognition and knowledge of situation—represent task- or game-specifi  c perceptual and cognitive 
abilities thought to improve agility performance.
Wisdom
Agility performance is uniquely underpinned by a mul-
titude of physical and perceptual–cognitive attributes . An athlete and coach who understand the strengths and weaknesses of these underpinning factors will be able to fi  nd the largest window of opportunity to enhance agility performance .
Testing Change of Direction and Agility
Although agility is clearly an important physi-
cal fi  tness component, choosing an appropriate, 
meaningful test can be more diffi  cult. Coaches 
need to choose a test that considers the physical CODS aspect and the perceptual–cognitive aspects 
of agility performance because both have been 
shown to differentiate between levels of play within a sport.
9
The original reactive agility test (RAT) allows 
athletes to not only perform a change of direction 
rapidly to display CODS, but also to respond to 
a stimulus on a screen. The athlete is required 
to assess the position of the image of an athlete 
on the screen and then change direction to the appropriate side.
9 Since this original RAT, several 
researchers have used protocols with a variety of 
stimulus methods that have included (but are not 
limited to) video projections and human stimuli. 
The human stimulus has been shown to be reliable 
during a RAT.2 The setup of the RAT used to assess 
the reliability of the human stimulus is shown in 
fi  gure 13.4. Coaches and athletes are able to set 
up this testing without additional technological 
requirements.
In the sample agility test, when the athlete 
crosses the start timing-gate line, the stimulus will move. The athlete changes direction either 
to the left or right in response to the direction 
the stimulus moves. A high-speed camera is 
used to assess the decision-making time from when the stimulus initiates movement until the 
athlete initiates movement towards the intended 
direction.
Appropriate CODS test can provide a large 
amount of information, but not all CODS tests are 
equal. A classifi  cation method of various CODS 
and agility tests is shown in table 13.1.
Although there are several direction changes in 
these tests, in most sports, it is a single, decisive Figure 13.3  Relationship among muscle actions, phases of ground-reaction forces during a change of direction 
and subsequent body positions.
Vertical force
Horizontal forceMuscle actions Ground reaction forces Body position
VelocityEccentric Isometric
Propulsion or
accelerationBraking or
deceleration0Concentric
Relate
to50
40
30
20
10
0
0.00 0.03 0.06 0.09 0.12 0.15 0.18Force
Force (N.kg-1)
Relate
toBraking or
deceleration
Propulsion oracceleration
E5891/Joyce/479954/Fig. 13.03/R2/JG

 Increasing Agility  ❙ 189
change of direction that is required for a point, a 
break or a change in game momentum or posi -
tional advantage. Therefore, the tests have been split into three categories:
1. 
CODS tests that require either one or two high- or low-velocity entry changes of direction;
2. CODS tests that require three or more changes of direction with more curves than 
sharp changes of direction and therefore 
measure one’s manoeuvrability; and,
3. Reactive agility tests that require a change of direction in response to some type of 
stimulus.
4. Examples of these tests are shown in figures 
13.4 and 13.5.
To test a physical quality that contributes to agil -
ity, the test must be demanding enough that it can 
differentiate between performers. However, a test 
that encompasses many physical qualities makes it 
virtually impossible to differentiate which physical 
quality used during the test actually improved or limited the performance.
Although straight-line sprint speed is part of 
CODS and agility performance, it is important to minimise the amount of straight-line sprinting required in a test to ensure the time that represents CODS is a function of the athlete’s actual ability to 
change direction, not run straight. For this reason, 
there are no shuttle tests shown in table 13.1 that 
require multiple passes, except for the 10-metre 
shuttle, which requires only one 180-degree change of direction after a 10-metre entry followed by a 
10-metre exit.
Understanding the impact of the CODS test 
choice may explain why previous research has shown both significant and nonsignifi
-
cant relationships existing between various 
measures of strength and the ability to change 
direction.8, 10 Change-of-direction tests such as 
the 5-0-5, modified 5-0-5 or L-run show only moderate correlations between each other in 
the same athletes,
11 clearly demonstrating that 
these tests, although all apparently measures of 
change-of-direction performance, are actually 
measuring a variety of physical or performance 
qualities.
A better understanding of underpinning fac -
tors has been drawn from longitudinal training studies. For example, studies show a moder -
ate-to-large relationship in transfer of training for 3 metres 6 metresAthlete startStart timing gate;
initiates stimulus movementHuman stimulus start
2 metres2 metres
E5891/Joyce/479957/Fig 13.04/R2/JGFigure 13.4  Example agility test with a human stimulus.
Table 13.1  Sample Classifications of CODS and Agility Tests
Change-of-direction speed (CODS) tests Manoeuvrability Reactive agility test (RAT)
Traditional 5-0-5 (high-velocity CODS)
Modified 5-0-5 (low-velocity CODS)
Pro-agility (low- and high-velocity CODS)
10 m shuttle (moderate- to high-velocity CODS)T-testIllinois agility test
L-run
AFL agility test
Three-cone agility testRAT in response to an arrow or light
RAT in response to a video
RAT in response to a human stimulus

190 ❙ Nimphius
both absolute 1RM squat strength to 5-0-5 CODS 
dominant side and nondominant side times (0.7 to 
1.18) and relative 1RM squat strength (0.95 to 1.62).12 
Therefore, particularly in young or developing athletes, strength is a major determining factor 
for change-of-direction ability,
13 particularly when 
performing high-velocity entry CODS tests with 
physically demanding changes of direction, such 
as a 180-degree turn.
Therefore, it is recommended that an agili -
ty-testing battery include both a CODS test and a RAT. Since a majority of RAT tests require only a 
45-degree change of direction, a more physically 
demanding CODS should be performed. These CODS tests may be a low-velocity turn, such as the 
modified 5-0-5; a high-velocity turn, such as the 
traditional 5-0-5; or a test such as the pro-agility, 
which requires both a low-speed and high-speed 
change of direction (table 13.1). Further, if the sport requires subtle changes of direction at high speed, 
a measure of manoeuvrability such as the L-run 
or the three-cone agility test will measure the last part of the agility and CODS jigsaw.A comparison of physical fitness measurements 
of two American football quarterbacks can be seen 
in table 13.2 and figure 13.6. The radar plot in figure 
13.6 produces an easy-to-understand visual show -
ing the areas each athlete excels in or has room for improvement in compared to the position mean. 
The results are presented as standardised scores, 
which allows for comparison across many units of 
measurement. Later in this chapter these results will 
be used to show how the two athletes’ long-term development may be planned using their test results.
Programming to Enhance 
Agility
A well-constructed testing battery, although seem -
ingly extensive, can provide information on all 
components that underpin agility performance. 
Used in conjunction with strength, power and 
speed testing, it will provide for an effective train -
ing programme to improve agility performance 
and overall athletic performance.Traditional 505 test
A high-velocity change- 
of-direction test with a 
180-degree turn
Modified 505 test
A low-velocity entry
change-of-direction testwith a 180-degree turnStarting
lineStart
timing gate180-degree
turn
Two 90-
degree turnsStart
timing gate
Start
timing gate180-degree
turn10 metres 5 metres
5 metres
5 metres5 metres
180-degree
rounded turnL-run test
A change-of-direction test
with multiple changes thatmeasures manoeuvrability
E5891/Joyce/479959/Fig 13.05/R1/JGFigure 13.5  Comparison of high-velocity, low-velocity and manoeuvrability CODS tests.

Increasing Agility  ❙ 191
Effective Force Application 
and Body Position During Change-of-Direction and Agility Manoeuvres
Having the physical capacity to produce force 
is critical when an athlete wants to decelerate, 
accelerate or change direction. This concept is not 
original and is drawn from Newton’s second law of motion, which states that acceleration of a mass 
is directly proportional to the force that is applied 
or is more simply written as the equation F = ma. 
An athlete’s ability to apply force effectively and 
effi  ciently will give rise to enhanced acceleration, deceleration and overall ability to change direc-
tion. The relationship between force application, measured as ground-reaction forces, muscular 
actions and subsequent deceleration, change of 
direction and reacceleration has been previously 
discussed and is shown in fi  gure 13.3.
Key for the development of force production 
ability is that exercises performed in a vertical plane, such as the squat, power clean and snatch, 
are related to activities that result in horizontal 
movement, such as sprinting and CODS. An athlete’s ability to decelerate, change direction or 
reaccelerate will be limited by how much force he 
or she can rapidly drive into the ground.
To produce a change of direction, the athlete 
must ensure that the angle at which he or she pushes into the ground does not compromise the 
ability to produce force to overcome gravity. If the 
athlete does brake or push off too aggressively during a change of direction, he or she may exceed 
the friction force and therefore slip. Too much 
emphasis on the pawing action related to horizontal 
force instead of pushing or driving into the ground 
will remove the emphasis from the important factor for movement—overcoming gravity.
Wisdom
The coaching cue ‘Push the ground away from you’ 
conveys the important concept that the athlete must drive hard into the ground to move rapidly .
The idea that vertical-strength exercises may 
not translate into horizontal movement may have 
not considered the body position adopted for 
decelerating into a change of direction followed 
by a subsequent reacceleration. To complete these 
movements, an athlete should keep the centre of mass low but the trunk slightly upright before 
Power clean
1 RM/BMPro-agility
(flying 10 m)
Pro-agility
(10 m)CMJSquat 1 RM/BM
DJ (40 cm) L run2
1
0
-1
-2
-3
E5891/Joyce/479961/Fig 13.06/R1/JGTable 13.2  Comparison of the Physical Fitness Test Results of Two American Football Quarterbacks
Test Athlete A Athlete B Position mean
Relative squat 1RM (relative to body weight) 1.53 1.98 1.81
Relative power clean 1RM (relative to body weight) 1.09 1.19 1.19
Countermovement jump (CMJ) 72 cm 66 cm 71 cm
Depth jump (DJ) from 40 cm 65 cm 70 cm 73 cm
L-run 6.99 sec 7.17 sec 6.95 sec
Pro-agility, 10 m split 2.19 sec 2.19 sec 2.23 sec
Pro-agility, flying 10 m split 2.31 sec 2.17 sec 2.16 sec
Reactive agility test (RAT; reaction time) 25 ms 75 ms 50 ms
Figure 13.6  Radar plot comparing athlete strengths 
and weaknesses as a standardised Z-score with a fo-
cus on CODS results. Athlete A is represented by the 
dashed line and athlete B by the dotted line. The solid line represents zero as a standardised score.

192 ❙ Nimphius
deciding the intended direction, followed by a 
slight rearward total body lean (to decelerate) or 
a slight forward total body lean (to reaccelerate). 
This change of body position allows for use of the 
musculature associated with triple extension to 
effectively produce maximal force to complete the task required. Specifically, the low body position 
allows for hip and knee extension to contribute to 
a rapid change in speed and direction. The muscles responsible for this triple extension do not work 
exclusively when vertical. Instead, it is the position 
of the athlete that dictates if this triple extension 
can be used as the prime movers during decel -
eration, change of direction and the subsequent 
acceleration into the new direction.
When a foundation of strength, power, explosive 
strength and eccentric strength are in place, an ath -
lete can fine-tune body positioning to maximise his 
or her ability to use these physical capacities effec -
tively to improve CODS and agility performance.
When an athlete has developed the physical 
underpinnings described in the theoretical model 
in figure 13.2, then the athlete will be able to learn 
to use these physical attributes effectively and effi -
ciently, putting the body in the position that within the athlete’s anthropometrics allows for optimal 
force application during a change of direction. The concept of building a strength base before doing 
extensive work on a skilled performance is not 
novel. It is the idea that you can’t build a perfect structure on top of a foundation that will collapse 
under weight.
Each joint will be limited by its ability to tol -
erate a load, and if any joint collapses, including 
the trunk, hip, knee or ankle, under the load (or compression felt when changing direction), it will 
result in what can be termed force leakage . Just as 
an athlete would not add weight to the bar during 
a squat when form breaks, adding complexity or 
additional velocity to a change-of-direction drill 
when form breaks in slower or less-complex drills 
is the equivalent. Agility drills inherently will 
be more cognitively and physically demanding. Research has shown that adding a defender or 
reacting to a stimulus during an agility test will 
increase the ground-reaction forces and joint 
moments.
14, 15
It is difficult to describe a perfect agility tech -
nique because each sport may have situational or tactical differences due to rules, implements or 
playing surface. However, there are some basic 
recommendations for body position that should remain constant despite these differences. The 
anthropometry of an athlete will dictate the spe -
cific joint angles to maximise agility performance. The ability to decelerate, change direction and 
reaccelerate from a basic body position should be 
an athletic skill that may be transferable across sports, positions or situations. However, the per -
ceptual–cognitive component of agility may be more specific and therefore not as transferable 
as the physical capacity of changing direction. 
Research on lateral shuffling provides insight into these potentially transferable factors that result in 
faster CODS:
16
• Lower centre of mass (figure 13.7)
• Greater hip-extension velocity
• Lower hip-abduction velocity
Before reacting to a stimulus, an athlete tends to 
have more upright trunk entry and exit positions to allow for a more balanced position. Small con -
siderations about task-specific, position-specific 
and situation-specific requirements during change 
of direction explains why more holistic physical 
development for even the most demanding change of direction is recommended and why one partic -
ular technique cannot be strictly enforced.
Figure 13.7  Low centre of mass base position.

 Increasing Agility  ❙ 193
A body position that places the centre of mass 
low and closer to the direction of intended travel 
allows for optimal production of hip-extension 
velocity through the use of triple extension. This 
is the characteristic body position for effective and 
efficient change of direction. When defending or performing any agility (reaction to a stimulus) 
drill, an athlete needs to adopt a more upright and 
balanced posture upon a CODS entry that will modify the subsequent body position at exit. It is 
therefore vital to consider all factors when giving 
body-position coaching advice to an athlete.
Coaching Cues, Suggestions  
and Drill Progression  for Agility Development
 Knowledge of effective body position for force 
application will transfer to the athlete only 
through effective coaching, the use of cues, and 
visual or kinaesthetic feedback. Motor-learning 
research has shown that externally focused atten -
tion enhances CODS more than internally focused attention.
17 Externally focused attention occurs 
when an athlete targets attention on the interaction with the environment (such as ‘push the ground 
away’); internally focused attention involves atten -
tion on body parts or movements themselves.
18 
Drawing a relationship between training in the 
weight room and application on the field will 
assist the transfer of training by helping athletes 
learn to use their new strength and power even 
during technically demanding skills, decreasing the lag time between turning improved physical 
attributes into technical proficiency.
These coaching tips may be useful to enhance 
the actualisation phase of training:
• Identify the verbal coaching cues that elicit 
immediately visible changes to the athlete’s body position or CODS.
• Use cross-cues or those that are often pro -
vided in the weight room but have equal application in the field: ‘Give me extension like a leap frog’; ‘Finish your drive’; ‘Push 
through the ground as hard and fast as pos -
sible’; and ‘Catch and push through the floor’ , 
which is reference to an athlete catching a 
clean and driving hard out of the bottom to 
finish the lift just as an athlete would decel -
erate the body (catching his or her weight), followed by driving the body out of a turn or change of direction.
• Use visual cues whilst working on agility, 
such as pointing towards the belly button 
to ensure the athlete is focusing on keeping the centre of mass balanced before an agility 
drill so he or she can quickly react in any 
direction.
• Use kinaesthetic cues to increase body aware -
ness, such as having athletes learn the edge 
of their base of support and how far they can 
put their centre of mass outside the base of 
support by using leaning drills. These drills 
require the athlete to stand on both feet and lean in each direction as far as possible before 
taking a step to regain balance.
Training perceptual–cognitive speed, or aspects 
of decision making, visual scanning, anticipation, 
knowledge of the situation or reaction time, can 
also benefit from appropriate coaching cues or 
deliberate practice.
19, 20 Suggestions such as focus -
ing on the shoulder, trunk, and hip regions of the 
stimulus, in this case using a video of an attacking 
player followed by approximately 15 minutes of 
reactive agility training in response to video clips 
for 3 weeks, significantly improved perception and response time in the agility test.
20 General 
coaching suggestions or cues related to percep -
tual–cognitive speed during agility development are as follows:
• Give verbal cues such as ‘focus on the body’ to help the athlete zone into the hips and 
shoulders to provide anticipatory cues during 
agility drills.
• Provide athletes with several scenarios during each agility drill to ensure they learn 
to identify several patterns of movement. 
Include drills that allow athletes to respond in either defensive or offensive scenarios. Help 
athletes improve the perceptual–cognitive 
ability by learning to recognise a variety of 
movement patterns.
4, 11, 20-22
• Incorporate scenarios that have no direct 
movement restrictions on the stimulus but 
challenge the athletes either temporally or 
spatially by defining the distance they have 
to move before reacting to the stimulus (tem -
poral restriction) or defining the distance they 
can move laterally in response to the stimulus 
(spatial restriction).

194 ❙ Nimphius
Putting It All Together
When developing agility in athletes, the process 
should remain consistent with the knowledge of 
the logical, systematic progression of training 
physical attributes to build a physically and 
technically strong athlete. The drill progression 
classification scheme in table 13.3 allows coaches to classify any drills based on movement pat
-
tern, velocity and cognitive requirement. The amount of time spent on each drill or in each 
progression should be individualised based on 
the athlete’s level (maturational and skill) and 
strength.
Beginning athletes or those without a fun -
damental strength base should remain in beginner-level complexity acceleration, decelera -
tion and change-of-direction drills before moving into highly complex or cognitively demanding agility drills. This approach helps develop an 
athlete in a sound manner before increasing the physical or cognitive requirements that will 
undermine initial technical development if the 
athlete is unprepared, physically or mentally, for 
the demands of the drill. An example of how a 
weight-room training progression may relate to a field-training progression with a focus on attri -
butes required for agility is shown in table 13.4.
Table 13.3  Classification of Change-of-Direction and Agility Drill Progression
Beginner Intermediate Advanced
Change-of-direction drills
• Movement patterns that are confined to 
forward, backward and side-shuffling 
movements
• Change of direction at a lower entry velocity (<5 m of entry distance)
• Manoeuvrability drills or those that require more bends than sharp changes of direction (some will require an intermediate classification due to 
some sharper changes of direction)Change-of-direction drills
• Movement patterns of basic drills 
plus changing direction at various 
angles
• Change of direction at moderate entry velocity (approximately 10 m 
entry distance)
• Agility drills
• Moderate entry velocity and response 
to single stimulus that will display lim -
ited movement options Change-of-direction drills
• Combine high-velocity sprinting 
and >90° directional change
• Agility drills
• Large degrees of spatial and 
temporal uncertainty with a stim -
ulus that has unlimited movement options (often practised by small-sided games)
Table 13.4  Comparison of Youth (or Beginner) and Elite (or Advanced) Athlete Focus for Agility Development 
Physical capacity Youth weight room Youth field work Elite weight room Elite field work
Strength Body-weight exercisesBody awareness such as leaning drillsBack squat, front squat, overhead squat, pulls, deadliftResisted work
Explosive strength or concentric powerConcentric jumps to a boxAcceleration drills Olympic lifts, loaded jump squatsAccelerations: sled, assisted
Load absorption or eccentric strengthDrop landings from a low heightDeceleration drills with a footwork focus and from a low velocityDrop landings and receiving strength, catch phase in Olympic liftsDecelerations: high velocity, various angles
Reactive strength N/A Sport Complex training Plyometrics
Multidirectional 
and asymmetrical 
strengthLunges and unilateral 
strength exercisesLateral movements, drop stepsLunges, landmine (nino) work, asymmetrical 
carriesAgility drillsWisdom
Improve transfer of training by establishing the rela -
tionship between weight-room gains and on-field 
performance  . Choose coaching cues that help athletes 
identify the correlation between producing force through triple extension and effective and efficient body position during both types of training sessions  .

Increasing Agility  ❙ 195
Using Test Results 
for Programming Agility Development
When programming with an emphasis on agility 
development, the well-rounded battery of phys-
ical capacity, agility and CODS tests previously 
discussed will allow coaches to chart strengths 
and weaknesses to help target areas for agility 
development. Test results of the two American football quarterbacks presented in table 13.2 
and fi  gure 13.6 have been listed in terms of their 
strengths and weaknesses in table 13.5 to support planning of agility drills. Similar to how a coach 
might prepare a progression of agility develop-
ment for young athletes,
13 a coach should develop 
a progression based on any athlete’s individual 
performance or performance levels. By targeting 
the athlete’s weaknesses with more dedicated 
training time, this larger window for adaptation 
will likely have a greater impact and therefore a higher performance return.
As shown in figure 13.8, a variation in the 
amount of time spent performing drills associ-ated with either agility, high-velocity change of 
direction or low-velocity change of direction and 
manoeuvrability has been suggested to allow 
for a targeted agility programme to be written. 
The initial graph separates the time allotted to purely CODS or agility drills. The subsequent 
graph allows for separation of the CODS drills 
into the two primary areas of high-velocity and high-braking requirements or low-velocity and 
manoeuvrability requirements. Many of the spe-
cifi  c drills associated with agility development 
can be incorporated into the dynamic warm-up. 
However, depending on the age and experience of the athlete or mesocycle of training, a specifi  c 
agility-development block can also be planned.
Table 13.5  Comparison Chart of Strengths and Weaknesses of Two Athletes for Agility Programming
STRENGTHS WEAKNESSES
Athlete A Athlete B Athlete A Athlete B
Unloaded explosiveness Loaded conditions Loaded movement Unloaded movement
Manoeuvrability Yielding strength Eccentric strength, yielding strength Manoeuvrability
Low-velocity COD Overall strength Underpinned by weak base strength Cognitive speed
Cognitive speed High velocity COD High-velocity COD
020406080100
Athlete APrimary training emphasis
Athlete B% of training  timeCOD (closed)Agility (open)
020406080100
Athlete APrimary training emphasis
Athlete B% of training  timeManoeuver/
low velHigh vel/
high braking
E5891/Joyce/479966/Fig 13.08/R2/JG Frequency of Agility Training
As little as 15 minutes per day of dedicated agil-
ity training over 3 weeks can result in signifi  cant 
improvements in agility performance;20 therefore, 
it is possible to program agility development with particular peaks related to important points in a 
season. As shown in fi  gure 13.9, an annual plan can 
be developed that follows a progression allowing 
for gradual development of CODS in conjunction Figure 13.8  Comparison of percentage of training time 
devoted to training CODS and agility drills.

196 ❙ Nimphius
with agility that becomes more sport relevant as 
an athlete enters in-season competition.
Agility can be improved with small periods of 
dedicated training. A majority of the agility train-
ing time can be incorporated into skills training 
(e.g., small-sided games, game-specific agility drills) or in the warm-up. Using the warm-up to 
address physical fi  tness components such as agility 
and speed works well. These components are best performed before fatigue to allow the athlete to 
learn the most effi  cient neuromuscular activation 
methods for rapid movement. Performing CODS 
drills when fatigued has been shown to relate 
to changes in kinematics and could explain the increased potential for injury risk when changing 
direction whilst fatigued.
23
Wisdom
Red-line drills, or drills performed at the end of train-
ing, that are classifi  ed as advanced agility or CODS drills should be used sparingly or only with highly trained athletes when part of a planned overreaching phase .
The fi  nal stage of writing a periodised agility 
program is taking the plan for the particular meso-
cycle and writing the drills, sets and repetitions 
that will be performed each day of the mesocycle. 
Example training blocks for the American football 
quarterbacks A and B (see tables 13.2 and 13.5, 
02040Skills training
Warm-up6080100
Off-seasonPrimary training emphasis
* (In-season) Open drills may be mostly during skills training
   and COD drills can then be incorporated in warm-up.Preseason In-season*% of training  timeCOD (closed)Agility (open)
E5891/Joyce/479967/Fig 13.09/R3/JGFigure 13.9  Sample annual progression of CODS and agility focus by per cent time distribution.
fi  gure 13.6) are shown in tables 13.6 and 13.7 . These 
blocks can be performed for 3 or 4 weeks, twice 
per week, based on training requirements and 
time allotted. The types of drills and percentage 
of training time within each type of CODS and 
agility drill are modifi  ed in accordance with the proposed focus on areas that are most limited for 
each athlete (fi  gure 13.8).
Each of these in-season programs lasts 10 to 15 
minutes when the athlete takes approximately 45 seconds between repetitions unless noted. These 
athletes would both be considered advanced due 
to their strength and power levels as well as years 
of experience; therefore, their drills even in their weaker areas are composed of mostly intermedi-
ate- and advanced-level drills. Even these athletes 
could regress to using more beginner drills when starting the warm-up or during the off-season as 
they fi  ne-tune body position and technique in con-
junction with improvements in physical capacity. 
Overall, the ability to test, evaluate and write a 
logical progression allows for continual gains in agility performance of any level athlete.
Using testing results to inform a program 
written with an understanding of appropriate 
progressions for CODS and agility drills will 
allow an athlete to positively adapt to the loads these drills impose. Additionally, a well-planned 
agility program allows for the building of skills 
as perceptual–cognitive and physical demands of drills are increased.

 Increasing Agility  ❙ 197
Summary
The development and enhancement of CODS 
and agility require a multifaceted approach. A 
correct test or series of tests should be chosen to 
identify athletes’ current capacity and the results 
used to inform the training focus. Physical and 
perceptual–cognitive development must be Table 13.6  Sample Drill Block for Athlete A Based on Testing Results
Drill and instruction Classification PurposeRepetitions 
(with 45 
sec rest)% of 
training 
time
Back to receiver drill
Red jersey and blue jersey. On whistle turn, identify then scramble to correct side cone.Advanced (agility) Cognitive speed (scan -
ning and reaction time) with rapid COD4 ~30%
Figure 8 extended
Five cones requiring quick rounding foot -
work forward and backward for an extended 
figure-8 pattern.Intermedi -
ate (CODS manoeuvrability)Forward and backward 
high-velocity turning 
(not cutting)4 ~30%
X-pattern multiskill runHigh-speed forward running and back pedal -
ling combining inside and outside foot plants.Advanced (CODS: high-velocity and multiple angles)High-velocity braking and CODS3 each 
direction~40%
Table 13.7  Sample Drill Block for Athlete B Based on Testing Results
Drill and instruction Classification PurposeRepetitions
(with 45 sec 
rest unless 
noted)% of 
training 
time 
Reactive step45° cuts in response to human stimulusDrill requires only a single stepIntermediate to advanced (agility)Cognitive speed (decision making and reaction time); initial step reaction8 (10 second 
rest)~20%
Mirror drillWithin 2 × 2 m squareAdvanced (agility) Cognitive speed (anticipa -
tion and reaction time) with rapid but low velocity COD4 ~30%
Figure-8 extendedFive cones requiring quick rounding 
footwork forward and backward for an 
extended figure-8 pattern.Intermedi -
ate (CODS 
manoeuvrability)Forward and backward 
high-velocity turning (not 
cutting)4 ~30%
Three-cone COD drill Beginner (CODS: low velocity and 
manoeuvrability)Low-velocity braking and 
CODS with subsequent 
manoeuvrability around cones3 ~20%
targeted in a periodised manner to ensure con -
tinued improvement in agility. Within training 
sessions for CODS and agility, coaches can provide 
cues that elicit positive changes in either body posi -
tion or performance. Effective coaching cues and feedback are critical for maximising the ability to use changes in physical capacity to produce mea -
surable changes in CODS or agility performance.

This page intentionally left blank.

CHAPTER
 199
14
14
14
Quick, explosive movements, rapid accelerations 
and intense bursts of speed are not only excit-
ing to watch but are often important for overall performance outcomes. These movements are 
primarily fuelled by energy provided by anaerobic 
metabolism. As a result, the topics of assessing and developing anaerobic power and capacity 
have remained popular among coaches and sport 
scientists for the last 50 years.
Sport is both diverse and complex, making 
universal truths diffi  cult. However, one thing that is clear is that the maximal exercise intensity that 
can be maintained decreases as exercise duration 
increases. For all-out or maximal efforts that last less than 1 minute it has been suggested that more 
than half of the total energy required is produced 
anaerobically.
1 Published sport science research 
addressing anaerobic fi  tness generally focuses on 
the following four areas:
1. Testing methodology and defi  nitions
2. Characteristics of world-class athletes
3. Demands of competition
4. Training to improve power and capacity
Although the scientifi  c literature will be ref-
erenced throughout this chapter, concepts are introduced that are based on experiences working 
with world-class athletes at the Australian Institute 
of Sport (AIS).
This chapter covers a lot of ground and therefore 
will sacrifi  ce intricate detail associated with each topic covered. For those interested in learning more 
about anaerobic power and work capacity there are many excellent scientifi  c review papers that 
extensively discuss relevant themes and historical 
debates and discoveries.
1-3By the end of the chapter, the reader should 
have an understanding of anaerobic power test-
ing and how those testing results are interpreted. 
Additionally, the reader should also have a much 
greater appreciation of the approaches that can be 
used to enhance this metabolic system.
Anaerobic Fitness: 
Topics of Interest
When it comes to high-intensity anaerobic fi  tness, 
many variables interact to create unique physical 
demands, including
• muscle groups (isolated muscles versus 
groups of muscles),
• type of muscle contraction (concentric, iso-metric, eccentric),
• velocity of contractions (slow versus fast or 
transitions from slow to fast),
• number of contractions (less than fi  ve to more 
than 50),
• recovery duration between efforts (short or long) and
• environmental conditions (heat and hypoxia).
Each sport has its unique demands. Just because 
an athlete can perform weighted squats in the gym does not ensure that he or she will be able to perform numerous repeat jumps at 99 per cent 
of maximal jump height when playing basketball 
for an hour. Transferability of fi  tness often occurs, 
but numerous research studies have confi  rmed 
that athletes tend to become best at what they do most, assuming the training incorporates concepts 
of deliberate practice. Thus, specifi  city of training Generating Anaerobic Power
David Martin, PhD
Cycling Australia

200 ❙ Martin
should not to be ignored, especially when it comes 
to developing anaerobic fitness.
This does not mean that preparatory training 
is not important. When it comes to high-intensity 
training, a long jumper will obviously do more than 
perform numerous maximal jumps throughout the 
preseason. Because of the risk of injury and also 
because of possible physiological limitations, it can be beneficial to incorporate general training progres
-
sions before turning to sport-specific conditioning exercises that mimic the demands of competition. 
A training program that ignores the specificity of 
the competitive event likely will promote many 
adaptations that do not necessarily translate into 
improvements in performance. This point is dis
-
cussed in more detail in chapters 18 and 19.
Wisdom
The take-home message for coaches and trainers 
attempting to improve anaerobic fitness is to ensure that training sessions are specific to the demands of competition  .
Before discussing interventions that can be used to 
improve anaerobic fitness, it is worthwhile to review 
definitions. The terminology used in this area of sport 
science can be diverse and sometimes confusing.
Anaerobic power  is the maximal rate of work 
that can be accomplished. Typically, it is measured 
in watts (W) or reflected as a peak-movement 
speed. Anaerobic power depends on muscle mass 
involved in the activity, neuromuscular recruit -
ment and the ratio of power to body mass that 
influences acceleration to obtain maximal running, 
swimming or cycling speed. Peak power generated 
over 1 second indicates anaerobic power.
Anaerobic capacity  is the maximal amount of 
high-intensity work that can be performed. Typ -
ically, it is quantified in units of work such as 
kilojoules (kJ). Work tends to depend on the total 
amount of high-energy phosphates stored within skeletal muscle and the ability to resist the met -
abolic waste products produced during high-in -
tensity exercise. The amount of work accumulated over 30 seconds indicates capacity.
Anaerobic power refers to the maximal rate of 
energy flux or the maximal mechanical power pro -
duced during high-intensity exercise. On the other hand, anaerobic capacity refers to the total amount of 
high-intensity work fuelled by oxygen-independent energy-yielding systems. Although often linked, 
anaerobic power and capacity can be independent fitness traits. For example, a cyclist could improve 
his or her 30-second average power (capacity) with
-
out improving 1-second power.
Assessing Anaerobic Power 
and Anaerobic Capacity
Two approaches have emerged when it comes 
to quantifying high-intensity fitness. The first 
involves quantifying mechanical work or move -
ment speed produced over a defined time period, usually less than 1 minute. Common examples of 
tests for quantifying anaerobic power include a vertical jump height, standing long jump distance, 
10-metre sprint run time and maximal power 
during a 6-second cycling sprint. For those who want to quantify anaerobic capacity, the maximal 
effort needs to be longer, and the unit of measure 
changes from power (W) to work (kJ).
One of the most popular tests for anaerobic capac -
ity is the 30-second Wingate cycle test. For sprint running athletes, 100- to 400-metre sprints can 
reveal anaerobic capacity as maximal exercise from 
10 to 60 seconds generally allows anaerobic energy 
reserves to be nearly depleted. Skiers have been 
known to use a 60-second box jump test, and combat athletes have incorporated 30-second punching tests 
during which hand speed and force of impact are 
recorded. These tests illustrate the importance of testing anaerobic fitness using exercise modalities 
that mimic the demands of the sport.
The second approach for quantifying anaerobic 
fitness requires expensive laboratory equipment and also requires some assumptions to be made. 
Anaerobic energy expenditure can be estimated 
if the oxygen uptake–power output relationship 
is quantified during submaximal exercise. This relationship can then be used to estimate how 
much oxygen uptake would be required for any 
type of high-intensity exercise assuming the task was 100 per cent aerobic in nature. In cycling, the 
accumulated oxygen deficit (AOD) is calculated 
by subtracting the actual amount of oxygen con -
sumed during a high-intensity exercise task from the amount of oxygen consumed assuming the task was performed entirely aerobically. By mea -
suring the actual oxygen uptake and estimating the required oxygen uptake for the high-intensity effort it is possible to quantify the accumulated 

Generating Anaerobic Power  ❙ 201
oxygen defi  cit. During a maximal high-intensity 
effort this measurement can become a useful index 
of anaerobic fi  tness.
Figure 14.1 presents an example of an exercise 
task that is performed for 2 minutes at an exercise 
intensity that equals the power output that elicits the maximal oxygen consumption. The lower, 
shaded area refl  ects the aerobic contribution to 
the effort, and the upper area refl  ects the anaer-obic contribution to the effort. In this example it 
appears that anaerobic energy-yielding systems 
contribute approximately one-third of the total 
energy required for the effort.
Oxygen uptake (L .min-1)Accumulated oxygen
deficit (AOD)
Oxygen consumption
Duration (min)
E5891/Joyce/480114/Fig 14.01/R1/JGFigure 14.1  Exercise intensity equals the power out-
put that elicits the maximal oxygen consumption for an 
exercise performed for 2 minutes.
Not only is exercise modality important when 
assessing anaerobic fi  tness, but test duration spec-
ifi  city should also be considered. In a group of 
Australian elite track cyclists, researchers observed 
that the sprint cyclists achieved their highest AOD, 
an index of anaerobic capacity, during short sprints (70 sec) that were similar to their events. The pur-
suit cyclists had their highest AOD measurements 
during longer efforts (300 sec) that were closer to 
the duration of their cycling event.
4
Wisdom
There are numerous ways to assess the anaerobic 
energy system, both in the fi  eld and in laboratory settings . Each has its advantages and disadvantages, but if assessments are to yield valid information that will give a true indication of competitive performance, they should be both modality and duration specifi  c .Combining Testing and Training
Coaches often ask, ‘How often should I test the 
anaerobic fi  tness of my athletes?’ Many variables 
need to be considered before an appropriate 
answer to this question can be established. But 
one development that has the chance of reforming 
practice is the concept of making high-precision measurements during normal high-intensity 
training sessions.
Now that portable light gates, transponder-based 
timing systems, instrumented gym equipment and instrumented cycling power cranks are more 
accessible, it is possible to combine training and 
testing sessions. As long as athletes are suffi  ciently 
motivated, and testing and training conditions are relatively similar, a nice progression of adaptations 
to high-intensity training can be documented. 
Thus, with the right equipment, the sport-specifi  c high-intensity fi  tness of athletes can be documented 
quite frequently during training sessions.
Recent advances in technology have improved 
the ability to measure contraction velocity and 
dis
placement during most major exercises per-
formed it the gym. Devices such as GymAware 
(www .kinetic .com .au) and Tendo Units (www 
.tendosports .com) use calibrated encoders and 
custom software to rapidly and accurately evaluate 
many aspects of resistance training that previously 
could be measured only by scientists with expen-sive equipment in the laboratory. Measurements 
of acceleration, power, velocity, displacement, 
force and work completed can all be estimated for each contraction during a training set and then be 
stored in a manner that allows comparisons to be 
performed quickly. As a result of this technology 
a new level of accuracy is available for monitoring 
the effects of high-intensity training.
Traditionally, the intensity and duration of a 
training set has been quantifi  ed by recording the mass of the barbell and the number of contractions performed. New technology allows subtle varia-
tions in lifting velocity and total displacement to be 
recorded and analysed. With this advancement the 
terms power  and work  take on specifi  c meanings.
For fi  eld-based team sport players as well as 
road cyclists who engage in numerous high-inten-sity sprints throughout a competition, a structured 
training session can allow the coach to evaluate 
both the anaerobic power and the resistance to 
fatigue associated with repeat sprints. Cycling coaches and scientists at AIS have created a session 

202 ❙ Martin
in which road cyclists engage in a series of pro-
gressively longer sprints on the road using a slight 
uphill grade (2%-4%). Sprints last for 6, 15, 30, and 
60 seconds and are performed with a long, com-
plete recovery of 5 to 10 minutes between efforts. 
Cyclists then perform a series of sprints on the same incline for each duration of effort previously 
tested, but this time with limited recovery (e.g., 
60 sec). Results from this type of testing enable coaches to see the maximal power that can be 
produced for a relevant time period and also reveal 
the cyclist’s resistance to fatigue.
Figure 14.2 presents a schematic of possible test 
results. The dotted line is essentially the fatigue-free maximal power–duration relationship. The 
dots represent test results from a cyclist before 
training, and the triangles refl  ect the results after 6 weeks of structured high-intensity intervals focus-
ing on repeat sprints. In this example the maximal 
power for any given duration has not changed; 
only the resistance to fatigue has improved. Team 
sport athletes are often discouraged when they fail to improve their maximal 10-second sprint despite 
weeks of high-intensity sprint training. It is often 
the case that the training improved resistance to 
fatigue but not maximal power.
Sometimes it is diffi  cult to attribute improve-
ments in performance after training solely to enhancements in anaerobic metabolism. This is 
because energy provision is a continuum, not a discrete, stepwise process, and it is diffi  cult to dis-
tinguish between improvements in anaerobic and 
aerobic fi  tness. We must not forget that improve-
ments in movement effi  ciency and technique can 
contribute to improvements in test scores.Understanding Improvements
The coach or trainer needs to understand the scientifi  c literature investigating the best way to 
improve anaerobic fi  tness to appreciate the type 
of fi  tness adaptations that have occurred (i.e., aer-
obic, anaerobic, technical) with training. With this 
appreciation, it can be possible to predict how long adaptations will last.
It may be the case that aerobic contributions to 
short, high-intensity efforts lasting 30 to 60 seconds can be maintained for weeks, whereas anaerobic 
adaptations are more diffi  cult to maintain. Addi-
tionally, there is preliminary evidence from the 
laboratory at AIS suggesting that recovery from 
high-intensity exercise is negatively affected when the aerobic contribution to the task is experimen-
tally compromised.
5 This was determined by 
engaging elite cyclists into two groups during an experimental 4-week altitude-training camp. 
One group was allowed to experience normal 
altitude-induced gains in red blood cells and 
haemoglobin mass. However, the other group had their altitude-induced increase in haemoglobin 
mass blocked by having blood removed. After 
the altitude exposure both groups had a similar increase in their maximal 4-minute power output. 
However, the aerobic contribution to this effort 
was greater in the group with the altitude-induced 
increase in haemoglobin. Interestingly, after a brief 
recovery, the group with the additional haemoglo-bin mass performed better in a task measuring 
ride time until exhaustion, suggesting that recov-
ery was enhanced in this group. This discussion highlights why it could be useful for the coach and 
sport scientist to understand whether changes to 
high-intensity exercise are primarily due to aerobic 
or anaerobic adaptations.
Limitations to Anaerobic Power 
and Capacity
We often wonder why an athlete cannot jump 
higher, sprint faster or produce more power for a 
maximal sprint over 1 to 3 seconds. The limitations 
to anaerobic power and capacity have now been 
evaluated in many sports, but clear, simple answers 
to these important questions remain elusive, pri-marily because it is often diffi  cult to establish what 
part of the anaerobic fi  tness system is failing.
Many researchers have attempted to examine 
what limits anaerobic power and capacity; this 
Power output (Watts)
Duration
E5891/Joyce/480115/Fig 14.02/R1/JGFigure 14.2  Sample test results demonstrating the 
effect of a 6-week training block on peak power values 
in sprint cycling.

 Generating Anaerobic Power  ❙ 203
area of research extends into the complex area of 
fatigue.6 Although the precise mechanisms respon -
sible for failure during types of high-intensity 
exercise are still debated, it is now widely accepted 
that in many cases, motivation is strongly linked 
to short-duration maximal physical efforts.
Although a simple dichotomy has been estab -
lished in the scientific literature whereby some argue for peripheral limitations (e.g., lactic acid 
accumulation) and others argue for central lim -
itations (e.g., motivation), the most likely truth is 
that both central and peripheral limitations can 
influence anaerobic performance. It is often taught 
that anaerobic power is strongly related to func -
tional muscle mass and fibre-type composition. 
Additionally, research has confirmed that neuro -
muscular activation, which is strongly influenced by motivation and emotion, is important for max -
imal power production.
When it comes to capacity of anaerobic efforts, 
the prevailing paradigm assumes that waste 
products of anaerobic metabolism build up to 
concentrations that both directly impair muscular contractions and activate type III and IV afferent 
nerve fibres that lead to undesirable sensations 
(e.g., pain) and a decrease in central-motor drive.
Imagine a Formula 1 racing driver is asked 
to record the fastest lap possible on the Monaco race track. There are two reasons why the driver 
doesn’t go faster: the car or the driver. Similarly, 
athletes who are attempting to perform a short, high-intensity effort generally will be limited by 
the brain’s ability to recruit the appropriate muscle 
mass or because the muscle mass recruited can’t 
do the job. If an athlete is centrally limited, a little 
bit of motivation (e.g., placebo effects) can result in big improvements. However, if the athlete is 
peripherally limited, training may be required to 
change structural elements of the muscle mass and fibre composition.
This simple, practical approach to what is 
typically a complicated problem is not meant to 
trivialise the interactions between physiological 
and biochemical systems that contribute to devel -
oping anaerobic power. Instead, this review of 
mechanisms is meant to raise awareness, and from 
a practical perspective, make the coach and athlete 
think about what is holding back performance. It 
may be the case that for many well-trained anaer -
obic athletes, central drive, which could be tied 
into emotional state, is often one of the primary 
limitations for performance.
6Wisdom
Limitations in anaerobic fitness can be linked to muscle 
mass and composition, motivation, neuromuscular recruitment, removal or buffering of metabolic waste products, resiliency to central feedback and efficiency of high-intensity movement patterns  .
One of the great challenges for coaches and sport 
scientists is to identify techniques that allow an ath -
lete’s limitations to be identified. Establishing why 
an athlete is unable to produce required anaerobic 
power or capacity can be one of the first steps to 
designing an efficient, strategic training programme.
Training Anaerobic Power 
and Capacity
When it comes to anaerobic fitness, many coaches 
buy in to the popular saying, ‘No pain, no gain!’ 
However, although athletes may need to toler -
ate some discomfort whilst seeking to improve 
anaerobic fitness, research findings support a 
more methodical approach to preparing athletes 
for short, high-intensity exercise. Whereas some 
old-school coaches may be content to load athletes up until they crack, contemporary training progres -
sions tend to be far more thoughtful in nature and are organised into sequential themes that support one another. Although short, intense anaerobic 
training methods have great potential for induc -
ing desired fitness, the cautionary note is that this type of training can also result in injury and heavy 
fatigue and have a negative effect on motivation.
Importance of Experiencing 
Failure
For high-intensity training, it doesn’t matter 
whether a coach is prescribing interval training or 
exercises on the field or repetitions in the weight 
room. A fundamental question is whether the 
exercise should be performed to failure. In other 
words, is the athlete compromising potential adaptations if he or she stops short of a maximal 
effort? Surprisingly, this simple and potentially 
important question has not received much atten -
tion from the scientific community. Based on the 
available evidence, it has been concluded that we 
still do not know!
7

204 ❙ Martin
It appears that some of the advantages of 
training to failure include maximal recruitment 
of skeletal-muscle motor units, which could pro -
vide greater magnitude for adaptations and a possible stimulus for a favourable endocrine state 
(i.e., growth-promoting hormones). However, the disadvantage of training until failure includes 
negative sensations (i.e., failure) and risk of injury 
and overtraining if this type of training is pro -
grammed frequently.
One study that supports the concept of pushing 
athletes to repetition failure was conducted using 
junior elite basketball and soccer players at AIS. 
In this study, the athletes who were prescribed an exercise session (bench press) that elicited repeti -
tion failure demonstrated greater improvements in this exercise over a 6-week training period, tested using a 6RM assessment.
8 More research 
is required in this interesting area, and it is likely 
the best approach will depend on the fitness of 
the athletes and the overall periodisation and 
structure of training. Training until failure may 
be more appropriate after a 3- to-6-week block in which the athlete experiences a higher volume of 
exercise without failure. For this type of training, 
the target intensity can be prescribed for multiple repetitions without reaching failure.
Use of Exercise Duration  
to Grade Intensity
Although exercise intensity often is described as 
exercise heart rate, running speed, cycling power 
or mass of weight lifted, it is also the case that 
duration or number of repetitions can reflect exer -
cise intensity. For instance, if a cyclist exercises at a power output that he or she can sustain for only 60 seconds (i.e., 1,000 W), then it is possible 
to divide the duration of the effort into thirds. The 
first 20 seconds at 1,000 watts will force muscles to produce relevant force, but the overall percep -
tion of effort will be far less than extreme. The second 20 seconds (20-40 sec) at the same power 
output will start to be perceived as difficult, but 
the effort will be relatively easy to recover from. In contrast, the final 20 seconds (40-60 sec) at 1,000 
watts will required a maximal effort and result in 
system failure. If the athlete attempts to complete a maximal 1-minute effort at 1,000 watts, sensations 
will be uncomfortable, and the effort will result 
in prolonged fatigue, making subsequent efforts 
difficult if not impossible.This example highlights how exercise dura -
tion can be used to grade the intensity of short, 
high-intensity exercise. As mentioned earlier, one approach to periodising high-intensity train -
ing is first to focus on building up the volume of high-quality exercise without experiencing failure and then move into training sessions that 
incorporate exercise until exhaustion. This type 
of training progression could minimise risk of 
injury and allow motivation to remain high. If the 
high-intensity sessions occur only two or three times per week, it is unlikely that excessive fatigue 
or overtraining will occur.
Take the maximal, short-duration anaerobic 
effort, establish the maximal power that can be sustained over the full duration of the effort 
and divide the duration of the effort into thirds. 
The first third allows the body to experience 
sport-specific fatigue with minor sensations of discomfort. These are great opportunities for 
working on technique and efficiency. The second 
third of the effort is difficult but still possible to recover from within a relatively short time, so 
it provides great opportunities for increasing 
the volume of relevant exercise intensity. The 
final third of the effort should be used sparingly 
since completion of the effort is associated with system failure and exhaustion. However, these 
efforts are great for pacing and learning how to 
extend range.
Periodisation of High-Intensity 
Training
Similar to the many paths that can be taken to 
reach the top of a mountain—some long, some 
short, some risky, some safe—there are also many 
approaches to improving anaerobic fitness. As 
mentioned earlier, before constructing a training 
program that will improve an athlete’s anaerobic fitness, it can be useful to understand the physiol -
ogy underpinning anaerobic fitness as well as the athlete’s limitations.
If the underpinning attributes that support 
anaerobic fitness include adequate muscle mass, 
desirable muscle composition (i.e., fibre type), neuro -
muscular recruitment, efficiency of movement and 
resistance to metabolic waste products and periph -
eral feedback, then rationale exists for designing a training program based on scientific principles.
Another way to categorise a training empha -
sis includes focusing on peripheral and central 

Generating Anaerobic Power  ❙ 205
limitations. Traditional approaches to anaerobic 
fitness involve a heavy emphasis on building 
up the peripheral structural elements fi  rst and 
then transitioning into a lower-volume but much 
higher-intensity program as the athlete nears 
important competition.
An alternative approach for promoting anaero-
bic fi  tness begins with a focus on improving power development and then training to resist fatigue and encourage anaerobic capacity by extending the 
number of repetitive contractions at high intensity. 
Finally, the athlete should not ignore attempts to 
improve movement velocity for a given amount of 
power produced.
Figure 14.3 provides a fl  ow chart that connects 
three fundamental questions:
1. Does the athlete have suffi  cient muscle mass to produce required power?
2. Does the athlete demonstrate ideal resis-tance to fatigue for a series of sport-relevant 
intervals?
3. Does the athlete move at required velocities 
for the amount of power produced?Training to Improve Muscle Mass
Training to improve functional muscle mass tends to focus on resistance exercises that have similar 
relevant movement patterns. For instance, a rower 
would incorporate chest pull exercises, whereas 
a sprint cyclist would perform heavily loaded 
squats to promote improvements in lower-body muscle mass.
A summary of scientifi  c research indicates that 
the stimulus for improving muscle mass involves a combination of intensity and number of repeti-
tions. Thus, heavy weights lifted for fewer than 
5 repetitions appear to have plenty of intensity 
but not suffi  cient duration, whereas lifting lighter 
weights for 20 repetitions or more may allow for a large number of repetitions per training session but 
not the suffi  cient intensity to promote hypertrophy.
More recently, there has been quite a bit of 
attention focusing on the unique role that eccentric exercise can play at remodelling and stimulating 
development of functional muscle mass. Not 
only does eccentric exercise help promote gain in 
muscle mass, but additional benefi  ts may include remodelling of the extracellular matrix (i.e., con-
nective tissue) and preferential stimulus to fast-
twitch muscle fi  bres.
9
A diffi  cult challenge often faced is increasing 
lean mass whilst at the same time encouraging 
losses in fat mass. One approach that appears 
promising involves a daily diet that is consistently 
energy defi  cient but also includes ingestion of 
dairy protein before, during and after rigorous exercise. One of the most popular approaches for 
increasing dairy protein for the athlete engaged 
in heavy training used by some Olympic power athletes is the ingestion of a large glass of chocolate 
milk after a strenuous workout.
Building Resistance to Fatigue
The next problem to solve is determining whether 
levels of resistance to fatigue are adequate. This can 
be thought of as the ability to perform a powerful 
movement repetitively with limited recovery. As an 
example, imagine twin soccer players who both can 
run a 10-metre sprint in exactly the same amount of time. However, when required to complete 10 
repeat sprints with only 20 seconds of recovery, one 
of the twins completes all sprints within 5 per cent of his or her maximal speed whilst the other twin 
fi  nishes the fi  nal sprints at a velocity more than 
Muscle mass - power?Short-term high intensity performance
Anaerobic fitness
Power - capacity?Poor Good
 Muscle recruitment
 Coordination/technique
 Muscle fibre type
Power - velocity?Poor Good
 ATP PC stores
 Buffering capacity
 Excitation/relaxation  dynamics
 Neuromuscular fatigue
Poor Good
 Nonfunctional mass (power/mass)
 Technique/efficiency Coefficient of drag area (CdA) Equipment friction (bike, boat, etc.)
E5891/Joyce/480116/Fig 14.03/R3/JGFigure 14.3  Flow chart for determining anaerobic 
fitness based on three fundamental questions.

206 ❙ Martin
10 per cent slower than his or her fastest speed. 
This would be a vivid example of two athletes 
who are equally fast and powerful but different 
in resistance to fatigue.
A unique aspect of skeletal-muscle fatigue that 
could be highly relevant for those interested in anaerobic fitness has recently been introduced—it 
involves speed of contractions.
10 The number of 
contractions performed in succession may have a unique and independent effect on fatigue regard -
less of how much work is done per contraction. On a bike an athlete can perform 20 maximal pedal 
strokes, and at the end his or her power output will be the same percentage of the maximum 
regardless whether a big gear (more work per 
pedal stroke) or a small gear (less work per pedal stroke) was used. For the sport of cycling, these 
data suggest that sprinters should adopt larger 
gear ratios during competition to enable more 
work to be done per contraction. Interestingly, 
over the past 10 years there has been a dramatic increase in the gear ratio adopted by world-class 
sprint cyclists during competition.
11
Overspeed Training
The progression from sport-relevant contractions 
that are lightly loaded (allowing for rapid move -
ments) to similar contractions that are heavily loaded makes for some interesting progressive 
overload options when the importance of con -
traction number for fatigue is considered. The 
overspeed, lightly loaded contractions will target 
both the excitation and relaxation aspects of the 
muscle contraction. In the case of cycling, rapid contractions can be performed using maximal 
sprints with short crank arms on a bicycle ergo -
meter. The result of the short crank arms (e.g., 120 mm versus standard 170 mm) are extremely high 
cadences (greater than 250 rpm) that will heavily use the intracellular calcium cycling mechanisms 
involved with turning on (exciting) and turning 
off (relaxing) the muscle.
Although overspeed training sessions have 
been used by many elite coaches in many sports, 
scientific evidence is just beginning to reveal 
the possible mechanisms involved. This finding provides rationale for incorporating high-velocity 
contractions into training programs in hopes of 
improving resistance to fatigue for prolonged all-out efforts. For other sports that involve running 
it is interesting to speculate on ways to increase stride rate (e.g., downhill or unloaded running) 
in a way that doesn’t dramatically increase risk of 
injury. For sports that use the upper body, such as 
cross-country skiing, rowing and kayaking, it is 
relatively easy to undergear ergometers or to use 
modified equipment (e.g., small paddle blades) to allow sport-specific movement patterns to occur 
at a high rate.
It would be relatively easy during standard inter -
val sets (e.g., Tabata intervals
12) to provide a greater 
overload during training by actually decreasing resistance and increasing contraction frequency 
versus the traditional progression of increasing 
the resistance and decreasing the contraction fre -
quency. Conversely, when increasing resistance, it 
could be desirable to remain focused on contraction 
frequency as an important criterion variable.
Research is required to document the time 
frame required for calcium cycling and neuromus -
cular adaptations to plateau to overspeed training. 
However, based on other physiological responses 
to high-intensity training, it is likely that 2 to 4 
weeks of training two to four times per week has the chance to induce desired changes.
Wisdom
The coach and athlete looking for options on breaking 
a plateau in performance should think about adding in a bit of variety and experimenting with overspeed training  .
Of the many types of training that can be used 
to favourably remodel the fibre-type composition 
of skeletal muscle, three contemporary approaches 
are receiving a fair amount of attention by practi -
tioners and sport scientists:
1. Plyometrics
2. Multiple short, rapid accelerations
3. Single-limb training.
Plyometrics involve the use of the stretch-  
shortening reflex to enable forceful dynamic con -
tractions. Research supports the use of these types 
of training sessions to improve the ability of the 
muscle to produce power.13
Multiple accelerations allow athletes to exper -
ience a natural progression from slow contractions 
to nearly maximal contractions as the athletes 
progress from a standing start to maximal running 

 Generating Anaerobic Power  ❙ 207
speed. In addition to running, maximal accelera -
tions can be performed in many sports, such as 
swimming, rowing, kayaking and cycling.
Single-limb training is one of the more novel 
training types that can be used to improve fatigue 
resistance. Single-limb training is especially well suited for cycling since it is possible to replicate the 
pedalling action with only one leg. In this case the 
entire blood volume and neural drive are directed towards only one leg, typically enabling the athlete 
to overload the skeletal muscle to a greater extent. 
Preliminary data indicate promising adaptations 
after single-leg cycle training.
14 Another option 
made popular with real-time power feedback during gym-training sessions is a focus on max -
imal power development during each repetition (i.e., a combination of lifting speed and mass).
One of the great advantages of inducing novel 
training methods is that athletes remain motivated for training and enjoy rapid improvements in train -
ing drills as they commit to new exercise routines. 
As long as there is an element of specificity, the 
overall adaptations that result from some of these 
novel training methods should support the desired 
gains in performance.
Once the athlete has the desired muscle mass to 
produce the required power output, and the power producing capabilities are sufficiently resistant to 
fatigue, the relationship between movement velo -
city and power output needs to be considered. This 
biomechanics theme will not be discussed in detail 
here. However, it is important to recognise that just 
because an athlete is powerful on a laboratory ergo -
meter does not mean he or she will move quickly 
when rowing, paddling or cycling in the field. By 
knowing the limitation to short, high-intensity 
performance, the coach can target training in a way 
that nurtures an athlete’s strengths and improves 
his or her weaknesses.
New Perspectives  
on Training to Improve Anaerobic Fitness
It appears that the limitations to maximal high- 
intensity exercise are peak power–producing 
capability and the intensity of exercise associated 
with maximal aerobic capacity. With this in mind, 
we can design an innovative training program 
for a 400-metre runner or a 200-metre swimmer focused purely on short (under 10 sec), high-inten -
sity training designed to improve maximal speed combined with high-intensity aerobic intervals 
(4-10 min efforts) targeting aerobic fitness. In this 
case, athletes would not engage in the uncomfort -
able exercise intensity associated with their event 
(30-60 sec). Essentially, there would be no lactate 
tolerance intervals prescribed. For those who are strong advocates of interval sets that produce large 
accumulations of blood lactate and stress intra -
cellular and extracellular buffering capacity, this new format for training would appear strange.
One of the possible advantages of training above 
and below the exercise intensity used for maximal efforts of 30 to 120 seconds is that training sessions 
are less psychologically traumatising. Training 
sessions are still arduous and maximal, but the 
uncomfortable all-out efforts that last for 30 to 60 seconds and are sometimes associated with 
extreme nausea are no longer included. By making 
training sessions more tolerable it may be possible for athletes to engage in relevant intensity more 
frequently and essentially focus on improving the 
range of fitness, saving the all-out, 1-minute effort 
for competition.
Nutritional Supplements  
and Anaerobic Fitness
The two major peripheral limitations to high-  
intensity anaerobic exercise are likely energy 
supply (total pool of adenosine triphosphate [ATP] 
and creatine phosphate) and ability to buffer 
waste products of anaerobic metabolism (i.e., 
the accumulation of H+), which interferes with muscle contraction and production of energy via 
anaerobic metabolic pathways. Manufacturers of 
nutrient supplements have been quick to exploit research documenting that creatine loading can 
improve the content of high-energy phosphates in 
skeletal muscle
15, 16 and other studies confirming 
that numerous buffering agents (i.e., sodium bicar -
bonate, citrate, phosphate) can be used to improve anaerobic capacity and thus performance during 
high-intensity exercise.
17
Multiple studies have been published in reputa -
ble scientific journals that have confirmed loading with creatine monohydrate (about 20 g/day for 5-10 
days) can help athletes engage in high-intensity 
repeat sprints.
16 Similarly, there are now numerous 
well-controlled studies that document the benefits of sodium bicarbonate consumed 1 to 2 hours 

208 ❙ Martin
before short, high-intensity exercise (30-300 sec) 
at a dose of 0.3 grams/kilogram of body mass.17
More recently, beta-alanine has been shown to act as a nutrient aid to improve intracellular buffering 
capacity and in many cases maximal performances 
lasting 60 to 240 seconds, most likely by contribut-
ing to an enrichment of muscle carnosine content, 
which maintains the acid–base balance within skeletal muscle.
18,19
In addition to supplements that target energy 
stores and buffering capacity, there is also ratio-
nale supporting the high-intensity performance-
enhancing effects of the stimulant caffeine, high-
lighting the importance of motivation and maximal 
effort when athletes give a maximal effort. A caffeine dose of as little as 2 milligrams/kilogram of body 
mass has been shown to help improve repeat sprint 
capabilities in some studies.
20 It may be the case that 
caffeine is more helpful for well-trained athletes 
than for active participants who likely suffer from 
other limitations to performance. It should also be 
noted that caffeine could have some short-term side 
effects, such as anxiety and muscular shakes, par-ticularly for those unaccustomed to it. Therefore, it 
is recommended that caffeine be trialled in training 
before it is adopted as a competition strategy.
A Cautionary Note
For the incredibly trained and committed athlete it remains to be established how much supplements 
actually help since tightly controlled studies using 
this population of athletes is diffi  cult to conduct. It 
could be the case that for the untrained athlete the 
use of supplements often has a greater impact on performance because the supplementation makes 
up for many of the metabolic limitations that are 
not appropriately adapted to training.
Also important to consider is the powerful effect 
of the placebo, also known as the belief effect. When it comes to supplements, especially those 
that are used for high-intensity exercise associated 
with pain and hopelessness (i.e., wanting to give 
up), supplements can become powerful agents for 
inducing hope and motivation. In some cases, the belief effect can be so powerful that it may be more 
important to believe in a product that does not 
actually have a proven mechanism of action than to 
not believe in a supplement that is known to work.
Performance gains due to supplements are typ-
ically in the order of magnitude of 1 to 3 per cent, whereas 4 to 8 weeks of training can be associated with performance gains that exceed 5 per cent. The 
tendency for many athletes is to go for the quick-
and-easy solution to improving performance (i.e., 
supplements) versus the more arduous training required to produce long-lasting physiological 
adaptations, which requires far more commitment.
Figure 14.4 presents four scenarios that can 
occur when discussing supplementation with 
an athlete based on low and high experimental evidence that the supplement works and low and 
high belief effects from the athlete’s perspective. 
Although it would be nice if all nutritional sup-plements used by athletes were backed up with 
scientifi  c evidence and strong belief effects, the 
athlete will often have a strong belief in a supple-
ment that does not have much evidence supporting 
its use. In contrast, for some supplements there is strong evidence of effi  cacy, but the athlete does not 
believe in the supplement. These scenarios can be 
extremely frustrating for the coach, but it is always 
important to recognise how powerful belief effects 
are in sport. An athlete who does not believe in the process of supplementation can actually block 
the potential positive effects of a supplement. The 
experienced coach will develop management strat-egies for each condition that can emerge and tend 
to yield to the athlete’s strong beliefs.
Athlete’s beliefScientific evidencePoor GoodPoor Good
EXCELLENT
CHOICE
Belief AND evidence
PATIENT
PERSISTANCE
No belief BUT evidenceRESPONSIBLE 
TOLERANCE
Strong belief BUT
no evidence
DON’T USE
No belief AND
no evidence
E5891/Joyce/480117/Fig 14.04/R1/JGFigure 14.4  Categories of supplements based on 
scientific evidence and athlete belief.
Altitude Training 
for the Anaerobic Athlete
Sprint track cyclists from the AIS have documented 
positive physiological adaptations during a highly 
structured altitude camp as well as outstanding 

 Generating Anaerobic Power  ❙ 209
performance at an important competition 3 weeks 
after such a camp.21 The exact adaptations under -
pinning these performance gains are yet to be 
fully established, but there is some evidence that 
altitude training can promote improvements in the 
buffering capacity in skeletal muscles.
Another unexpected potential benefit of altitude 
training is the observation that athletes who embark on a unique altitude training program 
start to be more consistent with other important peripheral aspects of training, including diet, sleep, 
supplements and recovery, because they want to 
maximise the benefits of altitude training. For 
athletes who think this way, altitude training is 
acting as motivation, helping the athletes adopt a desired behaviour.
We should not forget the impact of motivation 
when it comes to high-intensity training. Super -
vision of, and encouragement in, training ses -
sions enhances competitiveness and encourages greater performances. High-intensity training 
requires exceptional motivation for every repeti -
tion and interval. The coach who understands the 
importance of motivation will recognise that the 
structure of a high-intensity training session must 
combine the physical loading with positive social 
dynamics if the athletes are to optimally respond 
to the training session.
Summary
Anaerobic fitness is important for performance in many sports; the testing and training methodol -
ogy used to assess and improve anaerobic fitness is complex and rapidly improving. Numerous 
scientific studies are revealing many interesting 
aspects of anaerobic fitness, including the relation -
ship between muscle mass and power production, the relationship between power production and resistance to fatigue and the relationship between 
power production and movement velocity. When 
it comes to training anaerobic fitness, the abil -
ity to progress through a logical sequence of 
training blocks, each with a unique emphasis, is 
critical. Because adaptations to short, high-inten -
sity exercise can be rapid, and excessive loads of 
high-intensity exercise can lead to injury, illness, 
heavy fatigue and loss of motivation, it is important 
to monitor the athlete’s health and performance 
ability closely during training cycles that target anaerobic fitness. Finally, great conditioning 
coaches recognise how important it is for the ath -
lete to remain motivated for training and to believe in the coach and the training methodology. For this 
reason, programs with variety that incorporate appropriate ergogenic aids and a healthy lifestyle 
get the best results.
Acknowledgements
The topics covered and opinions expressed in 
this chapter are the direct result of many discus -
sions I have had with outstanding sport scientists working within the department of physiology at 
the Australian Institute of Sport lead by professor 
Chris Gore. I would particularly like to recognise Dr. Jim Martin from the University of Utah and 
track sprint cycling specialists Dr. Scott Gardner, 
Dr. Tammie Ebert and Nicholas Flyger, who have not only been amazing PhD students but also 
have substantially shaped my thoughts and opin -
ions when it comes to anaerobic fitness. Also, it is important to thank the committed and knowl -
edgeable Australian cycling coaches and cyclists I 
have the opportunity to work with who are always 
looking for that winning edge.

This page intentionally left blank.

CHAPTER
 211
15
15
15
This is not a typical chapter on physiologic 
adaptations and improvement of V ˙O2max or 
anaerobic threshold. On the contrary, these adap-
tations form but small components of this chapter 
because topics on this kind of endurance have 
been well documented and are found elsewhere in 
this volume. Instead, this chapter takes a holistic view, and the concepts contained within apply to 
any sport, not just those conventionally thought of 
as endurance sports. This chapter aims to lift the veil of traditional thinking and shine a spotlight 
on the science of establishing muscular endurance 
platforms both for performance and rehabilitation.
We can look at the development of the human 
life cycle and its relationship to long-term athletic development to provide perspective. We should 
look at building and rebuilding athletes in the 
same way humans have developed over time: building stability on mobility,
1 strengthening the 
movement and then adding the ability to endure it 
for the goal of the activity. In the quest for repeated 
performance, most people make the mistake of 
looking fi  rst at the development of the metabolic 
or cardiovascular system and less at the strength and movement effi  ciency that got them there in 
the fi  rst place.
Research on this topic is diffi  cult because so 
many variables need to interact in order to allow an athlete to develop the ability to endure multi-
ple repetitions of a particular task or movement. 
Accordingly, what is discussed in this chapter are 
concepts and checklists, similar to a pilot’s prefl  ight manifesto, to ensure the coach or practitioner is cov-
ering all the components necessary for establishing 
endurance for repeated performance for athletes.Defi  ning Endurance
As it relates to this chapter, the defi  nition of endur-ance is not its relationship to the cardiovascular 
system but more literal: having the ability to 
endure, enduring something by having the ability 
to perform something more than once. For many, 
the concept of endurance has to do with a person’s cardiovascular ability, how far he or she can run, 
swim or cycle, and not necessarily how many 
times he or she can lift a weight. However, the literal meaning of endurance holds equally true 
for a power lifter, who may have to lift a weight 
only a few times in competition to fi  nd his or her 
maximum, as it does a marathon runner, who has 
to take approximately 90 steps (reps) per minute for 124 minutes with no rest between each step. The 
same concept of having the capacity to minimise 
decay in force production and withstand hardship 
or stress through competition exists for both ath-
letes. At their core, both athletes have the goal of being as effi  cient as possible in order to produce 
more successful work. Effi  ciency can mean some-
thing different to each athlete, and it is important to make sure there is a complete understanding 
of the physiological qualities and requirements to 
provide this endurance platform.
The common denominator in all circumstances 
is power and power endurance, the mechanical work athletes have to do in the given time allotted 
or required to be successful. In the powerlifting 
example, to win the meet the athlete has to create bar speed or momentum to move the weight to 
complete the lift. In the running example, the 
runner has to move his or her body and generate Establishing Endurance 
for Repeated Performance
Darcy Norman
German National Football Team and EXOS (formerly Athletes’ Performance), United States

212 ❙ Norman
and maintain enough power over the given dis -
tance to be the first across the line. In both exam -
ples the concepts are the same.
Wisdom
Endurance is the ability to endure work  . Cardiovascular 
capacity is merely the means by which we fuel this 
ability to sustain the work over time  .
What is work? Broadly speaking, there are two 
types of work (stress): positive work and negative 
work. The goal is to increase the positive side of 
the ledger and reduce the negative stress in the 
equation, so we are not training with the brakes on. 
In our organisation, we use the phrase work + rest = success.
2 Although this chapter deals more with 
the work side of the equation, rest and recovery 
(discussed in depth in chapter 24) are integral parts 
of the formula for repeated performance capacity; 
they need to be carefully considered if we are truly 
serious about developing endurance platforms.
Work can be further divided into physiologic 
and training components. The physiological components can be sectioned into mechanical work qualities and the metabolic (cardiovascular) 
response to that work. Mechanical work can be 
broken down further into muscular (strength), 
neurological and structural qualities. Athletic 
performances are judged on the mechanical work that the individual displays. Road cyclists 
get awarded prizes for being first over the line (a 
display of mechanical work), not for their V ˙O
2max 
(their metabolic work). Aerobic capacity is merely 
the ends to the means.
Once we understand the mechanical work 
demands placed on athletes as well as their ability 
to produce them in training or competition, we can develop a clear understanding of the metabolic 
underpinnings of such displays. We then can alter 
programming through various combinations of training modalities to improve the metabolic quali -
ties necessary for providing fuel for the mechanical work (discussed in detail in chapter 19).
The metabolic capacities chosen as the focus 
are determined by the needs of the athlete with reference to the requirements of the sport and areas 
of relative weaknesses. It is somewhat of a jigsaw 
puzzle, though, as all the metabolic responses to work are interrelated. Just as a nutritionist pre -
scribes a combination of protein, fat, carbohydrate, vitamins and minerals for an athlete with a 
particular goal to feed the athlete for success, all 
athletes need all components but in various ratios (quantities) to maximise performance and be suc -
cessful. These metabolic relationships lead to the proper response to mechanical work necessary for 
a particular sport. Thinking in these terms gives a 
clearer and less-cluttered high-level view of how we can start to train athletes.
Mechanical Muscular 
Strength Qualities
Strength qualities are part of the foundation for any 
movement, athletic activity or sport, whether the 
activity is intermittent or continuous. Not having 
strength training in the programme is a disservice 
to the team and athletes and can significantly affect 
the athlete’s ability to sustain high level, injury-free performance.
In certain sports, strength training is over -
looked as a quality that will enhance endurance performance.
3 For some, strength training is not 
perceived as directly affecting success in the sport. 
Culturally, this view can come from a coach who 
didn’t weight-train as an athlete but was successful 
and now thinks the athletes he or she coaches don’t 
need to weight-train to be successful. Sometimes, the athlete may not wish to undertake strength 
training for aesthetic reasons or on the mistaken 
belief that strength work will make him or her big and slow.
When strength training and its direct benefits 
are not seen as the primary focus, that type of 
training often gets left out of the program. For 
example, endurance sports traditionally train for long periods at relatively low intensities or loads, 
and skills training tends to bias the technical 
aspects of the activity. In either case, the complete or partial omission of strength training from a 
programme is a lost opportunity to improve the 
athlete’s performance.
We should approach programming with the 
thoughts of the book The Power of Less.
4 The par -
adigm shift I am advocating can be summarised 
this way: What is the minimal amount of work 
needed for the maximal benefit? If coaches and 
athletes start looking at things through this lens, 
they would find more time to commit to other training components such as strength or plyomet -
ric training.

 Establishing Endurance for Repeated Performance ❙ 213
Common Errors in Strength 
Training for Endurance Sports
When training for endurance sports, athletes often 
fall into the trap of completing only a high number 
of repetitions at low load of a particular exercise. 
Most likely this is because many coaches and 
athletes believe that since sports such as running 
and cycling are endurance sports, the athlete has to do endurance-based repetitions whilst working 
on strengthening to match the specificity of the 
sport (e.g., 3 × 20 at 30%-50% 1RM). Indeed, many 
textbooks and position statements state this is only 
way to improve endurance.
The fact is, endurance sports are witness to 
so many repetitions (e.g., 90 rpms for 1 hour 
equals 5,400 reps) that the best and only manner to improve muscular endurance to cope with these volumes is the training within the sport 
itself. Clearly, doing 3 sets of 25 repetitions of a 
low-resistance squat will do nothing from either 
a volume or an intensity point of view. Not only 
does the programming itself not transfer, but it also promotes a limited strength quality (depending on 
the per cent maximal weight lifted for those reps) 
and adds extra work to the athlete with no direct benefit to the remaining filler hours of peddling, 
running, swimming, skiing, rowing and so on 
that can only be established through the sport 
itself. Time is wasted and is better spent training 
properly or recovering.
Case for Maximal  
Strength Development
When strength programming and prescription 
are done well, there is significant benefit to the 
athlete. To understand this reasoning we have to 
work backward from the ultimate goal of improved 
power output or, more importantly, preservation 
of high power outputs throughout the course of an event. It has been proven that strength is the basis for expressing power.
5
We also know that in any sport related to time, 
power (work divided by time) is critical. To develop 
power, we have two options. First, we can increase 
the athlete’s ability to do more work in the same 
time, or second, we can make the athlete more 
efficient at movement so he or she is able to do the same amount of work in less time. In one case we 
are working on the force side of the equation, and in 
the other we are working on the time efficiency side.We know that poor maximal strength is the 
biggest limiter to power output.
6, 7 When we look 
at sports such as cycling, running and soccer that 
have more metabolic stress, and where the athlete 
has to deal with the clock and his or her body, then 
relative  maximal strength becomes more the lim -
iting factor. In either case, there needs to be some 
kind of emphasis on power and maximal strength 
development so that the metabolic logistics of the 
sport will improve the necessary skill efficiency for transferring the maximal strength qualities to 
benefit the athlete.
The endurance athlete can benefit greatly from 
strength training with a direct emphasis on max -
imal strength or relative maximal strength.
8 There 
are two main benefits to this type of training. The most obvious is that with increased maximal 
strength, the athlete has to produce less relative 
force per repetition of the skill, which then creates 
a decreased energy demand. The second is that focusing on maximal strength development helps 
enhance neural durability and motor recruitment, 
making the whole system more resilient.
As the maximal strength of an athlete improves, 
it shifts the overall demand on the metabolic system. During the activity, the athlete will have 
less demand on the muscular system for the same 
amount of work, enabling the athlete to perform the level of work longer and producing indirect 
improved muscular endurance. Essentially, the 
same work demands are less costly.
Tendon and Muscle Interactions 
That Reduce the Metabolic Cost of Movement
Although we used to think of tendons as passive 
attachments of muscle to bone, their structure 
affords them the ability to store and release energy. 
Efficient use of tendons reduces the metabolic cost 
of movement. Tendons are not contractile, however, 
and so rely on the muscle to generate the force to overcome inertia. Without having good relative maximal strength, the muscle is unable to main -
tain the contraction needed to maximise the elastic properties of the tendon.
Through a process known as dynamic isometric 
strength (DIS), the strength of the contraction of the muscle accumulates energy in the tendon, ready to 
be multiplied and released. This acts in much the 
same way that a rubber band stores energy and then snaps back. This capability minimises the 

214 ❙ Norman
metabolic cost of the muscular contraction, which 
reduces oxygen demand and allows more oxygen 
to remain in the bank to help the athlete endure 
more repetitions, put more power into each rep -
etition and maintain greater economy of motion. These are all goals of the endurance athlete.
If the athlete is insufficiently strong, the con -
traction of the muscle will not be strong enough to stretch the tendon and use the elastic properties, resulting in less power in the movement, more 
work on the muscle, decreased economy and a 
greater amount of metabolic work or stress for 
the same or less mechanical load. Developing the 
strength part of the performance puzzle is key to establishing endurance for repeated performance.
Strength and Tendon Health  
in Endurance Athletes
The advantages of being strong are clear from a 
performance; the same is true from the perspec -
tive of managing injury risks. We know that the rates of tendon pain are high in endurance sports 
and that muscular strength is a key player in 
those rates.
9 Lack of muscular strength can reduce 
the efficiency of the elastic and energy-sparing 
tendon, increasing the metabolically costly work 
of the muscle and effectively forcing the athlete to 
spend more energy. This is particularly of concern 
in sports such as cycling and swimming where ground-contact times are limited and athletes do 
not develop DIS or the stiffness within the tendons; 
as a result these athletes are more susceptible to tendon injuries.
10, 11
Having these athletes spend a fraction of their 
training schedule doing progressive plyometric 
training will positively affect performance and 
support the long-term benefit of maintaining an 
active lifestyle many years after the athletes have 
retired from competitive sport. Cycling is a great example. In professional cycling it is common 
for track cyclists to have a strength and power 
emphasis in gym training because of the direct relationship to performance on the track. Those 
cyclists will often make the transition from track to 
road cycling and either become the team’s sprint -
ers, lead-out riders or one-day winners; they tend to be durable.
12 Riders who have grown up in road 
cycling without ground-based training tend to be 
less durable, have trouble generating high power 
outputs on their bikes and become susceptible to 
long-term injuries even outside their sport.Fear Campaigning  
and Strength Work
Coaches and athletes often limit their time in the 
weight room due to their preconceived notion that 
lifting heavier weight will lead to increased muscle 
hypertrophy, decreasing the power-to-weight ratio 
and making the athletes slower. They do not realise 
the benefits that will make athletes more durable and efficient in their sport with less stress to the 
system. If an athlete were to follow the appropriate 
maximal strength prescriptions, strength gains could be realised without significant increases in muscle 
size. Strength gains are often due to neural factors 
such as improved motor-unit recruitment efficiency, 
something that does not add mass to the body.
Appropriate programming enhances relative 
muscular strength. Because there is such a need to develop the metabolic system in endurance ath -
letes, the body will naturally metabolise the muscle that is not needed to perform the demands of the 
task.
13 So by increasing the maximal strength of the 
athlete in conjunction with improving the meta -
bolic adaption needed for the sport, any lean body mass the athlete adds will be of 100 per cent use.
Inappropriate programming, on the other hand, 
can add mass to an athlete without significant strength advances. We have seen this many times: 
Professional athletes actually train themselves out 
of a position on the team by employing socially promoted programming such as what one would 
see in bodybuilding. However, it has been well 
documented with U.S. National Football League 
(NFL) combine athletes that when programming 
is done correctly, athletes can put on in excess of 4 kilograms of lean body mass (LBM) and at the 
same time develop the appropriate strength and 
power qualities to decrease 40-metre sprint times by one-tenth to two-tenths of a second.
12
Another fallacy that prohibits endurance-based 
athletes from participating in strength training is 
the belief that strength comes naturally as a conse -
quence of technical training. A common example of this is in soccer where many coaches believe that to 
become better soccer players, athletes just need to 
spend more time with the ball and play. In reality, 
though, when a little more time is spent improving strength and movement efficiency, athletes have 
more tools to express abilities technically. This pre -
dicament can be solved through paying more atten -
tion to more cohesive, long-term development of the athletes in his or her career, club or organisation. 

 Establishing Endurance for Repeated Performance ❙ 215
It can also be resolved by carefully planning and 
integrating the various training components within 
the structure of the sport practice.
Strength work, when programmed appropri -
ately and factored in as part of a long-term athletic 
development plan, makes the athlete more efficient, increases his or her capacity to endure and make 
him or her more resilient against injury.
Neurological Component  
of Mechanical Work
The training necessary for improving maximal 
or relative maximal strength has more benefit to 
the power output than the strength quality itself. 
Physiological components of this type of training 
are the coordination and efficiency of contraction 
of the inter- and intramuscular components.14
The intramuscular adaptation that occurs from 
strength training refers to
• recruitment of the number of fibres called to 
action to generate force,
• the rate coding (discharge coding) of the 
motor neurons, and
• synchronisation, which is how well the ner -
vous system manages to fire the muscle fibres in concert within the muscle.
The more efficient the recruitment, coding and 
synchronisation, the higher levels of force the athlete is able to generate efficiently, and the more the athlete is able to moderate effort for the specific 
activity or skill.
15
The second component is the intermuscular 
part of movement. This is the coordination and efficiency of the simultaneous sequence of con -
tractions of multiple muscles to complete basic to complex movements.
15 This is where muscular 
strength and skill begin to overlap. The more skill and precision needed in a movement, the more 
important the role of muscular strength becomes. 
As the coordination and efficiency of the move -
ment improves, muscular strength increases the 
skill threshold (the point at which the intensity 
of the activity affects the skill quality) of the 
movement, making the athlete more efficient and improving overall muscular endurance. This end 
result has a significant benefit to the complex move -
ments, such as triple flexion and triple extension, needed in sports.In order for an athlete to perform complex 
movements such as running, all the muscles need to coordinate these actions to fire at the optimal 
moment to have a summative effect maximising 
the athlete’s effort. Intermuscular coordination will 
not necessarily affect the force generated by a single muscle, but it will greatly affect the force generated 
in a complex movement. The more muscles involved 
and more complex the task, the more the athlete needs intermuscular coordination to be successful.
Two examples provide context. First is the 
example of using an exercise called resisted walk -
ing or running (figure 15.1). This method is just as effective when rehabilitating an athlete from 
a lower-extremity injury as it is for improving 
acceleration and absolute-speed mechanics. This activity is excellent for activating and engaging 
the posterior chain of muscles; reinforcing the 
appropriate biomechanics of walking and running; and emphasising the coordination of triple exten -
sion, triple flexion and spinal stabilisation.
16 This 
type of exercise prescription is for sports such as 
running, cycling or soccer where instability and 
neural fatigue play a role over time in the long-term 
movement quality of an athlete.
In this protocol we attach a resistance to the 
athlete’s waist and have him or her pull a sled. The same can be done by pushing a sled, but it is 
good to reinforce the normal gait pattern along with the arm swing. As the athlete attempts to start 
walking, the nervous system quickly realises what 
it must do to coordinate all the pieces effectively to 
get the sled moving. If the coordination sequence 
Figure 15.1  Resisted walking.

216 ❙ Norman
of the one leg pushing into triple extension and the 
other into triple flexion doesn’t happen optimally, the athlete will stall out on the extension leg, losing balance and stumbling to the side. It typically takes 
10 to 12 steps for the athlete’s brain to put into prac -
tice the whole-body intermuscular coordination to 
establish the stability and coordination necessary for taking successful steps.
Once the athlete has the pattern, we start to add 
resistance to change the demand of the activity. The first adaptation for improved strength is for the athlete to purposely initiate the movement in 
an efficient manner. As this improves, the athlete 
walks for progressively longer periods up to 60 minutes, depending on the type of athlete. Increas
-
ing the strength of the movement pattern leads to improved muscular endurance in the skills needed to accomplish the activity; it also improves the aer
-
obic metabolic adaptation needed to maintain that quality. As the athlete progresses to acceleration and absolute-speed mechanics, the weight is reduced, which increases the velocity of the movement.
In the second example we use stability-limiting 
lifts to improve intermuscular efficiency of the muscles and the relative maximal strength of the athlete. A stability-limiting lift is a movement pat -
tern that is completed with some form of resistance: The athlete will be able to lift only as much weight as he or she can stabilise against maintaining balance and quality pattern. A simple example is a single-leg squat.
16 During the 1990s and into the 
new millennium practitioners realised that athletes could back squat in excess of 450 pounds, but if they were asked to single-leg squat their body weight, 
they were unable to complete the range of motion 
(ROM) of 1 repetition with a quality pattern. The athletes had underlying strength, demonstrated by the amount of weight lifted on a more stable platform, but they could not express this strength once the platform demanded more balance and intermuscular coordination from the whole system. Some athletes almost used the weight they lifted to 
counterbalance the compensations they made. Once 
the platform becomes more unstable, compensating behaviors become harder to hide.
This concept can be taken into more functional 
patterns specific to the skill of the sport. For exam -
ple, the single-leg squat is effective for any pushing sport that relies on using the lower extremities (e.g., 
running, soccer or cycling). One effective exercise 
for our cyclists was an alternating dumbbell press with both feet elevated in the air (figure 15.2). The athlete needs to have the overall mobility to get into 
the starting position. Once the athlete establishes 
the starting position, he or she lowers one arm, 
making a dumbbell-benching motion, then returns to the start position and repeats on the other side. If the athlete is unable to stabilise through coun -
terrotation of the trunk whilst keeping his or her hips in a neutral position similar to what is done when torqueing on the bike during climbs, sprints and accelerations, the athlete will lose balance.
The alternating dumbbell press starts with 
weights that the rider can manage safely. As inter -
muscular coordination improves, the weight the athlete is able to manage and the speed at which he 
or she is able to move the weight improves signifi -
cantly. It is this relative overloading of the system 
that creates a quicker, more efficient contraction of 
the necessary muscles to react to the movement.
Wisdom
There are many secondary benefits to stability-limited 
lifting  . If the athlete is concerned about increasing 
lean body mass, in the beginning this method limits the amount of weight and the number of repetitions, 
so the adaptation is more neuromuscular than it is 
hypertrophic  . Once the athlete has maximised the 
neuromuscular benefit, he or she will have bought 
into the process and will feel the benefits of this type 
of training  .
Another concern inexperienced athletes often 
have with lifting weights is the potential for 
delayed-onset muscle soreness (DOMS) that can 
occur from lifting heavier weights. The weight the 
Figure 15.2  Alternating dumbbell press with feet 
elevated.

 Establishing Endurance for Repeated Performance ❙ 217
athlete starts with will be minimal in comparison 
to that used traditional primary lifting movements, 
and the exercises will distribute the effort over the system rather than focusing on the load to a specific muscle group. This approach can be a great way 
to get buy-in from the athlete whilst still getting something accomplished.
Stability-limiting lifting is for the beginner but 
can also be used for the more experienced lifting 
athlete. It is a method that can be used to train sec -
ondary lifts or as a way to unload the athlete within an undulating program. Even for the experienced 
lifting athletes the amount of weight they can lift 
with stability-limiting lifts will be considerably 
less than with their primary lifts.
This type of training starts to affect the ath -
lete’s movement efficiency, improving endurance for repeated performances. As discussed earlier, 
one of the ways to improve power output is to be 
able to do the same amount of work in less time, 
essentially making the athlete more efficient and powerful. A certain amount of stability is needed 
for the duration of the event in order for the body 
to generate the power needed to propel itself from 
point A to point B. For most athletes the stability 
anchor point tends to be the trunk. It is important to pick movements that have close movement 
relationships to the sport and that are also stabil -
ity-limiting lifts. These neurological components in conjunction with strength qualities and the 
structural components of the athlete make up all the mechanical-work attributes needed.
Stability-limiting lifts improve intermuscu -
lar coordination, which translates into greater 
movement efficiency. This is an unconventional, 
yet highly effective way of improving muscular 
endurance because it pulls up the anchors of poor, 
metabolically expensive movement patterns.
Structural Qualities  
That Determine the Efficiency  of Mechanical Work
The body’s ability to endure repeated efforts also 
depends on the quality and efficiency of move -
ment through the muscles and joints and their 
relative interplay.1 The biggest issue is ensuring 
good mobility and stability. If joint motion and 
stability are compromised, this will lead to altered 
mechanics,17 creating more stress in the system and 
producing acute and chronic issues, sometimes ending athletes’ careers and definitely limiting 
world-class performances. Many examples exist of how the structural-movement quality of the athlete in conjunction with the chronicity of the training ends up having a long-term effect creating imbalance in the athlete, resulting in injury.
18 If the 
athlete lacks the strength qualities along with the inter- and intramuscular neurologic components of movement, altered joint mechanics and stress, leading to acute and chronic injuries, can result.
The more we can ensure the athlete is strength -
ening and grooving the correct path, the better the opportunity the athlete will have for using the correct motor pattern and sequence of joints to move his or her body. This is no different than the attention a sport skill is given when honing it for optimal efficiency. These issues are discussed in greater detail in chapters 3 and 7 . The fact that concepts of efficiency and endurance are discussed in relation to other capabilities goes a long way to proving the point that all of these issues are critical in athletic performance and injury rehabilitation.
As a summary, consider the metaphor of an 
umbrella and its function. A person with a large surface-area umbrella of protection made of mobil -
ity, stability and strength is able to move freely under that umbrella without getting wet. If that umbrella is small, however, the person will have fewer movement options and smaller breadth of movement before losing protection and getting wet or injured. By extension, it is not only about 
the total load of what the athlete is doing but 
also what that athlete is able to do in that given time. Once the structure of the umbrella is built to protect the athlete, the metabolic system needs to be developed to help support the demand of the mechanical load. An athlete with this strong, durable umbrella can spend as much time out in the rain as he or she likes, enjoying the activity without getting wet. This is a much more holistic approach to improving the endurance platform than simply improving cardiovascular responses to repeated repetitions.
Metabolic Response  
to Mechanical Work
We have established that the athlete first needs 
the strength, skill, movement efficiency and elas -
ticity to complete the repetitions of an activity with the highest quality and intensity possible. Once this has been achieved, the athlete can start 

218 ❙ Norman
adding volume to get the central and peripheral 
adaptations necessary for enduring the intensity 
and volume needed to be successful at the sport. It 
has been shown that a combination of poor move -
ment quality in conjunction with poor metabolic 
capacity increases the risk of injury.19 As discussed 
previously, maximal or relative maximal strength as well as the appropriate neurological and struc -
tural components are needed to be able to complete 
1 repetition with the highest quality. This approach 
is similar to Roger Bannister’s philosophy of break -
ing the 4-minute mile: He first wanted to run the 
100 metres as fast as he could, then repeat it two, 
three, and four times until he was at a mile.
Unfortunately, in sports that have any kind of 
endurance requirement, training frequently starts in the opposite direction: The volume gets ramped 
up without the athlete having a solid base or plat -
form to build the house. The athlete starts running 
and has to try to develop the necessary strength 
and neurologic and structural qualities to continue 
to perform. The ones who do are able to sustain and move on; the ones who do not typically are either slower or become injured and quit.
The cardiovascular system is paramount to the 
success of the athlete’s ability to perform metabolic 
work as a response and to allow the necessary 
mechanical work to take place. Think of the met -
abolic working system as the gas and engine of the 
race car and the mechanical working system as the frame, springs, electrical system and tires. In motor sports there are fuels for different activities; the human system is the same. We are familiar with the aerobic, anaerobic lactic and alactic systems, 
but we will not delve into them here. Instead, we 
will focus on the big picture of developing a good 
metabolic system and the integration of that system 
to the mechanical system for an athlete.
An athlete who has to do something quick and 
responsive will use the alactic anaerobic system, but the aerobic system keeps the athlete going.
20-23 
Similarly if we have to link multiple quick, responsive actions together, we do it at a pace that it is sustainable. If, at any point the athlete starts 
to break down mechanically and the metabolic 
system cannot replenish the systems necessary for 
maintaining the movement demand, compensation 
occurs, and the risk of breakdown increases. It is 
up to the coach, trainer or practitioner to find the right balance of training, using the various energy systems, for that athlete to be successful in the particular sport (see chapter 19).Wisdom
It is a mistake to think of the aerobic, lactic anaerobic 
and alactic anaerobic systems as operating at separate 
levels  . Rather, the metabolic system works in a contin -
uous but overlapping manner with all three methods of energy provision at once, irrespective of the volume 
and intensity of the activity  . The more an activity is 
repeated, the more the aerobic system is working  .
In the endurance world of running, cycling and 
swimming, the trend in the 1970s and 1980s with 
the introduction of heart rate technology was to 
do more long, slow training to develop the aerobic engine. One anecdotal example was triathlete Mark 
Allen’s story of how he improved his threshold pace from running a mile in 8.5 minutes to, I think, 
5.5 minutes in one year by doing more aerobic work. What is often overlooked in the story was 
that Allen said he would always run, cycle and 
swim as fast as he could. For him, developing the aerobic quality was paramount to his success and 
longevity in the sport because he already had the 
speed component. The problem was that many 
coaches and trainers thought, Oh, we just have to 
do more long, slow distance training, and we will win 
the Ironman , and that is what endurance training 
has become.
Eventually, this philosophy was shown to be 
flawed in more elite levels of sport. Athletes realise 
that in order to be fast, they also have to be fast in 
training. However, in order to train successfully, 
the athlete needs to have the foundational strength 
and neurologic and structural systems so that 
movement quality is maintained irrespective of the duress—speed, volume, resistance—placed on it.
This is why interval training, if done correctly, 
is so beneficial. The athlete runs at a purpose -
ful pace for a duration he or she can sustain for success, takes a break and completes the desired number of repetitions until technical or volume 
thresholds are breeched. The system then adapts, 
and the athlete either increases the duration of the purposeful run or decreases the amount of rest 
between intervals. This has been documented to 
be one of the best ways to improve V ˙O
2max and the 
anaerobic threshold of the athlete, the peripheral adaptation in the muscular and nervous system 
and the central adaptation in increased stroke 
volume and skill mastery.
24 These benefits are best 
achieved when the skill movement quality is able 
to meet the training demands.

 Establishing Endurance for Repeated Performance ❙ 219
Many trainers and coaches in start-and-stop 
sports believe they have to train more in the anaer -
obic systems to improve that metabolic quality 
within in the sport. It is possible to get so focused 
on repeated sprinting and intervals that athletes 
do not develop the aerobic engine to sustain that kind of training. For example, a soccer player may 
have the ability to endure one, two or three diffi -
cult interval-based training sessions but doesn’t 
have the aerobic endurance platform necessary 
for enduring this type of training and repeated 
games over a season. This is when injuries begin 
to mount, and performance suffers.
A good rule of thumb is that an athlete in a 
long, slow sport such as long-distance running needs more speed work to be successful. An ath -
lete in a start-and-stop sport probably needs more 
long, slow work without the extra impact, such as 
cycling, to build the engine to be better able to sus -
tain the intensity and repetitiveness of the sport.
Summary
I hope this chapter has given you a different per -
spective on what it means to establish endurance for repeated performance for a team or athlete. You 
should be able to understand and appreciate the 
types of work and have a checklist of the necessary 
components for an athlete to effectively execute the foundation of mechanical work regardless of 
the sport. None of this is new and is addressed in 
books on periodisation and programming; how -
ever, I see these aspects overlooked time and time again. Look at programming and periodisation through a variety of lenses and in many contexts 
to make sure you have a holistic approach along 
the continuum of human performance.
I would also encourage you to continuously 
review how we have developed as humans and review the natural development as it relates to training athletes. At birth we had a basic level of 
strength (mechanical) and a basic level of cardio -
vascular ability (metabolic), and we were probably the most mobile we would ever be. Our neuro -
logic system developed to coordinate the pieces 
of human movement so we could stand, balance, 
step and walk. In that process we also developed 
the strength qualities to make standing, balancing, 
stepping and walking happen with more purpose, 
efficiency and quickness. Coupled with these efforts to improve our efforts to move for life, we 
also needed frequent rest. As we developed and 
the demand to move more increased, only then did our metabolic system respond appropriately to 
the demands we placed on it. But without a strong 
foundation of mobility, stability and subsequently 
strength, the potential of our metabolic system 
could not be developed.
This metaphor of human development is used to 
remind us to look at the development of athletes, regardless of the culture, history or misconceptions of the sport. Our ability to enhance endurance 
platforms will improve when we understand the 
true limitations to movement efficiency and can 
integrate the metabolic components of work with 
the mechanical stresses placed on the body.

This page intentionally left blank.

CHAPTER
 221
16
16
16
Endurance is an important factor for success in 
many activities such as athletic events, cycling 
and rowing, but it is also an essential quality in team sports such as the various football codes, 
hockey, basketball and handball. Endurance 
helps maintain a high level of intensity as long as possible and helps delay the effects of fatigue that 
may contribute to deterioration in technical skill. 
It is one thing to be able to execute a skill in the fi  rst minute of a match but another one entirely 
to be able to perform it in the fi  nal minute when 
fatigued. This ability is highly contingent on aer-
obic fi  tness.
Aerobic fi  tness is also involved in the ability 
to recover from high-intensity activities, espe-cially when the sprints are numerous, long and 
alternated with brief recovery periods, a feature 
of most fi  eld-based sports. From a practical point 
of view, a high level of aerobic fi  tness is reported as an asset in counteracting fatigue in sports 
involving sprint repetitions or high-intensity 
intermittent exercises.
Aerobic fi  tness is so important that frequent 
evaluation is needed in order to help in the 
selection of athletes and to check the effects of 
the training program. For this reason, the fi  rst 
part of this chapter defi  nes the terms associated 
with the concept of aerobic fi  tness, while the second part presents the protocol used to assess 
it. The third part of the chapter focuses on the 
training methods currently known to improve aerobic fi  tness, including some specifi  c strate-
gies such as altitude and hypoxic training and 
strength training. The fi  nal section discusses the 
detraining effect, a phenomenon that can occur 
after a prolonged period of rest after injury or inactivity.What Is Aerobic Fitness?
Many terms are used when discussing aerobic fi  t-ness, including aerobic capacity, V ˙O
2max, energetic 
cost and endurance. It is important to understand 
the defi  nitions in order to use the right terms. For 
example, the expression aerobic capacity  is inaccu-
rate because it refers to the total amount of oxygen consumption during a lifetime and therefore cannot be estimated until someone dies.
A more relevant variable is the amount of oxygen 
that the body uses per minute, termed oxygen con-sumption . At rest, our oxygen consumption is about 
0.3 L · min
-1 but is proportional to the intensity of 
the contractions being performed. In elite athletes, 
it can surpass 20 times the resting values at maxi-
mal level of exertion. Maximal oxygen consumption
(V˙O2max) represents the maximum rate at which 
oxygen can be consumed by a human at sea level. The absolute V ˙O
2max is expressed in litres of 
oxygen consumed per minute (L · min-1) and rep-
resents 2 to 7 L min-1. However, as more energy is 
required to move a heavier body, the absolute value can be divided by the body mass and represents 
the relative or specifi  c V ˙O
2max, which is expressed 
in millilitres of oxygen consumed per kilogram of 
body mass per minute (mL ·  kg-1 · min-1). So, a rugby 
player of 100 kilograms and a soccer player of 70 kilograms who have a common absolute V ˙O
2max of 
5 L · min-1 will get a relative V ˙O2max of 50 (5,000 mL 
100 kg-1) and 71.4 mL kg-1 · min-1 (5,000 mL · 70 kg-1), 
respectively. With this better relative V ˙O2max, the 
performance in endurance events will be higher in the soccer player.
The V ˙O
2max is normally obtained during a 
maximal incremental exercise test during some constant work-rate exercises near V ˙O
2max and Boosting Aerobic Capacity
Grégory Dupont, PhD
LOSC Lille and University of Lille, France

222 ❙ Dupont
involving more than about one-third of the total 
muscle mass. Figure 16.1 presents an example of 
the pulmonary V ˙O2 responses to a running incre-
mental fi  eld test where, after 2 minutes of rest, the initial speed was set at 10 km · h
-1 and then was 
increased by 1 km · h-1 every 2 minutes. The high-
est point of the graph (seen at 59 mL · kg-1 · min-1) 
represents this individual’s V ˙O2max.
010
00:00:00
00:02:0000:04:0000:06:0000:08:0000:10:00
00:12:00
00:14:0000:16:0000:18:0000:02:002030405060VO2 (ml.kg-1.min-1)
Time (min)
E5891/Joyce/480121/Fig 16.01/R2/JGFigure 16.1  An example of the V˙O2 response during 
an incremental field test.
Maximal oxygen consumption ( V˙O2max) has 
long been used as a determinant of performance in 
long- and middle-distance events. However, when 
the range of V˙O2max is narrow, the correlation 
between V˙O2max and performance is relatively 
poor. For example, an athlete with a V˙O2max of 75 
mL · kg-1 · min-1 will have a superior performance 
than a person with a V˙O2max of 45 mL · kg-1 · min-1. 
However, athlete A who has a V˙O2max of 70 mL · 
kg-1 · min-1 may perform better than athlete B who has 
a V˙O2max of 75 mL · kg-1 · min-1. In these conditions 
where the values of V˙O2max are close, additional 
components of aerobic performance are required to 
estimate performance, such as the net energy cost of 
running and endurance and psychological factors.
The energy cost  is calculated from the measured 
steady-state V˙O2 above resting divided by the run-
ning speed and is expressed in mLO2 · kg-1 · km-1.1 
Lower energy cost is an advantage for endurance per-
formance because it reduces the energy metabolism 
(characterised by a lower percentage of the V˙O2max) 
for any particular exercise intensity. Strength train-
ing, discussed later, can help reduce the energy cost.
Endurance  corresponds to the maximal fraction 
of V˙O2max that can be sustained throughout the duration of effort.2 This endurance has been associ-
ated with a combination of several factors, such as proportion of type I muscle fi  bres, the capacity to 
store large amounts of glycogen and the capacity to 
effi  ciently dissipate heat, but not with
 V˙O2max.3 It 
means that individuals with the same  V˙O2max can 
have durations in which they maintain a given inten-sity. So, in our previous example, it means that athlete 
A, who has the lowest
 V˙O2max, will compensate 
by lower energy cost or by a higher level of endur-
ance. Therefore, performance depending on aerobic 
metabolism is mainly associated with V˙O2max, then 
with endurance and fi  nally with energy cost.
Wisdom
Contrary to popular belief, the term aerobic capacity
is not the same as endurance . Aerobic capacity refers to the total oxygen consumed during a lifetime, while endurance refl  ects the time an athlete is able to main-tain exercise at a certain level of intensity .
Assessing the Aerobic Engine
While V ˙O2max assessment requires some expen-
sive laboratory-specifi  c instruments to analyse the 
respiratory gas of a subject, it is possible to assess 
the aerobic fi  tness and also to estimate V ˙O2max 
from fi  eld tests. The assessment of aerobic fi  tness 
from fi  eld tests  presents some practical interest for 
coaches. A large group can be assessed at the same time, there is no cost and the material requirements 
are minimal, only requiring a fi  eld, a whistle and some cones or markers.
MAS test
One of the most common tests used for running activity is the maximal aerobic speed (MAS) test.
4
This test includes both V˙O2max and economy dimen-
sions and is related to performance from 1,500 to 3,000 
metres.5 It is useful to discriminate a population, to 
prescribe training intensities (see next section) and to analyse the effects of a training program.
The initial speed is set between 8 and 12 km · h-1, 
according to the initial level of the participant. For example, for sedentary people it is better to start 
at the lowest speed (8 km 
· h-1); high-elite athletes 
should start at 12 km · h-1. The speed is then increased 
by 1 km · h-1 every 2 minutes until the participants 
cannot maintain the speed. The last speed sus-
tained for at least 2 minutes is considered the speed 

 Boosting Aerobic Capacity ❙ 223
associated with V˙O2max, also called maximal aerobic 
speed  (MAS). This speed at the last completed stage 
is increased by 0.5 km · h-1 if the subject is able to 
run a half stage. From the MAS, it is easy to esti -
mate V˙O2max (expressed in mL · kg-1 · min-1) since 
it corresponds to 3.5 ×  MAS (expressed in km · h-1).6
Yo-Yo Test
For team sports, the yo-yo intermittent recovery test7 
is frequently used to evaluate an athlete’s ability 
to repeatedly perform intense exercise and his or 
her potential to recover from intense exercise. It 
consists of repeated 2 × 20-metre runs back and 
forth between the starting, turning and finishing lines at a progressively increased speed controlled 
by audio bleeps from a computer.
7 Between each 
run, the athlete has a 10-second active rest period, consisting of 2 ×  5 metres of jogging. This test ver
-
sion is characterised by four runs at 10 to 13 km · 
h-1 (0-160 m) and another seven at 13.5 to 14 km · 
h-1 (160-440 m). Thereafter, the test continues with 
stepwise 0.5 km · h-1 speed increments after every 
eight runs until exhaustion. The test ends when the 
subject fails to reach the finishing line in time on 
two occasions. The outcome of interest in this test 
is the distance covered, which is efficient to class 
a population or to analyse the effects of a training program. It is also possible to individualise the 
training intensity from the peak speed reached 
during the test.
Two levels of the yo-yo test have been proposed. 
Level 1 is more focused on the aerobic system, 
while level 2 involves a large contribution from 
the anaerobic system. The level 2 test is shorter 
and aims at evaluating a trained person’s ability to 
perform a repeated intense exercise session with a high anaerobic energy contribution. Although the 
estimate of V ˙O
2max from the yo-yo intermittent 
recovery test results is not particularly accurate, this test is reliable and valid as a significant rela -
tionship was found between performance in the test and the high-intensity running distance cov -
ered during a soccer match.
8-10
Aerobic Endurance
Aerobic endurance represents the ability to 
sustain a high percentage of V ˙O2max for a long 
period.2 It is one of the parameters of performance 
in long-distance events and is independent of 
V˙O2max. Several models, such as critical speed, 
have been proposed to estimate endurance.If you have no time to implement a field test and 
you have to implement a training program, use the critical speed concept. It is easy to use. You need 
just two maximal performances over 3 minutes on 
two distances to calculate critical speed and anaer -
obic distance capacity. The critical speed  concept is 
the threshold intensity above which exercise of sufficient duration leads to attainment of V ˙O
2max.11 
For continuous runs, the range of critical speed is generally between 70 and 90 per cent of MAS. In a 
training program aiming to improve V ˙O
2max, the 
intensity should be higher than this speed.
Theoretically, critical speed can be sustained 
without fatigue; in practice, however, exhaustion 
occurs after about 30 to 60 minutes of exercise 
at this intensity, based on the endurance level of the athlete. The second parameter, the anaerobic 
distance capacity, is a measure of the amount of 
distance performed at the expense of the complete use of anaerobic stores.
When an athlete has poor anaerobic distance 
capacity, training should focus on the improvement 
of this quality. So, critical speed is a simple and 
easy concept to use to determine the strength and the weaknesses of an athlete, as well as a way to 
identify which quality to develop.
Case Example
Let’s say an athlete runs 1,500 metres in 4 minutes 
and 10 seconds (250 seconds) and 3,000 metres in 9 
minutes and 10 seconds (550 seconds). From this, it 
is simple to calculate critical speed and anaerobic 
distance capacity. The slope of the linear distance–
time relationship (figure 16.2) represents the critical speed and is calculated as
(3,000 − 1,500) / (550 − 250) = 5 m · s-1 (19.3 km · h-1)
The y-intercept of the linear distance–time relation -
ship represents the anaerobic distance capacity (ADC):
1,500 = 5 (250) + ADC
which can be rearranged as
ADC = 1,500 − 1,250
ADC = 250 m
These calculations are interesting to estimate 
performances (time) of an athlete over several 
distances, to determine training intensities and 
therefore to better design training sessions. To 
estimate performance over 2,000 metres, calculate 

224 ❙ Dupont
the time on this distance (CS means critical speed; 
ADC means anaerobic distance capacity):
distance = CS (time) + ADC
2,000 m = 5 × (time) + 250 m2 000 – 250 = 5 × (time)(1,750) / 5 = time350 sec = time
So the time for 2,000 metres will be close to 350 
seconds, or 5 minutes and 50 seconds.
These calculations also help analyse the effects of 
training. Training aimed at increasing aerobic endur-
ance will have the tendency to shift the slope of the 
relationship between distance and time, that is, the 
critical speed (case A, fi  gure 16.3). Training based on 
anaerobic-type exercises will have the tendency to change or shift at the origin of this relationship, that 
is, the anaerobic capacity distance (case B, fi  gure 16.4).Developing Aerobic Fitness
Although there is a certain genetic ceiling, the 
method of training aerobic fi  tness also infl  uences 
the magnitude of its improvement. Several factors 
should be taken into account to establish a training 
program:
• Initial level . When the population is sedentary 
with a low initial level, the training program will produce a bigger improvement, and the majority 
of the exercises will be effective. The choices 
of the training program components are more 
complex for the elite athlete and are more critical to competition success. The lower the starting 
point, the greater the improvement from any 
intervention; for the elite athlete, however, the incremental gains in aerobic fi  tness are smaller, 
and therefore we have to be much more strategic 
in our programme design.
• Frequency.  Although the optimal dose–
response relationship for improving aerobic per-
formance is diffi  cult to establish, a minimum of 2 
sessions per week is recommended for sedentary 
people, but at least 3 sessions are required when 
the initial level is above 50 mL · kg-1 · min-1.
• Intensity.  This is the most important variable to 
manipulate since all the other variables depend on 
the intensity. Whilst in the past we have thought 
that a minimum intensity of 55 to 65 per cent of the maximal heart rate was suffi  cient, the weight 
of research now tells us that the maximal gains in 
aerobic power are elicited by exercise intensities 
ranging from 90 to 100 per cent of V ˙O
2max.
• Duration.  This variable is related to the dura-
tion both of the individual sessions and of the 
50010001500200025003000A
100 200 300 400 500 600Distance (m)
Time (s)
E5891/Joyce/480123/Fig 16.03/R1/JGFigure 16.3  Effects of a training program based on 
aerobic endurance exercises (case A).
50010001500200025003000y = 5x + 250
100 200 300 400 500 600Distance (m)
Time (s)
E5891/Joyce/480122/Fig 16.02/R1/JGFigure 16.2   An example of the linear relationship 
between distance and time for an athlete.
50010001500200025003000B
100 200 300 400 500 600Distance (m)
Time (s)
E5891/Joyce/480125/Fig 16.04/R1/JGFigure 16.4  Effects of a training program based on 
anaerobic exercises (case B).

 Boosting Aerobic Capacity ❙ 225
program itself. Maximal gains seem to be obtained 
with exercise sessions of 35 to 45 minutes.
• Specificity . Training is specific to the type 
of activity that an athlete usually performs. For example, after 10 weeks of training focused on the improvements of aerobic power in swim -
ming, the gain in V ˙O
2max was about 11 per cent 
in swimming against 1.5 per cent in running. So 
the triathlete should train specifically in the three 
activities by swimming, cycling and running.
• Mechanisms.  Improving V ˙O2max requires 
performing exercises that allow the individual to 
attain and maintain a high percentage of V ˙O2max 
(higher than 90 per cent of V ˙O2max) for the lon -
gest time possible. Improvements in V ˙O2max are 
attributed to both central adaptations (character -
ised by a greater maximal cardiac output) and 
peripheral adaptations (characterised by a bigger 
arterial–venous oxygen difference).12
Wisdom
Continuous exercising at low intensity (about 65 per 
cent of V ˙O2max) lasting 30 to 60 minutes induces cen -
tral adaptations  . High-intensity training, characterised 
by intensities close or above V ˙O2max performed with 
an intermittent mode, induces peripheral adaptations  .
Continuous and Intermittent Exercises
For continuous exercise, it is vital to define the 
intensity and the duration. Although continuous 
exercise seems to be more effective in improving 
aerobic endurance, it also increases V ˙O2max. 
During continuous exercises, the V ˙O2max is 
attained when the intensity is included between 
the critical speed and 110 to 120 per cent of the 
MAS and when this intensity is maintained until 
exhaustion.13
Slow-continuous training , also called high-volume 
sessions, is performed at less than 75 per cent of MAS or under critical speed over a long duration 
and is often used during the restart of training to 
prepare the body for more intense exercises. This 
type of exercise is relatively easy and is also per -
formed to expend a large amount of energy and, 
consequently, to lose fat mass.
Fast-continuous training  is performed at inten -
sities over 75 per cent of MAS, or above critical speed, and allows the improvement of endurance 
and V ˙O2max. When the intensity is between 75 and 
85 per cent of MAS, the sessions are performed in 
one set. On the contrary, when the intensity is 85 
to 90 per cent of V ˙O2max, the sessions can be per -
formed in several sets. This model forms the border 
between intermittent and continuous training.
Intermittent training  consists of alternating 
periods of high-intensity exercise with periods of active or passive recovery. The introduction 
of recovery periods between periods of intense 
exercise allows participants to maintain the 
exercise intensity longer than when the exercise is performed continuously until exhaustion. 
Intermittent exercises are characterised by the 
combination of many variables, including the period of exercise and its intensity and the type 
and duration of recovery. Consequently, one of 
the difficulties for the coach in the design of 
intermittent training is to determine the combi
-
nation of these variables to allow the achievement 
of the desired objective. Table 16.1 presents the 
objectives of the types of intermittent training 
sessions.
Wisdom
Well-designed intermittent exercise is more effective 
than continuous exercise to optimise the time spent at a high percentage of V ˙O
2max .
Most studies investigating intermittent exercise 
have not found a correlation between the time 
to exhaustion of continuous exercises and those 
of intermittent exercises. Therefore ,the qualities 
required to maintain an intermittent exercise are 
probably different from those required to maintain a continuous exercise. Because the specificity of 
intermittent exercises involves periods of recovery 
between efforts, the performance during intermit -
tent exercise probably depends on the quantity and 
quality of the recovery.
When the intensity of short-short intermittent 
exercises is higher than the MAS, the V ˙O
2max and 
the anaerobic capacity can be improved. In a study involving high-level soccer players performing 
two 2 sessions per week during 10 weeks (the first 
session consisted of 12-15 ×  40 m sprints alternated 
with 30 sec of passive recovery; the second session 
consisted of 2 sets of 12-15 runs at 120% of MAS 
alternated with 15 sec passive recovery), MAS and 

226I direct the strength and conditioning philosophy 
and delivery to 28 different sports at the University of Michigan. Every sport is characterised by the fact their results are often determined by a single or cumulative total of high-intensity effort.
We don’t have to look far to see these game-defining 
moments. Think of a sprint down the wing in soccer or field hockey, a sudden flurry of dynamic efforts in the combat sports or a short sprint to reach a ball in softball or tennis. Even in endurance sports such as middle- or long-distance running or swimming, it is still a race to be the fastest.
We have a saying, ‘You play how you train, so 
you should train how you play.’ With this in mind, our energy system development philosophy across all sports relies heavily on high-intensity interval training (HIIT) as this form of training matches most closely the heart and respiratory rate demands seen in competition.
In reality, we work with athletes on strength and 
conditioning three times per week. With such a time restriction, we need to ensure we get the most bang for our buck so at all times, we emphasise the quality and intensity of effort.
We use HIIT extensively because the rest intervals 
seen in the duty cycle are short enough to ensure the work demand is great, but long enough to replenish energy stores so that the intensity of the next effort does not decay to the point of being a waste of time.
By maintaining this approach, we ensure there are 
no garbage efforts from the athlete. What’s the point of training slow when winning is done fast? Athletes get enough slow repetitions of effort in technical practice so when they’re with me I make them earn it!This philosophy on quality and intensity extends 
further than the running track. We see it in the weight room, on the Spin bikes and in the swimming pool. One of my sayings is, ‘Don’t run the speed out of athletes and don’t lift the power out of them.’ Essentially this means we should not fatigue the athlete by asking him or her to complete long, slow training sessions.
We use a variety of modalities for HIIT from spin bikes 
to resisted swimming, from cross trainers to resistance circuits. Whichever technique is used, the emphasis is on high-quality effort. The work:rest intervals depend on the sport but some examples can be seen in the table.
We look to slide in at least some HIIT into every 
training programme. Athletes need to train with the intensity to meet or surpass the demands of competi -
tion. If an athlete is unable to cope with the training, he or she is unlikely to be able to cope with competition demands and either performance would suffer or injury would result. Either way, essentially the athlete would be selected out of the programme.
In terms of periodising HIIT, we gradually introduce 
athletes to it. The intensity required to really gain from HIIT can be foreign to young athletes, so a graduated exposure is begun and may last several weeks. Depend -
ing on the sport and the time of the season, we look to programme one or two heavy HIIT weeks followed by a deload week. This deload week is a reduction in volume but not in intensity.
Generally speaking, we look to programme on a 
day on, day off schedule, but given the high levels of neuromuscular fatigue that HIIT can induce, in-season we plan sessions at the beginning of the week to give athletes a few days to freshen up before competition on the weekend.COACH’S INSIGHT
High Intensity Interval Training
Mike Favre
Director of Strength and Conditioning, 
University of Michigan
Mike Favre was the 2011 NSCA College Strength and Conditioning Coach of the Year. At the University of Michigan, he oversees 28 varsity 
teams and more than 600 student-athletes. He is on several committees with the NSCA and is a certification assessor and member of the editorial panel for the United Kingdom Strength and Conditioning Association

 Boosting Aerobic Capacity ❙ 227
Sample Training Protocols for Five Sports
Sport Training method Protocol
Sprint swimming 
(female)Stair sprints, resisted bike sprints 1x stair sprint (17-18 sec.), 1 min. rest. Repeat 4x then 4 min. rest. Repeat cycle 1x.
Field hockey Repeated sprints One 30m sprint every 20 sec., 4-6 reps. 1-3 sets. Rest 1-2 min. between sets. 
Basketball (female) Repeated sprints (‘quarters’). Down and back (D&B; full-court sprint, change directions and sprint back). 
Work:rest intervals range from 1:1 (in 
example) for elite to 1:3 for introduction.1 set of 1x D&B in 12 sec., 12 sec. rest; 2x D&B in 24 sec., 24 sec. rest; 3x D&B in 36 sec., 36 sec. rest; 2x D&B in 24 sec., 24 sec. rest; 
1x D&B in 12 sec., 12 sec. rest. 2 min. rest 
between sets. Repeat up to 4x.
Wrestling Sprints (running or bike), resistance training circuits, wrestling20 sec. on, 10 sec. off, repeat for 2-3 min. followed by 1 min. rest. Repeat cycle 2-3 times (match replication).
Volleyball Sprints (running or bike), resistance training circuits10-20 sec. on, 20-40 sec. rest. Repeat for 6-10 min.
sprint speed were significantly improved using 
intermittent exercises (+1.2 km · h-1 for the MAS 
and +1 km · h-1 for the sprint speed over 40 m).14
Training based on repeated sprints is also 
effective to improve aerobic performance and 
V˙O2max and anaerobic performance. For example, 
6 sessions of sprint interval training (4-7 reps of 30 sec of all-out cycling with 4 min of recovery) over 
2 weeks were sufficient to improve V ˙O
2max, time 
trial performance and maximal activity of various 
enzymes involved in both glycolytic and oxidative 
energy provision.15
High-intensity training of short duration should 
be favoured when the time available is limited 
since it leads to performance improvements. It also 
reduces the training volume and consequently the 
risk of overtraining.16 These results can be effective in team sports, where improvement is required in 
anaerobic and aerobic performance.
Aerobic Training  
in Team Sports
Two types of training are regularly used in training 
sessions in team sports: generic training and spe -
cific aerobic training. Generic training corresponds to a training modality where players run a distance 
at a given intensity. For example, Helgerud and 
colleagues
17 trained soccer players twice a week 
for 8 weeks, using a 4 × 4-minute running interval 
training at 90 to 95 per cent of maximal heart rate alternated with 3 minutes of active recovery. After 
this training, V ˙O
2max, the distance covered during Table 16.1  Classification and Objectives for Intermittent Sessions
Exercise phase Recovery phaseNumber of 
repetitionsNumber of sets Effects
Long-long 3-10 min
90%-100% MAS2-3 min AR 3-5 1 ↑ Endurance
↑ V˙O2max
Moderate-moderate 30 sec-2 min100%-110% MAS30 sec-3 min AR 5-2 1-3
↑ V˙O2max
Short-short 10-20 sec110% MAS to sprint10-20 sec AR or PR10-16 3-5
↑ V˙O2max
↑ Anaerobic capacity
MAS: maximal aerobic speed; AR: active recovery; PR: passive recovery

228 ❙ Dupont
a match and the number of sprints improved by 11, 
20, and 50 per cent, respectively. The advantage of 
this generic training is that the variables of distance 
and time can easily be controlled. This training is 
also easy to structure and to implement: all that is 
needed are two markers to define the distance and a stopwatch to set the time the players have to run. 
One disadvantage of this method is linked to the 
players’ motivation: In general they dislike these sessions because they prefer to run with a ball. 
Another limit of this training is that it is based on 
the hypothesis that fatigue in team sports is linked 
to running activities. However, other factors, such 
as concentration and muscle damage, are also involved in fatigue.
18
Specific aerobic training corresponds to a train -
ing modality where players do specific exercises 
with a ball, such as in a small-sided game (SSG). 
It is possible to attain sufficient intensity using 
SSGs. The exercise intensity in an SSG can be 
manipulated with
• pitch dimensions (the intensity will be higher on a large pitch than on a small pitch);
• number of players (the intensity will be higher 
with 3 versus 3 compared to 6 versus 6);
• rules of play (the intensity will be higher with 
player-to-player marking);
• use of a goalkeeper (it increases the intensity 
during 3 versus 3 but decreases the intensity 
in 6 versus 6); and
• motivation (coach encouragement will 
increase the intensity).
The advantages of this training method are that 
it is popular for players of all ages and standards, 
it ensures the activation of muscle groups as 
they are engaged during matches and it includes 
technical and tactical skills. In some conditions muscular activation can exceed match levels. The 
limits are that these games are less structured than 
traditional fitness training methods and that the 
intensity of play can differ among players. The 
use of SSGs in a preseason training programme is discussed in chapter 21.
Strength Training  
and Aerobic Fitness
Strength training can improve running economy 
and consequently aerobic performance. Explosive strength training also is effective for improving running economy. A training programme of 9 
weeks based on various sprints (20-100 m) and 
jumping, leg press and knee extensor–flexor 
exercises with low loads but high or maximal 
movement velocities was effective in improving running economy in elite male cross-country 
runners.
19 The improvements in running economy 
induced by plyometric training can be linked to the muscles’ ability to generate power by exaggerating 
the stretch-shortening cycle and the increase of 
the stiffness of the muscle–tendon system, which 
allows the body to store and use elastic energy more effectively.
20
Wisdom
When using both strength and endurance training, be 
aware of the concurrent training effect  . Interference 
would be maximised when athletes use high-intensity interval training and 8-to-12 repetitions maximum (RM) multiple-set resistance-training program  . Interference 
is covered in detail in chapter 20  .
Hypoxic Training to Develop Aerobic Fitness
Hypoxic methods consist of using altitude or spe -
cific equipment that lowers the oxygen partial pres -
sure of the air breathed. It has been well established 
that performance in endurance events is impaired 
at altitude; the higher the elevation, the greater 
this performance decrement. Conversely, altitude training also can promote increased anaerobic fit -
ness and may enhance sprint capacity. The factors involved in the decrement of V ˙O
2max at altitude 
are the decrease of maximal heart rate and stroke 
volume, which reduce the cardiac output, as well 
as a reduction of haemoglobin saturation. Although 
the intensity of training is reduced in altitude, 
exposure to altitude for a few weeks induces some specific adaptations. It stimulates the renal release 
of erythropoietin (EPO), which may increase eryth -
rocyte (red blood cell) production and haemoglobin 
content while decreasing muscle mass.
In some cases, athletes use these hypoxic 
methods to prepare for a competition or match at 
altitude. Although aerobic performance decreases 
with altitude, altitude acclimatisation improves performance at altitude. This acclimatisation phase 
lasts 7 to 10 days and includes only light-intensity 

 Boosting Aerobic Capacity ❙ 229
exercises. Conversely, when a training camp is 
planned at altitude to improve aerobic performance 
at sea level, the duration of the exposure should be 
longer than 2 to 3 weeks.
In some other cases, hypoxic methods are used 
to improve aerobic fitness. Several methods have been proposed to optimise the advantages of 
exposure at altitude and to reduce the limitations. 
The purpose of these methods is to improve per -
formance either at sea level or altitude. There are 
strategies that can be used when it comes to alti -
tude training: live high, train high; live high, train low; or intermittent hypoxic exposure.
21
Live High, Train High
This is the most traditional form of hypoxic 
training and consists of a training camp based at 
altitude where athletes live and train. The training 
period should last at least 3 weeks, including 7 to 
10 days for the acclimatisation phase. Several ben -
eficial effects of this method have been reported 
on endurance performance and muscle-buffering capacity; however, this method is still debated 
because there is rarely a control period at sea level, 
the training intensity is reduced at altitude and 
often a high inter-individual variability in training 
responses is seen.
Live High, Train Low
This method was implemented to reduce the side effects—such as decrease in training intensity, 
muscle mass loss and fatigue—of the first approach 
but keep the beneficial effects of altitude on 
physiological functions. In addition, the technical 
development of new devices made it possible to use artificial altitude without travelling. Results of 
this method show bigger improvement in endur -
ance performance, V ˙O
2max and running economy 
in elite endurance athletes than with sea-level training. The most appropriate altitude for living 
high has been proposed as 2,200 to 2,500 metres to provide an optimal stimulation of EPO, while 
the most effective duration at altitude appears to 
be 3 to 4 weeks.
Intermittent Hypoxic Exposure  
and Intermittent Hypoxic Training
Intermittent hypoxic exposure or training lasts from seconds to hours and is repeated over sev -
eral days to weeks. Although intermittent hypoxic exposure  is generally accepted as ineffective for performance enhancement, intermittent hypoxic 
training  seems more beneficial on aerobic perfor -
mance. This method does not seem to have an 
effect on erythrocyte production. Consequently, in 
order to obtain a greater improvement in aerobic 
performance, athletes could combine both inter -
mittent hypoxic exposure and intermittent hypoxic training. However, the optimal combination in terms of intensity, altitude and duration remains 
to be identified.
Many factors can influence the enhancements 
in physiological status induced by an altitude camp. In order to justify the expense, coaches 
should consider the stated physical objectives of 
the camp and whether these aims will be achieved 
after such a short (usually 10-14 days) exposure to altitude. Certainly, it appears that a camp should 
be held for greater than 2 weeks in order for it to 
be sufficiently long enough to improve longer-term 
aerobic qualities in comparison with a similar 
camp at sea level.
Detraining
A reduction in training load often is planned by coaches during the days before competition in 
order to improve performance. This strategy, called 
the taper, aims to have the athlete reach peak per -
formance by reducing accumulated fatigue while retaining or further improving physical fitness (see chapter 22 for a more detailed discussion). 
Tapering, however, should not be confused with 
detraining. Detraining is defined as the partial or complete loss of training-induced anatomical, 
physiological and performance adaptations as a 
consequence of training reduction or cessation.
22 
This happens when athletes are injured or occurs 
during the off-season when no training is planned.
When training stops, endurance performance 
declines quickly, and the magnitude of this decre -
ment depends on several factors such as the level of athletes and the duration of the break. The mag -
nitude of the decline in V ˙O
2max depends on the 
athlete’s level of fitness. After an inactive period of 4 weeks (e.g., off season), the decline is about 5 per 
cent for moderately trained subjects and can reach 
15 per cent for highly trained athletes although 
running economy is not affected.
23
The initial part of the detraining-induced reduc -
tion in V ˙O2max (within a few weeks) is mainly due 
to a reduced blood volume of 5 to 12 per cent.22 As 
a consequence, submaximal and maximal heart 

230 ❙ Dupont
rate increase slightly while stroke volume is more 
markedly decreased. Thus, the first part of this dec -
rement in V ˙O2max is mainly due to central factors. 
In these conditions, when the athlete restarts, long, 
continuous exercises at low intensity, inducing 
central adaptations, are recommended.
When the inactivity period lasts longer (e.g., 
end of a career, injury), other mechanisms such as peripheral factors are involved. In these conditions, 
both long, continuous exercises at low intensity, 
inducing central adaptations, and high-intensity training, inducing peripheral adaptations, could 
be successfully implemented.
Performing alternative training modes may 
delay the detraining effect. Thus, injured athletes 
should carefully consider cross-training (e.g., biking, swimming, using a hand bike or electrical 
stimulation, strength training) to maintain fitness 
and strength. It would help them to come back more quickly as well as avoid a recurrent or other injury.
Summary
Aerobic exercise training is an important factor in many sports. It improves performance in training 
and in competition. With a high level of aerobic 
fitness, athletes are able to train harder and longer 
and recover more quickly between sets. In order 
to develop this quality, begin by assessing aerobic fitness to establish benchmarks and individualise 
training intensities. In team sports, this  enables 
us to split the training group into two or three groups, rather than just manage the squad as a 
homogenous mass.
Once the testing has been completed, the next 
step is to select a combination of variables to use to design the training program. Some coaches prefer 
to work by cycles, which means they plan the same 
exercises for a certain period. This method can be boring and not really effective. Another method 
deals with periodisation and changes and seems 
more effective. For this method the coach sets an 
objective and proposes several forms of exercises 
that will enable the athlete to reach the defined objective. For example, to improve V ˙O
2max, 
repeated sprints can alternate with short recovery 
periods, high-intensity intermittent exercises (long 
to short) and high-intensity continuous exercises 
during the training week.
Improving aerobic fitness is not just about num -
bers of repetitions, though. Hypoxic training meth -
ods can be used preseason to improve V ˙O2max 
and endurance or during the season to prepare for competition at altitude. Strength training also 
is effective in augmenting aerobic fitness, although 
care must be taken when programming to ensure 
that this concurrent training does not lead to an interference effect.
Finally, we know that a reduction in training loads 
due to injury or holidays reduces aerobic fitness, 
and the fitter the person, the steeper the decline. 
A strategic approach to training programming in 
this instance is required and will aid the athlete in 
returning to competition and avoiding injury.

CHAPTER
 231
17
17
17
Cross-training (CT) for optimising athletic 
performance has been widely used in both 
elite professional and amateur sports for more than three decades to improve athletic perfor-
mance as well as a means of conditioning injured 
athletes who may not be able to participate in regular training. Its use has been implemented 
in strictly controlled and prescriptive methods 
to more informal general practices.
But what is CT, and what is the rationale behind 
it? How do we select CT activities, and how do 
we strategically employ CT so that it is not just 
entertainment? This chapter addresses all these 
questions and provides coaches with a solid 
understanding of how to implement CT into an athlete’s periodised plan. As every athlete, sport 
and personal circumstance is unique, we will not 
give you a recipe to follow but rather provide a fi  rm understanding of the principles that should 
be considered. Specifi  cally, this chapter provides 
guidance on how to
• fi  t targeted CT into a weekly schedule,
• reduce the risk of overuse injuries based on poorly selected activities,
• measure the effectiveness of the CT program, and
• better understand the manipulation of training stimuli to better achieve desired 
outcomes.Defi  ning Cross-Training
For this chapter CT does not refer to any basic 
circuit training. Instead, it is defi  ned as (1) partici-
pating in an alternative training mode exclusive 
to the one normally used (i.e., not task or sport 
specifi  c) or (2) combining an alternative training 
mode with task-specifi  c training.1 Regardless of 
the type of CT employed, the main purpose is to 
gain a training adaptation that leads to an improve-
ment in sport-specifi  c performance greater than 
sport-specifi  c training alone.
For a sport such as rowing, CT refers to any 
training that is not undertaken in a rowing shell on water. Hence, running, cycling, swimming 
and fi  eld sports are all considered CT modalities. 
Interestingly, stationary rowing on an ergometer 
is considered CT since it is an ‘alternative training mode with task-specifi  c training’.
1
Although we commonly think of CT in terms 
of aerobic conditioning, it is not uncommon to see 
activities based on strength training also used 
as stimuli to improve athletic development. CT is also often confused or used interchangeably 
with circuit training, which primarily refers to a 
combination of high-intensity aerobic exercise and 
resistance training. In this chapter, we accept that 
strength and circuit training can form essential elements of athletic development, and we will 
cover some of this in detail; however, the body of Optimising Effective 
Cross-Training Methods
Anthony Rice, PhD
Rowing Australia and Australian Institute of Sport
Chris Spinks
Geelong Football Club, Australia

232 ❙ Rice and Spinks
this chapter focuses on physiological adaptations 
produced by cardiovascular-based activities.
CT has been used in some form or another with 
high-performance sports for decades. Research 
into its effects began in the early 1970s with a 
focus on the central and cardiovascular changes and on the peripheral and cellular changes in 
muscle.
2, 3 Since the introduction of the triathlon 
and the subsequent explosion of its popularity, the benefits of CT have gained wider attention 
in the literature as triathletes strove to improve 
their performance in swim events through run 
training or improve run performance through cycling training.
Elite triathletes quickly realised that they could 
not dedicate themselves to full-time training in 
each discipline without incurring significant 
risk of injury. As such, their training is based 
on the premise that certain benefits of training 
in one specific modality transfer to some degree to one of the other two modalities. The benefits 
from CT are attributed to variability, change 
in training stimulus and optimal arousal from the introduction of novel tasks or activities. The 
important questions for high-performance tri
-
athletes are how much time should they devote 
to improving their weakest discipline, and how 
much of this training will benefit the other two 
disciplines. This leads to examining the theory 
behind transfer of adaptation or specificity of 
training adaptation.
Theory of Adaptation  
or Transferability
Consistent endurance training promotes a number of physiological adaptations that enable the body 
to better cope with the demands placed on it. This 
type of training can elicit central and peripheral 
adaptations. Central adaptations refer to an 
improvement in oxygen transport to the muscles (secondary to enlarged overall heart dimensions, 
increased blood volume and increased muscle 
capillarisation). Peripheral adaptations refer to an enhancement of the muscles’ capacity to use this 
oxygen (due to increased mitochondrial density, 
aerobic enzyme concentrations and increased type 
I muscle-fibre proportions).
Interestingly, the relative contributions of cen -
tral adaptation and peripheral adaptation to the improvement in exercise tolerance and capacity remain controversial and may well be different 
based on age as well as short-term and long-term 
training history.
How well these adaptations transfer between 
exercise modes has largely been attributed to 
the central mechanisms; it is believed these are pathways that are used in all endurance pursuits 
involving large muscle mass. In contrast, it was 
originally understood that local adaptations in the actual muscles used for specific endurance modal -
ities are not transferrable unless the exercise mode operates the muscles with similar characteristics 
(e.g., force, range of motion, duty cycle).
CT for elite endurance athletes relies on the basic 
premise that training adaptations, both central and peripheral in nature, do transfer across exer -
cise modes. This may well be the case for less-fit 
individuals who have the capacity for general 
improvement, but the evidence in highly trained 
to elite endurance athletes is less prevalent.
The type of CT exercise in competitive athletes 
is crucial to the transferability of the adaptation. When dissimilar modes of exercise are employed 
(e.g., arm-cranking CT for a competitive cyclist) 
the benefit to the competitive athlete may be more 
relevant during a period of injury when the athlete 
may be unable to train with any real specificity. In contrast, CT in a similar mode (e.g., running 
for a competitive cyclist, cycling for a competitive 
runner) appears to have positive results for trained athletes as shown by the result that 5 weeks of run 
training alone demonstrated similar improve -
ments in V ˙O
2peak and 5,000-metre run performance 
compared with 5 weeks of run and cycle training combined.
4
Wisdom
Highly-trained individuals will profit more from sim -
ilar-mode cross-training, but the higher the aerobic 
capacity of the athlete, the smaller the relative improve -
ment . For athletes who are injured, have low training 
compliance or are in their off season, cross-training using dissimilar modes is effective  .
Benefits of Cross-Training
We know that CT can improve performance via 
one or a combination of physiological, biomechan -
ical and psychological factors. Specifically, when 

 Optimising Effective Cross-Training Methods ❙ 233
combined with sport training, it has been shown 
to improve performance by positively affecting 
numerous performance outcomes, including 
reducing the risk of injury, aiding in rehabilita -
tion, improving endurance fitness and energy efficiency, increasing motivation, helping recovery and improving deficiencies.
Injury-Risk Reduction
Commonly, elite endurance athletes train more than 20 hours per week in their discipline. When 
this load is combined with strength, conditioning 
and flexibility sessions, this value can exceed 30 
hours per week. This volume of training is nec -
essary for stimulating the adaptation required to 
improve competition performance, but it can also give rise to overuse injuries. Based on the premise 
that training consistency (i.e., more than 95 per cent 
of prescribed training is completed) is a strong 
indicator to improved competition performance, 
then any training modality that assists with this goal is extremely valuable to include in a training 
program.
Supplementing sport-specific training with CT 
enables athletes to continue to train the central mechanisms involved with endurance perfor -
mance whilst resting the muscles that may be fatigued and require recovery from sport-specific 
training. For sports that involve a high degree of on-foot load (i.e., running, triathlon, team field 
sports) increasing the CT load and decreasing the 
sport-specific training load whilst still maintaining total training load may well prove the difference 
between maximising training consistency or 
risking chronic overuse injuries, such as Achilles 
tendinopathy.
For competitive athletes whose sport is based 
on running (e.g., field sports, court sports, athlet -
ics) or is highly repetitive in nature (e.g., cycling, 
swimming, rowing) a period of exposure during 
the off season dedicated to CT can help reduce the 
strain placed on repetitively used muscle groups 
and provide the athlete with the opportunity 
to improve muscular symmetry by activating opposing muscle groups or using muscles through 
another range of motion (ROM) or movement. 
Similar benefits are presented to running-based athletes who can reduce the load stress experi -
enced through ground-reaction forces applied whilst competing.Injury Rehabilitation
CT can be useful when an injured athlete is transi -
tioning back to the main form of training. The spe -
cific aim of the CT program in this instance would be to maintain (or attenuate the decline in) specific 
fitness without exacerbating the injury or prolonging 
the recovery time needed to return to full training 
load. CT enables the athlete to maintain some cardio
-
vascular and strength (power) training consistency 
whilst providing the injury sufficient time to heal.
Acute soft-tissue and joint injuries are common 
in team sports that involves physical contact. In 
these instances injuries may result in muscle atro -
phy (i.e., number and size of motor units) and a 
neural inhibition (i.e., swelling, pain or structural 
damage) that may prevent correct motor patterning 
and activation. CT in the form of specific strength 
training serves as a great tool for trainers since 
it is possible, with a well-designed rehabilitation program, to minimise the reduction in muscular 
function via specific contractile force or velocity 
and coordination exercises.
Wisdom
Cross-training can be the injured athlete’s rescue plan  . 
It can help maintain cardiovascular fitness and, when 
used in conjunction with a well-designed rehabilitation program, can minimise the reduction in muscular strength  .
Improved Endurance Fitness  and Energy Efficiency
The sole aim of training for the competitive 
endurance athlete is to improve competition per -
formance. This can be achieved in numerous ways, but one of the most common is to increase training 
volume (time or distance). This strategy will not 
always be associated with improved performance, especially as the athlete approaches his or her true 
peak; however, in the early and middle stages of the 
competition pathway increased training volume can have positive effects.
Training specificity is a key to improved per -
formance, but if an athlete is to increase training 
volume, it will be nearly impossible to keep the 
entire training program sport specific. This is where the inclusion of CT in an athlete’s program 

234 ❙ Rice and Spinks
can assist without necessarily increasing the risk 
of injury or excessive fatigue. Importantly, when 
incorporating similar-mode CT into the program, 
adaptations will reach into both the central and 
peripheral pathways, leading to greater efficiency 
and an overall increased training effect.
For athletes (i.e., team sport athletes) who 
undertake high-force strength training, training modalities should not be limited to the weight room. The use of high-intensity or high-resistance 
efforts within a CT session can have similar effects. 
Sprint efforts whilst running uphill, short bursts 
with high resistance on the bike (or any stationary 
CT apparatus) can produce a similar demand on the muscles to produce high force; specific adap -
tations to high-force training include improved efficiency at lower intensities.
Wisdom
Although cross-training can be beneficial, it may lack 
the specificity of angle, motor control or speed of movement that can be replicated by strength-based exercises  . A balanced program is the key!
Increased Motivation
The long, sometimes lonely, hours of training that 
an elite endurance athlete completes can often lead 
to staleness, especially if periods of competition 
are sparse. During long training blocks, athletes 
who undertake only sport-specific training often 
find themselves not achieving the maximal benefit from every session because their intent to train 
with the required intensity is intrinsically linked 
to and reflected in their motivation. Motivation is difficult to maintain with monotonous training. 
Incorporating CT modalities into some sessions of 
high training stress can assist the elite athlete in 
applying the required intensity for the session and 
making the greatest gains possible. It is possible in 
some instances that these sessions may also enable 
the athlete with low motivation to rediscover the desire to train with the right intent.
Motivation for intense sport-specific training 
sometimes may be difficult to harness during the 
off season or during a noncompetition period. 
Including CT during these times can help the elite athlete maintain training consistency by allowing 
the athlete to reduce the monotony of training, 
improve a deficiency (e.g., base aerobic capacity), manage an ongoing injury or recover from an earlier postseason surgery.
During the off season, when optimal perfor -
mance is not the primary goal, training benefits can be gained through the introduction of novel tasks 
in the form of CT. These can vary from structured 
sessions with specific physiological outcomes to more enjoyment-focused activities (e.g., playing 
tennis for fun). Doing so can relieve some of the 
monotony of training experienced by the athlete, 
thereby increasing motivation to train when the 
task-specific activities return.
Effective Recovery
Training forces the body to adapt so that it is better equipped to cope with the demands that are placed on it. In this sense, training is the stress, but the 
adaptation to this stress takes place during the 
recovery period. Recovery is discussed in greater 
detail in chapter 24.
Recovery strategies fall into two broad categories: 
active and passive (including outright rest). The latter is extremely beneficial, for it enables the body 
and mind to recover at the quickest rate. However, at 
key times within specific training cycles, combining 
outright rest with active recovery in the form of both similar and dissimilar modes of CT may be 
the direction to take. The subsequent adaptation can 
be enhanced by increasing blood flow to the exer
-
cised muscles, thereby delivering valuable nutrients directly to the tissue, as well as removing residual 
waste metabolites associated with previous exercise.
Deficiency Improvement
The competitive phase of training can leave little 
time for anything other than the delivery of opti -
mal performances. CT during the off season can help improve a specific physiological deficiency 
without compromising the goals of this phase, 
which include (but are not limited to) athlete regeneration, rest and recuperation.
Common Uses  
in Olympic Sports
Olympic endurance sports differ in the volume and 
frequency to which CT is employed in their elite 
programs. In Australia, the winter climate does 
not dictate off-season CT nearly as much as it does 
in northern Europe and North America. Table 17 .1 

 Optimising Effective Cross-Training Methods ❙ 235
Table 17.1  Use of Cross-Training in Olympic Endurance Sports
CROSS-TRAINING MODALITIES EXPRESSED AS A % 
OF TOTAL CROSS-TRAINING VOLUME UNDERTAKEN
SportDoes sport 
use cross-
training  
(yes or no)?
Stationary 
rowing
RunningCycling  
(all forms)
Swimming
Team 
activities
Cross-
country 
skiing
Arm 
cranking
Other
Rowing Yes 30 20 40 3 5 Much greater 
predominance in Northern 
Hemisphere2  
Road cycling Yes     80         20
Endurance track 
cyclingYes     70       30
Mountain biking Yes     70         30
Middle- to long-distance runningNo              
Swimming No                
Flatwater canoeing  
or kayakingYes   30 65 5        
Triathlon No                
Race walking No                
outlines some key summer and winter Olympic 
endurance sports and the degree to which they 
use CT as part of their regular training. Table 17 .2 
captures the main reasons why the chosen sport 
uses CT a part of its routine training program.
Fundamental Considerations 
When Including Cross-Training  in a Programme
As is the case with any periodised approach to 
training, a poorly constructed, nonspecific (in 
rationale or modality) and inadequately monitored 
CT program can lead to a negative impact on an 
athlete. In extreme cases it may even lead to injury. 
This section covers the important factors to con -
sider when programming for CT.
The most commonly used principles of exer -
cise prescription apply to CT as they do to any other form of sport training. It is imperative when 
designing a CT session that these principles are 
properly considered: mode, frequency, duration 
and intensity.
5 There is a wealth of literature 
on use of these principles in effective exercise prescription, yet it is common for coaches, 
sport scientists and other practitioners to skip 
these steps, especially when it comes to CT. Far 
too often CT is seen as nonspecific, low-risk, low-impact training that, as long as athletes feels 
as though they have worked hard, the desired 
outcome has been achieved. Athletes who are often prescribed CT sessions are those who are 
returning from injury, have a training restriction, 
or are in their off-season or noncompetitive phase 
of training where a level of detraining may have 
occurred; as a result, these athletes are possibly at the highest risk when it comes to a poorly 
constructed session.
Mode
In planning for CT, it is important to choose a 
mode of activity that allows the specific energy 
system to be stressed in the manner required. 
As outlined earlier, CT activities that require the use of large muscle mass and multiple joints will 
allow for a greater chance of transference. Careful 
consideration must also be given when selecting 
the most appropriate mode for athletes who are 

236 ❙ Rice and Spinks
Table 17.2  Reasons Olympic Endurance Sports Use Cross-Training 
SportCentral 
transfer 
(maintain or improve 
O
2 transport 
pathways)Peripheral transfer (O
2 
utilisation pathways)Strain and 
monotony 
reductionInjury 
rehabili
-
tation or preventionDevelop
-
ment of efficiency, 
non
-
specific 
strength 
or powerIncreased 
training 
volume 
without increasing 
risk of 
overuse or chronic 
injuryRejuve
-
nated or 
enhanced 
motivationSeasonal
application 
(inability 
do sport- specific 
training)
Rowing √ √ √ × √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √
Road cycling √ √ √ √ × × √ √ √ ×
Endurance 
track cycling √ √ √ √ × × √ √ √ ×
Mountain biking √ √ √ √ × × √ √ √ ×
Middle- to long-
distance 
running                
Swimming                
Flatwater canoeing or kayaking √ √ √ √ √ √ √ × √ √ √ √ √ √
Triathlon                
Race 
walking                
Cross-
country skiing                
injured or are returning from injury so as not to 
interfere with the recovery process. In this stage 
of planning a close collaboration with medical 
staff familiar with the injury is key.
Frequency
The frequency or number of sessions that an ath -
lete completes in a day, week, month or training cycle can have significant impact on whether the 
training goals and objectives are met. A balance 
must be kept between achieving CT goals without 
affecting the athlete’s specific sport activities.
The phase of training the athlete is in 
may influence the time available for CT. In competition-phase team training, individual skills sessions, strategy meetings and recov
-
ery from competition can reduce the number 
of sessions available to the athlete, although 
during this phase the goals may reflect the 
time available. An injured athlete may begin a 
rehabilitation program with a high frequency 
of CT sessions spread across a number of modalities (similar and dissimilar) in order to 
maximise the training effect but minimise the 
risk of non-sport-specific overuse injuries. As time progresses the aim of the program would 
be to integrate the athlete back towards full-
time sport-specific programs, which would 
be indicated by a reduced number of sessions, 
especially those of a dissimilar CT type.

 Optimising Effective Cross-Training Methods ❙ 237
Duration
The duration or time allocated to each session is 
influenced by session intensity, mode (apparatus, 
similar or dissimilar modes) and training goal. 
Sessions that are more intense and aim to improve 
anaerobic metabolism, speed and power are typi -
cally shorter in total duration (20-40 min) with 
shorter, high-intensity efforts interspersed with 
active recovery periods. Sessions aimed towards 
improving aerobic metabolism are likely to be longer (45-120 min) with a focus on periods of 
more moderate intensity. The key is to determine 
the needs of the athlete and programme accord -
ingly. This approach is discussed in more detail in chapter 1 and throughout part II of this book.
Intensity
The intensity of each CT session not only must be matched to the session goals, but also to the 
athlete’s specific capabilities. Often, intensity is 
dictated by the duration of the intended session. 
Only with the correct intensity can the oppor -
tunity for CT transference be maximised. For 
example, an athlete in the general preparation 
phase of training may be required to complete a 
higher number (frequency) of sessions, and as a result, the intensity would be based on improving 
aerobic power using intensities of 70 to 90 per cent 
of maximal oxygen consumption.
Determining Intensity  
in Cross-Training Sessions
A simple method for determining the appropriate 
level of intensity for athletes who are using a variety 
of CT apparatuses and modalities is to conduct basic 
progressive intensity tests on each apparatus to be 
used at or near the start of the training phase. Since 
elite athletes have little difficulty determining what is an easy effort and what is a maximal effort, deter
-
mining the intensities in between these end points can be valuable. Using the apparatus the athlete will 
use to complete most of his or her training helps with 
specificity and familiarisation. If the coach or athlete 
plans to use a wide variety of equipment concur
-
rently, this process may pose a time pressure; how -
ever, these testing or baseline sessions can be used 
as sessions in themselves, thereby maximising time.
To run a test, start the athlete at a low intensity 
and progressively increase the work intensity at set intervals (2-4 min) until the athlete is at maximal effort and cannot continue in the test. As the ath -
lete progresses through each step, ask the athlete 
to provide a rating of perceived exertion (RPE) for 
each level just before completing the time for that 
level and record the response.
6 In the early stages 
the athlete will be able to give a verbal answer, but as the athlete reaches the higher intensities, it will 
be handy to have the RPE scale on a card so the ath -
lete can point to the answer (remember the simple talk test for intensity). These are not scientific tests, but rather simple and practical means of setting 
intensity for work periods whilst cross-training.
The practitioner then has the flexibility to pre -
scribe sessions through two means—RPE or work intensity (e.g., gear, level, power output, cadence)—
since both have been collected during the test. In 
practical terms, if an athlete is experienced on the 
apparatus, has a history of CT and understands the differences in set-work intensities, then pre -
scribing via RPE can be effective. For athletes who lack these attributes, use the work intensity data to reduce the variability of an athlete who is inex -
perienced with perceptions of intensity.
It is important to note that when using RPE scales 
to set training intensity, an athlete’s experience in using these scales will determine how accurately the athlete achieves the desired intensity. The 
athlete’s RPE can be affected by other factors, such 
as previous exertion (fatigue), familiarity with the 
training apparatus and understanding of the ses -
sion demand. However, the use of RPE scales can be 
extremely beneficial for measuring and prescribing 
cross-training activities without the use of expen -
sive or limited access to monitoring technology.
Case Studies
Examples of how we integrate the theory of CT into 
practice in sport populations are demonstrated in 
the case studies that follow.
Periodisation of Cross-Training 
Into a Rowing Training Plan
For many Olympic endurance sports, CT forms a 
moderate-to-large part of routine training volume. 
One of the real advantages of using CT this way 
is that it is easy to manipulate the overload of the 
training program simply by adding or subtracting 

238 ❙ Rice and Spinks
CT sessions or alternatively by varying the intensity 
of specific sessions. In Australian high-performance 
rowing, CT forms a large component of the base 
preparation phase of each season (domestic is 
October to December; international is April to June).
The main aim of the base phase is to increase 
training volume and ultimately improve basic aerobic fitness traits that will enable the rower 
to have a solid foundation on which to produce higher-intensity efforts at a later time with good 
repeatability. As the preparation approaches 
the two major peaks of the year (national team 
selection in March and World Championships in 
August), the frequency of CT sessions is typically reduced. Interestingly, the sessions that remain in 
the program are often split between low-intensity 
volume-type sessions and mid- to high-intensity interval-type sessions. The real advantage of using CT in rowing (especially in the precompetition and 
taper phases) is that each session (or lack thereof, 
as it may be in some cases) can be 100 per cent tai -
lored to the individual athlete’s needs as opposed to on-water sessions in crew boats where each rower must attempt to work at similar levels and 
undertake every session.
As shown in table 17 .1, CT use in Olympic endur -
ance sports spans a broad spectrum with rowing 
having one of the highest percentages of training 
time applied through CT and triathlon showing little 
to none. For the sport of rowing, CT incorporates all 
aspects of load, frequency, intensity and duration.
Table 17 .3 outlines a typical training week for 
an elite rower in the general preparation phase of the domestic season. In Australia, this weekly 
Table 17.3   Sample Training Programme During General-Preparation Phase for an Elite Rower
Weekly goals: Continue to establish training routine, 90%-95% session compliance, update online training logs daily with 
metabolic and perception data
  Mon. Tues. Wed. Thurs. Fri. Sat. Sun.
Notes Leave for boat sheds at 6:30 a.m.Leave for boat sheds at 6:30 a.m.Leave for boat sheds at 6:45 a.m.Leave for boat sheds at 6:30 a.m.Leave for boat sheds at 8:00 a.m.
Session 1Ride to and from training (60 min)Ride to and from training (60 min)Row 3 × 21 min pieces 
(7', 7', 7') at 
SR22, SR28, SR24Off Ride to and 
from training 
(60 min)Off Cycle to and 
from training 
(60 min)
Session 2Row 20 km at SR 18-20Row 2 × 
2000 m at 
SR20 and SR24Off Row 20 km at SR 18-20Off Row 20 km with 36 min (8', 7', 6', 5', 4', 3', 2', 1') 
at SR 20, 22, 
24, 26, 24, 26, 28, 30
Session 
3WattBike: aerobic 
threshold for 90 min at 70%-75% 
HRmaxStrength and conditioningRowing ergometer: 
anaerobic threshold for 3 × 15 min 
at 80%-83% 
peak powerStrength and 
conditioningRide 90 min or run 45 min 
at 70%-80% HRmaxRide 150 min 
hills and flats 
at 70%-90% HRmax
Session 4Strength and conditioningFlexibility Hydrotherapy Row 12 km on water at 75% HRmaxHydrotherapy
Total training time: 23.3 hours
Total on-water distance: 150 kmEndurance cross-training time: 10.5 hours (45%)SR: stroke rate; HRmax: maximal heart rate

 Optimising Effective Cross-Training Methods ❙ 239
program would be implemented during the months 
of October and November. During that period the 
major training outcomes focus on improved train -
ing capacity, greater than 95 per cent compliance to the prescribed training plan, increased metabolic 
efficiency at intensities between 70 and 90 per cent of maximal capabilities and ultimately improved 
rowing performance over 15 to 30 minutes. Training 
load is supplemented with CT sessions of stationary rowing and cycle ergometer as well as running to 
make up over 45 per cent of total training time.
Some of the CT sessions are simple bicycle com -
muting to and from training; typically, these are 
done at low intensity (less than 70% maximal heart rate). In contrast, some of the stationary cycle and 
rowing ergometer sessions can be among the most 
intense sessions of the week (e.g., Thursday’s ses -
sion 3 on the stationary rowing ergometer). For the 
elite rower CT forms a large aspect of the weekly 
training load. CT enables the rower to increase 
or maintain high-training volume without the 
associated drawback of continual on-water rowing (e.g., chronic overuse injuries, blistered hands and 
overall body tightness due to the inability to move 
out of the rowing seat during the training session).
Table 17 .4 summarises how multimodality CT 
can form a large component of a rehabilitation or 
fitness-maintenance program for an injured rower. 
One of the increasingly common injuries in elite 
rowers over the last decade is rib stress fractures. 
The causes are not well understood, but the out -
comes are clear: minimal to no rowing for 5 to 21 days depending on the severity. In these cases the 
medical and coaching team look to CT as the only 
mechanism by which the rehabilitating athlete can 
maintain some degree of current fitness capacity and 
training consistency whilst importantly reducing the stress and demotivation that often accompany injury. 
In this example it is quite noticeable how CT (i.e., 
stationary rowing ergometer and stationary bicycle) forms a large part of the initial rehabilitation pro
-
gram. As the athlete progresses to a greater number of on-water sessions with varying volume and 
intensity, the number and severity of CT sessions, 
especially stationary bicycle sessions, are reduced.
Periodisation of Cross-Training Into 
a Team Sport Athlete’s Training Plan
The considerations for team sport athletes do not 
differ from those for athletes in individual sports. Rather, it is the rationale behind the CT and how it can be factored into a team sport athlete’s training 
demands that differs. This section focuses on the 
important factors that need to be considered when including CT into a team sport from the perspectives 
of general periodisation and injury rehabilitation.
Table 17 .5 shows how CT is periodised into the 
general program of the team sport athlete. It has its highest use during the preseason phase of prepar -
ation, although there remains a significant amount of CT done throughout the entire training year.
Tables 17 .6 and 17 .7 divide the preseason phase 
of the training year into greater detail, outlining how CT modality, frequency, intensity and dura -
tion shift as the required training becomes more 
focused on game-specific loads.
Periodisation of Cross Training 
Into an Injured Team Sport Athlete’s Training Plan
An athlete who has a lower-limb injury that pre -
vents him or her from running due to associated 
impact stress can continue to improve the cardio -
vascular system with the use of non-weight-bearing activities such as cycling, swimming, rowing ergo -
meter training and strength training. It is possible 
for an injured athlete’s CT program to use similar 
if not the same parameters designed for the regular 
weight-bearing or specific-activity training. In the example provided in table 17 .8 the running planned 
for the noninjured athlete can be transferred to the 
athlete’s CT program when he or she is not capable 
of completing the session as prescribed.
The challenge with the example in table 17 .8 is 
choosing an appropriate intensity on the bike to elicit the desired training effect. In this case it has 
been determined that the bike session needs to have an increased level of intensity, which can be 
achieved in many ways. In this example the passive 
rest used in the run session is replaced in the bike session with moderate-intensity cycling.
A period of transition occurs when an injured 
athlete returns to the chosen activity or sport and 
is still limited in the amount of specific training 
that can be completed. The factors contributing to 
limited training exposure can be many and varied 
based on the athlete’s medical or injury status. It is important to understand the mechanisms and 
justification underpinning the athlete’s return to 
full-training status, and a strong collaboration is 

240
Table 17.4  Rib Stress-Fracture Rehabilitation Program
Notes:
• Perform thorough warm-up and stretching before rowing.
• Do not progress to next level if morning symptoms are worse.
• Build volume prior to increasing rate or intensity.
• Review with physiotherapist every 2 or 3 days. Obtain medical reviews as indicated by doctor.
 ON-WATER ROWING SESSIONSENDURANCE CROSS-
TRAINING SESSIONS     
 Daily 
sessionsDistance (km)Handle pressure  
(light; moderate; firm) Stroke rate (s/min)Stationary rowing ergometerStationary cycle ergometer
Strength and conditioning 
or abdominal 
endurance program
Comments Treatment
Day 1 0       2 × 20 min at 
75% HRmax  Gym    
Day 2 0         Intense interval: 4 × 10 min at 400 W    Doctor review
Day 3 1 6   <18          
Day 4 Rest
Weekly total 1 6     1 1 1    
Day 5 1 8 Moderate <22 2 × 20 min at 300 W  Gym   Physiotherapist or doctor review
Day 6 1 6 Moderate Technical and exercises only  4 × 10 min at 
330 WAbdominal 
endurance program  Massage
Day 7 1 14 Moderate to firm <24 2 × 20 min at 300 W      Physiotherapy
Day 8 0         2 × 15 min at 
380 W/420 WGym   Optional 
massage
Day 9 1 12 Moderate to firm <28     Abdominal 
endurance program  Physiotherapy
Day 10 1 10 Firm <32 1 × 30 min at 
290 W4 × 10 min at 330 W 
Shorter efforts but faster and more intense 
(lots of recovery) 
Day 11 Rest
Weekly total 5 50     3 3 2    

 241
 ON-WATER ROWING SESSIONSENDURANCE CROSS-
TRAINING SESSIONS     
Day 12 1 16 Moderate to firm <28     Abdominal 
endurance program  Physiotherapist or doctor review
Day 13 2 2 15 1. Race: moderate  
    to hard2. Light1. 30-362. <22      Race to full capabilitiesMassage or physiotherapy
Day 14 0       2 × 20 min at 320 W45 min < 75% HRmax    Massage
Day 15 2 15 1. Moderate2. Light1. <242. 18-22        Physiotherapy
Day 16 1 12 Firm 30-36       Race to full 
capabilities 
Day 17 0                
Day 18 1 14 Firm 30-36       Race to full 
capabilities 
Weekly total 7 57     1 1      
Day 19 0           Gym Full training beginsPhysiotherapist or doctor review
Day 20 1 20 Light to moderate 22-24 1 × 40 min at 
290W  Abdominal 
endurance programDepending on painPhysiotherapy
Day 21 0               Massage
Day 22 2 30 1. Moderate to hard2. Light1. <282. 18 to 242 × 25 min at 325 W  Gym   Physiotherapy
Day 23 0         90 min at <75% HRmaxAbdominal endurance program  Massage
Day 24 2 30 1. Hard2. Light to moderate1. <302. 22-28         
Day 25 0                
Weekly total 5 80     2 1      

242Table 17.5  Impact of Training Phase on Cross-Training Programmes
Injury, nonselection, limited competition, playing time and specific conditioning goals can impact all variables.
ModeFrequency  
(days per week) Duration Intensity
Off-season Varied (e.g., bike, 
swim, row, run)2 or 3 30-90 min 2 × moderate
1 or 2 × moderate or low
Preseason, general preparation As above 3-5 45-120 min 2 × moderate
1 or 2 × high or moderate1 or 2 × moderate or low
Preseason, specific preparation As above 3 or 4 45-90 min 1 or 2 × high1 or 2 × high or moderate
In-season or competition As above 2 or 3 45-60 min 1 or 2 × high or moderate1 or 2 × moderate
Table 17.6  Sample Preseason Routine, General Preparation Phase
Notes:
• The objective of this phase of training is to improve an athlete’s general physical condition. Therefore exposure to a broad 
range of activities can be extremely beneficial.
• The training intensity, work-to-rest ratio and mode should match the type of physiological adaptation required for this phase. (In this sample the athlete could focus on improving aerobic power.)
• The CT content is relatively high (3+ hours).
• Strength and power have been given a higher priority by being placed prior to team-skills training. (Strength training is a form of CT.)
Sun. Mon. Tues. Wed. Thurs. Fri. Sat.
A.M. Rest Strength and power sessionCross-training (60 min)Strength and power session Cross-training (60 min)Team-skills sessionAerobic conditioning (specific)
P.M. Rest Team-skills sessionActive recoveryTeam-skills sessionActive recoveryStrength and power sessionCross-training (60-90 min)
Table 17.7  Sample Preseason Routine, Specific Preparation Phase
Notes:
• The objective of this phase of training is to focus on sport-specific performance as the team gets closer to competition.
• Cross-training content is scheduled slightly differently to reflect the importance of team training. The time allocated to CT 
has also been reduced slightly.
• Team-skills sessions are now scheduled before strength and power sessions, again reflecting the shift in focus.
• The training intensity, work-to-rest ratio, and mode should match the type of physiological adaptation required for this phase. 
(In this sample, the athlete could focus on improving aerobic power.)
Sun. Mon. Tues. Wed. Thurs. Fri. Sat.
A.M. Rest Team-skills 
sessionIndividual techni -
cal skills sessionTeam game–style sessionIndividual techni -
cal-skills sessionTeam-skills sessionTeam game–style session
P.M. Rest Strength and power sessionCross-training (45 min)Strength and power sessionCross-training (45 min)Strength and power sessionCross-training (45-60 min)
Table 17.8  Cross-Training for an Injured Team Sport Athlete
Run session Cross-training (cycle ergometer)
Warm-up : non-specific CV running, mobility exercises
Session : maximal aerobic speed (MAS) run sets; 5 min 
work period of 15 sec at 110% MAS, 15 sec at 60% MAS.Repeats : 5 repeats
Recovery : 4 min between sets (passive rest)
Cool-down : active mobility and flexibility exercises, 
water-based mobility exercisesWarm-up : varying speed cycling (low to moderate), mobility 
exercises off the bikeSession : 5 min work period of 15 sec at 110% MAS, 15 sec at 60% MAS.
Repeats : 5 repeats
Recovery : 4 min moderate-intensity cycling between sets
Cool-down : 5 min decreasing intensity cycling, active mobility and 
flexibility exercises off the bike, water-based mobility exercises

 Optimising Effective Cross-Training Methods ❙ 243
required between the medical practitioner and those 
responsible for designing the athlete’s training plan. 
It is only with this level of understanding that an 
appropriate plan can be put in place.
CT can be used to supplement training loads so 
that the athlete continues to progress not only in 
terms of returning from injury but also in terms 
of cardiovascular fitness. This is a critical phase 
as it can assist in shortening the time before an 
athlete has an adequate level of fitness to return to full-training status and ultimately competition.
Periodisation of Cross-Training  
in a Team Sport Athlete Returning From Injury
An athlete who has missed an extended period of 
training due to a ligament strain in the knee has 
started to be integrated back into team training. 
Due to the nature of the injury and the athlete’s 
limited exposure to high-intensity activities such as high-speed running and agility, the athlete can participate in only a portion of team activities. 
In this example, the athlete completes a range of 
controlled, specific tasks that relate to individual 
rehabilitation goals. However, it is determined that the cardiovascular load (or stress) that the athlete 
has been exposed to is not sufficient to elicit the 
desired training effect. This athlete then completes an additional CT portion (e.g., bike, stationary 
rower or swimming). Table 17 .9 shows what this 
session would look like in a training plan.
In the example in table 17 .9, the training com -
pleted by the injured athlete is deemed to be insufficient for the progression of cardiovascular 
fitness. The injured athlete is removed from drill 
5 (match practice) because it is deemed that his or her injury status and the level of intensity (and 
unpredictability) of this drill would place the ath -
lete at greater risk of reinjury. However, in order to supplement the high cardiovascular stress that this 
drill would have otherwise provided, a CT session has been designed and is conducted concurrently.
Table 17.9  Sample Session Integrating Cross-Training Into a Team-Training Session
Notes:
• In this example the athlete is capable of completing a mixture of team drills (drills 1-3, 6) as well as progressive 
rehabilitation-specific exercises (drills 4 and 5).
• The athlete’s participation must be closely monitored to determine the appropriateness of each drill. Even the best 
planned drills can and will change.
• A quick assessment of training demands will help determine the efficacy of the CT session. Has the session outcome changed from the planned outcome?
Team session Injured athlete’s session
Warm-up : nonspecific CV running, mobility exercises, 
progressive speed run-throughs, dynamic skill warm-up drills
Session : team tactical and technical session (40 min)
Drill 1 (5 min): static skill practice (kicking)
Drill 2 (10 min): team ball movement (tactical)
Drill 3 (5 min): small-group, set-play structure
Drill 4 (5 min): tackle technique
Drill 5 (10 min): match practice
Drill 6 (5 min): goal kicking
Cool-down : active mobility and flexibility exercises, 
water-based mobility exercisesWarm-up : nonspecific CV running, mobility exercises, 
progressive speed run-throughs, dynamic skill warm-up 
drills
Session : integrate to team training, progress open and 
closed agility drills, top-up CV fitness with cross-training
Drill 1 (5 min): static skill practice (kicking)
Drill 2 (10 min): team ball movement (tactical)
Drill 3 (5 min): small-group, set-play structure
Drill 4: (5 min) modified, controlled agilityDrill 5: (10 min) modified, continue controlled agility, 
game-specific repeat-effort drills
Drill 6 (5 min): goal kicking
Cross-training (30 min): row, ski, or bike ergometer, 
pyramid 15 sec on/15 sec easy; 30 sec on/30 sec easy; 45 sec on/45 sec easy; 60 sec on/60 sec easy; then back down again (10 min). Complete for each modality. On = 
RPE of 7; easy = RPE of 4.
Cool-down : active mobility and flexibility exercises, 
water-based mobility exercises

244 ❙ Rice and Spinks
Summary
Depending on the sport and athlete-specific 
requirements CT can contribute in varying degrees 
to the overall training load. The reasons for adding 
CT into a training plan include
• supplementing an increase in training volume without increasing the risk of 
injury;
• enabling continuation of training whilst reha -
bilitating from a separate injury;
• maintaining sport-specific motivation or pos -
sibly remotivating the stale athlete;• improving overall fitness through increased 
efficiency; and
• enhancing recovery from high-stress sport- 
specific training.
When programming CT into a plan, the gov -
erning factors are the same as with any other 
well-constructed training plan: Identify the goals or 
aims for the athlete and plan to introduce CT progres -
sively through manipulations of mode, frequency, 
intensity and duration. Whether included as a major 
focus of a training plan or to help focus the athlete on 
key sport-specific sessions, CT can make a real dif -
ference to the performance outcomes of any athlete.

PARTIII
Delivering Performance
Zuma Press/Icon SMI

This page intentionally left blank.

CHAPTER
 247
18
18
18
Athletes can be viewed as self-organising and 
adaptive in nature. Therefore, the purpose 
of training is to exploit their adaptive capacity to improve their ability to self-organise and achieve 
their goals. Monotonous training (i.e., training with 
little variation) can lead to an exhaustion response in the form of increased risk of injury and illness. 
Since an athlete may be at a different stage of the 
stress–response cycle on any given day, the peri-odic, planned fl  uctuations in training volume and 
intensity are a vital consideration when attempt-
ing to manipulate the stress response for positive 
adaptations. Periodisation is simply the strategic 
planning and monitoring of training in order to facilitate the right adaptations at the right time to 
lead to competitive success.
The aim of this chapter is to use real-world 
examples to illustrate strategies that have been used to design effective training programmes for 
successful athletes. Every training programme 
should be written with the end in mind. The 
strategy used should be the one that best fi  ts the constraints of the sport and the objectives of the 
athlete. The fi  rst section of the chapter addresses 
the nature of adaptation, the second discusses how 
to construct a programme, the third illustrates 
how training programmes are structured and the fourth demonstrates strategies that can be used to 
achieve the desired goals.General Adaptation 
Syndrome
Exploiting the adaptive capacity of the human 
body (fi  rst described by Selye in 1950 as the general 
adaptation syndrome1) is the central component 
to designing an effective training programme. The acute cell-signalling, hormonal and immune 
responses that lead to protein synthesis and func-
tional adaptations are highly specifi  c to the training 
stress imposed on the athlete.
2 If a training session 
has suffi  cient volume and intensity to cause over-
load, it is followed by acute fatigue (alarm). In time 
this is followed by a supercompensation (resistance) 
response, which is a positive adaptation. The sum-
mation of several training sessions and subsequent adaptation is the central tenet to cyclical loading.
3,4
The summation of several training sessions over time will also have a greater fatigue and subsequent 
supercompensation response.
If the appropriate stresses are added together with 
appropriate recovery time, an adaptive response will take place that will leave the organism in a 
better-prepared state than previously. This super-
compensation response or positive adaptation is 
due to the mobilisation of energy resources and hor-monal responses. This is why fi  tness gains are found 
with consistent, long-term training. As with the acute Planning a Performance 
Programme
Benjamin Rosenblatt, ASCC
Senior Strength and Conditioning Coach, English Institute of Sport, 
England and Great Britain Hockey

248 ❙ Rosenblatt
response, if the overall volume, intensity, frequency 
and type of stress are too great and recovery is not 
suffi  cient, a chronic maladaptive or exhaustive state 
will result. In sports, this is demonstrated by illness, 
susceptibility to injury or overtraining, which has 
symptoms similar to chronic fatigue syndrome.5,6
Designing a Training Plan
The purpose of a training plan is to exploit the adaptive capacities of the athlete to increase the 
probability of achieving a sport objective. In order 
to write a training plan and determine which 
method of periodisation should be used, the fol-
lowing steps should be taken (fi  gure 18.1).
• Sport profile. It is vital to have a thorough and 
detailed understanding of the demands of the sport and the key performance indicators. An excellent 
example of a performance model for sprint cycling 
has been detailed by Martin and colleagues.
7 Con-
straints to consider are the competition calendar 
and locations, opponents, tactical demands, style 
of play, what is required to win and physical cha-
racteristics that underpin performance.
• Athlete profile.  Once the competitive demands 
and key performance indicators of the sport are understood, it is vital to determine what physi-
cal characteristics an athlete has and his or her 
strengths and weaknesses. This information will 
help determined what qualities support perfor-mance and what qualities are limiting performance. 
This process is described in more detail in chapters 
1 and 2.
• Objectives.  With knowledge of the competi-
tive calendar, the demands of the sport and the 
needs of the athlete, it is possible to determine 
clear objectives for the athlete’s physical devel-
opment. Objectives must be specifi  c, accountable 
and time based. What precisely does the athlete 
need to achieve, and when does he or she need to 
achieve it?
• Training plan.  Once we know what the athlete 
needs to do and when it needs to be done, training 
opportunities within the competitive calendar will 
start to emerge. The decision can then be made on volume and intensity of types of training based on knowledge of periodisation strategies (discussed 
later) and the time frame of adaptations for phys-
ical qualities.
• Monitoring.  In order to make informed deci-
sions regarding the effectiveness of the chosen 
training strategy, the training completed and the 
individual response must be monitored. This step 
is detailed further in chapter 6. Information gained 
from monitoring can lead to real-time adjustments training strategies.
A large body of evidence suggests that general 
adaptation syndrome can be applied to training for sport performance.
8 Whilst training is aimed 
at exploiting the adaptive capacity of the athlete, 
muscle injury and upper respiratory tract infec-
tions (URTI) are both examples of an athlete 
responding negatively to the total amount of stress 
placed on the system.
Positive, specifi  c chronic adaptations can be facil-
itated by providing a specifi  c overload stress, which 
facilitates an alarm response. It is possible to manip-
ulate several variables to promote an overload and 
gain an adaptation rather than exhaustion. Whilst 
the idea of ever-increasing training loads may be attractive to coaches, failure to vary the elements of 
a training plan is known to result in signifi  cantly 
increased risk of muscle injury
9 and respiratory 
infections.10 We cannot, therefore, simply ask the 
athlete to do more and more with impunity. The 
aim when designing programmes is to manipulate 
several training variables to gain a positive response 
to training load, rather than a negative one. The 
variables that can be manipulated include volume and intensity, frequency, overload and recovery.
Volume and Intensity
Training volume is the amount of training completed; training intensity refers to how strenuous training 
is. Typically, training volume is quantifi  ed in total 
amount of work done (time or distance) and training 
intensity is work done in relation to a known maxi-
mum (percentage of max). The acute volume and 
intensity of training must be suffi  cient enough to cause 
an acute stress response. This is known as overload.
The overall volume and intensity of training 
over a specified period must be sufficient to 
Monitoring Training plan Objectives Athlete profile Sport profile
E5891/Joyce/480136/Fig 18.01/R1/JGFigure 18.1  A schematic of the training planning process.

 Planning a Performance Programme ❙ 249
facilitate long-term adaptations. A positive stress 
response to training is an athlete being able to 
tolerate greater volumes of work and greater vol -
umes of higher-intensity work. However, excessive training volumes and intensity over time has been 
shown to cause an exhaustion response, which leads to overtraining or injury.
6 It is important to 
quantify both the volume and intensity of training 
an athlete is completing in order to determine the 
magnitude of the training stress.
Frequency
The training frequency is how often a training stress is applied and is typically quantified in number of 
sessions. As with volume and intensity, training 
stress must be applied frequently enough to overload the athlete and initiate an alarm response, but not too 
frequently that an exhaustion response is triggered.
Overload
The overload principle suggests that training must 
be of sufficient volume, intensity and frequency to 
stimulate a stress response.
Recovery
Recovery is the time course of the alarm phase. If 
successive training stresses are applied in the alarm 
phase, secondary alarm phases will be triggered 
that could lead to exhaustion rather than adaptation.
Manipulating Training 
Variables to Structure Training Programmes
Several strategies exist for manipulating train -
ing volume and intensity to facilitate overload, 
encourage recovery and adaptation and provide variation. These are detailed in table 18.1 and 
illustrated in figure 18.2, a-e . Ultimately, each 
strategy has its merits, but these are simply tools 
to facilitate the adaptive response. The strategy 
used should be determined by the objective for 
each phase of the training units discussed in the 
next section. Planning the volumes and intensities of work and monitoring the responses to train -
ing (both acute and chronic) is the only way to determine how an individual athlete or team has responded to the strategy employed. Having mon -
itoring plans facilitates making more informed decisions in the future.
Case Study: Elite Ski-Cross 
Athlete Returning From Injury
A high-performance ski-cross athlete was return -
ing from injury in order to compete at a qual -
ification tournament for the Winter Olympic 
Games. She was using the rating of perceived 
exertion–based training impulse (RPE-based 
TRIMP) system to record training load in order to monitor and modulate total training stress (see 
chapter 6). Figure 18.3 shows how a week of high 
training stress was accumulated on weeks 1, 4 and 7 . (Figure 18.4 shows the athlete’s daily training 
load.) She returned to skiing in week 5; in week 8 
she had a reaction in her knee and was unable to 
complete the planned training load. Although the 
total training load was only slightly higher than her previous high-load weeks (figure 18.3), the 
strain of training was much greater on this week, 
indicating little variation in training. The athlete was able to race at the qualifying tournament. 
However, one cannot help but wonder if the train -
ing stress had been planned more effectively (less total stress and greater intersession variation), she 
may not have had the reaction in her knee and may have entered the competition in a better-prepared 
Table 18.1  Strategies Used to Manipulate the Volume and Intensity of Training
Name Strategy
Classical Reciprocal change of overall volume and intensity
Wave Similar fluctuations in volume and intensity of work
Incremental Gradual increase in volume and intensity of work
Varying volume Maintenance of high training intensity with oscillating volume
Varying intensity Maintenance of high training volume with oscillating intensity
Reactive Manipulation of daily training volume and intensity based on how the athlete and coach feel

250 ❙ Rosenblatt
state. This example highlights the value in varying 
training load between sessions in order to prevent 
overreaching and facilitate performance gains.
Defi  nition of Training Units
A training plan is divided into several units, each 
with a specifi  c objective. The training units are 
hierarchical in nature. Macrocycles  generally are 
periods of a year and consist of several blocks called mesocycles . Each mesocycle aims at achiev-
ing certain objectives and is made up of several 
microcycles  ( fi g u r e  1 8 . 5 ) . A microcycle generally 
lasts 5 to 14 training days, and the volume and intensity of work is manipulated for each micro-cycle to prevent over- or underreaching. Several 
training days make up a microcycle. The volume and intensity of work are manipulated on a daily 
basis to ensure an athlete is not over- or under-reaching. Several training sessions can make up 
a training day with competing or complimentary 
objectives.
Strategies for Manipulating 
Training Units to Achieve Desired Goals
Several strategies have been defi  ned in order to 
optimise training adaptations and are described in 
table 18.2. The purpose of this section is to review 
some evidence for each strategy and to demon-
strate when they have been successful.
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14
WeekIntensity Volume
E5891/Joyce/480138/Fig 18.02a/R1/JG
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14
WeekIntensity Volume
E5891/Joyce/480139/Fig 18.02b/R1/JG
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14
WeekIntensity Volume
E5891/Joyce/480140/Fig 18.02c/R1/JG
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14
WeekIntensity Volume
E5891/Joyce/480141/Fig 18.02d/R1/JG
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14
WeekIntensity Volume
E5891/Joyce/481011/Fig 18.02e/R1/JGFigure 18.2  Manipulation of training volume and intensity using a ( a) classical, ( b) wave, ( c) incremental, ( d) 
varying volume, or ( e) varying intensity strategy.a
b c
d e

Planning a Performance Programme ❙ 251
Week
Weekly strain (AU)Total training load (AU)8000
70006000
5000
400030002000
1000
014
12
108
6
420
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8Total load
Strain
E5891/Joyce/480142/Fig 18.03/R1/JG
WeekDaily training load (AU)2000
020040060080010001200140016001800
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8E5891/Joyce/480143/Fig 18.04/R1/JGFigure 18.3  Total weekly training load and training strain accumulated by a high-performance ski-cross athlete 
before an Olympic qualification tournament. The star indicates the week when her knee had an adverse reaction. 
The straight black line indicates a potential limit to total training stress for this athlete.
Figure 18.4  Daily training load accumulated by a high-performance ski-cross athlete before an Olympic qualifi-
cation tournament. The star indicates the week her knee had an adverse reaction.
Linear Strategy
This training strategy involves the sequential 
development of one physical quality after another, 
each becoming more specifi  c to the sport perfor-
mance. An example for a sprinter would be to 
develop general fi  tness and strength in the fi  rst mesocycle; specifi  c strength, power and speed 
endurance in the next mesocycle; and speed in 
the last mesocycle before competition. Evidence 
for a linear approach to training certainly exists in 
strength training, where it has been demonstrated 
that stronger athletes have greater capacities to adapt to power training than do weaker athletes.
11

252 ❙ Rosenblatt
This would suggest that an athlete who needed 
to improve maximal power capabilities should 
progress in a linear fashion by developing hyper -
trophy, maximal strength and finally power. The advantage of this strategy is that there is an 
obvious progression of physical development. The disadvantage is that the linear progression 
does not always match the physical development 
requirements of all athletes.
Case study.  In figure 18.6, the total volume and 
average intensity of strength training during three mesocycles have been displayed for an elite soccer 
goalkeeper with no previous history of strength 
training. The training period was undertaken at the start of preseason (July) and ended during 
the season (October). After this training phase 
the goalkeeper continued to lift once per week to maintain strength. Each mesocycle was 4 weeks long, and the exercises (hang clean, back squat 
and step-up) were kept the same for the entire 
training period. The first mesocycle was aimed at 
hypertrophy and tolerance to strength training. 
The second was designed to maintain a relatively high volume but increase the intensity of training 
in order for the goalkeeper to be able to tolerate the 
high intensities of the maximal strength mesocycle. The outcome of the training was that despite an 
intensive preseason and the playing demands of 
the season, the goalkeeper was able to increase 
countermovement jump (CMJ) height by 4 cen -
timetres. Since goalkeeping performance can be 
limited by jump height, this was a meaningful 
change in physical performance, which in turn led 
to improvements in technical performance.E5891/Joyce/480144/Fig 18.05/R1/JGTraining
unitsMicrocycles Mesocycles MacrocycleM1
2
3
451
2
3
4T
W
Th
F
S
Su
Figure 18.5  Training fits into microcycles, which fit into mesocycles, which make up the macrocycle.
Table 18.2  Common Names and Descriptions of Strategies to Manipulate Training Units
Name Strategy
Linear Periodic sequencing of one physical quality after another: hypertrophy, strength, power
Concurrent Training several competing qualities such as endurance and strength during one mesocycle
Conjugate Training several complimentary physical qualities such as power and strength during one period
Concentrated Short periods of high training stress aimed at improving an individual physical quality, for example, a 
2-week mesocycle to develop aerobic capacity
Block Sequential blocks of concentrated mesocycles
Taper Rapid reduction in either volume or intensity of work to facilitate supercompensation before competition
Competition Preparation for sequential competitions in short succession

Planning a Performance Programme ❙ 253
Intensity (average kg/rep)Volume (total reps)
0100200300400500600700
4044800900
0102030405060708090
Hypertrophy General
strengthMax
strengthCMJ height (cm) Intensity Volume
E5891/Joyce/480146/Fig 18.06/R1/JGFigure 18.6  Example of a linear strength training 
programme that increased countermovement jump 
(CMJ) height of a Premier League goalkeeper by 10 per 
cent. The total volume and average intensity for each 
mesocycle are displayed as well as the CMJ height at 
the beginning and the end of the training phase.
Concurrent Strategy
Many sports require the development of several 
physical qualities for performance. However, the 
development of some physical qualities may come 
at the expense of others due to fatigue caused by 
one form of training or competing cell-signalling 
pathways.12 However, rather than conceptualising 
physical qualities as competing, it may be more 
appropriate to consider training stress as a whole. 
Over a mesocycle it may be possible to undulate the 
volume and intensity of strength and endurance 
work to maintain a constant total training stress, but leave energy resources for training and adap-
tation to both forms of training (see chapter 20).
A concurrent strategy may be appropriate for 
maintenance or small longitudinal gains in sev-eral fi  tness qualities over a long season (e.g., in 
professional rugby or football) or for a developing 
athlete. This strategy may not be appropriate for 
a well-trained athlete who is attempting to make considerable gains in a specifi  c physical quality. The 
advantages and disadvantages of concurrent train-
ing are discussed in greater detail in chapter 20.
Case study.  An elite judo fi  ghter ruptured her 
ACL 6 months before a selection tournament for the Olympic Games. Before her injury, her 
fi  ghting style was to wear down opponents and 
win towards the end of the contest. After her injury, high-intensity aerobic fi  tness was of par-
amount importance to her performance. Because 
she had ruptured her ACL, lower-limb strength 
and muscle–tendon stiffness (particularly of the 
medial hamstrings) were limiting her capacity to return to full judo training. The constraints of her 
plan were that she had to accumulate 2 months 
of progressive judo training before competition, and she could not undertake meaningful training 
within the fi  rst 2 weeks postsurgery. Her training 
aims were to develop high-intensity aerobic fi  tness 
(measured by a repeated-effort test on the rowing 
machine) and lower-limb strength (measured by single-leg squats to failure, hip bridge time to fail-
ure, single-leg heel raises to failure and maximal 
hopping distance) to improve lower-limb function concurrently within a 12-week period before the 
planned start of judo training.
Three strength-training sessions and 5 fi  tness 
sessions, including 2 long interval sessions (3-6 ×
3-6 min work, 3-6 min rest), 2 short interval ses-sions (3 or 4 × 20-40 sec work, 10-20 sec rest) and 
one anaerobic session (3-6 × 40 sec work, 4 min 
rest) were undertaken per week.
There was an undulating decrease in strength- 
and fi  tness-training volume throughout the period to facilitate greater training intensity (fi  gure 18.7). 
By the end of the training period she was able to 
achieve a 10 per cent fatigue index on the repeated rowing test (a high-level score is considered under 
20 per cent), make vast improvements in muscular 
conditioning (fi  gure 18.8) and in muscular power 
(fi  gure 18.9). These results demonstrated that a 
concurrent training strategy can be effective at improving markers of strength and aerobic fi  tness 
during the rehabilitation of an elite athlete.
Conjugate Strategy
Advanced and elite athletes are capable of train-
ing at much greater intensities than subelite and 
developmental athletes. The amount of training 
stress they can accumulate with a maximal inten-
sity session is high. A linear approach to training 
this could lead to issues since it may require elite athletes to accumulate high levels of training-
specifi  c stress several times within a microcycle. 
To counter this issue, the conjugate method of periodisation was developed by Verkoshansky.
13

254 ❙ Rosenblatt
Strength
FitnessWeekly strength volume (total reps)
Weekly fitness volume (total minutes)
Week1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 1202004006008001000120014001600
020406080100120140
E5891/Joyce/480147/Fig 18.07/R1/JG
SL bridge (s) SL heel raise (reps) SL squat (reps)Maximum repetitions (reps)300
250200
150
100
50
0
Week 3 Week 9 Week 3 Week 9 Week 3 Week 9Noninjured
Injured
E5891/Joyce/480148/Fig 18.08/R2/JG
Hopping distance (cm)155
150
140145
135
130
Week 9 Week 12Noninjured Injured
E5891/Joyce/480149/Fig 18.09/R3/JGFigure 18.9  Change in maximum single-leg hopping 
distance from weeks 9 to 12 of the concurrent training 
period.Figure 18.7  Total weekly volume of strength and fitness training during a concurrent training period aimed at 
improving strength and fitness of an elite judo fighter.
Figure 18.8  Changes in muscular conditioning from weeks 3 to 9 of the concurrent training period.
The conjugate method involves training sev-
eral physical qualities within one microcycle but 
maximising intensity in only one of those physical 
qualities per mesocycle. For example, maximal 
strength, speed strength and strength speed are 
all required to maximise long jump performance. If strength training is undertaken three times per 
week, one session would involve all three strength 
qualities; one would be emphasised and the other 
two would be submaximal each week.
The emphasis in week 1 might be on maximal 
strength; in week 2 it might be strength speed and 

Planning a Performance Programme ❙ 255
in week 3 it might be speed strength. Repeating 
these mesocycles would facilitate the longer-term 
development of all three strength qualities without 
inducing unnecessary fatigue. This approach is 
most famously used by powerlifters at the Westside 
Barbell powerlifting club in the United States but is also successfully employed by rugby clubs in season 
and jumpers.
The advantage of a conjugate training strategy is 
that it is possible to develop several physical attributes during one training period. However, the athlete 
must be of suffi  cient physical development in order 
to achieve the required levels of training intensity.
Concentrated Strategy
There is growing evidence for the effi  cacy of con-
centrated loading at improving various parameters of fi  tness. Ronnestad, Hansen and Ellefsen
14 demon-
strated greater gains in endurance parameters of 
well-trained cyclists when fi  ve of eight planned 
high-intensity aerobic training sessions were placed 
in the fi  rst week of a 4-week mesocycle compared to 
spreading these training sessions evenly throughout the mesocycle. The Bulgarian weightlifting team also 
employed periods of concentrated loading to great 
success. It is reported that they lifted maximally sev-eral times per day in short, concentrated mesocycles.
4
The clear advantage of a concentrated loading 
strategy is that large gains in physical development 
are made in short spaces of time. However, training 
volume and intensity is high and potentially mono-
tonous; therefore, this is a short-term strategy to be 
used with highly developed and specialised athletes.Case study.  A Premier League football team had 
a 6-week preseason. It was decided that all training 
would be undertaken using small-sided games 
and football drills with an emphasis on achieving 
certain durations in heart rate zones. The coaching 
team did not plan for any matches within the fi  rst 3 weeks of training. Instead, the coaches opted for 
a 3-week period of concentrated loading of condi-
tioning-orientated football training followed by a 3-week period involving more tactical work and 
match play. A maximal aerobic running-speed 
assessment was undertaken during week 1 and at 
the end of week 3 to determine if the training stress 
was suffi  cient to improve aerobic capacity. Training load was calculated using a bespoke system.
Figure 18.10 shows how the training strain and 
load for weeks 1 to 3 were much greater than in weeks 4 to 6. Forty-seven per cent of the total train-
ing load for the 6-week period was concentrated 
into weeks 2 and 3. There was a 10 per cent increase 
(effect size of 2.03) in the maximal aerobic running 
speed of the team from 4.42 +0.27 m/s to 4.85 +0.13 m/s. This indicated that the concentrated loading 
of football-specifi  c training was an effective strat-
egy for increasing aerobic running performance 
in a Premier League football team.
Block Strategy
This approach was fi  rst developed to navigate 
around the challenges of athletes having to peak 
several times in a season.15 The block strategy 
involves planning sequential blocks of concen-trated mesocycles. As each block accumulates high 
Weekly total load
Weekly strainTotal load (AU)
Strain
Week1 2 3 4 5 60100200300400500600
00.511. 522.5
E5891/Joyce/480150/Fig 18.10/R1/JGFigure 18.10  Weekly total training load and training strain over a 6-week period of preseason in a Premier League 
football team. The load is concentrated into the first 3 weeks of training.

256 ❙ Rosenblatt
levels of fatigue, the delayed effects of training are 
exploited with a performance peak at the end of 
the third block.
Essentially, the blocks are three mesocycles: 
accumulation, transmutation and realisation. 
The accumulation block aims to develop physical qualities, such as maximal strength and endur -
ance, with long-term residual training effects. The transmutation block involves concentrated loading of sport-specific fitness qualities. The 
final realisation block involves a large reduction 
in training stress and an emphasis on training to 
model performance. This strategy involves heavy 
periods of fatigue, and due to concentrated periods of high training volumes and intensities, it may be 
useful for athletes who have major competitions 
on a monthly or bimonthly basis, such as those in boxing, kayaking, bobsleighing and rowing.
Case study.  A developmental 500-metre female 
sprint kayaker was aiming to maximise perfor -
mance for the last regatta of the year so she could step up to the national team. She was already strong and had naturally high levels of aerobic 
fitness but was detrained. She was limited by her 
technical execution especially at higher stroke 
rates. She had 9 weeks before competition.
The accumulation block was 3 weeks long and 
was aimed at improving aerobic capacity and technical execution at high and low stroke rates. 
Training was divided into strength maintenance (2 times a week), aerobic development (5 times 
a week cross-training), technical paddles at low 
stroke rates (4 times a week) and technical paddles 
at high stroke rates (3 times a week).
The transmutation block lasted 4 weeks and 
was aimed at transferring her aerobic fitness and technical execution into race-specific speed 
and speed endurance. This block of training involved strength maintenance and power (2 
times a week), aerobic maintenance (1 time a week 
cross-training), technical paddles at low stoke 
rates (3 times a week), speed endurance (5 times a 
week) and speed training (3 times a week).
The final realisation block aimed at improving 
race strategy and reducing training volume to 
facilitate adaptations. This block involved power 
maintenance (2 times a week), aerobic maintenance 
(1 time a week), technical paddles at low stroke rates 
(3 times a week) and race modelling sessions (3 times a week). This strategy facilitated a personal best per
-
formance at the regatta by 7 seconds and resulted in selection to the national team (see figure 18.11, a-c ).Figure 18.11  Distribution of training in the ( a) accu -
mulation, ( b) transmutation and ( c) realisation blocks of 
training for the developmental sprint kayaker.a
b
cTechnical
46%Aerobic
39%Strength 
and power
15%
E5891/Joyce/480151/Fig 18.11a/R2/JG
Aerobic
7%Technical
22%
Speed
endurance
36%Speed
21%
Strength 
and power
14%
E5891/Joyce/480152/Fig 18.11b/R2/JG
Technical
34% Modelling
33%
Strength
and power
22%Aerobic
11%
E5891/Joyce/480153/Fig 18.11c/R2/JG

Planning a Performance Programme ❙ 257
Tapering Strategy
Tapering is the rapid reduction in either volume or 
intensity of work to facilitate supercompensation 
before competition. Tapering can occur with a 
microcycle (e.g., with a team preparing for weekly 
competition) or can be a dedicated mesocycle (e.g., 
for a swimmer preparing for a world champion-ships). Current thinking favours a drastic reduc-
tion in volume but maintenance of intensity when 
close to competition. As with all other responses to loading, responses to unloading are highly 
individual in nature
16 and should be character-
ised to determine the optimal response for each athlete. This concept is explored in more detail 
in chapter 22.
Competition Strategy
One of the most challenging aspects of periodi-sation is the manipulation of training stress to 
optimise fi  tness adaptations without accumulating 
excessive fatigue during the competition phase. In 
elite-level professional football and rugby, teams 
have to play once or twice per week every week for several months. An effective periodisation strategy 
is one that gives the individual players enough 
training stress of the right type at the right time to maximise performance without causing too 
much fatigue. This phase of training is commonly 
characterised by low training volumes with phys-
ical qualities maintained but rarely developed.
Kelly and Coutts17 have outlined a strategy 
they used in the Australian professional Rugby League. Their model factors in the level of com-
petition, the time between matches and the loca-
tion of the match to determine a match-diffi  culty 
rating. When the match-diffi  culty rating is plotted week by week, it is possible to determine how 
much training load should be accumulated each 
week and to identify opportunities for fi  tness 
gains and recovery.
On a smaller scale, fi  gure 18.12 displays the 
football-specifi  c training load of a Premier League team before a match on Saturday. Over 60 per 
cent of the total training stress was accumulated 
at the start of the week with a recovery day in the 
middle and the remaining 40 per cent of training stress towards the end of the week. The last 2 days before the match tended to be devoted to more 
tactical aspects whilst the start of the week was 
orientated towards maintenance of fi  tness through 
small-sided games.
A competition strategy is vital for performance. 
Being able to maintain and develop physical qualities for competition without accumulating 
undesirable fatigue is a fi  ne balance and one that should be explored in much further detail with the 
athletes involved.
Training load (% of total weekly load)
0%5%10%15%20%25%30%35%
Mon Tue Wed Thurs Fri Sat
E5891/Joyce/480154/Fig 18.12/R2/JGFigure 18.12  Training load distribution for a Premier 
League football team over a microcycle with competition 
on Saturday.
Summary
Periodisation is essentially the manipulation of 
training stress to produce a desired outcome. 
Several strategies can be employed to achieve 
this objective, each with its own merits. The 
decision-making process should be based on the 
demands of the sport and the needs of the athlete. The training plan should be monitored to ensure 
it is effective and to learn more about how the 
athletes adapt to stress. When writing training plans, consider what each athlete needs, when he 
or she needs it and, only then, what is the best way 
of training to meet those needs.

This page intentionally left blank.

CHAPTER
 259
19
19
19
Energy-system development is essential to every 
area of athletic performance, and yet any dis-
cussion on such principles needs to begin with the recognition that the body’s energy pathways were 
not designed with this goal in mind. The body does 
not care how fast an athlete can run a 40-yard dash any more than it wants to be pushed to run 26.2 
miles in the shortest time possible.
Instead, all the pieces of the energy-system 
puzzle, in their elegant complexity and beauty, have one fundamental purpose: support life rather 
fuel performance. By providing the constant, 
unending supply of energy that every cell in the 
body needs to function, energy systems are at the heart of every aspect of the biological drive to 
maintain life.
It is this biological drive to produce energy and 
survive that makes it possible to reach the limits of human performance through specifi  c training. 
Only with a true understanding of this simple 
truth can effective programmes be designed and 
athletic performance enhanced as a result.
The purpose of this chapter is to explore the 
concept of energy-system development within the greater context of athletic performance and 
program design. More specifi  cally, this chapter 
provides an overview of the role of energy systems along with key principles that every coach should 
understand when designing the yearly training 
program.Energy Systems and Athletic 
Performance
It is not an overstatement to say that success in every 
sport fundamentally relies on the body’s ability to 
produce energy. This is because, in many ways, 
athletic performance represents the limits that the 
human body is capable of being pushed to, and each 
cell must function at its peak if an athlete is going 
to perform at his or her best. Although usually only 
the working muscles or heart are discussed when the topic of energy systems comes up, many tissues 
in the human body require far more energy to func-
tion properly during athletic events than at rest.
The brain itself, for example, has a massive job to 
perform during athletic events. Coordinating the intricate and rapid fi  ring of hundreds of muscles 
within milliseconds takes a tremendously large 
amount of energy. Research has even shown that due to the high energy demands of exhaustive exercise, the brain can respond by increasing the 
amount of glycogen it stores locally to make it 
better equipped to meet such needs.
1
In other words, supercompensation and changes 
in energy production are not confi  ned just to the 
working muscles or the cardiovascular system. 
Such changes take place throughout the body in 
response to exercise because energy production 
and usage is literally a matter of life or death.Designing Energy-Specific 
Programmes
Joel Jamieson
8 Weeks Out

260 ❙ Jamieson
Wisdom
The brain is incredibly important when it comes to 
energy systems  . Not only does it coordinate motor con -
trol and power output, but it also regulates blood flow, hormone levels and a variety of cellular functions that support energy production and expenditure  . Energy 
systems are about much more than just muscles and the cardiovascular system  . The brain reigns supreme  .
Without a constant supply of energy, the body 
cannot survive, which is what makes exercise 
such a powerful stimulus. Exercise challenges the 
body’s energy-producing machinery in ways that 
ultimately lead to improved function. This is a 
prime example of the nature of the body’s adaptive mechanisms at their finest.
When challenged appropriately, the changes 
in energy-system function stimulated by training lead to increased athletic performance and success. 
However, when the stimulus is inappropriate to the 
demands of a particular sport or individual athlete, the results can be disastrous, and performance 
can suffer. Having a thorough understanding of 
the specific energy requirements of a given sport as well as the physiological demands resulting 
from a given training program are two important 
prerequisites to effective coaching.
At the most basic level, the biggest differentiators 
in athletic performance are technical skill level, speed of skill execution and the effectiveness of 
strategy and tactics used. The best athletes are more 
skilled, have a higher level of power output and use more effective strategies than less-successful 
athletes. These three factors are largely what sep -
arate the world-record holders from everyone else.
Within this context of athletic performance, 
energy systems play the biggest role in determining 
the level of power output an athlete is capable of. 
This power output is ultimately the limiting factor 
that determines the speed at which an athlete is 
able to execute skills; all things being equal, when 
skills are executed faster, performance is greater.
Consider the speed of a professional soccer game 
compared to that of a game played between two high school teams, or the velocity generated by a 
professional baseball player’s bat swing compared 
to that of a little leaguer, for example. Even in endur -
ance sports, those with the best times are those 
who are able to move their limbs the fastest for the 
longest amount of time without slowing down.There is no doubt that at higher levels of perfor -
mance, skills are executed not only with a higher 
level of technical precision, but also with greater 
speed, which requires increased energy produc -
tion. As a result, energy production is intimately linked with performance on all levels, and it pro -
vides the foundation for an athlete to effectively 
use his or her skills. After all, a biomechanically 
perfect baseball swing won’t do much good if it’s performed too slowly to hit the ball.
Components of Energy 
Production
Energy systems must be adaptable in order to pro -
duce the amount of energy necessary for meeting 
whatever demands may be placed on the body. 
Consider, for example, the vast differences in the 
power output and overall demands placed on the 
body between sprinting 100 metres in under 10 
seconds and running 26.2 miles in 2 hours. Such performances represent not just opposite ends 
of the athletic spectrum, but also are testament 
to the inherently adaptable and versatile nature of the body’s energy production systems. Each 
sport represents a specific environment to the 
body and thus a unique challenge that it must 
solve in order to produce the required energy 
necessary for keeping every cell functioning at the highest levels.
Within this challenge, the demands placed 
on the energy systems by sports can be broken 
down into three components: rate, duration and 
the work-to-recovery ratio. These are the defining 
features that make up each sport’s unique envi -
ronment and are explored through this chapter.
Wisdom
Understanding the interplay between the three types 
of demands placed on the body’s energy systems—rate, duration and work-to-recovery ratio—is essential in order to effectively design and deliver training programmes  .
Rate of Energy Production
Although the word power  is often thrown around 
casually in the field of strength and conditioning, 
its definition within the realm of physics as the rate 

 Designing Energy-Specific Programmes  ❙ 261
of change in energy is an appropriate one when it 
comes to energy systems. The rate of energy supply 
needed at any time is always dictated by the level 
of power output required and amount of force that 
must be produced by the body.
Take the explosive sport of weightlifting, for 
example. Extremely high rates of power must be generated to lift the barbell over the athlete’s head 
within the blink of an eye. This means the muscles have to produce a high level of force in an incred -
ibly short time. To achieve this, the body’s energy systems must produce the necessary energy at an 
unbelievably quick rate. If energy is not supplied 
fast enough, the highest levels of force and power cannot be achieved, and the athlete’s skills will not 
be able to be performed at maximal speeds.
Sports that require the highest rates of energy 
production are always inherently anaerobically dominant because only the anaerobic energy 
system is capable of producing energy fast enough 
to meet such requirements. More can be learned 
about this in chapter 14. Sports such as weightlift -
ing, powerlifting, shot put, discus, high jump and 
hammer throw all fall into this category because 
of their high energy-production requirements. In 
this case, a higher rate of energy production means 
higher levels of force and power and thus improved performance.
Wisdom
Athletes in the sport of Olympic weightlifting produce 
tremendously high rates of power output  . Peak power 
can reach over 4,000 watts during the snatch  . Gener -
ating that much power requires a tremendously high rate of energy production .
Duration of Energy Production
On the other end of the spectrum are sports 
defined not by a high rate of energy production, 
but rather by the requirement for prolonged dura -
tions of energy production. Endurance events such as marathons, triathlons and distance cycling 
demand the body produce energy for extended periods of time. This provides a much different 
stress and a unique challenge for the body’s 
energy-producing machinery.
Instead of having to produce energy at the 
highest rate possible, the body must become extremely efficient and economical so that homeostasis can be maintained despite hours 
of mechanical work performed as the athlete 
runs, bikes or swims across great distances. 
The more economical the body becomes, the 
longer it will be able to produce a higher level of energy, and the faster an athlete will be able 
to cover a given distance. This is true because 
such improvements in the economy of energy production mean that power output can be 
maintained longer, and thus fatigue will be 
minimised throughout the event.
The majority of energy produced during endur -
ance sports comes from the aerobic energy system. 
It is largely improvements in aerobic function that 
take place through the course of training that allow 
for improved economy of energy production and 
thus greater performance in such long-duration sports.
2 Given the nature of endurance sports, the 
importance of energy-system programming is 
generally well understood and is a primary focus 
in the year-round training schedule of such ath -
letes. This concept is discussed in greater detail in chapter 15.
Work-to-Recovery Ratio
Aside from the rate of energy production and its duration, the third component that makes up a 
given sport’s energy-system landscape is the ratio 
between work and recovery. In pure endurance 
sports, there is little to no recovery. In sports where 
the highest levels of strength and power are dis -
played, the work is typically extremely short, while 
the recovery is exceedingly long by comparison. 
Consider the short time it takes to get the barbell overhead in a snatch compared to the several 
minutes of recovery often taken between lifts in 
the sport of weightlifting, for example.
Given the clarity and general uniformity of 
work-to-recovery ratios for sports at both ends of 
the strength–endurance continuum, the energy 
demands and profiles of such sports are typi -
cally well understood. In mixed sports, those 
with repetitive explosive bursts of strength and 
power followed by periods of recovery, is where 
the precise length of work and recovery periods 
can have the largest impact on the energy require -
ments of the sport and on the most appropriate 
programming.
In general, research has shown that the shorter 
the recovery periods and the longer the work 

262 ❙ Jamieson
periods, the more aerobic in nature an activity 
becomes as the duration increases.3 Conversely, 
sports with shorter periods of work and longer 
periods of recovery in between rely on a greater 
contribution from anaerobic energy production.4
This relationship makes it clear that there is always a distinct and unyielding trade-off between the 
amount of strength and power produced and the 
ability to maintain it.
When viewed within the context of energy 
systems and sport performance, this trade-off can best be seen by looking at the differences in 
power output and duration across a wide range of 
individual and team sports (fi  gure 19.1). Virtually every sport falls somewhere within this spectrum 
of maximal power and greatest durations.
It is essential to understand the energy demands 
imposed by a sport in order to develop training 
programmes that are appropriately specific to develop the body and brain’s ability to function at 
an optimal level whilst minimising fatigue.
Maxium rate of energy production
Maximum duration of energy productionWeightlifting, powerlifting,
field events (shot, discus, hammer throw)
Short sprints, 100m, 200m, 400m,
Team sports (soccer, football,basketball, rugby)
CombatsportsMarathon, triathlon,cycling
E5891/Joyce/480155/Fig 19.01/R2/JGFigure 19.1  Energy-systems profile.Effective Energy-System 
Programming
In order to develop effective energy-systems 
training programs, the fi  rst place to start is by 
understanding the unique energy demands of the 
sport that an athlete is training for. Where these 
demands fall between rate and endurance will 
ultimately dictate the specifi  c challenge that the body must overcome in order to perform at the 
highest levels and thus dictate the direction the 
training needs to take.
To improve performance, athletes in sports that 
require a high rate of energy production will need to focus their training on challenging the body to 
do exactly that. Athletes in sports that require the 
body to produce energy for long durations must challenge the body to become effi  cient in the way 
that it produces and uses energy so that it’s better 
equipped for the task. Athletes in mixed sports must train to achieve the right balance between rate 
and duration by training whichever is necessary 
based on the unique profi  le of their sport and their individual needs.
Once the precise demands of the sport and the 
individual needs of the athlete have been deter-mined, programming starts with an understanding 
that improving energy production is a continual 
process. Each portion of the yearly developmental 
training program (fi  gure 19.2) should be considered 
within the greater context of the role of energy systems in performance discussed earlier. Just as 
there is a progression used in training to develop 
skills, the progression principle must be applied 
to energy-system development as well.
General developmental
 Primary movements do
 not replicate sports skill
 Focuses on central
 adaptive changes using general training means
 Typically follows
 competitive seasonSpecific developmental
 Uses same muscle
 groups and general movement patterns  of sport
 Majority of energy
 production should come from dominant system(s) based on demands  of sportPre-competitive
 Individual skills of
 sport become primary exercises used in training
 Prepares the body for
 upcoming competitive season through increase in specific work capacityCompetition
 Uses sport as primary
 training means
 Specific to competition Non-specific training
 used only as accessory work
E5891/Joyce/480156/Fig 19.02/R1/JGFigure 19.2  Energy-system programming overview.

 Designing Energy-Specific Programmes  ❙ 263
Throughout the training year, pieces of the 
energy-system puzzle must be put together so that 
each piece builds on the progress made in previous 
phases. Within this framework, an annual training 
program can be broken down into four phases, 
each with a specific emphasis in how the energy systems are trained. These four phases progress 
from general to specific over the course of the 
year; each phase works together to progressively prepare the body to achieve the highest levels of 
performance during the competitive season.
Just as a combat athlete must first learn the 
basics of striking, wrestling and submission 
grappling before learning to put them together to be a well-rounded mixed martial artist, the 
components of energy systems need to be trained 
in a specific sequence so that the body ultimately increases its ability to produce energy, and per -
formance is improved.
General Preparatory Phase
Within the general-to-specific spectrum of energy-system development, the most general 
period of training can best be termed the general 
preparatory phase (GPP). This is an appropriate 
description precisely because of the nature of 
training done during this phase. It should be both general and performed with the goal of preparing 
the body for the more specific energy-system train -
ing to come in the later phases.
This general preparatory phase typically takes 
place several months from the competitive season; 
because it primarily includes movements that are 
not specific to the athlete’s sport, it can be especially 
beneficial in the period immediately after a long, gruelling season. At this point, the body has likely 
had a great deal of repetitive stress placed on it as 
a result of the high volume of skill training and competition inherent within any season. Moving 
to a more general period of energy-system devel -
opment and overall training not only allows the 
body to take a break from the repetitive movements of the athlete’s chosen sport, but it also begins the 
process of building the foundation of energy pro -
duction for the next season.
Goals of the General  
Preparatory Phase
The primary goal of the GPP is to develop the 
components of energy-system function necessary 
for supporting a higher level of energy production and athletic performance. This is a similar process 
to the common practice of breaking down complex skills into simpler components to be worked on at 
the individual level so that the pieces are stronger 
when put back together.
A mixed martial artist, for example, may spend 
hours working on improving highly technical 
aspects of throwing a single punch or a combi -
nation of punches. Once technique has improved, 
the next goal is to integrate this new level of skill 
into the broader range of punches, kicks, knees 
and elbows involved in the sport. In much the 
same way, in order to improve the body’s ability 
to produce the energy necessary for performing at a higher level, components of energy-system 
function must be targeted during the GPP as well.
Programming Guidelines  
in the General Preparatory Period
Programming during this phase should focus on the use of general training exercises that do not 
replicate in part or in whole specific movements from an athlete’s sport. Although the same muscle 
groups may be used, there should be no effort to 
match the movement patterns, velocities or levels 
of force and power of the competitive skills. In 
the same context, the rate, duration and pattern of work-to-recovery ratios of the training should 
not mimic those of the competitive sport. Instead, 
training should take place across a wider range of the power–endurance spectrum, and more specific 
energy-system development should be saved for 
later phases of development.
During this phase, aerobic-dominant sports 
should focus on the central aspects of aerobic 
energy production: the development of the cardio -
vascular system’s ability to deliver oxygen. This 
topic is covered in greater detail in chapter 16. An 
increase in this ability will serve to support later 
development of changes in endurance and sus -
tained power output that involve specific muscles.
Anaerobic-dominant sports should focus on the 
more central aspects of anaerobic power output 
related to central nervous system function as 
well as overall strength and muscle size. These 
qualities provide the cornerstone for an increase 
in the rate of energy production and muscular power output that will be the focus of later train -
ing phases.
For mixed sports, the emphasis during the 
GPP should primarily depend on the needs of the 
athlete. An athlete lacking endurance will benefit 

264 ❙ Jamieson
the most by focusing on general development in 
this area, while an athlete with sufficient endur -
ance who needs to improve power output should instead focus in increasing strength, power and 
overall rate of energy production.
Wisdom
Mixed sports require the right balance of rate and dura -
tion of energy production  . It is especially important 
in such sports that all phases of training be focused 
in the appropriate area of development, given each athlete’s need  .
An example of the difference emphases of a GPP 
according to the energy demands of the sport can 
be seen in table 19.1.
Table 19.1  Emphases of the General Preparatory 
Period for a Basketball Player and a Combat Athlete
Basketball player Combat athlete
General strength-training 
exercises: total body strength and power lifts 
2 or 3 days per week, 
40-60 minLow- to moderate-intensity aerobic work: jogging, jumping rope, 
swimming, etc. 3 days 
per week, 40-60 min
Low-intensity bounding and 
track work: 1 or 2 days per 
week, 20-30 minGeneral strength-training 
exercises: 2 days per 
week, 40-60 min
Specific Preparatory Phase
The specific preparatory phase (SPP) of energy-system 
development should build on the general devel -
opment from the previous phase and progress 
towards the use of more specific exercises and 
movement patterns. These exercises and pat -
terns do not need to replicate the entirety of the 
competitive skills, but they should primarily use the same muscle groups within the same ranges 
of motion (ROM) as various components of the 
athletic skills.
This phase of training should take place sev -
eral months from competition and only after the 
preceding period of general preparatory work. 
After the break from the high volume of repetitive 
movements inherent in any competitive season, 
there is a need to gradually reintroduce the same general movement and muscular work back into 
the training program.Goals of the Specific  
Preparatory Phase
This phase serves as the bridge between the 
general phases of energy-system development 
and the more specific phases to come as an ath -
lete begins to near the competitive season. It is 
in these later phases when the primary training 
means and exercises transition to those specific 
to the competitive sport. It’s essential to prepare 
these muscles and supporting tissues, and indeed 
the entire body itself, with the necessary develop -
mental work.
Also, due to the specific nature of energy 
production, in terms of how the body adapts to 
the given rate, duration, work-to-recovery ratio 
and muscles used in a given sport, the working 
muscles themselves are always of prime impor -
tance as related to performance and must be 
trained accordingly. In this phase, the working 
muscles will begin to become the emphasis of 
energy-system training; the goal of this phase 
is to increase their overall energy-production 
ability within the general context of the demands of the sport.
Programming Guidelines  
in the Specific Preparatory Phase
The emphasis in this phase is centered on improving the functional energy-production 
potential within the working muscles themselves, 
so exercise selection during this phase is of pri
-
mary importance. The exercises and training means chosen must use the same muscles and 
movement patterns inherent in the skills of the 
athlete’s sport.
This does not mean that exact skills need to be 
precisely replicated, however, only that compo -
nents and movements within these skills are also in the training exercises. A runner does not need to 
perform only running exercises during this phase, 
for example. However, exercises and movements that emphasise the hip flexion component of run -
ning, performed in an upright posture, would be preferable because of the biomechanical similari -
ties to aspects of the running motion.
Selecting exercises that are biomechanically 
similar to the skills of the sport, both in ROM and 
in patterns of resistance, ensures that the same 
general muscle groups will be trained, and thus the necessary adaptive response will take place in 
these working muscles.

 Designing Energy-Specific Programmes  ❙ 265
Although the exact muscle-recruitment pat -
terns depend on the level of force, power output 
and duration, it is not necessary in the SPP to 
perform all exercises and movements with the 
precise speeds and durations of the competition 
skills. As long as the same muscle groups are 
used and the majority of the energy being pro -
duced is coming from the dominant system or systems of the sport, this will lead to the desired 
training effect.
If the goal is to improve performance in an 
anaerobic-dominant sport, for example, the exercises should be performed in a manner that 
demands that the majority of energy is coming 
from anaerobic metabolism. If they are performed 
at forces and speeds that are too low, and the aerobic energy system provides the majority of 
energy, the desired adaptive responses will not 
be triggered, and the body will not be adequately prepared for the next training phase. For mixed 
sports, each training session can have a specific 
emphasis, but this should be done in accordance 
with the principles of minimising interference as 
discussed in chapter 20.
Table 19.2 shows how the training emphasis in 
the SPP differs from that of the GPP for the two sports.
Table 19.2  Emphases of the Specific Preparatory 
Period for a Basketball Player and a Combat Athlete
Basketball player Combat athlete
Specific strength training: 
jumping exercises and explosive lifts, 2 or 3 days 
per week, 40-60 minHigh-intensity sprints and 
medicine ball throws and drills: 5-10 sec work, 30-40 
sec rest periods, 2 or 3 
days per week, 30-40 min
Moderate-intensity 
plyometrics: 1 or 2 days 
per week, 20-30 minSpecific strength-training 
exercises: 2 days per 
week, 20-30 min
Precompetitive Phase
Just as the name implies, the precompetitive phas e of 
energy-system development is the period of train -
ing that precedes the beginning of the competitive 
season. Most often, this period begins a month or 
two before the start of a preseason training camp. 
This is where the work done in the two preceding preparatory phases begins to have an impact on 
performance as the skills of the sport begin to 
become the primary training means.Goals of the Precompetitive Phase
This transition towards predominantly specific training marks the period whereby all the compo -
nents developed previously are brought together to improve performance. If the goal was to improve 
the rate of energy production and power output, 
for example, the precompetitive phase is where the specific skills of the sport will begin to be 
performed with a higher level of speed and power.
If the goal was an increase in endurance, on the 
other hand, then this phase should mark a noticeable improvement in the ability to maintain a given level 
of power output for an increased duration. These 
increases are what ultimately serve as the foundation 
for the improved performance to come in competi
-
tion. The precompetitive phase is where the increased potential for energy production is realised within the 
greater context of the specific demands of the sport.
The work done in the precompetitive phase 
becomes increasingly specific to both the skills and the energy-system demands of the sport. This 
phase serves to bridge the gap between the more 
general training done previously and the training 
that will take place throughout the competitive season to come.
Programming Guidelines  
in the Precompetitive Phase
The most notable change in this phase compared to the last one is that the selected training exercises 
should now be primarily composed of highly 
specific movements and skills of the sport. All 
nonspecific exercises and training methods should 
be considered accessory work as the competition movements take their place.
A soccer player, for example, may replace general 
running and sprints with technical ball-handling drills done at high speed. A mixed martial artist 
may begin to use technical drills, such as hitting 
the pads or heavy bag for conditioning work, instead of jumping rope or other less specific 
training means. In either case, the central principle 
is that the skills of the sport rather than the more general means used previously are now used for 
the purposes of energy-system development.
In training, the work completed should repli -
cate the work-to-recovery ratios and duration of 
the skills used in the sport. This ensures that the profile of energy production closely matches the 
demands of the sport so that the training effect is 
maximised and performance improved.

266 ❙ Jamieson
A mixed martial artist will want to make sure 
that his or her punches, kicks, knees and elbows 
are thrown at the same speed and power as they 
are in a fight. An American football lineman may 
do sled drills for 5 or 6 seconds at a time, the same 
length as an average play. The nature of each sport will ultimately dictate whether just a few skills or a 
wide range of skills can be used for energy-system 
training purposes.
Sports on each end of the power–endurance 
spectrum typically have far less variety in their skills than those in between. Olympic weight -
lifters, powerlifters, marathoners, and triathletes all have a much narrower range of skills than a soccer player, mixed martial artist or basketball 
player, for example. In either case, however, the 
skills of the sport can almost always be broken down into components, and these components can 
be used as a training means in this phase.
This level of specific work sets the stage for the 
final phase to come, where all the skills are brought 
together within the context of the competitive sport. If the training has followed the template 
laid out in the previous phases, energy production 
will have been greatly improved, and the body 
will be better physically prepared to perform at 
the highest levels.
Table 19.3 details programming in the precom -
petitive phase in comparison to the training pro -
grammes shown in tables 19.1 and 19.2.
Table 19.3  Emphases of the Precompetitive Phase 
for a Basketball Player and a Combat Athlete
Basketball player Combat athlete
Basketball practice: 
moderate-intensity technical drills and game-
simulated scrimmage; 
short, intensive interval conditioningCombat-specific drills and training: 5-10 sec work, 5-10 sec rest periods; 
anaerobic threshold, 5 
min rounds; 3 or 4 days per week, 60 min or more
Specific strength-training exercise: 2 days per week, 30 minSpecific strength-training exercises: 2 days per week, 20 min
Competitive Phase
Athletes and coaches may not consider the impor -
tance of energy-system development until just 
before or at the start of the competition phase. This 
approach fails to consider the complex nature of 
energy production and its true role in performance as discussed previously and throughout other 
chapters. Depending on the sport, the highest levels of performance can be achieved only 
through either a tremendously high rate of energy 
production, as is necessary in anaerobic sports, 
or the ability to sustain a given level of energy 
production for long durations without fatigue, the hallmark of aerobic-dominant sports. Mixed sports 
require some combination of both rate and dura -
tion, and this is where balancing the two demands is essential to performance.
Goals of the Competitive Phase
By the time the competitive season has begun, 
the primary goal shifts from trying to increase 
the body’s ability to produce energy to working 
towards ensuring the energy that’s produced is 
channelled effectively into the skills of the sport. 
Throughout each of the previous three phases, the training exercises and methods should have gradually shifted towards being more specific 
to the demands of the sport; in this final phase, 
the sport itself becomes the primary means. This 
progression ensures that the body is able to use 
the increased energy-production potential that was developed in the preceding phases and that 
an increase in performance is ultimately realised.
Programming Guidelines  
in the Competitive Phase
The programming guidelines for the competitive 
phase depend in large part on the specifics of a 
sport’s competitive season. The underlying prin -
ciple as it relates to energy-system development and performance is that the sport itself should 
serve as the primary training means throughout its duration.
Making the mistake of using too much gen -
eral work in this phase most often serves only to increase fatigue and take away from the quality 
of skills training. Focusing instead on specific 
energy-system training through the use of the 
sport itself is the most effective way to ensure the 
body is able to fully use the increased potential for energy production developed throughout the 
previous phases of training.
There are a variety of ways to use the sport 
itself as the primary means of energy-system development, ranging from competition simulation 
to slightly more or less intense variations of it. A 
soccer team can choose to play 11 versus 11, use 

 Designing Energy-Specific Programmes  ❙ 267
small-sided games or run tactical-training periods 
that are specific to game scenarios. A mixed mar -
tial artist can spar for 3 to 5 rounds with a minute rest in between as in an actual fight, or he or she 
can have a fresh opponent rotate in each round 
and be forced to fight at a higher intensity. In either case, the overall profile of energy production in 
terms of its rate, duration and work-to-recovery 
ratio is highly specific to the competition itself. This is what ensures that the training will have 
the desired transfer into a heightened level of 
performance.
Depending on the length and nature of the 
competitive season—how long it lasts, how many competitions there are, how frequent they are and 
the overall demands of the sport—the amount of 
time spent in skill work, tactics and strategy and energy-system development will likely change 
from one week to the next. Typically, more time is 
spent early in the season on improving fundamen -
tal skills and getting in shape to use them. Then, work in the areas of specific tactics and strategies begins to increase as the season progresses while 
fitness levels are maintained rather than improved.
Wisdom
During the competitive phase, nonspecific exercises, 
methods and training means should be used only for accessory work, restoration or injury prevention and treatment, not for the purpose of energy-system development  .
The biggest challenge is to find the right balance 
between these areas so that both fitness and skill 
levels reach their peak without an accumulation 
of fatigue, which can have a negative impact on 
performance and increase the risk of injury. Such 
organisational and planning decisions are ulti -
mately up to the judgement of the coaching staff. If performance is to be maximised, however, the underlying principle throughout the competitive 
season should be to ensure that energy-system 
development work is entirely specific to the 
demands of the competition itself. When this prin -
ciple is adhered to and intelligent energy-system 
programming is paired with effective skill devel -
opment, the result will be the highest level of performance possible.
Summary
Effective energy-system programs are developed through a solid understanding of the energy 
demands of the sport combined with a well-
thought-out and organised plan that spans the entire training year. Performance at the highest 
level in any sport is a true test of the body’s ability 
to produce energy. Pushing the body to its limits requires far more than a few weeks of extra run -
ning or preseason conditioning training.
Instead, an effective yearly training program 
should be developed with the greater context of the importance of energy production in mind. Muscular force and power do not exist in isolation. 
How much weight can be lifted in the weight room 
cannot transfer to the field of play unless the body has the ability to produce the energy necessary for 
sustaining it.
A successful strategy to improve performance 
requires the planned progression from general to 
specific training means and exercises so that the pieces of the energy-system puzzle are developed 
in the right order. Each phase of training should 
develop a component of energy production while preparing the body for the more specific work to 
follow. This is how greater levels of strength, power 
and endurance are developed in a meaningful 
way that will ultimately translate into improved 
performance when it counts.

This page intentionally left blank.

CHAPTER
 269
20
20
20
Many team-based sports require physi-
cal capacities that emphasise endurance, 
strength and power. In particular, team sports that require high-intensity intermittent running and 
have game activities demanding explosive, maxi-
mal effort and actions such as tackling, jumping, blocking and other forms of body contact, needs 
training units that develop both aerobic capacity 
and strength and power simultaneously through-out periodised training blocks.
In Australia three popular team-based fi  eld 
sports are Australian football (AF), Rugby Union 
(RU) and Rugby League (RL). Using global posi-
tioning system (GPS) technology and digital video analysis systems, the activity profi  les of players in 
these sports can be determined to better under-
stand the physiological demands of the game. This approach allows for the tailoring of training units 
following the principle of training specifi  city.
AF midfi  elders can cover up to 15 kilometres 
throughout the course of a game lasting 120 min-
utes.
1 Of that, up to 4 kilometres is high-intensity 
running, consisting of over 90 intense efforts.2
In addition to this physiological load, players in general lay up to seven tackles and are involved 
in some 15 or more contests to gain possession of 
the ball that require some degree of body contact.
3
In RU, players travel distances of up to 7 kilo-
metres during a game, and 11 per cent of this 
running time is spent in high-intensity running. 
Forwards are involved in 1,200 body impacts.4 Tack-
ling is seen as a discrimination of success in RU, with 
successful teams making more than 110 tackles.5
In RL matches, players can travel more than 6 
kilometres during the course of the game, with 17 per cent of their time spent in high-intensity, 
power-related activities.
6 Statistics from games 
show some players making more than 50 tackles, 
accompanied by other high-intensity game actions.7In world football (soccer [SO]), players can run 
an average 10.8 kilometres with ranges between 9 and 14 kilometres.
8 This total distance is inter-
spersed with up to 24 highly intense sprints and 
over 20 headers and tackles.8
It is obvious from game data collected in sports 
such as these that the athletes require a high 
capacity for aerobic metabolism plus the ability to 
generate signifi  cant forces statically and dynami-
cally in a game to produce high running velocities 
and frequent accelerations. These athletes need to absorb and transmit actions engaging body contact 
of several g-forces.
4
Concurrent training may be defi  ned as the spe-
cifi  c training of endurance and strength capacities in ‘immediate succession or with up to 24 hours of 
recovery separating the two exercise modes.’
9 In 
the development of athletic potential in all sports, 
training units are constructed and periodised to 
train the functional components critical to sport 
success. Training time is a fi  nite commodity; there-
fore, fi  tness professionals train multiple capacities in blocks to maximise the response to this training 
stimulus. When concurrently training both the 
capacities of endurance and strength, interference may occur when the development of one capacity 
hinders the development of the other capacity com-
pared to training either capacity independently 
and in isolation.
9
Research in the Interference 
Effect
The fi  rst signifi  cant observation of the interfer-
ence effect was noted by Hickson in 1980.10 In a 
study on recreational athletes, he assessed the 
development of strength and endurance through 
three distinct training protocols: a group that Minimising the Interference Effect
Glenn Stewart
West Coast Eagles Football Club, Australia

270 ❙ Stewart
trained strength only, a group that trained endur-
ance only, and a group that trained strength and 
endurance concurrently. Over a 10-week training 
block, the strength-only group improved strength 
and the endurance-only group improved aerobic 
capacity—but the concurrent group had only min-imal improvement in strength whilst endurance 
improved as per the endurance-only group (fi  gure 
20.1). This prompted Hickson to conclude that mus-cular changes induced through strength training 
are opposed to the changes induced through endur-
ance training, and that muscle may not be capable of 
adapting to training from both training regimens.
Since Hickson’s initial work, considerable 
research has been directed towards validating the interference effect and gaining a greater under-
standing of the impact that concurrent training 
may have on the development of strength and 
endurance. It is beyond the scope of this chapter to detail all the research conducted in this area, but it is relevant to highlight aspects of that research to obtain a clearer understanding of the weight of 
evidence that will allow strength and condition-
ing professionals to approach the possible issue 
of concurrent training with confi  dence of the key 
principles involved.
Studies in concurrent training follow similar 
experimental design parameters. In general, research assesses the outcomes of training in three distinct groups within the same study: a group 
that undertakes aerobic-only training, a group 
that undertakes strength-only training and a third 
group that undertakes some variation of both 
aerobic and strength training. Variations within research occur with the type of aerobic training 
(continuous versus interval), its intensity (with 
some authors observing that interference occurs only at intensities close to V ˙O
2max) and the type 
of strength training (circuit versus high-intensity 
versus high-volume training). Research can then 
vary between the type of cohorts (untrained versus 
trained) and the order of concurrent training 
(strength or endurance trained fi  rst).
Wisdom
Because the literature seems to vary in its recommen-
dations, conclusions drawn can be validly applied to a group of athletes only if the experimental design used in the study matches the athlete population and training protocols .
Interference Effect in Untrained People
Research on untrained individuals shows the great-
est degree of contradiction in outcomes and in the 
signifi  cance of the interference effect. A number 
of researchers11-13 found no evidence of the inter-
ference effect with gains of similar magnitude in 
both strength and endurance in those undertaking 
concurrent training. However, other researchers 
found evidence of an interference effect with gains 
in strength being signifi  cantly limited in those training endurance and strength concurrently.
14-16
With research on untrained subjects failing to 
demonstrate conclusively that concurrent training 
creates an interference effect, the weight of evi-
dence suggests the following:
• The interference effect may be minimal with untrained subjects. Therefore, in those 
Strength (kg)140S
S+E E
E120
100
80
0 5 10
Training duration (week)
E5891/Joyce/480160/Fig 20.01/R1/JGFigure 20.1  Strength changes in response to the three 
types of training. Measurements were made on a weekly 
basis in the strength (S) and strength and endurance 
(S + E) groups. The endurance (E) group was tested before and after 10 weeks of training.
With kind permission from Springer Science + Business Media: European 
Journal of Applied Physiology,  “Interference of strength development by 
simultaneously training for strength and endurance,” 45(2), 1980, p . 259, R .C . Hickson, fig . 1, © Springer-Verlag 1980 .

 Minimising the Interference Effect ❙ 271
individuals, it is possible to train strength and 
endurance concurrently, with improvements 
in both capacities being realised.
• The frequency of training sessions has an 
influence on the degree of interference, if any. Low-frequency training (2 days/wk) shows 
minimal interference and thus is best recom -
mended for untrained individuals looking for gains in both capacities.
Interference Effect  
in Trained Athletes
Research on the effects of concurrent training on 
elite and trained individuals is more weighted 
towards demonstrating an interference effect.17-19 
It would appear that in well-trained individuals, concurrent training interferes with the develop -
ment of strength and power.
• Concurrent training affects the rate of force 
development or power more significantly than absolute strength.
• Large volumes of endurance training, in terms 
of intensity and of frequency, have the greatest 
impact on strength development in concurrent 
training.
• Endurance is only minimally affected by the introduction of concurrent strength training.
Mechanisms Behind  
the Interference Effect
Research into the possible mechanisms produc -
ing the interference effect has been limited. A 
number of potential reasons have been suggested, 
including energy balance, overreaching, disrupted 
muscle-fibre hypertrophy , enzyme activation, 
motor unit recruitment and acute residual fatigue.
Energy Balance
Endurance training, particularly with high loads, creates a negative energy balance.
19 This in turn 
minimises hypertrophy when strength training is 
done at the same time. During periods of negative 
energy balance, muscle protein synthesis is reduced. 
Strength training alone has a limited energy cost 
when compared to concurrent training, and this is a more ideal environment for muscle hypertrophy.
An extension of the negative–energy balance 
theory is the alteration to hormonal balance, creating either catabolic or anabolic states.20 
Strength training has been shown to alter the ratio 
of the hormones testosterone and cortisol to an ana -
bolic state, and endurance training enhances a cat -
abolic state, thus limiting strength development.21
Overreaching
In the majority of studies in concurrent training, 
the groups training both strength and endurance 
had higher training workloads than the groups 
training either one. In the research highlighted 
previously in the chapter, the concurrent training 
groups combined the strength and endurance training sessions, effectively doubling the train -
ing volume of the single-focus training groups. Therefore, it is possible that the workload crossed an optimal threshold and overreaching occurred. 
This may have resulted in impaired testing results 
and consequently indicated an interference effect.
Disrupted Muscle-Fibre 
Hypertrophy
Strength training has been shown to increase 
the diameter of type I, IIa and IIc muscle fibres.18 
Endurance training, however, reduces the diam -
eter of type I and IIc fibres, thereby creating interference when concurrent training occurs.
18 
If both strength and endurance training are 
conducted at the same time, possibly only type 
IIa fibres will develop, thereby limiting overall 
muscle hypertrophy when compared to results 
from strength-only training.
Enzyme Activation
When an athlete undertakes endurance training, an enzyme known as adenosine monophosphate- 
activated protein kinase (AMPK) is activated.
22 
This enzyme increases the oxidation of fat and the uptake of sugar, thus improving aerobic 
energy production. Another enzyme, mTORC1 
(target of rapamycin complex 1) is activated after 
resistance training; it regulates protein synthesis, 
resulting in increased muscle hypertrophy and, 
consequently, strength.
23 An issue for concurrent 
training programmes is that AMPK can block the 
activation of mTORC1, so when endurance training 
is undertaken the AMPK produced inhibits the 
activation of mTORC1, thus limiting protein syn -
thesis and muscle hypertrophy.24 The two enzymes 
are counterproductive.

272 ❙ Stewart
Motor-Unit Recruitment
Motor-unit recruitment patterns may alter during 
concurrent training.25 Early research showed that 
the neural pathways for rapid force development 
in activities such as the vertical jump are damp -
ened through endurance training.26 If fibre types 
are recruited preferentially in a different order in endurance and strength training, then concurrent 
training may affect the efficient organisation of 
this recruitment.
Acute Residual Fatigue
Some studies have shown that concurrent training 
impaired only the development of strength in the 
lower body, not the upper body, when endurance 
was undertaken as either cycling or running.17 
Researchers have not concluded the exact reasons 
for this other than a localised accumulation of 
metabolites or possible muscle damage in that area, 
particularly in the case of running, where eccentric 
loads are larger than in cycling. This possibility suggests this impairment was a consequence of 
increased localised fatigue
17, 27 and not necessarily 
a systemic issue.
The interference effect is maximised when ath -
letes use high-intensity interval training and an 8-to-12 repetitions maximum (RM) multiple-set 
resistance-training program. When applied separately, these two modalities of training lead 
to peripheral adaptations; when applied con -
currently, they have competing physiological 
demands, which renders them incompatible. 
Under these conditions, there would be a limited 
change in skeletal muscle cross-sectional area 
or a reduced hypertrophy of individual muscle 
fibres.
14 The trick seems to be to avoid scheduling 
high-intensity endurance work alongside high-vol -
ume, high-frequency strength work.
Strategies to Minimise  
the Interference Effect
Through the skilful manipulation of training 
variables, it is possible to reduce the interference 
effect of concurrent training. It has been pro -
posed that when high-intensity interval training 
is combined with high-load resistance training 
(lower than 5RM), there is less interference 
because the training stimulus in strength would be focused on the neural system and not on the 
metabolic demands on the muscle. As a result, 
the metabolic demands on skeletal muscle are not competing.
Equally, continuous aerobic training at low 
intensity (lower than 80 per cent of V ˙O2max) should 
not interfere with the improvement of strength 
indices whatever the load.  This is because con -
tinuous aerobic training at low intensity involves central adaptations mediated by cardiac output 
and should not impair neural adaptation or muscle hypertrophy.
This method used to predict the training zones 
that may or may not result in an interference effect is shown in figure 20.2.
When 2 sessions per week of combined 
strength and high-intensity endurance exercise 
are performed, a 3-day break between sessions 
is sufficient to avoid the interference effect.
28 This 
is of particular relevance to team sports where 
time between weekly matches needs to be used 
wisely. If we assume that the match itself counts 
as a high-intensity endurance session, this finding 
may provide us with an understanding of when during the week after a match it is best to conduct 
in-season strength sessions.
There are other issues to consider when plan -
ning programmes to minimise the interference effect.
ZONE OF INTERFERENCE
CentralCentral
Peripheral
<80% VO2max >90% VO2maxPeripheral<5 RM >10 RM
E5891/Joyce/480162/Fig 20.03/R1/JGFigure 20.2  Model to predict the training protocols 
that would minimise or maximise the interference effect.
With kind permission from Springer Science + Business Media: Sports 
Medicine,  “A proposed model for examining the interference phenome -
non between concurrent aerobic and strength training,” 30(6), 2000, p  . 
390, D  . Docherty and B  . Sporer, fig  . 3, © Adis International Limited  . All 
rights reserved  .

 Minimising the Interference Effect ❙ 273
Train Strength and Endurance  
at the Same End  of the Fitness Continuum
The interference effect appears more significant 
when endurance training is based on longer, more 
continuous running protocols at high intensities 
(greater than 80 per cent V ˙O2max). When strength 
training is being undertaken after a high-intensity 
protocol, low-volume concurrent aerobic workouts 
should be similarly structured: higher-intensity 
interval sets with increased velocities and reduced 
recovery times. By attempting to keep both training protocols at a similar end of the fitness 
continuum, there may be a likely innervation 
(stimulation) of similar-fibre types and a similar focus of specificity.
18
Prioritising Training Goals
When trained athletes are participating in sports with competing elements of strength and endur -
ance, the strength and conditioning coach must undertake a detailed profile analysis of each ath -
lete and create individual performance plans that first prioritise those areas that need improvement and, second, those strengths that need to be main -
tained. Once the plan has been constructed, then priority should be given to the capacity in most need of improvement. Training volume will then 
be directed in appropriate areas. This approach 
will minimise the potential of interference of 
concurrent training by potentially reducing the 
volume (and hence the effect) of one training entity (strength or endurance) over the other.
Other than the impact of the volume of training 
of one capacity over the other, some research has shown that by prioritising the athlete’s training 
goals, the primary physical capacity can be trained 
first in a rested state, and other training sessions added to the plan around it.
20
Sequencing or Training Order
In addition to prioritising goals, there is some argument for sequencing training so that strength 
and power workouts are conducted before condi -
tioning—if not immediately before, then on the day before conditioning training.
29 This reduces the 
potential of neural and metabolic fatigue from con -
ditioning training interfering with the demands of a resistance-training session. When conditioning is conducted before strength training, then the 
duration between should be at least 24 hours to enable full recovery.
A contradictory view exists, however.
24 Based on 
the enzymes AMPK and mTORC1, it is suggested 
that endurance training occur first and strength 
training last. If endurance training is performed 
first and strength training later in the day, the 
AMPK produced as a consequence of the endur -
ance activity is switched off quickly once recov -
ery from that training has occurred and will not interfere with the strength training. The mTORC1 produced from the strength training will remain 
high for the remainder of the day and night, thus 
assisting in the promotion of muscle hypertrophy. 
It will not be limited by the production of AMPK 
until the endurance session the next day. This theory, however, has yet to be tested rigorously in 
a controlled experimental setting
Wave (Block) Periodisation
Using the approach of a wave, or undulating, 
periodisation model, it is possible to concurrently 
train strength and endurance but with an alter -
nating emphasis and focus on blocks of volume and intensity.
Using Baker’s 2007 research on periodisation,
30 
a coach could construct a block of training where the emphasis is on developing strength or power 
whilst maintaining endurance. The volume and 
intensity of resistance training is high with three 
3 or four 4 sessions per week. Endurance training is in maintenance mode, with lower volumes, and 
is trained 1 or 2 times per week. During the next 
block of training, the emphasis changes to devel -
oping endurance and maintaining strength. This 
process of alternating emphasis over a complete 
training period reduces a number of factors con -
tributing to the interference effect. The timing and duration of the training block is left to the skill of 
the strength and conditioning professional based 
on training objectives and the overall periodised training plan.
Conditioned Athletes
In order to minimise the possible diminished devel -
opment of capacities resulting from concurrent 
training, athletes should be in a well-conditioned 

274 ❙ Stewart
state before beginning a block of concurrent train -
ing.29 Athletes with higher levels of strength, power 
and endurance initially showed fewer negative 
effects of concurrent training than the athletes with 
poor training history and little exposure to con -
current training. Therefore, if concurrent training is necessary in mixed-capacity team sports, then athletes should be trained regularly in concurrent 
training, improve their overall conditioning before 
concurrent training and follow a well-periodised plan. Doing so will minimise the interference of 
any effects from concurrent training.
Case Study
This example from an Australian Rules football 
club illustrates an approach to addressing the potential interference effect from concurrent train -
ing undertaken by an elite footballer.
The player is a second-year footballer who needs 
to increase mass and size to become more effective at winning the football in contested situations. His position on the team is on the wing, which in 
Australian football requires a high level of aerobic 
capacity to fulfil the role’s demands in this team’s 
style of play.
The player already has a high V ˙O
2max (table 
20.1) but still requires aerobic training to maintain and, if possible, improve his running capacity. 
The strength and conditioning coach faces the 
dilemma of increasing mass and size on a player 
where this has been identified as a critical area for his development whilst continuing to improve the 
player's aerobic fitness, which is essential for the 
position he plays.
The following notes outline the modifications 
and adjustments to the player’s periodised plan to focus on developing hypertrophy and strength 
and to minimise the interference effect. The team 
follows a classic periodised plan using an undu -
lating model
30 (table 20.2). The team undertakes 
3 strength sessions and 3 conditioning sessions per week for most weeks (table 20.3). The player has a varied weekly program (table 20.4) where conditioning sessions are reduced to 1 per week 
and strength sessions increased to 4 per week in 
some weeks.
Week 1: Player and team undertake 2 aerobic 
and 2 strength sessions per week as part of 
the initial adaptation process before start -
ing preseason training. (Refer to table 20.2.)
Weeks 2, 3, 5, and 6: The player’s conditioning 
sessions are reduced to 1 per week whilst weights are increased to 3 and 4 sessions 
per week with hypertrophy as the main 
focus.
Weeks 4, 8, 12, 15, and 20: Speed sessions for 
the player are the same as for the team: 2 
sessions per week. Speed is not considered 
to interfere with strength development and 
may compliment the program in the weight room.
18
Weeks 7 , 11, 13, 14, 18, and 19: Short-interval 
training is not reduced significantly for the 
player as with his other conditioning ses -
sions because it lies at the same end of the training continuum as strength training.
18
Weeks 9, 10, 18, 19, 20, and 21: The player’s 
focus is hypertrophy and strength, not power. During the power phase, aero -
bic conditioning becomes significant as strength training is minimised. Weights 
have been reduced to 1 session per week, and conditioning sessions have been 
increased in number.
Weeks 16 and 17: Conditioning is again 
reduced for the player, and intermediate 
intervals (II) are the primary running 
focus. Weights are increased to 4 sessions 
per week when the block of maximal 
strength training is reintroduced.
Weeks 18, 19, 20, and 21: This is a tapering 
phase. The player’s power cycle in weights 
is reduced from 2 to 1 session per week, 
and conditioning sessions are gradually 
reduced in number to assist tapering.
Table 20.1  Player Characteristics for an Australian Rules Football Player 
Height  
(cm)Weight  
(kg)V˙O2max 
(ml kg-1 min-1)1RM bench 
press (kg)3RM leg  
press (kg)
Current 183 80.5 62.9 89.5 305
Planned 183 86.0 63.0 105 410

 275
Table 20.2  Periodised Training Plan Following an Undulating Model
Months I II III IV V
Weeks 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21
Training phase General preparation Specific preparation Precom -
petition
Strength AA Hypertrophy Maximal strength Conversion to power
  AA Hypertrophy Maximal 
strengthPower Hyper -
trophyMaximal strength Power
Team sessions/week 2 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 1
Player sessions/week 2 3 3 4 4 4 3 4 1 1 3 4 3 3 4 4 4 2 2 1 1
Endurance Aerobic capacity Repeat sprint ability Speed
  AE II SP II SI SP II SI SP SI SP II SI SP
Team sessions/week 2 3 3 2 3 3 3 2 3 3 3 2 3 3 2 3 3 3 2 2 1
Player sessions/week 2 1 1 2 1 1 2 2 3 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 3 2 2 1
Speed Technique (sprint and agility) Speed Specific speed and agility
Total player sessions/week 4 4 4 6 5 5 5 6 4 4 5 6 5 5 6 6 6 5 4 3 2
AA: anatomical adaptation; AE: aerobic endurance; II: intermediate intervals; SI: short intervals; SP: speed

276 ❙ Stewart
Summary
Although research on the interference effect from 
concurrent training is not absolutely conclusive, 
enough evidence suggests that combining strength 
and endurance training in the same training period 
dampens the development of one or the other when 
compared to training either one in isolation. We are still unsure of the definitive causes although a 
number of potential mechanisms, including hor -
monal, neural and morphological factors, appear 
to be involved.Developing athletes can make significant improve -
ments in strength and endurance when training both concurrently. However, as training volume increases 
in the high-performance athlete over the long term, 
concurrent training can lead to attenuated develop
-
ment of either strength or endurance, and research indicates strength is affected most.
Overcoming the interference effect involves 
careful planning, timing, sequencing and prioritis -
ing training blocks for those sports where multiple physiological capacities are deemed necessary for 
success.Table 20.3  Weekly Team Schedule
TEAMDay 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
A.M.
Skills StrengthSkills or 
conditioning RecoverySkills or conditioning Skills Recovery
P.M.
ConditioningIndividual skills Strength Off Strength Off Off
Table 20.4  Weekly Player Schedule
PLAYERDay 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
A.M.
Skills Conditioning Skills Recovery SkillsSkills or strength Recovery
P.M
StrengthIndividual skills Strength Off Strength Off Off

CHAPTER
 277
21
21
21
The success of a season in elite team sports is 
largely contingent on the planning and success-
ful delivery of a world-class preseason. This period is crucial for both physical and mental preparation 
for the forthcoming season. A fi  tness coach must 
be able to integrate coaching demands and phi-losophy from tactical and physical perspectives 
whilst ensuring training loads remain optimal for 
performance and injury prevention.
Primarily, the preseason presents an opportu-
nity for the fi  tness staff to provide an appropriate conditioning overload for the team. This should 
be the principal aim regardless of the length of the 
preseason. The conditioning should be specifi  c to the game and allow players to experience training 
sessions at least as demanding (and ideally more 
so) than the game. However, the preseason should not be dominated by conditioning exercises only; 
it should aim to allow appropriate integration of 
fi  tness and tactical training.
The preseason should overload the players suf-
fi  ciently and specifi  cally. Essentially, the players should feel that the in-season games place less
stress on their bodies than the preseason condi-
tioning. In order to prevent soft-tissue injuries, a 
key aim should be building muscle and tendon 
resilience so that the in-season demands are com-fortably met.
This chapter provides a practical guide to pre-
paring and delivering such a preseason program for team sports. It details aspects of program 
design and implementation and provides an over-
view of how preseason training can be evaluated.Aims of the Preseason
It is important to understand the objectives of the preseason training programme. The specifi  c 
training aims of a preseason in team sports include 
injury prevention, strength and power devel-
opment, conditioning development and tactical 
training.
Injury Prevention
Most team sports involve large numbers of high-risk movement, such as accelerations, decelerations, 
jumping, landing, changes of direction, tackling 
and sprinting. A player’s ability to repeatedly 
execute these movements at game-specifi  c speeds 
requires optimal combinations of speed, strength, power, agility, fl  exibility and endurance. For this 
reason, successful injury prevention practices 
should be initiated during the preseason and continued throughout the season. Of course, some 
injuries remain impossible to prevent. For instance, 
in contact sports the position and actions of the opponent can rarely be predicted, and therefore 
contact-related injuries such as shoulder or knee 
damage as a result of tackles are not covered here.
An integrated preseason screening process 
should take place at the beginning of the presea-son. The purpose of this process is to identify 
any muscular imbalance or weakness, joint laxity 
or movement defi  ciencies. The sport science and sports medicine staff should agree on the tools to 
be used for this process; a movement assessment as Optimising Preseason Training 
in Team Sports
Darren Burgess, PhD
Liverpool Football Club, Merseyside, UK

278 ❙ Burgess
well as clinical screening (medically based assess -
ment) are recommended. Additional screening 
such as blood profiling or isokinetic dynamometry 
can provide detailed profiling information that can 
influence injury-prevention programming. Physio -
logical and strength assessments can also assist in 
preventing injuries. For instance, if a soccer player 
has poor aerobic endurance (perhaps identified 
by a yo-yo test),1 he or she may be susceptible to 
fatigue-related soft-tissue injuries during a game.
Injury prevention should not be thought of as 
existing only as dedicated sessions or isolated 
drills. Applying suitable strength-, conditioning- 
and skill-session loads to team sport players during preseason can prevent overtraining whilst 
ensuring enough demand is placed on the players 
to prepare them for the in-season period. For exam -
ple, if the preseason program is too demanding, 
players are likely to be injured during preseason or, 
at the very least, fatigued when the season begins. 
If the preseason program is too light, the in-season 
games will present a demanding stimulus that the players are unfamiliar with, and injuries or 
fatigue-affected performance will be the likely 
result. This last scenario is quite common as fitness staff ensure players get through the preseason 
unscathed rather than protecting players from 
game demands by overloading these demands 
during preseason.
Wisdom
Perhaps the most influential form of injury prevention 
occurs as a result of appropriate load management  .
High-Speed Running in Preseason
One common intervention is to restrict the volume 
and intensity of preseason high-speed running 
(HSR), defined here as running over 20 kilometres 
per hour. Quite often this restriction occurs due to 
the inherent injury risk associated with this type of 
running,2 particularly early in preseason training. 
The conundrum facing the fitness coach is that 
performing appropriate, regular HSR loads during 
the preseason actually provides possible protection 
against speed-related soft-tissue injuries through 
frequent exposure. However, there is an injury risk associated with these sessions if they are too 
frequent, too intense or inappropriately periodised.In order to minimise injury risk, these sessions 
need to be introduced relatively gradually into the preseason. For instance, if the preseason is 6 weeks 
long, then HSR should be introduced within the 
second week. This schedule enables the fitness 
coach to prescribe enough volume to ensure play -
ers are able to perform appropriately in practice 
games, which would presumably follow shortly 
thereafter. Conversely, during a 14-week preseason period, the fitness coach might limit exposure to 
this type of running until week 3 or 4 of preseason.
Once HSR has been introduced, it needs to be 
periodised appropriately into the preseason pro -
gram. This periodisation depends strongly on the 
high-speed demands of the sport. For example, 
Rugby League players need to be conditioned 
to run at extremely high speeds once each week (during matches) for at least a 26-week in-season 
period. Training between games during this period 
might place additional high-speed demands on 
players. Therefore, in preseason the total weekly 
high-speed demands (training plus game) need to be catered for. Ideally, this should involve 
identifying an individual’s in-season high-speed 
demands and then programming for this during 
the preseason period.
Practically, there should be at least one day of 
rest between HSR exposures during the presea -
son period. This is particularly important when 
maximal speed running is prescribed. There is no problem with training on consecutive days; 
however, the sessions in-between high-speed ses -
sions (either skill-based or running) should involve minimal HSR.
Wisdom
High-speed running should be integrated gradually in 
the preseason period  . Coaches should ensure at least 
1 day between high-speed running exposures during preseason  .
Targeted Injury-Prevention Sessions
One injury prevention technique that should be 
used during preseason is regular prehabilitation 
sessions. These sessions typically consist of vari -
ous proprioception, balance, activation, dynamic flexibility and strength exercises and have been 
shown to reduce injuries in team sport athletes.
9 

 Optimising Preseason Training in Team Sports ❙ 279
Ideally, these sessions should be included before 
the team warm-up so the more technical preha -
bilitation exercises can be performed without interrupting the flow of the warm-up. Some pre -
habilitation exercises such as landing techniques can be incorporated into the more dynamic aspects of team warm-ups. Coaches should ensure variety 
in the exercises used and the frequency of these 
sessions since player compliance can be an issue throughout the season. These exercises also need 
to be considered when evaluating total team load.
Practically , pretraining prehabilitation sessions 
can consist of a variety of approaches. One way is 
to have a circuit-style session of approximately 15 minutes where groups of players navigate their 
way through the circuit stations. This approach 
means each player is exposed to similar exercises, and these stations can be tailored to suit team focus 
areas perhaps identified by screening. A second 
method may be to individualise prehabilitation ses -
sions by providing each player with his or her own prehabilitation workout. This is a far more precise method but also requires greater staff supervision 
and may not be suitable for a larger-squad sports.
Preventing contact injuries is far more problem -
atic. The most effective way to do this for contact 
sports is to integrate controlled contact as the presea -
son progresses. Once full-contact training has begun, limiting the volume of contact training should be a 
priority for the conditioning staff. This is because the 
more often a player is exposed to high-impact contact 
training, the greater the risk of injury as a result. Of 
course, some exposure is essential for players to be hardened to this type of training.
The guidelines for integrating contact training 
into the preseason program are similar to the 
HSR guidelines outlined earlier. As with HSR, 
contact sessions involve significant injury risk 
and therefore need to be carefully planned during 
preseason. Most team sports involving heavy contact (e.g., the various football codes, ice hockey, 
lacrosse) have extended preseason periods lasting 
12 to 18 weeks. This allows for a slow integration of contact sessions into preseason training and 
ample time to ensure sufficient recovery between 
contact sessions.
Practically, contact should be introduced in 
stages through the use of equipment such as tackle bags and tackle suits as well as techniques such as 
on-knees tackling, grappling only and sand-based 
tackling. Once players have progressed through the contact stages (e.g., tackle suits, on knees, sand, grappling, full contact), the dilemma for the 
fitness coach then becomes how often to allow for 
full-contact sessions within each weekly cycle. 
This depends on many factors, such as coaching 
philosophy and profile of playing list; however, a general guideline of no more than two full-contact 
sessions per week should be adhered to.
Wisdom
Injury prevention is multifaceted and involves an inte -
grated screening process, training-load modification, 
prehabilitation sessions and the gradual introduction 
of high-risk activities such as high-speed running and tackling  .
Strength and Power Development 
in Preseason
Developing appropriate levels of strength and 
power (collectively referred to as strength  in this 
section) for optimal performance during the season remains a core goal of the preseason period. 
Similar to conditioning training (discussed later), 
strength training is well suited to the preseason. This period represents the ideal opportunity to 
appropriately load muscles and tendons, allowing 
them to adapt and ensure readiness for the forth -
coming season, which is critical from performance 
and injury-prevention perspectives.
Broadly speaking, qualities such as hypertrophy, 
strength, power and muscular endurance need to 
be periodised into a preseason strength program. The process by which this periodisation of strength 
occurs depends on many factors:
• Sport played: Sports such as the various foot -
ball codes or water polo require a significant 
degree of hypertrophy compared to sports such as field hockey or volleyball.
• Position: Certain positions require more 
hypertrophy or power than others (e.g., a 
centre back compared to a winger in soccer).
• Player history: Injury history as well as age and training age should influence the 
strength approach taken for each athlete.
• Strength-training history: Experienced 
players require less time to reach maximal 
strength levels than do inexperienced players.

280 ❙ Burgess
• Coaching philosophy: The team’s coach or 
manager may have a preferred style of play that 
requires a specifi  c strength focus. If the coach 
of a rugby team, for example, wants the players 
to dominate the opposition at tackling and con-
tested play, more time would need to be spent on developing strength for these purposes.
• Playing list: The strength profi  le of the team should be evaluated and this profi  le matched 
up with the coaching philosophy. If a discrep-
ancy between desired playing style and list 
capabilities exists, then discussion between 
coaches and fitness staff should assist in developing training priorities.
Once these factors have been considered and 
individual player and team goals have been established, the design of the preseason strength program becomes paramount. The time available 
to dedicate to strength training depends on the 
importance placed on strength by the coaching and fi  tness staff. Generally speaking, at least 3 
exposures per week are recommended during 
preseason training periods. Player training age and 
strength history can infl  uence these guidelines as 
previously suggested.
Historically, the progression of strength training 
throughout the preseason for most team sports has been to start with hypertrophy training and 
progress to a strength focus before beginning 
specifi  c power training as the season approaches. This rather simplistic model fails to consider the 
initial development of sport-specifi  c movement 
patterns by the player.
A more appropriate model for team sport 
strength development is to begin preseason training with a general preparatory phase (GPP). Within this 
phase, aspects of hypertrophy, movement prepara-
tion, technique establishment, imbalance correction and general strength can all be emphasised accord-
ing to individual and team requirements. Once 
this phase is complete, progression can be made toward strength and power training as the season 
approaches (fi  gure 21.1).
The duration of each phase depends on the time 
available for training as well as the team physical status at the beginning of the preseason. For a pro-
fessional English Premier League soccer team, for 
example, the preseason period lasts only 6 weeks 
and typically includes friendly games after only 7 to 10 days. This presents large logistical issues for 
strength development. The solution in this scenario 
might be to use the entire 6-week period as an individual GPP and have players train according 
to their individual requirements. On the other 
hand, in Australian football (AF), the preseason 
period lasts approximately 16 weeks. In this sport, 
a GPP might last 6 to 8 weeks with the remaining time split between strength and power phases. Of 
course, experienced players with signifi  cant train-
ing history would not need such an extended GPP phase and might have their programs adjusted 
accordingly. Alternatively, these players may have 
specifi  c muscular weaknesses or movement imbal-
ances that can be addressed during this period.
Exercise selection, volume and intensity of lifts 
and periodisation models to achieve each aspect of strength has been the object of much research,
3-5
and caution should always be applied when pre-
scribing or interpreting generic rules for strength 
development. Perhaps the most appropriate guide-
line for practitioners to follow when it comes to 
General
strength
trainingTechnique
improvementStrength
phasePower
phase
Specific
weakness
trainingMuscle
imbalance
correctionHypertrophy
trainingMovement
preparation
General
preparation
phase
E5891/Joyce/480167/Fig 21 .01/R1/JGFigure 21.1  Alternate strength model for preseason preparation.

 Optimising Preseason Training in Team Sports ❙ 281
strength training is for the player to lift as close 
to 100 per cent 1RM as possible. Alternatively, 
for power training, the player should perform 
the movement as fast as possible with the weight 
moved being the maximal amount the player can 
lift at this specific speed. Further specific prescrip -
tion details of strength development can be found 
in chapter 10.
Wisdom
Strength periodisation for team sports should be based 
on a needs analysis of each individual with specific focus 
on movement proficiencies, correction of imbalances and 
strength  . In general, strength training during preseason 
should occur at least 3 times per week, although any 
plan should to be based on the needs of the individual  .
Conditioning Development  
in Preseason
Conditioning programming (in this section the 
term conditioning  will be broadly used to describe 
endurance, repeat speed, speed and agility train -
ing) in preseason should prepare the players for 
the conditioning requirements of a single match 
and for the demands of multiple matches over an extended period.
The volume and intensity of conditioning train -
ing depends on factors that also influence strength development:
• Sport played: Sports such as field hockey and 
soccer may require a higher degree of focus 
on endurance than cricket or basketball.
• Position: In netball, for example, the centre position is required to perform a substantially 
higher work-to-recovery ratio (W:R) than the 
goal defence and therefore requires different levels of conditioning.
• Player history: Injury history as well as age 
should influence the conditioning approach 
taken. For instance, younger players straight out of junior ranks should not be exposed to 
typical adult training loads because this will 
likely present a dramatic increase from pre -
vious training experience. Players with sig -
nificant injury history will need an adjusted program, emphasising reconditioning of the 
previously injured area.• Conditioning background: Similar to strength, experienced players require less time to reach 
maximal endurance and repeat speed levels than do inexperienced players.
• Coaching philosophy: If, for example, the 
technical coach wants the players to dominate 
the opposition in the domains of running and 
uncontested possession, more time might 
need to be spent on developing appropriate conditioning for these purposes.
Conditioning for aerobic endurance in team 
sport scenarios has been the subject of consider -
able research.
6-8 The dilemma facing conditioning 
coaches is how best to combine the aspects of 
speed, agility, repeat speed and endurance as 
well as the need for tactical sessions into a single 
preseason program. This balance is particularly 
relevant for sports involving limited preseason periods, such as most professional soccer leagues, 
single tournament preparation (Olympics, World 
Cups, etc.) and the National Basketball Association (NBA) basketball. One solution is to combine all 
aspects of conditioning as well as tactical influ -
ences in small-sided games (SSG). This method will be covered in more detail later in this chapter.
Conditioning training needs to be specific to the 
demands of the sport, but this does not necessar -
ily mean the game should simply be replicated in 
training across the preseason. The W:R, distance travelled, number of accelerations, number of 
skill executions and so on should all be factored 
into the preseason conditioning programmes. For 
example, if the W:R of high-speed running in a 
team sport match is estimated at 1:3, the fitness coach may want to overload this ratio at the start of 
preseason training to 1:1 and progress throughout 
the preseason to a more specific 1:3. There are two 
benefits to this approach. First, it allows the body 
to be exposed to an overload of match demands initially. Second, and specifically with respect to 
high-speed running, it will force players to reduce 
running speeds and therefore the risk of injury at the start of preseason because they will not be able 
to sustain high speeds at 1:1. As the preseason pro -
gresses, the W:R might increase to 1:1.5, 1:2 and so on up to match-specific running speeds and W:R.
The careful planning of conditioning training 
should allow the fitness coach to combine the principals of overload, specificity, regeneration and 
individualisation for all aspects of preseason con -
ditioning. The experience of the fitness coach and 

282 ❙ Burgess
knowledge of individual players are paramount. 
The ability to identify players who are not coping 
with workloads via testing and fitness coach obser -
vation will also help this process work effectively. Monitoring the training response is covered in 
greater detail in chapter 6.
Tactical Training
The preseason presents the ideal opportunity to implement a team style of play through dedi -
cated team tactical sessions and player education. During the season, game preparation and recov -
ery demands limit a coach’s ability to dedicate time to technical and tactical training. These time limitations are often diminished in preseason, 
presenting the coaching staff with a greater chance 
of spending time on team tactics.
Tactical sessions should be incorporated 
from the beginning of the preseason to ensure maximal exposure throughout this important learning period. Incorporating tactical sessions 
into total training loads needs to be deliberate 
and periodised. There are some tactical sessions (e.g., walk-throughs) that require little prior phys -
ical preparation. However, players need to be physically prepared before beginning full-field, 
restriction-free tactical sessions. This preparation 
should include systematic progressions of agility, accelerations, decelerations and speed. The diffi -
culty faced by the fitness coach involves increasing tolerance of, and proficiency in, all these variables at the beginning of preseason whilst ensuring 
training and conditioning volumes remain high.
Initially, this can be achieved by increasing field 
dimensions or reducing player numbers in tactical 
drills (i.e., using SSG). These adjustments gener -
ally lead to reduced agility and greater physical 
demands. Increasing field dimensions will lead to 
players having to cover more distance in the game 
or drill prescribed. The increased space provided 
by larger fields will also lead to less interaction 
with opposition players and therefore less demand 
for changes of direction and less risk of physi -
cal contact with another player. This important 
restriction should be imposed on players in the 
initial stages of preseason because tendons and muscles should not be exposed to sharp changes 
of direction without a suitable progression period. 
As preseason progresses, according to the fitness 
coach’s periodisation of training loads, fields can 
be reduced in size or training numbers increased until players are conditioned to be involved in 
unrestricted tactical sessions. These adjustments 
should occur only as progressions inside the theme of overloading in-season match demands in pre -
season programming.
The aim of this type of SSG training is to create 
specific training games and drills that exceed match physical demands whilst also improving skills and decision making in players. As men -
tioned, initially the aerobic demands of the sport should be exceeded. As the preseason progresses, the speed, acceleration and deceleration require -
ments should be addressed, which is when smaller field dimensions and or larger numbers of players 
are used.
For instance, in preseason soccer preparation the 
fitness coach may prescribe SSG to combine skills and physical overload. Initially, this should involve 
larger field dimensions or smaller player numbers (e.g., 6 versus 6 on a full pitch or 3 versus 3 on a half 
pitch) in order to overload the conditioning element 
as well as the skill involvement. As the preseason 
progresses, the field dimensions should be reduced 
or player numbers increased (e.g., 6 versus 6 on half pitch or 11 versus 11 on full pitch) so that condi -
tioning overload is reduced, and players become more exposed to match-specific demands.
When using these exercises it is important that 
the fitness coach is able to monitor each session closely and make sure each individual is exposed 
to the prescribed training load. Highly skilled 
players can often perform exceptionally well in SSG without large physical exertion, which is not 
possible in traditional running sessions where a 
fitness coach is able to judge time and distance 
progressions quite easily. However, the benefits 
associated with SSG training (e.g., skill practice, enjoyment, decision making) should make this 
form of training a crucial component of the pre -
season program for team sports.
Blending Physical  
and Technical Training
Integrating technical training into fitness sessions 
can be a useful technique for a fitness coach, 
particularly in preseason. Some skill-dominant 
sports such as soccer and basketball have limited 
preseason periods and therefore often require the 
fitness coach, in conjunction with the coaching staff, to make adjustments to technical sessions to 
achieve physical goals.

 Optimising Preseason Training in Team Sports ❙ 283
The most popular form of integrating technical 
and physical training is through the use of SSG. 
Much research has evaluated the physical benefits 
of SSG10, 11 in a variety of sports. In general, the 
research suggests that SSG work can elevate heart 
rate values to game levels but is limited in its ability 
to generate high-speed running levels equivalent 
to actual game demands in most team sports. To 
overcome this limitation supplementary high-speed running may be added, perhaps at regular 
intervals during SSG.
These games can be adjusted to suit the majority 
of preseason needs. At the start of preseason when endurance training may be the priority, the field 
can be enlarged, player numbers can be reduced 
or time can be extended. Making the field bigger 
(per player) may be the best option at this stage as agility demands are reduced in this type of game. 
This is important at the start of preseason when 
the fitness coach should be looking to limit sharp directional changes. As mentioned previously, the 
use of SSG within a preseason period should be 
monitored closely to ensure all physical demands 
are met.
During preseason periods when high-speed 
running might be a physical priority, one option is to combine this type of running with more 
isolated technical exercises. In soccer this might 
involve adding sprints to existing passing and 
shooting drills. In basketball this could be achieved by adding a jump shot after a set number of court 
sprints. Importantly, these drills can be useful only 
with effective communication between coaching and fitness staff so that both technical and physical 
goals can be achieved.
Defining Preseason Success
The success of a preseason is often difficult to 
define. The role of fitness and medical staff within 
this setting is to enhance physical performance 
and prevent injuries. The emphasis placed on each 
of these goals could arguably be divided evenly; 
however certain situations may dictate that one 
takes preference over the other. For instance, if 
a coach or manager feels the team is sufficiently skilled and experienced to be a serious premiership 
or title contender, then the coach may instruct the 
fitness staff to emphasise injury prevention over an expanded conditioning program. Conversely, if 
a coach feels that extra conditioning may compen -
sate for some technical or tactical shortfalls, then the instruction to fitness staff might be to increase conditioning components, even though doing so 
may come with an accepted increased injury risk.
With these two goals in mind, establishing the 
success of a preseason program for team sports falls under two categories: injury rate reduction 
and physical performance enhancement.
Injury Rate Reduction
Maintaining reliable and valid injury statistics will 
enable the fitness staff to keep accurate track of 
injuries and evaluate the success of the program. 
These statistics can include the number of new 
injuries occurring (injury incidence), duration of 
time unavailable because of each injury (injury prevalence), percentage of players available for training and matches and comparison of these 
figures to those of previous years or opposition 
clubs (where available).
The injury trends of most interest to fitness 
staff are those that relate to injuries that may be preventable via prudent programming and injury-  
prevention training. These injuries are predomi -
nantly musculotendinous (i.e., soft-tissue injuries) although some injuries of the ankle and knee joints 
could also arguably be classified as preventable. 
Ankle and knee injuries have been substantially 
investigated, and prevention methods have been 
outlined.12-1
4 Therefore, monitoring and interven -
ing on injury trends of these body parts should 
form part of any team sport preseason evaluation. 
Of course, these are general guidelines, and each 
injury should be treated individually with causes 
and preventability determined by fitness and medical staff.
These statistics (as well as measures such as 
percentage of total training completed by the team) should be recorded for both the preseason 
and in-season periods. Preseason statistics should 
serve to influence training immediately (if trends 
are emerging) as well as in subsequent preseason 
periods. For instance, if an alarming trend for ham -
string injuries is identified, the fitness staff should investigate why this might be occurring and look to address this trend immediately. In-season statistics 
should influence both preseason and in-season 
training. For example, if a disproportionately high 
number of calf injuries occurs during the season, 
preseason methods should be revisited to ensure the source of these injuries is detected and the 
problem rectified in future preseasons.

284We in the NFL face significant challenges in terms of physi -
cally preparing our athletes. Our sport is so technically and 
tactically demanding that the emphasis unquestionably lies here, despite the fact that the game is getting more 
physically taxing every year. There is a trade-off between 
time spent learning the technical system and time spent improving physical capacities. You could say it’s a battle of installation versus adaptation. To a large extent we rely on the athletic qualities inherent to the player and the player’s 
professionalism in maintaining and developing capacities 
during his time away from the club.
The head coach and general manager set the direction 
of the squad. As the head strength coach, my priorities are to learn the offensive and defensive strategies they 
want to employ. This enables me to shape our programme 
accordingly. For example, if our emphasis is on repetitive, quick plays, I prioritise a thread of repeated speed. If, however, we plan to play with a more physical emphasis, I may concentrate a bit more on time in the weight room. 
Essentially, our coaching team’s strategy will determine 
the energy system we aim to emphasise in training.
The annual training calendar goes something like this: 
After the conclusion of the season, the players can take almost 15 weeks away from the organisation. We get them 
back in April for 9 weeks. During this time, attendance is 
recommended but not required. Weeks are broken down into three distinct phases:
1. Phase 1 lasts for 2 weeks and is spent strictly with the strength and conditioning staff, our physio -
therapists and myself.
2. During phase 2, which lasts for 4 weeks, the tech -
nical and tactical teaching is initiated with position coaches, although competition on the field is kept 
to a minimum.
3. Phase 3, the final 3 weeks, is a time better known as organised team activities (OTAs), during which the 
emphasis is on competitive technical and tactical training. OTAs are unpadded, offseason practices; they allow us to organise training drills with a 
specific emphasis on positional demands (e.g., run -
ning distance, sprint volume, acceleration, deceler -
ation) without the concern of contact injuries that 
can accumulate during full-contact training. This phase leads into the preseason and concludes with 
a 3-day, mandatory veteran minicamp.
During the first two phases, athletes engage in physical 
training 4 days per week. Once OTAs begin, it’s 3 times per week.
At the conclusion of this block, players go away again 
for 6 weeks. Before their departure, players are given a 
periodised training plan to prepare them for the preseason. The sprinting volumes prescribed are determined through 
position-specific global positioning system (GPS) data 
gathered during OTAs.
After their offseason break, players report back for 6 
weeks of preseason training, typically starting late in the third week of July. This period begins 15 days before the first preseason game, so all coaches have a 2-week window in which to prepare the athlete to play in the first presea
-
son match. The first 2 days are devoted to screening and testing, the results of which enable us to advise the coaches 
on physical limitations and training-load modifications 
based on the physical robustness of each individual. We start preseason with about 90 athletes, and that number is whittled down to 53 at the conclusion. In some years, a majority of this starting number will be familiar to us, but 
in other years there may be a large turnover, and as a result 
we need to get to know 30 to 40 new players.
Given the fact that the league is getting more physi
-
cally demanding, we emphasise hypertrophy, maximal strength and power output as much as possible, and we 
work around the fact that daily practice can consume up to 
2.5 hours. We rarely have many opportunities to develop some of the more complex integrated athletic skills such as agility because the time we have with players is so brief. Therefore, we rely somewhat on the innate capabilities of Preseason Training, National 
Football League (NFL) StyleCOACH’S INSIGHT
Tom Myslinsk
Head Strength and Conditioning Coach,  
Jacksonville Jaguars, United States
Tom Myslinski is strength and conditioning coordinator for the Jacksonville Jaguars of the National Football League (NFL). He played nine seasons as an offen -
sive lineman in the NFL and spent three seasons as strength and conditioning coach for the Cleveland Browns. He is certified by the NSCA and serves on the 
Coaching Performance Committee and Human Performance Centre Committee. He has a master’s degree is exercise physiology from the University of Pittsburgh.

 Optimising Preseason Training in Team Sports ❙ 285
the athletes selected and their time spent practicing the 
game to develop their skills. When time permits, we will 
integrate specific and nonspecific change-of-direction 
skills into training.
We periodise energy-system development by following 
a Charlie Francis–style high-low, vertically integrated approach (see chapter 11). This allows us to concurrently 
train all motor abilities whilst varying the volume and 
intensity. In developing speed and stamina, we use a short-to-long programme rather than a traditional long-to-
short programme, so athletes are consistently developing 
their capabilities and adapting to the gradual increase in intensity over time. This is extremely important because 
as the preseason progresses, the volume and intensity of 
technical training are elevated, especially when competi
-
tion is present.
We play four or five preseason matches during the 
month of August. This, to a large extent, dictates the struc -
ture of the training week. The initial session of the week will be largely focused on recovery. Depending on our 
training block, we will prioritise hypertrophy or maximal 
strength; as we are getting closer to the next game, we will emphasise optimising the athlete’s state of readiness 
through whatever methods necessary.
The biggest challenge in the NFL is individualising 
training programmes for 90 players. We break down the 
team into various subgroups for needs analysis: offense or defense, position, role and player needs. Then we work 
backward, building the athlete and customising his abili
-
ties according to the demands that will be required of him 
in the position he plays.
Initial testing ranges from biomechanical to biochem -
ical. Biomechanical tests can be broken down further into movement screens and performance screens. The 
results of these tests lead us to more precise screens in 
order to further pinpoint an athlete’s asymmetries or weaknesses. We use the functional movement screen 
(FMS) as our initial movement screen and a variety of performance tests such as unilateral vertical hopping for power output and horizontal movements for distance and 
landing mechanics.
Biochemical testing is quite new to the NFL. We have 
regularly been tracking each athlete’s testosterone, omega-3 status, creatine kinase, vitamin D, folate, homocysteine and thyroid labs. We firmly believe we must construct the 
athlete from the inside out and develop what is under the 
hood. This takes time and patient teaching, reinforcement 
and lifestyle changes for most athletes.
Once the results are in, supplementation recommen
-
dations are based off each athlete’s nutritional habits and 
labs. We like to say that if you are not testing, you are just 
guessing. In the NFL, we are not allowed to distribute sup -
plements to athletes. We can only recommend and advise 
they use NSF’s Certified for Sport supplements. We rely 
on our athletes to be proactive and professional in their 
approach to health and wellness.
In the weight room, the strength programme and 
training methods are the developed based on the results of the athlete’s performance tests, movement screens, injury 
history and positional needs. Unfortunately, due to the 
lack of development time, sometimes we must strip the programme down to the absolute basics: squats, versions 
of the Olympic pull, posterior chain, bench press and pull-
ups. Additionally, we devote a reasonable amount of time on developing adequate levels of stability and mobility 
of the neck, hip and shoulder girdle. We’ve discovered 
that the more we know, the less we tend to do. We would 
rather our athletes be very good at very little rather than 
just average at a lot.
American professional football is a physically demand
-
ing sport. In fact, I often say to our players that the first day of preseason training is the best they will feel until the 
end of the season! We aim to equip each player with the 
skills, knowledge and wisdom to understand what being a professional athlete means, especially in looking after 
his biggest asset: his body.
Physical-Performance 
Enhancement
Establishing whether physical-performance 
capacity has been improved is often difficult in 
team sports. The success of the team is important; 
however, this success does not always correlate 
to greater physical capacity. In soccer, for exam -
ple, research suggests more successful teams 
demonstrate less physical output during matches 
than do less successful teams.15, 16 Anecdotally, 
this is probably because teams that are more successful maintain possession and are more 
effective in their tactical positioning in both attack and defence and therefore do not need to 
run as much.
Late-game success or failure is one common 
measure of a successful preseason conditioning program, particularly in early season matches. 
However, this measure can be flawed. For exam -
ple, if a basketball team overturns a 20-point deficit in the final quarter, it is often assumed that they are fitter than their opponents. However, in 
the first three quarters, this team may have been 

286 ❙ Burgess
comprehensively outworked by its opposition; 
therefore, when all four quarters are evaluated, 
rather than just the fourth quarter, the team that 
won had a lighter physical output.
Physical assessment can determine whether 
preseason conditioning methods have been suc -
cessful. The type of assessment chosen is critical 
and should attempt to reflect the demands of the 
sport rather than be used simply to collect infor -
mation. The risk associated with performing an 
assessment as well as the value the assessment 
adds to team selection or success should also be 
considered. In a 6-week European soccer presea -
son, for example, the conditioning coach should 
ask whether scheduling 2 or 3 assessment sessions 
is the most prudent use of the limited time avail -
able. In this instance, a submaximal assessment 
might be useful.
In this type of assessment a standard, sub -
maximal work rate is prescribed, and the players 
have their heart rate responses to this workload 
evaluated. Additionally, the speed of heart rate recovery (HRR) from this set workload can also 
be measured. HRR has been shown to represent 
fitness levels in numerous sports using this type 
of assessment.
17, 18 Submaximal assessment places 
little demand on the players and therefore can be used quite frequently throughout preseason to 
evaluate the physical progress of the players.
Wisdom
Submaximal heart rate assessment (HRR) protocols might 
offer a reliable, valid method of assessing players’ aerobic 
fitness levels during the preseason  . This type of assess -
ment places little demand on players and therefore can 
be repeated quite regularly during this period  .
Methods to Ensure  
a Successful Preseason
A successful preseason, as defined by the parame -
ters described, is the aim of all fitness coaches. The 
methods by which success occurs are affected by 
many factors, such as the type of sport, coaching 
characteristics and duration of preseason. How -
ever, there are a number of options that a fitness 
coach can use to—at the very least—prevent an 
unsuccessful preseason.Effective Programming
Effective preseason programming of physical qual -
ities has previously been mentioned in this chapter as well as elsewhere in this book. Fitness coaches 
should ensure that the program is appropriate for 
the level and is individualised where appropriate.
Broadly speaking, an undulating periodisation 
model should be employed during preseason, with the number of steps dependant on the preseason 
duration. Ideally, 3 weeks of gradually increased training load should be followed by a week of 
reduced load. This deloading week should consist 
of a training volume that is reduced at least 25 
per cent from the previous week. However, if, for 
example, a preseason period consists of 6 weeks, then 2 weeks of gradually increased load followed 
by a week of reduced load should be employed. 
Flexibility in programming is required.
Consistent with the strength model outlined 
in figure 21.1, the programming of all aspects of conditioning should be individualised. This 
may mean separating players into various groups 
based on training age, position, injury or other variables. Young players, in particular, may need 
to have a separate conditioning model, which 
may involve reduced volume or more emphasis 
on movement-pattern development early in the 
preseason program.
Effective Monitoring
Monitoring players effectively during periods of intense training, such a typical preseason, is a 
crucial component of a successful program. The 
ability to identify when a team or individual player 
requires an alteration in the programme can mean 
the difference between a well-conditioned player and an overtrained player. As mentioned previ -
ously, preseason loads should be estimated based on overloading in-season game demands. Once 
this plan has been established, detailed monitoring 
of these loads is a critical component of ensuring a successful preseason.
A fitness coach has many tools to monitor play -
ers and many of these are outlined in great detail 
elsewhere in this book. Generally, a fitness coach 
should be aware of the external load placed on a player over the preseason as well as the internal 
cost of this load on the player.

 Optimising Preseason Training in Team Sports ❙ 287
The external load of a field session is predomi -
nantly assessed objectively using equipment such 
as GPS devices. Gym sessions are assessed objec -
tively using a combination of sets, repetitions and weight lifted expressed as actual weight (e.g., kg, 
lb) or as a percentage of a player’s one-repetition maximum (1RM). Other examples of external 
assessment include duration of session and fitness 
coach rating of session difficulty.
The internal cost of a session is most commonly 
determined using heart rate assessment or player rating of perceived exertion (RPE). Both values 
provide a fitness coach with a cost of the session 
to the individual player and team.
Prudent use of these (and other similar) 
session-monitoring techniques permits fitness coaches to assess each session with respect to the original session goals. Crucially, these tools 
can also then be used to adjust future sessions in 
accordance with programme aims. For example, 
suppose the aim of the session was for the team 
to train at a load that equated to 700 training-load units (session RPE ×  session time) or run 1,200 
high-speed distance metres throughout a skill session. At the conclusion of the session, if these 
targets were not met, the fitness coach has the 
option of adding any missing distance or train -
ing-load units to the next session. Without these 
monitoring techniques, making such adjustments 
would not be possible.
Arguably more important than the monitoring 
of individual sessions on the success of preseason 
is the ability to monitor the accumulative effect 
of training on the player and team. This long-
term approach to preseason monitoring should 
provide the fitness coach with the ability not only to assess the effects of training periods on each 
player, but also to assess the team readiness for the 
in-season program. The tools used for this type of monitoring can include heart rate variability, 
blood profiling and regular fitness assessments in 
addition to the tools used to monitor individual 
sessions.
Along with effective programming, the ability 
to monitor players and sessions is paramount to a successful preseason. The monitoring should 
provide the fitness coach with the information that 
can then be used to adjust the program accordingly. 
The use of monitoring is discussed in greater detail in chapter 6.Wisdom
Monitoring both external work or output as well as the 
internal cost of the training session and preseason allows 
coaches to make necessary alterations as required  .
Development of Desirable  
Team Behaviours
The preseason should be used by coaching and fit -
ness staff to develop the behaviours they want the 
team to display throughout the season. Behaviours 
such as resilience under pressure, team harmony, 
and mental toughness can all, to varying degrees, 
be trained. During the season these behaviours can significantly influence team success; however, the 
pressure of games as well as training limitations 
during the season make it difficult to establish these behaviours once the season has started.
Practically, these behaviours can be developed 
through numerous techniques. For example, fitness 
staff can alter training times for an early (or late) 
start to sessions to evaluate how players react to 
being placed outside their comfort zone. Deliber -
ate incorrect decisions during practice matches, 
alternate training activities (e.g., strongman) 
and military-style team camps may also provide 
opportunities for fitness staff to influence team 
behaviours in preseason.
The use of team bonding, mental toughness or 
even fitness-based camps is a strategy generally used in extended preseason periods, such as those 
required for the various football codes around 
the world. These camps can certainly provide a 
break from the typical daily training routine and challenge players both physically and mentally. 
Other potential benefits include extended peri
-
ods of time with players to discuss team tactics, 
goals and behaviours, allowing new teammates 
to get to know each other, as well as the bene -
fits of allowing coaches to assess how players 
react to difficult circumstances. The timing of 
these camps needs to be carefully considered. 
The camps need to be scheduled sufficiently far 
enough into preseason to ensure that players have 
a large enough training base to cope with the camp’s physical demands yet not too close to the 
in-season period so the camp does not interfere 
with technical preparation.

288 ❙ Burgess
However, care must be taken when applying 
these techniques too frequently. Although some 
individuals and teams respond well to this type 
of training, others may not. Critically analysing 
team (and player) needs is crucial in determining 
whether this type of approach is required. For example, if a coach is determined to implement 
a new game plan, spending a week at a military 
camp during an 8-week preseason might be super -
fluous to this team’s needs.
The successes as well as the physical impacts 
of these types of camps are also difficult to assess. 
Training loads during these camps are often danger -
ously high and are the result of novel tasks; unless 
sufficient postcamp recovery time is implemented, 
the accumulated fatigue from the camp will almost 
certainly affect subsequent training sessions.
Wisdom
The use of military-style camps during preseason can be 
an effective way of strengthening team bonds and seeing 
how players react under physical and mental stress; how -
ever, they come with inherent risks of injury and excessive 
fatigue  . Coaches need to be careful about using camps 
and ensure that their use will contribute significantly to the success of the preseason  .
Alternate Training 
Modalities
Use of alternate training methods, if programmed 
effectively, can add significant and much-needed 
variety to lengthy preseason programs. In this con -
text the term alternate  applies to variations to normal 
running-, skill- or gym-based methodologies and can range from swimming training to yoga.
Often, fitness coaches will provide team sport 
players with regular reduced-impact training modalities throughout the preseason. These 
sessions (e.g. biking, swimming, use of a cross-
trainer) serve to maintain aerobic and anaerobic 
fitness levels; reduce impact (load) through the knee, ankle and hip joints; and add variety to 
training. Care must be taken in the prescription of 
these sessions because they might not always be the most appropriate form of variety in training. 
For instance, in a shortened preseason such as in 
European soccer, every session is critical; it may be 
that performing additional skill sessions might be 
a more effective use of limited time. Additionally, certain modalities might not be suitable for all 
players. For instance, the additional hip and spinal 
joint flexion often associated with bike riding 
might place taller players at a greater level of dis -
comfort and possibly even increase injury risk. In 
this case other modalities, such as reduced-gravity 
treadmills or water running, might offer a more 
appropriate form of training variety.
The transfer of fitness benefits from some 
non-weight-bearing modalities to running is questionable;1
9 therefore, the transfer of benefits 
to team sport success is even less certain. When 
considering these training options, the fitness 
coach should perform a cost–benefit analysis. Are 
the benefits of using these training modalities 
sufficient to outweigh the potential injury costs? This is a difficult analysis to make, and the fitness 
coach can do so only through experience and, in 
particular, from knowledge of individual player training thresholds. A more detailed discussion 
of this topic can be found in chapter 17 .
Altitude training has often been used in the pre -
season to develop more efficient aerobic pathways 
in players. The timing of this training becomes paramount if the benefits of altitude are to be fully 
realised. For example, most team sport altitude 
camps occur many months before to the start of the season. Even though this may have some benefit 
in preparing players for the rigours of preseason 
training as well as some benefits associated with 
team bonding, any specific aerobic improvements 
as a result of altitude training would disappear by the time the season starts. If, however, a club has 
access to hypoxic facilities, then the benefits of an 
initial altitude camp may be extended via regular 
use of hypoxic training.
Other training options such as yoga and Pilates 
should be included regularly in any preseason training program. Players requiring this type of 
training should be identified through the presea -
son screening process, and prescription should 
be based on individual requirements rather than 
following a blanket approach for the whole team.
Effective Tapering  
in Preseason
A comprehensive guide to tapering can be found in 
chapter 22. A preseason taper, just before in-season 
play, should be carefully planned. The coach or 
manager and the fitness coach should evaluate the 

 Optimising Preseason Training in Team Sports ❙ 289
importance of the initial in-season matches, which 
should dictate the size and duration of the prior 
taper period employed. For example, in Australian 
football (AF) the preseason period can be up to 16 
weeks, and therefore a significant 2-week taper is 
suggested. This is, of course, assuming the fitness coach wants the team to be at peak fitness for the 
first month or so of matches.
The risk associated with this strategy occurs 
later in the season when the tapering team may not be able to maintain preseason fitness levels com -
pared with a team that continues to train during the initial month of the season in order to attempt 
to maintain fitness levels for the entire season. Both of these strategies require careful planning and 
significant input from coaching staff.
The philosophy remains the same in sports 
with a substantially shorter preseason; however, the duration of the taper should be altered. For 
instance, in a 6-week preseason, the taper period 
might last only 1 week. In this case, it is almost impossible to provide players with a comprehen -
sive loading and tapering period during this lim -
ited preseason time. Therefore, the fitness of each 
player and perhaps the team as a whole would have 
to be evaluated during the season and additional 
sessions prescribed as necessary.
Summary
An effective preseason program can establish the framework for team sport success during the 
season. The training loads prescribed during the 
preseason need to be sufficient to place players 
under greater stress than in-season demands 
in order to maximise physical performance and prevent injury. Careful integration of strength, 
conditioning and tactical training, along with 
appropriate use of various monitoring techniques, will enable the fitness coach to provide team 
coaches with a group of players in the best possible 
physical condition for in-season play.

This page intentionally left blank.

CHAPTER
 291
22
22
22
The ability to perform at the highest level when 
it matters most during the competitive calendar 
is a critical aspect of athletic performance. Eleva-tion of performance is often referred to as peaking
because the athlete’s overall performance capacity 
is elevated to its highest level.
1 Traditionally, a peak 
is achieved via a reduction in overall training 
loads at key predetermined times dictated by the 
competitive calendar contained in the athlete’s 
annual training plan. This reduction in training 
load is often termed a taper  and is considered to 
be a signifi  cant aspect underlying the physical 
preparation of athletes.1, 2
The overall success of a taper is predicated on 
how effectively it is integrated into the competitive period of the annual training plan. Additionally, 
the degree of performance elevation is dictated 
by the amount and quality of training that occurs 
during the preparatory and competitive periods of training. Based on this premise, the foundation 
of a true peak is therefore established during the 
preparatory and competition periods of training when the athlete builds a physical, tactical and 
technical training base.
1, 3 If this foundation is not 
established, the athlete’s ability to peak will be incrementally reduced, and performance opti-
misation will not likely occur because the athlete 
has not established the necessary physiological 
adaptations.
4
The ability to truly peak an athlete is a complex 
process that is affected by a multitude of factors, 
including the training volume, frequency and 
intensity.1, 5, 6 The interaction of these training factors is typically manipulated in a taper in order to affect overall performance capacity. However, 
although tapers are widely used by coaches and 
athletes from a variety of sports to gain a compe-titive advantage, 
7-15 there are varying opinions 
about the overall structure to be employed for the 
optimal taper. Therefore, in order to maximise 
the performance gains achieved during a taper, 
we need to understand the basic physiological 
responses to training and the scientifi  c evidence on how to integrate, sequence and structure loading 
and unloading periods into the annual training 
plan in order to create an optimal taper.
Understanding Tapering
The scientifi  c literature uses numerous defi  ni-tions to describe the modifi  cations to an athlete’s 
training plan during the days leading into a major 
competitive event.
16-21 Typically, this time frame 
is marked by a reduction in the overall workload 
encountered in training as the athlete moves closer 
to the targeted competitive event.18 This reduction 
in overall training load is what we typically call a 
taper.1,16,18,22 It is, however, better to defi  ne tapering 
more comprehensively as ‘a progressive, non-linear reduction of the training load during a variable 
period of time, in an attempt to reduce the physi-
ological and psychological stress of daily training 
and optimise performance.’
23 This defi  nition is 
preferable as it includes some indications about 
the actual design elements that are specifi  c to an 
effectively implemented taper.18Peaking for Competition 
in Individual Sports
G. Gregory Haff, PhD, CSCS*D, FNSCA, AWF-3, ASCC, ASCA-2
Centre for Exercise and Sport Science Research, 
Edith Cowan University, Joondalup, Western Australia

292 ❙ Haff
Physiological Premise
Key premises underpin the ability to peak an ath-
lete: the optimisation of fi  tness, the time involved 
in fatigue dissipation and their collective relation-
ship to preparedness .
The fitness–fatigue relationship24, 25 ( fi g u r e  2 2 . 1 )  
provides a general explanation for how fi  tness and 
fatigue interact to affect an athlete’s preparedness 
or overall readiness for competition. The fi  tness–
fatigue paradigm is based on the concept that the 
athlete’s preparedness is in a constant state of variability and is directly affected by changes in 
the level of fi  tness or fatigue induced by the train-
ing stimulus, be it a single training session or the overall training structure.
3, 26, 27
Based on this relationship, it is clear that pre-
paredness is optimised as a result of training 
that maximises the athlete’s overall fi  tness whilst 
minimising the overall development of fatigue.28
However, when training workloads are high, preparedness is typically lower as a result of accu-
mulated fatigue induced by the training stimulus 
masking the increase in preparedness.
The delayed training effects  paradigm
4, 25 examines 
the relationship between the supercompensation  of 
performance, the elevation of preparedness and the magnitude of the training stress undertaken 
by the athlete (fi  gure 22.2).
1Wisdom
If adequate rest, recovery, or reductions in training load 
are implemented, fatigue will be dissipated, resulting in an elevated preparedness . If these reductions in training stimuli are continued for too long, there will also be a reduction in fi  tness, resulting in a state of involution , or detraining, which will negatively affect 
the athlete’s overall preparedness .
If the magnitude of the training stress is large 
or is undertaken for a long time, the amount of 
fatigue generated is magnifi  ed as is the increase 
in the level of fi  tness.1, 3, 29 Additionally, the greater 
the accumulated fatigue, or overall training load 
encountered, the longer the time frame needed 
to dissipate fatigue and stimulate a concomitant elevation in preparedness or performance. Con-
versely, if the training workload is relatively small, 
the level of accumulated fatigue is less, and the rate at which this fatigue is dissipated is markedly 
faster. However, lower training workloads result 
in smaller fi  tness adaptations and lower elevations 
in overall preparedness.
25 Based on these relation-
ships we can see that the effectiveness of the taper is, to a large extent, determined by the training that 
precedes it. We cannot expect a taper to elevate 
performance when performance is linked to poor 
FatigueFitness
Training
stimulusPreparedness is
optimised as fatigue
dissipates at a faster
rate than fitness
PreparednessFitness is elevated but
the cumulative fatigue
decreases preparedness
Involution
E5891/Joyce/480168/Fig 22.01/R1/JGFigure 22.1  Fitness–fatigue paradigm.
Reprinted, by permission, from G .G . Haff and E .E . Haff, 2012, Training integration and periodization . In NSCA’s guide to program design, edited by J .R . Hoffman for the National Strength and Conditioning Association (Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics), 219 . Adapted from M .H . Stone, M .E . Stone, and W .A . Sands, 20 07,  Principles and practice of resistance training (Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics), 376, and L .Z .F . Chiu and J .L . Barnes, 2003, “The fitness-fatigue 
model revisited: Implications for planning short- and long-term training,” NSCA Journal 25(6): 42-51 .

Peaking for Competition in Individual Sports ❙ 293
preparation. Equally, it is folly to think that a short 
tapering period will be able to fully freshen up 
an athlete who has just been through a massive 
training block.
Conceptually, the ultimate goal of the taper is 
to reduce the accumulated fatigue that develops in response to the overall training load undertaken by 
the athlete whilst retaining as many of the fi  tness 
characteristics stimulated by the training plan as possible.
1
Generally, fi  tness is considered a slow-changing 
component of athletic preparedness and is rela-
tively stable over several minutes, hours or days, 
depending on the acquired level of fi  tness estab-
lished in response to the training interventions.1
On the other hand, fatigue is a highly variable 
and rapidly changing component of preparedness 
because it is affected by physiological and psycho-
logical stressors.3, 27 By decreasing training loads, 
accumulated fatigue (rapidly changing) can be 
swiftly decreased whilst overall fi  tness (slowly 
changing) is maintained.Although the basic concept of a taper is rather 
simple, the implementation of a taper is a more 
complex undertaking where numerous training 
and recovery-based factors must be understood. 
For example, if the taper is extended for too long 
a duration, fi  tness will begin to decline because of a lack of a training stimulus being present. 
In reality when this occurs, a state of involution 
(i.e., detraining) will occur, and overall pre-paredness will be signifi  cantly affected (fi  gures 
22.3 and 22.4).
23
Ultimately, the level of preparedness is a result 
of a compromise between the extent of the train-ing load reduction and the duration of this reduc-
tion.
22 For example, if the training load preceding 
a taper is high, a greater reduction of training 
load over a longer duration would be required to 
effectively reduce the accumulated fatigue and 
elevate overall preparedness for competition.22, 30
Conversely, if the training stress is relatively low, 
the taper would not need to be undertaken for 
a long duration or require a larger reduction in 
Pre-taper training period
Pre-taper training period
Pre-taper training period
workloadPre-taper
training
period
workload+
0
–
+
0
–Taper period
Taper periodInvolution
Delayed training effectDelayed training effect
InvolutionPerformance (AU)
E5891/Joyce/480169/Fig 22.02/R1/JGFigure 22.2  Delayed training effects and tapers.

294 ❙ Haff
Suboptimal taper length:  Taper duration too long
Optimal taper lengthTraining volume
Duration of taper (days or weeks)Taper
FatiguePreparednessFitness
E5891/Joyce/480170/Fig 22.03/R1/JG
100
90
80706050403020
10
0Optimal taper length
Optimal reduction
in training loadTaper
PreparednessTraining load% of training volume
Duration of taper (days)12345678910 11 12 131415161718192021
E5891/Joyce/480171/Fig 22.04/R1/JGFigure 22.4  Relationship between preparedness and a taper.
Reprinted, by permission, from T .O . Bompa and G .G . Haff, 2009, Periodization: Theory and methodology of training,  5th ed . (Champaign, IL: Human Kinet-
ics), 190 . Adapted from L . Bosquet, L . Leger, and P . Legros, 2002, “Methods to determine aerobic endurance,” Sports Medicine  32(11): 675-700 .Figure 22.3  Relationship between fatigue, fitness, preparedness and taper length.
Reprinted, by permission, from T .O . Bompa and G .G . Haff, 2009,  Periodization: Theory and methodology of training, 5th ed . (Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics), 189 .
workload.1 Overall, it appears many integrating 
factors converge to dictate an athlete’s overall 
preparedness. In order to effectively elevate this 
preparedness for competition, the effects of the 
taper need to be considered from a multilateral 
perspective rather than being focused solely on reducing training loads.Primary Aim of a Taper
The ultimate target of any taper is to optimise the athlete’s preparedness at a specifi  c time, 
allowing for a greater potential for competitive 
success. This goal is accomplished through a 
complex balancing act in which cumulative 

 Peaking for Competition in Individual Sports ❙ 295
physiological and psychological fatigue devel -
oped in response to the training process is 
reduced whilst sport-specific fitness is main -
tained or slightly elevated.18, 31
Ultimately, the tapering process allows the 
athlete to recover from the previous periods 
of training, allowing for overall performance 
capacity to increase.18, 22, 31 The ability of the 
taper to increase overall performance is strongly 
supported by scientific research in which the 
reduction of fatigue results in an increase in 
physical performance capacity, 12 improvements 
in psychological perceptions of effort, enhanced mood status and a reduction in overall sense of 
fatigue (table 22.1).
18, 32, 33
Key to the effectiveness of a taper is the real -
isation that the physiological adaptations to the 
training program have already occurred before the 
initiation of the taper;18 they are simply revealed 
when the reduction of training load results in a 
dissipation of accumulated fatigue.25Advantages of Tapering
In high-level sport, small elevations in performance 
can have a significant impact on performance out -
comes and can differentiate between winning and losing. For example, across the swimming events 
in the 2000 Sydney Olympics there was only a 
1.62 per cent difference between the gold medal and fourth place and a 2.02 per cent difference 
between third and eighth place.
34 Similarly, in the 
2004 Athens Olympics there was a 1.96 per cent difference (women = 2.2%; men = 1.73%) between 
first and third in weightlifting.
1
When looking at the variability in weightlifting 
performance, McGuigan and Kane35 report that the 
within-athlete variation in performance is around 
2.5 per cent (95% confidence interval = 2.2%-2.9%) 
and that as little as a 1.2 per cent increase in total 
weight lifted can significantly enhance perfor -
mance results. Similarly, at the 2012 London Olym -
pic Games, the variation in performance between 
Table 22.1  Primary Aims of a Taper
Responses to reduced 
training stress Potential effect of a taper
Global responses Reduction in cumulative fatigue
Increase in performance capacitySlight increase in fitness
Hormonal responses Increase in testosterone (T)Decrease in cortisol (C)Increase in T/C ratio
Hematological responses Increase in red blood cell volumeIncrease in hematocrit
Increase in hemoglobin
Increase in haptoglobinIncrease in reticulocytes
Muscular adaptations Increase in myosin heavy chain IIa fibre diameterIncrease in myosin heavy chain IIa force outputIncrease in myosin heavy chain IIa power output
Biochemical response Decrease in blood creatine kinase
Psychological responses Decrease in perception of effortDecrease in global mood disturbance
Decrease in perception of fatigue
Increase in vigorIncrease in sleep quality
Sources: I. Mujika, 2009, Tapering and peaking for optimal performance (Champaign, IL: 
Human Kinetics) and N. Luden, E. Hayes, A. Galpin, et al., 2010, “Myocellular basis for tapering in competitive distance runners,”  Journal of Applied Physiology 108(6): 1501-1509.

296 ❙ Haff
fi  rst and third was 2.3 per cent (95% confi  dence 
interval =1.7%-3.7%) across all weight classes; as 
little as a 1.1 per cent increase in performance 
would be expected to enhance performance results. 
Additionally, Hopkins36 suggests that elite track 
athletes can signifi  cantly alter their competitive placing with a 0.3 to 0.5 per cent increase in per-
formance, whilst elite fi  eld athletes (i.e., throwers) 
can improve placing with improvements of 0.9 to 
1.5 per cent.
After the employment of a well-crafted taper-
ing strategy, it is reasonable to expect competitive performance enhancements of equal or greater magnitude to these variances. Research into 
tapering strategies has revealed that signifi  cant 
improvements in competitive performance (0.5%-
11.0%) and muscular strength and power (8%-25%) 
in runners, triathletes, cyclists and swimmers can occur when properly implementing a taper before 
a competitive event (fi  gure 22.5).
9, 13, 15, 18, 37-42
Running Rowing
Weightlifting SwimmingCycling Triathlon
Expected
range of
improvement
from a taper
0.5-6.0%
E5891/Joyce/480173/Fig 22.05/R1/JGFigure 22.5  Expected improvement in performance 
from a taper.
Based on data from I . Mujika and S . Padilla, 2003, “Scientific bases for 
precompetition tapering strategies,” Medicine & Science in Sports & Exer-cise 35(7): 1182-1187 .
As a general rule, a pre-event taper typically 
results in about a 3 per cent (0.5%-6.0%) increase in 
competitive performance.18, 37 For example, swim-
ming performance was elevated by 2.2 per cent with the implementation of a 3-week taper leading 
into the 2000 Sydney Olympic Games.
34 Interest-
ingly, the elevation in performance stimulated 
by this 3-week taper is similar to the differences 
between fi  rst and fourth place (1.62%) and third 
and eighth place (2.02%) across the swimming 
events.16, 34
If a taper is employed to elevate muscular 
strength, a 2 to 8 per cent increase in performance is typically expected,1 which is greater than the 
1.1 per cent increase needed to alter performance 
results in the sport of weightlifting.35 When 
examining the effects of a taper on bench press and back squat performance, Izquierdo and col-
leagues
43 report a 2.0 per cent increase in maximal 
strength; Coutts and colleagues44 report a 7 .2 per 
cent increase in 3RM back squat performance 
and a 5.2 per cent increase in bench press perfor-
mance. Similarly, Gibala and colleagues45 report a 
3 to 8 per cent increase in maximal isometric and 
dynamic force-generating capacity when a taper 
is employed.
If these results are taken collectively, it is clear 
that a properly constructed taper can produce increases in performance.
5 The overall effective-
ness of the planned taper is related to many factors, 
including the type of taper selected.18 In general 
one can expect to see a 3.0 per cent increase in per-formance in response to a taper. This magnitude 
of performance increase can differentiate between 
fi  rst and third place at the Olympic Games.
Wisdom
If we get the tapering strategy right, we maximise our 
chances of achieving competitive success . Another way of looking at it, though, is that if we get it wrong, our odds of victory begin to lengthen .
Variables to Consider During a Taper
Many tapering strategies can be used as part of an 
annual training plan in order to peak the athlete for 
a specifi  c competition. Regardless of the strategy 
employed, the main premise is based on reducing 
training workloads and dissipating fatigue.
The reduction of training load during the crit-
ical time before competition can be accomplished through alterations in volume, frequency or 
intensity. Regardless of which training variable is altered, the overall success of the taper is affected 
by the training that comes before the taper,
22 the 
overall duration of the taper20 and the type of 
taper that is used.16, 18 If the taper is not structured 
appropriately, a reduction in athlete preparedness can occur in response to too short a taper, in which 
cumulative fatigue masks preparedness, or an extended taper, in which involution occurs from 

Peaking for Competition in Individual Sports ❙ 297
a reduced training stimulus.23 Either scenario will 
compromise the main goal of optimising compe-
titive performance. Therefore, we need to under-
stand how the type and duration of the tapering 
plan infl  uence the effectiveness of the strategy.
Type of Taper
There are several types of tapers that have been 
proposed in the literature for individual sport 
events.16, 18 Globally, these tapering strategies 
can be considered to be either nonprogressive or
progressive . A nonprogressive, or stepwise taper, 
is accomplished with the implementation of a standardised reduction in training workloads; a 
progressive taper /uni00A0is marked by a systematic, progres-
sive reduction in training workload (fi  gure 22.6).
Pattern of taper
Progressive taper Step-wise taperAll sportsCyclingSwimmingRunning
Effect size-2 0 2 4 6
E5891/Joyce/480174/Fig 22.06/R2/JGFigure 22.6  Effect sizes for taper-induced perfor-
mance gains.
Adapted from L . Bosquet, J . Montpetit, D . Arvisais, and I . Mujika, 2007, 
“Effects of tapering on performance: A meta-analysis,” Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise 39(8): 1358-1365 .
A hallmark of a nonprogressive taper is a 
sudden reduction in training load, which could 
result in a greater loss of fi  tness and preparedness 
during the course of the taper.46 Generally, th is 
strategy appear to result in enhancements to both 
physiological and performance adaptations that 
are typically gained from training.18, 39, 47-52 However, 
when compared to slow or fast progressive tapers, 
the stepwise taper produces signifi  cantly lower 
enhancements in performance.15, 16, 46 For example, 
performance has been reported to increase by only 
1.2 to 1.5 per cent in response to a stepwise taper; a progressive taper resulted in a 4.0 to 5.0 per cent 
increase in performance.18 This trend is also seen 
in traditional endurance sports such as running 
and swimming.31
Contradicting this information is a finding 
in the sport of cycling that has demonstrated a greater performance gain in response to a stepwise 
taper. However, Mujika
31 suggests that because of 
the small sample of data analyzed to create these 
effect sizes, more research is warranted. Taken 
collectively, though, the general tapering recom-
mendation is to employ a progressive tapering 
strategy in order to peak an athlete for a specifi  ed competitive event.
16, 18, 22
Given the progressive tapering strategy, the 
next thing to consider is how to best structure this 
progressive taper. With all progressive tapers, the 
training load is generally reduced in either a linear 
or exponential fashion.1 A linear  taper incorporates 
a systematic reduction in training load applied linearly across a predetermined time frame (fi  gure 
22.7).
18 Conversely, an exponential taper  can contain 
either a slow or fast reduction in training loads. 
However, there are several methods of employ-
ing a progressive taper that can be considered 
depending upon the individual athlete’s needs. 
For example, Bosquet and colleagues5 suggest that 
there are two major subdivisions of the progressive 
taper including the linear and exponential tapering 
strategy.
Typically, the training loads contained in a 
linear taper are higher than those seen in the expo-nential taper.
18 During a slow exponential taper, 
the training loads are generally higher than in a 
fast exponential taper and are reduced at a much 
slower rate.
When comparing these tapering strategies, 
the fast exponential taper results in signifi  cantly greater performance gains (3.9%-4.1%) when 
compared to the linear or the slow exponential 
taper.
15, 18 ,46
Wisdom
Many factors, including the training load of the period 
before the implementation of the taper and the time frame allotted for the tapering strategy, infl  uence the overall effectiveness of the taper . As a general rule it is recommended that a fast exponential taper be used when reducing the training workload before a competitive event .

298 ❙ Haff
Training Volume
The volume of training the athlete undertakes is 
an important factor affecting the training load. 
Of specifi  c interest is the question of how best to 
manipulate this volume during the tapering period. 
The two options available are to reduce the duration
of each training session or reduce the frequency  of 
training. The optimal choice is to reduce the volume 
of training during each training session; this has 
been shown to exert a greater performance-im-proving effect when compared to reducing the 
frequency of training during the taper.
16
When attempting to create a pre-event taper 
by reducing training volume, one key factor to consider is the overall training load (i.e., training 
volume and intensity) that occurred in the periods 
before the taper. These earlier training loads will 
dictate the amount of reduction in training volume required and the duration required for the taper.
22
The interplay between the preceding training workload and the taper is a large part of the reason 
why there are variable recommendations for 
volume reductions during the tapering period.
16, 18
Based on the literature, tapers generally involve a 50 to 90 per cent reduction in training volume 
in sports such as swimming,
21, 53-56 running, 13, 17, 42, 
49-51, 57 cycling,39, 40, 58, 59 triathlon15, 46, 60 and strength 
training.43, 45In a recent meta-analysis on tapers it is evident 
that a 41 to 60 per cent reduction in training volume during a progressive taper results in the 
greatest positive impact on performance.
16 How-
ever, since there is an interrelationship with the 
overall training load before the implementation 
of a taper, there could be situations where the 
volume of training may need to be reduced by 60 
to 90 per cent of pretaper loads.18, 22 Addit ionally, 
a short-duration taper may be warranted if the 
overall training volume is reduced by a larger 
amount.30
If a large amount of training volume is removed 
during the taper, the longer the taper, the greater 
the chances of decreasing fi  tness. This outcome 
ultimately could reduce the athlete’s overall 
preparedness and competitive capacity. Overall, 
though, somewhere between a 60 to 90 per cent reduction in training volume seems to be the most 
effective strategy to employ.
Training Frequency
Another popular method for creating a taper is to 
reduce the frequency of training, which effectively 
reduces the overall volume of training the athlete 
must undertake. There is some scientifi  c evidence 
to support this practice: Reducing training fre-
quency by 50 per cent has been shown to result in 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14100
90
80706050403020
10
0Exponential taper
(fast decay)Step taperExponential taper(slow decay)Linear taper
Days of taperPercentage of normal training volume
Normal training load
E5891/Joyce/480175/Fig 22.07/R1/JGFigure 22.7  Common types of tapers.
Reprinted, by permission, from T .O . Bompa and G .G . Haff, 2009, Periodization: Theory and methodology of training,  5th ed . (Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics), 193 . 
Adapted from I . Mujika and S . Padilla, 2003, “Scientific bases for precompetition tapering strategies,” Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise 35(7): 1182-1187 .

 Peaking for Competition in Individual Sports ❙ 299
elevations in performance.53, 61 Conversely, there is 
scientific evidence that reducing training frequency 
for 2 to 4 weeks during a taper only results in the 
maintenance of training-induced adaptations and 
performance capacities. 14, 18, 19, 39, 49, 50, 51, 57, 59
From an examination of the tapering practices 
of endurance athletes, it is apparent that a high fre -
quency of training results in a supercompensation 
of performance in highly trained runners; moder -
ate frequency-tapering strategies do not simulate the same response.
17 In their meta-analysis Bosquet 
and colleagues16 reported that reducing the fre -
quency of training during a taper does not result 
in improvements in performance. It is likely that 
highly trained athletes need a greater frequency 
of training in order to maintain technical profi -
ciency.18 Conversely, moderately trained individ -
uals can maintain the physiological adaptations stimulated by pretaper training with 30 to 50 per 
cent reductions in training frequency during pre-
event tapers.
18
Overall, it is clear that training frequency should 
be maintained at a level greater than or equal to 80 per cent of pretaper training frequency. This level 
helps maintain physiological adaptations, preserve 
technical proficiency and optimise competitive 
performance.
16, 18
Training Intensity
Another potential tool for developing a taper is to manipulate the training intensity encountered 
during the taper.
1, 5 When training volumes and 
frequency are reduced during a taper, training intensity is a key influence on the athlete’s ability to 
maintain the training residuals stimulated before 
the taper.
16, 19, 42, 48 For example, when lower training 
intensities (<70%V ˙O2max) are employed during a 
taper for endurance athletes, there tends to be a decrease in or maintenance of performance.
51, 57 
Conversely, if higher training intensities (greater than 90%V ˙O
2max) are included in the taper, perfor -
mance tends to supercompensate.42 Sim ilarly, when 
higher intensities are included during a taper for strength and power athletes, significant increases 
in strength are noted.
43, 45
Wisdom
Maintaining training intensity throughout the tapering 
period is critical  .Taper Duration
One of the hardest things to do when construct -
ing a taper is to determine the duration required 
to optimise performance.18 The magnitude of 
fatigue established in the pretaper training will dictate the time frame required to dissipate 
fatigue and elevate preparedness.
22 The ability 
to dissipate fatigue, maintain fitness and elevate 
preparedness will be affected by the volume of 
training workload reduction and the tapering 
strategy employed across the taper. Therefore, 
duration of the taper will largely be affected by how rapidly fatigue is reduced or how much the 
volume of training is decreased. For example, if 
a large reduction in training volume is employed during the taper, then a shorter taper should be 
used.
22, 30 Conversely, if more gradual reductions 
in training volume are employed, then the taper can be undertaken for a longer duration.
Physiological, psychological and, more impor -
tantly, performance improvements have generally 
been associated with tapers lasting between 1 and 4 weeks with the optimal time between 8 
and 14 days.
16 This time frame seems adequate for 
dissipating accumulated fatigue and avoiding the negative effects of a reduced training workload on 
fitness and performance capacity that can occur 
when a taper lasts too long.
16, 30
Although an 8 to 14 day taper appears to be 
the most effective duration, the tapering process is highly individualised.
16,1 8 There are differences 
in physiological and psychological responses to reductions in training workloads,
12, 16, 34 and so 
tapering strategies should be individualised for each athlete.
A key to personalising tapers is to practice var -
ious tapering strategies when preparing for less 
important competitions in order to gauge how each athlete responds to specific reductions in 
training loads. Additionally, the use of methods of 
monitoring training loads and alterations in athlete preparedness is critical in sorting out how each 
athlete responds to various tapering strategies.
A second key to consider with tapering is that 
tapering cannot be scheduled for every compe -
titive event in the annual training plan. When 
structuring an overall competitive calendar, the 
main competitive target, such as the National 
Championships, Commonwealth Games, World Championships or Olympics, would warrant 
a full taper. Other minor competitions would 

300 ❙ Haff
be contested under a small degree of fatigue. If 
tapering strategies are used too frequently, there 
will be a loss of time in the annual plan dedicated 
to preparation because of the frequent reductions 
in training workloads that are required during 
tapering periods. Strategically, short reductions in training loads that are not true tapers should be 
employed before minor competitions.
Summary
Using tapering strategies is a major part of prepar -
ing athletes for competitive events. Conceptually, the main goal of a taper is to elevate athletic per -
formance capacity at appropriate times through reducing accumulated fatigue, maintaining or 
elevating fitness and optimising the athletes’ pre -
paredness for competition (table 22.2).
When a taper is appropriately applied, an approx -
imately 3 per cent increase in performance can be expected. This increase appears to make a signifi
-
cant difference in competitive results (figure 22.5).
Based on the scientific literature, it appears that 
during a taper the training load should be reduced 
by about 41 to 60 per cent in most instances. Larger reductions in workload (60%-90%) may be war -
ranted if the pretaper training load is high, and 
greater levels of fatigue must be accounted for.
When reducing the training load, maintain 
training frequency at greater than or equal to 80 per cent of pretaper values. It also is essential that some intensity is maintained during tapering 
periods because this has been shown to result in 
greater performance gains.
Finally, a taper should last approximately 8 to 
14 days. Extending the taper too long can result in involution (i.e., detraining) effects, which nega -
tively affect the athlete’s preparedness and overall fitness (figure 22.4).
Although these points are important consider -
ations, tapering strategies are highly individual -
ised. It does not matter how old or what sex the 
athlete is, or the individual sport contested. The 
tapering plan must be structured based on the athlete’s needs, which are dictated by the pretaper 
training workloads encountered. Regardless of 
the athlete, appropriately structured tapers can 
significantly increase the athlete’s competitive 
success and should be considered an important part of the athlete’s training.
Table 22.2  Tapering Recommendations
General guidelines
1. Create individualised progressive nonlinear taper model.
2. Reduce training volume by 41%-60% of pretaper training volumes. If a greater amount of fatigue needs to be 
dissipated because of larger workloads in the pretaper training period, a 60%-90% reduction can be used.
3. Use moderate to high training intensities during the taper period in order to help avoid involution (detraining) 
effects.
4. Maintain training frequency at ≥80% of pretaper training frequencies.
5. Plan tapers to last between 1 and 4 weeks, with 8-14 days as the period most
commonly used.
Adapted from T.O. Bompa and G.G. Haff, 2009, Periodization: Theory and methodology of training, 5th ed. (Champaign, IL: Human 
Kinetics), 191.

CHAPTER
 301
23
23
23
Individuals or teams with superior levels of 
strength, speed or endurance dominate sports 
at every level. Competitive seasons are long and arduous, and the difference between success and 
failure is often a fi  ne line. Therefore, the physical 
preparation and maintenance of athletes in sport today is at the forefront of improving performance 
and considered integral to achieving success. 
As such, there are signifi  cant investments into resources (e.g., practitioners, equipment, facilities) 
to ensure athletes are as optimally prepared as 
possible throughout the competitive seasons.
Typically, annual training mesocycles are broken 
up into preseason, competitive season and postsea-son periods. The in-season is defi  ned as the period 
in which an athlete or team compete over several 
months within a tournament or league-based format; this period is the focus of this chapter. 
Specifi  cally, the chapter discusses a strength and 
conditioning philosophy and approach to program-
ming that enables athletes or teams to maintain the 
conditioning edge throughout the season.
The in-season presents some unique challenges 
to the strength and conditioning coach. It is import-ant that the coach identify the challenges but ulti-
mately seek where the opportunities are present 
to maintain the conditioning edge in athletes. The dominant focus during the season is the sport 
itself. As such, the physical development of an ath-
lete often is neglected at the expense of technical and tactical training. Other potential challenges 
that the strength and conditioning coach may face 
are athletes with reduced motivation levels due to 
a long season or long-term, increased travel time to 
competitions. In most cases the biggest challenge is attempting to maintain conditioning qualities with limited time to perform strength and conditioning 
training and accumulating fatigue levels.
The 10 Critical In-Season 
Training Philosophies
An in-season conditioning-edge training process 
has specific aims. A discussion of those aims 
helps frame the content of the chapter and puts 
the philosophies and principles that are discussed 
into context. Let’s start with a statement of intent:
‘Our team is consistently able to maximise their physical development and realise their physical 
potential in the sporting arena, throughout the whole of the season.’
This statement of intent is focused on what a 
team or individual can achieve and control and is 
not concerned with the uncontrollable: what the 
opposition is doing.
The statement of intent is supported by the 
10 key philosophies that underpin the training process.
Training Philosophy 1: 
Effi  ciency in the Training Process
Strength and conditioning training and tactical 
and technical training both provide physiological 
stimuli. In-season the strength and conditioning 
coach may have limited time to solely address all 
the physical needs of an athlete. Therefore, it is 
important that this coach works closely with the Maintaining an In-Season 
Conditioning Edge
Stuart Yule
Glasgow Warriors, Scotland

302 ❙ Yule
head coach to ensure planned physical stimuli are 
achieved through tactical and technical training. 
This coordination will help ensure that unplanned 
training stimuli are not replicated in both environ -
ments. For example, a football coach may want to implement a series of drills twice a week involv -
ing multiple changes of direction at high speeds. 
The strength and conditioning coach will need 
to identify which individuals achieve the desired stimuli through these drills and how much speed 
work they still need to gain a conditioning edge.
In many team sports, team-training sessions pro -
vide each player with a training load depending on 
the drills; however, a player may miss part of a tac -
tical and technical training session. Therefore, the 
strength and conditioning coach should be aware of 
the individuals who have limited physical exposure and ensure they are provided with supplementary 
training to address the physical stimuli that were 
not achieved. For example, the player pulled from 
rugby contact should do some repeat high-intensity 
running or some metabolic resistance exercise for the desired volume and intensity.
Training Philosophy 2:  
Keep It Simple
An athlete’s physical condition during the compet -
itive season depends on many variables that often 
subtly interact to form a complex performance 
system. This interaction has been highlighted 
in Training Philosophy 1 as an opportunity for 
the strength and conditioning coach to be able to realise specific conditioning objectives through tac -
tical and technical training. The ability to manage and understand this as well as integrate strength and conditioning training into the programme 
that doesn’t just merely add fatigue but enhances 
performance can be an intricate process to grasp. 
However, a complex performance system does 
not require complicated training programmes or systems to succeed. Training programmes should 
remain simple. There should be no ambiguity as 
to what the strength and conditioning programme is attempting to achieve. It should have a clear, 
directed focus towards an area of improvement. 
For example, for athletes to achieve stronger lower 
bodies, a programme would include a progressive 
squatting prescription at intensities between 75 and 100 per cent 1RM; for athletes to improve 
speed, they must have opportunities to sprint at 
or close to top speed as part of weekly training.Wisdom
Before implementing a strength and conditioning 
programme, the coach should always ask what the goal of the programme is and confirm the content is targeted towards achieving that goal  .
To ensure the training programme remains 
simple and effective, it is vital for the practitioner 
to know how to coach the content of the prescribed 
programme. Reading a book indicating that power 
cleans will improve explosive strength and then 
trying to implement that exercise in a programme will be counterproductive if the practitioner does 
not know how to coach the lift. Being confident and 
comfortable coaching the various drills and lifts will help the coach make the programme easier to 
follow. A simple process will also be easy to mon -
itor, thus ensuring the coach can review the effec -
tiveness of the training objectively and quickly introduce adjustments to influence performance.
Training Philosophy 3:  
Strength Is the Foundation
An athlete’s strength qualities provide the physical 
attributes needed to execute dynamic movement 
and skills. Strength development is a critical compo -
nent of in-season training programmes. The physi -
cal nature of the sport will determine the extent to 
which strength is needed and the type of strength 
qualities required. For example, a prop forward in 
rugby requires high maximal-strength qualities, 
and a basketball player requires explosive-speed 
strength qualities. As has been discussed, appro -
priate tactical and technical training and competi -
tion can provide stimuli that enable the athlete to realise the specific strength qualities required in the 
sport. The role of the coach is to ensure the player 
has the capacity and the potential to realise these specific strength qualities in tactical and technical 
training and the competitive environment. This is 
achieved in-season through the development and consolidation of maximal and explosive strength 
qualities throughout the entire season. The volume 
and intensity of the strength dosage and the exercise 
selection depend on many factors, including the 
training history of the athlete; competition schedule; involvement in the team; injury history; and the 
type, volume and intensity of the tactical and tech
-
nical training during the week or training block.

Maintaining an In-Season Conditioning Edge ❙ 303
The in-season strength pyramid (fi  gure 23.1) 
illustrates the levels at which strength is developed 
and realised. Each level provides a foundation from 
which additional strength qualities can be built.
Each level of the pyramid provides a strength 
quality directed towards sport performance. Technical and skill training provide the specifi  c 
strength and power qualities. Meanwhile, the sport 
itself provides the ability to repeat specifi  c efforts under the pressure of competition.
Training Philosophy 4: Continual 
Improvement, Not Maintenance
A fundamental principle to abide by is the need 
to improve  strength qualities during the season, 
not simply maintain them. Typically, seasonal sports adopt a philosophy of developing strength 
during the preseason and then maintaining 
it during the season. However, following the concept of a strength-maintenance programme 
will result in a net reduction in strength poten-
tial. By defi  nition strength maintenance means that strength will stay the same; there will be 
no improvement. During the season, fatigue 
and stress accumulate. Both these factors undoubtedly have a negative impact on an ath-
lete’s strength potential. Therefore, as the season 
rolls on, if the athlete does not improve his or her 
strength level, there will be a summative loss in 
strength potential. This is the strength-mainte-
nance paradox. Assuming these components are 
given unit values, the paradox may be expressed 
as follows:
Strength realization = strength potential 
− stress impact
Let’s consider a case study. At the start of the 
season (September), a professional rugby player 
has the following attributes:
Strength potential = 100%
Stress impact = −10%Strength realization = 90%
At midseason (January), when the goal for 
in-season training is strength maintenance only, 
the athlete shows these attributes:
Strength potential = 100% (no improvement)
Stress (fatigue levels) impact = −30%Strength realization = 70%
The
sports
Skill and technical
competence
Specific strength
and speed qualities
Maximum and explosive strength
Foundations to high-intensity movements
E5891/Joyce/Fig.23.01/480177/JG/R2Figure 23.1  In-season strength pyramid.

304 ❙ Yule
The net result of a training process where 
strength potential has been maintained is that the 
strength that can be accessed has, in fact, declined.
Wisdom
To maintain an in-season edge it is vital that strength 
potential is continually built so that accessible strength is not eroded  .
To follow this example, the aim would be—at 
the very least—to maintain realizable strength at 
90 per cent. If we assume the negative effect of 
fatigue remains at −30 per cent, we actually need 
to improve strength levels from 90 per cent to 120 
per cent (increase them by 20% from the start of the season). In other words, we need to sprint in 
order to stand still!
Training Philosophy 5: 
Sharpening the Edge
The philosophy of the in-season strength programme 
is to improve. Emphasising this is important at two 
levels. As we have just seen, it is important from 
a physical perspective, but it is also critical from a 
mental perspective. Maintaining an in-season condi -
tioning edge is the outcome that will result from both 
the well-designed training processes and the level of 
athlete intent to achieve the desired outcomes. Intent 
will be heightened when the aim of the programme 
is to improve. This, in turn, heightens the effect of 
the training programme. The two components of achieving the edge are interdependent for achieving 
a successful outcome.
The edge = effective programming  
+ athlete intent to improve
Discipline, directed mental effort and consistent 
focus are the intent behaviors that will underpin 
the training process.
Discipline
Athlete discipline includes areas such as lifestyle 
and nutrition. Using an example of an athlete who 
trains for 3 hours on a given day during the season, 
assume the training session that day provided the 
desired adaptive response due to effective program -
ming, coaching and athlete intent. The athlete now 
has 21 hours remaining to make decisions about the 
extent to which there will be positive adaptation to the training. Misguided or poor recovery, nutrition and sleep will do nothing but blunt the adaptation 
aimed for. Therefore, we need to understand what the player is doing between training sessions and 
use our influence appropriately.
Directed Mental Effort
Every exercise and training session should have 
a specific goal (e.g., maximal strength, maximal 
power, speed, technique under fatigue). Meeting 
the session goal requires maximal intent by the ath -
lete to achieve the desired physical response. In the gym every load should be executed with perfect form, and there should be an intent to accelerate the 
bar as quickly as possible on the upward concentric 
portion of the lift, regardless of the load. This intent will ensure the optimal development of maximal 
and explosive strength qualities. In addition this 
intent will develop the mental skills required to 
apply force in a dynamic manner.
2
As has been previously described, the sport 
itself and the tactical and technical training provide specific speed and strength stimuli. To 
this end, maximal intent should be displayed by 
athletes when performing speed- or power-based 
drills or techniques. This will ensure speed and strength qualities are maintained and additional 
sessions do not need to be prescribed, allowing for 
optimal recovery time.
Consistent Focus
Competitive seasons can be long. The athlete must keep a determined focus on the goal to ensure 
the desired progress is made through the season. 
Several factors, such as injury, training monotony, 
failure or nonselection, can result in an athlete 
losing focus, which will in turn reduce the directed mental effort into training.
To reduce the potential of these variables affect -
ing the conditioning edge, we must ensure that the following exist:
• The athlete has a physical goal.
• The athlete has a programme specific to the athlete and his or her goals.
• The athlete is provided regular, understand -
able feedback on progress.
• The athlete and the staff engage in regular communication regarding his or her training.
• The athlete feels a sense of achievement every week, whether competing or not.

 Maintaining an In-Season Conditioning Edge ❙ 305
• The athlete understands the training process 
and training expectations.
• The athlete’s training has variation in type, 
volume and intensity.
The intent behaviors are vital during the in-  
season. The role of the strength and conditioning 
coach is to positively influence the athlete to maxi -
mise the training effect. This is done through coach -
ing and creating a positive training environment.
Wisdom
Ensure an athlete is displaying the intent to improve 
at all times  . If he or she is not, identify the factors that 
may be limiting the athlete  .
Training Philosophy 6:  Train in Threshold-Strength Zones Below Maximal Levels
Strength training with maximal loads and intensi -
ties for sustained periods of time will result in the 
athlete burning out and potentially overtraining. 
Inevitably, the critical exercises are high load and 
demanding. Even without the added stress of 
concurrent training and competitive demands, training close to 100 per cent is not a sensible option 
for anyone aiming at improving strength qualities. 
This does not mean that the athlete will not be able to improve during the in-season; rather, it means 
that the majority of the strength-training volume 
for critical exercises is at a submaximal load.
By adopting a prescriptive system for critical 
exercises, the athlete receives loadings, sets and repetitions based on an approximate 1RM or esti -
mated 1RM (table 23.1). This allows the strength and conditioning coach to have an element of control based on the bigger picture of other train -
ing loads. The prescription should not be the sole determinant of dictating a load, however. This prescriptive system is a framework for the coach to build a progressive plan. Coupled with coach -
ing, this plan will determine the actual loadings achieved on any given day.
Training Philosophy 7:  
Coach the Athlete
Each athlete on any given day will have a training 
window in which to respond to a given training 
load. Training can be too light and not provide 
enough of an adaptive response to improve, or 
training can be too hard and could result in injury 
or overtraining or affect other training variables. The window is presented in figure 23.2.
The prescription has been set based on external 
and other training variables remaining in status quo. There will have been careful consideration of 
these variables when planning the strength pro -
gramme, hence the rationale for submaximal load -
ing prescriptions. However, on the positive side, 
on any day the athlete could be feeling extremely good, weights are flying up in the gym or a tech -
nique has clicked. The prescription, therefore, could be limiting an athlete’s progression based on a particular load being potentially too light. The 
coach must make decisions based on observations 
and the performance process. In this situation the 
coach may advise the athlete to go beyond the 
prescriptive loads, repetitions and sets to achieve new personal bests.
On the other hand, the accumulation of stress -
ors may have had an unplanned adverse effect 
on the athlete, making it necessary to reduce 
planned loadings to ensure the athlete remains in or returns to an optimal training window. In 
some instances, however, the observed or reported 
fatigue is planned; in this case, the expected load should be maintained if desired adaptations are to 
take place. The coach should be able to distinguish 
Table 23.1  Guide to Critical Exercise-Strength Prescription Training Zones
Relative intensityApproximate 
% of 1RM Sets × reps Training block
Light 50-60 3-5 × 5 Deload week
Moderate 70-80 8-3 × 3-6 Preparatory
Medium heavy 80-85 5-3 × 3-5 Intensification
Heavy 85-95 2-5 × 3-1 Realization

306 ❙ Yule
when a reduction, maintenance or increase in the 
prescribed load is the appropriate course of action.
When deviating from the prescribed load, the 
strength and conditioning coach could follow the 
guidelines presented in table 23.2.
These examples of reducing or increasing load-
ings to stay in the training window are important in season. The physical and mental demands in 
season are tremendous and varied; therefore, for the athlete to retain an edge, the coach needs to 
be coaching and observing at all times. In most 
instances, the coach will have no qualms about 
reducing load, nor will athletes if they are feeling 
slightly fatigued. However, there is a real coach-ing skill and art in increasing the load or adding 
another set onto what was prescribed if it is felt to 
be appropriate for the athlete’s development.
Training Philosophy 8: Variation
Variation is an important training principle that ensures the continual development of the athlete. 
The manipulation of load, sets and repetitions in conjunction with a variation (i.e., assistance or 
accessory exercise selection) ensures the athlete 
is provided with a continual stress for adaptation.
Another key reason for varying exercises is to 
reduce the potential for boredom and to keep the athlete motivated. The strength and conditioning pro-
gramme for a motivated athlete is seen as integral to 
the performance process, but it is an ends, not a means.
Wisdom
It is compulsory that the athlete remains challenged 
and does not become stale from a monotonous strength-training programme .
Ensure Light- and Heavy-Loading Days
To ensure maintenance of the conditioning edge 
throughout the competitive season, weekly training 
consistency is vital. To facilitate an athlete’s ability 
to be consistent in training, the athlete must have the opportunity to attain appropriate training 
stimuli and then have time to recover and adapt. 
E5891/Joyce/fig 23.02/480179/JG/R1Optimal
training
Training inside the windowSliding scale
dependent on
external stressorsMonitoring, observation and coaching
Optimal training loadingTraining window
Too light and easy Too heavy and hard
Figure 23.2  The training window.
Table 23.2  Indicators to Increase or Decrease Load
Increase load Decrease load
Athlete did not compete at the weekend, which was not 
planned.Athlete moves warm-up weights well and reports that weights feel lighter than normal.
Athlete performs prescribed loads easily.Athlete seems to have reduced coordination in multijoint 
movements.Athlete takes longer than usual to warm up.Athlete reports excessive joint or muscular pain.
Athlete has had a signifi  cant period of training and a 
good training history; therefore, a reduced load for a day will do no long-term harm.

 Maintaining an In-Season Conditioning Edge ❙ 307
By planning heavier and lighter days into a training 
week, the athlete has this opportunity to progress. 
This manipulation in loading is vital as part of a 
macro recovery process. An athlete who has no 
opportunity to recuperate regularly from the stress 
of competition and training will burn out quickly. An athlete also can mentally prepare and sustain 
mental efforts over the season. This mental aspect is 
vital as was described earlier regarding the impor
-
tance of intent. Determining whether the athlete will be able to and should perform a heavy planned 
training load is based on a triangulation of factors:
1. Strength and conditioning training, tactical 
and technical training and competition load -
ings in the previous weeks. The two types of training should be planned; however, the 
extent to which competition takes its toll on the 
athlete needs to be monitored and reviewed.
2. Consideration of any objective monitoring markers (discussed in chapter 6).
3. 
Coaching intuition. An experienced strength and conditioning coach should understand 
the athlete’s physical and mental responses 
to training and competition. He or she should 
therefore be in the best position, along with the 
athlete, to determine the athlete’s ability to exe
-
cute planned heavy-loading training sessions.
Ensure Light and Heavy 
Neuromuscular Days  
Based on Exercise Selection
Aligned to the principle of having lighter and heavier days is the concept of manipulating exer -
cise selection based on inherent loadings. The critical exercises that have been described typically 
involve high force and power outputs. They involve 
a significant amount of muscle mass, and the phys -
ical cost after performing these exercises tends to 
be high. Isolation exercises, some lower-level trunk 
exercises and exercises that involve lying on a bench, such as bench press, will have less of a cost 
than a heavy back squat or deadlift session. This 
is important when considering the sequence and 
prioritisation of training and the desired relative 
loading of training sessions during a weekly plan.
It is important to include reduced neuromuscu -
lar-fatigue sessions in the week. They will allow progression of a strength quality and also provide an anabolic endocrine response, both positive 
components of maintaining the conditioning edge.Training Philosophy 9:  
Create Training in Blocks Incorporating Deload Weeks
There are three primary reasons why it is import -
ant to give identity to training periods and split 
the training process into blocks:
1. Block scheduling provides the opportunity 
to prioritise training and allow the athlete to retain or progress and adapt in the desired 
physical areas.
2. Each block can be more accurately moni -
tored and reviewed, and interventions can be implemented for subsequent blocks. This 
allows athletes to focus and refocus through a long season.
3. A deload period allows for mental and physical recuperation and adaptation before embarking on the next block.
Training Philosophy 10:  
Aim to Increase Strength Potential Not Peak
After a true peak there will be a reduction in 
performance. If an athlete has to compete every 
week, and every competition is equal, then 
peaking could be detrimental to maintaining the 
in-season conditioning edge. There can be manip -
ulation of training loads to facilitate the process 
of feeling fresh going into priority fixtures. The 
strategy is to increase the base adaptive level of 
the athlete.
As a result, what used to be heavy for an ath -
lete is now light. Therefore, on any given day, regardless of levels of fatigue the athlete is oper
-
ating at a higher level. Increasing the physical potential of an athlete will give the athlete the 
capacity to continue to improve technical ability 
with increasing intensities and under increasing 
levels of fatigue.
Training System
Based on these philosophies, the next stage of the 
process is to create a training system that aims 
to achieve an in-season conditioning edge whilst 
providing the coach with a consistent and mea -
sureable process.

308Possible Exercises for Priming Session
Strength emphasis Speed emphasis Skill emphasis
Squat Dynamic squat (e.g., assisted-band squat) Sprint drills, jump-land mechanics
Heavy pull (snatch grip pull or 
chin-up)Jump squat, plyometrics, resisted or assisted movementsHeavy-ball passing and throwing
Bench press Sprints, agility, evasion drills Unit- or position-specific drills using accommodating resistance or assistance 
to prime specific muscles in exact skillPriming is a training strategy we sometimes employ either on 
the day of or the day before a match. With our players, all of 
whom are well-trained elite athletes, the objective is to produce 
an acute performance enhancement, although the exact nature of this effect varies according to the type of stimulus we apply.
Priming differs from a warm-up in that a warm-up tradition
-
ally takes place less than an hour before competition. Although a warm-up does have substantial priming effects, it is aimed at 
thermogenesis and practice of technical skills. When we refer to 
a priming session, we are talking about a session in a window between 5 and 30 hours out from the match. The timing of this 
session depends on the effect we are hoping to have.
For some players, our aim may be to produce an acute hor
-
monal or neuromuscular boost (short-term emphasis); for others 
the primer may simply represent an opportunity to add another 
lifting session to the week, thereby contributing to longer-term 
athletic development aims.
Once we have decided on the broader goal of the primer, 
we then decide on the narrative of the session: Will it have a velocity emphasis, a strength emphasis or a skill emphasis (or 
some combination of the three!)? Which end of the force-velocity 
curve do we focus on, or what are the priorities for each athlete to transfer to an enhancement of performance? We decide all 
this by understanding the needs of the athlete both in terms 
of his profile and the demands placed on him in a match. The exercises we use may include those shown in the table.
Although the content of a session may differ depending 
on the needs of the athlete, what is consistent within all our 
priming sessions is that they are low volume and high intensity. 
Generally speaking, they will last 15 to 35 minutes and comprise low-volume, high-quality repetitions with long recovery times. 
The emphasis is always on the intensity of the movement 
(whether that is resistance or speed), and there is a directive that the programme has a feel-good factor about it. We cannot 
have the players finishing the session feeling tired or heavy 
as this will have negative physical and psychological effects.
Even though our playing group are all experienced athletes, 
priming does potentially have a role for novice athletes as well; however, the emphasis really is on the longer-term benefits of 
adding another adaptive stimulus rather than on any acute 
hormonal or neuromuscular alterations.
I should note that there is limited research in high-performance 
athletes regarding priming. Although there is an ever-expanding body of literature on the association between hormonal concen
-
tration, postactivation potentiation and the like, the aim of these sessions is likely to be different for each athlete.
We do not perform these sessions all the time. We tend to 
periodise them with a clear plan of when they will or will not be used. The key determinant in this decision-making process is 
the athlete himself, as it is only he who really understands how 
the sessions make him feel and whether there are diminishing 
marginal returns from repeated primers.
Given that neuromuscular and hormonal profiles are highly 
variable between individuals (and even fluctuate within indi
-
viduals), it makes sense, then, that priming sessions need to be 
bespoke. There will normally need to be a period of trial and 
error to determine the best strategy for each player with both 
physical and psychological outcome measures needed. This is certainly 
not a variable to be experimenting with on the eve of 
a World Cup final!PrimingCOACH’S INSIGHT
Nicholas Gill
Head Strength and Conditioning Coach,  
New Zealand All Blacks
Nicholas Gill is the head strength and conditioning coach for the World Champion New Zealand All Blacks, arguably the world’s most successful sporting team. He is an 
internationally renowned coach who also has supervised eight PhD candidates to completion and peer reviewed 55 journal publications. He is a senior research fellow at 
Auckland University of Technology, New Zealand.

Maintaining an In-Season Conditioning Edge ❙ 309
Strength-Training Model
The strength-training model (fi  gure 23.3) illustrates 
how interactions between the strength-training 
modalities are directed towards maintaining the 
in-season edge.
The exercise classifi  cations from the strength-
training model are critical exercises, assistance exercises and technical accessory exercises.
Critical Exercises
These exercises are the spine of the strength-training programme. They provide the undisputed maxi-
mal and explosive strength stimuli that the pro-
gramme is attempting to attain. The strength 
qualities developed will provide the base from 
which speed and power qualities can be enhanced. Some examples of critical exercises are these:
• Squat
• Deadlift
• Olympic lift
• Dynamic overhead lift
• Bench press or overhead press
• Heavy row (e.g., bent-over row or weighted chin)
Mastery of these exercises is integral to the 
development of high levels of strength and power. 
Loads can be progressed or manipulated to achieve 
a desired response. For example, a heavy relative loading in squats will provide a maximal strength 
stimulus, and a light load used in a jump squat 
will provide a greater power stimulus. Variation 
of these exercises during in-season training is 
typically through the manipulation of loads, sets and repetitions. These manipulations are used to 
achieve desired force, speed or power outputs or 
to ensure the recovery process is managed.
The following points need to be considered 
when aiming to maximise the in-season condi-tioning edge using critical exercises:
• Select an exercise the athlete can perform 
competently under load. For example, if a 
player cannot back squat due to loading issues through the spine, allow the athlete to front 
squat or trap bar deadlift.
• Make sure the relative loading is high enough 
to achieve a strength stimulus.
• Plan for the volume to be less than in the preseason.
• Plan in-season blocks where the athlete can 
perform higher volumes of critical exercises.
• Provide the relatively higher volume of critical 
exercises at the beginning of the week rather than at the end of the week. This will ensure 
the strength session can be maximised and 
that it does not add to fatigue at the end of the 
week close to competition. (This recommenda-
tion is for a sport in which the competition or match is towards the end of the week.)
Assistance
exercisesStrength and
power edge
Performance
outcome
Technical
development
and masteryTechnical
accessory
exercisesCritical
exercises
Physical foundation
(base of the pyramid)
E5891/Joyce/480181/Fig 23.3/R2/JGFigure 23.3  Strength-training model.

310 ❙ Yule
• Select the relative intensity based on the 
exercise, physical goal of the athlete and the 
requirements of the sport. For example, a light 
power clean will not provide a maximal power 
stimulus; power cleans need to be loaded 
to at least 70 per cent of 1RM to achieve an appropriate stimulus. On the other hand, light 
loading on a jump squat will provide closer to 
peak power than will a heavy squat. However, this load will not provide a maximal strength 
stimulus.
• Limit lower-body exercises to 5 reps or fewer 
if the sport involves a lot of time performing 
on-feet activities.
• Make sure there is consistency in the selec -
tion of a critical exercise each week to ensure 
a continual development programme is in 
place. For example, if back squats are chosen 
to develop lower-body strength, back squats should remain in the programme for at least 
three training blocks. Variation of exercise and 
muscular action can be integrated through the 
appropriate selection of assistance exercises.
• Do not use the critical exercises to mimic the sport. For example, in rowing do not perform 
hundreds of repetitions in season to mimic the 
endurance effect of rowing. Use the sport for 
the specific endurance requirements, and use the critical exercises to increase the intensity 
at which the athlete can operate.
Assistance Exercises
Assistance exercises have four key roles during 
in-season strength training. First, they support 
the critical exercises (table 23.3). For example, if 
bench press was chosen as a critical exercise, then 
narrow-grip bench press could be selected as an 
assistance exercise. Any exercise can be an assis -
tance exercise. There merely has to be a sound 
rational for what it is assisting.
Second, assistance exercises provides variation to 
the training programme. Based on their supporting 
role, there is scope to vary the assistance-exercise selection to continue to stimulate the muscle group 
and movements being targeted.
Third, assistance exercises can be used to 
produce a positive hormonal response.
1 This ana -
bolic response from strength training is crucial to establishing a conditioning edge and can be 
used as part of the planning strategy. Hormonal 
monitoring is expensive and may be inaccessible for many teams. Therefore, it is important to take 
a principle-based approach that the inclusion of 
strength training has positive hormonal responses 
at medium to high intensities and medium vol -
umes. The inclusion of the critical exercises alone will result in a hormonal response; however, the volume of these exercises may be low, and their 
inclusion may be limited at certain times of the 
competition week. After a game or on a technical 
training day, the inclusion of high-load critical 
exercises may add too much neuromuscular fatigue. However, some assistance-based train -
ing exercises such as dumbbell bench press or seated press can be included. These exercises have reduced neural load but will still create a positive 
hormonal response.
During the season, assistance exercises should 
not become the absolute focus; however, the coach 
needs to be aware of how relative intensities and volumes affect an athlete’s performance. The 
volumes should be prescribed at medium levels 
and performance and fatigue levels monitored to ensure positive adaptations.
Fourth, the inclusion of lighter assistance 
exercises for higher repetitions will provide mus -
culotendinous conditioning and local muscular endurance. This is important in maintaining strong joints and muscles and increasing robustness in 
the injury prevention process.Table 23.3  Sample Critical Exercises  
and Corresponding Assistance Exercises
Critical exercise Assistance exercises
Back squat Lunge and variations
Step-upBulgarian squat
Front squat
Deadlift RDLHypers
Partial deadliftBent-over rowPull-ups
Dynamic overhead push 
press or jerkMilitary pressDumbbell press and 
variationsWeighted dipsIsolated shoulder
Isolated triceps
Bench press and variations
Olympic lifts and variationsPullDeadliftDeadlift assistance

 Maintaining an In-Season Conditioning Edge ❙ 311
Technical Accessory Exercises
Every sport has unique musculoskeletal and 
biogenetical demands. The demands placed on 
these systems increase the need to boost the 
work-capacity requirements of these areas. For 
example, a wrestler requires high levels of neck 
strength, and a sprinter requires high levels of hamstring strength and function. In-season 
restrictions in strength and conditioning training 
loads can potentially result in limited stimuli being achieved around critical musculoskeletal areas. 
Technical accessory exercises are implemented to 
maintain a work capacity around critical musculo -
skeletal regions: neck exercises for wrestlers, judo and rugby players; hamstring and calf exercises for sprinters or high-speed athletes. It is important 
to understand the intricate performance, technical 
and loading demands of the sport to ensure exer -
cise selection and prescription add value to the 
performance process.
In all cases, the dominant strength quali -
ties that need to be developed will dictate the 
organisation and prioritisation of the exercise groups highlighted. Depending on the goal of the 
strength-training programme, all exercises can 
be classified as assistance or technical accessory. 
Few, however, can be classified as critical exercises 
because the relatively high loading and intensity of these exercises limits the type of exercise that 
can be performed.
Olympic Lifts
Olympic lifts are a popular exercise for the devel -
opment of explosive strength. They are technical lifts that require a lot of hours of dedication to 
master. When executed well and with appropriate 
load they are extremely useful exercises to have as 
part of the explosive strength development tool kit; when performed with an inappropriate load 
or ineffective technique, the adaptive response 
will not be as desired or planned. However, this 
should not discourage the athlete or strength 
and conditioning coach from using them as exer -
cises; rather, the strength and conditioning coach 
needs to be alert to any performance issues and 
reclassify where the Olympic lift fits as part of the 
strength-training programme. It may be that it is 
included as an assistance exercise for pulling, grip or posterior-chain development.
The physical returns from Olympic lifts far 
outweigh the costs if they are programmed and performed appropriately, but they should be 
included only if they can be coached competently.
Olympic lifts present a mental challenge to the 
athlete. During the competitive season physical and mental demands are high. It may be deter
-
mined that the inclusion of an Olympic lift is 
one step too far for an athlete. However, this lift 
should be considered a viable option for inclusion 
when part of the development and maintenance of 
a conditioning edge is the continued development 
of the mental attributes required to stay ahead of competitors.
In-Season Strength-Training 
Methodology
The in-season strength programme needs to remains 
simple. The following sections give examples of 
how to arrange the in-season strength-training pro -
gramme to ensure fitness advancement throughout the season. The programme is a three-block system, 
with each block lasting 4 weeks. These blocks are arranged as follows:
Block 1: Prepare
Block 2: Advance
Block 3: Conquer
After the completion of block 3, the athlete 
returns to block 1. The volume begins to be scaled 
down through the three training blocks, and the 
intensity is increased. The rationale for returning to block 1 is that the intensity needs to be reduced 
after 3 months, allowing for recuperation and some 
time to prepare to make further gains later on in the season.
The relative-intensity loadings will vary each 
week depending on priority competition, but it is 
assumed that there are weekly fixtures. The weekly 
relative-loading pattern follows either pattern shown in table 23.4.
A principle-based approach applied to varia -
tions of relative strength-training loads within a 4-week block (tables 23.5 and 23.6).
The use of effective tactical and technical train -
ing has been discussed as a means to elicit specific 
speed and power qualities. Table 23.7 uses tennis 
as an example to outline session variation in rel -
ative intensity, which ensures that strength and 
conditioning and tactical and technical sessions 
are maximised to produce a conditioning edge.

312Table 23.4  Relative Intensity Loading Pattern
PATTERN A
Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4
Moderate Moderately heavy Heavy Deload
PATTERN B
Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4
Moderately heavy Moderate Heavy Deload
Table 23.5  Relative Daily Strength Loadings, Pattern A: Saturday to Saturday
Mon. Tues. Wed. Thurs. Fri. Sat. Sun.
Event Recovery Competition Recovery
Relative
intensityModerate Heavy Moderate to moderately heavy
Relative 
volumeModerate Moderate Low
Session type Assistance Critical Accessory
AssistanceCritical
Accessory
Table 23.6  Relative Daily Strength Loadings, Pattern A: Friday to Friday
Mon. Tues. Wed. Thurs. Fri. Sat. Sun.
Event Recovery Recovery Competition Recovery
Relative
intensityHeavy Moderate to moderately heavyModerate
Relative 
volumeModerate Low Moderate
Session type CriticalAccessory
AssistanceCritical
AccessoryAssistance
Table 23.7  Session Relative-Intensity Variation
Mon. Tues. Wed. Thurs. Fri. Sat. Sun.
Tactical and 
technical training: speed and power, relative intensityLow Moderate High Recovery Low Competition
Strength and conditioning training: relative 
intensityHigh Recovery Low Recovery Medium-
highRecovery

 Maintaining an In-Season Conditioning Edge ❙ 313
By ensuring there is planned speed and power 
stimuli from both kinds of training, the athlete will 
be able to maximise each session and will not be 
in danger of overtraining.
Content of the Programme
Based on these loading-pattern models and on the three-block system, table 23.8 shows an example of 
a programme that applies the principles outlined 
previously. This example could be applied to a 
rugby player.
There are identified critical exercises: back squat, 
clean and dynamic overhead. There are accessory exercises to support technical demands, including 
those for hamstrings, shoulders and neck, trunk rotation and pulling and grip strength.
The example in table 23.8 illustrates the exer -
cise selection and session construction for a pro -
gramme. The strength and conditioning coach 
must examine the sport in question to determine 
and prioritise the selection of exercises related to the strength requirements of the sport.
Let’s use hockey to further illustrate the selec -
tion of in-season strength exercises. Hockey requires a player to be in flexed postures for pro -
longed periods and involves multiple repetitions of 
lunging, sprinting and changing direction. Strong 
legs and a level of robustness around the hip and 
lower back are prerequisites. Based on this brief 
description, the following exercises are options to consider for the in-season programme:
Critical exercises
Back squat: Provides lower-body strength 
qualities required to sprint and maintain 
strong trunk posture in a flexed position.
Power snatch: Explosive exercise that helps 
develop speed strength qualities. Promotes 
thoracic extension strength through pulling 
movement and in overhead position.
Single-arm row: Coordinates upper-back 
strength with trunk control to provide base and for prolonged flexed position.
Assistance exercises
Pull-up
DeadliftPressing movement (various)
Table 23.8  Sample In-Season Training Sessions
Exercise 
classification Block 1: Prepare Block 2: Advance Block 3: Conquer
Session 1 Critical Back squatPush pressCleanBack squat
JerkClean
Back squat
Jerk behind neck
Assistance Step-up
Accessory Hamstring and eccentric 
trunk seriesHamstring and eccentric trunk seriesHamstring and eccentric trunk series
Session 2 Critical
Assistance Incline bench press
Weighted pull-upNarrow-grip bench pressBent-over row
LungeBench press
Single-arm row
Bulgarian split squat
Accessory Shoulder and neck series Shoulder and neck series Shoulder and neck series
Session 3 Critical
Assistance Back squat (reduce load 
from session 1)Military pressBack squat (bands)Single-arm dumbbell pressSingle-arm dumbbell push press
Accessory Single-arm rowRotational-trunk seriesWeighted chinRotational-trunk seriesBent-over rowRotational-trunk series

314 ❙ Yule
Accessory exercises
Lunge (multidirectional)
Step-upSplit squatStiff-leg deadliftTrunk rotation
These exercises will ensure the hockey player 
retains and develops lower-body and upper-back 
strength. Additionally, the assistance exercises 
can be varied to achieve progression in the critical 
exercises or reduced in volume to allow dissipation 
of fatigue. Finally, the accessory exercises can be used to condition and enhance specific technical 
limitations and movements. As with the assistance 
exercises, the volume of these accessory exercises needs to match the demands and quality of sim -
ilar movements in tactical and technical training and in games. If a player demonstrates poor 
technical-movement patterns, it is important that 
these accessory movements remain as part of an in-season strength and conditioning programme. 
If, however, the athlete is technically compe -
tent and performs a high volume of lunge and change-of-direction activities well, the suggested approach would be to keep the volume of accessory 
work low but increased in planned heavy-load 
weeks and reduced significantly during deload or 
weeks of high technical-training volume.
Prescription for Strength Sets  
and Repetitions
The prescription in table 23.9 applies to critical 
exercise and any other maximal strength–based 
exercise. These exercises can be selected from any 
of the classifications, but the sole aim of this pre -
scription is improving maximal strength. Figure 23.4 charts the volume and intensity in training blocks 1, 2 and 3.
The example programme and the graph in 
figure 23.4 show that the majority of volume is less than 90 per cent. Figure 23.4 shows that through 
each block there is an increase in exercise intensity 
and a reduction in volume.
There are opportunities for the athlete to push 
to new levels each week and in each training block. This principle was introduced earlier in the chapter 
in the discussion of the optimal training window. 
The framework is in place from which an athlete can be motivated to progress, and the strength and 
Table 23.9  Sample Strength-Exercise Prescription
WeekBLOCK 1: PREPARE BLOCK 2: ADVANCE BLOCK 3: CONQUER
Lower body Upper body Lower body Upper body Lower body Upper body
1 60% × 5
65% × 5
75% × 5 × 360% × 5
65% × 5
75% × 5 × 275% × AMRAP*65% × 3
75% × 3
80% × 3 × 2,
then 2 or more 
sets of 2 >85%65% × 3
70% × 3
75% × 380% × 3 × 280% × AMRAP65% × 3
75% × 3
80% × 385% × 2 × 2,then 2 or more 
sets of 1 >87%70% × 3
75% × 3
80% × 385% × 2 × 285% × AMRAP
2 60% × 5
65% × 5
75% × 580% × 5 × 360% × 5
65% × 5
75% × 580% × 5 × 280% × AMRAP70% × 3
80% × 3
85% × 3 × 2,
then 2 or more 
sets of 2 >87%65% × 3
70% × 3
75% × 380% × 385% × 3 × 2
85% × AMRAP65% × 375% × 3
80% × 385% × 287% × 2 × 2,
then 2 or more 
sets of 1 >90%70% × 380% × 3
85% × 390% × 2 × 290% × AMRAP
3 67% × 5
72% × 5
78% × 583% × 5 × 367% × 5
72% × 5
78% × 383% × 2Work up to 5RM77% × 3
82% × 3
87% × 3,
then 2 or more 
sets of 2 >90%70% × 3
75% × 3
80% × 185% × 1Work up to 3RM80% × 3
85% × 2
87% × 290% × 2 × 2,then 2 or more 
sets of 1 >93%70% × 3
80% × 3
85% × 390% × 2Work up to 1RM
4 60% × 5 × 3 65% × 5 × 3 60% × 5 × 3 65% × 5 × 3 60% × 5 × 3 65% × 5 × 3
*AMRAP: As many reps as possible.

Maintaining an In-Season Conditioning Edge ❙ 315
conditioning coach can continue to guide from 
training observations.
The AMRAP (as many repetitions as possible) 
sets for the upper body in the fi  rst two weeks of 
the training block motivate the athlete to push the 
limits but with a load-controlled intensity. The athlete should not go to failure. There is no need 
to go to failure at this intensity range to make 
strength gains. In addition, going to failure could compromise technique and increase the potential 
for injury.
Every third week in all three blocks the athlete 
has an opportunity to be challenged by upper-body 
exercises to reach new levels for a prescribed repe-tition range. For lower-body exercises, the volume 
is less than for upper-body work. This difference 
accommodates for the volume of running or other on-feet activities the athlete may be undertaking. 
Opportunities to progress lower-body strength 
occur in blocks 2 and 3. A minimum prescription 
has been given to progress lower-body strength. 
However, the nature of the prescription then allows the athlete to push the intensity further if it’s required, if the athlete is directed to or if the 
athlete feels particularly good that day.
Other Prescription Guidelines
Exercise selection will determine the load, sets 
and repetitions. (See table 23.10 for guidelines.) 
The same general principles should be applied as 
the example given for maximal strength—increas-
ing intensity and reducing volume through the 
training blocks. Any change in exercise technique due to load or repetition prescription needs to 
be addressed immediately and the appropriate 
alterations made.
In-Season Speed 
and Plyometric Training
Speed has a far greater direct link with run-
ning-based technical and skills-based training 
than do weight-room exercises. The type of speed 
qualities depends on the sport, the situation and 
the decision-making processes the athlete has to 
make in the fi  eld of play. Within the season, the 
primary analysis process the coach must under-
take concerns determining the type of speed and plyometric training the athlete requires.
The foundations of speed and acceleration often 
are neglected in the technical arena; the speed of action often is practiced secondarily to the move-
ment patterning involved in the technique or 
skill. The strength and conditioning coach needs 
to work closely with the sport coach to ensure 
the skill is practised as a whole or that there is an integrated plan developed by which speed and 
acceleration potential is developed concurrently 
whilst technical components are addressed by 
the sport coach.
Due to the amount of time spent on the feet per-
forming tactical and technical training and compe-
tition in sports that require speed and power, the 
Intensity
Volume
0 74767880828486889092
20
1030405060
1 2
Training blocks3VolumeIntensity
E5891/Joyce/480189/Fig 23.04/R2/JGFigure 23.4  Volume and intensity through training 
blocks 1, 2 and 3.
Table 23.10  Exercise-Prescription Guide
BLOCK 1 BLOCK 2 BLOCK 3
Sets × reps Load Sets × reps Load Sets × reps Load
Explosive strength 3-7 × 3-5 Moderate 3-6 × 1-3 Moderate to heavy 3-8 × 1 or 2 Moderate to heavy
Assistance 3-5 × 8-15 Moderate 3-5 × 8-12 Moderate 3 × 5, 6, 10 Moderate
Technical accessory 3-5 × 8-15 Moderate 3-5 × 8-12 Moderate 3 × 5, 6, 10 Moderate

316 ❙ Yule
volume of speed and plyometric exercise should 
remain low. The amount of time allocated to 
strength and conditioning in a competitive week is 
low, so training needs to be prioritised effectively.
In the block-based approach, speed and plyo -
metric training and exercises can be integrated into the previously described strength-training system. 
The example in table 23.11 illustrates a speed and 
plyometric integrated approach for a player of a field- or court-based sport (e.g. hockey, football, 
tennis) who has a significant volume of speed- and 
agility-based tactical and technical training.
In-Season Conditioning
The last physical variable to consider in the maintenance of in-season fitness is the athlete’s conditioning. A competitive match provides 
a significant specific metabolic stimulus. In 
many instances, this stimulus once a week will 
be enough to maintain a level of conditioning. 
However, in order to improve, training must be performed in the subsequent week (table 23.12), 
predominantly in season, to tactically learn and 
progress to the next competitive event. Several 
factors need to be considered to ensure the optimal conditioning dose is prescribed in subsequent 
weeks postcompetition:
• The competition may not have elicited a sig -
nificant metabolic stimulus due to tactics or 
weather.
• The athlete may have had limited game time 
due to injury or being used as a replacement.
• The competition may have been extremely hard, surpassing workloads experienced.
• If the athlete has not competed, this may be an 
opportunity to increase the volume in speed 
or strength work based on presented physical 
limitations.
If athletes are playing at a high level and train -
ing consistently and regularly in the week, in most 
cases these athletes will be performing the appro -
priate amount of conditioning. An athlete who is not competing and is training only once or twice a week is likely not achieving the appropriate meta -
bolic stimuli to maintain a conditioning edge. This athlete either needs to replace or top-up reduced 
playing time with sport-related fitness (SRF) or 
maximise the recovery opportunity to progress at other physical variables that are limiting.
Table 23.11  Sample In-Season Session Content Integrating Speed and Plyometrics
Exercise 
classification Block 1: Preparation Block 2: Intensification Block 3: Realization
Session 1 Critical Back squatPush press
Resisted accelerations and 
sprintsBack squatJerk
Accelerations and sprintsBack squat
Jerk behind neck
Resisted to unresisted 
accelerations and sprints
Assistance Step-up
Accessory Hamstring and eccentric trunk seriesHamstring and eccentric trunk seriesHamstring and eccentric trunk series
Session 2 Critical
Assistance Incline bench press
Weighted pull-upNarrow-grip bench pressBent-over row
Lunge (variations)Bench press
Single-arm row
Bulgarian split squat
Accessory Shoulder and neck series Shoulder and neck series Shoulder and neck series
Session 3 Critical Box jump Hurdle jump complex with squatsDrop jump complex with squats
Assistance Back squat (decrease load from session 1)
Military pressBack squat
Single-arm dumbbell pressBack squatSingle-arm dumbbell push 
press
Accessory Single-arm row
Rotational-trunk seriesWeighted chin-upRotational-trunk seriesBent-over rowRotational-trunk series

 Maintaining an In-Season Conditioning Edge ❙ 317
Competing in the sport will provide a condi -
tioning effect across several variables:
• Skills whilst fatigued
• Decision making whilst fatigued
• Repeat sprints of random work: rest intervals 
specific to scenario
• Specific speed qualities such as acceleration, 
deceleration and speed adjustments
The most effective way to top-up fitness is to 
perform conditioning through sport-related activ -
ities, which is often accomplished in team sports through small-sided games (SSG). Even when there are only 1 or 2 players, the coach can devise SRF 
drills that mimic the specific energy and neuro -
muscular demands involved in the game.
The volume of a top-up conditioning session 
should be low since the athlete will still have to be 
involved in other tactical and technical training. If 
the athlete is not involved on the competition day, 
this is the ideal time to perform SRF because the athlete will have the same recovery time as the 
rest of the team. If tactical and technical training 
provides some of the sport-related neuromuscular 
demands, top-ups can be performed purely for the 
energy system on a bike or rowing machine.
The development and maintenance of in-season 
conditioning is vital to ensure the athlete can per -
form the sport-related competition at the desired intensities. Just as important is the athlete’s ability 
to recover from the competition and have the work 
capacity to perform training in the following week. 
In turn, increasing speed and strength qualities 
throughout the season and continuing tactical and technical development will increase the ath -
lete’s efficiency and effectiveness. This increased Table 23.12  Metabolic Loading Pattern in the Week
Mon. Tues. Wed. Thurs. Fri. Sat. Sun.
Relative 
metabolic workloadTactical and technicalrecovery: 
lowTactical and 
technical:moderateTactical and technical:moderately
highRecovery:
lowTactical and technical:moderately
lowGame:
highRecovery: low
Planned rating 
of perceived 
exertion (RPE) (1-10)3 4 7 2 3 or 4 9 or 10 2
Volume Moderate Moderately highModerate Low Low High Low
efficiency will allow the athlete to impose a con -
ditioning edge on opponents and demonstrate 
consistent and improving performances.
Wisdom
Continuous improvement is one of the philosophies 
of the training process  . Therefore, athletes must 
have a capacity to endure training and competition  . 
This capacity is developed throughout the in-season through competition and the subsequent tactical and technical training and top-up sessions  .
Summary
The principles of the interdependent training pro -
cess framework are these:
• The technical model drives the direction of 
the strength and conditioning programme.
• There is a planned distribution of physical 
loading between strength and conditioning 
and technical training, which is manipulated 
depending on the goal.
• The strength and conditioning intervention either supports or potentiates the technical 
process, or it facilitates the recovery process.
To maintain an in-season conditioning edge, 
there has to be optimal, planned interactions between strength and conditioning training and 
sport training. Interaction helps ensure training is prioritised on performance goals, there is no 
duplication of training stimuli, the athlete’s train -
ing loads are optimised and the athlete achieves 
the performance goals.

318 ❙ Yule
Mismanagement of the performance process 
and blind prescription of training with no regard 
for technical training can be catastrophic. Physical, 
technical and mental qualities will be affected 
adversely, and no strength and power edge will 
be observed.
Finally , maintaining an in-season condition -
ing edge is hard work. The athlete must have a relentless daily pursuit of excellence in his or her training, nutrition, recovery and lifestyle. The 
athlete’s understanding of and ability to drive 
and own the training process should be evident 
throughout the season. Athletes who gain an 
in-season conditioning edge are not dependent on those around them but are independent and will 
continuously challenge themselves to improve.

CHAPTER
 319
24
24
24
Elite athletes are in a cyclic state of adaptation 
and recovery from the stressors associated with 
training and competition. However, as athletes seek to optimise performance, suffi  cient recovery 
is sometimes overlooked as a way of increasing 
overload, intensity and volume. In addition to large training volumes, athletes may have to perform 
repeated high-intensity competition within several 
days and with limited recovery.
In its simplest terms, recovery is marked by the 
athlete’s return to resting function and physical performance. Therefore, an imbalance between 
exercise and recovery can result in a fatigued state 
and a reduction in physical performance marked by either a decrease in force production or the 
perception that production of that same force feels 
more effortful. Clearly, recovering effectively is one of the most critical determinants of sport success.
Physiological stress results in a complex, multi-
system response that involves the neuromuscular, 
endocrine and autonomic nervous systems. In an 
attempt to optimise recovery after training and competition, it is common practice to employ one 
or more postexercise recovery strategies.
The primary aim of this chapter is to examine 
the rationale for employing the most common 
postexercise recovery strategies. To understand how certain strategies may enhance recovery, we explore the characteristics of fatigue and recovery before presenting the rationale and evidence for 
using recovery strategies. We also discuss the 
potential contraindications to using recovery 
strategies. Finally, we introduce and explore the 
interaction between psychological and physiologi-cal recovery and the exciting prospects for athlete 
management that this new area opens up.
Physiological Characteristics 
of Fatigue and Recovery
In order to fully understand the dynamics between 
fatigue and recovery, it’s important to get a clear 
understanding of the physiological characteristics 
of both fatigue and recovery.
Exercise-Induced Muscle Damage
Recovery may be determined by the extent of exercise-induced muscle damage (EIMD) expe-
rienced during exercise and the subsequent 
infl  ammation process. The mechanisms of EIMD 
may be mechanical, metabolic or oxidative, with 
the extent and relative contributions determined by the nature and volume of exercise. Initial 
damage to the muscle cell structure creates an Recovering Effectively 
in High-Performance Sports
Christian J. Cook
UK Sport
Liam P. Kilduff
Exercise and Medicine Research Centre, Swansea University, Wales
Marc R. Jones
Scarlets Rugby, Wales

320 ❙ Cook, Kilduff and Jones
infl  ammatory process and impairs the muscle’s 
ability to contract effectively.
The extent of EIMD and its effect on subsequent 
performance is more pronounced in people who 
are not used to a given exercise stimulus, either the 
type of exercise or the volume. These people are more susceptible to experiencing delayed-onset 
muscle soreness (DOMS).
1 Although we believe 
that the repeated-bout effect (RBE) means that DOMS is somewhat protective, and there is more 
resistance to subsequent damage and soreness 
when the exercise session is repeated, we often 
still see the presence of EIMD or fatigue several days after competition even in elite athletes who 
have been exposed to these stresses multiple 
times previously.
2, 3
EIMD produces the characteristic pain and ten-
derness within the muscle, decrease in muscular 
strength and power and increase in muscular stiff-
ness, which reduces joint range of motion (ROM) 
and attenuated stretch refl  ex during stretch-short-
ening cycle (SSC) types of activities.4
Subjectively, DOMS is most often reported 24 
to 48 hours postexercise, which may be explained 
by increased inflammation and secondary 
muscle damage. It has been widely demonstrated 
that the functional expression of power and 
strength are compromised for several days after exercise.
3, 4
Strong correlations between functional recovery 
and blood markers of muscle damage (e.g., creatine 
kinase [CK]) indicate that these patterns of recov-
ery partly depend on the extent of EIMD.4 A loss 
in muscle function may result in compensatory 
neuromuscular alterations (e.g., altered kinematics, 
increased ground-contact times, reduced move-
ment velocity).4
Potentially, EIMD may make an athlete work at 
a much higher intensity to maintain performance or cause unaccustomed strain on the compen-
sating muscles, joints, ligaments and tendons, 
increasing the risk of injury. EIMD may impair 
oxygen kinetics and glycogen repletion, both of which can impair performance, especially in endurance and intermittent sports that rely on these metabolic outputs.
5, 6 The perception of 
these functional impairments has further impli-
cations for subsequent skill acquisition and injury 
susceptibility.7
Although EIMD and the ensuing infl  ammatory 
response may be responsible for an acute reduc-
tion in muscle function, this process appears to be 
necessary for the subsequent repair and adaptive 
remodelling of muscle tissue to also improve mus-
cular function (fi  gure 24.1).
Despite initiating events that elicit further 
muscle damage,8 certain cells (e.g., macrophages) 
also secrete factors that enable repair and provide 
a structure for satellite cells to begin the formation 
of new myofi  bres, thus facilitating regeneration.8
Wisdom
Muscle damage is not always associated with classic 
DOMS or even obvious pain . It can restrict muscular function for 24 to 48 hours, and it means the athlete needs more effort to achieve the same outcome . It may be an important trigger for adaptation but comes at a metabolic cost .
Impact on the Autonomic Nervous System
Physical exercise causes an increase in sym-
pathetic (fight or flight) activity, resulting in 
higher heart rates. The time needed to restore a 
pre-exercise autonomic nervous system (ANS) 
level has been shown to depend on exercise 
intensity and duration. High-intensity exercise reduces the autonomic activity for longer than 
does submaximal exercise; research suggests that 
EIMD and the subsequent infl  ammatory response may temporarily attenuate parasympathetic (rest 
and digest) reactivation.
9
This is relevant because greater parasympa-
thetic activity is usually associated with a better recovery state and readiness to perform. Therefore 
Exercise Muscle damageFunctional impairment
Inflammatory response Repair (adaptation) Functional improvement
E5891/Joyce/480193/Fig 24.01/R1/JGFigure 24.1  Summary of the adaptation process initiated by training.

 Recovering Effectively in High-Performance Sports ❙ 321
ANS regulation is important in facilitating recov -
ery, and parasympathetic reactivation is a useful 
indicator in monitoring the recovery status in elite 
athletes. This forms the basis of heart rate variabil -
ity monitoring, which is discussed in more detail in chapter 6.
Hormones in Relation to Fatigue 
and Recovery
Hormones are chemical messengers, traditionally 
thought to facilitate protein synthesis and degrada -
tion after exercise. Two hormones in particular—testosterone and cortisol—have been researched 
in relation to fatigue and recovery.
Testosterone
Testosterone is a steroid hormone, anabolic 
(building) in nature, important in facilitating 
muscle hypertrophy and increasing muscle gly -
cogen synthesis. It has more complex training 
roles outside of direct hypertrophy, however, with 
a direct role in regulating adaptive physiology 
and physical performance itself.10 Testosterone 
is linked to muscular function and the cognitive 
processes that control movement. In individ -
uals with relatively high strength levels, free 
testosterone is a strong individual predictor of 
the expression of strength and power qualities.11 
Furthermore, testosterone is important as a stress biomarker, and the testosterone responses to 
a challenge can provide information on dom
-
inance. Winning in sport competition is often accompanied by elevated testosterone concen
-
trations relative to losing.12
Cortisol
Cortisol is catabolic (redistibutive) in nature, increasing protein degradation in muscle and 
connective tissue and causing reductions in muscle 
protein synthesis, allowing energy to be redistrib -
uted. Hormones can be disrupted for several days after either competition or increases in training volume,
 with cortisol suggested to be most sensi -
tive to change.3, 13
Hormones may help in the muscle restoration 
process, but an even more important role may 
be psychological. If a win or even a good perfor -
mance is perceived as such, it results in a better 
psychological mood state and may influence 
recovery time.Suppression of the Immune 
System
When athletes are engaged in heavy training or 
competition over a season, they may experience a 
chronically depressed immune function.14 Individ -
uals engaged in heavy training or competition pro -
grammes, particularly those involved in endurance 
events, appear to be more susceptible than normal 
to upper respiratory tract infection (URTI).14
Recovery demands will be different for sports. 
Recovery is a psychological as well as a physio -
logical issue. Poor recovery results in either a 
reduction of muscular function or a greater effort 
required to produce the same function, which 
leads to accumulated debt. This accumulated debt leads to other vulnerabilities, including 
immune-function suppression.
Recovering Immediately 
After Training or Competition
The following section outlines the possible recov -
ery modalities that could be used by practitioners 
immediately after training or competition (see 
tables 24.1 and 24.2).
Cold-Water Immersion (CWI)
The main rationale for immersing body parts in cold water is based on the effects of hydro -
static pressure and the cooling of body tissue.
15 
When external pressure is applied to the body by 
immersion in water, removal of exudates (plasma) 
and inflammatory cells is enhanced, which may 
improve nutrient delivery to cells, enhance meta -
bolic waste removal, improve contractile function 
and reduce secondary muscle damage.
Similarly, a reduction in skin temperature may 
also reduce the extent of inflammation, help reduce 
the perception of pain and aid in the recovery of 
muscular contractile function.1, 15
The orientation of the body, or body parts, in 
water is an important consideration. For a person 
immersed standing to the superior aspect of the 
iliac crest, the foot immersed at a depth of 1 metre 
has 981Pa extra pressure acting on it, whereas 
the hip (0.1 metre below the surface) has only an extra 98.1Pa.
15 Therefore, to maximise the effects of 
hydrostatic pressure, standing when immersed in 
water is recommended.

322 ❙ Cook, Kilduff and Jones
Overall, the literature findings examining CWI 
as a recovery tool are inconclusive. Some studies 
demonstrate no additional benefit when compared 
to passive recovery on the outcomes of pain, swelling 
and performance 24, 48 and 72 hours after unaccus -
tomed eccentric loading.16 However, Howatson and 
van Someren17 stated that the temperatures used in 
these studies (5 ± 1oC) were too cold, possibly elicit -
ing the hunting reaction. This phenomenon occurs 
when tissue temperature falls below 18oC, and there 
is periodic vasodilation and warming of the tissue, 
which may eliminate any potential benefits of CWI.
A meta-analysis of 14 studies by Leeder and 
colleagues18 also found that CWI had little effect on recovery of strength (isometric and isokinetic knee 
extension or elbow flexion), but this approach was 
effective in improving the recovery rate of muscular 
power postexercise during more functional SSC 
activities. Furthermore, Halson19 found that CWI had 
a greater effect on weight-bearing activity compared to a non-weight-bearing activity, which is more 
representative of the actual performance tests likely 
to be undertaken by elite athletes. Indeed, previous 
research has found that SSC-type activities are more sensitive to contractile failure after EIMD than con
-
centric-only activities.4 These data highlight some of 
the difficulties in determining the efficacy of recovery 
strategies (see tables 24.1 and 24.2) due to variation in 
Table 24.1  Recovery Strategies Applied to Elite Athletes
Method Sample protocols
Cold water 
immersion (CWI)10oC-15oC, 1-15 min
Single or multiple immersions (e.g., 2 x 5 min with 2 min seated rest at room temperature between immersions)
Immerse part of body trained (i.e., lower body, immerse to anterior superior iliac spine; whole 
body, immerse to neck)Greater hydrostatic pressure to lower limbs when standing
Contrast water 
therapy (baths or 
showers)1 or 2 min cold (8
oC-15oC), 1 to 2 min hot (38oC-42oC) x 1-4 sets
Minimal time between baths or showersImmerse part of body trained (i.e., lower body, immerse to anterior superior iliac spine; whole 
body, immerse to neck)
Greater hydrostatic pressure to lower limbs when standingAlternate to finish on cold for more aggressive recovery; finish on hot for relaxation
Compression garmentsMinimum 12 hrApply to appropriate limbsCustom-fitted garments may have greatest effect
Whole-body cryotherapy 
(WBC)Dependent on design of the chamber, e.g., two-stage chamber consists of one or two vestibules 
where the temperature -60
oC (~30 sec) and a main chamber in which the temperature is 
maintained within the range -110oC to -160oC (1-3 min)
Individual required to slow walk in chamber and remain in eye and voice contact with operators outside the cryochamber
Active recovery Continuous 8-25 mine.g. light jogging (multidirectional, dynamic stretching), cycling (e.g. 80 to 100 rpm), cross-trainer
Intensity ~65% V·O
2max
Intervals e.g. 3 or 4 min moderate to fast, 3 to 4 min slow x 2 to 4 sets
e.g. cycling (>100 rpm, 80-90 rpm)
Intensity session average ~65% V·O2max
Tempo running: e.g., 6-12 x 12-15 sec at 70%-75% max speed (60-90 sec rest between reps)
Pool recovery (continuous, intervals or combination): e.g., ~25 min consisting of low- intensity 
swimming, shallow water walking, jogging, stretching, games
Intensity session average ~65% V·O2max
Electrostimulation Minimum 3 hrApplied to posterior aspect of both kneesPulse adjusted to width that is tolerable and produces visible dorsiflexion and plantarflexion
Occlusion 2 x 3 min each leg; 220 mm/Hg
Supine position, cuff positioned around the proximal portion of the lower leg
Opposite leg acts as recovery time between ischemic doses

 Recovering Effectively in High-Performance Sports ❙ 323
study methodologies. Despite not showing evidence 
of enhanced function, data exist to show that 5 min -
utes of CWI may accelerate parasympathetic recovery 5 minutes
20 and 12 hours postintervention.21
CWI has some recovery benefits; however, these 
are not particularly temperature dependent insofar 
as cold tap water appears as efficacious as ice baths. 
As with all recovery modalities, though, care should 
be taken not to overadminister, as spurious use 
could potentially interfere with adaptive processes.
Hot and Contrast Water Therapy
Unlike CWI, hot water immersion (HWI) is thought to increase tissue temperature and local blood flow 
and enhance muscular elasticity, leading to local 
vasodilation, an increase in metabolite production 
and a reduction in muscle spasms.
22 In response 
to HWI, increases in blood flow and lymphatic function have the net effect of improving metab -
olism, nutrient delivery and waste removal from the cells.
15 However, increasing the permeability 
of these vessels may increase the inflammatory response by facilitating the influx of exudates and 
inflammatory cells into the interstitial space.
15
Alternating time spent in hot and cold water, 
also known as contrast water therapy (CWT), can 
reduce oedema and enhance recovery. This method 
combines the properties of CWI and HWI to alter -
nate the vasoconstrictor and vasodilator response of blood vessels to temperature changes.
2 Vaile, Gill and Blazevich23 demonstrated that CWT (8oC-10oC, 
60 sec; 40oC-42oC, 120 sec × 5 sets) enhanced recov -
ery compared to passive recovery (15 min seated) 
after an eccentric resistance exercise session (5 × 
10 eccentric leg press). Data collected immediately, 
24, 48 and 72 hours after recovery showed restored 
jump squat peak power and serum CK levels at 48 hours after CWT as opposed to passive recovery. 
CWT may also enhance parasympathetic reacti -
vation after 60 minutes of high-intensity cycling,
24 
which may help augment the recovery process.
Wisdom
Both HWI and CWT may potentially be contraindicated 
in hard-contact sports and theoretically may increase bruising  . Whether this occurs or not is unknown; how-
ever, given current evidence that cold water immersion on its own is equally effective to CWT or HWI, our rec -
ommendation for contact sports is to be conservative  .
Compression Garments
Compression garments are becoming increasingly 
widespread as a recovery aid within sports and 
exercise. Typically, these garments are elastic, 
body-moulded suits with an engineered com -
pression gradient that can be worn as an upper-, lower- or full-body piece. Compression garments are proposed to enhance muscular recovery by Table 24.2  When Recovery Strategies May be Applied to Elite Athletes
Nutrition and hydration strategies should be sought from the athlete’s nutritionist for all situations. It is assumed that 
athlete sleep is adequate. 
Situation Example strategy options
Post-exercise (>24 hr between exercise sessions)Use one strategy alone or multiple strategies together (may be repeated hourly or next day):
• Active recovery
• Occlusion
• Cold-eater immersion (CWI), contrast water therapy (CWT) or cryotherapy
• Compression garments*
• Electrostimulation
Postexercise (<24 hr 
between exercise sessions)Use one strategy alone or multiple strategies together (may be repeated hourly or next day):
• Active recovery
• Occlusion
• Compression garments*
• Electrostimulation
During periods of 
development or adaptationNo applied recovery strategies
*Duration may be modulated according to intensity, soreness, or proximity of subsequent exercise.

324 ❙ Cook, Kilduff and Jones
exerting pressure on the covered limbs to improve 
blood flow and reduce inflammation, possibly via 
mechanisms similar to hydrostatic pressure from 
water immersion.
Although garments are commercially available 
in varying sizes, it has been questioned whether these products can exert enough pressure to be 
effective for each individual due to widespread 
differences in leg dimensions and tissue struc -
ture within a population.
25 Nevertheless, some 
studies have reported beneficial effects in terms of 
reducing EIMD and perceived muscular soreness 
and restoring exercise performance.26 The use of 
compression garments (and other recovery strat -
egies) may further create a positive placebo effect on an athlete’s perception of muscular soreness 
and functional recovery. Although compression 
garments may constitute a small component of the overall recovery strategy, they should not form the 
central plank of it.
Whole-Body Cryotherapy (WBC)
Whole-body cryotherapy (WBC) has been predom -
inantly applied and researched within clinical set -
tings for inflammatory conditions such as swelling 
and acute, localised pain. However, WBC may also 
be a means of accelerating postexercise recovery.
Research has shown health benefits after expo -
sure to very cold air (e.g. −110oC).27 A single expo -
sure has been shown to alter hormonal profiles in men
28 and increase antioxidant defence system 
activity.29 Furthermore, data exists to suggest 
repeated exposures may enhance motor perfor -
mance30 and anaerobic capacity31 and increase 
levels of white blood cells32 and antiinflammatory 
cytokines (e.g., IL-10) whilst decreasing proinflam -
matory cytokines (IL-2, Il-8).33
However, limited research has been performed 
after exercise using WBC, largely due to the expense and limited availability of cryochamber 
facilities, which consequently explains why WBC 
is used by few athletes at present. Mechanisms for 
enhanced recovery are likely to be related to vaso -
constriction and a reduction in nervous activity.
After a single simulated trial race, WBC (3 min 
at −110
oC) was shown to restrict the inflammatory 
response compared to that of a passive recov -
ery group.27 Levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) 
significantly increased in both groups 24 hours 
postexercise; however, levels in the WBC groups returned to pre-exercise 48 hours post whilst CRP 
levels in the passive group remained elevated at 96 hours. It may also be beneficial to enhance the 
recovery of muscular strength and perceived pain 
after competition.
34
Research also suggests that a week of daily WBC 
sessions after training reduced markers of muscle 
damage and proinflammatory cytokines compared 
to a passive recovery group in an international 
Rugby Union team.33
Active Recovery
Performing low-intensity exercise after intense 
exercise may enhance recovery by inducing a 
pumping effect. Repetitive mechanical squeezing 
by the muscles during contraction and relaxation may increase blood flow and improve ROM, which 
may increase the translocation and removal of 
markers of inflammation and metabolites, such as lactate, from the muscle.
2
Active recovery is commonly used when sev -
eral hours separate exercise sessions. Anaerobic exercise increases lactic acid concentration within 
the working muscle, leading to fatigue and a 
reduction in force or power output. Therefore, the 
ability to remove lactate and H
+ from the muscle 
after exercise is important where time between sessions is limited and an improved oxygen 
supply may enhance clearance. Even though it 
seems that continuous moderate-intensity exer
-
cise is more effective than passive recovery, a 
combination of high intensity (65% V˙O2max) and 
low intensity (35% V˙O2max) is no more beneficial 
than a recovery of low intensity (35% V˙O2max).35 
As little as 20 minutes of low-intensity active 
recovery produced better recovery outcomes sev -
eral days later.2 Given the ease of such application, 
incorporating this simple procedure into recovery menus is recommended.
Active recovery may be performed in various 
ways; however, performing an active-recovery 
session immersed in water may provide the added effects of buoyancy, hydrostatic pressure 
and parasympathetic reactivation, which may 
enhance recovery. Furthermore, activities such 
as deep-water running and water aerobics are 
convenient methods of recovery due to the non- weight-bearing nature of activity, thus avoiding 
exacerbation of soft-tissue injury whilst providing 
active recovery.

 Recovering Effectively in High-Performance Sports ❙ 325
Electrostimulation
Electrostimulation may be an effective treatment 
in enhancing recovery after exercise despite little 
research on its effectiveness having been done. 
In this treatment, electrodes are positioned on 
the posterior aspect of the knee to stimulate the 
lower limb musculature and enhance blood flow. Beaven and colleagues
36 showed that when wearing 
the electrodes with compression garments, rugby 
players perceived improved recovery after training 
compared to wearing compression garments alone. 
Furthermore, the combination of methods was 
shown to be more effective in attenuating increases in CK after competition compared to compression 
garments alone.
36 Electrostimulation in isolation 
has recently been shown to enhance recovery of function 24 hours after a simulated team circuit to 
an extent similar to a CWT treatment.
37
Occlusion
Brief, repeated periods of occlusion followed by reperfusion have previously been shown to miti -
gate the injurious effects of prolonged ischemia in cardiac muscles as well as attenuate other cellular 
damage.
Recent research suggests that occlusion may 
enhance recovery after a high-intensity exercise protocol. After 2 sets of 3-minute lower-limb occlu -
sions of each leg at 220 mmHg, various markers 
of power displayed improved recovery 24 hours 
after exercise when compared to a condition when 
15 mmHg compression was applied.
38 Although 
the mechanisms are unclear, the authors propose 
that the cycles of ischemia and reperfusion may 
enhance blood flow, thereby increasing muscular 
oxygenation, vasodilation, and oxygen delivery.
Sleep
Sleep is a basic requirement for human health due 
to its physiological and psychological restorative 
effects. During sleep, the highest concentrations 
of growth hormones, which play a significant ana -
bolic role in skeletal-muscle growth, are observed. Sleep is a vital component of an athlete’s recovery and preparation. It may be the single most effica -
cious recovery strategy after exercise in elite ath -
letes.
19 Despite this, athletes often suffer from sleep 
deprivation, especially after evening competition.39 Sleep should be stressed as contributing an import -
ant role in muscular recovery.
The regenerative effects of sleep are not limited 
to muscular function, however. Sleep is also an 
important regulator of central nervous system 
and cognitive functions. Simply lengthening the total hours slept each night had a marked effect on 
athletic performance in basketball players.
40
Sleep deprivation reduces anabolic hormone 
and increases catabolic hormone concentrations. It also inhibits restoration by increasing inflam -
mation and sympathetic nervous system activity, leading to impairments in strength and power pro -
duction, muscle glycogen repletion and cognitive 
function. Sleep deprivation can result in a loss of 
high-level sport skill and a decrease in voluntarily 
chosen workload, both of which may be viewed as important recovery features.
41, 42
Following a shortened night’s sleep, however, 
cognitive and motor performance has been shown 
to be enhanced by a short nap,43 which has import -
ant implications for the athlete struggling to sleep due to a variety of reasons (e.g., anxiety about 
performing, young children at home, travelling).
Wisdom
Educate athletes to make the bedroom the sleep room  . 
The bedroom should be used only to sleep in, not also 
to study in or watch TV  . The room should be kept dark 
(e .g ., blackout blinds), quiet (or with white noise) and 
at a comfortable temperature  .
Nutrition and Hydration
Dietary antioxidants have been proposed to 
enhance recovery by reducing the extent of 
inflammation and secondary muscle damage. The 
supplementation of polyphenols in preparation 
for and recovery from training and competition 
is becoming more prevalent, but their efficacy as 
antioxidants depends on the specific foods they 
are sourced from.44 Some of the highest antioxidant 
and antiinflammatory properties have been iden -
tified in tart cherries.45 Consumption of approx -
imately 45 cherries per day has been shown to 
reduce circulating concentrations of inflammatory 
markers in healthy men and women; however, sup -
plementation of tart cherry juice is a more efficient and economical alternative.

326 ❙ Cook, Kilduff and Jones
After a period of supplementation, tart cherry 
juice has been shown to reduce the extent of muscle 
damage, improve recovery of function and allevi -
ate the sensation of pain after a session of eccentric elbow-flexion contractions.
45 Furthermore, a period 
of supplementation has been shown to increase total antioxidative capacity and enhance recovery 
after a marathon run.
46
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) 
such as ibuprofen and aspirin are common ergogenic 
means proposed to reduce EIMD in sports.47 Ibupro -
fen (2,400 mg) taken before and after eccentric arm 
exercise has been shown to reduce CK appearance 
in the blood, indicating reduced muscle damage.48
Various nutritional strategies are available to 
maintain immune function and avoid infection, including probiotics, colostrum, herbals (e.g., 
echinacea, ginseng, kaloba), glutamine and zinc 
lozenges; however, there is no strong evidence to 
suggest that any of these are of added benefit in preventing exercise-induced immune depression.
14
Maintaining hydration status is also important for 
performance and recovery. The use of rehydration 
strategies after exercise should be considered for 
providing a favourable hormonal environment for 
adaptation and facilitating preparation for the next 
session. For example, based on research by Shirreffs and colleagues,
49 it is easy to calculate the required 
fluid volume to rehydrate by weighing the athlete 
pre- and postexercise. Required fluid intake should 
be (pre-exercise weight – postexercise weight) ×  1.5. 
Consideration should be given to electrolyte content of postexercise beverages and nutrition, which may be prescribed according to individual needs.
Soft-Tissue and Manual Therapies
Massage, foam rolling, acupuncture and other manipulations (e.g., osteopath, chiropractic) may 
all have recovery benefits, and these are anec -
dotally reported. Individuality in recovery is an important feature, and people do respond differ -
ently when it comes to healing-hand modalities. There may be a large psychological component to 
these interventions that should not be underesti -
mated as a potent recovery strategy.
Psychological Recovery 
Postexercise
In addition to physiological recovery, psychologi -
cal recovery should be an integral component for 
consideration.Fatigue after training and competition may be 
associated with changes in behaviour,50 reduced 
motivation, disturbed mood and increased perceived soreness.
51 If insufficient recovery occurs, symptoms 
may be observable and detected before the athlete reaches a condition of overtraining. To detect the 
onset of these symptoms, monitoring psychometric 
variables has been suggested as an efficient means of 
monitoring both overtraining and recovery.
52
The psychological symptoms of overtraining 
may include depressed mood, general apathy, 
decreased self-esteem, emotional instability, 
impaired performance, restlessness, irritability 
and disturbed sleep.
Relationship Between Psychological 
and Physiological Parameters
Physiological functions may be somewhat deter -
mined by the psychological response to a stressor. 
The psychological perception of benefit appears 
both additive and subtractive to any measured 
physiological change.53 For example, watching 
video clips can change male testosterone concen -
tration and influence subsequent exercise perfor -
mance in both nonathletes and athletes.54, 55, Athlete 
testosterone levels increased after the athletes viewed aggressive training clips; this correlated to 
an improvement in subsequent 3RM squat (r = 0.85, 
p < 0.001) when compared to a control condition 
when no video was shown.
55
Research has shown that viewing footage 
showing player success with positive coaching 
feedback increased testosterone and lowered cor -
tisol responses compared with viewing footage of player failure and negative coaching feedback 
in Rugby Union.
56 Furthermore, these changes in 
hormone response were associated with better 
key performance indicators during competition.56
Strategies to Enhance 
Psychological Recovery in Sport
Perceptions of—and the emotions associated with—
stress, including feelings of depression and anger, 
negatively affected wound healing through psycho -
neuroimmunological pathways.57 The physiological 
responses of elite athletes may exhibit a degree of plasticity that can be influenced by prior exposure 
to stressful events or perceptions of those events.
56 
The use of relatively simple psychological recovery 
interventions, with specific relevance to that event, 
may modify the free hormonal state of the athlete, 

 Recovering Effectively in High-Performance Sports ❙ 327
which in turn may influence subsequent recovery 
and performance. For example, the postgame pre -
sentation of player-specific video footage appears to influence the free hormonal state of rugby players 
and their game performance several days later.
56 This 
is a clear indication of the multidimensional nature of recovery and how the process can be attacked 
down many avenues and affected by many members 
of the coaching and performance-support team.
A recent paper by Cook and Beaven53 suggests 
that psychological perception and physiological change summate (or, more importantly, can act in 
opposition) in terms of recovery outcome. Their 
study using elite rugby players found that the 
degree of body temperature normalisation after exercise and a cool immersion predicted recovery 
outcomes but was confounded by the psycholog -
ical perception of the treatment: If temperature 
declined, but players reported not enjoying the 
procedure, recovery was less than predicted by 
the temperature change itself. This opens up an 
exciting avenue around psychological recovery 
and its influence on physical expression.
Wisdom
Stress on an athlete is the sum total of his or her life, 
not just what occurs in training and competition  . This 
understanding needs recognition and accounting for  . 
Psychological and physiological components inter -
weave, and this quality is an essential point of attack for recovery  .
Impact of Recovery Strategies on Training Adaptation
The following section outlines the physiological 
rationale that questions the use of certain recovery 
modalities during periods of adaptation. These 
modalities need to be considered due to their 
potential to interfere with the adaptation process.
Multiple Periods of Activity 
Performed Within One  or on Consecutive Days
Repeated exercise performance in the heat may be 
improved when a short period of CWI is applied 
between exercise sessions.58 However, when mul -
tiple competitive sessions are performed on the same day, evidence exists to suggest that the use of cold-water immersion after one session may impair performance in the next.
59
Tissue cooling stimulates inhibitory cells that 
regulate the impulse of pain perception to the central nervous system. However, tissue cooling 
may also decrease the rate of transmission along 
neurons by decreasing the production of vital neu -
rotransmitters such as acetylcholine. Reduction in 
neural transmission would therefore decrease mus -
cular contractile speed and force generating ability, which may inhibit subsequent performance.
15 A 
decrease in heart rate after CWI may also decrease 
cardiac output and arterial blood pressure, thus 
decreasing blood flow to the prime-mover muscles, 
which may also impair performance.
Enhanced parasympathetic activity after CWI20 
may inhibit cardio-acceleration from exercise 
onset, compromising the attainment of peak heart 
rate and possibly reducing cardiac output and 
oxygen delivery. This process may increase blood 
lactate accumulation and oxygen deficit.59
Potential Attenuation  
of Adaptation After Exercise
Reducing the extent of EIMD and thus inflamma -
tion by means of postexercise recovery strategies 
may have important implications for training 
adaptations. For example, Yamane and collegues60 
explained that the myofibre microdamages and 
cellular and humoral events induced by endurance 
and strength training are preconditions not only 
for repair processes, such as myofibre regenera -
tion, but also for the adaptive processes leading 
to improved muscular performance. In particular, 
they noted satellite cell proliferation and recruit -
ment as the basis of myofibre hypertrophy and 
increased capillary supply. By reducing the extent 
of muscle damage postexercise, the stimulation 
and proliferation of satellite cells are reduced; 
this interferes with the regenerative processes and 
‘thus retard[s] rather than support[s] the desired improvement of muscular performance’.
60
Although equivocal evidence exists, litera -
ture does exist to support the hypothesis that 
attenuating the inflammatory process associated 
with muscle damage (using a variety of recovery 
strategies) may inhibit the stimulus for adaptive 
physiology.60 To assist in the development of best 
practices for both recovery and training, further 
research is needed with particular attention to elite 
athletes under normal training and in particular 
with measurement in competitive conditions.

328The physical, mental and emotional demands placed on 
NBA players are extraordinarily high, but at the same time, 
the ability to implement optimal recovery strategies is 
highly compromised. This presents significant challenges since the potential for injury, burnout and underperfor
-
mance is high.
The challenges faced by NBA players include the 
following:
• Fixture load. Many teams play more than 90 games in a season. Often, games are played on 
consecutive days, and teams may have four games 
in a week.
• Travel. During the regular season, most teams have 
close to 70 flights, many of which take off between 
the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 2:00 a.m. When on the road, players have limited access to recovery 
facilities and equipment.
• Nutrition. Good food choices on the road can be 
limited, and the lure of convenience food can be 
strong.
• Outside demands. Players are in high demand by 
the media and sponsors, and social pressures to go 
out at night constantly compete with best-practice 
recovery programmes.
The first place to start when designing recovery pro -
grammes in this environment is to base strategies on an understanding of the physical loads each player encoun
-
ters. We consider both acute loadings (over the last 2 or 3 days) as well as the cumulative loads to that point in 
a season. We also consider the summation of the types 
of loading, from the weight room, to the practice court, to games. We developed a bespoke system to track these 
overall loads. One part of this system involves the use 
of an inertial measurement unit (accelerometer) to track 
mechanical loads on the court.I’ve found that one of the frequently cited drawbacks 
of cold-water immersion (CWI)—that CWI attenuates the 
adaptive response—is not as applicable during an NBA season when the players are well trained. Accordingly, we 
implement a CWI strategy that involves 10 to 15 minutes 
in a cold plunge set at 50 degrees F (10°C).
It’s important to be pragmatic when choosing the inter
-
ventions to implement. Sustainability and manageability are high on my priority list. We’ve found that the more 
complicated the strategy is, the less well performed it is. As 
such, we favour a programme that involves few modalities and requiring limited staff input and technology: sleep, 
nutrition, CWI and contrast-therapy interventions. Incor
-
porating soft-tissue therapy and electrostimulation for all 
players after all games, for instance, would be unsustain -
able for many NBA programmes.
Given all the constraints in the NBA, it is simply not 
possible to implement the kind of all-round strategy that 
might be found in an individual physiological sport, 
such as what was present when I worked with the British cycling team. A pragmatic approach is to ensure that 
the aspects with the biggest impact are prioritised. My 
experience, consistent with the overwhelming evidence, is 
that sleep and nutrition are the two most critical elements 
of the recovery process. Therefore, much of our energy is directed towards these two areas. Both these types of 
recovery are similar: Players need to receive ongoing tai
-
lored education to help inform their daily decisions. Also, 
it is wise to facilitate good practice by doing such things 
as providing good food and liaising with hotels regard -
ing the location, size and temperature of player rooms. 
As an example, we will ensure player rooms are in quiet 
locations, not on the roadside or near elevators or doors.
It’s important to have a bespoke strategy for each 
player. Just as athletes benefit from an individualised training programme, they also benefit from an individu
-
alised recovery programme. I find out what the player’s Implementing a Recovery 
Programme in the National Basketball Association (NBA)COACH’S INSIGHT
Mark Simpson
Applied Sports Scientist,  
Oklahoma City Thunder
Mark Simpson is the applied sport scientist for the Oklahoma City Thunder in the National Basketball Association (NBA). He was lead strength and conditioning 
coach for the northwest region of the English Institute of Sport (EIS) and head of strength and conditioning for the British Cycling Team. He has worked with 
Olympic gold medalists and world record holders, including Sir Chris Hoy, Victoria Pendleton, and Sir Bradley Wiggins. He also has consulted extensively on 
sport science and strength and conditioning with teams in the English Premier League and England’s rugby and cricket teams.

 Recovering Effectively in High-Performance Sports ❙ 329
specific recovery preferences are by talking to him and 
observing him. An example of an area in which there are 
varying preferences is with CWI, mainly varying tolerance 
of cold. For a player with a low tolerance to cold water, it is worthwhile considering a substitute modality, such 
as a cold compression device. Furthermore, I continually 
engage the player and provide positive reinforcement 
when the opportunity presents, which leads to a greater 
level of compliance.
It’s important for us that our recovery strategy is a 
holistic one, taking into account physical loading stress 
and off-court demands. Travel, media and lifestyle 
demands can be high in the NBA. To this end, our strat -
egy considers the fact that many aspects of psychological and physiological recovery are intertwined. The length 
and intensity of an NBA season can often cause players 
to experience emotional and mental fatigue. Facilitating opportunities for players to mentally switch off and 
recuperate is key. In some instances, this might be by 
allowing them to do things that might otherwise be 
contraindicated, such as watching movies on late-night 
flights. A positive mood state also can be affected simply by the way you interact with players during practices and 
lifting sessions and after games. This is when a practi
-
tioner must draw on his or her interpersonal skills and 
emotional intelligence
The sample recovery process between two road games 
explained here illustrates the standard recovery players 
experience. Further modalities can be introduced as required, based on player circumstances. This is the pro -
cess after the game ends:
• Immediate hydration with 
carbohydrate-electrolyte solution (fluid con -
sumption remains a priority throughout the rest of the evening)
• CWI strategy or cold compression device within 10 minutes
• Compression tights worn
• Postgame meal
• Physical and psychological rest and relaxation on coach and then plane (both environments dimly lit, quiet and temperature regulated)
• Further meal and nutrition on plane
• Personal sleep hygiene routine immediately on 
hotel arrival (may include eye masks and ear 
plugs)
• At least 8 hours in bed
• Early-morning recovery questionnaire
• Breakfast
• Light early-morning practice in the form of a team shoot-around, followed by assisted 
lower-body passive stretching
• Lunch
• Structured mid-afternoon nap
• Game build-up begins
During periods of adaptation, it may be appro -
priate for the use of recovery strategies to be lim -
ited to hydration and nutritional strategies with an 
emphasis on good general management practices, 
including adequate sleep and rest.
Strategy Adaptation
It is possible that the positive effects of a postex -
ercise recovery strategy could be blunted if the strategies employed are not varied. For example, 
it has been demonstrated that people can become 
cold acclimated if subjected to daily CWI even 
though adaptations are reversed after 2 weeks with no immersions.
61 Therefore, varying cold-water 
strategies and using them periodically with other 
strategies in an attempt to accelerate recovery is a 
suggested approach. However, further research in 
a variety of settings is required before we can be 
categorically certain regarding the periodisation of recovery strategies.Individual Variation
Practitioners should be wary of individualised responses to a stressor. Research shows an individu
-
alised nature of recovery after contact sports, suggest -
ing that recovery and subsequent training should be individually prescribed.
51 Effective monitoring pro -
cedures should be established to determine expected recovery patterns—and how these may vary accord
-
ing to performance—and to identify athletes who may require altered recovery or training provision.
The variable response to postexercise strate -
gies should also be considered. The interactions between psychological and physiological recovery 
as described previously would suggest a rationale 
for the application of recovery strategies aimed 
at enhancing physiological functions that are 
perceived to reduce pain, soreness and fatigue. It would also be pertinent for practitioners to moni
-
tor individual responses to the recovery strategies that seek to enhance psychological recovery.

330 ❙ Cook, Kilduff and Jones
Summary
Despite the mechanisms underlying each method 
remaining unclear, evidence exists to suggest that 
various strategies used postexercise may atten -
uate the extent of fatigue and enhance recovery. Furthermore, we are now beginning to appreciate 
that physiological and psychological recovery may be intertwined. An individual’s perception 
of a stressor may also have a great influence on 
subsequent physiological recovery and readiness to train or compete.
Various recovery strategies have been discussed 
in the chapter; however, at present no gold-  
standard recovery strategy or combinations of strategies exist.
When identifying the best recovery protocols 
to use, consider the practicalities of using each method. For example, the use of water-immersion techniques may not be practical when a group of 
20 athletes are changing within a confined space 
with limited wet-floor space. Instead, strategies 
such as active recovery, compression garments, 
occlusion and electrostimulation could be used in combination or alone, with support of good 
nutritional and lifestyle choices. Modification of 
strategies may also be necessary according to the 
situation (e.g., facilities, athlete number, logistics, 
travel). Be alert to the potential means of enhanc -
ing recovery and be both proactive and reactive 
in their provision.
After certain sessions and periods during the 
season, consideration should be given to whether certain recovery strategies or indeed any strate -
gies should be implemented. Strategies that seek 
to reduce muscle damage and inflammation may attenuate adaptation to a training stimulus. There -
fore, the application of certain recovery strategies may depend on the training or competition phase the athlete is in. Furthermore, some recovery 
strategies may induce short-term impairment to 
subsequent performance. The nature of exercise 
and recovery, and subsequent rationale for using 
a particular strategy, should be considered before implementing a recovery strategy.
Effective monitoring and evaluation procedures 
should be established to determine the expected 
recovery patterns after exercise and recovery 
responses across athletes to exercise and postexercise 
recovery strategies (subjective and objective). This 
kind of monitoring and evaluation may then enable postexercise recovery strategies to be individualised.
This chapter has discussed the use of strate -
gies to enhance recovery for subsequent exercise. 
However, it should be recognised that strategies 
are only part of the recovery process. The impor -
tance of good lifestyle and nutrition choices and a well-managed training load should not be under -
valued when facilitating athlete recovery.
From the evidence provided, we propose that 
managing the elite athlete in terms of recovery requires knowledge of what is needed during the 
season, the athlete’s development and his or her 
overall lifestyle and how to balance these realities 
against continuing to enhance gains relative to this 
period of training or competition.

 331References
Chapter 1
 1. Hill, A. 1927. Muscular Movement in Man: The Factors 
Governing Speed and Recovery From Fatigue.  New 
York: McGraw-Hill.
 2. Hopkins, W. 2012. Retrieved from http:/ /sportsci.
org/resource/stats/xrely.xls.
 3. Hopkins, W.G., S.W. Marshall, A.M. Batterham, and 
J. Hanin. 2009. Progressive statistics for studies in 
sports medicine and exercise science. Medicine and 
Science in Sports and Exercise, 41(1): 3-13.
 4. Hopkins, W. 2012. Retrieved from http:/ /sportsci.
org/resource/stats/xvalid.xls.
 5. Hopkins, W. 2004. How to interpret changes in an 
athletic performance test. Sportscience , 88: 1-7.
 6. Gentles, J.A. 2012. Reducing injuries is not enough: 
It also helps to win. Medicine and Science in Sports 
and Exercise,  44(5): S599.
 7. Hopkins, W., J. Hawley, and L. Burke. 1999. Design and 
analysis of research on sport performance enhance -
ment. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 31(3): 
472-485.
 8. Pettitt, R. 2010. The standard difference score: A 
new statistic for evaluating strength and condition -
ing programs. Journal of Strength and Conditioning 
Research,  24(1): 287-291.
 9. Buchheit, M., A. Mendez-Villanueva, G. Delhomel, 
M. Brughelli, and S. Ahmaidi. 2010. Improving repeated sprint ability in young elite soccer play -
ers: Repeated shuttle sprints vs. explosive strength 
training. Journal of Strength and Conditioning 
Research,  24(10): 2715-2722.
 10. Chelly, M.S., S. Hermassi, and R.J. Shephard. 2010. 
Relationships between power and strength of the 
upper and lower limb muscles and throwing veloc -
ity in male handball players. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  24(6): 1480-1487.
 11. Sheppard, J.M., and W. Young. 2006. Agility liter -
ature review: Classifications, training and testing. Journal of Sport Sciences , 24(9): 919-932.
 12. Jullien, H., C. Bisch, N. Largouet, C. Manouvrier, C.J. 
Carling, and V. Amiard. 2008. Does a short period of 
lower limb strength training improve performance 
in field-based tests of running and agility in young professional soccer players? Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research , 22(2): 404-411.
 13. Szymanski, D., J.M. Szymanski, R.L. Schade, T.J. 
Bradford, J.S. McIntyre, C. DeRenne, and N.H. Madsen. 2010. The relation between anthropometric 
and physiological variables and bat velocity of high-
school baseball players before and after 12 weeks 
of training. Journal of Strength and Conditioning 
Research , 24(11): 2933-2943.
 14. Young, W., and D.A. Rath. 2011. Enhancing foot 
velocity in football kicking: The role of strength training. Journal of Strength and Conditioning 
Research , 25(2): 561-566.
 15. McEvoy, K.P ., and R.U. Newton. 1998. Baseball 
throwing speed and base running speed: The 
effects of ballistic resistance training. Journal of 
Strength and Conditioning Research , 12(4): 216-221.
 16. Olsen, P .D., and W.G. Hopkins. 2003. The effect of 
attempted ballistic training on the force and speed of movements. Journal of Strength and Conditioning 
Research , 17(2): 291-298.
 17. Stone, M.H., K. Sanborn, H.S. O’Bryant, M. Hart -
man, M.E. Stone, C. Proulx, B. Ward, and J. Hruby. 
2003. Maximum strength-power-performance rela -
tionships in collegiate throwers. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research , 17(4): 739-745.
 18. Baker, D., and R.U. Newton. 2006. Adaptations in 
upper-body maximal strength and power output resulting from long-term resistance training in 
experienced strength-power athletes. Journal of 
Strength and Conditioning Research , 20(3): 541-546.
 19. Hoffman, J., N.A. Ratamess, and J. Kang. 2011. Per -
formance changes during a college playing career in NCAA division III football athletes. Journal of 
Strength and Conditioning Research,  25(9): 2351-2357.
2 0. Gabbett, T.J., J. Kelly, and T. Pezet. 2007. Relation -
ship between physical fitness and playing ability 
in rugby league players. Journal of Strength and 
Conditioning Research , 21(4): 1126-1133.
 21. Sawyer, D.T., J. Z. Ostarello, E.A. Suess, and M. 
Dempsey, M. 2002. Relationship between football playing ability and selected performance measures. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research , 16(4): 
611-616.
 22. Kuzmits, F., and A.J. Adams. 2008. The NFL com -
bine: Does it predict performance in the National 
Football League? Journal of Strength and Conditioning 
Research,  22(6): 1721-1727.
 23. Leary, B.K., J. Statler, B. Hopkins, R. Fitzwater, T. 
Kesling, J. Lyon, B. Phillips, R.W. Bryner, P . Cormie, 
and G.G. Haff. 2012. The relationship between 
isometric force-time curve characteristics and 

332 ❙ References
club head speed in recreational golfers. Journal of 
Strength and Conditioning Research , 26(10): 2685-2697.
 24. Kinugasa, T., E. Cerin, and S. Hooper. 2004. Single- 
subject research designs and data analyses for 
assessing elite athletes’ conditioning. Sports Medi -
cine, 34(15): 1035-1050.
 25. Zatsiorsky, V., and W.J. Kraemer. 2006. Science and 
Practice of Strength Training . 2nd ed. Champaign: 
Human Kinetics.
Chapter 2
 1. Beunen, G.P ., and R.M. Malina. 2008. Growth and 
biologic maturation: Relevance to athletic per -
formance. In H. Hebestreit and O. Bar-Or (eds.), 
The Child and Adolescent Athlete (pp. 3-17). Oxford: 
Blackwell.
 2. Malina, R.M., C. Bouchard, and O. Bar-Or. 2004. 
Growth, Maturation, and Physical Activity . Cham -
paign: Human Kinetics.
 3. Viru, A., J. Loko, M. Harro, A. Volver, L. Laaneaots, 
and M. Viru. 1999. Critical periods in the develop -
ment of performance capacity during childhood 
and adolescence. European Journal of Physical Edu-
cation , 4(1): 75-119.
 4. Kraemer, W.J., A.C. Fry, P .N. Frykman, B. Conroy, 
and J. Hoffman. 1989. Resistance training and youth. Pediatric Exercise Science , 1(4): 336-350.
 5. Rogol, A.D., P .A. Clark, and J.N. Roemmich. 2000. 
Growth and pubertal development in children and adolescents: Effects of diet and physical 
activity. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition , 72(2): 
S521-S528.
 6. Philippaerts, R.M., R. Vaeyens, M. Janssens, B. Van 
Renterghem, D. Matthys, R. Craen, J. Bourgois, J. Vrijens, G.P . Beunen, and R.M. Malina. 2006. The 
relationship between peak height velocity and 
physical performance in youth soccer players. 
Journal of Sports Sciences , 24(3): 221-230.
 7. Kaneshia, H., T. Abe, and T. Fukunaga. 2003. Growth 
trends of dynamic strength in adolescent boys: A 2-year follow-up survey. Journal of Sports Medicine 
and Physical Fitness , 43(4): 459-464.
 8. Naughton, G., L. Farpour, J. Carlson, M. Bradney, 
and E. Van Praagh. 2000. Physiological issues sur -
rounding the performance of adolescent athletes. Sports Medicine , 30(5): 309-325.
 9. Beunen, G.P . 1997. Muscular strength development 
in children and adolescents. In K. Froberg, O. Lam -
mert, H.S. Hansen and C.J.R. Blimkie (eds.), Children 
and Exercise XVIII: Exercise and Fitness: Benefits and Risks (pp. 193-207). Odense: Odense University 
Press.
 10. Baxter-Jones, A.D.G., J.C. Eisenmann, and L.B. 
Sherar. 2005. Controlling for maturation in pediatric exercise science. Pediatric Exercise Science , 17(1): 
18-30.
 11. Mirwald, R.L., A.D.G. Baxter-Jones, D.A. Bailey, and 
G.P . Beunen. 2002. An assessment of maturity from 
anthropometric measurements. Medicine and Science 
in Sports and Exercise , 34(4): 689-694.
 12. Lloyd, R.S., and J.L. Oliver. 2012. The Youth Physical 
Development model: A new approach to long-term 
athletic development. Strength and Conditioning 
Journal , 34(3): 37-43.
 13. Balyi, I., and A. Hamilton. 2004. Long-Term Athlete 
Development: Trainability in Childhood and Adoles -
cence: Windows of Opportunity: Optimal Trainabil -
ity. Victoria: National Coaching Institute British 
Columbia & Advanced Training and Performance.
 14. Ford, P .A., M.B.A. De Ste Croix, R. Lloyd, R. Meyers, 
M. Moosavi, J. Oliver, K. Till, and C.A. Williams. 2011. Critical review of the Long-Term Athlete 
Development model: Physiological evidence and application. Journal of Sports Sciences , 29(4): 389-402.
 15. Lubans, D.R., P .J. Morgan, D.P . Cliff, L.M. Barnett, 
and A.D. Okely. 2010. Fundamental movement skills 
in children and adolescents. Sports Medicine , 40(12): 
1019-1035.
 16. Auvinen, J.P ., T.H. Tammelin, S.P . Taimela, P .J. 
Zitting, P .O. Mutanen, and J.I. Karppinen. 2008. 
Musculoskeletal pains in relation to different sport 
and exercise activities in youth. Medicine and Science 
in Sports and Exercise , 40(11): 1890-1900.
 17. Moody, J., F. Naclerio, P . Green, and R.S. Lloyd. 2013. 
Motor skill development in youths. In R.S. Lloyd and J.L. Oliver (eds.), Strength and Conditioning for 
Young Athletes: Science and Application (pp. 49-65). 
Oxon: Routledge.
 18. Lloyd, R.S., J.L. Oliver, R.W. Meyers, J. Moody, and 
M.H. Stone. 2012. Long-term athletic development 
and its application to youth weightlifting. Strength 
and Conditioning Journal , 34(4): 55-66.
 19. Lloyd, R.S., J.L. Oliver, R.W. Meyers, P . Read, I. Jef -
freys, and S. Nimphius. 2013. The natural develop -
ment and trainability of agility during childhood. 
Strength and Conditioning Journal , 35(3): 2-11.
 20. Oliver, J.L., R.S. Lloyd, and M. Rumpf. 2013. The 
natural development and trainability of sprint 
ability during childhood. Strength and Conditioning 
Journal,  35(3): 42-48.
 21. Lloyd, R.S., J.L. Oliver, and R.W. Meyers. 2011. The 
natural development and trainability of plyometric ability during childhood. Strength and Conditioning 
Journal , 33(2): 23-32.
 22. Lloyd, R.S., A.D. Faigenbaum, G.D. Myer, M.H. 
Stone, J.L. Oliver, I. Jeffreys, J. Moody, C. Brewer, 
and K. Pierce. 2012. UKSCA position statement: 
Youth resistance training. Professional Strength and 
Conditioning Journal , 26: 26-39.

 References  ❙ 333
 23. Faigenbaum, A.D., W.J. Kraemer, C.J. Blimkie, I. 
Jeffreys, L.J. Micheli, M. Nitka, and T.W. Rowland. 
2009. Youth resistance training: Updated position 
statement paper from the National Strength and 
Conditioning Association. Journal of Strength and 
Conditioning Research , 15: 459-465.
 24. Behringer, M., A. vom Heede, M. Matthews, and J. 
Mester. 2011. Effects of strength training on motor 
performance skills in children and adolescents: 
A meta-analysis. Pediatric Exercise Science , 23(2): 
186-206.
 25. Baker, D. 2013. 10-year changes in upper body 
strength and power in elite professional rugby 
league players: The effect of training age, stage, and 
content. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research , 
27(2): 285-292.
 26. Faigenbaum, A.D., A. Farell, M. Fabiano, T. Radler, 
F. Naclerio, N.A. Ratamess, J. Kang, and G.D. Myer. 
2011. Effects of integrative neuromuscular training 
on fitness performance in children. Pediatric Exercise 
Science , 23(4): 573-584.
 27. Kaneshia, H., K. Funato, S. Kuno, T. Fukunaga, and 
S. Katsuta. 2003. Growth trend of the quadriceps 
femoris muscle in junior Olympic weight lifters: 
An 18-month follow-up survey. European Journal of Applied Physiology , 89(3): 238-242.
 28. Myer, G.D., K.R. Ford, J.P . Palumbo, and T.E. Hewett. 
2005. Neuromuscular training improves perfor -
mance and lower extremity biomechanics in female 
athletes. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research , 
19(1): 51-60.
 29. Valovich-McLeod, T.C., L.C. Decoster, K.J. Loud, L.J. 
Micheli, J.T. Parker, M.A. Sandrey, and C. White. 
2011. National Athletic Trainers’ Association posi -
tion statement: Prevention of pediatric overuse injuries. Journal of Athletic Training , 46(2): 206-220.
 30. Pierce, K.C., R. Byrd, and M.H. Stone. 1999. Youth 
weightlifting: Is it safe? Weightlifting USA , 17(4): 5.
 31. Besier, T.F., D.G. Lloyd, J.L. Cochrane, and T.R. 
Ackland. 2001. External loading of the knee joint 
during running and cutting manoeuvres. Medicine 
and Science in Sports and Exercise , 33(7): 1168-1175.
 32. Weyand, P .G., D.B. Sternlight, M.J. Bellizzi, and 
S. Wright. 2000. Faster top running speeds are 
achieved with greater ground forces not more rapid 
leg movements . Journal of Applied Physiology , 89(5): 
1991-1999.
 33. Rumpf, M.C., J.B. Cronin, S.D. Pinder, J. Oliver, 
and M.G. Hughes. 2012. Effect of different train -
ing methods on running sprint times in male 
youth . Pediatric Exercise Science , 24(2): 170-186.
 34. Casey, B.J., J.N. Giedd, and K.M. Thomas. 2000. 
Structural and functional brain development and 
its relation to cognitive development. Biological 
Psychology , 54(1-3): 241-257. 35. Casey, B.J., N. Tottenham, C. Liston, and S. Durston. 
2005. Imaging the developing brain: What have we 
learned about cognitive development? Trends in 
Cognitive Sciences , 9(3): 104-110.
 36. Clark, E., J. Tobias, L. Murray, and C. Boreham. 
2011. Children with low muscle strength are 
at increased risk of fracture with exposure to 
exercise. Journal of Musculoskeletal and Neuronal 
Interactions , 11(2): 196-202.
 37. McManus, A.M., C.H. Cheng, M.P . Leung, T.C. Yung, 
and D.J. Mafarlane. 2005. Improving aerobic power 
in primary school boys: A comparison of continu -
ous and interval training. International Journal of Sports Medicine , 26(9): 781-786.
 38. Malina, R.M. 2007. Growth, maturation and devel -
opment: Applications to young athletes and in par -
ticular to divers. In R.M. Malina and J. L. Gabriel, 
USA Diving Coach Development Reference Manual  
(pp. 3-29). Indianapolis: USA Diving.
 39. Sands, W.A. 2002. Physiology. In W.A. Sands, D.J. 
Caine, and J. Borms, Scientific Aspects of Women’s Gymnastics  (pp. 128-61). Basel: Karger.
 40. Matos, N.F., R.F. Winsley, and C.A. Williams. 2011. 
Prevalence of non-functional overreaching/over -
training in young English athletes. Medicine and 
Science in Sports and Exercise , 43(7): 1287-1294.
 41. Malina, R.M. 2010. Early sport specialization: Roots, 
effectiveness, risks. Current Sports Medicine Reports , 
9(6): 364-371.
Chapter 3
 1. Roberts, T.J. 2002. The integrated function of mus -
cles and tendons during locomotion. Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology. Part A:Molecular and Integrative Physiology,  133: 1087-1099.
 2. Engebretsen, A.H., G. Myklebust, I. Holme, L. 
Engebretsen, and R. Bahr. 2008. Prevention of injuries among male soccer players: A prospec
-
tive, randomized intervention study targeting players with previous injuries or reduced func
-
tion. American Journal of Sports Medicine, 36: 
1052-1060.
 3. Bosch, F., and R. Klomp. 2005. Running: Biomechan -
ics and Exercise Physiology in Practice , Edinburgh: 
Elsevier.
 4. Bonacci, J., P .U. Saunders, A. Hicks, T. Rantalainen, 
B.G. Vicenzino, and W. Spratford. 2013. Running in a minimalist and lightweight shoe is not the same 
as running barefoot: A biomechanical study. British 
Journal of Sports Medicine , 47: 387-392.
 5. Macwilliams, B.A., T. Choi, M.K. Perezous, E.Y. Chao, 
and E.G. McFarland. 1998. Characteristic ground- reaction forces in baseball pitching. American Jour -
nal of Sports Medicine , 26: 66-71.

334 ❙ References
Chapter 4
 1. Mottram, S., and M. Comerford. 2008. A new per -
spective on risk assessment. Physical Therapy in 
Sport,  9(1): 40-51.
 2. Panjabi, M.M. 2003. Clinical spinal instability and 
low back pain. Journal of Electromyography and Kine -
siology,  13(4): 371-379.
 3. Hides, J.A., M.J. Stokes, M. Saide, G.A. Jull, and 
D.H. Cooper. 1994. Evidence of lumbar multifidus muscle wasting ipsilateral to symptoms in patients 
with acute/subacute low back pain. Spine,  19(2): 
165-172.
 4. Dangaria, T.R., and O. Naesh. 1998. Changes in 
cross-sectional area of psoas major muscle in uni -
lateral sciatica caused by disc herniation. Spine,  
23(8): 928-931.
 5. O’Sullivan, P .B., K.M. Grahamslaw, M. Kendell, S.C. 
Lapenskie, N.E. Moller, and K.V. Richards. 2002. The effect of different standing and sitting postures on trunk muscle activity in a pain-free population. 
Spine,  27(11): 1238-1244.
 6. Mitchell, T., P .B. O’Sullivan, A.F. Burnett, L. Straker, 
and A. Smith. 2008. Regional differences in lumbar 
spinal posture and the influence of low back pain. 
BMC Musculoskeletal Disorders,  9: 152.
 7. Wilke, H., P . Neef, B. Hinz, H. Seidel, and L. Claes. 
2001. Intradiscal pressure together with anthropo -
metric data: A data set for the validation of models. 
Clinical Biomechanics , 16(Suppl 1): S111-S1126.
 8. Threlkeld, A.J. 1992. The effects of manual ther -
apy on connective tissue. Physical Therapy,  72(12): 
893-902.
 9. Vleeming, A., M.D. Schuenke, A.T. Masi, J.E. Car -
reiro, L. Danneels, and F.H. Willard. 2012. The sacroiliac joint: An overview of its anatomy, func -
tion and potential clinical implications. Journal of Anatomy,  221(6): 537-567.
 10. Hodges, P .W., and C.A. Richardson. 1996. Inefficient 
muscular stabilization of the lumbar spine associ -
ated with low back pain: A motor control evaluation of transversus abdominis. Spine,  21(22): 2640-2650.
 11. O’Sullivan, P .B., D.J. Beales, J.A. Beetham, J. Cripps, 
F. Graf, I.B. Lin, B. Tucker, and A. Avery. 2002. Altered motor control strategies in subjects with 
sacroiliac joint pain during the active straight-leg-
raise test. Spine,  27(1): E1-E8.
 12. Barker, K.L., D.R. Shamley, and D. Jackson. 2004. 
Changes in the cross-sectional area of multifidus 
and psoas in patients with unilateral back pain: 
The relationship to pain and disability. Spine,  29(22): 
E515-E519.
 13. Gubler, D., A.F. Mannion, P . Schenk, M. Gorelick, 
D. Helbling, H. Gerber, V. Toma, and H. Sprott. 
2010. Ultrasound tissue Doppler imaging reveals no delay in abdominal muscle feed-forward activ -
ity during rapid arm movements in patients with 
chronic low back pain. Spine,  35(16): 1506-1513.
 14. Mannion, A.F., F. Caporaso, N. Pulkovski, and H. 
Sprott. 2012. Spine stabilisation exercises in the 
treatment of chronic low back pain: A good clinical 
outcome is not associated with improved abdom -
inal muscle function. European Spine Journal,  21(7): 
1301-1310.
 15. Allison, G.T., S.L. Morris, and B. Lay. 2008. Feed -
forward responses of transversus abdominis are 
directionally specific and act asymmetrically: 
Implications for core stability theories. Journal 
of Orthopaedic and Sports Physical Therapy, 38(5): 2 28 -237.
 16. Hodges, P ., W. van den Hoorn, A. Dawson, and 
J. Cholewicki. 2009. Changes in the mechanical properties of the trunk in low back pain may be 
associated with recurrence. Journal of Biomechanics,  
42(1): 61-66.
 17. McGregor, A.H., L. Anderton, and W.M. Gedroyc. 
2002. The trunk muscles of elite oarsmen. British Journal of Sports Medicine, 36(3): 214-217.
 18. Niemelainen, R., M.M. Briand, and M.C. Battie. 
2011. Substantial asymmetry in paraspinal muscle cross-sectional area in healthy adults questions its 
value as a marker of low back pain and pathology. Spine,  36(25): 2152-2157.
 19. Grenier, S.G., and S.M. McGill. 2007. Quantification 
of lumbar stability by using 2 different abdominal activation strategies. Archives of Physical Medicine 
and Rehabilitation,  88(1): 54-62.
 20. Cholewicki, J., K. Juluru, and S.M. McGill. 1999. 
Intra-abdominal pressure mechanism for stabiliz -
ing the lumbar spine. Journal of Biomechanics,  32(1): 
13 -17.
 21. Bergmark, A. 1989. Stability of the lumbar spine. A 
study in mechanical engineering. Acta Orthopaedica 
Scandinavica, 230(Suppl): 1-54.
 22. Blazevich, A.J., N.D. Gill, R. Bronks, R.U. Newton. 
2003. Training-specific muscle architecture adap -
tation after 5-wk training in athletes. Medicine and 
Science in Sports and Exercise, 35(12): 2013-2022.
 23. McGill, S. 2007. Low back disorders: Evidenced-based 
prevention and rehabilitation, second edition.  Cham -
paign: Human Kinetics.
 24. Hamlyn, N., D.G. Behm, and W.B. Young. 2007. Trunk 
muscle activation during dynamic weight-training 
exercises and isometric instability activities. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  21(4): 1108-1112.
 25. McGill, S.M., A. McDermott, and C.M. Fenwick. 
2009. Comparison of different strongman events: 
Trunk muscle activation and lumbar spine motion, 
load, and stiffness. Journal of Strength and Condition -
ing Research,  23(4): 1148-1161.

 References  ❙ 335
Chapter 5
 1. Jaggers, J.R., A.M. Swank, K.L. Frost, and C.D. Lee. 
2008. The acute effects of dynamic and ballistic 
stretching on vertical jump height, force, and power. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research , 22(6): 
1844-1849.
 2. Kay, A.D., and A.J. Blazevich. 2012. Effect of acute 
static stretch on maximal muscle performance: A systematic review. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise , 44(1): 154-164.
 3. McMillian, D.J., J.H. Moore, B.S. Hatler, and C. Taylor. 
2006. Dynamic vs. static-stretching warm up: The effect on power and agility performance. Journal of 
Strength and Conditioning Research , 20(3): 492-499.
 4. Young, W.B. 2007. The use of static stretching in 
warm-up for training and competition. International Journal of Sports Physiology and Performance , 2(2): 
212-216.
 5. Stecco, C., A. Porzionato, V. Macchi, C. Tiengo, A. 
Parenti, R. Aldegheri, V. Delmas, R. De Caro. 2006. Histological characteristics of the deep fascia of the 
upper limb. Italian Journal of Anatomy and Embryol -
ogy, 111(2): 105-10.
 6. Findley, T. 2009. Fascia research II: Second Inter -
national Fascia Research Congress. International 
Journal of Therapeutic Massage & Bodywork , 2(3): 4-9.
 7. Grinnell, F. 2008. Fibroblast mechanics in three-di -
mensional collagen matrices. Journal of Bodywork and 
Movement Therapies , 12(3): 191-193.
 8. Kubo, K., H. Kanehisa, Y. Kawakami, and T. Fukun -
aga. 2001. Influence of static stretching on viscoelas -
tic properties of human tendon structures in vivo. 
Journal of Applied Physiology , 90(2): 520-527.
 9. Day, J.A., L. Copetti, and G. Rucli. 2012. From clinical 
experience to a model for the human fascial system. 
Journal of Bodywork and Movement Therapies , 16(3): 
372-380.
 10. Gracovetsky, S. 2008. Is the lumbodorsal fascia nec -
essary? Journal of Bodywork and Movement Therapies , 
12(3): 194-197.
 11. Ingraham, S.J. 2003. The role of flexibility in injury 
prevention and athletic performance: Have we 
stretched the truth? Minnesota Medicine , 86(5): 58-61.
 12. Shrier, I. 2004. Does stretching improve perfor -
mance? A systematic and critical review of the 
literature. Clinical Journal of Sport Medicine , 14(5): 
267-273.
 13. Pagaduan, J.C., H. Pojskic ´, E. Užic ˇanin, and F. 
Babajic ´. 2012. Effect of various warm-up protocols 
on jump performance in college football players. Journal of Human Kinetics , 35: 127-132.
 14. Simic, L., N. Sarabon, and G. Markovic. 2012. Does 
pre-exercise static stretching inhibit maximal 
muscular performance? A meta-analytical review. Scandinavian Journal of Medicine and Science in Sports , 
23(2): 131-148.
 15. Taylor, J.M., M. Weston, and M.D. Portas. 2013. The 
effect of a short, practical warm-up protocol on 
repeated sprint performance. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research , 27(7): 2034-2038.
 16. Thacker, S.B., J. Gilchrist, D.F. Stroup, and C.D. 
Kimsey. 2004. The impact of stretching on sports injury risk: A systematic review of the literature. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise , 36(3): 
371-378.
 17. Weldon, S.M., and R.H. Hill. 2003. The efficacy of 
stretching for prevention of exercise-related injury: A systematic review of the literature. Manual Ther -
apy, 8(3), 141-150.
 18. Wilk, K.E., L.C. Macrina, G.S. Fleisig, R. Porterfield, 
C.D. Simpson, P . Harker, N. Paparesta, and J.R. Andrews. 2011. Correlation of glenohumeral inter -
nal rotation deficit and total rotational motion to shoulder injuries in professional baseball pitchers. American Journal of Sports Medicine , 39(2): 329-335.
 19. Cibulka, M.T., and J. Threlkeld-Watkins. 2005. 
Patellofemoral pain and asymmetrical hip rotation. Physical Therapy , 85(11): 1201-1207.
 20. Vad, V.B., A. Gebeh, D. Dines, D. Altchek, and B. 
Norris. 2003. Hip and shoulder internal rotation 
range of motion deficits in professional tennis players. Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport , 6(1): 
71-75.
 21. Chorba, R.S., D.J. Chorba, L.E. Bouillon, C.A. Over -
myer, and J.A. Landis. 2010. Use of a functional 
movement screening tool to determine injury risk 
in female collegiate athletes. North American Journal 
of Sports Physical Therapy , 5(2): 47-54.
 22. Kiesel, K., P .J. Plisky, and M.L. Voight. 2007. Can 
serious injury in professional football be predicted 
by a preseason functional movement screen? North American Journal of Sports Physical Therapy , 2(3): 
147-158.
 23. Minick, K.I., K.B. Kiesel, L. Burton, A. Taylor, P . 
Plisky, and R.J. Butler. 2010. Interrater reliability of 
the functional movement screen. Journal of Strength 
and Conditioning Research , 24(2): 479-486.
 24. Shultz, R., K. Mooney, S. Anderson, B. Marcello, D. 
Garza, G.O. Matheson, and T. Besier. 2011. Func -
tional movement screen: Inter-rater and subject 
reliability. British Journal of Sports Medicine , 45(4): 
374-374.
Chapter 6
 1. Matveyev, L. 1981. Fundamentals of Sports Training . 
Moscow: Progress.
 2. Selye, H. 1956. The Stress of Life . London: Longmans 
Green.

336 ❙ References
 3. Harre, D. 1982. Principles of Sports Training: Intro -
duction to the Theory and Methods of Training . Berlin: 
Sportverlag.
 4. Halson, S.L., and A.E. Jeukendrup. 2004. Does 
overtraining exist? An analysis of overreaching 
and overtraining research. Sports Medicine, 34(14): 
967-981.
 5. Meeusen, R., M. Duclos, C. Foster, A. Fry, M. 
Gleeson, D. Nieman, J. Raglin, G. Rietjens, J. 
Steinacker, and A. Urhausen. (2013). Prevention, 
diagnosis, and treatment of the overtraining syndrome: Joint consensus statement of the Euro
-
pean College of Sport Science and the American College of Sports Medicine. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 45(1): 186-205.
 6. Brink, M.S., C. Visscher, S. Arends, J. Zwerver, W.J. 
Post, and K.A.P .M. Lemmink. 2010. Monitoring stress and recovery: New insights for the preven -
tion of injuries and illnesses in elite youth soccer players. British Journal of Sports Medicine, 44(11): 
809-815.
 7. Gabbett, T.J. 2010. The development and applica -
tion of an injury prediction model for noncontact, soft-tissue injuries in elite collision sport athletes. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research, 24(10): 
2593.
 8. Viru, A., and M. Viru. 2000. Nature of training 
effects. In J. Garret, W.E. Kirkendall, and D.T. Kirkendall (eds.), Exercise and Sport Science (pp. 
67-95). Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams and Wilkins..
 9.  Åstrand, P .O., and K. Rodahl. 1986. Textbook of Work 
Physiology . New York: McGraw Hill.
 10. Morton, R.H., J.R. Fitz-Clarke, and E.W. Banister. 
1990. Modeling human performance in running. Journal of Applied Physiology, 69(3): 1171-1177.
 11. Foster, C., L.L. Hector, R. Welsh, M. Schrager, M.A. 
Green, and A.C. Snyder. 1995. Effects of specific versus cross-training on running performance. European Journal of Applied Physiology, 70(4): 367-372.
 12. Lucía, A., J. Hoyos, A. Santalla, C. Earnest, and J.L. 
Chicharro. 2003. Tour de France versus Vuelta a 
Espana: Which is harder? Medicine and Science in 
Sports and Exercise, 35(5): 872-878.
 13. Borg, G. 1982. Psychophysical bases of perceived 
exertion. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 
14(5): 377-381.
 14. Borg, G. 1970. Perceived exertion as an indicator of 
somatic stress. Scandinavian Journal of Rehabilitation Medicine, 2(2): 92-98.
 15. Borg, G., and H. Dahlstrom. 1962. The reliability and 
validity of a physical work test. Acta Physiologica Scandinavica, 55: 353-361.
 16. Borg, E., and L. Kaijser. 2006. A comparison between 
three rating scales for perceived exertion and two different work tests. Scandinavian Journal of Medicine and Science in Sports, 16(1): 57-69.
 17. Noble, B.J., G.A. Borg, I. Jacobs, R. Ceci, and P . Kaiser. 
1983. A category-ratio perceived exertion scale: Relationship to blood and muscle lactates and heart rate. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 15(6): 
523-528.
 18. Foster, C., J.A. Florhaug, J. Franklin, L. Gottschall, 
L.A. Hrovatin, S. Parker, P . Doleshal, and C. Dodge. 
2001. A new approach to monitoring exercise train -
ing. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research, 
15(1): 109-115.
 19. Foster, C., and M. Lehmann. 1997. Overtraining 
syndrome. In N. Gnuten (ed.), Running Injuries  (pp. 
173-188). Philadelphia: W.B. Saunders..
 20. Foster, C. 1998. Monitoring training in athletes with 
reference to overtraining syndrome. Medicine and 
Science in Sports and Exercise, 30(7): 1164-1168.
 21. Rogalski, B., B. Dawson, J. Heasman, and T.J. Gab -
bett. 2013. Training and game loads and injury risk 
in elite Australian footballers. Journal of Science and 
Medicine in Sport . doi:10.1016/j.jsams.2012.12.004 
[epub ahead of print]
 22. Impellizzeri, F.M., E. Rampinini, A.J. Coutts, A. 
Sassi, and S.M. Marcora. 2004. Use of RPE-based 
training load in soccer. Medicine and Science in Sports 
and Exercise, 36(6): 1042-1047.
 23. Lovell, T.W.J., A.C. Sirotic, F.M. Impellizzeri, and 
A.J. Coutts. 2013. Factors affecting perception of 
effort (session rating of perceived exertion) during rugby league training. International Journal of Sports 
Physiology and Performance, 8(1): 62-69.
 24. Halson, S.L., M.W. Bridge, R. Meeusen, B. Busschaert, 
M. Gleeson, D.A. Jones, and A.E. Jeukendrup. 2002. 
Time course of performance changes and fatigue 
markers during intensified training in cyclists. Journal of Applied Physiology, 93(3): 947-956.
 25. Hooper, S.L., L.T. Mackinnon, and A. Howard. 
1999. Physiological and psychometric variables for 
monitoring recovery during tapering for major 
competition. Medicine and Science in Sports and 
Exercise, 31(8): 1205-1210.
 26. Kellmann, M., and K.W. Kallus. 1993. The Recov -
ery-Stress-Questionnaire: A potential tool to 
predict performance in sports. In J. R. Nitsch and 
R. Seiler (eds.), Movement and Sport: Psychological 
Foundations and Effects (pp. 242-247). Augustin: 
Academia Sankt..
 27. Morgan, W.P ., D.R. Brown, J.S. Raglin, P .J. O’Connor, 
and K.A. Ellickson. 1987. Psychological monitoring of overtraining and staleness. British Journal of 
Sports Medicine, 21(3): 107-114.
 28. Lane, A.M., P .C. Terry, M.J. Stevens, S. Barney, and 
S.L. Dinsdale. 2004. Mood responses to athletic 
performance in extreme environments. [Review]. 

 References  ❙ 337
Journal of Sports Sciences, 22(10): 886-897; discussion 
897.
 29. McNair, D.M., M. Lorr, and L.F. Droppleman. 1971. 
EITS Profile for Mood States . San Diego: Educational 
and Industrial Testing Service.
 30. Morgan, W.P ., P .J. O’Connor, K.A. Ellickson, and 
P .W. Bradley. 1988. Personality structure, mood 
states, and performance in elite male distance runners. International Journal of Sports Psychology, 
19(4): 247-263.
 31. Filaire, E., B. Legrand, K. Bret, M. Sagnol, J.M. Cottet-
Emard, and J.M. Pequignot. 2002. Psychobiologic 
responses to 4 days of increased training and 
recovery in cyclists. International Journal of Sports 
Medicine, 23(8): 588-594.
 32. Morgan, W.P ., D.L. Costill, M.G. Flynn, J.S. Raglin, 
and P .J. O’Connor. 1988. Mood disturbance follow -
ing increased training in swimmers. Medicine and 
Science in Sports and Exercise, 20(4): 408-414.
 33. Rushall, B.S. 1990. A tool for measuring stress 
tolerance in elite athletes. Journal of Applied Sport 
Psychology, 2(1): 51-66.
 34. McClean, B.D., A.J. Coutts, V. Kelly, M.R. McGuigan, 
and S. Cormack. 2010. Neuromuscular, endocrine 
and perceptual fatigue responses during different 
length between-match microcycles in professional 
rugby league players. International Journal of Sports 
Physiology and Performance, 5: 367-383.
 35. Montgomery, P .G., and W.G. Hopkins. 2013. The 
effects of game and training loads on perceptual 
responses of muscle soreness in Australian Foot -
ball. International Journal of Sports Physiology and 
Performance , 8(3): 312-318.
 36. Fowles, J.R. 2006. Technical issues in quantifying 
low-frequency fatigue in athletes. International Jour -
nal of Sports Physiology and Performance, 1: 169-171.
 37. Jones, D.A. 1996. High-and low-frequency fatigue 
revisited. Acta Physiologica Scandinavica, 156(3): 
265-270.
 38. Lattier, G., G.Y. Millet, A. Martin, and V. Martin. 
2004. Fatigue and recovery after high-intensity 
exercise part I: Neuromuscular fatigue. International 
Journal of Sports Medicine, 25(6): 450-456.
 39. Martin, V., G.Y. Millet, A. Martin, G. Deley, and G. 
Lattier. 2004. Assessment of low-frequency fatigue 
with two methods of electrical stimulation. Journal of Applied Physiology, 97(5): 1923-1929.
 40. Welsh, T.T., J.A. Alemany, S.J. Montain, P .N. Fryk -
man, A.P . Tuckow, A.J. Young, and B.C. Nindl. 
2008. Effects of intensified military field training 
on jumping performance. International Journal of 
Sports Medicine, 29(1): 45-52.
 41. Cormack, S.J., R.U. Newton, M.R. McGuigan, and 
P . Cormie. 2008. Neuromuscular and endocrine responses of elite players during an Australian Rules Football season. International Journal of Sports Physiology and Performance, 3(4): 439-453.
 42. Cormack, S.J., M.G. Mooney, W. Morgan, and M.R. 
McGuigan. 2013. Influence of neuromuscular 
fatigue on accelerometer load in elite Australian Football players. International Journal of Sports Phys -
iology and Performance , 8(4): 373-378.
 43. Mooney, M.G., S. Cormack, B.J. O’Brien, W.M. 
Morgan, and M. McGuigan. 2013. Impact of neuro -
muscular fatigue on match exercise intensity and 
performance in elite Australian football. Journal of 
Strength and Conditioning Research, 27(1): 166-173.
 44. Buchheit, M., S. Racinais, J.C. Bilsborough, P .C. 
Bourdon, S.C. Voss, J. Hocking, J. Cordy, A. Men -
dez-Villanueva, and A.J. Coutts. 2013. Monitoring 
fitness, fatigue and running performance during a pre-season training camp in elite football players. 
Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport . doi:10.1016/j.
jsams.2012.12.003 [epub ahead of print]
 45. Lamberts, R.P ., J. Swart, B. Capostagno, T.D. Noakes, 
and M.I. Lambert. 2010. Heart rate recovery as a 
guide to monitor fatigue and predict changes in 
performance parameters. Scandinavian Journal of 
Medicine and Science in Sports, 20(3): 4 49 - 457.
 46. Schmikli, S., M. Brink, W. de Vries, and F. Backx. 
2011. Can we detect non-functional overreaching 
in young elite soccer players and middle-long dis -
tance runners using field performance tests? British Journal of Sports Medicine, 45(8): 631-636.
 47. Uusitalo, A., A. Uusitalo, and H. Rusko. 2000. Heart 
rate and blood pressure variability during heavy training and overtraining in the female athlete. International Journal of Sports Medicine, 21(01): 45-53.
 48. Hooper, S.L., L.T. Mackinnon, A.W. Bachmann, A. 
Howard, and D. Gordon. 1995. Markers for monitor -
ing overtraining and recovery. Medicine and Science 
in Sports and Exercise, 27(1): 106-112.
 49. Borresen, J., and M.I. Lambert. 2008. Autonomic 
control of heart rate during and after exercise: Measurements and implications for monitoring 
training status. Sports Medicine, 38(8): 633-646.
 50. Buchheit, M., G.P . Millet, A. Parisy, S. Pourchez, P .B. 
Laursen, and S.I.D. Ahmaidi. 2008. Supramaximal 
training and postexercise parasympathetic reacti -
vation in adolescents. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 40(2): 362-371.
 51. Mujika, I., and S. Padilla. 2001. Cardiorespiratory 
and metabolic characteristics of detraining in humans. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 
33(3): 413.
 52. Lamberts, R.P ., K. Lemmink, J.J. Durandt, and 
M.I. Lambert. 2004. Variation in heart rate during 
submaximal exercise: Implications for monitoring 
training. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research, 
18(3): 641-645.

338 ❙ References
 53. Pichot, V., T. Busso, F. Roche, M. Garet, G. Costes, 
D. Duverney, J.R. Lacour, J.C. Barthélémy. 2002. 
Autonomic adaptations to intensive and overload 
training periods: A laboratory study. Medicine and 
Science in Sports and Exercise, 34(10): 1660-1666.
 54. Adlercreutz, H., M. Harkonen, K. Kuoppasalmi, H. 
Naveri, I. Huhtaniemi, H. Tikkanen, K. Remes, A. 
Dessypris, and J. Karvonen. 1986. Effect of training on plasma anabolic and catabolic steroid hormones 
and their response during physical exercise. Inter -
national Journal of Sports Medicine, 7(Suppl 1): 27-28.
 55. Hakkinen, K., A. Pakarinen, M. Alen, H. Kauhanen, 
and P .V. Komi. 1987. Relationships between training 
volume, physical performance capacity, and serum 
hormone concentrations during prolonged training 
in elite weight lifters. International Journal of Sports Medicine, 8(Suppl 1): 61-65.
 56. Kirwan, J.P ., D.L. Costill, J.B. Houmard, J.B. Mitchell, 
M.G. Flynn, and W.J. Fink. 1990. Changes in selected 
blood measures during repeated days of intense 
training and carbohydrate control. International 
Journal of Sports Medicine, 11: 362-366.
 57. Stone, M.H., R.E. Keith, J.T. Kearney, S.J. Fleck, G.D. 
Wilson, and N.T. Triplett. 1991. Overtraining: A review of the signs, symptoms and possible causes. 
Journal of Applied Sport Science Research, 5(1): 35-50.
 58. Stray-Gundersen, J., T. Videman, and P .G. Snell. 
1986. Changes in selected objective parameters 
during overtraining. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 18: S54-55.
 59. Cook, N.J., A. Ng, G.F. Read, B. Harris, and D. 
Riad-Fahmy. 1987. Salivary cortisol for monitoring adrenal activity during marathon runs. Hormone 
Research, 25(1): 18-23.
 60. Port, K. 1991. Serum and saliva cortisol responses 
and blood lactate accumulation during incremental 
exercise testing. International Journal of Sports Medi -
cine, 12(5): 490-494.
 61. Vining, R.F., R.A. McGinley, and R.G. Symons. 1983. 
Hormones in saliva: Mode of entry and consequent 
implications for clinical interpretation. Clinical Chemistry, 29(10): 1752-1756.
 62. Cormack, S.J., R.U. Newton, and M.R. McGuigan. 
2008. Neuromuscular and endocrine responses of 
elite players to an Australian rules football match. 
International Journal of Sports Physiology and Perfor -
mance, 3(3): 359-374.
 63. Elloumi, M., F. Maso, O. Michaux, A. Robert, and 
G. Lac. 2003. Behaviour of saliva cortisol [C], testos -
terone [T] and the T/C ratio during a rugby match 
and during the post-competition recovery days. 
European Journal of Applied Physiology, 90(1-2): 23-28.
 64. Haneishi, K., A.C. Fry, C.A. Moore, B.K. Schilling, Y. 
Li, and M.D. Fry. 2007. Cortisol and stress responses 
during a game and practice in female collegiate soccer players. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research, 21(2): 583-588.
 65. Griggs, R.C., W. Kingston, R.F. Jozefowicz, B.E. Herr, 
G. Forbes, and D. Halliday. 1989. Effect of testoster -
one on muscle mass and muscle protein synthesis. 
Journal of Applied Physiology, 66(1): 498-503.
 66. Crewther, B., J. Cronin, J. Keogh, and C. Cook. 2008. 
The salivary testosterone and cortisol response 
to three loading schemes. Journal of Strength and 
Conditioning Research, 22(1): 250-255.
 67. Cumming, D.C., G.D. Wheeler, and E.M. McColl. 
1989. The effects of exercise on reproductive func -
tion in men. Sports Medicine, 7(1): 1-17.
 68. Kraemer, R.R., R.J. Durand, E.O. Acevedo, L.G. 
Johnson, L.B. Synovitz, G.R. Kraemer, T. Gimpel, 
and V.D. Castracane. 2003. Effects of high-intensity exercise on leptin and testosterone concentrations 
in well-trained males. Endocrine, 21(3): 261-265.
 69. Sutton, J.R., M.J. Coleman, J. Casey, and L. Lazarus. 
1973. Androgen responses during physical exercise. British Medical Journal, 1(5852): 520-522.
 70. Filaire, E., X. Bernain, M. Sagnol, and G. Lac. 2001. 
Preliminary results on mood state, salivary tes -
tosterone:cortisol ratio and team performance in a 
professional soccer team. European Journal of Applied 
Physiology, 86(2): 179-184.
 71. Urhausen, A., H. Gabriel, and W. Kindermann. 1995. 
Blood hormones as markers of training stress and 
overtraining. Sports Medicine, 20(4): 251-276.
 72. Parry-Billings, M., R. Budgett, Y. Koutedakis, E. 
Blomstrand, S. Brooks, C. Williams, P .C. Calder, 
S. Pilling, R. Baigrie, and E.A. Newsholme. 1992. Plasma amino acid concentrations in the over -
training syndrome: Possible effects on the immune system. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 
24(12): 1353-1358.
 73. Rowbottom, D.G., D. Keast, and A.R. Morton. 1996. 
The emerging role of glutamine as an indicator of 
exercise stress and overtraining. Sports Medicine, 
21(2): 8 0 -97.
 74. Smith, D.J., and S.R. Norris. 2000. Changes in glu -
tamine and glutamate concentrations for tracking training tolerance. Medicine and Science in Sports and 
Exercise, 32(3): 684-689.
 75. Coutts, A.J., P . Reaburn , T.J. Piva, and G.J. Rowsell. 
2007. Monitoring for overreaching in rugby league 
players. European Journal of Applied Physiology, 99(3): 
313-324.
 76. Halson, S.L., G. Lancaster, A.E. Jeukendrup, and M. 
Gleeson. 2003. Immunological responses to over -
reaching in cyclists. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 35(4): 854-861.
 77 . Gleeson, M., and N.P . Walsh. 2012. The BASES 
Expert Statement on Exercise, Immunity, and Infec -
tion. Journal of Sports Sciences, 30(3): 321-324.

 References  ❙ 339
 78. Mackinnon, L.T. 1997. Immunity in athletes. 
[Review]. International Journal of Sports Medicine, 
18(Suppl 1): S62-S68.
 79. Hopkins, W.G., S.W. Marshall, A.M. Batterham, and 
J. Hanin. 2009. Progressive statistics for studies in 
sports medicine and exercise science. Medicine and 
Science in Sports and Exercise, 41(1): 3-13.
 80. Pettit, R.W. 2010. The standard difference score: A 
new statistic for evaluating strength and condition -
ing programs. Journal of Strength and Conditioning 
Research, 24(1): 287-291.
Chapter 7
 1. Orchard, J., T.M. Best, and G.M. Verrall. 2005. Return 
to play following muscle strains. Clinical Journal of 
Sport Medicine,  15(6): 436-441.
 2. Blackburn, T.A., and J.A. Guido. 2000. Rehabilitation 
after ligamentous and labral surgery of the shoul -
der: Guiding concepts. Journal of Athletic Training, 35(3): 373-381.
 3. Riemann, B.L., and S.M. Lephart. 2002. The sen -
sorimotor system, part I: The physiologic basis of functional joint stability. Journal of Athletic Training , 
37: 71-79.
 4. Hertel, J. 2006. Overview of the etiology of chronic 
ankle instability. Third International Ankle Sym -
posium, Dublin.
 5. Cook, C.J., and C.M. Beaven. 2013. Individual per -
ception of recovery is related to subsequent sprint 
performance. British Journal of Sports Medicine,  
47(11): 705-709.
 6. Walker, N., J. Thatcher, and D. Lavallee. 2010. A 
preliminary development of the Re-Injury Anxiety 
Inventory (RIAI). Physical Therapy in Sport , 11: 23-29.
Chapter 8
 1. Rochelle, R., E. Michael, and V. Skubic. 1957. Effect 
of warm-up on softball throw for distance. Research 
Quarterly , 28: 357-363.
 2. Karpovich, P .V. 1965. Physiology of Muscle Activity. 
Philadelphia: Saunders.
 3. Fradkin, A.J., T.R. Zazryn, and J.M. Smoliga. 2010. 
Effects of warming up on physical performance: A systematic review with meta-analysis. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research , 24(1): 140-148.
 4. Hedrick, A. 1992. Physiological responses to 
warm-up. National Strength and Conditioning Asso -
ciation Journal , 14(5): 25-27.
 5.  Shellock, F.G. 1986. Physiological, psychological, 
and injury prevention aspects of warm-up. National Strength and Conditioning Association Journal , 8(5): 24-27.
 6. Bonci, A.S., and S. Oswald. 1993. Barrier trigger 
points and muscle performance. National Strength 
and Conditioning Association Journal , 15(6): 39-42. 7.  Robertson, M. 2008. Self-Myofascial Release: Purpose, 
Methods and Techniques . Retrieved from http:/ /
www.RobertsonTrainingSystems.com.
 8. McGill, S. 2004. Ultimate Back Fitness and Performance . 
Waterloo: Wabuno.
 9. Duhigg, C. 2012. The Power of Habit . New York: 
Random House.
 10. Lebon, F., C. Collet, and A. Guillot. 2010. Benefits of 
motor imagery training on muscle strength. Journal 
of Strength and Conditioning Research , 24: 1680-1687.
 11. Cook, C.J., and B.T. Crewther. 2012. Changes in sal -
ivary testosterone concentrations and subsequent 
voluntary squat performance following the presen -
tation of short video clips. Hormones and Behavior , 
61: 17-22.
 12. Carre, J.M., and S.K. Putman. 2010. Watching a pre -
vious victory produces an increase in testosterone 
among elite hockey players. Psychoneuroendocrinol -
ogy, 35: 475-479.
 13. Klinesmith, J., T. Kasser, and F.T. McAndrew. 2006. 
Guns, testosterone, and aggression: An experimen -
tal test of a meditational hypothesis. Psychological Science , 17: 568-571.
 14. Cressy, E. 2008. The Truth About Unstable Surface 
Training.  [Ebook]. Retrieved from http:/ /www.
cresseyperformance.com.
 15. Bird, S.P ., and W. Stuart. 2012. Integrating balance 
and postural stability exercises into the functional 
warm-up for youth athletes. Strength and Condition -
ing Journal , 34(3): 73-79.
 16. Jordan, M.J., S.R. Norris, D.J. Smith, and W. Herzog. 
2005. Vibration training: An overview of the area, 
training consequences, and future considerations. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research , 19(2): 
459-466.
 17. Mester, J., P . Spitzenfeil, J. Schwarzer, and F. Seifriz. 
1999. Biological reaction to vibration: Implication 
for sport. Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport , 2: 
211-226.
 18. Cook, G. 2010. Movement: Functional Movement Sys -
tems. Aptos: On Target.
 19. Staley, C. 2000. Warming-up to a great workout: A 
five stage event! T-Nation . Retrieved from http:/ /
www.t-nation.com.
 20. Young, W.B., and D.G. Behm. 2002. Should static 
stretching be used during a warm-up for strength 
and power activities? Strength and Conditioning 
Journal , 24(6): 33-37.
 21. Thacker, S.B., J. Gilchrist, D.F. Stroup, and C.D. 
Kimsey, Jr. 2004. The impact of stretching on sports injury risk: A systematic review of the literature. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise , 36(3): 
371-378.
 22. Church, J.B., M.S. Wiggins, M. Moode, and R. Crist. 
2001. Effect of warm-up and flexibility treatments 

340 ❙ References
on vertical jump performance. Journal of Strength 
and Conditioning Research , 15(3): 332-336.
23. DeRenne, C., K.W. Ho, R.K. Hetzler, and D.X. 
Chai. 1992. Effects of warm-up with various 
weighted implements on baseball bat swing 
velocity. Journal of Strength and Conditioning 
Research,  6(4): 214-218.
24. Gullich, A.C., and D. Schmidtbeicher. 1996. MVC-in -
duced short-term potentiation of explosive force. New Studies in Athletics, 11: 67-81.
25. Elam, R. 1986. Optimum performance: Warm-up 
and athletic performance: A physiological analy -
sis. National Strength and Conditioning Association 
Journal , 8(2): 30-33.
26. Fredrick, A., and C. Fredrick. 2006. Stretch to Win . 
Champaign: Human Kinetics.
27. Myer, T. 2009. Anatomy Trains. 2nd ed . Edinburgh: 
Churchill Livingston.
28. Tsatsouline, P . 2001. Relax Into Stretch . St. Paul: 
Advanced Fitness Solutions and Dragon Door Publications.
Chapter 9
 1. Schmidt, R.A., and T. Lee. 2008. Motor Control and 
Learning . 4th ed. Champaign: Human Kinetics.
 2. Kelso, J.A.S. 1995. Dynamic Patterns: The Self-Organi -
zation of Brain and Behavior . Cambridge: MIT Press.
 3. Latash, M.L. 2008. Synergies.  Oxford: Oxford Uni -
versity Press.
 4. Goodale, M.A., and A.D. Milner. 1992. Separate 
visual pathways for perception and action. Trends 
in Neuroscience,  15(1): 20-25.
 5. Carey, D.P . 2010. Two visual streams: Neuropsycho -
logical evidence. In D. Elliott and M. Khan  (eds.),  
Vision and Goal-Directed Movement  (pp. 265-277). 
Champaign: Human Kinetics.
 6. Wulf, G. 2008. Attention and Motor Skill Learning . 
Champaign: Human Kinetics.
 7. Bosch, F., and R. Klomp. 2005 Running: Biomechanics 
and Exercise Physiology Applied in Practice . Edin-
burgh: Churchill Livingston.
 8. Sayers, M. 2000. Running techniques for field sports 
players. Sports Coach, 23(1):  26 -27.
Chapter 10
 1. Lawton, T.W., J.B. Cronin, and M.R. McGuigan. 2011. 
Strength testing and training of rowers: A review. 
Sports Medicine,  41(5): 413-432.
 2. Sheppard, J.M, P . McNamara, M. Osborne, M. 
Andrews, T. Oliveira-Borges, P . Walshe, and D.W. 
Chapman. 2012. Association between anthropom -
etry and upper-body strength qualities with sprint 
paddling performance in competitive wave surfers. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  26(12): 
3345-3348. 3. Baker, D., and S. Nance. 1999. The relationship 
between running speed and measures of strength 
and power in professional rugby league play -
ers. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  
13(3):230-235.
 4. Baker, D. 1996. Improving vertical jump per -
formance through general, special and specific 
strength training: A brief review. Journal of Strength 
and Conditioning Research,  10(2):131-136.
 5. Baker, D., G. Wilson, and R. Carlyon. 1994. Gener -
ality versus specificity: A comparison of dynamic and isometric measures of strength and speed-strength. European Journal of Applied Physiology and 
Occupational Physiology,  68: 350-355.
 6. Moritani, T. 1992. Time course of adaptations during 
strength and power training. In P .V Komi (ed.),  
Strength and Power in Sport (pp. 266-278). Oxford: 
Blackwell Science.
 7 . Moritani, T. 1993. Neuromuscular adaptations 
during the acquisition of muscle strength, power 
and motor tasks. Journal of Biomechanics , 26(Suppl 
1): 95 -107.
 8. Cormie, P ., M.R. McGuigan, and R.U. Newton. 2011. 
Developing maximal neuromuscular power: Part 
2 training considerations for improving maximal 
power production. Sports Medicine , 41(2):125-146.
 9. Jaric, S., R. Ropert, M. Kukolj, and D.B. Ilic. 1995. Role 
of agonist and antagonist muscle strength in rapid 
movement performances. European Journal of Applied 
Physiology and Occupational Physiology,  71:464-468.
 10. Baker, D. 2007. Progressing the difficulty of body -
weight exercises for child and youth resistance training. [DVD]. Beenleigh: Australian Strength 
and Conditioning Association.
 11. Hakkinen, K., A. Pakarinen, M. Alen, H. Kauhanen, 
and P . Komi. 1998. Neuromuscular and hormonal 
adaptations in athletes to strength training in two years. Journal of Applied Physiology, 65(6): 2406-2412.
 12. Baker, D.G. 2013. 10-year changes in upper body 
strength and power in elite professional rugby 
league players: The effect of training age, stage and 
content. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research, 
27(2): 285-292.
 13. Anderson, C.E., G.A. Sforzo, and J.A. Sigg. 2008. 
The effects of combining elastic and free weight 
resistance on strength and power in athletes. Journal 
of Strength and Conditioning Research,  22(2): 567-574.
 14. Wallace, B.J., J.B. Winchester, and M.R. McGuigan. 
2006. Effects of elastic bands on force and power 
characteristics during the back squat exercise. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  20(2): 
268-272.
 15. Baker, D., and R.U. Newton. 2009. Effect of kineti -
cally altering a repetition via the use of chain resis -
tance.  Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  
23(7):1941-1946.

 References  ❙ 341
 16. Baker, D., and R.U. Newton. 2006. Methods to 
increase the effectiveness of maximal power train -
ing for the upper body. Strength Conditioning Journal,  
27(6): 24-32 .
Chapter 11
 1. Francis, C., and P . Patterson. 1992. The Charlie Francis 
Training System . Ottawa: TBLI.
 2. Francis, C., and J. Coplon. 1999. Speed Trap: Inside the 
Biggest Scandal in Olympic History. Toronto: Lester 
and Orpen Dennys.
 3. Schmolinsky, G. 1978. Track and Field: Athletics Train -
ing in the G.D.R. (East Germany) . Berlin: Sportverlag.
 4. Vermeil, A. 2010. Speed: The ultimate weapon . 
Conference Presentation, Vancouver.
 5. McFarlane, B. 2000. The Science of Hurdling and Speed . 
Ottawa: Athletics Canada.
 6. Mann, R. 2007. The Mechanics of Sprinting and Hur -
dling . [Course materials]. Las Vegas.
 7. Mach, G. 1988. Sprints & Hurdles . Vanier: Canadian 
Track and Field Association.
 8. Mann, R.V. 1985. Biomechanical analysis of the elite 
sprinter and hurdler. In N.K. Butts, T.T. Gushiken, and B. Zarins (eds.), The Elite Athlete (pp. 43-80). 
Jamaica: Spectrum.
Chapter 12
 1. Sheppard, J.M., T. Gabbett, and L.C. Stanganelli. 
2009. An analysis of playing positions in elite men’s volleyball: Considerations for competition demands and physiological characteristics. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  23: 1858-1866.
 2. Sheppard, J.M., D. Chapman, C. Gough, M.R. 
McGuigan, and R.U. Newton. 2009. Twelve month 
training induced changes in elite international vol -
leyball players. Journal of Strength and Conditioning 
Research,  23: 2096-2101.
 3. Sheppard, J.M., T.J. Gabbett, K.L. Taylor, J. Dorman, 
A.J. Lebedew, and R. Borgeaud. 2007. Development of a repeated-effort test for elite men’s volleyball. 
International Journal of Sports Physiology and Perfor -
mance,  2: 292-304.
 4. McClay, I., J. Robinson, T. Andriacchi, E. Frederick, 
T. Gross, and P . Martin. 1994. A profile of ground 
reaction forces in professional basketball. Journal of 
Applied Biomechanics,  10: 222-236.
 5. Weyand, P .G., D.B. Sternlight, M.J. Bellizzi, and 
S. Wright. 2000. Faster top running speeds are 
achieved with greater ground forces not more rapid leg movements. Journal of Applied Physiology, 89: 1991-1999.
 6. Sheppard, J.M., S. Cormack, K.L. Taylor, M.R. 
McGuigan, and R.U. Newton. 2008. Assessing 
the force-velocity characteristics of well-trained athletes: The incremental load power profile. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research, 22: 
1320-1326.
 7 . Sheppard, J.M., J. Cronin, T.J. Gabbett, M.R. 
McGuigan, N. Extebarria, and R.U. Newton. 2007. 
Relative importance of strength and power qual -
ities to jump performance in elite male volleyball players. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  
22: 758-765.
 8. Carlock, J.M., S.L. Smith, M.J. Hartman, R.T. Morris, 
D.A. Ciroslan, K.C. Pierce, R.U. Newton, E.A. Harman, W.A. Sands, and M.H. Stone. 2004. The 
relationship between vertical jump power estimates 
and weightlifting ability: A field test approach. Jour -
nal of Strength and Conditioning Research, 18: 534-539.
 9. Haff, G.G., M. Stone, H.S. O’Bryant, E. Harman, C. 
Dinan, R. Johnson, and K. Han. 1997. Force-time dependant characteristics of dynamic and isometric muscle actions. Journal of Strength and Conditioning 
Research,  11: 269-272.
 10. Kawamori, N., S.J. Rossi, B.D. Justice, E.E. Haff, E.E. 
Pistilli, H.S. O’Bryant, M.H. Stone, and G.G. Haff. 2006. Peak force and rate of force development 
during isometric and dynamic mid-thigh clean pull 
performed at various intensities. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research.  20: 483-491.
 11. Kraska, J.M., M.W. Ramsey, G.G. Haff, N. Fethke, 
W.A. Sands, M.E. Stone, and M.H. Stone. 2009. Relationship between strength characteristics and unweighted and weighted vertical jump height. 
International Journal of Sports Physiology and Perfor -
mance,  4: 461-473.
 12. Stone, M.H., H.S. O’Bryant, L. McCoy, R. Coglianese, 
M. Lehmkuhl, and B. Schilling. 2003. Power and 
maximum strength relationships during perfor -
mance of dynamic and static weighted jumps. Jour -
nal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  17: 140-147.
 13. Bobbert, M.F., and A.J. Van Soest. 1994. Effects of 
muscle strengthening on vertical jump height: A simulation study. Medicine and Science in Sports and 
Exercise,  26: 1012-1020.
 14. Sands, W.A., S.L. Smith, D.M.R. Kivi, J.R. McNeal, 
J.C. Dorman, M.H. Stone, and P . Cormie. 2005. 
Anthropometric and physical abilities profiles: 
US national skeleton team. Sports Biomechanics,  
4:197-214.
 15. Fry, A.C., W.J. Kraemer, C.A. Weseman, B.P Contory, 
S.E. Gordon, J.R. Hoffman, and C.M. Maresh. 1991. 
The effects of an off-season strength and condi -
tioning program on starters and non-starters in women’s intercollegiate volleyball. Journal of Applied 
Sports Science Research,  5: 174-181.
 16. Garhammer, J., and R. Gregor. 1992. Propulsion 
forces as a function of intensity for weightlifting 
and vertical jumping. Journal of Applied Sport Science 
Research,  6: 129-134.

342 ❙ References
 17. Marques, M.C., R. Van den Tillar, J.D. Vescovi, and 
J.J. Gonzalez-Badillo. 2008. Changes in strength 
and power performance in elite senior female pro -
fessional volleyball players during the in-season: A case study. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  22: 1147-1155.
 18. McBride, J.M., T.N. Triplett-McBride, A. Davie, and 
R.U. Newton. 2002. The effect of heavy- vs. light-load jump squats on the development of strength, 
power, and speed. Journal of Strength and Condition -
ing Research,  16: 75-82.
 19. Riggs, M., and J.M. Sheppard. 2009. The relative 
importance of strength and power qualities to 
vertical jump height of elite beach volleyball play -
ers during the countermovement and squat jump. Journal of Human Sport and Exercise, 4: 221-236.
 20. Sheppard, J.M., and R.U. Newton. 2012. Long-term 
training adaptations in elite male volleyball players. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  26(8): 
2180-2184.
 21. Weiss, L.W., G.E. Relyea, C.D. Ashley, and R.C. 
Propst. 1997. Using velocity-spectrum squats and 
body-composition to predict standing vertical jump ability. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  
11: 14-20.
 22. Young, W., G. Wilson, and C. Byrne. 1991. Relation -
ship between strength qualities and performance 
in standing and run-up vertical jumps. Journal of 
Sports Medicine and Physical Fitness,  39: 285-293.
 23. Hedrick, A. 2008. An evaluation of the weightlifting 
movements for the volleyball athlete. Performance 
Conditioning Volleyball,  14: 3-12.
 24. Dugan, E.L., T.L.A. Doyle, B. Humphries, C.J. 
Hasson, and R.U. Newton. 2004. Determining the 
optimal load for jump squats: A review of methods and calculations. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  18: 668-674.
 25. Sheppard, J.M., T.L. Doyle, and K.L. Taylor. 2008. A 
methodological and performance comparison of 
Smith-machine and free weight jump squats. Journal of Australian Strength and Conditioning,  16: 5-9.
 26. Sheppard, J.M., S. Cormack, K.L. Taylor, M.R. 
McGuigan, and R.U. Newton. 2008. Assessing the 
force-velocity characteristics of the leg extensors in 
well-trained athletes: The incremental load power profile. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  
22: 1320-1326.
 27 . Cormie, P ., M.R. McGuigan, and R.U. Newton. 
2010. Changes in the eccentric phase contribute to improved stretch-shorten cycle performance after 
training. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 
42: 1731-1744.
 28. Alemany, J.A., C.E. Pandorf, S.J. Montain, J.W. Castel -
lani, A.P . Tuckow, and B.C. Nindl. 2005. Reliability 
assessment of ballistic jump squats and bench 
throws. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  
19: 33-38. 29. Baker, D., S. Nance, and M. Moore. 2001. The load 
that maximizes the average mechanical power 
output during jump squats in power-trained ath -
letes. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  
15: 92-97.
 30. Baker, D., and R.U. Newton. 2007. Change in 
power output across a high-repetition set of bench 
throws and jump squats in highly trained athletes. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research, 21: 
1007-1011.
 31. Newton, R.U., W.J. Kraemer, and K. Hakkinen. 1999. 
Effects of ballistic training on preseason prepar -
ation of elite volleyball players. Medicine and Science 
in Sports and Exercise, 31: 323-330.
 32. Newton, R.U., R.A. Rogers, J.S. Volek, K. Hakkinen, 
and W.J. Kraemer. 2006. Four weeks of optimal load 
ballistic resistance training at the end of season attenuates declining jump performance of women volleyball players. Journal of Strength and Condition -
ing Research,  20: 955-961.
 33. Doyle, T.L.A., J.M. Sheppard, and A. Sachlikidis. 
2008. Smith machine jump squats versus free 
weight jump squats: Which is safer? Paper pre -
sented at the Second World Congress on Sports Injury Prevention, Tromso, Norway. In Second 
World Congress on Sports Injury Prevention. Tromso, Norway: British Journal of Sports Medicine.
 34. Avela, J., P .M. Santos, and P .V. Komi. 1996. Effects of 
differently induced stretch loads on neuromuscular 
control in drop jump exercise. European Journal of 
Applied Physiology and Occupational Physiology,  72: 
553-562.
 35. Bobbert, M.F., K.G.M. Gerritsen, M.C.A. Litjens, and 
A.J. Van Soest. 1996. Why is countermovement jump 
height greater than squat jump height? Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 28: 1402-1412.
 36. Bosco, C., and P .V. Komi. 1981. Prestretch poten -
tiation of human skeletal muscle during ballistic 
movement. Acta Physiologica Scandanavica,  111: 
135-140.
 37. Giovanni, A., A. Cavagna, B. Dusman, and R. Mar -
garia. 1968. Positive work done by a previously stretched muscle. Journal of Applied Physiology, 24: 21-32.
 38. Komi, P .V., and C. Bosco. 1978. Utilization of stored 
elastic energy in leg extensor muscles by men and 
women. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 
10: 261-265.
 39. Steben, R.E., and A.H. Steben. 1981. The validity of 
the stretch-shortening cycle in selected jumping events. Journal of Sports Medicine, 21: 28-37.
 40. Van Ingen Schenau, G.J., M.F. Bobbert, and A. De 
Haan. 1997. Does elastic energy enhance work and 
efficiency in the stretch-shortening cycle? Journal 
of Applied Biomechanics,  13: 389-415.
 41. Walshe, A.D., G.J. Wilson, and G.J. Ettema. 1998. 
Stretch-shorten cycle compared with isometric 

 References  ❙ 343
preload: Contributions to enhanced muscular per -
formance. Journal of Applied Physiology, 84: 97-106.
 42. Sheppard, J.M., M. McGuigan, and R.U. Newton. 
2007. The effect of accentuated eccentric load on 
vertical jump kinetics kinematics in elite male athletes. International Journal of Sports Science and 
Coaching,  2: 267-273.
 43. Sheppard, J.M., and K.Y. Young. 2010. Using addi -
tional eccentric loads to increase concentric perfor -
mance in the bench throw. Journal of Strength and 
Conditioning Research,  24: 2853-2856.
 44. Enoka, R. 2000. Neuromechanics of Human Movement.  
Champaign: Human Kinetics.
 45. Bobbert, M.F. 1990. Drop jumping as a training 
method for jumping ability. Sports Medicine,  9: 7-22.
 46. Sheppard, J.M., A. Giorgi, and S. Hobson. 2008. 
Jump squats with additional eccentric load. Journal 
of Australian Strength and Conditioning,  16: 25.
 47. Sheppard, J.M., S. Hobson, D. Chapman, K.L. Taylor, 
M. McGuigan, and R.U. Newton. 2008. The effect of training with accentuated eccentric load count -
er-movement jumps on strength and power char -
acteristics of high-performance volleyball players. 
International Journal of Sports Science and Coaching, 3: 355-363.
 48. Sheppard, J.M., M.R. McGuigan, and R.U. 
Newton. 2008. The effects of depth-jumping 
on vertical jump performance of elite volley -
ball players: An examination of the transfer of increased stretch-load tolerance to spike jump performance. Journal of Australian Strength and 
Conditioning,  16: 3-10.
 49. Baechle, T.R. 1994. Essentials of Strength and Condi -
tioning.  Champaign: Human Kinetics.
 50. Villarreal, E.S., E. Kellis, W.J. Kraemer, and M. 
Izquierdo. 2009. Determining variables of plyo -
metric training for improving vertical jump height 
performance: A meta-analysis. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  23: 495-506.
 51. Bobbert, M.F., P .A. Huijing, and G. Jan Van Ingen 
Schenau. 1987. Drop jumping. I. The influence of jumping technique on the biomechanics of jump -
ing. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 19: 
332-338.
 52. Bobbert, M.F., P .A. Huijing, and G. Jan Van Ingen 
Schenau. 1987. Drop jumping. II. The influence of 
jumping technique on the biomechanics of jump -
ing. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise. 19: 
339-346.
 53. Bobbert, M.F., M. Mackay, D. Schinkelshoek, P .A. 
Huijing, and G.J. Van Ingen Schenau. 1986. Biome -
chanical analysis of drop and countermovement 
jumps. European Journal of Applied Physiology, 54: 
566-573.
 54. Clutch, D., and M. Wilton. 1983. The effect of depth 
jumps and weight training on leg strength and 
vertical jump. 54: 5-10. 55. Schmidtbleicher, D., A. Gollhofer, and U. Frick. 1987. 
Effects of a stretch-shortening typed training on 
the performance capability and innervation char -
acteristics of leg extensor muscles. In Biomechanics X1-A.  Amsterdam: Free University Press.
 56. Horita, T., P .V. Komi, C. Nicol, and H. Kryolainen. 
2002. Interaction between pre-landing activities 
and stiffness regulation of the knee joint musculo -
skeletal system in the drop jump: Implications to performance. European Journal of Applied Physiology.  
88: 76-84.
 57. Walshe, A.D., and G. Wilson. 1997. The influence 
of musculoskeletal stiffness on drop jump perfor -
mance. Canadian Journal of Applied Physiology,  22: 
117-132.
 58. Toumi, H., T.M. Best, A. Martin, S.F. Guyer, and G. 
Poumarat. 2004. Effects of eccentric phase velocity 
of plyometric training on vertical jump. International Journal of Sports Medicine, 25: 391-398.
 59. Sheppard, J.M., A. Dingley, I. Janssen, W. Sprat -
ford, D. Chapman, and R.U. Newton. 2011. The effect of assisted jumping on vertical jump height in high-performance volleyball players. Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport, 14: 85-89.
 60. Slater, G.J., G.M. Duthie, D.B. Pyne, and W.G. Hop -
kins. 2006. Validation of a skinfold based index for 
tracking proportional changes in lean mass. British Journal of Sports Medicine, 40: 208-213.
 61. Doan, B.K., R.U. Newton, J.L. Marsit, T.N. Triplett-Mc -
Bride, P .L. Koziris, A.C. Fry, and W.J. Kraemer. 2002. Effects of increased eccentric loading on bench press 1RM. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  16: 9-13.
 62. Dufek, J.S., and S. Zhang. 1996. Landing models 
for volleyball players: A longitudinal evaluation. 
Journal of Sports Medicine and Physical Fitness, 36: 35-42.
 63. Ford, K.R., G.D. Myer, and T.E. Hewett. 2003. Valgus 
knee motion during landing in high school female 
and male basketball players. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise,  35: 1745-1750.
 64. Barber-Westin, S.D., S.T. Smith, T. Campbell, and F.R. 
Noyes. 2010. The drop-jump video screening test: 
Retention of improvement in neuromuscular con -
trol in female volleyball players. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  24: 3055-3062.
 65. Myer, G.D., K.R. Ford, S.G. McClean, and T.E. 
Hewett. 2005. The effects of plyometric versus 
dynamic stabilization and balance training on lower extremity biomechanics. American Journal of Sports Medicine,  34: 445-455.
Chapter 13
 1. Sheppard, J.M., and W. Young. 2006. Agility liter -
ature review: Classifications, training and testing. Journal of Sports Sciences, 24(9): 919-932.

344 ❙ References
 2. Spiteri, T., J.L. Cochrane, and S. Nimphius. 2012. 
Human stimulus reliability during an offensive 
and defensive agility protocol. Journal of Australian Strength and Conditioning,  20(4): 14-21.
 3. Spiteri, T., J.L. Cochrane, and S. Nimphius. 2013. The 
evaluation of a new lower-body reaction time test. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  27(1): 
174-180.
 4. Spiteri, T., S. Nimphius, and J.L. Cochrane. 2012. 
Comparison of running times during reactive 
offensive and defensive agility protocols. Journal 
of Australian Strength and Conditioning,  20(Suppl 1): 
73-78.
 5. Adam, J.J. 1999. Gender differences in choice 
reaction time: Evidence for differential strategies. Ergonomics,  42(2): 327-335.
 6. Nimphius, S. 2010. Lag time: The effect of a two 
week cessation from resistance training on force, velocity and power in elite softball players. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  24(Suppl 1): 1.
 7. Stone, M.H., H.S. O’Bryant, L. McCoy, R. Coglianese, 
M. Lehmkuhl, and B. Schilling. 2003. Power and maximum strength relationships during perfor -
mance of dynamic and static weighted jumps. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  17(1): 
140-147.
 8. Young, W.B., R. James, and I. Montgomery. 2002. 
Is muscle power related to running speed with changes of direction? Journal of Sports Medicine and Physical Fitness,  42(3): 282-288.
 9. Farrow, D., W. Young, and L. Bruce. 2005. The 
development of a test of reactive agility for netball: 
A new methodology. Journal of Science and Medicine 
in Sport,  8(1): 52.
 10. Nimphius, S., M.R. McGuigan, and R.U. Newton. 
2010. Relationship between strength, power, speed, 
and change of direction performance of female softball players. Journal of Strength and Conditioning 
Research,  24(4): 885-895.
 11. Gabbett, T.J., J.N. Kelly, and J.M. Sheppard. 2008. 
Speed, change of direction speed, and reactive agility of rugby league players. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  22(1): 174-181.
 12. Nimphius, S., M.R. McGuigan, and R.U. Newton. 
2012. Changes in muscle architecture and per -
formance during a competitive season in female 
softball players. Journal of Strength and Conditioning 
Research,  26(10): 2655-2666.
 13. Lloyd, R.S., P . Read, J.L. Oliver, R.W. Meyers, S. 
Nimphius, and I. Jeffreys. 2013. Considerations for the development of agility during childhood and adolescence. Strength and Conditioning Journal . 
Doi:10.1519/SSC.1510b1013e31827ab31808c [epub ahead of print]
 14. Besier, T.F., D.G. Lloyd, T.R. Ackland, and J.L. 
Cochrane. 2001. Anticipatory effects on knee joint loading during running and cutting maneuvers. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 33(7): 
1176-1181.
 15. McLean, S.G., S.W. Lipfert, and A.J. Van Den Bogert. 
2004. Effect of gender and defensive opponent on the biomechanics of sidestep cutting. Medicine and 
Science in Sports and Exercise, 36(6): 1008-1016.
 16. Shimokochi, Y., D. Ide, M. Kokubu, and T. Nakaoji. 
2013. Relationships among performance of lateral 
cutting maneuver from lateral sliding and hip 
extension and abduction motions, ground reaction force, and body center of mass height. Journal of 
Strength and Conditioning Research,  27(7): 1851-1860.
 17. Porter, J.M., R.P . Nolan, E.J. Ostrowski, and G. Wulf. 
2010. Directing attention externally enhances agil -
ity performance: A qualitative and quantitative 
analysis of the efficacy of using verbal instructions 
to focus attention. Frontiers in Psychology,  1: 216.
 18. Wulf, G., M. Höß, and W. Prinz. 1998. Instructions 
for motor learning: Differential effects of internal 
versus external focus of attention. Journal of Motor 
Behavior,  30(2): 169-179.
 19. Gabbett, T., M. Rubinoff, L. Thorburn, and D. 
Farrow. 2007. Testing and training anticipation 
skills in softball fielders. International Journal of 
Sports Science and Coaching, 2(1): 15-24.
 20. Serpell, B.G., W.B. Young, and M. Ford. 2011. Are 
the perceptual and decision-making components 
of agility trainable? A preliminary investigation. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  25(5): 
1240-1248.
 21. Sheppard, J.M., W.B. Young, T.L. Doyle, T.A. Shep -
pard, and R.U. Newton. 2006. An evaluation of a new test of reactive agility and its relationship to 
sprint speed and change of direction speed. Journal 
of Science and Medicine in Sport, 9(4): 342-349.
 22. Young, W., D. Farrow, D. Pyne, W. McGregor, and 
T. Handke. 2011. Validity and reliability of agility 
tests in junior Australian football players. Journal of 
Strength and Conditioning Research,  25(12): 3399-3403.
 23. Greig, M. 2009. The influence of soccer-specific 
activity on the kinematics of an agility sprint. 
European Journal of Sport Science, 9(1): 23-33.
Chapter 14
 1. Gastin, P .B. 2001. Energy system interaction and 
relative contribution during maximal exercise. 
Sports Medicine,  31(10): 725-741.
 2. Bangsbo, J. 1996. Oxygen deficit: A measure of the 
anaerobic energy production during intense exer -
cise? Canadian Journal of Applied Physiology, 21(5): 
350-363.
 3. Bundle, M.W., and P .G. Weyand. 2012. Sprint exer -
cise performance: Does metabolic power matter? Exercise and Sport Sciences Reviews, 40(3): 174-182.

 References  ❙ 345
 4. Craig, N.P ., K.I. Norton, R.A. Conyers, S.M. Wool -
ford, P .C. Bourdon, T. Stanef, and C.B. Walsh. 1995. 
Influence of test duration and event specificity on maximal accumulated oxygen deficit of high performance track cyclists. International Journal of Sports Medicine,  16(8): 534-540.
 5. Garvican, L.A., T. Pottgiesser, D.T. Martin, Y.O. 
Schumacher, M. Barras, and C.J. Gore. 2011. The 
contribution of haemoglobin mass to increases 
in cycling performance induced by simulated 
LHTL. European Journal of Applied Physiology,  111(6): 
1089-1101.
 6. Marino, F.E., M. Gard, and E.J. Drinkwater. 2011. 
The limits to exercise performance and the future 
of fatigue research. British Journal of Sports Medicine,  
45(1): 6 5 - 67.
 7.  Willardson, J.M. 2007. The application of training to 
failure in periodized multiple-set resistance exer -
cise programs. Journal of Strength and Conditioning 
Research,  21(2): 628-631.
 8. Drinkwater, E.J., T.W. Lawton, R.P . Lindsell, D.B. 
Pyne, P .H. Hunt, and M.J. McKenna. 2005. Training leading to repetition failure enhances bench press strength gains in elite junior athletes. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  19(2): 382-388.
 9. Schoenfeld, B.J. 2012. Does exercise-induced muscle 
damage play a role in skeletal muscle hypertrophy? Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  26(5): 
1441-1453.
 10. Tomas, A., E.Z. Ross, and J.C. Martin. 2010. Fatigue 
during maximal sprint cycling: Unique role of 
cumulative contraction cycles. Medicine and Science 
in Sports and Exercise, 42(7): 1364-1369.
 11. N. Flyger. 2013. Personal communication.
 12. Tabata, I., K. Nishimura, M. Kouzaki, Y. Hirai, F. 
Ogita, M. Miyachi, and K. Yamamoto. 1996. Effects 
of moderate-intensity endurance and high-intensity intermittent training on anaerobic capacity and VO
2max. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 
28(10): 1327-1330.
 13. Markovic, G., and P . Mikulic. 2010. Neuro-  
musculoskeletal and performance adaptations to lower-extremity plyometric training. Sports Medi -
cine, 40(10): 859-895.
 14. Abbiss, C.R., L.G. Karagounis, P .B. Laursen, J.J. 
Peiffer, D.T. Martin, J.A. Hawley, and J.C. Martin. 
2011. Single-leg cycle training is superior to dou -
ble-leg cycling in improving the oxidative potential 
and metabolic profile of trained skeletal muscle. 
Journal of Applied Physiology, 110(5): 1248-1255.
 15. Hultman, E., K. Soderlund, J.A. Timmons, G. Ced -
erblad, and P .L. Greenhaff. 1996. Muscle creatine 
loading in men. [Clinical trial]. Journal of Applied 
Physiology,  81(1): 232-237.
 16. Zuniga, J.M., T.J. Housh, C.L. Camic, C.R. Hendrix, 
M. Mielke, G.O. Johnson, and R.J. Schmidt. 2012. The effects of creatine monohydrate loading on anaerobic 
performance and one-repetition maximum strength. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  26(6): 
1651-1656.
 17. Horswill, C.A. 1995. Effects of bicarbonate, citrate, 
and phosphate loading on performance. Interna -
tional Journal of Sport Nutrition, 5(Suppl): S111-S119.
 18. Harris, R.C., and C. Sale. 2012. Beta-alanine supple -
mentation in high-intensity exercise. Medicine and 
Sport Science,  59: 1-17.
 19. Hobson, R.M., B. Saunders, G. Ball, R.C. Harris, and C. 
Sale. 2012. Effects of beta-alanine supplementation on exercise performance: A meta-analysis. Amino Acids,  
43(1): 25-37.
 20. Davis, J.K., and J.M. Green. 2009. Caffeine and 
anaerobic performance: Ergogenic value and mech -
anisms of action. Sports Medicine,  39(10): 813-832.
 21. Ebert, T.R. April 2012. Personal communication.
Chapter 15
 1. Cook, G. 2011. Movement: Functional Movement 
Systems: Screening, Assessment, Corrective Strategies. 
West Sussex: Lotus Pub.
 2. Verstegen, M., and P . Williams. 2005. The Core 
Performance: The Revolutionary Workout Program to 
Transform Your Body & Your Life. Emmaus: Rodale 
Books.
 3. Quatman, C.E., C.C. Quatman, and T.E. Hewett. 
2009. Prediction and prevention of musculoskeletal 
injury: A paradigm shift in methodology. British 
Journal of Sports Medicine, 43(14): 1100-1107.
 4. Babuata, L. 2009. The Power of Less: The Fine Art of 
Limiting Yourself to the Essential . . . in Business and 
in Life.  New York: Hyperion.
 5. Cormie, P ., M.R. McGuigan, and R.U. Newton. 2010. 
Adaptations in athletic performance after ballistic 
power versus strength training. Medicine and Science 
in Sports and Exercise, 42(8): 1582-1598.
 6. Cormie, P ., M.R. McGuigan, and R.U. Newton. 2011. 
Developing maximal neuromuscular power part 2: Training considerations for improving maximal 
power production. Sports Medicine,  41(2): 125-146.
 7. Cormie, P ., M.R. McGuigan, and R.U. Newton. 2011. 
Developing maximal neuromuscular power part 
1: Biological basis of maximal power production. 
Sports Medicine,  41(1): 17-38.
 8. Yamamoto, L.M., J.F. Klau, D.J. Casa, W.J. Kraemer, 
L.E. Armstrong, and C.M. Maresh. 2010. The effects 
of resistance training on road cycling performance 
among highly trained cyclists: A systematic review. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  24(2): 
560-566.
 9. Bosch, F., and R. Klomp. 2005. Running: Biomechanics 
and Exercise Physiology Applied in Practice. Maarssen: Elsevier.

346 ❙ References
 10. Bailey, A.J., S.P . Robins, and G. Balian. 1974. Biolog -
ical significance of the intermolecular crosslinks of 
collagen. Nature,  251(5471): 105-109.
 11. Enoka, R. 1988. Neuromuscular Basis of Kinesiology.  
Champaign: Human Kinetics.
 12. Winkelman, N. 2012. NFL Combine Training 
Results. Interview, D. Norman, interviewer.
 13. Davids, K., and D. Araujo. 2010. The concept of 
‘Organismic Asymmetry’ in sport science. Journal 
of Science and Medicine in Sport, 13(6): 633-640.
 14. Moritani, T. 1993. Neuromuscular adaptations during 
the acquisition of muscle strength, power and motor tasks. Journal of Biomechanics , 26(Suppl 1): 95-107.
 15. Zatsiorsky, V. 1995. Science and Practice of Strength 
Training.  Champaign: Human Kinetics.
 16. Willson, J.D., C.P . Dougherty, M.L. Ireland, and I.M. 
Davis. 2005. Core stability and its relationship to lower extremity function and injury. Journal of the American 
Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, 13(5): 316-325.
 17. Saharmann, S. 2001. Movement: Functional Movement 
Systems: Screening, Assessment, Corrective Strategies. 
New York: Mosby.
 18. Page, P ., C. Frank, and R. Lardner. 2009. Assess -
ment and Treatment of Muscle Imbalance: The Janda 
Approach.  Champaign: Human Kinetics.
 19. Lisman, P ., F.G. O’Conner, P .A. Deuster, and J.J. 
Knapik. 2013. Functional movement screen and aer -
obic fitness predict injuries in military training. Med -
icine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 45(4): 636-643.
 20. Bundle, M.W., R.W. Hoyt, and P .G. Weyand. 2003. 
High-speed running performance: A new approach 
to assessment and prediction. Journal of Applied 
Physiology,  95(5): 1955-1962.
 21. Hamilton, A.L., M.E. Neville, S. Brooks, and C. 
Williams. 1991. Physiological responses to maximal intermittent exercise: Differences between endur -
ance-trained runners and games players. Journal of 
Sports Sciences,  9(4): 371-382.
 22. Spencer, M., D. Bishop, B. Dawson, and C. Good -
man. 2005. Physiological and metabolic responses 
of repeated-sprint activities: Specific to field-based 
team sports. Sports Medicine,  35(12): 1025-1044.
 23. Storen, O., S. Bratland-Sanda, M. Haave, and J. 
Helgerud. 2012. Improved VO
2max and time trial 
performance with more high aerobic intensity inter -
val training and reduced training volume: A case 
study on an elite national cyclist. Journal of Strength 
and Conditioning Research,  26(10): 2705-2711.
 24. Noakes, T. 2002. The Lore of Running. Champaign: 
Human Kinetics.
Chapter 16
 1. Brueckner, J.C., G. Atchou, C. Capelli, A. Duvallet, 
D. Barrault, E. Jousselin, M. Rieu, and P .E. di Pramp -
ero. 1991. The energy cost of running increases with the distance covered. European Journal of Applied 
Physiology, 62(6): 385-389.
 2. Péronnet, F., and G. Thibault. 1987. Physiological 
analysis of running performance: Revision of the 
hyperbolic model. Journal of Physiology,  82(1): 52-60.
 3. Bosquet, L., L. Léger, and P . Legros. 2002. Methods 
to determine aerobic endurance. Sports Medicine , 
32(11): 675-700.
 4. Léger, L., and R. Boucher. 1980. An indirect contin -
uous running multistage field test: The Université de Montréal track test. Canadian Journal of Applied Physiology,  5(2): 77-84.
 5. Lacour, J.R., S. Padilla-Magunacelaya, J.C. Bar -
thélémy, and D. Dormois. 1990. The energetics of middle-distance running. European Journal of Applied Physiology and Occupational Physiology, 60(1): 38-43.
 6. Léger, L., and D. Mercier. 1984. Gross energy cost 
of horizontal treadmill and track running. Sports 
Medicine, 1(4): 270-277.
 7. Bangsbo, J. 1994. Fitness Training in Football: A Scien -
tific Approach.  Bagsvaerd: HO and Storm.
 8. Bangsbo, J., F.M. Iaia, and P . Krustrup. 2008. The 
yo-yo intermittent recovery test: A useful tool for 
evaluation of physical performance in intermittent 
sports. Sports Medicine , 38(1): 37-51.
 9. Krustrup, P ., M. Mohr, T. Amstrup, T. Rysgaard, 
J. Johansen, A. Steensberg, A. Pedersen, and J. Bangsbo. 2003. The yo-yo intermittent recovery test: Physiological response, reliability, and valid -
ity. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 35(4), 
697-705.
 10. Krustrup, P ., M. Mohr, H. Ellingsgaard, and J. 
Bangsbo. 2005. Physical demands during an elite female soccer game: Importance of training status. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 37(7): 1242-1248.
 11. Hill, D.W., and C.S. Ferguson. 1999. A physiological 
description of critical velocity. European Journal of Applied Physiology and Occupational Physiology,  79(3): 
290-293.
 12. Murias, J.M., J.M. Kowalchuk, and D.H. Paterson. 
2010. Time course and mechanisms of adaptations 
in cardiorespiratory fitness with endurance train -
ing in older and young men. Journal of Applied 
Physiology, 108(3): 621-627.
 13. Billat, V.L., N. Blondel, and S. Berthoin. 1999. Deter -
mination of the velocity associated with the longest 
time to exhaustion at maximal oxygen uptake. 
European Journal of Applied Physiology, 80(2): 159-161.
 14. Dupont, G., K. Akakpo, and S. Berthoin. 2004. The 
effect of in-season, high-intensity interval training 
in soccer players. Journal of Strength and Conditioning 
Research , 18(3): 584-589.
 15. Burgomaster, K.A., G.J. Heigenhauser, and M.J. 
Gibala. 2006. Effect of short-term sprint interval 

 References  ❙ 347
training on human skeletal muscle carbohydrate 
metabolism during exercise and time-trial per -
formance. Journal of Applied Physiology , 100(6): 
2041-2047.
 16. Bangsbo, J., T.P . Gunnarsson, J. Wendell, L. Nybo, 
and M. Thomassen. 2009. Reduced volume and increased training intensity elevate muscle Na+-K+ 
pump alpha2-subunit expression as well as short- 
and long-term work capacity in humans. Journal of 
Applied Physiology , 107(6): 1771-1780.
 17 . Helgerud, J., L.C. Engen, U. Wisloff, and J. Hoff. 
2001. Aerobic endurance training improves soccer performance. Medicine and Science in Sports and 
Exercise, 33(11): 1925-1931.
 18. Nédélec, M., A. McCall, C. Carling, F. Legall, S. Ber -
thoin, and G. Dupont. 2012. Recovery in soccer part 
I: Post-match fatigue and time course of recovery. 
Sports Medicine, 42(12): 997-1015.
 19. Paavolainen, L., K. Häkkinen, I. Hämäläinen, A. 
Nummela, and H. Rusko. 1999. Explosive-strength 
training improves 5-km running time by improv -
ing running economy and muscle power. Journal of Applied Physiology,  86(5): 1527-1533.
 20. Saunders, P .U., D.B. Pyne, R.D. Telford, and J.A. 
Hawley. 2004. Factors affecting running economy 
in trained distance runners. Sports Medicine, 34(7): 
465-485.
 21. Millet, G.P ., B. Roels, L. Schmitt, X. Woorons, and 
J.P . Richalet. 2010. Combining hypoxic methods for peak performance. Sports Medicine,  40(1): 1-25.
 22. Mujika, I., and S. Padilla. 2000. Detraining: Loss of 
training-induced physiological and performance 
adaptations part I: Short-term insufficient training 
stimulus. Sports Medicine, 30(2): 79 - 87.
 23. Houmard, J.A., T. Hortobágyi, R.A. Johns, N.J. 
Bruno, C.C. Nute, M.H. Shinebarger, and J.W. Wel -
born. 1992. Effect of short-term training cessation 
on performance measures in distance runners. 
International Journal of Sports Medicine, 13(8): 572-576.
Chapter 17
 1. Loy, S.F., J.J. Hoffmann, and G.J. Holland. 1995. Ben -
efits and practical use of cross-training in sports. 
Sports Medicine,  19(1): 1-8.
 2. Clausen, J.P ., K. Klausen, B. Rasmussen, and J. 
Trap-Jensen. 1973. Central and peripheral circu -
latory changes after training of the arms or legs. American Journal of Physiology,  225(3): 675-682.
 3. Pechar, G.S., W.D. McArdle, F.I. Katch, J.R. Magel, 
and J. DeLuca. 1974. Specificity of cardiorespiratory 
adaptation to bicycle and treadmill training. Journal 
of Applied Physiology,  36(6): 753-756.
 4. Mutton, D.L., S.F. Loy, D.M. Rogers, G.J. Holland, 
W.J. Vincent, and M. Heng. 1993. Effect of run vs. combined cycle/run training on VO
2max and running performance. Medicine and Science in Sports 
and Exercise,  25(12): 1393-1397.
 5. Beachle, T., and R. Earle. 2008. Essentials of Strength 
Training and Conditioning . 3rd ed. Champaign: 
Human Kinetics.
 6. Borg, G. 1970. Perceived exertion as an indicator of 
somatic stress.  Scandinavian Journal of Rehabilitation 
Medicine,  2(2): 92-98.
Chapter 18
 1. Selye, H. 1950. The Physiology and Pathology of Expo -
sure to Stress.  Montreal: Medical Publisher.
 2. Spiering, B.A., J. Kraemer, J.M. Anderson, L.E. 
Armstrong, B.C. Nindl, J.S. Volek, and C.M. Maresh. 2008. Resistance exercise biology: Manipulation of resistance exercise programme variables deter -
mines the responses of cellular and molecular signalling pathways. Sports Medicine,  38(7): 527-540.
 3. Matveyev, L.P . 1964. Fundamentals of Sports Training.  
Moscow: Progress.
 4. Zatsiorsky, V.M. 1995. Science and Practice of Strength 
Training.  Champaign: Human Kinetics.
 5. Shepard, R. J. 2001. Chronic fatigue syndrome: An 
update. Sports Medicine,  31(3): 167-194.
 6. Foster, R.G., and T. Roenneberg. 2008. Human 
responses to the geophysical daily, annual and 
lunar cycles. Current Biology,  18 (17): R784-R794.
 7 . Martin, J.C., A.S. Gardner, M. Barras, and D.T. 
Martin. 2006. Modelling sprint cycling using field-
driven parameters and forward integration. Medi -
cine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 38(3): 592-597.
 8. Viru, A. 1995. Adaptation in Sports Training.  Boca 
Raton: CRC Press.
 9. Gabbett, T.J., and D.G Jenkins. 2011. Relationship 
between training load and injury in professional 
rugby league players. Journal of Science and Medicine in Sports,  14(3): 204-209.
 10. Novas, A.M., D.G. Rowbottom, and D.G. Jenkins. 
2003. Tennis, incidence of URTI and salivary IgA. International Journal of Sports Medicine, 24(3): 223-229.
 11. Cormie, P ., M.R. McGuigan, and R.U. Newton. 2010. 
Influence of strength on magnitude and mecha -
nisms of adaptation to power training. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 42(8): 1566-1581.
 12. Baar, K. 2009. The signalling underlying FITness. 
Applied Physiology Nutrition Metabolism,  34(3): 
411-419.
 13. Verkoshansky, Y.V. 1985. Programming and Organi -
sation of Training Process.  Moscow: FiS.
 14. Ronnestad, B.R., J. Hansen, and S. Ellefsen. 2012. 
Block periodization of high intensity aerobic inter -
vals provides superior training effects in trained 
cyclists. Scandinavian Journal of Medicine and Science 
in Sports. Doi:10.1111/j.1600-0838.2012.01485.x [epub ahead of print]

348 ❙ References
 15. Issurin, V.B. 2010. New horizons for the method -
ology and physiology of training periodization. 
Sports Medicine,  40(3): 189-206.
 16. Mujika, I. 1998. The influence of training charac -
teristics and tapering on the adaptation in highly trained individuals: A review. International Journal of Sports Medicine, 19(7): 439-446.
 17 . Kelly, V.G., and A.J. Coutts. 2007. Planning and 
monitoring training load during the competition phase in team sports. Strength and Conditioning 
Journal,  29(4): 32-37.
Chapter 19
 1. Matsui, T., T. Ishikawa, H. Ito, M. Okamoto, K. Inoue, 
M.C. Lee, T. Fujikawa, Y. Ichitani, K. Kawanaka, and H. Sova. 2012. Brain glycogen supercompensation following exhaustive exercise. Journal of Physiology , 
590 (Pt 3): 607-616.
 2. Ingham, S.A, H. Carter, G.P . Whyte, and J.H. Doust. 
2008. Physiological and performance effects of low- versus mixed-intensity rowing training. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise , 40(3): 
579-584.
 3. Bogdanis, G.C. , M.E.  Nevill, L.H. Boobis, and H.K. 
Lakomy. 1996. Contribution of phosphocreatine and aerobic metabolism to energy supply during repeated sprint exercise . Journal of Applied Physiol -
ogy, 80: 876-884.
 4. Gaitanos, G.C., C. Williams, L.H. Boobis, and S. 
Brooks. 1993. Human muscle metabolism during intermittent maximal exercise. Journal of Applied Physiology, 75(2): 712-719.
Chapter 20
 1. Wisbey, B., D. Pyne, and B. Rattray. 2011. Quantify -
ing changes in AFL player game demands using GPS tracking: 2011 season . AFL Research Board 
Report . Melbourne: Australian Football League.
 2. Aughey, R. 2011. Increased high intensity activity 
in elite Australian football finals matches. Interna -
tional Journal of Sports Physiology and Performance , 6: 
367-379.
 3. Champion Data. 2012. Official Statistics Provider to 
Australian Football League. Melbourne, Australia.
 4. Cunniffe, B., W. Proctor, J. Baker, and B. Davies. 
2009. An evaluation of the physiological demands of elite rugby union using global positioning system tracking software.  Journal of Strength and Condition -
ing Research, 23(4): 1195-1203.
 5. Vaz, L., M. Van Rooyen, and J. Sampaio. 2010. Rugby 
game-related statistics that discriminate between winning and losing teams in IRB and Super twelve 
close games.  Journal of Sports Science and Medicine , 
9: 51-55. 6. King, T., D. Jenkins, and T. Gabbett. 2009. A 
time-motion analysis of professional rugby 
league match play. Journal of Sports Sciences , 27(3): 
213-219.
 7. Sports Data. 2012. NRL Statistics. Sydney.
 8. Bangsbo, J. 1994. Fitness Training in Football: A Sci -
entific Approach . [English ed.]. Bagsvaerd: HO and 
Storm.
 9. Reed, J.P ., B.K. Schilling, and Z. Murlasits. 2013. 
Acute neuromuscular and metabolic responses to concurrent endurance and resistance exercise. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research , 27(3): 
793-801.
 10. Hickson R. 1980. Interference of strength develop -
ment by simultaneously training for strength and endurance. European Journal of Applied Physiology, 
45: 255-263.
 11. McCarthy, J., J. Agre, B. Graf, M. Pozniak, and A. 
Vailas. 1995. Compatibility of adaptive response with combing strength and endurance training . 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise , 27(3): 
429-436.
 12. Gravelle, B., and B. Blessing. 2000. Physiological 
adaption of women concurrently training for 
strength and endurance training.  Journal of Strength 
and Conditioning Research,  14(1): 5-13.
 13. McCarthy, J., M. Pozniak, and C. Agre. 2002. Neu -
romuscular adaptations to concurrent strength and 
endurance training.  Medicine and Science in Sports 
and Exercise , 34: 511-519.
 14. Bell, G., D. Syrotuik, T. Martin, R. Burnham, and H. 
Quinney. 2000. Effect of concurrent strength and endurance training on skeletal muscle properties and hormone concentrations in humans . Journal of 
Applied Physiology , 81: 418-427.
 15. Hakkinen, K., M. Alen, W. Kraemer, E. Goros -
tiaga, M. Izquierdo, H. Rusko, J. Mikkola, A. 
Hakkinen, H. Valkeinen, E. Kaarkainen, S. Romu, V. Erola, J. Ahtiainen, and L. Paavolainen. 2003. Neuromuscular adaptations during concurrent strength and endurance training versus strength training. European Journal of Applied Physiology , 89: 
42-52.
 16. Chtara, M., A. Chaouachi, G. Levin, M. Chaouachi, 
K. Chamari, M. Amri, and P . Laursen. 2008. Effect of concurrent endurance and circuit resistance training sequence on muscular strength and power development.  Journal of Strength and Conditioning 
Research , 22(4): 1037-1045.
 17. Hennessey, L., and A. Watson. 1994. The interfer -
ence effects of training for strength and endurance simultaneously.  Journal of Strength and Conditioning 
Research , 8(1): 12-19.
 18. Rhea, M., J. Oliverson, G. Marshall, M. Peterson, 
J. Kenn, and F. Ayllon. 2008. Noncompatibility of power and endurance training among college 

 References  ❙ 349
baseball players. Journal of Strength and Conditioning 
Research , 22(1): 230-234.
 19. Ronnestad, B., and E. Hansen. 2012. High volume of 
endurance training impairs adaptations to 12 weeks of 
strength training in well-trained endurance athletes . 
European Journal of Applied Physiology , 112: 1457-1466.
 20. Leverett, M., and P . Abernethy. 1999. Acute effects 
of high intensity endurance exercise on subsequent 
resistance activity.  Journal of Strength and Condition -
ing Research, 13(1): 47-51.
 21. Kraemer, W., J. Patton, S. Gordon, E. Harman, M. 
Deschenes, K. Reynolds, R. Newton, N. Triplett, and J. Dziados. 1995. Compatibility of high-inten -
sity strength and endurance training on hormonal and skeletal muscle adaptations. Journal of Applied 
Physiology , 78: 976-989.
 22. Terada, S., K. Kawanaka, M. Goto, T. Shimokawa, 
and I. Tabata. 2005. Effects of high-intensity inter -
mittent swimming on PGC-1a protein expression 
in rat skeletal muscle . Acta Physiologica Scandinavica , 
184(1): 59-65.
 23. Terzis, G., G. Georgiadis, G. Stratkos, I. Vogiatzis, S. 
Kavouras, P . Manta, H. Mascher, and E. Blomstrand. 
2008. Resistance exercise-induced increase muscle mass correlates with p70S6 kinase phosphorylation in human subjects. European Journal of Applied Phys -
iology , 102: 145-152.
 24. Baar, K. 2008. Beyond genes: Maximising strength 
and endurance.  Peak Performance Journal , 263: 8-11.
 25. Chromiak, J., and D. Mulvaney. 1990. A review: 
The effects of combined strength and endurance 
training on strength development. Journal of Applied Sports Science Research , 4: 55-60.
 26. Ono, M., M. Myashita, and T. Asami. 1976. Inhib -
itory effects of long distance running training on 
the vertical jump and other performances among aged males. In P .V. Komi  (ed.), Biomechanics  v-b (pp. 
94-100). Baltimore: University Park Press..
 27. Wilson, J., P . Marin, M. Rhea, S. Wilson, J. Loen -
neke, and J. Anderson. 2012. Concurrent training: A meta-analysis examining interference of aerobic and resistance exercises.  Journal of Strength and 
Conditioning Research , 26(8): 2293-2307.
 28. Silva, R.F., E.L. Cadore, G. Kothe, M. Guedes, C.L. 
Alberton, S.S. Pinto, R.S. Pinto, G. Trindade, and 
L.F.M. Kruel. 2012. Concurrent training with differ -
ent aerobic exercises. International Journal of Sports 
Medicine,  33(8): 627-634.
 29. Baker, D. 2001. The effects of an in-season of concur -
rent training on maintenance of maximal strength and power in professional and college-aged rugby league football players.  Journal of Strength and Con -
ditioning Research , 15(2): 172-177.
 30. Baker, D. 2007. Cycle length variations in periodised 
strength/power training.  Journal of Strength and 
Conditioning Research,  29(4): 10-17.Chapter 21
 1. Bangsbo, J., F.M. Iaia, and P . Krustrup. 2008. The 
yo-yo intermittent recovery test: A useful tool for 
evaluation of physical performance in intermittent 
sports. Sports Medicine,  38(1): 37-51.
 2. Gabbett, T.J., and S. Ullah. 2012. Relationship 
between running loads and soft-tissue injury in 
elite team sport athletes. Journal of Strength and 
Conditioning Research.  26(4): 953-960.
 3. Simao, R., B.F. de Salles, T. Figueiredo, I. Dias, and 
J.M. Willardson. 2012. Exercise order in resistance training. Sports Medicine , 42(3): 251-265 .
 4. Uchida, M.C., B.T. Crewther, C. Ugrinowitsch, R.F.P . 
Bacurau, A.S. Moriscot, and M.S. Aoki. 2009. Hor -
monal responses to different resistance exercise 
schemes of similar total volume. Journal of Strength 
and Conditioning Research,  23(7): 2003-2008.
 5. Prestes, J., A.B. Frollini, C. de Lima, F.F. Donatto, 
D. Foschini, R. de Cássia Marqueti, A. Figueira Jr., and S.J. Fleck. 2009. Comparison between linear and daily undulating periodized resistance training to 
increase strength. Journal of Strength and Condition -
ing Research,  23(9): 2437-2442.
 6. Astorino, T.A., R.P . Allen, D.W. Roberson, and M. 
Jurancich. 2012. Effect of high-intensity interval training on cardiovascular function, V ˙O
2max, and 
muscular force. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  26(1): 138-145.
 7 . Berthoin, S., F. Mantéca, M. Gerbeaux, and G. 
Lensel-Corbeil. 1995. Effect of a 12-week training programme on Maximal Aerobic Speed (MAS) and running time to exhaustion at 100% of MAS 
for students aged 14 to 17 years. Journal of Sports Medicine and Physical Fitness,  35(4): 251-256.
 8. Impellizzeri, F.M., S.M. Marcora, C. Castagna, T. 
Reilly, A. Sassi, F.M. Iaia, and E. Rampinini. 2006. 
Physiological and performance effects of generic 
versus specific aerobic training in soccer play -
ers. International Journal of Sports Medicine, 27(6): 
483-492.
 9. Kirkendall, D.T., and J. Dvorak. 2010. Effective injury 
prevention in soccer. Physician and Sportsmedicine,  
38(1): 147-157.
 10. Gabbett, T.J., B. Abernethy, and D.G. Jenkins. 2012. 
Influence of field size on the physiological and skill demands of small-sided games in junior and 
senior rugby league players. Journal of Strength and 
Conditioning Research,  26(2): 487-491.
 11. Hill-Haas, S.V., B. Dawson, F.M. Impellizzeri, and 
A.J. Coutts. 2011. Physiology of small-sided games training in football: A systematic review. Sports 
Medicine,  41(3): 199-220.
 12. Steffen, K., G. Myklebust, O.E. Olsen, I. Holme, and 
R. Bahr. 2008. Preventing injuries in female youth 
football: A cluster-randomized controlled trial. 

350 ❙ References
Scandinavian Journal of Medicine and Science in Sports,  
18(5): 605-614.
 13. Zebis, M.K., L.L. Andersen, J. Bencke, M. Kjaer, 
and P . Aagaard. 2009. Identification of athletes at 
future risk of anterior cruciate ligament ruptures 
by neuromuscular screening. American Journal of Sports Medicine,  37(10): 1967-1973.
 14. Quinn, K., P . Parker, R. de Bie, B. Rowe, and H. 
Handoll. 2000. Interventions for preventing ankle 
ligament injuries. Cochrane Database of Systematic 
Reviews,  2, CD000018.
 15. Castellano, J., A. Blanco-Villasenor, and D. Alvarez. 
2011. Contextual variables and time-motion analysis 
in soccer. International Journal of Sports Medicine, 32(6): 
415-421.
 16. Rampinini, E., F.M. Impellizzeri, C. Castagna, A.J. 
Coutts, and U. Wisloff. 2009. Technical performance during soccer matches of the Italian Serie A league: 
Effect of fatigue and competitive level. Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport, 12(1): 227-233.
 17. Lamberts, R.P ., J. Swart, B. Capostagno, T.D. Noakes, 
and M.I. Lambert. 2010. Heart rate recovery as a 
guide to monitor fatigue and predict changes in 
performance parameters. Scandinavian Journal of Medicine and Science in Sports, 20(3): 4 49 - 457.
 18. Bradley, P .S., M. Mohr, M. Bendiksen, M.B. Rand -
ers, M. Flindt, C. Barnes, P . Hood, A. Gomez, J.L. Andersen, M. Di Mascio, J. Bangsbo, and P . 
Krustrup. 2011. Sub-maximal and maximal yo-yo 
intermittent endurance test level 2: Heart rate 
response, reproducibility and application to elite 
soccer. European Journal of Applied Physiology and 
Occupational Physiology,  111(6): 969-978.
 19. Roecker, K., H. Striegel, H.H. Dickhuth. 2003. Heart-
rate recommendations: Transfer between running and cycling exercise? International Journal of Sports 
Medicine,  24(3): 173-178.
Chapter 22
 1. Bompa, T.O., and G.G. Haff. 2009. Periodization: 
Theory and Methodology of Training. 5th ed. Cham -
paign: Human Kinetics.
 2. Pyne, D.B., I. Mujika, and T. Reilly. 2009. Peaking 
for optimal performance: Research limitations and future directions. Journal of Sports Sciences, 27(3): 
195-202.
 3. Zatsiorsky, V.M., and W.J. Kraemer. 2006. Science and 
Practice of Strength Training. 2nd ed. Champaign: 
Human Kinetics.
 4. Mujika, I. 2010. Intense training: The key to optimal 
performance before and during the taper. Scan -
dinavian Journal of Medicine and Science in Sports,  
20(Suppl 2): 24-31.
 5. Bosquet, L., J. Montpetit, D. Arvisais, and I. 
Mujika. 2007. Effects of tapering on performance: A meta-analysis. Medicine and Science in Sports and 
Exercise,  39(8): 1358-1365.
 6. Wenger, H.A., and G.J. Bell. 1986. The interactions 
of intensity, frequency and duration of exercise training in altering cardiorespiratory fitness. Sports 
Medicine,  3(5): 346-356.
 7. Flynn, M.G., F.X. Pizza, J.B. Boone Jr., F.F. Andres, 
T.A. Michaud, and J.R. Rodriguez-Zayas. 1994. 
Indices of training stress during competitive run -
ning and swimming seasons. International Journal 
of Sports Medicine, 15(1): 21-26.
 8. Houmard, J.A. 1996. Tapering for the competitive 
cyclist. Performance Conditioning for Cyclists , 2(7): 1-8.
 9. Houmard, J.A., and R.A. Johns. 1994. Effects of taper 
on swim performance: Practical implications. Sports Medicine,  17(4): 224-232.
 10. Houmard, J.A., B.K. Scott, C.L. Justice, and T.C. 
Chenier. 1994. The effects of taper on performance 
in distance runners. Medicine and Science in Sports 
and Exercise,  26(5): 624-631.
 11. Mujika, I. 1998. The influence of training charac -
teristics and tapering on the adaptation in highly trained individuals: A review. International Journal of Sports Medicine, 19(7): 439-446.
 12. Mujika, I., T. Busso, L. Lacoste, F. Barale, A. Geyssant, 
and J.C. Chatard. 1996. Modeled responses to train -
ing and taper in competitive swimmers. Medicine 
and Science in Sports and Exercise, 28(2): 251-258.
 13. Mujika, I., A. Goya, S. Padilla, A. Grijalba, E. Goros -
tiaga, and J. Ibanez. 2000. Physiological responses to 
a 6-d taper in middle-distance runners: Influence of 
training intensity and volume. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 32(2): 511-517.
 14. Neufer, P .D. 1989. The effect of detraining and 
reduced training on the physiological adaptations 
to aerobic exercise training. Sports Medicine,  8(5): 
302-320.
 15. Zarkadas, P .C., J.B. Carter, and E.W. Banister. 1995. 
Modelling the effect of taper on performance, max -
imal oxygen uptake, and the anaerobic threshold 
in endurance triathletes. Advances in Experimental 
Medicine and Biology,  393: 179-186.
1 6. Bosquet, L., L. Leger, and P . Legros. 2002. Methods 
to determine aerobic endurance. Sports Medicine,  
32(11): 675-700.
 17. Mujika, I., A. Goya, E. Ruiz, A. Grijalba, J. Santiste -
ban, and S. Padilla. 2002. Physiological and perfor -
mance responses to a 6-day taper in middle-distance 
runners: Influence of training frequency. Interna -
tional Journal of Sports Medicine, 23(5): 367-373.
 18. Mujika, I., and A. Padilla. 2003. Scientific bases for 
precompetition tapering strategies. Medicine and 
Science in Sports and Exercise, 35(7): 1182-1187.
 19. Mujika, I., S. Padilla, D. Pyne, and T. Busso. 2004. 
Physiological changes associated with the pre-event taper in athletes. Sports Medicine,  34(13): 891-927.

 References  ❙ 351
 20. Smith, D.J. 2003. A framework for understanding 
the training process leading to elite performance. 
Sports Medicine,  33(15): 1103-1126.
 21. Trappe, S., D. Costill, and R. Thomas. 2000. Effect 
of swim taper on whole muscle and single muscle fiber contractile properties. Medicine and Science in 
Sports and Exercise,  32(12): 48-56.
 22. Thomas, L., T. Busso. 2005. A theoretical study 
of taper characteristics to optimize performance. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 37(9): 
1615-1621.
 23. Mujika, I., and S. Padilla. 2000. Detraining: Loss of 
training-induced physiological and performance 
adaptations part I: Short term insufficient training 
stimulus. Sports Medicine,  30(2): 79 - 87.
 24. Busso T. 2003. Variable dose-response relation -
ship between exercise training and performance. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 35(7): 
1188-1195.
 25. Stone, M.H., M.E. Stone, and W.A. Sands. 2007. Prin -
ciples and Practice of Resistance Training. Champaign: 
Human Kinetics.
 26. Busso, T., K. Häkkinen, A. Pakarinen, H. Kauhanen, 
P .V. Komi, and J.R. Lacour. 1992. Hormonal adapta -
tions and modeled responses in elite weightlifters 
during 6 weeks of training. European Journal of 
Applied Physiology,  64(4): 381-386.
 27. Zatsiorsky, V.M. 1995. Science and Practice of Strength 
Training.  Champaign: Human Kinetics.
 28. Plisk, S.S., and M.H. Stone. 2003. Periodization 
strategies. Strength and Conditioning , 25(6): 19-37.
 29. Viru, A. 1995. Adaptations in Sports Training.  Boca 
Raton: CRC Press.
 30. Kubukeli, Z.N., T.D. Noakes, and S.C. Dennis. 2002. 
Training techniques to improve endurance exercise 
performances. Sports Medicine,  32(8): 489-509.
 31. Mujika, I. 2009. Tapering and Peaking for Optimal 
Performance.  Champaign: Human Kinetics.
 32. Hooper, S.L., L.T. Mackinnon, and A. Howard. 1999. 
Physiological and psychometric variables for moni -
toring recovery during tapering for major competi -
tion. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 31(8): 
1205-1210.
 33. Raglin, J.S., D.M. Koceja, J.M. Stager, and C.A. 
Harms. 1996. Mood, neuromuscular function, and 
performance during training in female swimmers. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 28(3): 372-377.
 34. Mujika, I., S. Padilla, and D. Pyne. 2002. Swimming 
performance changes during the final 3 weeks 
of training leading to the Sydney 2000 Olympic 
Games. International Journal of Sports Medicine, 23(8): 
582-587.
 35. McGuigan, M.R., and M.K. Kane. 2004. Reliability of 
performance of elite Olympic weightlifters. Journal 
of Strength and Conditioning Research,  18(3): 650-653. 36. Hopkins, W.G. 2005. Competitive performance of 
elite track and field athletes: Variability and small -
est worthwhile enhancements. Sportscience,  9: 17-20.
 37. Chtourou, H., A. Chaouachi, T. Driss, M. Dogui, D.G. 
Behm, K. Chamari, and N. Souissi. 2012. The effect 
of training at the same time of day and tapering period on the diurnal variation of short exercise 
performances. Journal of Strength and Conditioning 
Research , 26(3): 697-708.
 38. Hellard, P ., M. Avalos, G. Millet, L. Lacoste, F. Barale, 
and J.C. Chatard. 2005. Modeling the residual 
effects and threshold saturation of training: A case 
study of Olympic swimmers. Journal of Strength and 
Conditioning Research,  19(1): 67-75.
 39. Martin, D.T., J.C. Scifres, S.D. Zimmerman, and J.G. 
Wilkinson. 1994. Effects of interval training and a 
taper on cycling performance and isokinetic leg strength. International Journal of Sports Medicine,  
15(8): 485-491.
 40. Neary, J.P ., T.P . Martin, and H.A. Quinney. 2003. 
Effects of taper on endurance cycling capacity and 
single muscle fiber properties. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 35(11): 1875-1881.
 41. Papoti, M., L.E. Martins, S.A. Cunha, A.M. Zagatto, 
and C.A. Gobatto. 2007. Effects of taper on swim -
ming force and swimmer performance after an 
experimental ten-week training program. Journal 
of Strength and Conditioning Research,  21(2): 538-542.
 42. Shepley, B., J.D. MacDougall, N. Cipriano, J.R. 
Sutton, M.A. Tarnopolsky, and G. Coates. 1992. 
Physiological effects of tapering in highly trained 
athletes. Journal of Applied Physiology , 72(2): 706-711.
 43. Izquierdo, M., J. Ibanez, J.J. Gonzalez-Badillo, N.A. 
Ratamess, W.J. Kraemer, K. Häkkinen, H. Bonnabau, 
C. Granados, D.N. French, and E.M. Gorostiaga. 
2007. Detraining and tapering effects on hormonal responses and strength performance. Journal of 
Strength and Conditioning Research,  21(3): 768-775.
 44. Coutts, A., P . Reaburn, T.J. Piva, and A. Murphy. 
2007. Changes in selected biochemical, muscular 
strength, power, and endurance measures during 
deliberate overreaching and tapering in rugby league players. International Journal of Sports Medi -
cine, 28(2): 116-124.
 45. Gibala, M.J., J.D. MacDougall, and D.G. Sale. 1994. 
The effects of tapering on strength performance 
in trained athletes. International Journal of Sports Medicine,  15(8): 492-497.
 46. Banister, E.W., J.B. Carter, and P .C. Zarkadas. 1999. 
Training theory and taper: Validation in triathlon 
athletes. European Journal of Applied Physiology and 
Occupational Physiology,  79(2): 182-191.
 47. Graves, J.E., M.L. Pollock, D. Foster, S.H. Leggett, 
D.M. Carpenter, R. Vuoso, and A. Jones. 1990. Effect of training frequency and specificity on isometric lumbar extension strength. Spine,  15(6): 504-509.

352 ❙ References
 48. Hickson, R.C., C. Foster, M.L. Pollock, T.M. Galassi, 
and S. Rich. 1985. Reduced training intensities 
and loss of aerobic power, endurance, and cardiac 
growth. Journal of Applied Physiology , 58(2): 492-499.
 49. Houmard, J.A., D.L. Costill, J.B. Mitchell, S.H. Park, 
W.J. Fink, and J.M. Burns. 1990. Testosterone, cor -
tisol, and creatine kinase levels in male distance runners during reduced training. International 
Journal of Sports Medicine, 11(1): 41-45.
 50. Houmard, J.A., D.L. Costill, J.B. Mitchell, S.H. Park, 
R.C. Hickner, and J.N. Roemmich. 1990. Reduced 
training maintains performance in distance run -
ners. International Journal of Sports Medicine, 11(1): 
46-52.
 51. Houmard, J.A., J.P . Kirwan, M.G. Flynn, and J.B. 
Mitchell. 1989. Effects of reduced training on 
submaximal and maximal running responses. 
International Journal of Sports Medicine, 10(1): 30-33.
 52. Neufer, P .D., D.L. Costill, R.A. Fielding, M.G. Flynn, 
and J.P . Kirwan. 1987. Effect of reduced training on 
muscular strength and endurance in competitive 
swimmers. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exer -
cise, 19(5): 486-490.
 53. Johns, R.A., J.A. Houmard, R.W. Kobe, T. Horto -
bágyi, N.J. Bruno, J.M. Wells, and M.H. Shinebarger. 
1992. Effects of taper on swim power, stroke dis -
tance, and performance. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise,  24(10): 1141-1146.
 54. Mujika, I., J.C. Chatard, and A. Geyssant. 1996. 
Effects of training and taper on blood leucocyte 
populations in competitive swimmers: Relation -
ships with cortisol and performance. International 
Journal of Sports Medicine, 17(3): 213-217.
 55. Mujika, I., J.C. Chatard, S. Padilla, C.Y. Guezennec, 
and A. Geyssant. 1996. Hormonal responses to 
training and its tapering off in competitive swim -
mers: Relationships with performance. European Journal of Applied Physiology and Occupational Phys -
iology,  74(4): 361-366.
 56. Mujika, I., S. Padilla, A. Geyssant, and J.C. Chatard. 
1998. Hematological responses to training and taper 
in competitive swimmers: Relationships with per -
formance. Archives of Physiology and Biochemistry,  
105(4): 379-385.
 57 . McConell, G.K., D.L. Costill, J.J. Widrick, M.S. 
Hickey, H. Tanaka, and P .B. Gastin. 1993. Reduced training volume and intensity maintain aerobic 
capacity but not performance in distance runners. 
International Journal of Sports Medicine, 14(1): 33-37.
 58. Neary, J.P ., Y.N. Bhambhani, and D.C. McKenzie. 
2003. Effects of different stepwise reduction taper 
protocols on cycling performance. Canadian Journal 
of Applied Physiology,  28(4): 576 - 587.
 59. Rietjens, G.J., H.A. Keizer, H. Kuipers, and W.H. 
Saris. 2001. A reduction in training volume and 
intensity for 21 days does not impair performance in cyclists. British Journal of Sports Medicine, 35(6): 
431-434.
 60. Neary, J.P ., T.P . Martin, D.C. Reid, R. Burnham, 
and H.A. Quinney. 1992. The effects of a reduced 
exercise duration taper programme on performance 
and muscle enzymes of endurance cyclists. Euro -
pean Journal of Applied Physiology and Occupational Physiology,  65(1): 30-36.
 61. Hickson, R.C., and M.A. Rosenkoetter. 1981. 
Reduced training frequencies and maintenance of increased aerobic power. Medicine and Science in 
Sports and Exercise,  13(1): 13-16.
Chapter 23
 1. Crewther, B., J. Cronin, J. Keogh, and C. Cook. 2008. 
The salivary testosterone and cortisol response to three loading schemes. Journal of Strength and 
Conditioning Research, 22: 250-255.
 2. Ives, J.C. and G.A. Shelley. Psychophysics in func -
tional strength and power training: Review and implementation framework. Journal of Strength and 
Conditioning Research,  17(1): 177-186.
Chapter 24
 1. Cheung, K., P . Hume, and L. Maxwell. 2003. Delayed 
onset muscle soreness: Treatment strategies and 
performance factors. Sports Medicine,  33: 145-164.
 2. Gill, N.D., C.M. Beaven, and C. Cook. 2006. Effec -
tiveness of post-match recovery strategies in rugby players. British Journal of Sports Medicine, 40: 260-263.
 3. Cormack, S.J., R.U. Newton, and M.R. McGuigan. 
2008. Neuromuscular and endocrine responses of 
elite players to an Australian rules football match. 
International Joural of Sports Physiology, 3: 359-374.
 4. Horita, T. 2000. Stiffness regulation during 
stretch-shortening cycle exercise. [PhD thesis]. University of Jyvaskyla, Jyvaskyla.
 5. Davies, R.C., R.G. Eston, D.C. Poole, A.V. Rowlands, 
F. DiMenna, D.P . Wilkerson, C. Twist, and A.M. Jones. 2008. Effect of eccentric exercise-induced 
muscle damage on the dynamics of muscle oxy -
genation and pulmonary oxygen uptake. Journal 
of Applied Physiology,  105: 1413-1421.
 6. O’Reilly, K.P ., M.J. Warhol, R.A. Fielding, W.R. Fron -
tera, C.N. Meredith, and W.J. Evans. 1987. Eccentric exercise-induced muscle damage impairs muscle 
glycogen repletion. Journal of Applied Physiology, 63: 252-256.
 7 . Saxton, J.M., P .M. Clarkson, R. James, M. Miles, 
M. Westerfer, S. Clark, and A.E. Donnelly. 1995. Neuromuscular dysfunction following eccentric exercise. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 
27: 1185-1193.
 8. Jarvinen, T.A., T.L. Jarvinen, M. Kaariainen, H. 
Kalimo, and M. Jarvinen. 2005. Muscle injuries: 

 References  ❙ 353
Biology and treatment. American Journal of Sports 
Medicine,  33: 745-764.
 9. Jae, S.Y., K.S. Heffernan, S.H. Park, S.H. Jung, E.S. 
Yoon, E.J. Kim, E.S. Ahn, and B. Fernhall. 2010. 
Does an acute inflammatory response temporarily attenuate parasympathetic reactivation? Clinical Autonomic Research,  20: 229-233.
 10. Crewther, B.T. and C.J. Cook. 2012. The effects of 
different pre-game motivational interventions on 
athlete free hormonal state and subseqent per -
formance in professional rugby union matches. Physiology and Behavior,  106: 683-688.
 11. Crewther, B.T., L.P . Kilduff, C.J. Cook, D.J. Cunning -
ham, P . Bunce, R.M. Bracken, and C.M. Gaviglio. 
2012. Relationships between salivary free testos -
terone and the expression of force and power in elite athletes. Journal of Sports Medicine and Physical Fitness,  52: 221-227 .
 12. Fry, A.C., B.K. Schilling, S.J. Fleck, and W.J. Kraemer. 
2011. Relationships between competitive wrestling 
success and neuroendocrine responses. Journal of 
Strength and Conditioning Research,  25: 40-45.
 13. Passerlegue, P ., and G. Lac. 1999. Saliva cortisol, 
testosterone and T/C variations during a wrestling competition and during the post-competitive recov -
ery period. International Journal of Sports Medicine, 20: 109-113.
 14. Gleeson, M. 2007. Immune function in sport and 
exercise. Journal of Applied Physiology 103: 693-699.
 15. Wilcock, I.M., J.B. Cronin, and W.A. Hing. 2006. 
Physiological response to water immersion: A method for sport recovery? Sports Medicine,  36: 
747-765.
 16. Paddon-Jones, D.J., and B.M. Quigley. 1997. Effect 
of cryotherapy on muscle soreness and strength following eccentric exercise. International Journal 
of Sports Medicine, 18: 588-593.
 17. Howatson, G., and K.A. van Someren. 2008. The pre -
vention and treatment of exercise-induced muscle damage. Sports Medicine,  38: 483-503.
 18. Leeder, J., C. Gissane, K. van Someren, W. Gregson, 
and G. Howatson. 2011. Cold water immersion and 
recovery from strenuous exercise: A meta-analysis. British Journal of Sports Medicne, 46: 233-240.
 19. Halson, S.L. 2008. Nutrition, sleep and recovery. 
European Journal of Sport Science, 8(2): 119-126 .
 20. Buchheit, M., J.J. Peiffer, C.R. Abbiss, and P .B. 
Laursen. 2009. Effect of cold water immersion 
on post-exercise parasympatheric reactivation. 
American Journal of Physiology: Heart and Circulatory 
Physiology,  296: H421-H427.
 21. Al Haddad, H., J. Parouty, and M. Buchheit. 2012. 
Effect of daily cold water immersion on heart rate 
variability and subjective ratings of well-being in 
highly trained swimmers. International Journal of 
Sports Physiology and Performance, 7: 33-38. 22. Cochrane, D. 2004. Alternating hot and cold water 
immersion for athlete recovery: A review. Physical 
Therapy in Sport, 5: 26-32.
 23. Vaile, J.M., N.D. Gill, and A.J. Blazevich. 2007. The 
effect of contrast water therapy on symptoms of 
delayed onset muscle soreness. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  21: 697-702.
 24. Stanley, J., M. Buchheit, and J.M. Peake. 2012. The 
effect of post-exercise hydrotherapy on subsequent 
exercise performance and heart rate variability. 
European Journal of Applied Physiology, 112: 951-961.
 25. Davies, V., K.G. Thompson, and S.M. Cooper. 2009. 
The effects of compression garments on recovery. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research, 23: 
1786-1794.
 26. Jakeman, J.R., C. Byrne, and R.G. Eston. 2010. Lower 
limb compression garment improves recovery from 
exercise-induced muscle damage in young, active 
females. European Journal of Applied Physiology, 109: 
1137-1144.
 27. Pournot, H., F. Bieuzen, J. Louis, R. Mounier, J.R. 
Fillard, E. Barbiche, and C. Hausswirth. 2011. Time-
course of changes in inflammatroy response after 
whole-body cryotherapy multi exposures following 
severe exercise. PLoS One,  6: e22748.
 28. Zagrobelny, Z., B. Halawa, C. Niedzielski, and A. 
Wawrowska. 1993. The influence of a single whole 
body cryostimulation on selected hemodynamic 
indices and hormone concentrations in the serum 
of healthy individuals. Polski tygodnik lekarski, 48: 
303-305.
 29. Wozniak, A., B. Wozniak, G. Drewa, C. Mila-Kier -
zenkowska, and A. Rakowski. 2007. The effect of whole-body cryostimulation on the pro-oxidant-an -
tioxidant balans in blood of elite kayakers after training. European Journal of Applied Physiology, 101: 
533-537.
 30. Luczak, J., and J. Michalik. 2006. Wplyw skrajnie 
niskich temperatur na wybrane cechy motoryczne 
czlowieka. Fizjoterapia polska,  3: 206-201.
 31. Chwalbinska-Moneta, J. 2003. Influence of whole-
body cryotherapy on results of selected exercse 
response. Sport wyczynowy,  5-6: 461-462.
 32. Lubkowska, A. 2010. Cryotherapy: Physiological 
considerations and applications to physical therapy. 
In J. Bettany-Saltikov and B. Paz-Lourido (eds.),  
Physical Therapy Perspectives in the 21st Century: 
Challenges and Possibilites  (pp. 155-176).
 33. Banfi, G., G. Melegati, A. Barassi, G. Dogliotti, G.M. 
d’Eril, B. Dugue, and M.M. Corsi. 2009. Effects of 
whole-body cryotherapy on serum mediators of 
inflammation andserum muscle enzymes in ath -
letes. Journal of Thermal Biology, 34: 55-59.
 34. Hausswirth, C., J. Louis, F. Bieuzen, H. Pournot, 
J. Fournier, J.R. Fillard, and J. Brisswalter. 2011. 
Effects of whole-body cryotherapy vs. far-infared 

354 ❙ References
vs. passive modalities on recovery from exercise-in -
duced muscle damage in highly-trained runners . 
PLoS One,  6: e27749.
 35. Dodd, S., S.K. Powers, T. Callender, and E. Brooks. 
1984. Blood lactate disappearance at various 
intensities of recovery exercise . Journal of Applied 
Physiology,  57: 1462-1465.
 36. Beaven, C.M., C. Cook, D. Gray, P . Downes, I. 
Murphy, S. Drawer, J.R. Ingram, L.P . Kilduff, and 
N. Gill. 2013. Electrostimulation’s enhancement of 
recovery during a rugby preseason. Interntational 
Journal of Sports Physiology and Performance, 8(1): 92-98.
 37. Finberg, M., R. Braham, C. Goodman, P . Gregory, 
and P . Peeling. 2013. Effects of electrostimulation 
therapy on recovery from acute team sport activity . 
Int Journal of Sports Physiology and Performance , 8(3): 
293-299.
 38. Beaven, C.M., C.J. Cook, L. Kilduff, S. Drawer, and 
N. Gill. 2012. Intermittent lower-limb occlusion 
enhances recovery after strenuous exercise. Applied 
Physiology, Nutriton, and Metabolism, 37(6): 1132-1139.
 39. Leeder, J., M. Glaister, K. Pizzoferro, J. Dawson, and 
C. Pedlar. 2012. Sleep duration and quality in elite athletes measured using wristwatch actigraphy. 
Journal of Sports Sciences, 30: 541-545.
 40. Mah, C.D., K.E. Mah, E.J. Kezirian, and W.C. 
Dement. 2011. The effects of sleep extension on 
the athletic performance of collegiate basketball 
players. Sleep,  34: 943-950.
 41. Cook, C.J., C.M. Beaven, L.P . Kilduff, and S. Drawer. 
2012. Acute caffeine ingestion’s increase of volun -
tarily chosen resistance-training load after limited 
sleep. International Journal of Sport Nutrition and 
Exercise Metabolism,  22: 157-164.
 42. Cook, C.J., B.T. Crewther, L.P . Kilduff, S. Drawer, 
and C.M. Gaviglio. 2011. Skill execution and sleep 
deprivation: Effects of acute caffeine or creatine 
supplementation: A randomised placebo-controlled trial.  Journal of the International Society of Sports 
Nutrition,  8: 2.
 43. Waterhouse, J., G. Atkinson, B. Edwards, and T. 
Reilly. 2007. The role of a short post-lunch nap in 
improving cognitive, motor and sprint performance 
in participants with partial sleep deprivation. Jour -
nal of Sports Sciences, 25: 1557-1566.
 44. Bravo, L.1998. Polyphenols: Chemistry, dierary 
sources, metabolism, and nutritional significance. 
Nutritional Reviews,  56: 317-333.
 45. Connolly, D.A., M.P . McHugh, O.I. Padilla-Zakour, 
L. Carlson, and S.P . Sayers. 2006. Efficacy of a tart 
cherry juice blend in preventing the symptoms of 
muscle damage. British Journal of Sports Medicine, 
40: 679-683.
 46. Howatson, G., M.P . McHugh, J.A. Hill, J. Brouner, 
A.P . Jewell, K.A. van Someren, R.E. Shave, and S.A. Howatson. 2010. Influence of tart cherry juice on 
indices of recovery following marathon running. 
Scandinavian Journal of Medicine and Science in Sports,  
20: 843-850.
 47. Howatson, G., S. Goodall, and K.A. van Someren. 
2009. The influence of cold water immersions on 
adaptation following a single bout of damaging 
exercise. European Journal of Applied Physiology, 105: 
615-621.
 48. Pizza, F.X., D. Cavender, A. Stockard, H. Baylies, and 
A. Beighle. 1999. Anti-inflammatory doses of ibu -
profen: Effect on neutrophils and exericse-induced 
muscle injury. International Journal of Sports Medicine,  
20: 98-102.
 49. Shirreffs, S.M., A.J. Taylor, J.B. Leiper, and R.J. 
Maughan. 1996. Post-exercise rehydration in man: Effects of volume consumed and drink sodium content. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 
28: 1260-1271.
 50. Gonzalez-Bono, E., A. Salvador, M.A. Serrano, and 
J. Ricarte. 1999. Testosterone, cortisol, and mood in 
a sports team competition. Hormones and Behavior,  
35: 55-62.
 51. West, D.J., C. Finn, D.J. Cunningham, D.A. Shearer, 
M.R. Jones, B. Harrington, B.T. Crewther, C.J. Cook, 
and L.P . Kilduff. 2013. The neuromuscular function, 
hormonal, and mood responses to a professional 
rugby union match. Journal of Strength and Condi -
tioning Research.  [epub ahead of print]
 52. Foster, C. 1998. Monitoring training in athletes with 
reference to overtraining syndrome. Medicine and 
Science in Sports and Exercise, 30: 1164-1168.
 53. Cook, C.J., and C.M. Beaven. 2013. Individual per -
ception of recovery is related to subsequent sprint 
performance. British Journal of Sports Medicine,  
47(11): 705-709.
 54. Hellhammer, D.H., W. Hubert, and T. Schurmeyer. 
1985. Changes in saliva testosterone after psycho -
logical stimulation in men. Psychoneuroendocrinol -
ogy, 10: 77-81.
 55. Cook, C.J., and B.T. Crewther. 2012. Changes in sal -
ivary testosterone concentrations and subsequent 
voluntary squat performance following the presen -
tation of short video clips. Hormones and Behavior,  
61: 17-22.
 56. Crewther, B.T., and C.J. Cook. 2012. Effects of 
different post-match recovery interventions on 
subsequent athlete hormonal state and game per -
formance. Physiology and Behavior,  106: 471-475.
 57. Kiecolt-Glaser, J.K., G.G. Page, P .T. Marucha, R.C. 
MacCallum, and R. Glaser. 1998. Psychological 
influences on surgical recovery: Perspectives from 
psychoneuroimmunology . American Psychologist,  
53: 1209-1218.
 58. Peiffer, J.J., C.R. Abbiss, G. Watson, K. Nosaka, and 
P .B. Laursen. 2010. Effect of a 5-min cold-water 

 References  ❙ 355
immersion recovery on exercise performance in the 
heat. British Journal of Sports Medicine, 44: 461-465.
 59. Parouty, J., H. Al Haddad, M. Quod, P .M. Lepretre, 
S. Ahmaidi, and M. Buchheit. 2010. Effect of cold water immersion on 100m sprint performance in 
well trained swimmers. European Journal of Applied 
Physiology,  109: 483-490.
 60. Yamane, M., H. Teruya, M. Nakano, R. Ogai, N. 
Ohnishi, and M. Kosaka. 2006. Post-exercise leg and forearm flexor muscle cooling in humans attenu -
ates endurance and resistance training effects on 
muscle performance and on circulatory adaptation. 
European Journal of Applied Physiology, 96: 572-580.
 61. Jansky, L., H. Janakova, B. Ulicny, P . Sranek, V. 
Hosek, J. Heller, and J. Parizkova. 1996. Changes in thermal homeostasis in humans due to repeated 
cold water immersions. Pflugers Archiv,  432(3): 
368-372.

This page intentionally left blank.

 357Index
A
A and B system training  140-142, 141 t
abdominal muscles  43-44, 43 f, 44t
acceleration training
for anaerobic fitness  206-207
mechanics of  157-158resisted walking for  215-216, 215 f
for speed  147
accommodation resistance  136. See also strength trainingaccumulated oxygen deficit (AOD)  200-201, 201 f
accumulation block  256, 256 f
actin  62, 63active isolated stretching (AIS)  66active recovery  324active (dynamic) stretching  64, 66-67 , 105-106
active system, in core stability  42, 43-45, 43 f, 44t
activities of daily life  46
acupressure  101acupuncture  326adaptation. See also training load and response
in anaerobic fitness  202central vs. peripheral  232in continuous vs. intermittent exercise  225in elite strength training  136general adaptation syndrome theory  71-73, 72 f, 
247-248
vs. growth and maturation  15, 25in muscular endurance training  217-219physiological processes in  319-320, 320 f
recovery interference with  327-329in strength training  129transferability of  232
adductor muscles  43 f, 44t
adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase 
(AMPK)  271-272, 273
adenosine triphosphate (ATP)  100adolescence, defined  15. See also young athletesadolescent growth spurt  16A drills  155, 156 f
aerobic capacity, defined  221, 222aerobic endurance, defined  223aerobic fitness  221-230. See also interference effect
definitions  221-222
detraining effect  229-230
energy demands for  261-262, 262 f
injury risk and  26-27 , 219vs. movement efficiency  30in muscle endurance  218-219role in anaerobic adaptation  202in speed training  153-154, 154 ttesting  222-223
aerobic fitness training
altitude or hypoxic  228-229
continuous vs. intermittent exercise  225-227 , 227 t
critical speed concept  223-224, 224 f
cross-training gains and  232, 233-234HIIT  226
preseason  281-282
strength training and  228in team sports  227-228variables in  224-225
in young athletes  26-27
AF activity profile  269agility
components of  186-188, 187 f
defined  185
dynamic systems theory and  121offensive vs. defensive  185-186
plant phase in  186, 186 f
skill transfer from speed  123, 123 f
testing  188-190, 189 f, 189t
agility training  185-197
coaching tips  193
external vs. internal focus  193
force and body position  188 f, 191-193
lag time  186
periodising  195-196, 196 f
preseason  281-282progression of  194, 194 t
skill transfer from  193, 194
using test results in  195, 195f,  195t, 197t
in young athletes  26, 26 f, 194, 194 t
agonist-antagonist pairs, in strength training  140-142AIS  66
Allen, Mark  218Alpine ski racers  178
alternating dumbbell press  216, 216 f
altitude-landings  181-183, 182 f, 183t
altitude or hypoxic training
for aerobic fitness  228-229
for anaerobic fitness  208-209preseason  288
American football
CODS and agility  190, 191 f, 191t
NFL preseason training  284-285
strength-based performance  127 , 128 t
AMPK  271-272, 273
AMSC  18-20, 20 f
anaerobic capacity, defined  200anaerobic distance capacity  223-224, 224 fNote:  The italicized f and t following page numbers refer to figures and tables, respectively.

358 ❙ Index
anaerobic fitness  199-209
adaptations  202
definitions  200
in endurance training  218-219
energy demands for  260-261, 262 f
limitations to  202-203nutritional supplements for  207-208, 208 f
skill transfer from  199-200, 207testing  200-203, 201 f, 202f, 205, 205 f
variables in  199
anaerobic fitness training
altitude or hypoxic  208-209
focus areas  205-207
motivation in  209
periodising  204-205
progression of  203-204
anaerobic power, defined  200anthropometry, in agility  187 , 187 f, 192
antioxidants  325-326
anxiety, during injury rehabilitation  86, 95-96
AOD  200-201, 201 f
aqua running  153, 324aspirin  326
assessments. See  athletic testing
assistance exercises, in strength training  310, 310 t
assisted jumping  176
asymmetries, in flexibility  65
athlete profile
for preseason training  279-280, 281
for training plan  248
athletic motor skill competencies (AMSC)  18-20, 20 f
athletic testing  3-13
aerobic fitness  222-223anaerobic fitness  200-203, 201 f, 202f, 205, 205 f
case study  6CODS and agility  188-190, 189 f, 189t, 190f, 191f, 191t
core and postural stability  45-55, 47 f--55f
data interpretation and presentation  8-11, 8 t, 9t, 10f, 11f
injury prevention and rehabilitation  6-9, 92-93, 94 t
jump-and-land training  175, 175 t
lateral hip muscles  35, 35f
needs assessment  3-4, 3 f, 45
performance correlation  6, 11-13preseason screening  277-278
as preseason success measure  286
reasons for  4reliability of  4-5, 81-82
specificity in  3-4, 200, 201
speed training evaluation  145-148
test selection and preparation  4
training priorities and  7 , 7 f
validity of  5-6, 81-82VO
2max  221-222, 222-223, 222 f
young athletes  132, 135 t
ATP  100attractors, in motor control  119-122, 119 f, 120f, 121f, 123f
Australian football (AF) activity profile  269autogenic inhibition  101
autonomic nervous system  79, 320-321
axial plane. See  transverse (axial) planeB
back squat  169, 169 f
balance and catch, single-leg  48, 48 f
balance training, as warm-up  104
balance with trunk rotation, single-leg  49, 49 f
band-resisted overhead squat  19, 22 f
bands, in strength training  136-139, 137 f, 138t, 139t
Bannister, Roger  218
barefoot running drill  37-38, 38 f
Barnes, Randy  147barrier trigger points  101
baseball movements  34, 34 f
belief effect  208, 208 f
bench press  53, 53 f
bent-knee fall out  50, 50 f
beta-alanine  208
biceps  32biological age  16
block (wave) training strategy  255-256, 256 f, 273, 275 t
blood tests  80body composition
effect on performance  176-177 , 177 t
nutrition for changing  205
body position, in CODS and agility  188 f, 191-193, 192 f
Borg scales  74-75
bounce depth jumps  174, 174 f
brain function, in energy production  259, 260
braking forces, in running  37-38, 38 f
breathing, during stretching  108bruises  323
bunny hops  19, 21 f
C
caffeine  208
calf musculotendinous complex  124
camel and cat warm-up  102, 102 f
cardiovascular system
in endurance  211-212, 218-219
warm-up benefits  100
central adaptations  225, 232
central limitations  203
central nervous system  149-150
chains, in strength training  136-139, 137 f, 138t, 139t
change in mean  5change-of-direction speed (CODS)
in agility training  195-196, 195f,  195t, 196f, 197t
coaching tips  193
defined  185
force and body position  188 f, 191-193, 192 f
injury risk  196
strength in  189-190
testing  188-190, 189 t, 190f, 191f, 191t
training progression  194, 194 t
cherry juice  325-326
chocolate milk  205
choking (failure)  116
chronological age  16
circa max effort  128circapubertal children. See  young athletes

 Index ❙ 359
circuit training  142-143, 231
circulatory system  100
CK  80
clean  171, 171 t, 172f
CMJ  78-79, 175, 175 t
coaching philosophy, preseason  280
coaching techniques
CODS and agility training  191, 193implicit  37-38
prerequisite knowledge  260using working memory  116
CODS. See  change-of-direction speed
coefficient of variation (CV)  5, 8-9, 8 t
cognitive processing, in agility. See  perceptual–cognitive 
speed
Cohen’s effect size  9, 9 t
cold-water immersion (CWI)  321-323, 327
compatible stimulus  185
competition training strategy  257 , 257 f
competitive phase  266-267
compression garments  323-324
concentrated training strategy  255, 255f
concentric action
in agility  187 , 187 f
in jump drills  176
concurrent training strategy. See also interference effect
defined  269
in programme planning  253, 254 f
in speed training  163, 164 t
confidence–competence mismatch  91conjugate training strategy  253-255
conscious control  114-116
contact training and injuries  279, 323
continuous exercise  225
contrasting-resistance complex training  141, 143 t
contrast therapy  323cool-down  108-109, 111core (term)  42
core stability  41-59
active system (muscular)  42, 43-45, 43 f, 44t
from balance training  104
case study  58, 59 t
core regions  42inappropriate training  45
medical vs. performance views  41
passive system (sensory)  42programme delivery  55-58, 59 t
rowing perspective  56-57strength training in  58
term  42
testing
high-load testing  50-55, 51 f-55f
low-load testing  46-50, 47 f-50f
test selection  45
coronal (frontal) plane
high-load core stability tests  52, 52 f
low-load core stability tests  48, 48 f
in strength training  58
corrective exercises, in warm-up  104correlation coefficients  5, 9, 9 tcortisol
in adaptation  321
as fatigue marker  80, 81
countermovement-jumps (CMJ)  78-79, 175, 175 t
creatine kinase (CK)  80
creatine monohydrate  207
critical exercises, in strength training  309-310, 310 t
critical speed concept  223-224, 224 f
cross-training (CT)  231-244
adaptation transfer and  232
benefits of  232-234
case studies
injured athletes  239, 243-244, 243 t
rowers  237-239, 238 t, 240t-241t
team sport athletes  239, 242 t
defined  231
to delay detraining  230
history and popularity  232
in Olympic sports  234-235, 235 t, 236t
purpose  231
in speed training  153-154
in swimmers  39
training variables in  235-237
in triathletes  232
cryotherapy  324CT. See  cross-training
CV  5, 8-9, 8 t
CWI  321-323, 327cyclical loading  247
cycling gear ratios  206
cytokines  81, 324
D
Daily Analyses of Life Demands for Athletes (DALDA)  
76, 77 t
daily well-being review sheet  78 t
DALDA  76, 77 t
data interpretation and presentation
in athletic testing  8-11, 8 t, 9t, 10f, 11f
in training load monitoring  81-83, 84 t
DE, defined  129
deadlift  55, 55 f, 169, 170 f
DE day  140, 141 t
deficiencies, improving  234
degrees of freedom  34, 119
delayed-onset muscle soreness (DOMS)
in adaptation  320
from Nordic hamstring curls  32
preventing  100, 216-217
delayed training effects paradigm  292, 293 f
depth jumps  174-176, 174 f, 175t
detraining effect  229-230, 293developing athletes. See  young athletes
diaphragm  43 f, 44t
diary protein  205
DIS  213discipline, in-season  304
DOMS. See  delayed-onset muscle soreness
dose-response relationship  71-73, 72 f, 224
double jointed (hypermobility)  62, 64

360 ❙ Index
Downey, Faye  165
drag, in swimming  31, 39
drills. See  exercises and drills
DST. See  dynamic systems theory
duration of energy production  261duration of exercise
aerobic training  225autonomic activity and  320
cross-training  236-237in taper  298
duration of taper  293-294, 294 f, 296-297, 299-300
dynamic defence system  90dynamic effort (DE)
defined  129developing  140, 141 t
dynamic isometric strength (DIS)  213dynamic (active) stretching  64, 66-67 , 105-106dynamic systems theory (DST)
vs. hierarchical  114-116, 114 f, 116f
in running  119-122, 119 f, 120f, 121f, 123f
E
eccentric action
in agility  187 , 187 f
in anaerobic training  205
in jump drills  174, 176movement efficiency and  32
efficiency. See  movement efficiency
EIMD  80, 319-320, 320 f, 326
elasticity, in muscles and tendons  62, 148, 213-214elastic power training  152-153, 153 f
electrostimulation  325
endurance, defined. See also aerobic fitness; muscular 
endurance training
aerobic  223muscular  211-212
enduring power production  30
energy balance  271energy cost, defined  222
energy leaks
description and examples  30
excessive trunk rotation  36, 36 f
musculo-tendinous function in  31-33
overstriding  37-38, 38 f
in swimming  39
in throwing  38-39, 39 t
energy production  260-262, 262 f
energy systems
aerobic vs. anaerobic  261-262, 262 f
role in performance  259-260
energy-systems programming  259-267
competitive phase  266-267general preparatory phase  263-264, 264 t, 280
overview of  262-263, 262 f
precompetitive phase  265-266, 266 t
specific preparatory phase  264-265, 265 t
sport specificity in  262
enzyme activation  271-272, 273EPO  228-229
erector spinae  44 tergogenic aids. See  nutritional supplements
errors of measurement  5erythropoietin (EPO)  228-229ES  128, 139
event performance. See  performance outcomes
exercise bands, in muscle stiffness example  61, 61 f
exercise-induced muscle damage (EIMD)  80, 319-320, 
320f, 326
exercises and drills
anaerobic power  206-207
energy-system training  264-265, 265 t
jump-and-land training  168-176, 169 f, 170f, 171f, 172f, 
173t, 174f, 175f, 176f
leaning drills  193
medicine ball throws  151, 152 f, 154
movement efficiency  36, 36 f, 37, 39, 39 t
postural running drill  146, 146 f
resisted walking or running  215-216, 215f
sprint drills  155stability-limiting lifting  216-217 , 216 f
variety vs. overload in  121-122, 124warm-up  102, 102 f
youth FMS  19, 21 f, 22f
youth strength and conditioning  22 t, 23t
explosive power training  151, 152 f, 153, 153 f
explosive strength (ES)  128, 139exponential tapers  297, 298 f
extension reflex  120
external load  73external oblique  43 f, 44t
F
falling start  157 , 157 f
fascia
in movement efficiency  32-33
role in flexibility  63stretching  66, 66 f, 109, 109 f
fast-continuous training  225
fatigue
biochemical markers  80-81
vs. fitness  293
fitness-fatigue paradigm  292, 292 f
in injury risk  91, 196
in interference effect  272physiological characteristics  319-321, 320 f
physiological markers  78-80
fatigue continuum  73, 73 f
fatigue-recovery cycle  71-72, 72 f
fatigue resistance
building  205-206, 207
testing  201-202, 202 f
Favre, Mike  226fitness-fatigue paradigm  292, 292 f
5-0-5 tests  189-190, 190 f
flexibility  61-70
asymmetries in  65
defined  61
factors affecting  62-63
flexibility training
case study  69, 69 t

 Index ❙ 361
effects on performance  63-64, 66
in injury prevention  64-65, 67
issues for further research  68-69
needs analysis  67-68programme delivery  68-69
as sport specific  27
types of  64, 65-67in warm-up  105-106in young athletes  27
fluctuations, in motor control  119-122, 119 f, 120f, 121f, 123f
FMS (functional movement screen)  65, 67
FMS (fundamental movement skills)  17-18, 22 t, 23t
foam rollers  101, 101 f, 326
focus, in-season  304-305force application
CODS and agility  188 f, 191-193
jumping ability  168
movement efficiency  30-31
force generation  29-30force leakage  192
frequency of training
aerobic training  224
cross-training  236in programme planning  249in taper  298-299
frontal plane. See  coronal (frontal) plane
front plank  51, 51 f
front squat  169, 169 f
functional movement screen (FMS)  65, 67
functional overreaching. See  overreaching
fundamental movement skills (FMS)  17-18, 22 t, 23t
G
games, as warm-up  105. See also small-sided games
gastrocnemius  32general adaptation syndrome theory  71-73, 72 f, 247-248
general preparatory phase (GPP)  263-264, 264 t, 280
generic training, in team sports  228-229
Gill, Nicholas  308
glehohumeral internal rotation deficit (GIRD)  65glutamate (Glu)  81glutamine (Gln)  81gluteus muscles
in active core system  43 f, 44t
adverse length-tension in  35, 35f
golgi tendon organs  101
GPP  263-264, 264 t, 280
grief, during injury rehabilitation  95
ground-contact, during sprinting  25group vs. individual training  55growth, in young athletes  15-17. See also young athletesGymAware device  201
H
hamstring bridge, single-leg  32, 33 f
hamstrings
injury prevention and rehabilitation  32, 33 f, 124
isometric action in  32
in running  32
strength training for  124, 125fhard effort (HE), defined  129
heart rate monitoring  74-75
heart rate recovery (HRR)  79-80, 286heart rate reserve (HRR)  74
heart rate variability (HRV)  79
heart rate zones  74
heavy reps, defined  129
hierarchical model of motor control  113-116, 114 f, 116f
high-intensity interval training (HIIT)  226
high jump  35f
high reps, defined  129high-volume sessions  225
HIIT  226
Hill, A.V.  3
hip extension, single-leg isometric  32, 33 f
hip flexion
in lock pelvic position  34-35, 35fsupine test  49, 49 f
hip muscle assessment  35, 35 f
hip rotation, single-leg  48, 48 f
hop-and-stick square  54, 54 f
hormonal system
in adaptation  321
in interference effect  271
psychological influence on  326-327sleep deprivation effects on  325
in strength training  310warm-up benefits  100, 103
HRR (heart rate recovery)  79-80, 286
HRR (heart rate reserve)  74
HRV  79hunting reaction  322
hydration  326hydrostatic pressure  321
hypermobility (double jointed)  62, 64hypertrophy, interference effect and  271-272
hypomobility  62hypoxic training. See  altitude or hypoxic training
I
ibuprofen  326
ICC  5iliotibial tract  35, 35 f
illness risk  73
immune function  81, 321, 326
immunoglobulin-A  81incompatible stimulus  185
individualisation
preseason training  279, 280, 286
recovery strategies  326, 329
individual vs. group training  55
inefficiency  29. See also movement efficiency
inflammatory response  319-320, 320 f, 325, 327
injuries
detraining effect  229-230
long-term definition  85
injury rehabilitation  85-96
approach and planning  85-87 , 87 f, 93
athletic testing in  6-9, 92-93, 94 t
case study  249-250, 251 f

362 ❙ Index
injury rehabilitation  (continued)
cross-training for  233, 236, 239, 243-244, 243 t
exit criteria in  88-89, 89 t
hamstrings  32, 33 f
as opportunity  87
periodising  88
physical training in  89-91
psychological factors in  86, 95-96reinjury risk  91
resisted walking for  215-216, 215 f
return to training and competition  91-94, 94 t
injury risk and prevention
aerobic fitness and  26-27 , 219
in anaerobic training  203
athletic testing in  6-9balance training in  104
in CODS drills  196cross-training in  232, 233
early sport specialisation and  27-28flexibility training in  64-65, 67
in hamstrings  124in jump landings  181, 181 f
posture in  46preseason  277-279, 283
spinal exercises and  102, 102 f
strength training in  24, 127 , 214structural-movement quality in  217 , 218
training loads and  73
warm-up and  100
injury statistics  283
in-season training  301-318
conditioning  316-317, 317 t
efficient  301-302
intent of  301, 304-305
keeping it simple  302peaking  307
plyometrics  315-316, 316 t
priming  308speed training  315-316, 316 t
strength training
exercises  309-311, 309 f, 310t
as focus  302-304, 303 f
loading patterns  311, 312 t
sample programme  313-315, 313 t, 314t, 315f, 315t
three-block system  311
training blocks  307
training loads  305-306, 305 t, 306f, 306t
variety in  306-307
intensity
aerobic training  224-225anaerobic training  204
autonomic activity and  320
cross-training  237
monitoring  74-75
programme planning  248-249, 249 t, 250f
in taper  299
young athlete endurance training  27
intention of movement  117, 124
interdisciplinary approach to training
injury rates and  6-7in rehabilitation  85-86, 93
interference effect  269-276
case study  274, 274 t, 275t, 276t
described  269
mechanisms affecting  271-272
minimising  272-274, 272 f
research findings  269-271, 270 f
training that maximises  228, 272, 272 f
intermittent hypoxic training or exposure  229. See also 
altitude or hypoxic training
intermittent training  225-227 , 227 t
internal-focus instruction  116
internal load  74
internal oblique  43 f, 44t
interval training  218
intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC)  5
involution. See  detraining effect
isometric actions
in agility  187 , 187 f
in efficient movement  32
J
joints
in endurance training  217
instability of  61, 62, 64
mobility of  62warm-up benefits  100
jump-and-land training  167-183
Alpine ski racers  178
definitions  167
exercise classification  177-179, 179 t
landing-technique training  180-183, 181 f, 181t, 182f, 
183t
leanness effects on  176-177 , 177 t
loaded jumping  171-173, 173 t
maximal strength training  168-170, 169 f, 170f
Olympic weightlifting  170-171, 171 f, 171t, 172f
plyometric training  173-176, 174 f, 175f, 175t, 176f
programme delivery  180-183vertical jump sequence  168 f
volume load  179-180, 180 f
jump ropes  105
jump squats  172-173, 173 t
K
knee pain  65
knowledge of performance feedback  116
Knowles, Bill  178
L
lactate removal  324
lag time  12, 186
landing-technique training  180-183, 181 f, 181t, 182f, 183t. 
See also jump-and-land training
late-game success or failure  285-286latissimus dorsi  43 f, 44t
leaning drills  193
leanness  176-177, 177 t
leg press  53, 53 f
legs, in throwing  38-39

 Index ❙ 363
leukocyte  81
LFF  78
lifestyle choices
in recovery strategies  325-326in reducing body fat  176-177
likely limits, in athletic testing  9-10
limb mechanics  146linear tapers  297, 298 f
linear training strategy  251-252, 253 f
live high, train high  229live high, train low  229loaded jumping  171-173, 173 t
lock pelvic position
benefits and examples  34-35, 34 f, 35f
drills  36, 36 f
long, slow training  218-219long-term athlete development model  17long-to-short approach  163
low-frequency fatigue (LFF)  78
L-run tests  189-190, 190 f
lumbar spine  42, 65
M
Mach drills  155, 156 f
macrocycles  250, 252 f
maladaptation  71-72, 72 f, 248
Manchester United Football Club  110-111
massage  101, 326
massage sticks  101, 101 f
MAS test  222-223
MAT  67
maturation, in young athletes  15-17. See also young 
athletes
maximal aerobic speed (MAS) test  222-223maximal effort (ME)
defined  128
developing  139, 140, 141 t
maximal oxygen consumption. See  VO
2max
maximal strength (MS). See also strength training
defined  128in endurance training  213
in jumping ability  168-170
maximal velocity mechanics  158-159, 160 f
maximum power (Pmax), defined  128
ME. See  maximal effort
mechanical work
defined  212
metabolic response to  217-219
muscular strength component  212-215neurological component  215-219
ME day  140, 141 t
medicine ball drills  151, 152 f, 154
meditation  111
medium-hard effort (MHE), defined  129
mesocycles  250, 252 f
metabolic system  30
metabolic waste products  203
MHE, defined  129
microcycles  250, 252 f
midstance phase of running  34, 35, 35fmilitary-style camps  287-288
mobility exercises  104monitoring. See  training load and response
monotony. See  training monotony
mood-state questionnaires  76motivation
in anaerobic fitness  203, 209cross-training benefits  234
motor control  113-126
attractors and fluctuations in  119-122, 119 f, 120f, 121f, 
123f
skill transfer  116-119, 123-126, 123 f
theories  113-116, 114 f
training implications  122-126
in young athletes  16
motor skills
strength training progression  129-130
in warm-up  100
in young athletes  17-20, 20 f
motor-unit recruitment  272movement efficiency  29-40
cross-training and  233-234defined  29
force application  30-31force generation  29-30
improving  37-39
movement control and  36-37
movement patterns  33-36, 34 f, 35f, 36f
musculo-tendinous function  31-33, 33 f, 213-214
stability-limiting lifting effects  217
movement inefficiency  29. See also movement efficiencymovement patterns  33-36, 34 f, 35f, 36f
movement–result similarities  117movers (core muscles)  43-44, 43 f, 44t
MS. See  maximal strength
mTORC1  271-272, 273multidisciplinary approach to training. See  
interdisciplinary approach to training
multifidus  43 f, 44t
multiple acceleration drills  206-207muscle-activation technique (MAT)  67
muscle damage
as fatigue marker  80recovery strategy effects on  324, 327
role in adaptation  319-320, 320 f
muscles. See also specific muscle action
in anaerobic fitness  203, 205, 206-207core system  43-44, 43 f, 44t
in efficient movement  31-33, 33 f
elasticity in  148, 213-214in energy-system training  264-265, 265 t
excessive action  36-37
length-tension curve  33, 33 f
role in flexibility  62
stiff or short  61, 61 f
strength imbalances  131in strength training  129
viscoelastic properties  62, 64warm-up for  100
muscle slack  118

364 ❙ Index
muscular endurance, defined  211-212
muscular endurance training  211-219. See also aerobic 
fitness
adaptation in  215, 217-219
cross-training  233-234intermuscular coordination  215-217
movement efficiency  213-214
strength training  212-215structural-movement quality  217
muscular strength. See  strength training
musculotendinous units  31-33, 33 f
myosin  62, 63Myslinsk, Tom  284-285
N
National Basketball Association (NBA)  328-329
National Football League (NFL)  284-285
NBA  328-329
near-maximal effort (NME), defined  128
needs analysis
athletic testing  3-4, 3 f, 45
flexibility training  67-68
negative muscular action. See  eccentric action
neural adaptations, in strength training  129neural mobility  62-63neural transmission reductions  327neuromuscular patterning  42
neuromuscular performance tests  78-79
neuromuscular recruitment  203neutral zone (postural)  45-46
NFL  284-285
NME, defined  128nonfunctional overreaching. See  overreaching
nonprogressive (stepwise) tapers  297 , 298 f
nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)  326
Nordic hamstring curls  32
NSAIDs  326nutrition
for anaerobic fitness  205as recovery strategy  325-326in reducing body fat  176-177for strength training  143-144
nutritional supplements  207-208, 208 f
O
occlusion  325
off season cross-training  234
Olympic sports
cross-training in  234-235, 235 t, 236t
performance outcomes  295-296
Olympic weightlifting. See also strength training
energy demands  261, 262 f
in-season  311
jump-and-land training  170-171, 171 f, 171t, 172f
learning progression  130, 170-171, 171 t
speed training  150-151
One Athlete–One Programme philosophy  86overhead-stick runs  36, 36 f
overload
vs. exercise variety  121-122, 124, 134in programme planning  248, 249
overreaching
in fatigue continuum  73, 73 f
in interference effect  271
markers of  76, 79, 80, 81
in young athletes  27-28
overspeed training  206-207overstriding correction  37-38, 38 f
overtraining
in fatigue continuum  73, 73 f
markers of  76, 79psychological symptoms  326in young athletes  27-28
overuse injuries. See also injury risk and prevention
avoiding with cross-training  233
in young athletes  27-28
oxygen consumption. See also VO
2max
defined  221testing  200-201, 201 f
P
P.  See  power; power training
pain
effect on brain function  42
in injury rehabilitation assessment  92
role in hypomobility  62
paired t-test  5
PAP  107
parasympathetic nervous system (PNS)  79, 320-321, 
327
part vs. whole practice  117-119
passive stretching. See  static stretching
passive system, in core stability  42
PBU  46peaking. See also taper
defined  291in-season  307
peak power, defined  128
Pearson correlation coefficients  5
pelvic floor  43 f, 44t
pelvic lock position
benefits and examples  34-35, 34 f, 35f
drills for  36, 36 f
pelvis
as core region  42role in shoulder function  35
role in throwing  38-39
per cent change, in athletic testing  9
perceptual–cognitive speed
as agility component  186, 187 f, 188
testing  188, 189 f
training  193
performance outcomes
balanced training and  131dose–response relationship in  71-72, 72 f, 224
energy systems in  259-260
flexibility effects on  63-64, 66
leanness effects on  176-177 , 177 t
nutritional supplement effects on  208preseason success  283-286

 Index ❙ 365
strength training effects on  127 , 128 t
tapering effects on  295-296, 296 f, 297f
test result correlation  6, 11-13
training specificity and  116-117
as training success  148
VO2max correlation  222
in young athletes  15-17
performance team  86periodisation. See also energy-systems programming; 
taper
agility training  195-196, 196 f
anaerobic training  204-205cross-training  237-244, 238 t, 240t-241t, 242t, 243t
defined  247
injury rehabilitation  88preseason  278, 279, 286
strategies for  250 f, 252t
block (wave)  255-256, 256 f, 273, 275 t
competition  257 , 257 f
concentrated  255, 255fconcurrent  163, 164 t, 253, 254 f, 269
conjugate  253-255
linear  251-252, 253f
tapering  257
strength training  134-135, 139, 139 t, 140t
training units in  250, 252 f
peripheral adaptations  225, 232peripheral limitations  203
Phelps, Michael  102
placebo effect  208, 208 f
plank, as athletic test
high-load core stability  51-52, 51 f, 52f
lateral hip muscle  35, 35 f
plant phase  186, 186 f
plyometrics
anaerobic training  206elastic power training  152
endurance training  214
in-season  315-316. 316 t
jump-and-land training  173-176, 174 f, 175f, 175t, 176f
warm-up  107in young athletes  25-26
Pmax, defined  128PNF  67 , 109
PNS  79, 320-321, 327
polyphenol supplements  325POMS  76
pool training  153, 324
position-specific training
preseason  279, 281in programme design  4
postactivation potentiation (P AP)  107postural awareness  45-46
postural control  42. See also core stability
postural running drill  146, 146 f
power (P), defined  128, 260-261
power training
energy production for  261, 262 f
interference effect in  271
jump-and-land training  168-170linear training strategy  251-252, 253 f
preseason  279-281
speed training  151-153, 152 f, 153f
strength training  139, 213in young athletes  20-24
precompetitive phase  265-266, 266 t
prehabilitation sessions  278-279
preparedness
in fitness-fatigue paradigm  292, 292 f
taper length and  293-294, 294 f
prepubertal children. See  young athletes
preseason training  277-289
alternate modalities  288
effective programming  286
goals of
general conditioning  281-282injury prevention  277-279principal goal  277
strength and power development  279-281
tactical training  282-283
individualised  279, 280, 286
monitoring  286-287
NFL style  284-285success markers  283-286
tapering in  288-289
team behaviours  287training camps  287-288
pressure biofeedback unit (PBU)  46priming  308primitive extension reflex  34-35
Profile of Mood States (POMS) questionnaire  76
programme planning  247-257
adaptation in  247-248
injured athlete case study  249-250, 251 f
periodisation strategies  250 f, 252t
block (wave)  255-256, 256 f, 273, 275 t
competition  257 , 257 f
concentrated  255, 255fconcurrent  163, 164 t, 253, 254 f, 269
conjugate  253-255
linear  251-252, 253f
tapering  257
steps in process  248, 248 f
training units  250, 252 f
training variables  248-250, 249 t, 250f
progressive tapers  297, 297 f, 298f
proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation (PNF)  67 , 109
proprioceptive training  90-91
propulsion, in swimming  31psoas major  44 t
psychological issues
injury rehabilitation  86, 95-96
recovery  326-327
training response  75-76
warm-ups  100
psychometric tools  75-76, 77 t, 78t
push-up start  158, 158 f, 159f
Q
quadratus lumborum  44 t

366 ❙ Index
R
random change  5
range of motion (ROM). See also flexibility; flexibility 
training
muscle damage effects on  320
warm-up benefits  100in young athletes  27
RAT  188, 189 t, 190
rate of force development  168, 271rating of perceived exertion (RPE)  74-75, 237 , 287RE, defined  129
reactive agility test (RAT)  188, 189 t, 190
realisation block  256, 256 f
recovery  319-330
active recovery  234, 324
in endurance training  212
individualisation in  326, 329
interference with adaptation  327-329NBA programme  328-329physical strategies  322 t
compression garments  323-324cryotherapy  324electrostimulation  325
hydration  326
low-intensity exercise  324nutrition  325-326
occlusion  325
sleep  325soft-tissue and manual therapies  326timing of  323 t
varying use of  329
water immersion  321-323
physiological characteristics  319-321, 320 f
in programme planning  249
psychological strategies  326-327
rectus abdominis  44 t
red-line drills  196
relative strength (RS), defined  128
relaxation, vs. all-out effort  147release jumps  176, 176 f
reliability of measures  4-5, 81-82repeated-bout effect (RBE)  320repetitive effort (RE), defined  129resistance bands  103, 103 f
resisted stretching  66-67resisted walking or running  215-216, 215f
respiratory system  100
response time variation  185retest reliability  5RL  269ROM. See  flexibility; flexibility training; range of motion
Romanian-style deadlift  169, 170 f
rowing
core stability in  56-57cross-training in  237-239, 238 t, 240t-241t
efficient  31strength-based performance  127
RPE  74-75, 237 , 287RS, defined  128RU  269rugby
activity profiles  269
strength-based performance  127 , 128 t
Rugby League (RL)  269
Rugby Union (RU)  269
running. See also speed training
aqua running  153
barefoot drill  37-38, 38 f
dynamic systems theory  119-121, 120 f, 121f
energy leaks and remedies  37-38, 38 t
hamstrings in  32injury rehabilitation  89-90midstance phase  34, 35, 35fpart vs. whole practice  117-119, 118 f
postural running drill  146, 146 f
preseason  278
skill transfer  123-126, 123 f
strength training for  124-126, 125f,  147
stride efficiency  30-31
toe-off efficiency  34, 118 f
running economy  228running mechanics
maximal velocity  158-159, 160 f
sprint drills  155, 156 f
starts and acceleration  157-158, 157 f, 158f, 159f, 165
S
sacroiliac joint dysfunction  65
sagittal plane
high-load core stability tests  51, 51 f, 53, 53 f, 55, 55 f
low-load core stability tests  47-48, 47 f, 48f, 49, 49 f
in strength training  58
saliva tests  80
sarcomeres  61, 62schema theory  113
screenings. See  athletic testing
SE
defined  128developing  142-143
self-myofascial release (SMR)  101self-report inventories  76, 78 t, 83
sensory information, in core stability  42
sensory similarities  117
sequencing of training
interference effect and  273
strength training  140-142
session-RPE (s-RPE)  75Sherington’s law  66short-to-long approach  149, 159-162, 161 f, 162t, 163t
shot-putters, strength in  130-131, 147
shoulders
GIRD (ROM deficit) in  65
pelvic motion and  35in throwing  38-39, 39 t
shoulder stand to stand  19, 21 f
side-lying clam  50, 50 f
side plank, as athletic test
high-load core stability  52, 52 f
lateral hip muscle  35, 35f
Simpson, Mark  328-329

 Index ❙ 367
single-leg core and postural stability tests  48-49, 48 f, 49f
single-leg squats  169, 169 f, 216
single-limb training  207
sit-ups  45
skill transfer
from agility training  193, 194from alternate modalities  288
from anaerobic fitness  199-200, 207measuring  11-13
specificity and  116-117 , 199-200from speed to agility  123, 123 f
from strength training  118-119, 124-126
sleep, sleep deprivation  325
sliding filament theory  62, 63-64
slow-continuous training  225small-sided games (SSG)
aerobic training  228
in-season  317
preseason  282, 283
SMR  101
snatch  171, 171 f, 171t
snatch squat  169, 169 f
SNS  79, 320, 325sodium bicarbonate  207-208
specificity
aerobic training  225, 228athletic testing  3-4, 200, 201
energy production  261-262, 262 f
flexibility  27 , 67motor control  113overly simplified approach  173-174
position-specific training  4
preseason training  279, 281
skill transfer  116-117 , 199-200
strength training  131-132, 135
specific preparatory phase (SPP)  264-265, 265 t
speed strength, defined  128speed training  145-166
foundations  218in-season  315-316, 316 t
integrating in programme  148preseason  281-282
progression of  159-164, 161 f, 162t, 163t, 164t
resisted walking  215-216, 215 f
running mechanics in
maximal velocity  158-159, 160 f
sprint drills  155, 156 f
starts and acceleration  157-158, 157 f, 158f, 159f
skill transfer to agility  123, 123 f
testing in  145-148
training elements
general conditioning  153-154, 154 t
power training  151-153, 152 f, 153f
sprint training  148-149strength training  149-151, 150 f
in young athletes  25-26
sphygmomanometer  46
spinal proprioception  42
spine, spinal muscles
in core stability  45, 46warm-up for  102, 102 f
sport profile, for training plan  248
sport-related fitness (SRF)  316-317
sport specialisation, in young athletes  27-28
sport-specific skills (SSS)  18. See also specificity
SPP  264-265, 265 t
sprint training
as speed training element  148-149, 155in young athletes  25-26
squats
band-resisted overhead  19, 22 f
as core stability test  47 , 47 f
effect on running  118-119, 119 f
in jump-and-land training  169, 169 f
SRF  316-317
s-RPE  75
SSC  173, 320, 322SSG. See  small-sided games
SSS  18. See also specificity
stabiliser muscles
activation exercises  103
core muscles  43-44, 43 f, 44t
stability balls, for warm-up  102, 103stability exercises  104
stability-limiting lifting  216-217 , 216 f
standardized change  9, 9 t
standard ten (STEN) score  10
standing hip flexion  48, 48 f
static stretching
vs. active  64in cool-down  108-109
injury risk and  64
techniques  66
in warm-up  62, 106
stationary bicycle training  154
statistical analysis. See  data interpretation and 
presentation
STEN score  10
step-ups  124
stepwise tapers  297, 298 f
stiffness (muscles)  61, 61 f
strain  75
strength
in CODS and agility  187 , 187 f, 189-190
defined  128
strength endurance (SE)
defined  128developing  142-143
strength-maintenance paradox  303strength training  127-144. See also in-season training; 
interference effect; Olympic weightlifting
in aerobic training  228
in anaerobic training  205
balanced approach  130-131
bands and chains  136-139, 137 f, 138t, 139t
in core stability  58
cross-training in  234definitions  128-129
diminishing returns  147 , 170for elite athletes  135-139, 137 f, 138t, 139t, 140t

368 ❙ Index
strength training  (continued)
in endurance training  212-215
fear of  214-215
as foundation training  127 , 128 t, 192
for intermediate athletes  134-135in jump-and-land training  168-173, 169 f, 170f, 171f, 172f
linear training strategy  251-252, 253 f
nutritional support  143-144
objectives  132, 133 t, 134t
periodising  134-135, 139, 139 t, 140t
physiological factors  129
preseason  279-281, 280 f
programme templates  140-143, 141 t, 142t, 143t
progression of  129-130for runners  124-126, 125 f
skill transfer from  118-119, 124-126in speed training  146-147 , 149-151, 150 f
sport and athlete specificity  131-132, 135
variety vs. overload in  122, 124
in young or developing athletes  20-24, 22 t, 23t, 132, 
134t, 135t
stress response and recovery  326-327stretching. See  flexibility training
stretch-shortening cycle (SSC)  173, 320, 322. See also 
plyometrics
stride efficiency  30-31stride frequency, in young athletes  25
stride length, in young athletes  25
Strudwick, Tony  110-111submaximal exercise protocols  79-80
suitcase carry  50-51, 51 f
supercompensation  71, 247 , 292
super-yoke walk  50-51
swimming
cross-training and  39
efficient  31
energy leaks and remedies  39
shoulder function in  35
symmetry, in flexibility  65sympathetic nervous system (SNS)  79, 320, 325systematic change  5
T
tactical training  282-283, 301-302
taper
defined  291delayed training effects paradigm  292, 293 f
vs. detraining  229
fitness-fatigue paradigm  292, 292 f
goal of  293, 294-295, 295 t
length of  293-294, 294 f, 296-297, 299-300
performance outcomes and  295-296, 296 f, 297f
as periodisation strategy  257
preseason  288-289
recommendations  300 t
training variables  298-300types of  297, 298 f
target-based training  55
target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1)  271-272, 273
team sports. See also preseason trainingaerobic training  227-228
concurrent training  272, 274
cross-training  239, 242 t
position-specific training  4, 279, 281sprint training approach  159-161, 161 f, 162t
technical accessory exercises  311tempo running  153, 154 t
tendons
elasticity in  148, 213-214in injury rehabilitation  89-90injury risk  214
in movement efficiency  31-33, 33 f, 213-214
viscoelastic properties  62
Tendo Units  201
tennis balls, for spinal warm-up  102, 102 f
tennis forehand  34, 34 f
tensor fasciae latae
in active core system  44 t
adverse length-tension in  34 f, 35, 35 f
testosterone
in adaptation  321
as fatigue marker  80-81
psychological influence on  103, 326
test-retest cycle  3 f
thermogenics  104-105
thoracolumbar fascia  43 f
throwing action
energy leaks and remedies  38-39, 39 t
strength-based performance  127 , 128 t
toe-off position  34tonic vibration reflex  104
training age  16-17
training camps  287-288
training goals
interference effect and  273
key goals  3
for training plan  248
training history  145training impulse (TRIMP)  74
training load and response  71-84. See also adaptation
data interpretation and presentation  81-83, 84 t
external vs. internal loads  73-74, 286-287
fatigue status markers  78-81
physiological effects  71-73, 72 f
physiological monitors  74-75in preseason training  286-287in programme planning  248, 249
psychological monitors  75-76, 77 t, 78t
taper duration and  293-294
training monotony
cross training for  234in-season  306-307
in monitoring load  75
in rehabilitation  88
training plan. See  programme planning
training response. See  adaptation; training load and 
response
training to failure  203-204, 315
transition plank  52, 52 f
transmutation block  256, 256 f

 Index ❙ 369
transverse (axial) plane
low-load core stability tests  50, 50 f
in strength training  58
transversus abdominis  43 f, 44t
treadmill training  153-154
Trendelenburg sign  35, 35f
triathletes  232triceps  32TRIMP  74triplanar movements
high-load core stability tests  52, 52 f, 54, 54 f
low-load core stability tests  48-49, 48 f, 49f
triple extension
in CODS  192, 193in power training  151
in strength training  170
trunk
as core region  42
role in throwing  38-39
trunk rotation, excessive  36t-test  5tuck jumps  174, 175 f
U
unconscious control  114-116
upper respiratory tract infections (URTIs)  321
V
valgus knee motion, in landings  180, 181, 181 f
validity of measures  5-6, 81-82
variety in training. See also training monotony
in-season  306-307vs. overload  121-122, 124, 134
vibration training  104viscous material  62vision, in motor control  114-115, 115fvisualisation  102-103
VO
2max. See also aerobic fitness
defined  221
improving  218performance correlation  222testing  221-222, 222-223, 222 f
volume load  179-180, 180 f
volume of training
increasing with cross-training  233-234interference effect and  273in programme planning  248-249, 249 t, 250f
in taper  298
W
waiter’s bow  47 , 47 f
walking drills
lock-position  36, 36 f
resisted walking  215-216, 215 fwarm-up  99-108
activation exercises  103-104, 103 f
agility drills  196
benefits of  99-100
case study  107-108
corrective exercises  104hormonal stimulus  103neural preparation  107
soft-tissue work  101-102
spine preparation  102stretching  62, 64, 105-106team example  110-111thermogenics  104-105
visualisation  102-103
water aerobics or running  153, 324
water immersion therapies  321-323wave (block) training strategy  255-256, 256 f, 273, 275 t
WBC  324
wellness questionnaires  76, 78 t, 83
whole-body cryotherapy (WBC)  324
whole vs. part practice  117-119Wingate cycle test  200
Wolf, Alex  56-57
Wolff’s law  66woodchopper  54, 54 f
work. See  mechanical work
working memory, in motor control  114-116
work-to-recovery ratios  261-262, 281
world football (soccer) activity profile  269worthwhile change values  8-9, 8 t, 9t
Y
yoga  108
young athletes  15-28
agility training  26, 26 f, 194, 194 t
athlete development models  17 , 18 f, 19f
chronological vs. biological age  16
early sport specialisation  27-28
endurance training  26-27
flexibility training  27growth and maturation  15-17
motor skill development  17-20
preseason conditioning  281, 286speed training  25-26strength training  20-24, 22 t, 23t, 132, 134 t, 135t
training age  16-17
youth, defined  15. See also young athletesyouth physical development (YPD) model  17 , 18 f, 19f
yo-yo test  223YPD model  17 , 18 f, 19f
Z
Z scores  10, 10 f, 11f

370About the Editors
David Joyce  is one of the first people in the 
world to lecture on and hold postgraduate 
master’s degrees encompassing both sports science 
and sports medicine. He has trained, rehabilitated, 
and maintained multiple World and Olympic 
Champions, along with more than 100 national champions and 300 national representatives. 
The first athletic performance coach in history to 
work with Team China after having worked with another national Olympic team, Joyce is currently 
head of athletic performance at Western Force, the 
most traveled team in world sport, in the toughest 
club rugby competition in the world spanning 
Australia, New Zealand and South Africa. He lives in Western Australia.Daniel Lewindon  is uniquely qualified with 
postgraduate master’s degrees in both sports 
science and sports medicine. He has more than 
10 years’ experience working full-time in elite 
sport, and is currently a physiotherapist for the 
England Rugby Team, a post he has held for more than four years. Working as part of a world 
leading Performance Team to ensure the health 
and performance of England’s best rugby players, Lewindon is also a consultant physiotherapist 
for Red Bull extreme sports athletes. He lives in 
Market Harborough, UK.


 371About the Contributors
Mark Verstegen  is one of 
the world’s most innova -
tive human performance 
experts. Verstegen pio -
neered the concept of integrated performance 
training and brought that 
system to top athletes, teams and sports organi
-
zations; the United States military; and companies 
such as Intel, Walgreens, 
LinkedIn, and Sheraton Hotels and Resorts. As the founder and president of EXOS, formerly 
Athletes’ Performance and Core Performance, 
Verstegen leads more than 500 employees at per
-
formance centers in Arizona, California, Florida, and Texas, as well as supplying international 
support to top athletes and organizations. Ver
-
stegen and EXOS consult for high-performance 
companies including adidas, EAS, SKLZ, Keiser, 
and Axon Sports, helping with product and pro -
gram inspiration, development, and testing, as 
well as consumer marketing. Verstegen serves as 
the director of performance for the NFL Players 
Association, where he focuses on player safety and welfare. He’s regularly interviewed for train
-
ing insight for publications and is a sought-after industry speaker who regularly presents at the 
leading conferences in the field. Verstegen is 
the author of six books, including Every Day Is Game Day (2014) and Core Performance . His widely 
acclaimed performance system is also available online through TeamEXOS.com.Mike McGuigan   i s 
professor of strength and 
conditioning in the Sports 
Performance Research Institute New Zealand at 
Auckland University of 
Technology. He is associate editor-in-chief and section 
editor on resistance and 
strength training for the  Jour
-
nal of Sports Science and Med -
icine,   senior associate editor 
for the  Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research,  
associate editor for the  Journal of Australian Strength 
and Conditioning,  and an editorial board member for 
the International Journal of Sports Physiology and Perfor -
mance.  His research areas primarily are in strength 
and power development and the assessment and 
monitoring of training in high-performance athletes.
Rhodri S. Lloyd is senior 
lecturer at Cardiff Metro -
politan University, Wales. 
He is a qualified physi -
cal education teacher and 
accredited strength and 
conditioning coach with the UK Strength and Condition -
ing Association (UKSCA) and the National Strength and Conditioning Associa -
tion (NSCA). His research interests surround the impact of growth and mat -
uration on long-term athletic development and 


372 ❙ About the Contributors
Andy Barr  is director 
of conditioning with the 
New York Knicks of the 
National Basketball Asso -
ciation (NBA). After earn -
ing a physiotherapy degree at the University of Salford, 
in 2001 he joined Bolton as 
the first team physiothera
-
pist. While at Bolton, Barr earned qualifications in 
Pilates and strength and 
conditioning and a master’s degree in sports science and injury. In 2006 he became the head 
of sport science and medicine at Southampton. 
He returned to Bolton in 2007 as the head of the physiotherapy team. In 2009 he became the injury 
prevention specialist and then head physiothera
-
pist for Manchester City. After Manchester City, 
he joined the New York Knicks where he has 
established himself as a leader in sport injury 
prevention and performance enhancement, spe -
cialising in movement screening, performance training, injury treatment and rehabilitation 
and performance monitoring. He consults with 
many professional sport teams and athletes and runs an innovative sport injury prevention and 
performance course called The Way To Move 
For Sport.
Sue Falsone  is head ath -
letic trainer and physical 
therapist for the LA Dodg -
ers in Major League Base -
ball (MLB). Not only is Sue the first female head ath -
letic trainer in MLB history, 
she is the first female head 
trainer in any of America’s 
four biggest leagues (MLB, NFL, NBA, and NHL). She 
also is director of perfor -
mance physical therapy for EXOS (formerly Ath -
letes’ Performance). She holds a master’s degree in human movement science, specialising in sports 
medicine and lectures internationally on core stability and flexibility for athletic performance.the neuromuscular mechanisms underpinning 
resistance training adaptations in youth. He has 
published extensively on athletic training for youth and co-edited the textbook Strength and Conditioning 
for Young Athletes: Science and Application . He was 
lead author for the 2014 International Consensus on 
youth resistance training and lead author for the 
UK (UKSCA) position statement on youth resis -
tance training. He is a board director and paediatric 
lead for the UKSCA and is an executive council 
member for the NSCA Youth Training Special 
Interest Group. He has consulted on the long-term athletic development pathways of professional 
sports organisations including the Irish Rugby 
Football Union and the Lawn Tennis Association.
Jon L. Oliver is senior 
lecturer in exercise physiol -
ogy at Cardiff Metropolitan University, Wales. He is 
at the fore of challenging 
existing and developing new models of youth ath
-
lete development. This has been supported by exten
-
sive experimental research examining the natural 
development and trainabil
-
ity of fitness during childhood and adolescence. His 
research extends beyond performance to consider 
potential injury risks and the wellbeing of youth 
athletes. He has collaborated with international gov -
erning bodies on research and worked in elite youth soccer, rugby union, martial arts, golf and athletics. 
He recently co-edited the textbook Strength and Con
-
ditioning for Young Athletes: Science and Application .
Craig Ranson  is senior 
lecturer in sport and exer -
cise medicine at Cardiff 
Metropolitan University and a sport physiotherapist 
with the Wales Rugby Team. 
His previous posts include chief physiotherapist with 
UK Athletics and national 
lead physiotherapist to the England and Wales Cricket 
Board. He consults with a 
variety of sport organisations including the Inter -
national Cricket Council and the Sports Medicine 
Department of the University of the West Indies.


 About the Contributors ❙ 373
Aaron J. Coutts is pro -
fessor in sport and exercise 
science at the University 
of Technology, Sydney (UTS). His research focuses 
around developing meth -
ods for quantifying train -
ing, managing fatigue and recovery and improving 
performance in team-sport athletes. He has published 
more than 100 scientific 
articles and has been an invited speaker to many conferences. He is an accredited sport scientist with 
the Exercise and Sport Science Australia (ESSA) 
and is a consultant to several professional football clubs. He is a member of the International Advisory 
Board for NIKE SPARQ. Aaron is associate editor 
for the  International Journal of Sports Physiology and 
Performance and an editorial board member for the 
Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport .
Stuart Cormack  is 
senior lecturer in the 
school of Exercise Science 
at Australian Catholic University. He spent 14 
years working in the Aus
-
tralian Football League 
including eight years as 
the fitness coach at the 
West Coast Eagles high -
lighted by appearing in two Grand Finals and 
winning the 2006 AFL Premiership. He spent four 
years as strength and conditioning coach at the Australian Institute of Sport, where he worked 
with many elite athletes in preparation for the 2000 
Sydney Olympics. He received his PhD from Edith Cowan University and is actively involved in applied 
sports science research. He is a Level 3 strength 
and conditioning coach and a Life Member of the Australian Strength and Conditioning Association. 
He has published in scientific journals, co-authored 
several book chapters and regularly presents at sports science and coaching conferences in addition 
to consulting with organisations including the Inter
-
national Cricket Council and Paris Saint-Germain 
Football Club. He is interested in all areas of athletic 
preparation with a particular focus on monitoring 
training load and fatigue in elite athletes and the impact of training load and fatigue on performance.Rett Larson  is proj -
ect manager for EXOS (formerly Athletes’ Per
-
formance) in China. He worked with many 
Chinese Olympic teams 
before moving to Shang
-
hai to train elite athletes for the National Games. 
He was with Velocity 
Sports Performance for 10 years and became the 
director of coaching at their headquarters in New
-
port Beach, CA. While at Velocity, he held various 
coaching and support positions and worked with 
many elite and professional athletes. He received 
his master’s degree in exercise physiology from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. 
While at UNC, he was an assistant strength coach 
with the football team and did his master’s thesis on the effect of a weight-vested plyometric pro
-
gram on the vertical jump of elite athletes. Aside from coaching, he has been one of the primary 
fitness writers for Volleyball Magazine  for the last 
10 years.
Frans Bosch teaches 
at Fontys University for Applied Science, 
mainly in the fields of anatomy, biomechan -
ics, strength training and motor learning. He earned a degree in physi -
cal education in 1977 and was employed as a PE teacher before becoming 
a self-employed expres -
sive artist and medical illustrator. In 1980 he 
started to work in athletics, coaching elite sprinters 
and Olympic high jumpers. For many years, he 
was the national coach for jumping events. He frequently consults internationally and appears as 
a conference speaker on training-related subjects. 
He has worked with the he English Institute of Sport, the Wales National Rugby Team, the British 
and Irish Lions, and the England Cricket Board. 
With Ronald Klomp, he wrote Running, Biomechan -
ics and Exercise Physiology Applied in Practice, and 
recently published Krachttraining en coördinatie, een 
integratieve benadering ( Strength Training and Coordi -
nation: An Integrated Approach ) in the Netherlands.


374 ❙ About the Contributors
Daniel Baker  is president 
of the Australian Strength 
and Conditioning Associa -
tion (ASCA) and has been 
a member of the National 
Strength and Conditioning 
Association (NSCA) since 1987 . He is a Level 3 Master 
Coach of Elite Athlete 
Strength and Conditioning in the ASCA. He has a PhD 
in sport and biomedical sci
-
ence and more than 30 international peer-reviewed 
publications in the field of strength and condition -
ing. He has presented at international strength and conditioning conferences in Australia, the United 
States and the United Kingdom. As a strength and 
conditioning coach, he has trained professional and elite athletes in many sports including rugby 
league, rugby union, soccer, diving, track and field 
and powerlifting. He has been strength coach of the Brisbane Broncos Rugby League team since 1995, 
during which they have won four championships. A 
former competitive powerlifter, he still enjoys heavy lifting, surfing and relaxing with family and friends.
Derek M. Hansen is a 
sports performance consul -
tant out of Vancouver, Brit -
ish Columbia, Canada. His areas of expertise include 
sport speed development, 
running mechanics, ham -
string rehabilitation and 
electrical muscle stimu -
lation for speed, strength 
and recovery. He works 
as the head strength and 
conditioning coach for Simon Fraser University in Burnaby, BC, the first non-United States university 
to achieve full membership and compete in the 
National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA). He has worked with numerous national teams com -
peting in both the summer and winter Olympics for both Canada and the United States. A number of the athletes from those teams have achieved podium 
and world record performances. In the professional 
sporting world, Derek has worked with athletes and coaches from the NFL, NBA, MLB and NHL.Jeremy Sheppard  has 
been a strength and con -
ditioning coach since 1993. He is head of strength and 
conditioning and sport sci
-
ence manager for Surfing 
Australia, and is senior lec -
turer in strength and con -
ditioning at Edith Cowan University. He worked as 
senior strength scientist 
and coach for Queensland Academy of Sport, Australian Men’s Volleyball, 
Australian Institute of Sport and Canadian Sport 
Centre. He has worked with professional teams in the NRL, NFL and AFL.
Sophia Nimphius  is 
senior lecturer in the MSc: 
strength and conditioning at 
Edith Cowan University. She has been recognized for her 
research efforts, winning 
awards from the National Strength and Conditioning 
Association (NSCA), Aus -
tralian Strength and Condi -
tioning Association (ASCA) and Exercise and Sports 
Science Australia (ESSA). She is an elected member of the NSCA Research and Education Committee. 
She has authored or co-authored more than 30 
peer-reviewed articles and conference abstracts and presented at more than 20 national and inter -
national conferences. She has been a strength and conditioning coach in the United States and Aus -
tralia and currently is a consultant in strength and 
conditioning and biomechanics for several elite and 
junior athletes in softball, cricket, baseball, ARF, soccer and rugby. She was an NCAA scholarship 
athlete in both basketball and softball and played 
in state, national and international competitions in softball.


 About the Contributors ❙ 375
David Martin  is the 
senior sport physiologist 
working within the depart -
ment of physiology at the 
Australian Institute of Sport 
in Canberra and is also the 
national sport science coor -
dinator for Cycling Austra -
lia. He provided support for Australian Cycling teams leading up to the 1996, 2000, 
2004, 2008 and 2012 Olympic 
Games. He received his bachelor of science degree in zoology from the College of Idaho, his master’s 
degree in exercise physiology from Northern 
Michigan University and his PhD 
in physiology 
from the University of Wyoming. He worked as 
a research assistant at the United States Olympic 
Training Centre in Colorado Springs, Colorado. His master’s research focused on stability of 
the 
anaerobic threshold training intensity and his 
doctoral research focused on better understanding 
peaking, tapering and overtraining in cyclists. He has more than 80 peer-reviewed publications, 
eight book chapters and many articles in popular 
cycling magazines. As an advisor to Olympic coaches and athletes, he is very interested in win -
ning environments and methodology that reveals human potential.
Darcy Norman  is direc -
tor of the performance innovation team at EXOS 
(formerly Athletes’ Perfor -
mance) where he contributes to the innovations of the 
Adidas miCoach products. 
His was a fitness and rehabil
-
itation coach for the German National Men’s Soccer team, 
FC Bayern Munchen, and 
performance specialist for HTC Highroad Pro Cycling. He received his 
physical 
education and biology degrees with an emphasis 
in athletic training and pre-med from Washing -
ton State University and physical therapy degree 
from the University of Washington. A licensed 
physical therapist, certified athletic trainer, and certified strength and conditioning specialist, his manual therapy skills were developed through 
the eclectic approach of the North American Institute of Manual Therapy (NAIOMT). His 
knowledge of functional biomechanics, pre- and 
post-rehabilitation, and testing come from the latest in continuing education and years of devel -
oping philosophies from working health-care professionals around the world.
Grégory Dupont  is head 
of sport science for  Lille Olympiqué Sporting Club (France). He implemented 
a research and development 
department in this club and is still involved in applied 
research with Lille North 
of France University. He worked as head of sport sci -
ence for Glasgow Celtic FC (Scotland) from 2007 to 2009. He graduated in 2003 with a PhD in sport science 
and exercise physiology from the University of 
Lille (France).
Anthony Rice  works 
for the rowing program at the Australian Institute of Sport. He has been to two 
Olympic Games (Beijing 
and London) with the Aus -
tralian rowing team and 
is currently the national 
physiology lead and perfor -
mance science coordinator 
for the Australian rowing 
team. He has published a number of peer-reviewed journal articles on 
the physiology, training load and performance 
aspects of elite level rowers. His other interests lie in applied sports technology and respiratory 
mechanics and energetics during intense exer -
cise. Prior to working for the Australian Institute 
of Sport, he undertook a postdoctoral placement 
with professor Jerry Dempsey at the University of 
Wisconsin, where his studies focused on neural control of breathing during sleep and exercise.


376 ❙ About the Contributors
MMA Conditioning and creator of the BioForce 
HRV Training Management System. He is a highly 
sought-after speaker and a regularly featured con -
tributor to Fight! Magazine  and Fighting Fit  (UK).
Glenn Stewart  is high 
performance manager at the West Coast Eagles Football 
Club in the AFL. He oversees the fitness and medical areas 
of the club together with 
initiating research into foot
-
ball-related areas of physiol -
ogy, injury prevention and rehabilitation. He coaches 
the playing squad in speed 
development and assists the coaching staff in developing programs for improv
-
ing skill and decision-making. During his career at the Eagles, they have won three Premierships, played 
in four Grand Finals and participated in 16 finals 
series. He has a master’s degree in physical education from the University of Western Australia. He was 
a sprints and hurdles coach for the WA Institute of 
Sport, where he coached athletes to Olympic and Commonwealth Games and the World Cup. As an 
athlete, he represented Australia in the long jump. 
He is a co-author of the book Speed To Win and author of Strength and Conditioning for Netball . 
Darren Burgess  is high 
performance manager at Port Adelaide Football Club 
(AFL). He was head of fitness 
and conditioning at Liver
-
pool Football Club and head of sports science for Football 
Federation Australia as well 
as the Australian soccer team’s fitness coach. Previ
-
ously he worked as head of high performance at Port 
Adelaide Football Club (2004 to 2007) and assistant 
fitness coach with Sydney Swans in the AFL (1997 to 2000), as well as head fitness coach with the Par
-
ramatta Power in the Australian National Soccer League (2002 to 2004). He worked as a video analyst 
with the Australian Olympic soccer team prior to 
the 2004 Athens Olympics. He completed his PhD in movement analysis of AFL and soccer in 2012. 
He has published many papers in peer-reviewed 
journals and is a reviewer for the Journal of Sports Sciences  and the Journal of Strength and Conditioning 
Research. He also is a Nike Sparq performance expert.Chris Spinks  completed 
his undergraduate degree 
in human movement at the 
University of Technology, Sydney (UTS). He com
-
pleted his master’s by doing research in acceleration 
training for field-sport ath
-
letes. His professional career 
started at New South Insti -
tute of Sport (NSWIS), where he prepared athletes for state 
and national events as well Olympic athletes head
-
ing to the Athens Games. Following this, he worked 
in Australian Rules Football with the Port Adelaide 
Football Club as a strength and conditioning coach. 
His next post was with the Fremantle Football Club as a senior strength and conditioning coach. He 
currently holds the position of physical performance 
manager at the Geelong Football Club.
Benjamin Rosenblatt  is 
senior strength and condi -
tioning coach for Great Brit -
ain and England Hockey and the English Institute 
of Sport. He was the senior 
rehabilitation scientist at the British Olympic Asso -
ciation’s intensive rehabil -
itation unit and physically prepared athletes and 
teams for Olympic and 
professional success. He is completing his PhD in a biomechanical evaluation of the principles of 
training. He also has a special interest in periodi -
sation of training programmes for athletic success.
Joel Jamieson  is regarded 
as one of the foremost author -
ities on strength and condi -
tioning for combat sports. 
He has more than 10 years of experience working with 
many of the top fighters from all over the world and 
has trained more than 30 of 
the biggest names in MMA, including eight world cham -
pions. He served as director of strength and conditioning for Pride FC, Dream FC and consulted for countless top-level teams 
and organisations. Joel is the founder of 8 Weeks 
Out, author of the highly acclaimed book Ultimate 


 About the Contributors ❙ 377
G. Gregory Haff is a 
senior strength scientist 
and course coordinator 
for the Masters of Science in Strength and Condi -
tioning at Edith Cowan University. He is a Level 2 ASCA strength and condi-
tioning coach and a Level 
3 Australian Weightlifting Association coach. He was 
the 2011 NSCA’s William J. 
Kraemer Sport Scientist of the Year award winner and served as the vice president of the NSCA, 
assistant editor and chief for the Journal of Strength 
and Conditioning  and is senior associate editor for 
the Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research. He 
is a certified strength and conditioning specialist 
with distinction, a founding fellow of the NSCA, and an accredited member of the United Kingdom 
Strength and Conditioning Association. He is a 
national level weightlifting coach in the United States and has served as an outside scientist with 
the United States Olympic Training Centre’s per -
formance enhancement teams for weightlifting.
Stuart Yule  is head 
strength and condition -
ing coach at Glasgow 
Warriors, a professional 
rugby team, competing 
in the Rabo Direct Pro12 and the Heineken Cup. He 
has 13 years’ experience in 
strength and conditioning. He was a lead strength and 
conditioning coach for the 
Scottish Institute of Sport, where he led and coordinated the strength and 
conditioning delivery for the West of Scotland ath -
letes and sports and the Scottish judo and badmin -
ton squads. Stuart continued to work in judo after moving to the English Institute of Sport, where he 
became the lead strength and conditioning coach leading up to the 2008 Olympic Games. In 2009 
Stuart briefly led the strength and conditioning 
programme for the Great Britain and England women’s hockey team before moving to his current 
role with Glasgow Warriors. He represented Scot -
land at two Commonwealth Games in the sport 
of Olympic weightlifting. He has been Scotland’s 
Strongest Man in both u90kg and u105kg categories 
and was second at Britain’s Strongest Man u90kg.Christian J. Cook ob  tained 
a PhD in paediatrics from 
Auckland School of Medicine.  
He first worked in medical research before working 
in both the  physiology of stress and in related sport 
science in America’s Cup 
yachting, international rugby and Olympic sports 
via UK Sport. He is profes -
sor in physiology at Bangor 
University.
Liam P. Kilduff  obtained 
a PhD from Glasgow Univer -
sity examining the effects of 
creatine supplementation in 
health and disease. He has worked for the last 10 years 
as associate professor in 
applied sport physiology at Swansea University where 
his research interests focus 
on elite athlete preparation strategies. He works with 
a number of summer and winter Olympic sports 
via UK Sport and also sits on the editorial board of two sport science journals.
Marc R. Jones is assistant 
strength and condition -
ing coach at the Scarlets regional rugby team in West 
Wales. He is undertaking a 
PhD on recovery in Rugby Union under the supervi -
sion of Dr Liam Kilduff. He obtained a bachelor of science degree in sport and 
exercise science at Lough -
borough University prior 
to continuing his education at Swansea University 
and earning an master’s in sport science in 2007 . 
After two years with the Scarlets, he worked at the English Institute of Sport as a physiologist, provid -
ing support to the London Wasps before returning to the Scarlets in 2011. His main roles include the physical preparation of the development squad 
and the management and implementation of sport 
science provision within the region, which includes all testing and monitoring and several aspects 
concerning player recovery.


You’ll find  
other outstanding  
sports and fitness resources at
www.HumanKinetics.com
HUMAN KINETICS
The Premier Publisher for Sports & Fitness
P.O. Box 5076 • Champaign, IL  61825-5076 USA1-800-747-4457
Australia08 8372 0999
Canada1-800-465-7301
Europe+44 (0) 113 255 5665
New Zealand0800 222 062In the U.S. call